XI B Mary

OF THE

U N 1 Verity

or ILLINOIS

v.\

each Lost Book is $50.00.

The person charging this material is responsible for

T.m.wc.llTOwBoiieC.iitw.SSaMOO

UNIVERSITY OF lU.NOIS UBBARY »T URBANA^HAMPAIGN

\m " ^

m

2 W9

L161— O-1096

POEMS.

5/-

ELIrlOT STOCK, 62, PATERNOSTER ROW.

Fin Jlittobiogvaphs

BY

FRANCIS WILLIAM L. ADAMS

A similar lo pass
Che non lascio giamuiai persona viva *
Dante

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I

LONDON

GEORGE RED WAY

YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN



«7

i

-J

^0

A. L. A.

-■5

I.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. - 1

II. 35

III. 63

IV. 87

II.

I. 106

II. - - - - - 133

III. 169

VI. 208

III.

I. 249

II. 279

III. 314

CHAPTER I.

At some time in my earliest childhood I
must, I think, have lived near a wind-mill :
for I have, at times, ever since I can remember,
seen one in the middle of a tender
yellowy-golden band of sunset on a sandy
elevation. Somewhere, perhaps below in
the house in which I am, a canary, cage-less,
with upward-throbbing throat, sings.
And then I know a darker vision than that
of the wind-mill in the middle of a tender
yellowy-golden band of sunset on a sandy
elevation : a darker vision of a slanting
planked floor, with an uncertain atmo-
VOL. I. 1

sphere and a sound therein, and perhaps from
thereout, as of on the sea. A dim-lightened
lamp oscillates in the middle. A
woman is up in one of the berths giving
suck to and soothing a child half-fractious
with sleep and misery. In the far corner
is a huddled tartan - petticoated lump
rounded, with two protruding hare knees —
a boy unkempt, dirty, miserable, afraid of
some heavy coming footstep. I know in
some way that I am the boy.

And then comes another lighter vision
in a broader scene. A red-cheeked woman
rolls a perambulator and a quiet boy down
a cindery path in the shine of a moist sunset.
They stop by a grey-sweating-barred
gate (there are four or five bars : not less).
When, in a little, the boy struggles out
from the tarpaulin of the perambulator onto
the moist earth, crosses the tall wet rank
grasses and climbs on to the gate, to look
at a band of tender yellowy-gold down by
the horizon, which is to him a revelation of
heaven. And on that day that tender

yellowy-gold band and far sky of light seemed
to him to contain faint outlines of great-winged
angels : beyond, a chasm of clearer
purer light : and beyond, God.

Now everything changes. My next recollection
of a certain fixed occasion brings
with it an acquaintance, often strangely
minute and distinct, of myself and of the
life that was around me. Thus : —

From standing with some wistfulness in
the twilight road I turn slowly away;
shoulders rounded, collar awry, hands deep
in pockets : slouch to the right, along the
second side (at right angles to the road) of
the wall, and there stop — thinking about
things.

A white duck hurries waddling, filled
with anxiousness, across the grass further
on : to paddle her beak in the edge of the
stream. And I walk with big strides till I
am parallel to her : reach the wooden bridge
(duck the while paddling her beak in the
border of watery mud of the stream) :
give one glance at a hole in the bank from

1—2

which trickles the thick inky sluggish fluid :
and enter the porch.

No one in the kitchen. The clock tick-tacking
with big silent swing : the plates,
with their ruddy flickering fire-light, in
rows. The lamp not lit yet.

Then I hear a motion as of some one
shoving a jar on to a shelf in the pantry :
cross quickly through the kitchen : down
the red-tiled passage (up come two or three
loose tiles with a collapsed fall), catching a
semi-earthy smell from under the cellar
door (some one's in the pantry : Anne, I
think) : run upstairs two steps at a time :
turn down the dark passage : reach my
ladder foot : climb up : shove open the
door : enter the dim garret : go on to the
window : look out over the graveyard :
and then turn and begin to take in, half-unconsciously,
the red-painted lines on the
card over the washing-stand : ' I love them
that love Me, and those that seek Me marshall
find Me.'

I turn again : go back to . the window,

and, with a knee on the white-painted
window-sill, look out into the twilight sky,
in which are vaguely the tall dark wild
rook-trees with their black broad tops, the
many gravestones, and the small church to
the right — all vague, semi-existent to me.

Then :

Ber-tie I'

The word, rising a note, startles me,
half thrills me. Anne is at the foot of the
ladder.

Up she steps : shoves the door open altogether
: and at once begins :

Lor', Master Bertie, why you look as if
you'd bin seen' a ghost out in the graveyard,
you do. Gracious alive, the eyes of
him ! Did you ever now ? Master
Bertie '

Don't be a fool. What do you want ?'
I ask. * If you want me for tea, I'm not
coming. Tell Mother Purchis so.'

Anne urges that Mrs. Purchis is in ever
such a bad temper this evening : and it
being his last night too, eh ? And it isn't

good for him to drop o£f his victuals like
that ; and he going away to school tomorrow,
and hasn't eat anything to speak
of this week, considering'.

I, remaining obdurate, take to my old
attitude, with my knee upon the white-painted
window-sill, now faint and dim, and
look through the dark rook-trees into the
dimmer fields. Anne continues : Which she
does hope he doesn't bear any malice. Master
Bertie, and him going away tomorrow, to
school, and might never see her again, but
they both be dead and buried before then,
and if it wasn't that . . . (Then, sharply) :
But she always did say, and we'd see
who was right or not, that that boy would
come to no

I leap to her.

I will throw you down the ladder,' I
say, catching her by the arm, ' if you
don't . . . Got'

She, rather frightened, goes.

All that evening I sat on the sill looking

out across the churchyard to the hedge
and the rook-trees. The black shadows
grew broader and deeper. There was no
moon. Only a light wind in the evening :
singing through a crack in the lead-work,
close by my ear : till Timothy Goodwin, the
sexton, came limping along the London
Eoad with a lantern : to unlock the gates.
Then he locked them again, carefully, after
him: limped to old Mr. Akin's grave and
began cutting the grass on it with a clinking
shears, having put down the lantern by
him.

I watched him and thought about things.

Presently he lifted up his light, put it
down again and began on another patch :
I still watching him and thinking about
things. Then he took up his light and
stood for a moment, brushing the knees of
his corduroys with his hand : then turned
and limped towards the gates. I smiled
through the tears that were in my eyes
and on my cheeks. If I had been therewith
old Timothy I would have put

my arms round his neck and kissed
him.

On he Hoped over the grass, through the
tombs, over the sanded walk, the lantern-hight
passing before him ; till now he
reached the gates : unlocked them : went
out : re-locked them. — And there he goes,
jogging over furrows and hollows like a
Will-'o-the-wisp, up the London road.

When I had lost sight of the small light
behind the hedge, I returned to my thinking
somewhere about where I had left it
off, but brokenly.

They were not kind to me. I was
going away to school tomorrow morning ;
at seven. To a boarding-school. Perhaps
they'd love me there. . . . But I didn't
know. I thought I should die some day
soon. I shouldn't mind dying so much —
no one knew what sort of things I wanted
to do. I didn't think anyone ever would.
That was it — no one. . . . Yes : one. God.
He knows ! God knows ! God can see
cvcrytMng I

An impulse came in me. I went to the
bed and slipped down onto my knees to tell
Him about it ; but then, remembering that
He was up in the sky, I clasped my two
hands together and looked up to Him ; and
said :

Dear God, You are a long, long way
away from me : right up in the deep, blue
sky, farther away than even the sun, and
the moon, and the stars. — But I love You !
oh, I love You ! because You know everything
I think about, and everything that I
want to do. And I pray that You won't let
me die till I am very old and have done all
the things I want to do. But please help
me to be a great man. Through Jesus
Christ our blessed Lord, Amen.'

Then I got up, and undressed, and got
into bed. And was soon asleep.

The morning after my prayer up in my
little evening room at Purchis's farm, Mr.
Purchis and I came up by train to some
large station, where we got out and crossed

to another platform. As we were going, he
having me by the hand, he told me to tie a
white comforter round my arm, so that 'the
Colonel's man ' might know me at the
other end. Then I was put into a third-class
compartment : Mr. Purchis gave mea
shake by the hand, lingered purposelessly a
moment looking into the carriage, and then
turned and went away down the platform.
I did not care to watch him more than ten
yards or so. I did not care to look at the
other passengers. It all seemed like a sort
of half dream, and I did not think I was
going anywhere in particular.

There were a good many other people in
the carriage. Some got in : some got out :
I didn't notice them much. I sat thinking
about things.

After a long time (it was growing darker
now) an old lady next me, who'd been
asleep, awoke and took a basket from
under the seat and put it upon her knees,
and, in a little, said to me that we were
close to London now, my dear.' I said :

Thank you !' and looked out of the
window.

Then the train stopped by a long planked
platform, and the people (three now) all
rose up. A clergyman got out first and
pulled a glazed bag along the floor down to
him. Then the old lady got out, and her
daughter (as I thought) handed her down
the basket and got out too.

After a little I went up to the other window
and pressed my nose against the pane
and looked out for ' the Colonel's man.'
Then I thought that he oughtn't be able to
know me without the white-comforted
arm, so I put it out through the door, and
waited.

All at once a man with thin legs in
brown trousers (they looked thin : perhaps
it was only because the trousers were tight)
came out from between two old ladies with
band-boxes and right up to me. He touched
his hat. This was ' the Colonel's man.'

We took a cab and went across London,
and stopped in a square before another large

station, but not so large a one as the first.
A porter undid the door, and we got out,
and the box was taken down, and put onto
a trolly, and we followed it into the station.
There it was tilted beside two others onto
its head (the trolly I mean), and we had ten
minutes to wait before the gate was open.

The Colonel's man ' began talking to
the porter about something. I went on a
little and stood and looked at some pictures
hung up by a newspaper stall. One was of
a great ship in the docks, going to be
launched. As I was looking —

Come along,' said ' the Colonel's man,'
taking me by the hand. ' The gate's
open.'

We went up the platform together and
got into a carriage pretty far up. I sat
down, and sat silent : and every now and
then my eyelids came down, and my head
moved forward, and I nearly fell. I should
very much like to have lain down and gone
to sleep in a cool white bed.

At last we came, after many stops, to a

dead stop, and ' the Colonel's man ' jut his
hand on my arm : and then I was lifted
down : and we went out, I just behind him
and a porter carrying the box. At the door
in the cool evening wind ' the Colonel's
man ' agreed with a boy to take the box upto
Park Eoad for sixpence. And then we
all set off.

After a little ' the Colonel's man ' and I
were ahead. It was rather a steep hill,
and I felt rather tired but not so sleepy
now. We went on slowly : till he stopped
and said :

Give us a hand. It is a bit of a pull
up this hill, young 'un, ain't it — eh ?'

I gave him my hand and we went on
again silently till, passing through the
lamplight from a tall lamp-post and through
an open gate, we stood on the flagstone
before a low doorway. ' The Colonel's man '
pulled at the bell-handle. A bell rang.
Then, in a little, we heard steps and the
door was opened by a maid with a white
apron and cap.

'Well, good-bye, mi lad,' said 'the
Colonel's man turning to me, ' I'm about
at the end of my part o' the business, I
suppose. Good luck to ye, sir : good luck
to ye.'

He put his hand on my shoulder : and
then was out through the gate and into the
darkness. I looked after him, slowly.
The maid stamped her feet on the ground.
Then :

Where's your box ?' said she.

At that moment the boy with the wheelbarrow
and the box appeared under the
lamp-post at the corner, some little way
off. She must have seen him.

Oh, that's it,' said she. ' I suppose
he's paid all right ?'

'Yes: "the Colonel's man" paid him,'
I said.

Then you'd better go into the diningroom.
Give us your keys first.' (I found
and gave her the key of my box) — ' That's
it.' She pointed to the door in the left
side of the hall.

I crossed the glazed carpet, opened the
door, and went in.

A large fire was burning with a flickering
light. It flickered on the black glazy
table-cloth of a long thin table in the
middle of the I'oom ; on another running
at right angles to it across the right side
of the room, in a broad half-bay window.
Outside there ^\as a veranda, and the
dark evening.

At last I went to the bench and, half
upon it, leant my face in my arms on the
cool table-cloth. The things around me
were all in a sort of noise above my ears.
I could not weep soft tears : the tears
were dried behind my eyes. But, after a
little, I seemed to grow dreary : and could
have wished to sleep.

I took to no one. One or two fellows
made up to me a little at first ; but I just
answered them and turned away, neither
caring to talk to them or let them talk
to me. It was not that I was homesick : I
had no home. I don't know what it was.

I like Wallace better than any of the
others. Neither of us ever have jam or
cake : he not even 3d. a week like
me. He loves his little belly. He'll
always go to Harris's, the grub shop, for
anyone who'll give him a good big bit
of the stuff they're getting (of course
you're licked if you're caught going, except
on Saturdays and Wednesdays from two
to three). And I have often told him that
I think it is beastly of him to do it ; but he
doesn't care, so long as he gets the grub.
That's one reason why I don't care to talk
to him about some things I know of. I tell
him tales, and all that; but that's different.

Whittaker is an old beast. He's fond
of caning us I'm sure. When you go into
the library on Saturdays after school, to
get three strokes if you've had more than
twelve mistakes in dictation, he won't let
you kneel down loose, as if you were praying,
but he makes you bend up over till
you're quite tight. It's very nasty going
tight again after the first one.

Mrs. Whittaker is a humbug. She
says 'rumble" and '"otcr'aud " 'hospital,"
and says it's right to say them that way.
She listens to what the fellows say, and
then tells the Reverend, and thej^ catch it.
She reads fellow's' letters. She corrects
fellows' letters home, and makes them say
that Mr. and Mrs. Whittaker are very kind
to them, and other things. Besides, she
tells lies. She has two babies, little brats
that squaws. On the whole, I hate her.

I don't mind the work much, especially
the history. Latin's rather rot, and so is
geography and arithmetic. I like poetry
best : we have a book full of it. The first
poem is called The Universal Prayer, by
A. Pope. The one I like best is called
A Psalm of Life by Longfellow.'

One Saturday night when Cookie was
washing me. — You see, that particular
night I was rather funny : having been
out on the heath alone, (of course I
should have been punished, perhaps licked,
if I'd been caught. We were never allowed

VOL. I. 2

out except we got leave, in twos), and
thinking about all sorts of things, and
particularly that I should die before I was
twenty. So, as Cookie was washing me, I
asked her if she knew what,

For the soul is dead that sluTiihers
and, things are not what they seem,

meant ? She didn't. — Then I asked her
about the other things in it, one by one ;
but she didn't seem to understand them
much either.

Well ; after I'd gone up to the dormitory
(I was first that night), while the
others were up at prayers, she came in
quite quietly as I was lying thinking and
looking at the white ceiling, and sat down
on the bed by me and took out a little
round hot pasty, and said I was to eat it
while she was cutting my nails. So she
drew back the curtain, and I got out of
the clothes, and she began to cut my nails.
And while I was sitting in that way, eating
the hot pasty and thinking, I thought I'd

like to tell her the Psalm of Life : so I
asked her if she'd care to hear it. She
said ' Yes.' So I began to tell it her.
She'd finished cutting by the time I'd got
past half through : and sat with my foot in
her lap, looking at me, till I'd done it.
Then we heard them coming down from
prayers : so she told me to jump into bed,
and tucked me up and gave me a kiss, and
said :

I hope it won't make you conceited.
Master Leicester, but you're the best-looking
of the boarders. And I hope you'll be
happy.'

I didn't think of all this till Wallace told
me on Monday night that Cookie had left.
And afterwards Mrs. Whittaker told me
Cookie was a thief and had stolen a lot of
her things, but I didn't believe it.

At the end of the term we where examined
by a gentleman who came from Colchester
School, where Whittaker was when he was
a kid. Blake was his name. I liked him;
We were all examined together in English

2—2

and Scripture : and he said that I was the
brightest boy of the lot, and to the
Keverend too, when he came in at one
o'clock and they were standing talking
together at the door.

The next day was Speech-day. We
most of us had pieces of poetry, Shakspeare
or out of the poetry-book, to say.
We were supposed to choose our own
pieces. I was just head of my form by
the term marks, (there were only five in it,
Black, Campbell, Morris, Wallace, and I),
and I chose the Psalm of Life. Currie
(the undertaker) didn't mind ; and so I
learnt it again, a little excited : I mean,
read it over with the book, and repeated it
again and again, to make sure I hadn't forgotten
any of it.

I remember how I sat in my place, waiting
for my turn, with my lips rather dry,
and every now and then I shivered as if a
draught came upon me through an opened
door ; but I wasn't really afraid. I was a
little excited, I say; and yet it seemed

somehow like a dream and I couldn't notice
anyone's face.

At last my turn came. It was after
Whitman's. I got up shivering, and I
thought I shouldn't have breath to say it
all with. But when I got up onto the
green-baize platform, and stood in the
middle, and looked down over them, the
ladies in their white and coloured dresses,
and the men, and the boys — all at once the
shivering went away from me altogether :
and I turned my head straight to Mr.
Blake at the table at the side, and smiled
to him. He smiled too, but only in his
eyes. And I began : —

Tell me not in mournful numbers,
'Life is hut an empty dream !'

For the soul is dead that slumbers,
and things are not what they seem.

And my voice rose, growing stronger
and clearer, and at last I did not see anything
there at all, not even the coloured
mass of the dresses, but only a warm gold
air all round me, and something singing

softly all round me like far off sunshiny
water.

Then all at once I laughed : and though
the tears were quite full in my eyes, I could
have shouted out, I felt so hold and
brave and ready for it all, even for when I
should have to die and be buried in the
cold dark earth. And my voice rang as I
said :

Lives of great men all remiiul us
ive can make our lives sublime,

and, departing, leave behind us
footprints in the sands of time ;

Footprints that x)erha2os another,
sailing o'er life's solemn main,

some forlorn and shipwrecked brother,
seeing shall take heart again.

Let us, then, be up and doing,

leith a heart for any fats ;
still achieving, still pursuing,

learn to labour and to avait.

Towards the end I had grown sadder a
little : and, now it was all said and over, I
stood there for a moment with my head
bent down looking at the ground of the
room below the green-baize platform. It

seemed some time, but I dare say it was
only a moment. But when they all began
to clap, and I looked up quickly and saw
them all round me — I hated them all in
my heart and could have seen them die and
not stirred. — Not all ! All but one : Mr.
Blake. I seemed to love him a little.

And he nodded and smiled to me again
with his eyes, and I smiled back to him as
I went down. And after that I did not
hate the others any more ; for I did not
think of them — I forget what came then.

Then next thing I remember was that
I heard the Keverend saying :

This Prize is adjudged by Mr. Blake to
Leicester but, as he is only a new boy this
term, he retires in favour of Whitman
(whose recitation of Marc Antony's speech
over the body of Caesar is highly creditable
to him) and he receives the certificate.'

I cared neither for the prize nor for the
certificate now. I do not quite know what
I was thinking about : but it was about
something very far away, by the tops of

blue misty mountains, and down the middle
trickled a black stream from bowl to bowl.
It was very sweet. So that when the
prize-giving Vs^as over, and they went out
crowding, I still sat in my place for a little,
puzzled because the mountain and the
black stream had gone away with a trail of
sort of mist.

Then, as I sat like that, thinking about
the trail of sort of mist that went away
with the mountain and the stream, Mr.
Blake came, bending his head, in through
the far doorway. I looked at him.

Seeing me, he stepped down the passage
between the chairs, and to me on the form,
and put his hand onto my shoulder lightly,
and smiled, with his lips. But I couldn't
smile back again ; for the mountain and the
stream had gone away from me.

'You did very well, my little man,' he
said at last ; ' where did you learn to recite
poetry like that ?'

Yes, but I did not understand it all,' I
said ; ' the two first verses, I mean : and I

don't care for the rest, till the last bit.

But that is grand.' And I looked up into

his eyes.

He patted my shoulder, twice, gently :
You go too quick : you go too quick,

child. What can't you understand in the

first two verses ?'

" And the soul is dead that slumbers." '

Well ?'

What does it mean ?'

And that the soul, which only slumbers,
is dead.'

But what does that mean ?'

Dead : that is, that there is an end of
it. Some people (such foolish people!) say
that when you die, there is an end of you.
That is, that you have no soul — no such
place as heaven ! No such person as God !
Longfellow says : Do not tell me that that
man's soul, which when we die only slumbers
and will awake, perhaps soon, perhaps
late, perhaps never at all, in a perfected
state of beauty in heaven — is dead, finished,

ended, over, when a man dies and his body
corrupts and turns into dust. . . . Do
you see ?'

Yes,' I said, ' I see.'

There was a pause for a moment.
Then :

'Would you like to go to Colchester
when you are older ?' he said.

Is Colchester a big school ? How
many fellows are there there ?' I asked.

Not so big as many others : m\j old
school, for instance, Winchester. But
there are quite enough : two hundred.
What do-you think ?'

Would you be there ?' I asked.

Yes,' he said. ' / should be there.*
He did not seem to be thinking about me
then.

I looked at him. My look seemed to
recall him from somewhere. He looked at
me.

'Listen!' he said suddenly, brightening
and bending down. ' Don't brood so much,
my little man. You hear me, don't you ?

Don't go thinking about things till they
grow hateful to you. Try to be bright and
merry. Be with the other fellows more —
I was right, there, hey ? You ain't much,
hey? "There such fools!" hey?' (He
laughed.) ' Well, you mustn't mind that.
You've not always wise, are you ? . . . You
don't think I'm seasoning you ?'

No,' I said, ' I see.' But I was thinking
of some things.

A pause.

He smiled again.

At any rate,' he said, and pinched my
cheek gently, ' Mr. Whittaker has given me
permission to write to your guardian, as
well as promised to write himself, about
your going to Colchester soon. You hould
like to go ?'

Yes,' said I ' I should — if you would
be there.'

In all probability, I should,' he said.

I,' I began, ' I . . . ' but did not go on.

And it was somehow with this that we
parted.

I watched him go up along the passage
between the chairs and, bending, through
the far door. And then I felt that I wished
I had said something to him, but I did not
know what.

In the holidays we (Wallace and I) had
breakfast and dinner with the Reverend and
Mrs. W., but had our tea alone. I liked
that : only Wallace talked too much. And
we might go out as we liked onto the heath
or into Greenwich Park, but not down into
the town. Three or four times I chanced
it, and went to the Painted Chamber, which
Campbell had told me of, saying that there
were fine pictures of sea-fights there and
some of Nelson. I liked to be there :
I liked most of all to look at the picture of
Nelson being taken up into heaven, for I
thought I too should be taken up into
heaven some day, when I had done great
things and was dead. Then there was the
picture of him all bloody and wounded, ashe
ran up on deck in the middle of the

fight : and the relics. I liked the
holidays.

Next term wasn't much different from
last ; except that some of the fellows were
allowed, in June and July to go down to
the Greenwich baths early on two mornings
in the week to bathe. I tried to get the
Reverend to let me go, but he wouldn't.

In the next holidays he, and Mrs. W.,
and the brats, and Jane (the new cook)
went to the sea-side, leaving Alice (the
maid) to look after us two. (Thomas, the
l^age-boy, didn't stay in the house then. I
don't know why.) I liked that better still.
I was out almost all day long, on the heath,
in the Park, down by the river. Once I
went up the river as far as Westminster ina
boat. That was rare sport. Some men
played on a harp and a clarion, and the
music almost made me cry. Wallace hadn't
the pluck to come : though Alice offered to
lend him the money.

The next term was very bad. I had
chilblains : only on the feet though. Wallace

had them on his hands and ears. And
it was so cold and dull in the Christmas
holidays, that I was almost glad when the
term began again i

A week after it had begun, I had a letter
from Colonel James, and Mrs. W. said I
must answer it. So I had to write an
answer in prep, one night and show it to
Mrs. W. after prayers in the drawing-room.
She said it was ' so peculiar,' and scratched
out most of it, and told me what else to
write. So next day I made a fair copy and,
having shown it her, it was put in an envelope
which I directed as she read out and
spelled to me : and then she put a stamp
on it, and I went out and posted it.

Mr. Blake didn't come to examine us
this term : another gentleman did, Mr,
Saunders, a friend of the Reverend's, who'd
been at Oxford with him. But the first daj^
of the holidays I had a letter from Mr.
Blake : and he said that he was sorry he
hadn't written to me before ; he had often
thought about it, but he had such a great

deal to do that he found it very hard to
write to anyone. Perhaps when I had
grown lip, and had a great deal to do, I
should find it the same. But what he was
sorriest about was, that he was going away'
from Colchester to another school, Pen-hurst,
and so we should not see one another
there as he had hoped and, he hoped, I had
hoped we should ; but I would perhaps
find when I got there that I was not quite
a stranger, but that there was at least one
fellow who would take an interest in me
and help me, as much as it was good that
I should be helped. And I was to be sure
and write to him whenever I liked, for he
would always be glad to hear from me. I
thought it was a \evj kind letter, and it
almost made me cry, that about being sure
to write to him whenever I liked for he
would always be glad to hear from me. I
hadn't known till then that I was going to
Colchester, but, when I asked the Reverend
if I was, he said, Yes : in another two
years or so, perhaps. — But I didn't write

to Mr. Blake : I didn't like to, somehow.


In the midsummer term I was allowed to
go to the Greenwich baths in the early
mornings twice a week with the fellows
that went. Bingham, a big fellow of
eighteen who'd been at a public school,
promised the Keverend he'd look after me
and teach me to swim. So he did. And
I soon learnt. And he said I was the
pluckiest little devil he ever saw in his
life. I liked him to say that.

So passed by two years.

In the middle of that midsummer term I
had a letter from Colonel James. (He
used only to write to me once a year, about
Christmas.) He told me that I was going
to Colchester next term, and a lot of stuff
about industriously pursuing my studies,
and that ' a good knowledge of the classics,
more especially of Cicero, was the foundation
of all that was worth knowing in the
humaniora :' which I didn't understand, and

didn't want to. On the whole, Cicero was
rather a fool, I think. — Mrs. Whittaker, he
said, would see that my clothes, etc., were
in a fit condition, and she had also been
informed that I might have two shillings
over and above my usual pocket-money. I
felt rather older after that. I didn't tell
anyone about it though. Wallace's father
had come back from India, and so Wallace
was going away for the holidays.

The Whitaker went away to the seaside,
as usual, leaving me with Margaret
(the new maid. We were always having
new maids, and cooks too ; but only one
new page-boy, John). I enjoyed these
holidays. I bought a pipe and some tobacco,
and smoked it one day in Greenwich
Park, but I was very nearly ill and very
dizzy, and thought I would never do it
again. I did though, not liking to be
beaten by it; but at last I found the
tobacco and matches came expensive, and
so left off.

The Whitaker came back early in
VOL. I. 3

September, and then I had a new suit
bought, and a lot of shirts and drawers
and things, so as to be ready to go to
Colchester,

At Colchester I first kept a diary. Here
is an extract from it :

I don't like any of the fellows. The
fellows in my study are fools, all in the
third ' (form), ' and so of course we are
always having our study windows cata-
pulled, and then get it stopped out of
allowance.' (Pocket-money.) * I haven't
had a penny since I came, and that's a
month ! Then look at the big fellows.
. . They none of them care a bit about
fairness ! — I was sitting on the table in the
hall yesterday evening after call-over when
Leslie, a big bully in the Remove, shoved
me off as he was going by, for nothing at
all ! I fell onto the form, and the form
went over and I hit my head against one

3—2

of the iron posts there. I got up and ran
after him up the stairs and caught him up
in the passage just before the door of his
bedroom. Then I said to him, " I beg
your pardon, Lesse ; but why did you
shove me off the table ? I did nothing to
you." In a moment he said, " What damned
cheek"' (A.11 the fellows say 'damn'
here. No one thinks anything of it.)
And caught me a kick would have
sent me over, if it hadn't been for the
wall. As it was, I got my coat all whited
and bumped my head.'

I kept this diary for the first month I
was at Colchester with great volubility.
After that, repetitions become more frequent,
and at last one half-holiday late in
October, more than a week behind, I ina
pet gave it up, and the book containing it
was consigned to the back of my locker in
the hall.

The term dragged on wearily.

It grew colder and colder. I got chilblains,
first on my feet and then on my

hands, at last suffering torments with them.
They were with me everywhere and almost
always. I see myself on one occasion up
in the bedroom, learning Greek grammar
for ' first lesson ' next day, and at last
jumping up half frenzied and plunging
my tingling hands into the icy water-jug
to get some relief. I had a weariness
cough too : twice costing me my vomited
breakfast. And the bread was often
quite uneatable, and what else was thereto
live on ?

It was a somewhat strange feeling that
which came over me after I had eaten my
first dinner in the holidays in the house of
Mr. Jones, the lawyer : a feeling as of unknown
fulness not unconnected with dreaminess.
I suppose Colonel James paid forme.
I didn't care for them much. Mr.
Jones was only at home in the evenings,
and didn't speak to me much then. But I
was happy enough ; for I could just go
where I liked and Mrs. Jones didn't bother
if I didn't come into lunch in the middle of

the day so long as I told her I wasn't going
to. At first I felt rather odd going ' out of
bounds '; but that wore off, Mrs. Jones is
a fat lady, good-humoured and, altogether,
not bad ; but she's always asking me questions
about myself and Craven and Mrs.
Craven and the other masters and the ladies
they're married to. As if I knew anything
about them !

The snow was down then everywhere : it
was cold too ; but I had some new thick
red woolly gloves, and my chilblains were
much better, and I didn't mind it. One
day I asked Eliza the cook (I liked her
pretty well. Of course she was rather a
fool. All women are fools, at least servants.
But then she reminded me of
Cookie !) to give me some bread and butter
and an apple ; for the sun was shining and
I wanted to go out for a long walk into the
country. I like walking along the roads
like that, looking at the snow all glistening,
and now and then a little bird hopping
about or, out by Raymond wood, even a

rabbit forgetting along over the white
under the trees. Well, after I'd been walking
some way, a big man cracking a whip
in front of a horse and a manure-cart caught
me up : and I walked beside him a little,
for he had a rise face, till he spoke to me.
And then we got on so well together that I
told him a great many things that I had read
in books about lions, and tigers, and rhinoceroses,
and boa-constrictors and many
other animals ; and, at last, that I myself
was writing a book, in which a good many
of these things I had been telling him were
to be introduced, but more especially about
the snakes, some of whom were to try to
stop Jugurtha in a secret passage as he was
coming to kill his brother. For Jugurtha
was the name of the hero. He was an
illegitimate son of Mastanabal, king of
Numidia : that meant that his father and
mother weren't married ; but in those days
(many many hundreds of years before Our
Blessed Lord came) people sometimes did
have children without being married. I

had read about some others like that, in a
Classical Dictionary.

But the carter kept silence and I, fearing
from this and a look I had taken at his
solemn face, that some weakness was implied
as existing in this early stage of my
book, hastened to add that I knew it was a
little funny, that part, but as it happened
hundreds of years before Our Blessed Lord
came or any of us were born, perhaps it
wouldn't matter so much, after all ? The
carter agreed that ' it was odd, too ; — at
they early times !' Which rather relieved me.

It couldn't have been much further on
than that, that I said good-bye to him and
turned back to get home again. But I
lost my way.

It was colder now, and darker. The
sunlight had gone away from everything
but a few clouds behind overhead and,
after a little, when I turned to look, it had
gone away from all of them but two. I
trudged on again. After another little, I
began to feel my legs tired, and turned back

again to see about the sunlight. It was
all gone now. Then I wished I was at
home. But the shadows were all coming
down thicker and thicker, and the road was
so slippery, and my legs more tired and
more tired, and I couldn't hold my
shoulders up. Then I saw a man coming
along on the left side of the road under the
trees and was afraid : then forgot that and
went on to him but, when I saw him nearer
and, at last, what an old man he was with
bleared eyes and a red neck-cloth tied round
his throat, although I was almost sure I'd
lost the way, I was afraid he was going to
catch hold of me : so how dare I stop and
say to him : ' Can you tell me, please,
which is the road to Colchester ?' He went
on by me, and I went on by him, and
under the trees, the many-branched man's
boughs just moving above me,
and on along the road : and he did
nothing.

It was almost dark, black I mean, when
I came to a farm. I had met no one else

but the old man with the bleared eyes
and the red neck-cloth. I was very
tired.

I stopped at a gate and looked into the
farm-yard, where the pond was frozen over
and a light in one of the small farm windows.
I did not like to go in and ask anyone
to tell me the way : besides, I had
begun to think about some of the fellows
and what they had done to me till I hated
almost everybody, and could have lain
down in the snow and gone to sleep and
died and been carried up by angels past the
moon into heaven.

All at once a girl ran out with a flutter
in her dress, across the yard into a dark
outhouse. I did not stir : I stood thinking
about dying and being buried. — And so, ina
little coming back more slowly she saw
me standing there with bent head looking
through he second gate-bar.

She stopped. Then came and asked me
what I wanted. And then, somehow, she
had the gate open, and was trying to get

me in by the hand and I pulling back a
little.

Well, the end of it was that we went together
up the yard to the door by the small
window with the light in it, and in, into
the light warm kitchen : and she sat me
dowTi in a chair by the fire, and, when I
wouldn't answer anything to her but turned
away my head, I don't know quite why (but
I wished I were dead and buried and no one
knew anything about me), she got up again,
and cut a thick piece of bread, and put a
lot of butter upon it and then sugar, and
went with a glass and brought it back full
of milk, and came and knelt down by me
again and began to coax me. There was a
big lump in my throat by that, and I kept
swallowing it, but it kept coming back
again. And at last, when I wouldn't look
at her, she put down the bread and butter
and sugar and the milk on the piece of carpet,
and lifted up my face with her hand
under my chin, and laughed into my face
with hers, her lips and her eyes, and then

called me ' A saucy boy ' and gave me a kiss
(and how fresh and red and soft her lips
were !), why, I just threw my arms round
her neck and began crying and laughing and
laughing and crying and wondering where
I'd been to all this time, and in the end
gave her a kiss on the lips, and we were
great friends. I don't know how it came
about, but somehow or other I told her all
about Robinson Crusoe, and ever so many
other things besides. And then her husband,
John, came in. — And, when I was going
away with John, she put two great apples,
one into each of my trouser pockets, and
said I must be sure and come and see her
again and tell her some more about all they
fine things in the picture' books. And so
John and I set off together, turning every
now and then to wave our hands to Mary
at the door in the middle of the light and
she waving hers ; till the road wound round
and we went by it and couldn't see her anymore.
Then I began to be tired again and,
in a little, John lifted me up onto his back.

and I fell asleep, I suppose, and didn't wake
up till he put me down on Mr. Jones' doorstep.


And so we parted. For the term began
two days after that and, as they were both
snow-stormy, Mrs. Jones wouldn't let me
go out to see Mary and John. And I did
not know how to write to them, for they
hadn't told me where to. You see I'd quite
forgotten about its being so near the end of
the holidays.

We had a new monitor in the bedroom,
Bruce. (Martin had left.) Everyone
called him a surly devil, but I didn't mind
him so much. This was how my liking for
him began : one day, early in the term, he
was taking Lower Eound (football is compulsory
at Colchester. There are three
Pounds, Upper, Lower and Middle. One
or two fellows in the Team, or pretty high
up in the Second Fifteen, always ' take '
Middle and Lower Eound, that is, they seethe
small boys play up, kicking them, etc.)
Well, one day he was ' taking ' Lower

Eound, when Leslie, who's in the Team too,
took to playing back on the other side, so
as to show off. Then I thought I'd like to
see if I couldn't charge him or something
and, when a chance came and Leslie had the
ball and was dribbling past a lot of us small
fellows, I ran at him with all my might,
and we both went over. But I got the
cramp. He was up and off again pretty
quickly, but, of course, I couldn't do much
but sprawl about. But Bruce, who must
have been close behind, came up and put
his hands under my armpits and lifted meme
up like a child (I remember how I
somehow liked to be lifted up in that way
by Mm) and asked, was I hurt ? The game
had swept off to the other side of the field.

No,' I said, looking up into his face, 'it's
only the cramp in my calf. It'll go in a
moment. I've had it before like that.'

He made me play three-quarters back
for the rest of the game and, once or twice,
as he passed me asked if I was all right
now ? To which I answered, ' Thank you,

yes.' I liked him after that in a different
way to what I had before.

Sometimes, if we were alone in the room
together, as before dinner washing our
hands and brushing our hair, he would talk
to me, about nice things. But the moment
any of the other fellows came up, he always
stopped and went on doing what he was
doing in silence. ' I don't mind that either,'
I wrote, ' I believe he thinks the other
fellows are fools like I do. At night he
never speaks without some one speaking to
him, and then he won't make a conversation.
Everyone hates him, even the small
boys. (I forgot to say I got second remove
into the Lower Fourth from last term)'

The last few days of that term were very
warm. There was even a talk of beginning
cricket and river-bathing : at any rate
rackets began and, I think, some boating
was done. Football of course had stopped
a few weeks before the sports, so as to get
the field ready : I mean the Pounds had
stopped ; but there was always ' little game '

in the Circus Field for anyone who cared to
go up. I liked better going walks by the
river or about the fields. I liked to whistle
as I went along : sometimes even I hummed
old tunes. The spring makes one feel so
glad somehow.

One half, I remember, I go as far up the
river as Morley Mill.

Just past there the bank is very high and
thickly wooded. I began to go up, intending
to sit there and look around a bit : there
was not time to go into the mill. Up I
went by the narrow path : and all at once
came upon Bruce, lying at full length on a
piece of grass with a bundle of flowers and
a small microscope-sorts of-thing in his
hand, through which he was looking at
something. He did not notice me. — Then
some earth rolled away from under my foot
and went down rustling, and he looked up
slowly with a frown, and saw me, and said :

Hullo, Leicester. Is that you ?'

I could think of nothing to say but,
Yes : and stood still.

A pause.

What brought you out so far as this ?'
he asked.

I don't know. I'm very fond of walking,
especially by the river.'

Ah ! So am I. . . . Are you fond of
flowers ?'

Yes. — You mean looking at them under
microscopes and things ? I have never done
that ; but I like flowers. They are so . . s
so nice somehow.'

Another pause. His chin flattened on
his coat as he looked down, holding a grass
in the fingers of the arm he leant on.

At last I said :

You have polished that stone very
beautifully, Bruce.'

He looked up.

I didn't polish it. It is a piece of
limestone. Would you like to look at
it?'

Thank you,' I said. ' I would.'

He held the piece of stone and the microscope
for me to look. I expressed surprise

VOL. I. 4

at the beautiful shapes inlaid on it. He explained
that they were shells.

I asked if I might look at some of the
flowers through the microscope. Certainly,
said he : had I never looked through a
microscope before ?

Never, Bruce,' I said, looking up and
into his eyes. He turned his on to the dried
grass.

Then somehow we began to talk about
birds : and he told me about how they paired
in the spring.

He was sure birds had a good sense of
the beautiful. Darwin thinks so.

He paused, and ended, looking up over
the tops of the trees below us.

After a little :

Who is Darwin ?' I said.

He looked round, and then to me :

The biggest man, maybe, that has ever
lived,' he said.

Do you mean he's the greatest man
who ever lived ?' I asked.

'Maybe.— Yes.'

I don't think he's as great a man as
Sir Walter Scott,' I said.

He smiled. Then :

What do you know of Sir Walter
Scott ?' he asked.

I have read two of his novels, " Ivanhoe
" and " The Talisman," and I am going
to read them all. There are thirty-one. I
counted them yesterday.'

'Year

A pause.

Then, after a little, I asked him if
he was not leaving this term. He said, Yes.

Are you going to Oxford or Cambridge
?'

To neither. I am going to London to
work.'

Why don't you go up to Oxford ?'

Because I don't want to. I don't seethe
good of it.'

Another pause. I sat with my hands
clasped round my knees, looking over the
river. Suddenly I thought I would ask
him something. So I said :

4—2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

Bruce

—Yes.'

Would you ever like . . . to be a great
man ?'

He looked at me oddly with a gather in
his brows :

'Well,' he said, 'I suppose I might.
Most people would like to be great —
would be, if it wasn't such a trouble. . : .
Why ?' • *

Oh, I only wondered,' I said. ' I shall
be a great man some day, before I die.
And I like to think about it when I'm low,
low in my spirits I mean. Now yesterday,
as I was standing by my locker, I got hit
in the eye with a board ' (crust of bread)
by a fellow, and it hurt me very much
and almost made me cry : besides, it seemed
so unfair. But, when I got up into my room
and thought about it a little, I didn't care
much. For, when Leslie dies, no one will
ever speak about him again or be sorry for
him but, when I am dead, people will
often speak about me and be sorry for me

and like me. It's very nice to think of
people liking you when you're dead, I
think. . . .'

I sat looking into the lower sky, not
remembering Bruce. But all at once I
heard him talking in a strange voice, and
started and looked at him.

He saw me looking at him and jumped
up, before I noticed what his face was
like.

You're an odd child !' he said. Then
sat down again, and went on :

Aren't you very lonely here ?'

After a bit :

Well I don't know,' I answered. ' Not
worse than I was at Whittaker's — now the
winter's over. I only wish I was bigger.
I should like to fight one or two fellows I
hate; but you see I'm just like a baby
when they begin to knock me about : it's
no good doing anything. Last Monday I
hit Leslie a one on the bridge of his nose
for bullying me, and I tried to give him
another ; but he knocked me over every

time I tried to get up again : and what's
the good of that ? I'm not strong enough
for him. I don't mind him at football you
know, or running : don't hate him I mean.
He's not a funk. But when he teases me,
I want to . . . You know. — I wish I was
bigger.'

A pause.

At last, suddenly :

Do you tell everyone all this sort of
thing ?' he said.

No,' I said. ' I've never told anyone
of it before I don't think. Why
should I r

He blew softly through his lips :

Ph-oho . . . Fellows do.' (Then suddenly
again.) * Do you know Clayton ?'

No.' — I shook my head.
*0r . . . Gilded?'

Well . a few days ago I was
writing lines in my study after second
lesson, and he came round for some ink,
and we talked a little then. That's all I
know of him.'

A pause.
Then he :

Take my advice, Leicester, and have
nothing to do with Gildea '

Another pause.

Why ?' asked I. ' He's rather a nice
fellow, isn't he ?'

Because . . . He'll do you no good,
that's why !'

How ?' I asked astonished.

By — talking nonsense to you and
making you conceited.' (Adding with a
little irritation) — ' You knew quite well
what I meant.'

I looked at him archly :

How could he make me conceited ? —
I've nothing to be conceited about,' said I.

That's true,' he said, and paused.
After a little he continued :

Take my advice and have as little todo
with him as possible. You must know
what I mean. — Have you no friends ?'

They are such fools !' I said.
*Ah?'

I looked at him as before :

Have bijou many friends, Bruce ?'
He smiled and looked away, saying :

One. — But she's more than enough.'
'Oh, it's a woman!' I said. 'Well,

that must be nice. I've had some women
for friends : Cookie at the last school : and
Mary, one I knew last holidays — a little.
I'm going to see her again this holidays. I
like women. They're rather fools too,
but . . .' I stopped on the brink of an
allusion to their embracing habits and
kisses. Then became a little curious about
Bruce's woman friend, and said :

Will you tell me the name of your
friend, please ?'

Ge is her name,' he said, looking away
as before.

'Ge?' said I. . . . 'Why, Ge is ^ the
Greek for earth. What a funny name fora
woman !'

The very person,' he said. ' My mother,
the Earth : and the more I see of her, the
more I — like her.'

I don't twig that quite.'

It's no matter,' he said. ' You'll find
plenty of things you can't twig, I expect,
before you are a great man. — Now you
had better be starting back,' said he,
getting up, ' or you'll be late for call-over.'


He took out his watch and stood looking
at the face for a little.

I got up, turned away, and began to
descend the hill.

He passed me a few fields further ou
without even a nod.

I never talked with him any more. A
week or so after, the term ended and then,
of course, he left.

Those holidays began badly. I went out
to Brerby to see Mary the first Monday.
When I got to the farm I found it shut up,
and, after I had tried at every door to see
if there was anyone inside, went away
rather sadly, feeling lonely. I only walked
out that way once again in the holidays.

It was still shut up. I did not try to see
if there was anyone inside.

But I was happy enough those holidays,
wandering about in the fields and especially
by the river, or walking along the roads,
thinking, or whistling, or dreaming.

In the midsummer term I rowed bow in
the 2nd School House boat, but we were
bottom of the river. Some of the fellows
said it was my fault. I don't see how one
out of eight, and he the least important,
could make all that difference : and I
didn't care in the least what they said. I
was in the Upper Fourth now. I knew no
one, and didn't much want to ; but now
and then came hours when I longed to
speak to some one about a great many
things. What Bruce had said to me about
the Earth being his one friend set me thinking
how to make a friend for myself: and
at last I made one. A woman : and I
thought she had clear fearless eyes and a
sad mouth, and her shoulders held back and
of a clear outline. She had no name for a

long time but, one day that term, diving
into a black pool I got caught in a bough
of a sunken tree and could not get loose.
And I thought I must soon drown : but was
more afraid of being eaten by cold thin
black snakes when I was dead. It was
very fearful. All at once the bough broke
above my back and I shot up. Coming up
I saw her face in the darkness by mine and
called her Nike. Nike is the Greek for
victory,' but I don't think that had so very
much to do with it.

The midsummer holidays were by far the
happiest time I had ever spent. I was on
the river almost every moment that I could
be, sculling about in a whiff procured by a
contract with one of the boat-owners of the
town, thanks to a j£5 note sent to me
by Colonel James at the end of July. I
bathed a great deal. I see myself swimming
down the brown river between the
thickly-wooded banks on either side : down
past ' the snag,' the sunken tree in a bough
of which I had been caught on a certain

occasion : to where the river grows shallower
and the sunlight filters down. Can
see myself dive, and go with large arm-strides
over the pebbly weedy bottom :
now rolling over a luxuriant wavy head of
soft green, now turning to face the current ;
and all in the fairy light of flowing water
that is sun shone upon. Again, can see
myself driving my light boat down the
twilight stream, or, resting on my oars,
drifting slowly with soft harmonious-moving
thoughts. Nike, in some shape or other,
was nearly always with me. On the last
day of the holidays I learnt that my friend
Mary was dead, and that John had gone
away with her little baby. I sorrowed for
her.

The next term opened with heavenly
weather, lasting on far into October. Then
came gales and the earth was strewn with
vegetable decay.

It was a dreary term. My hands got
bad again, but not so bad, I thought, as
last year, which was comforting. We had

no snow, or only a little, but a great deal
of rain and frost. There was some skating.
I liked skating fairly well.

In the Christmas holidays I first took to
writing much. I had before done little bits
of things : as, for instance, Jugurtha,: but
they were all put away verj^ soon and forgotten.
Now I set upon a story of the
Indian Mutiny, and wrote till I had finished
it : there were over a hundred pages of
exercise paper in it. After that, I had a
series of nightmares, of a woman with great
owl's wings and the skull of an owl, who
came from a long way off to wrap me up
and smother me : and I could never escape,
but stood stone-still till, just as her shadow
touched my feet, I shrieked and awoke
breathless. The feelings these nightmares
aroused made me write several poems, all
about strange creatures who embraced me
close and smothered me. But, the last
week of the holidays being fine and bright,
I was out a great deal, and this strange
creature forgotten, and my girl comrade

came back again (although I had never
noticed her absence) and I was happy again
with songs or cheerful whistling as I went
along alone.

The next midsummer holidays, to which I
had looked forward somewhat eagerly, were
a disappointment. The weather was bad :
chill, windy, rainy : perhaps that had a
good deal to do with it. I forsook my
boating at last : took to long walks over
the, generally, wet fields, with sometimes
sadness through all my thoughts. In the
end, dreams became almost nightly occurrences,
fantastic dreams, never quite nightmares
although the shadow of nightmare
was often in them like a polyp in a dim
submarine water. I wrote odd things about
this, fragments, half-understood by myself,
almost always torn up after a few lines had

been put down, and then I sat bent over the
table, the end of pen or pencil in mouth and
eyes staring at nothing, till the fit passed.
The dull or rainy weather held on almost
uninterruptedly. I was somewhat relieved
when the holidays were over.

With the new term came finer weather.
September, the end of it, and half October
were soft and beautiful. Then two or three
wind gales blew, whirling all the leaves and
many twigs and some boughs off the roaring
trees : nay, pulling some trees, and not small
ones, to the earth. These gales past, the
challenge matches began. I got my School
House colours all right, as ' three-quarters
back I enjoyed those games. The excitement
of the fellows over the stiff tussle
we, School House, had with Cough's and
Mason's thrilled me every now and then.
A certain viciousness and devilry came into
me. I remember well how once, when
Harper, after a splendid run down the left
side of the Mere field (we had the wall
goal), got past first one back and then the

other and was, at full speed, the ball not
two yards before him, hurrying to pass me — •
the short run I took, so as to poise myself,
and then how I went straight as an arrow
for the ball and him. We met violently. I,
half spun round, tottered : recovered myself:
saw the ball, just turning, a yard or so to
the right : was to it : kicked : saw it go,
round, through the air, on over the heads
of the yelling crowd of fellows a quarter way
up the field : and then turned, to see
Harper get up off his knee and move away.
I could have given a shout of delight.
That swift rush and violent meeting had
gone into my heart and head like strong
wine.

Just for the two weeks we wanted fine
cold diy weather, for the challenge matches
I mean, wee had it. Then it broke up :
rain took the place of the sun-air, warm
damp the place of the cold diy. The effect
upon me was evil. The sometimes sadness
through all my thoughts was through
me again.

VOL. I. 5

One evening after tea, during which I
had felt very hot-checked with now and
then shivers, as I was walking along the
passage that led to the second building,
all at once I felt something hot and watery-distilling
in my mouth and, in a moment,
had vomited. I went on as if nothing had
happened, not being quite sure that anything
had happened : till I reached the
door when, considering, I turned back and,
seeing in the almost darkness something
whitey on the earth, concluded that I had
indeed been sick ; and continued my course
into the hall again, where I rang the bell
and waited till John came, and told him
what had occurred and, saying I was sorry,
asked him to clean away the mess somehow,
if he pleased.

In preparation that night, hot, feverish
even, unable to work, I could not get the
incident nor myself and present doings out
of dream-land. My throat was sore too, as
if I had an inflammation there. Preparation
and prayers over, I went up to the bedroom,

undressed, and lay in the cool sheets thinking
in a vague way about death coming tome
sometime soon ; for it was apparent
that such incidents as vomiting up my tea
did indeed arrive even at mine, like at most,
nay I supposed all, existences. The thought
was, like everything this evening, of and in
dream-land. I spent a hot sleepless night
that night.

Next morning I went from bad to worse.
It was a Saturday. I felt like what I
thought a melancholy bird felt, moping
with a malady. I went up to my room
and lay on my bed till, after about an hour,
being thirsty and getting up for some water,
I saw my face in the glass over the wash-inkstand,
a scarlet patch upon my right
forehead; so bright a scarlet that I wondered
a little. I had scarcely lain down
again when there was a knock at the door,
'Come in,' and entered — Clayton. I
made a dissatisfied noise half to myself.

Then he began to ask if I didn't feel
well ? could he do anything for me ? would

5—2

I like any books from the library ? (He
could easily get the key from Monitor's
room, you know), and the rest of it. In the
end he went off, and I thought that that
was the end of him.

I was dozing when there came a knock
again, * Come in ' angrily from me, and
there was Clayton with a pile of books in
one hand and a bulging paper-bag in the
other.

I thought you might like some oranges,'
he said, putting the books down on the
next bed and opening the bag's mouth. I
wished him at the devil. — Why can't people
leave you alone when you're moping ?

After a little :

'You'd better skip first lesson tomorrow,'
he said. ' And go seer. You look as
though you were sickening for something or
other. There's a lot of measles about in
the town.'

Another pause : Then up he got, and saying
: ' Well I see you're tired, I won't
stay any longer ' —

was past the second bed going for the
door, before I got out :

Thank you for the oranges, but I don't
want them, thank you ; and for the books
too.' I forget the rest of it. Somehow he
came back for the bag, and took it away,
and the door shut, and 1 turned round to
the wall and fell into a doze.

The next morning I felt I wanted to lie
still : and so lay still. When Mother
McCarthy came her rounds at about half-past
eight to see who'd skipped 'first lesson';
she recognised the fact that I had scarlet
fever. I didn't care much.

I was put into hospital, and the days
passed dimly. But, on the seventh or
eighth morning, when the rash was all but
gone. Mother McCarthy told me as she
brought in my breakfast that ' Mr. Clayton
had taken it.' That set me off laughing :
not that I wanted him to have it, I did
not care a jot about him one way or the
other, but it struck me as not bad sport
in the abstract, that Clayton should

have it and be cooped up here with
me.

They soon had him into bed, wrapped up
in flannels and the rest of it. I couldn't
help laughing to see his face, so elongated,
as solemn as if at the celebration of a
mystery. The idea of what he would look
like later on, red all over and his tongue
like a white strawberry, fairly overcame me.
I think he thought he was not far removed
from death just then. He closed his ej^es
with a resignation that was not without
sweetness and his lips moved, in prayer I
thought. Such a fit of laughter came into
me that I had to stuff a piece of the sheet
into my mouth. I ended by being rather
ashamed of myself.

But later on he cleared up amazingly.
His attack was a very slight one. Despite
my eight days' start he was convalescent
before me ; for one night I, impatient at my
itching hide, got out of bed and took to
stalking up and down the length of the
room in my nightshirt, despite his assurances

that I should catch cold and have
dropsy and inflammation of the kidneys
and the brain, with convulsions, and God
knows what besides. Sure enough I did
get something rheumatic in my joints and
I was assured by the Doctor that some inflammation
of the eyes I had had not been
improved by a chill I had somehow taken.
I preserved silence, and made the best of it.

Later on, one day when my eyes were
still too weak to see to read well, Clayton
insisted on reading aloud to me : and a
half week's insisting turned it almost into
a habit. The fact was I had rather begun
to like the fellow.

At last he was well enough to bear the
journey home. I remember that last evening,
or rather afternoon, we spent together,
well.

We had been playing draughts by the
window, while the sun set in veins of gold
and red-hued light, visible to us as we
looked out in the pauses of the game.
Then it had become too dark for my weak

eyes to see well, and we did not care to
have the gas lit. We went to by the fire,
I sitting back in the large easy chair, he
beside me bent forward with his hand
twirling a little piece of paper in the fingers
wresting on the wicker arm. We had been
talking about different things that had taken
place in the school : had gradually dropped
into silence.

All at once :

Leicester,' he said, making a movement.


Well.'

Why are you such an odd sort of
fellow ?'

I answered nothing.

Now don't scowl. You are, you know.
Do you know I think you're very unjust
to yourself ? almost as unjust to yourself,
. as you are to other people.'

Yes ?' I said.

You're such a porcupine. You're always
putting up your quills at people.
Why do you do it ?'

'Do I?' I said.

Now you know quite well you do.'

I answered nothing.

He went on :

If I where j^ou, I'd give it up : I would
indeed. Where's the fun in living day and
night with your own sulky self ? Don't you
sever feel as if you'd give a great deal to

laugh and and amuse yourself (you

know what I mean) like other fellows ? . . .
Instead of brooding over your wrongs in a
corner . . . Eh ?'

I kept silence.

Now answer me, do. Come, now don't
you often feel as if you'd very much like to
have friends like other fellows have ?'

No,' I said : ' not like other fellows have.'

Another pause :

Then he, with a sigh :

Friends, then ? You'd like to have
friends, wouldn't you ?'

One 'ud be enough,' I said.

Another pause : and another sigh as he
said :

You're in one of your bad humours tonight.'


Then he burst out :

Upon my word, Leicester, you're a
most confounded fool ! There you sit like
a miserable old cynic hugging his conceit,
as full of morbid nonsense as you can well
hold, a fool . . . a . . . a . . .' He stammered.


Go on,' I said. ' What else ?'

He came to a full stop : made another
movement in his chair : and began again,
with some resolution :

Now look here. There you are : a
fellow who might be as liked as any one in
the school, if you only cared. — Instead of
that you're the most cZzoliked in the school :
And all on account of your confounded
conceit ! You think everyone else is a
fool but yourself : and you think you think
it doesn't matter in the least what tlieij
think, about you or anything else either.
Now that's rot !'

I don't quite see it,' I said. ' In two

years, who will know whether I was liked
or disliked at a school called Colchester ?
Of course I don't care about it ! Who
ivoulcl V

You do care : You care a great deal',

You think so, Clayton ?'

I know so. If you didn't care, would
you take the trouble to tell yourself so a
hundred times a day like you do, and make
yourself miserable about it ? . Pooh-h !
You do care, right enough.'

I kept silence.

He proceeded :

Leicester, you're a fool. And it's all
the worse because you needn't be one without
you liked. You might be a very nice
fellow. You can be — when you like.'

A pause.

Well ?' asked he.

Well,' I said.

Then I hope it may do you good then !'
he cried. * I am only saying it in that
hope. I think too well of you to believe
that you're blind to your own faults : And

it may do you some good to see yourself as
others see you. — And that's all I've got to
say.'

A pause.

At last he, slowly and not softly :

I'm going away this evening. . . .
Mother McCarthy told you perhaps ? . . .
For good. . I shall be sorry to go. . . .
My father is a silk merchant, and he wants
me to enter his office. He's come up hereto
take me home. . . . The dear old dad !
. . Well ' (He gave his shoulders a little
shrug) * . I suppose I shall be going
abroad soon. There's a branch out in
China he wants me to go to . . . or something
like that.'

Another pause.

Then :

Do you want to go ?' I said.

'No,' he said. 'No. I don't.' (He
made a movement in his chair.) ' It's
the last thing I should chose myself. But
only one man in a thousand in this world
can chose the profession he likes. . . .

I'm my father's only son, jon see he
added.

Well ?' I said, not softly.

Well, the long and the short of it is
. . that I wish you wouldn't . . . You
know what I mean, Leicester. I don't
want to preach to you : But I somehow
think you really might . . . might do so
much better, if jot liked. You'll be a
great man some day . if you live, that
is, and God wills it.'

Eh r said I. * What ?'

Did you ever know a man called

Blake ?' he asked.

'Yes,' I said, 'I did. Wliy ?'

Did you know he was dead ?'

I was startled. I looked at him sharply,

Dead ?' I said.
"' Yes. He died a little while ago.'

How ?'

It was an accident. He fell off a
ladder somehow, and his head struck upon
a stone, and it gashed a great hole into
the brain. A piece of the brain was hanging

out over his eye when they found him.
It was in his garden. He had been training
up a rose-tree that had been blown
down by the wind. That about the piece
of the brain hanging out over his eye has
haunted me ever since I heard it. . .
Those clear steadfast eyes ! It is horrible!'

I kept silence, scarcely thinking.

He, in a low voice :

. . . The night before he went I was
in his rooms, talking with him. He was
heavy about leaving the old place. He
said he felt somehow as if he were going
away from the grave of some one he loved.
I remembered that — afterwards. Well,
among other things he spoke about you.
He had seen you at some school he had
been to examine, I forget the name now.
You had recited a poem of Longfellow's,
The Psalm of Life " I think. He seemed
very much struck with you. He said he
thought you would be a great man some-day.
He said some other things about
you : and asked me to look after yon

when you came here. He told me you
were coming here soon. . . Well, so I
did as much as I thought I ought to for,
don't you see, it's not good for a fellow
high up in the school to do much for a
small boy. It's not good for the small
boy. It's better for him to fight out his
battles alone. And I didn't think I was
likely to leave — for some time at any rate.
But my brother died : and my father,
whose whole heart's in his business, asked
me to — to give up my plan, and help him
with it. So— I did.'

What did you want to be, Clayton ?'
I said.

Oh I'd a foolish idea of my own '
(with a smile), ' about going up to the
'Varsity and studying Hebrew and Science
and all sorts of things and then going out
to Palestine. You see I should have liked
to have helped Blake if I could and, when
he died — Why, the idea came into my head
of trying to do what he hadn't been able
to do. You know he was very poor. . .

And he gave such a lot of what he hadaway.
I believe he kept his mother and
sister, too. I always thought so. Anyhow
' (with another smile), ' there's au
end to all those ideas of mine !'

Will you tell me what you wanted todo
?' I said.

*0h!' he said. * It wasn't so much
me : It was Blake. He put the idea into
my head. He thought, and thought rightly
of course, that the great need that the
Church has at this present moment is some
man who would devote his life to a real
patient study of the origins of Christianity ;
so that it might be shown forth, once and
for all, that Christianity has for its foundation
no vain legend, but events as historically
true, and as capable of being shown
to be historically true, as anything that
has happened within the boasted ages of
Science. That this might be done, could
be done, and would be done, he felt sure,
and so do I. But you see, at present,
they all seem so taken up with themselves.

with their miserable grains of sectarian
sand I mean, that such a man is not to
be found, or if he is to be found. . . Well,
God only understands these things ! It
docs seem hard, at times, that all should
be so against us ! They all seem to think
it's not worth the trouble ! or it can't be
done ! or that there's no need for it !
fools ! fools ! fools ! Can't you see by
the shore of what flood we are standing ?
Can't you read the signs of the times ?
Can't you see an Art that becomes day by
day more and more of a drug, less and
less of a food for men's souls ? A misty
dream floating around it, a faint reek of
the east and strange unnatural scents
breathing from it ; but underneath mud,
filth, the abomination of desolation, the
horror of sin and of death ! my God,
sometimes, thinking of it, my brain turns
and I fear I shall go mad. And to be able
to do nothing ! To see these devils inhuman

shape '

Suddenly he stopped short : swallowed :
VOL. I. 6

put the back of his fingers to his lips.
Then with a smile went on not softly :

Nay, he was right. There is no need
for me or God would let me go, in such a
crisis as this is. Yet there come these
moments when I seem to hear His voice as
from behind, down through the thick clouds,
saying to me : " Go forth." It may be
delusion. I'm not sure. I don't know.
It is terrible to be so tossed in opinion
(He was beginning to grow troubled :
paused a little : and then with the same
smile, his eyes all the while looking brightly
before him, went on.) ' Nay, he was right.
And what should I have learnt from him if
I could not . To leave my post ! . . .*
(Smiling again : And after a moment's
rest.) ' . . . I remember it so well ! I
can hear his voice now. '* Wherever any man
shall talc Its place, either because he has
thought it better that he should be there, or
because his captain has put him there — there,
as it seems to me, should he remain to face the
danger, and take no account of death or of anything

else in comparison with disgrace." — ■
And my captain is God,' he said : and with
that bent forward a little and, with a faint
light in his face and round his lips as of a
bright smile, seemed to grow deeper and
deeper in a dimmer dream that lacked not
sweetness. So I sat for a time watching
him ; till I too grew into a dream, a dim
one, but it had no forms or shapes nor any
sweetness.

Suddenly I started up and out of it.
Looking at him, and perceiving no gap in
our talk :

Who says that ?' I said.

He answered slowly as if unaware of
me :

Plato makes Socrates say it. . . .
But I was thinking of a particular occasion.'


The door was unlatched, opened, and
Mother McCarthy put in her head, to say
that the Doctor had come up to say goodbye
and shake hands with Mr. Clayton.

It's very good of him !' cried Clayton,

6—2

jumping up. ' Isn't he afraid ? Although,'
he added, turning back a little to me from
half-way down the room, ' there's not
much fear of us two . . . Eh ? I'll be
back in a see.'

He nodded, turned, and went out. The
door closed ; up went the latch ; fell ; steps
crossed the planks ; another door opened
and closed. Silence.

I sat thinking vaguely about what he
had been saying : vaguely, till my eyelids
began to come blinking downwards, and
head to nod, and at last must have fallen
fast asleep.

I woke up with a start. The fire was
almost out. I was full of sleep : got off
my things somehow : dropped into bed,
the cool clean sheets : into sleep again :
And slept like a top till morning.

Mother McCarthy woke me bringing in
breakfast. The gold sunshine was through
the window. Her tongue was stirring
already. — Mr. Clayton came in last night
but found I was asleep and wouldn't have

me awoken. But he'd left a note for me. —
I got it and opened it at once :

8.30. P.M.

Good-bye, my dear fellow. I am sorry
our conversation was interrupted, or rather,
I should say my monologue ; your part of
it would have come in later perhaps ! Write
to me at 21, Norfolk Square, London,
whenever you care to. I shall always be
glad to hear from you. Indeed I do hope
we shan't lose sight of one another altogether.
But at present my plans are vague
in the extreme. But I'll write again soon.
I'm afraid I must have seemed rather a fool
to you an hour ago ? at any rate, very confused
and peculiar ? I was stirred you see.
I feel strongly about those things. And believe
me, my dear fellow, those things are
the only things in the world worth feeling
strongly about. You'll think so too some
day. — But I must dry up now. Excuse
paper, also almost illegible pencil, also this

final scribble into a corner. And believe
me that I am now, as always, truly
yours,

*Archibald Clayton.

Pes. — Don't be a porcupine !'

Early in the next term I received another
letter from Clayton. There wasn't much
in it, I thought. ' He was really about to
leave old England, going to learn his occupation
in life, where every man should learn
it, under fire, and in the smoke of the
battle.'

I put the letter into my pocket intending
to answer it that evening at preparation :
indeed, did begin upon it, but, after the
first seven lines or so, tore the sheet up a
little petulantly and went on with my work.
I didn't care about the fellow now enough
to write to him any of my thoughts, and if
I couldn't write them I didn't want to write
anything.

I believe he said or wrote things about
me to one or two of his friends ; especially
Scott ; for Scott is every now and then
polite to me, when the chance occurs, as
Clayton himself used to be ; but that sort of
politeness has no relish.

The midsummer term I remember well
enough — by its general dreariness. Dull
skies and rain, and our wretched School
House crew, pulling up the river, and down
again, and on home mostly sulky. Once or
twice I almost gave it up ; but the thought
of the good the exercise did me restrained
me. Then the Bumping Races came.
On the fourth night we bumped Cough's ;
and kept our place as head of the river for
the remaining four nights.

As I was passing through the hall after
the last night's races I saw two or three
letters on the end table and, stopping, I
don't know quite why, to glance at them,
saw one was for me. I recognised Colonel
James' handwriting at once. He wrote tome
usually in the first week of August

enclosing a £5 note (to which allusion
has already been made, in Chapter Iii),
for which I as usually thanked him, in a
jerked letter which invariably caused me
not a little impatience ; for, as I have
already said, when I didn't care about
people enough to write to them any of my
thoughts, I didn't care about writing to
them at all. The letter was somewhat
after this fashion :

Junior United Service Chin,
'July 21st, 18—.

Dear Leicester,

A communication has been forwarded
to me from my lawyer's, purporting
to come from Mr. Robert Cholmeley, of
the Myrtles, Seabay, Isle of Wight : who I
am thereby informed is the only brother of
the late Mrs. Leicester your mother. He
has I believe been residing for some time
abroad, owing to the weak state of his
health, and is, as he is good enough to

inform me, by birth an American. He has
received from me what information I thought
fit to give him about your affairs, and you
may shortly expect to receive a direct communication
from him yourself. He desires
that you should be allowed to pass the first
fortnight of your Midsummer Vacation with
him at the Myrtles, Seabay, Isle of Wight,
and I at present see no objection to your
accepting his invitation ; but you are, as
far as I am concerned, at liberty to please
yourself in the matter. He is, I understand,
likely to go abroad again very
shortly, having only come to England, ashe
informs me, in order to transact some
urgent business which requires his absolute
presence in England ; so that, as there need
be no further acquaintance between you,
beyond perhaps some small correspondence,
I have not, as I have said, seen any objection
to your accepting his invitation to pass
the first fortnight of your Midsummer Vacation
with him : At the same time I
desire you to understand, that, as long as

you are under my care, I must insist that
your acquaintance with any of the late
Mrs. Leicester's, your mother's, relations
be nothing beyond what ordinary courtesy
to them shall require. Any intimacy with
them was strongly deprecated by the late
Major Leicester, your father, during his
lifetime, and both as his friend and as your
guardian I feel myself bound to follow out
his wishes on the subject, even if my own
did not coincide with them, as, I may add,
they do most completely.

I enclose my customary allowance of
£5 to you for the year's pocket-money.
You can apply to the Read. Dr. Craven for
the necessary funds for your travelling expenses,
an account of which I shall expect
you to forward to me.

I remain,

Truly yours,
'Thos. E. James.
Bertram Leicester.'

As I stripped myself, ran down to the

wash-room, took my place behind the last
fellow on the stairs, and as I was washing
in the wash-room before I went under the
tap, I thought in a half-dreamy way about
this uncle of mine and then about my
mother and Colonel James, and then about
my father but, going under the tap and
standing there with the cool water gushing
all over my chest and down my body,
thoughts arrested took another turn, and it
was not till I was in bed that night that
they reverted to the matter. Who was my
mother ? My father was in the army, a
friend ' of Colonel James : something like
Colonel James seems to me, perhaps : a
stiff-bodied, stiff-kneed, steel-grey headed
old gentleman modelled upon Major Pendennis.
. . . Was my mother the woman
up in one of the berths of that second
darker vision, the woman up in one of the
berths giving suck to and soothing the half-fractious
child, the child half fractious with
sleep and misery ? The baby-boy, then, was
my brother or sister ? Had I a brother or

sister ? I felt that I had not. Had I a
mother ? I felt that, on the other side of a
broad, shelved and dim atmosphere, I had.
Sometimes she stood still, turned towards
me ; but neither of us made any great effort
to see the other. ' My father lies dead in
the close dark in the ground with a frown
on his face. . . . And my thoughts of
them,' I said to myself, ' are this much
worth : that my mother is dead, " the late
Mrs. Leicester," and my father's face probably
past all frowning now : Nay, they probably
are semi-dissolved bodies together.' On
which thought I fell asleep, and had a horrible
dream of propping up the body of my
father, great, naked, flabby, which would
come upon me, and the skin depended a
little on the only part I could see of him,
the thighs and belly and upper portion of
one broad leg. This dream disturbed me
for the whole of the next day with a feeling
of flabby death near and not near me, by
and not by me, my father and not my
father, just as that shadowy woman with

great owl-wings and the skull of an owl, of
which I have already spoken.

The morning after that, at breakfast,
Armstrong, who sat next me, getting up to
look at the letters when they were brought
in, returned and threw one into my plate.
It was addressed to B. Leicester, Esq., in a
thin scratchy hand, and the envelope was
large and oblong and of glazed white paper.
In a little I opened it, supposing it to be
from Mr. Cholmeley, and rightly.

The Myrtles, Seabay, Isle of Wight,
22nd July, 18—.

Dear Mr. Leicester,

I dare say that by this time my
name, Cholmeley, will convey some impression
to your mind ; for I must suppose that
your guardian, Colonel James, has not left
you in complete ignorance of the correspondence
that has been passing between us.

I prefer coming at once to the point, or
rather one of the points ; for there are two.
The first is, some explanation of what you

must suppose to have been nothing short of
absolute neglect of yourself on my part ;
the second is, as you are probably aware,
to ask you to confer upon me the pleasure
of your society here for the first fortnight
in August. I should, indeed, have been
happy to have given you a somewhat larger
invitation ; but, as my health requires me
to hasten south again to those parts 'which
alone seem able to make my wretched old
body an endurable habitation, you will see
that this is impossible.

I now return to the first point. I saw
but very little of my sister, Isabel, your
mother ; for having very early shown a
decided inclination for the study of the
classics, that chiefs lahore dulce lenient,
and my father's father having himself
been a scholar of no despicable pretensions,
although of a somewhat more artificial, if
sounder, character, than those at present in
vogue, and moreover money not being a
want to us, I naturally desired, and at last
gained, my father's permission to return to

England, ultimately proceeding to Cambridge,
where I obtained the distinction of
Chancellor's Medallist and Second Classic,
terms doubtless familiar to you a member
of a school in which, I believe, the old
classical tradition is still handed down unsullied
by the barbaric bar-sinister of either
science or, what they call, a ' Modern Side!'
Shortly after my matriculation I had heard
that my father's health was a little shaken
by a severe chill caught at some festal
gathering, but the evil effects were, apparently,
rooted out by care and a good
doctor, and I had given up any anxious
thought about the matter. Indeed, the
account I had of him for the next few years
was encouraging in the extreme. You may,
then, imagine my consternation and grief
when, shortly after my last University success,
I received intelligence of his sudden
death and of my sister's desire to come to
England as soon as possible, in order that
she might take up her residence with an
aunt of ours at that time residing near Manchester.

This voyage was actually performed,
and I myself stayed for a few days
at my aunt's house, from the experience of
which few days I formed that estimate of,
what appeared to me to be, your mother's
natural disposition, which, despite all subsequent
events, I have seen no proper
reason to cease to hold as being, in the
main, a correct one. I can say with the
most absolute sincerity, that I believe that
the greatest of her faults was thoughtlessness,
and that I have so far considered, and
shall in all probability continue to consider
to the end of my life, that all attempts to
make her out as either naturally or by her
early training depraved are as unfounded
as they are ungenerous and unjust. I
make no doubt that you already know at
any rate the general outline of your unhappy
mother's subsequent career, and I
shall, therefore, make no further allusion
to it than that which I have already
made.

You will I think easily perceive, that her

VOL. I. 7

marriage with your father and their almost
instantaneous departure for Cork where his
regiment was then quartered, and my
scholastic labours and ultimately my own
marriage, to say nothing of our most opposed
spheres of life, made any close intimacy
between the two families all but impossible.
After a short, too short ! period
of happiness I was left to face life with the
motherless pledge of mutual affection and a
frame shattered by an, alas useless, attendance
on the sick bed of my beloved wife
and companion. I felt that change of
scene and change of climate were absolutely
necessary to me. I left England therefore ;
and so it came about that, unhonoured by the
confidence of my sister, your mother, I remained
for long in ignorance of anything
more than the general facts of her history.
It was only through inquiries, instituted by
me shortly after I had received intelligence
of her death, that I learnt of your existence
at all and then, being informed that you
were well cared for, and being myself at the

time engaged upon a most laborious and
absorbing undertaking, I thought it no
great neglect of you to wait till, that undertaking
completed, however unworthily,
and my presence in England being from the
nature of the thing (I need not scruple to
inform you that I refer to my forth-coming
edition of the plays of Sophocles) an absolute
necessity, at any rate for a short
season, I could make your acquaintance
personally instead of being compelled
to know you and be known of you
through nothing more intimate than the
post !

There are other things which I desired
to say to you but, for the present, I must
forbear, for my exertions of the last few days
have so worn out these wretchedly shattered
nerves of mine, that I find both energy and
acumen to be pitiably lacking in me. Let
this, I pray you, be some excuse for the
paltriness of this letter : and more especially
for the abrupt ending which I am now about
to give to it. I hope to hear from you

7—2

shortly, and, in the meantime, ask you to
believe me, clear Mr. Leicester,

To be yours very sincerely,

Charles K. Cholmeley/

The letter made no impression upon me at
the time ; for it did not seem to have much,
if any, concern with me. I had read it with
half-absent thoughts : then I put it into my
breast-coat pocket : finished my breakfast : got
up to my locker : took out one or two books :
and went up to my study to look through
some Cicero, the Pro Milonc, which we had
for exam, at second lesson. It was not till,
the exam, over, I stood at my locker in the
hall again, putting away my pen and ,
that my mind recurred to Mr.
Cholmeley and his invitation. I shut to
the locker door : took my hat off one of the
pegs : and went out into the quad, with my
hands in my pockets, thinking. — ' I suppose
I may as well go down there. . . And
yet I don't know. There's the boating,
and I reckoned on a . . . Well, it's only

for three weeks at the worst : And I suppose
as he's my uncle I . . . And he
might tell me something about my mother '
(I lifted up my head) ; ' I have just enough
care about her, or her history, or whatever
it is, to call it curiosity.' It was on some
doubt consequent on this thought that I
went in to Craven.

I found him in the study taking off his
gown. He received me affably. Yes, he

had received a latter from Mr. Mr.

Cholmeley, yes Mr. Cholmeley — my uncle ?
Ah yes : my uncle — asking permission from
him to allow me to spend the first fortnight
of my midsummer vacation with him at
Seabay in the Isle of Wight. Colonel
James had been good enough to make his
(Craven's) permission a requisite ? Well
(looking up from his inspection of the letter)
he had no objection to my going : no objection
: No. Mr. Cholmeley was my uncle ?
Did I know if he was any relation of . . .
Ah, it must be the same, he saw : Charles K.
Cholmeley. — He had not noticed the initials.

'Are you aware, Leicester,' he said with
a blink and a blinking smile, ' that Mr.
Cholmeley is one of the greatest authorities
on the Greek tragedians that we have ?
What ? What ? You reverent aware of it ?
. . Now I hope you'll be careful not
to. . .' And so on : The end of it being
that he informed me, after a pause, that he
thought a fortnight at Seabay would do me
good. I was not to forget to warn Mrs.
Jones of the change in my plans. There
were some charming pieces of scenery in
the neighbourhood of Seabay :

That is,' he said with another

smile, ' if you care for charming pieces of
scenery, Leicester ? What ? What ?'

I thought that it would be purposeless
to say to him that I did and how much I
did : so kept silence with my eyes on the
ground, waiting for the old fool to finish.

Well, well ;' he said, ' perhaps that
will come later on. — You may go, Leicester

I went out and up into my study, and
sat down in a chair, tilting it back and

putting my feet against the table by the
window looking out onto the quad., and
began to think whether I really wanted to
go and see my uncle, or wasn't it foolish to
give up the pleasure of an extra fortnight
alone on the river ? ' Well I said, getting
up, ' I must go now I suppose.'

'And yet,' continued I in thought, ' why
should I trouble myself with a journey
down there, and he most probably a dry
old stick who'll correct my pronunciation
and make quotations I don't understand ?
I really don't know. . . I suppose I'd
better go. Craven '11 think it odd now if

I Confound it ! let him ! What do

I care ? I ivont go ! — Just to show I
don't care ? No, that's foolery. And my
mother ? . . I'd better go after all. — What
a fool I am !'

The remaining week passed, to me, with
imperceptible fleetness. I read a good
deal : stalked out and over the fields to
the bathing-place twice or three times :
sculled a little up the river.

I remember, the last night, going in to
Mother McCarthy to get my hat from the
cupboard : how I came along the dark
passage : opened the door, with Gordon
(the monitor) under the gas, leaning against
the iron-work of Armstrong's bed, reading
a book and biting his nails : went on to by
my bed, threw the hat onto it, turned to
the opened window and looked out — through
the branches of two of the dark deep trees,
into the quad, all there in the moonlight
with the shadowed houses and, beyond, the
opened heaven paley blue, lit with some
self containing radiance :

And a feeling of soft peace grew in me,
something which was unspeakable and
which could not be left, to turn round to
the bright gas-light, and the bedded jugged
room and the fellows ; so that the thought
of them left me, trailing and fading away
as some half-pulsing sort of tentacle in a
dream, and I remained with the fulness of
that soft peace unspeakable : until there
was a start, my attention taken backward,

a book snapped up, and I knew the butler
had been in and put out the gas.

I went from the window in the space
between the beds and undressed in silence,
thinking.

CHAPTER I.

Armstrong lived in London. As we were
getting up in the early morning he found
out that I had to go to London, and asked
me to have breakfast with him at Miller's,
where they give you a decent tuck-in for
1/6, and besides Knight's is so dirty, and
he hadn't paid his tick there yet for last
term. I agreed to go with him : though
in a glum sort of a way ; for I was in an
irresolute humour, half dissatisfied with
everything and everybody, particularly myself.
Well, into Miller's we went together :
through the shop into a small poky gaslit
room where, round a table, sat some four

or five fellows ' tucking in ' at coffee,
bread, eggs and bacon, and jam. In a
little, I got a seat next Toby-Jenkins, a
fat monitorial beast, of ignoble sort.

Armstrong and T were coming down the
grey-morning hill to the station before I
returned to myself adam. And then there
was an entry into a tobacconist's just
opened and a purchase by Armstrong of
bird's-eye and some cigarettes.

Ain't you going to get anything ?'
asked Armstrong, half-turning to look at
me looking out of the door across the
station yard to the station steps and doorway.
I half turned and met his look.

Very well,' I said. ' Give me a box
of cigarettes.' And took out a shilling
and ' lifted ' it from where I was onto the
counter.

We crossed into the station. A good
many fellows were about. Armstrong had
talk with some, and, in the end, I got
into one of the London carriages after him
and sat down next the fellow at the far

end facing the engine. Directly opposite
me was Norris our stroke, of the School
House I mean ; and in the corner Davidson.
In the other corner of that side,
friend Leslie on his last journey home
from Colchester School. Armstrong next
Leslie. Jones junior on my right : and
Jacobson next him in the corner.

For the first hour we had a loud time
of it. Norris sang solos of popular or
smutty ' songs and the rest joined in
deafening choruses, enlivened by occasional
horse-play. I was set off smiling more
than once at the thought of my solemn
self sitting there ' drawing ' every now and
then from a desultory cigarette, and sending
out a faint whiff of smoke into the
rush of air that passed through one window
willingly out of the other. It wasn't that I
didn't care for mirth, I thought ; for there
have been times when I have felt ready fora
witch's sabbath over the hills, or any
laughter-devilry you please ; not to recall
other times, when the readiness for a gibe

at some young woman of the Beatrice
stamp was all but irresistible and prompted
shouting and mirthfulness only ended by
sheer exhaustion. But what was there in
these * earthy ' fools (I mean, as if they
were not unlike fat, half-lousy Flemish
revellers among the barrels of a cellar :
And yet not quite that !) to inspire mirth,
or even laughter ? — So I sat thinking, till,
all at once, Norris set up a ringing sea-song
that, after a little listening, made a
cold shiver go down my back, and my eyes
light up, and the necessity for a loud shout
in the chorus a simple half-conscious satisfaction.


The rest of the journey was a quietness,
by comparison perhaps. Norris and Leslie
left us at Bridgetown : Davidson got out
soon after. We could hear the other
London fellows in the next carriage singing
for a little after that ; but the fellows
here grew quieter, reading or talking :
while I sat still thinking. And so the
time went.

At London there was a general shaking
of hands and quick parting. And I changed
to my second train.

At Portsmouth I went on board the
heat. It was a heavenly afternoon ; that
is, with a mild sky streamed with tender
colours, and the air mild, not hot or cool.
I stood leaning against the side forward,
while the gentle scene went by. Faint
unreality was with me and something not
dreamy.

Altogether,' I thought (at Ride), sitting
in the engine-side corner of the waiting
train with my hand in my cheek and
my elbow in the window-ledge, ' to-day
has been a day of dreamy changes : one
unlike any one I know, save perhaps three
or four of my fever days.' When forthwith
the faint unreality was with me once
more and something not dreamy ; and
was with me till I, looking not dreamily
forth, saw Scahaij on a long board as we
passed it on : Then stopped. I put my
hand out of the door, turned the handle.

shoved open the door with my knee and
got out. It was not a hot late-afternoon :
a gentle breeze was blowing. The sky-was
full of rare colours. A porter pulled
my box out of the luggage-van and landed
it, over the stone border, on the brick-red
gravel.

I stood by the box and the train went
out, and away : stood for some little, reflecting
that I had forgotten Mr. Chol-
medley's address and had neither Colonel
James's nor his letter to refer to. It didn't
trouble me. I still stood thinking, about
things, in a half vague way. Then took
to looking at the station and a tall grass
bank opposite. There seemed no one in
the station now. A hen fluttered out of
some farce a little farther on into the
line. Some ducks came paddling their
bills along in a broad rut on the other side
of the line : I could hear a telegraph clock
tick-tick-tick-ticking.

As my slow gaze went to by the doorway
and a small book-stall towards the

other end of my side of the station, an old
gentlemen's head, bent shoulders, and black -
clothed body came from just past the bookstall
; He had a white stock round his
neck. And then, between him and the
bookstall, stepped a fair girl. — They came
on slowly along the brick-red gravel.

I half observed them with a new feeling :
them, neither the old gentleman particularly
nor the girl. Till, all at once, he stopped.
She stopped.

He said :

My dear. I don't see him.'

The girl raised her head, looked towards,
to me. Our eyes met. Everything in me
stood still, effortlessly though. Then she
looked down to him : lifted her hand to his
arm, on it, and said with a lower tone :

I expect that is Mr. Leicester there,
father.' Up went his head, out came two
horned glasses onto his nose, and he had a
look at me. I smiled.

God bless my soul,' he said, ' of course,
of course ! My dear, I'm as blind as a bat.'

And on that we all were together, and he
had shaken my hand with his two, and
then ; with ' This is my daughter Haynes
she and I had shaken hands. And we had
all turned together and were on our way
over the gravel to the other end of the
station.

He was saying :

You see, it was my fault that we weren't
up here to meet the train. — Yes, my dear,'
he proceeded, ' it was luy fault, I acknowledge
it.'

But Where's jour luggage ?' said the
girl, staying.

Mr. Cholmeley was seized with a sudden
and violent fit of coughing, and in the end
spat out a patch of yellowy stuff not unlike
matter into the hollow by the near rail.
The sight I took of that patch of yellowy
stuff not unlike matter introduced a new
feeling in me.

There is my box,' I said, turning and
looking towards it : And, at that moment
seeing a porter come out of a small room

VOL. I. b

v/e had just passed, called to him ; and
turning back to them : ' Shall I tell him to
. . How ? Are there cabs . or . . .'
Well,' said Eayne, with a light of laughter
in her eyes, ' there's the pony carriage
outside, but . . . I'm afraid your box will
be — rather too much for it,' she said.
I half laughed.

Eh ?' said Mr. Cholmeley. ' What ?
Eh ? The box, my dear ; you said it was
too big ?' He turned also, adjusted the
two horned glasses, and took a look at it.
The porter was waiting by us.

Well,' I said, turning and speaking to
him, ' will you manage to bring it upto

'

Yes, sir. Ill see its brought up.
Where to, sir ?'

I paused : looked at Kayne : half laughed :
and said :

Upon my word I don't know. You see,
sir,' I went on to Mr. Cholmeley, ' I forgot
the address of the house I was going to,
and I hadn't either your letter or Colonel

James' in my pocket to prompt my memory
with.'

The Myrtles,' said Eayne to the porter :
And then (he gone with a queer look and a
Yes, miss') to me : ' It vas lucky we came
to meet you then.'

Very,' I said. Mr. Cholmeley had
started slowly on in the original direction.
We were up to him in a few steps,
one on each side.

I can't make out,' I went on, ' what
could have made me so forgetful.'

In the over-wrought condition of our
nerves nowadays,' said Mr. Cholmeley, * the
wonder is that we remember anything.'

And with such talk we were out of the
station and by a small pony carriage and a
small brown fat pony. Eayne drew back.
Mr. Cholmeley got in, and made a motion
to sit down in the front seat. I ran round
to the other side to stop him, and succeeded.
Then Eayne was in, had taken up the reins,
touched up the pony, and we were off at a
smart trot.

8—2

Mr. Cholmeley was leaning back with
his eyes closed.

Then Eayne asked something about my
journey. And I answered in sort : till Mr.
Cholmeley came into the conversation, and
it drifted to Colchester. Mr. Cholmeley
asked me a good many questions about
Colchester : the system of teaching the
classics in use, the subjects taught in each
form, the amount taught, and other things :
I answering as I best could.

All at once :

I do not care for Latin,' said Eayne.
It ia dry.'

Mr. Cholmeley lay back again with his
eyes closed, smiling peacefully.

Nor do I, Miss Cholmeley,' I said, ' I
must confess. I can't understand Latin
properly, I do think. It seems all so lifeless
to me, as if they had all sat down and
written it to pass away the wet afternoons.
But Greek now ! — Homer, or even Xenophon.
You remember that bit in the seventh
book, I think, where they see the sea *

Mr. Cholmeley murmured :

Rai rd'xa 8r] aKovovat /3ocovtcov too aryans
OaXaTTa, OaXarTa, Rai irapeyyvcovTcov.

a beautiful little touch, that Trapey-

yvutVTCOv.'

What does it mean ?' she asked.

I, looking at Mr. Cholmeley and perceiving
his eyes still closed, answered rather
diffidently :

It means, passing it on to one another
like the watchword, I think. We did
it the term before last, the seventh
book.'

Yes,' said Eayne, * but I never got as
far as that. I did read some Xenophon
last January :' she added to me. ' But it
was rather uninteresting, I thought. Nothing
but : Thence lie marches nineteen stages
twenty-seven imrasangs to — some place or
other : a city 'populous, prosperous and great.
And the river Salamander (or Menander, or
whatever it is), Jfoivs close to it, and there is
a park and a palace in the middle of the
city." '

• My dear r said Mr. Cholmeley, smiling
with still closed eyes. " Menander !" '

I don't think I shall ever want to read
any other Greek than Homer she went on,
flicking with the whip-lash.

In a little :

Perhaps, Miss Cholmeley,' I said,
you'll like to read Plato some day : like
Lady Jane Grey did. I have only read
part of the Apology and the Crit ; but it
seemed to me that it was very beautiful.'


Eh ? hey ?' said Mr. Cholmeley, opening
his eyes and erecting his head and body,
why, here we are.'

I gave a glance at the house. It was a
small house at the other end of a garden
pretty with bright flowers. There was a
not infant noise heard, like the wind in a
row of tree-tops. Looking on, as I got
down, I saw a line, about a quarter way up
the house, with a pale blue band : the sea !
The breeze came up softly. There was a
boy waiting just by the gate for the pony,

whose rein close by the mouth he now
held.

I stretched my hand for Mr. Cholmeley.
He rested on it, and getting down :

'It's a beautiful day for August — in Sea-bay,'
he said. * That is to say if I may
believe what they tell me about it. An
antiquarian friend of mine at Newport
described the place as a bed in a cucum-
ber-frame, in summer. Myself I am inclined
to doubt it — for reasons.'

Eayne was already down and on to open
the gate ; but I was there before, unlatched
and threw it inwards wide. Mr. Holmes
passed in slowly, Eayne followed
with a look at me like that of when she
said : * Well : There's the pony-carriage
outside, but . . . I'm afraid your box will
be rather too much for it.' I followed,
with an arriving thought that I had seen
her eyes somewhere before, and perhaps her
face.

We went in, through a small green-covered
porch, to a small hall, then to the

right, down a passage that met the little
hall at right-angles, down a staircase, along
a little hall again with an open door at the
end and green garden and blue sea-view,
then to the right into a large light room, in
the middle of which was a laid table and,
for the far-side, a large half-bay window
with the two central flaps opened outward.
'

Mr. Cholmeley sank down sighing in an
armchair that Eayne turned a little to the
window.

Ah-h,' he said. ' I'm very soon tired
out now.'

Then, in a little, recovering himself,
looking up at me standing by the window
to his left :

— But perhaps Mr. Leicester is hungry '
(turning his look up to Eayne above the
right arm of the armchair). ' We forget
that. — And dinner is not till half-past
seven.'

No,' I said. ' I am not hungry at all,
thank you.'

Are you sure ?'

Certain,' I said. ' I had some things
on the way. I am not at all hungry, really,
thank you.'

A pause.

Then I think,' he said, ' that the best
thing to be done, will be for Eayne and you
to go for a ramble along the shore together,
and leave me hero. I'm afraid I should be
but poor company just at present. In fact:
I confess that I should like a little nap
before dinner. You remember, my dear, I
had no siesta this afternoon, and I'm tired.'
His voice fell.

We left him rather lingering', more
particularly Eayne. And went down over
the first plot of grass, the gravelled walk,
and the lawn in silence. Then she led me
round a clump of bushes, and we were on a
path whose front was a low sea-wall. There
was a break of a yard therein a little further
on. Arrived there, I saw a ladder, like
those from bathing-machines, that touched
the sand.

We stayed a moment. Then I jumped
down and held my hand up for her. She
jumped past it down, and stepped seawards,
I following.

I hope you didn't mind my father going
to sleep,' she said as we moved off together
through the loose tuneful sand. ' He usually
takes his nap after lunch, but to-day your
coming disturbed him so, that he couldn't
take it, and he is so easily exhausted . . .
now.'

I am sorry,' I said.

Why should you be sorry ?'

To have disturbed him.'

I didn't mean that ! I meant that it
had excited him thinking you were coming,
and so he couldn't get to sleep then, after
lunch. But that wasn't your fault.'

We moved on in silence for a little. Then
she said :

How beautiful the sea is now, and the
sky.'

We stopped a moment to look at them.
And looking at them, the pale yellow sky,

the smooth sea, the liquid wave, dreaminess
came to me : absorbed all my inner
self with a dimness, even as the pale yellow
light may have absorbed the middle heaven.
A double word, that was almost one word,
was, came, went through, I cannot say

what in the dimness : QaXarra, OaXarTa. I

knew only the dimness : it, the pale yellow
sky, the smooth sea, the liquid wave, were
outside. Then a deadened pain came in
my left brow, and a deadened sound in my
ears ; and I saw ; and saw her by me, and
her face with the shadow of a frown on her
brow.

I am sorry,' I said in a low voice. ' I
had forgotten you.'

She smiled.

You said something, in Greek I think it
was, and then you shook your head a little,
and then you threw out your arms to the
sea. — Will you tell me what that Greek
meant ?'

I am sorry,' I said.

What for ? For forgetting me ?'

Yes. I was not thinking.'

Surely it was just the opposite. — You
were thinking. When you think you forget,
very often, everything but what you
are thinking about. There is no need to be
sorry for that.'

I am very foolish to-day. — But I have
never seen the sea before that I can remember
: and, I cannot tell you why, but it
seems to make me wish now to laugh and
then to cry. I am foolish.'

We walked on in silence for some twenty
steps :

It is not so,' she said. ' Sometimes,
early in the morning, when I have come
out, and the sun was shining, and everything
seemed so happy, I have run down to
the sea dancing and singing. But when I
saw how it lifted itself up, and threw out
its arms once — twice — over and over again
into the sand, and it seemed so tired,
so tired . . . I have stood and pitied it :
till I felt the tears all coming out of
my eyes. — I do not call that foolish.

It is Goal who makes you pity the
sea.'

I laughed, and we moved ou together
again :

These ridiculous dreamy states,' I said,
come upon me at times : ever since I had
the scarlet fever, more than a year ago
now. — The Greek I called out was, I think
so at least, only what the Greeks cried,
'the sea! the sea!" — You remember
Mr. Cholmeley quoted it. Perhaps it was,
that I remembered it in the middle : and
that made me call it out. I dare say !'

Then v^^e talked of Greek, and how we
both loved it ; and then of Homer. And I
could have cried out when she said straight
off the line :

y8;; 8' uKeoov irapa 6i,va ttoXv^Xoio- jBoto 6aXaa(7r}<;,

which I had thought one of the most beautiful
'ideas' that I knew: the old man
going in silence down by the loud resound -
ing sea. And then we traced the words

with a stick on the clean smooth sand, and
she said that she wished she knew how to
put the accents on the words, for they
didn't look quite right without them, and I
said that the general rules for marking the
accents were very simple, and explained
about oxyton, paroxyton, proparoxyton,
perispomen, and properispomen, and other
matters connected therewith.

From that, in some way or other, we
went to French, of which I knew next to
nothing ; but, when I asked her and she
spoke some of it, it pleased me to listen toit
as it came from her lips, some poetry she
had learnt, and lastly a little song. I was
sorry when the song was over, and went on
by her without a word for a little, as if the
song would continue, and yet not quite that.
Then I remembered, and said that I liked
to hear her sing. This led us to Italian,
and she repeated some Italian for me.

It must give you pleasure,' I said,
looking at her, ' to know these soft beautiful
languages.'

Well,' she answered, ' it docs please me
sometimes ; but I've known them ever since
I was quite small, and so they seem somehow
natural to me.'

I have never been out of England,' I
said. ' I should like to see Italy, I think
I should like to die in Italy, where the sunshines
always, and there is no cold wind
and rain, and the fields are full of flowers.'

But the wind docs blow,' she said,
• horribly sometimes : the sirocco in the
autumn is terrible, and so are the spring
winds in Florence.'

Ah but,' I said, looking at her, ' that's
not the time I was thinking of.'

Then she began to tell me about Italy
and their life there. I asked particularly
about the pictures and statues, telling her
that the only pictures I had ever seen were
in the Painted Chamber at Greenwich, and
described the one of Nelson rushing
wounded on deck, and the other of him
being taken up, a pale dead body, into
heaven.

At that point we stopped ; for walking
on the bank of stone on which we were
was toilsome : and she looked aside and up
at under the cliff, and I also. It was a sort
of plateau a few yards higher than the
stony shingle, covered with thick grass, and
having small trees here and there. She
was looking at one part of it. — Two small
streams, but the one larger a little than the
other, made two small cascades flowing
down from a higher elevation through the
grass, gathered tufts of which and weeds
guided the flow into the round earth basin
below. There was a gentle murmur : and
by the right side a tree, with a faint shadow
against the earthen wall behind.

We climbed up.

It was a pretty place. Clear streaks of
colour on the earthen wall that was
sheeted with the ruffled water : then, from
an arched break up above, came the main
stream, dividing, to cross and flow down
the swaying grass and weeds into the round
earthen basin.

Kayne sat down on a thick clump of grass
under the tree ; and I leant against the
earthen wall with the line of water just by
me.

All at once she jumped up, looking along
the shore to the brown cliff that ended the
bay. I looked also.

We're caught !' she said.

There was a play of foam, as she spoke,
at the foot of the brown cliff behind which
was the now almost, or altogether, set sun.
She rose, crossed the plateau, jumped down
on to the shingle and started off at a i-un.
I was up and after her in a moment, close
by her. She ran well, for a girl. But the
shingle, giving with each footfall, was tiring
to the limbs, and then there were her petticoats.
She began to flag a little. We
were still quite a hundred yards from the
point.

Will you take my hand ?' I said, passing
her. ' Let me help you. The stones.'

She would not. I fell back.

We ran on as before.

VOL. I. 9

Looking down as we came onto some
smooth half-hard sand, I saw the Br/ SaKewv
which we had written ; the rest was washed
out.

At last we came to by the point. The
waves were dashing up foaming all round.
She went straight to a boulder, jumped onto
it, and with her hand against the brown
earthen side was about to step to another,
when up had come a swelled sideward wave,
swirled over the first ring of rocks, and the
next moment she was in a shiver of spray.
I stepped to try the boulder on which she
was, caught firm hold of her round the hips,
and, lifting her up, made straight onward.
Up came another wave, but smaller, swept
past and through my legs up to the knees,
but I held both her and the ground firm.
She did not move : one arm held me firmly
round the shoulders. I looked aside.
There was a large wave just ofi" shore coming
in swiftly. ' Nod !'

The wave went back. I dashed on,
stumbled over a stone, recovered myself, a

small leap, a run — and we were in the
light of the setting sun, and she put down
on the sand before me. The large wave
struck through the first ring of rocks, and
burst full upon the cliff, mostly on this
side, into a lit cloak-like shower of drops
flying through the soft sunny air. Then I
looked at her, — both looks, for the bursting
of the wave and for her, inexpressibly swift.
Laughter was in her eyes at last, and on
her lips, and in her face.

I will never forgive you for not letting
me get a ducking,' she said. ' I had set
my heart on it !'

Then she turned, and we hurried on in
the warmer sunset air, not saying much.
I was fully content so.

At last we reached the garden wall.
The tide did not come up to the other end
wall. She went up the ladder, and then I :
along the path : round the bushes, and onto
the lawn. There we saw Mr. Cholmeley
looking through a pair of lorgnettes along
the other shore.

9—2

Eayne came up to him quietly, I following
; and put her left arm round him
and said :

Here we are, daddy ; I hope we haven't
kept you waiting for dinner.'

Eh ? hey ?' he said, smiling at her, with
the lorgnettes lowered, and then, looking at
me : ' why, I thought you would be sure to
go along the shore towards Kremlin, child.'

And we went over the grass together and
up into the dining-room talking. We all
seemed content so.

The fortnight I was there with them went
like a space of fair weather through a time
of duchess.

When I awoke one morning and informed
myself that this was the last day I should
be here in this fair beauty and inner
pleasure of life with them, it seemed tome
that I thought foolishly. Not even
that evening, when we three were in the
open air, Mr. Cholmeley in the arm-chair in
the middle of the out-flung bay-window,
Eayne on a stool at his feet, touching him
with loving hand from time to time, and I
half lying on and over the edge of the
terrace — not even then, with the certain

quiet and sadness that was of a last evening
together with us, could I realize that I was
going away from the beauty and the life
here with them, not to see either again for
long ; perhaps ever. The even flow of
quiet and sadness was too dreamy.

We began to talk a little, of work, its
length and weariness and the final rest
when it was over : or rather it was, that
Mr. Cholmeley spoke of it softly, and every
now and then Eayne or I asked him of
things he told or other thoughts thereby.

Then Eayne left us for a moment to goto
speak to Mrs. Jacques about our breakfast,
and I came up and sat in her place.

For a little there was silence, and I knew
somehow that he wished to speak to me
about my mother. I waited calmly. He
was trembling. But at last the words
came.

He had felt that he had not done all he
might have done for her. He ought to
have remembered that he was the only
person she had in the world of whom she

had a right to expect care and affection.
But he had not thought of it in that way
then. As he had toil me, they had seen
so Httle of one another, that she did not
seem to him to be his sister, and ' sister '
meant but a name that was not as near even
as ' friend.' He was so full of other things
then : his studies, his work ; and she
seemed happy and contented with her aunt.
And then they both married, and she seemed
happy and contented with her husband.
He knew that he had done wrong. It was
clearly his duty, both as a man and her
brother, to have befriended her. Perhaps
if he had done so, she might never. . . .
God only knew !

He was so moved, that all I saw good todo
was to calm him.

I said, as I thought, that he had acted
for the best, and that he could not be
blamed. The questions that 1 would like
to have asked, what my mother had done,
and when and whj' she had done it, were
not, I thought, to be asked then. I was

once almost afraid that he would do himself
some harm and, as I tried to soothe him, I
felt in some way that the pulse of life beat
but faintly here. And thinking of it grew
sad.

And so at last Kayne came back, and we
talked of other things.

The next morning Kayne went with me
down to the station to see me off, and, when
I had got my ticket and seen that the box
was all right, we walked up and down the
gravel platform talking a little, of her
father and of their going abroad and when
we might meet again. She seemed to have
no idea ' that he was very ill ; and mine,
of the faint-pulsing life, having passed
away, there was no certainty in me — no, nor
thought, to tell her of what might after all
have been no more than fancy.

She would write to me once every month,
she said : that was better than promising to
write often and not writing ; for it is so
difficult to know what to tell a person if
you write often, and it is much nicer

to have the whole month and write to
them when you feel inclined to, didn't I
think so ? Then I reminded her of her
promise to learn hard at Latin, and of mine
to learn hard at French, so that we might
both know the same languages and compare
our thoughts upon them : * And,' I said,
I shall set upon Italian soon, and see what
I can make of it.'

And a little after that the train came up,
and we went stepping down it, till we saw
an empty carriage. And then I got into it,
and put my coat on the seat, and was down
again by her ; but we said little, standing
together, and I now and then looking at her,
and knowing a tremble in me and the lump
in my throat, and would have held her and
kissed her on the lips and said ' Rayne !*
But the last carriage-door banged to, and
the porter was by mine, and it was a hurry
to go : And in the hurry somehow I touched
her hand, and she rose on her toes with her
cheek for me to kiss, and I kissed it, and
then was up in the moving train and notable

to see her for the tears, till we were
past the end of the station, when I saw her
standing and waving her hand with a smile
on her dear sweet face. ' Oh, Bayne, Rayne,
hoi loiiehj I am, leaving you ! Oh, Eayne,
BaTjne !'

Colchester seemed very dull to me when
I first came back from Seabay. I roamed
about the fields in search of consolation for
something I had lost, but could find little or
none. It was a relief when the term began.

I had determined to work hard. I did,
after a fashion, but it seemed that the
moments of tastelessness, as Mr. Cholmeley
had once said, were more frequent as the
autumn grew more damp-decaying and the
moments of hopeful delight more rare : and
no letter from Eayne.

At last, late on in September that is, the
letter came. She was sorry not to have
written to me quite within the month, as she
had said she would, but her father (' father '
simply, as she wrote) had been very ill, and
she could not settle down to write me a

long letter about some things she had been
thinking about, and she did not care to send
to me * a scribble They had returned to
Paris for a few weeks to see a doctor thereabout
her father, and then back again to
Switzerland, Tliiin, which he was very fond
of. — What she had been thinking about washer
neglect of religious study. I can remember
that some one had brought this
home to her, and that she was reading the
New Testament in the original, and a
general idea of mine that she had a fit of
religious seriousness upon her that puzzled
me in a vague sort of way. I didn't think
about religion myself. I never had thought
about it, somehow.

I answered her at some length, giving a
summary of the authors I had read and the
impressions therefrom formed, with occasional
allusions to events or things that
interested me, afterwards noticing somehow
to mj'^elf that I wasn't thinking very much
about her in connection with what I had
written. I directed the letter, as she told

me, to a Poste Estate, somewhere in
Italy, where they were going shortly.
Late in October her second letter came.

My dear Bertram,

It is a wet and tempestuous afternoon,
and therefore I consider it a fitting
occasion to answer your long and with
difficulty decipherable epistle. Yesterday
was one of the hottest days I remember
here, my thermometer going up to 105 in
the sun, and so I knew we should have
thunder and lightning. We did have : of
a sort, but utterly disappointing. Of course
I went out of doors to see what would
happen, but, beyond two livid sickly green
flashes, all was thick pitchy darkness. So
I returned a sadder and wiser woman, dripping
wet. We have been enjoying the most
glorious weltering simmering heat, and I
am out of doors reading or rambling alone
through the ' lustrous woodland,' or else
lazily boating, the whole day. You would
never have got this letter written, if it had

not been for the "uet clay. I don't believe
this place can be matched for pure natural
beauty anywhere. Yesterday I went out
in a boat, with two damsels. It was rough,
and they were both sick and very afraid ;
but there was a kind of new glory over
everything, the air marvellously clear, in
preparation for the storm in the night I
suppose. The hills all a perfect indigo
blue, and masses of cloud entangled in the
misty mountain tops." It was a

Glory beyond all glory ever seen
By waking sense or by the dreaming soul ;"

and I stood upright in the boat with my
head bared, and revelled in it all — much
to the disgust of the damsels in question.
They shouldn't have plagued me to take
them out ! . . . I have got through two
volumes of Carlyle's F. Revolution, as you
desired, and am much impressed and edified.
There is rather a tempest going on outside,
and so I am going to try to dodge my
dear old daddy and Sir James, and get out

my boat and enjoy it. — By-the-bye, I had
forgotten to tell you that an old friend and
favourite of ours, Sir James Within, has
been staying with us this last week. He
is a most amusing mondain en villegiature,
with a marvellous French and Italian accent j
and altogether a very amusing companion
to the father, and myself at times. He
knows what seems to me a great deal about
Art, the Old Masters particularly. My
dear old daddy is far from well. The
spitting is very troublesome, and now often
tinged with blood. Three days ago he sent
■ my heart into my throat and made me quite
restless-for the night, by breaking a blood-vessel
; but he has felt far better since,
he says ; more free and relieved. The
doctor says too that it has done him good.
But I really imtst go out now ! Excuse
this final scrawl. I have hopes of a storm
to-night. Love of course from the daddy.
In haste, dear Bertram,

Yours truly,

Eayne Cholmeley.

Pes. — As we're on the move I'll send
you an address to send your answer to in a
little.

R. c:

(The part about her standing up bareheaded
in the boat thrilled me : the rest
was almost interested.)

One day at the end of second lesson
Craven came upon a piece of Italian in one
of his books of reference, and could not
translate it all. He half smilingly asked
if any of us knew Italian ? No one did.
But I recalled some words of mine to Eayno,
and determined that I would learn Italian.
After second lesson, then, I went down to
the school bookseller, and bought of him a
little Italian dictionary and grammar. The
man knew nothing of Italian literature, nor
did I : I could not even remember any of
the names Eayne had quoted, except Dante,
Petrarch and Boccaccio. But all at once
I thought of Macaulay's Essay on Machiavelli
and of some words therein : and asked

the man if he had a Machiavelli. After
some search he found a little 
edition of the ' Principe.' I said
that would do, and bought it.

I took it up to the school with me and
sat at it for the remaining half-hour before
dinner. Puzzled out six lines and a half,
and came up to wash my hands for dinner,
pleased. And after that I gave an hour per
day to Italian, at first only to learning the
grammar, but, up to the irregular verbs
mastered, turned at last joyfully to my
book, and found it fairly easy and extremely
interesting. It set me about thinking somewhat
in this fashion : ' Most things are this
or that, because they are made this or that,
that is to say, there are certain laws by
observing which you can bring about certain
results.' I proceeded : 'It is surprising
that the world, which I had somehow or other
always supposed to be one great witness to
the justice of God, seems to be after all
rather more like a great stage on which the
drama of Might over Eight is perpetually

being played. Now does pure right ever
come off best ? that is, does pure right ever
\\-in by its own unadulterated purity ?' I
began to doubt it. For, surely, when right
is crowned victor, there are certain laws
which having been observed have brought
this about, and consequently wrong, if it
only knows how to observe these laws, is
crowned victor also. Honesty is the best
policy : Rogues can be honest.

But in a little came a certain disgust
with the whole matter, and I determined
not to think about it any more. But determination
was wasted. This brought it
about that, on more than one occasion, suddenly
catching myself at the old thoughts I
gave vent to a sharp impatient ' Damn !' to
the surprise of those who happened to be
with and hear me. I remember once in
second lesson so losing patience with myself
that, unconscious of the presence of
anyone, I let fly with my foot at a form in
front of me, which went over with a loud bang
onto the boards in a small dust cloud, and as

VOL. I. 10

I sat motionless frowning at my book, and
answered nothing to the questions Craven
asked me about the matter, was given the
lesson to write out twice ; and afterwards was
called up and spoken to on the subject, but
preserved complete silence, for what was the
good of telling a fool of this sort, who grew
furious over a false concord and preached
invertebrate sermons the truth ? I would
as soon have thought of telling him a lie !
Well, I wrote out the lesson twice, and
there that part of the affair ended.

The Christmas holidays were an evil time.
I gave myself up to, as it were, an entirely
new consideration of affairs. A week's
close thought, out on my walks, in bed at
night, often till after twelve or one o'clock,
made me give up the Bible as a fairy tale.
Then came a fortnight or so of utter confusion,
inexplicable to myself: excitement
of body and soul, wild dreams, visions or
half - visions, a purgatory. Finally I
emerged with a certain calmness to wonder
at that time, wonder that it had belonged tome.

It seemed so dimly far away now, and
as to some one else, and yet not to someone
else, and yet not to me.

The opening of the term wrought a
strange change. A new form of the thing
which had done duty to me as woman came
to me, producing an amount of longing for
her and her love that frequently found vent in
tears over pencilled poetry sheets. Then
Christ was introduced, as a sweet tender
friend who consoled me for her present
absence by telling me of her future coming.
But, after a time, this too passed, and I
returned to my old doubtful state, deciding
that happiness was undoubtedly the end of
life, and that happiness to me meant having
written certain quietly delightful books,
while I stayed alone apart in a dim place
that had little to do with life and nothing
with death. My old idea of greatness en
bloc was childish, absurd. My old trouble
about God and the world was useless,
absurd. My old ideas about everything were
extremely vague ! Happiness and selfishness

10—2

are synonymous terms. Everybody is selfish.
Good meo are good, because they couldn't
be happy bad. Bad men are bad because
they couldn't be happy good. Men who
are the most unselfish are the most selfish :
the very pain that their unselfishness causes
them is their pleasure. Therefore when I
intend to be happy I am simply intending
what everybody intends. It was surprising
how calm I grew upon this and . other
thoughts ; how quietly assured of my uninterrupted
course towards the cultured happiness
that I now looked upon as mine.

Some way on in February, one Saturday
afternoon just after dinner, to me, sitting
up in the bedroom looking through some
of the de Orator for ' third lesson,' enter
Armstrong, who throws me a letter and exit.
I pick it up : recognise Colonel James'
handwriting : open it : read. He must
request my presence in London immediately
on important matters. I could apply to
Dr. Craven for the necessary funds. There
was a train arrived in London tomorrow

about one. (The letter was addressed from
a street adjoining Piccadilly. I forget its
name.) He hoped I should not be later
than that. He had something of the
greatest importance to communicate to me.
I must excuse a hastes letter, but the state
of his health at present made every unusual
effort very painful to him.

I, as in a sort of dream, went in to
Craven about it.

I came out from the short interview a
little puzzled. He had heard from Colonel
James, he said. He gave me enough for
my fare second-class to London and a few
shillings over. I might start when I liked.
I told him (I don't know why I told him.
I think it must have been the half dreaminess
of it all that caused me so to break
from my usual custom of reserved silence)
that I thought I should take the early
morning train, as Colonel James had mentioned
it as one that would do.

As I was dressing for tea, it suddenly
occurred to me that I had heard somewhere

about a train which left Colchester about
six and got into London pretty late that
night. — Why not go by it ? As well as not.

When I had dressed I went into Mother
McCarthy's to see if she had a time-table.
She had. I found that there was a train
left Colchester at 5.55 or so, and got into
London at about eight. I looked at the
clock. It was twenty minutes to six now.
I would try it !

I had bought a glazed black bag last
holidays, as being a useful sort of thing fora
peripatetic to have. I got a clean nightgown,
a clean shirt, a couple of collars, a
pair of socks, and some handkerchiefs out of
my linen locker : went back into my room :
fished the black bag from under my
bed : packed in the things I wanted : took
my great coat off the peg, and started
away.

I ran into the station at four or five
minutes after the train was due to start. I
had a sharp cut and run onto and down the
platform and got into an empty carriage

just as the train moved off. The liveliness
of the whole affair delighted me. I felt
something like an excited child.

The journey did not seem long to me ;
for I slowly fell into a dim thought world,
and only came out of it for a moment when
(about half way I think) a fat old gentleman
got in with a bulged old carpet-bag which
he put onto the seat beside him ; and then
took a newspaper from his inside breast-pocket
; put on a pair of black horn pinckney
and began to read. Just before London
they collected the tickets, and then I became
aware that I felt empty internally : of
course, I had had no tea. But I went back
into the old dim thought-world again, and
was not out of it when we glided down a
long gaslit platform and it was borne in tome
that we were in London.

I got into a hansom and gave Colonel
James's address to the driver. We drove
through many streets, mostly having little
traffic in them, till we drew up suddenly
before a house, above the door of which

was an oblong of glass lit by a gas-lamp,
and in the middle, in black figures, 15 —
Colonel James's number. I got out, paid
the driver, and rang at the bell. The door
was opened almost immediately by a man
in evening dress with a napkin in his hand.
I asked did Colonel James live here ? He
said, Yes, he did. I said :

Can I see him ?'

The Curling wasn't very well this evening,
sir, he said. He was upstairs therewith
his cawfee just now, sir. He (the
man in evening dress with a napkin) didn't
think he'd like to be disturbed. But I
might give him (the man) my card, sir, and
he'd (he, the man) take it up to him.

I have no card,' I said. ' My name is
Leicester. Will you tell Colonel James
that I came to-night, instead of tomorrow,
and want to know if I can see him ?'

The man turned and went slowly up the
first few staircase steps : then half-turned
and said :

Leicester was the name you said ?'

Yes,' I said. ' Leicester.'

I leant against the glazed-paper wall, looking
at a large print of Wellington meeting
Blucher after Waterloo. A clock ticked in
an adjacent room. I heard the man from
the top of the stairs say :

Will you stop up, please ?'

I put bag and hat onto a dark-red mahogany
chair by an umbrella stand, and went
up. The man ushered me in through an
open door to the right. I entered.

The first thing I saw was the part of a
large low red-clothed table under the light of
a red shaded lamp : then, a rather thin old
gentleman standing on the right side of the
hearth rug with his back to the fire. He
raised his head. There was a light-flash on
his glasses.

He spoke.

Mr. Leicester ?' he said.

Yes, sir,' I answered. ' I am Bertram
Leicester.'

Ah yes — exactly so.'

He paused, looking aside. Then again

raised his head with the light-flash on his
glasses.

He spoke.

Will you please sit down,' he said.
Perhaps you would like to take your coat
off? It is very warm in here, I dare say —
after the street.'

I slowly took off my great-coat ; and then
sat down in a chair by the table facing him :
he remaining standing.

After a little :

You have rather taken me by surprise,
Mr. Leicester,' he said. 'I, ah, did not
expect you till tomorrow morning : as, ah,
you have said, as you have said. Did
Dr. Craven give you any information about
the, ah, reason for your journey ?' (Looking
up at me as before.) ' No ? he did not ? —
Very well. He acted wisely. I have
every possible reason to believe that Dr.
Craven is a man of distinguished, ah, forethought.'


A pause. Then :

I have a very bad piece of news to give

you, Mr. Leicester,' he continued. ' I, ah,
am much afraid — But I think that I had
better give it you at once, and without, ah,
preamble. Your father's small personal
fortune, amounting to, ah, from ,£120 to
X'130 a year, was invested in — ah, given upto
(I am not quite sure about the correct
expression ; but it is, ah, immaterial) — to a
bank in which he had every confidence. I,
ah, constantly, during his later years, did
my best to prevail upon him to — ah, make
some other investment with his money : as,
ah, I had myself seen a very sad — ah, incident
in my own family in connection with
banks. You may have heard that the
Great Southern Bank has recently, ah,
become insolvent, or whatever it is ? No ?
Well, ah, it is so ; and, ah, every hour is
bringing in worse information on the, ah,
matter. It is, you may perhaps see, Mr.
Leicester, quite impossible for j'ou to continue
your career at — Colchester. Every
penny of your father's money has — gone.
I, ah, have, I am glad to say, absolutely

nothing to — to do with it myself personally.
. . Have you any, ah, designs yourself
as to a future, ah, career ?'

I put my hand to my mouth, looking
steadily at him. He looked aside and back
again, as before :

— I am not to return to Colchester ?' I
asked.

Ah, surely not.'

I spoke rather to myself than to him :

Not to work any more ? Not to be able
to read my books ? Not to learn ? — Why,
it is ridiculous ! All my books are at Colchester
: with all the notes I have taken
such trouble to write out — and I here. . . .
What must I do ?'

There was a pause.

I rose, and said r

I can only think of one thing, sir. I
have, I believe, some brains, and, I believe,
of that sort which can be turned to some
use. I have for long desired to write. If
I only had time, I am confident that I could
make my livelihood '

Good heavens, sir!' he exclaimed. ' You
are not thinking of becoming a — a writer. —
Ah. Why, it is, ah, another word for starvation.'


Men have made their fortune with
nothing but their pens to help them
before now, sir,' I said. ' And I am not
afraid.'

I noticed a thick blue vein swelling out
on his forehead. He threw up his hands,
and exclaimed vehemently :

It is madness, madness, sheer, ah, insanity.
I will not hear of it. I will give
you no help !' (He seemed suddenly to
collapse.) ' You must go away. I must
ring for Salmon, to show you out. You
must go away. You are agitating me —
dreadfully. I am not to be agitated.
Doctor x\stley says so. I am not to be
agitated.'

At first I was startled : then amused :
then saddened : last angered, by this unexpected
outburst. I moved a step nearer to
him. He looked at me for a moment, and

then dropped into the arm-chair by him to
the right of the fire.

0, don't touch me !' he cried; ' Don't
look at me like that ! I will not have it !
I will not endure it ! Salmon, Salmon,
take him away. He agitates me. . . . Please
go away, sir. I am dreadfully agitated.' (I
was looking at him frowning. He cried out,
almost in a scream) — ' For God's sake, don't
look at me like that ! My God, my God,
my God ! Just the way she used to look.'
(Then he suddenly started up, exclaiming)
' I say I won't endure it ! Do you hear ?
I won't endure it. Don't act at me, sir ! I
know it's in your blood, but, if you think
you're going to browbeat me, you're mistaken
!' (Then he began to fail.) ' Salmon,
he is going to act at me. No, no — you're
not as careful of me as Edgar used to be.
Why did I ever let him go '? Why did I
ever let him go ?' (Ending in a wail.)

I began to grow a little weary of it, and
looked aside. He went on maundering
about her having killed him, j^es, killed

him ; and other things. At last came a
pause. I determined to go : then thought
of some questions I would care to ask him.
I said :

I cannot understand, sir, why you have
spoken to me like this. I know nothing of
my father or my mother. You say you where
my father's friend '

So I was,' he wailed. ' So I was, till
she came between us.'

I gave my teeth an impatient gnash :
then bit my lip and clenched my right
hand with all my strength, determined not
to say what was now on my tongue.
"What good could it do ?

I said :

I have nothing left then ? Absolutely
nothing ?'

He stared at me half vacantly .

Absolutely nothing,' he repeated.

A new resolution came to me : to leave
the questions unasked and go — go at once.

Good-night, sir,' I said. ' I will leave
you now.'

He stared at me as before.

You are not, ah, going ?' he said.

Yes, sir, I am going,' I said. ' Goodnight.'


As I was turning away he started up
convulsively and burst out :

But it is insanity ! I will not hear of
it ! I will not endure it ! I am your guardian.
Do you hear, sir, that I am your
guardian ? Salmon ! Damn the man t
Salmon, I say ! ■'

I was out of the door and closed it to. I
could hear his voice now wailing as I went
to the head of the stairs. Then it died
away. I found my bag and hat in the hall.
My coat was over my arm : I do not remember
either having taken it up or put it
there. I went on to the hall-door : opened
it, after a little trouble with the latch : went
out : pulled it to, by its big round brass
handle in the middle, once, twice. Then
was over the step and onto the pavement.
It was raining.

I walked on into a main street, and then,

turning to the right, walked on clown it.
The perpetual movement of people and
horses and things about me brought a
feeling into me that I had never felt before.
I forgot about myself and my own affairs
and my hunger in considering them all. So
I went on, till 1 came to a corner where the
main street ended. There I somewhat mechanically
crossed. As I reached the pavement
of the other side, I heard a man call
out twice : ' Kil-burn ! Kil-burn !' and
looked at him standing, keeping on by a
strap with one hand and holding out the
other, on an omnibus perch :

Tilbury,' I thought, ' is the farthest
place he goes to. Probably, then, it's a
suburb. I may as well go there as anywhere,
for what I intend to do. At any rate,
we'll see.'

And with that went straight to the
omnibus step and clambered up by the
ladder onto the top, where I saw a man
sitting on another omnibus that just then
passed by. Up, I laid the bag down and

VOL. I. 11

put on my coat : when the conductor
crossed to by my side, and began removing
the tarpaulin from the seat. I thanked
him and sat down with the bag beside
me, and took to half-absently looking at
the people passing in and out of the light
from the shop windows as we drove on.
"VVe drove on for some time.

At last we turned into a long straight
rather dark street. As we were some way
up it, I noticed what seemed some torches
or something of the sort flaring by the
right side, at the top, just above where it
bifurcated. I determined to get down
there.

We stopped on the left side just below
them. I let myself down with my bag in
my teeth, and paid the conductor my fare :
2d. or 3d., I forget which. Then I turned
from him ; crossed the street : and sauntered
along looking at the stalls. There
were not many people along the pavement:
the hawkers cried their cries rather plaintively
: one old man, sitting in front of an

oven with a small steam-jet, cried out
every now and then sharply : * Ot ! Ot !'

It was still raining and it seemed colder.
I sauntered on. A tall girl, with a singularly
well-made body and well-poised head,
moved with a long swinging step in front
of me. She stopped in a moment, to buy
some nuts, and I saw her face. It was
pleasant to look at it : so pure and clear-cut,
with crystal eyes and red rarified lips
and large row of white teeth. I followed
her slowly, thinking of her dear face : I
felt sure she would kiss and love me if she
knew me.

She stopped to listen to a man who
was addressing a few shivering children
whose faces formed a line along the far
side of his stall. I went up to close by
her and looked at her. She was eating
nuts, and every now and then let the
shell-bits fall out of her mouth down her
coat to the ground. At last she turned
her eyes to mine : then exclaimed in a
half whisper :

11—2

Oh my ! I hope you'll know me next
tie you see me, young man.'

I turned away and crossed the road.
I faced a pawnbroker's. An idea came tome.
I went in, into a dusky clothes-hung
place where a man was sprawling
under a large gas-jet over the counter,
with a cigar in his mouth. I said :

I want to sell this great coat. What
will you give me for it ?'

Let's see it, sir,' he said.

I took it off.

In the end he gave me fifteen shillings
for it.

I went out and counted my money
before the next, a jeweller's, window. I
had one shilling and seven pence halfpenny
in my pocket. That left me fourteen
shillings and nine pence for myself;
for I owed Colonel James threepence for
my omnibus fare. This and the other he
should have at once. Some day (I hoped
soon) he should have to the last farthing I
owed him. I turned away, putting his

money into one trouser pocket and mine
into the other, and went on for a little,
thinking, till, feeling the rain and the air
colder, and under an impulse, turning up
my coat-collar, re-crossed the road and
Wandered on. I 'did not notice particularly
where I went (I was deep in thought
now), only that I turned down the narrowest
streets I happened to see.

All at once my eye was caught by a
card in a small window I was passing.
I stopped to look at it. The window, or
rather, a linen blind, was lit-up from within,
the card marking a small oblong on
the ledge of one of the upper panes. I
looked closer, to read the actual letters :
Apartments.

I, not seeing either bell or knocker,
knocked at the door with my knuckles.

An old woman holding up a guttering
candle half-opened the door. I said :

Do you let apartments ?'

I've a room. Yes.'

How much is it a week ?'

Five shillings a week, sir.'

Oh.'

A pause. I half turned my body :

• — But I think I could take four, sir,
perhaps ?'

Will you let me see tt ?'

Please step upstairs, sir. — Mind the
wall, sir, it comes off.'

I followed her upstairs.

I took the room, and paid for two
weeks in advance.

The furniture was a bed, a washing-stand,
a table, a chair, and two ragged
scraps of carpet : one under the table, oneby
tha side of the bed. There was a
looking-glass over the chimney-piece, and
three photographs in faded violet frames,
worn out : Napoleon III., the Empress
Eugene, and the Prince Imperial as a
boy. A gas-jet was turned full on.

I bolted the door, and began pulling off
my coat, when I felt emptiness inside me.
Then I sat down on the unsteady chair,
and began thinking about what had occurred

to me to-day ; but I soon gave it
up.

I got up again and, for a moment,
stood irresolute whether to go out and
get some food, bread, or to ask this woman
Smith for some, or to get into bed without
any. At last [ thought I would get into
bed and fall asleep. Sleep, quiet cool
sleep, would calm and refresh me.

I threw my waistcoat onto the top of
the coat, and then stood irresolute again,
stretching my arms up and down. Then
an impulse came to me. I fell down onto
my knees and, leaning my arms on the
bed, leant my head on my arms. I began
in a half whisper :

If there he a God '

After a pause, of thought almost as much
as of words, I said :

I ask You, God, if You are, to have pity
on me if I am blindly wandering, and to
lead me to know You some day before I die,
so that Your Truth be the jewel to the
setting of the Truth that I would have my

life to be. I don't know how I am going, but
I know where I desire to go : and yet I don't
know more than that it is somewhere. This
earth is a strange earth, by reason of the
strangeness of its inhabitants. If there
were no living thing in it except myself . . .'
(I left the thought). ' But now I am going
to strive to make money, in order that I
may live the life that I want to live, and I
don't see why I shouldn't succeed.' Then
the feeling of light and shadow, dream and
reality, an eclipsed sun and moon, came tome
so strongly that I got up again, slowly,
with the intention of saying no more prayers
that night. The things around me now
were all in a sort of noise above my ears.
I stepped to and turned out the gas : and
then slowly undressed, in the dark save for
the light that came from a gas-lamp in the
street, through the far window.

I pulled down the upper-clothes, got into
bed, sank into enclosing coolness, and very
soon sleep.

When I first woke up, I thought I was
back in my room at Colchester : then recalled,
but slowly, all that had happened
the daj^ before. — That next day awakening
was a dreary thing : everything that I had
done seemed so purposeless ! I was a conceited
fool : or at best a dim-eyed far-away
dreamer. It would be better to marry a
red-cheeked woman, with untidy gold hair
and a brown homely dress, and smoke a
pipe in the sun all day while she brushed
out the house. The picture I conjured up
made me laugh out loud. I leaped out of
bed : an impatient cry killing a yawn. —
The sun was shining.

I went to the other far window, pulled

down the upper part and looked out. The
air clear and rather sharp, but not cold :
as something almost corporal, to my inhaling
lungs. I had no watch. It was
about half-past seven or eight, I thought.
A man came with sounding steps down the
street and passed invisibly below me. I
pulled up the window again, stripped, and
prepared to wash. Such a little jug and
such a little basin ! And no sponge. What
was I to do without a sponge ?

I made the best of it : dried myself on
a flabby towel : and began to dress.
Dressed quickly, and then, taking up my
hat, went slowly downstairs.

At the house door, I met Mrs. Smith
coming out of the room on the left, where
I had seen the card. I said ' Good morning,'
and she said ' Good morning, sir,' and
I asked if there was a park anywhere near ?
She told me that it was about ten minutes'
sharp walk to the Regent's Park, and gave me
some directions. I bought a half-pound of
dates and a large brown loaf at a shop close

by, and with these under my arm, asked my
way, which was a very simple one, to the
Regent's Park : passed out of a somewhat
dirty road, through the gates, and so over
the two bridges into the Park itself. I
sauntered along the side of the lake, looking
at the swans and ducks.

It was a glorious morning. The sun
breathed a gentle heat upon me, and warmed
me gratefully. The dew was still on the
grass : a few people hurried across by the
pathways ; every now and then a duck
whirred through the air. At last I reached
another bridge, went onto it, and stood and
watched a flight of birds bathing themselves
wantonly in the shallows of a small
bay on the far shore :

It is very beautiful,' I said.

I ate my dates and loaf on a seat behind,
or rather beside, a tree on an elevation that
runs up there and along parallel to the
curve of the lake. The loaf was of good
thick crummy bread, and satisfied without
satiating me ; the dates, a half-pound, 4d.,

gave the bread a flavour. The only thing
that seemed lacking was a crystal stream
from which I might drink a pure cool
draught. But, my breakfast done, I rose
almost readily, and went back again to the
bridge that leads to the gates. For, the
fight is begun and loitering looks like lag-hardness.


Being, a little doubtful about my way
home, however simple, I was pleased to
find that I had remembered it aright.
Finding myself in the road that led to may
Maitland Street and opposite a small 's,
I went in and invested ina
pen, nibs, ink and paper. These were
my weapons. Then proceeded on home :
went upstairs : found my bed already made
(which was pleasing) : put my weapons ou
the table, myself into the chair and, tilted
back, began to consider.

I had seen somewhere or other that
Byron received ^500 or so for his shorter
pieces, ' The Bride of Abydos,' ' Giaour,'
etc. ' There is, then, surely a good chance

of my getting at least ^10, or perhaps ^620
if my book sells well, for two pieces each
of (say) 600 Hues long !' On that I could
subsist for a long time, and a long time
means more poems and more money. ' You
see, if you only live as economically as I
am going to. . . Well, many things maybe
done.'

After a little thought, preliminary, roundabout,
I came to this : I had had these
almost two j-ears two tales in my head :
that is, connected narratives with a definite
beginning and end ; a story, a fact : not
the embodiment of a passing humour that,
I thought, being exalted, has to be climbed
up to, but a narrative, to be clothed in the
best clothes I could put on it, and then sent
on a journey with the reader to amuse and
try to instruct him, if only in a lesson of
pathos, on the road. — I at once set upon
the first of my ' tales.'

By the time it grew dusk, I had finished
over two hundred lines of it. I was not at
all satisfied. I had not, I thought, twined

the melody of the rhythm enough into the
sense : that is, had lost some of the scent,
in transplanting my flower. I was afraid
of becoming a mere painter, and losing the
scent altogether. Still, I thought, the less
subtle I try to be, the more likely am I to
please those who are likely to read this
stuff of mine. One must live prose, before
one lives poetry ; prose is paying for your
cake, and poetry is eating it. Get something
to support your body first : the body
is the keystone. It is no good having your
brain full and jowl belly empty, for at that
rate you soon die, and then you look
foolish.

For all such thoughts, I was a little
ashamed of what I had done. My muse
had not moved me : she dwelt but in the
suburbs of my good pleasure. ' Well, well,
it cannot be helped.' — So I left her there,
and went out into the streets.

I wandered far that night. At last to the
Serpentine, where I stood, some little time,
trying to explain the lamp reflections across

the water, two together : large space : two
together. Then I must have gone down
Piccadilly, and through Leicester Square :
then into the Strand, I think, and so down
by Charing Cross station ; for I went under
a bridge, and ended on the Embankment.

I came home with an ' aerial breathlessness
' upon me : sat down to my poem and
finished it. It had indeed moved me this
time : two tears had fallen from my eyes.
But, what I had heard called ' mysticism '
hj some people (meaning, as I supposed,
that it seemed so to them) had run riot ;
and I knew that I had not written what
I meant to write. — I lost patience. It
seemed very hard, that I should not be
allowed to try to do my best. I thought,
not bitterly, of the thousands of silly
men and women, who squandered on luxury
for mere luxury's sake, or hoarded for mere
hoarding's sake, that which would enable
me . . . Then it struck me that sometimes
men starved. — The thought seemed like a
being of darkness. I looked up sharply,

almost hearing a sort of clang of the departing
wings of the being of darkness.
There was so much that was dreamy and
unreal in all this ! Up arose a circling
black cloud, from the outer dark-smokiness
of which many many ej^es looked at me,
the eyes of the many many men who had
struggled and perished. I looked up sharply
again, almost hearing my own thought's
words, ' Ay, hut great men never struggled and
perished: they always struggle and unn.' But
still that circling black cloud stayed, with
the many many eyes looking at me from the
outer dark-smokiness, the eyes of the many
many men who had struggled and perished.

For four days I worked at my ' poems ;'
finished them and, sauntering out that night,
looked into a newspaper-shop's window by
chance, and there noted a publisher's name
and address on a board below, and sent him
the poems next day. I had said nothing
more to him than that I begged to submit
them for his inspection, enclosing stamp for

their return in case of rejection. I was
sure that he would take them.

I spent most of my time in my room :
either writing more poetry, or reading and
studying a Shakspere, which I had bought
for a few pence in the Edgware Eoad
market one Saturday night from an amusing
man who was selHng off a cartload of books
to the stolid people as he best could. But,
generally in the late afternoon I went out
for a walk into the Regent's Park, feeling as
if I were away from the streets and the life-worn
people there. Many happy hours
were spent by me wandering whistling over
the middle grass plateau (it seemed tome
like a plateau somehow), thinking of
my work and, sometimes, of the dear
woman to whom some day I should tell all
of this ; for she had come back to me now,
and not quite what she had ever been before,
more real because more gentle, more
loving, more true, knowing what was in my
heart and soul and having much in her own
heart and soul that mine would be glad to

VOL. I. 12

know of. Often I watched the sun setting
in the cloud banks, and once saw him in
the dim dapper sky-layer a bloody spider-round,
gradually covered with a sort of
dusty smokiness and darkened till he was
wrapped invisible in clouds of dead slate.

All the time I lived on bread, with an
occasional relish of fruit or a glass of
milk.

I soon learnt my way about, at anj'- rate
in one great block that was between
Regent's Park and the Thames by Charing
Cross. I was very fond of wandering by
night : especially to the top of Primrose
Hill, tx) look out over the great city, and
the rings of light closer to, as in a vestibule-court
of an almost boundless palace building
: especially, too, in the populous streets
like Oxford Street and the Strand.

One night I had wandered along Oxford
Street past the Circus, and then turned down
on the right into the block of buildings that
is between Seven Dials and Eegent's Street :
had wandered on and on, till I found myself

in dim streets, in which every now and then
shadows as of women moved with a certain
inspiration to me of fear. I passed close
to some of them, drawn as by some latent
power of fascination on the ground, and in
them, but not looking at their faces : till
at last, passing somewhat quickly into an
alley, I met one face to face under a protruding
shadowed lamp. For a moment I
stood breathless with my eyes in the
selfishness and glitter of hers, and then,
like a lightning flash that fills the whole
air, terror of her filled me quite. I leaped
aside and then past her, plunged into a
dark-covered way that was behind and beyond
her and hurried on, past two silver-ornamented
women who stood laughing and
talking at a corner shop-door, out into a
city street again, not streets of this city of
shadowedness ! But the impression of that
place, its shadowed air, its shadowed women,
and the selfishness and glitter of their
eyes, was upon me all that night, turning
even my sleep into a nightmare. It was

12—2

several days before that impression left
me.

It was about then that a vague fear
came to me that I had caught some fever.
My hands were so hot at nights, and cheeks
and ears. I grew so impatient too. One
evening I tilted over the table : and the
ink-bottle was in the middle of my scattered
blacked sheets on the floor, and I was almost
crying, and had scarcely heart to pick
the things up again.

It was that evening that an idea came
over me that I would go down to Norfolk
Square and see the house in which Clayton
lived. -I rose from the table where I had
been reading with the light of a coffin-wicked
dip-candle, took up my hat, and set
out. It was a long walk. At last I entered
Norfolk Square : a long dark oblong, with a
long thin-railed garden in the middle. And,
when I found out No. 21, I found out a
hapless eyeless house, up from the area
rails of which protruded a black To Let
board. In a few moments, standing, I

realized this : and turned away sad at
heart. I was quite alone in this city, this
London, and, if I were to lie down there in
the hollow under the garden rails, and sleep,
and never wake again, there would be no
one, not a man, not a woman, not a child
who . I ga^^e up the old thought as I
began walking. I had never realized that
I was quite alone here before this. The
realization seemed to deaden the soul in me.
My later weary wandering of that night
saw nothing of what was around me : I
reached home somehow, and bed, and
sleep.

The next morning I went for a long walk
out to Tendon, and when I got there, lying
on the grass, felt too languid to move : till
at last, summoned enough resolution to set
off home again. It was two when I got
there, hungry and yet not hungry, thirsty
and yet not thirsty, hot and yet not hot.
I sat down, lounged over the table, and
began to read at the opened Shakspere.
I read on till it grew a little dusk. All at

once a few of the letters seemed to disappear
or to have disappeared. I strained my
eyes. More went. I peered closer. Two
outer circles almost invisible were out-turning
on either side of my sight. In a little I
could make out nothing but a blurred mass
where the two small printed pages had
been. I closed them to. Then leant my
face in my arms over the table and closed
my eyes ; but the two outer circles almost
invisible still were out-turning on either
side of my now listlessness. I felt dimly
that I had made that movement somewhere
before : perhaps in a dream ? No, it was
not in a dream. I remember now. It was
once when a poor lonely boy (and that is
why it may have seemed at first like a
dream to me) went to the bench and, half
upon it, leant his face in his arms on the
cool table-cover . . . And could not weep
tears : the tears were dried behind the eyes.
I started up impatiently. I was crying,
my hands were all wet with my tears. I
stamped my foot. This was all accursed

folly ! Hysteria : like a woman ! What
the devil was the matter with me ? Was I
ill ? Or going to be ill ? Or what ? . . .
I was tired. That was all. It was nothing
more. — But my eyes ! . . . God, if I
break down ! ' Nay !' I cried aloud, smiling
through my tears. ' I'm the boy who says
there is no God. " The fool hath said in

his heart " Cha ! That's David's

opinion. If ever I write Psalms, I'll put
it the other way on. David was the man
who never saw the righteous deserted and
the righteous man begging his bread.
There's inspiration for you ! You blind old
driveller you ! into the ditch, I say !
There'll be plenty of your tribe to follow.'
I smiled again, but differently :

Still Kebes : always hunting out something.'


I had waited for thirteen days now.
Would the man never write to me ?

It happened that, the afternoon after I
had the affair with the eyes, coming home

from Lamp stead Heath by the Grove End
Eoad with my eyes as usual on the ground,
I saw what looked like a small part of a
large silver coin in a heap of dust by a
lamp-post. I stopped, bent, stretched
down my hand and found a two-shilling
piece. I looked up. I could see no one
in the road : no one behind me. I might
take it then ; for how could I possibly find
its owner ? And to have found it, I, who
had never found anything in my life before !
It seemed quite strange. — I had three shillings
now. That meant another fortnight.
On the force of it, I got a glass of milk,
as I went down the Edgware Road.

I. came home almost buoyant, and
was up the two first steps when I knew
some one was descending. I drew down
and back. It was a petticoated being : a
girl, I saw, but of what sort, the dark of
the place and the duskiness of the hour
combined to hide. Anyhow, she said
Thank you,' and went on : and I up and,
as I went to my door, I thought that the

one on the left must be hers ; but perhaps
she slept up in the attics like a claj^-homed
swallow ? Then I remembered to have
heard muffled stirring in that room by
mine, and concluded it must indeed be
hers : and proceeded to forget all about the
matter.

That almost buoyant humour was evanescent.
I had scarcely sat down and begun
to think a little, before I grew aware that
my foot hurt me, my left foot. Then, in
an odd sort of way, I took off my boot and
sock and examined the naked foot : a dirty
foot, and with the skin rubbed off at the
top of the heel, which was rather inflamed.
The thought of a sore heel was unpleasant
to me. I put on sock and boot again, and
took to Shakspere with the coffin-wicked
dip, till it came to an end and I, tired
enough, into bed, and sleep. But what a
sleep ! A submarine place in which all
kinds of shadowy cool horrors were done
and no one disconcerted but I, who finally
swooned in the cold soft embrace of a

ton of some irresponsible jellied thing or
other.

The next day was chilly and rainy. I
set out for a walk to Hampstead ; for I
must, I felt, take exercise to keep ' breakdown'
at a fit distance. I had some trouble
with my foot till, at last, by the time I was
three-quarters there, economical painstaking
foot positions had made every step painful.
None the less I was determined to get
as far as the Hampstead Pond. It began
to drizzle. I toiled on. I found once
that deep thoughts made me forget the pain
of movement : so I kept trying this plan,
with short-timed success, till (now a quarter
way back again, and the rain thicker) a
desperate attempt to separate body and soul
by resolution proved fruitless. Then an
utter despair came upon me. I stood still.
It was at a corner in front of the rails of
the dingy garden of a hapless house. I
could have sunk down upon the shining
pavement there, covered my face with my
arms, and sobbed myself like a tired child

to sleep, but a sleep that should know no
waking, no waking to misery and despair 1
At that moment a light leaped up and out
from the big window on the left of the door.
I saw it, but did not move. Then I leant
against the nearer cemented gate-post in
that dreary rain of half-darkness, and my
body seemed all bloodless. And a girl,
with her dress huddled up all round her
and an umbrella spread over her, came
hurrying to me. I looked at her slowly.
Just by me she gave me a quick glance,
and hurried more. The devil rose in me.
I made a short half-step after her. I would
seize her, tear that thing from her hand,
rip and rend her laced clothes : rip and
rend them off her, till she stood tattered
naked, there in the rain of the half-darkness
with me. And all I would desire
more, would be to take mud and bespattered
and befoul her, and then turn and go on
my way with laughter. The thoughts were
lightning swift. I gave a cry of fierce -
suppressed delight : stepped : and halted.

Was I mad? I turned, and went back,
and on.

When I got back I set upon a poem by
the light of a new dip. If I had had to
die for it, alone and in the early grey
morning, I could not have kept out my
mysticism now. I must speak to some one
now ! It could not always be silence ! I
had need to speak to some one. I thought
my heart was breaking. And I could not
fall asleep till I had told my soft death-tale.


But I was too weary to finish it. I
gave it up at last. I was in an evil plight,
I knew : burning and shivering and with
an empty stomach. I undressed slowly,
as usual, in the dark, save for the light
that came from the gas-lamp in the street
through the far-window. As I got into
bed I determined that the next day I would
seek some work, even manual ; for I did not,
after all, care to die till I had heard about
my stuff (It was very ridiculous ! I smiled,
but in a strange tearful way), and I should

have to pay four shillings at the end of the
week, rent, and I had only three left for
food. ' Wherefore, work must be done if
money is to be earned : even manual, and
why not ?' At last I fell asleep.

But in the morning I lay in a half-dreamy,
half exhausted state of heat, from
which I had not will enough for long to
rouse myself. This grew into a dull languorous
heat lethargy, not sweet, and
in my very bones, making me altogether indifferent
to everything save a sort of dull
hunger, which at last drove me out of bed
to the table for the half-pound of dates and
the loaf I had bought last afternoon : got
them into my hands for me ; and then I
was back in bed again, and, I suppose, ate
them ; for when I awoke and it was evening,
the gas-lamp lighting up a part of the far
end of the room, and I flushed, with the
dull hunger still in me, I soon became
aware of many troublous crumbs in the
sheets and some date-stones, but of neither
bread nor dates. In a little I got up, and

washed and dressed slowly and listlessly,
with the dull hunger ever in me. Now I
would go out, I thought. I went to the
door, opened it, and heard a voice say :

'Well, I can't help it, you must go!'
It was Mrs. Smith's voice, harder and drier
than usual.

Another answered some soft words. I
leant against the door-post, rather exhausted,
scarcely knowing why I stayed there.
A pause. Then —

You know it's the second week owing,'
pursued Mrs. Smith. ' I can't do it anymore,
and what's more, I won't ! So there !
. . You must give me something, or you
must go, that's all.'

I've only got a shilling,' said the other
voice softly. ' I gave it you. Won't you
wait till the end of the week, Mrs. Smith ?
I shall have my wages then ?'

You said that last week. No, not
I ! Tick's not nat'ral to me, I say. I'm a
lone giddy woman, I am, but I pays my
way, and why don't everyone, I want to

know ? . . . Why didn't you pay me last
week, then ?'

I was ill. I had to pay for the medicine.'


Drat the medicine ! You shouldn't be
ill. . . . Come now, what are you going todo
? Look sharp. Don't go and he blubbering
now. It's no go with me, young
woman — that.'

Another pause.

I have never blubbered to you, Mrs.
Smith. I asked you to wait a bit, that's
all. I'm down on my luck, that's what I
am. A lady took a piece of work I did out
of hours, a week ago ; but she won't pay
me for it till the end of the month, she

my eye, that's likely, ain't it now T
It's all fudge — that's what it is ! — Either
you pay me to-night or you go. So there,
plain and straight ! I've got to live like
the rest of you, I suppose ? Will you give
it me now ? Four shillings I must have,
and I ivill have ; what's more, let me tell

you, I'm regular hard up, that's what I
am . . . You've given me one shilling of
it already, you know. Now come ! give
us the rest, and I'll let you go on tick for
the other week till Saturday.'

Another pause.

— You know you can get it, if you like,
you know well you can.' Mrs. Smith's
voice was soft now, but hoarsely.

I can't ! How can I ? Or else I would
give it you.'

you can — if you like.'

Hoi can I ?'

Oh, come ! You know well enough. . .
You ain't so bad looking as all that.'

I put my hands behind me ; my fingers
scraped lightly on the wood and paper.
My breath went from me, and I groaned.
I was trembling all over. I did not know
whether to cry out, or, keeping silence to
see what would be the end.

I waited — the blood pulsing through my
head, and whirring in my ears, till I was
nigh blinded and deafened.

It seemed to me that it was half an hour
before either of them spoke again.

Then Mrs. Smith said ;

Come along now ! don't stand there
staring out of the window like that. Either
you will or you won't. — Oh, very well then.
You won't. V-e-r-y well ! out — you — go !
out, you, go, I say. I shan't let you take
your things, mind. I should think not, you
idle hussyyou : that's what you are! a-comin''
and cheating' a lone wide woman, what pace's
her way, too ; a-cheatin' of her out of her
the bread she puts in her mouth. For shame !
. . Precious fine things they are, too.
I shall get a bob for them, I warrant, or for
ten lots of them, it's likely.'

A pause.

do wait, do wait, Mrs. Smith,' pleaded
the other. ' I really will pay you on Saturday
night. I will really. I've been ill. I
will '

Her voice maddened me, I pulled to
my door somehow and threw myself on to
my bed, shivering and clutching myself,

VOL. I. 13

muttering into the pillow ; '0, there cannot

be a God in heaven, who is just and good

and will let such things be

At last I stopped. — What would she do ?

The thought stayed me all into listening fora

moment.

Then I began to mutter again : and again

stopped and listened. It seemed I was so

for hours.

As I listened the fourth or fifth time, I

heard Mrs. Smith's voice almost at the door:
then there came silence : then a door closed :
then I heard slow heavy footsteps with
clamping heels go down the stairs. My
door was ajar. — I got up, and closed and
carefully latched it. ' What would she do ?'
What is the girl to me T I thought.
There are hundreds like — what she will be,
in this city. And one more: "What is
one among so many ?" All soulless things
too ; like me ; and useless things, who will
try to do no more than live in the sun, breed

maggots, and perish. Whereas I What

will she do ?'

I came to my bed and lay, face downwards,
on it.

. . . That three shillings perhaps means
life,' I thought again. 'Who knows if I
can get any wo]-k ? and how to live in the
meantime ? And I so weak. . . . Means
life : means hope, and all my dreams !
meftns everything ! That is its meaning.
And, if I give it up. . . . Nay, I ivon't
give it up ! I icon't give up my life ! It is
the only thing here ; the rest is but hope
and dreams.'

I heard a board creak.
Some one went down the stairs quickly.
. . Who was it ? — Along the passage.
The door closed. It was just beneath my
head. — I seemed to see it, and her. I
leaped to my knees on the bed : pulled up
the piece of linen, that hung half across the
window, and looked out. — She was hurrying
across the road, with her head bent
down, and her hands hanging beside her.

Only one more,' I thought. 'What is
she to me ? Let her go. Let her go. —

13—2

Why, see : if I had gone out in the morning,
as I had intended, I might very well never
have known anything about it, I will not
do it. Why, now ' I stopped.

You coward !' I cried. ' You miserable
coward !'

I covered my face with my hands, pressing
my elbows against my body and tightening
every muscle in my body.

At last I moaned :

If I only thought there was a God —
who saw us both ! — A good God — who
would not leave us die — despairing — I
woidd give it her ! — But — as it is — I —
I '

Coward /' I cried, almost choking.
Coward! . ; . You cannot let her go !'

I leaped onto the carpeted plank : dragged
open the door ; and went leaping down the
steps. At the foot, with my hand on the
latch, cried out :

Mrs. Smith ! Mrs. Smith !'

And when she came from the room on
the left just by me, had the three shillings

into her hand, the florin and one shilling,
and said :

'■ There is the money for her.'

I had the door open as her fingers closed.
She was staring at me blankly enough ; but
I saw that she understood what I meant.
Then I stepped out quickly, ran across the
road, and stopped for a moment : looking
ahead to see if I could see her. . . . If she
escaped me after all !

Three great gas-jets flared some fifty
yards down, on the opposite side, in front
of a fish-shop. I saw her pass by it, casting
an irresolute shadow : her head bent down
as before, her hands evidently holding one
another in front. A few people were moving
to and fro.

I walked quickly along the pavement, till
I came to opposite her. She hesitated fora
moment at the corner of a street. I
crossed over, just behind her : as she made
her first step forward, touched her arm, and
said :

Stop.'

She started, turned round sharply, and
seemed to recognise me. For a moment we
stood facing one another.

You must not go,' I said. ' I have
persuaded Mrs. Smith. She will let you —
she will wait till the end of the week.'

She answered nothing. Then I turned
from her, and walked away.

I had gone some ten yards, when I heard
her running after me. She laid her hand
for a moment on my arm, and said
quickly :

You are very good to me, sir : very
kind. I cannot '

I am neither kind, nor good to you. I
have done nothing for you,' I said.

'You have paid Mrs. Smith, sir, for me,'
she said. ' I know you have. She would
not wait else. — But I will pay you back, sir,
for sure, on Saturday . . .'

You need not trouble about it — '
(Looking at her face, I added :) ' Child.'

Indeed, sir, I am very grateful to you,'
she said.

I could not bear to listen to her anymore,
remembering my late thoughts of her.
I said :

It is nothing. I am very glad to have
been of any use to you. — Good-night.'

And left her.

Near the end of the street I passed a
man who stared at me, till I noticed it and
stopped, wondering what was the matter
with me, for a moment. I had no hat on :
That was it. I proceeded a little : then,
almost as if recollecting something, turned
back and came home.

I found my hat up in my room, put it
on, and went out again. I felt as if I must
go, as if I was going, somewhere.

Wandered out towards the Park and
then, up-skirting it, on to Primrose Hill,
up which I climbed slowly. It seemed tome
that I would not much care whether
I lived or died. I would seek for no work.
No : not I. It was nothing to me what
happened, or to anyone else, or to God.
I was glad the girl had not been driven to

prostitute herself in these damned London
streets. ' You see, when the barrier of the
first time you do a thing is broken through,
the second time is easier, and the third
easier still. I am only sorry that this vile
body of mine should have so conquered meas
to give the tyranny of its thoughts to
my soul. These last few days have unmade
me.'

I stood by a bench not far from the top,
and turned, and looked out over the darkness
from which came the cool breeze fanning
my feverish face. All at once I cried
out almost passionately :

I ivill know, I will know !'

Then my head fell down onto my breast,
and I said :

Oh fool, fool ! Dost thou think, then,
that thou art the first, and will be the last,
to cry that cry ? They have not known.
They will never know. — Ay, they are all
wise,' I said, ' and they none of them find
out anything ! They beat the air with
heavy flails, proving each other fools and

us slaves and beasts, and then they also
die, and rot, and are eaten. Behold, I here,
a starving beggar-boy, know all that they
know: and that is — Nothing! Ay, you
foolish Wisdoms, that spend your days in
spinning clothes of air with which to clothe
the long procession of humanity, behold I
here, a starving beggar-boy, laugh at you and
say to you what you know : ' ^^hy, you go
naked, — naked, as when j^ou came from your
mother's womb ! Oh, oh, oh ! we are all
fools together. And there's a consolation
in that ; but not much, if you happen to
be starving. — Starving ? I, starving,' I cried
fiercely, ' with a better head on my shoulders
than all these damned. . . . Come, come :
we mustn't brag — even now.'

Laughing a sad, short laugh at m}^ helplessness,
I stepped out and down, and began
to descend, thinking.

Half way, or so, down, an impulse made
me stop and look up. And I saw what I
took for a small woman, coming down also,
just above the seat where I had been standing.

Seeing her, I laughed again. — The
poor girl ! For, of course, it was my girl,
following me. She thought me, me ! a
heaven-sent saviour, perhaps ? I burst out
into a keen short laugh and went on — went
on in home, with the wings of a shadowy
bird-thing or moth-thing fluttering in my
inner ear. — Up these weary old stairs with
an up-pulling arm. — The landing at last. —
My door open. — My room, at last !

And, as I stood still for a moment, the
thought that I had never once used the gas
since the first night came in upon me, and
I said wearily that I was a fool. I tooji
the match-box off its mantelpiece corner,
went to by and found the gas-jet, struck a
light, turned on the gas, lit it, and looked
back over my shoulders. And saw a large
envelope lying on the table. I started.

Then I looked at the gas, one long half-vacant
look : and turned and went to the
table, and took up the letter and slowly
opened it and read:

Dear Sir,

Our reader thinks very well of
your Poems ; but as there is little sale in
poetry now-a-days he does not, on that
account, think the work would command a
remunerative sale. The following is an
extract from the report which we have received
on the MS. " There is evidence of
power in his book which, with due care and
cultivation, may ripen into ability to achieve
real and lasting poetic work."

If it were not for the poor attention

poetry attracts in these days, we would gladly

have made you an offer for a little work

which contains so much beauty and melody.

Yours faithfully,

Baxter, Innes, & Co.'

We are sending the MS. to you per
book-post.'

I put it down with a short laugh, and
smiling, shrugged my shoulders.

Very well. There is nothing left forme
now, I suppose, but to write my will

after Chatterton, and invest in arsenic

and water I think it was ? But I forget ; I
have no money ! I must go out into the
streets, even at this hour then, and leg
a few pence to be able to kill myself ; since
in London, too, one can't die for nothing.
There is the river — my old river at Colchester.
If I could roll over and over in
the long green weeds, why, it wouldn't
matter much whether I was able to come in
the brown earth again, would it ? And to
look up through the dusky, jewelled light-shafts
of the currents ! There are flocks
down there ! I read about it in a story
book once, and a man went down in a sack
to find them. But he was drownded. No,
drowned. Droivncled is bad grammar ; but
what's the odds, I say ? These damnable
wordmongers here talk about nothing but
grammar ." For a good knowledge of the
classics (especially of Cicero), is the foundation
of all that is worth knowing in the
humani," — You think so, my good fellow ?
You think art's growing more and more of

a drug, do you ? Yoiiyq a fool ! and you
think I shall be great — some day ? He
said so ? — If I was earnest ! Good God !
As if I could ever be anything hut earnest !
But I've no ambition to be great, I tell you.
Fools are great. When they die they rot
and are eaten. We all shall die some
day, and rot, and" be eaten. I wish I were

a worm Hush ! Hark ! What

was that ? Who's there ; hi ! who's there ?
Eayne ? You, Eayne ! — No, I assure you !

I'm not starving ! I'm only But take

care, or you'll have the boat over. Why
are women done up like mummies ? If ever
J have a wife, Eayne, she shall wear knickerbockers,
and race up Targets. . . . Hush,
hush ! Here's Christ come to see me.
dear Christ, sweet Christ, give me your soft
hand ! I'll tell you all about it. I seem to
know you so much better than God. And I

haven't a friend in the whole world, and

No, I'm afraid they won't understand them
. . My poor little poems ! Too mystic ;
too mystic. I must keep out my mysticism ;

But how can I, when my heart's breaking ?

breaking, breaking Chut, chut,

there ! You mustn't sit down on the bed
Hke that. Wliy, you're a ivoman! These
are clothes ; and here's — your soft breast ?
And your face '? and your hair ? you
dear woman, why are you howling me so
with your soft arms, and laying my face on
your soft breast ? Let's go to sleep like
that — together. Will you ? Come close
to me, I will tell you something. Do you
know, I've been longing for you to come
to me . . to come to me, ever since. . .
But let's rest, now you are come, dear. I
saw a woman with a sweet face to-night.
She passed me on the pavement in the
crowd: but not so sweet as yours. Hove to
Closer, closer ! Let me feel you,
I am beginning to be afraid ! Don't let
these wasp-waisted waterspouts touch me !
. . How dark it grows. — The waterspouts!
the waterspouts ! Ashtaroth, Ashtaroth, the
terrible woman ! A star over her brow,
driving in the midst, under the shadows.

They are on to me ! over me ! — I am
sinking ! . . . . — Up ! up ! Hold me up !
. . Catch me by the haue . . . Rayne !
. . Eayne ! '

BERTRAM LEICESTER.

Stir und were !
Deny so lang du cas night hast,
Best du mir ein trifler Gast
Auf der drunken Ere.'

Goethe.

I AWOKE in the dusk.

Up leaped a core of light at the far end
of the room : then grew steady and lived .
Some one had lit the gas-lamp at the street-corner
below. I turned over in my bed. I
thought that it was very lazy of me to belying
warm here : to-day, when I had, I
remembered, intended seeking work, even
manual. Work ! Work for what ? Well,

it was lazy of me to be lying warm here.
Where had I been ? . . .

Some one came in softly : the door had
opened. And why didn't they knock ?

Turning round with a fro"\vn, I saw a girl
on her way to the table with a paper-bag in
her hand.

Hullo !' I said.

She dropped the bag onto the floor with
a start : sharply picked it up, and, looking
with round shadowed eyes at me :

Good gracious, how you did frighten
me. — Why, he's better !' she said.

Certainly he is :' I answered, turning
aside my eyes. ' There was never anything
the matter with him that he is
aware of.'

She stood, with her hands joined in front
of her, holding the bag, and looked down at
me.

You've been very ill, sir,' she said, and
gave her head a little shake.

I assure you, madam, that you are mistaken.
I have just woken up. — ^' Thou

VOL. I. 14

hen Ahem, may his tribe increase," and
so on.'

Yon have been insensible for on two
days,' she said.

I stared at her round shadowed eyes.
She nodded her head at me and, I saw,
smiled at me.

— Insensible ? . . . Why I have never
fainted in my life. I would not let the man
give me laughing-gas for my tooth for that
reason last term. I . . .' I saw an open
letter on the table-cloth in that dusky
light.

I let my head sink onto the pillow with a
sigh and shut my eyes. Memory had flowed
back everywhere.

At last :

'I have brought you some grapes,' she
said. ' I thought you might like them.'

I raised my head again, and opened my
eyes in the room, now full of gaslight. I
had not noticed that she had lit the
gas.

You are very kind ; but '

You will not take them ?'

I cannot. Thank you very much.'

Oh very well : I shall throw them out
of the window then ! — Why slioiddn't you
take a present from me ? . . . I haven't
paid you back the four shillings I owed you
yet : but I can — now.'

She took out a purse : unclasped it :
opened the leaves, put in two of her fingers ;
and then, with a quick lift-up of her head
and a bright smile came towards me, holding
two florins in her extended palm.

I smiled.

I only lent you three,' I said.

And I have got no change ! Think of
that ! Only gold and silver. Isn't it
ri-ridiculous ?' she added : ' Will you eat
some of the grapes ? . . . Please /'

I cannot.' Then I smiled.
A pause.

It was very kind of you to bring me
them,' I said, ' and I am — afraid I must
have been giving you a great deal of trouble
. . Miss . . .'

14—2

Oh no ! None : none ! — You icill eat
them then ?'

I protested :

Really, Miss . . .'

Do you want to know my name ?' she
said with a drop in her voice.

Only if you care to tell me I answered,
a little sorry for this my attempt at some
sort of formality or other.

'Owlet is my name : I'm from Norfolk.
But I hope you won't call me Miss
'Owlet.'

Why do you hope not, may I ask ?'

Oh, Howlet is such a horrid name !'

I could not help laughing. Then she
laughed.

But what shall I call you ?' I asked.

You called me " child " once. I'm nota
child. I'm seventeen.'

I smiled at her. She at once caught up
the bag of grapes, undid the mouth, and had
offered it to me.

Then I beg your pardon,' I said.

She pouted :

— But you have not taken any.'

And our eyes met, and the bag was once
more offered, and I dipped two fingers into
it and lifted a big bunch half out (she
looking at me all the time, and I at the bag-mouth),
and stretched out my other hand
to break off a portion of the bunch, and had
broken off a portion, and was about to drop
the remains of the original bunch into the
bag again, when she drew back her arm
quickly and the bag, and said :

That's not fair !'

Then she took out a big bunch, squashed
up the bag in her hands, threw it onto the
floor, and came to me holding the grape -
bunch with two fingers in the air. Our eyes
met again, and I stretched up my hand and
took the bunch. She smiled at me, A small
thin black kitten was out and chasing the
squashed-up paper-bag.

She turned, saw it, and cried out :

Minnie, Minnie. — Oh, you silly thing !
Let it alone can't you ?'

She turned to me again :

That's my cat Minnie. Isn't she a
beauty ?'

Well . . . Yes. I suppose she is I
said.

I should think so ! — Now I must go. I
oughtn't to have let you talk so much. I'm
sure it's not good for you. I hope you're
feeling better ? — Here, Minnie, Minnie,
Minnie, Min, Min ! Oh, she's after that
piece of paper. Silly thing ! . . .' (Turning
to me again.) ' I'll let her stop with you
if you like.'

Thank j^ou,' I said. ' That's very kind
of 5^ou. I should like very much.'

Good-bye,' she said.

Good-bye,' I answered to her slowly''
going. * And thank you for all your
goodness to me, Miss' (she stopped) 'Rosebud.'


I shall see you soon again,' she said ;
and, at the door : * If you wouldn't mind
going into my room in a little — that's this
one ' (opening the door and pointing i6 the
right) ' here, we'd get jour bed done verj^

quickly, and you could come back again. I
don't think you ought to dress and go out
yet.'

Very well,' I said. ' Thank you. I
will.'

She went out ; but looking in :

Put on your coat or something,' she
said. ' For fear you catch cold.' And withdrew
her head, and the door closed, and she
went down.

I sat up in bed, and threw out my arms
and up :

Oh bless you, you dear Rosebud !' I said.
You are the dearest thing I have ever
knoTMi. You Rosebud 1'

We had a short conversation together
that evening as I ate my tea in bed, and
then we said Good-night, and she left me.
And I set about thinking what I had best do
now. The failure of my attempt to earn my
livelihood by my pen was a blow to me, and
the heavier that it was so unexpected. — But
I gave up further consideration of the

matter for the present : I must have some
means of support, and at once. And what
was the good of thinking about poetry,
after what Baxter, Innes, and Co. had said
to me ?

All at once the idea of becoming a
school - master flashed upon me. Why
not ? I was sure I was quite as capable
of teaching as Currie, the under-master
at Whittaker's. — Or a private secretaryship
? I let my thoughts go, and had
planned out my life as under-master, or
private secretary, or tutor, before I fell
into a sweet dreamless sleep.

The next day, in the morning, although
I was, I found, uncommonly weak, I managed
to get into the Edgware Eoad as far
as to a stationer's, where I inquired in a
general sort of a way about such things as
under-mastership and tutorship, of the
genteel middle-aged party who was in the
shop. She took a great interest in me,
I thought, for a complete stranger ; but
could not help me in the least.

In the afternoon I made three more
attempts at stationers', and at the last
one was so far successful that I learnt
the name and address of the people, it
seemed, I wanted.

I set off for Grenville Street at once
(a weary walk of toil to weak me), and
interviewed a respectful clerk a good deal
better dressed and, doubtless, fed than
myself. He thought he might possibly
get me an ushership in some small school
pretty soon ; but I must observe that it
was not the time for such (that is to say,
instant) engagements now, half way through
the term. I told him the sooner the better;
for I was in great straits. He had an
equally discouraging account to give of
tutorship and secretaryships : all these
things required time. I said that speed
was the one necessity. And on this understanding
we parted : I, I cannot say how
forlorn, nay, once or twice on my wearier
walk home, near to tears : and, worse than
all forlornness, having with me a certain

shame that, owing to the clerk's instigation,
I had given Craven as a reference in the paper
of acquirements, etc., that I had filled up.
Altogether I felt more like drowning vaj-
self than making any further fight for
existence.

When I arrived at home I scarcely knew
what I had said or done down at the
agent's. Everything was a muddle, and
a jumble, and from beginning to end. I
cast myself down on my bed, and the tears
came. why had I not died in that
strange dream after the reading of the
letter ? I lay sighing to myself till I
dozed.

> From this half-sleep of despondency the
Rosebud roused me in the early evening,
and took me out for a short walk. I don't
know what we talked about. Everything
seemed a muddle and a jumble, and from
beginning to end. I was glad to get back,
and tumble into bed, and sleep.

I was better in the morning : inclined,
it seemed, to feel cheerful, and began, as

I lay with closed eyes thinking, to put the
events of yesterday into something like
connection and tout ensemble; but with
no great success. The one comforting
thought seemed to be, that the clerk had
said he would send me up anything that
came. Surely something must come ! I
could not believe I was destined to die
here like a rat in a hole. — I played upon
my inclination to be cheerful, till it had
brought me to cheerfulness : and, getting
up briskly, perceived a letter on the chair
by my bedside. The agent, of course !

Hurrah !' I said. ' The tide's on the
turn. . . . What's in here '?' I hesitated.
The sun was shining in through the window
upon the envelope.

I ripped it open, took out the letter and
scanned it.

Dear Sir,

Please call early tomorrow on
Alexander Brooke, Esq.,

5, Dunraven Place,

Piccadilly, W.,

who wishes to engage at once a secretary
to go abroad with him. The engagement
would be at least for a year, if not more.

Terms between ^90 and JCIOO per
annum.

Please inform us of the result of your
interview,

And oblige,

Yours faithfully,

LiNKLATER PeMBRIDGE AND BlENKINSOP.'

I threw the letter onto the table with
new life in me, and began to wash, whistling
to myself. As I was folding on my necktie
I noticed how dirty my collar was, and then
my shirt, and more particularly the cuffs.
I put on a clean, the last, collar in the bag.
And that set me off thinking for a moment
about my clothes. ' Well, well !' I said —
I shall have to tell the man the truth I
suppose : and why not ?' For I did not
doubt but that he would have me.

Eosy was of course off to her work these
three hours. This, and the thought of

what she would think about the secretaryship,
came to me as I passed her door and
went down the dark stuffy old wood staircase.
What would the Kosebud think ?
Well, well !' I said as before, ' it'll be
time enough to think about what she thinks
when I've got it.' And yet did not doubt
for one moment but that I should get it.

I knew my way to Piccadilly all right.
It was a crisp clear morning : the stir of
the air and of the life brighter than usual
stirred me. I went along down the Edward
Eoad, eating my brown bread and
dates with some cheerfulness. Then I had
a refreshing glass of milk. And, by the
time I was half way across the Park by
the path that leads up to the gates, I
seemed to have regained something of my
former self : something of my Colchester
character of will and self-reliance. The
last three weeks seemed a dream ; almost
a bad dream, a nightmare, for a little :
then only a dream, save for something of
the Rosebud that seemed to reach out half-weakly

into the present light. I asked the
policeman at the gates where Dunraven
Place was, and he directed me. Then I
arrived at No. 5, Dunraven Place, and was
shown into a beautifully furnished room.

Waiting, I began to examine a book-shelf
that was full of beautifully bound books
that harmonized with the room. They
made me think how I should like to be
rich and have all the books I wanted. I
had my eye particularly on a Corvinus'
Shakspere in half-calf, and my fingers
began to feel as if they ought to take it
down, and run away with it to a convenient
arm-chair, and then eyes to begin upon it
at once. As I stood so, I heard a step
behind me and turned.

You are looking at my books, I see,' he
said.

'Yes, sir,' I answered. ' It was a Corvinus'
Shakspere. I hope '

Oh, not in the least ! Please sit down.'

He motioned me into a large red leather
chair on one side of the fire-place.

You come from Messrs. . . . The
name is rather confusing,' he said. ' I

want a secretary to help me with to

make himself generally useful as I may
direct. Another young gentleman has been
here this morning already : I mean from
Messrs. . . .' He smiled. — ' He objected
to going out to Africa. Do you ?'

Not in the least.'

You see — shortly — I want some one to
help me to get together my things, write
letters, and so on. — You understand me ?'

I think so, sir.'

The young friend who was going with
me has suddenly been taken ill, and, as it
is important that I should be out of England
in under a month. — You follow me ?'

I think so, sir.'

Good. Now tell me. Can you shoot ?
No. Side ? No. Um. — You are strongly
made. Where were you at school ?'

At Colchester.'

Ah, so was I. With Craven, I suppose
?'

Yes, sir.'

Did you go iu for sports — much T

I was in the first foot-ball fifteen, and
rowed in my house-boat.'

< School house ?'

'Yes, sir.'

So did I. It was head of the river iu
my year.'

And in mine too.'

— Tell me something about yourself ?'

I paused for a moment : then, looking
at him, thought that I should in no case do
any harm by at this point simply telling
him the truth. He did not look the sort of
man who would do . I smiled to myself :
who would do, could do — what ?

I said :

I have been at Colchester five years. I
was in the upper sixth for two terms and a
quarter. My father, who is dead, had placed
all his fortune in the Southern Bank. My
guardian called me up to London about three
weeks ago, to inform me of this. I determined
then to try to make my livelihood by

my pen and . . . failed. That is, shortly,
why I am here, sir.'

Tried to make your livelihood by your
pen and failed. Did not yom' guardian
help you ? How did you ? . . .'

I angered my guardian by refusing to
try for a clerkship. I thought that I

had something here ' (Lifting my

finger.)

" Quelque chosc.la " — Yes. Well.'
I sat down and wrote two poems, which
I sent to a publisher, hoping '

Why all, or nearly all, poetry has to be
paid for now-a-days, my good boy. — Of
course they sent it back again ?'

They did,' I said.

Well ? And may I ask how j^ou lived
in the interim ? You had funds ?'

No : I sold my great coat,'

Excuse me. I am not asking from
mere curiosity. ; . Would you care to tell
me more ? I will (looking for a moment
in my eyes), 'if you will allow me, write to
Dr. Craven about you — Not that I doubt

VOL, I. 15

what you say ; but you must see. . . . You
understand ?'

Perfectly, sir.-^You have absolutely no
guarantee that I am not a rogue.'

Aha ! I think you are wrong there ;
however suddenly : •

How much did you get for your
coat ?'

Fifteen shillings.'

And you have lived on that for nearly
three weeks ?'

Just three weeks.'

'Impossible! You are joking !'

'No, sir. — Since I did. My room only
cost me four shillings a week, and I '

Then you must have lived on a shilling
a week ?'

'No. I have not paid my rent for this
third week yet.'

And how are you going to ?'

That I cannot quite say. Perhaps, I
hope to get an ushership in some school,
within the next few days, I should anticipate
my pay.'

He stood up ; we looked for some' little
in one another's eyes. Then he stretched
out his arm, and let his hand fall on my
shoulder.

You are a brave fellow he said ; ' and
I believe you are a true one. I believe
what you have told me. There, there, now.'
(For my eyes were suddenly full of tears) —
There, there, there, there, there ! It's all
right now.' And he turned away and let
his arm drop.

Then :

'Ah, stop,' said he.* * Did you know
a Mr. Blake at Colchester ?'

He left just before I came ; but I met
him once. He came to examine a school
at Blockhead, where I was.'

Ah, I am sorry ! He was a very dear,
dear friend of mine — an old college chum ;
but I had known him before then. He was
a Wykamist.'

Yes ; so I remember.'

It would have been enough to me

15—2

that he had thought well of anyone. He
would have liked you, I am sure.'

He smiled, and added ;

You see that I have let slip how well
I believe in you, and what you have said
to me.'

Thank you, sir. Some day, perhaps, I
may be able to show you that I deserved
some of your belief in me. — Mr. Blake was
very kind to me when he came to my old
school. He was pleased, I think, with
some verses I had to recite, and so. . . .'
He had snapped* his fingers impatiently,
and made a sharp noise with his lips.

I stopped speaking. He cried out with
a smiling mouth :

You are not the boy who recited Longfellow's
'psalm of Life?'

Yes, sir, I am. Mr. Blake '

Immediately after that visit he came
and stopped with me here in London for a
few days.'

His face grew sadder. He went on
slowly :

It was the last time I saw him. You
know of his terrible death, not so long after ?
All that he said in those few days has been
treason-ed up by me, and lives for ever in
my memory. The first night he came hereafter
dinner, as we were sitting here by this
very fire over our cigars and wine, he told
me about the little boy he had seen that
afternoon !'

He caught himself up :

Well : and how old are you now ?'

'Eighteen.'

You strange boy ! Eighteen. — Why, it
is ridiculous ! (I really must read some of
those Rejected Addresses of yours some day.)
You are very tall for your age, and look
very old for eighteen.'

I smiled :

This fortnight has made me older by five
years, I think. Years are no test of age,
sir.'

We talked together for almost an hour :
of many things. Then he looked at his
watch and jumped up, saying :

You have made me forget that I have
a very great deal to do this morning, young
gentleman.'

I am sorry, sir

— But very pleasantly.'

Then I am glad.'

I smiled, and so did he. He tapped me
on the shoulder.

As I was going, he spoke of Mr. Blake
again : how that he was a truly great and
good man : without the cant of the two
words, a Christian gentleman. I flushed a
little as he said that.

A pause. — Then I :

I think I ought to tell you something,
sir, that I have not told you yet.'

Aha,' he said.

I am not a Christian, and . I do
not say that I do not believe in a God, but I
do not think that I believe in one.'

He put his hand on my shoulder again
and smiled :

It will pass, it will pass ! We most of
us go in a circle now-a-days : most of us, that

is, who are worth anything. Christian, or
perhaps nothing at all, till seventeen :
Atheist till twenty : Materialist till twenty-one
(we soon get tired of that I) : Deist till
thirty (though some of the wilder sort go in
for a course of that nonsense called Pantheism)
: and then, either the old original
Christianity again onto the end, or some
slight modification of it. Take my word for
it, boy, there is no religion worth calling a
religion that does not take Christ and Christ's
teaching as its original : and how much
better is it to lift up your eyes from considering
the shadow on the ground, to consider
the One that casts the shadow, even
Jesus, Who is as the standing figure that
watches this our on-rolling earth, yearning
for it as a mother for her wandering child,
waiting for the hour when He shall take it
to His Bosom and for ever ?' He paused. I
kept silence.

We shook hands. I turned to go.

He called to me : I turned again :

I shall not write to Craven.'

Thank you, sir.'

We again shook hands : and I had my
hand on the door, when he said :

Stay a moment. You are my secretary
— for a year. It is so agreed ?'

Yes, sir : as far as I am concerned.'

Then allow me to give you your first
quarter in advance. It is always — I always
manage it in that way. You may be in
want of a little ready money : for this, that,
and the other, you know . all sorts of
things . . . And . as regards Messrs.
— Messrs. X. Y. and Z., you will of course
allow me to settle that with them myself.'

I stood irresolute.

'Come, come!' he said. — 'Now, don't
be foolish, Leicester. If you are going
to . . .'

I stepped to him suddenly, saying :

Sir, sir, you are very good to me !'

He took my hand in his and pressed it.

'Yes, yes, yes, yes : that's all right now.
Now you really must run away ! You
said that you would like to come to me tomorrow

morning, didn't you ? — Very well.
I will instruct you about what you will have
to do, then. So good-bye, or rather au
revoir, or rather (when I think of it)
both.'

I was at the door, when he called :

you dreadful boy, you haven't taken all
your belongings away with you ! Here is
your first quarter on the table yet. You are
inclined to be careless, I see. Look toit.
It is au evil, evil vice — carelessness.'

I found that I could scarcely see the
folded piece of paper that he had put down
on the edge of the table.

When I had it safely in my hand, I gave
one look at him and a bright smile, and
went out as quickly as I could ; for my eyes
were full of tears, and I feared some might
drop out.

Riding up on the outside of an omnibus
to Prayed Street, I felt as I had felt in some
of the days at Colchester, when I had longed
to leap and give a shout and move onwards
towards something. And then I grew a little

sad, if it is possible to call joy sad, and began
to say to myself :

bitter time, you are past and gone
from me now, as my vision swept from me
on the sand and I saw her angel face. Well,
pray that there is a God, child ; for you long
to thank Him for this ! And see, it is very
sweet to you to think, that perhaps, perhaps.
He has but afflicted you and chastened
you by this your suffering so that, in the
end, He might lead you nearer and nearer
to Himself. . It is a sweet, sweet
thought !'

I spent that afternoon happily. First of
all I had a good dinner at a restaurant in
Oxford Street, and that gave me an insight
into what a healthy pleasure in food meant :
and then (the day continuing sunny and
almost warm) I went for a long walk in
Hyde Park, stopping to look at the men and
women riding or driving by, and not one of
whom I, in this bright day's dawn of a new
life, could possibly envy : although their

wealth might give me the chance of leading
another life which would not be without its
charm, nay, delight ; yet how much nobler
this one that I was entering upon now, this
one that had work to do, work for others,
that is, which would require self-sacrifice —
conquest of self !

And after that I came up home, buying
on the way fruit and cakes and other things,
for a tea I had in my mind with the Rosebud
in my room : and then set about
making it all ready, so that, by the time she
came in, half-past seven, the room, lit up
with gas and fire and well-laid table, was
most cheerful.

But the tea was not. For Eosy took my
good news most gravely, and did not laugh,
properly laugh, once the whole time.

After tea we went out for a walk together,
and, when we had gone a little way, I said,
smiling, that I intended to get her a bonnet
to wear as a memory of me. But she would
not see anything to laugh at in that, and
refused the bonnet with dignity. Then

I tried a coat, but she suddenly exclaimed
:

And do you think I would keep it all
rags and tatters ?' Dismissing the idea.

I tried a locket as a last resource.

After some persuading, she at last agreed,
and we went into a jeweller's in the Edward
Road together, and she chose a little
round silver locket, and relented a little.

No,' she said, as we were walking
slowly away. ' The bonnet and the jacket
would wear out, and I couldn't very well
keep them then — eh ? And they wouldn't
look nice, all in rags and tatters, would
they ? But I shall always be able to keep
the locket, you know : and when I look at
it I shall think of you and give a sigh ; for
you've been very nice to me.'

Hey-ho !' I said. ' Who's talking nonsense
now ?' And proceeded to demonstrate
that, if anybody had been ' nice ' to
anybody, it was she to me. To which she
answered that she liked to hear me talk so :
And I felt rather foolish, and proposed that

we should go up to the top of Primrose
Hill, and Eosy agreeing, we set off.

I began to question her a little about herself,
and she answered readily, nay, entered
upon a regular discourse, to which I played
the accompaniment with some pleasure of
amusement and otherwise, till we were
half way up Primrose Hill : when I all at
once remembered a certain bench not far
from the top, by which I had on a certain
night stood and looked out over the darkness
from which came the cool breeze fanning
my feverish cheek. Could it have indeed
been me, this living, moving, thinking
me here, who lived and moved and thought
that certain night as memory silently told
me that I had. Poor me !

I led her a little round and then up toit.
And we sat down upon it together and
talked somewhat softly.

What thousands and thousands of stars
were in the sky ! And what millions and
millions of people had looked at the thousands
and thousands of stars, and yet would

look : and when would it all ever come to
an end ?

Eosy :' I said again. ' Does it never
seem to you, as if you were here alone in
the world, quite alone : I mean, as if nobody
else belonged to you somehow ; and
they are all here, and they live, dimly, and
then die, and you can't tell where they goto
: and you can't tell where %jou will go to,
but you don't think you really ever unll die,
although you know you will ; but when you
do die, that you will go to somewhere elsewhere
you will be quite alone again and
nobody else will belong to you somehow, and
they will be all there, and they will all live
there, dimly you know, and then will die,
and you can't tel. where they go to, and
then you will die. . . . And then it goes
on like that. — Did you never think of it all
in that way?'

I never thought about it at all,' she
said. ' But I like to hear you talk like
that. Go on.'

I started and laughed : and then said :

Now I'll tell you a little piece of poetry,
a merry little piece, and then we must be
going home ; for it's getting late.'

She composed herself to listen.

It's in Greek,' I said. ' yes, you'll
be able to understand it. I'll tell you
about it, first. It's called a Swallow Song :
and the little boys sang it in Greece when
the swallows came back after the winter.
They used to go round to all the houses
and sing it, just like boys sing carols at
Christmas. This is the way it begins :

" She comes she comes, the swallow,
bringing beautiful hours,
beautiful seasons.
White on the belly,
black on the back.

" Do thou roll forth a fruit-cake
out of the rich house,
and a beaker of wine
and a basket of cheeses,
and wheat-bread the swallow
and the pulse porridge
does not reject. Say, shall we go away, or something
receive ?
If thou gives — well ! But if not, we won't let

you off!
Shall we bear off the door, or else the lintel ?

Or else the wife that is seated within ?

She's a small body, easily shall we carry her off ! —

But if you give us something,

something great may you get.

Open, open the door to the swallow,

we are not old men, but childerkins here." '

Then I proceeded to recite to her the
Greek, and she moved her body in some
sympathy with the rhythm of the words, so
that I, who was somehow pleased with this
and it all, gradually grew into the humour
in which I had been before when I exclaimed
: ' You are the dearest thing I have
ever known. You Kosebud !' till, at the

words TJ Tav yvvaiKa r-qv foro KaBr]j.uv<iv^

I gave one look at her, sitting there infinitely
childlike and half-fairy-Hke and
dear, and could have caught her up in my
arms and then . I didn't know what I
should have done ' then.'

I sat still looking out into the night.

After a little :

I wonder,' said her quiet voice. ' I
wonder if you would teach me that ? . . .
I think I could learn it very soon.'

You need not wonder any more,'

I said slowly, looking on out into the night.
I will teach it you.'

And so we began, I to repeat the translated
words, she to say them after me,
I looking on out into the night, she as I
knew looking up at my face. She had a
strangely acute memory, as I thought.
She had soon learnt the piece, and repeated
it alone faultlessly.

You have a good memory,' I said.

Yes,' she said. * I always was quick
at learning things when I liked them. I
like that.'

A pause. Then :

Now we must be going,' I said, rising.
It is getting late.'

We went slowly down the dark hill-side
together.

Then something seemed to grow with
and about us, and I began to feel somehow
as if I were leaving a thing that had to do
with me in a low plain, whereas I was
going away to mount up into a rich bright

VOL. I. 16

country of gentle sunshine. And once I,
in half-forgetfulness of something, would
have taken her hand with mine, and we,
two children, would have wandered on so
over the dim fields together for an ever till
we softly faded away. I was moving in a
dreaminess, and she in one parallel to it.
Then we turned up one of the roads at
the hack of St. John's Wood in order to get
to Maitland Street ; and the dreaminess
began to grow more transparent. I looked
at her walking along beside me.

Then at last :

You're very quiet, Eosy,' I said.

So are you,' she said, looking in front
of her. And then we went on together
with the same quietness ; for I had no care
to say more, nor she either, it seemed.

As we stopped opposite the door of No. 3
she heaved a sigh. I stretched out my
hand and opened the door. She said :
Thank you,' and went in : I following.

Up the dark stairs we went together till
we reached her door, the handle of which

she had in one hand as she half turned tome.


Good-night,' she said.

Good-night,' I said, finding her other
out-held hand, and held it half-loosely fora
moment. I could not see her face in
the blackness.

Her door opened in, and a little light
came from the tumed-do^^Ti gas — opened
wider : she went in — slovdv — closed the
door. I unlatched my own door, and went
into the room. The gas there was turned
domi. I went and turned it up.

Heigh, ho !' I said, with supposed
half-weariness, and sat down in the chair :
and stretched out my legs, and tilted the
chair back, and lifted the hands of my
stretched arms to my head and thought.
All at once I stopped with listening powers
Uke a rock balanced on the edge, breathless,
motionless.

A low knock came at the door.

'Come in,' I said, and was breathless,
motionless.

16—2

The latch was lifted and the door opened
a little.

It's me,' said Eosy's low voice.

Then, the door opening a little, I saw
her. ' Body,' she said. ' May I come in ?'

I started : sat up straight.

'Yes I said. . . 'Yes.'

She came in : her face flushed, eyes
bright, hair loosed a little round her head
in wavy brown threads. I seemed to inhale
her fairness like a soft sweet air.
She said :

I thought — that as — as you were
going away in the morning — before I come
back you know — and as I get up early —
at seven — so as to be down at my work
by eight you know — I thought . —
that — that perhaps I — that perhaps you
. . wouldn't mind if I was to — if I : . .'
She paused, or stopped, with an indrawn
breath : and so I was with her, and had
taken her hands.

. . . What is it, Rosebud ?' I said,
with a trembling in me.

All at once two large tears came out of
lier eyes and trickled down her cheeks.

Then she looked at me steadfastly, trying
to smile and not wink her eyelids,
whose long lashes had crystal drops on
them. The trembling passed out of me.
I thought only of her distress. I put
one arm round her, and so, holding her
small body, stroked her soft brown hair
back softly, saying :

Why, little Rosebud. You mustn't mind
like that, you know. I'll come back again
some day. — Quite soon.'

Oh, you were so nice to me,' she said.
But you will come back again to see me
. . some day — Eh V

Surely I will. — And bring you a bonnet
with blue ribbons and a flower that. . .
What is it ?'

. . . I don't want a bonnet !'

— Not a bonnet T

. . . No ' . . (piteously). '• I want

%jOU /'

Very well then : I'll bring you me,' I

said, ' some day : and some grapes, and
bon-bons to make me go down well.'

Her arms hung listlessly. She seemed
very miserable about it.

I kissed her on the cheek, kissed a tear
that was stealing down. — Then the next
moment felt her breast heave and shake
against mine, and she sobbed out :

Oh I wish — you weren't going away:
I wish you weren't going away !'

I kissed her again : now afraid lest my
own tears should fall to join hers soon :
and at last found voice to scold her, gently :
telling her that this would never do, you
know, and that she would be all right soon.
And we should see one another soon
again, and have long walks in the evening
again :

— And learn more Swallow Songs ?'
asked she, looking up.

Yes,' I said. * And all sorts of other
things as well.'

— That looulcl be nice : wouldn't it ?'
she said.

Yes. — And climb up to the top of Primrose
Hill and look at the lights.'

— Yes, and go up the river some day
as you said once. That would be nice too,
wouldn't it ?' She had stopped crying at
last.

Then, holding her little upturned face
in my hands, I kissed her again, first on
one cheek and then on the other. And
then we said good-night.

But at the door she suddenly turned
back to me with her arms half-raised, and
said piteously :

Kiss me again, do. . . I do like you to
kiss me so !'

I took her hands and, smiling a little,
went and kissed her on the cheek.

Kiss me on the lips,' she whispered,
half giving herself to me.

I kissed her on the lips and drew back.

. . . Good . . . night,' she said.

Good-night, Kosy, good-night.'

She withdrew : she was gone.

Then trembling came into me again,

and I stretched out my arms before me as
half-round the air. And threw them up
with an unknown word, and turned away.

I stood for a little thinking ; till, at last,
the thought came and grew of her ' alone
in the world, quite alone, as if nobody else
belonged to her.' And then I seemed to
grow further and further away fi^om that
her, and the last I had with her was
now :

Good-night, Rosebud, good-nights

Chapter I.

I BROUGHT a certain amount of enthusiasm
to bear upon my new life : and the idea of
working in co-operation with ' the friend of
Blake ' was a powerful incentive to perseverance.
I wrote in the Journal, which I
began to keep at this time :

I have had a great deal to learn and todo
in this swift-flown fortnight. And I
have found both the learning and the doing
very pleasant to me. It would seem that
my just-past struggle for existence partook,
all along, greatly of the cul-de-sac ; whereas
this new life is like an open road that leads
to a great city : that city has to be reached ;

certain things have to be done, which
things constitute a " cause." There can
be no doubt that a definite aim, object,
end is the making of a man.'

But the next week came a reaction ; I
weary of the details of my work, more
weary of the people with whom I was
thrown, and there was growing in me a deaf
unrecognised notion in connection with Mr.
Brooke that would have partaken, had I let
it, of dis-illusionment. Hear the Journal
of three days later, apropos of a dinner at a
Mr. Starkie's, a friend of Mr. Brooke's,
where I had met some, what I called,
travellers :

Travellers are an aggravating tribe.
Thej^ seem to expect you to know their
books better than they do themselves ; to
pretend that no one else ever went where
they went or, if some one else undeniably
did go, — then that that some one else went
the wrong way, came back the wrong way,
and made rather a fool than otherwise of
himself every bit of the way ! People

have no business to be active monomaniacs :
passive ones, as much as you Hke : I see
no harm in that. I am a passive monomaniac
myself.'

The next day :

Imps have been at me to-day. The air
has been densely populated with them.'
Here is a lugubrious account for you ! — But
I begin from the beginning. Thus :

Since the morning I had had a longing
to write one particular thing haunting me.
In crowded shops : before me as the cab
cut through the streets : beside me as I sat
at my desk ; wherever I was, whatever I
was doing, I saw the same silent figure,
with its hand to its brow, standing under a
tree in the first evening. I was like an inveterate
smoker, robbed of his pipe and left
staring at his full tobacco-jar. Once or
twice I very nearly went up to my room
with paper and pencil to fill in my imaginary
picture : having resisted and conquered,
I was irritable with everything about me
for my own firmness. How cruel it was

that I had no time ! how badly organized
was the world, that so many other people
had time, and wasted it !

Driving down New Bond Street, I saw a
young lady, with a pince-nez and walking-stick,
staring into a jeweller's window. I
at once began to revile her as frivolity's
foolish wasp : and must have done so aloud,
for the coachman opened the trap to inquire
if I had said anything ? " j^o," I said.
Drive on."

In the evening (this evening) we had a
dinner-party. The two men who are going
with us on the Expedition, Clarkson and
Starkie, where there — with their wives.
Also some other " men of mark" with their
wives. But the female element was
(thank God !) in the minority. But that
didn't save me. I sat between a beetle-browed
prude who kept making (bad) eyes
at her husband opposite us (a travelling
monomaniac, of course !), and a cavalry
officer who had cantered through half a
continent, and, as soon as he came home,

sat down and wrote a book on all its histories,
languages and literatures. The
beetle-browned prude told me about her
husband's travels : the cavalry officer about
his own. (The lady he had taken in to
dinner was a philanthropist, very distinguished,
very loquacious, but unfortunately
deaf. She and the cavalry officer soon gave
one another up ; the cavalry officer, for me,
the female philanthropist for a course of
lectures to a weak-eyed man on her right :
subject, parochial rates, I think.) The
officer varied the conversation once, by remarking
that Darwin did not appreciate the
spirit of Nature : so leading the prude into
a disquisition on Eternal Love, but, in the
end disagreeing, they called me from a
dream just under the ceiling to give my
opinion : found I knew nothing about the
points in question : and so repeated them
in their entirety for my edification — even
to the disagreement.

After dinner, when we joined the ladies,
the prude motioned me to her side by a

smile. I heard the officer repeating his
remark about Darwin to, I swear, another
pride (square-browned : lifeless combed-back
hair : slow eyes : and an altogether suggestiveness
of "shoulder arms ") jus behind
us. Then my own particular prude seemed
for some time (that is, till I grew dreamy and
answered monosyllabic ally) to have eyes, I
should like to say a good many tongues,
and half one ear, for me only : then she
carried me off, tripping over her spasmodic
train, to her dear dear friend Mrs. Basingstoke
(to whom she really must introduce
me — a must cul-treated and highly delightful
area-ture, she assured me !) and I was
presented, as (in a whisper) *' a most interesting
young man, with decidedly marked
tastes, my dear Mrs. Basingstoke " (what
could I have been saying ?) " and — alas ! —
a rare endowment of young men now-a-days
earnest religious convictions." Oh
Jupiter ! Oh Jupiter !

But jam satis ! — After they were all
gone, I stood frowning on the hearth rug. —

Mr. Brooke came in from the hall, having
seen the last of them off.

" Aha, Leicester," he said — " and how
about those things from Taunton's ? I was
dressing when you came back. They are
all right ?"

" Well, no, sir. The tubes had to be
made on purpose "

" I ordered them a fortnight ago."

'sand they came. But one of the
people in the shop managed to crack
one "

' ' And the whole thing vAW have to be
done again. Bother ! : . . Hoity-toity :
I'm very tired. . . . You look tired
too."

"I am."

" I saw 5'ou making yourself very
agreeable to Mrs. Napier, and afterwards to
Mrs. Basingstoke."

I curled my lip. — Then, feeling that I
should say something foolish in a moment if
I stayed, and irritated that I should have to
save myself by running away, said :

I think I will go to bed, sir.' — There
is nothing more to be done to-night ?'

"'Ah-h-h . no ! That is, I don't
think so. — Hamilton and Salisbury sent
up everything ? — They are the rudest
and most unpunctual people in all London ;
but they have the best . . ."

I made a sharp noise with my lips, expressive
of impatience and disgust. I had
forgotten altogether about Hamilton and
Salisbury : — What business on earth
had I with running about seeing that
Hamiltons and Malmesburies sent up
things ? Why not send a servant ? Or
use the post ? There was not any need
for such frantic haste. Whereas there
were creatures, like that girl with the
pince-nez and walking-stick, who dawdled
away their whole lives ! And here was I
going out on an expedition into the
wilds of Africa, to be killed by fever and
eaten by vultures, or run through with
spears and eaten by negroes ! — Oh, it was
too hard ! I really must write to some

Croesus, state my cruel case, and ask for
JOIOO for three years, offering to refund
it out of my first year's earnings. — Nay;
a better idea would be, to insert an advertisement
in the Times agony column :
An unappreciated genius male), cetat 18,
desirous of benefiting humanities bij devoting
himself to Himself, woidd he glad to meet
ivith some young woman who tvoidd give him the
means of pursuing this lofty course of action.
Millionairesses iviih a hankering after (literary)
immortality are strongly advised not to let this
opportunity slip, as a similar one may never
arise again. Apply for further particulars to
Bel., 5, Dunraven Place, Piccadilly, W.,
who ." And I burst out into a laugh,
rather a bitter laugh.

" What's the matter ?" asked Mr.
Brooke.

I shrugged back my shoulders with a
half-sigh, half groan. Then :

"I think I am ill," I said.

He rose from his desk, where he was
sitting examining some papers ; came across

VOL. I. 17

to me and, smiling, put this hand on to my
shoulder.

" Come : come : come ! You must not
mind now. — It will soon pass, this malaise.
You have lived so much in yourself, that
you find it very hard to live in other people?
Ah well, well ! We most of us have
that little difficulty to contend with sooner
or later," But I was almost bursting out
into the soft tears of relief with the cry :
0, ivill she never, never come ?" But, instead,
hanging down my head bit my underlip
with all my might for a moment. The
pain made me master of myself. I looked
up in his face, with my eyes hedged about
with tears, but ready to listen to what he
had to say to me.

He pressed my shoulder with his hand :
'don't dream so, my boy:" he said.
Don't dream so. You're always at it, you
know ; and it's stick a bad habit ! It leads
to absorption in one's own world : and
that means selfishness. Why, I have
known in my time at least three dreamers.

who ruined all their own happiness and
their family's as well, simply because they
would have their dreams. Such are they
whom the world calls ' geniuses ' and their
friends ' brutes for no sacrifice is too
great for these precious empty dreams of
theirs — not excluding the dreamer's lives.
It angers me to hear people erecting special
codes of morality for such men. Because
a man is dubbed ' genius,' is he also to be
dubbed demi-god, and allowed to pick and
choose from the laws of the land, Which he
will be so good as to obey and which he
won't ? — Give up thinking that you can do
anything, and there is a chance of your
doing something. Get out of yourself and
into other people. They are, probably,
better than you are.— You don't mind me
speaking like this to you ? Now do you
now ?"

" Oh no," I said. " It's very true what
you say, I live too much in myself: and
I am impatient of what I think are other

17—2

people's smallness . I will try to be
more patient."

" Very well. Don't let's talk about it
any more. — One moment ! Am I to halve
the dose ? Is it too strong for you ?"

" No, sir. I would say, double it ;
but "

" Your stomach can't stand it yet ?
Never mind. I only wonder that it has
stood so much. Go on taking your medicine
like a man (I don't mind your pulling faces
now and then. Perhaps it is rather nasty !)
and ." (with a smile) " well, you shall
have some jam afterwards,"

" Will you tell me the sort ?" I asked,
but in a purposeless sort of way, for it
seemed as if he expected me to ask for an
explanation of his 'jam aftenoards.'''

" You will be more contented : less self-conscious,
a better member of society
generally. I mean, more ready to put
yourself out to talk to "fools," less eager
to find fault with wiser people than yourself.
In a word, more healthy."

I kept silence ; for I felt that it would
be quite useless to speak.'

The next day has :

Mr. Brooke with me to Ending School.
Nothing particular.' And, after a space,
the following remark :

These riding lessons five times a week
are not without their pleasure to me. I
am pleased at my complete freedom from
fear. Small things, I hope, are here too
the father of great. But, can I ever be
afraid of anything again ? For have I not
realized how small an atom I am of things
living and dead : how valueless, as I am,
to things as yet uncreated ? I am a
spectator of existence in general, and my
own in particular. — How can a man who
believes in nothing but bare existence and
the beauty of Truth, and feels that he is
floating along, weak and not far from helpless,
have fear ? What are a few more
seconds to him ?'

Here my enthusiasm for a full Journal
seems to have given way. The rest is

made up of simple notifications of the
general events of each days

This short period of my life is, strangely
or not, one of those about which I remember
least. It may be that I was too absorbed
in what Mr. Brooke dubbed for me
my ' dreams ' to notice even what took
place to myself. It may be. Perhaps
that may account for the long filing trail of
society-dressed people that represents my
memory of this short period of my life, and
for a certain lifeless wanness that contains
even these conversations between Mr.
Brooke and myself, although written so
shortly after they were spoken. But as
the days wore on, I with a little astonishment
found that I was again beginning to
take an interest, and something more
than an interest, in my work. At first, as
I have said, this astonished me, and I half
anticipated that ' It would go off soon :'
But, when it did not, rather grew, till it
seemed to have achieved some permanent
strength, I was led to look upon my early

discontent as the momentary humour and
this calmer readiness for the actual individuals
There were no more theological
conversations with Mr. Brooke now : no
more of his jeremiads against brutal Science
or debased Art, and consequently no more
rousing of the antagonistical feeling in me.
Besides, something of my old adventurous
love was rising in me at the near approach
of our departure, and this helped me to
realize that, past denial, there was much in
me that was morbid and self-concentrated,
and helped me to determine to resist these
infirmities. I had began to Ulcer Mr. Brooke
better : and this although I was far from
holding him up to myself as * the ideal
friend,' as I had done at starting. No one
could help liking the man's earnestness : an
earnestness that had something of the
tenderness-inspiring in it. It did not
matter that the aim of this earnestness was
not altogether apparent to you. You saw
the effect : the effect was beautiful, earnestness
and honesty welded together, and you

liked ' it. What matter about the
cause ?

It was in a humour of this sort that, some
days later, I sat with him after dinner in the
library, he smoking a cigar, I thinking about
things.

We sat in silence.

At last, with a slight yawn :

We shall be off,' he said, ' before this
time next week. Oh-heh ! . . . How delightful
it is to think of it !'

Mr. Clarkson is to meet us at Brindisi,
is he not ?' I said.

Yes. He does not want to go through
Paris : and it would scarcely do to go
through the Continent and he not go with
us. I do not think so, at least. . . . He
has a perfect monomania about Paris. He
caught a tj^hus or typhoid fever when he
was there three years ago : and almost died
of it : up at the top of an hotel — alone. He
declared that he would never put his foot
inside the place again. It was a very
horrible idea, I must confess : death :

alone in a strange hotel : in a strange
city.'

But, if he's afraid of fever, surely it is
rather a strange thing to go to '

Yes : yes. It is. But men are made up
of such inconsistencies. I, for example, am
shudderingly af^-aid of small-pox : yet I have
been through a cholera epidemic, nursed
diphtheritic cases, known cancer, and whatnot
besides.'

King Alfred used to pray that God's will
might be done in all things, but that he
should prefer not to die of a loathsome
disease. I should be afraid of such things
too, if it wasn't that . . .' I paused.

Wasn't what T he said.

0, a silly idea of mine ! — I don't believe
that I shall ever catch anything again, somehow
!'

Fearlessness is half the battle. . I
too have prayed to God that I may not die
of a disease that makes others fearful of me
and myself loathe myself.'

And I do not see why God should not

grant your prayer, if ' I left the rest,

'If He is and can,' unSciiJ ; for I had see
his face contract a stile.

I beg your pardon,' I said, ' if I have
offended you. My thoughtlessness began,
and my honesty wanted to end, my sentence.'

Oh no I I am foolish to notice it. I
should not have, but that it recalled to me
that the same vile bartering thought had, I
am ashamed to say, occurred to me too, as
it were despite myself, before now. You
see I am trembling ' (he held up his hand)
like a terrified woman. Upon my word I
ought to be ashamed of myself ! '

He resumed more slowly :

I cannot quite account for this hysterical
dread of one particular disease. My father
died of it just before I was born, and my
mother was nigh losing life, and then reason,
in giving birth to me. Perhaps that is
enough to excuse my poor nerves. . . .
But I've not much beef in these things.
HereditaribiHty, as Spencer would say, has
been done to death nowadays.'

I remembered a somewhat contrary remark
to this of his : and smiled a little to
myself.

There was a silence for a few moments.

At last he lifted up his head, looked
across at me, and jerked his cigar-end under
the grate, saying :

By-the-bye, Leicester, I have something
to say to you. . . . It's about my book.'
He paused for a moment. Then proceeded
:

You know that it is not yet published ?
Indeed, it is not fit to be published. — It is
like Caesar's Commentaries — nude, recti ct
rcnusti (I think that's the expression
all right) omni ornate orations tanquam veste
detracts — " Unadorned, severe and decent,
stripped of all the embellishment of expression,
like a garment " — but I was carried
away from its actual state, nidus, into its
ideal state, rectus et venustus. — Decent,
comely, that is the best attribute for a man,
his thoughts and his actions, that there can
be. But you see nus poor book never got

beyond darkness ! It was meant to be asa
sort of introduction, or prelude, to a future
work : my magnum opus ! I did not care to
tell the tale of my failure — not, at least, till
I could tell with it the tale of my success.
But . If anything happened to me : Who
can foresee even a moment here ? — Quid
humanity, as Cicero has it : any of those
chances to which humanity is liable — '
He paused again. The words seemed perseveringly
jerky.

I waited. — He resumed :

I should like it brought out — then : supposing,
I mean ; supposing aliquid humanity
occurs this time. For, you see, it might be
of some use to others : more especially to
him following on my track. It contains my
attempt from the south, and my last journey
ending at lujigi.'

Yes ?' I said.

Another pause.

Then he :

Ah, but I thought I had the bird in my
hand that time ! Only in the bush, only in

the bnsli ! And I with no more twine with
which to mend broken nets and snare it. I
have not told you before, how bitter that
moment was to me : To tm'n back at Mount
Nebo, within sight of Canaan, into the sandy
desert, so hot and waterless ! — And as I
turned, verily my anguish shamed me out
of my manliness to play the woman. I did
restrain myself till they had pitched the tent
there, in the roar and very breath of the
mighty waters ; but then I went apart, and
sat, and looked at the smoking columns of
the fall fading into the purpling sky, and
wept. It seemed to me as I sat there alone
that evening that I was not turning back, to
come again with new victorious face and
reach to It ; but it seemed to me — I cannot
tell you how, or why. I can only tell you
that so it was.— It seemed to me, I say, that
a still small voice spoke whispering to my
heart : and I knew that I should not see
Mount Nebo again, should not even cross
the desert again, but die far away in the
land of Egypt, in a land of glory and sin.'

Another pause.

He went on :

Since then, I have tried to persuade myself
that I was mistaken. Life is so ordinary :
it is hard to believe always in the faith of
one's higher moments. — And you see, my
dear boy : in a few days we are off ! What
do you say ? — Well, what I want to tell you
is this. Supposing aliquid humanity. —-you
follow me ?'

He looked at me, who was a little mystified
by it all.

Yes,' I said. ' To a certain extent.'

He smiled.

Ah, you've grown deep into my heart,
boy ! you cannot know homo deep. Perhaps
there is some selfishness in my love for
you : I do not say that there is none : But
I do love you ! — I have been rather sharp
with you at times : Forget it ! It is, that
I cannot bear to see you with the ideas you
have, about this beautiful world — and God.
It seems to me almost a crime that you
. . Forgive me : Now you do now ?'

He had touched my leg : laid his hand
on it, and looked so fondly into my eyes
that I was moved, but not quite with an
answering feeling to what he called his love.
I turned my look aside.

You see that I believe in you,' he said.
Believe in you even as you are now, a
mere boy ! I know that if you only had
some great work cut out for you to do — you
would do it ; and that there would be no
need for it to be done again — something that
would require all your heart and soul ! At
present . I am afraid for you, and that
is the truth ! And being afraid, I am jealous
for you, and so — cross with you ! That is
my way. . . Can sou understand me ?'

Yes,' I said. ' I think I can.'

He went on at last, I was glad, looking
away from me.

I have this presentiment upon me, and
I cannot shake it off. I shall never reach
my heart's desire. God's will be done ! —
And it is so strongly upon me that I . . .
I am afraid I am very clumsy, beating about

the bush like this ! See now. Here it is
out straight for you ! I want you to promise
me to go on and finish what I feel I
shall never be able to do more than begin.
Every river, every lake of that land shall
be mapped out and known !' (His voice
rose and rang) ' Why, I tell you I dreamt
about it as a boy at school. I have kept it
by me all my life. A gvancl idea ! — But not
yet! Not yet, you understand. That would
be foolish. If we — if they, fail this time, I
want you to come back to England and wait
here four or five years, preparing for it.
You will grow apace. Head, read, read ! —
Then try again : and when you do it !— when
you do it ! then. . . Tell them of my poor
old dead book : and of me, just a little, to
say how I dreamt of that hour all my life !
None of the glory ! — Oh no, I don't want any
of that. All that shall be yours ! But — if
I could only think that through me, if not his
me, the thing had been done at last ! — If I
could only think that, why . . . You must
not come out with us this time. You are too

young. Your constitution is just changing.
You know the critical periods of a man's
life — the twenties and the fifties — wait till
your constitution has settled.' (He rubbed
his eyebrows.) ' Yes, yes, you might
come down as far as Zanzibar with us,
if you've set your heart upon it — if you've
set your heart upon it. Eh ? You might
as well get some knowledge of the life. But
remember always that you are the reserve.
(When you have been over all the land —
crossed and re-crossed and known it — then
you'll be able to confute that absurd theory
of there being some Central Africans who
have no idea of a deity. That's all nonsense
! If I had lived I had intended confuting
it myself. However . . .) Well, as
I was saying, you must always remember
that you are the reserve : both for our sake,
dear boy, and for the sake of the Cause. —
I am afraid again that I am very clumsy. I
haven't yet told it you in so many words —
eh ? Well, this time I will, straight out.'
He began deliberately ;

VOL. I. 18

I want you to promise me that, in the
event of anything happening to me, you will
devote yourself to the Causes You see ?'

He went on:

Study for it ; toil for it : do for it everything
; forget nothing ! On that condition
I make you my heir.'

There was a pause.

Then I said :

I cannot !'

'Yes, yes,' he cried. ' You can do it, if
anj'^one can ; and it is to be done ! I am
sure you can do it ! I know you better
than you know yourself. You will grow
old apace : a man by twenty : a — something
more than a man by thirty, if God
prolongs your days so far. I pray He
may. — No, I say. Don't be afraid of that.
I have no relation whom I can wrong by
making you my heir : be easy on that
point.'

He stopped suddenly:

You say nothing ?'

In a little, I, with my eyes downcast, said :

You have so completely taken me by
surprise, that I scarcely know if I am asleep
or awake.'

Yes : yes : yes, I know. It was foolish
of me. I had intended working up to it
slowly : training you into what I wanted
you to become. You must do it ! and . . .
all sorts of things. Of course you wilL'

He began to drift away :

Last night I . I had a horrible, a
horrible dream. . . Strange : strange how
we all are troubled by our dreams. . .
What accursed shadows I saw ! shadows of
sin : shadows of a tormented universe.
Oh my God ! . . . My time is short. . .
I know it. I shall not get further than
Paris. I know it. . . " Blake, old fellow :
Allan's dead"— 'dead?" he said.— " Yes,
dead. Renshaw brought me news of it last
night. He caned him on his back over a
mile through the hot sands. It was eve
when they got to the spring. Allan was
delirious. I cannot think of his poor
parched lips muttering : and his eyes

18—2

stared so, Kensliaw says. But at the
last, he grew quite calm, and asked him
to hold him up. ' Arc those the mountains
out there?' he asked. ' Yes,' said Ken-shaw.
' How fcaccful they are.' — Then he
closed his eyes for a little : but opened
them all of a sudden and cried out : ' Bo
you see the Cross there?' 'No,' said Ren-shaw.
' Where ?' ' Upon the mountain top,
the ridge I mean. Christ is holding it. Homo
sheet His face is. . . Oh lovat a light, ivhat a
light ! It bursts out all round Him. And
see, the shadow ! There, there on the sand.
The shadow of the Cross. Nearer — nearer —
nearer, fleet over the golden, sand. The shadow
of the Cross !' — And so he died." '

I shook him by the arm :

Sir, sir — You are ill,' I said.

No,' he said. ' Not ill, only tired.'

All at once he started up :

I've been talking quickly. . . . My
blood's been boiling. I'm all right now
though. — You have understood all that I
said ? No. I see that you don't realize

it. Well, well. That is nothing. We'll
begin again. — No, I assure you, I'm all
right now. Sit down. Draw your chair
closer. Now I will go through it again.'

It seemed he had quite forgotten the
story he had told me of his friend's death.
He began to explain the object of the expedition
: what was to be done this time :
what was to be done next time : lastly,
what he wanted me to do. I listened
patiently, although I was, as it were, physically
wearied of it all.

Dawn was breaking as I stood looking
from my bedroom-window. I wished that
I stood on some Thames bridge, to look at
the sleeping town : then turned away sighing,
and glad that I was not there — anywhere
but where I was, a few yards off my
cool, comfortable bed.

As I had one knee on it, getting in, I
paused, made half-irresolute by a thought.
How long was it since I had prayed ? Had
I grown so sure, then, that there was no
good ' in it ? — None I none ! ' If God is,

He knows what is in my heart without my
telling Him. And yet I haven't given
much thought to the subject of late : no
had time to go searching for new material
with which to build up my belief in disbelief,
as I used to do at Colchester. Ah,
I was a boy then. Now I am . a
fool to be standing here like this.* I
was into bed and had the clothes over
me.

. . . I wonder what Kosy's doing
now ? Asleep, of course, like a good little
girl. I wish I was ! I wish this world
had never been made. I wish I had never
been born : and then I shouldn't have been
plagued with all these things. I wish . . .
All, this ivorld is not much of a place to be
happy in 1'

For some time, when I half awoke next
morning, I was aware of a letter with the
usual cup of tea by my bedside. At last I
roused myself sufficiently to stretch out my
hand and lift the letter into the bed by me :
and then managed to open it, and began,
still half-awake, to read it :

Dear Mr. Leicester,

I have been informed of your appointment
as private secretary to Mr.
Brooke, and that you are about to accompany
him on his expedition to Central
Africa, to which I wish all possible success.

I have a profound admiration for Mr.
Brooke personally. I once had the honour
of meeting him at the house of my distinguished
friend, Professor Astrachan, F.K.S.
I think that you are to be greatly congratulated
on the results of your independent
course of action in having faced the world
so boldly on your own account ' (about this
point I woke up completely), ' and I have
no doubt that you will always do credit to
the name you bear. I have to regret and
apologize for any little disagreeableness that
may have arisen during our last interview,
and to ask you to ascribe it to the very
indifferent state of my health at the time.
I am still, I believe, in rather a critical
state ; but my doctors give me every hope
of the ultimate recovery of my accustomed
vigour. Thinking that perhaps you might
require some small moneys, cash for your
outfit, etc., I have directed that the sum of
one hundred pounds shall be deposited to
your account at my agents', Messrs. Milnes
and Co., Axe Street, which you do me a

great pleasure by accepting as a small
token of my personal regard for yourself.


'I remain,

Yours truly,

Thos. E. James.
B. Leicester, Esq.'

Pes.— The £100 will be handed over to
you on personal application. I have to ask
your indulgence for the indifferent composition
of this letter, which you must please to
ascribe to my present condition. I find
any mental effort very painful to me.'

I lay back, with my head deep in the
pillow, staring at the ceiling : ' Either
the man is soft-brained,' I thought, ' or
flunkey-hearted, or . I don't understand
it ! But I certainly shan't waste a
quarter of another minute in trying to.
What's the old hypochondriac to me ? Of
course, I won't take his money, confound
him !'

Then a crowd of other thoughts came
upon me, till I was in a not far from
disgusted state. There was Kosy : and my
books still at Colchester : and the general
futility of existence, and particularly of my
own. I ended by growing sapless, and
then half peevish.

A barrel-organ began playing some way
ofiF. I lay and listened to it in an arid disgust.
At last it stopped. Then I got up,
and proceeded to my toilet. — ' This is what
is generally known as getting, or having
got, out of the wrong side of your bed this
morning,' thought I, going downstairs.

Mr. Brooke seemed better. He talked tome
quite naturally at breakfast about things
in general. Then we parted : he to go I
do not know where, I to see about some
orders that had not been punctually fulfilled,
etc. . . . But when we met again at
luncheon, I thought he had rather a beaten-out
look, a look of extreme weariness. I
ascribed it to the amount of conventional
thought and worry that he had gone through

of late, and perhaps a little to the unusual
excitement of last night.

The next day was quite ordinary, quite
uneventful. And so the day after. Everything
was done now. We were to start
early in the morning from Charing Cross.
Consequently, we went to bed earlier than
usual : about half-past nine.

I, out in the hall, lit my candle first:
said good-night to him in the library : and
was almost up to the top of the first staircase,
where our ways separated, when I
heard him call out. I stopped and listened.


He called again :

boy!'

I answered :

Yes ?'

Good-night.'

Good-night.'

No : wait. I will be up in a moment
to shake hands with you. The night before
the campaign opens : eh ?'

He came out : lit his candle (I watched

him over the bannisters. I see him now) :
and came up slowly. I stepped back, and
stood waiting for him in the mouth of the
passage.

Then we shook lauds : but he did not
let mine go after he had pressed it. I
turned my eyes from his face generally to
his eyes, and looked into them : puckering
up my mouth a little to one side.

He smiled : smiled a second time : and
let fall my hand. — He meant something by
that smile, and I understood something,
but I did not, and do not, quite know what.

Mine was a dreamless sleep that night.

Sitting opposite him in the railway-carriage
some five minutes before we were
to start, he caught me glancing at him in a
peculiar way.

I can tell you what you are thinking of,'
he said, bending towards me and putting his
hand on my knee. ' You are half-puzzled,
half-amused at my " delusion." Oh yes,
that's your word : " Delusion" Very well !
We shall see what we shall see. My dear

boy, I am not given to morbidity, believe
me. — By-tlie-bye, you didn't forget to get
some papers ?'

I started up.

Really, I am very sorry. I am afraid
I have forgotten all about them. I am very
sorry. I will go at once. — What papers
shall I get ?'

No, I should have got them myself.
Let me go. I hp.ve been doing all the talking
and you all the work. It was very
kind of old Gordon to come down to give
me a God-speed and shake o' the hand,
wasn't it, Starkie ? — You didn't see him, I
thought. He kept me chattering with him.
Stop ! stop ! I'll go. I really insist on
going !'

It is only at the end of the platform,
sir,' I said. ' Don't think of troubling
about it. Let me '

No : no. I will go myself. You stop
here. — Is there any paper jove particularly
like, Starkie ? Are you a liberal or a
conservative i"

Mr. Starkie, with his feet upon the
cushions, looked round with his usual
beard-twitching smile :

Oh, I'm neither. They're both equally
bad. — Get me a society paper.'

As Mr. Brooke hurried away, Mr. Starkie
said something sarcastic about ' society
papers.' Then, after a pause (I knew
nothing about ' society papers '), I went onto
the platform, and began walking up and
down before the. carriage.

All at once I saw Mr. Brooke, with some
papers in his hand, coming towards the
open gate. A shabbily-dressed man was
slouching along at right-angles to him.
They met. I saw Mr. Brooke start back :
half-loose and then clutch the papers : let
the man pass by, and then come towards
me, but more slowly.

I thought nothing of it : re-entered the
carriage : and a moment after he was at the
door, and threw the papers on to the seat.
I was arranging some rugs upon the racquet.
Then the guard came to the door to

examine our tickets. I had Mr. Brooke's.
I gave it up with mine : and then for the
first time noticed him. He was sitting staring
in front of him, with his hand supporting
his head. He was very pale. I stood in
doubt, looking at him.

Are you ill ?' I asked.

He started and laughed.

'Oh, it is nothing. — We are to have a
fine day for our journey. See how the sun
is shining. It must be quite clear out in
tke country. . . . Do you know what time
we get to Dover, Starkie ?'

There was a door between Mr. Brooke's
room and mine at the Hotel de Manchester.
We had it opened, and talked as we were
dressing for dinner. He was instructing
me in the programme that had to be gone
through here in Paris. I was at my glass,
spoiling a white tie. — I heard him come
from his room into mine, but did not turn,
thinking he was only continuing the conversation.
All at once I saw his face reflected

beside mine. I cried out : ' Good'
God !' and jerked myself round.

His eyes kept opening and shutting. I
caught him by the arm. He smiled at
me.

It is as I thought he said slowly. ' We
must get out of this, boy. . . . That man
at the station. I ran against him."

He shuddered. I heard his teeth click
as he closed his jaws.

You are ill ?'

Yes. That man ! It went through
me like Leland's sword. Oh, the horrible
smell !'

You think you have caught the smallpox
?' I said incredulously.

I do not think : I know. How weak
my eyes are. I could almost fancy I saw
motes before. . I am a fool !'

It is the crossing,' I said. ' You will be
all right soon.'

The crossing ? An old sailor like me ?
Pooh, pooh ! Nothing of the sort. And

yet—'

He began to consider to himself :

And yet . . . How possibly . . /
I caught him by the arm :

Stop : stop !' I said. ' You will give
yourself the small-pox if you go on at that
rate. — Have you been vaccinated ?'

He moved fi*om me, saying, with great
calmness :

Not I. Nonsense every bit of it. I
never wanted to have all the vile diseases
flesh is heir to pumped into my system with
bad Ijmph ! See. I will sit down hereon
the bed. I don't feel well : that's all —
at present : giddy. Go and tell Starkie.
Then go and find a room for me somewhere.
A nice room : and flowers. Mind
you tell the people what it's for : a case of
small-pox.' He stopped and smiled. ' Variola
confluent, if they are particular. That
means something like the certainty of a
dead body in the house. You may add
that: people like to know. Never mind
what you have to pay. A nice room,
Leicester. Remember, I shall want to be

VOL. I. 19

in it — probably a fortnight before I die.
I used to like Pass : try in Pass. —
Now go. No : I am not mad : not in the
least.'

Will you let me fetch a doctor ?' I
said.

You will anger me in a moment ! — Go
and tell Starkie, and find me a nice room.
I want to get there while I am quite sure of
myself. We must think of other people as
well as of ourselves. — Please go at once.'

I went to Starkie and sent him into my
room : then ran downstairs ; found out the
maitre de Hotel, and tried to explain to
him that I wanted to know where I should
be able to find a house-agent. Seeing that
I only confused the man, I came up to my
room again.

Mr. Starkie was sitting beside Mr.
Brooke, speaking to him earnestly — I
think trying to persuade him that he was
mistaken in his idea about the small-pox.
He stopped speaking as I came in.
I explained how useless it was for me to

try to get what was wanted : I did not know
a street in Paris, and could not speak French.
Mr. Starkie had better go, and leave me
here with Mr. Brooke. They both seemed
to see this. Mr. Starkie jumped up, saying
that of course I was quite right. It would
be a dreadful waste of time for me to go, and
in. the end I might not be successful. Mr.
Brooke thanked him.

As the door closed I sat down beside the
bed.

After a little :

I wish you would let me get a doctor,' I
said.

Not yet. Not yet. Useless. We shall
see, boy, in a little while. I hate doctors.
They are a blundering race. . . , But I
have one or two things to say to you before
you go . . . Bertram.'

It was the first time he called me by my
Christian name. I felt a sort of answering
thrill in me.

Before I go ?' I said.

Yes. I shall not allow you to stay,

19—2

and run the chance of catching it. That
would never do. Nor must Starkie : he
will have to hurry on to Brindisi ; but I'm
afraid Clarkson won't care to go on without
me. . . . And he wishes to put it off, too.
It is very hard : after all these years !'

A pause.

I have been speaking to him about you,'
he went on. ' He knows all my wishes.
He is one of my executors . a brave
man : rough and ready : will follow anywhere,
but can't lead. Clarkson has all
the brains of the party. You must have
scientific observation to hand, or you can
never do any real good. That is the mistake
we have all of us made. Brave men
can plod on and, when there is need, shoot
straight (but the less shooting, the better) ;
but there is something else wanted as welland
that's perception. They don't recognise
more than half they see. There has
only been one naturalist in Africa yet —
Lesser, I mean. Think of that ! And
he, poor devil, came to grief on the ubiquitous

reef of poverty. I have often
regretted I didn't know of him in time.
But it's the old, old story ! When they
had muscle, they hadn't brains : and when
they had brains, they hadn't muscle. These
explorers (especially the French) are a
queer lot. Du Camp's gorillas are . . .
well, let's only say exaggerations : and as
for Louis . o . But there, there ! Starkie
knows all about it. He will tell you some
day. I have a thousand things in my head,
and can only bring you out one. About
yourself. You would not promise that
night to give up your life to the Cause.
You said that you believed you had other
work to do. I want you to promise now.
You must leave me to-night, Bertram —
very soon.'

Leave you ? That is impossible. Herewith
strangers ?'

I want no one but the Sisters. I have
seen them at work before : have worked
with them. They are all I want. With
the small-pox, men die in delirium, loathsome

to everyone. You could not stay.
I am thinking of going into an hospital,
instead of taking an apartment — if it
can be managed as I want it. Starkie has
gone to see. . . . That was a foolish idea
of mine : I am glad you came back. It is
all right. Starkie knows all about it. If
the doctors will only leave me alone ! . . .
Oh, boy,' he said, ' if you would only promise
to try ! Go back and study, say,
for three years : only three years ! And
learn everything, everything ! And then
go down there for another year to learn
about the life. And you will pick up
experience very quickly. I know you.
Starkie says he will do it : he will not be
too old : a brave fellow ! Ah dear ! ah
dear ! I have so many things that I want
to tell you : so many ; so many that they
confuse me, and I can scarcely tell you
anything. All one jumble, eh ? But I
have not been like myself since that dream
- — Now, you will promise ?'
I answered nothing.

He lifted up his head.

Promise me. I am so sm-e you could
do it. If you only had some beacon-light
to steer to. At times I have thought that I
am infatuated about you. You did not
know that I was married once ? . . . And
God took away my son from me. Yet I
bore it. And then my wife, too. " The
Lord gave, and the Lord hath then away.
Blessed he the name of the Lord." That was
what Blake said to me in the evening when
my son died. I only saw him dead. It
was very sudden. Dear child ! dear child !
. .You have something of him in you,
Bertram, at times. . . . And then Radcliffe
came and fell ill. He was not worth much.
Intelligent, and all that ; but had no interest
in his work, and could not have done
much for it if he had had. And then God
sent you to me. Your struggle in London.
Oh, you must promise me. . . . Ha ! I
am a fond old fool !'

At last :

You have not answered me,' he said.
Will you not promise ?'

I cannot, sir. It is as if you asked me
to become a priest — having no vocation.'

But I have determined that you shall
promise ! I have made you my heir. I
am not very rich. Some eight hundred
a-yearnow; much less than I once had. I
have spent much in the Cause. You will
promise ?'

I cannot, sir. I thank you none the
less ; but you must give it to some one else.
To Mr. Starkie. I cannot promise to
give up my life to the pursuit of a thing — I
do not care for : I mean care for, enough
for that.'

After a little he ;

You will think better of it when you are
older. You are full of dreams now. — Promise
me now. In five years . . It is not
for five years.'

I cannot promise. You must not leave
me that money. I could not take it without

I did promise, and I will never promise.
How could I honestly ?'

He sighed :

My head is very heaves I cannot talk
any more now. Remember ; I will alter
nothing. You will go some day. Wait
till you have been out in the world, boy. I
have seen bees covered with tiny red spiders
innumerable, tickled to death. I will alter
nothing.'

I took his hand gently :

'I cannot tell you, sir,' I said, 'how
sorry I am to seem so ungrateful. It is
not that I am so really ; but . . I cannot
do this : I cannot give up my life to such
a thing. Do not think that I set great
store by my life. . . I do not. I am not
far from indifferent whether I live or whether
I die — as yet. But, as you have just said,
I am full of dreams. I have scarcely dared
to whisper to my own heart what they are,
but, such as they are, I will either climb upto
them or to nothing. Greatness is the
only truth. Man's soul is his fresh memory

and so is death the perfecting of life ; for
life is the hero and death the crown with
which he is crowned one of the heirs of immortality.
— And harvest breeds to harvest :
and evil daj^s eat not the blades away ; but
they ever live till their sheaves' golden
heads shall touch the sky and drop.'

In a little he said :

*0h greatness, greatness! what greatness,
boy ? It is all — vague — visions — dreams.'

No, no, not to me — now.'

I am too weary to talk of it any more.
Best. Best ! This is not the end ; for the
end cannot be with you — yet awhile.'

I did not say what was upon my tongue.
I was foolish to have said so much. I kept
silence for a little. Then :

Can I get you nothing ?' I said. ' Are
you sure ? '

Nothing, nothing. . . . Let us wait for
Starkie.'

I rested my elbow on my knee and my
chin upon my hand ; and so sat, looking at
the floor, and thinking of my dreams. Mr.

Brooke lay motionless on his back with his
eyes closed. His breathing seemed to me
short and heaves

At last Starkie came. It was all right :
Mr. Brooke might go to the hospital.

Just before he went downstairs, he
asked Mr. Starkie to leave us alone for a
moment. I stood by the large wardrobe
mirror, with a certain feeling of half-shame,
making me half wish to avert my eyes from
his face. He came to me — put one hand
on to my shoulder in his old way, smiling,
and said :

Well. Starkie knows all about the book
too. It is to be brought out soon after my
death, and you are to be joint editor with
him.'

I, sir ? But consider, I am not yet
nineteen. I know nothing about Africa ;
nothing even of literary matters. How shall
I . . ?'

I wish it so. You will not refuse me
this ?'

'But, sir, I am so j^oung.' '

People will laugh. Is that it ?'

What people do or do not do, is, and
I think always will be, as nothing tome.'


You say it with proper and distinct emphasis.
Very well. — Then you accept ?'

Yes, sir. — But I hope that neither Mr.
Starkie nor I may ever have to touch your
book. You will most surely recover.'

He smiled again ; less sadly than before,
it seemed to me.

No, no, that is not to be. God has
laid His hand upon me ; and I am to pay
the penalty of my sin. It is just. — May
His will be done in all things.'

I answered nothing.

He sighed ; let fall his hand from my
shoulder listlessly ; turned, and was moving
to the door. I followed him and touched
his arm :

You have not said good-bye to me, sir,'
I said.

I passed to in front of him. He raised a
hand to either shoulder, feeling up my right

sleeve, but not the other ; then bent his
face forward towards mine, murmuring :

My eyes are a little weak. I too am a
little weak — a little feeble. That is tautological
— eh ? . . . I did not say good-bye
to you ? That was careless of me. You
were in my thoughts — in the thoughts
behind my thoughts, Bertram. — Good-bye,
mj^ boy. . . I have no fear for thee — in
the end, child. Thou wilt do it in the end.
Keep a brave heart. God is not so far
from thee. . .'

His lips moved after that, but I heard no
sound that came from them. Then felt the
pressure of his hands moving me aside :
caught the door-handle : turned and opened
the door ; and he went out.

I stood watching him. Mr. Starkie was
at the top of the stairs. He offered Mr.
Brooke his arm, who half-absently took it :
then started, looked at Mr. Starkie, and
smiled. They went down together slowly.

As they reached the bottom step, I
moved back into the room ; stood staring

at the carpet for a moment : looked up :
saw my frowning face and then whole bent
body in the mirror ; and said to myself :

I do not understand you, heart of mine.
Are you selfish to your very inmost core of
cores ? That man is going to his death.
You are not really moved by his pitiful
longing for some one to achieve the object
of his life, or by the deep pathos of his
silent grief. That man is going to his
death : and you have not even a tear for
him ! Is there anything in all the earth,
think you, that could do more than send
your blood raging through its channels for
some few instants ? Oh, uneasy, backward-glancing
dreamer! " Words, words, words."
What of real use are your dreams, even to
you ? After him ! after him for your life !
Ask his pardon. Promise him all that he
asks. I am alone. — Ay, frown ! Go closer.
Look deep into your own eyes : look, till
you can see your own black, selfish heart
within. — I am not selfish ! Take back the
lie into your teeth, accursed Doubt ! What

is that man to me, that I should give him
■my Hfe ? . . . Can you hear me, God ? I
have no such duty towards him, I say. No !
no ! And the memory of childish tales shall
not cozen me into a fool's belief. Away,
away !'

Mr. Starkie went on to Brindisi next day.
I told him that I would not leave Paris until
I had heard decisive news of Mr. Brooke : I
had still *15 left from my j£25 : and had
scarcely spent anything, Mr. Brooke having
insisted on paying all my expenses of outfit,
etc.

Mr. Starkie told me of a ' pension ' in
the Avenue de Fontenoi. I went there on
the same evening that Mr. Brooke went to
the hospital. The last thing Mr. Starkie
said to me (we were sitting in the courtyard
of the hotel : I was about to leave him
for the ' pension ') was that he had very
little doubt but that Clarkson would agree
to give up the expedition, but still, if he
wished to go on, there was nothing left but

to go on with him : in which case I should
hear at once, either by letter or from Mr.
Starkie himself. As for my expenses at
Paris, those would, of course, be defrayed by
Mr. Brooke ; but of this, and many other
matters, more anon.

It was late in the evening when I arrived
at the Avenue de Fontenoi. I went straight
up to bed : to sleep heavily, I felt ; and yet
I dreamt of a man consumed in a jungle
by a small tiger. A horrible dream.

In the morning no one appeared for cafe
au lait and petit pain in the salle-manger
but Madame Kouff, her child, and myself
I learnt from her that there was a park
quite close to us, the Pare Conceal,

I went there at once. It is a pretty
greenery. I found a sunlit, bubbling spring
at the end of a pool in a (I thought) sham
ruin. And so, first of all, sitting watching
and playing with the stream : then sitting
watching the passers and some horses being-tried,
I was happy enough for the time.
The sense of it all being in an air and place

somewhere between dream and reality was
perpetually with me and of me. There
were water-jets of pierced hose playing to
right and left on the fresh grass : cooing of
pigeons : and the flapping of their wings as
they took flight : small birds taking baths in
the dust : all the morning smiling and soft,
fresh-breathed. I thought of my first morning
in Regent's Park, and of others : and
that by degrees led me to thinking of Rosy.
What was she doing now ? And Minnie
such a dear beast, but then !

Later in the day I went to inquire about
Mr. Brooke. Nothing new. ' The symptoms
of small-pox, you know, sir, advance
with order. This does not hurry itself for
anyone. You must keep quiet.' — And so,
day after day, I went, and it was always
the same answer. This advances, this goes
on advancing.

I tried once to make myself unhappy by
thinking about him. I could not. My
sorrow for him was of itself hushed and not
intended ; but I could not make it into a

VOL. I. 20

disturbing gnat buzzing in my ears at all
hours. After that one attempt, I let my
thoughts wander on at pleasure, as I had
always done before, and was contented ; for
such unceasing misery, producible, it
seemed to me, by continued concentration
of the mind on one subject, was not ' true.'
I instinctively shrank from it. No, it was
not that I was hard-hearted (I had fooled
myself with that idea long enough). It was
simply that I had nothing more than regret
for this man, and that my old, unroofed-out
ideas had been doing their best to persuade
me that therein lay a sin !

My old wandering spirit came back upon
me in Paris quickly enough. I had nothing
to interest me indoors. Perhaps there were
few things that could have taken me out of
myself then : I was living for my dreams
so much. I saw so many things before
me.

So passed ten or twelve weary days, whose
only memory to me is unrecorded weariness.
I spent most of my time wandering aboiifc

Paris, reading, and talking with Starkie ;
but that last was only as we went down
together to the hospital each morning for
news, and sometimes an hour or so in the
evenings ; he having a good deal of business
to do in one shape or another.

On the, I think, thirteenth day (but all
accurate record or memory of these days is
gone) I lit upon the Louvre, and fi'om that
hour forward was in it continually. It gave
me quiet.

This quiet was broken into by the news of
the nineteenth morning. Secondary fever
had set in. For the first time, Starkie
seemed to give up all hope. The effect on
me was quite different. I could not realize
the fact of Mr. Brooke being in the state I,
I almost thought, knew he was in. I went
into the Pare Conceal, and sat there in a
sort of warm, gold dream of wonderment for
some time, till, all at once, I caught myself
starting up with the exclamation :

No, no ! If I was right in then refusing,
I am right in now having refused.'

20—2

And I was right. For what had I to do
with it ?

I spent the afternoon sculling on the river
out at Courbevoi.

After dinner I went for a walk along the
boulevards, softly singing or whistling to
myself ; till, in a dim street by the opera,
I woke up out of dreamy, sweet thoughts
into the perception of something like a
breath of fluttering music in me, now melting,
now languorous, now fierce, floating up
into my brain and pulsing through me, from
time to time, a longing and yearning to
stretch out arms with a gurgling cry to
something. And in this strange, half-ecstatic
state I came home, threw off my
things, and got into bed as into a white,
cool haven.

In that night I had a strange and vivid
dream. I stood below somewhere, and saw
a lady I had seen once, in a carriage with a
dead child, on a green-lit down by the sea.
The carriage had just crossed a bridge. A
river rolled down smoothly over golden

sands. A boy on the right shore stood watching
a ball that the up-cresting sea-waves
kept lifting up to and back from him every
moment. I rose, and crossed over the stone
bridge : came to behind the carriage, and
began climbing over it from the back. The
lady turned, and, seeing me, put out her
brown-gloved hand to me ; and then, when
I would have caught and pressed it into
my bosom, touched my chest with her
finger-tips, the carriage moved onwards, the
child wailed, I fell backwards and down :
and awoke trembling and wet with trickling
sweat.

It was the next morning that, when we
came together to the hospital, they told us
that Mr. Brooke had died last night, at half-past
ten, delirious.

In a long moment Starkie turned away. I
followed him.

We went in silence along the pavement
with the on-moving people, till I said to myself
half-aloud :

I cannot believe that it is so.'

Leicester.

Nor I,' he said in the same way ; ' nor
I : scarcely. . . . He was a good man.'

Then I said :

It is a deep thought to think that his
soul has gone out like a candle, and that
that is the end of him.'

Starkie answered nothing.

I wish,' I said, ' you vrould tell me truly
and from the bottom of sour soul : do you
believe that that is the end of him '?'

In a little :

I believe it,' he said. ' The energy
that was in him has undergone some change.
We call that change death. It is, I believe,
the end of us.'

Do you think that, when that change
comes to ijoii, you will end '? that there will
be Fio more of you ?'

I do. Death looses that which grips
the gathered threads of our individuality :
the threads fall away, going to other invisible
work, just as the threads of the body
which is left slowly fade into the earth and
air, croincj for other visible work. What

death is, to use what seems to me its proper
name, solution may be, I cannot of course
pretend to guess ; but our grandchildren
may be able to, and their grandchildren,
perhaps, to know. You asked me to tell
you my belief: what I truly and from the
bottom of my heart believe. That is my
belief.'

I thank you for it,' I said. ' For from
to-day I purpose beginning my soul's life
anew, and I might go very far, I think,
before I met one who believed what you
believe, and would tell it me as you laye
told it me. Will you let me ask you one
more question '?'

Twenty, if you care to ask them.'

Have you not in you a feeling, a strange
unaccountable, but nevertheless undeniable
feeling, that you, bijou — your individuality,
as you said, can not possibly be destroyed?'

You mean laye I, what is called the
Instinct of Immortality? — No : I laye not,
now. When I first began to think about
these things, my mind was strongly prepossessed

in favour of immortality, and consequently
this instinct soon developed itself
from its passive unconsciousness into active
consciousness, and I held fast to the idea
of immortality when everything else, save
belief in a Deity, had gone. It was not
till after more than three years of thoughtfulness
and study, that I learnt that my
desire for immortality was only a synonym
for my selfishness, and, having learnt this,
I began to see, too, the complete needlessness,
though as complete naturalness, of that
desire. I determined to devote myself to
benefiting, as far as I could, my fellow men.
Whether this was a result from, or parallel
to, my loss of all belief in immortality, it
would be difficult to say. At any rate,
there are the two facts contemporaneous.'

And do you not believe in a Deity
either ?'

I cannot answer you ; for I do not
know. I am content, seeing a world full
of ignorance and woe, to strive to lessen
however little of that ignorance, knowing

that thereby I shall lessen a corresponding
amount of that woe. This seems to me
the one undeniable duty of each of us : to
make the earth better for our having been
in it.'

I answered nothing, for my thoughts were
full. So we walked on together in silence
till we came to the hotel door. Then, ashe
half-turning faced me, I held out my
hand for his, and when it was in mine,
squeezed it, looking into his eyes that looked
into mine : and I said :

Thank you.'

Then we passed to other matters ; for
what more was to be said or done as regarded
this ?

We bought Brooke's grave in Pere-chaise
a perpetuate. Upon the tombstone
a plain white marble cross was to be put,
his name, the dates of his birth and death,
and below,

This ivill he done.'

On my way to London, I sketched out
something like a plan of action for when I
got there. The first thing to be done, I
thought, was the mastering of Mr. Brooke's
business affairs, all, I meant, that was connected
with his property and money : the
next thing, the editing of the Book. I
had determined to take as much of the
income of one year as would keep me in
comfort while I was engaged upon my
work for him. Starkie had given me a
letter of introduction to Professor Astrachan,
who would assist me in the editing of the
Book, or rather, who would be assisted by
me. Doubtless, after the first few weeks, I

should be able to find time to set about the
recovery of my books and clothes from
Colchester. Also, to see Eosy. Also, to
meditate as to what I should do when the
time of my work for Mr. Brooke was
over.

I had a certain amount of trouble about
the business affairs, despite both the trouble
which Starkie had already taken to save me
from as much of it as possible, and the
courtesy, not to say kindness, of Mr.
Brooke's lawyers. Howbeit, at the end of
some ten days, I found that it was now
time to present the letter of introduction to
Professor Astrachan.

He received me with the utmost kindness.
I had, at a dinner at Mr. Brooke's,
seen but not spoken to him, and so he was
not altogether a stranger to me : besides
which, I had heard a good deal about him
from Starkie on our last night together,
and he, I could see, was not unacquainted
with me. He arranged to come to Dun-raven
Place the next morning, and we

would then proceed to examine the work
that was before us.

After we had talked a little on general
subjects, he asked me to go up with him
and have some tea with Mrs. Astrachan in
the drawing-room. Up, then, we went and
into the drawing-room where were three
womenkind, one middle-aged and two young,
to whom I was presented : Mrs. and the two
Miss Strachans. Mrs. Strachans struck meas
an ordinary good-looking middle-aged
female, and her two daughters as two
ordinary pretty young females, clothed with
decorous fashionableness and speaking platitudes
of the most irreproachable character:
or shortly, as three ladies. And, this
seeming so, it followed that not even a
certain demureness in Miss Connie's face
and manner not unsuggestive of a certain
experience in the art of flirting, and added
to what I subsequently was assured was a
grave sweetness ' in Miss Isabel, were
enough to entice me out of my shell. It
was far more amusing, as it seemed to me.

to sit and listen to their irreproachable
platitudes, which, it was not hard to see,
they took for delightful if not brilliant conversation,
than to enter into the splashing
shallows myself, for, if I had been a talker,
I must inevitably have missed over half of
the nature-strokes which as a listener I
caught. The amusement of hearing Mrs.
Astrachan and her daughters talk about
Culture,' while the Professor sat drinking
his tea and occasionally throwing in a gibe,
which they either did not hear or quite
misunderstand, seemed to give me something
of an insight into the meaning of the
word Comedy. Finally, towards the end
of an almost irrepressible fit of merriment,
I rose and said good-bye to them, and went
away down the stairs and out into the
street hot and a little exhausted. If I had
stayed much longer, I thought, I must have
shown some sign that perhaps might have
offended them, and that would have been .
And then I was led to think
of my last society experiences of three, it

seemed years, but it was only weeks ago,
when I came to Dunraven Place. It then
occurred to me to write to Mother McCarthy
about my things at Colchester.

Accordingly I wrote : and took out my
letter and posted it ; and went for a walk
into the Park, Hyde Park, till seven, when
it was time for my supper. And after
supper came a reading of ' Esmond,'
highest Thackerayean art, in the low, red-feathered
armchair under the green-shaded
lamp ; till eleven, dumb-bells, bed and sleep.

The next morning Professor Astrachan
and I began our work.

My Journal takes out a new lease on
that evening. (It seems to have given me
pleasure, though no great pleasure I think,
to record events or conversations, or to
deliver some few of my impressions of
present people and things in that way.
Perhaps there was some small necessity
upon me to write these things. I cannot
say.)

Here is from a week later :

We are often almost in despair over the
manuscripts. In the first place the writing
is fearful. He seems to have thought it
quite enough to write the first three or
four letters of a word, for the rest is nearly
always comprised in a twirl. Now this is
aggravating to the son of man. Then, the
Journal is broken off by chance notes, and
these notes have references to other note-books,
and so on. I never was made for
editing other people's books. I lack patience
; and the worst of it is, that I don't
believe that anyone can do anything worth
calling thing icithont patience. The Professor
is Job and Griselda put into one.

After a week's hard work we have
arranged the stuff, I should say materials
or notes, I suppose, into something like
chronological order having separated the
whole mass into three almost equal parts : to
wit, The Travels in Palestine and parts of
Arabia, The Expedition from South Africa
upwards; and the last Expedition to lujiji.

A sheet was pasted onto the inside of
the cover of the first note-hook of the
Journal through Palestine and parts of
Arabia," which we are going, we think, to
use as an introduction to the two first expeditions.
It is as follows :

" This Journal through Palestine and
parts of Arabia was undertaken by me in
18 — , with a view to helping by details,
principally geographical, my dear friend the
Rev. Charles Blake, in the compilation of
his proposed History of the Origins of
Christianity. On returning home, however,
in , I learnt that he had been compelled
- to abandon his scheme for certain
most satisfactory reasons. I therefore laid
aside my MS., hoping that events might
some day make it possible for him to
utilize it as he had originally intended.
With that hope I seal it up now. — In case
of my death, this packet is to be given to

him unopened."

'february 15th, 18—.

"My Journal through parts of i\.rabia

was connected with the same scheme ;
Blake proposing to draw a parallel between
the life of the Saviour and that of Mahomet,
as illustrating — " [Last two words erased.]

It seems in some way a little strange to
be sitting here copying out these words of
a dead man. It would perhaps seem really
strange if I realized that he was dead. Is
he dead I It seems rather as if he had
gone a journey into a far land, and now
stays there. The thought is so. I wonder
if I shall ever read this after many years
to come, and what shall I think of it
then?

I think I should like ta go to Palestine
some day. Nazareth must be a very beautiful
place from what he says of it, and what so
soft and sweet as to wander in that land of

softness and sweetness, thinking of '

[Cetera desunt.]

A little lower :

That sheet may originally have been

VOL. I. 21

pasted on the outside of the packet ; at
any rate the packet has been broken open;
for the note-books are all mingled with
those of the other two journies in the
drawer etc., etc.

Another entry :

Books and things from Colchester. My
Rupert's Juvenal missing, also my Greek
Lex., also several note-books. A distinct
nuisance. I have divided my day off as
follows — Breakfast, 8.30 : Italian, 9 to 10 :
The Book with Astrachan, 10 to 1 : Walk,
2 to 5 : Greek, 5 to 7 : (Supper) : Latin,
8 to 10 : English, 10 to 11. I find it is
the only way to get any real work done.
Now and then I go with the Strachans to
the theatre, or spend afternoons or evenings
out at people's houses. Mrs. Astrachan
does her best to drag me into what she
calls " society," by introducing me to her
women friends (especially those having
daughters), who send me invitation cards,
and the rest of it. I believe she would

like to see me mavriecl, or at any rate engaged,
to some young woman or other.
She seems to look upon me as lawful prey
in the matter of endurance of female
agacerie. Sometimes I grow mischievous,
and talk " atheism " to the young women
she puts me with, or who are put with me,
or whatever the real case may be. It is
sufficiently amusing. I had great sport
with Miss Isabel's " grave sweetness " last
Wednesday afternoon in this way. (Miss
Isabel would marry me, " atheism " and
all, I think, if I, after all proper formalities,
asked her to : which is a tribute to my
personal charms and her belief in my
personal possessions that I fully appreciate.)
Miss Connie, however, resolutely refuses to
be drawn into discussion of anything deeper
than flirting, and I respect her for it.
She is a frank little sensualist. Take it
all in all, the womenkind I have so far met
with have been of a most God-forsaken
sort. There is not one that has seemed tome
worth more than a mild sort of feeling

21—2

that might by some be denominated " lust."
The idea of having to live with one of these
things for your natural life, short though it
is ! But the idea is happily out of the
question ; for where could you find one
that would live with you without being your
wife, with bell, book, ring, and the rest of
it ? And I simply would not, could not,
go through the foolery of the marriage
service for any woman (or so it I think)
alive. The more I think of Christianity
as compared with humanity — I mean, that
Christianity is the only divinity and all
other than Christians are either damned or
at the best deluded, the more I revolt
against it as an accursed libel on God, if
He is, and His justice.'

About three weeks later :

The first part of our work was finished
to-day. I must say I hope the rest maybe
a little more interesting. And, indeed,
it has at times seemed, perhaps illegally,

that this Journal through Palestine and
parts of Arabia has been as it were extra
work ; at any rate, it has at times made me
feel a little aggrieved. Astrachan doesn't
care for it either. I told him that Mr.
Starkie had said nothing to me about it, nor
yet of Blake's proposed History in connection
with which Brooke's journey appeared to
have been taken. He said that he had
known of it through Clarkson, but had
thought that the MS. had been destroyed,
he did not quite know why.

We should have liked not to have suppressed
or added a single word of it, for
obvious reasons ; but this was really quite
impossible. At times we came upon whole
pages of, what I dare say were abbreviations,
but which were to us, absolutely meaningless
signs : then there were long extemporary
prayers, coupled with the most childlike
virulent attacks on different scientific
men of the day and Christians whose conceptions
of Christianity were different to
Brooke's own. Now all this was neither

beautiful nor to the point, and, besides, we
felt sure that he himself would never have
wished them to see the light, at any rate,
in their present form. Accordingly we
eliminated certain passages that seemed tous
to offend : and were, I think, quite justified
in so doing ; for to whom could they
do good ? Certainly not to the future
investigator of the origins of Christianity :
certainly not to the people who would read
this book : certainly not to the memory of
Mr. Brooke. None the less, I for my part
felt that it was very delicate work touching
anything, and so I think did Astrachan.
However, it's done now, and the best we
could do it : so what's the good of
troubling ?'

It is astonishing how carelessly he put
his materials together, considering that the
object in view was one apparently so dear
to him. I had to copy it nearly all out.
The only interesting part was where he
debated upon the sincerity of Mahomet.

This we left intact in the form of an
excursus.'

The next day has :

Went to Maitland Street this afternoon,
after a good hoping at Mrs. Cunningham's.
Upon my sou] (faeon de parler, that, of
course) I don't think I will ever enter a
drawing-room again. The sickening foolery
we all talked ! And yet : [X. pause expressed
on continuing by half a row of dots.]
. . And set, how, if I do not go out into
the world and talk with people therein, am
I ever likely to meet the woman I am to
love, nay love already in my heart ? — "
dear woman with soft eyes, standing waiting
and looking for me while in my light
boat on that, the night of my life, I pass
from the shadowiness into the silver-purled
moon-track ; pass on and on to the grass
mingled with the gently-moving wave in
which the roses dip. I am there now, and
know not of you : see, breathe, only this
terrestrial beauty. I step from the boat into

" Oh' I said.

" Miss Martin's a friend of Miss
'Owlit's, sir. But I don't know anything
about her 'history — nothing about her 'history,
sir."

"Oh," I said. And then:

" You will give her that when she
comes in, Mrs. Smith ?"

" Yes, sir, I'll be sure I will, sir."

" Thank you," I said. " Good-evening."


'' Good-evening, sir. I'll be sure to
give it her."

The old she-devil !'

The next entry is five days later :

Kosy, not seeing fit to write to me as I
asked her (I don't quite know what I expected
her to write), I went to No. 3 again
yesterday. She had just gone out — I was
a little angered (having a most ridiculous
idea that she had done it on purpose) :
scrawled her another note, why hadn't she
written to me ? If she would only tell me
some fixed hour, I would be happy to come

and see lier, etc. : gave it to Mrs. Smith, as
servile as usual.: and then went for a long
walk. — Half round Eegent's Park, up
Primrose Hill once more, and then back to
Dunraven Place. It was all strangely dim
to me, this walk over the old land. (This
was yesterday.)

I found a letter from Eosy waiting me
after this afternoon's walk.

" Dear Mr. Leicester,

I was very happy to see you
had not forgotten me.

I was very sorry that I was out when
you called on me the two times. I hope
you are quite well, and have enjoyed yourself
in Paris.

Minnie is quite well, and I am quite
well.

And I have not forgotten the Swallow
Song."

Yours truly,

PiOSY Hornet.

Pes. — I shall be in tomorrow night
early by eight. If you care to go a walk
with me then, I shall be very happy to go
a walk with you. I hope you have not
forgotten Minnie.

Yours truly,

Easy HOWLET.

(Rosebud)" '

The work is much easier now, though
not particularly interesting. Brooke, I
must say, seems to have taken a good deal
more pains over his own particular mania
than over his friend's. Great parts of this
second Journal are continuous narrative
that (thank God) require nothing on our
part. Astrachan thinks my old friends
Baxter, Innes, and Co., will be the best
publishers to send it to when it's done.
Here is a copy of my preface. — But I can't
trouble to do it now. I only said that all
the credit of the editing of the Book was
due to Astrachan, that I had only, etc.,

etc., etc. There was nothing else to be
said.

He calculates finishing it by about the

middle of July. destiny !'

END OF VOL. I.

THE VALLEY OF Sore.

A NOVEL. 2 vols., 21s.

By GERTRUDE M. GEORGE.

There is in the book a blgli and pure moral and a distinct conception of
character. . . . The clranMtis personne . . . are in reality strongly individual,
and surprise one with their inconsistencies just as real human beings do.
. . There is something powerful in the way in which the reader is made to
feel both the reality and the un trust worthiness of bis [the hero's] religious
fervor*, and the character of the atheist, Graham, is not less strongly and
definitely conceived. . . . It is a work that shows imagination and moral
insight, and we shall look with much anticipation for another from the same
h.3.nd.' —Contemporary Review.

The characters are clearly defined, the situations are strong, and the interest
evoked by them is considerable. The women, in particular, are admirably
drawn.' — Atheiuturn.

Henry Westgate, the hero, is a study of no slight psychological interest.
. . It is the development of this character for good and for evil, through the
diverse) influence of friends and circumstances . . . that Miss George has
portrayed with singular vigour and skilful! analysis. . . . It is impossible to
read this story without wonderment at the maturity and self-restraint of its
style, and at the rare beauty and pathos, mingled with strength, which mark
every page.' — Literary World.

Literary merit beyond the average. . A young man arrested in a
career of carelessness and extravagance by a reverse of fortune, ref^jrins his life
and becomes the subject of strong religious convictions. How these convictions
are assailed, and how they are shaken, almost to overthrowing, is told in the
story. . . . There is ability in the book, and promise for the future.' —
Spectator.

'henry Westgate, the hero . is drawn with skill and power. His lapses
from the right path, his weakness when he allows himself to be drawn down by
the wife whom he loves, instead of raising her to his own spiritual level, are
portrayed in a forcible and natural manner. Graham is also a clever, if unpleasing,
character study. . . . The author . . . possesses no inconsiderable talent.'
Morning Post.

The present novel stands out with bold and striking originality. For a
first composition it is remarkable alike for its subtle analysis of character and
philosophic deists in probing the passions and mysteries of the human heart.
. . It is a story that captivates the imagination. . . . "The Valley of
Sore," as this sentence shows, is a tale with a high pui-pose, and it is told in an
eloquent and most impressive miners'— Bail i/C/ironick.

Evident signs of artistic ability in these volumes. Thus, she possesses in no
slight degree the power of investing her characters with life ; that she has considerable
insight into human nature is shown in the subtle analysis of the phases
through which the hero's mind passes during his courtship of Hebe. . . . The
strong situations which arise out of the conviction of theiunocent \Vestgate serve
to show that the author possesses some dramatic power. . . . The story is
well and powerfully written.' — Glnhe.

Her power in depicting the fluctuations of character between good and evil
influences (' betwixt Urmuzd and Ahriman,' to follow her Orientalism) is by no
means small, nor does her choice of Sampson and Delilah, as implied ty^ies of her
hero and heroine, seriously impair the natural character-drawing of these
personages. . . . The work is praiseworthy and promising, and, if the author
should advance as happily as she has begun, her name may yet be famous.' —
DoAli/ Telegraph.

'An original — indeed, perhaps it is not too much to say a unique— .story. . . .
Powerful, eloquent, and only too true. . . . Marked by strong individuality.'
Socii-sty.

The story of Westgate's infatuation for the impetuous, beautiful, and
pleasure-loving Hebe Mansfield is well told.' — Mornings AUc- riser.

LONDON .
GEORGE Medway, 15, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

THEOSOPHY,

RELIGION AND OCCULT SCIENCE.

HENRY S. OLCOTT,

PRESIDENT OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.

*^* Among the matters treated in this important word are: —

Adepts — Aryan Philosophy — Astral Self— Alma— The Aura — Madame
Blavatsky — Boatmen — Bralmiinical Customs — Lord Buddha — Cosmic
Matter — Charms and Shells — Chela — Christianity — Clairvoyance — Confucius
— Crystal-reading — Demoniac Agency — Dervishes — Divining Rods
The DuaUsts — Ecstatics — Hierophants of Egypt — Electricity — Esoteric
Buddhism — Euhemerization — Exorcism — Fire Worship — Folk Lore — Freemasons
— Gautama — God — Hebrew Cosmogony — Hermetic Doctrine —
Hmduism — Illumination — LnmortaUty— Incantation — India — Initiates —
Islam — Jesuits — Jesus — Jews — Jiv-atma, or Life-principle — Cabala —
Kabeu'ac Mysteries — Koran — Krishna — Levitation — Loadstone — Fully —
Magic Magnetism — The Bahamas — Mahomet — Materialism — Mechanism
Mesmerism — Miracles — Moksha — Moses — Moslem Paradise — Muktatma
or Soul Universalist — Mysticism— Neo-platonist of Alexandria — Nirvana
Occult Sciences — Od, or Odyle — Odic Aura — Oriental Philosophy —
Palingenesis — Parahrahma — Paracelsus — The Parsi — Plato— The Phonograph
— Plotinus — Porphyry — Prayer — Prognostication — Psychic Phenomena
— Psychology— Psychometry — The Pundits — The Pranks — The
Reformation — Eeiucarnationists — Region — The Rishis — Story of a Sadhu
Salem Witchcraft Horrors — Sanskrit Literature — The Castra — Science
Seances— Self — Sensuality — Somnambulism — Sorcery — ' Soul ' — Herbert
Spencer — Spirit Rapping — Ancient and Modern Spii'ituahsts — supernatural
— Swedenborg — Table-Moving — Secret of Talismans — The
Talmud ^ Theochdaktoi of Greece — Theosophical Society — Theosophy :
Its proper definition — Theorists — Thought-Reading — Transmissibility
of Thought — Mystics of Tibet — Training in Occult Science — Trance —
The Tripitikas — Universal Brotherhood — The Upanishads — Vatsavana
Vedantism — The Veda — VedicPhQosophy — Vestal Mysteries — Vital
Force— Witchcraft — Science of Yoga — Zoroastrian Region, etc.

LONDON :
GEORGE Medway, 15, YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN.

■^jffifrtTfii -■iiii«»iifiSi'iififiiiiifMiiin«ai—

8S, Dean Street, Oxford StNtt^
LONDON, W.

^sii^f''^! fe=^2^v\b

L I B I^A Rey
OF THE

U N IVER5 City
or ILLINOIS

v.'Z

L161— O-1096

Jilt Jlutobiogvaplii)

BY

FRANCIS WILLIAM L. ADAMS

A similar lo pass
Che noil lascio grammar persona viva

Dante

IN TWO Volumes
VOL. II

LONDON

GEORGE RED WAY

YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN



CONTENTS OP VOL. II.

Iii — continued.

CHAPTER PAGE

IV. 1

IV.

I. . 18

II. - - - - - 41

III. 77

IV. - - - . - 114

V. . 144

Y.

I. 173

11. . 205

III. 223

IV. 244

III. — continued.

CHAPTER IV.

The next clay after lunch, I went for a walk
to Hampstead, and wandered about there,
my thoughts alternating between the beautiful
soft nature about me and the past days
of my first London weeks, till half-past
six. Then I remembered that Rosy would
be waiting for me at eight. It used to take
me something under an hour to get from
Maitland Street to Hampstead. It was
now half-past six. What to do with myself
for an hour ? — from seven to eight, that
was. Then my thoughts turned off in
memory : memory of the many times I
VOL. II. 22

had come marching along this very pavement
in those first London daj^s whose
second half was an age of weariness and
woe. Here was the very corner at which
I stood that dreary day. Was it all a
dream ? ' I stand still here to-day,' I said
to myself, ' as I stood still here that day,
and look at the brown cracked concrete of
the low wall and the black sooty rails that
top it. The windows are hapless too, as
they were when I first stood still here.
Will the left one light up suddenly too as
it did then ? No, Landless yet. Who
lives here ? God knows ! And yet, foolish
though it be, will not the thought occur
again : ' Is it nothing to you, all ye who pass
hy, my weariness and my ive V I put my
hand on the nearer cemented gate-post,
brown and cracked like the low wall, and
think of the figure that leant against it in
that dreary rain of half-darkness when my
body seemed all bloodless, and the girl
hurried by me with her huddled-up dress
and umbrella spread over her. I see her

now. Her quick glance, and that hurry
by : the devil that rose in me

The door above opened and an old lady
came out and, looking at me through the
spectacles on her elevated nose, asked :

Do you want anything, young man ?'

I took off my hat and held it off.

Nothing,' I said gravely, ' thank you.
I hope my stopping a moment to examine
your gate-post has not troubled yon,
madame ? I see that the cement is cracked
and peeling off. Now I am the patentee of
a cement which is warranted to '

'No,' she said, looking at me over the
spectacles of her depressed nose, ' I don't
want any of your cement, thank you.
Good-day.'

And was in and viewing me suspiciously
through the glass door-panel of the closed
door. If I had not been afraid of disturbing
her feelings, I should have given a
shout. As it was, I repressed the shout,
and marched off quickly, laughing to myself.


22—2

It was a little past seven when I reached
the canal bridge at the bottom of Maid
Vale. I stayed a little there, looking at the
flowers, finally buying a rose, and carrying
off with me. This I took to No. 3, and
inquired of Mrs. Smith if Miss Howlet was
in ? She wasn't : as I expected. I left
the rose, and went for a prowl about the
streets.

All at once I found myself looking at
the Marble Arch clock, by which it was five
minutes past eight. Away I went up the
Edgware Eoad, and was marching along at
full speed, a little past Prayed Street on the
right side, when, passing before a gas-flaming
fruiterer's, my eye took in a girl's
form, and by the time I had gone five or
six yards my heart was up in my throat at
the sudden thought of — Body I I turned
back at once. We met face to face, she
smiling up into mine, I looking with an odd
half-graveness into hers.

Well,' she said, * you were in a
hurry !'

We were walking on together, I taking
one stride to her two. It seemed to me
odd in someway, this meeting. We had
not shaken hands. I did not know what
to say. We walked on together for a little
in silence. Then I said :

I am very sorry. You took me so by
surprise. We have not shaken hands yet.
And I hope you are well. Will you shake
hands now ?'

I stopped : and our right hands met,
while my left held my hat off, and my eyes
looked into hers. There was light upon it,
not much light, from a parallel shop-window.
The people passed on about us.
There was no doubt that the child's face
was very — pretty. We walked on again,
I taking one stride to her two, as before.
I said :

I am very glad to see you. And I
hope you are well. If you have taken
walks, as you told me you would, then I
am sure you are better than you were when
I left you.' And began to think about the

words of Eayne's letter (where she stood
upright in the boat with head bared and
revelled in the light and the air and the all
of that new glory over everything) in connection
with my bare head before this child's
face. The memory spoilt it. Rosy had
said something which I had not heard.

We talked of general things that did not
interest me or, I think, her much ; till we
came to the corner of Maitland Street.
Then ensued questions and explanations,
and, in about five minutes, Rosy returned
from her visit to No. 3, full of the beautiful
rose I had given her.

Beautiful rose ?' I said. ' . . . How
do you know I gave it you ?'

Because,' she answered, — ' who else
hould V

She was ready for the walk now. We
set off at once, in a half-mechanical way
Park-wards, beginning to talk like two
children.

All at once :

Here's your locket !' she said, taking it

from inside her coat, and holding it out,
little and round and silver.

Nay, yours :' I said. ' Not mine.'

You gave it me, though.'

I did. That made it yours.'

But it was yours ; before that, or how

could you have given it me ?'

I acquiesced, with the reflection that

x\dam must have had some trouble to get

an authentic account of the eating of a

certain historical apple.

What are you laughing at ?' said
Rosy.

Have you forgotten the Swallow
Song ?'

Forgotten it ? My gracious, no !

" She comes, she comes, the swallow,
bringing beautiful hours,
beautiful seasons.
White on her "

what are you laughing at ?'

It was no wonder she asked. Peal after
peal of laughter, quenchless, re-echoing,
came from me. The more I tried to stop it,

the more it came. At last I stood still,
exhausted, with my hands on my hips. Buta
glimpse of her face was enough to generate
a fit of laughter as violent as the first. We
went on together somehow or other, I still
shaking with this second fit, she solemn to
degree. All at once it struck me that she
was a little afraid I was mad. I tried to
assure her that there was nothing the matter
with me but — laughter !

Well, I settled down at last : and then
came the task of appeasing Rosy's outraged
sense of dignity. I was, of course, really
sorry to have laughed in this way. I explained
that what had made me begin was
the way she scampered over the Swallow
Song . . . and so on.

Her outraged sense of dignity took a great
deal of appeasing, but I managed it in the
end. Nay, I pleaded so hard, that I obtained
from her a repetition of the Swallow Song,
repeated as we sat on that seat not far from
the top, which I knew so well, so well, and
perhaps she remembered.

We parted at the door of No. 3 at about
eleven.

As I marched away down the Edgware
Road, I thought of the evening I had spent
with her, and of her grave bow of the head
as I went back from her at the door with my
hat down in my hand ; but, going across the
Park, other thoughts came to me, and I had
lost sight of the evening I had spent with
her when I reached home.

Here the Journal begins again :
Oh, Claire, Claire, that we should have
met here in the time of eternity, and so
parted ! Shall I ever forget the depth and
sorrow of the eyes that were for that short
hour as the air of my world ? Claire,
Claire. Oh, it is a vile devil's earth, and
good is only in the slave. To have held
thee in my arms, and, with my eyes in thine,
to have kissed thee once, and died. Death
were sweet so. — But it is useless to think.
This city is a market where souls are pledged
for bodies, and bodies for souls, and wealth

buys all. I will go out from it. It is useless
to think.

There is a poor devil outside playing
furiously on a cornet, and an Italian girl
yaaing to her native concertina. A sweet
harmony ! Not unlike my disgust. Jam
satis ! Nay, jam nimium ! I am a damnable
idiot !'

It was a few days after this that Eosy
and I went our second evening walk together.
There is no allusion to it in the
Journal, and as I was during most of it in
more or less of a half-dreamy, half-abstracted
state, I cannot remember much of what we
said. That walk was not what might be
called a success. We went up to the top
of Primrose Hill again, and I snuffed in the
breeze and was somewhat revived ; but (it
had been raining heavily earlier in the day)
that made me appreciate how sicily muddy
it was going down, and I was forthwith
driven into a state of utter lawlessness and
disgust. Rosy mocked at me as well as she

could, but I took no heed. Finally she
declared she wouldn't walk with me anymore.
(This was half-way down the St.
John's Wood Road.) I acquiesced. We
stood still, I looking in front of me at
nothing in particular, not thinking of offering
my hand. Then she was turned and
walking away. I did not look at her.
When she had got some twenty yards, I
looked at her with a comical smile : and
sighed : and hit my iron-tipped stick-end
straight on the way : and said a little
wearily, ' Oh dear !' and went with large
strides after her.

I caught her up in a little, and we
walked on together in silence ; till I observed
:

I'm sorry I was rude — if I was rude.'

Then you were rude then !' said Eosy.

Rudeness implies deliberation,' I said.
My definition of sin is : the deliberately
doing anything that may harm anyone else.
Thus, it is sin to buy a pistol, intending to
kill, and then absolutely killing, a man : or,

to ruin your body by excess, intending
to beget, and then absolutely begetting,
children.'

You talk great stuff,' said Eosy.

My dear child,' I answered, * I intended
you to apply my definition of sin to the
point at issue, my rudeness or rudeness.
But this, like so many good intentions, has
gone to the artificial protection of infernal
causeways.'

Rosy vouchsafed no reply.

I proceeded :

Well, be that as it may, considering the
inability of the feminine intellect to comprehend
anything of subtle in the matter
of metaphysical psychology, or anything
else you like, I shall proceed to admit that
I was rude : and apologize accordingly.'

I never asked you to apologize,' said
Eosy.

I never said that you did, my dear —
well, something or other.'

You're very aggravating to-night.
That's what you are.'

Oh, Polyphemus and Abracadabra, did
you ever hear such a Heel as that ?'

Rosy began to hum a tune shortly and
defiantly.

After a little I said gravely :

Lady, it seemeth unto mine uncultured
ear that thou warbles the melody of which
men say the venerable vaccine one rendered
up the ghost. Now — '

You're very cruel !' suddenly sobbed
Piosy. ^ And I hate you. Why do you
go on at me like that ? . . .' (The rest
inarticulate.)

God bless my soul !' said I, standing

still. ' If ' And I proceeded in a

brotherly way to comfort her.

And so I at last got her in a rather
limp state to No. 3, where we said a
final good-night after I had promised to
write and tell her when I could get time to
go for another walk.

If it had not been for my recalling
friend Horace to the effect that Dulce est
desire in loco, I should have, I think,

been in a most disconsolate humour going
home. As it Vv^as, I could not help laughing
at the memory of our little squabble.

The next entry in the Journal is a record
of my having seen, or thought I had seen,
at a theatre the girl of the nuts, she who
struck me so on the night of my interview
with Colonel James. (She was playing a
second part in a ' realistic drama,' and not
playing it badly, it seemed to me.)

I was with the Strachans in a box
made for two people to see comfortably in,
and three others to be as miserable as they
disliked. I asked the Professor, when we
two went out for a stroll in the passages
during an entrance, if he had seen her
before, and he said that he had not.

I should like to know her. She might
marry me perhaps, and then I should be
properly miserable for the rest of my life,
if I didn't murder her or she me before the
honeymoon was over. Well, the original
expression holds all right, even then. I
wouldn't much mind her murdering me, I

think, if I was only sure she'd be hanged
afterwards. I have thoughts of proposing
to Connie, She is a sweet little cocotte,
only wanting development. But it would
be better fun to marry Isabel, and see
what could be done in the way of ruffling
her " grave sweetness " a little. — I'll stop
here.'

My feeling towards the book was, at the
end, nothing short of positive loathing.
Astrachan I think perceived this ; for he
did all he could to lighten my share of
the work. And I accepted his doing so
without remark. I remember his asking
me one morning if I hadn't been a little
out of my sorts of late, and my answering,
with all solemnity, that my bowels were
not as they used to be, and that I feared I
had trichinosis. Pork, especially in the
form of sausages, was a favourite dish of
mine. (I never eat pork and particularly
loathe sausages.) I don't know what
he thought of my answer. He said
nothing.

Late on in June is the next entry in the
Journal :

Last night. —

Something making me come back
quickly from the corner of the street, I
found that she had not opened the door
with her key yet : or even taken the key
out of her pocket ; but was standing
watching me seriously. I took off my
hat, and stepped close to her with it
in my hand. The moon was shining
clear.

Neither of us spoke. We looked into
one another's eyes.

At last :

"What made you such a serious little
rosebud to-night ?" I said.

She sighed softly :

" . I don't know."

" Good-night, Rosy."

" Good-night."

"Good-night!" turning, I repeated to

myself, and put on my hat, and strode
away.

Eound the corner, and I drew a breath
of relief. — That incas temptation.

I ici not see that child again.'

VOL. II. 23

CHAPTER I.

It was four days after this, a Wednesday
as I see, that I awoke at about half-past
eight in the morning and found that there
was a letter with my cup of tea. After
a while I summoned up sufficient energy
to pull the letter somehow from the table
to onto the bed, and then must have fallen
off into a doze again ; for I remember that
the writing of the envelope that must have
been just under my half-closed eyes, was
wound with some other writing in and out
of a fantastic sort of dream-space from
which I suddenly started, with the recognition
that the letter was Baines.

With all my soul in my eyes, I stared

at it. A large white glaring envelope
with

B. Leicester, Esq.,

Colchester School,

Colchester.'

in Rayne's hand, in the middle, the last
three words lined through, and below in a
thin scrawl hand :

5, Dunraven Place,
Piccadilly,

London.'

These details realized, I calmly took the
envelope, ripped it up at the back, produced
the thick white folded double sheet
inside, and opened it. This is something
like what I read :

'22, Bahiioral Street, W.

My dear Bertram,

We are in London for a short
time — three or four weeks, before going
north to spend the summer at Hickory, my

23—2

husband's family seat, or I should say
home. I have wondered a little at hearing
nothing from you. You are, at the least,
two letters in my debt. I do not even
know where you are, and address this at
random. I need not say, my dear Bertram,
how pleased I should be to see you
again ; but I am afraid you have quite forgotten
me. Why it is — how long is it,
since you last wrote to me ? I last heard
from you at Montenotte in the autumn of
! How long ago is that ? You ought
to be ashamed to think !

But here is time and space and patience
(yours) all exhausted. I must end, as usual,
in a hurry. Write to me and tell me what
you are doing. You know that, if for no
other reason than because you were loved
by what I loved best in the world, yow. are
and always must be dear to me : and so let
me write myself down as being what, I
trust, I alway's shall be,

Your friend,

Rayne Watkins.'

I lay still for a time and thought about
what I had read, and then re-read it, and
thought of the past that concerned all this
strange present, and of my whole life. And
at last got up and went to my small polished-oak
box (a small box in which I kept certain
things that were, or had once seemed,
precious to me), and, having opened it, found
a letter, which began :

My dear Bertram,

It is a wet and tempestuous afternoon,
and therefore I consider it a fitting
occasion to answer your long and with
difficulty decipherable epistle.'

Through this letter I glanced, till I
came to words that stopped my glancing
and steadied it :

. . . Rather a tempest going on outside,
and so I am going to try to dodge my
dear old daddy and Sir James, and get out
my boat and enjoy it. — By-the-bye, I had
forgotten to tell you that an old friend of

ours, Sir James Gwatkin, has been staying
with us this last week. He is a most
amusing mondain en villegiature, with a
marvellous French and Italian accent, and
altogether a very amusing companion to the
father, and myself at times. He knows
what seems to me a great deal about . . .'

And I folded up the letter and put it
into the box, and re-locked the box, and
went back to bed : and \^y thinking for
another half-hour, when I got up and
dressed.

At breakfast I reconsidered the matter :

The news amounted to this : Eayne had
married the amusing mondain en villeins
and was here, in London, for a short
time — three weeks or so, before going north
to spend the summer at Hickory, her husband's
family seat or home. Where was
Mr. Cholmeley ?

I started :

'Dear

That could not be. . . . And yet '

I took out her letter and considered it.
" You know that — if for no other reason
than because you were loved by what I lovel

best " Nay, that may be nothing: or

only mean that she loves her husband best.
And there is no black edge on this white
sheet. " By what I loved best in the world,
you are and always must be dear to me :
and so let me write myself down as being
(I hurried) ' " what I trust I always shall
be, your friend, Eayne Gwatkin." — It is
puzzling !'

All at once I exclaimed :

She oughtn't to have married that
man !'

. . . Whip V said the faint voice of the
air and the room. I answered to myself :
I lois she hadn't.'

. . . Why V said the same faint voice.
I frowningly considered a few moments, and
then rose, a little viciously. Some of the
viciousness was expended in the sharp
putting of my chair directly in front of my
plate : the rest in my casting myself into

the arm-chair in the window, and, with my
hands at my mouth, scraping my lower Hp
with my upper teeth. My eyes were half-filled
with tears as I looked out of the
window. My hand fell on to the chair-arm,
and some of the water in my eyes
welled out.

Then :

What is the matter with me ?' I said to
myself; and, after a pause : ' I don't know.
I wish I knew what was the matter with
me. Is there anything, then, in the whole
world would make me happy ? I don't
know. I don't think so. I'm just weary
of it all ! wretchedness of disbelief in
everything ! What of that new soul's life
of mine, produced before Starkie, and believed
in then ! my God ! what a miserable
devil I am ! What have I done ? What
shall I do ? What do I believe in ? What
do I doubt about ? Everything : even
doubt.' — I let my thoughts rest for a
moment.

Then :

If I only new something ! If I only
loved something ! Oh, is there not a woman
in the whole wide world who would take meas
I am, and help me to be what I want to
be ? A unman to save me ? Oh, God,
God, God, God, I would I had never been
born ! — Nay, is it not strange that, in an
horn of weakness like this, the only thing
I cry out to for help is what I have always
thought I despised as being itself incarnate
weakness — ivomaii ! I don't know what's
the matter with me. I'm not myself.
Virtue is gone out of me. This must be a
passing humour. I shall be strong again,
as I used to be. Or was it that I did not
hioiv my weakness .^ . . . I don't know.'
A complete sense of loneliness and purpose-lessens
seemed suddenly to grow like a
great grey-cut chasm in me. I could
struggle no more to find out what was the
matter with me. I turned and let the current
take me where it would.

From that depth of weariness I raised
myself a little to take up a book off the

table beside me and read it. It was no
good staying stretched on the bottom of
that dark submarine in that way. Better
kill myself at once, and that most certainly
I would not do. . . . Why not ? I was
afraid of death ? I didn't know. I had
not thought about it. I would not think
about it. A piano-organ was playing outside.
I opened the book, A Tale of Vivo
Cities, and began to read at one of the last
chapters.

The reading of it to the end stirred me
considerably, enough to send the humour of
weariness and purposelessness out of me.
I felt this as, my under-thoughts full of
Sydney Carton and envy of his death, I
looked out into the sunshiny day ; for some
little of the sunshine had entered in me even
then. I would go out for a walk. Nay, I
would go and see where Eayne lived. Why
not?

Away I went, and out for my walk —
out and away to beautiful summer Hampstead,
fresh and green from the late showers.

in the soft early day lights. I did not think
much of Rayne. I do not remember what
I thought of : probably of hundreds of unconnected
things, passing in a fairy-procession
in the yellow-gold light before my
eyes. I wandered about happily till about
one o'clock, when hunger made itself perceptible,
and I went off in the pursuit of
bread and fruit and milk. Followed another
Pythagorean feast on the grass, with delightful
half-dreams as in the old time ;
till it occurred to me to return home and
read. Accordingly, after a little trifling
with resolution in the shape of dawdling
about in hollows, looking at a
small stream's meandering water, or the
serried grasses and the earth, I fairly
set off.

After a little, it occurred to me again to
go and take a look at Rayne's house. So I
asked the next bobby I saw where Balmoral
Street was, and learnt that it was on this
side of the Park, and, more particularly,
close by Lancaster Gate, for which I had

better ask. That was all I wanted at present.
I set off again, and was in Maid
Vale before I was aware of it. I had no
idea of going to see Raj^ne to-day : I only
wished to look at the house.

I went on seriously enough, and began
to think about Rayne ; where she was now
and what she was doing ? somehow as if I
had wondered about some other woman sometime
and somewhere ; till my old faint faraway
tremulousness came into me and was
perceived.

I came sharply round an area railed corner,
and beheld . a low carriage and
horses, two footmen, the pillars of an exit
into the street, a lady just out of the open
door — on to the top step — descending.
Rayne ; I stood still.

Some one followed. Rayne was on the
pavement, making for the low carriage door,
now held open. Stopped a moment : half
turned. And the some one following was in
her view and mine. It was the mondain
en villegiature : I knew him. But Rayne's

face was all to me ; and yet I could not see
it properly. Then our eyes met.

Somehow or other I was moving to her
with my hat in my hand, and she said :
'Bertram !' and I had stood still again.

Her face was, perhaps, as it where worn.
I only knew that it was filled with the half
light of steadfastness, and that her eyes were
quiet and deep. I had seen, not her face,
but her face's form, and, as it were the half
light of it before, and this memory was on
me now almost as in the dim low distance
of a dream. I cannot say what either she
said, or he or I for a little; not that I was
bewildered by their presence and its thoughts
with me, but that this memory of the likeness
to the half-light of her face, perhaps kept mein
the dim low dream-distance.

At last I had shaken hands with the
mondain, and she was sitting in the carriage
and we two standing by the low back-opened
carriage door, talking together.

It was, indeed, a surprise to see you in
London,' she Alas saying. 'I thought you

were . In fact I did not know what to
think, for you did not answer either of the
letters I sent to you '

Letters, Lady Gwatkin ?' I said. ' I
received no letter from you, excepting this
morning, since November — two years
ago.'

I am a witness to the writing of at
least two,' said he, looking at me with a
little smile round the corners of his mouth.

Then you did not know — ' she said . . .
And I had wondered why you had not
written to me. . .'

That Mr. Cholmeley was dead — ' I
said softly, perceiving that her dress was
of black. ' I feared so this morning.'
What sorrow was in me for her was given
in the words here.

And where have you been all this
while ?' she said, looking up : ' if I may
ask?'

I bowed my head.

I left Colchester last February. I was
in London for a little, and then in Paris

for a little, and then in London again till
now.'

'Perhaps he said, 'Mr. Leicester would
go with you a little way ? You must have
a great deal to say to one another after so
long and so silent a separation ?' I saw or
thought I saw, that she did not desire that
I should go with her. Half-hesitation of
hers was not enough to entice me. I said :

I am afraid that, even if Lady Gwatkin
should be so kind as to think of allowing
me to inflict my company upon her, I
should be unable to do so.' There was a
surprise in this for him, perhaps for her ;
pleasure for me to find my nerves my own,
and under the government of a Jupiter will
in a serene heaven that might have seemed
Olympus. She with some few gentle low
sentences, bowed to or accepted my words'
meaning, and then it was time for her to
be going, and I drawing back with an
apology to Sir James for being in the way.

Then preliminaries of movement followed
by movement, and her (and his) expressions

of wish to see me again soot, and she (with
him) was away, while I stood bareheaded,
watching her as she sat, till the corner was
rounded, and she was gone and I alone.

The next morning I found a note from
Ra^^ne, asking me to dine with them on
Monday. I smiled, and, when I had had
breakfast, wrote an answering note of acceptance.
Then Astrachan came in, and
had a short talk wdtli me. He had his
doubts about the financial success of the
Book, considering that I wished to have
illustrations. I was in an absent humour,
and simples echoed his remark : yes, I
wished it to have illustrations, maps, and
everything of that sort.

Of course,' said he. ' We have abundance
of material ; but I am rather inclined
to doubt friend Brooke's accuracy in these
matters, and, in short . . .'

Has he taken it ?' asked I. ' Parker,
I mean.'

No:' he said, 'he hasn't taken it — yet ;

but . . . Well, well — we'll talk about that
later on. What are you going to do with
yourself this morning ? A wall ; what do
you say ? I'm just going to the Museum
for half an hour or so, to look at some
bones Davies has got hold of. Will you
come ?'

I'm very sorry,' I said. ' But I do my
work in the mornings. I find that if I go
out then, it ends in my doing no work at
all.'

We made talk of this sort while he was
nearing the door and at last had it a little
open, when :

By-the-bye,' I said. 'Did you ever
hear of a man called Gwatkin ? Sir James
Gwatkin, a knight or a baronet, I don't
know which.'

Hum,' he said. ' Gwatkin ? Gwatkin ?
I know the name somehow. — Oh yes, I
know him ! I met him down at Oxford at
dinner at a don's — now, two years ago !
One of the Culture people. He has written
a book about Michelangelo. I remember

VOL. II. 24

him quite well now. The next day I
stumbled upon him with Sir Horace
Gildea '

Horace Gildea ?' said I. ' I was at
school with him. Do you know him ?'

The Professor grimaced :

Yes, a little. He did me the honour of
seducing one of my maids.'

I could not help laughing. The Professor
proceeded :

They're an odd lot, those Culture
fellows. I don't believe in them myself.
A — ' (turning his eyes to mine) ' I hope
they're not friends of yours, either of these
two ? If so, of course I '

Nay,' said I, ' they're no friends of
mine ! I only wanted to know if you could
tell me anything about Sir James Gwatkin
what books he'd written, and that sort
of thing. I mean — as I happened to be
dining at his house on Monday : one likes to
know something about one's host's particular
line of thought, if he happens to
have one.'

All yes, just so, yes,' said the Professor,
turning this eyes to and then away from
mine. And on that we parted.
I came back from the closed hall door
into the library, and went to the window
and stood looking out on the sunny day. A
feeling of disgust at work rose in me. I
sighed as I took down Antigone, the Greek
play I was then reading, and lexicon and
translation : and then bundled myself into
the easy chair. Folly ! and I knew it.
None the less I intended proving it once
more.

I had last time stopped just before a
Chorus. I began on the Chorus now. Such
a delightfully corrupt Chorus ! and here (in
two nice close-printed note columns) was
what Hermann thought about the first
lines, and then what somebody else
thought, and then what the present Editor
thought, damn him ! Finally I gave it up
in disgust : got myself out of the easy
chair and the books into it : and stood
looking disconsolately into the atmosphere

24—2

of the fine morning. Then the idea of
taking a steamer down the fresh breezy
river came to me — to Greenwich, and go
into the Park, or, first, to see the Painted
Chamber, and then for a v/alk over the
heath to look at all the old places. Why
not?

I went. It was a fair sweet morning on
the river, somehow as I suppose my Italy
to be, with the air so pure, like wine that
had no fieriness in it. I got out at Greenwich
: I saw the old Painted Chamber
again, my heart making its flutter felt as I
passed along that coloured gallery where I
had moved and dreamed in the dimmer air
of my boyhood. — Ah, here was Nelson, and
here ! And here the sacred relics of him.
How long, how long ago it was since I
stood looking at that pallid body going
with its heroic message of, ' Eivjland effects
every man to do this dutij,' up to . .
Where ? Somewhere where the pallid
bodies of heroes, who have fought the
fight and done that duty well, are taken by

soft hands and lain in the quiet of the
Eternal Fields. — x\nd how I used to think
that, in some simple way, although it
seemed so dreamy, that body was my body
and that duty well done was mis duty : and
this small child here, with eyes half-brimmed
with tears, so saw the final
requiem of its own manhood, the seal of
death with which it had sealed life, the
fight well fought, the duty well done, and
the pallid body taken by soft hands and

laid in the quiet of the Eternal Fields.

It is all changed now /'

I turned from it with the lump of tears
in my throat and went out into the air, and
away, and I thought in this wise : that the
dreams of boyhood are for boyhood and
are dear, while the sights of manhood are
for manhood and are bitter : and, that it
is given to many to desire the well-fought
fight and the well-done duty and the tender
progress to the quiet of the Eternal Fields,
but that few, the winding sacred few,
achieve to it : and that it is very hard to

learn tins simple lesson, that I, this me,
this only real existence that I know in space
of Time and Life, is one of the many.

As I slowly climbed up the hill, I noted
the old tree in the middle of the path,
against which I, dizzy and faint from the
pernicious tobacco smoke inhaled in the
shade of a gnarly oak while the small
gentle deer fed round me, leant full of the
nausea of this wretchedness, and thought
never to incur it again ! Then I came insight
of the haunted house, darksome abode
of awe and wonder. Then there was the
field on the how of which I had reclined
with "Wallace, playing some game at
chuck ' with clasp-knives, looking at times
out over the dark, silver-twining Thames,
and duskily, far-stretching London ; till
one unlucky throw of his spiked my hand
(here is the scar on my right thumb still),
and how I insisted that there was not the
end of chuck for the daj' !

It is all changed now. The field in
which we played that game or, lying

along the grass, talked as we ate sugared
compounds or the satisfying parkin. Even
the school is changed. The brass plate is
gone from the gate. The house is freshly
painted and enlarged, but empty. I seethe
top of the cherry-tree over the wall.

I turned from it and went down the
little lane, passing many remembered spots
and things, and down the hill and to the
small boat pier. And as I stood I began
to think of my future. There was something
of Capua in my present case : not so
much bodily as spiritual, Capua, and yet I
knew quite well that at the best it was not
in either case a campaigning ground. It
was time I took some steps towards the
great object of supporting myself. Time !
more than time ! Why had I not thought
of it before ? This money of Brooke's —
it was not mine. I had said that I would
not take it : or I had said that I could not
devote myself to the Cause. Oh Jupiter
and the other immortals ! I should think
not. . . . And yet, why such a decided

not '} Supposing I did devote myself.
Well. . . . No, it would not do. ' I don't
care about it. No : I won't do that.
No ! I couldn't take and keep the money.
. . God knows it's a poor earth enough,
this earth : and I don't believe in fire and
brimstone being my reward for doing this
or any thing. That's nothing. There
is the tribunal of my soul — that ideal of
myself, by which I measure the actual of
myself, and do not care to find too great a
difference between them. It is a poor
earth, this earth ; and it does seem piteous
cruel that I must leave what I love and go
out into the dull world of man to draw in
foul breath and jostle with the crowd for
bread's sake. Perhaps it will be better forme
so.

And yet,' I thought, standing up at the
bow of the boat and looking across the
river. ' I could wish that I was sleeping
the sleep of death, under the earth : at
rest.'

When I awoke on Monday morning it
was into a state of dreaminess : the
shadowy realm that is between the night's
dreams and the day. Eayne moved in it,
with Claire, and now myself; but all so
dim and bodiless that they could not be
called by names whose counterpart were
realities. They were not of the night's
dreams : they were not of the day ; but
emanations. Outside this shadowy realm
there was some other emanation, some
child's, that was more of the earth than
ours that were of this middle place, and it
would have entered therein, but could not.
So I lay thinking of these things : if
thinking is in the realm of thought and no
thought, if will and no will. And all the

while this child's more-earthly-like emanation
would have entered into the shadowy
realm and could not. And if this was a
distress to any one, I could not tell, not
even if it was to myself. — The end was that
a start shot up through me, and I awoke to
fuller waking. The green blinds covered
the two large windows opposite my bed.
A little light came in through them and
made a submarine atmosphere in the room.
This I had known before. I sat up : then
raised myself, till I could see myself in the
large dressing-table mirror between the two
green-blind-covered windows. That made
me smile.

After lunch I went out for a walk.

The knowledge that whatever humour I
went out in was sure to be different from
the humour in which I returned, held tome
a momentary trouble now. For I was
happy enough with the life of the morning,
the mild sunny air and soft heaven, to
wish for no better state in which to face
the ordeal of to-night. ' Ordeal ? Ay : the

faint tremor that comes to me at the
thought is surely enough to tell me that
to-night will be an ordeal. Ordeal } No :
what ordeal can there he ? Of what am I
thinking ? I do not know. Ay : that is
the truth : '' I do not know." And yet the
sense of the unknown does not. . . .
What ? — Was ever such confusion ? No :
not confusion. What then ? I don't
know. It's folly trying to he subtle.' I
gave it up.

That day was a day apart. A day apart
is a day in which the past is pallid : the
present pallid : the future a mist into which
the earth-floor goes, not even unknown : a
days of feelings about feelings, of dreams
about dreams.

I came in from my walk of feelings about
feelings, of dreams about dreams, by about
five. I had seen many things, known
nothing. I realized as I was coming up
the hill that I was hungry. I went to the
top of the kitchen-stairs and called to Mrs.
Herbert, asking if I could have some soup

and rice ? She agreed. I went into the
study again, and stood in the window, and
looked out.

All at once I drew in a deep sniff, and
said aloud :

You're a damnable fool ! I wonder if a
blue pill would do you any good ?'

I sat down in the arm-chair and began to
think about things actually. The past came
out of its pallidness and took vari-coloured-
ness and shapes : the present likewise, with
a permeating yellow light. I tried to realize
what was meant by ' I, goiiu] to dine at Sir
James Givatkin's, and Bayne.' Then the
soup came in with Mrs. Herbert : and I
drank it, and felt better internally. I set
to again upon the work of realizing the fact,
the meaning of the fact, that ' I was going
to dine at Sir James Gwatkin's.' In such
hours as this, when one is still in the border-lit
mist of the day apart, the difficulty of
realizing anything is great. I had only
half succeeded by the time the rice came in.
I sugared and half-floated it in milk, and

began to eat it : the work of realization
being consigned for a little to the place of a
remand. (It must be remembered that all
this was devoid of self-consciousness.) I
finished the rice.

Dinner was at seven. I had not the intention
of eating a dinner then. It was
almost six now by the mantlepiece clock.
I got up and rang. Then : ' But Mrs.
Herbert,' I thought, ' tells me she has varicose
veins.' — Off I went to the top of the
kitchen-stairs, and requested a can of hot
water.

In a little she brought it up. Then I
began slowly to mount the staircase.

As my heavy foot struck the soft carpet,
and one or two of the rods sounded, I suddenly
recalled my going up the staircase that
last night of ours in London. After a few
steps, I stopped and looked over the broad
banister down upon the dark shiny table
where my bed-candle was, and where two
had used to be then. Went on again : the
thought had occurred to me before this.

33ut, what are such thoughts ? Maybe it
was that I noticed nothing here then with
any endearment : nor do notice anything so
now. And yet, I have always supposed
that there woukl be something of . of
something or other, in having in a house,
and alone too, where you had lived with
some one that is dead. The sharp sound
that struck your hearing would startle you.
The lonely depth of the darkness, or the
shadowiness, or the gloom would contain
its spectre ? I cannot say. Death is so
dim a thing, if it is anything at all, to me.
What do you mean by death ? You are not
dead. I am not dead. Who is dead ? —
And with the thought that this was rather
ridiculous in me, I came into my bedroom
with the hot water can. The gas was
low.

I put down the can on the washing-stand,
and went and turned up the gas.
The room was all light. I took off my coat
and threw it onto the bed.

I washed slowly, thinking, not in an

ordinary way, but also not pallidly, of
general things. There was a little of the
tremulousness in me somewhere, I felt fora
moment vaguely. But I went on thinking
as before, and forgot it. I put on,
first one, and then the other dress-boot, with
the small steel shoe-horn, and tied their
laces tight. Then changed my trousers,
and brushed my hair before the mirror.
Then put on my white shirt, and found and
fastened the studs, and my collar to the top
stud. As I was looking for the glass-topped
box that held the white ties, I
thought the gas seemed burning low, and
looked up at it. It was, confound it ! I
found the white tie-box in the shadow of the
curtain, and took out a tie, and began to tie
it. My fingers confused. At that instant
everything in me contracted. I stared into
the mirror. Broglie was looking over my right
shoulder.

My body was a creeping thrill. I jerked
round like one half-mad, with my fist
tightly clenched, in some way saying :

Devil !'

I would have beaten his pale, cold,
corpse's face with my bony fist. There was
not anything — except the shadow of, I
saw, the bed top on the upper wallpaper.


I paced up and down the room, looking
to right and left.

Assuredly,' I said aloud in an observer's
way, ' I will never believe in ghosts. It is
far too easy to see one.'

In a little I came back and finished my
hanging tie. I had been startled. There
was no mistake about that. If I had really
believed that I should have seen him, I pondered,
then I slioidd have seen him. And
yet I desired to strike him. And yet I did
not believe in him, someway.

So, having turned down the gas, I came
to the staircase-head and began to descend.
A certain something, not too far from fear,
prompted the idea of a hand reaching onto
me from behind. I desired to turn and
look. My will overcame my desire. I

descended slowly, step after step, in an
actor's way rather. My heel sounded on
the tesselated floor of the hall. My eye
observed of the big clock that it was a
quarter to seven. I had beaten that something
not too far from fear. I had not
looked either round or behind.

I went to the coat-rack, took down my
theatre-coat, felt my latch-key in my right
pocket, and went to the door. Opened it :
went out : and drew it to with a low clang.
I left certain things behind in that house
with Mrs. Herbert and her varicose
veins !

I laughed as I, walking on, put on the
coat, shot open my gibus, and put it on
my head. I had been startled. There was
no mistake about that. But I was wide
awake now, surely. And I was going to
dine at Sir James Gwatkin's, and Kayne.
I stood on the pavement-edge (in Piccadilly
now) and called out :

Hansom !'

I should be there, with him, with

VOL. II. 25

her in ten minutes — in all human probability.


The hansom came up, and I got in, and
gave the address — 22, Balmoral Street —
up through the opened trap to the man.
We set off quickly, the horse, a small beast,
trotting. When we had gone a little way,
I knocked up at the trap, two or three times
before the man opened it, the horse's speed
slackening.

Go through the Park,' I said. ' Through
the Park.'

He shut the trap, and the horse's speed
quickened again. The evening was light
and cool, the sun hid behind thick horizon
clouds. We turned through the gates into
the Park. I bent forward a little, looking
at the carriages and people that we passed.

Then we passed by the Marble Arch into
Oxford Street and past the mouth of the
Edgware Road, up which, some way up
which, by a bye-way to the left lay in a
small street, Maitland Street, a small house,
No. 3. She would not be in yet. She

would be still at her work, sitting sewing
probably. Should I ever see her again ?
No, best not. Our paths of life went on
in all but opposite directions. Poor child !
Alone in the world, as if nobody else belonged
to her.' Ash me ! In a hundred
years, perhaps fifty, perhaps less, it would
all be as if it had never been. And yet I
was not leaving a thing that had to do with
me in a low plain, whereas I was going
away' to mount up into a rich bright
country of gentle sunshine ? I was going
I knew not where, except that it was into a
dull slate atmosphere like the sky there ;
only that there was no sun, and my feet
scarce held the ground. ' In a hundred
years, it would all he as if it had never been.'
We drew up sharply. I looked out. It
was the house aright. I threw open the
flaps, and jumped onto the pavement, and
went back and paid the man. Then
ascended the steps, and knocked and rang
as the little brass plate bade : and waited.
A flunky opened the door and ushered me

25—2

Library

liWiVERSITY OF fFffNnrc

in. Sir James was coming along the passage
parallel to, below the stairs, and saw
me. He at once advanced to me, saying
cordially :

Ah, Mr. Leicester, how do you do ?'
We went upstairs together slowly, I justa
step behind him : and then through a
tall doorway with a deep-red velvet hanging,
and along a room that was like a
passage : and then he had opened a door
and we were together in the soft light of
the drawing-room, he just a step behind
me.

I at once saw Rayne and some other
woman, a young woman, seated close
together under the pink shaded candles, but
my look was for Eayne's face, not for her
companion's. How beautiful it was ! How
steadfast, and how sweet ! And I thought
that where I had before seen, as it were,
the half-light of her face's form was in the
sad wistful face of a child whose body had
been sold to an evil task-master — Claire
And, at the thought, something of tearfulness

rose in my heart and gathered to my
eyes ; for that sad wistful child's face had
grown so bright for me and mine so
bright for her, and then we had been parted
by the task-master, who was jealous of the
soul of the body that he had bought, and I
had never seen her again.

Rayne,' I thought, ' would to God or
Fate or Chance or what it may be, that I
had not found that half-light on jour face
too. . . . Your hand is soft.'

We had been speaking to one another
with low tones and movements, and now I
was turned from Rayne, bowing to this
young woman her companion, whose name,
his voice had said, was Cholmeley. And
as I looked at her seated there before and
below me, I smiled.

It is strange,' said I, sinking with the
smile into a chair by her, between her and
Eayne, but nearer to her, ' It is strange
how much men and women have in common.
I mean,' I said, leaning on the
elbow next her, and looking at her,

how much we have in common with one
another. '

Yes ?' she said, elevating her brows a
little, being a little surprised, I supposed,
and wondering what sort of strange masculinity
she had come across.

I mean,' I said, with narrowing eyes,
that — perhaps no one, can live a life of
their own. Suppose a man or a woman
give themselves up to (say) love of money,
as common a ruling-passion as any other,
then that man or that woman will notice,
if they only know how to, that their love
of money generates, as it were, a subtle
odour in their souls, and they will recognise
that subtle odour in the souls of others who
have given themselves up to the same
dominion.'

Nul de nous n'a Honneur devoir une
vie qui soit a lui. Ma vie est la votre,'
went on the voice, the voice of him now
standing on the end of the hearth rug by
Kayne, ' votre vie est la mienne, vous
vivez ce que je vis; la destined est une.'

Who says that ?' asked I, turning, with
the comprehension of it, to him.

Victor Hugo, in his preface to the
'' Contemplations." '

I do not see how destiny is one,' said
the young woman.

Here,' said he, 'is the answer for you
in eternal words :

" We are what sun and winds and waters make
us." '

I do not see yet,' she said.

We are all what we are made. Some
of us are made by the sun : and some by
the winds : and some by the waters : and
some by them all. And that is how, is it
not ? (as Mr. Leicester has just pointed
out,) we have so much in common with
one another.'

And you think,' said Eayne to me, with
something of a smile, ' that the children of
the sun recognise one another accordingly
?'

I suppose I do,' I said, now a little off

the direct scent. ' That is, I think that
any given passion, as a rule, expresses itself
in the same way in different people : and
so one is constantly being struck by resemblances
between people, and wondering
wherein these resemblances lie. Am I
clear to you. Miss Cholmeley ?' I asked.

You are too subtle for me,' said the
young woman. ' I am content to do my
duty in that state of life — and the rest :
and leave metaphysics to the choice spirits
like you, and Sir James, and it would
seem you, Eayne.'

But it seemed to me that this young
woman did not, for some reason, care to
have matter of this sort talked now, and
had quietly taken steps to stop it.

We went down to dinner soon after,
Rayne and I, and Sir James and Miss
Cholmeley : we two so far ahead, that I
could say to her in an odd way that I did
not know she had any relation . . . like
Miss Cholmeley.

Miss Cholmondeley is no relation of

mine,' she said quietly, as we passed
through the dining-room door. ' Our names
are spelt differently.'

And there the attendant flunkies stood by.

C-h-o-l-m-o-n-d ,' said I half to

myself, the actor's sense growing in me.
Ah — I beg your pardon !'

The actor's sense went on growing in meas
we took our places, and culminated in
my high slightly-frowning downward survey
of my menu-card : Soup, Turbot and Lobster
Sauce, Quenelles. — 'Damnation!' I said under
my breath.

I shivered. And then tightened my jaws,
and in an instant thought : ' What foolery
is this ? I . . .' I might have been
sitting, as I sat in my place that prize-giving
day at Whittaker's, waiting for my
turn, with my lips rather dry, and every
now and then shivering as if a draught
came upon me from an opened door. But
Blake was dead. And Brooke was dead.
and Mr. Cholmeley was dead. — And I
raised my eyes and beheld this vision of

fair youthfulness ; with dark-gold hair
whose floating outskirts were sunny, and
deep slow eyes, and red lips ripe, and half-transparent
teeth-tips, and soft sweet whiteness
of the rounded throat whose thought
was of the soft sweet white cool body. —
There was devilry in it ! Up it rose, the
unfailing companion, surely for ever the
unfailing companion, of my haunting time
of inevitable gold-light and mockery that
rises. Then it left me, this clearer, dawn-companion
: left me to the inevitable gold-light
risen mockery, and I could not well
know what the voices said in the half-dancing
gold air.

Is this like the radiations of yellow
foaming wine-circles in the brain ?' I
thought at last. And all the while they
talked, and ate from their plates, and I
talked and ate from my plate, and the
swift quiet liveried dolls moved hither and
thither and bent, ministering to us. One
thing was sure, it was a gold-light, half-dancing
mockery.

You do not take wine ?' he was saying.


Nay,' I was answering, * I love wine :
wine that is yellow and foaming.' I could
not, or would not, or did not see any face
but his, bending with a mask's upward smile
to me.

But you refused to have any champagne
just now ?'

My dear Lady Gwatkin !' she was saying,
the beautiful, voluptuous young woman
was saying (Corisande is her name. It
sounds like a cleft pomegranate), ' but you
really cannot mean . . .'

I did not notice it,' I said. ' I, will
have some, if you please.'

And then from a gold-papered bottle-mouth
out came the clear stream into the
large round low glass, all foaming, but
yellow as I lifted it up and drank it. And
all the while these rings of gold-hued silver
light round my eyes revolved, revolved, revolved
outwards : most certainly a gold-light,
half-dancing (half-dancing in the mid

yellow air) mockery. If this was not
devilry, what was ? ' It's nonsense,' said
I to myself, ' to tell me that I don't see all
this. I do. It's devilry. The room is
full of the mockery of imps.^ I could have
put up my left hand and tried to tear off
this large ring of gold-hued silver light, like
sun's water-reflections on a wall, from
round my eyes, and seen things fitly : I
could have done it, once, twice, three or
four times ; but I did not. I sat there,
filled with the actor's sense, smiling, and
bending and smiling, and smiling and bending
and smiling and talking, and, in my
deeper heart, in a sort of way, defied this
devilry. I knew what they were saying, I
knew what I was saying, although I have
forgotten it now. Once, or twice, or three,
or four times, I could have laughed outright
at all this ; but restrained myself with
the feeling that I did well to restrain myself.
I drank more champagne, and then
fell into a somewhat dreamy state, that
made the seeming endless revolution-outward

of my eyes' rings fade into a dimmer
distance.

They were talking of French literature ;
a string of names and words scarcely comprehended
by me, but there was light
laughter in the yellowy air and restrained
sadness. There was no one in the room
now but us. I was slowly twirling my
champagne-glass round, with my eyes on
it and a smile ; for the light laughter was
foaming in the yellowy air, and the sadness
almost withdrawn.

Suddenly she, Kayne, rose. I started
up. Corisande rose. Then they were
moving round the table, and I was with my
backward hand on the door-handle, and
my face towards her. I had opened the
door. She had passed out, lovely Eayne !
The young woman was by me, Corisande,
the cleft pomegranate, the sweet soft harlot
body. I crushed my right hand on the
smooth hardness in it. I could have gripped
that soft white throat just below the rounded
half-shadow of the apple and throttled her ;

and, as I cast down the breathless Hip
body, softer but less sweet, the harlot body,
been glad with a quiet half-fierce gladness.
I closed to the door softly upon her, and
came back quietly to my place. Sir James
was looking at something just before and
below his eyes, with the little smile round
the corners of his mouth. I all but loved
him, for, having a swift thought of that older
Arise begone,' I had another of one sitting
in a summer parlour, with the fat closing
upon the blade. I too had a little smile round
the corners of the mouth.

We talked in a quiet orderly way for a
little ; and then we went upstairs together.

Kayne was seated in her old place on the
sofa, looking half-absently before her ; and
Miss Cholmondeley lying back in the easy
chair in which I had sat. She stopped
speaking as we came in, looked up at us, or
at Sir James, and smiled slightly.

We talked in low half-nonchalant tones.
The night breeze bulged in the window-curtain
behind Eayne and the sofa with a

slight rustle. There seemed something of
hushed, but withal dreamy in the air : perhaps
the quiet after the sunny wind tempest
of dinner-time.

Then Sir James spoke, his words sounding
somewhat as a return to one's past humanity.

I have as good as promised Mr. Leicester,
Corisande,' he said, ' that you would give
us Retsky's setting of Vivian's Lullaby. I
hope I did not take too much upon myself ?'

She raised her eyebrows a little and the
corners of her mouth, as she answered :

But you forget that I only sang it to
you the night before last. Rayne, I am
sure, must be heartily tired of the very name
of Vivian by this time.'

'No,' she said, 'his story is too sad for
one to be so soon tired of hearing his name.
I should like to hear the Lullaby again.'

Vivian,' said Sir James, now addressing
me, ' was an old school-fellow of mine, and
I might add — friend.'

I asked about Vivian. Sir James gave
particulars of him :

He ran away from Eton and came up to
London, with the idea of achieving fame
and fortune with his poetry. It is needless
to say that he achieved neither. His parents
were poor and obstinate — Hke him, poor
fellow ! He had the pride of Milton's
Satan. He died — starved, rather than ask
help from anyone. A volume of his poems
has just been published : this is it. You
were reading it, Kayne ?'

Yes,' she said : ' I was reading it this
morning.'

How old was he ?' I asked.

'A mere boy,' he said. 'Eighteen or
nineteen. — There is nothing very remarkable
in any of his poems, as poems. Their
chief interest lies in the fact of their having
been written by one so young. It is idle
to speculate about what he might have
written if he had lived, but . . . well, one
speculates !'

I still stood, thinking. — ' Poor fellow !
Nay, but I account him rich ; for the strife
of living and the terror of dying are for him

both past and over now, and he is at
rest

Miss Cholmondeley had passed on to the
other half of the drawing-room through the
hanging lace-curtains, to where Sir James
was standing fingering the music. Here
was I with my head thrown down like a
meditative cow. I made a few steps to by
Kayne, and standing before her, with
my head half-bent, said something or
other purposeless about the Lullaby and
Vivian. She answered with something of
the same sort. I asked if she liked Retsky's
music ? She said she did not much ; but
she was afraid she didn't altogether appreciate
Eetsky. I said that Sir James had
been talking about him to me, saying he was
the subtlest of modern composers. Doubtless
he had written many pieces that were very
precious, if not entirely so ? She took no
heed of my smile, but said that doubtless
that was the reason (his subtleness was the
reason) that she did not appreciate him.
She only cared for simple music, and

VOL. II. 26

freely admitted that classical music wearied
her. But this Lullaby was not like any
other music of Retsky's that she had heard.
It was simple, and soft and sweet. — I was
about to say that two of these were rather
necessary qualities in a lullaby, especially
if the baby was teething, when a flow of
soft low notes came and made me think
better of it. Certainly Miss Cholmondeley
knew how to play.

I listened attentively. The soft low
notes flowed on, flowed on, flowed on, but
into their softness was gradually growing
a some other sound : more like an invasion
of still demy water by rolling slaty-coloured
volumes than anything else I
could then think of. I was the song's
now : my whole soul filled with it. A
softer, lower place was heard : softer, faraway
from that now gradually fading sound
that was as the rolling slaty coloured
volumes ; lower, closer to the front of the
picture that was in me, the place in which
I felt a presence, two presences were. They

were sleeping : or they were lying together
in rest. Then one of them roused — himself,
for it was a man, or a boy with something
of a man's soul : roused himself, and
his voice began, at first with unrecognisable
words rolling over the low slaty glassiness
of the water, and rolling about, till that
first melody of soft low flowing notes, all
but filled with the rolling volumes, was
hidden away. And another voice, a woman's,
or a girl's with something of a woman's
soul, answered softly and sweetly. And the
other voice answered softly and deeply, with
the depth of passion. And the rolling,
slaty-coloured volumes of his first unrecognisable
words, which had filled the space
between this softer lower place and that first
mingled melody, had filled it into peacefulness,
were growing disturbed : the volumed
column of that first mingled melody was
passing down over the slaty glassiness towards
this lower place. The voices rose in
an unspeakable harmony together, but some
of it losing itself in the slaty-coloured

26—2

rolling volumes that came over the glassiness
of the water of the now back-confused
picture. And the last line, half-dying, half-fading
away, left the whole picture lost in
the coloured rolling volumes : from which
now came short, sharp notes, like the crackling
of connected and disconnected electric
lines : crackle : crackle : crackle. And
then the whole thing was whelmed in a full
slaty silent flood.

I awoke.

'You remember,' Sir James's voice was
saying, ' with what thought Keats closed his
sweet, short nightingale's song ? that wish
to the bright star to be steadfast as it
was — not in lone splendour hung aloft the
night and watching the moving waters round
earth's human shore or the soft-fallen mask
of snow on the mountains and the moors — ■

" No — yet still steadfast, still unchangeable,
pillowed upon my fair Love's ripening breast,
to feel for ever its soft fall and swell,
awake for ever in a sweet unrest :
Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath,
and so live ever, — or else swoon to death."

There is just the difference between that
death-song of Vivian's and this of Keats'
that there was between Hylas and Narcissus.'


Perhaps said Miss Cholmondeley, by
him with the music in her hand, and looking
at it, * the difference was between their
deaths rather than their songs. Do you
think Vivian would have said : '' Severn — I
lift me up — I am dying — I shall die easy,
don't he frightened — he firm, and thank God it
has come"? J don't.'

No,' said Sir James, ' he would not.
He probably would have died in trying to
lift himself up, as Emily Bronze did. But I
was not prepared to have my words pressed
home. I only meant to notice the two
death-songs as being characteristic of the
two singers : the likeness and the difference.
Vivian's is a child's dream of a
sensuous death, Keats' a man's. Of course,
any further comparison than the superficial
thoughts suggested by the two death-songs
would be ludicrous.'

Would it ?' asked Miss Cholmondeley,
looking up. * Personally, I prefer Vivian's.'

I suddenly thought she was teasing him.
I thought he was mocking Kayne and mocking
me ; so that that she-devil was as the
laughter inside the laughter, the aerial
merriment that came from Comus under the
low horizon clouds. Her song had bewitched
me. I had been arrayed against
Kayne a moment ago. — Nay, I cried out
to myself, could this be real ? Could any
human being have gone through what I
had this day — in this house ? It was a
dream. It was a dream. It was a dream.
I could not believe. . I was bewildered.


I watched Sir James and Miss Cholmon-
delay cross into the piano-room again, talking,
I felt vaguely, about Eetsky's conception
of the Lullaby. I looked at Eayne.
I sat down in the chair I had sat in before
going down to dinner. The sensations of
being in the chair unsettled my bewilderment.

I spoke, scarcely expecting to hear
my voice's sounds.

That was a very — marvellous song —
the Lullaby.'

Yes,' said Kayne, looking at me.

Her look shot through me. I scarcely
realized what it meant ; I only felt it, felt
it, it seemed to me, in every part of my
body and my soul. A mass of ideas rushed
into my mind. My eyes flashed.

We spoke some words together. I do
not know what I said. I do not think she
knew what she said. Surely some feeling
was in her, as it was in me ? There was a
sense of mystery in this half-sympathy of
ours. I went on speaking to her, not knowing
what I said (we were in a low soft
melody that rose and fell, and rose and fell.
We were alone), and not knowing what she
said, or what she thought ; but she knew,
not what I said, but what I thought. My
thoughts grew more distinct :

Kayne, Eayne, I will not leave you! I
will rend you from him. He shall not have

you. Let him have his soft-bodied harlot
there. You are the queen of my soul. Oh,
my queen, my soul, my love, thou art my
hope and strength : in thee have I put my
trust. Eayne ! '

I knew that they were together in the
next room, and that she was playing what
had been that soft melody that rose and fell
and rose and fell. I knew also that they
were absorbed with that now louder melody,
or with it and one another. TFe lore alone.
There was something of the villain and his
chance in my heart. — I looked at her. Ay,
she was dazed, a little dazed ; not altogether.
But (I looked into my back-thought
again) how could I get her away ?
Get her away ? I clenched my teeth. Take
her by the hand, lead her out, away! away!
away !

'Rayne!' I said, * Eayne ! Listen tome.
It is the night of our lives, this. It
is the night of all eternity for us. Come !
quickly!' (She was looking at me with
dilated, almost sightless eyes, opened

breathless mouth, restless heart : I, too, in
some way. I did not know where we were
in heaven, in hell, in the earth, with sea
around us, in life, in death, in life-death, in
death-life ; but we were moving, moving
onward, nearing something. For one
moment we, two yet a mingled one, were
together in it, in the centre of Time-Space,
God's — one moment : then gone.) ' Come /'
(She had fallen from me and faded into the
air-space. I was alone.)

Then she and I grew, she more quickly,
into ourselves here: and found ourselves
looking at one another.

Are you ill, Bertram ?' she said.
What is the matter ?' I half threw
myself back in the chair with something
that partook of smile and laugh and was
neither smile nor laugh. I had been
dreaming again ! She knew nothing ! A
phantasy ! A pure phantasy ! An inner
part of my poor little soul which I had
taken for the centre of Time - Space,
God's !

Then :

Nothing is the matter with me,' I said ;
now. I suffer from my eyes occasionally.'
I rose. ' Really, Lady Gwatkin, I
am afraid I must be saying good-night,' I

said. ' I ' I looked at her.

Whither away so fast ?' I thought. * Are
you so sure, oh wiseacre, that she knew,
knows nothing ? She knew. She knows.'
Then I thought : ' Shall I pass it over in
silence ? Shall I say anything of sorrow
for it ? No. I am not sorry for it. — My
dream ? My dream in Paris.' I rose and
crossed over the stone bridge : came to behind the
carriage and began climbing over it from the
back. The lady turned and, seeing me-put
out her broivn-gloved hand to me : and then
when I hould have caught and pressed it
into my bosom, touched my chest with her
finger-tips, the carriage moved. . . . For a
moment a superstitious feeling all but
possessed me. Then I cried to myself
that, at this rate, I might as well become
a clairvoyant, or an augured, or a fool. —

I looked at her again. (It was not more
than four seconds perhaps since I had
looked at her before.)

I said :

I did you wrong. I ask your pardon.'

I left her. I passed across the room and
through the door and down, and, as one ina
day dream does the things that his body
remembers but his soul forgets, took hat
and coat and passed out into the night.

I went on.

Then the thought came :

What ? Was it done ? Was it really
done ? Was I not in that room with them
yet and this was not a dream ?

No, I answered to myself, it was no
dream. I had left her. What did it mean ?
I had left her. I had left her. I had left
her. I had left her. I had left her. —
Ay ; I knew now ! That woman was the
woman of my heart and soul. My life
had been lived for her since the day I had
first dreamt of the dear-girl-comrade. /
had left her. The cross-road of my heart's

life and soul's was reached. — I had left
her.

I stopped, stopped still : looked inwards.


It was too late ! — I had recognised
nothing. I had been played with : having
been fooled with the phantasy of a freewill.
It was too late ! I had been played
with.

I went on again:

The malice of fate is infinite,' I said.
It is too late.'

And everywhere was dim.

Everywhere was dim. It seemed as if
all the rigging of my soul's bark had
turned to calcined semblances, that fell, as
calcined semblances fall, making no noise.
And then it seemed as if some semblance
of myself wandered to and fro, and roundabout,
in this strange dim place of noiseless
falling calcined semblances, and
thought and thought, trying to regain its
hue and presence of health, and could not.
Snatches of the music of that direful past
came to me and grew into deeper colour,
bringing hope of permanency — only to be
lost again in this strange dim place of noiseless
falling calcined semblances.

At last the great dim mass was grown
pale and receded : my own figure stood

darker in the foreground. I began to
think. Thought led to criticism of what I
had been thinking about. Then, as thinking
of the past led to criticism of the
past : so criticism of the past led to thinking
of the present ; and, in the same way,
thinking of the present to criticism of it,
and criticism of it to thinking of the
future. I had vaguely felt in the earlier
part of my walk that my body was a little
weary : perhaps it was but the action of
the mind on it ; for, now that the mind
was in almost healthy activity again, the
body was in sympathy with it. I walked
on with a springy step, and began whistling,
turning my thought into the parallel
though less distinct expression of music.

I had given up Rayne : I mean, my
senses did not sympathize with my soul in
making her precious to me. I did not
altogether recognise this : perhaps I did not
care to. I went on, with some enjoyment
in the fine clear night, its air and its star-sown
heaven, thinking, as I have said, in

the two forms of outward and visible
whistling and inward and spiritual thought.

I had been in Trafalgar Square, where
bells had been ringing and the air filled
with an aerial swinging merriment : and
the clear-soaring moon up above, and here
and there stars. And one particular star
twinkling through a slanting downward
bank of gazed clouds. — The memory of
this scene that I had half-knowingly absorbed,
now came to me as I stood for a
moment and looked up at the heaven. I
was in that road that I knew so well, that
road by which I went to Hampstead. A
little higher up on the left hand side
was the concrete pillar : the memory
of which and its accompaniments made
me smile, as, now moving on, I looked
to it.

Then I stood looking in the Hampstead
pool at innumerous small up-leaping somewhat
crescents of moonlight, as from a rain
of moonlight only turning to colour as it
struck. Sadness came to and grew of me,

sadness almost of tears, thoughts of that
past that was no more.

I turned and set off homewards. The
walking invigorated me, driving away the
sadness ; hut every now and then my new
and brighter thoughts were dimmed by some
Banquo-like appearance of memories things
that had taken place in Balmoral Street. At
last I was foolish enough to bring my will to
bear affirmatively upon these troublesome
appearances : then unconsciously brought it
to bear negatively, and they faded away ina
new soft train of thought.

By the time I had got to Dunraven Place,
I was almost happy. I let myself in, and
entered the library with a light step. The
lamp was turned low, casting a tender resented
shadowy light into the air. My
supper was laid out, fruits and bread. The
scene, colour and scent pleased me. The
tender rose-tinted shadowy light, the mellowed
silver of the knives and forks, the
subdued colour of the rich-bound books and
costly ornaments around me. There were
two letters on my plate.

'Two letters?' I thought. 'Who the
devil should write to uie V

I sat down in the soft chair, reached to
some grapes (I was a little hungry), and the
plate with the letters on it : put them on
the table-cloth just under the lamp, and,
eating grapes, observed them.

'One blue, stiff, and with two stamps.
A double weight of nonsense probably. The
other — oh . . . Rosy. Yes, that's her
handwriting. What does the child want?
I have not seen her for . . .' (I took up her
letter and looked closer at the address.)
How long ? Three weeks ? Eh ?hup
you go onto the table-cloth ! . . . Good !
Scientific, quite ! Miss Rosebud can wait
a little. And now for you, my mystery of
blue paper double-stamped. Who the devil
are you, and what the devil do you want ?
. . You rip up tenaciously. . . . An enclosure.
Tko. What's this ? A cheque-book.
Eh ? What ? And you, oh foreign-papered
' A sudden suspense was in

me before I knew of it. I opened the

VOL. II. 27

foreign-papered letter of four sheets, and
looked at the end of it. ' CoIonelJamcs !' I
recognised the writings'. I had the other
letter open in a moment (from my mother,
perhaps ! from my father !), and had
glanced at it. ' Dead !' I glanced on :

. . . Sunday night . . . sympathy
. . last thing . . . spoke . . . name
. . separate . . . heir . in all something
more than .£1,000 . . . beg to
enc . . .'

I looked up.

Great God,' I thought, ' what's this ?'

I read the letter : then re-read it, more
slowly. This is what struck me in it.
Colonel James had died on Saturday' night :
had left me his fortune, and a letter — this
letter enclosed, about the sending of which
to me was almost the last thing he had
spoken.

I took up the foreign-papered letter from
mj' knee and began to skim it :

Q

. . . I have, after some thought, concluded
that . . . proper and seemly. . . .
Your mother . . . the regiment stationed
. . theatre in London . . . against the
advice of all . . . married. [Pause for a
moment.] . . . Quartered . . . Cork . . .
unhappiness owing to religious . I
. . and the attentions of a . . . Captain
Melire . . . exchanged . . . Guards . . .
of whom I frequently warned . . . but in
vain . . . shortly ordered to Hungarian
and subsequently . . . Guernsey. I regret
to have . . . attentions continued, and I
was compelled to speak to your father . . .
neglected warning, and . . . next day
. . scene with your mother, in which
. . common talk. I . . . could do no

more, and remained. . . . One night . . .
dining at mess with . . . walked home to-get
. . . and . . . silence in the house.
She was gone. I could not have imagined
that anything could have made your father,
a man naturally of the most remarkable self-restraint,
and rendered doubly so by his

27—2

steadfast relic . . . sat down and cried
like a child. I felt that I could not leave
him in this condition, and accordingly, after
having done all I could to comfort him by
religio . so completely prostrated by the
blow that I began to fear lest . . . sofa ;
lay there with his face . . . groaning. . . .
From that time strange personal dislike to
you . . . till at last . . . almost madness
. . considering the state of his health . . .
did not, then, think it advisable . . . and
as soon as you were able to bear the . . .
village in Derby. Most of the rest you
know already ; for it has been your own
life, I mean your education at Mr. Whittaker's
and subsequently at Colchester with
Dr. Craven. . . . Your father . . . while
you were with Mr. Whittaker . . . died
. . Scotland , . . leaving his affairs in a
. . owing to his fatal confidence in. . . .
It remains for me only to . . . [' God !
what's this ?'] . Late one bleak, windy
night last March, about a fortnight after I
had . . . you, coming from my club in

Waterloo Place . . . Eegent's Street . . .
lamp-post . . . unhappy woman pestered
me, and . [A low cry smothered itself
in my throat, my eyes growing to the
paper.] I tm-ned, saying, "Here is some
money for you. For heaven's sake, go
home and . . . on such a night as this . . ."
. . then suddenly caught me by the arm,
and cried out : " Captain James, Captain
James, don't you know me ? — I'm Isabel
Leicester." I fell against the lamp-post,
and almost . . . The news of her death,
the . . . seemed like a horrible dream. At
first I could not . . . then she told me
that she had accidentally heard from a
friend that he was dead, and had . . . and
then asked about you. I answered nothing,
for reasons which you will, I think, understand.
But on her repeating her question,
and adding that surely she had a right to
know how you were, even if I refused to tell
her irhrrc you were, I felt constrained to
speak. I told her that you had been sent,
first to a small school, and subsequently to

a public school, where you had, I believed,
done satisfactorily : and then proceeded to
inform her of the events that had led up to
your interview with myself three weeks
ago, blaming myself as much as I justly
considered I could, and you also in the same
manner.' [I had made an effort to control
my rising feelings, and was forcing myself
to read every word.] ' She listened to me
very quietly, and, when I had concluded,
asked me if I had any idea where you had
gone to. I answered that I had none.
Then, as she remained silently looking in
front of her, and as I began to perceive that
any further prolongation of the scene could
only be very painful and quite useless to
both of us, I . . .' [I suddenly slipped a
paragraph, catching only the word 'money']
. . . reviled me and flung it into my face
with . . . went away. After some moments'
thought, I decided that my duty
. . followed her . . . with a policeman
I had happened to . . . to an arch under
a railway-bridge, where the unhappy creature

. . . approached and found that she
was Slink in a stupor-like dream . . . and
ultimately . . . hospital . . . comforts . . .
plied.'

Died.

I stood up with the letter in my hanging-hand.


Nay, what was the meaning of all this ?
I turned to the table. How many apples
were there on that plate ? One, two, three,
four, five, six. I rent the letter into
pieces.

I strode across the room to the opened
window : then looked back sliarpl}^, viciously,
over my shoulder, almost expecting to see
some one, some semi-human figure, with a
coll smile on his cold face, behind me.
Then the idea of Brooke, come from his
grave to mock at me, seemed to cut my
brain with a lash of anger's madness.
Then it was a loin-swathed, emaciate
Christ that stood sardonically there in
the shadow. I leaped fiercely to the place,

unci found that light and shade had tricked
me.

Tricked me ? Everything had tricked
me ! I was in a cave of trickery. I cried
out :

• Will you tell me that such a combination
of circumstances as this could come
about without design ? my poor mother,
O my poor mother !'

Tien the realization of what I had been
reading suddenly came to me again, and
with it the frantic suspicion of false play' :
then I began thinking of my mother, taking
my sufferings as being the shadow of hers,
for she, too, surely had gone through all
that I had : then an idea came to me that
almost made me shriek out. ' At last, passing
somewhat quicldij into an alley, I met one
face to face binder a protruding shadowed lamp.
For a moment I stood breathless, with my eyes
in the wilfulness and glitter of hers, and then,
like a lightning-fash that fills the whole air,
terror of her filed me quite. I leaped aside,
and then past her, plunged into a darlc-eovered

ivaij that iras hind and beyond lief and
Married on, past. , . .' I began to
langli.

Yes, yes, yes, I was the cub of the she-wolf
that was driven by hunger into the
public way to see what price her empty,
filthy carcase would bring ! But she found
no purchasers. Nor shall I !

Then suddenly :

Oh, you cursed city!' I cried. 'You
furnace fire, in which life writhes with the
corruption of death, you . . . If I could
sweep you off the earth with everj^ — God !'
I cried, wheeling round convulsively with
clenched fists. ' I have a few words to say
to you, and then I have done. You have
given me sight. I have used it : and it
has told me that the earth that you have
made and the creatures that you have put
into it are foul. You have given methought
: and it has told me, it tells me,
that you have no right, be you God a thousand
times, to make your creatures foul
and then damn them for their foulness :

Yon have no right to make them foul at
all ! Yon have given me, too, love and
hatred. With the love yoii have given me,
I loathe yon. With the hatred you have
given me, T hate — nay, I despise and scorn
5^ou ! I am not even a beggar at your
gate. I am hut a worm in the earth that is
but an atom in your universe. But I stand
here and scorn you ! Behold, I am in your
hand. You can do with me what you will
all except this : turn from my heart that
scorn I have of you. Hear my last word
to 3'OU, God. It is the last I will ever
speak to you. Henceforth I endure your
acts in silence. If I have joy, I will not
thank you for it. If I have grief, I will
not curse you for it. Henceforth, I am a
stranger to jon. If you are, you are tome
as if you were not. If you are

not ' I smiled.

Enough of this,' I said ; ' perhaps something
too much. I am sorry I railed. And
yet the poor cuckold that we call soul must
pour forth the lava of its discovered deception,

or it would burst. I have clone now,
I think.'

I sat clown in the chair and straightway
began thinking, or trjdng to think, of what
must now be done. In simple words, I had
-enough money now to live pretty well what
life I cared to live.

The effort of will required to break away
from the past thought, and make a new present
thinking, was greater than seemed at
first. I found my thought flowing in two
currents at the same time : the upper shallower
one of this new present thinking, the
lower deeper one of that past thought. I
looked up and saw the other letter lying on
the table-cloth, where I had thrown it past
my plate. This letter was Eosy's. I might
as well read it.

I stretched across to it : opened it : and
glanced into it :

. I waited for you on Friday night
for an hour and a half. And I really did
think you would come some time to me, or

you would write and tell me why you hadn't
come these three Fridays. And I am very
sorry if you are angry with me for writing
to you to tell you of it ; but I think you
must have forgotten that you told me that
evening that you would come again the next
Friday, and I thought perhaps I had made
a mistake about it, and that is why I waited
these three Fridays, and I think you might
have written to tell me why you could not
come.

Minnie is dead. A man hit her across
the back with a stick yesterday, Mrs. Smith
says, when I was away, and it killed her. I
cried about it ; which thing I have never
had to do before quite like that. Please
write to me and explain why you did not
come these three Fridays, as you said you
would. I hope you will please excuse this
long letter and the writing, but I don't suppose
you care enough to mind.

I am,

Yours truly,

Eos HOWLET.

Pes. — I hope 3'ou are sorry about
Minnie. She was just going to have some
kittens, and now I suppose they're all dead
too. Is it not dreadful ?'

I was smiling. I re-read some parts of
it, and then threw it up onto the plate, and
rose and began to pace about the room,
thinking.

After a time I stopped at the open
window.

'there is a budding morrow in midnight,"
' I said.

And then :

Yes : as well that as anything else.'

And then :

Perhaps better.'

I took up the lawyer's letter, and having
folded, put it on the plate, and Colonel
James's letter, and Kosy's, and put the
cheque-book on the top. Then, standing
thinking, ate all the grapes, and drank a
glassful of water, and gathered up what was
on the plate, and went upstairs into my room.

The gas was low as I had left it. I
turned it up. I set about doing what I
intended. I changed my clothes and boots-quickly
: put the papers I had brought up
together with may usual cheque-book and a
pocket-book containing bank-notes to the
value of twenty-five pounds, into my ,
all the gold I had into my
right waistcoat-pocket, and all the silver I
had into my right trousers-pocket. I had
a sudden thought of packing a portmanteau r
or my old black hand-bag. No : I couldn't
be troubled with it. I would get what we
wanted on the way.

Then I turned out the gas, went downstairs
again, and wrote a short note to Mrs.
Herbert, saying what I wished to be done
in this matter. And as I sealed up the
letter (force of habit, I suppose) I thought
that it was lucky Rosy's letter had come in
this way. Perhaps I should not have been
doing this if it hadn't.

Luck favoured me again : I lit upon a
hansom at the end of the street. I told

the man to drive up the Edgware Road,
and I would tell him where to stop.

The gas-lamps burned very faintly
There was a hush in the place, broken
every now and then by distant sounds of
stirring life. We were going quickly. I
sat thinking.

We were almost at the turning that has
to be taken for Maitland Street. I thrust
my hand out and waved. We came up a
little, as it were, sideways to the pavement.
I got out. How much should I give
the man ? I stood with two fingers
in my waistcoat-pocket, thinking of a
sovereign and an order to wait here
for me. Then I determined no : and
took out some silver, and gave him four
shillings.

I went on alone to the corner of the turn
that was to be taken for Maitland Street,
and crossed over into the deeper shadow of
the other side. The horse was wheeling
round : the cab drove away with sounding
hoof-strokes. I went on, but rather slowly.

Then an idea came into my bead to run as
far as the corner of Maitland street. I set
off. I knew the price. I had a thought
of Eosy, passing in front of that fish-shop
and the three flaring gas-jets, with her
bent-down head and hands holding one
another in front. But there Averse too
many thoughts of the place, and I thought
them too many times, for them to be anything
more than a flight through my tired
brain now, in it and passed away. I came
to the lamp-post. I crossed over, and
knocked with strong knuckles at the door.
I dismissed the thought of another knocking
of mine at that door. I waited. No
sound. I knocked again as before, but for
longer. I listened. No sound. I knocked
a third time. Nothing. This was foolery !
I paused for a moment to think — — About
what ? Now, if she had only slept in my
room . I drew back and looked up.
God ! she did ! That girl, that friend of hers,
don't-know-anything- about-her-history-sir.
I went into the road, and bent down topick

up something to throw. There was
nothing of the sort there.

I gave up an idea of thrusting my finger
down between the stone-blocks, to jerk out
problematical pebbles, and went into Hill
Street, and set about searching for something
to throw. I could find nothing. I
went on looking in the road, in the hope of
seeing a mended place, whence I could
take gravel. At last I found one, and
found the gravel. Not such bad luck,
on the whole. The eternal cussedness of
things demanded that I should have wandered
a mile or two before I got what I
wanted.

I returned. There was no sign of life in
the house : no sign of life anywhere here
apparently. Her head would be by the
left-hand window. I threw up a pebble.
It struck a pane : cracked it, I thought,
and, falling on the pavement, bounded and
rolled into the gutter. I made a step,
picked it up, and, standing, threw again.
Same result. But I didn't look for the

VOL. II. 28

fulling pebble : I looked steadily at the
window. Surely she was awake.

Now for a little soft earth. Up it went.
I looked steadily at the window.
No : nothing.

I sent up some more soft earth, and
stood steadily looking at the window.

No — yes. A movement : a movement
of the blind. I stepped back, and, taking
off my hat, and turning a little sideways,
so that she might if possible see something
of my face, looked up as before. Another
movement of the blind. It was, I thought,
drawn aside a little. I held up my outstretched
arms.

All at once I knew the blind ran up,

i heard a hasp strike, and the top half of the

window came down. There was something

white in the dark space that had been the

top half of the window. I cried out with

i something of a child's exultation :

I ' Rosy, it's me ! — me ! Come down and

t let me in.'

'Good gracious!' said her dear voice,

how you frightened me ! What's the
matter ?'

Let me in ! let me in ! let me in !' I
said.

" Do thou roll forth a fruit-cake
out of the rich house,
aud a beaker of wine
and a basket of cheeses,
and wheat-bread the swallow
and the pulse porridge
does not reject. Say, shall I go away, or something
receive ?" '

Heaven only knew what the poor child
thought of it all ! I began laughing at the
idea. Then, suddenly serious :

Mrs. Smith is fast asleep,' I said
quietly ' down here. I want to tell you
something — something of the last importance
to lis both. Will sou come and let
me in ?'

A pause, then :

Yes,' she said ; ' I will come down.'

Then the window was drawn np, and I
stood waiting for some minutes. At last I
heard her coming down the creaking stairs.
A bolt was softly undone at the top of the

28—2

door, a lock shot back : the door opened in,
and I was standing by her in the narrow
passage.

Don't make a noise,' she said, ' or else
you'll wake '

" The baby ?" ' I said. She had put on
her dress.

She softly closed to the door.

What's the matter ?' she asked. I was
struck and pleased by her quiet tone.

Let's go upstairs,' I said, * and I'll tell
you.'

We went up carefully ; she first, stopping
once to tell me to be quiet, or Miss Martin
would hear. My fickle thoughts that had
become rather pallid (the trouble of
going up so carefully, that is so slowly, and
the hitting of my head against some damned
beam or something), brought me into the
shadowy room in no cheerful state. Why
had not she lit a light ? She was groping
on the mantlepiece for the matches now.

She found them, struck a light ; and
then there we were in the yellow full glare

of the gas for a moment, before she turned
it lower. I had not anything to say ready.

At last :

I am too tired,' I said, ' in body and
soul to do more than tell you what I want
to, simply and shortly. Will you sit down ?
there' — (pointing to the foot of the bed), 'and
I will sit here' — (at the head where the bedclothes
were drawn back). The child
obeyed in silence. Although I did not look
at her, I noticed her : to this extent, that
her hair was all disordered, and rather
matted, and her cheeks flushed with what
I knew was a hot dry flush. I put my hat
on the chair by me — the old cane-bottomed
chair I knew (the same as of old, save that
the hole in its bottom was grown larger).
Then I said (she looking at me in a strange
way all the time) :

My dear Kosy, I have come to make an
offer to you. I have committed a crime
here, in London, to-night, which necessitates
my bolting out of England at once. I have
scarcely any money left — in fact, just

enough to get out of the place with. I
want to know will you come with me ?' I
heard her breath go suddenly sharply inwards,
and stop for a moment.

Looking at my booted toes shoving together
on the carpet, I proceeded :

'I don't know what I'm going to do — supposing
I am not caught, that is. But I
dare say I shall be able to turn my hand to
something or other that will do to keep
body and soul together, and I dare say you,
supposing you would care to come with me,
might do the same. It's not a very inviting
prospect to offer anyone — and there's worse
to come jet. I don't believe in marriage.
You would have to come with me as my
mistress. I might tire of you. You would
have no guarantee but my word that I
wouldn't bolt from you there, just as I am
bolting from justice now. You know the
sort of creature I am.' I looked up at her.

Then, in a moment, she was in my arms,
kissing me, laughing, crying, kissing me
over and over again, and I her, speaking

unintelligible sentences, uttering unknown
words. A thrill went through me — the same
thrill, it seemed, that had gone through me
that winter's evening inthe farm-house kitchen
where Mary kissed me with her soft red lips,
the same thrill that had gone through me
when I saw Rayne standing there on the station
platform, while I was carried away from
her. Mary, lifeless smouldered corpse, lying
in the oozy earth : Rayne lost to me forever
— worse than dead ; they only had
found their ways into this lonely, longing
boy's heart of mine, and she Eosy.

I pressed her closely to me, my cheek
against hers, the tears welling out of my
eyes. The stubborn will seemed broken at
last. But I was tired, tired in body and soul.
Breathless as she was from my embrace, she
yet strained me to her with strength, strained
me to her when my embrace relaxed, held me
when, all things turning and swimming, I
would have fallen. In that place of confused
and dreamy sensations, I felt her hold, and
had some comfort in it. I think I moaned and

muttered things scarcely intelligible to myself.
I say, it was the place of confused and
dreamy sensations, but all the while I felt her
hold and had some comfort in it. 'I, 'I thought
at last for one moment stationary in mind ;
I, who had never in my life . . .' And I
smiled ; for maybe I had felt her hold before,
and had some comfort in it. ' The
dear child ! the blessed Kosebud ! the little
flower!' (Here were the tears again.) 'If
she had said iVo. . . . if I had gone away
without her : what I should have missed !
But I should never have known it.' (I was
becoming conscious through the skin of my
closed lids of the low gas-light) ' I should
have . . .' She was holding me in her
arms : my cheek and the weight of my
head on her breast, and the weight of my
body on hers. I opened my eyes. She
was smiling at me as a new-made mother
might at her wakened child. For a moment
I felt the pleasure of that hold and look.
Then I loosed myself from her and said :
'Damn it, I must have been fainting.'

a

She nodded her head at me in her old
half-merry way.

That's just what you did, then.'

My dear child I said, getting up to my
feet, and making some steps, ' I'm a confounded
fool. Let me see. "What did I
say to you just now? — ah, yes!' wheeling
at the door hut, feeling a little dizzy somehow,
and not desiring that she should be
aware of it, came back and sat down on
the bed before I said any more.

Then, looking at my booted toes shoving
together on the carpet as before, I began :

We've been making fools of ourselves,
especially me — I mean, I. Now listen tome.
Did you intend this to mean that you
wanted to go with me abroad ? Answer
me : Yes or no ?'

Yes,' she said, ' yes V

Did you understand what I told you
about the crime I'd committed, and the rest
of it ? Did you understand it, I say — ■
what it meant f

I don't mind about it,' she said, ' one

bit, so long as they don't catch you. And
I'm sure they ivon't.'

How do you know that ?'
It would be so cruel.'

What would be so cruel ?'

Now that I've got you, for them to
take you straight away from me again.' (I
knew she shook her head.) ' I'm sure they
won't ! I'm sure they won't !'

Her tone of A'oice, almost fierce, made
me smile.

My dear Eosj^' I said, ' I'm too tired
to spend an hour in asking you to consider
what a serious question all this is. You
must take my words at their full, true
meaning. Do you understand that our life
will be a hard one — perhaps a very hard
one?'

Yes,' she said ; ' I don't mind one bit.'

Do you understand that I won't marry
you — now or ever ?'

No answer.

'Just so,' I said quietly. 'You didn't
understand that. You thought I was

joking. I was not. I am not. I am in
earnest. I will never marry you, if you
come with me : never !'

I rose and stood before her, and looked
at her looking fiercely at me.

Now, my dear child,' I said, ' answer me
simply; but do not hurry. Reflect before
you answer. Don't be afraid of saying "No."
Believe I shall not break my heart if you
say "No." Are you ready to go with a
forger, a beggar, an atheist, as his mistress
not as his wife, mind — to a life that
must certainly be a hard, perhaps a miserable
one ?'

She looked down now, and seemed to bethinking.
What of ? BiH she believe that
I wouldn't break my heart if she said ' No ' ?
If that was her thought, I must answer it.

• This very night,' I said, ' I asked
another woman to come with me, and she
wouldn't. You see the sort of man you
have to deal with.'

I waited.
At last :

'Yes,' she said in a low voice, ' I'll go
with you.'

You'll have a hard life of it with me —
even supposing the life itself wasn't hard.
I mean : you see the sort of man I am. I
am a little mad. I care for nobody but
myself. Then I'm a terrible liar : you can
believe nothing I say. I have told you
bushels of lies to-night.'

She rose, and looked me in the face.

I don't believe you !' she said. ' You're
not selfish ! you're not a liar !'

^ But I'm quite mad.'

How can you talk like that ?' she cried
out pitifully. * You know I'd go with you
wherever you liked in the whole world !
You know I would !'

Very well,' I said, beginning to feel
head-confusing effects of this new effort.
Very well ;' and I sat down on the bed
almost exhausted.

As I sat with my head bowed, looking
at the carpet and not caring to struggle
any more, she knelt down in front of me,

looking into my face, and then put her
arms up and round me. I opened my
knees : she put herself between them. I
closed my eyes. My head nodded, and
nodded, and nodded.

Ha !' said I, waking with a start, ' what's
the time ? I mustn't forget to wind up
my watch.' I took it out. A quarter-past
three. Time had gone quickly.

Let me see,' I said. ' What time's
the morning mail to Paris ? . . . Can we
get a cab here easily?'

Yes,' she said, ' there's a mews at the
end of the street.'

It'll be all right if we start by six, I'm
sure.' I was thinking what time it was
when Brooke and I left Dunraven Place for
that train.

The end of it was that I lay down on the
bed to rest myself for a few minutes, while
she did something or other (I did not notice
what she said), and then I fell asleep.
Then I was half-awakened by feeling someone
bending over me, to kiss me on the

lips : to which I objected, and moved my
head, but the other hips came after mine,
and almost caught them, despite a sharp
move back again. I awoke after that: and
saw Eosy standing by the door, and the
room filled with light not the gaslight.

Is it time to go ?' I asked.

Yes,' she said.

I got up.

Now, what about the cab ? Where is
this mews place you told me about, Eosy ?'

The cab's downstairs at the door waiting.'


You didn't go and get it, did you '?'
Yes, I got it.'

A pause. Then :

What's that ?' I asked, looking at a
bundle on the table.

My things.'

You needn't take them, you know,' I
said.

But '

No ; we'll get everything we want in
Paris.'

But-there,

now ! there, now !' said I, offering
her my arm, and getting her along,
expostulating, to the door and opening it.
Don't talk any more about it ! It's no
good talking about it ! Get along with
you!'

But ' she said, turning at the

top of the stairs. I put my hand on her
mouth, whispering :

You'll have Miss Martin up in a moment.
By-the-bye,' I said, ' do you owe
Mrs. Smith anything ?'

No,' she said. ' Hush !'

She went down the dark stairs, I following
her. Mrs. Smith was standing by her
door. She made a sort of a curtsey tome.


Good-morning, sir,' she said.

Good-morning,' I said.

She had the door open for us in a
moment. Kosy went out quickly, and was
into the cab (a hansom), and I followed,
without a further word or sign to the old

devil. As I was getting in, I told the
man, ' Charing Cross,' over the roof, and
then sank down beside her. I bent forward
and pulled-to the flaps, and sank
back again with a sigh.

I have had rather a hard day of it on
the whole,' I said.

But why did you make me leave '

I put my hand over her mouth.

My dear child,' I said, ' I preferred tolet
the dead past bury its dead as much as
possible.'

But '

I pressed my hand closer.

And if it's your economical soul that's
alarmed, know, my pippin, that there's no
need for it. I'm not a forger. I'm not a
beggar. I am an atheist. I am a liar. I
told you that I had told you bushels of lies
to-night, or rather, this morning.' I took
down my hand, adding :

Now please don't ask more than twenty
questions at a time, and I will do my best
to explain matters.'

o

I looked at her, seeing her pretty puzzled
face, laughed, and gave her a kiss sideways.


You arc mad !' she said.

'I am!' I answered. 'Everybody's
mad. It's only a question of degree. And
the maddest people of all are those that are
most sane !'

VOL. II. 29

Fortune favoured our flight. We arrived
at Charing Cross in good time for the
morning mail. I took two first-class tickets
and tipped the guard heavily, and, despite
several attempts to break in, successfully,
for the privilege of having the compartment
to ourselves. I lay back deep in my seat,
with my feet up opposite me, fall of thought,
and almost unobservant of the child, for
the first half-hour or so : when I felt her
hand steal into mine, and, looking up at her
sweet anxious face, smiled, and said :
Well, Rosy. Here we are, you see !'
Yes,' she said. ' Here we are.'
My brows came down a little, thoughtfully.
Then :

Are you sorry you came, child ?' I
asked.

No, no. Not sorry.'
Glad then ?'

I would be — if you'd only speak tome.'


I drew down her face and kissed the
cheek, and laughed a little.

Then she said :

What were you thinking about all this
long time, that you didn't say anything tome
?'

Well,' I said — ' among other things,
about where wee were to go to.'

You . . .' she paused.

I proceeded :

I think the best thing for us to do will
be to get out at Calais ; not go on to Paris.
Suppose we went to some little seaside
village in Brittany for a month or so ? It
must be very hot in Paris now.'

I will do what you like,' she said.

Nay ; but it ought to be the other way
on. Should you like to go to a little 



side village in Brittany for a month or
so?'

Yes,' she answered ; ' with you ; I have
never seen the sea.'

Very well,' I said ; ' we'll get out at
Calais.'

We had a beautiful crossing, the sea like
a mill-pond. Eosy wasn't sick. Fortune
still favoured us, I thought.

At Calais we got out, and I set about
making inquiries as to the whereabouts of
the desired little seaside village in Brittany.
After many difficulties, that ended in — forme
at any rate — complete weariness, I
found out a place that seemed eligible, Pier-laid.


In Pierlaix we arrived that evening, and
found our way to an inn, where we entered,
and I demanded two rooms for the night,
and something to eat at once. After some
trouble, that would have been amusing if it.
had not been so dreary to us completely
wearied out, we were shown two rooms, a
bedroom (as we thought) and a sitting-room.

which I accepted on the spot, and proceeded
to iterate my demands for something to eat
and drink at once. (We were in the sitting-room.)
They left us.

I opened the folding-windows wide, and
stepped out onto the little balcony, into the
noise of the sea and the coolness of the
evening breeze from over it. As I leant on
the rail I felt Eosy at my side, and turned
to her. Poor child, how pale and tired she
looked !

Never mind, Rosebud,' said I, putting
my arm round her shoulders and smiling at
her. ' Keep your heart up ! You'll be all
right in the morning ! I'm afraid the sea
disturbed the equanimity of your stomach :
What ? you don't feel ill ?'

'No,* she said ; ' I'm all right, thank
you.'

Then let's go up and wash ourselves,' I
said. ' I feel very filthy, I don't know what
you do.'

We went up into the bedroom together,
and made some discoveries regarding the

quantity' of water here considered sufficient
for the additions of two. However, this
difficulty also was at last overcome ; but
we gave up the soap in despair. It was
just after this that the fat hostess reappeared
with considerable complacency producing a
species of scrubbing-brush, as being k coup
sur what monsieur required. (All the English
gentlemen had the habit of using it, she
explained to the puzzled host beside her.)

When they had gone away :

I thought you hic French,' said Eosy,
a little piteously. ' What did she bring
that scrubbing-brush up for ?'

Weary and dreary as I was, I exploded
into loud laughter at this, and kept on at it
till I fell exhausted backward into the bed,
and lay. From there, having rested a little
while Rosy was trying to wash her face in
the bowl that did duty for a basin :

'I was only trying,' I said, 'to make
them understand that I should like to have
a tub in the morning.'

I believe the whole hotel was en the

stairs listening,' said Rosy, rather disgustedly.
I went off into laughter again.

I don't see what there's to laugh at,'
she said : which made me continue louder
than before.

She dried her face and hands at the window,
with something of dignity in her air —
I suddenly stopped.

It will be rather fun,' I said, ' seeing
us buying new clothes tomorrow. You
can't expect me to do that for you, you
know !'

I shan't,' said she.

'Very well,' I answered philosophically.
Then . . .' she was crying. I jumped
up and came to her.

Good gracious child, what's the matter?'
I said, taking her in my arms ; I'm
sorry I . . . what is the matter ? I hope
I . . .'

It's very unkind of you,' she sobbed,
to go on like that at me, and you know
it is.'

Indeed,' I exclaimed, ' I'm very sorry.

I didn't think jow minded my fun, Eosy.
I was only joking, you know . . . There,
there now ! It's all right. Give us a kiss,
and let's be friends again.'

I'm tired,' she said, wiping her eyes :
and hungry.'

I continued chattering to her, till I at
last succeeded in making her quite cheerful,
and in that happy humour we went down
together into the sitting-room. But, her
hunger somewhat appeased by shrimps and
fried sand-eels, the tiredness began to acquire
the ascendant. Before we were half
through dinner, the big brown eyes were
blinking fast and frequent, and the little
head nodding downwards, and suddenly
starting up when it was approaching the
table-cloth, at ever shortening intervals. I
persuaded her to sit in the arm-chair in
front of the window, so that she might look
at the sea, since she didn't care to eat anymore,
while I finished the stewed fruit and
three shrivelled apples.

When I had peeled apple number two

and cut it into four pieces, I went round to
have a look at her. She was fast asleep.

I went back and ate the four pieces, and
then apple number three, thinking all the
while about things, till I became quite
dreamy, and, after that, sleepy and very
incoherent in my ideas about things. The
end of this was that I awoke with a start,
and having realized where I was and with
whom, decided that bed was the best place
for both of us. But when I came and
looked at her breathing asleep, so pale and
tired, I did not care to awaken her. And
going, first opened and left open the sitting-room
door, and then the bedroom door, and
returned, intending to carry her up to bed.
The poor child let herself be lifted with no
more trouble than a few uneasy sounds and
movements of her arms ; and then up with
her I went, and laid her softly on the bed.
She sighed, and sank into unruffled sleep
again. I made her as comfortable as I
could, and shut the door.

Over the door there was a small window.

The walls of the room were simply boards,
polished. I went to the other end, opened
the window, and leant out. Below was a
garden. I could hear, but not see, the sea.
The evening breeze still blew softly and
coolly. I gave a large long yawn, and bethought
me of sleep. I took off my coat,
putting it on the back of a chair, and
came and lay down quietly beside the child.
I must have fallen asleep almost immediately.


When I awoke, the room was half full of
sunlight, a bird was singing outside, and I
saw Rosy, half a yard away, seriously looking
at me.

Good-morning,' I said.

Good-morning,' she answered.

. . . I wonder what time it is ?'
I got out my watch and looked at it. —
Half-past five.

Stopped,' I said. ' . . . How long
have you been awake ?'

Oh, a long time.'
. . . I feel hungry.*

What time is breakfast going to be ?'

God only knows or the M woman.

I don't know what even the French for it
is. Suppose I get up and see.'

I got up ; and, feeling very dried and
not a little dirty, pulled off my waistcoat
and shirt, and entered upon the best course
of ablutions possible with the basin and
neither sponge nor soap.

This is certain,' I said, drying myself
on the small towel : ' we must have . . .
In fact, we must have everything: I never
knew what it was to be without a sponge
and soap before !'

We talked a little about such things, till
I was dressed. Then, on my way to go
out, I stopped by the bedside, and stooped
down over her.

May I have a kiss ?' I asked.

She put her arms up round my neck,
and drew me down to her. Our lips would
have met, but that I, avoiding hers, kissed
her on the cheek. Then I, supporting myself
by my two arms on either side of her

(for she still held me), and looking at her
thoughtfully, said :

If you think you wouldn't be happy with
me, my dear Rosy, it is not too late for you
to go back again. You know that '

Naughty boy !' she said, smiling at me;
Fancy talking like that !'

Nay,' I said, ' I was quite serious.
You see what a weathercock sort of fool I
am: one moment laughing, the next crjang,
the next cursing. It is not too late to go
back again to your old life. Nay, it will
never be too late. "Whenever you are tired
of me, you must leave me. Half of what
was mine is yours. That goes without the
saying. You are your own mistress — now,
as always, as far as I am concerned.'

Very well,' she said. 'Then I'll take
you, if you please.'

After a moment :

That being so,' I said, smiling, ' I am
yours — till you are tired of me, that is, and
reject me. Till when, I will do my best —
what in me lies, that is — to make you

happy. So help me my own poor will aDcl
love for you !' I bent clown and kissed heron
the lips.

She seemed to me to understand what I
meant.

For the first week or so, there was no
one in the inn — or, as they called it, the
Hotel du Midi — but us ; but a good many
people came over from the two adjacent towns
of St. Denys and Many to spend the day,
going back by the diligence in the evening.
Then two Englishmen, evident 'Varsity
men or aspires thereto, en tour, arrived and
stayed for a short time ; but, beyond talking
with them a little at dinner (what I had
taken, by-the-by, for our private sitting-room,
turned out to be a public one), we, or
rather I, saw nothing of them .

The following, written later on in my last
year's autobiography, refers to now :

I had some things to trouble my peace:
to write, and more than once, to Mr.
Sandford, the solicitor who had informed

me of Colonel James's death and of my
inheritance of his fortune, and to Astrachan
touching the book.

I scarcely knew what to say to Mr.
Sandford. Certainly I was not going to
explain to him the cause of my sudden
flight, and as certainly I was not going to
lie about the matter. In the letter in
which he informed me of the burial of
Colonel James in Kendal Green, and of the
probable cost of a suitable tombstone, etc. ;
he said that he now regretted, after his
long, he might say, personal affection for
the deceased, an affection which, etc., and
in which, etc., etc., but he must request
that I would transfer the conduct of my
affairs to, etc., etc., etc.

I sat frowning over the regular winged
writing for a little, with a vague wonder as
to the nature of the friendship here alluded
to, and sorrow that I had apparently profaned
it : then tore the paper across, and
threw it on to the table beside me. And
Eosy came in with her hat on, ready for a

ramble over the reefs now the tide was out ;
and that was the end of the matter — as
regarded the friendship, I mean.

One afternoon, in a fit of despondency', I
sat down and began a letter to Eayne. I
am not quite sure whether in my inmost
mind I intended absolutely sending it. I
think that the chief reason for my writing, or
rather attempting to write it, was the relief
thereby given to my pent-up feelings.
Sheet after sheet was ripped up, and at
last I sat still in a disgust that was almost
petulant.

As I sat thinking, a hot flush stole upto
my cheek, and I looked fixedly at the
pile of torn-up paper in front of me, wdiicli
contained shameful words : hints, vague
enough, of what I had done. '* I could
never see her again," I had said once. " I
could never forget what had passed between
us. How could she expect me to return '
and look at her being consumed alive at the
stake of Duty ? No ; I was made of flesh
and blood, and I would I believed in God

that I might thank Him for it ! Such a
sacrifice as she was making was a sacrifice
to Moloch : sin, not heroism." — In any case,
how purposeless, all this ! in every case,
how unmanly ! She had to dree her own
weird, and I too now, with what light
conscience could impart. That was all.
All that day I felt I had done a wrong to
Eosy. If there was a victim anywhere, it
was she.

Then came Astrachan. — I told him simply
that it was impossible for me to return to
London, at any rate, at present : I hoped
never. I was going on to Paris in September,
and might perhaps take up my permanent
abode there. Could not the proof
sheets be sent to me there, and from me
on to him ? I would write to him again
from the Hotel de Manchester, Eue Faubourg
St. Honore, when I got there. I
hoped Parker, Innes, and Co. had accepted
the book all right. I should stay at the
Hotel de Manchester till I found a house
to please me, I thought. But, more later.

I asked him to excuse haste and confusion.
As a matter of fact, I hated pens, ink, and
paper now. To write at all required an
effort. I was thinking of buying a vineyard,
and eating fruit till I brought on — ■
whatever the disease was that was induced
by a surfeit of grapes. I hoped Mrs.
Strachans and the Miss Strachans were well.
It was rather dull weather here. We had
not had a fine summer for long. I doubted
we ever should have one again. And so on.'

A few days after this, a small troop of
students and young ladies who, the fat
hostess assured me, were their brides, arrived,
and we had rather noisy times of it
at dinner. Rosy did not like any of them.
They amused me. I used to talk with the
men, or rather boys, as I best could.
(Among other articles purchased by me at
St. Denys, was a French dictionary and a
stock of French novels at which I studied
some hours a day.) But my belief in the
brides (I mean in their brideship) was soon
first considerably shaken, and then alto-vol.

ir. oO

gather demolished. I remember how one
evening I was sitting out on the veranda
(in the evenings the sitting-room was nearly
always deserted for the garden or the country
round about), having been reading the
Memoires de Jeunes Marines with some pleasure,
when I became aware of one of our
young couples at the bottom of the garden,
sporting together somewhat as I supposed
Isaac to have sported with Eebekah on a
certain historic occasion not unconnected
with Abimelech and a window. The idea
made me laugh, and laugh again, shook
my book down off my knees : when a hand
was put over my eyes and firmly pressed
there. I threw it off, and beheld Eosy
standing absolutely glaring at me.

Hallo,' I said, * what's the matter ?'

'You were laughing at one of those girls,'
she said.

What do you mean ?' I asked. * I was
laughing at a couple there in the bushes,
playing together.'

You were uot ! You were laughing at

that girl with the red hair. I saw her go
out there a moment ago on purpose to make
eyes at you.'

Are you joking ?' I said surprised,
getting up. I could see she was not. I
shrugged my shoulders. She turned, so as
to keep her eyes on mine. Our eyes met
and stayed together while I spoke :

My dear Rosy, I do not tell lies, at least
of this sort. Once and for all be it understood,
that when I tell you I have done a thing, I
do not expect you to question— to dream of
questioning the truth of my words. Let
this be enough. I'm tired of it already.'

But you did !' she burst out. ' You did
You know you did !'

Did what ?'

Nod to her, and laugh at her. I saw
you!'

I lost patience and gained what may be
called wrath. I gave one step to her, with all
that wrath concentrated in my piercing look.

I warn you never to say such a thing
again,' I said. 'If you do, we part. There

30—2

must be trust between us, or nothing. I
did not tell you this before. I thought you
understood it. Now choose. Believe me,
or we heart this moment — for always. I
will never see you again.'

If I had not caught her she would have
fallen. She writhed about in my grasp,
muttering quickly, her face and hands working,
her eyelids quivering. I held her and
looked at her steadily. I did not know
what was the matter with her; but was
decided that she must say she believed me,
or we would part at once. Life with a
woman who did not trust you would be
nothing short of the popular conception of
hell.

At last she became coherent enough forme
to gather that I had terrified her. Then
she appeared to recognise me, and covered
me with a hundred endearments, beseeching
me over and over again not to leave her, or
she would kill herself. I did not know how
she loved me. Indeed, indeed, she couldn't
help it. She always u-as jealous — from a

child. If I would only kiss and be friends
again as we were before, she would never
be jealous again. But that girl with the
red hair was so forward-like, she didn't care
what she did !

Weary of this, I sat her down on the sofa,
and stood, half-turned away, before her. She
went on in the same strain for a little, and
then came a pause. Perhaps she was exhausted.
I said :

Well, Kosy, have you considered ? I
was not joking just now. I asked you to
choose. Do you believe what I said to you
about those two down there, or do you not ?
You know what your choice implies ?'

What ?' she asked ; ' what do you
mean ?'

I patted my foot on the ground to keep
me in patience, I answered :

I cannot live with anyone who thinks
that I have told a deliberate lie. If you
think I have told you a lie, then I will
leave you.'

I don't think sou told a lie. I never
said I thought you told a lie.'

Didn't you say just now you thought I
had been "making eyes," as you put it, at
that red-haired girl ?'

Yes, I said I thought you did.'

And didn't I say I had not ?'

'Yes.'

And didn't you say then that I had ?'

Yes.'

And didn't I assure you that I had not ?'

Yes.'

And didn't you refuse to believe me ?'
Yes.'

And what is that but telling me straights
and directly that I had lied to you ?'

I don't understand it,' she said piteously,
bewildered. I walked round the
table, with my hands in my pockets.

Then, standing in the middle of the open
window, I stared out into the dull evening
and my thoughts. I do not know how long
I stood so : maybe scarcely two minutes,
but it seemed more than two hours. I roused

myself with a sigh, turned round, and going
to her, knelt down by her knees, and put
my arms round her, and said :

My little Rosebud, I'm sony. I forgot
for a moment that you were so . . so like
a rosebud, and thought (how foolish of
me !) that you were something like a great
big palm tree ! I'm sorry. I won't forget
again.'

How the child smiled, and cried, and
laughed, and caressed me !

We came on to Paris in the first week or
so of September, to the Hotel de Manchester.
A letter had arrived there for me
the night before, from Astrachan. He expressed
surprise at my flight in the nighttime,
and hoped that there was nothing
serious the matter with me. But Mrs.
Astrachan had been pestering him to take
her and the girls to Paris for a fortnight,
and as his term at the Queen's College did
not begin till the end of October (by-the-by
he had not informed me that he had just
got the chair of Natural History there, had

lie ?), he thought he might manage it (say)
half-way through September. We could
talk over matters about the book then.
Parker had agreed to publish it all right ;
but there was some lumber about plates, etc.
He would write again shortly, or, perhaps
better, when he arrived in Paris.

I answered this letter at once.

First, as regarded the book. No expense
was to be spared to make it attractive.
That was my affair, or rather it was Mr.
Brooke's own. I only held his money and
property as a guardian till Mr. Starkie returned
from Africa, when I should hand it
over to him with the account of what had
been expended of the one or made use of
of the other, during his absence. But, I
was quite sure, no possible objection could
be raised to any expense undertaken in
behalf of the book. I would be responsible
for that. For the rest I need not say how
glad I should be to see him (Astrachan) herein
Paris, but it would be, I thought, impossible
for me to see Mrs. Astrachan or his

daughters. For this reason : there was with
me now one who had given up all she had
for my sake, for which I loved and reverenced
her, and considering that the only
reason that she was not my wife was because
I did not believe in what was known as
marriage,' I would go nowhere where she
could not come with me, and be assured of
the same respect as if she iverc my wife.
This I knew was more than I could ask
(my first form of the sentence was : than
either I could ask or desire) of Mrs. Astrachan,
with the beliefs that I knew she held. I
repeated that I should be indeed glad to see
him here, I hoped in my own house, and
have some opportunity of returning him
some little of the hospitality which he and
his had given to me while I was in London.
There was, I thought, no more to be
said than this. If he were a true man it
would be enough : if he were not, then let
each go on his separate way. It was as
nothing to me. Only one acquaintance the
less. . . Should I never have a friend ?

In the morning we set out together in
pursuit of a house, or rather a flat, to suit
us. After some trouble, I remembered that,
when I had been at the pension in the
Avenue de Fontenoi, I had noticed a flat
that was to let, some way up the street,
and which had impressed me favourably for
some reason or other. I suggested that we
should go there now, and wee did. The
place suited us, and we took it.

We, or rather J, began with a delightful
scheme of doing each room (there were seven,
not counting the kitchen, all opening into
one another) in some particular style : as,
for instance, there was to be a terra-cotta
room, and a brass room, and a silvered
room, and so on. I got through the first
two pretty well, I think, but with great
trouble, in the next three or four days.
Then one morning came a letter from
Astrachan He would manage to see me
soon somehow, and we could arrange about
the book. He was bound to cross the
Channel in any case, he found, before the

term began. There were some bones in the
Museum of Natural History that he must
manage to see somehow before he went on
any further with a monograph on the
Elephant Primogeniture he was now working
at. Mrs. Astrachan and the girls were not
coming to Paris this year. I must excuse
haste, and, hoping to see me well, he remained,
etc.

What a time that was, furnishing the
house and putting my money matters in
order ! As for the idea of doing each room
of the house in a particular style — Homme
propose, les commis disposent ! I really
don't know how we ever got the place done
at all. However, at the end of a fortnight,
we, or rather I, had made five of the seven
rooms habitable, and the two servants I had
got had done the same for the kitchen. (The
servants of the whole house slept up above
in the grenier, as they call it, not in the
several flats.) I worked like a slave, and
rather liked it : hanging all the pictures,
deciding where, and generally helping, to

put all the things iu their places, and soon
; for I had my doubts about the Parisian
sense of the beautiful iu the matter of
furniture arrangement.

Rosy's chief anxiety in the matter was as
concerned the fate of the things which she
had herself ordered, all the linen and the
household utensils. She did not care to
come up to the place itself, for reasons of
her own : not unconnected, I thought, with
a small coffin which had happened to be
exposed by the door the morning of her
first visit, covered with flowers, a child's
coffin. Her fear of death was a fear,
as far as I could make out, not of death in
the abstract but in the concrete : perhaps I
should say, she had a fear not of death but
of the dead. And yet there must have
been some other causes at work ; for when
I had asked her, as we went up the staircase,
why she hurried by so quickly, she
had said in a half whisper :

-It was a child. Don't let's talk about
it.'

It must have been a fine thing in the
way of amusement to have seen her ordering
her things at the Louvre, her favourite
shop, lists in hand. The composition of
those Hats in the evenings with pen, ink,
paper, and dictionary were amusing enough ;
but she woukl not hear of my going with
her to see their fulfilment.

At last all was ready for her, and the
next morning we installed ourselves.

I remember that as we sat together that
evening, I looked across to her sitting with
far-off eyes with her book, and thought how
impossible it was to know anything about
anyone else. I felt that in her mind a
train of ideas existed of which I was absolutely
ignorant.

At last :

Rosy,' I said, getting up, 'I have not
welcomed you to your home.'

She rose, and I took her hands, and,
looking into her eyes, went on :

Welcome to it, and may you be happy
in it ! And here at the beginning of our

new life together, let us say that, whatever
may happen, one thing shall always be
between us — Trust. Believe me,' I said,
taking her in my arms and looking closer
into her eyes. ' Believe me, child, that
without Trust, happiness can never live,
let love be as broad and as deep as is the
sea. My life is yours, almost to make or
mar, and maybe yours is mine. Love, as
I take love to be, the caring for another
more than for yourself, — alas, I have it not
to give you. It is best that I should tell
you this. I do not love you as I should, I
know, to have taken you as I did. That
was the wrong I did you. But I may love
you some day ; and in the meantime, believe
me that all I have to give you, child,
my dearest liking, — I would say love,
knowing that what I mean is of love, but
that I have but just hallowed the word by
its highest flight, and would not now stay
it half-way up. — But do not think that
word of " liking " cold. It is not. Cannot
you know this now, as I hold you so,

and look into your eyes ? Oli Eosy, give '
yourself to me, heart and soul ! It seems
to me as we are now that Love is not so faraway
from us.'

Her arms pressed me with strange
strength. Her face grew to mine. I
breathed rather than heard the coming
words she said :

I love you !' thrilling through and
through me.

And with the words came something of
her soul ; for our lips met in a kiss that
was her full surrender unto mine : a kiss so
sweet, so long, so mingling, that I knew
not whether this was death or life, or earth
or heaven. And then I thought that it
was love.

The Professor came in upon us after twelve
o'clock lunch, one mild, late October day,
when we were standing together leaning
over the library balcony-rails and watching
the aerial manoeuvres of two swifts.

I am very glad to see you,' I said,
holding his hand and looking into his face.
Then turning to Rosy, who had drawn back
on the sudden appearance of this stranger
by my side, I explained :

This, my dear, is the friend for whose
sake I wished our house to be in all readiness
— Professor Astrachan.'

Rosy put out a timid hand, and said
blushingly and softly :

I am very glad to see you.'

The Professor smiled. Alio could help

it ? And then gave an odd glance at me
which I rejected, and that, I think, dismissed
some invisible commonplace trouble
of ours into the outer air, and he and I
were in some waj^ more really friends than
we ever had been.

He stayed in Paris for eight or nine
days, during which I had the pleasure of
taking him and the Rosebud to see the three
plays I thought were the best worth seeing.
Those three evenings were quietly happy
ones. He and the child took to one
another, I thought, remarkably : and
therein lay the quiet happiness of those
three evenings to me, to sit still and listen
to their talk, with a certain half dreaminess
in my thoughts of them, and with a certain
half-wonder in the half-dreaminess — half-wonder
to know this much of the gentleness
and tender expansiveness of the man
to the child-girl. I remember how particularly
this feeling came into and over me
the last night he was with us, at theGymnase
it was, and how I thought about it all the

VOL. ir. 31

way home, and looking into his eyes as
after supper he said good-night to me a
second time at the street-door, how the
sudden thought came that he knew my
thought, and to where did the thought
tend ? As I came up the dark staircase
with my candle-light sending uncouth
shadows about me above and below, I
wondered, in a half-vague way, about the
meaning of the thing ? And the meaning
about this half-vague wondering about the
meaning of the thing ? And to where did
it all tend ?

When I came into the dining-room, I
found Kosy leaning against the mantelpiece
warming one foot.

Are you cold ?' I said, putting down the
candle on the table and throwing myself
into an easy-chair, with my knuckles up to
my mouth and my eyes to her.

Yes,' she said; 'I am cold — a
little.'

Why, it's quite warm,' I said.

She made a little motion with her back

expressive of a shiver. I took up a book.
She turned her head :

Don't read any more to night,' she said.
You're always reading.'

Am I ?' I asked, looking at the tops of
the leaves. 'Perhaps I want to get wise
. . If I were you, I should learn French,
Kosy. I'd be only too glad to get you a
master. And why not music too ?'

I don't seem to care about it,' she
said.

You are lazy. '

A pause.

Then I :

I wish you hould learn French and
music. I am very fond of music'

She came to me.

'Don't sit on the arm of the chair,' I
said, ' or you'll break it.'

She stopped. I continued looking at the
tops of the leaves. Then she drew a stool
from by the table to by my feet, and sat
down upon it and looked at me. In a little
I met her gaze.

31—2

Well r I said.

I'll leave the French and the music if
yon like !' she said.

I laughed.

Nay, the liking must be yours. I
don't want you to do what you don't
like.'

You're always reading,' she said. ' I
don't believe yow ever think about mc.
You don't care what I do — really''

I don't,' I said quietly. ' You are
right.' She seemed struck speechless.

I opened the book and began reading.

At last :

You don't — care — what — I do ?' she
repeated in amazement.

No,' I said. * You may go the devil as
soon as you please. You are a trouble
to me.'

Silence. I reading.

At last I said :

The Professor, you see, came over later
than I thought he would.'

A pause.

I felt her hand on my knee.

Are you joking ?' she said.

Joking ?' said I, lowering the book and
looking at her with surprise. * Not the
least in the world. I said I didn't care
what you did. I don't. I've examined
myself thoroughly in the matter this last
week. I was only waiting till Astrachan's
visit was over. (By-the-bye, I am going
to see him off tomorrow evening.) You
remember my agreement with you ? You
were to take half my fortune and leave me
the moment you tired of me. I have come
to the conclusion that it's only fair for me
to be able to do the same with you. I'm
tired of you. You may go to the devil as
soon as you please. We'll arrange business
matters later.' I lifted up the book and
continued my reading.

In a little she rose and went to the fireplace.
I read on. She made no sign of
life. A sudden idea came to me that she
had fainted — was dead ! I lowered my
book : saw her gazing over the table into

the air. Got up, throwing the book onto
the table by the candle, and said slowly :

Well, my dear, let's part good friends
at the least. It was a blunder on my part,
our acquaintance : also . a blunder on
yours. No ill-feeling on either side ; eh ?
In token whereof we will spend one more
night together, and then — part ? . . .
What ?'

Silence : she still gazing over the table
into the air. I advanced, and recognised
that I desired her, which made me laugh.
It was the first time I had so recognised the
fact. She answered nothing : made no
motion. A sudden feeling of the cruelty
of my experiment seemed to bite me. I
had not thought of it in that way : cruelty.
I at once began to undo my sewing :

Well, Rosebud,' said I, taking her two
little still hands in mine. ' You little goose,
what are you thinking about ?'

At last she looked at me ; looked in my
eyes long, till I laughed.

You are a bad man,' she said.

You do not mean it ?' I said saucily.
You are a wise woman and — ' She had ina
moment, smitten me smartly on the cheek
with the palm of her hand ! I burst out
into bright laughter, catching her, as she
sat bolt upright with an expression half-startled
half-defiant, in my arms, and
smothering her cheeks and lips with
kisses . . .

In the end, she was echoing my laughter,
and we were like two half-wild romping
children.

But the experiment was spoilt. Perhaps
it was premature.

I wondered that night, or rather morning,
as I lay awake thinking in the grey light,
while she slept sweetly beside me, why I
had attempted that experiment, and what I
had quite meant by it. And wondering, I
fell asleep.

The next evening, I met the Professor at
the Gare du Nord, as we had arranged, and
(he, at the end of our walk up and down in
the hall, commending Piosy to my care asa

last sudden thought which I felt he
hadn't liked to broach as of any other
sort) I saw the last of him that was
to be seen, and turned away a little sadly.

As I walked home to Eosy, who was
waiting for me (to go out a walk she had
said, and I had half agreed), I had a half-vague
feeling that we two, she and I, were
entering upon a somewhat difficult stage of
development, and thought of it, as usual,
half vaguely. When I opened our door, I
found her seated on the ottoman in the hall,
dressed in furs, waiting.

My dear child,' I said, drawing out the
latchkey, ' it's quite warm out. How can
you expect to walk quickly when you're
muffled up like a mummy ? and stays on
underneath, I'll be bound.' I was smiling.
She came towards me with a saucy strut,
so to show her small pointed boots. I
looked at them and said :

Oh, frightful !'
■ She caught me by the arm and half-swung
there.

You're in such a good temper to-day!'
she said. ' We'll go to a nice cafe on the
boulevard, and drink cafe noir, in nice china
cups, and play at dominoes. I do like
dominoes. We will — Eh V

'God help you!' said I. 'You are
incorrigible. If you die before me, I
will have you buried in stays and patent-leather
boots, and have a corset cut on your
gravestone. You won't find corsets in
heaven when you get there. You will
have to migrate further south. There are
plenty of them in hell. Satan invented
them.'

How shockingly you do talk !'

How so? tell me that ?' I said seriously.

You shouldn't talk in that way.'

I sat down laughing on the ottoman.

Shall we go to the cafe by the Francis ?'
I said. ' You see, my dear, this earth is,
after all, rather an odd place to live in ; and
we humans — or rather, we beasts — are really,
after all, rather odd things to be living in
it; and this is all the more so on account

of murder and sausages. You might also
include prophets and poachers. But, seriously,
— shall we go to the cafe by the
Francis ?'

How ridiculous you are !' she said.
'Very well.'

My dear,' I said, ' shall we take a cab?'

We took a cab, and I talked like a
rational (or irrational) being for the rest of
the evening.

It was late when we got home again,
and the concierge apparently deep in his
slumbers ; for we stood, I pulling at the
bell, Kosy seemingly tired into the quietness
of speechless acceptance of things, for over
five minutes. At last we got in, and went
slowly up the dark staircase together, I thinking
of last night's experiment till I began
to laugh. Then I found we were standing
in front of our own door ; perhaps had been
standing for some time. Kosy seemed
resigned to my apparent eccentricities now.
There she stood with her hands muff-wise
in her sleeves, and her eyes half closed, and

her little head sleepily quavering downwards.
I chucked her sharply under the chin.

It's time to get up and eat sally luns/
I said.

Good gracious, how you did startle me!'
she said. ' What's the matter ?'

I drew the latch key out of my pocket,
and, at the first shot, drove it into the keyhole,
and opened in the door. The ornamented,
luxurious passage looked as it were
warm and almost cosy in the red light of
the hanging oil lamp's little floating redder
core-flame. She went in, and I after her,
closing and locking the door behind me,
while she was on and into the morning-room.
There was a small window halfway up the
left-hand wall of the passage, and it looked
into the library. I could see that the
curtain, that was usually drawn right across
the window, was now only half drawn. I
went and observed v/hat she was doing.
She was on her way across the room — to
the fire, of course. Down she sat on the
hearth rug, and doubtless was staring into

the red-ember realm of castles and strange
forms. Then she looked round: ' Why want
he coming V Then back again at the remember
realm. What a strange thing for me,
here, in Space and Time and Life, so to be
observing her; here, too, in Space and Time
and Life. What were we to one another ?
Not only Kosy to me, and I to Kosy, but
each one of us — each one of us humans to
each other one. The dreamy thought grew
broader in me, my eyes still looking at the
firelight picture there, but not comprehending
it. She looked round again. The movement
recalled me to my ordinary self. ' Why
wasn't lie coining V I felt a sweet tenderness
for the poor child waiting for me there. Oh,
Eosy, Piosy !

Then I was "away : through the morning-room,
where, on the sofa, lay her furred coat
and hat, and, parting the curtains of the
doorway, stepped into the library. She was
looking back for me. I threw my hat into
a chair, had off my coat, sent it after the
hat, and came to her. I threw myself down

behind her ou the soft hearth rug, and, resting
my head, that was beside her, on my
hand, looking into the eyes that were looking
at me :

Eosy,' I said, ' do you believe in God ?'

Yes,' she said. And with her eyes in
the red-ember realm, 'of course

Then don't you think you're doing
wrong being with me ?'

Yes,' she said, with her eyes still in the
red ember realm.

And don't you think you'll be punished
for it ?'

I am sure I shall,' she said.

A pause. I somewhat surprised.

Then why do you do it ?'

Because I can't help it.' Her eyes always
in the red-ember realm.

What do you mean ?'

I can't help it. Can't you see,' she
said, turning full unfathomed eyes on me,
I can't help it. I love every muscle in
your body.'

The simplicity of thought, word, voice

made me say, with a suspicion of a small
smile romid the corners of my mouth :
That's awkward,' and bring my eyes down
to the hearth rug, while I thought for a
moment of that last expression of hers and
its meaning.

Then, looking up :

Would you like me to marry you ?' I
said.

Her eyes went as unfathomed as before
into the red-ember realm again, and became
distant. Her lips said slowly :

I should like to have you without the
sin ; but . . . .'

Well '

I shouldn't like you to marry me,*

Why ?'

No answer.

I repeated :

Why ?'

Can't you see,' she said, turning her
eyes to me, but with a more ordinary light
in them, * ivliy I shouldn't like you to marry
me?'

No,' I said.

She looked to the red-ember reahn again,
but not into it, and her eyes became dreamy.
She woukl, perhaps, answer me before we
were both asleep !

She said : ' I don't think you'd care for me
even as much as you do now if you married
me. No' (she shook her head), 'I wouldn't
like you to marry me. Besides . . . .'

Well ?' I said, in a clear tone, that

was meant to show that I really did expect
her to satisfy what curiosity I had.

'You will want to marry some one,' she
said, suddenly looking at me with the more
ordinary light in her eyes, ' some day.'

No,' I said, 'I shall never want to marne
any one.'

'Ah,' she said, 'wait till you love someone
— and then !' She nodded her head.

Why did you think I didn't marry you ?'
I asked.

Because you didn't want to,' she said.

No — at least, no to your thought.'

What do you mean ?'

I don't believe in marriage. You knew
that. If I did, or had, I would have married
you.'

That's sinful, not to believe in marriage.
Don't you believe in God ?'

To the best of my belief, no. One thing
I am sure about : I don't believe in Jesus.
I suppose Jesus and God are one and the
same thing to you, are they not ?'

Yes, Jesus is God.'

And God is Jesus ?'

'Yes.'

How is that ?'

That's the mystery. We don't know.
You ought to have faith, and believe in
it.' I looked down. There was absolute
no good in attempting to say anything
serious on these matters to her. I felt the
tenderness I had felt for her a little while
ago return to me. I looked up.

'Eosy,' I said, 'I don't like you to think
what I can see you do think about my not
having married you. AVill you believe me,
when I tell you that my disbelief in Jesus

is quite as strong as your belief, and that
that, and that only, was the reason why I
didn't marry you ? I would not marry any
woman in the world, however much I loved
her. I could not repeat the words of the
marriage service with my lips, and laugh
at them in my heart. That would not be
true.'

'You would, though,' she said, looking
as if with a look of experience at me, who
has none, ' if you loved a person.'

What was the good of contradicting her ?
I kept silence, with downcast eyes, for a
moment : and then asked, I did not care to
know why :

Why, if you believe that you will bo
punished for all this, don't you ask me to
marry you and chance my not caring for
you then even as much as I do now — as
you say ? What sort of punishment do you
think you'll get ?'

I shall be burned in fire. I knew that
long ago. . I knew quite well it would
be like this some day. I iiS2d to pray to
VOL. II. 32

God not to think about you, but I could,
not help it : I did think about you ! When
you went away to Paris, I was ill, and I
thought I was going to die : and I promised
God I would never think about you anymore
; but I got well again, and I went on
thinking about you more than ever ! I
couldn't help it. And at last I felt I
couldn't do without you. You've no idea
what a way I used to get in sometimes. I
used to feel as if I must get up that very
moment, and go and find you, and hold you
in my arms and love you. I couldn't help
it. I know I shall be punished for it ;
but . I can't help it. I suppose I
must be. — Then, you see, you came back,
and we had those walks together. I
knew you didn't care for me ; but you
were so much to me. I couldn't do without
you!'

To watch the child as she sat, looking
with her half-dreamy, unfathomed eyes into
the fire, and to hear her telling her story in
this way ! It was pitiful.

I drew myself up beside her, and put my
arm round her shoulders, and leaned her
body against mine. She did not seem to
notice my movement : to feel my arm
round her shoulders. She was silently
looking into the to me unknown place before
her.

Rosy,' I said, ' Rosebud,' rubbing my
cheek softly against hers, ' I would do anything,
if it were only true, to make you
happy. I would marry you tomorrow if it
were not for those . . . those words that
would be so false in my mouth, that I
could not utter them. I could not do that.
But there are, now I think of it, other ways
of marrying people. I will find out about
them. Then, you see, you would be my
wife : I mean, as far as having my name ;
so that no one could think or say anything
against you.' She was shaking her head.
Nay,' I said, smiling, ' emit you sec that
in this way you would have a greater, a
more lawful claim, you might say, upon
me, in case I ever did want to mary 



one — with the marriage-service and the
rest of it.' I was smiling.

'No,' she said; * I wouldn't care about
that. Not one bit.'

But suppose,' I said — ' suppose I ever
did fall in love with anyone, and did want
to marry them ? . . . What then ?'

Then you'd have to, that's all,' she
said.

But what would you do ?'

I'd go away, and never see you
again.'

I do hope you wouldn't, Kosy ! I
hope you never will, whatever comes or
goes. You must always be dear tome.
You must always let me be your
friend.'

While some other woman had you ?
That's likely ! Oh, you don't know what
love is !'

I don't,' I said. ' I was only putting a
hypothetical case. — But you know quite
well that I never would leave you, however
much I loved anyone else.'

But I would leave you, if I thought you
loved anyone else.'

But I wouldn't let you know.'
But you couldn't help it.'

But I never shall love anyone, so '

How do you know that ? I thought I
never should love anyone ; but, you see, I
do. I hope you'll love some one some day
who doesn't love ?sow, and then you'll know
what I have to suffer.'

A pause.

Supposing,' said I, ' that I loved you,
and you didn't love me.'

'Yes.'

Well, supposing you loved somebody
else, and left me, I shouldn't mind always
being your friend.'

She gave a short laugh.

Wouldn't you ! Oh no ! I tell you :
if I ever found out that you loved any
woman besides me ! I would go away from
you. I would never see you again. You
never should have me again ! The idea of
being your friend, as you call it ! Do you

think I could look at any woman, and know
that she had you for her own, and . . .
and not hill her ?'

She stopped : then began shaking her
head and laughing to herself. I ej^ed her
from under gathered brows : I suspected
the actor's sense in her as well as in myself.
An old, somewhat vague idea, that had
been gathered into a cluster of heads, it
seemed, a half-century ago, but was really
only what might be called last night, now
suddenly took a one unmistakable head
with two one-seeing eyes that saw one purpose.
I turned her head round to me and
kissed her full and long on the lips. The
effect was strange. — It was a new child
this, here with me in a new place of early
day's air and light. I could scarce think
of the old self of hers that was now gone,
gone I knew not where.

Kiss me again,' she said in a low, half-breathless
voice, bringing her mouth towards
mine. ' Kiss me.'

A certain devil's light of mirth came into

my eyes. I laughed at her, and drew
sharply back with back-spread arms.

No, no, no,' I said ; ' you little green-eyed
monster you ! You shall chase me
for another kiss, if you want it. I . . .'
I had stopped.

She bent to me with her hands half-up,
frightened a little at the look in my
face :

What is it ?' she said. ' What's the
matter ?'

I leaped up onto my feet. There was
devilry in it ! Up it rose, the unfailing
companion, surely for ever the unfailing
companion of my haunting tune of inevitable
gold-light and mockery that rises.

No,' I said, between my teeth. ' That
is foolery ! What is the matter with my
eyes ?'

There was a larger ring of gold-hued
silver light, like sun's water-reflections on
a wall, round my eyes. I took out my
watch. It was ten minutes past one.

She rose and came to me anxiously.

What is it, clear ?' she said. ' Oh, do
tell me ! What's the matter with you,
dear ? Are you ill ?'

Nothing's the matter with me,' I said,
putting my watch into my pocket, ' beyond
that I have something wrong with my eyes.
I will go and see an oculist about it tomorrow.
Now, it's time we were going to
bed. There, there ! It's all right, I assure
you. Now, off you go to bed ! You're
tired out.'

I took her hand and patted it between Yn.y
two : and then led her, with an almost
playful gallantry, to the door-way and held
up one curtain for her to pass. Just
through it, she turned her head and
shoulders back and asked prettily :

But you will come, too, soon ?'

*Yes,' I said, smiling and laughing at
her. ' I have something that I must do,
that will take me a few minutes, and then I
will come.'

I let fall the curtain. In a moment I
heard her step go on.

I took the match-box from the corner of
the mantelpiece and lit two candles, this
seeming endless revolution-outward of my
eyes' ring accompanying my every move.
Then I sat down in the easy-chair and
began to think. — ' It was amazing how I
could have been so fooled by such a natural
phenomenon into such a state of (say) superstitious
hysteria as I had been by this affection
of my eyes. How could I have done it ?'

I sat thinking of this for a little, and
then of the events of that night of supreme
folly, or best say madness at once : every
now and then recalled to this physical
revolution outward of my eyes' rings. All
at once it stopped. I took out my watch.
It was half-past one. It had lasted, then,
twenty minutes.

That something which I had said I must
do was now done — done well, as it seemed
to me. That something was the final and
complete clearing away, I thought, of all
the clouding illusion that had blackened the
sight of that strange time of devilry, had

dimmed the sight of the time of acts that
had followed upon the other as a summer
upon a spring. I was at last free. I saw
things as they were, not as they seemed to
be. It might well be that illusion would
play its part in my future's wilder hours ;
but it never could be what it had been to
the daily hours of my past. I was free.
And that, I thought, meant something.

I blew out the candles and drew back the
hearth rug (for fear of some hot coals falling
out of Eosy's especially procured English
grate, and burning her and me and the
house, and my at last freedom in the
night), and then went in to her.

She was already in bed, lying on her
side, looking to the door-way curtains ;
with a deep-shaded candle on the reading -
table by the bedside, throwing a light over
the lower part of her face, and on one outstretched
arm in its long white worked frill,
and the hand with upheld fingers on the
white rounded edge of the bed. All the rest
was shadowed.

Well ?' I said, smiling, and standing fora
moment with the curtains in my backward
hands.

She smiled. I crossed over to her, and
sat down beside the outstretched arm of the
long white worked frill and the hand of the
upheld fingers on the white rounded edge of
the bed : and took the hand of the upheld
fingers, while her two eyes looked quietly in
mine : and bent, and softly kissed her two
soft red lips : and she softly said :

You see, I hadn't to chase you for it,
after all.'

No,' I answered. ' I cheerfully do what
the dilly-ducks would not do : I come to be
killed. Death from you is too sweet to be
fearful.' '

. . . What do you mean ?'

I kissed her, laughing :

That I love you.'

. . . Then I hope you will always
mean that ; for I love bijou — oh, I do love
you, ever so much !'

More than you love yourself ?'

I haven't any self to love. It's all
yours !'

Then, in loving myself, I shall but be
loving you V

*Yes!'

And in loving you, I shall but be loving
myself ?'

Yes !'

Love must be unselfish, then, whether it
like it or no. For, in loving itself, it only
succeeds in loving somebody else. . . . Do
you understand it all ?'

And seeing she did not, all of it, I once
more bent again, and once more softly kissed
her two soft red lips : and she once more
softly said :

I understand that part. . . . But I
seem to think you might do it over
again.'

CHAPTER I.

I HAD accepted something or other that was
now the melody of my life : if such a noteless
flow of inter-music, as of a low silver-shot
river in a mist, could be called a
melody. I might have called that something
or other Fate, or Circumstances, or
simply Eosy. I called it nothing at all.
It seemed as if I were it, and it me ; or
everything it and it everything. The child
was, I think, very happy.

I had divided the day off in this way : My
books from ten to one ; then lunch ; then
generally somewhere with Rosy till four or
five ; then two cups of tea and slices of thin
bread and butter in the library, with the

accompaniment of quiet talk, till talk almost
died away in the inspection and desultory
reading of desultory books and newspapers ;
then, at half-past six, dinner ; then either
somewhere with Kosy again, or a less desultory
reading of less desultory books and
newspapers till, at ten o'clock, bed. The
only real work I did was my morning reading.
I devoted three hours each day of the week
severally to Homer, Sophocles, Plato, Vergil,
Horace, Juvenal, and Dante. I do not
think I had any definite aim in view then for
this study. I was content to do it, as I did
all things, and be still.

Walks with Eosy were not successes at
first, for she walked both slowly and badly ;
but I soon grew accustomed to the slowness,
and the badness was remedied by occasional
lifts on the way. I liked to listen to her ;
and she, if she was in good spirits, indulged
me to the top of my bent. The childlike
and seemingly endless interest that she took
in life amused me.

One evening, when we were in her

favourite position — she between my knees
talking to me as I sat in the armchair.

*Kosy,' I said, 'I will tell you what jowl
are.'

'Well,' she said, 'what?'

*You are a loving girl. I have not
before found the word " love " used in the
particular way you use it. So your own
word describes you: you are a "loving
girl :" one who squeezes softly, and kisses,
and tries to steal away breath — in all things
soft. I will tell you who was your 
: a certain Shunamite. " And let
her clench him and lie in this bosom." And
moreover : " ^ bundle of myrrh is my u'cll-
beloved unto me ; he shall lie all night betwixt
v,uj breasts." And : "J charge you, ye
daughters of Jerusalem, by the roes and by the
hinds of the field, that she stir not up nor
mvaJce my love till he pleases." '

Yes,' she said, ' that's me.'

And so it was.

The weather grew colder : bracing and

invigorating to me, enervating to her. At
last we had keen frost. She spent most of
her time by the fire, generally sitting with
her knees gathered up on the hearthrug,
reading a book or thinking — heaven knows
what about !

My walks were nearly always alone now.
Consequently they ceased to be semi-rides
and became pure walks. With the pure
walks came thought again, to oust its poor
substitute of dreamy-way-of-thinking. The
frost continued. We had a little snow.
At first I tried to get Eosy to take more
exercise ; but being out of doors in such
weather was only misery to her, and so I
stopped trying.

We will go to Italy next winter,' said I
one evening, having been for a tramp in the
now-falling snow, changed my clothes, and
stopped by and above her (she on the
hearth rug, that is), with hands alternately
patting each other's palms. ' To Italy ! to
Italy ! Italy was the dream of my boyhood.
I am a true northman. I have the

migratory instinct in me. Oh Italy,

Italy '

I stopped, and sat down in the easy-chair,
with hands still alternately patting
each other's palms, and thought about Italy
and my past dream of Italy.
At last :

You must be very cold,' she said.
Not I !' I answered, with a sudden look
to her. ' I'm as warm as a toast. By
Jove!' I said, 'I must do something tonight.'
(The something being a something
in my head that seemed to wish for written
expression.) My remark was a sort of
outwork designed to stop any advancing
objections on Kosy's part.

None came. She sat silent on the
hearth rug, with her chin by her up-gathered
knees, and her eyes in the fire. I wished
her away in bed — the best place for her.
I disliked writing with anyone in the room.
As I was settling my desk and writing
materials on the table, I suggested that she
would be better in bed, especially as . . .
VOL. II. 33

What ?' she said, looking round at
me.

You seem so tired,' I said, bringing a
chair to my place. ' I wonder you have any
marrow left at all, and that your blood's
not all curdled or clotted by this time.'
. . . Is it very cold outside ?'
Very. The snow is all freezing.'
How long do you think it will last ?'
The snow ?'

No : the cold. — I do hate it so !'

How can I tell ? I . . .' (I had begun
writing something) ' don't know.'

Why do you talk in that way ?'

What way ?'

Ultimately Kosy went off to bed, in an
injured frame of mind, and I was left alone
with my writing. An opening scene of a
story had occurred to me, and I was
interested in expressing it : a not unfrequent
occurrence at that time, so far unfailingly
accompanied by gradual loss of
interest as the story proceeded till, quite
disgusted, I either burnt or cast it into a

MS. drawer of mine, and thought no more
of it.

I finished my opening scene in the first
heat of emotion, and then, after a pause, reread
what I had written. What seemed tome
my grip on, my mastery over the
characters I had created, pleased me ; not
because it was mine, but because it was
there, and in harmony with my mood.
Then I sat for long thinking. I began to
frame, I framed a resolution in me. There
was no need to think, say, or act anything
dramatic to be, as it were, a symbol or
memoria technical of that resolution. It
was early : I was beginning to feel both
tiredness and hunger. It was impossible
for me, I thought, to sink into mere
sensuousness. I had a work to do in the
world : I intended to do it. The work
would require patient preparation : I was
determined that I would give it. I had
been unhappy in London : ' Society ' was
not enough for me. I had been unhappy
with Rosy : Love was not enough with me.

OO 1

I had been unliapi^y with my dreams :
myself was not enough for me. I had lived
for ' Society,' for love, for myself, and had
found that they did not satisfy me. It was
time that I lived for something else — for
something higher, and broader, and deeper.
I had realized, or thought that I had
realized, that I had a certain work to do in
the world, and that if I was, as I had
determined I was, to do it, I should have
to apply myself to a patient course of
preparation. I had spent the three or four
daj's that followed on this determination in
the same way outwardly as any other days :
that is to say, had done my classical work
in the mornings ; taken my ' constitutional '
in the afternoons ; and read in the evenings ;
but inwardly I had spent these days in a
different way from any others of my life.
I reviewed my past in order that i might
see what causes lay there, that were likely
to have an influence on my future. I faced
all these causes, good or evil, fearlessly
quietly resolved to encourage those that

were good, and do all that lay in me to
eradicate those that were evil. The one
idea that I kept constantly before me was
the idea of Strength : I must be Strong.

Kosy looked upon this, my new intercourse
with her, with a somewhat suspicious
eye. I believe she would far sooner have
had the old intercourse with her back again .
For, if my caprice leaped in evil-humoured
moments far away from her ; so in good-humoured
moments it leaped close to her ;
whereas, now her line of life and mine
seemed, nay, were parallel : now parallel
lines are those which are always the same
distance from one another, that is to say,
that never meet. Rosy, like the true
woman she was, was quite ready to offer
herself up on the altar of my happiness.
It troubled her that now, instead of being,
as I ought to have been, capricious, that is
to say, selfish, I preserved a uniform cheerfulness
of demeanour towards her, was
always ready to do her little services, was
always ready to prevent her doing me little

services. It is true that I had in that
happy period of lotus-eating devoted myself
to her en bloc ; but, as she had said, or as I
had said, in so devoting myself to her en
bloc (' loving ' was our term) I was but
devoting myself to myself en bloc, and viceversa.
Then all the little services had
been hers : I had been capricious ; I had
been selfish ; she had delighted in my
capriciousness, in my selfishness — whereas,
now ! . . . Now I was the highest sinner
that is arraigned by Love, the sinless one.
What right had I to the preserving a
uniform cheerfulness of demeanour towards
her? What right had I to the perpetual
readiness to do her little services, the
perpetual readiness to prevent her doing me
little services ? Ah ! thought poor little
Eosy, that old time was the better time ;
for if it knew the depth of hell, it knew
also the height of heaven : whereas, this
new time knows only the dead level of
purgatory.

I remember how I sat one evening, in

the past dinner-hour when we were together
in the library, observing her and translating
her thoughts into my words, somewhat
as above : and how at last, smiling at
her for a dear child, I got up, and went
and chucked her under the chin, and in a
serious way that made her eyes looking at
me brighten up at the anticipation of one of
the old capricious hours, the old capricious
hours so often full of the golden atmosphere
of heaven. And indeed there was a temptation
in the air for me to enjoy one of
those hours again. Why not ? I commenced.


But it soon made itself apparent to me
that I had set myself, not to be, but to act
Capriciousness. And yet, I thought in
medias res, it is surely a mistake to suppose
that I have passed quite out of my former
self, as a snake out of its skin, and can no
longer be, but am compelled to act, that
former self? No. It is with the humour
I must quarrel : not the characteristic.
Perhaps the fact of self-consciousness is of

itself quite enough to turn being into
acting ?

Ultimately Eosy showed that she too
perceived, perhaps more clearly than I gave
her credit for, that this was not the doer
but rather the actor that was wooing her.
She was up and away in a pet : I, tickled
by the idea of energetic desire in such a
child as the Rosebud, laughing consumedly,
and next door to careless about how she
took my laughter. — All at once I realized
that I had once more been cruel to her :
nay, but the word merited to be stronger,
brutal. I was serious at once, and away to
her to try and soothe her. At last I
succeeded.

Rosy's discontent with the new intercourse,
as I now called it to myself, seemed
to increase. At last I found out that the
more cheerful and obliging I was, the more
uncheerful and disobliging was she, and
this discovery having come to a head
during the course of a whole evening,
erupted in the bedroom in the shape of

what is usually called a row, reproaches
and tears versus sarcasm and silence. After
a few minutes of Tears, Silence betook
itself out of the bedroom and the house fora
long ramble about the streets, at last
joining itself to Thought in preference to
Irritation, with which it had set out. — I
began to draw a sort of picture of what life
would have been with a woman — like
Eayne, a strong woman. Eayne had, I
felt, been for some time an elevation to me,
and now it seemed that she was growing
into an ideal. After all, was she not the
outward and visible sign of that inward and
spiritual Strength which I worshipped ? It
was right that she should become an ideal
to me ; she was a strong woman.

The struggle went on. At times I had
relapses into the old disgust, but, while
there, learnt something about the meaning
of the misery of humanity, and so from evil
drew a certain amount of good. Eosy was
meanwhile apparently in persistent readiness
to be suspicious. It occurred to me

once or twice that she thought that there
was a woman in the case, and so kept on
the look out for proofs. The idea amused
me greatly, and once led me to demonstrations
of my feeling somewhat in the manner
of that chucking under the chin that had
been the prelude to my second instance of
cruelty, or perhaps brutality to her. She
seemed to recognise something genuine ;
for she would have nothing to say to me at
that rate, and so I determined to do without
the demonstrations in future, and did. I
do not know if she was happy at this time.
She took a greater interest in her household
affairs than before, going out shopping
with Amelie in the mornings, drawing up
lists of things, and so on. I was pleased
to see this ; for it gave her something todo.


In this way it came about in a remarkably
short time that we two grew more
like acquaintances or friends than lovers.
Then I realized this, and was rather troubled
by it ; for I felt that the reason for it was

mine, and that she could not like the present
condition of affairs. But what was to be
done ? An inch with a child like Eosy
meant, not an ell, but the whole article.
If I suddenly softened, she would take it asa
sign of repentance, and then — trouble of
all sorts ! At present I was working away
at my classics and what composition suggested
itself: with occasional fits of disgust,
it is true, but avoiding the depths and
getting out of the shallows as soon as
possible. And I bore these occasional fits
with a good deal of philosophy now, ascribing
them to some internal derangement,
such as of liver, of kidneys, or stomach,
and as such to be endured in patience and
silence. Weather, I found, affected me
considerably.

It was now March, but more like the
traditional May. I took long walks each
day, ten miles as a rule : once out to Pere
la Chaise, to look at Brooke's grave with
its ' Till) will he done,' and saw Balzac's
bust, and De Morn's tomb (De Morn

"being a gilded rascal that interested me)
and others, and stood and looked thoughtfully
over the city that seemed like a great
parasite that had driven its claws into the
earth. Then there was the Louvre, and
the Luxembourg and, sometimes, theatres
in the evenings with Eosy. A quietly
happy time for me, made happier as the
days stole on and found me still unshaken
in my scheme of life.

One evening, Kosy having a headache
and not caring to go out anywhere, I went
for a ramble about the streets, observing
the stirring multitude in a most delightfully
philosophic way. The conviction of
the general poorness of life was the deepest,
but quietly deepest, conviction in me. My
view of the matter was that, since I was
alive and in certain circumstances, the only
thing that was to be done was to make the
best of it.

The dawn was breaking as I pulled at
the concierge's bell. I was a little tired,
mentally and bodily. I came upstairs, let

myself in, and went into the study. Not
only the general poorness, but also the
general, and also the particular purpose-lessens
of all life and my life was in me.
I did not care to go to bed, I did not care
to do anything. My eyes fell on my eas}'-
chair : I went to, and lay back, in it, in a
state that kept, every now and then, rising
to a level, over the edge of which lay
disgust, or may be despair. At last, I rose,
with an impatient curse. Was there never
to be an end of this foolery ? Was I
never to have rest, peace, comfort, self-sufficiency,
call it what you please, that
spiritual sailing with spread canvas before
a full and unvarying wind ? WUd was it ?
Why ;^ Was it really because the strange
shadow of Purposelessness played the 
Banquo at Life's feast for me ?
Or was it that I was one who could not
lack the Personal Deity with impunity ? I
didn't know, I didn't know ! I wished
that I were dead. I wished that I had
never been born. What Personal Deity

had I ever had ? What . . . My thoughts
stood still. I saw a small child go to the
bed and slip down on his knees and tell
Him about it ; but then, remembering that
He was up in the sky, clasp his two hands
together, and look up to Him ; and say :

Dear God, You are a long, long way
away from me : right up in the deep, blue
sky, farther away than even the sun,
perhaps, and the moon and the stars. — But
I love You ! Oh, I love You ! because You
know everything I think about and everything
that I want to do. And I pray that
You won't let me die till I am very old and
have done all the things I want to do.
But please help me to be a great man.
Through Jesus Christ our blessed Lord,
Amen.'

I threw up my face with my hands behind
my head, and the sob coming to my lips,
and the tears to my eyes. ' Oh God, God,
why shouldn't I pray now ? Is there no

one to hear me ? Is there no one to

What ? Baijiiel—Baijne ! you here ! What ?'

Everything in me stood still. She was
looking at me through the curtains.

I made a sharp stride and opened them.
It was Eosy.

I smiled and then laughed, and —

You startled me,' I said. ' I took you
for a ghost.'

Took me for a ghost,' she said slowly,
advancing slowly, till her eyes were close to
mine. I scowled.

You called me Rayne,' she said.

No :' I said ; ' not you — the ghost.'

Fury seemed suddenly to possess her.

I hate her !' she cried discordantly.

I took her in my arms, in a half-unconscious
way that meant quiet.

Don't be a fool,' I said. ' Why did you
get up ?' She was struggling a little to
get free.

I let her go : and turning, walked
away to the hearth rug, and stood collecting
my thoughts. I felt her hand touch my
arm. I looked aside and down, at her
face.

Don't be unkind to me,' she said.
You're not kind to me !'

'Then,' I said unaffectedly; 'I'm sony.'
I turned again and, putting my hands on
her shoulders, looked at her. ' As for that
"Don't be a fool," of mine, you mustn't look
upon it, or the things I say like it, as
unkindness. The words that I say to you
are, in reality, said to myself — if not at the
time, most certainly afterwards. It is the
cursed actor's instinct that makes me say

them : that's all. I say them ' The

expression of her full, half-dreamy unfathomed
eyes was pleading, pleading all
but pitiful. I did not know what to do,
what to say.

At last :

My dear child,' I said seriously ; ' I
believe you're in love with me.'

She answered nothing.

I wish you weren't,' I proceeded. ' If
you only'' knew what nonsense it is — love,
everything ! In ten years, you may be a
worm-eaten piece of carrion : in less.

perhaps. I too. Where do you think
you'll be then ? Where shall I be ?
That'll be the good of your having loved
me ? or of my having loved you ?'

You don't love me,' she murmured, "vvitli
eyes now far away.

By love,' I said, 'I don't know if I love
you or not ! Do you love me ?'
She smiled a little.

Ah !' said I ; ' I wish to goodness you
didn't then !'

Why shouldn't I if I like ?' she murmured,
with her eyes far away and something
of the little smile round her lips. I
slipped my arm round her shoulders, her
cloak-clad shoulders, and led her gently
towards the door.

Come,' I said ; ' we have talked enough.
Let us go to bed, and sleep. If so be

that '

Now at the door curtains, I turned a
little, saying :

I have forgotten to blow out the
candles.'

VOL. ir. 34

I went back and blew them out. She
waited for me. We went on together, I
with my arm round her shoulders as before,
through the dark dining-room, and salon
just lit with the light from the open door-frame,
and into the lighter morning-room,
where I said :

Are you afraid of death, Eosy ?'

No,' she said ; ' I'm not afraid of it.'

(We were, through the drawn curtains, in
the bedroom lit with two unshaded candles.)

She said no more, nor did I. And we
went onto the bed : where I sat her down,
and myself close beside her. Her hands
she put together in her lap, and heredes
were looking dreamily before her.

Would you be afraid to die to-night ?'
I said softly in her ear — ' Eosy.'

No,' she said.

I showed my teeth, with an upward
glance at her.

Will you die to-night ?' I asked, a little
evilly.

What do you mean ?' she said, looking

at me. The same expression was still on
my face, nor did I change it.

Will you die with mc to-night?' I said;
I am ready to die with you : although, my
dear, as the saying goes, I don't love you.'

You are very wicked !' she said, her
eyes rounding. ' That would be wrong.'

No :' (shaking my head down a little) ;
only tired of it.'

Then I looked at her :

'x\nd so,' I said, ' that would be wrong ?'

I took down my hand from her shoulder
and stretched out my arms backward and
yawned.

Be it so,' I said ; ' that would be wrong.'

I lay awake by her in the dark for a
little, thinking about my work, and whether
I would go on with it, and whether I
would go on with anything. By degrees,
my thoughts grew to present occurrences,
to to-night's : and then, without thinking
whether she was asleep or not, asked —
her, I suppose :

Why did you get up ?'

34—2

Because I wanted to see you
I fell into my thoughts again; till at
last, ' Ah !' I said to myself, ' if I were
but some j^oor, striving, struggling devil
in some country town, and she my brave
little wife — some poor, striving, struggling
devil of a man of letters, with hopes
of some day teaching a callous English
society to know him as its " teacher," and
she the brave little wife that believed in me I
Ah ! why have I not had to strive and
struggle ? Perhaps I should have become
a great man some day, then. Life would
have been self-sufficing for me. I have
almost a mind — a mind to throw away
all those disgust-bearing, despair-bearing
golden grains, and go out and struggle and
strive again. Surely, I was happier as a
boy in London than . . .' But there was
little good in thinking in this way now, tonight.
— I did not ask myself why. I left
the thinking and its question alone : and
dozed ; and fell asleep.

My brain rewarded my mind for its later

thoughts on suicide, by a morning dream.
I was stricken with some disease, the precise
nature of which neither I nor anyone
knew. It was at present existing in me
somewhere, dormant. All at once it took
shape in my head and breast. From my
head came a plant reek of blue corruption,
infinitely foul : in my breast appeared a
fathomless sore, from the crater of which
oozed a sickly, yellowy fluid, infinitely
loathsome. All my body was full of pain,
and the only thing that gave me any relief
was to moan ceaselessly. People stood pityingly
around me. I seized pieces of wood
and drove them away. I hated that anyone
should hear me moan. But one person
fearlessly returned, till at last I noticed
her body, for it was a naked woman. The
skin of her stomach and ribs was all
shrivelled up and dry ; but her breasts
were full and soft and sweet. This I knew;
for I touched and kissed them without
looking at her face, having laid aside my
anger against those who had stood pityingly

around me. At last it struck mc that trio
reason why the skin of her stomach aut
ribs was all shrivelled np dry was because
she had once tight-laced them ; and, wondering
why her breasts, which I had kissed
again, were so full and soft and sweet, I
looked up at her face and saw that it was
what had once been Eosy's. Then I turned
away and stopped over a cliff, and sailed
down obliquely towards the rock-foam-line
of the quiet sea ; but, alighting closer, as a
flying duck in the water, in the shingly
sand in which I had left a little onward
trail. I lay grabbling the shingles sand with
my hands to under me ; till what had once
been Eosj^ came to me again when, straightway
remembering and realizing: the infinitely
soul reek of my head's recesses and the infinitely
loathsome sickly yellow fluid and
my fathomless sore, I arose and waded and
plunged into the sea which closed over me.
But what had once been Eos' was now
pursuing:: me like a sniffing sleuth-hound
bitch. The chase was terrific, and the

stench from me spread behind me as I flew
on Hke the wave-line made by the nose of
a fleet boat in poole waters. At last 1
came upon the ruddy bubbling crater of a
submarine volcano and dived in, she after
me. I felt no heat : only a vaf]fue idea that
this now slower chase, this pursuit, had been
enacted before somewhere by some one. We
went on for a long time in the liquid fire at an
equal distance, till, at last, I felt that I was
getting ahead of her. Then I slackened
my speed a little, and the stench from me
grew round me like a cloud. I moved on
again, and began to think that I had desired
to die and could not. I thought this over
and over again, till the desire to die became
almost maddening. In a few moments I
had passed through five things that suffice
to give death, unscathed. I turned and
went through them again, unscathed. Then
it was said to me : ' Jesus Christ says that, unless
you mean die, He will inflict the punishment of
heretical life-with-death ripon you /' I lifted
up my face frowning and answered : 'If He

thuiks that I u'oulcl sech death from fear of
anything He can do to me, He is mistaken.
Here I am, let Him take me.' Then I was
taken away to a dim under-world place,
and found my arms were round a body,
great, naked, flabby, which would comedown
upon me, and the skin depended a
little on the only part I could see of it, the
thighs and belly and upper portion of one
broad leg. The sweat flowed forth from
all my flesh, till the great, naked, flabby
body felt steadily wet. Then I perceived
that this was my father, as I had held him
up before. But I would make no sign of
any emotion lest Jesus Christ, who was
standing by, should see it. The stench
from the recesses of my head and the
hollow deep of my breast rose till I was
almost suffocated. I knew that Jesus
Christ was standing by, there, looking at
me, and would make no sign of anj'- emotion.
Sulphur rose in my throat : my eyes were
suffused with blood : the burthen of the
body, the flesh of which was growing round

my arms, pressed heavily upon me. I
knew that if I woukl I could escape straightway
from all these things ; but Jesus Christ
was standing by, there, looking at me and
thinking that I would at last come to Him
and ask Him for His death : I made no
sign of any emotion. Then the great,
naked, flabby body began to press down
upon me with a dull, mechanical force, so
that my head was thrust backward, and I
saw that it had a face. At the same time
the dim under-world atmosphere began to
be lit with a certain mild gold radiance, as
of dusky gold shafts through a still, dim
blue water : and I grew to see the features
of the face. The eyes were turned up, so
that only half the pupil was visible : the
round over the cheek-bones was swelled,
and with a little down of hair on the one I
looked at : the mouth, with thick, out-turned,
discoloured lips, gaped. I knew no
more of the face, except that it had some
resemblance to three people that I had
known and one that I had never known till

now. The upward head came slowly down,
as it were, settling upon mine. (I could
not move : I was supporting the body.) It
was not two feet from mine. I felt a slight
breath on some part of my face, not of the
mouth of the thing, hwifrom the mouth : I felt
it again and again. The upward head sank
lower : the mouth with the outward-playing
breath was by the top of my hair, by my
eyes that looked into its black inner cave :
the turned-up eyes, the half-visible pupils,
were opposite mine that looked into their
var-radiated centres (I steadfast looking,
and, as it were, noticing, so as to master all
expression of any emotion) : sank below
mine. Then there was a steadying of itself
in the ever-upward head before it came on.
It came on : the thick out-turned discoloured
lips had pressed mine that did not move. I
felt that something would burst in my brain :
QYQYj muscle in me was rigid, the blood in
me was rigid, the thought in me was rigid.
The breath from out of the mouth entered
mine and rolled there in a cloud before descending

into me. The face, flabby, clammy,
cool, grew to mine. I framed a tremendous
curse in my heart, and made a one universal
effort to bring it forth — and woke, I was
full of many sensations. Eosy's eyes were
looking into mine. Not realizing these
things, and not realizing those things, I
said :

Thou hast not conquered, Galilean !'

1 was exhausted, wet with trickling

sweat, my mind filled with the images of
my dream. I shut my eyes, and, after a
little, succeeded in thinking. At last, 'What
accursed shadows I saw ! Shadows of sin ;
shadows of a tormented universe. Oh, my
God ! My time is short. . I know it.
I shall not get further than Paris. I know
it. . . . Blake, old fellow, Allan's dead. —
"Dead?" he . . . .'—Poor Brooke ! if he
had a dream like that 'last night,' no wonder
he was ' troubled ' with it.

I opened my eyes and looked at Eosy.
The idea of her complete unconsciousness
of my dream, of the part she had played in

it, and of the sort of kiss she had been the
means of giving me, struck me as being
ludicrous, so that I hushed rather brightly
at her. She was a little sleepy, a little
languorous, lying with her pretty face deep
in the soft pillow, and her escaped hair
flowing — brown-gold tresses — round about
her head. The sun was on our feet. A
little canary she had bought yesterday was
singing snatches of song in the morning-room.
The idea of her solemn bestowal of
that half-awakened kiss made me laugh
brightly at her again. The little canary
there was singing snatches of song. The
sun was on our feet.

That evening I received a book and a letter
from Mrs. Herbert, enclosing another — from
Starkie, at last! I read Mrs. Herbert's first,
in order to be able to better give myself up to
Starkie's and the book, which I guessed was
Brooke's. There was nothing of any interest
in hers ; a mere report of the satisfactory
condition of things at Dunraven Place.
Then I opened Starkie's ; began reading it
slowly. He had caught up Clarkson at
Zanzibar. Things were not going as well
as they might. Two months frittered away
in taking great pains about doing nothing.
But they had at last started, and here they
where on the Continent. Clarkson wanted
to turn down to Lake Intangweolo, instead
of making for Lake Eugene, to explore that

block, which was comparatively unknown ;
whereas the other place was both known
and interested, save for the fact that old
Osbaldistone died there. He, Starkie, should
like to know what the devil was Clarkson
going to do in that galere. Catch fever or
dysentery and manure the sand ? He could
not possibly say when they might be back ;
perhaps not at all. He had a faint hope
that it might possibly be before next year
was out. But he couldn't write any more
of this stuff. He was out of sorts — in the
Dues. Clarkson seemed determined to give
his name to a new species of beast, or die in
the attempt. They'd do no good this time.
Only another instance of wasted time, and
wasted treasure and wasted — life. But here
was the end, or he would be tearing up this
stuff in disgust. — Mine disgustedly, but
truly, Oliver S. Starkie.

I began to think about this letter till it
struck me that it was odd I had not received
it sooner. Then I examined the post-marks,

and found that it had arrived in England
in early February

Damn the old woman !' I said, and
pulled the paper covering off what as I had
rightly guessed was Brooke's book, the book.
Rosy asked what was the matter ? I explained,
and, after a little small talk, took to
examining the book. When I had satisfied
myself, feeling in a sociable humour, I began
talking to Rosy, and she, soon brightening,
came to me gladly. We had a quiet talk
about past things, one of the, if not the,
most quietly pleasures talks I had ever had
with her. We talked about how she had
made me eat the grapes and had made me
call her Eosy miss Rosebud, I insisted.
She had not had all her own way from the
first !), and how Minnie (poor Minnie !) had
chased the piece of paper under the table :
and how we had gone out for our first walk
together when I was so weak — and stupid
(where was the respectful clerk a good deal
better dressed and, doubtless, fed, than
myself, now ?) : and how we had tea together

that other evening in my room, with the
fruit and the cakes and all the other things,
including a solemn little owl who wouldn't
laugh properly once the whole time, and the
walk together afterwards. And so on.

And we had in the bedroom a look at a
certain little round silver locket (chosen ina
jeweller's in Edgware Road), of which
there had been some talk in the study, and
I had repeated dramatically :

But I shall always be able to keep the
locket, you know : and when I look at it I
shall think of you and give a sigh ;' (and I
gave one) ' for — you've been '

Don't tease me!' cried Rosy, with
puckered brow and a slap on my arm. And
I didn't.

The next day after breakfast I set upon
my work again, but could make nothing of
it. I felt I had better go out. I went out :
down to the Seine and frittered away half
an hour or so looking at books in the book-boxes
on one of the river walls. It was a
dull grey day, with a certain amount of wind,

east wind I thought : altogether quite like a
half-bred London day in early March, before
Boreas had grown boisterous.

I lit upon an ill-used copy of a book by
an English writer whose name I had heard
spoken, evilly spoken, of in my later London
days. I was in the humour for buying the
book of such a writer, so I bought it and
came home with it and straightway began to
read it. The subject was an author whom
I had been of late accustomed to read both
rather frequently and rather carefully. I
was struck by the number of my own
thoughts that I found. Then there began
to creep over me the sense that I had done
nothing yet, written nothing yet, that is : a
displeasing enough sense when coupled with
another that I never should do anything,
write anything ; anything, at any rate,
worth the reading. I envied this man who
wrote with such assurance of work done. —
About which point Rosy came in from her
afternoon walk and we had tea.

It often happened that I was silent at
VOL. II. 85

meals and Rosy content to let me so, I
thought to myself, but this evening, apparently
because she saw that I particularly
did not care to talk, she kept on asking me
questions and chattering ceaselessly. For
some time my sense of duty kept successful
guard over my temper and I answered her
quietly ; but at last I sent my sense of duty
packing and began to answer her a little
irritably : then, gradually worked into an
aggrieved state by her persistent chatter,
answered her irritably, and at last kept a
frowning silence. She was defiant : went
on chattering and laughing with flushed
cheeks and sparkling eyes, and at last proceeded
to tease me. I was not in a humour
to be teased. I said so. She was excited
now and not to be stopped, despite that
Marie was in the room clearing away the
things for dessert. I kept my frowning
silence till Marie was gone, and then said,
as playfully as I could, that I was rather
tired of hearing a certain little tongue wagging
and wished it would stop still for a little.

Then came an indignant flare up, to which
I made no answer, not even by looking at
anything but the grapes I was eating and
my plate : then a second indignant flare up
spiced with hot reproaches. I expected wet
reproaches to follow ; and expected rightly.
She was getting tired of them when, having
finished my grapes, I got up and went into
the study.

I made an attempt to work, but failed :
made another attempt, and failed again. I
determined T would go out. Then, under
the influence of a collapsing sense of tiredness
and sleepiness, thought of bed ; but
bed meant Rosy, and I could not stand her
just at present. I went into the diningroom.
She was sitting knitting, or whatever
it was, in a chair. I told her that I
was going out, and might not be in till
late : to which she deigned no answer. I
went into the hall and, taking my hat and
stick, down and out. Which way to go ?
Where to go to ? I stood, beating my
trouser-leg with my stick, considering. It

35—2

was a beautiful night, clear and cool — no
moon, with the heavens star-sown.

There was evil in me. I felt it in a
little : and did not care to combat it. I
walked to the right, a little verily. It
was not now, Which way to go ? but,
Where to ?

I began to think of piquant pictures of
Grevin's— dumpy, strutting little cocottes
of undeniable chic, and laughed at the
thought. There was evil in me, and I did
not care to combat it. Names I knew of
the supposed haunts of said dumpy, strutting
little cocottes — Paie Blanche ' le Skating
Theatre ' (the pronunciation of which, ' le
Skating Theatre,' made me laugh again),
and the Folies Bergere.

I took a cab to the Eue Blanche.

When I entered the hall there was a certain
tremulousness in me, chiefly the result
of an imperfect sense of wrong-doing, and a
little, maybe, of the music and the bright
scene. I stalked round the rink, not quite
daring to openly regard anyone : in fact.

very self-conscious. I sat down at a table,
and, having ordered a bock, began to argue
with myself for a perfect fool. Here was
I, who had pondered on Life and Death
and Time and Space and God, absolutely
nervous in a hall filled with harlots and
harlot-mongers ! What more ludicrous ?
I paid the waiter, drank a little of my bock,
and looked about me.

In five or six minutes I was master of
myself. In ten I was stalking round the
rink, observing the people with interest. I
thought I would speak to one of ces dames,
and see what she had to say for herself.
Variety is pleasing. But ces dames had
such uninteresting faces, and such puffed-out
breasts and contracted waists, that I
found I had no inclination to speak to
them. I wandered about for half an hour
or so without seeing any face that attracted
me : and then went out and (not analysing
my motives) took a cab to the Folies Bergere.


At first sight, I liked the place better

than the Rue Blanche : the fountains
pleased me, and the seats. Then I was
attracted bj^ a vendee of something or
other, who had a finely developed pair of
whiskers, quite bushy. I stood and began
imagining her point of view of life, till,
catching my eye, she smilingly proffered
one of her something or other, addressing
me. This made me laugh, and laughingly
declining, pass on. I wandered about. The
faces of the women seemed to me a little
more interesting than those at the Rue
Blanche, but not interesting enough to bespoken
to.

Once, coming down a staircase, I found
myself faced by myself in a mirror. I
paused in my descent for a moment, in
which I saw my solemn face set above my
shoulders, squared by my hands being
clasped together behind my back. The
idea of this figure and face stalking about
among these people, made me laugh.

At last I grew wearied of it, and went
away for a long walk about the streets.

When I came home I found Rosy sitting
in the library, in the easy-chair, looking as
if she had kept herself awake by means of
some sort of emotion : I soon perceived
jealous In a little she began questioning.
Where had I been ? why was I so
late ? I answered her simply. First, I
had been to the Skating Theatre, in the
Eue Blanche, and then to the Folies Bergere
: and then for a walk.

Those were bad places : bad women were
there ; I needn't have kept her up all this
time, and then come and told her that.

How did she mean that I had kept her
up ? since when had she taken to sitting up
for me when I went out at night ?

She believed that I had been talking
with a lot of those women. And why
hadn't I gone home with one and never
come back here again ? She (Rosy) had
always thought it would come to this ! she
knew quite well when I went away this
evening that I was going after some . . «
some one else (tears) : I was a cruel . . .

I thought the child was ill, and tried to
comfort her. She would take no comfort.
I came to her, intending to try more personal
comfort. She was up and, with an
intense :

I hate you ! . Go away !' herself
went away.

After a little pondering, I decided that it
would be best to let her alone, and composed
myself to sleep in the arm-chair and another
chair for my feet.

Marie, entering to dust the room, was
apparently the instrument of wakening me
from bad dreams. For a little I did not
know whether to laugh, or pull a face at
myself, or take Eosy's quarrel with me
seriously : then, observing the sunshine in
the room, determined to go out and get rid
of all these spiritual cobwebs. Dried and
somewhat dirty as I felt, I would not go
into the bedroom and wash myself with the
chance of awakening her. I went into the
hall and, taking up my stick, onto the landing.
I was going down the first flight of

steps, with my mind full of thought, when,
all at once, there was a stumble, a fall, a
clutching at and a missing the bannister,
and I was lying, half-stunned and dazed,
on the broad step at the foot of the
flight.

Then a wrath rose in and burst forth as
I rose in a keen :

'B 1!'

This foolery was past all endurance ! — I
dropped down again : my foot had failed
me : the anguish in it, in my ankle particularly,
was almost intolerable. I rolled onto
my stomach and face, stiffening my muscles
so as to bear it without the threatening
childish collapse, or, at least, moan. After
a little I determined I would get up — up
the flight, into the house.

With great pain, aided by my stick, I
reached the door, opened it, went in, into
the study, and into the easy-chair.

There I began to think. At last I found
that I had to wrestle with the old man of
the wiry muscles and the hateful breath, the

Natural Supernatural, once more. If I had
not wrestled with him, I was quite capable
of believing that there was a conspiracy
here. I threw him at last, and, having
thrown him, felt how much better it would
be when my carcase was rotting under the
sod and my soul melted in the air, and all
these troubles over.

At last Eosy came in, dressed, still in the
sulks. I did not speak to her. Wishing I
were dead was not the sign of reconciliation
or comforting. I was thinking now whether
I would send for a doctor for my foot, or
no : deciding no. Kosy pretended she had
come to look for something, and, not being
able to find it, went out again without a
word. I could have laughed, but scowled
instead.

I got up and made my way to the diningroom
doorway, then through the diningroom
to the salon doorway. She was in
the salon. I had only a moment's hesitation.
I crossed half the salon as ordinarily
as I could ; but I knew I limped a little,

and this angered. Then I suddenly thought :
Why should I care to disguise from her the
fact that I am hurt ? and limped altogether.
She said nothing. (I noticed by the 
clock that it was half-past eight :
she was, as I had supposed, up early
the bedroom, I rang the bell and
went and sat on the bed.

I got my boot off myself, and Amelie,
following my directions, bandaged my ankle
up in a wet napkin. Her final adjusting-touch
of the bandage extorted a noise of
some sort from me, and I looked up. Eosy
was standing by the doorway, watching; I
scowled and looked down again. She went
away.

I ordered my breakfast in the study, where
I went, passing by Eosy in the dining-room.
My foot was ceaselessly painful.

I ordered a bed to be put up in what
we called the bath-room for me. Eosy
came into the study at about five, found
a book of hers on the mantlepiece just
above my head, and went out without a

word. I sat thinking, or rather, trying to
think.

At half-past Marie brought in the tea,
Rosy following her. Then Rosy poured out
a cup, put sugar and milk into it, and,
taking a piece of cake, retired to the chair
in the far window, where she began to drink
the one and eat the other in silence. As I
wished for my cup of tea, I got up and
poured it out, and, taking a piece of cake,
retired to my seat again. I determined that
I would have dinner in here, in the shape of
some fruit and bread and milk.

When Rosy had done her cup of tea and
piece of cake, she renewed them : I, after
some thought as to whether the pain of
getting tlicm was worth the candle of partaking
of them, and the (foolish but natural)
display of my feeling toward her in this
matter, did not. When she had finished,
she put her cup and saucer on the table and
went out of the room. I rang and told
Marie what I wished about my dinner. I
was not angry or even piqued by Rosy's

conduct : I was too indifferent to it to be
either. The reason wlij^ I did not make
advances towards reconciliation with her
was, that I did not care to trouble myself
so far.

During the course of the day Rosy contrived
what little annoyances she could forme
; but with uo other effect than making
me laugh at her simpleness. ' If you quarrel
with a woman I thought, ' you must expect
this sort of thing.'

When I was in bed, I considered what
was the real condition of mv feelings 
Rosy. Without doubt, they were
those of complete indifference, and, perhaps,
something more. What had I written
even in the lotus-eating time ? ' If tomorrow
I were to be transplanted to Egypt
or wherever you like, I do not believe that
I should be sad, being told that I should
not see you again.' And now ? — I ventured
to doubt that I was anything but a
fool not to myself transplant myself somewhere
where I could myself tell myself that

I should not see her again. There was no
imperfect sense of wrong-doing ' in the
thought. It seemed to me to be something
little short of folly to stay here and be
troubled with her. I ought to go out into
the world and see its ways, so as to prepare
myself for my work ; that work which was
nothing else than, having by self-culture
and observation got an impression of things
generally, to put down that impression on
paper. Truth was the object of my work,
and, by the very fact that I was a quite unprejudiced
viewer of the phenomena of what
is called Life, I did not see why I should
not produce such an impression of things
generally ' as posterity should not willingly
let die.' The idea of telling the truth about
things was a pleasing one. I could almost
believe that some day that idea might be of
itself a sufficient incentive to a love of
existence.

Four daj's passed. Then it seemed to me
to be best to put an end to this.

The reconciliation with Rosy was therefore
effected, and then there came a flow of
gentle tears, soft embracements, and the
rest of it : all of which I endured in an
actively passive sort of way, as being to the
female mind the necessary sequence of a
quarrel.

The days sped on again. I was content.
Once or twice, I thought to myself that I
should, perhaps, have been more content if
I had not been content ; for indifference
was to be avoided by me. But there was
always the answering thought of this inevitably
undecided position of Rosy's and my
relation towards one another. One interesting

particular I had, as it were,
parenthetically learnt from Eosy : that her
departure from No. 3 on that memorable
evening, with head bent down and hands
evidently holding one another in front, was
not, as I had supposed, to the streets, but
to the house of a Mrs. House, who owed
her money for some work she had done.
It had been some sign of my philosophy
(or indifference) that, on realizing that the
whole of this luckless connection of ours
rested on a mistake, I had not done more
than remark to myself that it was a pity,
and, after thinking about it for a few
moments, gone on with other thoughts.

One afternoon we were having tea together
in the study, both of us reading or
skimming illustrated newspapers, when I,
hearing a ring at the bell, looked up, and
said :

What's that, I wonder ?'

She suggested that it might be some
things which she had got at the Bon
Marche in the morning, and proceeded to

explain that she had transferred her custom
from the Louvre to the Bon Marche for
some reason or other which I do not
remember. There came a knock at the
door. She said, ' Entrez !' and Amelie
came in with a letter on the letter-tray
and towards me, saying that it was a letter
for monsieur. I was reflecting that that
knock at the door had struck me as not
being in harmony with the eternal fitness
of things (Marie had, at my request, been
broken of the habit), when Rosy inquired
who had brought it up ? As I had my
upward hand on it, Amelie was answering
that it was monsieur the concierge who had
brought it up that very moment, and had
said that he was sorry to have overlooked it
in the morning. A glance at the redirected
address had shown me that it was Eayne's
handwriting. My heart went up to the
bottom of my throat.

Is it from Professor Astrachan ?' asked
Eosy as Amelie was going on.

VOL. II. 36

'No,' I said, striving to be full master of
myself.

Rosy refrained for further question, and
I slowly opened the letter :

*Dear Bertram,

■ ' I should not have written to you,
but that many things have come upon me.
My little son is dead. God, in His great
Love, saw fit to give him to mcj as I
thought, for my consoling : and He has
seen fit, in His great wisdom, to take him
away from me again. God's ways are not
as our ways.

'I do not say that my affliction is not hard,
very, very hard to bear. At times I have
doubted that I should ever see the good of
it. I do not deny this. But I praj^ always
for Faith in His Goodness, and Faith full
and perfect, I am sure, v;ill be given to me
before the end. Yes, I am dying ! Perhaps
it is better so : and yet, I do not quite
mean that. My head, you see, is not quite
clear now. There is something I should

like to say to you. Will you come to me ?
But yet do as you think you ought to, and
remember, that any liking of mine is as
nothing in comparison with your duty. I
have written too much already. But you
will understand. For my head is not clear
now.

My husband sends this. He has been
very good to me. Remember about your
duty. If I do not see you again, I ask God
to bless and keep you and make you His at
last, as I know He will.'

Brave heart,' said I to myself — 'brave
heart !'

My eyes stayed fixed on her name for a
little : then I thought ; till my thought
from thick shoaledness turned to confusion.

I half crumpled up the letter in my
hands. Some one touched me on the arm.
I had risen : was standing up, here, in the
room. It was Eosy. I did not know she
was here too.

I looked aside at her : her cheeks rosy

36—2

red, a star-gleam in her eyes, her brows knit.
A vixen. — What did she want ?

It is from her. I know . . . it is from
her. — She wants you to go to her ?' (She
was half-panting out her words.)

Yes,' I said.

You will go ?'

Yes.'

You shall not go ! Oh, you shall not
go ! — I will not let you go.'

I passed slowly by her upraised hand :
then, turning, found her close beside me.

. . . My dear child . . . she is dying.
I must go to her.'

I will not let you — go !'
"Will not— let me— go ?'
I stood, thinking of Kayne.

. . . Won't you say anything to me ?'
she cried, ' What does she want with you ?
What right has she with you ? You are not
hers ! — She wants to take you avv'ay from
me. I know her. — But she shall not !'

Suddenly she stepped to me and caught
me by the arm, crying :

I won't let you go to her ! I linll not !
yoii shall not go ! I will not let you go !'

Hey ?' I said ; ' what are you talking
about ?' And looked at her.

Realizing her to be there, her, the tool
Circumstance had chosen to undo me with,
the plague of a mistake, her, the red rag
flaunted in my face by Circumstance that
thought I could not gore horse or man
again, I concentrated unutterable hate in
my looking at and into her. She shrank
back.

Ah,' she whispered, shivering, ' don't.
Don't. Don't. I will let you go. Yes :
really, truly, indeed, now, this very moment.
Only don't look like that, or I shall shriek.'

I turned away my face again, indifferent :
and thought again.

. . . But you will come back ?' pleaded
her tearful voice.

I have told you,' I said. ' Yes.'

You have told me nothing. Promise
me that you will come back. Swear to me
that '

I went to the paper-cupboard, opened it,
and stood looking for the time-table. She
touched me on the arm. She had come
after me. I turned to her and said :

I tell you that I will come back all
right. Now, do not trouble me, Eosy.
You see that I am — that I don't want to
be troubled.'

But how long will you be ?'

I can't tell. But not more than a few
days : if so much.'

Oh, what shall I do, what shall I do ?
You will leave me ! And I shall never see
you again ! You will never be the same tome
again. — I hate her !'

'My dear child,' I said, 'she is dying.
You won't have to hate her long.'

You love her !'

I do not.'

You do, you know you do !' She caught
my hand in hers up to her lips. ' I can't
let you go !' she sobbed.

I comforted her in a quiet way, stroking
her hair back :

Come,' I said, ' don't be silly. Come,
come.' And went on, till all at once it
occurred to me that I ought to have looked
out the time the night mail went, and
paused. The clock struck six.

By Jove,' I said, half to myself, ' what
a fool I am !' And turned and began rummaging
in the cupboard till I had found the
time-table. I quickly opened and began
to study it.

A pause.

I am . . . very sorry,' said her soft
voice by me. ' I didn't mean to vex you.
Will you forgive me ?'

'Oil yes, I have nothing to forgive youfor.'

And may I pack your things '?'

'You are kind.'

'Don't say that,' she pleaded. 'Will
you give me a kiss, and be friends again ?'

I turned round and, with my arm about
her back, gave her a kiss on the cheek. I
was smiling at her child's woebegone face.
Then I plunged into my thoughts again
and, leaving her, went to the window and

at last found out the time of the night-mail.
Then I took to walking up and
down the room in front of the chimney-piece
and fire.

. . . Will you tell them, please,' I
said, ' to be quick with the dinner ? I have
not much . . . All, she is gone.'

I rang the bell and, having turned,
saw the envelope of the letter with the
papers on the floor at the foot of the easy-chair.
I picked it up and considered it.
A horrible thought came to me : Bayne
might he dead !

I looked at the postmark. The letter
had taken four days to get to me. I cursed
Mrs. Herbert. Where was the letter ?

I found it in my waistcoat pocket, put
there I did not know when.

Marie opened the door. I toll her to
tell Amelie to be as quick with dinner as
possible, as I wanted to catch a train.
Marie agreed and went back, closing the
door.

I have found your small portmanteau,'

said Rosy, coming into the diningroom
doorway with a noise of the curtain-rings.
'Will you come and choose the
things you want, because I'm not sure ?'

"VVe went together.

When we, or more particularly I, had
finished packing the portmanteau, we went
in to dinner. The portmanteau was to betaken
down the back staircase. Neither
Eosy nor I could eat much. I was thinking
of Eayne.

After what must have been a rather long
silence :

I forgot the flask,' she said. 'Do sou
know where it is ? You'd like to take the
flask with some brandy in it ? It's such a
pretty flask, and you've never used it.' (She
had given it me.)

Yes,' I said ; ' oh, to be sure.' And
told Marie to go and bring it.

Marie brought it, and then came the
question of the brandy. There was none
in the house : which had not struck any of
us before. I was for not minding about it,

till I saw that Rosy would be hurt if her
flask was not used : so Marie was sent out
to get some brandy, while Eosy and I went
into the study again, not caring for more
dinner. There I sat down in the easy-chair,
with full thought, and Eosy quietly
brought a chair to by mine and sat down
and took my hand from my knee to within
hers on her lap. So we sat in silence.

Then Marie returned with the flask filled,
which Eosy took from me, and reaching, put
on the table. It was not yet time to start.
We sat in silence, as before ; till my thought
was less full and I turned my head to look
at her with large upward eyes whose gaze
was far away somewhere.

Are you all right now ?' I asked.

Yes,' she said, ' I am all right.'

I was sorry for her : somehow as I had
been sorry for her sitting on the hearth-rug
in the fire-lit room waiting for me who
stood at that small window there. I could
not help thinking of the exceeding pity of
it, that that mistake had been made, to give

me to her— and her to me, I began to
consider that, it could not always be an
inevitably undecided position, Kosy's and
my relations towards one another. Here
we were : what were we to do ?

I put my arm round her neck and drew
her cheek to meet my lips :

Poor little Kosebud,' I said. ' Poor
little Kosebud !'

Then I felt the tears coming: soft from her
eyes : and the memory of a scene rose before
me, when I said :

Why, little Rosebud. You mustn't mind
like that, you know. I'll come back again
some day — quite soon.'

Ah, I had come back again, and had
brought her, not a bonnet with blue ribbons
and a flower that should look so real
that the butterflies should settle on it, but
what she wanted — myself : and what I had
promised with myself, some grapes and
bon-bons : and, what I had not promised
with myself, some thorns and nettles. Alas,
alas, alas ! And it teas alas, for she was

indeed alone in the world, quite alone, as
if nobody else belonged to her. . . .
Good-night, Bosehid. Good-night !'

Well, there was no good in this.

I said :

" The cocks they crew, and the horns blew,
And the ions took the hill ;
And Willie he gazed hame again,
To his hard task and till."

—I must be off, my pippin, or I shall
miss the train.' And got up and went
across the room and turned, looking at
her.

She rose and, saying : ' I will fetch your
coat,' went out through the doorway, leaving
me with mj* mental stretching and
rubbing of limbs that had been asleep and
wakened up to the feeling that their blood
was sluggish.

Presently she returned with my greatcoat,
which I took with thanks from her,
and then I felt that she felt that the final
embrace was coming. In a moment it was
come. She was in my arms, pressing up

with a poor little tearful face for the soft
lips' kiss. None other Ides than that now,
somehow : none other kiss than that now.
Oh Rosebud, Rosebud, all thy poor pitiful
little love is poured forth in it : oh Rosebud,
Rosebud, wherefore not content to be still and
let him pass from thee rather than to drain
the cup to the lees ? But so it was, and
so I gave it. Then our beings, scarce met,
parted again : and I had left her.

I picked up my hat from the stand, and
was pacing to the door, when the thought
of the little window came to me. I stopped:
bent : looked. She was standing as I had
left her by the table, but her face was
turned as towards the window. Large upward
tearful eyes whose gaze vv'as where ?
with me in that place if somewhere faraway
? . . . Should I go hack to her ? . . .

I lifted up my head and rent on slowly
to the door, with a foreboding in me. Of
what ? I opened the door : was out : had
half drawn it to, when the thought of
Wasn't it all a dream ? hastened my drawing

to, and the noise of the met jambs took
a deeper noise in the staircase. I was at
the first steed : my left foot on the second :
my right on the third. I felt a pain there.
My ankle had been hurt : true.

I went down;

As I got into the cab opposite the door,
I looked up at our balcony half hoping to
see her there. No. Nor at the window.

Once more, as we drove away, I looked up
at balcony and window. No. I was a fool.

I thought much on our way to the Gare
du Nord.

"When we arrived there I found that I
had abundance of time. I began to walk
up and down the hall, thinking profoundly.
At last this thought came : ' The next
evening I met the Professor at the Gare du
Nord as we had arranged, and (he, at the end

of our walk up and down in the hall

There we turned, there he began to speak
commending Eosy to my care as a last
sudden thought that . . .'

Sudden thoughts came quickly. I

paced lip and down more quickly. A
porter with my portmanteau came to me
to remind me that it was time to be getting
my luggage weighed and myself on to the
platform. We went up the hall together.
I looked at the clock. He was right. I
gave one big step on, and suddenly stopped.
He passed me, and stopped too, but not as
I had done.

'Thanks:' I said. 'I shall not go to-right.'


Good, sir he said.

If you will put that into a cab,' I said,
I will be back in a moment.'

Very well, sir,' he said.

I went off to the telegraph office, where
I wrote on a form : Ladtj Gwatkin, 22,
Balmoral Street, London, and B. Leicester,
Paris, and L cannot come. Then, when the
clerk had shown me that he understood it
aright, I returned to my porter and the
portmanteau in the cab. I thought much
en our way to the Avenue de Fontenoi.
When we arrived there I, who had not, did

not look up at either balcony or v.'indow,
got out with my portmanteau and, having
paid the man, went slowly in. As the
impulse to look up had been denied, so was
that to ask at the concierge's if she had
gone out. But the concierge came forth to
proffer carrying up the portmanteau : and I
surrendered it to him. Up, then, I went
slowly, deliberately, with mechanical limping
foot. At the second story some one
came out, a man, and descended upon me :
Y\hen, through the mutual choosing of first
one side and then the other, there was
a moment's delaying till I went straight
on, but not before I had, in the gas-light,
caught a mechanical glimpse of a face that
mechanically reminded me of some one. I
cared not. Up I went again slowly, deliberately,
with mechanical limping foot ;
till I reached our third story, and the door,
and had unlocked it, and gone in, and
drawn it to quietly. The passage in the
red light of the hanging oil lamp's little
floating redder core flame. No : not to

look in at the small window. — In here, into
the study. Almost dark : no one here.

Now into the salon. Almost dark too :
no one here. Don't call for her, or your
voice will unnerve you as a concession to
the ghostly.

In the morning-room. Almost dark :
no one.

In the bedroom : no one.

Will you go into the bath-room ? Yes.
No one. — Stand and think a little.

Now go back through all those almost
dark and empty rooms, restraining that cry
that is in the top of your beating heart.
And, going back, what an emptiness there is
ill the place !

It is foolish to feel the presence of the
ghostly or something feebly unseen here.
The matches are on the mantlepiece behind
the jar. Don't knock it over, you groper. —
Light. No : darkness. These thin contraband
matches are better than the stinking
sulphur, but still . . . Out again.
Damn !

VOL. II. 37

Now be careful this time. Light the
candle.

It is lit.

What is the time ? A quarter to nine.
Now A letter on the table.

She is gone !

My mouth is dry : I swallow. Read
the letter. Here : —

Mr. Leicester.

I warned you of it. I see it all
now. I told you I would go away when it
came. The last thing I ask from you is
for me never to see you again. You will
find everything in the house. I have only
taken the clothes I have on and X'2 7s.,
which I had when I went with you. You
are not to try to find me. If you do, you
are a coward and no gentleman. I pray
God will forgive me for my wickedness ;
He knows I did not do it for gain, but for
pure love for you ; that is the only comfort
I have within myself. I loved you, but
what is love and how strong when through

suffering hate takes the place of that love.
I hate you and I always shall.

*K. H.'

I sat down and, with my elbows on my
knees and my head between my hands,
tried to think it out.

37—2

Despite every effort that was made to
discover her, Rosy remained undiscovered,
At the end of a week I made my arrangements
in the matter and crossed over to
London, where I felt sure I should ultimately
have news of her. I had been
informed by a chief of the Parisian police
that either she had got off by the very
train which I had intended to take, or else
she was dead. I felt a strong conviction
that neither had she got off by that train
(how was it possible ?), nor yet was she
dead ; but at times a horrible idea came
over me that she might be being detained
in some infamous den. This chief of
police had confidently assured me that it
vas not so : I had, myself, wandered

about in filthy back streets enough in the
forlorn hope of finding her : had at last,
thinking of Marina, visited infamous dens
enough, places of hot air and bright light
and tawdrily rich ornament, filled with
fat and ghastly painted naked women who
had at first almost terrified me, thinking of
that awful breathless picture of Juvenal's
Agrippina, and then made me sorrowful
nigh to tears. And here in this London,
where my own poor mother had offered her
body for sale in the public way ; what a
thought was it to think, that perhaps I had
not persevered enough in that search ;
perhaps if I had stayed another week,
another day, I might have found her !
Thought of it and recollection of it mingled
perpetually. I could do no steady work.
As day followed day, and still no news
either from Parisian or London police, I
became so feverish at nights that I could
not sleep.

At last, one evening about a fortnight
after she had left me, sitting in my easy-chair

iu the study window, trying to
read a book, I began to think about the
little canary (up there asleep in his cage),
singing snatches of song, while the sun
was on our feet, and, realizing once more
that all this was not done in a dream, but
that she was indeed gone from me, might
at this moment be in misery, might die
without my ever seeing her again — the
tears came, and then, bowing my head down
between my hands, I sobbed and wept.
These were the first tears I had shed.
They were a relief to me. I began to
think of it as I had not yet thought of it,
quietly and fully.

That night, for the first time since she
had left me, I had a dreamless refreshing
sleep. In the morning I went down the
river to Greenwich again, and up onto the
heath, thinking of Rayne, as I had so
many times this last fortnight. The place
seemed somewhat strange to me now :
stranger than it had seemed before. I did
not go to the school and the field where

Wallace and I had lain and played at
chuck,' looking out at times over the
dark, silver-twining Thames and duskily,
far-reaching London. — I determined that I
would find out about Eayne when I got
back.

I went to Balmoral Street, and, seeing no
assuring sign in No. 22 of life or death,
rang, and inquired of a maid who opened
the door, if Lady Gwatkin was any better ?
There was no surprise in her face, liaijne
was not dead. My breath flowed out almost
in a sigh. — Lady Gwatkin was a good deal
better. She had gone with Sir James into
the country.

It was enough. Further words I did
not hear. I went away almost joyfully.


A few days later, I saw Astrachan,
and spoke about the Expedition, Starkie,
Clarkson and Brooke, again. Worked with
a will at my classics, and at my spiritual
classics as well : struggled against despondent
and not-to-be- dismissed thoughts

about Rosy. Once was almost setting out
for Paris, with a notion (illogical enough)
that she was there, but a little thought
showed me that my arrangement of things
was best. She was in London I was sure.
She would probably write to me in Paris
(perhaps not knowing my London address).
My man would telegraph at once : I would
be with her at once. But a sudden idea
that my man might, after all, be negligent,
unsettled me.

It was the afternoon after this consideration
of the matter in which the sudden idea
of my man perhaps being negligent had
occurred to me, that I spent in a long
walk and debate.

When I returned home, looking as usual
on the hall table for the longed-for telegram,
I saw one. (My heart started.) I picked
it up, and came quietly into the study and,
at the window;, opened it.

She was found.

I threw up my face and laughed. Found !
found ! found! Found at last.

A letter from her. (Address unnoticed
yet.) This :

I cannot give yon up. I am ill. Do
come to me. I am sornj for it. It 7ra>i
wrong of me. Will you forgive me and come }

Forgive yon ? Come ?' I said, hxnghiug.
Oh, little Rosebud, I will forgive you for
forgiving me ! I will come to you, and

keep you, and ' Ending in tearful

laughter.

To have found her again ! To know
that I had not . . . Nay, I knew nothing
yet ! And she was ill.

How long it took for that gold-incited
hansom to get to the place ! How long
the Anglicized Italian woman took to tell
me where she was ! Upstairs I went at
last : up, up, to the very top of the house,
the dusty, dingy attic. She was there.

I knocked softly at the door and, on her
voice saying that I was to come in, went

in, and stood for a moment looking. I had
but seen her pale worn face on the pillow
before she had started up with a glad cry.
And then I was holding her in my arms,
and she me, silently.

In a little I felt that my eyes were full of
tears ; but she squeezed me in her old
dear child's way, so quietly, pulling me into
her : and the smiles came to my lips,
and I bent back my head so as to look at
her face. But she would not let me :
turning round her head and pressing it to
my neck, in her old dear child's way. It
seemed a dream that we had ever been
away from one another. And then all at
once she kissed me on the lips, such a long
kiss : and hid her face again, and sighed
contented. And so we remained in one
another's arms some time — silently.

At last I began to think ; but had no
more than begun, when her breast heaved,
all her body heaved, before the sound of
the cough came as a relief to it, I feared
that my holding her might increase the

effort, and made a little move to loosen
from lier, but she would not. Feared
indeed : there was fear in me.

Rosebud,' I said, when I was sitting by
her on the bed, stroking her hand, she
lying back on the pillow looking at me,
you've got a very bad cold.'

Yes,' she said ; ' I ' And went off

into another fit of coughing, the third she
had had since I came in. It was fear-inspiring
to listen to her.

How did you get it ?' I asked.

Got it !' she said with a smile. 'Caught
it!'

Well ' I began : and stopped. I

was determining that she should be out of
London before that night.

And so she was. — We went down together
to Micklehurst, a place I had heard
of as being sunny and with a deep blue
sky. The child seemed very contented,
quietly contented, dreamily contented, somewhat
contented as I did not quite like her
to be. The patience with which she bore

her convulsive fits of coughing seemeth tome
strange. Once I caught myself thinking
of a dying monkey I had seen in Paris
streets.

Arrived in the hotel, albeit I hesitated
a little, I determined that I would go and
bring a doctor to see her. And, having
made her comfortable in the window at a
room that looked over the blue winding
say river, with its girdling darkened
mountains, over which the sun was setting
in mellow golden warmth, I went down
and inquired the name and address of some
doctor. I seemed to be drinking in the
clear, pure air as I walked along.

I found the doctor's house, and the
doctor : and brought him to see her. He
reported a bad cold, cautiously adding that
he would come again and see her on
Saturday. (This was Wednesday.) I accompanied
him down to the hotel door.
I rather liked his face : he had a little gold
light in his eyes somewhere, perhaps something
to do with the sun there. I asked

him one or two questions about her which
he answered simply. She had caught a
bad coal : that was clear. Perhaps it was
nothing more : perhaps again it was, perhaps
even it might develop into congestion.
She seemed in rather a low state of health ;
but he would see her again in a few days,
on Saturday, and then he should be able to
tell me if there was anything. I said :

Thank you ; very well, be it so. My
name is Leicester. We shall probably be
staying here for some little time.'

And so we parted.

Eosy spent a bad night with the coughing.
She did not care to go out, although
the day was delightfully sunnily warm, but
stayed in an easj^-chair by the open window
looking over the blue winding say river
and the girdling mountains, all set in the
deep blue enamelled firmament. I left her
with a book for an hour in the morning
and went down onto the shore : and again,
late in the afternoon. Her cough grew
worse towards evening, and at last it struck

me to go out and get her some sweets to
suck to try and stop it. I brought in a
large packet of divers sorts, which pleased
her : and we sat by the fire, which she had
wished should be lit, and talked quietly
and happily about ourselves of the past.
It seemed a dream that we had ever been
away from one another ; but a sweet soft
dream that had sweetened and softened all
the time that we had been with one
another.

This night was worse than the last, and
the next day than that which preceded it :
and so with the next night. Two or three
times this night, after a long fit of convulsive
coughing, she brought up some sticky,
rustle-coloured stuff, with thin streaks of
blood in it, that I examined in the candlelight,
and having examined, felt a renewal
of that indefinable fear that had entered me
^\hen all her body heaved before the sound
of the cough came as a relief to it. As I
lay back, thinking about this, she all at once
said :

I think I'm going to die.'

I was startled.

After a pause :

What makes you think that ?' I
said.

After another pause :

I wanted to die. I knew I was catching
it all the while, and I didn't care : I
didn't stop it. That was because I wanted
to die. But when I found how . I
think God is going to punish me for it.'

I turned over, and smiling, gave her a
kiss on the cheek.

Serious,' she said, moving her head a
little and looking at me. ' Serious.'

Quite serious,' said I, beginning to

laugh. ' Quite serious, you ' and

chucked her under the chin. An unfortunate
act ; for immediately succeeded a
violent fit of coughing, and an unsuccessful
attempt to get up some more of the
sputa.

That inspection of the handkerchief ultimately
decided me at breakfast to go and

find the doctor again : which I did, but he
could not come till later.

Eosy was informed that she would have
to go to bed again, and perhaps have to
stop there a little. I at once suspected
congestion, whatever that precisely meant.

As the doctor and I went down together
I catechized him. He said that she had
pneumonia. I inquired the precise meaning
of pneumonia.

Inflammation of the substance of the
lungs.'

Was it dangerous ?'

Sometimes.'

Fatal ?'

Sometimes.'

How long did it last ?'

Three or four days, in good cases ;
more generally a fortnight or so.'

I asked him a few more questions, and
then he took up the word, and told me what
would, what might be required to, be done.
Then we parted.

I came upstairs to Rosy again, with a

feeling as if there was going to be a species
of campaign undertaken. The first thing
to do was to find out if she minded leaving
the hotel. She did not. Then I went out
to observe the house that the doctor had
recommended to me.

It was rather a cottage than a house. I
liked it. It had a small garden, bright
with flowers, in front of the dining-room, a
long thin room with two door-windows
opening on to a little lawn. I came back
with a description of it, which, having
pleased her, sent me oft' to take the place
at once : and back to bring her to it.

By lunch-time we, I and the landlady
and the servant, had the dining-room turned
into a bed-room — light, airy, and comfortable.


The doctor came in the afternoon again.
Further directions were given, and he left
us, saying that he would leave the prescriptions
at the chemist's as he went home. By
tea-time everything was ready. Piosy had
throughout remained quiescent, except that,

VOL. II. 38

as she was coming into the house, she had
noticed some red daisies in the bed under
the window, and picked one, saying :
A pretty thing !' and for a moment stood
looking at it, while I stood looking at her.
I had every thing to hand — inhaler, medicines,
milk, beef-tea : and the kettle, with
a long brown-paper spout to it, so as to
keep the atmosphere moist with the steam,
on the fire, from whose immediate heat and
light she was sheltered by the bed curtain
drawn out and tucked under the mattress.
The idea of nursing her was, of course,
pleasing to me. I felt no fear now. The
sense of her lying there as she was, seemed
to admit of no feeling but calm tenderness.
The cough was very troublesome : more
violent, more as it were ineffectual. She
was very thirsty, and complained of the
warm milk and beef-tea. Orders had been

left that it was to be warm, and so of
course she would have to drink it warm. I
had to coax her to it like a child. The
same with the inhalation. At first she.

half sleepy, would not draw, but kept
moaning, and turning her mouth away
from the pipe, till I bantered her into
taking twenty pulls to show she was not
afraid of it, and then turned the twenty
into thirty, and the thirty into fifty, and soon
up to a hundred, and far over (I deceiving
her by dropping back ten several
times) : and so the requisite ten minutes
inhaling were achieved. She could get no
sleep. She kept up this low moaning all the
while, occasionally sitting up with her chin
on her knees, and the lower part of her
hands in her eyes. Once she suddenly
looked up at me and said :

Don't you believe I got this as a punishment
for wanting to die ?'

No ; I don't. I think 3'ou got it as the
very natural result of catching a severe cold.'

But I did it — I did it on purpose.'

The cold wouldn't know anything about
that. There now ! Now you've asked
vvliat you wanted to ask, and you mustn't
talk any more.'

38— -2

She had a violent fit of coughing. When
it was clone she said :

I do wish you'd talk to me. I cannot
get to sleep. I like to hear 3'ou
talking.'

Very well,' I said. ' I'll tell you a story.
Will that do ?'

Yes,' she said. ' But lie down there.
I don't like you sitting up.'

I lay down on the extreme edge of the
bed, with my head on the bolster, and
began my story. It was the story of Undine.
Often I had to stop on account of
her coughing. Once the story was so
broken into by a fit of coughing, that I
hoped she would forget or not care to hear
any more ; would try to go to sleep. Not
so. She began to talk about what had
happened to her in London, and would not
brook interruption. At last, I let her say
what she had to say. She told me of her
life at Wiltshire Crescent.

I was glad when you came,' she said
slowly, with pauses. ' I had a most horrid

dream of you. I dreamed you were dead,
and that I saw your coffin carried by
men to the cemetery. I thought I was
in such grief about parting with you in
anger, that I would have given half my life
to have parted with you friendly . I
know I have been very wicked in doing
what I have, but I do believe God will
forgive me. I did love you. I was also
in trouble as to whether you were safe in
heaven, and I thought I wept so bitterly,
and my grief was so great that, while I was
following to see where you were buried, I
was obliged to kneel down to pray God to
take you to heaven, and to forgive all, at
the same time promising I would be good
all the rest of my life, in hope to see you
there : when I awoke and found it all a
dream. I was very pleased, but it upset
me for days, and at last I made up my
mind to write to you, as I could not rest.
Well, there ! it's all over now : and very
likely it' I am going to die instead of
you.'

Here she had another fit of coughing, and
I got up to give her some milk. After that
I felt she had forgotten the story, but she
requested its continuance, and so I continued
it, with the necessary breaks, till
four in the morning, when she fell asleep.
Not even the orders of the doctor, that is
to say my duty, prevailed over my disinclination
to awakening her at five for her
medicine. She herself awoke a little later:
the medicine was given : and at her request
the story continued ; but only for a little,
for we could not get on with it ' one little
bit,' as she said, owing to the growing frequency
of her fits of coughing. She was quite
exhausted by the time the sun came into
the room over the top of the hedge : about
seven o'clock. I was tired, but not sleepy :
and less tired dien I had washed myself.
Then she got a little sleep.

The doctor came about eleven. He
sanctioned her drinking her milk and beef
tea cold if she really did not like to drink
it warm : and Eosy's silence said that she

really did not like. I went with him to the
door and into the garden, where I asked him
if he could not give her some opiate. He
shook his head. I said that she was being
torn to pieces by the cough, and that I
could not help thinking that it was dangerous
to let her get as exhausted as she lead
been a few hours ago, and was yet. He
said :

I dare not give her anything.'

The words and their tone settled the
matter. I asked again if it was possible to
give her any stimulants now ? He said :

No ; best not. Go on just the same as
yesterday with the inhaler and the poultices,
and the milk and beef-tea. That is all.'

I said that as fast as I gave it her, she
brought it all up again : purposelessly.
Then, after a proposal about a nurse,
which I refused, he left me. I thought no
more of him.

At about five she would have me lie
down on the edge of the bed and try to get
some sleep : and, with the promise from

her that she would awaken me in an hour,
when it would be time for her to inhale
again, I closed my eyes. She deceived
me. It was seven when I awoke : was
awakened by what was, maybe, an unusually
violent fit of coughing. I scolded her,
dear little Rosebud, so thin-faced now, as I
got the inhaler ready : she, between her
coughing, smiling at me.

After tea — I sitting by the bedside,
holding her hand and thinking — she all at
once, quite opened her eyes and looked at
me :

Where do people go to when they die '?'
she said.

I looked at her dear child's eyes, but
did not answer her.

'Do tell me,' she said, in a child's
aggrieved tone, rumpling her brow. ' Don't
tease me ! Tell me true.'

After a pause, in which memory dwelt
lovingly on look and tone, and that sweet
correcting gesture of the hidden face, I
answered her :

I believe that they go into the earth
from which they came.'

Yes,' she said, ' but that's not their
spirits. What do their spirits do ?'

Their spirits, too, go into the earth.'
She shook her head :

'No,' she said ; ' their spirits go up' —
(looking up) — ' up into heaven.'

I lifted her hand, and bent my hail,
and kissed her hand softly.

But don't ijoii think so too ?' she
said.

No,' I said, still bent over her hand.
But ' (looking up at her and smiling),
'what does it matter uiliat I think, dear '?'

She began to cough, and went on for a
little. Then:

'Don't you think,' she said, 'that good
people go to heaven when they die ?'

'Now don't you talk any more in this
way'' I said, getting up and sitting on the
bed by her, ' or I shall — well, I shall have
to stop you someway.' And I put my arm
round her shoulders.

Leicester.

'Ah,' she said, drawing her head hack so
as to look at me, ' but don't j^ou ?'

Don't I what '?'

Her brow rumpled.

'Don't tease me !' she said. ' You mit
tell me.'

Very well,' I said, ' I will tell you, then.
I don't think anyone goes to heaven, however
good they are, for I don't believe there's
any heaven to go to.'

But what becomes of them, then '?'

They go into the earth from whence they
came.'

That's horrid !' she said. ' I don't '

and began to cough again.

I put my arm round her shoulders and
leant my cheek to hers that was wet, while
the lump gathered in my throat, and the
tears in my eyes also.

What is it, dear ?' I said. ' Why are
you crying ?'

In a little :

I was thinking,' she said, ' that God
wouldn't let us see one another then,

perhaps, because we had been so sinful, and
because you — because you talked hi that
way. If you didn't talk in that way,
perhaps He would, you know ; because I did
love you so !' (She had turned and thrown
her arms round my neck.) ' Oh, I couldn't
do without you ! I did try, I did try. But
you were so . . .' Her trembling lips did
not finish it.

At last :

Oh, Eosy,' I said, with a low, choking
voice, ' what have I done to you ? . . .
Oh, my little Rosebud !'

'Hush!' she said, 'hush, dear; don't
say that. I don't think God'll be so hard
upon us ; I don't think He will. And it
wasn't your fault, this. It was all ray
fault; I did it. I knew I did. But I don't
mind now. Kiss me, dear; kiss me. It
wasn't your fault.'

I kissed her, and straightway the cough
caught and shook her poor body through
and through ; bat she would not have me
take my arms from round her. And as I

felt all this, the thought iu me turned to
utter fierceness.

We talked no more of these things, except
that Eosy told me that last night she had
dreamt of being smothered by wreaths of
smoke, and could not wake me. We talked
of the dear hours in the past, and of the
dearer that were to be in the future — by
snatches; for her cough was almost ceaseless,
and, it seemed to me, more violent
than last night. She had, apparently, forgotten
about the story, which was to have
been continued to-night ; and I did not care
to remind her of it while we were talking
as we were of the dear hours in the past,
and of the dearer that were to be in the
future.

But, as the night wore on, she became
worse. I had great trouble to get her to
take the inhalation. She kept up the low
moaning all the time, as she had done on
the first night ; occasionally, too, sitting up
with her chin on her knees, and the lower
part of her hands in her eyes. I did not

leave the bed-side for a moment. Now and
then she fell asleep, but the low moaning
did not cease, except when she muttered
incoherently.

The slow hours passed. I must have
dozed. I awoke with a start. She was
struggling violently. I saw that, and her
swollen, livid face, and eyes strangely
prominent with strange, clear brightness.
Then I knew that she wanted me, and, in a
moment, was across the bed, with one arm
round her body and the other loosening her
lightness at the throat ; but she had caught
it, as it were, by chance, and rent it down
wide open, just as the button was coming-undone.
I held her steadily up, despite her
violent, downward struggles. She knew I
was holding her. She could not get breath ;
she was suffocating. Her chest seemed
rigid. I looked at her livid face again, with
eyes of prominent, strange, clear brightness,
her stretched nostrils.

Then, before I scarcely knew what had
happened, except a tightened effort of her

body in my arms, she had ceased struggling.
I looked at her face : looked long ; at last,
Wildly. I shook her gentle'' ; lowered my
arm to shake her again, when her head
fell back with the upward, staring eyes.
I put up a hand over, and closed and held
them down ; and thought. She is dead,
dead. What did that mean ? No. . . .
No. .

I gathered her close in my arms, kissing
her warm, pure throat and talking to
myself; and, at last, let both of us lie back
in the soft pillows, I with my cheek on her
warm, pure breast. Ah ! better to sleep
now without more words ; better to sleep.
Think no more of that phantasy. I was
given to such. Even as a boy, I could not
quite tell sometimes whether I was in a
dream or awake ; so now, I could not quite
tell sometimes whether I had seen things
in dreams or in the vital air : so now. But
that was enough of speaking. Better to
sleep now without more words ; better to
sleep.

^ A hiiiulle of mijrrli is mis ireU-hdoved iiitlo
Die ; he shall lie all ni(jht heticixt my breasts.
I charge you, ye daughters of Jerusalem, by
the roes and by the hinds of the field that ye
stir not up nor awake my lore till he please.'

THE END.

FILLING AND SONS, PRlNTlillS, Guildford.

3 0112 003537880
