a I B Mary

OF Thun
I Verity
or Ill Noise

POET AND PEER.

VOL. I.

BY

HAMILTON AIDE

AUTHOR OF

PENRUDDOCKE," ''RITA,"

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

AH rights reserved.

riCINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE,

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.



M
K

JS


1^

TO

EGBERT, LORD LYTTON,

THIS RECORD

IS INSCRIBED

BY HIS OLD FRIEND.

CHAPTER I.

/\NE August evening, before the harvest
^^ moon had risen over the golden wheat-fields
and slopes of orchard land that surround
the village of Ripple, a little girl of eleven was
seen driving home a cow and her calf from the
hill-side pastures where they had been feeding.
She was seen, I repeat, and it was by a lad of
sixteen, who stood alone, leaning over a gate
which divides the Athelstone woods from certain
common grounds over which the owner of those
woods is also lord of the manor. Ripple be-vol.
1. B

longs mainly to him ; but it lies three miles
away from the Castle, and Lord Athelstone's
interests are chiefly with the more populous
village of Warley, which nestles at the foot of
the Castle steep, There you will find model
slated cottages, the national school, and the
penny-reading club. At Ripple there is only a
dame's school and thatched roofs, and there the
sleepy old ways of fifty years since still flourish.
The Rippleites lack energy, Lord Athelstone
thinks ; he regards them with a beneficent
toleration, and ministers to their temporal
wants, but his heart goes out to the men of
Valley, who are more enterprising in their
farms, and adopt his lordship's steam ploughs
and thrashing machines. Not that he is a man
for rash experiment, for innovation and reform
: he is a staunch Conservative ; but, as
such, it becomes him to employ all the means
which practical science has applied to husbandry,
when their utility is clearly demonstrated.
He is a man whose mind is never
disturbed by doubts ; he sees one thing slowly
but clearly at a time ; and those who do not see

as he does are either dangerous radicals or pigheaded
boors.

All this is but a natural digression from the
young lad who leant over a gate that autumn
evening some twelve years ago. Wilfred
Athelstone, his father's only child, was then an
Etonian. He knew but little of Ripple, except
as a hamlet in an out-lying corner of his father's
estate, while every man's and woman's name in
Warley was familiar to him. But the boy was
unusually open to impressions of beauty ; and
the nestling of moss-grown roofs, and diamond-paned
casements, the slopes of garden, glowing
with rose-checked apples, and knots of common
flowers, arrested his attention, until it
was diverted to the little cow-herd who approached.


The boy was already something of a poet, as
we shall see by-and-by ; and it came into his
head, as he stood there, watching this child
and her cow, that it was as perfect an idol as
Theocritus ever sang. She tripped along, with
the red sunset behind her, tipping the ends of
light brown hair that streamed out from under

b2

the linen bonnet tilted over her pretty face, and
glorifying the skirt of her lilac print frock,
which the breeze drifted backwards as she
danced along. She held a stick — it might
almost be termed a wand — in her hand, wherewith
she made believe to drive the mild-eyed
mother and her offspring before her, though, in
truth, they showed no reluctance to return for
the night to their shed and litter of straw.
The child was delicately made, and her unconscious
grace, and the sweet clear voice in which
she caroled snatches of some old country song,
as she advanced, fired the young poet's imagination.


Her way led directly past the gate on which
he leant. She stared somewhat affrighted on
seeing him, and brought both little hob-nailed
boots together with a courtesy which resembled
a futile effort at sitting.

Good evening," said Wilfred, in a half
shame-faced way (had he addressed a duchess,
he would have been bold enough, even to
defiance). ." What is your name, little
girl?"

Nellie Dawson, if you please, sir, . . . my
lord," replied the sweet little voice.

Oh, you know me ? . . . Not that I am
my lord,' Nellie — never call me that. Where
do you live ? Who is your father ?"

*' I ain't got none, sir. Mother and me lives
in yon cottages and one rosy hand pointed to
the first low thatched roof that showed above
the apple-boughs.

Oh ! you're the child of John Dawson, who
died two years ago — I remember. . . . What
does your mother do V

Mother does everything."

"You ought to go to school, Nellie, instead of
minding the cows."

I do go, only it's over at four, if you please,
sir, so I run up the field to bring the cow
home."

xA.nd you can read and write well ?"

Yes, sir, and 'arithmetic too."

"That's right. There's nothing like knowledge.
It makes all men equal." The child
stared at the aphorism, and said nothing. The
young gentleman continued, in his gently

dictatorial way, " You must work liard, and

then you'll rise. Everyone ought to try to

rise, you know." The child had heard her

mother talk about the bread '* rising." She

had also heard a distich about —

Early to bed and early to rise,
Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise ;"

but what the young gentleman meant by her

trying to rise," she had no sort of idea. He

continued, " I shall come and see your mother.

I've never been in your cottage in my life. I

am so little at home now. How did you know

me?"

I've a-seed you in church, sir''

You mustn't say, ' I've a-seed.' Say, ' I've
seen. . . . By-the-by, can you milk your cow?"

'* Oh ! yes, sir, I always does."

*^ Always do, Nellie. Give me some, then, in
this leather cup. Milk warm from the cow is a
draught fit for the gods."

The child looked puzzled at this last utterance,
but she dropped her little courtesy again,
as she took the cup from his hand, and ran to
the cow, which was nibbling the grass under

an apple-tree a few yards off. Kneeling down,
she deftly filled the cup with the frothing
liquid ; then, holding it between both her rosy
hands, with careful footsteps, she brought it to
Wilfred, at the gate.

'^ Just like Hebe,^' murmured the boy, as he
took the cup. She had no idea what he meant ;
but felt proud to have rendered this small service
to ^' the young lord," as she still called him
to herself.

Thank you, Nellie," said he, drawing a
long breath. " One good turn deserves another,
you know. I shall bring you a book
when I come. And, if you like it, you must
learn some of it by heart, and repeat it
to me." Then, with a nod and a smile, he
shouldered his fishing-rod, while the little maid
bobbed " once more, and hurried after her
kine.

Here was a piece of news to give mother !
The young lord had promised to come and see
them, and bring her a book. But, oh ! what
did he mean by saying that fresh milk was " a
drink fit for the gods'' "l It sounded like the

Ammonites and wicked idolaters she had read
of in Holy Writ. Perhaps mother would know
what the young lord meant.

A WORD or two more as to Lord Athelstone,
-^ personally and mentally.

He was now nearly sixty, but more hale
and active than most men of half his age. He
was getting bald, and what little hair he had
was white ; but his eye was keen, his teeth and
his digestion sound, and he would walk all day
over the stubble , in the September which was
at hand, as vigorously as he did twenty years
ago. A certain obstinacy — which was the only
point of resemblance between father and son —
characterized the lower portion of the face.
The forehead was high, narrow, and the perceptive
organs largely developed. The nose
was a good serviceable nose : neither aggressively
long, nor meanly diminutive; neither

refined and sensitive, like his son's, nor powerful
and truncular, like the late lord's, as it
appeared in the effigy of that learned nobleman
"which hung over the dining-room sideboard.

Lord Athelstone lived in the faith, political
and religious, of his fathers, with just so much
difference as the change in the times rendered
imperative ; no more. They had been orthodox,
and so Alas he ; but he tolerated a surplice in
the pulpit, and admitted with reluctance the
possibility of the world not having been created
in seven days. They had been good old
Tories ; lie was a Conservative ; yet thirty years
ago he had been held by some of his party to
entertain unsound views ; voting for the admission
of Jews into Parliament, and standing, so
to speak, on a small headland, in advance of
the strong cliffs of Toryism. Now the tide was
above his ankles ; yet still he maintained his
footing. He was not a man of parts ; he had
never distinguished himself at Cambridge, orin
the House of Commons, as a young man, orin
the other House, of later years ; but he had
strong common sense, and had done his duty asa

husband, a landlord and a magistrate on the
whole wisely. How he would do it, in the yet
more difficult part of father which he would be
called on to play as his son grew up — a part
demanding in this particular case infinite tact
and judgment — remained to be seen.

Lady Athelstone was nearly twenty years
her husband's junior ; but the disparity of age
was apparently felt by neither ; and as time
went on, it brought the middle-aged woman
nearer and nearer to her still active and energetic
lord. Lady Athelstone was neither
active nor energetic by nature ; but she was
consumed by a desire to be irreproachable in
every detail of life, goading her into a fitful but
fatiguing earnestness, which at first sight
resembled both activity and energy. She sat
at the board of Benevolent Ladies' Institutions,
and belonged to numberless organizations for
well-doing, and deserved infinite credit, inasmuch
as it was not pleasure to her, but grievous
trouble. She read books " for improvement,"
and hoped her information was exact ; if not,
fie begged you would correct her. Her

position, in the social scale, both as to rank and
fortune, was duly weighed, and it influenced
the choice of her bonnets. She was, even at
forty, still a pretty woman, of the over-refined
type which indicates some impoverishment of
the firmer and healthier forms of beauty, by a
process of natural selection, in civilization.

But the perils of personal vanity she had
never known. Even when first married,
fifteen years ago, she never seemed to expect
admiration, and the suggestion of flirtation in
connection with her name had never crossed
the brain of the keenest scandal-monger. she
was an admirable and a submissive wife on
every point unconnected with Wilfred. Upon
this subject she ventured occasionally, in a
mild, persistent way, to differ from the boy's
father, who, as she thought — and perhaps
rightly — did not *• understand " his son, and
rendered scant justice to his abilities. Whether
the fond mother "understood" him better is
questionable ; if " understanding " purports to
include the wise regulation of materials not
easily reducible to laws. Had she been the

arbiter of his fate in those days, Wilfred would
not have gone to a public school, for Lady
Athelstone feared the contact of such pate tendre
with coarse earthenware. But his father was
resolute ; stuff and nonsense about a poetic
temperament, and high-strung, sensitive organization,
&c., &c. ; four generations of Athelstan
had been educated at Eton ; the boy
must rough it, as his forefathers had done.
And he did.

Wilfred scholarship, in spite of his reputation
in a narrow circle of connections as being
'•'so remarkably gifted," was not very noticeable
; but he did fairly well in classics, and won
some reputation by his Latin verses. The
utterances of his English muse were yet more
fluent ; and the impassioned rhapsody and
revolutionary vaticinations of the aristocratic
youth of tender years won for him a certain
amount of admiration, not unaccompanied with
correlative ridicule. To the latter he was very
indifferent ; and, as his geniality and good
temper prevented his being unpopular even
among those who called him *^a young ass' it

came to pass, as it always does in the world,
that the enthusiast, however small and foolish,
had a certain following. To these he held
forth ; with the others he argued ; among
both, his love of hearing himself talk had
full scope. His mother declared he would bethe
Demosthenes of the Upper House one day ;
at which Mr. Punchett, the satirist, was heard
to say, " it would be a blessing if he prepared
for the part now by keeping his mouth full of
pebbles."

Wilfred was rash in opinions, to which he
held with tenacity, if they were opposed. The
temptation of shocking people a little, and
astonishing them a great deal, once yielded to,
he found irresistible. His father was a Conservative
; therefore, as the lines that divide
Waggery from Conversation are almost imperceptible
in these days, nothing remained to
the youth, if he wished to be original, but to
declare himself a Red Republican. Had he
been brought up at a French Communist
school, or a German university, his combativeness
would probably have led him to become a

staunch upholder of the divine right of kings.
But at Eton his friends were the scions of great
houses, whose traditions, no less than their impulses,
led them to defend the patrician institutions
in which they had been nurtured.
These boss fought for their cause with pluck
and intelligence ; and it required all Wilfred's
quickness of memory and swiftness of fence to
uphold the extreme views it was his pleasure
to adopt. But they liked him ; for he would
do any fellow's Latin verses for him, bore the
most merciless " roasting " with perfect good
humour, and was a very fair stroke in the boats.

Athelstone's an awfully good-natured little
chap," said an idle young giant named Bruce
to another named St. John, a much older,
graver, and cleverer lad, with whom Wilfred
especially delighted to argue — "but how he
does jaw, by Jove ! and what rot he does talk,
about doing away with the aristocracy, and all
that!"

'' He will get into some precious mess by-and-by,
if he don't change his tone," replied
the other.

Then he's such a romantic beggar — likes
solitude, and mountains, and all that sort of
thing," continued Bruce, — "at least, he says so,
and pretends he should like to be poor, and
have to work for his bread. It's all cheek, I
believe. He's too bumptious."

He is a poet ; it is part of his stock in
trade'' said St. John, with a smile, 'rand he
'fancies himself rather in the character. That's
all."

So Wilfred was chaffed ; listened to and
admired by the few, ridiculed by the many,
tolerated by all, and " put down " by no one.

It was the evening of the day on which
Wilfred had met Nellie Dawson. The boy was
seated between his father and mother at a
small round table in the great dining-room,
with the portrait of the late lord in a thunderstorm
over the sideboard, and the army of
maroon leather-seated chairs along the wall ;
not a cheerful apartment at any time, but
forming an especially dreary framework to so
small a company ; for the four servants who

hovered round the table might have belonged
to the land of shadows, so noiseless were their
movements over the soft-piled carpet.

It was Saturday, and the Castle had been
emptied of its guests that afternoon ; a fresh
batch was to arrive on Monday; the interregnum
was agreeable to Lord Athelstone, and
doubly so to his wife, who hailed these intervals
of rest from the toils of hospitality which she
endured, as one of the necessary duties belonging
to her station, but never enjoyed. Such
brief intervals of unshackled intercourse with
his boy Lord Athelstone always achieved two
or three times during Wilfred's holidays, in
spite of the numerous claims upon his time.
The soup was not off the table before Wilfred
began.

"Father you know Mrs. Dawson at Ripple,
don't you? She lives in the first thatched
cottage on the hill-side, near the wood ?'*

Dawson ? Oh ! The widow of that radical
fellow who died two years ago. Yes — a good
sort of woman, I believe. Why do you

VOL. I.

**I met a child to-day — such a child! — who
gave me a drink of milk, and told me her
mother was Mrs. Dawson. She was like a
dream of health and innocence."

A dream ? God bless my soul ! I daresay
she has the reality. Always high-flown, Will.
What do they say at Eton to your ' dreams' ?"
As his son did not respond, Lord Athelstone
went on — " Do you know anything of this child,
my lady 1 I suppose she goes to the dame's
school?"

"Poor little thing, yes. I wish some better
education could be given her. I have not seen
her for some time, and meant to make my
round of the Ripple cottages next week."

If she lives all her life there, the education
will do well enough for her," observed Lord
Athelstone, decisively.

"But why should she live there all her life?"
asked Wilfred, raising his head quickly. " Why
shouldn't she go out into the world, and become
a "

'' — A housemaid? The dame's schooling
will do well enough for that."

I didn't mean that — a pupil-teacher, or even
something better. Why shouldn't 'she rise,
father?"

*why should she? That is the question.
Why not let her remain contented in the station
in which she was born? This over-education
and mania to rise are the curse of the present
day."

The world doesn't stand still, father.
Things are not as they were fifty years
ago; the poor can no longer be treated like
swine."

I am not aware that my father treated any
of those dependent on him like swine," said
Lord Athelstone, drily. *' There is enough
progress without our helping to push society
more rapidly down-hill."

Up hill, I should say," returned his argumentative
son. " The true wisdom, I fancy, is
to educate the people so that they shall learn
how to bear with fortitude the accident of
poverty."

Lord Athelstone shook his head.

"Stuff! They get dissatisfied with hard

c2

labour. That is the only result. We shall soon
have no servants at all. And, as a matter of
fact, when you have lived a little longer, you
v/ill find that poverty presses more hardly on
people of education than on those who, knowing
nothing else, are content to live by the sweat
of their brow."

And so the discussion continued for sometime,
supported with a certain amount of truth
on both sides ; the complete truth lying between
the two, though the vision of each was focussed
to too narrow a point to perceive this. Lord
Athelstone sometimes lost his temper with the
sharp boy's pertinacity ; sometimes rode roughshod
over the opinions Master Wilfred advanced.
Neither course was wise. But have
any of us known what it is to be contradicted
by a chit of a boy *? How much worse must it
be when that boy is one's son and heir !

Lady Athelstone smiled on her offspring with
a gaze more fond than fair-seeing, and examined
her nails. She always did so when she
was not quite at ease. It was so daring of
him to take up the cause of the poor so enthusiastically

! so refined, so unlike most Eton boys,
the interest he evinced in this poor little village
child ! But she wished he would not argue
with his father. She wished they could agree ;
it would be so much nicer. No doubt Papa was
right ; but then dear Wilfred's views were so
generous, would it not be better not to oppose
them ? For her part, she disliked all discussion.
But she promised Wilfred before he went
to bed that night that she would go with him
to Mrs. Dawson's on Monday.

CHAPTER III.

nOON after luncheon that day the pony
carriage drew up at the little wicket of
Mrs. Dawson's cottage, and Lady Athelstone,
followed by Wilfred, walked up the narrow
garden-path, fragrant with the odour of sweetness
and honeysuckle. Mrs. Dawson was
washing in the kitchen, while Nellie helped her
mother to wring the linen, and hang it on the
line, stretched between two apple-trees, just
outside the door, which stood open.

Many a lady would have been discomposed
at a visit under such circumstances, there being
a general sense of steam, and soap-suds, and
damp linen in the air. But ]airs. Dawson was a
very simple creature, whose mind was cast in

an vulgar mould, and who, when she had
expressed her regret to Lady Athelstone at
having to receive her thus, did not distress
herself further about it, and talked to her visitor
with a calm self-possession in which there was
no touch of assumption. She was a pale, thin
woman, who had been pretty a very few years
back ; but hard work and sorrow had aged her
before her time. The face was a joyless one ;
the voice and manner singularly gentle.

She hurriedly wiped her hands, and opened
the door of her little parlour, made glad by
shells, a basket of bead-work, and a cheap print
or two. While Wilfred presented the little
maid with a selection of English ballads which
he enjoined her to read, and learn some of
them by heart, especially " King Cophetua's
Daughter," and the child's delighted face vied
with the crimson binding of the volume in
colour. Lady Athelstone seated herself, and
said —

Your little girl is very much grown, Mrs.
Dawson . . . she is getting to be quite useful
to you, I see."

Yes, ray lady, she is a good child. I wish
she took more to her needle ; but she's well-nigh
the top o' the school, and the dame says
there's ne'er a better girl, so I ought to be
satisfied."

Doesn't take to her needle ? That's a pity,"
said Lady Athelstone, with the necessity of
small minds to fasten on a speck. *' What is
she to do in her station, if she can't work V

She'll have to do it by-and-by, my lady, so
I'm sorry it don't come natural to her ; but she
is very handy in odd jobs, and helps me all she
can."

The child was in the outer kitchen, absorbed
in the examination of her book, which the
young gentleman beside her expounded, so
that neither of them heard the conversation in
the parlour.

That is right. I am glad she promises so
wells sirs. Dawson . . . your only child — so
important ! We must see what we can do for
her, by-and-by — I assure you my son was quite
interested about her. He takes so much interest
about the — the — our poorer neighbours . . .

What do you mean to do with her when she
grows older ?"

I hope," said the widow, looking down, with
a tremulous voice, " that we shall not have to
separate, my lady. Of course, if it is for her
advantage I shall not stand in the way ; but I
have nothing else in the world, and I do hold
by her, my lady."

"Of course; still, you see, Mrs. Dawson,
education is a great thing, and Nellie can't
improve herself very much at Ripple. There is
that to be thought of, and she is fond of books
evidently fond of books," repeated Lady
Athelstan, as she observed through the open
door the child's radiant little face bent over her
ballads. " She will soon get beyond the dame,
and you must then think of what you will do
with her. If you have any idea of her entering

domestic service " Lady Athelstone paused

a moment, which gave Mrs. Dawson the opportunity,
without rude interruption, of saying,

Her father didn't wish, my lady, that she
should be a servant, and as long as her and me
can live independent "

"Ah! I remember Dawson had ideas

very well. The only thing is, as the child
seems intelligent, it is a pity she should do
nothing but help you in the housework, and
take care of the cow. However, there is time
enough to think over it ; and if, by-and-by, you
care for her to go to one of the middle-class
schools, let me know, and I will see what can
be done."

Her uncle Joshua wants nie to go and live
near him at Warmington, my lady, but I can't
bear to think of leaving Ripple."

*' Who is her uncle Joshua? What does he
do?"

*'He's Dawson's only brother, my lady —
older, and a deal richer. He's in the iron trade,
and a voi-y good business, and only one sou,
and he'd help me, I know, if I was near him ;
but he don't seem to care to do anything forme
here. He's one of them, my lady, as likes
to have it all their own way. He's a self-made
man, and thinks a deal of education, and don't
hold by village schools. But I tell him as I'd
rather remain poor in Ripple than be well-to-do

in a black, smoky town like Warrington."
This was the kind of tentative proposition of
sentiments on which Lady Athelstone always
shrank from pronouncing. Attachment to home
was so nice. That Lord Athelstone's poor
tenants should be attached to their homesteads
was so especially nice, and their landlord would
so approve of it ; it was a drag upon the wheel
of socialism he would say. That was one
view of the question. The other, and less
sentimental one, would be advocated by all the
Societies to which she belonged, for the advancement
of women and development of
skilled labour in the industrial classes. Removal
to a stirring intellectual centre, and
profiting by any uncle Joshua's beneficial dispositions,
was clearly the wise course for a poor
widow with an intelligent child.

Lady Athelstone's mind oscillated as it had
an unconquerable habit of doing, on such
occasions. It was with difficulty she brought
herself to say, because it was absolutely necessary
to say something —

Well that is very creditable to you,
vol. i. c

Mrs. Dawsou. But the matter should be well
weighed — well weighed. You must think of
your child's future. If her uncle is disposed to
befriend her, it would be foolish, perhaps, to
thwart him. Still we should be very sorry if
you left Ripple. His lordship does not like to
see his old tenants leave the place ; he likes
them to go on from generation to generation —
and we would always look after Nellie, you
know. Still if it is for her welfare — however,
you must do nothing rashly — nothing
rashly."

And with this Lady Athelstone rose. She
might be led to pledge herself unconditionally
to one side or the other if she talked more. In
medio tutissima. So she took leave of Mrs.
Dawson, promising to call again soon.

Did you ever see such eyes, mother ?" cried
Wilfred, as they drove off. "And did you
observe all her movements? such natural grace.
What would the Duchess of St. Leonard or
Lady Shoreham give for any of their daughters
to be like her !"

*' She certainly has a refined looJc,^^ replied

Lady Athelstone — " wonderful for a poor child ;
but her voice "

Her voice I Why, it's lovely. Her way of
speaking is countrified, of course ; but the tone
of her voice, why, as an old poet says, it is ' far
above singing !' "

Ah ! what it is to have imagination, ray dear
boy ! . . but do not talk in that way before the
Duchess and Lady Shoreham, who are coming
here presently. They would not understand if.
The world generally would not understand it.
I am sure I wish I could do anything for this
child," continued Lady Athelstone, with a sigh,
which embraced a whole round of regrets, beginning
with her own incompetence, and ending
with the poverty incident to the present condition
of human affairs. " I wonder if she hasa
vocation V

'' A what r

I mean any turn for a religious life. 1
might get her taken into the St. Martha's
Sisterhood and educated."

"And make her a nun, or something like it!
What an idea, mother! She'd better wash.

and hang out linen all her life, than tliat,'^

Perhaps, after all, it is better to let her
remain as she is. Your papa would certainly
prefer it."

"Prefer it? But he hasn't the ruling of all
the children's lives in this parish. If they
starve, by-and-by, or go to the bad, does he
hold himself responsible? What is the use of
his trying to keep people back from the benefits
of education ? They'll kick — that's all. There
may be a Burns, a Hampden, a Giotto among
these peasants, for aught we know. Think of
that, mother I"

Lady Athelstone did think of it. She was
ready to accept anything, even the embryo
Giotto in Ripple, from her son ; but she held it
to be her duty to remonstrate, none the less.

'' I daresay, Wilfred . it is quite possible.
Still I wish you would not contradict your papa
on these matters ; it annoys him. And, after
all, is it worth that?"

** I am very sorry to annoy him, mother. But
I can't give up the cause of the people because
he dislikes it. I hope, sooner or later, he'll

come round — in fact, I'm sure he must.
Liberty of conscience, liberty of action — he'll
find out that the true wisdom is to give them
their head a little, to prevent their getting the
bit between their teeth, as they have done in
France."

Oh ! in France it is different. Roman
Catholics, you know — the priests."

We are almost as much priest-ridden here
as they are."

'• Oh ! Wilfred, don't say that. It is shocking
— so good as our clergy are !"

''To those who think as they do — churchgoers
and communicants. Not to the Methodist,
nor to the infidel. When a man knows
his family will get no coals and blankets at
Christmas, unless he pretends to believe all his
parson tells him, is that liberty of conscience ?"

They turned a sharp corner in the lane, and
came face to face with Lord Athelstone, on his
cob, just as Wilfred propounded this startling
inquiry. Lady Athelstone felt relieved from
the necessity of making a reply. This dear
boy of hers was getting quite too difficult to

deal with. Such advanced ideas, with that
generous nature of his. Alas! there was no
knowing where they would stop.

CHAPTER IV.

-jl/I Joshua DAWSON was an individual
-'-"■*- of some weight in Warmington. There
were richer and there were cleverer men ; there
were none who, from such small beginnings,
had risen to be so successful. He had come to
Warmington forty-five years ago a penniless
boy; he had educated himself; he had striven,
without rest or relaxation, to build up his fortunes,
and he was now a thriving tradesman.
He spoke truly when he said, " I have no one
to thank for this but myself, sir." Had his
burden been " I owe it all to the first kindness
shown me by such a one," his hearers would
probably have been less impressed by awe for a
self-made success ; but there would have been
VOL. I. D

more sympathy in their regard for their fellow-townsman.
It may be that he cared little for
this. His appreciation of his own merits, being
unchecked by the doubts and dissatisfaction
that are apt to cloud the retrospect of less
practical minds, fed upon the solid nutriment
which his worldly advancement afforded.

He was a dry, hard-looking man, carrying no
superfluous flesh, and of immaculate cleanliness
; who still wore a stock, though stocks for
the neck were, even then, well-nigh as obsolete
a penance as those devised for the other extremity
of the human body. He had a sound
digestion, an arrogant disposition, and a clear
conscience. He attended morning service
every Sundays and never grumbled at the poor
rates. He had defrauded no man, had established
a Mechanics' Institute, and subscribed a
handsome sum to all conspicuous town charities.
He had done his duty, in short, by his neighbour,
and by himself, and he meant that the
world should know it.

He was, even now, committing an act of
almost unparalleled magnanimity in bidding

the poor widow of that incorrigible brother of
his to come and live in Warmington, and in
undertaking to provide for his niece's education.
Most men, he liked to believe, in his position,
would have sought to ignore this low connection
; but not so Joshua Dawson. Warmington
should recognize with admiration the full
measure of his exemplary conduct; provided
his sister-in-law would give up herself and her
child , body and soul, to him, to do with as it
might seem good in his eyes. He had never
helped his brother ; no, because that brother
had set himself in direct opposition to all
Joshua's views and principles of life. Perhaps
the secret irritation — we will not call it by so
harsh a name as remorse, or regret — caused by
this reflection was to be allayed by the ointment
of his present magnanimity. Be this as it may,
he kept up some communication with the silly,
obstinate woman, and from time to time renewed
his offer.

1 cannot reflect upon what Mrs. Joshua
Dawson must have endured in her daily life
without according to her a more sincere admired



tion than I feel for raauy a canonized saint.
She had no great heights, and, like the best men
and women, she had some little weaknesses.
But she possessed unfailing patience, unfailing
affection for him who was, in very truth, her
lord and master, unfailing charity and kindness
to all whom she could befriend. If she was
oppressed at times by a sense of what was due
to her as Joshua's wife ; if her black silk, which
cost six and sixpence a yard, and over which
she spread her handkerchief when she sat down
before her •' clayey " tea-service in the back
parlour on Sunday afternoons, caused her a
glow of pride ; and if at church her thoughts
wandered to the reprehensible extravagance of
Mrs. Jones's new bonnet, these were but specks
of small account upon the disk of this guileless,
benevolent nature. You could not look into
that round beaming face and doubt it.

The only offspring of this dissimilar pair,
Sam, was just nineteen, a youth of colossal
proportions, with features cast in the commonest
mould, and much blurred in the casting,
too. He spoke very little in his either's

presence ; at other times he was loud and contradictious,
and his physical strength gave
great weight to his arguments among his
companions. He had inherited his father's
arrogance, but not his father's powers of steady
application; and, with his well-oiled carroty
hair, his hat cocked over one ear, and his bright
blue satin tie, he looked as if he were little
likely to follow in Joshua's steady footsteps.
But he had a kinder nature for all these foibles,
than his father ; his heart was not hard, when
one reached it ; only there was so much to be
connived at in his appearance and manners
that few penetrated the offensive crust. He
was not popular among his companions ; indeed,
behind his back, he was much ridiculed ; but his
muscular power and his self-assertion brought
him a certain outward consideration, as it often
does in this world. With the girls opinions
were divided concerning him ; but few of those
who were unaffected by ulterior considerations
regarded Joshua's son and heir with any great
favour.

One evening, about a year after Lady x\thel-

Stone's visit to the widow Dawson, Mr. and
Mrs. Joshua were in their parlour, in expectation
of some guests by the next train whom Sam
had gone to the station to meet, and for whom
the '' clayey " tea-service was duly laid out.
These guests were Nellie and her mother, whose
coming had been brought about on this wise.
Negotiations, which had been pending many
months, had terminated in a compromise. Mrs,
Dawson would not give up her home at Ripple ;
she had never known any other since her marriage,
she said, and here she hoped to die.
Indeed, if Nellie was to be boarded at the school
near Warmington to which her ancle proposed
to send her, there was no sufficient reason why
her mother should be uprooted ; though Uncle
Joshua pointed out that, when his niece was
finished," the Ripple cottage would be no fit
home for her. But the widow, having brought
her mind to consent to parting with Nellie
(chiefly in consequence of Wilfred's advice
during his last holidays, backed feebly by Lady
Athelstone), took her stand there. She would
accompany the child to Warmington, and

remain with her brother-in-law a few days.
Then she would return to her solitary home ;
and from this resolve no arguments would move
her.

She felt a little bewildered, poor soul, by her
journey — the first long railway journey she had
ever accomplished ; and the enormous young
man who flourished his cane so grandly as he
handed her out of the third-class carriage, and
asked if she wasn't Aunt Su, caused her some
discomfort — more so than Master Wilfred had
ever done. But by the time that the aunt and
cousins had walked down the High Street to
Uncle Joshua's, followed by a porter with their
wooden box, Mrs. Dawson had become more
accustomed to her nephew's swaggering graces,
and seeing how kind he was to Nellie, and how,
notwithstanding the cane, he insisted on carrying
the plaid, and the cotton umbrella, and the
jar of clotted cream (brought as a small home-offering
to Mrs. Joshua), she said to herself, as
she afterwards said to her friends in Ripple,
He is a good-hearted young man, is Sam, only
he's so big, and is one o^ them as has icays — "

and this, like the foot-note to an obscure text,
cleared all difficulties away in its comprehensive
reach.

Mrs. Joshua met them in the passage, with
her moon-like face aglow with geniality.

Well, I am glad to see you here, Mrs.
John."

It was the first time she had ever seen her
sister-in-law, which circumstance seemed to
demand a certain outward formality of greeting
in the good woman's eyes, though the voice
and manner were more than cordial.

Uncle Joshua stood on the hearth-rug in the
parlour; then, as the door opened, he advanced
a few iron paces, and held out his hand.

*' Well, here you are at last," was his greeting
— "and you're welcome, Susan. I can say
no more. I'm a man of few words. This is
your girl, is it? Hm ! more like you than John.
You were a pretty woman when I saw you last.
How many years ago is that? Fourteen. I
went over to give John my advice, and he
wouldn't take it; you remember? I couldn't
do more than I did. I knew he'd live to repent

it. Well, you are altered. I should hardly
have known you."

"I've had a deal to change me, Joshua," she
replied, gently. " You're very little changed.
It's nat'ral — you've had all things going smooth
with you."

"Things go smooth with them as hold by
existing institutions, and work hard, Susan.
If John's have done as I told him, instead of
spouting against Church and State in the public,
and neglecting his trade, things have gone
smooth with him, too."

Mrs. Dawson flushed, but held her peace.
What he said was true; she knew it; but it
seemed cruel to bring up poor John's unwisdom
just now.

Mrs. Joshua's kind heart felt for her. She
was engaged in preparing tea, and thought it
wise to create a diversion by saying,

*' Come, Mrs. John, you sit down here. A
dish o' tea'll refresh you. And the little girl . . .
. . What's your name ? — Nellie ? Dear Heart I
That's a pretty name, now. And what a head
o' hair, Mrs. John ! It's a real wonder, it is.

Coral , sit you here . . . And now, Sam, you
hand the kettle."

Uncle Joshua sat down opposite his niece,
and fixed a pair of hard, unwinking eyes upon
her.

Your mother says you are pretty good at
arithmetic — got to compound fractions yet?"

Nellie's mouth being full of buttered toast,
she could only nod.

"Know your geography? What's the capital
of Ireland— eh?"

Edinburgh," she spluttered forth.

1 thought as much," said Uncle Joshua,
sarcastically. " I'm never very far wrong. I
thought what the schooling at Rippled be like.
It's well she's come here, if she's ever to get on
in life."

*' Please, Uncle Joshua, I forgot," cried the
child, reddening to the roots of her hair. " It's
Dublin, and it contains 260,000 inhabitants."

Thereupon the discomforted mother plucked
up heart to nay,

Indeed, Joshua, she's quick at her book.
They all say so. That's why I thought it

AvroDg to refuse your kindness. If she'd dislike
me —-just good for house-work, and no-more
— I wouldn't ha' consented to part with
her. But she likes her book better than anything;
and, as Master Wilfred said to me,.
You've no right to deny the child the advantage
that's offered to her.' "

"Who is Master Wilfred r

Our lord's son. He takes a great interest
a very great interest — in Nellie, he do, and
so does her ladyship, his mother. She gave her
that cloak and hat , and her new prayer-book
and bible. Oh ! she has bin very kind ta
us."

The best Saxony cloth, I declare !" said Mrs.
Joshua, holding up the cloak admiringly.

'what would John have said to that, Susan?"
asked her brother-in-law, with a grim smile —
John, who couldn't abide the aristocracy ! I
always told him it'd come to him, or his, having"
to accept their charity. There's nothing like
keeping independent. Look at me. I owe no
one anything — I never was beholden to any
man for the price of a loaf, I'm proud to say

That's why I stand where I do in this town
to-day, Susan."

I am sure it does you great credit — I always
says so," murmured Mrs. Dawson ; then, struck
by a sudden thought, she continued, with more
vivacity — " Still, you see, if I held by that
altogether, I shouldn't accept your kindness in
paying for Nellie's schooling — though relations,
to be sure, is different."

They're not hound ; I never give in to that,
remember," observed Joshua, with stern alacrity.
*' I make no promises as to the future for your
girl. What I say I'll do, V\\ do. Having no
girl of my own, I'll educate yours, and she shall
come hereon holidays till her schooling is done,
and she's fit to make a good living for herself
in the world. If you hadn't set yourself against
it, you could have lived hard by, and seen the
child every Sunday ; but you was obstinate,
and "

Say no more about that, Joshua," murmured
the recipient of his bounty, hurriedly.
^' It may be foolish, but I couldn't abide to leave
the house where John and me lived, and where

be died, so I must just be content to see the
child twice a year, when sbe comes borne — but
I thank you, all the same. I'm sure I'd no call
to expect that you'd be so kind to us."

That's because you don't know him rightly
yet, Mrs. Dawson," cried his wife. " Joshua's
heart's in the right place. Him and mell look
after the little girl, depend on it, and she shall
come here on every half-holiday, and Smell
take her a walk, won't ye, Sara I"

I shouldn't wonder," laughed Sam, running
his fingers through his hair, and then cutting a
huge piece of cake, he handed it gallantly to
his cousin. Clearly his father's presence quelled
him, for he said no more. The latter, after an
interval employed in imbibing his tea from the
saucer, with a sound as of escaping steam,
looked up at Mrs. Dawson and said —

"I shall take you to the seminary tomorrow."

She thought he said cemetery, which she had
been told was the refined name for a burial-ground,
and she was somewhat startled. He
continued, however —

"It is a first-class establishment. Sound

English education. Turns out a lot of girls
able to earn their fifty pound a year every half.
They say there's a great opening now in New
Zealand. California, too, has been spoke of
favourably, but the market for educated female
labour there is getting over-stocked. A great
trade is done with Roosia — and there's no doubt
lout what I shall place her advantageously somewhere,
if the girl works. If she don't, there's
no use in my spending my money, and she'll
have to go back and scrub the floors ; that's all.
Knowledge is Power,' as I've wrote to you
more than once. Look at me. Where should
I be, if it wasn't for my education 1 And I've
given Sam the best of educations, too, only he
don't take to work, as I did. Why, I worked
-at a night-school for three years, ma'am, after I
was turned thirty, and hard at my trade all day,
too. No publics for nne. That's how I rose,
and how I come to be looked up to in this
town. Ask any man in Warmington whether
there's a name as is more respected than Joshua
Dawson's."

He glared defiantly round, and his poor

sister-in-law's spirits sank lower and lower.
Had she come all the way from Ripple for
this? Joshua's heart was, no doubt, in the
right place ; but his self-assertion crushed her.
And then to think of his wanting to send
Nellie to New Zealand or California? And to
talk of the " trade with Roosia " being good,
as if her child were like one of the slaves
she had heard of, to be sold in the market ! It
made the poor mother's blood run cold. But
no ; not even Joshua's imperiousness should
prevail here. Nellie should never be sent to
foreign parts, not even for the certainty of so
fabulous an income as fifty pounds a year.

CHAPTER V.

TF this were a book with '^ a purpose," it
-"- might be worth while to trace the influence
of circumstances upon Nellie Dawson's character
in her early girlhood ; to note how the training
to which she was subjected in the good middle-class
school where she remained four years,
and the companions with whom she was
thrown, brought into prominence certain
qualities which might otherwise have lain
dormant. But we are concerned with effects
rather than cause, and, as none of these companions
crossed that after-path which we have
made it our task to trace, a few words will
suffice to tell of the years that intervened between
the day that Mrs. Dawson brought her

little girl to Warmington, and the period when
our narration recommences.

Her school-days were, upon the whole,
happy ; and, as the authorities reported favourably
every half year of his niece's progress,
Uncle Joshua could extract inexhaustible food
for self-laudation from the success of his magnanimous
scheme.

''My niece, sir, has taken a prize again at
the seminary. A very promising scholar, sir
and highly commended for industry and good
conduct — owes it all to me."

"What?— the good conduct?" asks that low
fellow, Jones. Mr. Dawson treats the remark,
as it deserves, with silent contempt, and it does
not prevent his telling the next neighbour
he sees the same story in much the same
words.

The girl, in truth, possessed no startling
ability ; but she had a fair memory, and she
had learnt now what the ambition '' to rise "
meant. Not for herself so much as to satisfy
her uncle, to please her mother ; perhaps on the
chance of a smile and word of congratulation

VOL. I. E

from some one else, when she went home at
midsummer. Her early love of books had
grown with her growth, though her inclination
led her still to poetry and works of imagination,
which were deemed unserviceable, if not pernicious,
to a girl in her station. Ah ! Wilfred had
much to answer for in that first present of
Border ballads to the little maid. She knew
King Cophetua " and many others by heart
now, and recited them of winter evenings to a
select circle, when the schoolmistress was out
of hearing.

Of what value could such literature be to a
young person destined for the servitude of the
school-room, if not of the nursery ? Miss Dawson
was found reading " Marmion " and the
*lady of the Lake' works only suited to
romantic young ladies, and which, as the
schoolmistress said, could store her mind with
no useful knowledge. It is a way some have,
when youth is craving for bread, to offer it a
stone. For the rest, she was a good girl.
(Unfortunately, much too pretty, for it would
stand in the way of her advancement.) Amiable

and industrious in school ; a favourite with both
masters and playmates ; but the mistress shook
her head when she spoke of Nellie's future
prospects. " She is too soft and too sentimental
ever to make much of teaching; she has not
the stuff in her to keep a class of unruly
children in order. Fm sure I don't know what
we are to do with her. It is a pity, after all Mr.
Joshua is spending on her education ; but I am
afraid she will disappoint him. Her head is
stuffed with poetry, and such rubbish, and she
sadly wants firmness. She'll be blown this way
or that by anyone she is fond of."

The judgments we form of one another in
life are often wide of the truth ; but perhaps
none are so fallacious as those pronounced on
the characters of the very young. When the
orchard is a flush of blossom, how can we
determine which buds shall be nipped by cold
winds, and out of which the goodly fruit shall
be formed in due season ? The analogy is not
strictly correct ; for the human tree, in youth, is
subject to absolute change of character (due,
possibly, to subtle influences we do not note),

E 2

LIBRARY

UWVERSirr OF Illness

whereas we know that grapes do not grow
from thistles. That the schoolmistress's forecast
of her docile little pupil's character was
erroneous will be seen by-and-bj. Whether a
more delicate acumen would have arrived at a
different conclusion at this stage of the girl's
young life we will not determine.

Her midsummer holiday of one month had
been passed at Ripple each year ; but it so happened
that only twice in the course of these
four years had the young hero of her childhood
been at Athelstone when Nellie was at home,
and even then it was but for a few days. He
was travelling abroad with his tutor, or he was
in London, and the happiness to which the child
had looked forward of hearing his approving
words was denied her the last two years of her
school-life. Each Christmas Mrs. Dawson made
a pilgrimage of a fortnight to meet her child at
Warmington. Uncle Joshua had ordained that
his niece should spend the short winter holiday
at his house, and Mrs. Dawsou felt, as this included
an invitation to herself, warmly pressed
by her sister-in-law, that it would be ungracious

to offer an' opposition to the plan. It was not
unmitigated joy to the poor mother, for her
benefactor was a severe trial, especially on Sundays,
when the family enjoyed the unlimited
benefit of his society. During the remainder of
the week, however, he was devoted to his
business for nine or ten hours daily, and Nellie
and her mother had long mornings, during
which they could converse unreservedly, without
other interruption than the occasional visits
of Mrs. Joshua to the parlour, fussy with her
household matters, but ever beaming with kindliness.


On her last visit to Warmington, Sam had
been a little trouble to Mrs. Dawson. With the
keen eye of a mother, she saw, what apparently
no one else did, that the young man's
attention to Nellie, who was still considered asa
child by her uncle and aunt, was something
more than cousinly. The way in which his
-eyes followed her, the efforts he made to secure
a tete-astute walk with her, his little presents, his
whisperings in corners, were indications that
were not lost on Mrs. Dawson. Under any

circumstances she would have been strongly
opposed to a marriage between the cousins ;
but, placed as she was in reference to Uncle
Joshua, it would be unendurable that this
attempt at flirtation on Sam's part should grow
into serious attachment which she could not
doubt would rouse his father's ire, and cause
disunion between the families. That Nellie
herself was innocent of any attempt to encourage
Sam's devotion, and was, indeed, blind to
it accepting it all as part of the same ornamented
surface wherewith it pleased him to
decorate his intercourse with the world at large,
Mrs. Dawson felt sure. She knew her child ;
anything like coquetry was foreign from her
nature; and, courted though Sam might be by
some of the Warrington damsels, his aunt had
an intuition which she would not have ventured
to put into words that it would never be
given to the young man to inspire a serious
passion.

All the same A\ as it a secret annoyance to her
that the vacuity of her nephew's leisure should
be filled, whenever his cousin was a guest at

his father's, by unremitting attentions which
might hurt him in the end more than they could
affect her ; as insects who leave their stings
behind them die none the less though the material
on which the poison is expended be invulnerable.


Revolving these things in her mind on her
return home at the end of the third Christians
when Nellie had nearly completed her
fifteenth year, the good woman arrived at the
conclusion that, whatever Uncle Joshua might
say, the girl should not spend her holidays
again at Warmington. Mrs. Dawson would in
the meantime consult Lady Athelstone as to her
daughter's future, before the latter returned
home at midsummer. She was very nearly the
top of the school, and certainly able to gain her
livelihood by teaching in some form; and,
though Uncle Joshua spoke of keeping his niece
at Warmington another year, Mrs. Dawson felt,
on every account, the desirability of obtaining
her a situation, if possible, before the expiration
of that time.

The widow's difficulties were happily solved

one May morning by a visit from Lady Athelstan.
The pupil-teacher at the Warley School
was to leave at midsummer, and Lady Athelstan
proposed that Nellie should be a candidate
for the post. It was the thing of all others
Mrs. Dawson would most have desired ; her
child to live with her, and yet be profiting by
her education to earn a fair livelihood. It
seemed to the poor woman an ideal piece of
good fortune. But Uncle Joshua, when the
intelligence was conveyed to him did not so
regard it.

What ! a miserable pittance of fifteen pounds
a year, after all the money he had spent on
her education, when she might, in the course
of a year or two, easily get double? And no
one would take her as a governess after she
had once lowered herself so. Pray what was
the use of her French verbs, and her piano, and
ancient history, and all the rest of it now?
It was recklessly throwing away her advantages
and truckling to the aristocracy, for this
was all Lady Athelstone's doing. The girl
wasn't "finished," and he had meant to pay

for another year's schooling for her, " and then
my niece would be independent, sir — independent
of all my Lady Athelstan, able to support
herself, and snap her fingers in their faces.
But now — a miserable pupil-teacher ! Her
mother's a fool, sir, an obstinate fool !"

Her folly might be debateable; not all his
hearers were convinced that Joshua's sister-in-law
was wrong ; but of her obstinacy there
could be no doubt. To reject a prospect which
offered all the poor Avoman desired at present
for her child, because their benefactor had other
views for his niece, was a sacrifice she did not
feel herself called upon to make. Her letters
to the potentate of the Dawson family were
deprecatory and grateful ; but she remained, in
spite of angry remonstrance, immoveable in her
resolve.

She knew that Joshua was aware of one
of her chief reasons for electing to withdraw
Nellie from Warmington ; and she could
not doubt that Sam's father viewed the case
as she did. That he should persist, therefore,
in urging her child's return to his house, she
vol. i. <i

could only regard, under the circumstances, as
an instinct of his unreasoning love of domination.
Danger to Sam's peace of mind was not
to be regarded (nor Nellie's, either, for that
matter). He had ordained that her schooling
was to continue another year, and everything
ought to have been made to bend to his
will.

She passed her examination satisfactorily,
and, backed by Lady Athelstone's influence,
obtained the coveted appointment. Some
doubts as tu her health standing the drudgery
of daily tuition were expressed ; the girl had
evidently outgrown her strength of late, and
looked fragile and willowy. But her courage
and good will were indomitable ; she smiled at
the notion of not being able to work as hard
as any other girl of sixteen.

Nevertheless, the few weeks after her return
home, before entering on her new duties, were
an interval of enjoyed rest to Nellie. In the
blue shadow of apple-trees, upon the long June
grass, she lay for hours, reprehensibly idle as

to her fingers her late schoolmistress would
have declared, and, possibly, her good conscientious
mother might have admitted, while attributing
her child's indolence to the languor of
over-rapid growth. But, in truth, she was not
idle ; the imagination was lifted, the thoughts
expanded, her receptive nature filled with the
vivid pictures that Pope's '^ Had," or Spenser's
"Fairy Queen," — old volumes from the village
library — supplied. The brain was growing,
the character was consolidating, day by day.
Keble's "Christian Year," given her by Lady
Athelstone at the time formed an epoch in her
life. That closely-knit poetry of a lofty
dogmatism, which teaches the renunciation of
private judgment, and the acceptance of a
sharply-defined faith in the inexplicable, fastened
upon her memory with its clear and high-strung
music. Her nature heard and answered
the appeal. Often, in after-years, when sore
troubled and perplexed, some couplet of that
little volume tended to strengthen and uphold
her.

Riimonrs of a disquieting character touching
*' Master Wilfred," as he was still called,
reached Warley, and even the remoter Ripple,
early that spring. The butler had gathered
fragments of conversation between my lord and
my lady which, being compared with certain
other fragments dropped from the eaves into
the ears of the lady's-maid, went to show that
the young gentleman had got into some scrape
at Oxford, for which he was threatened with
"rustication' — whatever that strange word
might mean. Whether he had said or done
anything subversive of Church or State,
whether he had broken any law against God
or Man, was not patent to the original purveyors
of this gossip ; but by the time it had
permeated through the still-room-maid to the
head coachman, and from him, in strict confidence,
to the publican at the '* lien and
Chickens," and from him all through the village
of Ripple, till it reached the ears of ]airs. Dawson
and her daughter, the first stitches were
lost in the mass of embroidery \n which each
narrator in turn, having so wide a canvas

given him, felt it his duty to add as he
listed.

The old lord was liked and respected ; his
tenants generally expressed their regret that
his son was not more like him. The female
portion of the community, indeed, was disposed
to regard leniently the fact that lie did not
know mangel-wurzel when he saw it, that he
never rode straight to hounds in his life, and
that he was but an indifferent shot. The impenetrable
smoke caused by this far-off fire of
his iniquity — whatever it might be — almost
suffocated the good people of Ripple. They
choked and spluttered,, swallowing it all, or
angrily rejecting it, according to their proclivities.
He was a terrible young gentleman,
given up to idolatry, and a dissolute life, or
he was the handsomest, sweetest-spoken,
kindest-hearted youth that ever walked this
earth. Mrs. Dawson, it is needless to say, was
at the head of those who took the latter view,
and declined to believe a single word reflecting
upon his character.

Whatever the scandal was, the young man
vol, i. e

was not rusticated, and the following June he
got-the Newgate," which gratified Lady
Athelstan, and afforded his father the mildest
measure of satisfaction. It was a triumph
which seemed to him of the most trumpery
description. If books Avere his line, why didn't
he go in for honours V Why waste his time in
writing all this trash about Carthage, which no
human being would ever want to read? He
had passed his " Mods," and, having done so,
he appeared to have abandoned all honourable
ambition in his University career. His time
seemed to be spent in making wild, foolish
speeches, writing idiotic pamphlets and verses
(some people think them beautiful' mildly
remonstrated the fond mother), and leading a
very irregular life. He feared that the gaining
this prize would only fortify his son in the
delusion that he was a great poet, and unfit
him yet further for the duties of his future
station.

All the same, it was a great consolation to
poor Lady Athelstone, after some keen disquietude
touching her son, to be able to disseminate

the positive and thoroughly respectable
piece of intelligence that he had written the
prize-poem at Oxford for that year.

CHAPTER YI.

TT was the morning of Trinity Sunday — the
-*■ first Sunday that Nellie had entered upon
her new duties. She felt a little shy as she
came into church, in her neat straw hat and
spotless linen frock, marshalling the children
with the utmost, dignity of which she was
capable, but fearing that it fell short of what
the position demanded. She glanced round ;
no one seemed to pay any particular attention
to her except 'smother;" she, of course, from
her seat in the side-aisle was watching her
daughter with satisfaction, as the pleased eyes
testified. The place appointed for the school
and its teachers was in the chancel, immediately
in front of the great Athelstone pew, which was

entered by a small side-door from the park.
AVhen Nellie took her seat, the pew was empty.
Not until she turned to kneel in the Confession
did she see Lord and Lady Athelstone and their

SOD.

She buried her face in her hands, so that none
could observe the flush of pleasurable surprise
that mounted there, and then, with contrite
distinctness, she told her Heavenly Father aloud
that she had strayed from His ways like a lost
sheep, had done those things which she ought
not to have done, and was a miserable offender.

Wilfred had come down from London with
Lord and Lady Athelstone for a couple of
nights. He was now twenty-one, having attained
his majority the previous January.
Physically he was much improved, though still
too slight, and with shoulders too disproportioned
in width to the size of his head to be a
model of manly grace. The head itself, however,
was remarkable, and very attractive, with
its broad radiant brow, beautiful eyes, and the
winning smile that broke at times over the full
and somewhat sarcastic mouth. It was this

VOL. I. F

agro-dolce, perhaps, which lent a peculiar charm
to the face. Men rarely admired him ; but to
eyes that are not extreme to mark what is
amiss in carriage — for he slouched almost ostentatiously,
it may be said — he was a strikingly
handsome young man. This habit of walk, and
his wearing his hair very long, and brushed
back in a wild, distraught way, were peculiarities
which angered his father, who told his

son that he looked " like some d d foreign

musician."

For the rest, there was a change in him for
the better, and a change in him for the worse,
since he was sixteen. His antagonism to the
things that be had taken too deep root in his
nature for him to be any longer explosively
contradictious in ordinary conversation. And
thus his intercourse with his father was governed
by a reticence which delighted Lady Athelstan,
who never saw much below the surface,
and satisfied the household who had heard
how Master Wilfred used to aggravate my lord
in days gone by) that a complete concord of
sentiment existed between father and son.

His principles — or the theories he was pleased,
at this time, to consider as such — and his views
of life — all in an inchoate or transitive condition
will be developed by-aud-by. The points in
his character which concern us now were these :
that he had come to church, in violation of his
convictions, out of consideration to his father
and mother ; and that, finding himself there, in
front of Nellie Dawson's lovely face, he made
no effort to detach his thoughts from her,
but watched the girl's every movement with
interest.

He had scarcely thought of her during the
last two years since he had been at Oxford ,
except as a favourite line of poetry which recurs
to the memory from time to time. He thought
that he had thought of her constantly, but it
was not so. She had been absent from Ripple
each time that he had been home. Now when
he faced the prospect of three months with no
one to indoctrinate, and in utter solitude of
spirit, the hope of renewing that idylHc episode
of his boyhood leapt up strong again within
him.

1-2

And there she was, before him ; and as he
beheld her, shot up into a tall, graceful girl, infinitely
more beautiful than he remembered her,
all the boy's passionate admiration for the child
revived with double force. How unlike she
was to everything around her! Romeo's simile
occurred to him. " Like a snowy dove trooping
with crows." She knelt, and his eye
followed the lines of her lithe young figure,
round waist, and delicate throat, with the knot
of burnished brown hair beneath her hat. She
rose ; there was nothing of the clumsy village
lass about lier movements ; and in her responses,
of which he heard every word, the intonation
was unvnlgar, and the voice sweet and clear.
By-and-by she turned to the east, in the
Athanasian Creed, so that he saw her perfect
profile, and the down-drooped lashes, and sweet
lips parted; and he heard the confession of
belief that fell from them with terrible distinctness
. . . . " Which Faith, except everyone do keep
icicle and iindp filed ; icithont doubt he shall perish
everlastingly r

The young man frowned, and then smiled

contemptuously ; but, happily, no one observed
him.

So Nellie Dawson has been made a pupil-teacher,
I see, rather," said Wilfred, immediately
they left the church. " I suppose you got
it for her. Why didn't you tell me ?"

I meant to, my dear, but I forgot ib . . .
I knew you would be interested having known'
her from a child. I have really had so much to
-do and to think of that "

Of course . . . How she is improved ! She
is much too good for a pupil-teacher."

Too good, my dear'' |r

'^ I mean too refined and distinguished-looking.
What a type for ^ Una !' such purity !"

*' ' Una ' 'i Who was she ? This is a very
well-conducted girl. She has brought back an
excellent character from school."

How could it be otherwise with that face ?
Is she clever ?"

She passed her examination very well. I
don't know that she is clever. She may be, and
she may not. She has not been here long

enongli for the head-mistress to judge, I should
think."

Her judgment would go for nothing with
me The girl looks miles above that woman
— miles above everyone in church, indeed."
"What's that?" said Lord Athelstone, who
had walked on in front, and stopped, overhearing
his son's last words. '*' Miles above everyone
in church ?"

*'I was speaking of the new pupil-teacher.
It is curious the way in which Nature, now and
again, asserts her right to ignore our class-distinctions
and creates a perfect creature like
tUis, who, as novelists say, 'looks made to
be a duchess,' — though, in reality, half the
duchesses are like housekeepers."

Stuff! You appear to think that distinction
consists in being tall and thin." (Lord Athelstan
was short and thick-set.) *' That's a
very nice-looking girl, and she has a good face.
I liked, too, the distinct way in which she
responded to the Creed. But everyone in his
proper place. Put that girl into a drawing-room,

with your duchesses, and see how she
would look."

"I should be sorry for the duchesses," said
Wilfred, carelessly, with a smile ; then turned
the subject abruptly to ask his father some
question about his home-farm, the gate of
which they were passing.

Lady Athelstone usually attended the afternoon
service ; but, when luncheon was over today,
she declared it was too hot, and she could
not face the walk across the park a second
time. She was additionally and most agreeably
surprised, therefore, when her son said he
thought of going. Lady Athelstone had experienced
some vague fears lately as to his orthodoxy
; but this set the mother at rest. She
took care to draw her lord's attention to the
fact in the course of the day ; but he seemed
hardly to attach as much importance to it as she
could have wished.

The service was over, the little congregation
was dispersed, and still Wilfred lingered in the
churchyard. What was he waiting for? He

had seen her again ^vith the children. Did he
expect that she would return here when they
were dispersed ? Hardly ; and yet he wandered
among the grass-grown graves until he
found the one whose headstone told how John
Dawson had departed this life eight years
before. It was curious the turn his thoughts
took. Was that active, turbulent spirit at restor
was it possible that he still watched over
his child? Amid all his theological doubts,
Wilfred clung to the immortality of the soul.
Did the dead man see him now ? Did he frown
and motion him back from the pursuit of that
innocent child ? Wilfred said to himself that
he meant no harm ; yet he turned away, and
left the churchyard. But, when once he was in
the road, the habit of self-gratification was
stronger than superstitious and fanciful scruples,
and he saw no reason why he should not pay
Mrs. Dawson a visit.

He reached the lane in which her cottage
stood, and opened the wicket. The flowers
were in full bloom on either side the narrow
pathway ; the cabbage roses, sweet-williams,

and sweet peas; and the bees, whose hive stood
in an angle of the little garden, were humming
busily everywhere. Only the cottage itself
was silent ; a tortoiseshell cat lay blinking in
the sunshine on the doorstep ; but the door,
when he tried, after knocking, to raise the
latch proved to be locked.

Very well ; he would sit down on that old
cask , partly under the shadow of the house
partly under the apple-tree, and wait. He was
to return to London with his father and mother
the next day. He would not be down here
again for a month. He was not used to being
balked ; the dinner at Athelstone would not befor
another three hours ; he would pass two and
a half of them here , and it would be hard
if he did not get speech of Nellie in that
time.

The afternoon sped by ; the bees murmured
on among the flowers, the cat slept tranquilly,
an insignificant bird or two twittered among
the fruit-trees, a white butterfly poised on the
blue bottle-brush beside him ; there was the
distant lowing of cattle, the occasional bark of

a dog on the road ; no cart-wheels, no cry or
grind of labour, for it was Sunday. Such
sounds as there only served to enhance the
tranquillity ; man, and the beasts of the field
that serve him were at rest ; that portion of
creation only that was free sang its low, undersong
of enjoyment.

After a time, Wilfred pulled out his note-book,
and began writing. His muse at this time was
draped in a somewhat pre-raphaelite garb of
the Italian cut, that delights in concert, and it
was not always as easy to follow his embodiments
of human emotion as it was in the
present instance. He never got beyond the
first stanza, which ran thus : —

I looked for Love among the leaves of June,
But only Beauty, passionless and pale,
Glided, white-robed, adown the flowery dale.

To the gold twilight of the afternoon.

I struck my cither, telling the old tale

That Love hath some time heard and answered soon.
My passionate singing was of no avail.

Beauty returned not, Love denied the boon
I sought, and, sorrowful as exiles feel,
I watched the darkness o'er the landscape steal."

The church clock struck seven. Another

quarter of an hour, and he roust turn his steps
rapidly homewards, across the woods, unless he
meant to be late for dinner. Where could she
and her mother be ? He had asked himself this
question for the twentieth time, when he heard
the click of the wicket-latch, and a light step
on the pathway. He remained quiet, hidden
in some measure by the apple-tree. Nellie
came near, twirling the house-key on her finger.
She had just placed it in the lock, and was
about to turn it when she saw him seated upon
the barrel three yards from her, with an amused
look on his face. She started, and turned quite
pale.

"I believe the sight of me has actually
frightened you," he began, laughing. " Where
have you been ? Do you know, I have been
waiting here hours to see you."

I am very sorry, sir' she said, with great
gravity. " I have been a walk with mother
and some of the children."

'* And where is your mother ?"

'' She stopped in the village to see Mrs,
Miles, who is ill, so I came home to put on the

kettle for tea. . . . But I beg your pardon. . .
Will you please to walk in, sir ?"

No. I must be going almost directly. I
am only at home for a few hom-s; but, seeing
you in church, I wanted to ask you bow you
liked your new position. Don't you find it very
irksome, keeping those brats in order?"

'^ No, sir, I have not found it so as yet."

"You will. You're not fit for it, you
know."

She looked down, and coloured.

I am sorry you think that, sir. Indeed, I
try to do my best''

'* You misunderstand me. I mean that you
are a thousand times too good for it. I hear
you passed a very good examination."

"■ Yes'' she replied, simply. " But it was not
very difficult. . . I got beyond that at school.
. . May I show you the prize, sir, they gave
me at leaving ?"

She ran in, and came out the next moment
with a gaudily-bound volume in her hand. It
was *' Paley's Evidences of Christianity."

*'Ilave you read this? and do you understand

it ?" he asked abruptly, as he looked at
the title.

*' I have read parts, only. I think I understand
those."

And yon believe it all f

She looked into his face inquiringly, and
remained silent.

'* By-the-by, Nellie, I wish you wouldn't
respond so fervently in that Creed we had
to-day, which condemns everyone to everlasting
punishment who doesn't implicitly believe what
is incomprehensible."

I thought I ought to say the responses out
louder' she replied, after a momentary hesitation.


Do you know that you are consigning me
with many millions more to everlasting punishment
?"

'' Oh, sir !" She looked unutterably shocked.

"Creeds do a great deal of harm by trying
to force those who have naturally religious
instincts, but are . . . well, perhaps unruly . . .
into straight waistcoats."

She opened her pretty brown eyes wide.

'' But the Creed is in the Prayer-book, sir,
and if I go to church "

I know what you are thinking, that I have
no business to go ; but Tve Scripture authority
for it. There's a fellow in the Bible who
prayed that it might be forgiven hiram when he
bowed down in the House of Rim m on."

'' Oh, sir !" cried Nellie, startled out of all
shyness by her distress. " You don't compare
our parish church with the House of Ripon V

''^ Only inasmuch as superstition and human
invention have spoilt the simple faith in a
Creator of this beautiful world. That is what
I want you to believe, and nothing more. All
that cursing of others only does harm."

I'm sure I don't mean it," said she, looking
contrite. "I suppose it was only put in to
frighten people a little."

Fancy frightening people into belief! No,
Nellie, I shall teach you some day a better sort
of belief than that. Promise not to run away
from Ripple, till I come down here to stay, in
August."

She opened her eyes wide, and smiled.

"Run away, sir? What should make me
run away ?"

"You may want to 'better yourself,' as it is
called. You are thrown away here . or you
may even think of marriage," he continued,
looking at her searchingly. '' You are very
young, but there will be plenty of young fellows
after you very soon."

I have never thought of such a thing," she
said, gravely. " I shall never leave my mother,
either to marry or for anything else, sir, as long
as T can teach at the school here."

You have no higher ambition ? Come, now,
tell me, as your friend — your oldest friend,
Nellie — was there no young fellow at Warmington
whom you ever thought of as "

Never — never !" cried the girl, emphatically.



"I am awfully glad of that," said Wilfred,
slowly. "If there had been, I should like to
have punched his head I must go now."
He rose, and took her hand, and held it within
both his, while he continued — " Since that first
evening when I met you, as a little girl, driving

your cow, yon have always been to me like a
poem of purity and simplicity. Remain so.
Don't let admiration and conventionality spoil
you. And remember me. I shall be back again
later in the summer."

Then he walked rapidly away.

CHAPTER VII.

A GREAT change, though a subtle and
-^ gradual one, began in Nellie from that
hour. She was awaking, as the marble nymph
awoke beneath Pygmalion's touch — awaking to
the life of womanhood, to the consciousness of
a heart and senses that were no longer those of
a child. But with this consciousness came a
terror and a shame from which the poor girl
found her only refuge in prayer. Not even to
her mother could she pour out her heart ; for
her mother could never understand her trouble.
Only to the Father, from whom no secrets are
hid, could she turn for comfort in the silent
watches of the night, and, asking His forgiveness
for all her wicked and foolish thoughts,
VOL. I. G

pray to Hire for strength to overcome them.

Mrs. Dawson attributed the young girl's extreme
quietude and apparent weariness at times
to the hard work and confinement in a somewhat
close school-room. The weather was
relaxing. Nellie was new to the labour of
keeping a score of children in order, and her
voice, not being strong, was tried by the constant
demands upon it. Thus the mother
accounted for the change, when she found that
her daughter refused to admit that she was unwell,
and shrank from seeing the village doctor.
Mrs. Dawson hoped the return of cool weather
would bring back the rose to her Nellie's cheek ;
the school-holiday, too, was at hand.

At this juncture she received a letter which
surprised and perplexed her a good deal.

Since the expression of Uncle Joshua's dissatisfaction
at his niece's being withdrawn from
school to accept so poor a post as that of pupil-teacher,
Mrs. Dawson had not heard from the
family at Warmington. That was three months
ago. The letter which now arrived, and which
Mrs. Dawson had some difficulty in 

owing to the running stream of words
being embanked in so many flowery flourishes,
was from Sam's pen. He wrote, he said, by his
father's instruction, to request Mrs. Dawson and
Nellie to pass the three weeks' holiday which
the latter would shortly have at Warmington.
Sam, on his own part, warmly expressed a hope
that his aunt would accept this invitation ; but,
if circumstances should unfortunately prevent
her doing so, then Sam proposed, having received,
he said, his father's full sanction, to run
down to the " Hen and Chickens " at Kipple fora
few days that he might have the pleasure of
his aunts and cousin's society.

Mrs. Dawson, as I have said, was both surprised
and perplexed. Could it be that Uncle
Joshua, far from being angered, actually encouraged
his son's admiration for his cousin?
She had told him plainly enough why she
thought it better the girl should be removed
from Warmington. Yet here he was, not only
inviting her expressly to return, but sanctioning
Sam's pursuit, even to the " Hen and Chickens !"
It was incomprehensible, and she felt sorely

g2

puzzled how to act. The visit to Warrington
was, of course, without the pale of consideration
; though, under other circumstances, she
would have hailed a change of air for her drooping
child. And, if Sara chose to come here, of
course his aunt could not prevent it. The
question was, how to avoid inflicting pain on
the young man, and unnecessary annoyance to
the girl, without incurring the charge of ingratitude
to Uncle Joshua.

What am I to say to Cousin Sam's coming
here?" she inquired of her daughter, after
weighing the matter over in her mind for some
hours. She was engaged in ironing when she
asked the question, and never looked up. Nellie
handed the linen to her from the clothes-horse
every now and then. Mrs. Dawson continued —
*' It's a foolish waste o' money."

*' If Uncle Joshua does not mind that, mother,
we ought not to say so, ought we ? I think
you must say you hope he'll come."

But it isn't true. I wish he 'd stop
away."

What harm can he do, mother ? Perhaps

he is a little vain and silly, but he was always
kind to me. He will find everything very poor
here, after Warmington, and dull too, I am
afraid; but, if he wants to come, you must not
mind him, mother. 1 will keep him out of your
way."

That's just what I don't want," said Mrs.
Dawson, ironing more vigorously than ever.
There's no knowing the foolishness as young
chaps is capable of talking to girls; and I won't
have him come here with his silly stuck-up
ways, fancying fancying I don't
know what all."

Nellie looked at her mother, surprised, and
remained silent for a minute. Then she said,
with a smile,

You think I am still a child, mother."

"No, that's just it. You ain't no longer a
child, my dear. That's why I ought to speak
out open to you." Here she laid down her
iron, and leaning both hands upon the table,
looked at her daughter for the first time as she
went on — " Your uncle's bin very good to us.
There's no saying as he hasn't, and I should be

sorry if trouble came to his soa through us,
Nellie."

*' What sort of trouble is likely to come to
him?"

I fancy he's a mind to ask you to be his
wife."

What an idea, mother ! Sam ? . . . Sam,
who thinks so much of himself, marry mel
Why, the Princess Royal is hardly good enough
for him !"

*' Maybe ; but the Princess Royal ain't here,
and you are. I'm afraid the lad's fallen in love
with you; and, what's more, I don't fancy,
somehow, as your uncle minds it. It's strange
I can't make it out. You, without a penny,

and his cousin, and all It's scarce to be

credited ; yet it's my opinion as it is so. Now,
I don't give you my advice, remember, my dear.
You must make up your own mind, if he asks
you, what you mean to say. Only, if you don't
mean to have him "

*' How can you ask me, mother?" The girl,
for once, was roused to something near akin to

indignation. " I shall never, never marry anyone
; but to think of marrying Sam /"

*'I didn't believe as you would, my dear.
That's why Tm speaking to you now. Else it'd
be easy to let things go on as they are. But, if
Sam comes here, you must let him understand
bow it is. It'd be cruel not to show him, plain
enough, that it's no use his thinking o' you."

I think you are mistaken, mother. I'm sure
I hope so . I hope he won't be so silly as to
say anything to me . . . but if he does, well, I
will certainly tell him the truth."

After this, no more passed between mother
and daughter on the subject. A letter was
despatched to Sam, declining with gratitude
the invitation to Warmington, and saying that,
if he came to the '^ Hen and Chickens," his aunt
would of course be glad to see him, though she
feared he would find Ripple dull. She omitted
all mention of Nellie name, and endeavoured
to strike the mean between forgetfulness of past
obligations and a cordiality which should mislead
her too-easily-encouraged nephew.

He came. It was on the afternoon of a day
in August, soon after Nellie's holiday had
begun. There had been torrents of rain all the
morning, but towards five o'clock it cleared ;
the clouds drifted off, leaving patches of pale
blue sky visible ; the rushing streams of water,
which had forced themselves channels in the
sandy roads, subsided, and the birds began
calling to each other from the dripping boughs
that the sun was not yet gone to bed, and
would come out presently.

The town-bred young man, with his tall hat
and blue satin tie, his mackintosh and umbrella,
excited some attention, as he swaggered up
the street, and demanded the way to Mrs.
Dawson's cottage.

The mother and daughter were at work as he
entered.

*"I hope I don't intrude?' as Paul Pry says.
How do you do. Aunt Su ? . . . How are you,
Nell? A little pale. . . Well, here I am ; and
I hope you are glad to see me, for the journey
here is horrible — three changes I These cross
lines are the devil."

*' They aise ill-convenient," observed his aunt,
in a deprecatory tone.

*' And what a deal of rain you 'ave in these
southern counties. Why, it was quite fine when
I left Warmington this morning, and 'ere it's all
of a sop."

It was fine here, too, very early," said
Nellie, a little resentful at the aspersion on the
Ripple climate.

^' Well, you've a nice nut-shell of a place,"
continued Sam, condescendingly, as he divested
himself of his mackintosh, and opened his umbrella
to dry. Then he sat down, extended his
legs, like a pair of tongs, and looked around
him. "It wouldn't do for the governor, you
know. He's so precious particular ; but I don't
mind your rough and ready style, when beauty
presides over the 'art." The interesting
youth here leered at his cousin ; but, as she
continued stitching, without raising her eyes,
it was only Mrs. Dawson who observed the
expressive glance.

"I've only just cleared away tea, Sam," she
said. " Shall I make you some, or will you

have the cold neck o' mutton, and I'll bile you
a potato ?"

*'Noj 1 shall 'ave supper at the inn, by-and-by;
but you may give me a glass o' beer,
Nell."

^^Tll run and fetch you some. It's only
round' the corner ; but Nellie's a bit tired' said
his aunt.

"Bless my stars! No beer in the 'ouse?
But, Lor', do you think I'd let you fetch beer
for me ? No, that won't do. Aunt Su. Make
me a cup o' tea. That's the ticket . . . and
Nellie shall pour it out for me, won't you ? . . .
Why, you sit there like mum-chance ! Haven't
you word to say to me, after four months ? . . .
Ah ! Nellie, the 'high Street 'as seemed an 'owing
wilderness to me since you went."

I seldom went into High Street," — the girl
roused herself to reply, laughing — "so I'm
afraid I cannot take your compliment to myself,
Sam. But you haven't told us yet how
uncle and aunt are ?"

** Oh ! pretty boyish. I say, Nell," he continued,
seeing that his aunt had gone into the

kitchen to set the kettle on the fire, "what
do you think the governor says ? That 'e feels
as though you were 'is daughter. He often
says there's no gal in Warmington he'd so soon
'ave for a daughter."

That's very kind of Uncle Joshua," returned
his cousin, quietly. " It is because I am the
only girl who ever stayed in his house. Of
course, he would take to others just as much if
he knew them all as well."

"Not at all. He ain't very soft-hearted,
ain't the governor. You know that, Nell; but
he's right down fond of you, and no mistakes
Here Mrs. Dawson returned, and Sam, with
some show of hesitation, pulled out a photograph,
framed in scarlet leather, from his
pocket. " I've brought this for you, Nell. I
'ad it done on purpose. I'm afraid it ain't very
good. . . In fact, it's a 'horrid thing. They

say it don't do me justice, and I believe it's

Anyways, it ain't flattering ; but, such as it is, it
will remind you, when absent, of yours truly,
elf

Mrs. Dawson looked over Nellie's shoulder.

iiud they both exclaimed, '' Oh ! "

*but it's the very image of you, Sara !"

Just the way you always sit."

"And the expression of the mouth ! and the
whiskers !"

*' And the curl of the hair ! and the collar I"

And the tip of the nose !"

Oh ! come, now, my nose ain't so snub as
that — and the tie don't sit so genteel as mine —
and the light on the 'air makes me look as
though I was bald."

Well, it's a most capital likeness," maintained
his aunt. " Say what you will, Sam."

I really think you ought to be quite satisfied'
chimed in his cousin. " I don't think it
could be better."

Let us acknowledge this was aggravating.
To be told by the object of one's affections that
the monstrosity in her hand does you ample
justice would be trying to more philosophical
natures than Sam's.

"Well, there are those as think different,"
said he, running his fingers through his hair,
and looking round the humble little room in

Tain for a square inch of mirror. " There are
those that think I'm a deal better-favoured than
that beastly thing. I wouldn't have brought
it, if I'd thought you'd have bin so unkind aston
say that, Nellie."

I can't help saying what I think, Sara. I
am sorry it hurts you — you shouldn't hav
asked me."

'you think me a fright, I suppose, now
then ?" He was by this time in a state of considerable
irritation. " You didn't always. But
it's out of sight, out of mind, I suppose, with
you as with so many."

What foolishness you're talking, Sam," said
his aunt, almost sternly. '' Out o' sight, out o'
mind, indeed ! What's that got to do with the
picture' being like you or not? You think a
deal too much of what others think about you,
Sam. That's your fault."

Oh ! of course ; and I come all the way from
Warmington to Ripple to be told that by you,
aunt. Well, I didn't expect it of you, and "

"Now, take your tea, Sam, and hold your
tongue. You're no better than a big baby.

flaring np like that, when no one means nothing
unkind. Why, what does a man's looks signify?
If we all made ourselves, we'd all be
beauties. You can't help being what you are
any more than I can. It's what we does in life,
Sam, that signifies — that draws hearts to us
like, and makes us remembered when we're
gone. You're little better than a lad, and have
got life before you. Don't you waste it all in
folly, Sam."

He drank his tea in silence. He was
thoroughly put out. This was not the kind of
reception he had looked for. He had expected
to meet with great consideration ; firstly, as
Sam, irresistible to Nellie as to her sex in
general ; secondly, as son and heir of the prosperous
Joshua Dawson. His aunt and cousin,
though they lived in this mean cottage, seemed
to have no respect for his position ; and the way
in which they had spoken of his nose — it was
disgusting. He felt, like the man in the parable,
"Some enemy hath done this." Some
fellow had come between him and Nellie, and

had turned the hearts of both the women
against him ; there was no accounting for such
conduct otherwise. Mrs. Dawson tried to make
conversation, her daughter threw in a remark
or two ; but Sam maintained a dogged silence
until he had finished his tea. Then he rose,
and, looking at his cousin, said —

Its a fine evening'. I repose you ain't going'
to refuse to take a walk with me ?"

She glanced up at her mother, but laid down
her work and rose. Mrs. Dawson interposed.

Indeed, Sam, and I think, if you'd excuse
her, she's a deal better at home. She's bin that
tired and weakly of late that I haven't liked
her to walk at all, and "

Oh, mother," said Nellie, quickly, seeing the
angry cloud on Sam's face, " I have not been
outside the door to-day, and the air will do me
good. Sam won't take me too far . . . I'll run
and put on my hat."

She returned a moment later, and the cousins
left the cottage together.

Well, perhaps it's better," said Mrs. Dawson

to herself, as she watched them turn down the
lane towards the Athelstone woods. *' I repose
he'll speak now, and she'll give him his answer,
and then there will be an end to it."

There was an end to it ; but not quite the
one she anticipated.

They had been walking nearly a quarter of
an hour on the outskirts of the Athelstone
wood. Sam had by this time quite recovered
his good humour, together with his self-confidence,
which had only received a temporary
shock. He was depicting in all the glowing
colours his imagination could suggest the joys
incident to an existence spent in a back street
in Warmington, "in a souse of my own, with
the party of my choice." He was approaching
his object in view by this sure, if circuitous,
route, from which Nellie saw no side-path of
escape, and with a beating heart she awaited
the moment which her mother had foreseen,
and which the girl felt she must nerve herself
to meet. She certainly had never felt so ill-disposed
towards her cousin as now, never had
his vulgarity and conceit been so offensive to

her. She felt inclined to ciy. If she could
only get rid of him ! Why, oh ! why did she
ever consent to come out?

Just then, when Sam's blatant voice had, in
his excitement, reached its culminating point,
a gate in the Athelstone wall close at hand
was opened, and Wilfred stood before them.
Nellie was so startled that she gave a faint cry,
and, unconsciously, grasped the hand he held
out to her for support.

The two men stared at each other, the one
with his shabby shooting-jacket, long hair and
slouching gait, possessing with it all the unmistakeable
air of a gentleman, the other, in
spite of his spick-and-span clothes, best dog-skin
gloves, and erect carriage, the unmistakeable
air of a snob. He glared angrily, and tilted his
nose at Wilfred. The latter surveyed him
calmly from head to foot, as he spoke to the
girl whose hand he held.

"How is you mother, Nellie? I was on
my way to your cottage. I only came home
to-day."

*' Mother is very well, thank you, sir,"

VOL. I. H

she replied, feebly, as she disengaged her
hand.

*' And who is this person ?" inquired Wilfred,
rather coldly. " A stranger to me."

*^'It is my cousin Sam, sir. . . . Uncle
Joshua's son, who's come from Warrington toto
see us."

"From Warmington? That's a longish
said Wilfred, addressing Sam, but without
the shadow of a smile on his somewhat
scornful mouth. "How long do you
stay?"

*^' As long as I feel inclined. I ain't taken a
return-ticket," replied Sam, eyeing the stranger
fiercely.

Oh ! indeed. . . . Well, I won't interrupt
your walk any longer, Nellie. I hope you will
enjoys it. But my mother wishes to see you tomorrow
morning. Can you come up before
eleven? — or are you too much occupied with
your cousin to spare the time?"

The poor child was so confused and
annoyed that she could only stammer out,

*' Of course, sir, I shall wait upon my lady."

Then he nodded, and, without taking any
further notice of Sam, walked on.

That young man was struck dumb for a
moment at the mention of " my lady ;" then his
ire found tongue —

So that's my lord, is it ? And a seedy-looking
lot 'e is, and as impudent a one as ever
I met — looking at me like that, and I'm every

bit as good as 'e is, d n him. I essay the

governor could buy 'im up ; these aristocrats
are mostly sewn up, I'm told. I'm sure 'is coat
looks like it. Why, I wouldn't pick it off a
dung-hill !"

You're not worthy to do it," cried Nellie,
struggling between her anger and her tears.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, speaking
so rudely to Mr. Wilfred when he
was good enough to address you, Sam.
What must he think of you? I felt so
ashamed — and he who has been so good
to us ?"

"Oh! that's the ticket, is it? I ought to
grovel in the dust and lick 'is feet when 'e
-condescends to speak to me, eh? I tell you

h2

what it is. I don't care that'' and Sam snapped
bis fingers defiantly in the direction Wilfred
had taken, " what 'e thinks of me, or any dozen
like 'im. But now I know the sort of man 'e
is, let 'im look out, that's all. I can see
through a nine-inch Avail as well as any chap, I
flatter myself. 'Ed better take care what 'e's
after.

"■ What do you mean, Sam ? I think you are
mad."

Never you mind. I know what's what. I
ain't got eyes in my 'eat for nothing. It's no
puzzle now why we're so changed — that's all ;
why a fellow who you was glad enough once to
walk with, when he comes down here is ridiculed
and abused, and treated like this."

*' I will walk with you no more, Sam'' said
his cousin, stopping dead short and looking him
in the face. "I don't know what you mean,
but your temper is quite changed since old days.
You seem to wish to make yourself disagreeable,
and I won't go on listening to you. I
shall go home."

She turned away, and this seemed to bring

him to bis senses. He followed, and in humbled
accents entreated her to continue their walk ;
be had so much still to say to her ; he begged
her pardon ; bis temper bad got the better of
him just now; but his tongue should not offend
again. She remained obdurate, however. She
declared, what was indeed the truth, that she
felt tired. The emotions of the last ten minutes
had quite upset her. To listen to Sam's declaration
now was beyond her powers.

He was upon his best behaviour the rest of
the evening ; but Nellie crept to bed early.
Sam said no word to his aunt of what had
passed.

CHAPTER VIII.

V17ILFRED ATHELSTONE^S rage, as he
* walked away, was none the less that it
was self-contained. He could glance coldly at
Sam and nod carelessly to Nellie, but his blood
boiled with indignation all the same. That
angelic girl " keeping company " with a vulgar
brute like this ! Had it been a simple ploughboy,
Wilfred felt that he could have tolerated
him better than this impudent, swaggering
snob.

The chief attraction he had held out to himself
in returning home to pass his long vacation
was the prospect of seeing Nellie Dawson daily ;
of instructing and elevating her mind; in short,
of moulding this beautiful and, as he doubted

not, plastic clay, to his liking. And what after
this ? He never asked himself. If the thought
suggested itself, he put it away. He shut his
eyes to anything beyond the pleasure the hours
thus spent would afford him. A man with more
self-control would have resolved to shun such
peril ; peril to himself no less than to her, unless
be was prepared to sacrifice father and mother
to a passion which as yet had been nourished
chiefly by his imagination. But Wilfred, with
too kind a heart knowingly to inflict pain, had
never consulted any other law than that of his
inclination. Happily it had not led him to indulge
very deeply in the dissipations common
to his age. A woman without refinement, a
woman whom he could not surround with
something of the halo of romance, could gain
no real ascendancy over him. He had made
the acquaintance of many such who had striven
to ensnare him ; but he had never been subjugated
for more than a few hours. He had
broken his bonds like Samson, and regarded
Dallas cynically as a subject for dramatic
study.

The fact is, his principles about women, as
about religion, were as yet only sketched in
wavering, indeterminate lines. He had read
Mary Wolstonecraft, Godwin and Shelley He
felt inclined to believe, with the latter, that
*' Love withers under restraint ; its very essence
is liberty ; it is compatible neither with obedience,
jealousy, nor fear ; it is there most pure,
perfect, and unlimited, where its votaries live in
confidence, equality, and unreserve." And, asa
natural corollary from this proposition, he was
wont to maintain in discussions with his friends
that constancy had no virtue in itself, and
that people should remain united only so long
as they loved each other. At this time, indeed,
the idea of marriage, of a tie binding him for
life, was practically repugnant to him ; though,
regarded as a mystical and entirely delightful
union of two congenial spirits, it appealed to
the poetic side of his nature. To pass one's
life at the feet of an ideal woman was a rapturous
dream ; but was there any woman in the
flesh at whose feet he could pass his life ?

He said to himself that he should probably

never marry. As regarded the little village
maid whose sweet eyes and modest ways had
first attracted him as a child, he certainly did
not contemplate any such act of egregious folly.
If he disgraced himself — so his father would
consider it — by marrying beneath him, Wilfred
knew that Lord Athelstone would never forgive
his son. Indifferent as he was to social
distinctions himself, his parents valued them as
next in importance to their religion, and the
fact had been duly impressed on Wilfred since
his boyhood. Like some able orators, it might
be said of him that he was never so strong
as in opposition ; but Wilfred now rarely
opposed his father openly. He loved him ; he
respected him ; and he pitied his narrow-mindedness.
Discussion was worse than useless
with a man of Lord Athelstone's stamp ;
therefore his son would avoid discussion, avoid
angering the old gentleman, whose health had
been a good deal shaken during the last two
years. Only a passion which over-bore every
filial consideration would drive WWred to commit
an act which would be a virtual separation

from the parents whom, with all his wilfulness,
he loved well.

Under these circumstances he resented — and
all the more, perhaps, that he felt he had no
right to resent — the intrusion of this detestable
cousin upon pleasure grounds which Wilfred
had marked for his own. He brooded over it
all the evening, while apparently absorbed in
the '' Earthly Paradise," which had just been
published. At one time he resolved to relinquish
his plan of waylaying Nellie when she
left his mother the following morning. He
would never seek out the girl again, never hold
other than the most casual intercourse with
her. But such resolves, wise though they
might be, were only bred of irritation and
disgust. AVhen eleven o'clock struck next day,
it found him on a bench in the maple-wood
through which the girl must pass on her way
back to the village. He had seen her shown
into Lady Athelstone's boudoir a few minutes
before.

The interview was soon over. When Lady
Athelstone had questioned the young pupil-teacher

relative to some children in whom she
was interested, she said,

Gossip travels quickly. My maid told me
just now that you were thought to be engaged
to a cousin of yours, who is come here from
Warmington to see you. Is it true?"

Nellie flushed scarlet.

''No, my lady, certainly not."

Oh, really ? Well, I was in hopes — not but
that you are very young. . . Still . . . ."

"Indeed, my lady, I have never thought of
such a thing. . . and I wouldn't marry my
cousin on any account."

'indeed? . . . Well, I daresay some worthy
young man by-and-by . I believe you to
be a very good girl, and we are quite pleased
with you in the school. . . You can go now.
Good morning."

With these disjointed sentences, after her
peculiar fashion, the patroness dismissed the
dependant ; and Nellie, thankful to escape,
crossed the garden rapidly, and entered the
maple-wood. A few yards in, the path was
intersected by one running at right angles.

She turned to the left, and immediately perceived
Wilfred on the bench at some distance
off. She would have given worlds to retrace
her steps. Though only to look upon lira now
was a joy to the poor child, which all the
schooling of her rebel heart could not repress,
she shrank from encountering him at this
moment. She felt afraid of herself. How he
would despise her, if she betrayed, by any
weakness, that all his kindness to her had been
misunderstood, and that the interest he had
shown in her must be evinced no longer !

She had no choice, however, but to go forward
with slow and rather uncertain footsteps,
until she approached him, when he rose.

You look a little pale, Nellie," he said,
kindly. " You had better sit down here for a
few minutes. . . Are you not well ?"

I have not been very strong lately, sir."

You are over-worked in the school. I told
you you were not fit for it."

Indeed, I'm not over-worked, sir. . . Mother
thinks it's the weather."

Well, at all events, you won't be overworked

much longer. I hear you are to be
raarried/'

"It is not true . . . not a word of it."
It seems to be the talk of the village.
That very smart young man who is staying at
the ' Hen and Chickens ' gives it to be understood,
I hear."

"If I thought it, I'd never speak to him
again," cried Nellie. " But Sam would never
be so base. I'll not believe it, sir."

*' You allow him to live on hope, perhaps 1"
"Mr. Wilfred, indeed I don't . . . please
don't say that."

Why do you walk with him, then ?"
*show could I refuse, when he is come all

this way to see us, sir, and "

"And to ask you to marry him, no doubt."
"After all Uncle Joshua has done for me, I —

I " here she burst into tears.

Don't cry. I didn't mean to make you
cry. Only, do you remember what I said to
you the last time we met ? I felt inclined to
punch your cousin's head yesterday. He looked
as if he onli/ had a right to be with you.

and I was an intruder. After all, I am an
older friend than he is, ain't I ?"

She wiped away her tears, and murmured,
« Yes, sir''

"And you like me better? Say that you
like me better, Nellie."

She did not dare lift up her eyes.

'soh, sir," she stammered, "it is so — so
different, you know, the respect "

Hang the respect. I want liking. I want
you to say you like me better than that
cad."

What could she say She could not lie to
him. She almost imperceptibly nodded her
head. It was enough for Wilfred.

'snow promise me that you'll walk no more
with him, and that you will walk sometimes
with me."

*' No ; I can't promise that."

*why not? If you could walk with liirrif
why not with me ?"

I can't tell why, sir ; there is a difference."


*' There are so many things I want to

teach sou, Nellie — so much I want to read
to you."

"Oh I dear. How I should like that!" she
exclaimed, forgetting herself for a moment.

You think you would like it ? I shall bringdown
some books tomorrow."

She looked frightened.

** Oh, sir, not tomorrow ; because — because
'^

"• Because this cousin will still be here ? and
everything must give way to him !"

Sam is so passionate ! He will only be here
a day or two. Please don't come, sir, till he's
gone."

She put her hands together, and looked up
with that sweet, child-like expression which
Wilfred found so bewitching. He bent his face
till it almost touched her.

*' Tell me," he said, " are you afraid for Sam
or for me V^

"For you,^^ — the words escaped her involuntarily.


The next instant he had clasped her in his
arms. She rose, trembling in every limb, and

tried to walk away ; but her head swam round ;
she staggered, and fell fainting on the path.
Wilfred, much alarmed, lifted her up, and laid
her gently on the bench.

My darling, look up ! I am so grieved.
What a brute I was I Nellie. Speak to me !
Say you forgive me !" — but her eyes remained
closed, and, though not insensible, she could
not speak. He bethought him of a stream not
far off, and dashed through the trees to fetch
some water. As he did so, a rustling among
the boughs and leaves a few yards off attracted
his attention for a moment. Could he be
watched? He looked round, but saw nothing ;
and his anxiety about Nellie absorbed every
thought. He ran on, and brought back some
water in his hat. He bathed her face, and in a
few minutes she sat up, pale, indeed, but
declaring that she felt able to walk.

*' Wait here till I run home and fetch you
some wine in my flask."

She said nothing ; she let him go. Then, as
soon as he was out of sight, she rose resolutely',
and walked as fast as she was able, poor child,
through the wood towards Ripple.

When Wilfred returned to the spot a few
minutes later, he found to his disgust that she
was fled. He meditated pursuing her, when he
heard a step among the dead leaves close by,
and, turning round, Sam Dawson stood before
him.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IX.

rpHE young shopkeeper's face was white, and
-*- his lips tight-clenched. He grasped an
oak stick in his hand, and his demeanour, in the
intensity of passion, lost much of its vulgar
assumption.

May I inquire what you want here ? These
grounds are private."

It was Wilfred who spoke first, and with a
calmness which, to say the truth, he was far
from feeling. This fellow's intrusion was insolent,
and irritating in the extreme. What if he
bad been playing the eavesdropper ?

You know well enough why Fm *ere. I'm
Nell Dawson's cousin, and I mean to be 'er
'husband," replied Sam, between his teeth.

"I doubt that. Did you overhear our conversation?
If so, you must have been gratified."


I didn't sear a word — but / saw. That was
enough. If you think I'm going to stand your
"humbugging her — if you think I'm going to
take your leavings, you're d ly mistaken."

I think nothing of the kind. In the first
place, Nellie Dawson will never be your wife —
fie told me so." Sam ground his teeth; but
Wilfred continued, and the words that fell from
him were certainly not those he would have
used an hour before — " I am ready to account
for my conduct to her mother, but certainly not
to you."

Sam looked at him in silence for a moment,
and something like a demoniacal smile crossed
his lips.

'Ow if I tell all over the village what I've
seen ? You'll like that, won't you ?"

Wilfred inwardly winced; but he was not
going to allow this blackguard to see the advantage
he had over him.

It is just what I should expect from you,"

i2

he replied. " A fine, manly action, certainty
come down here and try to ruin your
cousin's reputation by spreading a groundless
scandal."

*' Groundless ? Come, I like that !"

*' Yes, groundless. I have known her since
she was a little child. No one who had not a
black imagination would fancy that I meant to
harm her."

'' 'Arm her ? You don't mean to marry her, I
suppose? That's about it. It's 'arm enough,
if you turn the girl's 'eat, and make 'er unfit
for 'er station, and then walk away, and leave
'er! But I tell you what it is," he continued,
raising his voice, and thrusting his clenched fist
almost in wilfred's face, " I'm not to be put off
with your 'high and mighty airs. I'm not a fool.
I know what sort yoii are. And I tell you, if
you seduce that girl, Fll have your Mood — I will,
if I swing for it !"

With that he turned upon his heel and strode
away.

Wilfred had a certain sense of being worsted,
a certain sense of humiliation, which he could

not account for. He had explained nothing;
he had promised nothing ; he had given this
insolent fellow no pledge of any kind ; and yet
he felt somehow as if Sam had gone away victorious
from the encounter. The whole thing
was vexatious beyond measure. The incidents
of the morning had inflamed his passion fourfold.
Nellie loved him ; there could be no doubt
about it. Her modest reluctance to avow that
love only enhanced its value in his eyes. To
-abandon the treasure which he had won, on
account of any paltry obstacle which the world
or its laws of convention might set between
them, he began to say to himself, would be
miserable weakness. But what course was he
to adopt? This troublesome brute's interference
had complicated matters, and rendered it
essential that Wilfred should take a decided
line. After some deliberation he resolved to
call on Mrs. Dawson that afternoon.

He found her alone. Nellie, on seeing him
come up the garden, had fled to her own room.
The widow's demeanour was civil and respectful
as usual, but there was a certain constraint

in her manner that did not escape Wilfred, fie
learnt, much to his surprise and satisfaction,
when he made a casual remark about her
nephew, that the young man had left Ripple by
that afternoon's train. Wilfred's curiosity could
not be restrained.

Why did he go so suddenly?" he asked.

Mrs. Dawson hesitated a moment.

"fie wanted Nellie to say she'd marry him,
for one thing, sir."

*sand she refused?"

Yes, Mr. Wilfred, and then him and me
had words."

1 can guess what about. It was about me,
now ; wasn't it, Mrs. Dawson ?"

*-It was, Mr. Wilfred. He spoke shameful,
and I told him he should never come inside my
doors again. I know you're an honourable
gentleman as would never lead my girl astray,
and I know what he said was all malice,
because she won't have him. But at the same
time, Mr. Wilfred, I've had it in my mind I
ought to speak to you, and I will. You
mustn't meet NelHe in the wood, sir. We're

poor people, and our characters is all as we
have to look to — we can't make light of what
folks say, as the rich can, when they knows
they're doing nothing' wrong. Therefore, Mr.
Wilfred — I'm sure as you mean too kindly by
my girl to wish to injure her — you must not
meet her alone, else evil tongues, besides Sam's,
'11 be set wagging."

I may come here ?" said Wilfred, quite
humbly. "You will let me bring her books,
and read to her here, Mrs. Dawson?"

The good woman looked puzzled. She could
not conceive that there could be anything
wrong in this, yet instinct told her it was
one of those innocent things that are better
avoided,

''If you lend her books, Mr. Wilfred, I'm
sure as Nellie '11 be grateful. And if you drop
in promiscuous now and then, as you've often
done since you was a boy, Mr. Wilfred, folks
can't say nothing'. But I think you'd better not
come too often."

Wilfred sighed, and stroked the cat, who had
jumped upon his knee, and mused.

*' I know I wish I and the few people I care
for in the world were living in a desert
island, where there was no such thing as
propriety,' and all did as they liked."

Lor ! Mr. Wilfred, that'd be a pretty state
of things ! No, depend on 't, sir, we're better
as we are. You'll think so some day. When
I've bin in trouble, and the Lord's bin good tome,
and delivered me out of it, I've thought to
myself that all the contraries was perhaps just
put here to bring out the good. If we had all
we want there be no need o' patience and
sacrifice and kindness, and a lot o' things as is
drawn out of us like."

"Exactly so," said Wilfred, looking up from
the cat with a little ironical smile. *^*If we
didn't require them, there would be no use in
worrying ourselves about them. I, for one,
should be very glad to dispense with patience
and self-sacrifice."

Mrs. Dawson meditated a moment. Then
she said, gravely,

*' Perhaps not in others, Mr. Wilfred."

He laughed.

You are very hard on me, Mrs. Dawson. I
had no idea you were satirical."

Does that mean scoffing-like ? No, Mr.
Wilfred. But you're young, and haven't
known trouble yet. You've had everything
pretty much your own way, I take it. It
can't be always so. When sorrows come,
you'll learn the valley o' those things you want
to do without."

"I have not everything my own way now.
I want to educate Nellie. I want to teach hera
great many things that will make her wiser
and happier; and, because of the world's mischievous
folly, I am not to be allowed. I don't
see the beauty of patience or self-sacrifice hereat
all."

The child will do very well as she is, sir ;
she has education enough; don't think about
her. 'Tis only her health troubles me. This
last month, I don't know what ails her, but she
is grown as pale and weak as anything, and,
though she won't own it, I know she don't
sleep o' nights."

Wilfred looked up anxiously. " Doesn't she ?

Poor Nellie!" Then he remained silent for a
minute. It was just a month since Trinity
Sunday. Could he be the cause of her illness '^
Was it the struggle to repress her love for him
that had affected her health — was, perhaps, endangering
her life? " Has she seen the doctor?"
he asked, presently.

No, I can't get her to see him. She says
there's nothing the matter with her."

But she must see him ; I insist upon it. I
shall make my mother come and talk to her.
It's nonsense going on like this. She has no
cough ? no pain ?"

"No; it seems a kind o' wasting like, and
her spirits is quite changed ; but she don't
complain o' nothing', and so she may get strong
again, I hope, when the warm weather is past.
It was terrible hot last week."

She must see the doctor at once. Whatever
is the cause, she ought to have advice. My
mother shall send him here." He sprang up.
'tell her what I say; and now, good-bye, Mrs.
Dawson."

Lady Athelstone, obedient to her son's commands,

sent a message to the village apothecary,
desiring him to call and examine Nellie
Dawson, and report to Lady Athelstone what
his opinion was as to the girl's condition.

But before Mr. Dole had gone his round the
following morning, he was sent for post haste
to the Castle. The messenger informed him
that his lordship had had a fit in his dressing-room;
that he was insensible, and that her
ladyship was greatly alarmed.

CHAPTER X.

rpHE post arrived daily at the Castle between
-^ seven and eight o'clock, and it was one of
Lord Athelstone's peculiarities that no one
should open the bag but himself. It was
brought him, with his hot water ; he unlocked
it, took out his own letters, and gave back the
others to his valet for distribution.

On the morning in question he rose, not feeling
very well. The bag was laid, as usual, on
his table. There were four letters for him.
One, which he had been expecting, from his
lawyer ; two from friends upon business connected
with the approaching Borough election ;
and one in a handwriting which, from its copy-book
flourishes, he concluded was a tradesman's.

This he laid aside, while he digested
the contents of the others.

So the purchase of that farm was effected,.
and his man of business wrote that he was
satisfied that the transaction was an advantageous
one to my lord. He was much pleased
at this, and thought over it a good deal while
he was shaving. The next two letters gave
him much food for reflection, and of a less
pleasant kind. His correspondents wrote very
much to the same effect; that if, at the approaching
election, the Honourable Wilfred
Athelstone would come forward upon Conservative
principles, his return for the Borough could
be almost ensured. If it could be ascertained
beyond doubt that the young man was guided,
in his political views, by his father. Lord Athelstan's
name would be sufficient guarantee for
his son. Indeed, even as a moderate Liberal,
though there might be a contest, his chances of
election were very good. But a rumour had
got abroad of his holding very extreme Radical
opinions. Should this rumour be unhappily
verified, the writers both stated plainly

enough that they must decline to support him.
Lord Athelstone could not but approve their
decision. In their place he would do likewise.
Then came the question, could any arguments,
any persuasion of his, induce Wilfred to
modify, if not his present convictions, at least
such expression of them as must alienate the
suffrages of the main body of electors ? Lord
Athelstone's good sense, which seldom permitted
him to indulge in delusions, constrained
him to negative this. His son had become
much more docile in discussion of late ; he was
affectionate to his father, and that he possessed
good abilities of a certain kind was unquestioned.
He was spoken of as a young man who
might do almost anything, " if he liked." Unfortunately,
he did not like, apparently, to
work in the particular groove which alone
could bring solid distinction, and give him a
claim to personal consideration in the county —
for what was a prize for poetry, or any such
rubbish, worth? Then the boy's opinions on
most subjects at present were altogether pernicious.
He hoped, he believed, they would

change, as Wilfred grew older ; but it must bea
work of time ; he was not deceived by his
sons reticence, he knew full well that there
were rocks of obstinacy beneath the fluid
amiability of Wilfred's home-relations which
nothing would remove. It was hopeless to
expect from him at present any renunciation
of opinions, which he held none the less
that he was silent concerning them when at
home.

It was annoying, it was even irritating, for
Lord Athelstone wished, above all things, that
his son should have some experience of
parliamentary life before the time came that he
should be called to the Upper House. And
who could tell how soon that might be ? Lord
Athelstone was scarcely a very old man ; he
was not fanciful or nervous about his own
health. But he had had two warnings in the
comes of the past twelve months which were
not to be disregarded ; he knew he might die
any day. Was his son fit for the responsibilities
that would devolve upon him? Was he not
rather, in spite of his cleverness and amiability,

lamentably ill-calculated to fulfil his duties asa
peer, a prominent and influential man in the
county, a landlord whose wisdom or unwisdom
would leaven the opinions of large masses in
his neighbourhood ?

Lord Athelstone said to himself, with a sigh,
that it was so. He had sat down a few
minutes before, feeling a little giddy ; and
there he was, leaning back, half dressed, in his
arm-chairs with his correspondence I^ang on
the table before him. The tradesman's letter
was as yet unread, and at last, after a long
interval, he listlessly opened the envelope.
The writing was clear enough, in spite of its
flourishes, yet it was some minutes before he
could grasp the meaning of what he read.

'' Mr Lord,

I was witness of a scene to-day in
your wood, which makes me write this letter,
as I think you should be informed of the
blackguard conduct of your son towards the
pupil-teacher in your parish school, miss NelHe
Dawson. He is using all his arts to seduce the

girl, and she is so infatuated about him that
there is little doubt he will succeed, if you do
not prevent it. You can separate them fast
enough, if you choose. If you do not, I can
tell you that you and yours shall hear of it.
And what is more, besides the scandal, my lord,
I have took an oath. If that girl, who is my
cousin, is seduced, I will shoot your son, like a
dog. So I warn you plainly.

'^ Your lordship's obediently,

Samuel Dawson."

What happened, after Lord Athelstone had
mastered the contents of this letter, was never
known. His servant heard a noise, and, entering
the room, found his master in a fit upon the
floor. No one connected the attack with any
sudden emotion occasioned by his letters that
morning. They were swept hurriedly into a
drawer, unread by anyone, and it was only
long, long afterwards that Sam's effusion fell
under Wilfred's eye.

The village doctor, when summoned, did not
VOL. I. K

seem gravely alarmed. It was a slight apoplectic
seizure, similar to one his lordship had
had early in the year, and the usual course of
remedies were administered. Lady Athelstone,
however, wished for further advice, and a
physician from London was telegraphed for,
and arrived that evening. Absolute quiet, freedom
from excitement, from thoughts of any
kind, if possible, was the prescription this
authority chiefly insisted on, and had eighty
guineas for doing so.

The enforcement of this during the next few
days was not difficult ; for Lord AtJielstone lay
in a sort of lethargy from which it was almost
impossible to rouse him, even to take nourishment.
Wilfred was unremitting in his attention
to his father, and Lady Athelstone never
left the room but to take necessary rest. On
the fourth day there seemed a decided change
for the better, and the doctor, when he came,
was surprised at the improvement. He persuaded
Lady Athelstone that she ought to take
a drive ; she was beginning to suffer from her
constant presence in the sick-room, and the

absence of fresh air. Wilfred accompanied the
doctor into the hall, and then said,

'' By the by, in all our anxiety here, it has
escaped my mother to ask if you have been to
see the Dawson. What do you think of the
girl?"

*' Has been a little over worked, I suspect,
just when she was growing. Tells me she hasa
holiday now for three weeks. Wants rest,
and plenty of good nourishment."

When his mother was going out that afternoon,
Wilfred, after repeating the doctor's
words, continued —

Why not invite her up here, mother, where
she would be very useful to you just now in a
thousand ways, and where she would be better
fed than she is at home? The change would
be much the best thing for the poor child, I feel
sure."

Lady Athelstone demurred a little. Was it
advisable? She was not sure. Would it betaken
" as a precedent ?" Her son asked, " A
precedent for what ?" To which her reply was
not very lucid. Finally, she shifted the respond



nobility of decision upon her maid, of whose
disapproval touching all matters that concerned
'* the household " she lived in great awe. Nellie
happened to be a favourite with this functionary,
and she consequently accorded her sanction
to the scheme. Then Lady Athelstone went ou
her way, and graciously intimated to Mrs.
Dawson that, as a little change might do Nellie
good, she was to come up to the Castle for a
few days. The good mother was touched at
her lad^^sbip's kindness, which she believed to
be spontaneous, and glad, in her unselfishness,
that the child should leave her for awhile, fare
sumptuously, and rest from even the small
labours of the cottage. To her surprise, the
girl seemed to shrink from going. Mrs. Dawson
could only attribute her reluctance to shyness,
which the mother sought to overcome by all
those sensible arguments which are so entirely
powerless to affect our inclinations. Nellie's, it
is true, would have led her too joyfully to where
she should see Aim, hear him speak, feel under
the constant influence of his presence, were it
not for the instinct of self-mistrust which shook

her heart with fear. She had prayed, poor
child, to be delivered from this peril, and lo !
the net was closing round her, and she saw no
escape.

Between her and her mother there existed
the tenderest affection ; but the girl's superior
education had placed her stand-point of observation
and reflection at a distance from Mrs.
Dawson's, so that the intimacy which grows
with years, from an interchange of thought
unchecked by any sense of inequality between
friends, could not subsist. Mrs. Dawson's
nature was loving and upright ; she was, moreover,
by no means a stupid woman. But she
had been used all her life to view things directly
before her in the straightforward line of sight ;
wearing blinkers, so to speak, which prevented
any side-glance at disturbing objects. That
Nellie should have permitted her gratitude and
her admiration to deepen into a passionate
attachment for one immeasurably above her in
station would have seemed to Mrs. Dawson not
only gravely reprehensible, but as almost beyond
the pale of belief. Still less would she

have been able to understand the conflict going
in her daughter's mind, the struggle to fight
or to flee, the-speak yielding, the terror, the
remorse. Her calmer nature could so little
understand a temperament opposed to her own
that any other course than the plain one indicated
by dut', of doing or of leaving undone,
would have appeared impossible to her, and
would have met with little sympathy. Aud
Nellie knew this. Also, it is not impossible
that, in some vague and far off way, Mrs.
Dawson was conscious of a chasm between
her dear young daughter and herself, which
it did not lie in the power of either to bridge
over.

Therefore Nellie now, in her dire necessity,
could not bring herself to open her heart to
her mother. The girl knew she had better not
go and be an inmate of Its home ; but to tell
her mother why was impossible. Do not be too
hard on her ; she was but sixteen.

That evening she and her little box went
up to the Castle.

CHAPTER XI.

SOME days elapsed, and Lord Athelstone in
many respects seemed better. His mind,
though it was far from having regained its
vigour, was much clearer in its apprehension of
surrounding objects ; his powers of speech
returned, though he used them but sparingly ;
and he still kept his bed, declaring that he felt
quite incapable of rising.

Wilfred's close attendance upon his father
had necessarily relaxed with the amendment in
Lord Athelstone's health. Indeed, Lady Athelstone
herself was less constantly in the sickroom
; she read the papers to my lord in the
morning, and wrote most of her correspondence
by his bed-side ; but in the afternoon she went
out daily.

Wilfred had been ia the habit of never
leaving his own '' den," as he called it, till
luncheon. That habit, being broken in upon
by Lord Athelstone's illness, had not been
resumed. It seemed very natural that he
should sit in his mother's boudoir, which was
close to the sick-room, and that he should ask
her to allow Nellie Dawson to come there of a
morning, and make herself useful by copying
some of his almost illegible MSS. under his
personal supervision. The girl wrote such a
clear hand, and she was so intelligent, it would
immensely forward the completion of his
volume, if he used her as an amanuensis.
Lady Athelstone was delighted with the idea.
She left them to go to her lord, and, when
she returned to her boudoir, she always found
the pale, modest girl seated on one side of the
table, writing, and Wilfred on the other,
apparently absorbed in the arrangement of
the blotted sheets which were littered about.

Between father and son, no word had passed
as to the subject of Sam's letter. Whether
the recollection of it had been partially effaced

from Lord Athelstone's rain, until subsequent
events brought it back, or whether he waited
for renewed strength to speak to his son,
matters little. He said nothing ; and, though
his eyes watched Wilfred with perhaps greater
scrutiny than before his illness, this was the
only change apparent.

He was not aware of Nellie Dawson's proximity,
for nothing had led his wife to name a circumstance
so little likely to interest him, as she
believed. And the pupil-teacher's visit at the
Castle might have remained a mystery to the
sick man for some time, but for a circumstance
which happened about a week after her
arrival.

Wilfred had gone to the neighbouring town
on business, and Lady Athelstone debated in
her mind whether she, too, might leave her
sick lord to attend a Dorcas Society, of which
she was president, and whose accounts were
in a hopeless state of muddle. The invalid had
told her repeatedly to-day — and the last time
with some irritation — that he did not want her
to stay with him. Lady Athelstone wished

some one would decide whether she ought to
obey him or not. Perhaps he was better alone?
But then, there was the reading? He certainly
could not read to himself; and he still took an
interest in the papers. A brilliant idea struck
her, and she hurried to his room.

I was thinking of going in to the Dorcas
Society ?" she began, in an interrogatory tone.

*' Well, go — go by all means."

But I do not like leaving you quite alone.
I was thinking, if you did not object, of asking
Nellie Dawson to ■"

Who ?" almost shouted Lord Athelstone.

"Nellie Dawson. She has not been well,
poor girl, and I have had her up here for change
of air. She reads very well, and if you will
allow her "

Lord Athelstone was sitting up in his bed,
having raised himself by a sudden effort, and
was staring at his wife, while every vein in his
forehead was swollen, and his face was almost
purple with excitement.

"How long has she been here?" he interrupted
her to ask.

*<A week."

And was this your idea — to ask the girl —
or did — Wilfred suggest it?"

"Well, Wilfred certainly suggested it, because
the doctor said "

"That's enough. That's all I wanted to
know. Good God ! It is true, then ! And
you have been playing into this wretched boy's
hands ! He must go at once. He shall go this
very day !"

Go ? My dear ! go where ? What do you
mean? Surely you don't suppose for an instant
that Wilfred so good, so high-minded "

I don't suppose — I knoiv,''' cried Lord Athelstan.
" If it had not been for my illness, which
seems to have prevented my thinking of anything,
I should have sent him away long ago.
He shan't stay another day here — and the girl
the girl must return home at once. Do you
hear? At once. See that she is gone before
comes in, and I'll pack him off to London
to-night. I tell you Jane, if they meet again,,
God knows what may come of it."

Had a thunderbolt fallen, Lady Athelstone

could hardly have been more alarmed. In the
first place, her husband's excitement was very
prejudicial to his health, she well knew ; and
then she asked herself, had he taken leave of
his senses ? What could this dreadful suspicion
of dear Wilfred mean ? Banish him ? Banish
his only child now that he, the father, was so
ill ? Impossible. She was at her wits' end.
She stood irresolute at the foot of the bed,
saying—

"My dear, pray calm yourself. This idea of
yours, I assure you, is quite . . quite "

Never mind what it is," said her lord, in the
same excited tone — *' see that my orders are
obeyed, Jane. Go. Don't stand there — go at
once, and send Wilfred to me immediately he
returns. Stay" — and he rang the bell violently,
— " I will send orders to the stables."

Then Lady Athelstone saw that nothing was
to be done. She went out, and told Nellie to
put up her little box, and walk down to her
mother's cottage at once.

"My lord is in a very strange state," she said,
thinking it necessary to account for the girl's

sudden dismissal. " I suppose it is the idea of
anyone being here which irritates him. I am
sorry to send you away, but there is no help
for it."

Nellie felt a great pang at leaving the Castle.
How happily those days had sped I There had
never been any like them in her life before; nor
could there ever be again, she said. If she
should pass the remainder of her existence in a
routine of drudgery, she had at least these
blissful hours to look back to ; nothing could
rob her of them. He had bent down from his
high estate to her, as she had read of the fabled
sun-god stooping to a humble flower; and
though it was but a ray, perhaps, in passing,
though he should go on his course through the
heavens, and forget her, and the glory he had
shed on her, the memory of that noontide hour
would be a joy to her through life. A romantic
little girl, this, with all the unwisdom that
belongs to sixteen, but very pure at heart. No
vain or ambitious fancies troubled her love.
She did not expect, nay, she did not even hope
for, anything beyond the pride and happiness

these few days, and she could kneel down
beside her Little bed that night and thank her
Heavenly Father for His goodness to her, adding,
with all the fervour of her soul, a prayer
that Wilfred Athelstone might be guided and
strengthened in his onward course.

Lady Athelstoi^e, meantime, returned to her
lord's room, and was alarmed at the condition
in which she found him. His excitement had
been followed by complete prostration. After
giving his valet orders that Wilfred should be
sent to his father immediately the dog-cart returned,
Lord Athelstone had fallen back upon
his pillows, and seemed incapable of even opening
his eyes. The doctor was at once sent
for; but he was out, and had not arrived at
the Castle when Wilfred returned home. He
ran up at once to the sick-room, and found
his mother greatly agitated. Why did the
doctor not come? What was to be done?
The stimulants seemed to produce little effect.
Wilfred sat down by the bed-side, and took
his father's hand. Lord Athelstone was apparently
unconscious of his son's presence. He

breathed heavily ; but did not move for nearly
an hour. Then he opened his eyes, and they
fell upon Wilfred, and gradually there kindled
a light in them which told of returning memory,
force, intelligence. He attempted to sit up.

•'You must keep quiet, my dear," said his
wife.

Leave the room, all of you — except Wilfred,"
he replied, in his old peremptory way;
only the voice was weak.

Just wait, my dear, till the doctor comes,"
pleaded Lady Athelstone.

If I wait, it may be too late. I have
strength enough to say what I want now.
Go."

Lady Athelstone saw that further opposition
to his will would only excite him ; she left the
room.

The old man turned to his son, who still held
his hand, and said, slowly,

'* You and I have never had a quarrel, Weil.
We have not the same opinions, and I'm sorry
you hold those you do ; but your conduct —
that has never given me real uneasiness until

now. If what I've beard is true — I hope
to God it isn't — you're doing a rascally thing.
What's there between you and this Dawson
girl?"

Wilfred started, and flushed crimson. He
was angry to feel that he did so, and replied,
impetuously,

'' Nothing, father. I hope no one has been
telling you any lies ?"

Lord Athelstone, instead of replying, continued,
as though his son had not spoken,

"I have always considered the endeavour,
on the part of a man in your station, to take
advantage of it for the purpose of ruining a
girl in humble life, as black an act as a man
can commit. A young fellow can't lead the
life of a saint. I don't expect it. But this —
here in your own village — a gh-1 you've known
since she was a child — it's a shame and a disgrace
! The anger I felt, when I heard you
accused of this was the immediate cause of my
attack."

Good God I Father, who can have poisoned
your mind against me? I will give you my

oath that 1 had sooner cut ofi my right hand
than injure Nellie Dawson. She is as pure as
any girl in the land."

'''I am glad of it," said Lord Athelstone.
One fear was, indeed, set at rest by his
son's energetic denial; but the other dread,
present in the father's mind, only waxed
stronger. — " I am glad of it ; but your warmth
shows the interest you take in the girl. She
has been up here in the house, I find, at your
suggestion. What folly! What does it all
mean? Do you suppose you can play this
sort of game with impunity? It's handling
fire, 1 tell you. You'll turn the child's head
and damage her character, and then — then, with
your romantic ideas, I shouldn't wonder if you
offered to marry her ! Now, mark my words, if
you do, she'll be a miserable woman. She may
have every virtue under the sun, but you can't
make her a lady. She will be looked down
upon by your own class, and her life will be a
succession of humiliations."

He spoke with great excitement, and the
fear of agitating his father caused Wilfred to
VOL. I. L

reply with more calmness than he might otherwise
have done.

I assure you 1 entertain no such idea.
Pray disabuse your mind on this subject,
father. If I have been foolish, I promise you
I will give idle tongues no cause to wag about
Nellie for the future. I will remember your
words."

The dying man would, perhaps, have done
well to leave the matter there. But he
could not be satisfied without going a step
further.

Then you will promise me never to marry
this girl?"

Wilfred shifted uneasily, though he still held
his father's hand. After an instant's pause, he
said —

*'I have a horror of promises of this nature.
I think no man has a right to bind himself in
this way. But I will pledge myself to this,
father : to avoid the temptation you fear for meas
far as possible ; not to seek the girl in anyway.
You believe me?"

Yes," said Lord Athelstone, after an interval

of at least a minute, during which he
arrived at the decision he now pronounced ;
'* and this being so, there is but one thing to
be done. My life may be prolonged for days,
or weeks — who knows ? I will not have you
hanging about here, and thrown in the way of
the temptation you promise me to avoid. We
will take leave of each other now, and you
must go away to-night."

Go away? Leave you, father, novo ?"
Yes, a little sooner or later — what matter?
I cannot last long, and I shall not be easy as
long as you remain here, Wil."

The son knelt down and pressed the old
man's hand to his lips. His voice was choked
as he murmured —

*' Let me be with you to the end, father."
No ; you will come back to bury me, and
then it is my wish that you take your mother
away, and shut up Athelstone. If you mean to
work at Oxford, if you mean to go in for
honours, return there. If not, you had better
cut the place. It has done you no good. You
had better go abroad with your mother. On

l2

your return in the spriiif^, you "^'ill take
your seat, and, I hope, change your politics ;
and I hope, too, that you will marry early — a
girl in your own position. That's all I have to
say. And now, God bless you !"

His voice was growing weak with much talking,
and Wilfred saw that further opposition to
his father's wishes was impossible. He had no
choice but to obey, and to master his emotion
at this trying juncture, as far as it was possible
to do so.

Lord Athelstone, like most Englishmen,
had seldom in his life, when deeply moved,
shown what he felt ; and now, upon the
threshold of the grave, he was beyond such
displays.

Wilfred kissed his father's brow, and their
eyes met in one long look which Wilfred never
forgot. Then the dying man nodded his head
once, and Wilfred, taking this as a signal for
his dismissal, hurried from the room with a
bursting heart.

He found his mother anxiously awaiting him.
Well, my dear, what is it?"

He leant his head between his hands upon
the mantelpiece, and jerked out —

You are to go to him. He has bid me
good-bye. He says I am not to stay. What
shall I dor

Do as he desires you," she replied,, quickly.
Ifc was, perhaps, the only instance on record
of Lady Athelstone's answering so decidedly.
*' Your conscience would not feel easy, my dear,
if you disobeyed his last commands ; and —
besides that, he would probably find it out if
you stayed, and be very angry. Go to Oxford ;
you can be with me in a couple of hours if I
telegraph for you."

For some time after Lady Athelstone entered
her husband's room he did not speak. She sat
down by the bedside, and he looked at her ; but
either he was weighing what he should say, or
was too much exhausted by his conversation
with his son to utter. At last the wife was
startled by these few words enounced with a
feeble voice, but most distinctly —

"Pack them off, mother and daughter, to
Australia — if you can."

Lady Athelstone could be at no loss as to
whom he meant ; but she was much distressed
and perplexed. What strange persistence in a
crotchet! Come what might of it, however,
this was no moment for argument; she must
humour him.

Of course, my dear, if you wish it."

ril make a provision for them in that case.
If they won't go, you must get the girl placed
as nursery-governess somewhere. You can
manage that — eh? and the further off the
better. As long as she is here, keep Wil
away."

Lord Athelstone's only son left home that
same evening, and the fact naturally gave rise
to much comment and conjecture. An attorney

from arrived at the Castle, in compliance

with his lordship's instructions, and certain
codicils were added to his will, which will be
named by-and-by.

Three days later, Thomas, ninth Baron
Athelstone, departed this life in the seventieth
year of his age.

CHAPTER XII.

During bis last hours, the old lord had
•^ mapped out, prospectively, his widow's
course of action with great completeness ; and,
in tracing her conduct, it will be understood
that she faithfully adhered to his instructions,
though the sharp and decisive lines of the
original plan were a little blurred in passing
through her hands. But for this, however, her
judgment could hardly have supported the
strain of regulating independent actions without
reference to her son. Happily, he accepted
with perfect docility all she proposed, as being
the last wishes of his father. Athelstone was
to be shut up; and immediately after the
funeral — it was then the beginning of September

— they would start for the continent, and
pass the winter in Italy. If disposed to return
to Oxford and work for honours, in the spring,
he could do so.

He felt that this was the wisest plan, all
things considered. It was incumbent on him
to leave Athelstone, which was now full of sad
associations, not unmixed with self-reproach.
Though his father's fears had gone far in advance
of the truth, there was no escape from
the conviction that the interest Wilfred had
shown in NelHe had occasioned comment that
might damage her, and that the discovery of
this had so agitated his father that it might
be said to be the remote cause of his death.
The old man's words rang in his son's ears ;
and Wilfred resolved that , suffer as he might,
he would be better than his promise, and
resolutely avoid NelHe, if chance brought
them together. Absence was the only remedy
for the evil he had wrought. He did not
believe, as regarded her, that the mischief could
be lasting. As for himself, he would not, in
his present condition, attempt to analyse his

feelings. He had loved his upright, unvaryingly
kind old father very truly, and the thought
that his last hours had been clouded by disquietude
concerning his son, cut the young
man to the heart.

It was in this frame of mind that he heard
his father's will read aloud, after the funeral,
with the codicil, bequeathing five hundred
pounds to Mrs. Dawson, if she should desire to
emigrate, and a further sum of five hundred
pounds to her daughter, on the day of her marriage,
provided that such marriage met with
Lady Athelstone^s approval.

To the trustees, who heard the codicil read,
it had no special significance : to Wilfred it
naturally had, and, as evidence of the dread
which absorbed his father's thoughts at the
last , it added a stone to the cairn which had
accumulated on the young man's heart. The
thought that he was now absolute lord over
lands producing a clear rental of fourteen
thousand a year was far from being a consolation,
as it would have been to many. He cared
nothing for money; he hated trouble in any

direction Avhere daring individuality was
cramped. No original system of administering
an estate having occurred to him, he regarded
the responsibilities that now devolved upon the
possessor of the Barony of Athelstone with
little short of dread. And this reluctance to
assume responsibilities being the temper of his
mind at the moment was another reason why
he hailed with satisfaction a lengthened absence
from home.

Lady Athelstone had an interview with Mrs.
Dawson, whom she sent for, the following day.
It was Saturday, and on Monday Wilfred and
his mother were to leave the Castle.

This was what passed.

I sent for you, Mrs. Dawson," began Lady
Athelstone, "instead of communicating the fiict
through the solicitor, to tell you that my dear
lord left you a legacy in his will, under certain
conditions."

A legacy ? dear me ! my lady, I "

Lady Athelstone raised her hand from her
chin.

"Wait a minute. He has left you five

hundred pounds, provided you will emigrate —
that is, of course, if you have any desire todo
so."

"Any desire to emigrate?" repeated the
astounded Mrs. Dawson. '*No, my lady, I
haven't none. I'm sure it was most good of
my lord to think of me ; but what ever should I
do a "

Wait a minute' again interrupted Lady
Athelstone, and again she raised her hand.
** You must hear all, and not decide rashly
That is why I wanted to talk the matter over
with you. My dear lord was much interested
about Nellie." (This was strictly true, in a
certain sense.) " He thought that, with her
intelligence and — and good looks, you know,
she was likely to make a better marriage in the
Colonies than she could expect to make here."
(This, I fear, was not strictly true.) " He has
left another sum of five hundred pounds for her,
if she marries in such a way as I approve of."

Mrs. Dawson was struck dumb. She did not
know if she was in a dream.

"Dear! my lady," she faltered at last, "I

can scarce believe it — I, who never so much as
knew my lord had ever noticed Nellie . . . But
as to the emigration, my lady, I haven't no call
to reflect, for I couldn't do it. I've lived at
Kipple, and I'll die there, please God. Joshua
that's my brother-in-law) wanted me to go and
live at Warmington, but I wouldn't, and it
would be worse to cross the seas, and go among
strange folk. I'm too old for it, my lady. I
hope you won't be displeased."

Oh, no, Mrs. Dawson," replied Lady Athelstan,
a little nervously. "It was only for
your own good and your daughter's, my dear
lord suggested it. In case you declined, he
desired me to try to find her a situation as
nursery-governess, which would be an advancement
on her present position. You would not
object to her leaving you, I suppose V"

Well, my lady, I did hope to keep her here
a bit."

*but for her advancement, you know?"

Oh I In course, if — if it's for her good, I
can't say nothing, my lady ; only she is not
over-strong, you see."

*' That is just it. She wants the best nourishment,
and light work. This school-teaching
is too much for her."

Very well, my lady — anything but to emigrate
; not that."

Lady Athelstone looked abstractedly at a
paper-weight on the table before her, and
mechanically moved ,it. Then she moved it
back to its original position. Had she done
all that was demanded of her ? Had she failed
in carrying out her lord's instructions to the
letter ? No ; if she had not pleaded the cause
of emigration with the earnestness which a
conviction of its importance in this case could
alone have given her, she had repeated what
she had been told to say, and it only remained
for her now to write certain letters in the girl's
behalf. Her conscience would then be clear.

*' I am going abroad with my son," she said,
looking up, after a pause, ^^ and we shall be
absent all the winter. I will write to some
institutions and offices for the employment of
young women where I am well-known ; and, if
Nellie has any applications during my absence,

the ladies can be referred to me, and to the
schoolmistress. Now, I will detain you no
longer, Mrs. Dawson, for I have a great deal todo
; but I made a point of seeing j^ou myself;
and remember that, if at any time you change
your mind about emigrating, it will be a pleasure
to me to carry out my lord's views."

I haven't words, my lady, to thank you
enough for all your kindness," said Mrs. Dawson,
in a tremulous voice, "nor yet to say, what
I hope you won't take it as a liberty, my lady,
how I feel for you in your trouble, which I've
known the like myself. May God support you,
my lady, under your loss. We know it's our
own loss, too, for there wasn't a better landlord
in all the country-side, though I make no doubt
that blaster Wilfred — that is, my lord — will
follow in his father's steps, and be a blessing
and a comfort to you, my lady, and an honour
to his name."

What comes from the heart goes to the heart,
if there be a heart to reach. Lady Athelstone
had not shed many tears since her husband's
death, which his long illness had so prepared

her to expect that it was no shock when it
came ; and, not being of an emotional nature,
her feelings did not seek the relief which many-demand.
But she had a heart, and she did feel
more deeply than anyone guessed, except her
son, the severance of a companionship which
had never faltered in faithfulness for five and
twenty years. There had been nothing of
romance in their early attachment, nor was
there that close communion of souls in later
times which is like a glimpse of heaven given
to certain married lives. But they had suited
each other very well, for all that ; and Lady
Athelstone knew, with an instinct in advance
of her mental acuteness, that, in spite of the
affection which subsisted between herself and
her son, he would never open his heart unreservedly
to her, never come to her in trouble
or annoyance, as his father had always done.
There was something lost from her life which
nothing could replace ; and the poor widow's
words, in their simplicity, touched a chord
which brought tears into the rich one's eyes.
She held out her hand.

Thank you. I shall always remember your
sympathy with gratitude, Mrs. Dawson, and
shall always befriend Nellie, depend upon
that."

With what startling vividness she remembered
those words long afterwards! There are
moments in most lives, apparently unimportant,
which, for some unexplained cause, remain engraved
on the memory. The sweet, refined
face of the poor woman, the unspoken trust
which shone in her eyes, as they met Lady
Athelstone's, were never forgotten by that
lady.

The next day was one of heavy showers,
alternating with half hours of a brilliant fallacious
sunshine. Wilfred attended morning service.
He had done so, out of deference to his
father's views, during the old lord's life-time ;
and he would not seize the first opportunity of
proclaiming his emancipation from doctrinal
restraints. It was a trial ; he occupied the big-pew
alone ; he knew that the eyes of the curious
were upon it, and he felt as if he Avere a humbug.
The Psalmist, exultant in his own righteousness,

and cr^nng out for the extermination of his
enemies, had nothing in common with the
young man, nor had the venerable chronicler of
the bloody wars of Judah ; he wondered why
their utterances were read, and of what profit
they could ever be to anyone ; to him, at this
moment, they were so much sound and fury
signifying nothing. His thoughts were with
the old man who had gone to his rest, doubting
nothing, fearing nothing, able blindly to accept
all ; and Wilfred's heart, as he buried his head in
his hands, sighed —

O, that it were possible
For one short hour to see
The souls we love, that they might tell us
What and where they be !"

Towards five o'clock that day, the sun shone
slantwise through the dripping red and yellow
leaves for the last time before it sank into the
belt of woods westward. Wilfred knew that
the afternoon service was over, and that the
churchyard was likely to be deserted at this
hour. He was minded ^o look once more on
the spot where his father lay, and, as if the

VOL. I. M

mute, unconscious clay could hear him to pour
out his heart on that spot in bitter self-reproach
to the departed shade whoni he had vexed so
sorely. His mind was in an abnormal condition
; neither his remorse nor his grief was altogether
natural and healthy. But for him,
his father might be alive at this moment.
That was the thought that haunted him. He
had behaved very wrongly about Nellie; his
conduct had been self-indulgent and mischievous,
and the first to suffer from it was his upright,
sensitively-honourable father. He despised
and loathed himself; and perhaps the
best thing for the girl was that she should be
brought to despise and loathe him too. He
would not see her willingly again for years, nor
would he write to her. But the reflection that
each action we commit carries consequences
with it that are interminable and incalculable,
forced itself inconveniently upon him. No ; the
laws of cause and effect were not to be
reversed for him, by profession or performance
either ; the past must, assuredly, bear its fruit

quay , had already borne it in one grievous
direction.

With his head buried on his chest, he
walked slowly up the churchyard. The place
was dark with wide-armed yews and tall black
cypresses, which almost completely shut out the
glimmering gold of the evening light. Not
until he was close upon the ivy-grown balustrade
which fenced in the large square family
vault did he become conscious of a woman's
form, with her back towards him, within the
enclosure. She was scattering a few of the last
roses of autumn on the fresh-laid stone. At
the sound of Wilfred's approaching footstep,
she turned quickly round. A chance sunbeam
made an aureole of the soft brown hair, and the
face beneath looked that of a young saint. It
was Nellie.

He stood suddenly still ; nay, he drew back ;
the movement was not to be mistaken.

Pale and hesitating, she advanced towards
him. In order to escape from the enclosure,
she must pass close to where he stood.

m2

*' I beg your pardon, sir," she began, very
gently, " I — I did not know "

But he had started at the first sound of her
voice as if he were stung, and the strange,
almost savage air with which he glared at her
frightened her so much that she stopped short.
For one moment he hesitated ; then, with a
heavy sigh, and without a word, he turned
sharply on his heel, and walked rapidly away.

The girl clung to the railing, and presently
her wounded heart found relief in sobs.

He is offended with me. I have done something
wrong. AYhat, oh! what is it? He
never treated me so before . he was always
so kind. Is it because I came here? I thought
no one would know it was me, and that he
would like to find the flowers when he came.
And now he will go away, angry with me, and
I shall see him no more !"

He did go away the next day, and she saw
him no more. But his anger was directed all
against himself, and not against her. It would
have consoled the poor child, could she have
known it.

CHAPTER XIII.

TX December Wilfred and his mother were at
-*- Florence, and there they passed nearly the
whole winter. He had never been abroad
before, and decided to remain in the Tuscan
capital and see it and the neighbouring cities
thoroughly, rather than hurry through, with the
great tide of travellers, to Rome and Naples.
These should be left for another year, since it
was necessary that he should return to England
in March, to take his seat in the House of Lords.
Under the influence of sunshine, and the novelty
and interest of all that surrounded him, the
young man's mind soon recovered its tone.
The shock of his father's death was passed ; the
painful impression left on his heart by his parting
from Nellie his self-reproach and regretful

retrospection, grew fainter and fainter as tlie-
weeks sped on. Perhaps it would have been
unnatural had it been otherwise. He was still
very young, and his temperament was one of
which the morbidity found a safety-valve in poetry
concerning his devastated youth; while its
buoyancy asserted itself in the keen pleasure he
experienced as he looked up from the banks of
the Arno and beheld Giotto's campanile clear
cut against the cloudless sky, or down from
San. Miniato on the city, lying like a jewel in
the lap of lilac-tinted hills. His imagination
was stirred b}^ those storied walls ; his senses
were quickened to appreciate the beauty of
things he had never before beheld. Art, as Art,
he did not understand ; but its poetical, imaginative,
and historical qualities appealed strongly
to him. He stood among the tombs of Santa
Once ; he wandered among the cloisters of
Santa Maria Novella ; and peopled the arcades
of the Palazzo Publico with the shadows of the
mighty dead.

He only wanted some human sympathy
which he could not look for in his amiable

mother, to be really very happy ; and this he
found before long. Lady Athelstone took a
daily drive on the " Colle," or in the '' Casting,"
and passed the rest of the day immersed in correspondence,
chiefly on business.

Perhaps the complete change of climate,
scene, and association was better for her than
seclusion at Athelstone would have been ; but
it was not within the limit of possibilities that
those influences which operated so beneficially
upon her son should be felt by her. She
remained much depressed ; and neither Michael
Angelo nor Giotto availed to distract her
thoughts. She would like to say all the right
things about Florence when she left it ; but at
present her intercourse with her son was of an
affectionate realism , undisturbed by ulterior
considerations ; the quality of the beef, and the
odours of the Hotel d'Arno, being of more
interest and moment than the Tomb of the
Medici.

An old acquaintance of hers, Lady Bannockburn,
with her daughter, Lady Frances Cope,
arrived at the same hotel; and Lady Athelstan,

though she paid no visits, consented to
see them. After this, they " dropped in " very
often of an evening, and, the first impression,
of Lady Frances's plainness having worn off,
Wilfred found her a most agreeable companion.
He escorted them daily to one or other of the
palaces or villas, and the acquaintance very
rapidly ripened into an intimacy which Lady
Bannockburn viewed with great satisfaction.

Lady Frances was short and plain. But she
was clever, quick, and humorous ; she had read
a good deal, had considerable independence of
character, and very warm affections. Wilfred
had never met a young woman the least like
her. She amused — nay, she interested him, in
some degree. But his pleasure in her society
was chiefly due to the fact that he had found
himself appreciated. She argued with him, she
contradicted him ; but he felt that she understood
him. And that her society was congenial
he frankly — perhaps too frankly — evinced. His
mother only felt a sense of relief that his
thoughts had been diverted from the little
pupil-teacher. She attached no great importance

to the flirtation, if flirtation it was ; but
Lady Frances bad a considerable fortune, and,
regarded in every respect, she was — except the
mere shell — a desirable young person for Lord
Athelstone to marry. His mother was in no
hurry for this event ; and more brilliant taught
were, no doubt, waiting ready to
accept her peerless Wilfred when the moment
arrived for him to renounce his independence.
But he might do worse than marry Lady
Frances Cope ; and Lady Athelstone felt that,
for the time being, at any rate, this friendship
was a benefit to her son.

How the young lady viewed it will best be
shown by some passages from letters to her
great friend, Miss Sylvia Brabazon, at Naples ;
to whom the reader will be introduced later.
The first of these ran as follows : —

I wish I could describe Lord Athelstone to
you, dear Sylvia. He is a hero, begun with the
finest intentions by a sculptor who had not
quite enough marble to finish him. He is too
short (being a dwarf myself, I like tall men,
of course) ; but he has a handsome head, with a

very intellectual and speaking countenance, the
expression of which, unless he is bored, is
singularly agreeable. He has a charming
voice and manner, and there is something
about him quite unlike the ordinary young men
one meets. He seems to like being with us,
and, though we have only known him ten days,
we are already almost intimate. You see. Lady
Athelstone, being in the first three months of her
widowhood, goes nowhere, and her son knew
no one, and was quite alone until we came ;
and, though he talks a great deal about liking
solitude, he never refuses to join us in our
walks and drives, and he certainly seems more
cheerful than when we met him — without
knowing who he was — looking like Manfred, a
prey to gloomy thoughts, the day after our
arrival. At first I thought he rather encouraged
that resemblance ; he seemed made up of ice and
thunder ; scowled at us in the passage, and
bowed in the most freezing manner, without
ejaculating a sound, when he was introduced.
However, the sun broke through the thundercloud
at last, and then he did not take long to

melt. I wonder what you would think of lira,
dear; for 1 know no one whose opinion I value
as I do yours, and I cannot make up my own
mind. If he is as charming, on further acquaintance,
as he appears at first, you would agree
with me there are few men, out of a hook, to h&
found like him. His conversation is really
delightful ; all he says is so fresh and unexpected
— sometimes even startling ; but I can
pardon anything that is original. He is a poet,
my dear, and (I imagine, for I have read nothing-^
of his) of the most advanced modern schooL
Still one cannot listen to lira and not feel sure
that whatever he does must possess merit, however
eccentric it may be. But I must not run
on, or you will think . I do not know ivhat
you will think of your faithful and foolish
friend, F. C."

The next extract is from a letter written a
fortnight later.

•' Lord Athelstone repeated to me some of
his poetry yesterday. It is most musical, and
delightful to listen to ; but I felt a little bewildered
; I am not sure that I understood it alL

He has apparently been very unhappy, for a
great deal of it is in a most miserable strain.
Can it be that, at his age, he has already been
disappointed in love? It seems to me impossible
that anyone to whom he was attached could
remain insensible to his affection. He reminds
me of some poet of another age — Ariosto, perhaps.
There is a fire and tenderness, a resolute
and eloquent obstinacy in his discussions, very
unlike the curbed and careful utterances of most
of the men I know, who are not fools.

He is sitting before the fire now, reading
Galignaui,' and the lamplight falls upon his
head — let me sketch it for you. A massive
brow, from which the hair waves backwards ina
dark mass ; light grey eyes, over which the
lids droop languidly, and the black brows close
into one straight line above them, when the
interest or excitement that kindled their fire
dies down ; a perfectly cut nose, and delicate
little moustache, as yet too slight to veil (as it
one day will, no doubt) the only error of this
face — a mouth which, T. must confess it, is
somewhat large and sensual. Except this infant

tine moustache, there is no hair on his face,
and the shape of the chin and jaw, which are
firm even to obstinacy, rising from a throat like
that of Anxious, is perfectly displayed with the
loose open collar which he wears a la Byron.

He is a great worshipper, by the way, of
this poet, whom it has been the fashion of late
years, he says, to under-rate. He wants me to
read everything Byron wa-note, and is disgusted
with mamma for laying an embargo on ' Don
Juan.' Thereupon ensued a hot argument
between them ; mamma maintaining that the
knowledge of evil came to us all soon enough,
and that the longer a girl could be kept from it
the better; Lord Athelstone vehemently declaring
that human beings, when they arrived at
years of discretion, were meant to choose
between good and evil, and that it was a very
poor compliment to a girl to suppose she could
be hurt by ' Don Juan,' the many beauties of
which would enrapture her, while its immorality
would be distasteful. ' This is no question of a
compliments mamma replied. ' It is a question
for judgment, founded upon observation. It is.

too much the fashion now for young women to
read everything. I do not think the tone of
their minds is improved ; there is no bloom left ;
nor is there any gain to compensate for this
loss.'

Of course Lord Athelstone did not give in ;
he never does ; but in spite of his great cleverness,
and of my desire to believe him right, I
think mamma had the best of it."

Again, three weeks later, she wrote as follows
: —

I am miserable and elated by turns,
Dearest Heart. Your warning came too late.
But of what avail are warnings in such a case ?
Had I been armed with warnings before we
ever met, it would have been the same. God
knows whether I am deceived in thinking
W. A. cares about me ! I only know that,
intentionally or not, he has won my heart, and
that the past six weeks have sped like a dream.
Shall I wake and find it so ? Alas! I begin to
have my fears. Until three nights ago he
spent almost every evening with us. His
mother never came ; sometimes we went to

her ; but she often sent to say she was too tired
to receive us, and then Lord A. generally came
to our room. For the last three evenings he
has not done so. His manner is just as charming
to me as ever ; he always delights in what
he calls ^ drawing me out ;' and on Wednesday,
when he drove us to the Poggio Imperial, he
was in unusual spirits, and, as I was so too, we
talked a great deal of nonsense. He said it
was the pleasantness afternoon we had yet
passed in Florence. But, though we have
seen him since, he pleaded some excuse for
not accompanying us, as he had promised to do,
to Conciliate on Friday, and again yesterday. I
asked him point-blank where he was going,
and he replied, ' to call on some Italians,'
whose acquaintance he had made at the
Pergola on Wednesday night. Mamma said I
ought not to have asked him ; but 1 cannot seethe
harm, intimate as we have been. Yesterday
he brought us a basket of amelia and
violets ; but he did not remain ten minutes. As
we drove in the Casting later, we saw him at
the door of a carriage drawn up in the square,

after the idiotic fashion of these Florentines,
who sit there, day after day, shivering in their
open carriages, listening to the compliments or
the gossip of the * golden youth' who crowd
round them. What an existence ! Is it possible
that lie, with his high aspirations, his poetic
mind, should be content to swell such a
throng? The lady he was talking to was
dark, and looked quite old. I was glad to see
that."

Yet another ten days, and Miss Brabazon
received a sad letter from her friend, out of which
we take the following passage, which is the last
we shall quote from her correspondence :

*' Tt is all over. Everything is changed now.
I can no longer remain under a delusion. AVe
meet daily, sometimes in Lady Athelstone's
room, sometimes in the street, or on the stairs ;
and he has paid us tito visits — think of that !
When we meet, he always seems desirous, for
the moment, to regain the footing from which
he has slid voluntarily away ; but it is useless.
His voice, his smile, are always the same —
always charming ; but there is an effort in his

manner and conversation, which is apparent
even to mamma. Poor mamma I She little
guesses how deeply I have felt all this, for I
have from the first exercised all my powers of
repression, seeing how improbable it was that
such a man could really care for me. When
she animadverts severely upon his capriciousness,
I try to laugh it off; but every word
drives a dagger into my heart.

'* And now you will ask, what is the cause of
this change ? I am told it is the fascination of
a certain Madame liberties society — a woman
no longer young, nor even good-looking, and of
very bad reputation, though she still lives with
her husband. Is it not dreadful to think that a
vile creature like this can attract such a man as
Lord Athelstone ? I do not understand it —
sometimes I refuse to believe it. But there is
the fact that every evening now he goes to her
box at the opera, and afterwards to smoke in
her horrid rooms.

Mamma is indignant ; she says this is the
result of reading ' Don Juan,' and such literature.
It is in vain that I have supplicated her

VOL. I. N

not to let the smallest difference be apparent in
her manner ; it is no business of ours what
society he keeps; but she is too sincerely
interested in him not to let her anger be
apparent, and the result, I foresee, will be that
he will never come near us. As to Lady
Athelstone, who is most amiable, but may be
said to be a goose stuffed with sage opinions,
she says she is 'so glad dear Wilfred has
taken to going out a little again, now that it is
the fifth month, you know ; and it is so nice, he
has got into Italian society. Foreign society is
such an advantage.' Mamma, to do her justice,
never opens her lips to Lady Athelstone on the
subject. She says it is better that we should
leave Florence. Perhaps she is right. You
know we did not originally mean to remain so
long ; and, though I shall be unhappy wherever
I am, elsewhere I should not be subject to the
irritation and mortification which 1 now experience
here daily. Though I try to keep up, and
make stupid little jokes, and wear a stereotyped
grin on my ftice, I am cut to the heart.
I know I shall never care for any other man as

I have done for this one, and I say to myself,
what a fool you have been to put all your
eggs into one basket, and set that on the head
of a man who capers about the world, and probably
makes himself equally charming to every
woman he comes near.' Our lot is hard , dear
Sylvia. We may sit in the sunshine, and accept
the fruit it pleases men to bring us ; we must
utter no murmur when they ride away in the
cool of the evening, and only the stalks and the
rind are left us to feed on through the long,
long night !"

Poor Lady Frances ! Yes, nothing but the
stalks and the rind were left you. The apples
were green, and would have proved very indigestible
for life's sustenance ; but they seemed to
you delicious in that brief Florence time, which
sou cannot bear to look back to now.

CHAPTER XIV.

nne lady to whom Athelstan was presented
-^ the first evening he set foot within the
*' Pergola' and who has been named in the
foregoing letters as Madame Uberti, was a
person of considerable mark in the Florentine
world. Lady Frances had said truly she was
not very young ; but few men (at least, after
half an hour's conversation) would have ratified
her judgment that the lady was not good-looking.
She had beautiful eyes, a profusion
of black hair, and a faultless figure. Her features
were not regular, certainly ; but there was
a charm in her smile, and a honliomie in her
manner, that were irresistible to many. In
fact, she had the attraction that belongs sq

peculiarly to her nation, of perfect naturalness,
which made it impossible for anyone to feel ill
^t ease in her company. Her salon was very
popular in consequence ; and, whatever people
might say behind her back, there was no one in
Florence whose invitations were more prized.

Madame Uberti was one of those soft, ease-loving
natures that like to see everyone around
them, including their husbands, happy, and all
the wheels of the domestic machinery well-oiled.
As neither of this amiable couple had the
shadow of a principle, or entertained any jealousy
of the other , there was no obstacle to the
gratification of their separate inclinations, and
they lived most harmoniously, meeting at meals
nay occasionally driving together, and leading
absolutely separate lives. One man after
another had his seat, by a well-understood prescriptive
right, in Madame Uberti's box, and
was to be found, day after day, smoking his
cigarette in that lady's blue satin bergere
by the fire. Then his dominion — sometimes
abruptly, sometimes gradually — came to an
'end, and another reigned in his stead. There

was no violent disseverance; like over-ripe fruity
they dropped from the bough, and were swept
away.

This was just the woman to obtain a brief
ascendancy over Wilfred Athelstone at this
early stage of his career. She attacked that
side of his character which was weak, and, as
yet, comparatively untried. The Italian nature,
with its frank flattery, its momentary fervours,
its self-indulgence, and its amiability, the
existence steeped in oblivion of all beyond the
present moment, the sans gene of society at the
Palazzo Uberti, were new experiences; and the
unknown had always an attraction for him. It
was a relaxation, too, after the hard high
standard of Lady Bannockburn, and the
intellectual qui vive on which he had been kept
by Lady Frances. No bow can stand too long
tension ; and he remembered in those days that
the greatest minds had generally found solace
in Avoient who were, so to speak, pillows of
softness, and not boards of mental resistance.
He sank into the blue satin hergcre^ and watched
the clouds of smoke curl upwards to the

painted ceiling, while he composed couplet after
couplet in praise of Madame Uberti's charms.
Her arms, her throat, her chin, the pulsations of
her heart, the perfume of her hair, were
chronicled in alliterative verse of great ingenuity
and investigated exuberance. There seemed
no reason indeed, why they ever should
stop ; for, though the human body would not
appear to be an inexhaustible theme, the changes
that may be rung upon every portion of it are
of endless variety. He thought of Byron at
the feet of another fair Florentine ; but it did
not strike him that Byron's instinct was too jane
to destroy the effect of one touch of colour by
loading his canvas with all the other tints
upon his palette.

I have no wish to linger over this episode
in Wilfred's career. It lasted but two months,
and then Madame Uberti passes from these
pages to be seen no more ; while, except for
that influence which every action of a man's life
has upon his character, Wilfred's intimacy with
her brought no consequence, and left but little
trace behind.

I could not , however, be altogether silent on
the subject, for reasons that will be apparent
by-and-by ; since the fact was soon known in
England to all who were interested in Lord
Athelstone's future. It offered some obstruction
to the clear telegraphy of eulogium in which
the name of a youth so endowed was sure to be
inscribed ; as an inequality on the surface of a
fair sheet of paper makes the pen splutter that
would fain glide over it. The pen does glide
on again ; but the splutter remains.

His mother came to him one morning towards
the end of February, and said,

I think it would be better — I wish, indeed,
to return to England now. The wind is
getting very cold here — and there are those
leases — and then your seat in the House, dear,
and altogether I believe it is best."

If you feel the wind cold here, my dear
mother, what will you do in England ?"

Oh ! it is not the same thing there, in one's
own warm house — and I want to get back toit,
dear. There are so many things to arrange
—so much I left undone, coming away in that

sad hurry — and, besides, you talk of going to
Rome next winter."

Yes ; but Florence is just beginning to be
delightful now — in the spring."

*' Oh ! the heat of the sun here will be very
trying soon , and "

Why, just now you complained of the cold
wind."

So I do ; but I am sure it would be worse if
it were hot. T shall be quite glad to get away
from these nasty smells. They are really too
dreadful. I feel as if I should have typhoid
fever, if wee stayed here till it got really warm."

I never heard you complain of them
before," said her son, as he turned away.

The explanation of this sudden desire to
quit Florence was not far to seek, though
"Wilfred did not surmise it.

The Bannockburnss had departed that morning,
and on the previous evening, in wishing
Lady Athelstone good-bye, her friend's reticence,
which had been proof against great and
increasing irritation all these weeks, partially
gave way.

"If you have your sou's real interests at
heart, my dear Lady Athelstan, I must warn
you that the sooner you can quit Florence the
better. If I were not going away myself, for
obvious reasons, my tongue would be tied.
But I cannot see a young man drifting away
to destruction, and not do something — if only
for your sake — to try to save him !"

"Good gracious! Lady Bannockburn, what
do you mean ? ' Drifting away to destruction ' ?
Impossible ! Wilfred, I am glad to say, has
never had any taste for gambling, or low company,
and I am sure a better son "

I know that'' interrupted Lady Bannockburn,
with some sharpness ; " and as to low
company — no, it would be almost less dangerous
if he cere addicted to it, my dear friend.
An entanglement in his own sphere is so much

"An entanglement in his own sphere? Oh!
Lady Bannockburn, what do you mean ? I
brought him here on purpose to break off "

She stopped short, and grew red and white.
It was very foolish to allude to Nellie Dawson,

she knew; but she felt so nervous, she hardly
Alas conscious of what she said till the words
were beyond recall.

Lady Bannockburn, like a well-bred woman
did not ask for a completion of that sentence.
She covered her friend's confusion by replying
quietly,

The very air of this vicious place is poison
to a young man. The Italian society he frequents
is corrupt — the house he frequents most
is, I am told, one of the worst. I can say no
more. After this, you must be guided by your
own judgment as to the length of your stay
here."

Lady Bannockburn was as good as her word ;
she could not be brought to say more than this,
but it was enough for Wilfred's anxious mother.
Whether this thing was true or not — true, that
is, to its worst extent — it behove her to remove
her darling out of temptation's way. Lady
Bannockburn, she felt, was sore at the intimacy
between him and her daughter having cooled ;
it was probable that she exaggerated matters ;
but there was something — or, at all events, the

world would suppose there was something ; and,
for once, she felt tolerably sure her judgment
was not at fault in following the path to which
Lady Bannockburn had acted as a fingerpost.


Wilfred walked away ; it was a bore to leave
Florence just now ; he would like to have remained
six weeks, or it may be two months,
longer ; to have visited the Villa Uberti up in
the Apennines, when its fields were carpeted
with April flowers ; to have wandered, and
sketched, and written verses under the sweet
influences of " climate and the affections," as the
lady says in " Lothair." But that the affections
were uot very strong, not strong enough to
resist the strain of so small an exigency as this,
might be inferred from the ease with which he
decided that it was difficult to let his mother
return to England alone, and impossible to
urge her remaining abroad, against her inclination.


Could Lady Bannockburn have known that
they were not gyves of iron, but ropes of sand,
which had bound him, that vigilant and admirable

mother might have been yet further
exasperated.

As he walked down the Lung' Arno, meditating
how he should break to his fair friend
the fact of his approaching departure, he nearly
ran against a tall, heavily-built young man, in
the unmistakeable shooting-jacket and round
hat of the travelling Englishman. Wilfred did
not look up ; he was mentally rehearsing the
scene at the Casa Uberti, when a hand was laid
on his shoulder.

Hallo, Athelstone !"

Why, St. John, old fellow, where do you
come from ? How long have you been
here?"

"I come straight from England. I only
arrived last night."

"And how long do you stay? Where are
you going?"

"I am thinking of going to Corsica in a few
days. Will you come ?"

Hm ! I don't say no. I must think about it.
I should like nothing better than a little tour
with you ; but there's my mother "

The 3'oung men had not met for some years,
-and both were changed, but Hubert St. John
perhaps the most so, for he was three years
Wilfred's senior. The coarse features which, in
Eton days, had been characterized by a strength
and decision unusual in a boy, were in some
measure relieved now by a fair bushy beard. He
was unquestionably ugly, and there was little
vivacity to redeem the ugliness ; but it was an
interesting face, for all that. The brow, beneath
a shaggy mane of dull brown hair, was
corrugated with horizontal lines, and impended
somewhat over a nose of that indeterminate
shape, which the clever author of '' Notes on
Noses" designates as cogitative. The passion
of the wide-spread nostrils, however, belonged
more to the man of energy and action, than to
the student or philosopher. The eyes were
small but clear, and of singular directness in
their glance. The habitual expression of the
face was one of melancholy; but gleams of
humour and sarcasm flashed over it in conversation,
and at times a look of infinite tenderness
came into the eyes.

Instead of three, there seemed to be thirteen
years' difference between the two friends now ;
life's stream having carried the one rapidly
along, through vicissitude, sorrow, and conviction,
while with the other it had crept between
the flower-fed banks of prosperity, fretting over
the little pebbles of its daily course, unvexed by
eddies, unopposed by rocks.

*ris it true you are going to be married?"
said St. John. "I heard so in London."

To whom, pray ? It is the first I have heard
of it."

*^ Lady Frances Cope — a charming girl, I was
told."

What nonsense !" He flushed, and looked
annoyed, however, as he continued, "Just because
we were great friends here ! She is the
last girl I should think of marrying, however
. . not that I mean to marry for an age. I
am only beginning to know the sex. I must
have more p re-matrimonial experience first."

You will be married before two years are
over," replied St. John, with an incredulous
smile. '^ You are just the fellow to meet with

your 'fate' early, and then to the wind with
your resolutions !"

Wilfred shook his head.

**No; I may have momentary aberration. I
may be carried away' to — to a certain point ;
but marry — no, I never "

He looked over the glittering Arno, and instead
of the Ponte alle Grazie and the dome of
the Carmine beyond, a little face arose he had
once believed to be his '' fate." He stopped
short. Somehow, the conviction that what he
was about to say was not true smote him.
How sorrowful, how reproachful that little face
looked ! His resolutions had not been scattered
to the winds. But Madame Uberti?

It all flashed by him in that moment's pause.
Then, rousing himself, he said, quickly,

And you ? You have been in India these
three years. Did you never think of marrying
there ? Tell me all about yourself."

A cloud of pain crossed St. John's fiice. He
looked at his friend fixedly for a moment.

"No, I never thought of marrying. Some
day or other I may tell you what befell me in

India — as a warning, Athelstone — but not now.
My father was a judge, as you know. He died
there last summer, so I threw up my office and
came back in the autumn."

"Why did you do that?"

Oh ! for several reasons. I hated office
work, and there were circumstances which rendered
my remaining in Calcutta very painful.
Besides, my father left me far better off than I
expected. Not that that would be sufficient
excuse for being idle. Every fellow is better
for work. Unfortunately, I am now too old to
grind away at a profession."

Why not turn artist ? You have plenty of
talent."

'^A certain amount," replied his friend, simply.
'' Enough for the amusement of an amateur, not
for the vocation of a painter."

"Stuff! You have more than half the
painters whose works are exhibited in the
Academy."

"I don't think it is worth while adding to
the amount of indifferent pictures in the world.
If I believed in myself, the want of training all

VOL. I.

these years should not prevent my setting to
work at anatomy, and all the rest of it now.
As it is, I mark, learn, and inwardly digest the
good things in nature and in art that I see ; and
some day or other you may find me blossoming
out into that wonderful exotic of recent times —
the art-critic, with all his jargon of word-painting."


*' Well, I know nothing about art, but I believe
these critics you laugh at have done good
work — destroyed some of the old fetish-worship,
and taught people to look and judge for themselves."


His friend returned, with an amused look,

You were always apt to do that about
everything, Athelstone. Have you given upholding
forth about liberty of opinion, and soon?"


My views are only strengthened with time.
As to ' holding forth ' "

You will have an opportunity of doing that
in the House. A Radical lord will be a variety."

Wilfred laughed.

*come and dine with me at seven. We

will have a smoke and chat afterwards."
He had little admiration, and less reverence
for most living men : the poets, the philosophers,
the politicians of the day, he generally
"pooh-pooh'd." But for this Hubert St. John
at Eton he had always felt a regard, blent with
a strange measure of respect for a lad only
three years his senior; and, as he now parted
from his friend, he fell to moralizing upon the
unusual character which had stood out in relief
from his other companions.

It is very odd that he should have liked me.
We had nothing in common, except that I took
an interest in his drawing. He thrashed that
bully Norton, who had kicked me — that was the
first thing drew me to him. I used to call him
Sir Galahad,' because he was so chivalrous —
always succouring the oppressed. I wrote a
poem about him. He tore it up, and said I was
a young ass. I don't think he ever appreciated
my poetry. I wonder whether he would do so
more now ? He could be awfully passionate, I
remember ; though he generally had his passion
wonderfully under control for a boy.

0-2

Took 110 end of prizes, I remember, though it
was more by his determination and perseverance,
I fancy, than by transcendent talent.
He never cared for anything light— anything
fanciful ; he was always so awfully earnest.
That's what makes him look so melancholy
now. He has loved ' not wisely, but too well *
of course. Poor old Hubert ! Well, of all
the fellows I have ever known, he is the one in
whom T would soonest trust."

How much reason he had to think thus, the
reader will see, if he has patience to follow
Wilfred Athelstone's career.

CHAPTER XV.

■" TIT HAT have you been doing here for the
^ ^ last three months ?" asked St. John ot
his friend that evening.

'* Studying Italian character, chiefly," replied
Wilfred, after a moment's hesitation. ^' First
its art and literature ; secondly, in its people."

Talking of literature, have you given up
writing poetry? You had a turn that way."

Wilfred did not like the expression — *^ A turn
that way !" It was clear his friend had been in
India, and was not aware with what enthusiasm
and reprobation his fugitive verses had
been received in fashionable literary circles,
and to what lively discussions they had given
i'ise. He rose, however, and, walking to a

drawer, took out a pile of MSS., and said,

If yon care to hear them, these are some
of the last thugs I have written," and he
began reading a sonnet in the deep rhythmical
sing-song which is the triumph of sound over
sense, affected by many latter-day poets.

St. John was silent for a few moments.

I am not sure that I quite understand it,
but the versification is clever, and the lines
melodious. You always had great verbal fa-city."


Men like you, Hubert, seldom judge of
poetry by the only right standard. You want
the dry meaning of every word ; whereas it is
the feeling evoked, the imagination stirred,
by the general colour of a poem, you should
consider."

'' Certainly I want thoughts I can understand.
My imagination refuses to be stirred without
that. Surely words are like beautiful clothes
meant to adorn the body underneath, not to
conceal emptiness and a few wires, like a
dressmaker's stand."

'' Well, if you want a human body, here is a

poem about one. Perhaps you will understand
i/u's," said the poet, with a slight touch of scorn ;
and he began to read a poem consisting of
forty couplets, inspired — if such a word is admissible
— by the charms of Madame Uberti.

"I do understand that," said St. John, taking
the pipe out of his mouth, when Wilfred had
finished. " I do understand all that, and I
must say I don't care for it. It is like an
auctioneer's list of a woman's attractions. I
don't see the use of writing that sort of thing."

It is anacreontic ; of course, if you can't
throw yourself into the spirit of the singer, it is
not to be argued about. All human passion
has a certain sacredness about it — is a worthy
theme for the poet — and the gist of my poem
(perhaps you missed it ?) lies in that verse —

' It is not for these I have woo'd thee,
As the wind woo'd the mountains of old ;
It is not for these I have sued thee,

As the sun sues the rose to unfold,
The fragrance of thyme from the summit,

The passion of scent from the south.
It kissed, and I could not o'ercome it,

The warm breath of love from thy mouth !' "

*' Humph ! There is a great deal to get to
so little, Athelstone. I think you might do
much better than that if you had a mind ; you
used to be interested in deeper matters. Have
you nothing there that is more thoughtful —
more in that line ?"

"Oh! yes. Here is a thing I sent to the
Pantheon ' a few months ago, and which
had a good deal of success. But I doubt
whether you will like it. You are orthodox, I
know."

They were fiery verses, written in one of his
combative moods, directed against all formulas
of Faith, and far more intolerant than
the intolerance they deprecated. There was
nothing new in them ; St. John had heard the
same cry repeatedly, in less hysterical prose.
Still he was bound to admit that some of the
lines had a fine ring that was calculated to
carry away a hearer who was more open to the
impressions of rhyme than reason.

*' The worst of them," he continued, *' is, that,
in spite of their vehemence, they don't bring
with them any sense of your conviction to me.

You can't believe all you say there ; it is impossible
—

' The righteous, whose rigour and rancour
Have blighted the young buds, like frost . . .'

You can't believe that the effect of all righteousness
is to blight, sadden, and destroy? You
must have known good people whose religion
was a living faith, working in their lives, and
tending to make them really happier ?"

Yes ; but they are the exceptions. I see
lying, worldliness, and greed, hand in hand
with long prayers, fasting, and all the rest of
it; and I say, if those people believe in their
religion, what is it worth to them ? They put
it on and off at their church doors, like shoes
at the door of a mosque. But the fact is, not
one tenth of the people who go to church do
believe. They go from habit — for 'example's
sake,' or out of regard to the wishes of those
they love, and among the latter is myself. If
men really believed what they pretend, they
could not lead the lives they do."

'• Do you think there is any scheme, compact,
or career possible to Humanity, that can compliant

thorough sincerity ? How many books,
how many pictures, how many lives are lies ! —
self-deceptions, sometimes, but none the less
untrue to some portion of the inner man. Do
you remember what Faust says about our two
angels — our double nature? How can we
expect absolute thoroughness in religion, when
we find it in nothing else ?"

'* But, as I pointed out just now, St. John,
religion is a premium upon insincerity." He
stood up, and kicked vigorously at the wood-fire,
then faced about, having gathered his
antagonistic forces in hand, and continued — " It
is far worse than any other insincerity can be
in life, because it eats into the heart of what
ought to be proof against all humbug. How
can a structure built up of a lot of fables —
which were all very well in the infancy of the
world, but which no one believes now — be a
citadel of truth and a refuge? How can it
stand against the beleaguering armies of science,
when its own garrison is split up into fifty different
sections? It served its purpose once;
everything does in this world of progress ; but

it is obsolete, an anachronism ; we have got
beyond it."

"Beyond it? and where f said St. John,
with a sigh. "Into chaos — into a world without
form, and void ; while the conditions of
Humanity remain the same. If you destroy,
without giving us anything in its place, shall
we be the better or the happier for that ? Are
we so much cleverer than Plato, or Marcus
Aurelius, or Thomas a Kempis, or Shakspere (1
take great names at hazard, no matter what
their faith), that we can be cut adrift from all
beliefs, and not be sufferers by it ?"

"I don't want men to be cut away from all
belief — only from priestcraft and the dogmatism
of the Church."

"For which you would substitute some sort
of Pantheism, I suppose ?"

I don't care much what you call it. I
believe in a First Cause, and in Nature's unerring
laws. I believe in that 'absolute religion
which is hidden in all other religions,' as
Theodore Parker says. But I loathe and
abominate the endeavour to cram doctrines-down

men's throats which then reason repudiates,
and from which their sense of justice
revolts."

^' That is all very well ; but how do you
decide what is right from what is wrong, if
you reject all authority except Nature ? The
conscience of a man who has no unalterable
standard of right and wrong is certainly not to
be trusted. He may be high-minded, benevolent,
patriotic ; and, because he does not recognise
any Divine law over-ruling what he considers
an heroic impulse for the good of his
fellow-men, he may become a regicide. That's
where Nature's laws land 3'ou."

"The conscience of civilized man in the
present state of the world denounces any crime
against his fellow. Aberrations cannot be used
as arguments."

'' But our civilized consciences are additionally
open to sophistry," St. John said, quickly.
Then he stopped and looked, as if he hesitated
to continue. " I can only speak for myself,"
he added, after a pause. *' Doctor Johnson said
that every man knows j^^'ohahli/ worse of himself

than he certainly knows of his neighbour.
Experience has taught me that conscience can
be made, by plausible arguments, to accept anything
— will drift hither and thither with the
tides of opinion — until anchored to a rock from
which it cannot break away."

The conversation between the two friends
continued far into the night. Wilfred fought
with all the intemperate zeal of an enthusiast
for theological and intellectual freedom ; Hubert's
arguments did not touch him. Perhaps
few arguments ever do, in a discussion of this
kind; the combatants stand too far apart.
Hubert did not expatiate upon his past. The
longer he talked to Wilfred, the stronger his
conviction grew that his friend would profit by
by no vicarious experience. He must "learn in
suffering " something better worth teaching '^ in
song" than the worship of Liberty, and the
destruction of Law.

Nevertheless, as I look back upon the past, I
am disposed to regard it as very unfortunate
that circumstances prevented Wilfred Athelstan
accompanying his friend to Corsica at this

time. The influence of one mind upon another
in daily intercourse may be incalculable, however
valueless the result of a mere contest of
opinions may prove. Lady Athelstone urp;"ed
her son so strongly to return to England with
her (fearing, I have no doubt, that he might
be lured back to Florence from Corsica), that
Wilfred felt he had no choice but to yield. He
was never inconsiderate of her comfort ; in all
that concerned her personally, he was amiable
and self-denying, though he often ran counter
to her wishes in other respects.

So the two friends parted, not to meet again
for months, and then only casually. The sad
and solitary man went and took counsel of
nature as to what he should do with his future ;
the spoilt child of fortune returned to the small
world where this lover of liberty reigned
an autocrat, and to the bigger world where
his vanity was ministered to in a thousand
ways.

CHAPTER XVI.

T Lady Athelstan, along with her ins
decision and mistrust of her own perceptions,
worked with the steady perseverance
and untiring energy of a mole for the attainment
of any object the accomplishment of
which she had at heart. She had given herself
infinite pains, while in Florence, to secure for
Nellie Dawson a good situation as nursery
governess. Until this was accomplished, she
felt that it was out of the question to think of
returning to Athelstone. Her son's interests
demanded that the girl should be removed ;
her kindliness demanded that this should not
be at the expense of Nellie's comfort, but

that it should be a benefit to her in every
way.

Lady Athelstone had advertised for some
weeks, had written letters to various societies
in London on her protegees behalf, and had
answered several letters from ladies requiring"
a domestic slave to undertake the rudimentary
education of their children before the right
situation offered.

Mrs. Goldwin was known to Lady Athelstan,
not only as the wife of a rich shipbuilder
in the north, but as a perfect lady of very cultivated
tastes, whose health was indifferent, and
who led, in consequence, a somewhat retired
life. She had two children, to whom she was
devoted, and Nellie would therefore possess the
rare advantage of close and constant intercourse
with a woman of refined and elevated character.
Lady Athelstone did not hesitate to accept for
her protegee the liberal terms which Mrs. Gold-win
offered. It was the position, of all others,
best suited to the girl's present needs, as she
wrote to tell Mrs. Dawson, who, though sorely
troubled at parting with her daughter, thankfully

assented to Lady Athelstone's arrangements.


All this had happened some weeks before the
departure from Florence, and Nellie had been
established nearly a month at the Gold wins, in
Northumberland, when Wilfred and his mother
returned home.

It was then the middle of April. Wilfred had
arrived in London in time to take his seat before
the Easter recess, had elected not to return to
Oxford, and was now at Athelstone with his
mother, occupied with business matters which
demanded his attention.

He announced many strange doctrines upon
tenant right, which made his father's old steward
open his eyes , and shake his head with a sigh ;
but his dealings with the farmers and cottagers
on his property were not characterised by any
conspicuous acts of folly. Until one day, when
the bailiff declared the young lord had taken
clear leave of his senses. It was on this wise.

Lady Athelstone had, after much mental
exercise, broken to her son, while they were in
London, the fact of Nellie Dawson's removal

VOL. I. P

from Ripple. Wilfred received the announcement
in silence. What could he say ? He knew,
in his heart, it was the best thing that could
have happened for them both. But he had been
making all manner of heroic resolves ; and to
find that these would be of none effect — that
the ground was cut away from him, so to speak
and that no merit of self-sacrifice might now
be his, was a little trying, a little irritating to
one of his temperament. Had time and absence
lessened the young girl's impression on
his heart? He answered no; and perhaps he
was right; for certainly no other image had
effaced or interfered with it. He thought of
the tender light in her eyes, he recalled the
sweet tones of her clear young voice, with as
vivid and passionate delight as he did the day
they parted. But the shadow of his father
stood between them. He had resolved to resist
the temptation against which the old lord had
so urgently warned him, but the temptation
was removed out of his path. He felt defrauded.


One morning he walked over to Ripple.

*' What accounts have you of Nellie, Mrs.
Dawson?" he asked, after he had sat down in
the widow's cottage.

'' The very best, my lord," replied the widow,
quickly. She was peeling some onions, and did
not look up ; but her face flushed slightly as
she continued — " She is quite happy and contented,
as I'm sure she's every reason to be. I
wouldn't have expected such good fortune for
her as to find such a home as she's got, and
such a lady as Mrs. Goldwin, my lord ; and I'm
sure I return my lady my most grateful
thanks."

*ewe are both very much interested in her,
as you know, Mrs. Dawson," said Athelstone,
drawing patterns with his stick upon the
floor.

Yes, my lord ; and my lady's like to know
that the girl is making advances every day in
her studies, she tells me. Mr. Goldwin is a
great deal from home, and she reads to Mrs.
Goldwin of an evening when the children are
a-bed. The lady's a kind o' mother to her, and
never tires of explaining things to the girl, it

?2

seems. It's a happy change from the drudgery
of school-teacher, which was almost too ranch
for her. It's only me as it comes hard on to
lose her ; but I don't mind, for I know she's a
deal happier than she could be with me here."

This was an unusually lone oration for Mrs.
Dawson ; she must have been moved by some
powerful motive to make it ; but it did not completely
satisfy her auditor. Of course he was
glad that Nellie was in such good keeping;
glad to find that Mrs. Goldwin was a cultivated
as well as a kind woman ; glad that the girl
should have already attained to some moderate
degree of contentment. But, what! not a
regret for the past? A happy change to leave
Ripple, and his vicinity? The separation,
which he had nerved himself for with what he
believed to be an heroic effort, did it cause no
struggle in Nellie herself? He could not be
completely satisfied. He knit his brows and
sighed.

"sit must be a great trial to her all the same
to part from you and — and Ripple, Mrs,
Dawson."

Oh ! she's a good child to me, my lord, and
an affectionate ; but life is all before her, and
new things is pleasant to the young. She was
glad to leave Ripple, though she's as fond of
me as I could wish ; but she knows as it's for
her good, and so do I."

We know that physic is good for us but it
does not make us relish it. Mrs. Dawson, you
have occupied this cottage ever since you married,
have you not?"

'* Yes, my lord ; nineteen years come Michaelmas."


Well, you would be sorry to be turned out.
Life is uncertain ; my possession here may be a
short one. It is in my power to make over this
cottage to you, free, for the period of your life,
and I am going to execute a deed to that effect.
It will save you a few pounds, and my successor,
if you live to see him, might raise the
rent."

Vm sure, my lord, I done know how to find
words to "

'' Don't try, Mrs. Dawson. I know you are
grateful, and that is enough. Tell Nellie I have

been glad to do this for your sake and hers
-will you V"

Then he shook hands with the somewhat
bewildered woman, and left the cottage.

Mrs. Dawson stated the fact briefly when she
wrote to her daughter; she did not dilate on it,
nor did she give the young lord's message.

There was a fund of good sense in this gentle,
uneducated woman. She had got to see pretty
clearly how matters stood between the wilful
and ill-disciplined young man, whose heart had
many a kind impulse, but whose conduct was
at the mercy of every gust of passion, and her
pure and tender little daughter, whose health
had been so severely tried, in the past year, by
the straggle to overthrow the love which had
grown up within her unconsciously, year by
sear, since childhood. Something the poor girl,
in her bitter desolation and self-abasement, lead
let fall after Lady Athelstan and her son were
gone abroad. It was but a few words, wrung
out, in the watches of the night, when slip was
ill, and her mother sat beside her bed. The
widow did not press her child to say more ; she

soothed her with gentle words of encouragement
and comfort ; then, as the girl grew better
able to bear the tonic of graver and stronger
language, Mrs. Dawson applied her styptic to
the wound with firm though loving hand. This
evil, which clung like a bind-weed round her
child's heart, must be plucked out, and trodden
under foot. There was no good to be got out
of it, only poisonous exhalation, which threatened
to destroy the healthy activity and equipoise
of body and mind. Such was the spirit
and substance, if not the framework, of the
mother's exordium.

And, to outward seeming, it worked its
effect, though slowly, painfully, and after many
a hard-fought battle. When the time came
that Nellie should leave her home, she was pale
and thin, but quite composed. The great
sorrow in her eyes was hidden away ; she
smiled rarely, but had regained her strength,
and capacity of application, and self-control.
Mrs. Dawson was satisfied.

Nellie's new employer was at first puzzled and
disappointed to find the girl of scarcely seventeen

she had hoped would be a blithe companion
to her children, so joyless and subdued.
But Mrs. Goldwin had keen instincts, as well asa
kind heart ; they led her to the conclusion
that there was some immediate cause for this
depression, which might be removed in time.
It was not natural that a well-grown girl
should rigidly perform her duties day by day,
and the sound of a glad laugh be never heard.
She would give her a trial ; and this was the
beginning of a course of wise and tender treatment
to which the young governess was subjected
at the hands of her mistress. Some of
Mrs. Goldwin's friends told her she would
completely spoil the girl — make her forget her
station — unfit her for the drudgery of a
nursery school-room. The lady smiled, and
heeded not. She had her own opinions upon
most matters ; and, being left at perfect liberty
by her husband to do as she liked, she seldom
troubled herself about the approval of others.

She led a very solitary life with her children,
Mr. Goldwin seldom being at home for more
than a few days, and her health obliging her to

remain a prisoner in the house during the
winter months. She read a great deal, and
enjoyed discussion upon what she had read,
having lived at one time in a circle of intellectual
men and women, who had fostered her
natural tastes. She rarely met anyone now
who talked about books ; the state of trade, the
weather, and the crops forming the main loaves
of conversation with her husband's friends, into
which a few plums of country gossip were surreptitiously
introduced by the wives from time
to time.

Perhaps it was less meritorious therefore,
than it might at first appear, when Mrs. Gold-win,
being interested in her young governess's
appearance, resolved to try the experiment
upon her of that education, so far higher and
more precious than all the teaching of the
schools, which constant intercourse with a
thoughtful, cultivated mind can alone give.
She found that Nellie's nature was not only far
more refined and sensitive than that of most
girls in a superior station of life ; it was also
singularly receptive. Not that her memory, or

what is commonly called *' quickness-was remarkable
; but her fine taste to distinguish
the true from the false in literature, her sympathy
With all that was noble, lier fancy, so
swift to follow wild flights of poetry, were
gifts which no artificial training can impart.

By slow degrees the poor little frozen heart
thawed under the warmth of kindness and constant
occupation for her thoughts. She had no
time to sit and meditate. During the day she
and the children were often with Mrs. Goldwin ;
driving with her, or walking beside her garden-chair,
as the spring came on, or playing about
the drawing-room, when she had no visitors ;
and, after the children were in bed, every evening
Mrs. Goldwin sent for her governess to
read and talk with her. The girl's mind
expanded like a flower. Her powers of reflection
had been too early forced by circumstances,
perhaps, for the elasticity of youthful spirit ever
completely to return ; but before many weeks
where passed Mrs. Goldwin saw that her children
laughed and romped fearlessly with their new
governess, and clambered upon her knee and

lugged her with a vehemence which spoke well
for the understanding that subsisted between
them.

Into Nellie's past she never inquired ; and the
girl would sooner have died than confess, even
to this excellent friend, the sorrow that had
overshadowed her young life. Alas ! at night,
when she knelt down beside her little bed, and
prayed, her first thought — she acknowledged it
with shame — was of him. All else was still
secondary to that one idea. She might school
herself throughout the busy day ; she might, fors,
time, banish that image, but, at this hour
^vhen the poor child laid bare her heart, she
would no longer dissemble with herself.

All thy best blessings, my Father, keep
for him. Guard him from harm ; give him true
wisdom ; and may the echo of his good deeds
reach me from afar. I ask no more than this.
I have sinned, Lord. What was I that I
should raise my eyes so high ? Thy hand hath
been laid heavily upon me, though not in
anger. I thank Thee for all thy mercies. Be
patient with me stills

vol. i. p

This, or something like it, was the substance
of her prayer, night after night. The months
went by ; she never heard his name mentioned,
nor did her mother, since the return of the
family to the Castle, ever speak of the young
lord, after that brief statement to which I have
referred.

Mrs. Goldwin was too clever not to have
arrived at some approximation to the truth as
regarded Nellie, by that process of induction
which is called " putting two and two together.'^
She never dropped a hint that she read between
the lines of the girl's enthusiastic praises of
Lady Athelstone, her eloquent description of
the Castle, its woods, its gardens, its stately
rooms ; and her absolute silence as to the
young man who now reigned there. But all
this was not lost upon her auditor.

One day the girl was reading aloud, when
she came to a quotation —

'Tis better to have loved aud lost,
Than never to have loved at all !''

Struck by the line she, half unconsciously.

paused. Mrs. Goldwin sighed, and then looked
up.

"You are too young, my dear, to feel tha
truth and beauty of that."

The girl coloured, and replied, after a momentary
hesitation,

'* No, Mrs. Goldwin, I think I can understand
that the worst fate in life would be never to
have loved anything."

Mrs. Goldwin said no more.

Another time she was arranging some flowers
in a vase, when Mrs. Goldwin entered the room,
without the girl's hearing her. She was repeating
a verse of poetry in a soft, low voice,
as she took up the roses, one by one, and smelt
them. Mrs. Goldwin listened.

"Unto my rose I gave a rose,

And, ' !Never more,' I said,
Shall this fair flower its scent disclose.

When its warm heart lies dead.
But though Love's heart be wounded, crush'd,

Its sweet breath never dies.
And when our voices both are hush'd.

It still wil scent the skies'"

'' What is that you are repeating, my dears ^

Nellie started.

Nothing, Mrs. Goldwin. I mean, only a
verse I — I once heard."

"Do you know who wrote it? It sounds
-almost like Waller, or one of those old fanciful
poets."

"It is Lord Athelstone's,'' she said.

Oh ! You have not read much of his, I
suppose '?"

'' I had to copse some — his prize poem on
Carthage, and some translations from the Greek
when I was at the Castle." Then, after a
moment's demur, she added, quickly, without
looking up — " They are published. I saw them
advertised in the paper yesterday. Would you
not like to read them, Mrs. Goldwin?"

She had read them, and the book was in the
house ; but she answered unhesitatingly,

"No, my dear; I don't think it is at all the
sort of reading I should like."

In Mrs. Goldwin's monotonous existence, the
successful endeavour to rouse and interest her
young companion, was an occupation which
drew Nellie closer to her heart each day. Aud

with the increasing affection which she felt for
the girl, there was thankfulness that she had
been removed from the perils which had, no
doubt, environed her position at home and that
she was safely harboured here. And thus the
summer passed by.

In the meantime, to return for a moment to
the transaction I have spoken of as taking place
at Ripple in the spring, it was not effected
without strong remonstrance from Wilfred's
agents and some mild expostulation from his
mother.

"It is a precedent, my lord, which you will
find leads to no end of trouble and future difficulty,"
said the former.

I don't admit the force of precedent in such
a case. I have a right to do what I choose
with my own ; and I choose to give that cottage
to Mrs. Dawson for her life. As to trouble and
difficulty," he added, laughing, "that will be
your look-out, Matchamam. If it wasn't for that
sort of bother, I should be my own agent, you
know."

Mr. Matchamam went his ways; but he was

heard to say more than once that this was the
next thing to Communism, — suddenly, without
rhyme or reason, to give up one of the best
cottages in the village of Ripple, held by a
woman who was well able to pay for it, when
there were such a number of indigent tenants
out of whom Mr. Matchamam had infinite trouble
to screw the rent !

"Have you considered well, my dear boy'*
said Lady Athelstone. *' Is it — is it quite wise
to do this sort of thing? I do not think your
father "

"Did not my father propose to give her five
hundred pounds if she went to Australia ?"

*' But — but she declined. You see, my dear
Wilfred — under all the circumstances people — I
really think people might talk."

*' Let them ; it won't influence me," and the
young man walked away.

CHAPTER Xiii.

T ORD Athelstan's first volume of cole
elected verse was published that June, and
created considerable stir. The audacity of this
young patrician poets utterances took away
people's breath. Was he a second Byron or
not? Were these whirlwinds of passion, these
scathing denunciations, mere sound and fury,
signifying nothing? Or was he, in truth, one
of those rare beings in whom all that is irrational,
unprincipled, and offensive to good taste
must be pardoned for the sake of their transcendent
genius ?

Ecclectic-fashionable circles fought over these
poems ; some declared them to be *' entirely
noble, informed with that far-seeing spirit of

VOL. I. Q

the poet (or prophet) which subjects all minor
moralities to the great exigencies of our
Human Nature' Others compared the new
star to a dancing dervish, " fluent and flatulent
; his excitement being begotten of a rotatory
motion of rhyme which lashes him into a
frenzy of froth and foam." Severe strictures
and extravagant praise of the book appeared in
the critical journals. One article beginning
"This will never do," was said to have sent the
volume at once into a second edition.

They were discussing him at Lady B 's

one night, in whose salon opinions the most
opposed met upon common ground, and lances
in politics and literature were freely broken.

Are we to encourage this young man ?"
asked the lady of the house of an eminent
statesman. " I am afraid he is very immoral ;
but how original ! What ingenious versification
! What subtle harmony !"

'* His philosophy amounts to this' observed
the statesman. '' There is nothing true, and
there is nothing new ; and it don't signify.
Enjoy yourselves."

"It is horribly irreligious," said his wife,
severely, " besides its immorality. It is a book
I would never allow to lie upon my table."

By all means, my sear. Keep it under the
sofa-cushion," and the statesman smiled grimly.

Irreligious ? Oh ! but its Pantheism is so
exquisite. It breathes the piety of the prairie,
if not of theology," piped a young man with a
long, yearning throat, who spoke like an
expression-stop, and wrote aesthetic essays.
Have you read Lord Athelstone's ' Wail of
the Wandering Winds ' ? People call it blasphemous,
but there is more of unconscious devotion
in the sad soughing of the breeze, the
wild agony of the screaming tempest, as one
bears it in those strophes and antistrophe, than
in many a psalm. Indeed, it is a psalm, full of
the remorse of unaccomplished desire, of struggle
from trammels of the finite towards infinity !"

Struggles from trammels, I admit," observed
the cynical statesman. '* As to the

rest " he shrugged his shoulders, with a

smile.

But let one half the world deride or reprobate
vol, L q

the other — which inclined most of the young
men and women whose eyes and ears were
more sensitive than their understandings — the
vast crowd who are swept, resistless, every
year into maelstroms of enthusiasm over some
vain thing, held the new poet to be "a revelation,"
and fed on him in secret, or avowed,
delight.

Towards the end of July Hubert St. John
returned to England, after visiting the Greek
Islands, and wandering slowly up the little-visited
Dalmatian coast; writing, sketching,
pondering over the scenes and monuments of
historic interest he visited, or, better still,
letting Nature and Sunshine, in silence, work
their beneficent influence on wounds which,
though outwardly healed, had left him numbed,
and, as it seemed, disabled for social enjoyment.
He was too soundly built, however,
intellectually and physically, for his recuperative
power not to be strong at six and twenty.
He came back happier than he had been for the
past two years, with hopes and convictions
which had been fluent, consolidated, and ready

to find expression in immediate action. What
these were will presently be apparent.

He met Athelstone on, the steps of the St.
James's Club the day after his arrival. After
inquiring where his friend had been during the
past four months, Wilfred said,

'^ I suppose you have not seen my book yet ?
I daresay you have not even read a review on
it ? I am glad to say it has been awfully cut
up — just what I wanted."

I suppose you think it necessary for a
book to be cut up in order to be devoured?"
said the other, smiling. " But the only notice
of your book I saw did not slash at it very
viciously."

You mean that it damned it with faint
praise ? That was the work of an enemy, then.
My only friends among the critics are those
who * deplore that this young man with all his
great gifts,' &c. Those who pat me on the
head, as a young lord, who has ' really, in
spite of his birth, got something in him, and
who may perhaps do better things by and by,'
I should like to strangle them. I wish you

would review the book, old fellow. I'll send it
you to-nights'

Hubert shook his head, laughing.

You won't complain of ray lenity, if I do.
You had better not ask me. Remember what I
told you at Florence."

"I do remember. Our views are not the
same on most points ; but you have capital
brains, and you are not prejudiced. Above all,
you are not bound to turn out so many pages
of ill-digested matter a week. Come down to
Athelstone next week, and let us argue out our
philosophies under the cedars on the lawn. We
leave town on Monday"'

I am sorry I cannot at present. I am kept
by business in London for the next fortnight,
and then I have promised to go to a cousin of
mine in Northumberland. Later in the autumn,
if you will ask me '^

Write when you can come. We shall be
there till November. After that, it is probable
I may go to Rome. But I shall send you the
poems, and, remember, you are to write a

criticism. The Regent Street Review will take it,
I know."

As a matter of fact, St. John^did not leave
London for some weeks. Before that time
came he had found work for his hands, and an
object for the outlay of a large portion of his
ample income. It came to his knowledge that
a mechanics' institute was needed in a certain
very poor district in the East-end of London ;
but funds were not forthcoming to establish
this. There was, moreover, a hunger for
intellectual help among the keen-eyed and
inquiring artisans who swarmed in those
narrow alleys, which there was none to satisfy.
Those who had the capacity had not the time,
those who had the time had not the capacity.
The demands upon the over worked clergy
were too numerous for them to be able to
devote many hours in the month to seeking out
and becoming friendly with men who perhaps
never, or very rarely , came to church.

This was the want which St. John saw it was
in his power to supply. The erection of a suitable

building, and the formation of a library,
would be the work of several months ; and
having concluded the purchase of the site, and
approved of the architect's plans, his presence
in London was no longer necessary. But, in
the interval which must elapse before any
personal supervision and organization of his
scheme could begin, might he not pave the way
to that free and friendly intercourse which he
hoped to establish between the artisans and
himself, by a little weekly chat upon paper,
carried on from wherever he might chance to
be, on whatsoever subject it pleased his correspondents
to suggests

The plan which he conceived and carried out
was this : to print, and to distribute, on the
payment of a small sura quarterly, a paper each
week, in which one subject should be treated,
and a certain number of questions propounded
by his readers. For, as they read, objections
would probably arise in their minds, and it
might be that some of these he would find it
hard to meet. But, when it was so, he would
frankly confess his inability; for his aim was

to establish himself on the footing, not of an
instructor, but of a friend, ready to discuss
difficulties, with no assumption of omniscience :
a friend who, by adventitious circumstances,
had enjoyed facilities for study and travel denied
to those with whom he now talked ; but
not, necessarily for that, deeper-sighted or
more highly-endowed than they. There were
things he could tell them which they knew
not : theories, arguments, quotations, which
would be new to them, and which they would
ponder over, or discuss among each other ; but
he divined that there might be acute and logical
minds among those artisans, who would detect
a fallacy in the theory — a flaw in the argument,
and who would brush away quotations like flies
from a window — possibly as obstructions to the
light — whose buzzing could not affect the
truth, as each individual intelligence receives
it.

It was with no delusion, therefore, as to the
smoothness of his task that he left London,
after establishing the machinery of which he
was to be the motive power. The preliminaries

had offered few difficulties ; he supplied money
and a scheme; some coadjutors among the
middle class presented themselves; the men
themselves contributed a zealous curiosity and
desire to forward their new friend's views.

He had found a stimulant for his mental
energy. Work, the best calculated to satisfy
his needs, was now ready to his hand. He felt
a certain anxiety as to its success : that is incident
to all new undertakings ; but to feel
anxiety about anything is preferable to the
indifference as to all things which had threatened
to mildew the young manes mind a few-months
since. His hopes might be only partially
realized, but here was work to be done
which he believed he could do, and for which,
perhaps, few were so well-fitted by circumstances
as himself. Anyhow, if he overestimated
his strength, if he failed in what he
had undertaken, the impetus given to his life,
linking it with other lives and other interests
than his own, was higher than aimless study ora
search after the picturesque.

He went straight to Northumberland, taking

-with Lira a box of such books of reference ashe
thought he was not likely to find in his
cousin's house. She was, however, a woman
of cultivation and refinement, and her name-was
Mrs. Gold win.

They had been together a great deal as children;
indeed, up to the time of Mary St. John's
marriage, she and Hubert had constantly met
during his vacations, and had been more like a
younger brother and elder sister than cousins
often are. Between them existed a strong regard
— the regard that springs from sympathy
and a complete understandings even more than
from a community of tastes. During the last
six years, however, they had only met once,
and that was for a few hours in London, on
Hubert's return from India last November.
Much had befallen them both during those six
years, and both were much changed. Hubert
had leapt from boyhood to mature manhood — a
manhood that had sinned and suffered, that had
learnt its idols to be of clay, and had found
the fruit of the tree of knowledge bitter to the
taste.

The Judge, though a fond, had been a somewhat
rigid and severe parent ; there had been
an episode in his son's life in India which he
sternly reproved ; and almost immediately after
this he died, while yet the estrangement between
them existed. These circumstances had
very powerfully affected the young man ; nay,
more, they had wrought a considerable change
in his character. Had he been subject to such
influences later in life, it would have been different.
When the bark is toughened, and the
branches naturally bent, no wind can alter the
contour of the oak ; but stripling trees are
swayed one way by the south-wester, and forever
retain that inclination.

Hubert had been high-spirited, enthusiastic,
enterprising, as a boy ; that his temperament
was only modified at six-and-tweuty was shown
by the vigour and alacrity he displayed in
maturing the scheme he had now devised ; but
Mrs. Goldwin knew that a great revolution had
been wrought in her cousin's character. The
events of his life, his letters, all had prepared
Tier for this ; and she awaited his coming now,

not without a certain fear that between the
Hubert she had known so intimately and this
man had grown up another individuality with
whose complexities she would find it more difficult
to sympathise.

As to her own life, it might be summed up ina
few words. She had been reared in an atmosphere
of intellectuality and refinement ; she lead
married, at four-and-twenty, into an atmosphere
of ox-like calm, splendour, stupidity. Her husband
was termed — and he well deserved the
encomium — " a very worthy man." He was
really fond of his wife, and had the most unbounded
confidence in her ; but he was engrossed
in business, which obliged him to be a great
deal from home, and Mrs. Goldwin's health,
since her last confinement, had compelled her
more than once to go abroad. Thus months
sometimes elapsed without the husband and
wife meeting; and it must honestly be admitted
that this was not a loss calculated to disturb
the current of Mrs. Goldwin's existence. She
respected her husband ; she was grateful to
him ; and he was the father of the two children

in whom her life was bound up ; but between
this strangely-assorted pair there could only bea
community of interest, none of thought. If
the truth must be told, she rather dreaded a
Ute-a-Ute with him. When they had talked of
the children, and the new glass-houses, only the
fly-leaves of conversation were left to be turned
over between them ; the body of the book was
done. She could affect no interest in the iron-trade,
or in county-business, or even in the
broader field of politics ; he could affect none in
literature or in art. She could not despise
him; she knew he had capital abilities of a
certain kind ; he had strong common sense, and
was liberal in his dealings with all men. On
his side, he admired, though he did not the least
understand, his wife.

He knew as little of her now as he had done
six years ago, when he asked the beautiful and
penniless Mary St. John to marry him. Why
lead she said "yes"? It was the old story;
love at eighteen, disappointment ; an interval
of five years, and then acceptance of an excellent
offer, in the world's estimation, from a sense

of the expediency, if not the obligation, of a
woman's marrying to afHiience and apathy,
when the alternative was spinsterhood with
straitened means. She would probably have
acted no differently now, had the same alternative
been placed before her ; for she possessed
what is called " strong good sense." In other
words, though she had some romance in her
composition, with an exalted ideal of what married
life should be, she was not deficient in
worldly wisdom. The cousins had each had a
story ; only hers was simple enough, his full of
passionate complication. The past with her
had long been dead and buried — hope and expectancy
only lived in her children now ; how
would she find it with Hubert ?

It was this question she propounded to herself
constantly in the days that preceded his
arrival at Danecourt. His letters indicated that
all the buoyancy of youth was gone ; but men
are differently constituted from women ; surely,
at six and twenty, the capacity for another love,
which should vivify the young man's life, was
not impossible ?

The busy weaving brain of woman, that
turns out fabrics of such marvellous and unserviceable
texture, sent its shuttle to and fro,
with gossamer threads of possibilities. Her four
years' seniority now seemed to her as twenty ;
and it was with almost a maternal feeling of
affectionate solicitude that she greeted St.
John to her home resolved to afford him
every opportunity of reconstructing a romance
which should this time have a happy termination.


CHAPTER XVIII.

nne Miss Brawnes were handsome, 
cultivated young women. They were so
decorative in a room, and all they did was so
well done, that it seemed surprising they
should lack the subtle charm by which inferior
women often enslave a number of helpless
men.

Men never became helpless under their influence.
They flirted, but with discretion; and,
on learning that the sisters were poor, turned
their thoughts in other directions, without
poignant regret. It was chiefly by their own
sex that the Miss Brawnes were enthusiastically
admired ; and Mrs. Golding who was not
much given to neighbour cultivation, duly

VOL. I. K

appreciated and always invited them to
stay at Danecourt when she had other
guests.

They were established there when Hubert
arrived. *' Either of them would make him a
most suitable wife," thought Mrs. Goldwin ;
but I should prefer Eliza — I do hope he will
fall in love with Eliza ;" and, if such thought
can be termed a scheme, she certainly planned
one for the realization of her wish. But the
futility of such is proverbial.

I hope, now you are come back to
England, and are tired of wandering, you
tell me, dear Hubert, that you will think of
marrying."

They were alone in her boudoir the morning
after his arrival, when she said this. He
shook his head, with a smile, and something
like a sigh.

Not until I meet such a woman as I have
never yet known, Mary."

She paused ; then felt impelled to say,

But you loved once, dear boy, though

unwisely — why not again, and to better purpose
f

'' I was blind. A fellow may be blind once
especially at one and twenty — he is a
fool if he is blind twice. My eyes are too
wide open, I believe, ever to fall in love
again."

*' Nonsense ! You would be so much happier
married, Hubert."

'^ Marriage must be either Heaven or Hell, in
my opinion. To have a companion who is not
only flesh of one's flesh, but soul of one's soul,
is the happiness accorded but to few. Less than
this I should not be content with."

Mrs. Goldwin's fair face contracted for a
moment.

You expect too much of human nature. If
all exacted so much, how many marriages
would there be ? And is not the balance of
happiness with those who do marry, have
children, and merge their personal interests in
others, rather than with those who lead solitary
lives r

r2

"I don't know about the aggregate, Mary ;
every ran must judge for himself. Some softhearted,
easy-going fellows seem to be so constituted
that they only ask that a woman
should be fond of them to take her to their
bosom at once. It is much the same whether
she be Jane or Eliza."

"How very odd," laughed his cousin.
"Are you aware that those are the Miss
Brawnes' names?"

"No. I beg their pardon for taking them in
vain."

"Very handsome girls, ain't they?"

Y — yes — good-looking, certainly."

'• And so clever."

Ah ! I daresay."

'eliza is really delightful — so very agreeable."


Just a little self-conscious — isn't she ?"

"Not at all. That is only manner. I assure
you it entirely wears off."

"Does it? Well, she may be charming, but
she is not the kind of woman who would ever
interest me. By-the-by, was the young girl

who came in after dinner your governess? I
didn't speak to her, but she struck me as lovely,
and the young parson seemed to think so, for
he never left her side."

Miss Dawson has a very sweet face, and is
a very nice girl. She is only a nursery governess
and of very humble origin, but she has
great natural refinement and I find her quite a
companion when we are alone."

*' AVhat a lucky thing for her to have come
here! I suppose this is her first place? She
looks so young."

'• Yes ; and if I had not received such a
very strong recommendation of her from Lady
Athelstone "

'• From Lady Athelstone ?"

She was pupil-teacher in their school, and
her mother lives in their village."

How small the world is ! I have not a large
acquaintance, as you know, but Athelstone was
a school-fellow of mine, and, I may say, is still
my friend."

'endear me! 1 should have thought, from
.all I have heard, he was not at all the sort

of man you would have chosen for a friend. '^
Friendship is sometimes the result of circumstances.
Certainly Athelstone and I agree upon
very few points ; but we were in the same
house together at Eton, and he exhibited a
blind reverence for me then (1 am a good deal
older), which, I am sorry to say, years have
corrected. Still he is very cordial ; and I feel
that, in spite of all his nonsense, there is much
that is good in him, which I think will predominate
— if he falls into wise hands."

And that is the reason you cling to him ?
Why did j^ou not prevent his publishing all this
abominable poetry?"

I could not have prevented it, had I been
in England. He is very obstinate ; and when
I talk of wise hands, they must be hands that
do not appear to guide, but, gently superimposed,
use a magnetic influence of which the
subject is unconscious. Have you ever seen a
person called to do a thing. That is how Athelstan
must be moved. He is a strange fellow,
and 1 fear may cause much trouble to those who-love
him ; but he interests me."

"I think he must be a very unprincipled man.
I have been obliged to put away his book, for
fear Miss Dawson should see it. She is naturally
interested in all that relates to the Athelstan.
Say nothing about these poems,, unless
she asks you."

That afternoon Hubert declined to drive with
his cousin and the Miss Brawnes to a ruin some
miles distant, alleging that he had his forthcoming
paper to prepare. Mrs. Goldwin was
disappointed ; but she was too clever not to
know that a man shut up in a carriage, against
his will, for two hours and a half, would be ina
frame of mind unfavourable to the first inroads
of fascination, and she submitted in
silence. To-night, she said, after a solitary
afternoon J he would by a natural rebound, find
keener enjoyment in the society of these charming
girls. Hubert had always a fine taste
for music. Eliza should play that scherzo
of Mendelssohn's — it would at once delight
and astonish him. This would lay the first

stone. And so the fair builder of a Spanish
castle went a-driving.

It was a very still, golden day, early in
September. In the garden it was just the moment
when the glories of summer and autumn
meet ; when the advancing dahlias and china-masters
come face to face with the retiring
geraniums and cancellaria. Hubert looked out
upon it all from his open window, and, after
writing a few sentences, it occurred to him that
he might as well be seated under one of those
wide-spreading beeches inhaling the sweet
breath of all the growing things around, as remain
imprisoned in his bed-room, now that he
was secure from interruption ; for the other men
staying at Danecourt had gone out partridge-shooting
early.

He sauntered across the lawn, note-book in
hand, till he came to a little stream which
divided the garden from the beech-wood beyond.
He crossed the small foot-bridge, and
had advanced a few beards down the winding
path, when a pair of stout little legs, carrying
a small rosy blossom of a face, ran up to hin,

ill all the sweet confidence of five years' old.
She had been picking beech-nuts, and the white
serge frock she clutched tight with two hot
hands was filled with her treasure.

"Look, what Fve dot for de pigs I Dere's
lots more ; turn along, and I'll show you. Will
you put des in your pocket ? Den I will pickup
more."

But if we carry off all the nuts, Tricksy,
there will be no young trees to grow up."

Oh, 'es, dere will. God sticks in de trees,
I know."

In an incautious moment she let go her frock
to tug at his coat, and the pigs' dessert lay
scattered on the path.

Hubert was fond of children; but, as he
stooped to pick up the nuts, he remembered his
essay with a sigh. For the evolution of exact
thought, he would have done better to remain
in his bed-room.

Well, I will put these in my pocket for you.
Tricksy, and stay here while you run off and
look for more."

But this arrangement did not suit Miss

Tricksy, who was partial to the institution of
shivery.

*' No, no. Yon must turn wit me. Dere is
lots of booTul flowers, and — " she pulled lustily
at his coat ; but here a sweet voice, belonging
to a speaker whom St. John had not heard approaching
behind him, broke in.

You must not be troublesome. Tricksy.
Come here."

He turned. She was standing, in her dark
brie dress and garden-hat, against the silver
stems and yellow leaves of the beeches. A
little flush tinged the ivory face, the sweet,
grave brown eyes were bent upon the elder
child, while the younger one toddled at her
heels. This was the picture he often recalled
in after-years ; it was thus he thought of her,
thus he felt that he had first seen her; for the
glimpse of the previous evening had left no
enduring impression. But every incident of
this afternoon remained in his memory. Not a
word she let fall — and how unimportant would
they seem if set down here ! — that Hubert St.
John ever forgot. She said but little; he had

most of the talking to himself; but now and
again he put some question which drew from
her a reply. They strolled along the pathway,
the children playing before them ; they sat on a
bench, while the children gathered more nuts ;
the sunshine made a network of blue shadows
among the fallen leaves ; a little wind rustled in
the branches overhead as the evening wore on,
and stirred the edges of the girl's soft brown
hair. He talked of iithelstone, and she listened
; he asked about her old home , and she
felt drawn to speak to him, as she never did to
the curate and the other gentlemen whom she
saw occasionally at Danecourt. For this was a
friend of his, who had known him since boyhood.
It was a link between them ; she could talk of
Ripple, and feel that he was interested in what
was nearer to her heart than anything in the
world.

She was a little shy at this time, as was only
natural. Not that she was afflicted with self-consciousness
; but a fear of putting herself, or
of being put, into undue prominence, and a very
humble estimate of her own powers, kept her

mostly silent in company. She looked bewildered
at a compliment, and was a little slow to
seize the jests current in society. Though
never awkward or embarrassed, she needed
sympathy to be able to converse, and it was
this she had found in Mrs. Goldwin. The eight
months passed with that kind and clever woman
had done more to enlarge and mature the young
girl's intellect than years passed in the old life
at Ripple would have done. But the talks she
had in those long tete-astute evenings, though
they helped to form her judgment upon many
things, did not teach her to talk nonsense with
grace and assurance. The truth is, she would
never, under any circumstances, have kept up
the ball of banter with spirit ; it was not in her
nature ; and, circumstanced as she was, her
reserve sat well upon her — at least, so thought
all except the young men who were disappointed
to find the pretty governess "awfully
slow and well-behaved — doesn't understand
chaff!"

Now, however, sitting on the woodland bench,
she found herself listening with interest to the

young man's conversation, which flowed so
easily, and yet was so full of thought and suggestion,
so free from compliment or personality,
that from response she was drawn on to question
and argument insensibly.

'' Children should be allowed to read no
poetry but the Old Ballads, and Walter Scott,
and Macaulay's 'Lays'" — St. John was sayings
nothing that is morbid and unhealthy."

The first poetry I read was * Percy's
Reliques " said Nellie, looking up, with a
smile. "Lord Athelstone gave it me when I
was very small."

I am glad he gave you such wholesome
food," St. John replied. " His taste in poetry
has deteriorated since then, 1 am afraid."

She paused , and hesitated a moment.

*'I read in a paper some time since that he
had published a volume of poems. I will not
believe what they said about them was true ;
but Mrs. Goldwin would not send for the book.
Have you read it ?"

I have — it is not a book you would like it
is not one you would even understand. You

canst rest satisfied with this assurance : you
know I am his friend."

*' He did write beautiful poetry once," said
the girl, in a low voice.

"And will again, I hope. Lord Athelstone
is very clever ; but he is young, and his judgment
is not matured. AVhat he writes now he
Avill condemn and repudiate later. I have told
him so."

"Is her ladyship vexed with hims asked
Nellie, anxiously.

1 don't know. Perhaps she has something
of a mixed feeling ; the mother's vanity may be
flattered. The book has made considerable
stir. Tell me," he added, abruptly, desirous of
getting off ground Avhere he felt himself to be
trammelled, ^' who is your favourite poet, Miss
Dawson ?"

Lord Byron. Mrs. Gold win says I ought
to like Shakspere better ; perhaps when
I know more I shall. But I cannot pretend
to care for more than parts of his plays
now."

"I am not surprised. Shakspere's wonderful

humanity seldom appeals to the very young.
One must have thought, and known and
suffered a good deal before the deep truth, the
insight into human nature, the beauty of mau}^
a transient touch can be appreciated. I shall
read some of Shakspere to my cousin and you,
when the other guests are gone, and try to
make you see he was a far wiser and greater
man than Byron."

"Dere's a 'quarrel running up dat tree," cried
Tricksy, running. "Press, Mit Dawson, let
gentleman go after de 'quarrel for me," and
she pulled lustily at Hubert's coat once
more.

It is time for us to be going home," said
the young governess, rising, with a scarcely
perceptible flush at the child's suggestion that
she was detaining St. John. "Come, Flossy,
come in to tea. Come, Tricksy."

She took the younger child's hand. He rose,
but did not accompany them back to the house.
There was his essay to be written ; and now
he was alone. The last fold of the dark bine
dress had disappeared among the now dark

grey beech-stems, the last bubble of the
children's joyous voices had burst and died
upon the air ; he had the woodland path in the
gathering twilight to himself. And there was
his essay to be written.

He had some difficulty in concentrating his
thoughts.

CHAPTER XIX.

1 Miss ELIZA Browne had a very attentive
-'-"-^ listener that night, and the scherzo met
Tvith a reticent, measured approbation carrying
with it a conviction of its sincerity which might
not have accompanied more vehement applause.
When it was done, St. John rose, and came to
the piano, and stood there, discussing the new
school of music in Germany with the intelligent
conservative exponent of Mendelssohn,
who shuddered at the names of Wagner,
Brahms, and Raff. Mrs. Goldwin wished he
would sit down ; but he did not ; he asked Miss
Eliza to play a certain andante of Beethoven's,
and then he wandered away ; strolled up to the
fire-place, examined a picture on the wall, said
VOL. I. S

a few words to the elder Miss Browne (who was
engaged upon some high art embroidery, on a
sad-coloured ground, representing a nameless
fruit, like gigantic scarlet wafers transfixed on
thorns), and finally drew a light cane chair
near to the table at which Nellie was seated,
working.

Mrs. Goldwin was a little vexed. This was
not at all what she wished. It was giving her
nice little governess an importance which was
undesirable in every way. She was sincerely
fond of her — too fond to desire that the child
should be spoiled, or that she should rouse any
feelings but sympathy and benevolence in the
breasts of the Miss Brawnes. It was hardly
possible that this marked preference should not
be resented. He sat there the whole evening,
and no manoeuvre of his cousin's succeeded in
making him abandon his entrenchment behind
the table, and so near Nellie that what he said
could be overheard by none.

The bliss Brawnes were left to two uninteresting
and ineligible sportsmen, who knew
nothing of Mendelssohn or high art embroidery,

while Mrs. Gold win had to talk to the curate.
It was altogether wrong ; his place was beside
Miss Dawson, with a view to whose especial
edification this excellent young man had been
invited to spend a few days at Danecourt ; and
here was Mrs. Goldwin, having to pump up
conversation about the neighbourhood to him,
while she tried to catch with one ear the murmured
talk that was going on at the table ! It
would have tried any temper less sweet than
hers ; but she was not going to allow matters
to continue thus.

Hubert," she said that night, as he handed
her her bed-room candle (the ladies were gone
upstairs, the men to the smoking-room), " you
must oblige me by going with us on our expedition
tomorrow — I can't spare you."

*' But you are to be out the whole day — and
I have work I must get through. I did so little
to-day."

"Because you chose to play with the children,
and talk to Miss Dawson in the wood.
No, the Brawnes are only here for a few days,
and they are much too good to be wasted on

s2

those two stupid men. You really must
come."

How long do the Brawnes stay ?"

Why do you ask ?"

*' Because I will make this sacrifice for you
once, Mary ; but remember when I came down
here, you promised I should do exactly as I
liked."

"So you shall, after tomorrow. But I am
sure you will like it. The Brawnes are so delightful,
if you would only cultivate them."

*' They are so cultivated already," said her
cousin, laughing.

'' Nonsense !" cried Mary Goldwin, impatiently.
*^ You are determined to shut your eyes to
everything except Miss Dawson's pretty eyes.
I am ashamed of you, Hubert. I had expected
better things of you. I will not have 3'ou turning
my little governess's head. I have much
too great a regard for her. Good night."

But neither did the expedition the following
day, nor any subsequent effort which Mrs.
Goldwin made during the Miss Brawnes' stay at
Danecourt, succeed in producing premonitory

symptoms of admiration for either sister from
Hubert St. John. He conversed pleasantly
with both; they were really well-read, agreeable
women, and justified, in a great measure,
Mrs. Goldwin's enthusiasm ; but neither sister
touched, or even interested him in the faintest
degree ; and it needed no very keen sight to
detect this.

At the end of a week his cousin threw up the
game. She did not attempt to detain the
Brawnes when the limit of their visit drew near ;
she even felt a certain relief, though it was accompanied
with a sense* of failure, when the
sisters drove away from the door ; of relief, that
is, from a continued strain and effort to accomplish
the unattainable. " You may take a horse
to the water, but you can't make him drink,"
she murmured to herself, with half a smile and
half a sigh. Now she and Hubert would be
alone together — without interruption, without
any disturbing element ; and she would get to
understand his condition of mind better than
she felt she did at present.

He spent the greater part of his days ostensibly

ill writing and in walking. He hated
driving, and therefore never accompanied his
cousin, and when she came home she always
lay down for a couple of hours. Thus it came ,
to pass that St. John, as it seemed, in the
natural course of things, was a great deal " with
the children " — that was the euphemism by
which it pleased him to designate his daily
study of Nellie Dawson's character. It was not
complicated. Barring that one secret in her
young life, the current of her thoughts and
feelings flowed clear, and was reflected in her'
sweet, truthful eyes. There was none of that
reserve and careful balance of words which —
occasionally bred in early youth by untoward
circumstances — are the species of wisdom that
geniality most cordially resents. He read her
or thought that he read her — like a book, and
it was a study that never seemed, to tire him.
After the type of woman he had seen chiefly in
India, how fresh and lovely did this young
creature's nature seem to him ! What could
the world — all the Miss Brawnes, with their
highly-surfaced minds, all the " eligible connections"

Mrs. Goldwin could recommend him —
what could the world offer him that was worth
this?

One evening that Hubert had been reading
aloud some passages in various plays of Shakspeare
to the ladies, while the children played
in a distant corner of the room, when they and
Nellie had retired, Mary Goldwin said abruptly
to her cousin —

Do you know, I am afraid there is a certain
similarity between the case of my little governess
and Helena in * All's Well that Ends Well.' "

What do you mean ?" he said, quickly,
looking up.

That her affections are set hopelessly in a
very different station from her own."

He flushed to the very roots of his hair. She
saw it, and continued, ruthlessly —

'•' Of course you know to what I allude ? To
your friend, who has stood in much the same
position towards her that Bertram did to
Helena."

He started and grew suddenly pale ; it was
nearly a minute before he said,

What reason have you for thinking this,
Mary?"

*' My own observation — especially when she
first came here. Even now, whenever his name
is mentioned, I see the change that comes over
her face."

Her gratitude to the Athelstone family is
enough to account for that. I should be very,
very sorry if you Avere right. Good God ! To
think of the girl sacrificing her life to such a
chimera !"

*' As to that, Hubert, time and absence will
cure her, I make no doubt. But have you not
told me yourself how attractive Lord Athelstone
is ? What is more likely than that her affections
should be set on the 'bright particular
star' that first shone down on her?"

I can't believe it. Athelstone writes mischievous
stuff — propounds all sorts of theories I
bate ; but he is not the man to try to entangle
a girl's affections for the mere gratification of
vanity."

I did not say he had tried."

*' You believe, then, that this modest, retiring

little girl would become enamoured of a man
who did not care — or, at least, pretend that he
cared — for her ? It's monstrous."

What did Helena do '? Did not Shakspere
understand human nature ?"

I have always thought her the least attractive
of all the women he meant to be so. She
was an artful, persevering minx. He has given
her some beautiful things to say, but her conduct
removes all sympathy from her, in my
opinion."

Well, she was a thousand times too good
for that miserable Bertram. She must have
repented of her persistence in after-life, poor
thing! But this is wandering away from the
point, Hubert. You know as well as I do it is
possible for the most charming, modest girl to
set her affections on some man v/ho cares
nothing about her. One sees it every day.
My theory is that this simple child has been
dazed by your brilliant By ionic friend. She
will recover, but it will take time — probably
years, and then she will marry, I hope,
some nice schoolmaster or country curate."

Prosperity has had its usual effect on you,
1 see, Mary. You are become very worldly''
observed her cousin, with a sarcastic smile.

»' Why so r

You adjust the social balance with such
nicety. There must be a rise — but not too
great a rise, for your governess. You like her
very much indeed — but a schoolmaster or a
poor curate is as much as you can afford."

"And if I do 'adjust the social balance with
nicety as you call it, — what then? Do you
think it is because I attach an undue importance
to position ? No. I am ever so much older
than you, Hubert, in knowledge of the world,
and I know that marriages in different stations
of life rarely answer — either when a woman of
rank and fortune marries much beneath her, or
once versa. Such marriages are certainly not
to be desired as offering the best chance of
happiness."

That depends on the character of the contracting
parties," returned Hubert, smiling again.
Speaking as a man who doesn't care a rush
for worldly distinctions, I say that, if a girl is,

in feeling, in education, and in manner a lady,
she is what many a woman of high social standing
is not, and any man may be proud to win
her."

*' That is all very fine theoretically ; but the
more sensitive and w?ivulgar she is, the more
she will feel she is in a false position — admitted
into many houses upon sufferance, as it were,
and possibly conscious that she is an obstacle
to her husband's advancement."

There is your worldly way of looking at
things again ! A man who is worth his salt
will never go to a house where his wife is admitted
' on sufferance,' and his merits must be
colourless indeed if his wife's parentage is to
counterbalance them. In the present day, if a
fellow was a shoeblack, and his wife the flycatcher's
daughter, provided he has ability, he
must rise — nothing can keep him back."

"You are thinking of the Duke of Lucca's
groom, who rose to be his prime-minister," said
Mary Goldwin, laughing ; " but I beg to remark
that is beside the argument. I don't
object to the shoeblack or the groom ; it is the

flycatcher's daughter I make a stand against.
The lives of many learned and remarkable men
prove the truth of my contention : their marriages
were as millstones round their necks ;
and their wives, if they had any feeling, must
have suffered cruelly from the consciousness
that such was the case." Then, abandoning
generalities, this bold woman, with an unpremeditated
rush, clave her hearer to the heart
with the scimitar of personal application. " If
you are going to make a fool of yourself, my
dear Hubert, for goodness' sake leave Dauecourt
at once."

He winced, and was silent for a moment.
Then he raised those clear, piercing eyes of his
from the book on which they rested, and said,
simply,

'* Why did you ask me here, Mary ?"
Candidly, my dear, besides my wish to see
you, I hoped you might fall in love with one of
the Miss Brawnes ; but you turned away from
both those charming women, either of whom
would have made you an unexceptionable
wife."

''Either'^ My dear Mary, I still hold the
views you once held, before you — when you
were twenty, that those who have any individuality
cannot be mated indifferently, either
with this one or that one. If a man is free, and
can fortunately marry the woman — the one
woman — who, he feels, is calculated to bless and
to complete his life, no consideration should
stand in his way."

''Welir

"My mind is made up about Miss Dawson.
I have never seen a girl to compare with her,
in my eyes. You know that old story about
me, perhaps, in India? Don't throw that in
my teeth. I was two and twenty — 1 was a
fool ; but I never was deceived about her.
Having asked me here, Mary, you must abide
by the consequences. If this girl will have me,
I shall marry her."

If she accepts, I shall be sorry — very sorry
for you both. My own belief is that she will
not accept, and I would have spared you the
pain of this by what I began by telling you.

But, if you are bent on doing a foolish thing,
let it be done at once."

May Goldwin, though she was something of
a tyrant, had a loving, benevolent nature. She
wished everyone to be happy, if possible, as she
directed ; if not, why then after his own unwise
fashion. As she took her solitary drive that
afternoon, she argued thus with herself:

*' Few young men are situated like Hubert —
his own master as to fortune, and absolutely
without ties or responsibilities of any kind. His
committing a folly can hurt or distress no
one. i\.gain, his nature is peculiar — averse
from general society — averse from the ordinary
fields of ambition. He wants a companion
who can enter into his life-work —
his philanthropic schemes — without pining for
the pleasures of the world — a wife he can, in
some measure, mould ; and such this little girl
would certainly be. It is a pity — and I know
I am right, on principle, to oppose it — but, if he
could bring her in time to care for him, he
might, perhaps, with a view to his own happiness,

do worse. Yes ; I must confess to myself,
though I would not to Mm, that he might do
worse.

Meantime two were seated under the wide-armed
cedar beside the stream that divided the
garden from the beech-wood. There was sunlight
and tremulous blue shadow among the
leaves and mosses on the opposite bank, but
here where they sat was impenetrable gloom,
under the pall of the immoveable black foliage
which no ray could pierce. The children had a
little friend to visit them, and were absorbed in
daisy-chains upon the lawn ; Nellie had her
needle-work, at which she stitched rapidly.
She had learned not to feel the least afraid of
the big, kind clever man beside her. She even
ventured, in her miserable ignorance, to ask
him all manner of questions. For it would
seem that he knew almost everything, and that
to instruct her was a pleasure instead of a bore.
It was wonderful what confidence, what repose
she felt in the company of this acquaintance of
little more than a fortnight's standing. With

Athelstone, on the contrary, she had never been
without a certain sense of fear, begotten of her
blend admiration and craving for his approval.
With this far graver and more imposing man,
she experienced no solicitude as to her talk.
It never occurred to her to consider what he
thought of her. It was pure benevolence that
made him join her in her daily walk with the
children, and converse with her of an evening,
instead of with the Miss Brawnes or any other
ladies that might be present. She. was not
concerned to show her ignorance before him, so
she spoke freely.

He had been telling her of his London
project, and how sanguine he was of its
success.

"The thing that is most wanted among the
poor of London is the sacrifice of time and
brains. People are ready enough to help with
their money ; but few, comparatively, are able
or willing to devote any portion of their lives,
like the late George Venison, to humanizing
some of their fellow-citizens. I am happily
so situated that I can ; and I mean to do so."

How I should like to do it, too, if I was
able !" said Nellie, simply.

He was leaning his head upon his hand,
his elbow resting on his crossed knee, so that
he could look under the garden-hat which
shaded the girl's face, as she bent over her
work.

Will you help ^e f ' he asked, in a low
voice. 'not now — not at once — I do not ask
for an answer yet — you know me too little,
perhaps, though I feel I know you so well — by-and-by
"

He paused for a moment, and the girl, who
had raised her eyes in wonder, somewhat disconcerted
him by exclaiming ,

'how could I help you, Mr. St. John? I am
sure I would, if I could."

Could you ever like me well enough, do
you think, to become my wife ? Do not look
so frightened, dear. I have given you my
heart — it is yours — but I do not ask you to
make me any promise now; I shall never
change. You are very young — you have
seen nothing of the world. Wait. Only

VOL. I. T

think of me as your best, unalterable friend."

Oh ! Mr. St. John — this is some mistake.
Oh ! sir, if Mrs. Goldwin knew "

*'Be quite at ease; she does know. She
even urged my speaking to you. She "

Oh, pray — pray do not go on. You distress
me. I don't know what to say. I so little
thought "

I have taken you by surprise. Say nothing
or only say this : that there is no obstacle in
the way of our union — no one to whom your
affections are engaged."

No, no' cried the girl, in an agony of terror.
*' There is no one ; how could there be ?" It
seemed as if her secret were about to be dragged
from her. Her cheek crimsoned and paled ;
then she burst into tears, indignant tears. It
was cruel, it was shameful, to make her tell a
lie. Her heart was hardened against the kind,
brave fellow who sat there, and who would have
given up his life for her.

Don't cry, dear — don't cry, my child. That
is quite enough. I am satisfied, and will say
no more now. I have to go to London tomorrow,

and I do not think my cousin would
care that I should return here. But she talks
of wintering in Rome ; and if so, I shall certainly
take a month's holiday and follow her.
If you can give me any hope then, I shall bethe
happiest man alive. But remember, whatever
happens, I am your friend — you cannot
deny me that — and a true friend is worth something
in life. Dear, God bless you !''

He took her hand, held it a moment in his,
and left her.

But those daisy-chain makers were not wholly
unmindful of what passed.

Mamma," said Tricksy that evening, '' why
did Cousin Hubert make Mit Dawson cwy
under de tear dit afternoon ?"

Mamma said nothing to Cousin Hubert, but
discreetly held her peace. When he bade her
good night , however, the young man said,

I am going tomorrow, Mary. I have business
in London, and, after what you said to-day,
I feel I should only be a disturbing influence
here. I have spoken, and it was not as you
thought. But I have no answer. It is only

t2

fair she should know something of life, and see
more of me before deciding. Like Ravenswood,
I bide my time.' "

CHAPTER XX.

/^NE crisp, sparkling morning in the following
^ December a tall lady, singularly clad,
stood on the sunny terrace on the Pincio in
Rome. Beside her was a large, comfortably-furred
white poodle, her only companion. She
was sketching in a small book, as she leant
there on the balustrade ; but it was not St.
Peter's, nor any of the glittering domes of the
fair city, with its background of the Monte
Mario, that tempted her to draw. At the back
of the Via Babuino, upon which she looked, was
a wooden balcony to which the last yellow
leaves of a vine were clinging. Upon this balcony
were hung ftmdr}^ clothes to dry. Two
great earthen jars and a string of onions were

also accessories to the picture, the only figures
in which were a mother and her child. The
woman wore a white panjio on her head, and
the sunlight touched a spot of scarlet in her
skirt. But, as is generally the case, they moved
before the artist had completed drawing her
unconscious sitters ; and, as she closed her book
and turned her steps homewards to the
Europa," she became aware that her steps
were followed, though at a respectful distance,
by a young man, who happened to have been
the only other person on the terrace at that
early hour.

The lady's appearance was so striking that
indeed it was no wonder she should attract
attention. She had a peculiar nobility of aspect,
which was more remarkable than her beauty,
and, though eccentrically attired, it was impossible
to associate the idea of vanity or coquetry
with such simple dignity. She wore a dark
red robe — it would be sacrilege to call it a gown
or frock — trimmed with fur, and made as nearly
as possible like that we safe accustomed to
associate with Faust's Marguerite. A velvet

and gold bag was slung at her side, and on her
head was a small cap of fur. Beneath it her
hair, which was of a reddish brown and very
thick, hung in loose coils in a net far down her
back. Her f;ice was pale, and her features not
absolutely regular ; but the light grey eyes were
singularly lustrous, and the mouth, though perhaps
too large for perfect beauty, had the charm
of combined sweetness and decision which was
felt by even casual passers-by.

The passer-by on this occasion — and he could
not be called casual, for he had passed several
times while she was sketching without her
looking up — was Wilfred Athelstone. He and
his mother had arrived in Rome a few days
previously, and taken up their abode at the
"Tempietto," that charming house at the
corner of the Via Gregorian, overlooking the
Trinity del Monte steps.

He ran into the drawing-room where Lady
Athelstone sat, a quarter of an hour later, and
flung down his broad-leaved hat on the table,
and himself into a chair.

** I have just seen the most divine creature,

mother! — a goddess walking this earth in a
mediaeval costume. Burne Jones never conceived
anything more lovely — and then her
dress — so entirely delightful. She is like a
Botticelli, or Lippe Lippi — stepped out of a
frame !"

"Indeed, my dear! How very curious!
Botticelli was a Florentine, was he not, born, if
I remember right, in 1437 ? How very odd
that a young woman in the present day should
go about dressed like that !"

"Not at all odd. It shows she has a soul
that is above subscribing to those horrid French
fashions — those degrading swathing-bands,
that reduce every woman to a tailor's block.
The idea of any M. Worth dictating to the
women throughout the universe how they are
to clothe ! Wait till you see this girl. I have
discovered who she is — and, curiously enough,
I remember now having heard all about her
from Lady Frances Cope."

Really ! Then she is in society? I thought
she must be some painter's model, from your
account, my dear ; but Lady Bannockburn, I

know, is very particular as to whom she lets
Frances associate with."

*' Lets her associate with ? Why, that dumpy
little thing is not fit to tie the shoestrings of
this goddess !" laughed Wilfred.

The qualities we look for in an associate,"
remonstrated Lady Athelstone, with a weak
attempt to improve the occasion, " do not depend
— eh, my dear? — upon — upon looks. You
can know nothing about this person's mind and
character. What is her name ?"

Her name is Brabazon ; and my instinct,
my perception, would tell me a great deal about
her mind and character, if I had not already
heard so much of both from her friend. She
used to say she was unlike any other woman
in the world, and so she is — I feel sure
she is."

Brabazon," repeated Lady Athelstone, meditatively.
"There used to be some Brabazons
I knew in Park Lane."

You are not likely ever to have known
these. The father married an Italian, and they
have lived chiefly abroad. The father died

here a few years ago. Miss Brabazon has never
gone out in London, and her acquaintance there
is chiefly in the literary and artistic world.
They are here at the *europa' (I followed
her in there, and asked the porter). I wonder
who knows her? I must get introduced at
once."

*' I am going to the Embassy to-day. I will
ask about them there," said his mother, with
something approaching to a sigh.

This dear, brilliant, gifted son of hers was
sadly difficult to manage — always breaking out
into some extravagance. Heaven only knew
Avhat these people were like ! She prayed
they might be unobjectionable; but she felt
some doubt on the subject, in spite of Lady
Frances's supposed intimacy — for that might be
only dear Wilfred's assumption : he always
jumped so rapidly at conclusions.

The inquiries at the Embassy, however,
proved perfectly satisfactory. Mrs. Brabazon's
birth, it is true, was supposed to be obscure ;
but she had always been of irreproachable conduct,
and that in spite of considerable temptation

; for she had been remarkable for her
beauty, and her husband had always led the
life of an invalid. His income had been scarcely
more than moderate, but it was found, at his
death, that he had lived within his means,
and his only child was heiress to a considerable
fortune. Since she was fifteen — and she was
now six and twenty — she had never had a home.
They lived at hotels, six months in one place,
or as much as nine months in another : health
and education being the two motive powers
that had regulated their course during many
years. Since Mr. Brabazon's death they had
been even less in England than before, passing
each winter in a different capital. The untried
had attractions for both mother and daughter :
they liked travelling, despised what is ordinarily
understood as comfort, and were indifferent to
general society.

You will find a lot of their intimates — and a
very queer lot they are — if you ever drop in thereof
an evening," said Beauport, a merry young
attache, to Athelstone at the English club that
day — " painters and poets, with shaggy beards

and suspicious linen, strong-minded American
females, and a few persevering Italian fortune-hunters,
who, undeterred by the very tall talk
that goes on, and by Miss Brabazon's treatment
of themselves — for she can be contemptuous
at times, let me tell you — worship at her
shrine constantly. I go in sometimes for the
fun of the thing; but I can't stand it very
long, or very often. My intellect is not very
strong, and the strain is too great. I should
have blood to the head."

"Can't you take me to-night? I want to
know her at once."

'' No, I can't," replied the attache, decidedly.
I tried that on once, but I found they objected
to having people brought to them. If we meet
them, I'll ask to introduce you ; but I warn you
they are peculiar. They don't care about position,
and that sort of thing, a bit. Miss Brabazon
will like to know you because you are a poet —
that's all."

Nothing could have quickened Wilfred's
desire to make the acquaintance of this original
young lady more than this speech ; and the

following Sunday afternoon at our charming
ambassadress's little reception the introduction
was effected.

Lady Athelstone looked in astonishment at
-the apparition of a tall young woman in faded
green, with puffed sleeves tied up with faded
blue ; but the face was wonderfully sweet, and
Lady Athelstone could not but greet it with
forbearance. In the mother there was nothing
to be connived at ; she was still a very handsome
woman, with that grave grace which
belongs to Italians, and her attire was only
conspicuous from her chancing to be the only
woman in black.

Wilfred at once monopolized Miss Brabazon,
and Lady Frances Cope was naturally the
ground he first broke.

I have heard so much of you from her — I
feel as if I knew you."

"I have also heard of you," replied the
young lady, looking directly into his eyes. He-did
not wince, and she went on, " Do you know
that she and her mother are coming here very
soon ?"

No, I didn't," he replied, carelessly. " I am
very glad. She is capital company — only I
wish she could come without her mother, who
in meddlesome, and a bore."

I never found Lady Bannock burn meddlesome
; and Lady Frances is something better
than * good company.' She is a loyal, noble
girl ; and I have the greatest respect, as well as
affection, for her."

'' You ought to have," returned Wilfred,
nothing daunted, " for I never heard one
woman praise another as she did you."

"Perhaps you have been unfortunate in
your experience of our sex," said the young
lady, gravely.

He understood it all. She had heard of
Madame Uberti from Lady Frances or her
mother. " Confound those gossips !" was his
secret objurgation.

I have known some very good women," said
he, biting his lip.

Have you? I should not have thought so
from your poems."

YoTi have read them, then f He looked
pleased.

I have."

He looked less pleased.

"From the tone in which yon say that, I
fear you liked nothing in the book? Of
course, I am aware it is not one for a conventionally
brought-up young lady ; but I fancied
you were not that."

'• No, I am not that, or I should hardly
acknowledge I have read it."

'^ Why did you do so f '

She paused a moment.

Because I had some curiosity, having heard
of you from my friend."

-' And you hated the book altogether?"

"I thought it showed misapplied talent — a
capacity for doing better things."

"These poems are meant to illustrate the
various phases of a young man's inner life.
Nothing must be hid. His soul's vicissitudes —
the outpourings of his rapturous though transient
passions — his discouragements as to this present

world — his doubts as to the next. You must
take it as a whole, not condemn isolated
passages."

Miss Brabazon looked up at a small Byzantine
trjptich on a gold ground, which hung on the
wall opposite. To the uninitiated it was crude
and harsh : to her it seemed full of solemn
majesty and fervour.

If I tell you what I really think, you will
not mind?" she said, slowly.

I shall not mind."

"I do not hear in your verse the throbbing
pulse of real passion, any more than I hear
the cry of a soul's real anguish. It seems tome
like a clever imitation of both, and leaves
me unmoved. As to the doubts expressed, it is
the fashion for every young man to have them,
and talk about them, now. But when I look
at such a picture as that, which has soothed
many a troubled spirit for centuries past, and
think of the simple lives that produced work
like that, I feel how miserable and insignificant
is all the labour and learning of the present
day, the outcome of which is a lamentable cry

that can only grieve and startle those whose
souls are at peace, and bring no comfort to
those who are afflicted."

A little colour had come into her pale cheeks
with the excitement of saying unreservedly
what she felt to a stranger about his writings.
It was boldness which extorted Wilfred's admiration,
in spite of his annoyance. There was
neither assumption nor vehemence in her manner,
and the lovely look in her eyes, as she
bent them upon him, was that of a reproving
angel. He could not be angry.

"Sylvia," said Mrs. Brabazon, approaching,
it is time we are to be going. It make dark
so soon. Lord Athelstone, I am at 'one nearly
always in prima sera. I shall be 'happy to see
you, when you like to call."

And thus ended Athelstone's first interview
with Sylvia Brabazon.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XXI.

rpHE woman upon whom Wilfred Athelstone's
-*- thoughts were now riveted presented a
combination which to some minds was inexplicable.
She had an artistic love of what was
picturesque, and that which appeared delightful
to her in colour or in form, she saw no good
reason why she should not wear. That this
love of strange attire should co-exist with an
indifference to general admiration, and an absence
of all coquetry, seemed impossible to
many. But, after all, given the grand, simple
outline of such a character, it was not difficult
to explain how the filling up had come to have
this apparent inconsistency. Her father had
much affected the society of artists, and from

childhood she bad lived a great deal with them,
and with many of the free lances of literature,
whose company Mr. Brabazon had found diverting
in the various towns where they resided.
Her eye bad been early trained to judge many
things by the standard of persons who were
ignorant of, or revolted from, the canons of the
comme il faut

Her fine intelligence and elevated instincts
where, indeed, vastly superior to those from
whom she imbibed many of her opinions, and
it was curious to note how a mind, unspotted
by affectation, accepted the formula of men
who were blatant impostors. She lived very
much in a world of her own — a world the inhabitants
of which but little resembled those
she saw around her. She had, as yet, never
loved : she had had no delusions : she Alas
happy.

Mrs. Brabazon had never sought to exercise
any influence over her daughter. She was
intellectually Sylvia's inferior, in every respect,
but a strong affection subsisted between them.
Mrs. Brabazon had seen things for twenty years

u2

through her husband's eyes, and for the last six
through her daughter's. She was simple, and
profoundly indolent ; unworldly, amiable, with
occasional outbursts of passion ; a devourer of
French novels, rarely going out if she could
avoid it, but living for her prima sera, and the
gossip it brought with it. In her the Italians
were sure of a ready listener, and round her
they were generally grouped, while Sylvia was
discussing literature or art with persons of
whom Mrs. Brabazon knew little besides their
names. They were her daughter's friends, and
belonged to the category of things that were
to be accepted, but not understood. It had
been so in her husband's time, and she had become
used to the presence of those strange,
mildewed professors, or others like them, and
to hear a jargon talked of which she barely
understood the rudiments.

At the imperative desire of her son. Lady
Athelstone called next day at the " Europa,"
and left her card. She hoped she was not acting
unwisely ; these people were received at the
Embassy, and Lady Bannockburn knew them.

The daughter, too, had a sweet face ; but it was
not good taste to render herself so conspicuous
: her dress made one shudder. Still she
was respectable, and after that Berth episode,
and dear Wilfred's avoidance of all society in
London or in the country during the last eight
months, it was something to see him willing to
visit people who were above reproach. On the
other hand, Lady Dorchester had said at the
Embassy that " no one had ever heard of these
Brabazons," and that if there was a thing she
abhorred, it was " a woman who goes in for
being artistic." Lady Dorchester was known
to have an exceedingly bitter tongue, and she
had a young daughter to whom Wilfred had
not vouchsafed a syllable. Therefore Lady
Athelstone was a little afraid. She hoped Lady
Dorchester would not think that she was going
out of her way to encourage an intimacy between
Wilfred and these people.

That evening Athelstone made his first bow
in Mrs. Brabazon's drawing-room. He was
received with cordial graciousness by that lady,
ivhom he found seated before a tea-table. He

was surprised at the transformation which taste
had effected in an ordinary hotel apartment.
Hangings of old Italian embroidery, fine in
design and general " tone," though much faded
concealed the hideous doors, and covered one
long stretch of putty-coloured wall opposite
the fireplace. On the sides of the room hung a
number of oil-sketches and small pictures of Miss
Brabazon's painting. An easel stood near the
window. There was an odd mixture of books
upon the tables : English essays ; German
poetry ; Italian MSS. on vellum ; the last enunciations
of Zola and Daudet. A mandolin lay
upon the piano; the white poodle upon a
Turkish rug. The air was heavy with the scent
of flowers in majolica jars.

Mrs. Brabazon and a dark little woman who
sat on the same sofa were supported on either
side by a young Italian, olive in complexion
and oily in manner. The Marchese Tivoli and
Count Scappa were good-natured and impecunious.
The one was big, and the other little*
They did nothing, thought nothing, aspired to
nothing that a shepherd from the Abruzzi, with

a six months' veneer of civilization, might not
have done. Politics were a dead letter to
them ; so was Literature ; so was Art. Neither
had ever been inside the Gallery of the Vatican,
nor had visited the Palace of the Caesar. The
Pincio, the Opera, the legs of a thorough-bred
or of a ballet-girl, the fortune of the last American
heiress (as per invoice), the chances of
so-and-so succeeding so-and-so in such a
married lady's good graces — these were their
only subjects of conversation. They talked
and laughed freely with Mrs. Brabazon ; they
were at their ease with her. At her daughter —
quel bel' mezzo di donna " — they looked much
as flies may be supposed to gaze at a lump of
sugar in an impenetrable glass case. So desirable,
from every point of view, and so unattainable
; nay, so absolutely unapproachable !

The object of these sighs stood leaning
against the mantelpiece conversing with a
gentleman and lady as Wilfred entered. She
wore a high dress of some dark brown material,
in which, here and there, appeared a thread of
gold. She held a fan of peacocks' feathers in

Ler hand, and in the cloud of hair drifted over
her brow were stuck three marigolds. As she
leant there over the fire, she seemed to Wilfred's
imagination to be some wonderful enchantress
of old come to life.

The lady who sat near her on the sofa,
however, belonged to the nineteenth century,
without the possibility of misapprehension.
Athelstone was introduced to her as Miss
Decker, and with the first words she spoke he
saw she was American. She was a vivacious,
clever, determined little woman of ,
the correspondent for two newspapers,
one in New York and one in Philadelphia, who
pushed her way everywhere, interviewed everybody,
gave her decided views upon every subject
(and some were very strange ones for an
unmarried lady to attack), and had not a scruple
in reporting all the private conversations she
succeeded in obtaining with persons of note.
Her dress was of the smartest prose, from the
Boulevards ; strongly accentuated, but sinning
against no laws of fashionable grammar, as
contrasted with the wild, indefensible poetry of
Sylvia's attire.

The gentleman who balanced the equilibrium
of power at this end of the room, until Athelstan
upset it, was tall and thin, and all his
movements were willowy. He was apparently
about forty, was guiltless of any hair upon his
face and very little on his head ; had a high,
narrow, and receding forehead, and pale eyes,
which at times flashed malevolently behind his
short-sighted spectacles. It was a pity he
was not better-looking; one felt he would
have been so much happier. One fancied him
sighing, as he gazed at his own image, " Alas !
I cannot be beautiful, but at least I can be graceful.
I owe it to my reputation." He had an uncomfortable
way of knotting and writhing his
members, down to the very roots of his body,
when conversing, which would have impressed
one as the result of a distressing humility, had
it not been for the curious affectation ot
his delivery and the arrogance of his upper lip.
Mr. Spooner was an apostle of culture ; he had
written a great deal, and lectured a great deal,
and was considered an authority on art in every
form, but especially Christian art. Persons who

did not like involved and nebulous English,
anathematized his works ; but he could afford to
smile at these : he had a large public of the
young men and women who sip with delight at
criticism that is presented to them with a froth
of fie language.

Wilfred had meant to monopolize Miss
Brabazon ; during the early part of the evening
he found this was impossible. After introducing
him to Miss Decker, she had at once
renewed a discussion with the professor, which
Wilfred's entrance had interrupted. And the
little American fastened upon her new prey
with a tenacity there was no shaking off.
It must be confessed she amused Wilfred.

You're a great poet, I hear. I haven't read
your works ; but I shall do so, and write them
up in America."

"My works won't take you long — they're
contained in one small volume."

Oh ! — They're rather voluptuous, I hear."

He looked her full in the face, and said,
'every."

She laughed. Then she tried another tack.

''So you have just come right away from
England, have you. Lord Athelstone ? Well, I
hope we are going to have a good time in
Rome presently. We have been hurry dull till
now."

I don't care how dull it is. I didn't come
for society. I hate it."

Do you, now ? That's because you area
poet, I suppose. But pray, don't you call
this society ?" she added, with twinkling eyes.

This is sociability. There is a difference.
Can you tell me who the lady is sitting by Mrs,
Brabazon ?"

She is a marchesa. Oh, my ! I forget her
name. Let me see. I have it written down,'^
and she took a note-book from her pocket.
*' Pulci— that's it."

"Is she married?"

Why, yes — more than most women. I have
heard she has quite a number of husbands, of
one sort or another. But I believe she has
given up love for politics of late."

'rit is about time. She must be near

fifty."

"That's so; but she is hurry clever. All
the meu like talking to her. She knows
everything that goes on. Some people say
she is a spy."

She can't worm much out of those two
young, stupid-looking Italians, I should think ?"

"A woman can sometimes get more out of
a fool than out of a genius, Lord Athelstone,"
and her eyes twinkled merrily again. " Besides,
she belongs to the Quirinal party, and, I guess,
has few opportunities of meeting any of the
Neri ' except here, or in some other foreign
salon.' Those two men belong to the Guardia
Nobile, and will tell her all the gossip of the
Vatican. They're a couple of geese; but I
often pluck them myself, and serve up their
scandal in my letters."

Wilfred laughed.

"Now tell me who is the man just come in,
who looks as if all colour and starch had been
washed out of him '? So languid a specimen of
humanity I have not seen for some time, is he
English r

"■ No; he ought to be, but he's Amurricau; nota

type of our go-ahead race, however. I guess
that young man was born tired ; and then he
was raised in England, which just finished him.
I am told half the young fellows in England
are like that — a kind o' cross between Lord
Dundreary and John the Evangelist. This is
quite a model young man, and nourishes a
hopeless passion for Miss Brabazon."

Why does she have him here ?"

"Why? I've just told you! Isn't that
enough to melt any woman to pity ? Here is
another of her worshippers coming in — Mr.
Briggs, the artist."

Is that Briggs ? — that burly, red-haired
man? Well, he is not a beauty ; but I admire
his pictures. They are so bold and unconventional."


That they certainly are — and the man is
like them. Nothing limp and washed-out about
him, Hurry sensual."

'strong and coarse— yes. But I like the
face, for all that."

"Sympathy?" suggested Miss Decker, maliciously.
" No doubt he admires your poetry

I went to his studio two weeks ago to see a
portrait of Miss Brabazon he is painting,
and "

'' Is it like ? Has he done her justice ?"

Well, it does look like her ; but he has given
her too much colour ; and then she is located ina
sort of a bower of red azaleas — wonderfully
painted, no doubt, but harassing to the eye.
Still when I gazed round upon all the fair-haired
goddesses, with their dvnipevy-rnowhere, — it was
a relief to return to the picture of a woman
clothed, and in her right mind."

He is Venetian in his luxury of form and
colour. What is akin to that in Miss Brabazon's
beauty he would seize. I should not expect
him to reproduce the Umbrian delicacy, the refinement,
and dignity — that must be beyond
him. My heavens! what a laugh! Does he
always roar like that?"

"Always, when he has Professor Spooner for
his butt."

Wilfred turned and listened. The professor
had taken up his parable again, after one scornful

glance at the great hirsute painter. He fixed
a vague, far-seeing gaze on the tapestried wall
opposite.

Yes," he continued, " until we learn to take
the sandals from off our feet when we enter the
Temple of Art, until we drive the moneychangers
from its courts, and offer up the turtle-doves
of sacrifice and obeisance, we shall never
be purified. We shall continue to eat the flesh
of swine with unwashed hands, and drink to the
lees the debasing draughts of sensuality, by
painting the superficies of flesh and goodly
Raiment delightful only to the grosser parts of
man, and informed and elevated by no spirits of
ethereal beauty."

Briggs's laugh was heard again.

Sorry you don't like pork, Spooner. You're
not a Jew ? No , I thought not. As to spirits,
I * inform ' myself very often with a glass of —
not ether — but absinthe — never enough to ' elevate'
me, however."

Yes, Mr. Briggs," said Miss Brabazon, shaking
her head, with a smile, "you take other

spirits worse than yourself, and — you know
the rest. Is all life a jest to you ? I wonder if
you are ever serious."

Strange to say, he looked for once disconcerted.


You should know," he said, with a sudden
change of manner.

*' Indeed I don't. When you appear to be
so, I always suspect you are laughing in your
sleeve. For instance, at ray sketch for 'La
Belle Jeune Giroflee.'"

"I have no sympathy with the pre-raphaelite
language of painting which you have adopted,"
he said, bluffly. *' That sou know : I never
have concealed it. I don't like angular forms,
and I do like aerial perspective. But between
that and laughing at anything you do, there is
a vast difference. 1 see a great deal honestly
to admire in your work — a remarkable feeling
for colour, a wonderful power of expression.
The drawing of the limbs is not quite — quite
right, sometimes "

*' Could Giotto draw limbs correctly ? or Fra
Angelico ?" burst in Mr. Spooner, with a sarcastic

smile; but without looking anywhere
near Briggs. " That cold perfection belongs to
the Eclectic Schools. It is the spirit we want
the spirit we so rarely find — not the careful
reproduction of our miserable limbs "

"My limbs are not miserable — I deny it,"
shouted Briggs, laughing. "The human body
was the last work in creation, Spooner, — consequently
the best; and I don't see why it is to
be pooh-pooh'd. You fall into ecstasies over
a flower, or piece of jewellery, or pattern on a
robe, minutely copied by one of these old fellows
who, if he had devoted half the time to the
human body, would not have given it to us dislocated.
And your extravagant praise of all these
minutiae does a deal of harm."

The idea of telling Professor Spooner that he
did '' a deal of harm !" It made even Wilfred
the bold wince. Miss Brabazon said, with decision,


I think you are quite wrong, Mr. Briggs.
It is delightful to see the smallest thing in
nature painted as well as the painter knows
how. Anatomy is incalculably more difficult;

YOL. I. X

if he could have painted legs and arras perfectly,
he would have done so. That is no reason he
should not have copied accurately, and with a
loving hand, the beautiful objects of still life
around him."

'every delightfully expressed," said the professor,
gently waving his head up and down,
in the young lady's direction. " Of course
you are right. Of course there is no impassable
voyage of opinion on other seas
for the earnest mariner. Let us be thankful
(the imperious brevity of human life precluding
universal perfection) for any piece of genuine
work — the filigree of a Van Eyk, or the fungi
ofaMabuse. Do they not indicate subjection,
humility, patience? — those fruits of the spirit so
conspicuously absent, in these latter days, from
Art !"

And its critics' laughed the painter. It

was not in the professor's power to inflict a

wound on him, as Wilfred observed ; he was

only vulnerable to Miss Brabazon's words.

Will you show me some of your drawings.

Miss Brabazon?" asked Wilfred, suddenly,
before the professor's acrimony had found a
vent. She walked to the easel, and drew back
a piece of silk that hung over it.

This is what I am finishing. Can you guess
the subject? I suppose you know well all the
old metrical romances V

Wilfred examined the water-colour drawing
before him for two or three minutes before he
replied. It represented an ancient church or
monastery door, close to which grew a venerable
ash-tree. Ig the hollow of the tree, a young
woman upon her knees was depositing an
infant, wrapped in a rich robe. The dawn was
breaking over the roofs and turrets of a convent
; far off the husbandmen were hastening
to their labour in the field ; a priest's figure was
dimly discernible within the church.

It is from one of Marie's Lays' he said at
last. "I remember it all now, though I haven't
read it since I was twelve years old. It is
called 'Laye Fraine,'and tells how the wicked
woman who magnet her friend for having

x2

twins, when she was similarly visited, abandoned
one of her children in an ash-tree."

Yes, only this is not the mother, but a good
little maid who prays — stay, here is the whole
passage. I have copied it out for the benefit of
those who do not know it: —

On her knees she sat her down,
And said, weeping, her orisons,
Lord,' she said, ' Jesu Christ,
That sinful mannes beds* hearst,
Underfoot this present
And help this self innocent,
That it mote y-christened be
For Marie-love, thy mother free!'
She looked up, and by her sigh
An ache, by her, fair and high,
"Well y-boughed, of mickle price ;
The body was hollow, as many one is.
Therein she laid the child, for cold,
In the pelt as it was, by-fold
And blessed it, with all her might.
AVith that, it gan to dare light,
And fowls up, and sung on bough.
And acre-men rede to the plough ;
The maiden turned again anon
And took the way she had ere gone."

Wilfred was no judge of Art. His admiration-prayers

t Receive. J Fur.

and Lis dislike were, critically, worth little ; but
they were, at least, honest. He saw nothing ta
admire in RafFaelle's "Transfiguration," and in
Michael Angelo's " Last Judgment' and he
said so. On the other hand, an indifferent
painting occasionally roused his enthusiasm.
Miss Brabazon's drawing was by no means
faultless ; but it was poetically conceived, and
she had that rare possession which can neither
be bestowed nor taken away — the gift of
*• colour." The silver-grey shadows over the
sleeping convent, the flush of dawn in the
eastern sky, the dim-lit gold embroidery and
fur folded round the babe, in the black hollow
of the ash-tree, could not have been improved
in their rich and tender harmony. The maid's
kneeling figure was not absolutely right, but
there was a quaint beauty in it which seemed —
to Wilfred's imagination, at least — perfectly to
embody the old poet's intention. In a word ,
he wa moved as he seldom was by a design.
Perhaps — who knows? — the absence of the
critical iu this young enthusiast was not wholly
unpleasing to the fair artist, who was more

accustomed to technical praise or strictures
from the cognoscenti than to the fervid recognition
of that imaginative faculty which soars
above perspective and the pectoral muscles.

She talked to him for some time, and the impression
he made was far more favourable than
on their first interview. She was not altogether
satisfied with this change of opinion,
which she regarded almost as an act of disloyalty
to her friend. She had been displeased
with his tone in speaking of Lady Frances and
her mother ; she had thought him a little presuming
— perhaps on his rank, perhaps on his
abilities. Either ways she had deemed it well
to show this self-satisfied young lord that she
was not over-favourably disposed towards him.
She had, through the greater part of this even -
ing, bestowed no attention upon him, until
obliged, in common civility, to show him some
of her drawings.

'' He can certainly be very pleasant;' sloe said
to herself that night, when he was gone. " I
am not surprised at poor Frances's institution.

There is a peculiar charm in his manner, just
because it does not seem to be trying to charm
you. If he ever loves truly, and loves the right
loomaUf she ought to be able to do a great deal
with him."

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BT DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEDtt HOUSE.

LI b Mary

OF Thou

N verity

or Ill Noise

QQ.'b

VOL. 11.

BY

HAMILTON AIDE

AUTHOR OF

"PENRUDDOCKE," "Rite,"

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1880.

All rights reserved.

PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD,

BLENHEIM HOUSE.

POET AND PEER.

CHAPTER I.

A BRIGHT moonlight flooded the Piazza di
-^ Spagna, as Wilfred Athelstone left the
"Europa." Instead of turning up the steps of
the Trinity del Monte he lit his cigar, and sauntered
towards the Fontana di Trevi. He was
not in a mood to go to bed ; his imagination
was astir ; his pulses were quickened ; he was in
the right frame of mind and body to be impressed
by romantic associations ; and, since he
had read *' Corinne," he had always wished to
visit the " Trevi " by moonlight.

What a divine creature that girl is !" he said
VOL. II. B

to himself, as he strolled along, his hands thrust
deep into his pockets, and his head a little bent.
She is the only woman before whom I ever
felt awkward, as one might before a goddess
who looked through and through one. She
doesn't know what to make of me. She likes
me better than she did at first ; and she shall
like me more — I am resolved on it. Why? . . .
Goddesses were not made to be married — nor
Comines either, though for different reasons.
But she is neither one nor the other, I feel sure ;
neither coldly perfect, nor tempestuously passionate
and irrational. There is nothing
'stagy' about her, as there was about poor
Corinne. She is a glorious creature, beautiful
to look upx)n — delightful to listen to — living ina
world of her own, high up above the miserable
pettiness of the lives that surround her. That
is the goddess-part of her. Well! Diana
stooped to woo Endymion. Ay, but she did
not raise Endymion to Olympus — which is what
this woman would try to do. Could I exist
and flourish in that rarified atmosphere? I
doubt it. And yet, if it were possible, to beloved

by such a woman as that might make a
wiser and a better man of me !"

He had wandered on, under the sharp, black
shadow of the houses, pursuing this curious train
of thought and introspection, until the noise of
falling waters gained upon his ear, and, turning
a corner, he beheld the streams of the gigantic
fountain, smitten by the moonlight, issuing
from its huge panoply of stone and artificial
rock.

He sat down on the edge of the basin, and
recalled how Corinne, seated thus, had found
Oswald's image reflected, over her shoulder, in
the water. Suddenly one of those transitions
of thought which appear inexplicable brought
Nellie Dawson's sweet young face before him.'
If any image was projected on the dark, starlit
surface of the fountain, it was not that of the
peerless lady who had so recently impressed his
imagination, but of the far-off village girl whom
he thought of occasionally with a tender regret
and some self-condemnation. His conduct, at
this moment, seemed peculiarly culpable to him,
not only because the passion which had actus



acted him was extinct, but because, regarded by
the light of his present aspirations, it seemed
almost inexplicable. Little more than a year
ago, and how changed he was. He drew out
his note-book and wrote :

In the black wave I would behold the face

Of my last love, brown-haired, majestic, strong,
Prest close against my own. Lo ! in its place,
Pale, silent lids, and eyes that suffer wrong
"Without reproach, I see : then, cry aloud,
This love lives not ; it sleeps within its shroud.'

' O dark, deep waters ! wash away the past.
Flow on — flow on, to the forgetting sea.
Bear on your breast the broken blossoms, cast

With fruits of folly, far away from me!'
The fountain heeds not : at my feet it flings
The rind and husks of bitter-memories things."

He left the piazza, without much heeding in
which direction his footsteps led him. At the
corner of one street some Pifferari, who had
arrived for the approaching Christmas, were
playing on their pipes before a shrine to the
Virgin. A lamp burned before the figure, and
touched the bronzed faces of the poor ignorant
shepherds.

'« Would that I had the ftiith of these men !"
thought Wilfred, as he passed them.

He had reached a net-work of dark niccolo,
too narrow for the moon to penetrate, and he
stood speculating which way he should turn,
when the sound of feet running rapidly towards
him struck on his ear and the next minute he
beheld two figures — one evidently in pursuit of
the other — flying down the narrowest of these
streets. The first appeared to be a mere stripling
— the other a powerful man ; but the speed
at which the boy ran was so great that he
would have distanced his pursuer, had he not
run against Wilfred, who stood in the middle
of the way.

That moment lost was fatal. Like a wild
beast the man clutched his prey, and kicked
him brutally to the ground before Wilfred had
seized the ruffian by the throat, and, with a
sudden strength, bred of indignation, sent him
staggering against the wall. Then ensued a
tussle which might have ended ill for Athelstan.
Swift as lightning the man drew a
knife from his belt, and drove it down into the

shoulder of the arm which held him fastened by
the neck. Happily his thick ulster protected
Wilfred, and the knife, glancing partially aside,
only inflicted a very insignificant wound. It
was sufficient to make him relax his hold, however,
and the man, shaking himself free, darted
down another street, along which the echo of
his footsteps, running, resounded in the still
night air.

Wilfred turned at once to the boy, who lay
motionless on the ground.

'' What is the matter? Where are you
hurt?" he asked, in his lame Italian.

But the boy could not reply ; he was insensible.
Wilfred knelt down, and propped the
slight attenuated frame against his knee. He
might be fifteen or sixteen ; but his bones were
so small, and he carried so little flesh upon
them, it would have been difficult to decide his
age. His long, matted hair half hid a face in
which the deep purple marks under the eyes
seemed to indicate suffering, and probably
privation.

What was Wilfred to do? He could not

leave the boy, while he went to fetch assistance,
and there was not a sound stirring in the
streets. If he could carry him to the Fontana
di Trevi — and he thought he could find his way
back there —-some water would revive the lad,
who had probably fainted from fright and
exhaustion. Though suffering rather acutely
now from his own shoulder, he lifted the
inanimate boy in his arms ; but, as he did so,
there was a low moan, which told of returning
consciousness ; and, though Wilfred held him as
tenderly as a mother would her child, it was
evident the poor little fellow was in pain, for
his moans increased in intensity, until Wilfred
laid him on the edge of the fountain and dashed
the water on his face and hands.

^' Where are you hurt ? Dov e f '

'' Mi e cotta la gamba,^' moaned the boy.

Nonsense ! Correggio. Gamba non motto —
absurd."

But when he tried to make him stand up, the
boy fell back on Wilfred's shoulder, with a
sharp cry. It was too evidently true.
Whether from the fall, or the violence

of that brute's kick, the boy's leg was
broken.

Where did he live ? Who were his parents ?

The boy here burst out a-sobbing for the
first time. He would not tell — no, he would
die sooner than return home. His mother was
married to that man, who, but for Wilfred, might
have murdered the lad. Amid his agonized
sobs, so much fell from him ; and Wilfred felt
that to take back the young sufferer to such
guardianship to-night, even if he could have
learnt where to go, was impossible. He was a
stranger in Rome ; he did not know where
there was a hospital ; he knew none of the
police-regulations. There was but one thing
to be done ; carry the boy to the Tempietto,
and send for a surgeon.

He lifted him yet more tenderly, and, in spite
of the pain he was himself in, succeeded in
carrying him home. He met only two men,
muffled in cloaks, and striding in different
directions. He hesitated whether he should
ask one of them to help him ; but he shrank
from the linguistic difficulties of explanation ;

I

and he remembered, besides, to have heard how
reluctant Italians were to give any assistance
to wounded persons, their tedious course of
justice entailing endless annoyance to witnesses
in such cases. So he struggled on, with his
burden, alone, till the door of the Tempietto
was opened b}- his valet, who nearly dropped
the lucerne in his horror at the spectacle of his
master, with apparently a lifeless body in his
arms ; for the boy had again relapsed into unconsciousness.


There is a spare bed on this floor, Jervis —
lay him on it — he has met with an accident —

and then run for Dr. A . You know where

he lives ? Stay, first help me off with my coat.
I have been scratched myself, and feel a little
faint."

My gracious ! Scratched, my lord ? Why
your dress-coat is cut through, and saturated
with blood, like anything."

'^ Never mind that — get me a glass of wine
and a towel — it's nothing, I tell you — and now
run to the doctor. We can do nothing to the
boy till he comes."

A quarter of an hour later he returned,

accompanied by Dr. A . He pronounced

Wilfred's wound to be trifling; it had been
aggravated by his exertion, that was all. He
then undressed the boy, who had recovered
consciousness, and examined him carefully. The
case was one of a simple fracture.

"What makes it serious," continued Dr.

A , "is his condition of health. Look at his

ribs, my lord. The lad has been starved.
When the system is so low as this, the shock
may be very dangerous ; and I think it right to
warn you that, if the lad should die in your
house, it might, under the circumstances, be
very awkward for you. You know nothing of
his circumstances except what he tells you. His
family will of course institute inquiries about
him tomorrow, and you may have a great deal
of trouble and difficulty in the matter — even
more than that, perhaps," added the doctor,
gravely.

You mean they might try to make out that
broke his leg. I am not afraid. This wound
and my cut clothes would be evidence they

would hardly like to encounter. Indeed, if the
boy is worse tomorrow morning, I will lodge
my statement at once with the police, and we
may see then about taking him to a hospital ;
but "

"If I set his leg now, he cannot be moved
with safety tomorrow, nor for a long time,
probably."

I don't care," returned Wilfred. " The poor
little chap seems easy now, and you had better
set his leg at once before inflammation sets in.
As to sending him careering round Rome at this
time of night to a hospital where perhaps they
will say they have not room to take him in, I
can't do it. As to any subsequent difficulties, I
must risk them."

Dr. A looked upon Lord Athelstone as a

benevolent but not very wise young man, who
clearly knew nothing of the " difficulties " he
might have to encounter ; but it was not for

Dr. A to argue the matter further. He

fetched the necessary splints, bandages, and
lotions, and set the fractured limb. The boy,
who was very patient, whose eyes, alone, were

restless, held Wilfred's band, and, looking up
into his face with a sharp, imploring glance,
murmured — '' Oh, signer, sto cost bene. Fascia
star' qui !"

Early the next day, Sylvia, attired in a long,
flowing white robe, was painting at her easel
when Miss Decker was announced.

"Oh, my! Miss Brabazon ! I have heard of
such a horrible occurrence, I couldn't help
coming to tell you. Have you heard about
Lord Athelstone ?"

No," said Sylvia, startled. *' What about

him r

"Attacked and nearly murdered last night
on leaving this house ! Think of that ! And it
seems it was all because he protected some boy,
who was half killed in the scuffle. And,
wounded as he was, he carried the boy home in
his arms. Fancy" !"

"How chivalrous I how very noble!" cried
Sylvia.

That's so," returned Miss Decker. " I saw
Dr. A on the street just now, and he told

me — and I'm off home to write an account of it
for America. I guess he is a regular tip-topper,
quite a specimen nobleman, this Lord Athelstan."


*' Is he much hurt ?" asked Sylvia, who had
turned very pale.

Not mortally (Miss Decker was loth that
the interest in her narrative should diminish.)

*' Dr. A , indeed, made light of his wound,

but that was evidently to calm my apprehensions.
I thought him a lovely man last night,
but now he has quite won my heart."

How little one can judge of character !" said
Miss Brabazou, abstractedly, her eye resting
upon a sketch for '' La belle dame sans merci "
she had been making. " I should not have
expected this from Lord Athelstone. He does
not give me the idea of a man of action."

"Ah! and Smiles, if you remember, in his
essays, puts the men who go right, straightforward
at a thing, before all the thinkers — the
men of inaction. I'm not sure that he is right ;
but I think it's lovely for a man to be chivalrous
and a poet, too! Such a rare combination!"

It was not rare in the thirteenth and fourteenth
centuries. Most of the troubadours were
knights."

That's so. You had better paint his picture
as a knight, Miss Brabazon. Fix him up in
some armour, and he would look first-rate."

Miss Brabazon, whose mind was evidently
much impressed by what she had heard, did not
reply to this sally. She had rung the bell a
minute before, and to the courier who now appeared
from the ante-room she said,

"Go at once to the Tempietto. Ask how
Lord Athelstone is, and whether there is anything
we can do for him, or the sick boy who is
there." Then, as the man closed the door, she
said — " He will find himself in some trouble on
account of this matter, and we know so many
Romans of influence that we may be of use."

*' I feel like going to see if 1 could be of any
use to him."

He has a mother, you know."

** Ah ! — What sort of a person is she ?"

We only made her acquaintance on Sunday.
She seems timid, and rather cold ; but Englishwomen,

as a rule, you know, are stiff at first."

"Ramrods are a joke to them. I should
like to see her face, if I called on her son !
Wouldn't she think it improper, rather?"

*' I am afraid she would."

"I rea liked. Lord Athelstone. I couldn't
get much out of him, but there's a hurry pleasant
look in his face. You like him, don't you. Miss
Brabazon ?"

He is clever and agreeable. From what I
had heard, I was not prepared to like him — but
my prejudices, I confess, have a good deal
melted away — especially since this last trait.
A man who could act so must at once be brave
and tender — the two best things a man can be.
He has been mistaken, and others have been
mistaken in him ; but he cannot be heartless."

I should calculate," said the sharp little
lady, with a laugh like hail, " he was only likely
to have too much heart ; his poems, I'm told,
look like it — don't they ?"

He is still very young — hardly more thana
boy. One must not be too severe upon the
follies of youth."

'* Bless you, my dear Miss Brabazon, I am
only likely to be too lenient. I tell you I think
him a lovely man — quite dangerous."

Miss Decker ran on a little longer in the
same style; dexterous in her powers of probing,
shrewd in her observations, and unconsciously
offensive in many of her remarks. "II y a des
management que Esprit meme et Sausage du
monde n'apprennent pas," as Madame de Steel
says. There was a certain coarseness of fibre
in the clever little American which, in spite of
all her experience of the world, roughened her
intercourse with those whose integuments where
at all sensitive.

Shortly after her departure, the courier
returned. He had seen Lord Athelstone himself,
who had sent a message in reply to sny
he should esteem it a great favour if Miss
Brabazon would call upon Lady Athelstone
in the course of the morning:.

CHAPTER II.

Then Mrs. Barton, her ladyship's maid,
* communicated to her mistress early that
morning the astounding news she had learned
from Jervis, Lady Athelstone was thrown into
a state of great agitation. She at once ran
into her son's room, whom she found fast asleep.
She questioned Jervis as to all the circumstances
of the previous night, so far as he knew

them, and, being assured that Dr. A had

pronounced his lordship's wound to be unimportant,
she knelt down, poor woman, in
the solitude of her chamber, and thanked God
fervently for his escape.

She had then leisure to reflect how inconsiderate
it was of Wilfred to bring home a
VOL. II. C

beggar boy with a broken leg, \vho would probably
fill the house with fleas. It was so rash —
so characteristic of him, dear fellow ! She

desired to be informed when Dr. A

amved. She would not mind giving any
reasonable sum to the beggar, provided he
could be got out of the house ; but fleas were a
thing she could not stand. And then her
thoughts turned to the Bishop of Oporto. He
lead preached a most eloquent sermon upon
Lazarus last Sunday. Would he consider this
beggar boy to be as Lazarus? She was sure
she was not like Dives ; but what would the
Bishop say she ought to do ? Fleas were so
unpleasant.

Wilfred slept late ; but, when he woke, he
-went at once to the boy's room. He had slept
and had eaten ; there was no fever, and he
seemed very tranquil ; but he looked even more
ill by the searching light of day than he had
done the previous night.

The question for consideration now was,
what should be done. Ought the police to be
communicated with ? Dr. A , who arrived

shortly after, advised that the British Embassy
should be informed of the circumstances. The
matter could not be kept a secret ; it was better
to let the true facts be known at once, whether
any subsequent steps were taken against the
malefactor or not. The boy was going on
well, but it was essential to keep him quiet. To
excite him by questions might be very prejudicial
to him at present. Dr. A had some

important cases that morning, and could only
stay a few minutes, but he ran up to Lady
Athelstone, in obedience to her summons, and
told her that to remove the boy was not to bethought
of now. He had urged Lord Athelstan
to let him do so last night, and his lordship
had declined : he must abide by that
decision.

It was shortly after this that Sylvia's messenger
arrived. She had given him an opening,
and he did not lack a very plausible excuse to
himself (if he needed one) for enticing her here.
She would see the boy, and would understand
much that he said which was lost on Wilfred.
She would suggest some means of communicated



ing with the lad's mother : her help might be
really serviceable. He went at once to the
drawing-room, and prepared Lady Athelstan
for her visitor.

Dear me !" she ejaculated, and then paused.
Really all this is so very odd, and unlike anything
that I ever . . . You are not, surely, my
dear, going to take Miss Brabazon in, to see
that beggar in bed ?"

Why not? I wish you would not call him
a beggar, by the way. This poor little chap is
not a beggar, and I am sure Miss Brabazon will
be delighted to go and see him."

Well, it is a very unusual sort of proceeding.
Of course it will oblige me to go
too."

Here she began a rigid examination of her
nails, beginning at the little finger.

Not at all. It is not the least necessary.
Miss Brabazon is above such ridiculous prudery."

*' It is all very well to call it ' prudery,' but
such things are not done. It would be different
if she belonged to a Sisterhood, but "

"Stuff I What can it signify whether she

wears a poke-bonnet or not, if she is doing a
good deed ?"

I should like to put it to the Bishop of
Oporto," said Lady Athelstone, shaking her
head, without looking up from her nails. "I
am not at all sure that one has a right to fly
in the face of public opinion in that way."

Presently Miss Brabazon arrived, and Lady
Athelstone received her with a sort of chastened
resignation. Wilfred felt that only very exceptional
circumstances would have brought her
to call on his mother ; and his eyes danced with
delight at the success of his plan. Pale, and
with his arm in a sling, never before had he
appeared so interesting in Sylvia's eyes.

"I hope you are not suffering? I hope Lord
Athelstone is not making light of his wound V
fie said, turning to his mother.

I believe — I ought rather to say I trust —
there is nothing serious," returned Lady Athelstan,
with becoming caution ; " but it was a
merciful escape. Fancy a stiletto !"

*' Yes, the thickness of my pilot cloth alone
saved me. It is hardly more than a scratch."

I am very thankful," said Sylvia, with a
fervour and simplicity few English-bred girls
would have dared evince; ^' and I am sorry
and ashamed for poor Rome, which I love, and
cannot bear to hear abused."

I must say, after this, no one can venture
to go out alone at night," said Lady Athelstone,
with unusual decision.

No one can venture to resemble the Paladins
of old, and help those who are in need," responded
Miss Brabazon, smiling gravely. " I
am afraid that is the moral of it. Will you
tell me exactly what happened ? I have only
heard the story third or fourth-hand."

He related what had occurred, making light
of his own share in the transaction. She said
nothing, but there was an expression in her
eyes he had not seen there before. He had
been conscious of a certain severity, a certain
reprobation, in her manner of looking at him,
which had now melted away.

You are used to these Roman peasants, Miss
Brabazon. Do you mind seeing the boy ? You
will understand better what he says than I do

and perhaps he will tell you something about
his mother."

She must be a horrible woman ! You will
not give him up to her ?"

Not at present, certainly. The doctor's certificate
is enough to prevent his being moved.
But ultimately ? . . . . What are we to do ?"

You must first go to the police — that is the
first thing — then we must find out who the
step-father is. Yes, let me see the boy at
once. The police are not very efficient here,
but in this case the man is, of course, to be
found easily enough ; and, with this attempted
assassination hanging over his head, he could
be frightened into any terms about the boy you
chose to dictate."

She rose, to Lady Athelstone's dismay, and
followed her son from the room, as though it
were the simplest thing in the world.

The young Italian opened his large, hollow
eyes wide at the vision of a beautiful lady who
glided into his room, and seated herself beside
his bed, taking one of his yellow emaciated
hands in hers. Was this a saint stepped down

from heaven upon a cloud .such as he had gazed
up at iu the Church of St. Maria ia Vorticella.
He had never before been tenderly looked upon
by soft violet eyes, never tenderly handled by
delicate white fingers. Was he in a dream?
He had a shrewd, speculative look in his lean
little face. It might be the cunning bred of ill-treatment,
natural intelligence sharpened by
the contact of evil ; but, that there was some
good in the boy's nature, his radiant smile
indicated beyond doubt. He might be a shocking
little scamp, but he was a scamp capable of
affection. She spoke to him, in musical tones,
his own sweet, large lowered language, and
the boy seemed spell-bound. Conscious of the
soothing influence of the human voice, that
expresses sympathy in certain physical conditions,
she went on talking to him for some time
without seeking for a reply. She told him he
was with kind friends who would nurse him till
he was well ; that he need not be afraid of being
sent home, he was safe where he was. And
then in simple language, removed from cant,
she told him he should thank God for having

preserved him and sent strangers to tend and
to protect him. The boy had been taught to
kneel before the shrine of the Mother of God,
the Santa Engine Who could redress all
troubles, if enough candles were burnt in her
honour ; but of God himself he had heard nothing.
He wondered the saint-like lady did not
so much as name the heat Verging.

Then she sang to him some of the wild
stornelli of the Campagna in a low voice, and
the boy smiled. The desire to speak at last
came, and he broke forth —

I know that ! I learnt it when I was tending
the herd at the Torre de' Schiavi a year
ago."

"Indeed ? What is your name?"

'• Lorenzaccio."

That is what they have called you in fun —
you were christened Lorenzo, of course."

They have never called me anything else."

But your other name V"

He shook his head.

*' I have no other name."

What is your father called, then ?"

*' He who married ray mother is called Balbo ;
he is not my father."

'' You have lived iu theCarapagna, you say?"

Not long ; I had the fever, so they sent me
home. Oh ! I was happy there !"

And you have lived in Rome since then V

Yes, signora."

"And what have you done for a Hvinghere?"

They tried to make me help Balbo in the
pig-sticking, but I was not strong enough.
Then I was sent to the ' Apollo ' Theatre, to
help the scene-shifters, to run messages, to do
odd jobs; but they turned me off two months
ago, they said I stole something. I didn't steal
it, but Balbo beat me, and has beat me ever
since. He says that I am not iSt for anything."

Here he showed such agitation that Sylvia
was afraid to continue the conversation further.
She had learned something, and a dog's bark
outside the window suggested a happy diversion
for his thoughts. She turned to Wilfred,
who was sitting in a corner, watching all she
did with intense interest and admiration.

Do you mind opening that window. Lord

Athelstone ? My dog has discovered that I amin
this room, and informs me of his presence
outside. If I call him, he will jump in.
Marco !"

In bounded the gigantic white poodle, the
impressive wisdom of whose aspect was somewhat
at variance with his vivacious activity.
He thrust his pink muzzle into his mistress's
hand, and then, at a sign from her finger, stood
up on his hind legs, and walked round the
room. The boy was enchanted.

"He is like nothing but the Lord Chancellor
on a tight-rope," laughed Wilfred.

Few Lord Chancellors would obey the order
to die for their country as readily as Marco.
Die for your country, Marco !" — and the dog
stretched himself on the ground, and lay there
perfectly motionless.

He is Venetian, you see," she said to ,
whose face was suffused with laughter ;
the Austrians are his only enemies. You will
see he takes no notice of any other nation. The
French are at the arsenal, Marco !" (He does
not stir.) " The Germans — the English — the

Turks — the Russians — the Danes — the Spaniards
— the Austrians /"

"Whereupon Marco springs to his feet, and
flies round and round the room, barking furiously.


One of this gifted dog's pleasantness attributes
was the delight he took in his own performances.
No admonitory taps, no simulated
severity, no harsh change of voice was necessary.
His sensitive pink nostrils seemed to
sniff the keen appreciation of his company,
and he needed nothing more. He displayed a
variety of his accomplishments with unfailing
serenity and good breeding, and ended, in
obeyance to his mistress's injunction, by putting
his fore-paws on the bed, and licking the
hand of its inmate.

Now I must leave 3'ou," said Sylvia. " Is
there anyone — any friend — anybody, m short,
you would like to see ?"

I have no friend in the world," replied
Lorenzaccio, sadly.

You must not say that now — you have us,"
she said, gently ; and it was pleasant to Wilfred

to hear himself coupled with her even in
this way. *' Good-bye, Lorenzo. I shall come
and see you apjain tomorrow." Then, when
they were outside the door, she continued to
Wilfred — " The step-father's name is Balbo,
and he is a pig-sticker — so much I know, and
that* is enough for the police. And now, what
course do you mean to pursue ? There is no
denying that, if the man is apprehended, the
boy, as soon as he gets well, will probably bethe
object of a vendetta'^

T don't want the brute to be punished for
his attack upon me. It is only for the boy's
sake — it is only to have a hold on the man, as
you yourself suggested. 1 suppose he should
be taken up."

She reflected for a few moments.

We have a friend who is a clever ae well asa
very influential man. I will write to him.
Will you place yourself in his hands'? Many
things in this country require interest — all require
tact

*' And I have none. I shall abide gratefully
by your friend's advice."

Thereupon Sylvia, with Marco at her heels,
descended rapidly the steps of the Trinity del

Monte.

CHAPTER III.

VfO combination of circumstances could so
-^ ■ well have favoured Wilfred Athelstone's
impatience to become intimate with Sylvia
Brabazon. She came nearly every day that
week to see Lorenzaccio, and Wilfred never
failed to be present at these visits. Insensibly,
a certain familiarity was established ; not that
much passed between them directly, and they
were never tete-astute ; but a common interest,
and that interest one of sympathy with suffering,
binds more quickly than mere intercourse,
the cords of which are but packthreads of
agreeability.

What Miss Brabazon did on these occasions,
she did with a simplicity and dignity which

would have prevented the most fatuous man in
AVilfred's place from imagining that she was
led to act thus out of the expectation of meeting
him. Yet many young women might have
been fairly so charged. The boy was well
cared for : bliss Brabazon was not called upon,
in the ordinary demands of charity, to visit
him. But it pleased her to do so, and she did
it in a manner which disarmed even Lady
Athelstone. So true is it that some actions
must not be judged by themselves : their significance
depends upon their agents.

As regards the boy, it is enough, for the
present, to say that the Brabazons' Italian
friend arranged matters, by " interest," in
such a comfortable way as to give Lord Athelstan
the least amount of trouble, and secure
to Lorenzaccio the greatest amount of security
that was possible under the circumstances.
The boy's deposition was taken ; how, because
he was starving, he had been tempted that
night to appropriate his step-father's supper,
while the latter was absent ; and how, thereupon,
the other's ungovernable rage had

broken forth, and he had pursued Lorenzaccio,
when he escaped from the house. Then the
estimable Balbo was unofficially " communicated"
with. It was pointed out to him that
every circumstance of the night in question
was known to the police ; that he was subject
to be imprisoned and tried for the attempt to
murder an English stranger ; that at this
stranger's intercession alone (who had charitably
taken charge of Lorenzaccio) was he
allowed to be still at large ; and that upon his
present and future conduct depended whether
the law was to take its course or not. As to
the boy's future, his mother would be communicated
with later.

Athelstone's passion for Miss Brabazon increased
daily. Unquestionably, never before
had his admiration been roused in the same
manner, or in the same measure, for any other
woman. He was content to sit at her feet, so
to speak, as he never before had done to any
human being. She captivated his imagination ;
she stirred what was best in him, all she did
and said seemed to him perfect. Had she

VOL. II. D

achieved a yet more difficult task? Had she
obtained so firm a grip upon the inward man
that neither time nor trial could affect her
hold?

He said so to himself with increasing confidence.
At the end of three weeks he had nota
doubt on the subject. When he recalled
Nellie Dawson, it was as some one belonging
to an anterior state of existence : a sweet little
lily of the valley whom he might have plucked
in the hot morning of youth, had he not been
prevented ; but between whom and this stately
lily of the garden there could be no comparison
or rivalry.

But the regal flower was reticent of its perfume.
Though she was flattered — as what
woman could fail to be ? — by the ascendancy
she saw she was gaining over him, she gave
him no encouragement. What her feelings
towards him were will be gathered presently.

"The Bannockburnss have arrived at the
Angleterre.' I had a note from her just now''
said Lady Athelstone to her son one morning.
^' Shall I ask them to dinner?"

Yes ; and ask the Brabazons to meet them."

I only know Mrs. Brabazon so very slightly,
you see, and "

"It will be an opportunity of improving
your acquaintance, mother. Let it be tomorrow."


'"'You forget we dine at the Embassy, my
dear."

Then the next day."

The next day is Sunday, and though being
abroad does make a difference, still — besides,
I should like particularly to ask the Bishop of
Oporto."

"What! 'cassock, bands, and hymn-book
too'? I shall have to ask some Bohemian as a
counterbalance, or we shall be swamped with
orthodoxy. I'll ask Briggs."

'' Who is Briggs T inquired Lady Athelstone,
with a plaintive elevation of the eyebrows.

"Briggs is a very clever artist — rather uncouth,
but capital company — a very good
fellow."

Lady Athelstone sighed ; and examined her
nails.

p2

I thought you would ask two of the
attaches."

"Very well — Beauport and Carton ; that
makes us even — five men and five women''

But — but I want — I think, my dear, we
midst ask the Porchesters," — raising her eyes.

"Why on earth must wee? Are you under
any obligation to them ?"

No ; only you see there is a connection — she
calls herself a relation. Her uncle married my
grandfather's daughter by his first marriage,
and I am sure she will say very disagreeable
things, if she finds we are having perfect
strangers like the Brabazons to dinner, and not
asking her."

I am sure," said her incorrigible son, laughing,
" my great-grandfather's 
marriage might
remain a perfect stranger to me, and say as
many disagreeable things as she likes, for all I
care. However, let her and her ugly daughter
come, if you wish it, — only that involves asking
two more men. Let me see : I'll ask the
Marchese Tivoli ; he'll talk to Mrs. Braba-

son, and — Spooner — yes, Spooner will do."

Who is Spooner ?" inquired Lady Athelstone
again, with a recurrence of agony in her eyebrows.
" You know I am not exclusive, my
dear ; 1 hope I ever bear in mind that we are
all alike ; but there are some social distinctions,
and really the party does sound so very heterogeneous."


*not know Spooner, the great writer on
Art ? Don't confess it, mother. Why, he'll talk
even the Bishop down."

"1 am sure I hope not; I should be greatly
distressed. Well, you must take the responsibility
of this party on yourself, Wilfred. There
are so many elements / should eliminate. I
really don't know what Lady Dorchester will
say."

Tell her who is coming, and then she can
stay away. I quite agree with you ; it is nearly
twice too large — strike out the Porchesters and
the Bishop, and I'll give up any three men you
like."

But of course those were the three to whom
Lady Athelstone clung with tenacity, and invitations

to the fourteen persons specified were
sent out forthwith.

He did not anticipate much pleasure from this
dinner ; for he would have to play the host to a
number of people, all of whom, save one, Avere indifferent
to him. He was impatient of the social
duties of life. But he had effected that which for
some days he had resolved on, though circumstances
had rendered this an easier task than
he had expected. His mother had formally
invited the Brabazons to her table, and had
done so, thanks to the arrival of Lady bannockburn,
almost without a struggle.

In the meantime, the prospect of a drive to
the "Casa di Livia" with Sylvia and her
mother, which had been arranged the previous
day — an afternoon in which he and Sylvia
would virtually be alone — for Mrs. Brabazon
would be reading one of Zola's novels in the
carriage the whole way — gave him great pleasure.
His annoyance was scarcely concealed
when, on his arrival at the " Europa," he found
Lady Frances Cope in the drawing-room.

"• Ah, Milordoo," cried Mrs. Brabazon, as he

entered, *' 'ere is your old friend, Lady Frances."
There was a general hand-shaking all round,
and she continued — ^' Lady Bannockburn is too
tired from her voyage to take any motion today
— but Lady Frances will come wit us."

^'I have never been in Rome before, and
Sylvia is going to act as my cicerone'' said
Lady Frances, with a little constrained laugh,
very different from her careless merriment at
Florence.

"I am a stranger here, too," returned
Wilfred; "but I take sight-seeing easily. I
mean to look at nothing more in Rome but
what Miss Brabazon tells me I must. The first
week here my life was a burden to me on
account of Basilicas."

'soh! I can sympathise wil:h you," laughed
Lady Frances. ^'My soul sinks within me
when I get to a new place, and I see in
Murray' I have to visit ten or twelve
churches. If you miss one, you are always told
afterwards, that, of all others, is the one you
should have seen."

"You should have the courage of your

opinions, my dear Fanny ; confess they bore
you, and not go," said Sylvia.

My dear, I have no particular talents, like
you. I am obliged to go in for being well-informed
— what is called * generally' well-informed.
The demands I find it entails are
terrible; but I inst be general, or I am
nothing."

You are generally popular, Lady Frances ;
that is conceded," said Wilfred, restored to
good humour by finding himself by Sylvia's
side in the carriage. Lady Frances would, in
common politeness, have to talk from time to
time to Mrs. Brabazon.

General popularity is worth very little."
There was a subdued bitterness in her tone
that was not lost on her friend.

I don't agree with you. It is worth a great
deal."

I should not have supposed that you
attach much value to it," said Sylvia, with a
smile.

Because I take so little pains to conciliate
opinion? Well, you are wrong. In the first

place, it is a mistake to suppose it is incompatible
with strong affection." (Lady Frances turned
her head sharply round to look at something
in the street.) " Your friendship for each other
proves it. Then the power of attracting many,
argues a genial sympathy which is a very
powerful factor in all human concerns."

"Why do you discourage it, then, b}^
affronting people's prejudices?" asked Miss
Brabazon.

"Because I am not genial, unless I like
people. I am intolerant of bores, and of shams,
and of many other things that I ought to submit
to. My sympathies are strong ; but they
are limited."

And capricious, like most men's ?" laughed
Lady Frances. " What amuses them at one
moment becomes * a bore ' at another."

"No , I don't think so," he replied, meditatively
as though he were deliberating on some one
else's case. "I often unconsciously offend
people, and perhaps don't care enough whether
I do or not. But I am not capricious. I know
what I like, and why."

"And when? It all depends on that."

One can't pretend to be always equally
glad to see people — at least, I can't; for
I am not a humbug. What I say, I mean''

"That is a virtue I have often observed is
particularly dangerous for people to pride themselves
on. A passing impulse makes them
admire something — no matter what — and we
take this momentary enthusiasm au series,
and attach a value to it it was never meant to
have."

I am impulsive ; I acknowledge it. I say,
I even write " (here he looked at Sylvia)
"things which aro the outgrowth of transitory
feelings — things which are not understood "

''I did not know there was any difficulty in
understanding them," Lady Frances observed,
in a low voice.

*' And because of this," he went on, heedless
of the interruption, "and because I will not
submit to the treadmill of ' social duties,' as my
mother calls them, I am roundly abused."

That you rather like, I think."

Every man who writes boldly, as he feels,

must be indifFerent to abuse. And as to society,
I can't think that he is bound to waste a large
portion of his life in a mere sham. If it is to
serve the cause of humanity, I'll sacrifice myself,
my timCj and my inclinations ; but not to conventionalities,
which have no heart, no reality
in them."

All this was not at all what Lady Frances
had in her mind ; and she had the annoyance of
observing that, instead of striking a spark of
shame from Lord Athelstone, she had but
elicited a defence of his conduct upon general
and wholly different grounds. She was silent;
and Mrs. Brabazon, who could make nothing of
all that was passing, struck into the conversation
here with some question about Naples,
from which place Lady Frances had just come.
For the remainder of the drive the talk was, as
Wilfred had hoped it would be, split up into duets.

Sylvia had listened to the somewhat bitter
words of her friend with annoyance ; but the
apparent unconsciousness of Lord Athelstone
to any personal application in these remarks
relieved Miss Brabazon, who would have suffered

for a loss of her friend's dignity, as for her
own. His view and theory of life interested
her: it was not altogether hers, but she had
some sympathy with it, and she now said,
taking up his last words,

'' It is not the heroic sacrifices, it is the petty
ones which try us most, I suspect, and which
"we have the greater merit in making. If we
were ruined tomorrow, I could work for my
bread, and be very happy, but I am not sure I
could live with anyone w4io made me read
Tupper's Proverbial Philosophy aloud to him
every evening."

Wilfred laughed ; then, with a sudden gravity,
he asked —

"How do you think you could stand an
English country life ? Would that be too great
a trial? Would you call the dull monotony of
cottage visiting — the only interchange of ideas
being with the parson and a couple of pigheaded
neighbours— would you call that a petty
sacrifice? Would it not seem to you an insupportable
one, after the brilliant life of art and
intellect you have led ?"

Nothing is insupportable, I think, but idleness
and uselessness. I should miss many
things, no doubt, at first — chiefly the glory of
light and colour which touches everything in
dear old Italy. But what makes life really
beautiful ? — our affections, our tastes, our intellects
are independent of surroundings ; they
are ourselves, and nothing can rob us of
them."

'' It is very aggravating to associate with
people who have no sympathy with any of one's
tastes — who virtually do not understand what
language one is talking."

*' Do you think," she returned, smiling, " that
many of our Italian friends — kind good friends,
whom I love dearly — have any sympathy with
my tastes ? No ; one must live one's own life,
wherever one is, thankful if one gets any light
from without, but not dependent upon it. If I
lived in a lodging in Gower Street, a bunch of
primroses from Co vent Garden would carry me
away to sweet lanes and pleasant uplands,,
and I should forget the ugly black walls about
me.

** You are happily constituted, Miss Brabazon.
True poets are not obliged to go out into the
wilderness : they bring the wilderness to them.
But to be pestered with nuisances is another
matter. And, allow me to say, your present life
affords you little experience of such trials. You
wander about, without the cares of a home,
without the obligation of duties, without the
restraints of poverty : you do, it seems to me,
exactly what you like best, and you surround
yourself by those worth cultivating."

She shook her head and laughed.

"I am afraid neither the Marchese Tivoli nor
Count Scappa is as intellectual as your country
neighbours, and I assure you we have several
other old friends in the same category. But,
as a rule, my father's acquaintances were not
common-place men, and I try to keep up the
tradition. I do not much care about society, as
you can see. It comes and it goes. Neither
my mother nor I take any trouble about it.
We seldom go to any of the embassies ; and
strangers must seek us out — we never seek

'^ Why should you, when they are sure to do
so?" he said,, pointedly; and Lady Frances,
who had caught fragments of the conversation
from time to time, heard the words. " I think,
in spite of the Tivoli and Scopas, I have
proved my case. You like intellect, and you
get it. You like a blue sky, and you live under
it. You like all that is artistic, and picturesque,
and wonderful, and you gather strange, beautiful
things about you. No ! you have no trials
you can't understand them."

If you were not joking, I should say nobody
can tell lovat trials anyone else has. I have
bad mine, and no doubt others are in store forme.
But I will reply to your rather sarcastic
remark about my love of the picturesque. Yes,
it is my weakness ; I confess it. Civilized life,
with its inventions and conveniences, and tail-coats
and trousers, is so hideous now that I try
to let my e^'es rest upon as many palatable
things as I can. That is the test which my
passionate love of art puts to all outward
objects. It is very foolish, I daresay. I know
the world laughs at my dress; but, as I trouble

the world very little, I think I am at liberty to
please myself."

Certainly you are. I applaud you for despising
those miserable Paris fashions. But ah !
if you hate ugliness, I wonder what you would
say to our drawing-room at Athelstone ! It
was furnished in the reign of William IV., and
nothing more solid, more sombre, more hideously
heavy ever was seen. Time has no
effect on it ; as I remember it in my childhood,
so it is now and unless, happily, there is a fire,
so it will last till I am grey-headed."

Sylvia laughed.

*' If I were the owner of a fine house, I should
employ some artist to copy the decoration of
the lovely room we have driven here to look at.
It is better than all the gold and peacock rooms,
all the silver-diapered walls with jewelled
friezes of modern high art. I make you a
present of my suggestion for your home, Lord
Athelstone. Here we are ; now we must get
the custode

She appeared, and the ladies descended
into that wonderful remnant of old Roman

domestic life, excavated a few years since,
where the sky is yet blue, and the tangled
masses of olive and oleander, orange-tree and
myrtle, are yet fresh all round the walls. Sylvia
dipped her handkerchief into the bucket of
water she had bidden the custode bring her, and,
passing it over the surface of the plaster, all
the delicate foliage shone out as brilliant as if
it had been painted yesterday ; birds of various
plumage flying among the branches, from
which the glowing oranges and lemons depended.


"Oh! it is delightful !" cried Lady Frances,
and she proceeded to scrub with her own
delicate batiste a fresh bit of the wall.

Wilfred was quite as enthusiastic and as
energetic upon another side of the room.

*' See ! how exquisitely these leaves are
turned!" cried Lady Frances. "How naturalistic
the treatment is ! Who ever thought
those old Romans could paint like this ?"

By Jove ! it's wonderful ! It gives one an
idea of what the Campagna may have been like
before the trees were all cut down. One may

VOL. II. E

fancy oneself in the grounds round Horace's
Villa, which he describes."

*^ It gives me an idea of what a pleasant
people they must have been who devised such
a decoration for a room," said Sylvia. "Think
how delightful to be always looking upon what
is sweet and refreshing. It is like being surrounded
by an eternal spring."

E molto furioso. One should say, they
grew, those trees !" murmured Mrs. Brabazon,
with conviction, seated upon a tub in the centre
of the room, and regarding the three scrubbers
with placidity. " I always tell to Sylvia when
she come here she bring a towel, but she
always forget. Lady Frances, you ruin your
hand'chefl"

*' Never mind. I offer it up as a thanksgiving
to the shade of Livia for having left us
such a lovely legacy."

Not till their handkerchiefs were reduced
to rags, and they had examined every portion
of the walls, did they come up into the
softened splendour of daylight in the open
air.

During the drive home, the conversation
was more or less general.

Do you receive to-night ?" asked Wilfred,
as he handed Sylvia from the carriage.

No ; we dine with Lady Bannockburn."

Lady Frances was standing close by, but she
said nothing about his coming in the evening —
which she might just as well do," thought
Wilfred to himself.

To-morrow we dine at the Embassy," he
said ; " but what are you going to do in the
morning ?"

1 shall probably take Lady Frances to the
Vatican?"

May I come too ?"

^' Mamma would be scandalized," cut in Lady
Frances, with decision. " Miss Brabazon and I
san go about with our maid, but not with a
young man. Lord Athelstone. We are Philistines,
you see and slaves to vulgar conventionalities."


But I may happen to go to the Vatican at
the same hour I suppose? There is nothing
to prevent that ?"

E 2

LIBRARY

** Nothing ; only, if we go, it will be at an
hour when you are still fast asleep, probably."

Decidedly Lady Frances did not mean him
to join them. It was very odd, he thought.
She was so jolly and pleasant with him last
year at Florence.

CHAPTER IV.

pEGULATIONS at that time— I do not know
-*-^ if they are altered under the new Pope —
allowed the galleries of the Vatican to be visited
in the morning only, between the hours of eight
and eleven.

At half-past eight the next morning, Wilfred
drove up the narrow back court which His
Holiness had ordained, since Rome became the
capital of Italy, should be the sole entrance for
strangers to his palace. No carriage stood
there ; no courier was at the door. They had
not arrived, so he lingered a little, and then
wandered on into the first long gallery. A
few Germans were there, of course, early and
earnest, with spectacles, and rings on their

fore-fingers, and volumes upon "Kunst" and
iEsthetische Erziehung" in their hands, arguing
over a head of Jupiter Tonans. Then followed
the inevitable English family, root and
branch : the solid father, anxious to " do " Rome
thoroughly, the man who would be sure to buy
some bronzes, and a mosaic table, and a copy
of the " Cenci ;" the mother, rather less solid,
and more interested, secretly, in the human
figures about her than in those of marble ; two
daughters, thirsting for information, one with
Murray," and the other with a note-book; and
a son, in the post-Eton and ante-Oxford stage,
pleased to show his father that he does know
something about Hellas and the wicked Roman
Emperors.

*' That, my dear," said paterfamilias to her
husband, in accents which AVilfred distinctly
heard — " that is Lord Athelstone — that young
man in a brown velveteen coat. Mrs. Jones
pointed him out to me in church last Sunday.
He doesn't look like the sort of person one
expects, does he, dear?"

I am sure I don't know what you do expect,
my dear."

Why, something more wild and — and dissipated.
You know he is the man who wrote
those dreadful poems I was told on no account
to allow Jane to read."

Wilfred walked away with a smile, and
nearly ran against Miss Decker, who was
hurrying in, talking volubly to an American
sculptor, whose brains she had brought hereto
pick, and serve them up in an article on
Statuary of the Debased Roman Period."

Oh, my ! Lord Athelstone ! who ever would
have thought of meeting you at this hour ! I
thought you fashionables never got out of bed
so early."

I am not a ' fashionable,' T beg you to believe,
Miss Decker — I scorn the imputation. I
am a working man. I get up at seven everyday."


That is an interesting fact. I shall make a
note of that. The American public have heard
all about you, Lord Athelstone. 1 headed my

account, 'Aa Aristocratic Poet ad Hero,' and
you certainly occupy two columns."

Most heroes occupy only one, so I ought to
be doubly obliged to you," laughed Wilfred ;
but you are hurrying on, I see and I will not
detain you."

It was now some time past nine, and the
truth began to dawn upon him that Miss Bra-bacon
and her friend would not come. He
wandered through the galleries, angry and
puzzled. Was it an excess of prudery on Lady
Frances's part ? or was their non-appearance
due to some accidental cause ? That the obstacle
had been raised by Sylvia herself, he
little guessed.

On her return from the Casa di Livia the previous
day, she had gone to her room, and the interval
between that and the hour for dressing she
passed alone in contemplation. She thought
much of the relative position of herself and
Lady Frances with respect to Lord Athelstone ;
he had been Lady Frances's friend, and it was
owing to that intimacy that Sylvia had first
heard of him. lie had been praised, perhaps

extravagantly, and then he had been abused,
perhaps unduly. He was certainly not a model
young man ; he had written and done things
Sylvia could not excuse, except on the score of
youth ; his opinions, if not his principles, she
saw were in a state of solution. His was not
the character she admired in the abstract, or
dreamed of as the remote possibility governing
her life. And yet she was not insensible to his
charm — a charm independent of good looks,
cleverness, courage; and she had a conviction
that, if she chose it, she might, in time, exercise
an almost boundless influence over him. She
said to herself on this occasion that she did not
choose ; she would do nothing to interfere with
the realization of her friend's dream, if such was
possible. But she had no doubt in her own
mind that Lady Frances had indulged in the
wildest self-delusion. Nothing in his manner
indicated that he had felt more than a cordial
liking for her bright intelligence and genial
spontaneity. That Lady Frances still cherished
some resentment, if not some hope, Sylvia saw
plainly. After the first interview, when she

told Lady Frances that she had made Lord
Athelstone's acquaintance, there seemed to bea
tacit understanding between the friends that
the subject which had filled so many of Frances
Cope's letters the previous winter should never
be alluded to. But the little lady was shrewd
and observant. After that drive to the Casa di
Livia, she, too, pondered in the silence of her
chamber. She might be mistaken, but if it indeed
was as she suspected, why, then her mind
was made up how she would act.

The result of Sylvia's deliberations was that
she said to her friend that evening,

The Doria Gallery is open tomorrow ; let
us go there instead of the Vatican."

And this is how it came to pass that Wilfred
anathematized among the gods of ancient
Greece and Rome for two hours that morning.


Should he go to church ?" he asked himself
the following day. " I went last Sunday, and
it was only to see her. No ; she would respect
my motives, if she knew them, for not going.
She can't like humbug. I'll stay away."

It was not by accident that, early that afternoon,
just at the hour he knew Mrs. Brabazon
drove out, he found himself in the Piazza di
Spagna. The carriage was at the door, and he
hung about till the ladies had entered it. Then
he went up to the door, on Mrs. Brabazon's
side, and shook hands with her.

"You like to come drive, Milor?" said the
simple Italian lady. " Get in. Adhere you like
to gof

Well, I want to go and see Shelley's tomb.
Will you take me to the English burial-ground
?"

burial-ground! Ah! I no like burial-grounds.
But you and Sylvia can get out : I
stay in carriage. I nothing like that is melancholy."


"You forget, mamma, that we promised to
meet the Bannockburnss on the Pincio soon after
four," said Sylvia, quickly.

Mrs. Brabazon's good nature was bringing
about the very thing Sylvia was anxious to
avoid; she wished to spare her friend annoyance,
and the sight of Lord Athelstone in their

carriage would auuoy Lady Frances, she felt
sure. But there was no help for it.

Wilfred flushed with anger ; surely it was not
for her to raise an obstacle to his coming.

Oh ! never mind," he said, quickly; ''if you
have not got time '"

But Mrs. Brabazon waved her hand impatiently.


Che, cite I We back to Piucio in plenty
time. You not stay long in that melancholy
place r

Wilfred jumped in, and away they drove.

*' Where are the Bannockburnss gone this
afternoon?" he asked drily, not that he the
least cared, but it was necessary to say something.


Sylvia replied,

*' They are gone to afternoon church ; you
were not there this morning, were you ?"

** No, I seldom go. All those vain repetitions
irritate me. I can ask for all I want in ten
minutes, and keep my attention fixed, perhaps,
for ten minutes more ; after that it wanders.
Is it not better to remain away?"

• 9

"I should have to put several questions to
you before I could answer that," said Sylvia,
after a pause.

'' Put them."

But she seemed in no hurry to do so. Perhaps
she was balancing the probabilities of any
discussion on such matters being of service ;
but, at last, she broke silence.

You say, ' I can ask for all I want in ten
minutes,' I conclude, therefore, that you believe
in the efficacy of prayer ?"

I believe, at all events, in its beneficial influence
very often on the individual who prays.
Whether his prayers affect the decrees of an
omniscient Deity is another question."

Sylvia was silent again, until she said, *

"Does that concern us? We trouble ourselves
too much, perhaps, with what lies beyond
our sight. In all ages earnest men have
found comfort and strength in prayer — even
men who could only cry , ' Lord, help thou mine
unbelief.' Though you should be a fatalist, it
seems to me that, to be logical, you should not
forego a habit which you admit is of service 



the person who prays. As to the repetitious of
our service," she added, with a little hesitation,
*' it is a poor excuse for not attending it, that
these * irritate you.' Thej^ may be blemishes
in a beautiful liturgy, and the time may come
when they are removed ; but their very reiteration
has impressed upon our minds in childhood
the words that have recurred to many in solitude
and despair, when no book was at hand.
There are people who only believe in extempore
prayer. I can understand it, where the mind
is very highly strung ; but, in nine cases out often,
it seems to me like professional 'improvisation,'
an outpouring of conventional phrases,
without the close symmetry and strength of the
old Reformers' language, and "

Oh ! no one feels the beauty and grandeur
of the old diction more than I do," interrupted
Wilfred. " Only it seldom interprets what I do
feel, and constantly proclaims what I contr

'rand it does not occur to you where the
fault lies ?"

*'I say distinctly that the fault lies in making
me read or repeat in church what should only

be au historical or intellectual pleasure. Take
the Psalms , for instance. Some of them are
magnificent as poetry, outbursts of thunderous
triumph, wild winds of lamentation, tender allegories,
rich in Hebrew colouring, redolent of the
odours of the East. But how many of those
songs have any meaning — can really speak to
the hearts of the many English people who read
them daily? One or two favourite verses, of
universal application, will recur to the mind,
and to the lips too, perhaps, at certain times.
But think how the general temper of the
Psalms — its intolerance, its vindictive ferocity
runs counter to the spirit of Christianity, and
ask yourself how much a congregation can FEEL
of the words it listens to, and the response
it utters — words that belong to a condition
alien (thank heaven !J from anything we experience
now !"

This language was new to Sylvia : she was
startled. What he said was, perhaps, true ; but
her fine intelligence told her there was something
as drift he did not perceive. They drove
on awhile without speaking; Mrs. Brabazoa

absorbed in her novel, Wilfred watching the
beautiful and thoughtful face opposite to him.
At last she spoke.

''I cannot think that the Psalms are meant
to express the feelings of a congregation. But,
if you will make them so, cannot all you dislike
be applied metaphorically to that fight with our
passions and our pride of intellect, in which we
should pray for a spiritual conquest? The
materialists of the present day, may we not say
of them that they have ' deceitful lips, and the
tongue that speaketh proud things;' which have
said, with our tongue will we prevail : we are
they that ought to speak : who is Lord over usT
'They that run after another God' may as well
be the worshippers of Science as the makers of
graven images."

Your translation is ingenious, Miss Braba-
son ; but you do not mean to say that one in
ten thousand who reads the Psalms ever thinks
of them in that fashion ? They are not read in
church for ihatr

They seem to me to be wisely retained
in our service, as recording the wrath and

the struggles, the sins, and the repentance
of a people fighting for their God and their
country in the fierce infancy of the world.
They are the songs and lamentations of a nation
who ' like sheep have gone astray ;' and of a
great king, who, though a good man, had also
sinned grievously. Have you never been struck
by the fact that the men whom Scripture records
as having been chosen by God to do the
greatest work, were never immaculate *? There
is only One who was so. The sins of Abraham
Jacob, David, Solomon, Paul, Peter, and many
others who might be said to be God's special
instruments, are recorded with particularity.
If one looks at it aright, how instructive that
is — that practical illustration of ' The Prodigal
Son !' "

You would say that none are so fallen from
grace but that they may do God's work? I
fail to see how that is shown in the Psalms —
though the position you take up for them is the
very best, in fact, the only tenable one, it seems
to me."

Surely it is well to be reminded that this
VOL. II. F

handful of people, whether wandering in the
wilderness, or surrounded by idolatrous nations,
kept alive their faith in God ? They sinned in
all sorts of ways, over and over again ; but " —
here she raised her large lovely eyes to his —
in their own savage way they had a religion.
They prayed."

The carriage stopped.

•* Dio mio ! Is this the Campo santo ?" cried
Mrs. Brabazon, laying down her book ; for,
often as she had been in Horae, she had never
been here. "And is that great pyramid a
Protestant tomb, Sylvia V

No ; it is an ancient Roman monument — the
tomb of Pains Cestus, mamma. It stood in the
Via Appian, till Aurelian built that wall. Won't
sou get out V

*■' Ah ! wherefore I get out, my dear ? It is
so melancholy . . I like what is allegro . . . how
you say? cheerful, Milor. What is sad come
soon enough . . . and death " — here she sighed,
"ah! I have known it too well. I rather
turn my eyes away."

How curious it is," said Athelstone, as

Sylvia and he walked along, " that what your
mother expresses — a terror of the idea of death,
the impossibility of contemplating it without
emotion — never seems to have been felt by the
-early Greeks. The figures on their tombs
express loving regret at a temporary parting.
It is a mother, with a smile, patting the cheek
of her young boy — a warrior stroking his
favourite charger — a husband and wife grasping
hands with dignified and cheerful mien — no
tears, no violent despair. It seems to have
been reserved for the Christian religion, v/ith
its doctrine of the resurrection, and hopes of
tri mortality to introduce the spectacle of inconsolable
sorrow on its monuments."

"■ Had not Stoicism something to do with the
repression of emotion among the Greeks?" said
Sylvia. " They thought it proper, not only to
die, like Caesar, ' with decent dignity,' but also
to mourn with it."

"And they were right," returned Wilfred,
with his usual rapidity. " There is something
far nobler and more really religious in that old
Pagan way of viewing the dissolution of body

f2

and soul, that in that of many Christians, who
belie the faith they profess. The idea of
investing death with such terror is due to those
monkish times when hell-flames began to take
so prominent a place in theology, and grinning
devils pitch-forked the unorthodox into everlasting
torment. All that is unworthy of the
present day. — Ah ! here lies poor John Keats."

They paused before the tomb, and read its
sad inscription.

I hope he knows now that his name is not
writ in water,' but is ' a joy for ever,' " said
Sylvia.

Poor fellow ! I have such an intense admiration
and sympathy for him ! I could never
be ' snuffed out by an article ' — I am too tough.
But I love this fair earth and all it contains, ashe
did ; and can fancy no hereafter unconnected
with it."

She did not deem it needful to reply.
They walked on in silence, till they stood
before the elder and greater brother-poet's
grave.

*' I love that inscription," he exclaimed, after

a while. " When I die, I could wish for nothing
better than that those exquisite lines from
The Tempest ' I read on this stone could, with
truth, be inscribed on mine —

Nothing of him that doth fade,
But doth suffer a sea-change
Into something rich and strange.' "

Miss Brabazon stood looking at the stone fora
few moments in silence.

Yes — I do not object to them ; though
many would do so , as expressing no Christian
hope. But they seem to me appropriate
to Shelley ; for I translate them after my own
manner."

'' And how is that ?"

*' His sea-like music, with its unrestrained ebb
and flow of passion, remains with us ; it does
not fade. That which has faded from us is the
loving human soul which after all, was but half
expressed in his poetry, which was struggling
to the light, through clouds of error and revolt,
and which in other realms is gaining a more
perfect knowledge and a wider range of sight."

"You have a singular faculty for making

-words assume the colour you desire they
should wear," said Wilfred, with a smile, in
which there was admiration, and no tinge of
sarcasm. He stooped, and picked two violets,
one of which he gave her. " They are the first
I have seen this year. Will you keep this in
recollection of our few minutes' talk here today
? And, if we both live to be grey-haired,
let us look at our violets, and compare our
thoughts on some subjects with what they now
are."

She took the violet in silence. She has it
still, in a secret drawer of the old leather desk
which was her father's.

On the Pincio there was the usual Sunday
crowd of carriages and pedestrians. The
Brabazon carriage drew up on the terrace, and
in a few minutes Lady Bannockburn and her
daughter appeared. Lady Frances glanced
rapidly at Sylvia, and then at Lord Athelstone.
He had alighted, and was standing at the door.
He handed both ladies into the carriage, said a
few friendly words ; and, as the coachman had

orders to drive on, Wilfred raised his hat and
walked away.

"Where have you been driving?" asked
Lady Frances of her friend.

*^ Only to the Protestant burial-ground."

Lord Athelstone went with you f

Yes. He met us as we were starting for
our drive, and said he wanted to go there. As
it is such a short distance, mamma offered to
take him, before coming here."

A pause. Then Lady Frances said, abruptly,

How do you like him , dear, on further
acquaintance ?"

He interests me, I confess."

So I see. You think him clever and agreeable.
But have you formed any opinion as to
his character V

"He seems unsettled in his views' replied
Sylvia, with a little hesitation, "and thinks, or
at all events says, a great deal now that I hope
he will recant by-and-by. But that there is
much that is good in him, I feel sure''

*' I wish I did," said Lady Frances, quickly ;

and then, turning to her mother, called her
attention to the glorious sunset-effect over St.
Peter's.

No more passed between the two friends,
during that drive, which the whole world might
not have been admitted to hear.

CHAPTER V.

FT was the first dinner-party at which Lady
-^ Athelstone had presided since her lord's
death; the first time she had laid aside her
crape. The year of weeds and seclusion,
prescribed by unalterable laws, was past by
some months now ; the time was come when,
in justice to her son, she said, having a due
regard to his interests, she must open her doors,
and bring " society of his own class " about him.
Whether he would not stray from the fold, she
confessed to herself with a sigh, was very
doubtful ; but she must do her best.

She was a very well-preserved woman of
forty-seven, and still looked pretty by candlelight
; albeit a little stiff*, and not quite as self-possessed

as in the old days, when she had no
anxieties, and the mechanism of her life was in
perfect working order. She did not feel sure
to-day about the Italian man-cook ; and still
less about the amalgamation of her guests ;
and, less than all, about Wilfred's deporting
himself towards those guests with a duly-balanced
measure of cordiality. The guests at
Athelstone had always been of one colour, and
about her dear lord's behaviour she had never
experienced any anxiety.

She was alone, standing by the fire in her
simple but handsome black dress, a piece of
white lace in her still raven hair, when the
Bishop was announced. He was a tall,
imposing-looking man, with a very cheery,
pleasant manner, who enjoyed life thoroughly,
and discarded his impressive delivery with his
lawn-sleeves, retaining just so much dignity as
was consistent with an apron, and no more.
He had only seen Lady Athelstone at church,
or in the street, behind a crape veil, and he was
quite struck now by her attractive appearance.

*' My son will be down directly. 1 am sure he

Till be shocked not to be here to receive you,"
said Lady Athelstone.

'•' Don't mention it. Men of my cloth are
unfashionably punctual, you know. I am
delighted at the opportunity of having a little
conversation with you before your guests arrive.
I trust, Lady Athelstone, you are here for the
Avhole winter?"

I think so. It depends on my son. I am
sorry to say he does not care about his parliamentary
duties as much as I could wish."

He is young," said the Bishop, benevolently,
and cares more for poetry at present, I am
told. Well, we must have patience. The time
will come when he will be disposed to turn his
talents to a practical account, no doubt."

^^^ Ah ! I hope so," sighed Lady Athelstone,
for I deplore the use he turns them to now.
His poems give the world such a false impression
of him, Bishop. You have not read them,
of course f

'' No ; I have not read them."

They have made a great stir ; he has been
compared with Byron and Shelley. It is so sad

to misapply such genius. I wish I knew what
to do about it. If he would only write something
like ' The Christian Year.' I wonder
whether it Avould be of any use your speaking
to him, Bishop ?"

I have not yet made Lord Athelstone's
acquaintance, and, until we have seen a little
of each other, I could not take such a liberty.
I daresay he does not think much of the authority
of the Church," added the Bishop, smiling.
" I must endeavour, in time, to get the
hold of friendship over him, if any words of
mine are to have effect."

Mr. Briggs was here announced, and swerved
into the room, his face unusually rosy, and his
frizzy red hair in a state of wild surprise. As
Lady Athelstone did not know him, she rose (it
was too annoying Wilfred's not appearing to
receive Its friends !) and bowed, with a tight-clutched
handkerchief and fan, murmuring that
her son would be down directly But the
jovial Briggs was nowise confused at having
to return to his trousers-pocket unclasped the
hand he had stretched out.

Mr. Briggs," said the genial Bishop, hastening
to oil the stiffness of his reception, " I think
we should become acquainted. I had the great
pleasure of visiting your studio the other day.
You were not at home, but I was admitted,
and saw your pictures, some of which I admired
very much."

I am glad to hear it, my lord. I am glad
you were not scandalized," returned the
painter, with a laugh that made him look like
one of Teniers' favourite studies. " I don't find
that all people are as liberal."

That ' Nest of Infants ' among the beech-leaves
is beautiful in colour, and original," said
the Bishop, ignoring Briggs's direct challenge
to pronounce upon the Senses and nymphs in
various stages of dishabille, for which he was
most renowned. " And that portrait of a lady
in a Venetian dress is really a masterpiece. I
am sure I have seen the-original in our congregation,"
continued his lordship, turning to Lady
Athelstone.

It is Miss Brabazon," replied Briggs, *' and
she is far more beautiful than my portrait."

"She dines here," observed Lady Athelstone,
in a minor key.

Oh, I am delighted," struck in the Bishop,
in a loud major. '• I have wished to know that
charming face ever since I saw it coming out of
church."

The charming face, behind the still handsome
one of her mother, appeared at that moment
in the doorway. The Bishop, with his keen
enjoyment of all beautiful things, was greatly
struck by the picture as they stood there a
moment, Mrs. Brabazon's dress having caught
in the door. The grand Italian head looked
tragic, hung about with its black lace ; its expression
was full of tribulation, though it was
only about a torn skirt. The younger one, like
that of an angel of consolation, bent in sympathy
behind. She wore a pearl net over her
hair, and her white dress was embroidered with
seed-pearls.

*' Quite a Portia !" murmured the Bishop to
Briggs, who stood beside him.

But Wilfred followed close upon their heels.
Had he purposely abstained from appearing

hitherto ? No, let us not do him that injustice ;
punctuality was a sort of religion with him.
Lady Athelstone presented him to the Bishop,
and Wilfred apologized as much as good breeding
demanded, and no more, for his tardiness.
The broad-chested dignity and geniality of the
Bishop, in whom the man of God and the man
of the world were so happily blent that publicans
and sinners did not shrink from intercourse
with him, won Wilfred at once. He was
always susceptible to manner.

The other guests now arrived in rapid succession,
the last being Lady Dorchester and
Miss Whitley, whose resemblance to a pug was
heightened on this occasion by her head looking
as if it was screwed into a dog-collar, so
wide and so tight was the gold-studded band
strapped round her poor little throat.

Lady Dorchester was very effusive to Lady
Bannockburn, whom she had not seen since
the Marlborough House ball, at the end of the
season, and, as she sank into the sofa beside
that lady, she continued, sotto voce —

Very mixed society in Rome this year — so

few people one has ever beard of before. You
may judge by the company here. That 
woman opposite, with the
wonderfully dressed daughter, who looks like
the heroine of a drame at the Porte St. Martinis
"

*' Oh !" interrupted Lady Bannockburn, quietly,.
you mean the Brabazons. They are great
friends of ours — the most charming girl in the-world."


Lady Dorchester drew in her horns.

*' Really ! Oh ! if you know them, it is different.
The girl's dress is generally rather
outre, and, not knowing anything about
them "

I can tell you all about them, if you wish
to know," said Lady Bannockburn, relentlessly.
Mr. Brabazon was of as good a family as any
of us."

"Really!" ejaculated Lady Dorchester again.

Miss Brabazon might have married the Duo
de Marly five years ago, if she had chosen." —
Lady Dorchester now understood why these
people were invited here. Lady Athelstone

felt that she, haply, might be entertaining a
future duchess unawares. — "But she is a remarkable
girl : she will never marry until she is
in love," continued Lady Bannockburn.

There is a desperate flirtation going on
mercy I am told," whispered Lady Dorchester,
behind her fan. 'but Lord Athelstone is nota
marrying man, I fancy — very immoral. I
should be very sorry for my girl to be seen much
with him. Of course we all heard about that
Madame Uberti at Florence ; but I am told
there was some dreadful scandal about a girl in
his own village before that, and that is the
reason Lady Athelstone has been so much
abroad since her widowhood."

Did Lady Dorchester think that abuse of
Athelstone must be agreeable to the ears on
which it fell ? Or, as a disappointed mother,
could she not forbear from discharging a little
virtuous venom ?

Lady Bannockburn was saved from the necessity
of a rejoinder by the announcement of
dinner. She did not like Lady Dorchester, and
had no mind to discuss Lord Athelstone, whose

VOL. II. G

hospitality she thought fit to accept, with this
vulgar-minded woman. Lady Bannockburn had
once or twice expressed herself strongly with
her intimate friends as to Lord Athelstone's
deterioration : ^' He was so nice when we first

knew him at Florence, but " She was a

lady, however, and knew what was due to her
own dignity. To shim the Athelstan now
would be an open acknowledgment of her disappointment
; she met the mother with all her
old friendliness ; she even accepted this invitation,
though she would rather not have done
so ; but she would not sit at his board, and
speak evil of her host.

He took her in to dinner, and manoeuvred
successfully, for some time, to keep the place on
his left vacant for Miss Brabazon. In this he
was defeated by the young lady herself, who,
following immediately after her mother, whispered
rapidly to her, in Italian, to go and
occupy this seat. Lady Frances, who was just
sitting down, between young Beauport and
Mr. Spooner, observed with her sharp eyes what

passed, as also the contraction of the young
lord's brow.

Lady Dorchester who found the rubicund
Briggs seating himself beside hers turned to the
Marchese Tivoli, who had taken her in, and
inquired who the extraordinary-looking man
between her and Miss Brabazon was. Being
informed that he was a famous English painter,
she thought it well to be gracious ; and, as
Sylvia was occupied in meeting the courteous
advances of the bishop on the other side, Briggs,
with his keen sense of humour amused himself
by " drawing out " the fine lady beside him.
Very soon his rich jovial laugh echoed round
the table. Lady Athelstone looked startled, so
did Miss Whitley: but there was no withstanding
Briggs ; he was contagious ; actually Lady
Dorchester was convulsed with laughter. Then
he attacked Mr. Spooner (dodging him between
the scarlet poinsetia leaves across the table),
who smiled a thin, acid smile, and said nothing;
but Lady Frances, with her courage and her
ready wit, seized the cudgels for the professor,

gand

attacked the painter in return; and then
all the table laughed, and voices rose, and conversation
became general.

Lady Athelstone was much troubled as to
how the bishop would take such hilarity ; but
he was delighted.

'' Mr. Spooner is a clever writer, but I think
it will do him no harm to be a little chaffed," he
said, with a confidential chuckle, to Sylvia.
"Lady Frances's adversary, however, is very
able. And'' — here he dropped his voice yet
lower — '* your neighbour is vulnerable. He is
armed for the fray, but between the greaves his
adversary's arrows pierce."

'' 1 think he hardly feels a scratch," replied
Miss Brabazon, with a smile. " At all events,
no wound rankles ; and he cannot understand
that any of those he inflicts should do
so."

I am sure you ought not to eat that salmi,
Spooner," Briggs was saying, with a loud laugh.
*' We look to yon, as our model of asceticism.
St. Anthony never Avould have yielded to a
salmi ! How can you keep your high standard

of purity, if you indulge in 'sugar and spice,
and all that's nice T

'* I should conceive that you occasionally
exercised a little mortification of the flesh yourself,
when you dine at Lepre's for a few centering,
as you told me you did," said the professor,
with a leisurely asperity. " But possibly
you like gross food — it may assimilate better
with your nature."

I dine at Lepre's because it's cheap," laughed
Briggs. "If I were rich, like you, Spooner, a
fellow of a college, and writing beautiful books
about art that all the young ladies read, I
should dine on turtle and venison. As to
gross food,' bless you, I'm not afraid of becoming
fat. That's what makes me so lenient to
the follies of my fellow-creatures. Now, if I
were sentimental "

Instead of fleshimental,'' struck in Wilfred,
laughing.

'^I should take a melancholy view of the
case Lady Dorchester has just been telling me
about, of "

Pray stop ; what I said was not for the

^vhole table," interrupted the lady, alarmed.

Ah ! I should be very sorry ever to tell you
a secret, Mr. Briggs," cried Lady Frances.

*try me ; I am a perfect well."

I had rather let well alone," returned the
little lady, with a laugh.

"Mr. Briggs has certainly divulged a good
many secrets to us," observed the Bishop, with
a twinkle of his eye; then, after a raoment^s
pause, he gracefully removed any sting that
might have been conveyed in his words, by
adding — 'for none will the world be more
grateful than for those difficult secrets to penetrate
and to transmit — the character of his
sitters."

Here the Bishop glanced at his neighbour.

'' My sense of truth compels me to say, my
lord, that I fear your compliment is due to your
having seen but 07ie portrait, that of not only a
perfectly beautiful person, but one whose character
is apparent to any student of physiognomy
in the fine balance of the parts. Few painters
are fortunate enough to have such a model ;
and it would require a Leonardo da Vinci to da

her justice. To seize the spirituality of the. face
is beyond the power of any living man."

He said this as coolly as though he spoke of
somebody miles distant , but everyone knew to
whom he alluded. Lady Dorchester, indeed,
asked where this marvel of perfection was to be
found, but it was understood to be one of those
questions that are not meant to be answered,
and are only propounded to relieve the querist
of a surcharge of spite.

Bliss Brabazon looked straight before her ; she
did not smile, and the colour mounted to her
cheek. The Bishop said something, but she
did not hear him. Lady Frances tried to divert
attention from her friend by the general
proposition that the mouth was the only feature
which was a sure indication of character;
no one could ever be deceived in that,

Wilfred muttered something about " a cad,^'
which was only heard by Lady Bannockburn ;
but Sylvia, glancing towards him, saw the
scowl on his face, as did also Lady Frances.

Presently, the buzz of conversation having
become general again, Sylvia turned to the

painter, and said, with a warmth very unusual
to her,

*' I have known you a long time, Mr. Briggs,
and I have a regard for you ; but, if you had any
real friendship for me, you would not make me
appear so ridiculous, as such fulsome flattery
can only make a woman. Perhaps I ought to
pretend not to know whom you meant just now.
I prefer to tell you that such compliments in
society are in the worst taste, and that, if you
repeat the offence, I shall — well, you will nd
it difficult to appease my resentment."

I am awfully sorry," responded the contrite
Briggs. " I only said what I think. I couldn't
say otherwise without lying."

Why speak of me at all ? Such absurd
praise only irritates the world against tie
object of it. Half the men and women here are
saying to themselves, if not to each other,
She is a mass of sanity ; she likes that adulation,
she drinks it all in, and she makes her
friends of those who will administer the intoxicating
draught without stint.' Do you not see
how unfair this is to me ?"

Briggs, for once in this life, looked discomfited
; but the Bishop addressed an observation to
3Iiss Brabazon at that moment, and when Lady
Dorchester asked the painter if he agreed with
sir. Spooner, whom she had just heard stating
that Overbear was the Rafifaelle of modern
times — " Raffaelle before his fall " — it acted like
a red rag to a bulk Briggs plunged into the
fray once more with undiminished ardour, careless
of whom he tossed on the horns of his
mockery.

"What is that, Spooner? Desecrate the
sacred name of Raffaelle by giving it to that
emasculated old plagiarist? Religious painting,
indeed ! A pack of dry bones stolen from
the old fellows, without a spark of originality —
no colour, no life !"

Colour and life are inseparable from some
measure of sensuality in art," observed the
professor, not looking at Briggs, but gazing
round the table. '' Compare the spiritual
abstraction of Fra Angelico, that purest of the
pure painters, with the domination of animal
instincts in Lippe Lippi. There is no pandering

to the lust of the eyes, no voluptuous pasturage
of form and colour in the work of the
man who prepared himself by prayer and fasting
to represent the joys of Paradise. Let the
colourists," — here his spectacles flashed for a
moment upon Briggs — 'Met the colourists keep
to their gross mythology, which is the apotheosis
of unbridled passions, their unities and their
meretricious splendour, let them not approach
the white-robed mysteries of Faith. They
splash and flounder about in their sea of Tyrian
dyes, but the patient perfection of an angel's
wing, the virginal fold of immaculate draperies,
are not for such as these."

Why, Spooner," cried Briggs, with undiminished
good-humour, '' to hear you talk, one
would think colour was one of the seven deadly
sins ! Who painted the sky blue, and the fields
green, and a woman's lips red? What piety is
there in shutting one's eyes upon the fair
things of this world more than in tying up
one's leg and hopping with a crutch?"

It is Written, ' If thine eye offend thee ' — "
"But it doesn't offend me," interrupted

Briggs, " and if I were moved to * pluck it out,
and cast it from ' me, I should have no business
to paint pictures, or to write about them,
either."

I suppose we should all be agreed' said
Lady Frances, *' that the first necessity of a
picture is that it should delight our eyes ;
though different methods appeal to different
minds."

^*It is the method for which I contend,"
replied the professor, ignoring the truculent
Briggs henceforth, and addressing his remarks
through Lady Frances to the table at large.
'' The painter who with purity of high intent,
would approach certain subjects, must divest
himself of all '''

Not of all his clothes, Spooner ?" suggested
the dreadful man opposite ; but the speaker,
loftily unmindful of him, continued,

**^ — Must divest himself of every hindrance to
the swift passage of the soul into a region
where the air is rarified and earth-mists do not
rise. He shall leave behind him the idolatry
of beauty and the license of tangible delights,

and, soaring upwards, with steady beat of
wing, shall reach, if he have the strength, to
the effulgence of unclouded light. It is the
ambition of the noblest art — the art that is
entirely noble, and does not pander to sensual
appetites for form and colour — to lift us with
it above the world we grovel in."

*' What you say is very true, and very
admirably put," said the courtly Bishop, anxious
to conciliate all parties ; " but, as Mr. Briggs
suggested just now, the Creator of this beautiful
world ^ saw that it was good.' It was created
for man ; is it for him to call ' unclean,' and
shut his eyes upon, that which his Alaker has
approved ? The true wisdom of the painter or
poet — " he paused for an instant, and Lady
Athelstone coughed— *' is surely to use, not to
abuse, the lovely materials that he finds all
round him. Wordsworth has taught us how,
in the commonest things "

The Bishop went on talking for some time,
but Wilfred, and those at his end of the table,
heard no more ; for the latter exclaimed, just
loud enough to reach the two or three round him,

'*Wlio reads Wordsworth now? He is so
awfully prosy. If you want nature, read Walt
Whitman."

I would as soon read a street directory, ora
universal gazetteer' said Lady Bannockburn.
Sooner, indeed, for my sense of decency
would not be offended, as it is, in a writer quine
vous fait grace de rien

Ah ! you have still insular prejudices. Lady
Bannockburn. You must get rid of them before
you can like the bold utterances of this lawless
poet."

I have no desire to get rid of them," she
replied, quickly; and later, in the 
she said to the Bishop — " Nothing seems
to be liked now but what is strange and new,
even though it sins against all laws of propriety
and good taste. It is sad to see a young man of
talent, like Lord Athelstone, becoming so perverted.
I was glad you spoke as you did at
dinner, Bishop, about the use and abuse of
materials. It touched him more than Mr.
Spooner's very high-flown language and exaggerated
spirituality ever could do."

At the same moment Lady Dorchester was
saying to Lady Athelstone,

Really your dinner-table was like a Portico,
where the Greek philosophers assembled. I
never heard so much talk about art and ethics
in my life before. I feel so learned, my dear,
only rather confused, between the Bishop and
Mr. Spooner, and that wonderful man, the
painter, who sat next me. He is very amusing,
like nothing one ever saw before ; but startling
in appearance and manner, certainly."

'eyes," said her hostess, apologetically,
"Wilfred thinks that cleverness covers everything;
but I saw that even he was annoyed
during dinner. The Bishop was most good-natured
about it; he assured me he liked Mr.
Briggs in spite of everything ; but I confess that
I — I shrink from anyone so boisterous."

The object of these remarks had taken a
chair beside Lady Frances, who was an old
acquaintance of his. They always sparred, but
were excellent friends.

*' Does Miss ]3rabazon mean to marry Lord
Athelstone V" he asked, abruptly.

She gave him a rapid glance, and replied,

"If I knew, do you think I should tell you,
Mr. Briggs ? What makes you ask ?"

"Judging by appearances, I should say, if
she wants to marry him, she can. He has
hardly taken his eyes off her all night."

"It is a way he has," said Lady Frances,
drily.

But I can't detect that she gives him any
encouragement — on the contrary," continued
Briggs. 'look how she has hemmed herself
in between Lady Bannockburn and Spooner, so
that Lord Athelstone can't get near her. I
hope she means it. I hope she won't have
him."

"Why?"

He is not up to her mark."

Do you know a man who is '^. After your
speech at dinner "

Don't mention that. I put my foot in if.
She was awfully angry."

I am not surprised."

"I think she was angrier than the occasion
warranted ; and I had a suspicion why it was.

But perhaps I was wrong. It looks like it
now."

^Yhat looks like it ? What do sou mean r

*' I thought — I fancied she might be annoyed
that Lord Athelstone should hear my enthusiastic
praise of her ; though how an artist's
admiration could trouble a mighty young lord,
I don't quite see. Anyhow, she was really
angry, and gave it me hot and strong."

Wilfred was still hovering round the sofa on
which Miss Brabazon sat.

"Will you sing that song of Clement Mart's
I liked so much ?" he asked.

*' I don't know the accompaniment on the
piano. I sing it to the lute."

"Will you sing something else, then ?"

'*I am afraid I know nothing by heart on
the piano. I never sing but at home, and then
generally old songs, or stornelli, that go best
with the lute."

He turned to the further end of the room,
where Carton was.

Come and sing something. I can't persuade
Miss Brabazon."

Oh ! I daresay when I have sung she will,"
said the attache, going to the piano.

He sang a song of Schumann's with taste
and accompanied himself even better than he
sang.

Will you not try Gounod's * Binding' with
me, Miss Brabazon?" he asked, when he had
finished. "You know it went very well one
night when we tried it."

She was anxious not to have come forward
prominently that evening; but what excuse
could she make? She rose, and stood at the
young man's side, and their voices floated upwards,
blending happily together. There was
unanimous applause.

"The difficulty is overcome," said Wilfred.
Now, will you not give us something alone —
something for me ?"

She was sorry, she replied, that she could
not; Mr. Carton certainly could not accompany
anything she knew ; she sang songs that nobody
else did ; and, as she said this, she moved away
from the piano. The attache, with a smile,
immediately began playing some of the stornelli

VOL. II. H

he had caught up from hearing her sing them
once or twice.

"What excuse can you make now?" he
asked, laughing.

Do be persuaded," pleaded the Bishop.

She, who had never made a difficulty about
singing in her life before, stood at bay for a
moment.

"Dear Sylvia," said Lady Frances, *'I was
your godmother to-night. I promised three
things in your name. You have only performed
one. Don't disgrace me."

Then she turned back ; the ground of resistance
was cat from under her feet, and by
Frances Cope herself. Until the carriages where
announced, she continued singing, as the young
man recalled, one after another, wild songs of
the people he remembered.

"I think, upon the whole," said Lady Athelstan,
in a tentative manner, to her son, as soon
as they were alone, " taking into consideration
the mixture, you know, it went off pretty well
eh, dear? The Bishop was really quite

pleased. He thanked me for such a pleasant
evening."

The Bishop is a brick. I like him very
much. I'm only sorry I asked that fellow
Briggs. He is a noisy cad."

I was afraid you liked his manners, dear.
The Bishop was very considerate and kind
about him but "

Oh ! he found him a relief from Spooner, I
daresay, who * orated ' us like an American
lecturer. No, I can't say I should recommend
this mixture *to be taken as before.' That
young Carton is a conceited ass.^^

"Really, my dear? I thought him so nice
and obliging in singing, and so good-natured in
accompanying Miss Brabazon — eh ?"

Good-natured ! Anyone could see how his
vanity was flattered. She refused twice to
sing when I asked her."

Lady x\thelstone had something on the tip
of her tongue ; but justice, in defence of young
Barton, yielded to discretion, in the interests of
her impetuous and irrational son. She was not

h2

such a fool as some people thought her.

And the burden of his irritation, as he
smoked a solitary pipe before going; to bed, was
ever —

Why does she let such a fellow as that
beaver her with compliments ? I should
never dare to use such language — it's almost an
insult — as though she were public property.
And why would she sing for anyone who asked
her but me?"

CHAPTER VI.

"FIARLY one morning two ladies were seen
-^ riding out into the Campagna, followed
by a groom.

*rit is extraordinary they should be such
friends," said Miss Whitley who watched them
from her window , *' after the way they say he
behaved to Lady Frances last year."

Some women have no feeling," replied her
mother. ''I always thought Lady Frances a
heartless little creature."

It was the heartless little creature who had
planned this ride, and had chosen an hour when
she and Sylvia would be unmolested. They
rode out through the Porta Sahara, upon the
vast solitary plain — cette terre, fatigue de

gloire, qui semble designer de produire' as
Madame de Stael calls it. It was one of those
mornings not uncommon at Rome, when there
is an almost oppressive stillness in the air.
There was no visible movement in the clouds
that hung around Mount Horace, nor in the
leathered asphodel on the plain. The shepherd,
stretched full length on the short warm grass,
scarcely lifted his head at the sound of the
horses' feet. Everything in nature seemed to
have lost its energy.

And the influence was felt by the two friends.
For some time neither spoke : till at last
Lady Frances broke silence with these words,

*' I want to say something to you, dear Sylvia,
and I scarcely know how to begin. It is so
difficult to speak on certain subjects without
seeming to ask for a confidence — which I should
be the last to do. Only from myself, at least, I
feel there ought to be some openness, or you may
misunderstand, and be — be unhappy about me.
Do not imagine that I care any longer about
Lord Athelstone. I give you my word, Sylvia,
be is as indifferent to me as that shepherd

lying there. There was a time — well, I need
not refer to that. I was a fool, I suppose. I
can only say I am exceedingly obliged to him.
Looking at him with the eyes I now do, I would
not be married to him for any consideration
upon earth."

Sylvia, who had shown no surprise or emotion
of any kind hitherto, but kept her eyes
riveted on the pale blue outline of the Allan
hills, turned and looked into her friend's
face.

*' Why ?" she asked, slowly.

"Because he has no stability of character
and, as long as he lives, will be driven hither
and thither by any chance wind that catches
him. Perhaps few men are rocks to anchor
one's hopes on ; but he certainly is not one of
them."

"He is young. You must not be too hard on
him, Fanny."

Yes, darling, he is very young. That is what

I want you not to forget. You are the soul of

loyalty, and therefore, perhaps, you discourage

his attentions on my account. But since I tell

vol. iu K

you the simple truth, that I no longer care for
him, you may be moved by his devotion — for
he is devoted, at present, to you. Anyone can
see that. It isn't to probe your feelings, dear,
that I speak ; but to warn you in time. He is
unstable as water, and has no principle whatever."


*' That is a hard saying, Fanny."

It is not a bit too hard. T know what you
think— that my foolish vanity led me to attach
a meaning to his preference for our society last
year which he never intended. Perhaps it was
so. But there are far worse charges against
him. His is what is called ' the poet's temperaments
I suppose. He is carried away by every
gust of temptation, without making an effort
to resist. Such men are better not married.
Isn't it Monckton Milnes who says,

. . . the heaven-enfranchised poet
Must have no exclusive home ;

He must feel, and gladly show it,
Phantasy is made to roam.

He must give his passions range . . . ' "

Sylvia was silent for some minutes.

•**Dear Fanny," she said at last, "is it only

on account of that Florentine lady you speak
of him as carried away by every gust of
temptation ?"

'' No, it is not," replied Lady Frances, with
a mixture of hesitation and decision — decision
in the negative, hesitation as to how much beyond
this she should say. " I have heard things
more than once ; even the other night mamma
was told something about his conduct at home
in his own village. It may not be true, but for
it to be said, and be believed, shows how his
character there is regarded."

He is not likely to conciliate opinions in a
country neighbourhood. You know he is
essentially a frondeur, and I think sufficient
allowance is not made for him, considering the
disadvantages under which he has evidently
always laboured."

Disadvantages ? What can you mean f '

His mother, though she worships, does not
the least understand him, it is clear. His
father, he tells me, was an excellent man, but
had no sympathy with any of his son's pursuits.
He was an only child, and, of course, made a

great deal of, but bad no one to talk out the
ideas upon religion and life that were simmering
in the boy's active brain. He feeds on
Shelley, and, Avben he goes to Oxford is thrown
with a set of young men all more or less sceptical.
Are not these great disadvantages ?
With his peculiar temperament, can you wonder
at the result '?"

I don't wonder at it at all," returned her
friend. *' All I say is, that such a man would
make a woman like you wretched. There are
women who might marry him, and not mind.
Oh ! Sylvia dear, when I used to write to you
last winter, how very differently I thought of
him I I seem to have grown years older since
then — and my eyes are opened."

Sylvia rode on for a little while without reply.
At last she said,

** I daresay he has behaved very foolishly —
very wrongly, dear Fanny ; but he is not corrupt
at heart, I feel certain of that. And I do
believe that his present condition is only a
transitory state, out of which a far finer character

may arise than casual observers think
possible."

Lady Frances pursed up her lips, and instead
of replying, as she felt inclined, said something
quite different.

I hope it may turn out as you predict,.
Sylvia. I shall be the first to acknowledge I
was wrong. But as I do not share your belief,
1 also hope you will wait — at all events, a year
to see the effect of time, before you engage
yourself to become his wife."

The tears gathered in Sylvia's eyes ; she
looked away towards the purple line of the
sea. Presently she leant forward, and took her
friend's hand.

Whatever happens, I shall not forget your
words, dear — I shall not forget this ride."

Then, by tacit consent, they cantered across
the plain, and no more Alas said upon the subject
nearest to the hearts of both.

For two da's Wilfred Athelstone had abstained
from calling at the Hotel Czerny. He

was annoyed and puzzled by the change in
Miss Brabazon's manner of late — a change
which had been accentuated, in a way he could
not fail to perceive, on Monday night. It is
true he could not pretend to himself that he
had ever received any direct encouragement
from her. She never asked him to the house,
or to accompany them in any drive : it was he
who had to propose it. When her daily visits
to Lorenzaccio ceased — and it was impossible
for the wildest fatuity to misinterpret their
object — it was only by manoeuvre, or by direct
application, that he saw her.

*' And yet," he said, " if I am not a vain fool,
she takes no common interest in me. I have
read it in her eyes, which are so eloquent ; she
has shown it in her discussions with me, even
as late as on Sunday, though she scarcely
wished me to drive With them. What does
this avoidance of me mean ? She is not a girl
to be swayed by anything that others may say,
otherwise I might think that the Bannock-burns
But no, she forms her own judgments.
I have never tried to make myself out

to her a bit better than I am. But, with all my
faults, she likes me — might be brought to love

me, if "

Here he stopped short. What was the result
of his eve weeks' study of Sylvia Brabazon ?
Had he resolved to ask her to marry him ? He
was very sure he should never feel the same
admiration for any other woman — an admiration
which amounted almost to worship at
times— as he did for this one. She was not as
other women were, though none was more
womanly ; there was an originality, a poetry, a
nobility and independence about her which
captivated him the more he saw her. This
would not be a union born simply of passionate
desire , which, when satisfied by possession,,
would be sterile of sympathy. Their thoughts,
it was true, were opposed on many points, but
she struck chords which produced an echo
within him ; he felt spurred on, under her influence,
to run the race set before him, and win a
healthier renown, just as, under certain other
influences a year ago, he had lain down, enervated
by the heavy-scented flowers on the way

and done nothing better than write erotic
sonnets.

Why then, if he showed her this, as in some
measure he believed he had done, did she now
avoid him ? Spoiled child of fortune as he was,
it was a new and irritating sensation to find
the fruit which, at that moment, seemed the
only fruit in the world worth having, withheld,
when he had led himself to believe that, sooner
or later, it might drop from the tree into his
outstretched arms. He rode off to Ostia alone,
and spent some hours in the Fusano forest,
writing bitter, wrathful verses against the
fickleness of woman.

On his return after dusk, he found a three-cornered
note which acted like an April shower
upon bleak, wind-bitten fields in March. It
was ostensibly from Mrs. Brabazon, but the
handwriting and the diction were clearly her
daughter's. It ran thus :

If you have nothing better to do this evening,
will you come to our box at the 'Apollo"? —
the Bellotti-Bon Company, No. 2, is arrived ;

they give the ' Trionfo d'x\more,' a good specimen
of the modern Italian drama.
'' Yours truly,

GlACINTA BrABAZON."

He threw over a dinner with some men at the
English Club, dressed himself, and dined hastily
with his mother (who was too much accustomed
to his wayward moods to feel much surprised
at his hilarity), and arrived at the theatre a few
minutes after the play had begun.

Sylvia sat at the back of the box , and something
in her manner of shaking hands with him
made Wilfred feel at once that the restraint
which he had noticed in her of late was removed.
She said no word, neither did Mrs.
Brabazon, who sat in front beside another lady.
They came there to see the play, and not to
chatter. The faces of all three were turned resolutely
to the stage. Wilfred attempted to say
something to Sylvia, but she put her finger to
her lip with a smile; then he turned to the
book of the drama, and tried to master the
situation.

It was not till the termination of the act that
the attention of the three ladies was relaxed,
and their tongues unloosed.

"Milor', let me present you to Madame de
Surville — lafainosa, la diva "

Stop I my dear Giacinta ; this is a most un-english
mode of presentation ; you will frighten
Lord Athelstone out of the box' cried the lady,
with a humorous expression on her fine countenance
; she was indeed a remarkable-looking
person, andAVilfred, who only now saw her face
for the first time, as she turned completely
round, felt considerable curiosity as to who she
was. About her nationality there could be no
doubt, for she spoke English without the smallest
foreign accent or intonation. She had
reached middle-age : her hair, which was brushed
back from her face, was already grey ; she had
none of the adventitious aids of toilette to
soften the shadows and conceal the lines that
the years had left there. But there was an
eternal youth about the woman's nature which,
in spite of sorrow and suffering, shone out immediately
she spoke, and would prevent the

face from ever becoming old. The beautiful
eyes still kindled with enthusiasm or sparkled
with merriment ; the fine swerve of the lips
relaxed to laughter or curled with scorn, as in
her girlhood ; the voice was unrusted^ clear, and
ringing; the quick sympathy with all that was-human,
belonged to the fresh and eager climber,
rather than to one already on the descent over
life's weary road. She was dressed in black,
with a lace handkerchief tied under her chin ;
her hands, which were unloved and peculiarly
beautiful, and with which she gesticulated mora
than Englishwomen usually do, held a large
green fan.

Wilfred's curiosity was yet further excited
by Madame de Surville's next words.

*' How is your mother, Lord Athelstone ? I
knew her many years ago. I do not think she
will have quite forgotten me, though I have not
seen her since you were a baby in arms."

That I am sure she will not. My mother
has a very good memory."

She has many other good things too. Tell
her I have not forgotten her kindness to me

VOL. II. I

many years ago ; she was very pretty in those
days."

"I am sure my mother will do herself the
pleasure of calling on you," said Wilfred.

"Oh!" replied Madame de Surville, with a
gravity which was belied, only to a close observer,
by a slight twinkle in her eye, **I know
what a bore visits are, when you are travelling.
Do not let her give herself that trouble. 1 am
out driving almost all day. If she really wishes
to see me, I will call upon her — but I do not
go into society ; I pass my life between the
Campagna and the old clothes shops — don't I,
my Sylvia ?"

You certainly did, when we were in Rome
together two years ago," replied Miss Bra-bacon,
smiling. *' As you only arrived yesterday
"

My dear, I have already been to the * Ara
Coeli,' and bought such an enchanting bit of
tapestry ! It will require a great deal of repair
it is in rags — but the design "

She clasped her hands with a pantomimic

expression of ecstasy, while Mrs. Brabazon
cried —

Ah ! why you buy that robaccia ? You that
have so beautiful things, Barbara, in your horae
in Paris ! Why, there must be room no more
for one pin's 'eat."

'^My dear, we must make room somehow. I
couldn't do without these angels with their pots
of carnations and quaint birds — not if I had to
starve for it. They will be the sunshine of my
life I hope you are not strong-minded.
Lord Athelstone? If you don't care about
bric-a-brac, you will think me a very silly old
woman."

"I admire all that is old, and some things
that only call themselves so," said Wilfred,
smiling. " I want to buy some cabinets and
hangings myself, but I am quite ignorant about
what is good and what is rubbish, and I hope
miss Brabazon will help me to choose them."

"We will have a cabinet council?" cried
Madame de Surville. *' Next to buying myself,
I like helping my friends to buy. We won't

I 2

have yon, Giacinta. You will be telling us that
the wood is worm-eaten, and that the locks
won't lock, and that you saw a cabinet fifteen
years ago that was much better and cheaper.
I remember how you deterred me from buying*
a faded Genoa satin, on which I had set my
affections. I have never forgotten that satin —
and never forgiven you, my dear, never !"

Ah ! Sylvia make such follies once, but now
I say no more. She buy a stuff which go
crac ' the first time one sits himself down
on it."

Mamma highly approves of Miss Decker*"
said Sylvia, laughing, "because she said, when
she looked at my old Venetian portiere j * Well,
hoe like to put up our fixing's when they're new.
Fow, over here, seem only to hang them up
when they're worn out!'^'

Madame de Surville was delighted.

"Oh! Giacinta, you must have taken that
woman to your heart, I know ! How did you
ever come to produce such a child as this, who
never thinks about cost, or * wear and tear,'
only about what is picturesque ?"

"Dear Madame Barbara !^^ — it was thus
Sylvia always called her friend — " I am not so
unpractical as all that. I can drive a hard
bargain, if I know people are trying to cheat
me. Only about the things that are to surround
one daily, and delight one's eyes, if one
has the money, I think it foolish to deprive
oneself of something which would be a lasting
pleasure — as I have seen many of my friends do
for the sake of a few francs."

'' That test, which so many collectors apply
to their purchases, * I could sell it tomorrow
for twice what I gave,' seems to me entirely
inconsistent with any genuine love of art, in
any form," said Wilfred, decisively. " One mayas
well become a dealer at once, as entertain fora
moment the idea of parting with what one
has loved well enough to make it a household
god."

Speak respectfully of dealers, if you please,
young mans' said Madame de Surville, with
mock solemnity, fixing her expressive eyes upon
bird, while her nostrils slightly dilated. " 1
myself have been a dealer — nay, I have now

two hideous cabinets at home, which I bought
ill a moment of aberration some years ago, and
which I shall be happy to sell you. The fVict
is," she added, breaking into a genial smile,
one is but human, you know. Sometimes the
things one has liked best one gets tired of —
one sees them in a different light."

'not the things one has liked best, surely?
Only the things one has liked pretty well."

Madame de Survillie looked at him very keenly
as he spoke. That was rather well said ; she
"wondered if it was a true index to his character.
She hardly thought so : there was an impulse
of speech and certain wavering lines in the
handsome face which did not belong to unalterableness.
Yet, on the whole, what she had
seen of him she liked.

*' The curtain is for going up. Sitter whispered
j\Irs. Brabazon ; and, for more than half
an hour, there was absolute silence in the box.
Sylvia had praised the first act : the leading-idea
of the drama had commended itself to her ;
the style in which it was written was admirable,
and the acting she thought first-rate. Wilfred

glanced from his book to the stage, and from
the stage back to his book, and tried to think
it as beautiful as he was told it was.

At the conclusion, Sylvia leant forward, and
said, eagerly,

Dear Madame Barbara, how do you like
it?"

My child, I think it clever, and even pretty,
but, like most modern Italian things, decidedly
dull. As to the acting, it is excellent all round.
These people have what in England is so much
wanted, a school — traditions — art, in short.
They know how to produce their effects ; it is
a matter of training ; so it is in France. In
England a man of genius gropes his way occasionally
to the light, in spite of every obstacle,
and one hears it said, ' What a pity he was not
taught to speak properly, or to walk the stage,
or to get rid of such and such a trick of gesture.'
All that is impossible where there is a proper
school, like this one of Modena, the founder of
modern acting in Italy. It may turn out no
genius, but it will turn out thoroughly capable
performers, on whom you may depend."

Ah ! care mia, you wanted no school — bah !"
said Mrs. Brabazon. " Ah I if you had heard
her!"

"No one worked so hard as I did," returned
Madame de Surville, shaking her head. " If I
succeeded, it was by dint of sheer study. That
is what I understand as an artist whose career
I respect. The impudent creatures we see
every day who have gone on the stage because
they have pretty faces, and who don't know the
A B C of their work, are not artists. They
degrade the profession, and make one loathe
the stage. I seldom go to the theatre on that
account."

She was now cloaked, and Mrs. Brabazon
begged Lord Athelstone to offer Madame de
Surville his arm. He was thus deprived of the
opportunity he hoped to have had of asking
Sylvia who and what their interesting friend
was. As he put her into the carriage, however,
ho said —

"Shall you be at home tomorrow? Will
you take me to some old shops ? Do have pity
on me."

Old shops ?" cried Madame de Surville, from
inside the carriage. " What is that about old
shops? Of course we'll take him. Come to
the Czerny at three." Then, as they drove off,
she continued — " To think of that bright, handsome
young fellow being the son of the stiff,
good woman I remember! What odd tricks
Nature plays !"

"I cannot fancy you and Lady Athelstone
together dear Madame Barbara !" laughed
Sylvia.

*' It was what astrologers called ' a strange
conjunction of stars,' wasn't it ? I don't think
she knew what to make of me, and I confess
that she bored me horribly. But I stood it,
because she meant kindly, and it was in the
teeth of all her narrow little prejudices."

How you find the young man V asked Mrs.
Brabazon.

How can I find him anything but delightful
when he pretends not to look on me as an old
woman? He evidently possesses both tact and
discrimination."

'' And 'e is clay-ver — oh I very clay-ver."

Good simple soul ! she seldom troubled her
head about Sylvia's admirers ; but it began
slowly to dawn upon her that this young lord
was entering the lists and that her daughter
might possibly smile on him. She, who was
the least worldly of mothers, would be gratified
if this marriage should be brought about. For
was he not a charming young man? Had not
even her oracle, Madame de Survives approved
of him ?

Therefore was it that Mrs. Brabazon declared
him, emphatically, to be " very clay-vers''

CHAPTER Iii.

Tithes Wilfred questioned bis mother as to
* Madame de Surville the following morning,
he was surprised at the start Lady Athelstan
gave, and the emotion of real pleasure
she evinced.

She is a woman for whom 1 have the
greatest — yes , the greatest respect and admiration,
Wilfred. I shall be truly glad to see her
again."

But who was she ? You forget I don't
know."

She was a famous singer and actress,.
Barbara Pierson — ' La Barbara ' she was called,
but who was only on the stage a short time.
You wonder how 1 can have been thrown with

lier'^ The secret was this. My brother wanted
to marry her. He was, as you must have heard,
very wild "

"Yes. She had a lucky escape."

I have always thought he might have been
different if he had married her. He was desperately
in love, and she would have gained,
perhaps, great influence over him. I was just
married. He begged your father to let me
make Miss Pierson's acquaintance. He thought
that perhaps the connection and — and all that
might influence her. He begged me to talk to
her. I did so, and found her very nice — really
very nice indeed — quite highly-principled. She
was the only woman of genius I have ever
known who was not disagreeable to me. I
really was not afraid of her , brilliant as she was,
and different in all her ways and — and so on —
from anyone I had ever met. However, as
regarded your uncle, it came to nothing. What
I said had no effect on her. She said to me
repeatedly that she would continue on the
stage, though she did not like the life, rather
than marry a man she did not care for. About

a year after that lie mamecl Monsieur de
Surville."

"Was that a brilliant match for her''

*• In a worldly point of view, your uncle
would have been far more so ; but she became
attached to Monsieur de Surville. He was
fairly well off, and was a man of great charm
and accomplishment. We asked them repeatedly
to stay with us, but somehow — T don't
know why — there was always something to
prevent their coming."

Thought Wilfred, " / could tell you why."
He asked if the De Survives lived in Paris.

'* I believe so, but I have lost sight of them
for years — indeed, Monsieur Surville I never
met. I believe all her children died young,,
except a daughter, who, I think, I heard married
a year or two ago. Monsieur de Surville
has estates in the Mauritius, which he visits
occasionally ; and then, I suppose, his wife
travels'

She comes to Rome very often, apparently,
but goes into no society. She said, if you
wished it, she would call on you, but begged.

you would not go ■ through the ceremony of
calling on her, as she was almost always out."

It is the proper thing for me to call first,
and I shall certainly do so," said Lady Athelstan
; then she added, reflectively — "I will
ask her to dine here. Perhaps she might like
to meet the Bishop."

Good gracious ! Why ? He is a very goodman,
but "

My dear boy, he is something more than
that."

I am surprised, mother ! What can be
more than goodness ?"

*soh! I know what you meant, Wilfred, by
your tone. His — his intellect and hers I am
sure "

My dear mother, spare yourself the trouble.
She goes nowhere but to the Brabazons. She
and Mrs. Brabazon seem like sisters."

"Really! Then she can tell us " She

would have added, " who she was' but she
stopped short, and concluded, after a pause —
^'what part of England they come from."

"What can it signify whether they come

from John o^ Groat's house or the Lands
End ? They are delightful people. Isn't that
enough ?"

Her son's coarseness of apprehension in such
delicate matters rendered it hopeless to make
him seize the drift of her observations. She
said no more.

It was a sight for a painter and for a humorist
to see Madame de Surville with her two
companions that afternoon in a back-shop in
the "Ara Coeli." A heap of gorgeous stuffs,
tossed upon the floor around, seemed to catch
the sunbeams, and hold them. There lay gold-coloured
brocades, and pearly satins starred
with blossoms, pomegranate velvet hangings
from a Doge's palace, and quaint embroideries
of birds and beasts, with armorial devices.
The grim old Hebrew was now holding up to
view, and appraising at a preposterous figure,
what Madame Barbara called an " April-coloured"
saque, all tender greens and raindrops of
silver. Madame gave a little shout of indignation,
and inquired if the soul of honesty had

quite departed from the house of Aaron ?
Thereupon she offered him half. He shook his
grey head ; impossible to abate a single centesimo
— it was dirt-cheap at the money. Then
Madame rose, with simulated alacrity, and declared
there was no dealing with him at all ;
she exhorted her friends, in Italian , to leave
that Hebrew's house, and shake the dust from
off their feet.

Then the dealer, fearing that the rod would
snap, hastily let out his line. *' Aspect —
PazienzaT Would the Signora, on behalf of
her friend, make an arrangement with him for
that ebony cabinet clasped with silver, and the
painted carson, and the velvet hangings, &c.,
&c. ? Then ensued a passage of infinite subtlety,
which nearly suffocated Wilfred with
suppressed laughter, between the crafty old
salesman and the lady with the tragic face,
whose eyes alone betrayed her enjoyment and
sense of fun in the encounter. He suggested a
sum ; her nostril indicated unmitigated scorn
at the attempt to impose on her, as she wrapped
her cloak around her, and said once more.

Let us go." Then he asked what she would
offer. She named half. With gesticulation and
vociferation, he vowed it was impossible, and —
in the end accepted it.

You have got some treasures' said Madame
de Surville, impressively, as they left the
shop, " and I behaved like an angel ; for I no
sooner saw those hangings than I was smitten
with a mad desire to possess them myself,,
and "

But pray, Madame de Surville, in that case,
take them. I would not deprive you of them
for the world."

'' Certainly not. What do you take me for ?
I should not have told you if I had not surmounted
the devilish temptation. And now it
is getting too dark to drive in the Campagna,
which I do every day. Come and have a cup of
tea."

Madame de Surville lived in a small apartment
in the Foro di Trajan. It was dusk
when they entered the drawing-room ; but a
roaring wood-fire sent its bright light into the
hollows of the arm-chairs and sofa drawn near

VOL. II. K

the hearth. Madame de Surville said she must
go and take off her hot dress.

I shall not be ten minutes. Shall I ring for
the lamp V

Both her guests declared that the twilight
and firelight combined were far pleasant.
Miss Brabazon sat on the sofa, took off her hat
and fur-lined cloak, and leant back, where the
flames did. not burn upon her face so fiercely.
As to Wilfred, he had drawn his chair into the
full blaze, and, leaning his elbows on his knees,
he looked alternately into his companion's face
and at the great logs of burning pine.

These things I have bought will be like the
new wine in old bottles at Athelstone," he
began. " Figuratively, they will burst the
wretched Georgian decorations and furniture.
You are answerable for it all ! I never should
have dreamt of trying to make things better, if
you had not instilled the poison into my veins.
The least you can do now is to come to Athelstan,
and arrange it all."

She took the words lightly, and laughed ; her
cheeks told no tales.

You had better educate your eye for
colour, and learn to be independent of anyone's
help."

I don-'t believe in being independent of
anyone's help — a woman's, that is. If she is
the right one, she supplies all the man's deficiencies.
There are other matters besides the
education of the eye in which you could supply
mine."

There was no mistaking this ; and she was
too far above petty coquetry to affect to do so.
She cast about in her mind how to reply, so as
to ward off what, as regarded them both, she
felt was premature.

*' You are very young — in a transition stage,
Lord Athelstone. You will alter in many ways
as you see more of life, and some of the things
you fancy you want now will perhaps seem to
you worth little by-and-by. Do you know''
she continued, not allowing him to reply to
this, " I think most utterances — most decisions
made very early in life are mistakes. If it
were possible to delay fixing on a career beyond
boyhood, many a man would do better

k2

work. So it seems to me about 
publishing books "

*' Ah ! you are thinking of my poems."

'' Yes, I am ; but, also, of the regret I heard
Lady Athelstone express the other day at
your not devoting your talents to oratory
in the House of Lords. I cannot help thinking
it is better you should not speak for ten
years, than that you should speak now that
which you Avill regret having said ten years
hence."

*rand why should I necessarily say that
which I shall regret ?"

*' Because there are few young men at one
and twenty who "

I beg your pardon ; I am two and twenty —
shall very soon be three."

*' Well, at three and twenty, even, who do
not profess many opinions they would not endorse
after ten years' additional experience of
the world. Your book is a case in point. It
has given many people a false impression of
you even now. But by-and-by it will less and
less represent what you are. You will regret

and wonder you could ever have written it ; but
the book will remain."

"Everyone does not regard it as you do,"
said Wilfred, staring gloomily into the fire.
^' You know it has gone through five editions
already."

'^ Yes, and I am aware that it has been very
much praised, and that you have acquired a
notoriety which would turn the head of many
a silly young man. But that does not affect
my argument ; on the contrary. The better
known these writings are, the more likely are
they to be cast in your teeth hereafter by
public opponents, when you have become, as I
hope, wise in deliberation and eloquent in
debate. It is unworthy warfare, but these are
stones that never fail to wound."

According to your own showing, then, it is
necessary for me to have some lamp to guide
my footsteps. Without this, I shall go stumbling
on to the end."

Why should you do so ? That is a confession
of weakness no man ought to make."

I have no tact. Tact is a woman's quality.

I have not even discretion, I suppose, according'
to the world's standard ; for I say what I think,
and do what I like, regardless of opinion. No
one has ever yet obtained any influence over
me. The woman who does so — and it must bea
woman — will be the lamp I need."

*' Whoever she may be," replied Miss Braba-
zou, in a low voice, but very distinctly, " will
do well to pause and feel sure that she is the
lamp — the only one who can brighten your
future path without flickering, and even, perhaps,
without utter extinction, — before she
assumes so serious a responsibility. In youth,
we take so many Will-o'-the- Wisps for steady
beacons."

I have had my Will-o^-the-Wisps ; you have
heard it, I daresay V But I know now, — I have
felt more and more, every hour since I first saw
you, that a light which will burn steadily in my
life "

At this moment, to Sylvia's great relief,
Madame de Surville entered. Wilfred had no
opportunity for nearly a week, though he spent
hours at Mrs. Brabazou's daily, of renewing that

interrupted Ute-a-tke. Miss Brabazon was anxious
to avoid it, and she succeeded; she felt
more deeply interested in Athelstone than she
would avow, even to herself, and her friend's
words, painful as they had been, had removed
the only impediment to a further and unrestricted
development of her interest. But she
set a guard — or believed that she was doing so
upon her heart. Frances Cope's view of his
character was a prejudiced one ; for all that,
Sylvia knew there was some grain of truth in
it. The passion he now avowed so distinctly
might be enduring ; her heart whispered to her,
oftener than she would admit, that it rested
but with her to consolidate her empire. And
yet his past, his youth, his temperament should
warn her.

Unfortunately the engrossing interest of such
a daily study as this is hardly compatible with
a complete mastery over the feelings. Sylvia
Alas not a cold woman ; she felt herself 
towards that great sea which
absorbs nearly every human heart for good or
evil ; but she had yet strength to cling to the

bank, and not let herself be swept utterly away
beyond the power of volition.

His manner all that week was fretful, humorous,
yet suspicious and irritable, hanging upon
her words, yet warmly disputing her propositions,
tender, submissive, arrogant ; his nerves
were in a constant state of tension, his senses
quickened to suffer from every inflection of her
voice. The necessity of unburdening his heart
had grown upon him hourly since those few
minutes' tete-a-Ute in Madame de Surville's
room, but Sylvia contrived that they should
never be again without the presence of a third
person. Towards the end of the week he
wrote, " Will you not see me, for half an hour,
alone to-day ? I beg of you to do so." She
replied, '' Wait a little; we are going to make
a party to Castel Fusano in a few days, we will
talk together then." Wilfred was furious; she
was cold-blooded and calculating. Then he
reproached himself, and melted into despair.
She was right, he was utterly unworthy of her ;
he wore his heart upon his sleeve, so that such
days as Lady Dorchester, meeting him on the

Pincio, pecked at it with infinite satisfaction.

His mother could not fail to see what everyone
saw, and she became uneasy. Madame de
Surville, sitting with her, was subjected to an
examination which would have outraged that
independent lady, had not her sense of humour
been touched, and her maternal sympathy, as
well as her great affection, for Sylvia been
enlisted.

"I understand you knew Mrs. Brabazon well
formerly? I suppose it is not true that she
was a — you know people do say that she was
a "

There was a pause.

''A what?" demanded Madame de Surville,
at last; those terrible eyes resolutely fixed
upon Lady Athelstan greatly discomposed
her.

"A — a ballet-dancer, or something of the
kind, they say."

She was a chorus-singer, if that is what you
call 'something of the kind.' "

Really I I — I hope quite respectable ?"

"You shall judge. She was a beautiful girl.

cid might have lived in splendour ; she remained
poor, and supported a sick father on her
hard-earned wages till Brabazon married her.
That is rather different from the respectability
of certain great ladies we could name, I
think?"

Oh ! very creditable — very much so, indeed.
And you knew her when you were singing in
Italy, I suppose V

Yes. It was at Milan, when I was singing
'Norma,' that I was attracted by the noble
beauty of a girl in the chorus. I spoke to her ;
and, with the simplicity that belongs to Italians,
she told mo all about herself. I visited her
father. I was able to be of service to the girl
in some important ways, and from that day I
never lost sight of her, A few months after
Brabazon niet her, and they were married almost
immediately."

Dear me I How very curious ! He must
have been an eccentric man. The daughter
inherits a little of it — perhaps?" She began
examining her little linger.

madame's eyes twinkled, but her face otherwise

indicated absolutely nothing, as she replied,


Uo you mean that she is out of the common,
or that she has a touch of insanity? I
think her perfectly sane ; and I think her very
much out of the common."

*' Sane ? Oh ! yes," — Lady Athelstone gave
a little nervous laugh — ^* only her dress, you
know . . . not like other people, and living so
much with artists, and — and other people of
that kind "

'the best kind, I hope you think f Madame
smiled. " You will not forget that 1 aman
artist."

Oh ! but you were always quite different —
such a very high standard. Men like that Mr.
Briggs, for instance, whom she seems so very
intimate with, one can't help fearing "

What f again demanded Madame, sternly.

"AVell, a certain — I don't know how to express
it — a certain laxity. She certainly goes
to church very regularly, and the bishop spoke
very favourably of her, when he met her here.
Still I am so — so dreadfully afraid "

She stopped short, and fidgeted at her
watch-chain. Why would that immovable
woman sit looking; at her with those onyx
eyes, and not help her out in what she had to
say?

•' You see," she began again, " perhaps you
have observed — that is, I can't help fearing
that Athelstone is falling in love with Miss
Brabazon. He is very young and susceptible,
you see, and, in shorty it is a great anxiety tome
whom he marries. I am not a worldly,
ambitious mother, dear Madame de Surville. I
know we are all equal, and though, of course, I
should like a little family connection, it isn't the
fact of Mrs. Brabazon's origin that would lead
me to oppose such a marriage. I daresay he
might do much horse — but "

Worse !" cried Madame, with inflated nostrils,
as her eyes travelled from the crown of
Lady Athelstone's head to her boots, and back
again. " Let me tell 3'ou, if she consents to
marry your son, I consider him the luckiest man
in Christendom ! She is one in a hundred thousand
! She is an angel with brains ! Most

angels on earth are mere vapours of goodness.
She is one of the strong angels — capable of
wrestling with evil."

I hope," said Lady Athelstone, a little hurt,
*' you do not think, if she marries my son, she
will have to do that '{ He has such a good heart,
and always means so well, though sometimes
he may be led to do and say things I — I deplore.
Therefore it is so important he should
fall into the right hands, you see. He is so
very Radical at present, which I regret, and I
am so afraid of his being encouraged to go-move
and more out of his own sphere."

"Into a higher and better one?" inquired
Madame, with perfect gravity. " Depend on it,
if Sylvia accepts your son, she will encourage
him in nothing that is not for his good. But,
to tell you the truth. Lady Athelstone, I
have strong doubts whether she will accept
him."

*' Not accept Athelstone, if he proposes !"^
ejaculated his mother, aghast. The idea of
any girl resisting this paragon seemed impossible.
*' Why does she encourage him, then '^ —

for she does encourage him, you must admit,
though it is true he ha seemed very low
during the last few days. Can it be that she
has given him to understand . oh ! I cannot
believe it !"

I have not spoken to her on the subject,
-dear Lady Athelstan, nor shall I do so. She
likes your son — likes him very much ; I have no
doubt of that. But my belief is that she will
not accept him in a hurry. You must remember
she is three or four years older than he.
She is too wise not to know that, under such
circumstances, a woman ought to test the
strength of a young man's attachment. She
may have told him, and this may cause his
depression, may it not?"

Lady Athelstone conceded that it was possible.
And if Madame de Surville's surmise
was correct, it was not only creditable to Miss
Brabazon, but it afforded the most hopeful view
for the future.

"Time is everything. I have no doubt he
would get over the fancy in time. If he did
not, of course I should make up my mind to it."

"It certainly would be a pity that you should
have to make up your mind uselessly, and have

to unmake it " But the delicate sarcasm

was entirely lost on the anxious mother.
• From that day forward her cordiality towards
Sylvia increased fourfold. She was re-assured
by Madame de Surville's words ; the girl was
certainly not scheming to entrap her son. It
might — probably would — come to nothing ; in
which case her friendly attitude towards mother
and daughter could do no harm. If anything
could act prejudicially on Wilfred, it woLild be
manifest opposition. She would take another
line ; she would make friends with Sylvia, and
gently encourage her in the policy of procrastination.
If, after all, it should unfortunately
end in a marriage — she still regarded it as a
misfortune, though with mitigations — her relations
with her daughter-in-law would, at all
events, be of a friendly character. There was
more of the serpent's wisdom in all this than
most people who listened to Lady Athelstone
might have given her credit for.

CHAPTER VIII.

TT is now necessary that I should say a few
-*- words touching Lorenzaccio-who, about
this time, was allowed by the doctor to rise
from his bed, and hobble round the room on
crutches. The long rest, the good food, the
kindness, and the stimulants to his natural
intelligence which he had received from books,,
had wrought a marvellous change in the boy.
The pale, hollow cheeks were filled out, and
almost ruddy ; the eyes no longer burned at the
further end of two blue caverns ; the shadow of
fear was fled, and the light of gladness had
come into the young face at last ; he was grown
nearly two inches.

Miss Brabazon's daily visits had been discontinued

ever since the drive to the Casa di Livia.
She still went to see the boy occasionally, when
she had reason to believe Lord Athelstone was
not in the house, and she kept him supplied
with books and prints ; but, out of regard to her
friend, she had scrupulously avoided putting
herself voluntarily in Wilfred's way, until those
words had passed between Lady Frances and
herself which I have recorded, and which left
her free. And now, from a different motive,
she rarely ventured to the house, unless she
had positive assurance that Wilfred was not at
hand. She felt sorry, for she knew her visits
were of real use to the boy, and his delight at
seeing her was touching ; but it could not be
helped. Marco, escorted by a servant, was her
ambassador at other times, bearing a book in
his mouth. Lorenzaccio and the poodle became
great friends ; the boy always saved some tit-bit
from his dinner for his four-footed visitor, and
whispered into his ear a message of humble
devotion to her whom Marco was happy enough
to call his mistress. The boy was intensely
grateful to Athelstone ; he would have died for
VOL. II. L

his preserver ; but for Sylvia he had a feeling
-which approached to adoration.

With the quick intuition of his nation in all
matters connected with the heart, he had
divined Wilfred's love. In his rich " bocca
Romana " his enthusiasm and reverence for the
divine lady sounded very delightful to Wilfred's
ear. The intercourse between the man and the
boy, however, though constant, was not very
free, by reason of x\thelstone's imperfect Italian.
He was interested in watching Lorenzaccio's
improvement and mental development, for the
boy almost daily asked him questions relative
to what he had been reading which Wilfred had
some difficulty in answering; but there was,
necessarily, a certain amount of restraint in
their relations. With the dear lady of the
heavenly eyes, on the other hand, he was completely
at his ease. That these two benefactors
should be united, and that he should serve them
all his life long, was the dream upon which his
imagination had fed during the last few days.

What was to become of him ? The question
to Athelstone was growing imminent. He had

waved it aside for some weeks : but, now that
the lad was on his legs again, the difficulty
stared the young man in the face each time he
saw his 'protege. Lorenzaccio, when spoken to
about his future, declared with a passionate
burst of tears that he would die a thousand
deaths rather than return under his step-father's
roof. He would drown himself in the Tiber if
"Wilfred sent him back ; of what good was his
life to him, to be starved and beaten ? The idea
of apprenticing him to some trade occurred to
Wilfred, but the boy seemed to have no turn
for any; and Sylvia, when consulted gave it asher
opinion that, if properly trained, he would
be best suited to domestic servitude. "He is
intelligent, and, one sees, will be zealous. If
we did not lead a wandering life, I would take
him for my own page."

This decided Athelstone. He asked 
whether he would apply himself to learn
English, and accompany him to England , and
become his valet in the course of time, when he
had mastered the duties of that calling. The
lad, snatched from the brink of despair, was

l2

nearly' beside himself With joy. One half of his
dream "seas already fulfilled. That the other
half would be accomplished ere long, and that
he should serve the divine lady as his mistress,
he never doubted. A man came daily, thenceforward,
to give him English lessons, and
Lorenzaccio, who was henceforward to be
called Lorenzo, made rapid progress in his
studies.

The Villa Albans is only shown on certain
days. The concourse of visitors on a fine
afternoon, therefore is sure to be large. About
a week after the conversation between Madame
de Surville and Lady Athelstone, part of which
was retailed in the last chapter, those ladies,
with the Bannockburnss, the Brabazons, and
Wilfred Athelstone, had met by appointment
among the statues, and clipped hedges, and
ilex groves of that typical summer-palace of
Italy. Mr. Spooner was there, and discoursed
eloquently upon heathenism in art. Miss
Decker, note-book in hand, was fluttering
about like a lively and somewhat impudent
sparrow, devouring the crumbs that were scattered,

and chirruping all the time. Seaport
and Carton, who had arrived somewhat earlier
than the others, met them on the terrace. They
were full of a new beauty, whom they had just
seen — she was in the villa now.

*• Tivoli is following her. He and Scappa
can't take their eyes off her. She is evidently
English."

Dressed in red ? I met her in a store this
morning," cried Miss Decker. " I knew she
was English by her accent. A fine girl, but
rather too voluptuous, for my taste."

Carton laughed immoderately ; Miss Decker
could not conceive what at.

1 assure you this young lady does not answer
that description, and she is dressed in
black."

I saw her just now," said Mr. Spooner, who
had joined them. " Quite a crowd was round
her, but she seemed unconscious that she was
the object of attraction. She appeared to me
-a virginal type of loveliness, not unlike the
Psyche of Naples, but christianized."

What does he mean V murmured Madame

de Surville. *' Isn't the little heathen perfect?
what remains of her, that is to say ? I am
curious to see this marvel. Where is she ? Let
us go and look for her."

She turned to Sylvia, who stood a little
apart with Athelstone, and had not heard the
foregoing. Her eyes were fixed upon the Allan
hills, beyond the straight walks, the formal
hedges and marble balustrades of the stately
villa. The lights and shadows of the soft
January day chased each other on those unchanging
heights. So, she said to herself,
would the fleeting pains of this transitory life
pass without affecting the unalterable love that
was fixed and elevated above the plain of vulgar
vicissitude and the malaria that reigns
there. The chords of the woman's heart were
drawn closer to the man who stood beside her
that day than they had ever yet been. He
looked ill ; he told her he had not slept all
night, and that, when he did so towards morning,
he had had a painful dream. He fancied
that he had fallen from a great height, and wa
paralyzed in every limb.

"Is it prophetic?" he said. *rara I to fall
from the height to which I am trying to attain ?
If sOj I know full well I shall be paralyzed in
mind and in energy."

Should she stretch out her hand, and land
him on the height? Her resolution faltered.
She heard Madame Barbara's voice ; she saw
them moving away.

The party to Castel Fusano is arranged for
the day after tomorrow," was all she said to
lira , as they followed in the wake of their
friends.

There is a bas-relief at the Villa Albans, of
the finest period of Greek art, similar to one in
the museum at Naples, and one at the Louvre,
but perhaps more perfect than either, the subject of
which has been variously explained, but is generally
supposed to be the parting of Orpheus from
Eurydice in Hades, in consequence of the latter,
when enjoined not to look back, having disobeyed
the command. The tender reproach in
Orpheus, the sorrowful submission to the decree
of the gods in the leave-taking Eurydice, who
is led away by impassive Mercury are touchingly

rendered. There is no violence, no melodramatic
agony ; the sentiment has passed into
the higher region of deep, self-contained grief.
The Greeks, like Englishmen of the present
day, contemned a liberal display of feeling.

Before this marble stood two ladies ; the one
still young and comely, though apparently indelicate
health, leant on the arm of her companion,
who, though her back was turned to
the party now entering the room, it was easy
to see was but a girl, and very slight. She
was simply dressed in deep mourning; the
elder lady in rich velvet and fur. Two or three
men stood a little distance off, and watched
every turn of the girls head — a fact of which
her friend was perfectly aware, though the object
of this admiration herself had too little self-consciousness,
and was too much absorbed in
the treasures of art around her, to perceive that
she attracted special attention.

Young as she was, she had known poignant
sorrow, which perhaps lent to her rare beauty
that depth of expression which is seldom seen
in the outset of life. Mr. Spooner was right ;

the lovely fragment known as "Psyche" more
nearly resembled her than did any other masterpiece
of Greek art; yet, as she stood here
now, with lips slightly parted, and questioning
brown eyes riveted on the bas-relief before her,
there was a tender, almost tremulous sympathy
in the girl's face which no marble could ever
reproduce. The longer she looked at it, the
more pathetic that composition appeared to her.
Was it an allegory pointing to the danger of
looking back, the sinfulness of longing after
what was left behind, the sweet, brief hours
that were beyond recall '?

It chanced that of the English party of
friends, who were scattered throughout the villa,
the first persons to enter this room were Lady
Athelstone and Lady Bannockburn. They
were ignorant of the special attraction which
had led Tivoli and Scappa hither ; they had
heard nothing of the unknown beauty, and of
the general curiosity concerning her.

I suppose this is the thing Murray says one
ought to look at," said Lady Athelstone, as she
approached the bas-relief.

Yes," observed Lady Bannockburn, with a
smile. *' This is what Mr. Spooner, in his peculiar
phraseology, says is * the most perfect piece
of work conveniently visible' that he is acquainted
with, and * among Pagan works, of
spiritual joys the abundance.' "

*' Dear ! What can he mean — spiritual V
repeated Lady Athelstan. *' A young woman
turning round, and "

Very quickly a young woman, just in front of
her, did turn round, struck by the sound of that
familiar voice, and uttered a little cry of recognition.


"Dear me! Is it possible V Nellie Dawson?"
exclaimed the astonished Lady Athelstan.


The girl went very pale, then flushed to the
roots of her hair.

*'0h! my lady." She struggled to repress
her emotion, but it was in vain ; she burst into
tears, and turned away.

She has just lost her mother ; perhaps you
did not know it?" whispered Mrs. Goldwin.

"Indeed I did not. How long is it since?

I have not heard from Athelstone for nearly a
month."

It is just a month, 1 think, since I sent Miss
Dawson to wish her mother good-bye before we
came abroad ; she was at Ripple for a few hours,
and rejoined me in London. AVe had only got
as far as Paris when Ave heard of poor Mrs.
Dawson's death, which was sudden, and quite
painless."

Dear dear ! I am so sorry. She was such
a good woman ; I had such a respect for her.
Sudden death is so very shocking."

Only to the survivors, I think," returned
Mary, " When anyone is as well prepared to
die as Mrs. Dawson, I cannot fancy a happier
end ; but to the poor girl the shock was terrible,
ill fact, her nerves and health are only slowly
recovering, and meeting you has completelyupset
her. Travelling, I think, has been the best thing
for her ; she has such a receptive nature that
it is impossible she should see new countries
and beautiful things without her mind becoming
interested."

"Ah, yes, she was always very intelligent.

and I have heard how kind you have been to
her, Mrs. Godwin."

*' Oh ! I could not be fonder of her if she was
my own sister. I have grown more and more
attached to her ; she is a pearl, Lady Athelstan,
and, as long as she lives, she will always
find a home with me."

Most lucky for her, indeed ! So few governesses,
you know, are treated in this way. I
am really "

Wilfred and Sylvia had entered the room,
and Lady Athelstone saw them approaching.
She felt tongue-tied. How would he and this
girl meet ? She had been weak enough to feel
glad to see her protegee again, and to find her
so wonderfully grown and improved in appearance
; she had been touched by her sorrow, but
now ulterior reflection came rapidly to sweep
away all this. The tide of common sense was
rushing in, and had already submerged the few
inequalities in the level sands of this eminently
practical character.

Nellie had by this time controlled her emotion,
and was, in some degree, prepared to meet

the further trial which she felt was at hand.
She had moved a few paces away, with her face
towards the wall ; she now turned back, and
stood again beside Mrs. Goldwin, but the beautiful
pale face was only indistinctly seen
beneath the black crape veil she had drawn
down.

She saw him approaching : she saw the quick
flush of wonder on his face — the momentary
doubt, the momentary hesitation — how should
he greet her ? She felt it all. " Will he avoid
me still?" she asked herself, with a throb of
anguish. Their last meeting rose up before her :
the red autumn sunset behind the fir-trees at
his father's grave ; the young man's stern face,
and resolute avoidance of her — it all came back
vividly in those few moments. But in less thana
minute he strode across the room. With
Athelstone there were no half measures. He
held out his hand with a bright smile. What
his words were, and how she replied, she never
could recall. She had a sense of the crowd
passing to and fro, and leaving them there —
Lady Athelstone and Mrs. Goldwin a little

apart. She remembered to her dying day tho
tender sympathy in his eyes, when, glancing at
her deep mourning, the knowledge of her loss
flashed upon him.

They stood there for a quarter of an hour.
Sylvia and the rest had passed on. Lady
Athelstone was upon thorns. She clung like
a limpet to Mrs. Goldwin, and devised a little
jaded talk about the requirements of the times
as regarded women's education. Wilfred should
not be left alone in conspicuous conversation
with this girl on whom all eyes were fixed, if
hsidy Athelstone could help it. So long as his
mother was with him, the young man's attentions
were robbed^of their significance — at least,
Lady Athelstone hoped so. Thank goodness !
Madame de Surville, Lady Frances, and Mr.
Spooner were entering the room ; it might
create a diversion. And it did so. in a manner
quite unlocked for by Lady Athelstone. Madame
Barbara had hardly raised her double-glass,
and transfixed the group, when she
uttered a little exclamation of pleasure, which
was echoed by Mary Goldwin, and the two

ladies went forward and greeted each other
with genuine cordiality.

They had passed some weeks together at
Kreuznach two years before, and, though Madame
de Surville hated letter-writing too much
to have kept up any intercourse with Mary in
the interval, she had conceived a real regard
for her young countrywoman, and showed now,
in her warm-hearted way, how glad she was to
meet her again. Presently Nellie was introduced
to her, and the tete-astute with Wilfred
was broken ; the party moved on slowly into
the adjoining rooms. Lord Athelstone had no
more conversation with Mrs. Goldwin's governess
that day.

What were his feelings on this occasion ? Did
he ever, long afterwards, analyze them ? Did
he ask himself whether any remnant of the old
boyish passion had survived the separation of
sixteen months? Whether it was more than
sympathy with her sorrow, deep interest in the
child he had loved long ago, some remorseful
tenderness which a more absorbing love could
not utterly obliterate, which he then felt? If

not — alas ! for human nature — it could only be
gratified vanity that caused the glow of pleasure
he felt at seeing how his appearance stirred
to the very depths of her being the lovely girl
who was the object of general curiosity ! Her
emotion might be concealed from those who
did not know her ; to him the broken accents of
her voice, the tremulous pressure of the little
black-gloved fingers, one against the other,
told their tale. She had forgotten nothing in
the course of those sixteen months. From the
child she had shot up into the woman ; the
blushful little village teacher had developed into
a beauty of rare perfection ; but in her heart she
was unchanged.

"It is a face full of lucent delights," murmured
Mr. Spooner, regarding her with his
head on one side — "the soul of a Madonna transfused
into Aphrodite !"

"No, Mr. Spooner, stick to your Psyche —
that is your best simile — there is nothing of
Aphrodite about her," said Madame de
Surville.

"Do you know who she is?" asked Sylvia.

She had watched the girl with intense curiosity
for some minutes.

"She is Mrs. Goldwin's governess," replied
Lady Frances, with that peculiar inflection
which conveyed to her listener — as it was intended
it should — the impression that she could
say more, and she would.

^'And before that r'

Have you no idea ?"

"None. How should I?"

You have heard of Lady Athelstone's village
protegee, about whom ill-natured tongues were
so scandalous ?"

You don't mean that this is she ? A village
girl? Impossible!"

"I am sure I am right. Did you observe
Lady Athelstone ? She was upon thorns."

"I observed Lord Athelstone. He treated
the girl with a sort of tender deference — quite
unlike a man's manner to . . Well, I know
nothing about it. He is certainly different from
most men."

He is. His mother has always been afraid
that he would marry this girl for a whim."

VOL. II. M

Sylvia said nothing ; she appeared to be absorbed
in the contemplation of the Apollo of
Praxiteles. But, a quarter of an hour later,
when Wilfred joined her, she at once questioned
him, with her fearless directness, as to the
owner of that beautiful face.

He told her all, or nearly all, there was to
tell about Nellie; how he had first seen her
driving her cow, how he had become interested
in the sweet intelligent child, and had induced
his mother to befriend her ; how she had gone
to school and had become a teacher ; and then,
at last, how Lady Athelstone had found this
situation for her with Mrs. Goldwin. Of his
own feelings towards the girl, of the quarrel
with her cousin, Mr. Samuel Dawson, and of
the late lords conditional legacy to Mrs. Dawson,
he naturally said nothing. But he was
not a dissembler; he acted too much from impulse
ever to be cautious or politic, and he was
really anxious to enlist Sylvia's sympathies for
Nellie. Therefore he was at no pains to conceal
the interest he had taken, and, indeed, that he

still took, in the village girl whose growth he
had watched since she was a child.

•* You will make her acquaintance? You will
be kind to her?" he said. 'rit would be such a
thing for her to know you. Mrs. Goldwin has
done wonders for her, I see. I am amazed at
the development of her mind within a year. I
am sure she would interest you."

I have no doubt she would," replied Sylvia,
quietly. Presently she added — "If you have
an opportunity, by-and-by, introduce me to
her."

The acquaintance, which was destined to
affect so deeply the lives of both women, was
effected among the clipped yews and tempietti
of the formal garden. Madame de Surville, who
was still walking with Mrs. Goldwin, made her
and Sylvia known to each other at the same
time. But the afternoon was rapidly closing
in ; people were all hurrying to the gate ; there
was time for little more than an interchange of
salutations.

"I shall come and see you tomorrow, and

M 2

bring Miss Brabazou Avitli me," said Madame de
Surville, as she bade Mary Godwin good-bye.

Lady Athelstone and the Bannockburnss were
already gone. Lady Athelstone's last words
privately uttered to Nellie had been —

"I shall loriie and ask you to lunch with me
some day, my dear. Do not come and see me
till then. I shall call upon Mrs. Goldwin. She
seems a superior woman, and you could not be
more happily situated. I — I only hope you will
not be spoilt. Take care of that."

CHAPTER IX.

"TITILFRED called on Mrs. Gold win at her
' apartments in the Via del Babuino the
following day, but she was not at home ; or, at
all events, she denied herself. An hour later,
Madame de Surville and Sylvia found her on
her sofa, with Nellie reading aloud, and the
children playing with their dolls in a corner of
the room. It was a pretty picture ; and if Miss
Brabazon had been struck by the young governess's
beauty in her bonnet and veil the previous
day, she was doubly so now, when the classical
head and throat, the soft brown hair, and pure
oval of the girls face could be seen without
obstruction. While Madame Barbara talked to
her friend, Sylvia devoted herself to the study

of this fair young creature, in whom she felt a
growing interest. The visit was a long one,
and what passed between these two, if written
down here, would sound bald, and convey but
little, without the aid of voice and expression.
There must be always more of intuition than
analysis in any rapid estimate of character.
Like a flower that opens, petal by petal, beneath
the sun, the unfolding of that fresh young mind
beneath the warm beams of Sylvia's gracious
and searching influence was a process that
might, indeed, have been seen by any bystander,
but could not be described ; still less could it be
conveyed by a literal transcript of their conversation.


The result of that morning's visit is what
concerns us. To Nellie, Miss Brabazon seemed
to be little short of a goddess ; a superior order
of being, utterly unlike and beyond any with
whom she had come into contact. The pale,
large-eyed beauty of her visitor, her great
height, the slow grace of her movements, and
the grave sweetness of a manner free from any,
of the tricks of fashion, removed alike from

languor and abruptness — nay, even the strange
phantasy of her trailing garments, impressed
the girl from without, as did the sympathy of a
nature above pettiness, and undimmed by a
taint of artificiality, from within. As to the
idea that she herself could ever, for an instant,
be weighed in the balance against this peerless
woman, it never crossed the child's brain. She
was now nothing to him — could never be anything
; and the question had recurred to her
frequently since the previous day — " Is he beloved
of the beautiful lady who walked beside
him, and does he care for her ?" She had heard
nothing; she could only say to herself when
Sylvia was gone, " He must love her, and she
will make him a noble wife. Thank God for
that !"

She sobbed her heart out that night, and
prayed for him upon her bended knees. But
jealousy — the possibility of rivalry — was far
removed from the girl's heart. She could meet
him now calmly, she assured herself; the delusion
of her childhood was all past and over
now. He belonged, or would belong soon, to

another. If it was given her to do so, she
would love and venerate his wife ; and, strange
as it may seem, while she foresaw this eventuality,
she did not shrink from Sylvia Braba-
son.

Mrs. Goldwin's affection for Nellie had
strengthened fourfold since the girl's utter
forlornness and dependence upon her friend in
the hour of her sharp and sudden trial. From
that day forwards, as she told Madame de
Surville during this visit, she felt that she had
taken the place of her mother to the girl. She
had long been more to Mary than the mere
governess of her children.

"I feel that I have undertaken the responsibility
of her future now," she added, " as
far as one can that of another human being''

*sand I love her for saying it I" exclaims
Madame Barbara, when she repeats this afterwards
to Sylvia. " It is so warm-hearted and
imprudent in the eyes of the cautious world !
How everyone will cry out against the folly of
taking the child out of her station I Even
Lady Athelstone yesterday * hoped the girl

shouldn't be spoiled.' As if love ever spoilt
anyone !"

Sylvia says but little in reply. Perhaps she
thinks she can divine why Wilfred's mother
fears her former village-school teacher may be
*' spoilt." Though she does not entirely believe
what she has heard from Lady Frances, the
subject of the young governess gives her much
food for reflection.

Madame Barbara, quoting La Fontaine,
inquires whether " son carnage se rapporte a
son plumage V whether Sylvia found the girl as
charming, when she talked to her, as she looked
? To which Sylvia returns for answer that
Miss Dawson gives her the impression of an
angel, saddened, as an angel would be, by contact
with the sin and sorrow of this world.

It rained, as it can only rain at Rome, several
days consecutively after this. The party to the
Castle Fusano had to be deferred. Wilfred
passed every evening at Mrs. Brabazon's, and
Sylvia showed no reluctance to converse with
him, no diminution of interest in what he said.
Only she warded off every approach to the

subject he had near at heart ; and, when he was
not present, her mother — not a very observant
person — noticed that she remained silent and
abstracted for long periods. The pencil she
held would lie idle, or the page of the book
remain unturned, and her eyes would be fixed
dreamily on the leaden sky and streaming roofs
beyond her window by the half hour at a time.
Once Miss Dawson brought the children and
stayed with her an hour. She made a pencil
sketch of the girl's head, while Mrs. Brabazon
stuffed the little ones with bon-bons ; and she
begged them to return.

Wilfred, during these days, did not once see
Nellie. Whether by design or accident, she
was not in the room when he called again on
Mrs. Goldwin, and was admitted. Wherever

he went — at the English club, in S , the

sculptor's studio, in Mrs. Brabazon's salon — he
heard the girl's beauty discussed. Briggs was
one of the few who declared she could not " hold
a candle " to Miss Brabazon. He was indifferent
to classic regularity of feature, and an admirer
of great height. But the sculptors were unanimous

; so perfect a head had not been seen
in Rome for many a day. Neville Steele, the
most fastidious man in London, an authority in
all matters of taste and ton for the last thirty
years, declared she would be the rage, if properly
introduced.

She would be the making of some penniless
nobody, who would accept the role of ' le mari
de la femme " said the not unkindly cynic
*' He must not be squeamish about her receiving
gorgeous presents, and being followed by a
train of adorers — of course, hopeless adorers —
from royalty downwards. He must submit to her
being mobbed wherever she goes, and to overhearing,
as he follows her, all the remarks that
are made, complimentary or otherwise, in ignorance
of his vicinity ; he must allow her photograph
to be in every shop-window, and her
name to figure in every weekly paper; and
then I can assure him that every door shall
be thrown open to him in London, and the
zenith of his happiness shall be reached."

Such, assuredly, was not Athelstone's vision
of happiness. With all his errors, begotten of

wilfulness or weakness, in the past or in the
future, he could be debased by no ignoble vanity
of this kind. At the same time, there is no
doubt that he was pleased at the almost universal
homage offered at the shrine of the little
terra-cotta image he had set up and worshipped
in early south. It was a relief to his conscience
to find that she had not apparently
suffered by this folly. Her health did not seem
to be impaired ; her beauty was decidedly'' increased.
Though she had recently undergone
a heavy trial, her spirits had sufficiently revived
for her to take an interest in what surrounded
ber. She could not be as much hurt as, at
times, he had feared she might be. He felt
much comforted by this reflection.

The marble altar before which he now knelt
was higher, and the Madonna above it, perhaps,
unreachable — it seemed so to him at
hours when he wandered, discouraged, out into
the Campagna, through the driving rain. But
he never turned back, nor even wavered in his
devotion. Though his prayers should not be
heard here, ^''et the Deity remained, none the

less, supreme. If he looked back to the humbler
altar, it was only with a tender regret and
thankfulness. The little shrine was unbroken.
His terra-cotta image was recognised by the
world as matchless, and he still thought, in its
own material and dimensions, it was so. But
between the fragile clay and chiselled marble,
polished, indestructible, what comparison could
there be ?

The first morning that the sun rose glorious
over the city, after the rain, sparkling upon
roof, and dome, and tower, and drinking up
the pools that had settled in every hollow of
the uneven flags, Wilfred, standing at his window
in the Tempietto, saw Nellie and the
children ascending the Pincio steps. Without
a moment's hesitation, he called to Lorenzo,
who was in the room, for his hat and stick.
He seldom weighed the prudence of any step
he was minded to take. He wished to join the
girl in her walk, to converse with her as a
friend, and manifest the unchanged interest he
felt in all that regarded her. Was it not natural
and right that he should do so ?

The only pair of eyes that watched him from
the window were Lorenzo's, and they flashed
angrily. Would the noble Signorina whom he
was to marry be pleased that Milordoo should
join girls in their walks ? An hour later, Lady
Athelstone, desiring to see her son, called to ^
the boy, and questioned him as to when his
master went out. Sylvia's young champion
found a pleasure in informing her ladyship of
the circumstances under which Lord Athelstone
had suddenly left the house an hour ago.

In the meantime, Mrs. Goldwin, lying on her
sofa in the Via del Babuino, received an unexpected
and most welcome visitor. Nellie had
scarcely left the house when Hubert St. John
was announced. He had arrived that morning
from Paris, having made the journey without
a halt. His cousin had been ignorant of his
movements for some weeks. She had written
to him in London as soon as she arrived in
Rome, and this was his reply. He looked
worn, but his long journey might account for
that. She asked about the work to which he
was devoting himself, and be told her it was

doing well ; he had been very busy np to
Christmas, and had now given himself a few
weeks' holiday? How was Gold win ? Oh!
very well ; she heard from him once a week.
And the children ? When this inquiry was
satisfactorily answered, began the real interest
of the cousins' dialogue.

"Tell me about Miss Dawson, Mary. You
wrote that she had lost her mother."

And is still in very low spirits, poor child,
at times, though I think she is getting better.
I do all I can to make her look to me now — to
supply, as far as may be , her mother's place.
I am grown even fonder of her, Hubert, than
when you were at Danecourt in the summer."
Here she looked at him with meaning. " I
have altered some of my opinions. I should
not oppose now any marriage for her which I
thought really for her happiness. But she is a
peculiar child. With all her warm affection
and gratitude to me, there are certain subjects
she always avoids. Do you know that Lord
Athelstone and his mother are here ?"

"No! But surely you have not the same

suspicion, Mary ? She told me herself "

— That she was quite free. Oh ! of course.
I daresay the Byronic young lord is innocent in
the matter. We met by chance at the Villa
Albans. He showed that he was delighted to
see her, and talked to her some time — as an old
friend would, nothing more; and Lady Athelstan
was very gracious — that is the right word,
I think. She has left her card here, and her son
has been here twice — the second time I saw
him, and he sat here an hour."

'sand she — did she see him? Tell me
everything, Mary."

"There is very little to tell. 1 did not let
him see her. If my suspicions are right, the
less she sees him, for her own happiness, the
better. He certainly is not in love with her
now, whatever he may once have fancied himself.
Indeed, I feel persuaded he is in love
with somebody else ; he spoke of her with great
interest, and with admiration. (I must tell you
that her beauty has made quite a sensation in
Rome.) But it was admiration, and not passion.
He is a very odd young man, exceedingly

agreeable, very fascinating to many women,
I should think ; but wayward and unreliable, if
I am not mistaken."

'she does not love her, you say ? That is all
I care about, Mary, But she ? — tell me more.
Are you really sure she still thinks about
him?"

"I believe it, my dear Hubert, by that intuition
you always give me the credit for possessing.
If you ask for the grounds of my belief,
I have none to give. She never mentions him,
and the only time I saw them together— though
she was upset at meeting Lady Athelstone,
whom she had not seen since poor Mrs. Daw-sons
death — she was comparatively calm when
he came up and spoke to her ; my conviction,
therefore, is from within. I have always felt
certain, and I feel certain still, that this is a
secret passion which has grown with her since
she was a child."

"But if she sees it is hopeless? Now that
she is a woman, surely she must understand the
delusion she was under, surely she will do her
best to eradicate "

VOL. II. N

"A woman's love is not to be reasoned out
of her, dear Hubert ; her pride will aid her to
conceal it, but it won't destroy it, — time alone
can do that."

He was silent for some minutes.

I shall never change, Mary, you know that,
and I shall not despair ; my life is bound up
with this girl's. I can't help it. All these
months I have found no pleasure in any other
woman's company; there has always been a
mental comparison with her. And leading the
life I do, the alternations of hard work and
solitude, it is not likely I shall be different. I
am not a sentimental fool, but I tell you now,
and you may believe me, unless I marry Miss
Dawson I shall never marry at all."

I no longer oppose it, Hubert ; if you can
win her, do. You will think me even more
horridly worldly than you did, but 1 will be
frank. This change in my views for you is not
solely due to my increased affection for the girl.
I see that her beauty and grace create for her
BO exceptional a position that I do not think
you would suffer socially by such a tie. It

would not militate against you in your career
(and I am ambitious for you, Hubert), as I feared
it might. If she ever makes up her mind to
marry you, I feel sure she will be happy ; but
this will take time, I fancy. You must not be
too impatient. Perhaps Lord Athelstone will
marry ; I shall have better hopes for you
then."

Whom do you say he is in love with ?"
A Miss Brabazou, about whom opinions are
much divided ; some people rave about her
(curious to say, Nellie among the number, who
declares she is the most beautiful and noble-looking
woman she has ever seen), others will
not admit that she is more than a very fine girl
who is disfigured by her dress. That she
should have captivated Lord Athelstone /or a
time is not surprising. There is an originality
about her, a subtle grace and charm, to which I
myself succumbed. Whether he means to propose,
and, if he does, whether she will accept
him, is more than I can say ; but I hope it may
come about, for Nellie's sake, and yours, my
dear Hubert."

N 2

She is out, I suppose, with the children V^
he said, presently.

Yes ; they are gone on the Pincio."

A tradesman was announced, and St. John
rose.

*'I am going to drive with Madame de Surville
to-day," she said, as she held out her hand,
but we will organize some sight-seeing together
for tomorrow. You will dine here today
at seven? — and remember, whenever you
have no engagement, there will be a place and
a welcome for you here."

His eyes acknowledged her words, and assented.
He pressed her hand silently, and left
her.

A quarter of an hour later he stood on the
Pincio. He walked up and down the terrace
to the front, and then round to the north side —
he could not see her. There were but few
pedestrians at this hour, and no carriage. His
eye could sweep the broad road and footway,
without encountering any object more interesting
than some nurses, a priest in shovel hat and
long cloak, a soldier, and two English, spinsters

ill seal-skin jackets. He turned into the centre
walks, Avhere the philosophers, the poets, the
great men of the past look down in stone upon
the straight, or crooked, ways which are paths
of pleasantness to the Romans of to-day.
Ariosto, the chivalrous, and Petrarch, the faithful
and tender, seemed to smile on the eager,
simple-hearted man, striding forwards in pursuit
of what was perhaps a shadow as unattainable
as the favour of Madonna Laura ; but with
what cold wonder Plato, and Aristotle, and the
astute Machiavelli glared at him !

This fancy shot through Hubert's mind as he
glanced up at their busts in passing. The next
minute he came upon what he sought ; and his
heart failed him. Should he go forward, or
turnback? She was there — a few yards from
him — but not alone. Athelstone walked beside
her; the children (as it were, an advanced
guard) in front. His hesitation was but for a
second or two. Tricksy had espied him, and
shouted —

Cobden Robert !"

He went forward, and, stooping down, hid his

great bearded face against the child's rosy cheek.
Then Flossy had'to be kissed. When he stood
erect again, and held out his hand to Miss
Dawson, and afterwards to Wilfred, his countenance
betrayed no emotion.

There had been nothing worth record in their
talk ; all the world might have listened to it ;
but how happy she had been, poor foolish child,
during that half-hour ! At first she had been
startled, and had clung tighter to the two little
hands that clutched hers on either side, when
he came up and spoke to her. The old spell of
his voice made her shiver but as he talked on,
about this and that, as he spoke with real feeling
of her mother, and showed the interest of
a true friend — no more — in all that concerned
herself, the wise wall of resolution she had been
building up, fell brick by brick, and left her defenceless.
The children broke away from her,
and ran on in front ; he drew nearer, and accidentally,
in walking, his hand touched hers:
it sent a thrill through her frame. She hardly
heard what he said ; the sense of happiness in
having him close to her was so great. Never

had the sky seemed so blue, the air so sparkling
with sunlight. A breath of violets was borne
to her from afar; the scent of those flowers,
years afterwards, always brought back to her
that walk upon the Pincio.

She knew nothing of the world and its censorious
tongue. What harm could there be in
her walking beside the oldest friend she had,
who had outlived the passing folly of his boyhood,
and treated her as a little sister ? Wilfred
took off his hat to two ladies who passed ;
but the girl did not see the sneer upon Lady
Dorchester's mouth. Not till she looked up,
and saw, advancing towards her, the big frame
and ugly face of the young man for whom she
had a strangely-mingled feeling of gratitude,
respect, and dread, did the thought obtrude
itself —

"What will Mr. St. John think? Will he
imagine '^

She almost hated him at that moment.
Why had he come and broken in upon her
dream ?

Why, St. John ! where did you drop

from?" cried Wilfred. 'when did you arrive?"

This morning only."

And — surprise upon surprise ! — you know
Miss Dawson?"

*' Of course. Mrs. Goldwin is my cousin."

How odd 1 never knew it ! Then you have
met in the country?"

'eyes — we have met once."

AVilfred was conscious of a certain coldness in
his friend's manner which he could not account
for.

Is this your first visit to Rome ?" he
asked.

I was here for a few days on my return
from India."

Then you have seen nothing. We will
poke about among the ruins together, and
philosophize. I hate regular sight-seeing. Miss
Dawson is so delightfully fresh that she tells
me she enjoys it all — galleries, and catacombs,
and everything I"

**I am glad to hear it," said St. John, who
was looking at her. Yes, her beauty had certainly
ripened and expanded most marvellously

in the course of these four months. A young
lady of the world would have said something ;
but St. John's expression of satisfaction did not
positively demand a reply, and she was silent.
She turned away, and called to the children.

"It is time to be going home,"

They all walked as far as the steps together.

Will you come in to luncheon, St. John ?"
asked Wilfred.

Thank you, no. I breakfasted very late."

•' Will you have a walk with me afterwards,
then r

*' I am afraid I can't to-day."

What the deuce has come to him ?" said
Athelstone to himself, as he turned away. "sis
it possible that he is sweet upon my little
!Nellie ? — (well, not mine any longer now). Can
it be that he is jealous of mew And, so
strangely is human nature constituted, he
felt a certain resentment at the idea of another
conquering the domain which he himself had
voluntarily abandoned.

In the meantime, Hubert walked by the girl's
side across the Piazza di Spagna, and down the

Via del Babuino, in against complete silence.
His heart was sore troubled, but it was a trouble
which it was hard — perhaps unwise, perhaps
even unjustifiable — to put into words. Nellie,
with no suspicion of what was passing through
his mind, still felt a certain awkwardness from
which she took refuge in the children's chatter.
The bronze greyhound and rearing horses on
yellow marble slabs roused Tricksy's enthusiasm
; while the more sensual Flossy devoured
in imagination a whole window-full of bon-bons
in a confectioner's shop. Then, further on,
there were gay beads, and trumpery, and
games, and gaudy pictures equally to the taste
of both, so that the fountains of infantile garrulity
flowed unchecked until they reached the
door of their house.

Up to the very last moment he hesitated
whether to speak or not. He held her hand fora
moment. " I am coming to dinner to-night,"
he said ; then he turned away. It had better
come from Mary, since Mary, through the children,
would assuredly hear of that walk. He
would say nothing. Like David, he would

refrain from good words, though it was pain
and grief to him. For he felt that it was possible
those good words might be misinterpreted,
and do more harm than good.

He went back to his room at the hotel, and
lit his pipe, and buried his head in his hands.

*' He shall not trifle with her — he shall not
make her life miserable ; of that I am resolved.
If it is true that he means to make another
woman his wife, this girl shall not be the pastime
of his idleness. I will watch — I will make
sure before I speak to him. It may be nothing
on his part; he has known her from a child;
but, whatever he feels, whatever he means, the
injury to her is the same. If he has a spark of
manly feeling he will desist."

CHAPTER X.

OF course Lady Athelstone heard more of
that hour's walk on the Piiicio through
Lady Dorchester. Wilfred's mother was secretly
much disquieted ; but for the present she held
her peace. She had learned by experience
that remonstrance with her son in such a case
only roused his antagonism. She said nothing
to him, therefore, and treated the matter lightly
in reply to Lady Dorchester. Her son walking
with Miss Dawson ? Ah ! indeed ? Yes, he had
always taken a kind interest in the girl ; she
was really so very respectable and good; her
head not the least turned by being taken notice
of; so very satisfactory. But Lady Dorchester
was not easily hoodwinked. She smiled superciliously,

and carried her gossip straightway ta
Lady Bannockburn and Lady Frances through
whom it filtered next day to Sylvia Brabazon.

The previous evening this note had been
"written and received —

'' Dear Mrs. Goldwin,

Will you, with your children and
Miss Dawson, join a party we are making to
Castel Fusano the day after tomorrow? We
shall start at ten.

Truly yours,

<' Sylvia Brabazox."
Mary hesitated some time what reply she
should make to this proposal. It came after
dinner, while Hubert and Nellie were present.
The cousins had had no private conversation
since the morning ; but Nellie had told Mrs.
Goldwin very straightforwardly of her meeting
Lord Athelstone; and consequently Mary was
at no loss to account for Hubert's profound
dejection. She now tossed him Miss Braba-
son's note. A few minutes later Nellie, pleading
fatigue, retired, and the cousins were left
alone.

*well? What answer are you going to
give ?" he asked.

I should like to go extremely, myself; but
taking her would be foolish."

"Why?"

Mary opened her eyes.

You ask ichijy Hubert ? — Because I wish to
avoid every opportunity of throwing her in
Lord Athelstone's way."

They can meet every day, you see, if they
choose it, and "

^' They will not meet henceforward. I can implicitly
trust her. She told me quite simply of
his walking with her to-day on the Piucio,
and of your walking back with her. I pointed
out to her that, though all this was perfectly
innocent in itself, it had not a good effect in
the world's eyes. She looked sad, poor girl ;
but she promised me she would not let Lord
Athelstone join her again. Nor must you do so,
either. You can see her as much as you like
here. If I take her, however, to Castel Fusano,
it is hardly possible that she will not be a good
deal with him during the day."

I think it is very possible ; and that
is the reason I advise your taking her.
You can get an invitation for me, I suppose
T

"Certainly I can — but I don't understand
you. Explain yourself."

'*^Tf you are right in your conjecture — if he is
seriously in love with this Miss Brabazon, he
will, of course, devote himself to her. At all
events, there can be no divided service when both
are present. If it is not as you think, if he
cares for her, as you believe she does for him,
he must marry her. Yes ; he shall not hang
about her, and spoil her life. I am resolved
of that. If, on the other hand, he means to
marry Miss Brabazon, it may open Nellie's
eyes, it may cure her of this infatuation to see
them together. I have thought much over it
since this morning, Mary. I have tried to put
my own feelings aside, and only consider her
happiness. She must know the truths whatever
it is, as regards Athelstone, and so must I.
And the sooner it is, the better for us all."

I believe you are right," said Mary. *' And

yet I feel sure she Las no delusions as to
Lord Athelstone's ever marrying her. I have
purposely mentioned to her — as if casually — the
rumours connecting Miss Brabazon's name with
this ; and she has received them quite calmly,
Without even the surprise that might be
natural. That she is fully prepared for his
marriage is certain. Still it may be well for
her, poor child, that the evidence of her own
senses should prove to her that he is devoted to
another."

Though it was still January, the sun had
considerable power the next day ; the sky was
of that intense blue Ave know not in northern
climes, the light upon the houses dazzling, the
shadows sharply cut as with a knife. The
open carriages that drove away in procession
from the Piazza di Spagna were crowned with
parasols and white umbrellas; the professor even
appearing with a " puggeree '' which had seen
some inferior Alpine service, and clung to his
*' wide-awake " with a grim and flaccid tenacity.
Sylvia had begged to be allowed to drive with
Madame de Surville, in a two-seated Victoria,

which obviated the possibility of their offering
a place to anyone. Her friend expressed no
surprise at this stipulation, whatever she may
have felt ; the girl had, no doubts her own
reasons for the arrangement. Lady Athelstone,
Mrs. Brabazon, the Bishop, and Tivoli occupied
another carriage. The Bannockburnss, with
the professor and Miss Decker, filled a third ;
the Goldwin party, including Hubert St. John,
a fourth.

When it was made known to Wilfred, the
previous evening at Mrs. Brabazon's, that the
carriage in which Sylvia was to drive held no
seat for him, his brow clouded over. When it
was further suggested that his carriage should
take some of the rest of the party, he abruptly
announced that he should ride : if aovone liked
to accompany him, he could do so.

Let us float, for a moment or two, on the sun-warmed
air alongside three of those carriages in
turn, and catch the chance words that may be
drifted to us.

'*'Yes, Bishop," Lady Athelstone is saying,
*' I am anxious, as you may believe, about my
VOL. IT. O

dear son. The future, you know — such responsibilities
— you understand. With his ardent,
poetic temperament, it is important he should
fall into good hands."

"May I say, dear Lady Athelstone," — here
"the Bishop leans forward, so that Mrs. Brabazon,
who is chattering volubly to Tivoli shall not
hear him, — •' may I say that he seems likely todo
so? You will esteem yourself blessed, I feel
sure, in the choice which there can be little
doubt he means to make."

"Ah I yes, indeed, I have got to think that
would be, on the whole, most desirable. I wish
it were certain, I do indeed, though I might
have wished a little more family. But I am not
worldly, Bishop; I know we are all equal, and
your approval of her weighed with me so much.
Unfortunately, my dear boy is so swayed by
his impulses, I cannot feel sure that some other
influence — something — may not — may not interfere,
you understand?"

"I should be grieved, indeed, if I thought so.
What counter-influence can you dread?" demands

the Bishop, with a mellowed earnestness
in his mellifluous voice.

I — I scarcely know — that is, I could uot explain.
Thei-e are circumstances that — he is so
very impulsive, you see, Bishop, and his generous
nature may be misunderstood. I fear Miss
Brabazon may misunderstand his kindness to
that young governess. I wish you could point
out to him how wrong it is, how damaging to
the girl, and how likely to — to ruin his own
prospects."

'• To a high-spirited young man that last
argument would not appeal," replies the Bishop,
shaking his head. '' Nor could I take the liberty
of speaking to Lord Athelstone as to his conduct
in a purely personal matter unless circumstances
came under my immediate observation
which should seem to me to justify such interference."


In the Gold win carriage the children are
twittering like unfledged birds, and the pale
girl in black smiles at them from time to time,
with an admonitory word, after which her eyes

o2

fix themselves again upon the far hie line of
the horizon, over the wind-blown asphodels, the
flat grey plain, and the solitary osleria; the
other two occupants of the carriage now and
again cast their bread upon the waters of
silence, into which it is absorbed ; neither seems
in a mood to sustain conversation.

St. John has been referring to his "Murray'

*' That must be the Viciis Alexandria the
ancient Roman village they speak of here as
having been discovered by Professor Gibby."

The young governess rouses herself and looks
round: she feels it is but fitting that she, as
the instructor of youth, should evince an interest
in Professor Gibby 's discovery. But the
interest is languid; she gazes at the few old
stones, and can find nothing to say.

Tricksy 's attention is attracted by the horsemen
galloping across the plain.

"Look dere! Look, MIt Dawson ! Dat
gen'ieraan in font tenth all de mud over de
udder fortieth. IJow fatht he goeth I and he
hookah like if he wanted to get away from
dem."

• "Not Mike if— say 'as if,' Tricksy," Miss
Dawson returns.

How noble and gallant a gentleman astride
his horse ! she thinks. An old green lane at
Kipple in the hawthorn-time, and a boy upon a
white pony, come back to her. She has not
seen him a-horseback since those days.

"Why, heath de gentleman what walked wit
uti de adder day I" cries Tricksy again.

"Not what— ^ who walked' — yes, it is Lord
Athelstone," she replies, quietly.

"We are drawing near the salt-marshes
mentioned in Livy as existing in the time of
Angus Martins," says St. John, anxious to
break an awkward silence, as it seems to him.
But this time she does not even simulate any
curiosity as to the Roman historian's saline
bog, and the valuable information drifts away
unheeded.

Further ahead, between the two ladies
swathed in furs in their Victoria, conversation
has never flagged ; the following is an excerpt
of it.

'• What is to be the end of this, then ?"

It is Madame de Surville who asks the question,
in reply to something Sylvia has been
saying. The girl is silent for a minute.

*' I hardly know — I cannot tell at present. I
must wait and see."

Surely, dear child, you have seen enough
of the man by this time to know the one only
thing that signifies — whether you care for him
or not?"

Under the for Sylvia's hand presses her
friend's, as she says, in a low voice,

*' There is another thing that signifies — to
feel very sure of the man one marries. I do

not feel sure of him. If I did " Here she

breaks off, and then continues — "But I have
such an exalted idea of married life that,
unless I have the most absolute, implicit

trust "

*^AhI child, do not expect too much. Take
what you find now ; trust to the ascendancy
you will gain over him more and more to keep
him yours. He has been a little wild — he says
and writes foolish things — but there seems ta
be good ground to work upon in him. He has a

"warm heart, and he has brains. If you care for
him, my advice is, marry him."

"Not as long as there is the shadow of doubt
on my mind that he could ever return to another.
I am proud, dear Madame Barbara, and
I know myself. I will give body and soul to
the man I marry — live for him, slave for him,
die for him — but I must know that he is mine.
It is not enough that I hold him captive for a
few weeks : his love must be tested."

There is something of bitterness in Madame's
smile, as she shakes her head and answers —

*' I believe you are wrong, my dear. Supposing
the man to be no better nor worse than
the rest of them — supposing he is a little volage
the scent of weaker flowers may attract him
for a moment, he may flutter away from time
to time, but he will return with ever-renewed
zest to the full-scented heart of his rose. Unless
I greatly misjudge him, he would never be
able to break away from such a wife as you
would make him. Your hold upon him would
become stronger as the years advance. He
loves you now as an impassioned young man.

As he learns, more and more, the force and
nobleness of jour character, his will be raised
and purified ; he will worship you, my child —
at least, he'll be a brute if he doesn't."

I have no claim to worship, and I am four
years older than he," says Sylvia, slowly.

'' My dear I have always thought it irrational
that the accident of being born a year or
two sooner or later should affect the marriage
of two people who are really suited to each
other."

But am I suited to him % In some respects,
I know I am. I know, too, that he
is the only man I have ever seen I would
marry. But might not, in the long run,
some younger, lovelier, more pliable creature
retain an empire over him when I am middle-aged
and faded ? I have asked myself this
question very often during the last fortnight;
during the hist few nights it has kept me almost
sleepless. I think Frances Cope is unjust
to him, but I believe her advice is sound. For
his sake, as much as for my own, I will not
marry him yet. His love must be tested."

*' Reflect well, my dear. He is not indifferent
to you. You are casting away, for an idea,
that which you may never find again."

I know it."

You will lose him, and repent of it, I am
afraid."

If he is so easily to be lost, dear Madame
Barbara, I ought not to repent. I cannot act
otherwise."

After this there comes a long silence between
the two friends.

CHAPTER XI.

A N hour later they were seated round a table,
-^ on which the servants, who had preceded
them, had spread luncheon, in the old casino of
the Chili , which is situated in the midst of the
pine forest. Though the sun was powerful, the
air was keen, and the elders of the party had
decided that to play at summer, and feed under
the trees, was not to be thought of. So within
the square grey hunting-lodge, dominated by
its stone sentinels, who stand seaward, as on
the outlook for pirates from Sicily or Morocco,
the party lunched. Miss Decker was the life
and soul of it. But for her, the preoccupation
of some of its members would have interrupted
the current of magnetic fluid which should flow

round any circle of fourteen persons socially
disposed. Her happy immunity from personal
care, and avidity for general heather than particular
conversation, her capacity for extracting
the grist that each individual could bring to her
mill, and her readiness in firing off verbal popguns
to right and left, incited even St. John,
whose mind was not attuned to pleasantry, to
reply to her attacks across the table. No one
could resist the contagion of the little American's
volubility. Chance had placed Nellie beside
the amiable, courtly bishop. He directed
his eyes and devoted his conversation almost
solely to her, and she found herself upon the
happiest terms with him before the luncheon
was over.

Food and personal geniality, in combination,
will disperse — temporarily, at all events — many
of the clouds that gather on the more sensitive
human horizons, when mind and body alike
need stimulant. Those with whom we are
chiefly concerned rose fi-om table unconsciously
braced and in better spirits. Foremost among
these was Athelstone. He had been out of

humoLU* at starting ; had consolidated this
gloomy views of life in a bitter sonnet as he
galloped across the Campagna. His manoeuvres
to seat himself beside Miss Brabazon at luncheon
met with no opposition, and his spirits rose ashe
talked to her. They were both drawn, by-and-by,
into the machinery of general discussion,
of which Miss Decker was the strong motive
power; he said one or two good things which
elicited ]madame de Surville's sympathetic laugh.

"How pleasant he is!" she sighed, looking
into Sylvia's eyes with a humorous sadness, as
they rose from table.

Then, by twos and threes, all the party wandered
through the great pine forest, where
straight red stems, and dark canopies of shade
cutting the blue sky overhead, form a stately
aisle down to the still sea, whose white fringes
advance not, nor retire from the yellow shore.
Two or three coral-fishers from Capri, scarlet-capped,
were mending their boats upon the
sand; some curlews circled high in the cloudless
air; not another living creature was insight.


She had, without affected reluctance, walked
on with him alone along a carpet of pine-fibre,
strewn with cones. The moment had come
when she must listen to him, and be prepared
to reply. Gladly would she have avoided it;
willingly would she have prolonged that undefined
state of things between them which
enabled her judgment, perhaps, to have freer
scope than it would exercise under the limitation
of conditions. But this could not be.
Perhaps it was not even fair to him. Like all
women of imagination, she endowed her hero
with something he had not; but, like few such
who are capable of a strong and deep attachment,
her heart never completely blinded her quick
perceptions. She would hardly acknowledge
to herself, some weeks since, that she was beginning
to love a man against whom she had
been warned, and concerning whom she felt
avowedly doubtful. She did acknowledge it
now; and yet "the little rift within the lute"
had rather widened, than otherwise, since
then.

"Let us get away from them all," he said,.

quickly. " You promised me this hour. I am
not going to let it be interrupted."

They walked on rapidly for a few minutes in
silence. Then he turned to her, and said, with
nervous abruptness —

"Miss Brabazon, you are torturing me by
your conduct. You must see that I love you —
love you passionately ; and I cannot discover
what your real feeling for me is. Is it only a
friendly regard, made more tender at moments
by a little pity ? If it is only this, for God's
sake tell me so at once !"

"It is more than this' she replied, in a low
voice, after a moment's pause. " How much
more, I will not tell you ; but this I will say,
that, if you were a few years older, and if I
believed your decisions to be unalterable, I
would marry you. But you are four years
younger than I, and it has been my lot to see a
great deal of life in those four years. I know
what men are — what they will ever be. Therefore
I will not let you sacrifice your youth to
what may prove to be a delusion."

"A delusion? My love for you is the one
thing in my life that can never prove so. I
swear this to you — and I know myself. I am
passionate, unstable easily led to evil, unless I
am under some strong, good influence. Be my
guardian angel ; for you can be this. My future
is in your hands. If you reject me, such an
ascendancy for good will never be gained over
me again."

So you think now ; and so hundreds of men
at your age have thought who have repented
their rashness a few years later."

But why is this * rash ' ? You surely do not
regard the slight difference in our ages as an
insuperable objection ?"

I do not say insuperable. Still it is a great
one."

"My mother does not think so. She is most
anxious for it."

"She is most anxious for your welfare —
anxious that you should use your abilities well
in life, and take your proper station in your
county. She thinks, perhaps, I can influence

you beneficially — more so than " — she paused —
than those you have hitherto been much
thrown with. If you wish to prove that she is
right, if I have really any power over you,
follow ray counsel simply as a friend, and put
aside for the present all question of marriage
between us."

"I don't want the cold counsel of a friend'
he exclaimed, angrily. " Do you think all the
wisdom of the sages of Greece will do me any
good when we are parted? I want you — you
as my wife; I want close daily sympathy, a
voice to rouse me to exertion, to cheer mein
despondency. If you will not give me
this, I tell you nothing else is of any use tome."


Your confession of weakness makes me feel
how doubly dangerous it would be for you to
undertake life-long obligations at your age,"
said Sylvia, gently. "You have the poet's
temperament — open to every impression, and
you will say, as other poets have done before
you, that such impressions are not to be
reasoned away. Mine is strongest with you

just now. How long has it been so? How
long will it remain so? Would it stand the
test of absence, and, still more, the test of time ?
You will return to England, and some fair
young image will chase mine from your heart,
and if you meet me, ten years hence, a faded
woman, you will bless me for my resistance to
you to-day."

She spoke these words playfully, but her
voice shook a little towards the close, and the
tears gathered in her large grey eyes. The
young man, in his anger, however, heeded them
not. He was too much engrossed by his own
strong emotion to be very watchful of any subdominant
effect of hers.

"You do not love me, and never will," he
said, in a thick, husky voice. " Say so at once.
It would be more honest than to trifle with my
devotion, and then coldly speculate on the
effects of time — as if that question ever occurred
to anyone who truly loved ! If you cared forme,
it would be enough for you that my heart
and life are yours now — you would not talk
about the future !"

VOL. n. p

'* You cannot believe in love that is unselfish,
then?"

I cannot believe in love that can be
smothered by prudence."

"Prudence is an ugly-sounding word; but
what does it mean in our case ? You are a very
young man, and I not a very young woman.
You have talents, riches, rank — all the good
things of this world, and some of a better
world, too, I believe. Life, with its infinite capacities,
lies before you ; it is untried as yet. You
do not know what you most need for happiness.
You think it is rae. But you will find
heaps of better, cleverer, and — younger women
to choose from. And conscience — which is
another name for prudence, perhaps — tells me I
have no right to accept this sacrifice at the outset
of your career."

'* You are afraid."

'* Well, yes. I am afraid — not that you
would be unkind — not that you would ever
reproach me. But should I live to see the love
dying out of your eyes, should I grow to feel
that you were weary of your chain, I could

never forgive myself— never know another
moment's happiness on earth."

He kicked aside the pine-cones that lay
before him, and stalked along in a gloomy
silence for some minutes. Then, stopping
suddenly, and stretching out his hand.

*' Will you do this," he exclaimed. '' Will
you promise to marry me in one year from this
time, if I remain unchanged ?"

There was a moment's hesitation. Was she,
indeed, about to cast away for an idea, as
Madame de Surville had said, that which she
might never find again ? Was not this which
he proposed, after all, a probation? Yes;
but not such a one as she had proposed to
herself.

'' Let us both be free as air. You might
fancy such a conditional engagement bound
you, as a man of honour, as much as marriage.
You do not know your own mind yet. Perhaps,"
she added, with a smile which was more
sad than gay, " I do not quite know mine."

You are frank at last," he rejoined, bitterly.
*' I ought to have known from the first that a

p2

woman like you never could care for me," he
added, with one of those odd revulsion of
humility which alternated in him with a high
estimate of himself. *' You lifted me for a moment;
I shall sink now to the level of those
who are not so hard to satisfy."

*'I hope, on the contrary, you will keep a
lofty standard before you, and never let me
feel otherwise than proud of my friend."

*' You might have been proud of me some
day. It was in your power. But now "

They were standing at the edge of the blue
sea. He stooped, and, instead of completing
his sentence, picked up a pebble, and flung it as
far as he could into the water.

The next minute Miss Decker and Mr,
Spooner came up with them. With vigilant
alacrity the lady was drinking in materials for
'* copy " by the next mail, to be entitled
"Conversations with an eminent Essayist,"
while the professor held forth on what he called
*• the harmonious complexity of the divine
scheme in the articulation of a weed," which,
like the foreground of his favourite ,

he held so close to his eyes
as to obstruct the westering glory on the
far, faint hills. The fact of a young man
and woman walking off from the rest of the
party, and found standing at the water's edge,
the young man, with knit brow and a vicious
jerk, sending stones into the sea, had no significance
for the American, as it would have had
for a Lady Dorchester.

I guess it's about time we were making
tracks," she said.

A hundred yards further off Madame de Surville
was pacing the sands, linked with Mary
Baldwin. The children were loitering behind,
watched over by Nellie, on whom, nevertheless,
no movement of the two dark figures
against the blue sea, far ahead, was lost.
Hubert St. John's object was, apparently,
gained. She could be no longer under a delusion,
if she ever had been so, as to the object of
Wilfred's present devotion. He had addressed
no more than a few kindly words to herself on
arrival; since then he had been absorbed by
Miss Brabazon. Nellie was left to make these

observations for herself. St John had purposely
abstained from joining her ; he was with some
of the other ladies in the rear.

"I suppose that is a settled thing?" said
Mary, tentatively, with a slight movement of
her head in the direction of Wilfred and
Sylvia.

*' On the contrary. I am afraid it is quite
unsettled," replied her companion.

How so ?"

** Because my Sylvia is high-minded and
romantic, and expects too much from life."

Surely there is much to satisfy romance
there ? A poet , a noble name, and great personal
attraction!"

Above and beyond all, my dear, she is in
love with him !"

"Then what is to prevent it?"

*' Her own will — her own fears. She has
made up her mind, I believe, to refuse him."

Mary stared at her. Such an instance of
human perversity as this appeared had not yet
fallen in her way. But the demeanour of both
the subjects under consideration, who were now

drawing near, left little doubt that Madame de
Surville was right. Miss Decker and the professor
separated the two; Sylvia, pale and
silent, but simulating some interest in Mr.
Spoon er 8 discourse, from Wilfred, with tight-clenched
lips, utterly heedless of the American
lady's inquisitive rattle. Her efforts to cull a
few flowers of poetry from the young bard of
the British aristocracy failed utterly this time.
He observed a moody silence, broken at most
by an occasional monosyllable.

Of the return to Rome, which was only
reached long after dark, I have nothing to say.

An hour later, Mrs. Brabazon, sitting over
the fire with her French novel, was surprised
when her daughter, who had been alone in her
own room, as soon as she entered, walked upto
the fire with these words —

"Mamma, let us go to Naples for a few
weeks. Uncle Georgia proposed it the other
day, and I am sure you would like to see him ;
you only refused because you thought I wanted
to stay here. I don't want to do so now — indeed
I had rather go away for a little while, and

return for Easter. What do you say ? May I
write to my uncle ?"

This uncle was in business at Malta, and
business alone had brought him to Naples. His
stay there would be short, and he had not time
to visit his sister in Rome. A strong affection
subsisted between them, though they had met
but rarely since early youth. Mrs. Brabazon
would have started for Naples some days since,
had it not been for Sylvia. The question had
never been mooted between them ; but the
mother believed that her daughter's interests,
as well as her wishes, pointed to their not
quitting Rome just now ; therefore the possibility
of meeting her brother had been at once
dismissed from her mind. Her astonishment at
Sylvia's proposition partook of both pleasure
and disappointment; but she had grown accustomed
to accept her daughter's decisions
unquestioned. The warmest affection subsisted
between the two ; but the intimate discussions
which arise from perfect sympathy, even when
one mind is immeasurably superior to the other,
would have been impossible in this case. The

utmost length to which Mrs. Brabazon's curiosity
prompted her upon this occasion was to
say—

Will Milordoo come to Naples too, care?"

I do not think so."

"And you really wish to go ? You are sure?
Are you not very 'happy here ?"

I think I shall be happier — at all events, I
think it is better for me to be absent from Rome
now for a time."

She stooped and kissed her mother, and no
more passed between them.

Two days later their departure for Naples was
fixed.

CHAPTER XII.

rpHE consternation of *' the Coterie," as it
-^ might be called, at this announcement
expressed itself openly from every mouth but
one. Wilfred was silent, unless directly
appealed to, when he affected to accept the
reason assigned for this abrupt decision as the
true one. His pride was deeply hurt; too
deeply for him to entertain the idea of pursuing
Sylvia to Naples. He considered that he
had been encouraged — led on, step by step,
till he had committed himself to a declaration —
and then treated like a school-boy who could
not be supposed to know his own mind. She
had never cared for him — she never would ; and
the further she drifted away, the more blank

and desolate the future looked to him without
her. Lorenzo, with his searching eyes fixed
upon his young master as he lay, his head
buried in his hands, was the only human being
who guessed how much he suffered.

The boy limped down the Spanish steps with
a stick the evening before Sylvia's departure.
On asking for her at the hotel, and giving his
name, he was admitted. She was in the salon,,
alone, packing up her sketches.

"You have come to wish me good-bye
Lorenzo ?" she said, with a smile. " That is
very kind of you."

"Ah! signorina," returned the boy, with all
the passionate earnestness of his race, "if I
knew what I could do for you ! It is a pity
you are going. — Will you come back quickly f "

We shall probably be back at Easter."

Oh ! it is a long time to Easter."

*nine weeks fly very quickly. You must
work hard at English while I am away. Suppose
you write me an English letter?"

I will write to you, signorina, if anything
happens."

The tone in which he said this struck
her.

"You are quite happy now, are you not,
Lorenzo?"

I should be, if you were there always," he
replied, with a sigh.

That is impossible, you know. But I am
sure my lord is very kind to you ?"

Yes — oh, yes. He is very kind ; but that
makes the servants jealous, and I cannot speak
their tongue. And my lord's mother does not
love me, either."

You must not fancy these things. You must
do your duty without troubling yourself about
what people think of you. '^

My lord is very unhappy, too."

Unhappy ? Nonsense I"

'' Yes, he sits so," and Lorenzo buried his
head in his hands. On raising it, he looked at
her with that curious astute expression which
came into his coal-black eyes at times. "I

fear " then he shook his head, and paused.

The cunning little fellow waited to be questioned.
Sylvia fell into the trap.

"What is it you fear?"

When you are gone, he will be so wretched
so wretched that some other signorina —
quelle hiondina "

She interrupted him with a sternness he had
not conceived to be possible from his divine
lady.

Stop ! You are an ignorant lad. You
know no better than to talk thus ; therefore
I forgive you this time ; but, remember, it is the
last. If you ever repeat the offence, I shall
never speak to you again."

The boy tried to protest ; but she rang the
bell, and pointed to the door.

They were gone ; and the days dragged
themselves wearily along. Wilfred would
show his wounds to no one. Against his
mother's irritating solicitude he held a target of
unassailable calm.

His grief found vent in written words, eloquent
and pathetic, as every emotion in him
had a facility of doing. Here are some lines he
wrote at this time —

Her love is not for me. The light is vanished
From the far hills 1 thought to reach so soon,
And all the gladness from the plain is banished,
And all the glory of the afternoon.

■" The summer gardens now are wildernesses,
Strewn with the leaves of unfulfilled desire,
In vain I look unto her mouth for kisses ;
I meet with friendship when I ask for fire.

-" And from her eyes, when seeking, as I must,
For some poor comfort to allay my pain,
Some answering gleam of tender, tearful trust,
I meet a smile of pitying disdain.

*' Her love is not for me. Her soul's election
"Will fall on one who might have stood alone :
And for warm passion gives her cold perfection.
And for the human bread of love— a stone !"

But to no human being did he speak of his
disappointment.

To none would he have done so less willingly,
strange to say, than to his old friend, Hubert
St. John. An impassable barrier had arisen
between the two young men since their first
encounter in Rome. Hubert had indeed dined
with Athelstone more than once ; but on these
occasions conversation had been upon public or
abstract questions, never as to what touched
either of them most deeply.

Hubert's anger against his friend was, however,
much mollified at this time, not only by
the positive information he had obtained
through Mary Goldwin of Athelstone's proposal
to Miss Brabazon, and his rejection, but
also by reason of the fact that, far from seeking
to meet Miss Dawson now, he seemed to avoid
her. He did not call on Mrs. Goldwin ; he was
never seen on the Pincio ; all his sight-seeing
and art-study collapsed. He passed the mornings
in his own room, writing. In the afternoons
he walked or rode, generally alone. If
he went into society, some hardened, married
flirt was the object of his attentions.

One lady who arrived in Rome about this
time caused Lady Athelstone some temporary
disquiet. Not that Mrs. Crosbie could be
justly designated as a hardened flirt. She was
a poseuse who encouraged admiration. Mr.
Spooner greatly admired her ; he said her type
was so very "pure and early." She had, in
truth, thinly-penciled eyebrows high-arched
in an acre of forehead, narrow eyes under
heavy lids, very little hair, and a long, yearning

throat. She was always in an attitude,
and, somehow or other, you generally saw her
face en prqfil perdu. There was an air of lofty
and yet complacent weariness which belonged
to her character as a fine lady, perhaps even
more than to that of a saint. For the world
had decided that she was very like a saint upon
a gold ground, by Cimabue ; though which, it
had not yet determined ; only the cynic, Mr.
Punchett, declared it could not be Santa Lucia
—she made such use of her eyes. Mrs. Crosbie
herself inclined most to the Madonna, and drove
generally on the Pincio, with a very ugly child
erect upon her lap, a blue mantle, and an abstracted
air. But, as Punchett said, one could
not but feel that the thoughts of tJds Madonna,
while admitting the worship of the
vulgar crowd, were directed to, and wholly
coloured by, the set she lived in "down in
Judge."

Athelstone found some distraction at the
Embassy, and in other houses where he met
her, in talking sentiment with Mrs. Crosbie. It
was not very profound, and it meant as little

on one side as on the other, but it was enough
to alarm Lady Athelstone.

'* I shall never be easy until he is married,"
she observed to the Bishop one night at the
Embassy, when Wilfred had sat for upwards of
an hour on a sofa beside Mrs. Crosbie, whose
neck was craned round, so that one who sat
opposite could only see her rounded cheek and
the tip of her nose as she listened to the young
lord. " I shall never be easy until he is married
— suitably married. It is so unfortunate
Miss Brabazon having gone away. Dear boy !
he is so impulsive, and that Mrs. Crosbie is so
dangerously fascinating. It makes me very
uneasy."

The poor mother had no cause for real uneasiness
in this case , as we know. But Lady
Bannockburn and her daughter perceived it;
and Lady Frances conscientiously believed she
was doing her friend a real service when she
wrote to Naples reporting Lady Athelstone's
annoyance at the way her son was " going on
with Mrs. Crosbie."

*' Last night " — thus ran a passage in one of

VOL. II. Q

Lady Frances's letters — " Lady Worcester had
one of her terrible parties. For the first time,
Lord Athelstone condescended to honour her
^vith his company, though, indeed he should
rather be said to have bestowed it on Mrs.
OrosbiCj as she was the only person he spoke to
the whole evening. It is as good as a play to
watch her wistful, angelic way of looking up
into his face. That he can be taken in by this
electro-plate simplicity and innocence I cannot
believe ; he is too clever ; but she flatters his
vanity, which you have wounded, and this
flirtation, which makes his mother miserable, is
the result."

With the impression which these letters
produced on Sylvia we are not concerned at
the present moment. The fact to which they
bore witness was hailed by St. John and Mrs.
Goldwin as indicating that the young lord,
since the destruction of his more serious hopes,
had found a pastime less harmless to the
object of his attention than the prosecution of
a sentimental intercourse with Nellie Dawson.
The girl accepted this, as she had done the evidence

of his devotion to Miss Brabazon, without
visible emotion of any kind. It was named
purposely named — in her presence. She did
not raise her eyes from her work ; but stitched
away in silence. She might give way in the
solitude of her little room at night. When she
prayed that he might be kept from all evil, it
may be that her voice broke down in sobs ; but
before men she successfully exercised her self-control.
Mary Goldwin felt more hopeful than
she had yet done as to her young governess's
recovery from this fatal passion, which threatened
to over-shadow her whole life.

Nothing contributed to this sanguine view of
the question more than Nellie's gradual return
to a footing of firm and easy friendliness with
St. John ; the ground on which both stood, so
to speak, having been loosened at the time of
his proposal, and never since, spite his best
efforts, having consolidated. But it would have
been hard, indeed, for any woman with a heart,
not to be touched by the faithfulness which
brought him, day after day and evening after
evening, with books and drawings to illustrate

n '•>

Bone point of Italian literature, or history, or
art ; to enrich her from the treasury of his well-stored
mind ; in short, to complete the education
which Mrs. Goldwin had so profitably
begun ; never obtruding his own desires upon
her, but biding his time with manly patience,
subordinating all to her present profit and
pleasure.

Possibly the comfort both found at this time
was based upon a false security in the mutual
renunciation of their hopes ; but the repose and
confidence in St. John's judgment, and respect
for his character, which the girl felt more and
more each day, were never afterwards shaken.
Whatever might come between them in the
future, the regard which she contracted for him
now could not change. And Mary, who knew
that the girl's nature,, though too diffident to be
quickly receptive, retained with tenacity every
feeling and impression once formed there, built
much upon this. The rest must be left ta
time.

The beauty of the young English governess
was one of the topics of Rome that winter.

Wherever the trio went — and they visited some
villa, gallery, or church daily — there was sure
to be a knot of young men following her with
that undisguised admiration which Italians
regard as the natural homage to be paid to
beauty. Mary had to decline numberless
humble supplications that she would allow the
signorina's bust, portrait, and photograph to betaken.
She did not esteem it an advantage to
the girl that her face should adorn the shop-windows
of all the capitals in Europe, though
she recognised the full value of her beauty in a
worldly point of view.

She mentioned to St. John, as an illustration
of this, one day, the invitation she had received
from the Embassy to bring her children to a
child's party. The note, which was informally
worded, expressed a hope that Miss Dawson
would come, too. ^' Of course, if she was plain,
her name, her very existence, would be ignored,"
said Mary to her cousin.

"Probably," he replied. "And would that
much signify ?"

This party, which took place some weeks

after the Brabazons' departure, Alas one to
Which those only who had children, and a few
young men, were invited. It began at dusk,
and there was an understanding that it was to
end quite early. Tricksy and Flossy had been
looking forward to this evening for days; it
was their first " party," and, as such, an event
of much curiosity and excitement. Unfortunately,
the day before, Mrs. Goldwin caught a
violent cold ; the following morning it was
evident that her going out, delicate as she was,
was not to be thought of. She could not bear to
disappoint the children, and, as Miss Dawsou
had been specially invited, it was arranged
that she was to accompany them. Like the
children, she had never been to a '^ party "
before ; she felt a little frightened ; she wished
Mr. St. John had been invited ; he was so kind,
he would have told her what to do. However,
she comforted herself by thinking that no one
would notice her. She would sit in a corner
and have to watch Tricksy that she did not get
into mischief, and, above all, that she did not
eat to repletion.

Mrs. Crosbie had notified to Lord Athelstone
that she with her boys — like the mother of the
Gracchus and her "jewels " — would grace this
juvenile entertainment. Was he invited ? Oh !
he knew the ambassadress well enough to feel
sure she would welcome him, if he liked to lookin
; she had not asked him to this juvenile entertainment,
for she knew he never danced.

You need not dance. I shall be sitting
down, watching my darlings ; you can come
and talk to me."

Then he had promised that he would come,
and he kept his promise literally, so far. But
the spirit of that promise was assuredly lost,
when, on entering the room, and espying Miss
Dawson alone in a corner, he walked straight
across and took the vacant chair beside her.
In vain Mrs. Crosbie clasped a very sleepy boy
her youngest — upon her knee, in the most
Madonna-like of attitudes, throwing ever and
anon a soft dreamy gaze across the room towards
the young man, who made as though he
saw her not. Nor did he once address her
throughout the evening. That this was exceedingly

ill-mannered I shall not deny ; but
the manners of those who are guided solely by
their impulses at the moment are not apt to be
above reproach. The cool way in which he
utterly ignored Mrs. Crosbie inspired more
mirth, I fear, than commiseration for that lady.
But she had her revenge — the revenge of a
truly virtuous woman — later on.

To formulate the conduct of such a man as
Wilfred Athelstone, to refer any particular action
to agencies not directly traceable in a character
so singularly mobile, is a dangerous exercise of
a writer's prerogative. That he had been
tempted more than once during the past month,
when he had felt the need of a woman's sympathy,
to seek out the girl he had known from
childhood, and pour his grief into her ear as he
would have done to some loved sister, and that
he had resisted this temptation, it is only fair
to admit. He probably came to this children's
party without any idea of meeting her. But
when he saw her looking so sweet and sad, in
her high black dress, sitting a little apart, her
attention riveted on the children, the past came

back with a tide of pleasant memories, and all
his virtuous resolves gave way. After all, why
should he not sit beside her, and cheer her
evening? Why should they not talk of old
days ? Why should he not tell hei that, although
life, as we advanced, developed new
passions and new hopes, in him nothing could
extinguish the first pure affections of boyhood ?

How swiftly,, poor girl, the remaining hour of
that short evening passed I It was grievous,
but she had to interrupt him to go and look
after Tricksy, who was found with her fat
fingers buried in a plum-cake. He followed,
carrying Flossy in his arms, who was waxing
weary and fretful. Nellie, with despair at her
heart, said she was afraid it was time to depart ;
Mrs. Goldwin had charged her to bring the
children home early, and it was already half-past
nine.

Wilfred went to look for Mrs. Gold win's
servant. He came back, saying the carriage
was there; but it was pouring with rain, and
there were no hack-cabs to be got.

I have no carriage ; I shall have to walk

home in my thin boots, unless you will take
pity on me, and give me a seat."

Of course she ought to have said " no " ; any
properly-educated young lady would have
understood the impropriety of allowing a young
man to sit opposite to her in a close carriage
for ten minutes, though two children should sit
beside her : and it was a night when one would
not turn a dog out of doors. They drove
rapidly from the Porta Pia to the Via Gregorian,
where Athelstone was deposited, and
during the drive his conversation was chiefly
with Tricksy. Some words of the chattering
little imp's were of moment, as the event
proved.

*'I hope tomorrow '11 be a fine morning.
We're going out after breakfast to get
enemies."

"One gets plenty of enemies without going
out for them' laughed Wilfred.

She means anemones," explained Nellie,
laughing too.

** Yet. Mamma permitted we should go,
'couth it'th With Dawthon'th birthday. The th

going to be eighteen. The thayth that'll an old
woman. Ili it?"

Quite venerable !"

What's venerable V

To be respected. You respect Miss Dawson,
I'm sures

Oh ! yet. I thpect her. I'm going to give
her a present. Shall you ?"

"Tricksy, I am ashamed of you," said her
governess severely. "Your mamma would b&
very angry if she heard yon."

Shall I come and help you to pick anemones,
Tricksy ?" he whispered.

Yet !" said the child in his ear, with a
certain consciousness of revenge in this secret.

And then the carriage stopped.

Meantime there was an engine of mischief at
work more potent than an enfant terrible. Mrs.
Crosbie, with her angelic, far-away gaze, had
been draping herself in the hall when she saw
Athelstone and Nellie step into the carriage
together.

It is quite too sad !" she said, with sorrowful
incision, to everyone she met. " Such a young

creature — so lost to all sense of propriety — not
only engrossing Lord Atbelstoue the whole
evening, but actually taking him home with
her I I never was so shocked — so grieved. I
am sure, if I could have stopped her, I would.
Such an example, you know, for those children !
Mrs. Goldwin is not in my set ; but really
some one should let her know what a way that
unhappy girl is going on !"

Lorenzo, who was sitting up for his master,
and opened the door to him, informed him
that the Signora Madre was not yet a-bed ;
but Wilfred, without reply, went straight to his
own room, threw ois his evening clothes, and,
lighting a pipe, drew his chair before the
blazing wood-fire, and gave himself up to
reflection. The boy leisurely folded away the
membra dissect of his lord's wardrobe, watched
his face with that aptitude to construe expression
in which an uneducated nature occasionally
far surpasses a trained observation of men. The
fact of the fair girl in the carriage, whose face
he had distinctly seen, being the same whom
he had once before observed his master join on

the Pincio, was not lost upon him. For more
than a month past he had not seen a smile that
was neither hard nor mocking upon that brow.
Storm-clouds drifted across it still ; but ever
and again faint gleams of sunshine pierced
them. If there were mists, impeding a fuller
warmth they were mists of perplexity, and not
of moroseness or acrid despondency.

Though it is impossible to chase the swallow-flights
of thought, what Wilfred felt may possibly
be summed up somewhat thus : " Have I
not been deceiving myself, after all ? Is it not
the repose of such a simple, guileless nature as
this that I need in contact with my own?
AVhat a refreshment to find a being absolutely
unspotted by the world, into whose mind one
sees down — down as in a crystal stream. There
is nothing here ' too wise or good for human
nature's daily food.' I need no strain or effort
with her ; she has no unattainable standard of
perfection in man as Sylvia has. She would
love me as I am, with all my imperfections on
my head; and 1 require love, absolute and
devoted, which Sylvia will never give me.

Never! She treats me as a boy. She looks
do^vn on me from her superior altitude of
years. She pities me only — and she would
improve me. It is no use. I should never be
"worthy of her. But would she ever think me
worthy ? that is the question. Love must be
undoubting, and Sylvia sees and judges too
cleverly to yield to such weakness. Shall I
waste my life in a vain dream, then, hungering
after that which I shall never get ? I wish I
had never seen her — I wish I had never seen
anyone but Nellie. No ! It is a lie. My poor
little Nellie ! I will not deceive you, nor myself,
either. Though I love you for loving me,
though in your presence I feel soothed and
comforted, you can never be to me what that
cold-blooded woman is !"

The next morning was bright, and very
warm.

Order my horse to beat the English Chin in
an hour's time, Lorenzo. Go yourself to No. —
Corso ; learn , if you can, Ashen the signorina and
children are going out, and hang about the

'fortune' till the appear. If they walk,
follow them so far as to see which gate they
go out by. If they drive, listen to the direction
given to the coachman. Come and bring me
word at the English Club."

The boy, following his master a few minutes
later down the Spanish steps , saw Athelstone
turn into one of the large jewellers in the
Via Condotti, and peeping through the window,
watched him choosing a gold locket.
He then obeyed the instructions he had received
to the letter, and an hour later brought
his master the intelligence that the signora
and children had driven to the Villa Pamfili
Doria. Subsequently,, with that proclivity to
intrigue which is natural to Italians, and
which had been developed in this case, no
doubt, by the boy's apprenticeship at the
"Apollo," where the fetching and carrying of
love-letters, and being set to play the spy on
some fair object of jealousy, had been part of
the lad's education, he hastened to a public
letter-writer, and proceeded to serve his beloved
lady to the best of his ability, by inditing three

anonymous letters. One, addressed to herself
at Naples, adjured her to return to Rome
instantly, if she would not be supplanted by a
hated English rival. The drive at night, the
locket (for Lorenzo jumped at conclusions), the
pursuit to the villa were dully given, to indicate
the pressing nature of the peril. Another,
with much the same details, was addressed to
Lady Athelstone. A third and briefer document,
warning her not to endeavour to
alienate affections that were already disposed
of, was addressed to the young English
governess. The difficulty was that Lorenzo
was ignorant of her name. For the moment,
therefore, this was bestowed in his pocket,
waiting an opportunity for transmission to
the signorina's hands, without danger of the
sender's detection.

CHAPTER XIII.

Tubers ST. JOHN had faithfully obeyed
-*-^ his cousin's injunctions to him, delivered
the day after his arrival in Rome. During the
past six weeks he had abstained from joining-nellie
and the children in their morning walks.
The utmost he permitted himself was, occasionally,
if he knew where they were going, to
follow and watch them from a distance. It was
strange that he should derive any satisfaction
from this ; that a practical man of the nineteenth
century should indulge in a pastime more in
character, it would seem, with some love-born
knight of the middle-ages ; but it was so.

On the morning in question, the children had
told him they were going to the Pamfili Doria ;

VOL. n. R

and near the Porta San Pancrazio the carriage
passed him, slouching along in his shabby
shooting-jacket, a black-thorn in his hand, a
pipe in his mouth ; altogether such a figure as
stirs the bile of those who ask Why men should
attire themselves at Rome as they would never
venture to do in London or Paris.

When he reached the Villa, the two children
were already running wild in the flower-enameled
grass, plucking the lilac cyclamens,
whose breath made the whole air sweet, and
the flaming anemones, whose beauty is their
only joy. He turned aside, up among the lofty
pines, beneath whose red stems, in a tangled
undergrowth of bay-trees and budding almond-blossoms,
stood a stone seat. From this vantage
ground he could see the undulating slope
for some distance, and the carriage-drive, hidden
now and again by clumps of trees. But it was
not to the carriage-drive, and the rare pedestrians
upon it, that he turned his eyes. They
were riveted upon the slight, black-robed figure
which moved along the sunlit grass, now stooping
to pluck a flower, now halting to receive

the precious load of colour and perfume which,
from time to time, the children discharged into
her arms. Something of the unconstraint of
old days, when she danced, singing, after her
cow, in the meadows of Ripple, seemed to have
returned with the sweet spring morning. She
ran, once or twice, after the children, and her
clear young voice, in laughter, reached Hubert's
ears, as he watched, with a smile, the three
blue shadows that flickered among the waving
grasses. It was a pleasure to him to note the
sway of her lithe figure in its unaccustomed
freedom. He had heard her likened to Psyche ;
but it was the chastened Psyche, sorrowful and
"unsatisfied, before she received the crown of the
immortals ; she seemed to him now like the
maid, in her innocence and glee, with the flush
of the pure morning still upon her.

The burden of blossoms had grown nearly as
large as Nellie could carry in her two arms,
when the sound of a horse's hoof, trotting up
the gravel road, struck Hubert's ear. He turned
his head, and, suddenly, the blood rushed up
into the young man's face. He took the pipe

from bis month, and sat there, motionless, Avitb
tight-clenched lips. He heard the joyous shouts
of the children greeting the rider, who, as he
approached, sprang lightly from the saddle,
and, throwing the rein over his arm, walked
towards the group upon the grass. He saw
the awkward grace of the girl's reception, in
which, though there was embarrassment, there
was also pleasure. He saw the lingering of
the hands that were clasped as Wilfred spoke
a few words, and gave her a little packet which
he took from bis pocket. He watched her faint
effort to refuse the gift, how she shook her head
and turned aside ; and then bow be successfully
urged some plea — probably that of the anniversary
which be bad often made glad with a
present in old times — and she, a little frightened,
a little reluctant, but nevertheless with a
joy that danced in her sweet eyes, yielded. He
watched Tricksy tugging at bis lordship's coattails,
and clamouring for him to come and help
her in a district, blazing with purple and scarlet,
which they bad not yet explored. Then more
words — deprecatory ones, apparently, on the

girl's part, and spoken with hesitation, impatient
ones on the man's — passed between the
two. She was telling him that he must not
remain with them ; she was forbidden to allow
him to walk with them ; he must, please, ride
on.

He argued the question, as he argued everything;
but he obeyed, mounting his horse, and
riding slowly away. He looked back more than
once with a friendly nod to the children ; then
he was hidden among the trees by the windings
of the road, and the flower-gatherers were alone.
If Nellie had not thought so, at least, if she had
suspected that every movement of hers was
anxiously watched, she would not have sat
down under a tree, and, gazing at something
she held in her hand, have pressed it to her lips.
She was oblivious of children, and flowers, and
the flight of time, till recalled to a sense of duty
by a shout from Tricksy. Then she started to
her feet.

A few minutes later they had joined
the carriage at the Villa, and were driving
home.

vol. ii. r

The loving heart of the man who had been a
spectator of this little drama was sore and
wrathful; but it was not against her that his
indignation was raised. The poor child was
innocent of wrong ; this was no assignation.
Athelstone had followed her, and she had
bidden him depart ; so much seemed clear to St.
John. It was against the man who had once
been his friend that the honest fellow's blood
boiled ; and this was not solely from jealousy.
What did this secret pursuit, this giving of
presents, this tenderness of demeanour unavowed
before men indicate, but a base purpose
which shunned public scrutiny? Could this be
anything but the old miserable story of Faust
and Marguerite ? The infamous intent to make
a pure young creature minister to vanity and
passion, regardless of the future? How guileless
and upright she was, Hubert had not needed
the testimony of his eyes to feel assured of.
But, alas ! have not many as strong in their
own innocence as she fallen a prey to insidious
designs like this young reprobate's ? For she
loved him : Hubert St. John could not conceal

this from himself as he buried his head in his
hands and groaned aloud. And now, how could
he best protect her ? That was the question.

"Walking along one of the crowded streets an
hour later, he nearly ran against the portly
figure of the Bishop issuing from a fortune. St.
John was passing on with a slight bow, for his
acquaintance with the genial prelate was but
slight, when the latter stopped short, and called
to him by name. The gravity of the Bishop's
manner, so different from the beaming, somewhat
florid address usual to him in society,
struck St. John at once.

I want very much to have a few minutes'
conversation with you, Mr. St. John. If you
are not particularly engaged would you mind
stepping up to my apartment, where I could
say better what I wish than in the street ?"

Hubert followed him upstairs to the first floor
of a dark and gloomy house. There was a
ricochet of sunshine in the apartment from the
dazzling light upon the houses opposite, and
this fictitious brilliancy was helped by some
apricot stuff-curtains. But for this, and the

moral cheerfulness imparted by a number of
books and papers scattered about the room, it
was even less inviting than the generality of
Roman lodgings. The Bishop gave his visitor
the only arm-chair, and then seated himself,
crossed his legs, and smoothed his apron, before
he said —

*' The matter I wish to speak to you upon,
Mr. St. John, is a delicate one. You are, I believe,
a cousin of Mrs. Goldwin's V and, I know,
are very intimate with her, and also, I believe,
with Lord Athelstone ?"

St. John assented by a movement of his head,
and the Bishop continued —

Some time since. Lady Athelstone, for whom
I have a great regard, asked me to volunteer
some advice to her son. I felt he might justly
consider it a great liberty, as I was not — and
am not now — upon terms to warrant such interference
; and I pointed out to his mother that
meddling in young men's private affairs, without
very grave cause, seldom does any good. I
have heard this morning something which has
given me considerable pain. Lady Athelstone

has again urged my speaking to her son. Before
promising to do so, I wished to speak to you.
It has occurred to me that your assistance, from
the position in which you stand, would be more
valuable than anyone else's. If you think
otherwise, if you decline to act in the matter,
well and good. I shall know what to do."

He paused for a moment. St. John said
nothing, but looked the Bishop straight in the
face.

You are, of course, aware' pursued the
prelate, "that Lord Athelstone has known Miss
Dawson since she was a child ? She was in a
very humble position in the village, and her
beauty and intelligence attracted him, it seems.
The folly of boyhood was put a stop to at the
time by his father. But here, I am afraid, he
has fallen a victim to the same attraction
again, and committed far more culpable folly. I
understand that last night, at the Embassy,
after spending the entire evening at her side,
he actually drove home with her in her carriage.
Lady Athelstone, whom I saw half an
hour ago, had heard this, and was very greatly

distressed, The impression was yet further
confirmed by an Anonymous letter she received
while I was sitting with her. One takes such
communications, of course, for what they are
worth ; but the writer stated that Lord Athelstan
had presented Miss Dawson with a
valuable locket, and met her this morning at
the Pamfili Doria Villa. Now, of course, the
idea of his marrying her is absurd. Taking the
best view of it, he is only amusing himself. I
am loth to believe that the young man really
harbours any evil intentions with respect to this
poor girl ; but his conduct is very reprehensible
very reprehensible, indeed. He must be
aware what interpretation the world puts upon
acts of such a nature between a man in his
position and a girl in Miss Dawson's. You
agree with me in this, Mr. St. John ?"

Hubert kept his eyes rigidly fixed upon the
Bishop. His parched lips refused to utter a
sound for some minutes. AVhat was he to say?
He felt stunned. It was a blow for which he
was unprepared. The one he had received that
morning had been cruel enough. But this was

far more severe. Tt cut him to the heart to
think that he could no longer hold her entirely
blameless. If there was not complicity here, at
least there was weakness, and such a disregard
of the most elementary laws of conventionality
as had clearly already imperiled the poor child's
reputation.

An anguish too deep for words in the
strongly-marked countenance of the young
man opposite him must have struck the Bishop.
He had waited for a minute or two for some
expression of assent ; he now rose, placed fresh
logs on the fire, and then, facing about, resumed,
while he stood with his back to the
blaze,

'' The question is, what had best be done ? I
am quite ready to speak to Lord Milestone.
At the same time, I cannot conceal from myself
that, holding the Church, as I believe he does,
in little respect, no words of mine are likely to
have any special weight with him. Mrs. Gold-win
would probably be the best person to speak
to him, which she would do with some authority
as responsible for her governess's reputation

She would also point out to the poor girl, who,
I take it, is entirely ignorant of the world, the
damage to her character which the continuance
of this intimacy must entail. But I know Mrs.
Goldwin very slightly. It has struck me that
you, Mr. St. John, as the friend of all parties,
are the most fitting person to lay the facts
before her. Sooner or later they would be sure
to reach your cousin's ears ; therefore it is
causing her no unnecessary pain to tell her.
She will act, I make no doubt, with leniency
and kindness to her young governess, and I
trust that further evil may be avoided."

Then Hubert rose, and the bland Bishop
looked into his white face, and listened without
manifestation of undue surprise to the low,
husky voice which said,

1 thank you, my lord, more deeply than you
can possibly know, for what you have told me.
I ask you to leave this matter in my hands.
This evil shall not continue. Miss Dawson's
good name is dear to my cousin, and — to me.
You are right in behaving it is only her ignorance
of the world has led her to — to such

imprudence. She is pure and innocent as a
child — I could stake my life upon it."

I never doubted it for an instant, Mr. St.
John. To watch that beautiful countenance is
enough — the expression is so ingenuous. But
you see we must consider the world. And also
I am bound to say it — the possibility of even
the best in moments of peril, ceding to temptation.
We are all of us frail, Mr. St. John.
We must guard, not only against the semblance
of evil, but against the real danger — the evil
itself. As regards Lord Athelstone, I am inclined
to hope — I repeat it — that be acts upon
the impulse of the moment, without an arrive
pense. His feelings for Miss Dawson cannot
be deep-seated, for it is not many weeks since
he was paying his addresses to another lady;
and, in the interim, I am told, he has made a
married lady rather conspicuous by his attentions.
As I pointed out to his mother, therefore,
I am sure she need have no cause for
alarm, as regards him."

I don't understand you, my lord. I should
think there was sufficient cause of alarm in that

Athelstan's conduct is unworthy the name of
a gentleman by blasting a gifts future for the
gratification of-his miserable vanity. If there
were any deep, strong feeling, it might be more
readily pardoned."

"You misapprehended my meaning," returned
the Bishop, blandly. *' I alluded to Lady
Athelstone's very natural fear lest, in some
unguarded moment, her son should be led to
offer his hand to this young woman. I do not
think there is any fear of this."

No ; he is not likely to disgrace his name
thus ; we can all be thankful for that !"

The sarcasm was in the words ; St. John's
voice and manner were inflexible as before ;
then he rose.

You have nothing farther to say, my
lord

"Nothing. Perhaps you will let me hear
what Mrs. Goldwin "

Mrs. Goldwin will have little to do in the
affair. You have done me the honour to trust
me ; I take the management of it upon myself.

There shall be no further food for scandal — I
give jouxnj word for that."

Then the amiable dignitary placed his shovel-hat
on his head and led the way to the door.
They passed out together, and parted in the
street — the Bishop with the pleased conviction
good, short-sighted man ! — of having effected
his excellent purpose with consummate diplomacy;
St. John with the burning desire to
break every bone in the body of Wilfred Athelstan.


CHAPTER XIV.

TT was dusk when he stood in the doorway
-*- of the Tempietto. Lorenzo admitted the
burly, slouching Englishman, whom he knew
as his master's friend, to Athelstone's private
room. Had he understood English, the conversation
which ensued would have had a deep
interest for the ill-disciplined youth who hung
about the ante-room. As it was, voices raised
in altercation were all his curiosity elicited ; to
what purpose will be seen later.

Athelstone was in his dressing-gown and
slippers before a table, on which were some
proof-sheets, which he was correcting, and
several ]miss., a Dante, lying open with an
Italian dictionary upon it, the last numbers of

two or three reviews, and Adelaide's " Fleurs
du Mai."

He raised his head from his work as the door
opened, and, seeing St. John enter, pushed
back his chair from the table.

"How d'ye do, Hubert? Sit down, won't
you ?" he continued, seeing that his visitor
neither held out his hand nor took a seat.
*' Have a cigar ?"

Thank you, I won't smoke, and I prefer
standing. I have not come for a sociable chat,
Athelstone. It is a bad business brings me
here. Are you aware that, at this moment, the
tongues of all the English society in Rome are
busy in tearing Miss Dawson reputation to
pieces, and that you are the cause of this cruel,
damnable injury ?"

Wilfred flushed to the roots of his hair.

I do not understand you. I have done
nothing to be ashamed of, nor has Miss Dawson.
I take a deep interest in her — I have always
done so ; I have known her since she was
a child."

More's the pity. But she is not the pupil-vol.

II. S

teacher here, and you are not lord of the
manor."

Do you mean to say that I mayn't talk to
her when we meet (which is seldom enough),
without there being a scandal about it V It is
nothing but a set of infernal old women, who
are jealous of her because I don't make love to
their daughters, who have trumped up this. I
wonder at your listening to such rubbish !"

*' I have used my eyes — that is enough,"
returned the other, sternly.

What do you mean ?'*

'^ I mean that I was in the Pamfili Doria
grounds this morning. I saw all that passed."

Wilfred laughed, but the laugh sounded artificial,
uneasy.

It is a pity there is not some mystery, some
dark secret, to be unravelled, my dear fellow,
since you have taken to play the spy. I happened
to be riding through the villa, and, seeing
Miss Dawson and the children, I got off
my horse and talked to them for five minutes.
That was all, as you yourself must have seen."

It was not all. You forget the locket which
you came there expressly to give her."

"And if I choose to give her a locket on her
birthday, who the devil has a right to prevent
me ?" cried Wilfred, firing up at last.

Possibly her friends, if they think it disadvantageous
that she should receive costly presents
from a young man in your position. But I
will pass on to another matter — one far more
grave. Old acquaintance cannot justify your
driving away from the Embassy alone with Miss
Dawson, as you did, last night. You know the
world as well as I do. You know in what light
such a defiance of public opinion must be regarded.
But you are selfish and reckless ; you
don't care if the girls reputation is destroyed,
provided you have your amusement."

I shouldn't stand this language from anyone
but you, St. John," said the other, biting his
lips while his voice shook with anger, " and I
only excuse it from the strong personal interest
it is evident you feel in "

Don't trouble yourself with my motives or

S2

feelings," interrupted the other, yet more sternly.
'• I am here to speak to you about facts,
which you can't deny."

'you are making mountains out of molehills.
What does all this piece of work about
last night amount to ? It was pouring ; I had
no carriage ; she and the children were passing
very near my door ; I asked her to drop me. It
is a thing that would be of the commonest
occurrence in America, and thought nothing
of."

We are not in America, and everywhere in
Europe it happens to be thought so very much
of, whether rightly or wrongly, that, if Mrs.
Gold win were to dismiss her governess tomorrow,
she would certainly not find another
situation."

'* Did Mrs. Goldwin send you here ?"

*' No ; I am not aware that she has even heard
of this as yet."

'* But will do so from you, of course. In the
meantime, I don't see what business it is of
yours to interfere between Miss Dawson and

It is my business," replied St. John, speaking
very distinctly, " because I have asked her
to be my wife — because I am ready to give her
the protection of my name, which you will
never do. Love — the love that is capable of
sacrifice — has no part in your feeling; she is
acknowledged to be the most beautiful girl in
Rome, and your vanity is flattered at the
ascendancy you have over her ; but, if you have
a spark of manly feeling, you won't let the girl
destroy her whole future by nourishing an idle
dream ; you will tell her frankly that you have
deceived her, as you have perhaps been deceiving
yourself; you will do your best to dispel
the glamour which has surrounded you in her
eyes. So much is in your own power. But
something is in that of her friends. If you
choose to act generously, you may remedy
some of the mischief you have wrought. At all
events, you shall not continue to work it. All
communication between you and Miss Dawson
must stop."

Tact was not St. John's strong point. Athens
whose eyes, a moment before, had lost

their antagonistic glitter, flashed up again, like
a half-sheathed sword from its scabbard.

Hectoring doesn't do with me ; you should
know that. Let Mrs. Goldwin turn Nellie out
of doors tomorrow, if she chooses, and my
mother shall take her in. I shall like to see
who will prevent that, or who will have a word
to say against her then."

"Nothing would ever make my cousin turn
her out of doors; she is as fond of her as if she
were her own sister. But she would leave
Rome sooner than subject Miss Dawson to your
continued pursuit ; and in this, I feel sure, she
would have Lady Athelstone's cordial support."


•' I have the greatest regard for Nellie, and I
am not going to give up my friendship at
anyone's dictation," returned Wilfred, doggedly.


You shall give up compromising her, I
swear to that. ]ely God I" he continued, with a
sudden burst of passion, " to think that you —
yon, whom I remember a noble-hearted boy,
can, for the gratification of your miserable

vanity, want to sacrifice the good name and
future happiness of an innocent girl !"

*' If she thinks she will not find it in marrying
you, I can't help it," said Wilfred, with a
sarcastic smile.

St. John's lips quivered ; but pride was
swallowed up in his great simple-hearted
devotion, and he replied,

Yes, you can. Tell her what I know is the
truth, Athelstone, that your heart is another's.
Disabuse her mind of any false hope ; as long
as you encourage it by your conduct, how can
she be brought to entertain any more solid ones
lor the future ? She may never be able to care
for me ; that I know well. But she may form
some other honest attachment. And that which
you have fostered, for your pastime, is not
honest — it is morbid, unhealthy — and can only
end in misery."

The door at this moment opened, and Lorenzo
appeared with a message from my lady,
begging her son to come and speak to her as
soon as he could.

Va bene," said Wilfred ; then, turning to

St. John, " I can't ask you to stay now. I
shall reflect on ^vhat you have said, and — shape
ray conduct accordingly."

St. John in default of more definite promise,
felt that it was wise to accept these words as
an acknowledgment of error and an earnest of
amendment. At all events, Wilfred Athelstone
had now been fairly warned. They would fight
henceforth, if fight they must, with their vizors
up. His antagonist knew that his conduct was
laid bare ; and he also knew Hubert's unalterable
determination. The most difficult portion
of the victory, though at first sight the easiest,
must now be accomplished by Mary Goldwin.
That Nellie would obey her benefactress meekly
he felt sure ; that she might be brought to regard
Athelstone's conduct as selfish and heartless
he could not very sanguinely hope.

Lady Athelstone, informed by Lorenzo that
the tall English signor was closeted with her
son, and that loud words were being interchanged,
acted with more decision than usual,
but unfortunately with less than usual judgment.
She had not a doubt as to the cause of quarrel.

The scandal she had heard — the anonymous
letter she had received — her mind was naturally
full of the subject. She did not forget that Mr.
St. John was Mrs. Goldwin's cousin. He was,
of course, sent to Athelstone by her. There
might be a very serious altercation between the
young men — her mind even glanced at a duel.
Her alarm rose to white heat ; and her habitual
nervousness at "interviewing" her son gave
way before the imperative necessity of appealing
to him — adjuring him not to bring the name
of Athelstone into evil repute nor to give
further cause for scandal.

Wilfred upon his side, attended his mother's
summons more promptly than he would perhaps
have done, because he was glad of the plea to
terminate a discussion which had greatly irritated
him. The secret of this irritation lay, not
in St. John's plain speaking, but in the fact that
Wilfred's own better nature recognized, and reproached
him with, the truth of nearly all his
friend had said.

Like many other men, he was not without
principles ; but they were laid by in lavender.

with the garments of the past, occasionally
aired, but seldom worn — at least by himself.
They fitted all his acquaintance, but he rarely
dropped the loose-fitting habits of impulse, to
impose upon himself the restraints of such un-pliant
raiment. Like Carlyle's old king, he
seemed to think himself '^ super-grammatical."
It was not till the mirror was held up before his
eyes, and that he was made to regard his acts
and their consequences full in the face, that he
shrank back, angry and distressed, and a little
ashamed.

We are never so little conciliatory as when'
we are dissatisfied with ourselves. He entered
his mother's room in a perturbed frame of mind,
undecided, ill at ease. Her first words struck
the key-note of their interview.

*' My dear boy, I am in such terrible distress.
I am 80 shocked at all I have been hearing. I
could not rest till I had sent for you. And
when I heard Mr. St. John was with you — of
course reproaching you bitterly — I was so afraid
that something — something dreadful might happen.

Dear Wilfred, don't look so angry. Do
tell me what passed between you ?"

Nothing worth repeating. AYe are not
going to cut each other's throats. He is in love
with Nellie Dawson. That is about the long-and
short of it."

Oh, dear ! How I wish he would marry
her ! But I suppose — 1 am afraid that now —

now I hope, my dear, you assured him

there was nothing — nothing in it !"

"Nothing in what?"

Why, in the foolish, I must say, culpable
way you have been going on with her. Not
but that I blame her exceedingly. Of course, if
she had not en — encouraged you, you never could
have behaved so. But oh ! it is terrible, it is
terrible to think what the consequences of all
this sentimental folly may be to her ! Of course
/ don't believe in any worse evil than this ; but
the censorious world, Wilfred, will never put aa
innocent construction upon it. Suppose Mrs.
Goldwin should dismiss her "

'' You will take her in. But Mrs. Goldwin

will not dismiss her. And, if she and you stick
to Nellie, she can defy the world."

But how can I uphold her, AVilfred — how
can you expect that I should do so, when —
when she permits you to — to — to go on as you
have done ? The Bishop was saying to-day — "

D the Bishop. I'll give him something

to talk about, if he meddles in my affairs."

Oh ! don't— don't, Wilfred ! It horrifies me
that you should use such language. What
would your poor, dear father say, if he could
hear you? — if he could know what discredit
you are bringing on the noble name you bear V

Far greater discredit will be brought on
that noble name by your declining to give your
moral support to a slandered girl — a girl whom
you know to be innocent. Am I to understand
that you are positively going to countenance
these lies by not upholding her ?"

For almost the first time in her life, poor,
foolish lady ! she stood firm against her sou. It
cost her a great struggle ; but she believed, in
her short-sightedness, that she was acting for
the best.

I cannot certainly consider that — that I
should be doing rights you know, to go on
patronizing a girl who has permitted herself toto
behave as she has done. I daresay she
is innocent — I have no doubt of it. Still there
has been levity; and it would seem to be —
encouraging such conduct, if I did not make
a difference, if I did not mark my disapproval."


You had better mark it to me than to her'
returned her son, indignantly. " You know
very well that I am the one to blame, if there is
blame."

Lady Athelstone, kneading the handkerchief
between her hands into a ball, and
looking up with her mild, remonstrative eyes
at her son, was like some hunted animal at
bay.

Of course you are chiefly to blame, my dear.
Still a girl at Nellie's age should know better.
To begin with, it is compromising for any girl,
lohaiever her position, to receive jewelry from a
young man. Miss Brabazon never would have-done
so' she added, with, as she hoped, a

euddeu inspiration to awake another chord in
her son's breast.

No," he said, bitterly. " Because she cared
nothing about me — because she looked on meas
a boy — because her pride would never be
behoved to me for anything. It is not thus
that love acts — balancing the value of a gift,
or the propriety of accepting it. It is monstrous
— it is vile," he cried, passionately — "to
try to twist every harmless thing of this sort
into a crime."

*'No one says a crime'' murmured Lady
Athelstone. " It is only compromising, as being
against all the conventional "

"Yes, that's it — conventional! What do I
care for the world's conventions ? I will soon
show how little I value its prejudices and
opinions. Mother, I shall call on Mrs. Goldwin
tomorrow. Will you go with me ?"

What— what for ?"

To ask her and Nellie to this house."

It is impossible, my dear ; don't ask me."

I tell you it is the only way to prove to this

precious world of 3^ ours — the Lady Porchesters,
and all the rest of them — that you give no
credit to these lies. Will you, or will you not,
do your best to save Nellie from them ?'"

Do be reasonable, my dear. Of course, I
shall tell everyone I don't believe in anything
really wrong against her ; but — but don't you
see, Wilfred, that, if 1 had her here, it would
seem like throwing her and you purposely
together? I should be justly blamed."

If your conscience tells you the blame would
be just," replied her son, sarcastically, " I have
no more to say. You must be guided by that ;
only you must take the consequences, whatever
they may be, that's all."

He left the room, and his mother saw him no
more that night. He dined at the club.

But some words she spoke long ago — a
promise to that poor dead mother that she
would always befriend her child — recur-ed
with painful distinctness to Lady Athelstone's
mind that evening, when she sat alone. Was
she acting up to that promise? Should she

'vvrite to her V — should she go and see her on
the morrow '? She wished some one would
decide what she ought to do.

And so the golden opportunity was lost.

CHAPTER XV.

1 /TARY Godwin's apprehensions with 
gard to what she termed Nellie's "unfortunate
pre-occupation " had been subsiding
during the last two months. She had begun
to feel moderately confident that Lord Athelstan's
clearly pronounced preference of another
woman, and his equally marked avoidance of
the young governess since his rejection by
Sylvia, would surely, if slowly, work the desired
cure. The girl's eyes would be opened
in time to distinguish good from evil ; to prize
an honest fellow's devotion ; to perceive that it
was but a shadow of something in the far past
which she had been cherishing — a shadow which
VOL. II. T

became fainter as the reality grew daily more
distant.

But now, like La Fontaine's milkmaid, atone
rude shock her complacency was dispelled,
her castle in the air shattered. Hubert had sat
with her for an hour. She had been indignant,
perplexed, and, above all, very heartily grieved.
The question of " what had best be done ?" had
been discussed between them , and the matter
turned over and scrutinized on every side,
without any decision being arrived at. All this
had taken place late in the evening, and Mary
Goldwin had passed a sleepless night, while
the innocent subject of her disquietude wandered
in the blissful land of dreams, through
flower-starred fields and sweet spring-passages
of verdure, hand-in-hand with her beloved.

In the morning, she came to her friend with
an open letter in her hand. It was in Italian,
and Nellie's knowledge of that tongue was elementary
; she could not decipher, much less
comprehend it.

Mrs. Goldwin flushed as she read the anonymous
accusation, laid down the letter, and then

bade the girl sit beside her on the sofa. Here
was an opening ready-made for the exordium
she had prepared. For the first time, she spoke
without reserve of Athelstone ; for the first
time, she pointed out the fatal consequences
that would ensue from a continuance of this
intimacy — the loss of peace of mind, of self-respect
, of reputation. He was another's in
heart ; he had no thought of Nellie but as a
child in whom he had always taken an interest,
and whose society was at this moment a
refuge, in his disappointment, of which he, in
his careless egoism, did not scruple to avail
himself. She probed the girl's heart to its very
depths. Never willingly did Mary handle surgical
instruments, but she knew that, if the
knife has to be used, it must do its work thoroughly.
The extent of the evil, which she
had hoped would not be difficult to excise, it
must be confessed, startled her, but she did not
lose her nerve. When the girl flung herself,
sobbing, into her arms — when all the barriers
were broken down, and the shrinking, passionate
young heart stood self-confessed, perhaps

T'2

for the first time — Mary's calm voice soothed
her, speaking words of comfort and wisdom.
Nevertheless, she felt, with a pang, that all
hope for her good faithful Hubert was at an
end.

She wrote him a hurried line, telling him not
to come to them that evening. And for two
days he only saw his cousin alone in the morning.
Nellie kept out of his way. She nourished
no resentment now at the part he had played
in this — he had acted for the best — but her
heart was sore ; she felt humiliated, and shrank
from seeing him or anyone.

On the afternoon of the third day she was
gone to her room ; and Mary had been upon the
sofa, trying to read, for nearly an hour, when the
door opened. She did not hear the name that the
servant announced; and, looking up, her pleasure
was infinitely less than her surprise, when
she saw Lord Athelstone within two yards of
her. The blood mounted to her cheeks. What
was he come for? low was she to receive
him ? She felt very angry ; she tried to rise ;
but the couvrepied was tucked so tightly round

lev that, before she could extricate herself, he
had drawn a chair close to the sofa, and, in
his gentlest, most winning' way, was begging
her not to move. That voice, and the expression
of his handsome young face, rarely failed
to exercise an influence over even the cleverest
woman. Mary would not shake hands with
him ; no, she clasped hers firmly over the book
she held ; she looked at him, without her usual
smile of welcome ; but she made no further
effort to rise.

He broke the ice at once ; and she was
indignant with herself at finding the water
that bubbled up already had the chill off it.

'' I have come here, first, to make m}^ apologies
to you, Mrs. Goldwin. I fear I have
caused you infinite annoyance — which is the
last thing I desired — on Miss Dawson's account.
You would never believe any ill of her, I feel
sure. But none the less I am heartily sorry you
should have been pained and worried through
any fault of mine."

^' Do not think of me. Lord Athelstone — think
of Jierr

I do think of her — more than you expect.
Rest assured you will never be annoyed in this
way again."

"I am glad to have your assurance of
it. Miss Dawson has already given me hers
that "

Forgive my interrupting you. !Much that
you are going to say will seem, perhaps, superfluous
after you have listened to me. It is a
long story. You don't mind ?"

Mrs. Goldwin, bracing her mind to meet and
overthrow any Mephistopheles arguments in
support of a Platonic friendship between her
governess and this young lord, intimated by a
movement of her head that she did not mind
his long story, and he proceeded.

*' To begin with, Mrs. Goldwin, you know
that, as a boy, I was desperately in love with
her?"

You have fancied yourself desperately in
love with several people, 1 am told."

*' No, I haven't. I have flirted, and committed
follies, like most young men. I have
never even fancied myself in love with anyone

except this child, until lately — until I met Miss
Brabazon. You can't wonder that she captivated
me — that she completely blinded me to
the fact which she never forgot herself; that
there was something more than the four years'
difference between us in mind and character.
She is a peerless woman. I have never seen
anyone like her, and never shall; I say so
frankly. I would have married her — I make
no secret of it to you — but she would not.
Perhaps she was right. She is too grand to be
tolerant of my weaknesses. That's not the
right attitude between husband and wife (at
least, she thought so), the pitying protection of
a perfect woman for a boy who is full of
faults. That is how she regarded me. If she
had accepted me it would have been from
compassion — or she might in time have been
persuaded to do so by her friends — though* I
don't think she would ever yield to that
pressure. I tell you all this, Mrs. Goldwin, to
prove to you that I have thought the matter
out calmly — at all events, as calmly as a fellow
of my temperament can. It has been a hard

struggle ; but I see now that she can never be
mine, as 1 could lois her to he. I have, therefore,
renounced the hope. I have even brought
myself to believe that, in the long run, my life
is likely to be happier passed ^vith one who
loves me as I am, with all my imperfections on
ray head, and to whom I was sincerely attached
long before I ever saw Miss Brabazon. I am
going to ask Nellie to be my wife."

Mary Goldwin remained speechless with
astonishment for at least a minute. She could
only murmur at last,

This is very sudden."

'^ It is. I had a conversation with my mother
two days ago, and have passed two sleepless
nights. This is the result."

You had better pause before taking such a
step."

^" No, I don't want to pause. There are reasons
why, if I do this at all, I should do it at
once."

I understand you. Your motives are good,
but — I am afraid it is not wise."

"Why not r

You have changed your mind too often for
your friends to feel any confidence in so rapid a
decision as this."

*' Remember, it is only a return to my decision
eighteen months ago."

'' If you had been of one mind all those
eighteen months it would be different. As it
iSj consider. You are going to take a step
which will drive your mother to despair, which
will affront all the prejudices of your class,
which will subject you to annoyance, and,
it may be, to more serious pain and mortification
"

"I beg your pardon. That is impossible.
I am completely indifferent to the world's
opinion."

"For your own sake! — but for hers? Are
you sure that, from a mistaken sense of honour,
the world's opinion ' has not something to do
with your proposing to marry her ? You are
generous and enthusiastic and, besides
this (I must speak plainly), you are piqued.
The woman you consider ' peerless ' has refused
you. You try to believe that a return to

the fancy of your boyhood will console you for
your disappointment. Thus, it seems to me,
you are actuated, perhaps unconsciously, by a
double motive — the impetuous desire to replace
Miss Brabazon's image, which you say is
overthrown, in your heart; the chivalrous intention
of removing any aspersion upon Nellie's
name. C'est martinique, mais ce nest pas — le
mariage I Pray do nothing rashly, Lord Athelstan.
You may rue it, and she too, all your
lives."

It was a very unusual thing for Wilfred
Athelstone ever to pause. As sporting men
sap, he always "rushed at his fences;" and, in
that headlong career, every obstacle was disregarded.
He seldom weighed the arguments of
an opponent ; he formed a conclusion, he devised
a scheme of conduct, and seemed incapable
of apprehending the objections advanced
against it.

But, for once, he remained silent for some
minutes, pondering on Mrs. Goldwin's words.
Had she shown this thing in some new light
which his inner self had not already revealed to

him? On the contrary, it was as the echo of
a voice which had made itself heard from time
to time during the past night — the night in
which he had formed his resolution — that her
warning affected him.

There is no doubt that if his mother had
called, the day following their interview, upon
Nellie, and had taken her warmly and resolutely
by the hand, he would not have acted thus.
Kay, had Sylvia Brabazon sent him a friendly
word from time to time during those eight
"weeks, through Lady Frances or Madame de
Surville, he would now have been restrained
from taking this step. Mrs. Goldwin was right,
and he could not but acknowledge it. Yet he
answered her in the same plausible manner
that he had reasoned with himself.

There is truth in what you say, but it isn't the
whole truth. These influences may have worked
in me to some extent, but there are others
you require to know me better than you do to
understand. To begin with, I want to be married.
If I'm not married soon I shall go to the
dogs ! Of course I know there are heaps of

girls who would marry me because I am a lord,
because I could make a good settlement cm
them, perhaps because I have won a certain
celebrity. That isn't what I want. I want
affection — disinterested affection ; I want devotion.
Sylvia Brabazon would never have given
me that, as 1 now understand. If this girl accepts
me, she will. If she can't love me for
myself alone — without ulterior considerations,
without thinking, like Miss Brabazon, that I
ought to pass through a purgatory of probation
she won't marry me at all. Honestly, I feel
persuaded at this moment, Mrs. Goldwin, that
to make her my wife is my best chance of
happiness."

Mary still urged delays with all her eloquence.
But there was no evicting him from his position
marriage was a necessity to him; and Nellie
possessed all he wanted in a wife. mary Gold-win
saw that she had no choice in the matter.
The utmost she could do was to warn Nellie
against precipitance: beyond this she had no
right or power to offer opposition ; and, how
ineffectual this frail barrier would prove against

the flood-gates of the gifts loving heart, she
knew beforehand.

That afternoon St. John, hurrying under the
fortune of Mrs. Gold win's house, nearly ran
against a figure who, with a quick step and
erect triumphant carriage, was issuing forth at
the same moment. This knight had just obtained
a very easy victory ; he was now excited,
and eager for another encounter in which he
anticipated real difficulty. His mind was so
wholly engrossed with the importance of bending
his mother's will to accept the inevitable
with a good grace that no thought of his friend
had crossed it. As there never could have been
the possibility of rivalry between them, so there
could be no unseemly exultation now. He had
felt very angry with St. John on the previous
day, but Wilfred never cherished his resentments.
The past, as regarded Hubert's interference
in the affair, was forgotten by him;
only now, as the two men touched each other,
it flashed upon him what St. John would suffer.
He would fain have broken the truth gently to
him, but, as he met Hubert's astonished gaze.

the only thing lie could say was: *well!
it's all right, you see, " then wrung his
hand, and, without waiting for a rejoinder,
strode away, touched for a moment by the
thought of that great hulking fellow's misery,
but personally too absorbed in what lay before
him to bestow more than the largesse of a
generous heart, in passing, upon his stricken
friend.

"He has been to Mary— he has apologized'
thought the other, as he went upstairs ; *' and
perhaps he has already heard "

The servant happened to be at the door of
the apartment ; he walked in, and, unannounced,
entered the drawing-room. Though not yet
dusk, all sunlight had left it ; but the shabby
old Roman furniture glowed under the fitful
flare of a firewood fire, which irradiated the
sweet, happy face of a young girl seated on the
hearth-rug in front of it.

He had just left her, and she had sunk down
there, still bewildered with her sudden joy, still
asking herself if it were possible that all this was
not a dream ? That morning she had stood upon

the grey, hopeless sands, and had watched the
waters of happiness receding further and further
from her. And now the race of the swift incoming
tide fairly swept her away. As to her
kind friend's advice, her urgent solicitations
that the girl would not act precipitately, that
she would not yield to Athelstone's solicitations
without considering this marriage in all its bearings,
it produced some effect as long as Mary
spoke to her ; but when Nellie had entered the
room where Athelstone awaited her, when he
had begun his eloquent pleading, when he had
told her the whole truth as regarded Sylvia
Brabazon, and declared that his salvation or
perdition now lay in her own hands, all Mary's
admirable counsel was scattered to the winds.
How could poor eighteen, with its ignorance of
life, and its unbounded belief in one perfect
human being, shut the door of its warm, loving •
heart, heaping against it borrowed foresight
and wisdom ? The barricades all tumbled ;
there was confusion in the citadel, but a great
joy reigned there. It was the realization of
some fairy-dream in her childhood, to hear him

pleading to her with his sweet persuasive eloquence.
He could make her believe anything,
as in the old days at Ripple ; and how this recalled
those days when he read to her " King
Cophetua's Daughter " in the apple-orchard, and
she wondered if life would be a poem rounded
to a close like this. When he had swept away
all remonstrance as to her present unworthiness
and his future welfare, there fell a rain of happy
tears; and he sat and talked the passionate poetry
of love to her there for nearly two hours, with her
head upon his shoulder, planning the future
with all a boy's sanguine exultation in his prospective
bliss. And now he was gone, and she
sank upon the rug before the pine-wood fire,
but the golden silence of her reverie was broken
in a few moments by some one entering the
room ; she heard the door open, she heard a
heavy step behind her, and, turning her head,
saw Hubert and started to her feet ; she had
not thought of him once all day, and now, what
was she to say to this good, faithful fiend,
towards whom her heart felt more softened at
that moment than it had ever done before?

But, because of this, it was unendurable to her
to find herself alone with him. She knew the
part he had played in this ; she knew his loyalty
and courage, and she could not bring herself to
tell him that which she knew he had a right to
be told at once. Her courage failed her. The
blood came and went in her face ; she pressed
her hands tightly together ; he spoke to her ;
she hardly heard what he said, and murmuring
a few unintelligible words, quitted the
room.

He was left a long time— a time that seemed
to him to be hours — alone. Then the door
opened slowly, and Mary entered, looking pale,
and with eyes full of a great pity, as she held out
her hand. But he scarcely heeded this in his
impatience to speak.

"I met him. I am glad he came. Of course
it was to excuse himself to you ? And now
there will be an end to this for — have you heard
the news 1"

She scrutinized his face with painful curiosity.


^' What news?"

VOL. II, U

Miss Brabazoa is returned. I believe this
will set all right. I feel sure she is the only — "

'* Stop ! say no more. She is cone too
late."

"Too late? Good God! what do you
mean?"

He has proposed to Nellie, and she has
accepted him."

She spoke the words in a low voice, and then
walked to the window. She could not endure
to look upon the poor fellow's agony. He bore
it, as a strong man should, in silence. He sat
down and covered his face for a few minutes
with his hands. Then he rose, and, coming
behind Mary, touched her on the shoulder. His
voice sounded hollow.

*ris there no chance of his breaking it off,
after all ? His mother "

He declares his mother will receive her
when she finds that his decision is unalterable."


'' Poor child I" It was more a groan than a
sigh. Then he said, slowly — " I shall go back

to my work tomorrow. There is nothing more
to keep me here now."

'' Dear Hubert ! Don't grieve too much. I
see now it never would have done. She loves
him so."

"Ay." After a moment's pause, he added,
but almost inaudibly — " And he will make her
miserable, I fear."

Mary sighed. '* Perhaps he will. But she
would prefer being miserable with him to a life
of outward happiness with anyone else. I feel
sure of this now. Let it be your consolation."

He walked back to the fire, and remained
a long time silent after this. At length he
said —

It's no use talking. All the joy seems taken
out of my life. I won't see her again, Mary ;
it's no use. Tell her — no, don't tell her anything.
We shall meet when she is married, I
suppose. God bless her ! That is all I can
say."

He wrung his cousin's hand and left the
house. She did not try to detain him ; why

u2

should she ? Grieved as she was, she knew it
was best for him, best for all, that he should go
now that the die was cast.

CHAPTER XVI.

II f RS. BRABAZON's brother had left Naples ;
•^'^ there was no longer a motive for lingering
on there ; her return to Rome on the day in
question had been fixed the evening before
Sylvia received the anonymous letter we know
of. Its contents agitated her more than she
would have believed possible. It might be mi-true
; it was contrary to all she had heard from
her correspondents. Her mind at once glanced,
though without positive certainty, at its author.
Had it arrived a few hours earlier, her pride
might possibly have raised a barrier to this
immediate journey, which might seem consequent
upon the communication she had received.
But they had given notice of departure at their

hotel ; they had telegraphed to the " Europa "
for rooms ; what plea could she urge to her
mother, or to the world, for this sudden change
of plan? She thought the matter over, and
resolved to let things take their natural course.
She did not know — we seldom do when arguing,
as we think, dispassionately — how large a share
her intense desire to return to Rome had in
this decision.

She had been restless, uneasy, dissatisfied, all
those weeks at Naples. Her friends' letters,
especially Madame de Surville's, had tended to
increase this condition. The latter wrote — " II
faut qiiune pore soit ouverte ou ferme. Do you
love him, or do you not? He certainly had
grounds for supposing he was not indifferent to
you. You evince a deep interest in him, and
then when he proposes, though you confess to
the impression he has made, you give him no
hope, and fly off to Naples, leaving the young
man a prey to melancholy, and nourishing the
most cynical views of our sex in general. He
shuts himself up, and sees no one for days ;
then he suddenly goes out, and flirts desperately

with some heartless little baggage or other,
like Mrs. Crosbie. The responsibility of all this
rests-with you. If you don't care for him, of
course you are quite right ; if you do care for
him, you are quite wrong."

She knew now, even better than when he
had been present, that she did care for him ;
and yet, though she was tortured by the
thought that this episode between them might
be hurtful to him, her conscience refused to acknowledge
that she had done wrong in leaving
him without a promise, without even a hope,
to stand the test of time. Ah ! if he had only
been strong enough to wait !

It is strange that dominant women — not the
fanciful heroines of fiction, but the women
whose force of character has influence for good
or evil on all around them— are often subjugated
by attractions which seem to us wholly
incompetent to effect this result. In the eye
of the world that would not be so in this case.
The young man had much to captivate nine-tenths
of the women he addressed. It was
only to outsiders, calm watchers of the drama,

like myself, with some insight into character,
that it seemed wonderful to see such a woman
as this rendered unhappy by the instability of
a boy, against whom her judgment had pronounced
and her instinct had warned her. She,
who had remained untouched by the devotion
and constancy of more than one man of a suitable
age, distinguished in position and eminent
in ability', had succumbed to the charm of
youth and brilliancy, which she had secretly
believed she should consolidate into a character
of enduring nobility.

It was a short-lived dream ; she was even
now awaking from it. I was a great deal with
her in those hapless days, and saw, though
others did not, and least of all her mother, that
she was not happy. She guarded her secret
very closely ; she was not a woman to make
confidences — she had never made one in the
whole course of her life. This pride was at
once her strength and her weakness. She suffered
with the receipt of those weekly letters,
but she made no sign. In her replies to Madame
de Surville, she had twice gone so far as

to ask whether Lord Athelstone was ever seen
or known to be with Miss Dawson. The reply
was a distinct negative. Peril was not to be
looked for from that quarter. And yet her instinct
told her otherwise. She was longing to be
back in Rome — a thousand indications told me
so — to judge with her own eyes ; but she would
do nothing to precipitate their return. Then
came the uncle's somewhat sudden departure,
and Mrs. Brabazon herself proposed that they
should start for Rome as soon as possible.

Lorenzo's letter was a cruel blow, embittering
the journey. She had been hoping, as she
now knew — hoping against her judgment; nay,
in spite of herself, she still hoped. There might
be exaggeration, if not positive untruth. Who
would believe an anonymous letter?

Early the following morning — they had just
finished breakfast, and Mrs. Brabazon was in
her dressing-gown — the waiter announced that
Lady Athelstone was below, and desired particularly
to see the Signorina. Sylvia was a
good deal surprised. What could be the motive
of an act so unauthorized by all Lady

Athelstone's conventionalities ? Mrs. Brabazon
rose hurriedly, and, gathering her flowing robe
round her, beat a retreat.

*' She come not to see me Sylvia, and I not
want to see her."

The visitor was shown in, looking pale, and
with eyes 'unmistakably red from crying.

'' I have to apologise for so early a visit, Miss
Brabazon. I only heard of your return late
last night through my maid, and, being very,
very anxious to see you without loss of timCj I
ventured — I hope you will excuse me."

Even in the midst of her distress, the force
of habit was too strong to be broken down ;
what she had to say must be reached by circumlocution.


'' Is there anything I can do for you ?*' asked
Sylvia, simply.

Lady Athelstone took her hand, and, looking
into Sylvia's face with her sorrowful eyes, said,
almost in a whisper,

*'I see you have not heard the sad news.
You do not know the terrible scrape my poor
boy has got himself into''

Sylvia's heart beat violently.

No. What is it, Lady Athelstone ?"

*• My dear Miss Brabazon, I can scarcely bring
myself to tell you. And yet my only hope is
in you ! If there is a chance of — of saving him
yet, it must be through you. The bishop says
so, and I am sure he is right. Oh ! if you
had only accepted him two months ago !"

Sylvia's lips refused to utter a sound. Her
eyes were fixed on a certain spot on the
mantelpiece. She would have liked to withdraw
her hand, but Lady Athelstone held it
tight.

You see he is so impressionable — so impulsive,"
she continued. " His poor dear father
saw all the danger before he died. And then
his romance and chivalry, because the girl has
been maligned, have unfortunately helped it
on. And now he is deaf to reason — deaf to
all my entreaties, and I feel our only hope is in

you!"

"How? What has he done?" asked Sylvia,
in almost a whisper.

"He has proposed — actually proposed — to-that

governess of Mrs. Goldwin's — a girl out of
our village, a child whom I had made pupil-teacher
in our school ! Is it not too dreadful ?
And the worst is, I know he doesn't care for
her realbj. It is not a case of desperate infatuation.
He behaved foolishly about her two years
ago, and his dear father made him promise . . .
in short, he broke off all communication with
her. It is only his disappointment about yon
that has brought it on again. You are the
person he really cares for — the person he ought
to marry. I think — I feel sure — that, if you
would still hold out some — some encouragement,
this dreadful thing might yet be put a
stop to."

Sylvia's colour rose ; her breath came quick;
she gave her visitor a startled look, and, as
she contrived to disengage her hand, said,
hurriedly,

Surely I misunderstand you. Lady Athelstan.
You can't suppose that, when your son
has plighted his word to another, I should endeavour
to make him break it?"

''Oh! my dear Miss Brabazou, pray let no

false pride stand between Wilfred and you at
this moment."

*' Pride ! This is no question of pride. It
is common truth and honour. Your son has
pledged his word."

*' But you care for him. I am sure you do.
It was a misunderstanding. Perhaps I . . . .
perhaps you — you thought I didn't wish it,
and "

"There was no misunderstanding, and your
wishes did not influence my decision. I thought
Lord Athelstone too young to know his own
mind. And, you see, I was not mistaken."

You were — indeed you were ! If you
would only let him know that you care for'
him "

Lady Athelstone, there must be an end of
this." Sylvia spoke rapidly, and her voice
shook a little. " Your feelings as a mother
blind you. You cannot know what it is you
are asking me to do. "When your son spoke tome
two months ago, I hesitated. There could
be no hesitation possible now. He has chosen,
and I hope it may be for his happiness."

** But, dear Miss Brabazou, if he were to come
to you and say "

He will not say anything now, which, as a
man of honour, he should not. If he did, my
reply would be the same."

I shall go to the girl," said Lady Athelstan,
desperately. '^ Yes, I shall appeal to her
myself."

*' You will act as you think right," — Sylvia's
manner was tinged by a coldness as she spoke
these words — " but pray bear in mind that Miss
Dawson's decision will in no way affect mine.
Whether your son is likely to be tolerant of
interference in matters that regard him so closely,
you know best."

Poor Lady Athelstone knew too well that he
would be anything but tolerant ; and yet. even
at the cost of an open quarrel with her — his
mother — he must be saved if it were possible.


^Yhen her visitor was gone, Sylvia walked,
flushed and bewildered, to her room. She felt
stunned by the suddenness of this news. She

said nothing to her mother, but pleaded a headache
for remaining alone all day while visitors
poured in to see Mrs. Brabazon. Lord Athelstan's
engagement had not yet got wind.

Late in the sweet April evening, Sylvia,
thickly-veiled, walked with her Italian maid to
the church of Santa Maria del Populo. Like
many whose religion has a strong imaginative
tinge, the atmosphere of a Roman Catholic
church at twilight, when the priests' monotone,
and the acolyte's tinkling bell, and the operatic
organ are all hushed, and the shuffling of feet
and scraping of chairs are no longer heard,
exercised a peculiarly soothing effect upon her
in any mental conflict and trouble. From her
earliest childhood, she had been accustomed to
regard these vast silent churches, with the faint
breath of incense yet lingering about them, as
refuges from the outer world, where those who
entered in a right spirit might fin a peace that
'' passeth all understanding."

She had never before been tried as she was
now tried. She began to know, too late, that

Rhe had loved this man far better than she had
believed ; that, in despite of her insight into his
character, she had built up for herself a structure
of hopeful belief whose foundations had
been in the air. She had told him to go his
way, and had refused to bind herself, or let
him be bound, by a promise. And she had done
this because it had seemed to her right. But
oh ! how little did she think he would have
taken her so quickly at her word ; that he would
so speedily have justified her misgivings ! He
was unworthy of her ; she knew it ; and yet,
alas I she loved him none the less. Her pride
revolted from acknowledging this ; she hid her
burning face in her hands, and said it could not
be. She had deceived herself; it was a different
man she loved — not this one, who had come
to her with vows and protestations of devotion,
while his heart had, in truth, always been
another's. Fgr this was the fiict which seemed
clearest to her: he had never really loved her;
he had never really loved anyone but this child,
to whom he had now returned. All that intervened
had been born of imagination or a transitory

passion, and could have no enduring
element. He had striven to eradicate that first
love ; he had done no more than cut it down ;
the roots remained, and had sent up fresh shoots.
She had done well, oh ! how well, to wait ; but
her woman's heart was sorely bruised. She
needed all her strength and courage ; or, rather,
she felt that she must seek for them above. She
arose, with a great sob at her throat, and knelt
at one of the dimly-lit side-altars.

After a time the silence was broken by the
flap of the leathern curtain over the door ; there
was a faint rustle of some one coming up the
nave. Sylvia was conscious that a figure stood
behind her. She rose, and, turning round,
found herself face to face with Nellie Dawson.
The girl shrank a little, but did not move away.
Sylvia held out her hand.

This is how it came about.

An hour before. Lady Athelstone had left the
girl in anguish and doubt as to how she ought
to act. AVilfred had enjoined her to hold fast,
and let no one come between them. But his
mother had placed things in such a light as

VOL. II. X

made the poor child feel that by marrying Wilfred
she would sacrifice lira, not only in his
temporary interests, but also in his real happiness.
Miss Brabazon's refusal had caused the
temporary aberration under which he had
offered Nellie his hand. Lady Athelstone could
extract no absolute promise, for the girl persisted,
through her bitter tears, that her word
was pledged to Wilfred, and that he alone could
free her. But when his mother, after expending
all her artillery of warning and supplication,
had departed, the girl's misery was piteous to
behold.

It was then, from her window in the Via
Bagnio, that she saw, in the swift gathering
twilight, the tall, unmistakeable figure, thickly
veiled, gliding along, accompanied by her maid.
An idea suddenly occurred to her which she
acted upon without consultation with Mrs.
Goldwin, indeed without a minute's reflection.
She seized her hat and jacket, and ran into the
street. As she reached the Piazza del Populo,
the two women passed into the church.

She lingered on the steps outside for sometime.
She would wait till Sylvia re-appeared.
Her education disinclined her to treat the House
of God for other purpose than that of prayer,
nor could she dare to intrude upon Sylvia's
devotions. But, when more than a quarter of
an hour had elapsed, a fear suddenly came upon
her that Miss Brabazon had left the church by
another door.

Then she swiftly raised the leathern curtain,
and, passing under it, walked down the dark
and solitary church, till she drew near the chapel
where Sylvia knelt.

When the latter had risen and turned round,
she started.

**I saw you pass, I followed you here ; I hope
you will forgive me," said the younger girl, in a
low, fluttering voice.

Sylvia stood over, shadowing her like a
sorrowful angel.

You wanted me, then ?" she asked gently.

Yes. Oh ! Miss Brabazon, do help me, do
tell me the truth ; I am so wretched."

x2

Sylvia inwardly shrank; but she nerved herself
to meet what she felt was coming. The
girl went on, with a force of earnestness which
swept away her usual diffidence,

*' You have heard — you know all ? They tell
me that he loves you still, and that you love
him; that there has been only a misunderstanding
which may be set right between you ; that if he
marries me he will be miserable, and that I shall
never forgive myself for ruining his life. Is it
so? Oh, please speak the truth! Don't fear,
don't think of sparing me; I had so much, much
rather be told the truth now, before it is too
late!"

I will tell you the truth, my dear," said
Sylvia, with a quivering voice, as she took the
girl's hand in hers — " I will tell you the truth
as regards myself, humiliating as you may think
it to ray pride. I did believe Lord Athelstone
cared for me; I am now very sure he does not.
I refused him on account of my age, and because
I was afraid he might not know his own mind.
I was right, you see. There was no ' misunderstanding'

between us — nothing which can beset
right.' I would not marry him now, upon
any consideration ; I believe he has loved you,
and only you, in his heart of hearts, ever since
he was a boy. He was deceived, and I deceived
myself, that is all. He has returned to his first
allegiance. You can marry him with a clear
conscience, my child."

'* You are sure T said the girl, eagerly, with
her upturned face, over which the tears fell like
rain. '' Oh, you make me so happy ! for he is
dearer to me than my life, and I would sooner,
far sooner die tomorrow than be a burden to
him. I know I am very unworthy to be his
wife, but he says I can bring him peace and
happiness, and, if devotion can do so, it
will."

Pray that it may do so, Nellie ; we both
believe in prayer. As to the rest, give it no
thought. God bless and prosper you, and make
you a happy wife !"

She stooped and kissed her on the forehead,
and passed out of the church.

One month later Wilfred Athelstone was
married to Nellie Dawson, at the British
Embassy in Paris.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

/5

OF Thou

N IVLRS City

Of ILLINOIS

VOL. III.

BY

HAMILTON AIDE

Author OF

"PENRUDDOCKE," ^'RITA,"

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. m.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1880.

AU rights reserved.

PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE,

BLENHEIM STREET, OXFORD STREET.

POET AND PEER.

CHAPTER I.

TF b}^ " history " is meant a bare narrative of
-*- events, the history of my poet-peer during
the next year can be comprised in a sentence
or two. To indicate the gradual changes
which these successive months wrought in him
and others, until we take up the story of his
daily life once more, is a somewhat longer
process, for which I must claim the reader's
patience.

Immediately after his marriage, he took his
bride to Athelstone, and there they remained,
chiefly alone, the entire summer. Wilfred con-vol.

III. B

scanty affirmed to himself, and in his letters to
his mother, that he was perfectly happy. He
rather gloried at first in the difficulties of his
wife's position. There was novelty, and he
liked novelty ; there was excitement in watching
for the first moves of the county magnates
towards his bride, and he liked excitement of
the combative kind. He read to her ; he recited
his poetry as they walked through the woods ;
he indoctrinated her with his various theories.
She was only too willing to learn of him — to
drink in the words of wisdom that fell from his
lips; she was almost perfectly happy. Some
neighbours called, some kept aloof. The first
were prompted by a variety of human motives
respect for his father, kindliness towards the
foolish young man himself, a desire to shoot
the Athelstone coverts the ensuing autumn, a
curiosity to "interview," and, if possible, turn
into ridicule, this peasant-peeress. The faction
of non-callers, on the other hand, was actuated
by a singleness of purpose — that of resolving
not to countenance so dangerous and immoral
a precedent. If such offence against all social

laws was to be condoned, what was there to
prevent their sons from marrying the gamekeepers'
daughters, or, for the matter of that,
their daughters from marrying the gamekeepers'
sons?

You must draw a line somewhere. Once
open the door, and you cross the threshold into
sheer socialism. Lord Athelstone for two or
three years, ever since his Oxford days, had
been no better than a socialist, and this Alas the
end of it !

The dowager had not visited her son's home
indeed, she had not been invited. The tactless
manner in which she had opposed his marriage
up to the very last rendered this almost
inevitable. Time, the great healer of all
wounds, would soften his mother's heart towards
Nellie, and make her accept the inevitable,
Wilfred hoped. At present, he could not
subject his young wife to the pain and restraint
of the dowager's presence. He did not go to
London ; he would not attend a single debate
in the " Lords ;" he was, as his mother piteous
sighed, " sunk in the lap of idleness in the

country, as was only natural after his unfortunate
marriage."

To two or three intimate friends, Lady Bannockburn
among the rest, she spoke without
reserve. The effect of her son's sacrifice to ii
mistaken sense of honour (for as such she persisted
in regarding it, rather than as the passionate
compensation to pique) could not but
be prejudicial to a character which needed
every stimulant to ambition, as his mother
understood the word. He would not go to
Court ; he shrank from coming to take his
proper place among his peers ; he even avoided
all the great county meetings , the agricultural
shows, and other gatherings where his presence
would be of weight. He made no effort to
conciliate opinion by entertaining hospitably
those who had called upon his wife ; he preferred
to wander about the woods with her,
writing poetry, and satirizing the outside
world. He was afraid even to ask her, his own
mother, down to Athelstone. Such was the
enervating result of his mesalliance, in the poor
dowager's eyes.

In Nellie's one great happiness all else was
swallowed up during those first months. She
possessed him whom she had loved since childhood,
but had never dreamed she should possess.
She lived for him, and he seemed to
desire nothing more. As long as this lasted,
what did any difficulties or mortifications signify?
She might feel painfully at times the
awkwardness of her position as regarded some
who had formerly been her companions in the
village ; she might regret, when a scoffing allusion
of Wilfred's brought it to her notice, the
pointed neglect of some who formerly had been
his friends. But these were no more than
specks on the radiant disk of her happiness.
His temporary estrangement from his mother
was the only real cloud which occasionally
overshadowed the sunshine of that summer.

Wilfred told her repeatedly it was better for
them that the dowager should not come to
Athelstone just at present. He wrote to her
weekly ; and in the autumn he meant to invite
her to visit them, when he hoped she would
-accept the logic of accomplished facts more unreservedly

than she seemed disposed to da
hitherto. Still the wife's sweet loving nature
could not feel satisfied until the mother and
son were once again together as they had been
in old days. As the months slipped by, she
became more and more urgent with Wilfred on
this head.

At last, in October, she came. The first
beckon from her son brought her. Was he
beginning to feel the monotony of his existence,
though he declined all invitations for himself
and his wife ? Or did he really think that his
mother's presence would now add to his happiness
, and to that of Nellie?

Let us hasten to say at once that Lady
Athelstone, as far as Nature and a painfully
sensitive conscience would permit her, behaved
very well. She greeted her daughter-in-law
kindly ; without effusion, indeed, which would
have savoured of hypocrisy ; but with the clearly-indicated
endeavour to try to forget the past.
She acted thus, under the Bishop of Oporto's
advice.

What is the use of crying over spilt milk?"

that amiable dignitary of the Church had said.
'the thing is done. Make the best of it, my
dear lady."

And she did, using strenuous efforts to lift
her son from the slough of inactivity into which
he had sunk, and to spur him, through his
-wife's agency, to assume his proper place before
the world. What she said to Nellie, a morning
or two after her arrival, appealed to the
.young wife's good sense, though it pained
her.

You must not encourage his remaining at
home, my dear. You must urge his mixing
more with the world, and fulfilling the duties of
his station which he has been neglecting sadly,
or people will say it is your fault — you understand
? Of course, your position is difficult, but
you must face it. Yes ; it is cowardly to shrink
from it, my dear. The longer Wilfred puts off
asking people here, you see, the worse it will
be. The house has not been opened since his
poor father's death ; and it ought to be, if he is
to retain his position in the county. Instead of
discouraging visits, as he almost seems to do,

he should give the best families an opportunity
of making your acquaintance, if — if they are
inclined to do so. So much depends upon you
in this ; and also about going to London. You
must really make a point of his going at the
opening of the Session. As your confinement
is to be in March, it — it will do very well. I
want him to throw himself into political life, and
gradually, I hope, by mixing with the world, his
views may alter. It is so dreadful, you know, .
for a peer to advocate universal suffrage, and
equality, and so on ! And though, of course,
marrying as he has done, it is difficult for you
to prevent his being a radical (I quite see that),
still I hope — I do hope — you will do all you
can to make him respect existing institutions,
and so on."

There was one existing institution, at all
events, which Nellie would do her best to
prevent her husband's treating with disrespect.
Almost the only comfort the dowager could
find in the marriage was that her daughter-in-law
was a good, sound church-woman. Whenever
he began to rail against priests, or inveigh

against some particular dogma a glance from
his young wife's pleading eyes checked him.
He was tender and thoughtful for her in
many ways ; and his hope of becoming a
father made him specially careful not to pain
Nellie.

Had this affection really made for itself any
deep bed in his nature, out of which its course
could never more be diverted? Or was it no
more than a placid, somewhat shallow stream,
taking pretty reflections just now, as it flowed
along between flowery banks, but whose forces
might be dispersed or expended long before
they reached the sea? Lady Athelstone, with
perceptions quickened by her maternal anxiety,
soon saw that Nellie, even in these early days,
had no real ascendancy over her husband. He
complied with her wishes, it is true, when she
expressed them, which was but rarely ; what
was passing in her inward heart he never
divined.

That subtle magnetism existing between two
human beings whose love has drawn them together,
in spite of every adverse circumstance,

was absent here. She worshipped him blindly :
that was her fault from the beginning; she did
not attempt to criticise, or argue, or even express
many of her thoughts so that he remained
unconscious of the depth of the mind,
with the surface of which he was hourly in
contact. He treated her, indeed, intellectually,
much as he had done two years ago, with a
lively solicitude for her advancement, and
astonishment and 'admiration at her quickness
to absorb instruction of any kind. But as a
finely-organized piece of human mechanism,
capable of original reflection and the formation
of judgments widely divergent from his own,
above all, as a woman of a rapidly-forming and
distinct individuality, it never occurred to him
to think of her.

Though it was not given to Lady Athelstone
to see all this, what she discovered very plainly
before long was that her daughter-in-law's
mental attitude towards her husband was one
from which but little good was to be looked for,
and it exasperated her.

Why, if she had influence enough over him

to make him marry her, cauDot she use it
now to prevent his wasting his life as he
does f

Nevertheless, by egging on her daughter-inlaw
to ask certain things of Wilfred, as wishes
emanating from herself, — never as observances
it was fitting on every account to subscribe to,
Lady Athelstone accomplished somewhat.
The coverts were shot by some neighbours convened
together to that end; certain magnates,
who had written kindly to the dowager touching
her son's young wife, were bidden at Christmas
; a tenant's dance was given in the big
hall. Finally, the move to London early in
February was made without any opposition on
Wilfred's part. To say the truth he wanted
change. He probably would have preferred to
go abroad: his wife's condition precluding that,
however, he was well pleased to find himself
among those who could appreciate and sympathise
with him better than did the squirearchy
around Athelstone.

From that hour began the change in Nellie's
life. She and Wilfred were never as much together

after the removal to London. It was
inevitable; the state of her health for many
months kept her in a great measure a prisoner,
and precluded her accompanying her husband
into any society. He was busy — or supposed
to be busy — in the House several nights a week
—and she encouraged this. His mother was
pleased ; he was beginning to assume his proper
position. Political dinners and assemblies he
shunned, if possible ;but there were literary and
*' Bohemian " gatherings which the young wife
on her sofa had less difficulty in persuading him
to frequent. She saw that he liked them, and
she urged his going. Perhaps it was a mistake,
but so it came about that the habit of leaving
her constantly alone was gradually formed.

Her hope of becoming a mother was frustrated,
and she suffered very keenly under the
disappointment, as did Wilfred. He sat by her
bedside, with her hand in his, and scarcely left
her. Then, when her peril was passed, he slid
into the old life ; writing or reading alone in
his room all the morning, receiving strange,
shabby-coated men, who held forth to him on

political or private grievances, and seeing but
little of his wife during the remainder of the
day except at meals.

Arcadia was over for her, never to return.
She felt inexpressibly lonely in the big old
house in Whitehall Gardens though she would
have died sooner than confess it either to him
or to his mother, when she called, as she did
daily. In all, except the not giving an heir to
Athelstone, the dowager was better satisfied
with her daughter-in-law than she had yet shown
herself. The change in Wilfred's life, if not
wholly ascribable to Nellie, was one which she
might very seriously have impeded. She had
not done so. His name was in people's mouths
as that of a young man to whom, if he would
moderate his views, a place would probably be
given in the next Cabinet, when the Opposition
came in. He had spoken once, and his speech,
though short, had arrested attention. His
object seemed to be to prove that the separation
between aristocracy and democracy was
not so complete as Mr. Matthew Arnold, and
thinkers of his school, believe. He did not

absolutely decry the order to which he belonged,
but he believed that its retention as an integral
portion of the State depended on its higher
cultivation, its wider sympathy with the people,
the education of the rising generation to sacrifice
selfish pleasure to the public good. All this
was very far from what Lady Athelstone would
have wished. Still it was better than downright
Socialism.

After this came the Easter Recess, and Nellie,
pining for the sweet spring air blowing over
hedges white with hawthorn and uplands fragrant
with blue hyacinth, was carried off to the
hideous glare of Brighton, which the doctors had
ordained for her. She hated the place for itself,
but she hated it still more because she saw how
the unloveliness, the hard vulgar prose of everything
around him jarred upon Wilfred. He
looked so unutterably bored and disgusted, ashe
walked alongside her chair on the esplanade,
that she felt almost relieved when, on the third
morning after their arrival, he asked her whether
she would very much mind being left there for a

day or two alone. " I will be down on Saturday
again, but I have business which I really
ought to attend to." The momentary pang
"was stifled; she bade him go, and not think
about her.

In her chair that day she came face to face,
for the first time since her marriage, with Hubert
St. John. He had just come down from London,
Avhero he had been the whole winter devoted to
his work, and living but little in the West End.
He had not called upon the Athelstan; he
knew of their being in London; he had heard
oF Nellie's illness, and had inquired after her
constantly; but, though he desired exceedingly
to see her, he shrank from the formality of a
first visit, and from the pain of meeting Athelstan.
This chance encounter was what he
most wished for, as taking the edge off what
was to him a sharp trial. Perhaps it was not
altogether chance; he knew they had comedown
to Brighton, but assuredly he was not
conscious of Wilfred's departure, as he strode
along the parade and came to a dead halt in

front of the lovely creature whose pale face
flushed with unexpected pleasure as she recognised
him.

After this, the ice being broken, he came
constantly, and Wilfred, on his return, greeted
his old friend with all his former cordiality — a
cordiality which, while it rendered St. John's
position possible, was hurtful to him, as something
which he could not honestly reciprocate.
Was it jealousy which made him unjust ? He
asked himself this repeatedly, and always with
the same — perhaps with increasing — vehemence
denied it. Athelstone did not properly
appreciate his wife ; thus it appeared to Hubert.
Many would have failed to detect this ; Wilfred
was uniformly kind, careful for her bodily welfare,
solicitous for her amusement ; what could
she want more? But love is keen-sighted;
Hubert felt there was something beyond this
which young Lady Athelstone ought to have,
and which she had not. Therefore, although
he visited her constantly, and believed that his
intense interest in her was only now that of a
friend, he did a violence to his feelings in

accepting Wilfred's hospitality. But, as long as
they remained at Brighton, it was hardly possible
to decline it. When they returned to London,
it would be different ; his world and theirs
lay wide apart, and he would very seldom goto
Whitehall Gardens. Here she had no friends ;
when Wilfred was in London, she would be
absolutely alone but for Hubert, and this he
pleaded to himself as an excuse for his daily
visits.

At the end of three weeks Nellie said, as she
walked up and down for a few minutes, leaning
on Wilfred's arm,

I am getting quite strong ; I am quite able
to return to London. Let me go when you go,
dear."

No ; you must stay here a week or a fortnight
more at least. When you do come up,
you will have to begin London life, and that
will tax your strength ; not that I want to drag
you about into all the vulgar crowds people call
society,' but there are friends of mine whose
acquaintance you will have to make, and a great
deal you will have to see. And then my mother

VOL. III. C

is best upon your being presented. I tbiuk it
folly myself, only "

Oh, Wilfred, not unless it is absolutely
necessary, please not I"

The only reason why it can be necessary is
because," — here he stopped and turned his
sentence differently, — " in short, to prove that
there is not a breath against you — that you
have every right to be received as my wife by
your Sovereign, and to take place among the
peeresses. Having once established that, I
should never care for you to go through the
empty ceremony of attending a Drawing-room
every year."

They sat in the balcony at Harries that
evening, watching the sun's red disk dip into
the steel-grey sea, when Hubert, who had been
asked to dinner, joined them. Nellie had received
a letter from Mrs. Goldwin that day.
She was still at Algiers, where she had been
passing the winter, and it was possible she
might not return to England at all this summer.
Mr. Goldwin had suffered severely last winter
from gout, and was recommended to take the

baths at Wiesbaden. If he could be persuaded
to do so, Mary would join him there, and avoid
the double crossing, as her health still prevented
her wintering in England. From the Godwin
and their plans the conversation turned on
Rome, and their common acquaintances there.
Suddenly Athelstone, without taking his eyes
from the sea, asked Hubert if he knew anything
of Miss Brabazon. It was the first time he had
named her since his marriage.

She is in England. They are come to live
here."

He took his cigar from his mouth and turned
sharply.

Where r

Somewhere on Barnes Common, I believe.
An uncle of Mr. Brabazon's died last winter, and
left his house and all he had to his great-niece.
Miss Brabazon and her mother came over, and
they like it well enough to make it their home,
for the present."

Wilfred puffed away in silence for a minute.

She weill not stand it for six months," he
said, at last, with a certain sharpness of tone.

c2

Sappho was never meant for prosaic English
life. She is not in keeping with Barnes Common."


I should have thought she was a woman
who, living her own life, would be independent
of her surroundings ; but you know her, of
course, much better than I do''

The reproach covertly conveyed in these
words was not lost on Nellie. She flushed, and
said quickly —

Wilfred only meant that one cannot fancy
Miss Brabazon leading a common life like everybody
else. She is so immeasurably above all
other women that "

That the vulgar details of domestic life must
be unendurable to her. Those grand creatures
have no idea of submission, no pliancy, no
tolerance of weaknesses. They live in a high
and rarefied atmosphere, and cannot breathe at
a lower level."

Wilfred had not forgotten, then. lie could
not think of her without bitterness. He put
away the past from him as far as he could ; but,
when it was thrust upon him, he soothed his

wounded vanity by the invention of a theory
which his conscience,, in the rare moments when
he stood face to face with it, repudiated.
Hubert, as he listened to him, felt certain of
this. In a letter to Mary Goldwin that night
he wrote : —

Wilfred Athelstone is like a man who looks
up at a lofty tower which he still covets and
thinks with self-reproach that he might have
dwelt there, had he but persevered. His feet
were on the lower steps, and there was no obstruction
before him. Only it was a task of
time and one that demanded unfaltering resolve.
That is just what he wants ; he is
obstinate in opinion, and in action that runs
counter to advice ; he is not resolute, for good or
for evil. Therefore he wavered, he fell back,
and entered the fair villa which stood at hand,
open-doomed, and with no stairs to climb. He
tries to believe — because he is not a bad fellow
at heart — that he has rightly selected this
dwelling, embowered in sweet flowers, to be
his home. But it is not so. He is restless, dissatisfied.
He asserts vehemently that lofty

towers are not made for the uses of ordinary
life ; but his very vehemence belies his sincerity.
Do not think, Mary, that I see things with a
jaundiced eye. He loves his wife, in his own
way, and she is devoted to him. Just because
she is so, her life will be one of suffering and
disappointment. A more lukewarm affection
would be content with what she gets, and make
the best of things. But she is too sensitive not
to be sorely hurt by the thorns which, I feel
sure, beset her onward path."

CHAPTER 11.

Probably no man with very strong affects
tions but is a victim to self-deception at
some time or other. Hubert St. John had
strength of mind and force of will, but he lingered
on at Brighton as long as Lady Athelstan
remained, pleading first one excuse, and
then another, to the secret monitor that whispered,
" It is folly to remain here — go." For
himself, it so little signified ; absence from her
for a whole year had not changed him ; seeing
her daily could not add to the loneliness and
heart-solitude which he felt whenever his
thoughts were not actively employed. He
could be something to her now, however little ;
in Wilfred's absence, his society filled some

hours which would otherwise have been void,
and this was enough for him.

To Nellie, on the other hand, the presence of
this kind and clever friend, who had only once
committed a mistake — not such a mistake as is
miforgiveable to woman — was a greater solace
than she cared to express. She had never been
used to be alone ; she wanted a companion
when Wilfred was away, and Mr. St. John was
so wise and so well-informed ; she could question
him unhesitatingly about so many things
which, strange to say, she avoided doing with
her husband. She dreaded discussion with him.
Now Wilfred would have liked nothing better ;
the indifferentism or disapprobation of silence
was the one thing he could not stand. He
would have liked to expound all his theories,
and crush all his wife's opposing arguments,
and subjugate her judgment, even if she did
not embrace his views with the same avidity as
himself. This was what Nellie, with all her
boundless admiration for her oracle, could not
quite do, and it pained her to hear him hold
forth on certain subjects. With developed intelligence,

the time was past when she could
regard him as absolutely infallible. His slightest
wish was law to her ; his principles were
not.

And this was Hubert St. John's chief difficulty.
To nearly all Athelstone's extreme
views his own were opposed ; and though he
never hesitated to express them in Wilfred's
presence — and many were the discussions to
which Nellie was witness — he felt as if it were
almost disloyal, in the husband's absence, to
expose the fallacy of Wilfred's principles, and
fortify his own position with all the arguments
of which he was master. But, with the sweet
tyranny of a woman who knows her power,
young Lady Athelstone often urged him to
explain to her more fully the bearing of some
question upon which Wilfred had, perhaps,
pronounced with much vehemence the previous
evening, and St. John could not but yield.

One of these subjects, which I will name
here, as it has a bearing on events in this narrative,
was the due relations of master and
domestic — how far the institution of servitude

vas compatible Avitli hiiraau dignity, and to
Avhat measure of equality *' helps' whether
male or female, were to be admitted. It was
the topic of the hour, the cause of lady-housemaids,
who should be permitted to play the
piano in the intervals of dusting, being eloquently
set forth by some of their literary
sisterhood.

It is almost needless to say that Athelstone
had from the first drawn his sword to attack
what he termed '' domestic slavery." On his
return to England, when he established himself
with his bride at Athelstone, he inaugurated a
new system, which was gravely reprehended
by all his friends and scoffed at by the world
at large. The " liberty of the subject " was
almost complete, and had it not been for the
presence of two or three old servants, who
maintained authority, there would have been
anarchy in the household. But for the wise
old housekeeper, who had nursed him in her
arms, AVilfred would have had the servants
dine at the same table with himself. His *ancestors
did so in olden time : why should not

he return to a fine patriarchal custom ? They
would then all feel really like one family, without
class divisions, bound together by a common
sympathy, if they met at one board. Mrs.
Clove positively refused ; if the liberty of the
subject meant anything, it meant her having
her '• meals comfortable " in her own room,
with the upper servants. She argued the point
stoutly, and at last, with a freedom and temerity
which her years alone justified, she said,

*' If you want to keep up my lady's dignity,
my lord, you'll do nothing to lower her in the
eyes of the village. You've got to think o' her,
I'm sure it's not my lady's wish — as is as nice-behaved
as any high-born lady could be — but
they'll put it down to her. They'll say as she
wanted to take her victuals with "

"There — say no more, Mrs. Clove. Under
the circumstances, perhaps you are right. But
understand, I yield solely on my wife's account.
It is a mere base truckling to custom."

Lorenzo, now shot up into the semblance of a
young man, though barely seventeen, was the
first person on whom his master's new theories

told — and the reverse of advantageously. He
grew idle, and his idleness was unreproved ; for
was he not a free agent ? If his soul's development
needed greater freedom than was consistent
with the varnishing of boots and brushing
of coats, if his conscience told him that
these duties were secondary to others of which
Wilfred was not cognizant, he would not interfere
He treated the boy with an indulgence
which was hurtful to him in all ways, and led to
endless quarrels.

Lorenzo, who, with great acuteness and unlimited
curiosity, was addicted to the womanish
vice of tittle-tattle, did little else all day long but
smoke cigarettes and repeat what he picked
up : I fear with additional avidity, if it was
calculated to create mischief. Many a careless
word, that was never meant to go beyond the
parlour, reached the servants' hall ; and many
a jest concerning my lord's craftiness and my
lady's parentage was transmitted in return to
Wilfred's dressing-room. The boy saw his
master wince ; and, though he was sternly reproved,
and ordered, under threat of dismissal,

never to repeat such vile rubbish again he only
felt that he must exercise more discretion : the
taste for spying and tale-bearing had become
ineradicable.

His secret antagonism to his young mistress
remained unabated, curious to say. She was
always kind in her manner; she never evinced
distrust of him, though there were things which
occasionally made her wonder at the unlimited
confidence Wilfred placed in the boy ; but
against the successful rival of his beloved Signorina
— as he still regarded her — his heart remained
hardened. Oddly enough, this peasant
boy's indignation at her usurping a position
which, in his estimation, was rightfully another's,
was greatly heightened when he learnt
her parentage. She was no better than he ;
she was born of the people ; why should she
have been raised to the nobility? What wa
there about her to justify such a choice? A
slight, meek-mannered girl, how could she have
been preferred to that goddess-like woman who
seemed born to a position of command ? Why
had his master been so blind, so mistaken? —

for that he had been mistaken the keen-witted
lad felt no hesitation in determining. He had
opportunities for seeing more than anyone.
No passing expression on the countenance of
AVilfred ever escaped him. He marked and
inwardly digested much. Yes, my lord had
made a mistake.

When one reflects how absolutely at the
mercy of a clever servant one is — how very few
can remain heroes to such — perhaps it is well to
be careful that one's valet is a fool.

The difficulties of the young wife's position
had been greatly aggravated by these crotchets
of her husband's. But as long as they remained
at Athelstone, where Mrs. Clove reigned supreme,
things went on tolerably well. It was only in
London, where her maid left her, after a fiery
altercation with Lorenzo, that the domestic
complications incident to a complete emancipation
from restraint began seriously to afflict
Lady Athelstone, who felt much like a child
lifted suddenly into a chariot drawn by horses
in whose mouths is no bit, the infantine

charioteer being enjoined to guide his course by
the law of love alone. Since she had been at
Brighton, she had enjoyed peace. The only
horse was a docile one ; her new maid was
silent and civil, but her antecedents were not
such as to inspire unlimited confidence in the
use she might make of the liberty accorded her.
The fact is, Miss Staples came from a reformatory.


Mrs. Tullia Whiteside, a lady of whom we
shall hear more presently, took a lively' interest
in the establishment in question, and it was she
who had successfully urged Lord Athelstone to
prove by his example that his desire to help
those who were fallen was not an empty form
of v7ords.

Wilfred went straight to his wife ; represented
with all his persuasive force the case
of this penitent Magdalene, anxious to be restored
to respectability, but with the doors of
all the Pharisees closed against her; and, of
course, he prevailed. St. John, to whom
Wilfred proudly related the story, expecting to

meet with sympathy from a man who gave up
his whole life to his poorer neighbours, said
bluntly that he thought him wrong.

It is well meant, but it is not wise. You
are young — your wife is young — and inexperienced
in the world. In her innocence she will
not detect whether this woman is good or bad ;
whether she is really reformed or a hypocrite.
The woman's past Avill almost certainly become
known ; you ought to consider what the world

will say, how "

I never consider what the world says."
''I said you ought. If you and your wife
were thirty years older, you might brave
public opinion. For Lady Athelstone*s sake,
with the tongues of a good-natured world ready
to seize upon any strange departure from
domestic usage, you should be careful. This
may be a very good woman now ; I don't judge
her. But it is not fit that she should be in constant
attendance upon one so pure and simple
and ignorant of evil as your wife. The best
woman in the land would delight in serving
her — and how many are starving! 'It is not

meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it
unto the dogs.' "

'^ Well, and you remember the answer to
that."

It has no application whatever in this case.
You ask my opinion, and I give it. Your house
is not one into which it is expedient to receive
Magdalenes."

The woman Staples, be it said at once, was a
good-hearted, easy-tempered creature, who
became attached to her mistress. It was hardly
to be accounted her fault, if, with such a
training, her standard of right and wrong, as
will be seen hereafter, was not elevated or unalterable.
She considered herself as " unfortunate
;" but her present principles of virtue
were formed rather with relation to expediency,
or retributive justice, than from hearty contrition.
Thus it is to be feared that she chiefly
deplored her past because it would make a
respectable marriage difficult for her ; and, as
regarded that institution, she had a vague impression
that a wife whose husband neglected
her had a full right to be revenged. Up to the

VOL. III. D

present time, however, all that her mistress
Saw of the woman's conduct was in her
favour.

CHAPTER III.

If RS. TULLIA WHITESIDE was a lady of
-'-"-*- distinguished philanthropy, and what is
termed 'ran enlarged mind." She had no
prejudices; all men were alike to her, whatever
they had done, provided it was done off the
narrow line of conventionality. There was no
form of delinquency she could not pardon :
adhesion to the old faiths, acceptance of recognised
truth, a dull respectability, being the only
conditions of the human mind she could not
tolerate.

She was untiring, enthusiastic, eloquent.
It was impossible to deny that she had done
some good. She had visited the most repellent
haunts ; she had written upon the most und



savoury themes. It was, importunately, at the
same time equally impossible to deny that her
ill-considered impulsiveness, and her desire for
domination, had wrought considerable mischief.
She was, of course, strong upon '^ Women's
Eights ;" but it is to be feared that the cause,
in its moderate appeal to public judgment,
suffered from her exposition. The onslaught of
so reckless a champion could not but imperil
institutions which even reformers prized; and
people began to regard the theories over which
she threw the aegis of her protection with mistrust,
if not with alarm. Her advocacy of the
oppressed — or those she lashed herself into a
belief were the oppressed — roused the admiration
of some and the ridicule of others. But
she was rich and generous ; and her receptions
were crowded by a motley crew. Regicides and
Royalists (provided that the Royalty wa
a deposed one), German philosophers and
American spiritualists, actresses of limited
ability and almost universal benevolence,
politicians of the narrowest, and divines of
the broadest creed, were here met together.

To such a woman Lord Athelstone was sure
"to be more than welcome. His reputation his
rank, his good looks, were doubtless points in
his favour here, as they would have been in another
drawing-room ; but what really distinguished
him, what constituted him a prize of
the first magnitude to Mrs. Tullia Whiteside,
was his daring disregard of all the canons of
his class. A man who could shock society ashe
had done, first by writing outrageous verses,
and then by marrying a village school-teacher,
must, indeed, be worth cultivating.

He was introduced to her at the Winter
Exhibition in the Grosvenor Gallery one day,
shortly after he came to town. They sat upon
a bench discussing Blake's pictures, which Wilfred,
as a poet, admired more than the lady did ;
and from the tendencies of Art in the present
day, they fell to more serious matters. Wilfred
was surprised and interested to find that Mrs.
Whiteside's views and his own coincided on so
many points. He dined with her that evening,
throwing over an engagement with some Philistines
at his club, and thenceforward was a

constant visitor in Fitzroy Square. She inhabited
a fine old house, dating from the early
part of the last century, before the nobility
deserted this quarter for comparatively poor
residences further west. It was heterogeneously
furnished, with odds and ends from all
parts of the world ; a picturesque confusion of
form and colour, more pleasing to the eye of a
painter than to that of a thrifty housewife ; for
dirt reigned everywhere supreme. It could
hardly be otherwise with such a household,
composed of lady-helps, incompetent foreigners
picked up out of the streets from charity,
women who could get no " character " from
their last places, and presumably-reformed convicts
on leave of absence.

Mr. \Yhiteside was so rarely seen that his
very existence was doubted by many ; but the
better-informed knew that he was " something
connected with hides," and that his business
kept him chiefly in Russia. He made meteoric
appearances every six months or so in Mrs.
Tullia's drawing-room, where he comported
himself moi:e as a guest than as the master;.

and, for the rest, accorded her his full confidence,
and a considerable income to spend as

«

she liked.

His confidence, it may be said, was less misplaced
than his income. The money, if wisely
applied, might probably have achieved more
good ; but she never did anything which she
would have cared to conceal from her husband
or any other human being. She had a singularly
open, benevolent face, with a vast forehead,
from which the hair, parted over one
temple, was brushed away into a little democratic
crop at the back of the head. She wore
spectacles, and was generally attired in a black
velvet jacket. She was tall and had a fine
bust, white even teeth, which she showed a good
deal, and a well-formed but capable-looking
hand, with which she habitually stroked her
cheek as she talked. She never gave in to the
fashion of trains ; even of an evening her dress
barely touched the ground, which ill-disposed
persons attributed to the fact that her chief
physical attraction was a very neat foot. She
called most people "my dear," and her large

sympathies made her so lenient to the errors
incident to the flesh that the cynical Punchett
used to declare she would take Beelzebub himself
to her bosom, and "make allowances" for
him. To this tendency was allied the ruling
passion of being paramount in influence over
everyone with whom she came into contact.

Wilfred Atheist one was the individual on
whom her energies were chiefly concentrated
this spring. She looked that he should work
wonders in the House of Lords in furtherance
of various causes she had at heart, and that he
should rouse the slumbering world to enthusiasm
for the same with his stirring verse. Her
first efforts, as we have seen culminated in the
introduction of Staples into the Athelstone
household. This was followed by a poem which
Wilfred wrote, chiefly at Mrs. Tullia's instigation,
and which she insisted upon having
printed, and distributing broad-cast, as the pious
do tracts. The Dowager Lady Athelstone
received one by post, and shuddered. There
stood her son's name at the bottom of these
fiery couplets, which were headed :

Domestic SLAVERY.

Wood-hewers and drawers of water !

Not yet of their bondage rid,
The failings of son and of daughter

Rise up, as their fathers' did.

By the bloody foam ye may see it,

Their mouth with the bit is torn ;
Their back is bowed — ewe will free it

From the burdens too long borne.

The law that of old was spoken,

To-day shall it bind the land ?
The tables of stone are broken,

And deliverance near at hand !

It comes —yea, a voice has arisen

From the wilderness, crying, " Repent !

Open wide the door of the prison.
Be the bondsmen in liberty sent !"

When the walls of the dungeon are riven,

And "tie winds of despair set free,
And the cry of souls that have striven.

Break up, like the waves of the sea —

When Hagar shall be as Sarah,

And there be no more tears
Bitter as waters of Mara,

Fed by reproach and fears —

And each man be as his brother,

And servitude only a name.
And the light we lend one another,

Be love's sacrificial flame —

Then their names shall be blessed in story,

Who lightened a burden of cares,
And the honour, and power, and glory

Of souls that are freed be theirs !

Athelstone.

When the dowager read these lines, it seemed
to her as if a firebrand had been dropped into the
midst of her peaceful household. She showed
them to the Bishop of Oporto, with tears in her
eyes, when he called on her that day. That
wise and bland prelate folded up the paper, and
returned it unperturbed.

Your son is in favour of greater liberty of
the subject. He thinks servants are not sufficiently
considered — that the pact should not
be one of money only, against manual labour
that, from the moment they beA^me members
of our homes, they should be regarded, in a
sense, as our children, for whom we are, in a
manner, answerable. Perhaps his poetical way
of stating what he considers a wrong is — well,
is a little violent — not quite wise, but he is right
in the main, my dear Lady Athelstone — quite
right."

But, though the dowager might in some

measure be tranquillized by her reverend friend,
the world at large regarded this, and similar
outbursts of a levelling tendency, as proofs bow
*that poor fellow Athelstone's mesalliance has
utterly ruined him." Fitzroy Square and the
poisons of heterodoxy he drank in there at
every pore were, as yet, unknown quantities in
the popular calculation. It did not transpire for
some little time that, while his wife was absent
at Brighton, he passed nearly every evening in
the congenial circle of admirers to whom a
democratic lord was a novel and very precious
boon.

Among these admirers, the only dangerous
one, perhaps, to his wife's peace of mind was
a lady of great personal attraction, who arrived
from Germany shortly before Lady Athelstone's
return to London. Madame de Waldeck was
an Englishwoman divorced from the Prussian
she had married three or four years since, by
mutual consent, and with that facility which the
laws of that country afford. She thought of
delivering a course of public lectures on this
subject (with the laudable view of freeing the

British mind from the swathing bands of prejudice),
and also one upon dress, her principles
concerning which she practically illustrated in
her own person. She held that a return to the
simplicity of the ancient Greeks would be both
becoming and economical, and, if she could only
persuade the world of this, she felt that she
should enlist the sympathies of both sexes — the
couturieres excepted. No doubt few but the vain-est
women could be brought to believe that they
would look as well in a peplum and cestus as Madame
de Waldeck, whose figure was symmetry
itself. But the scale was more than weighed
down, on the other hand, by the effect which
this unimportant fact produced on the male
mind. What was the use of stays, and furbelows,
and other meretricious rubbish, when a
woman could appear to such advantage in a
simple statuesque robe ?

Athelstone, like the rest of his sex, was not
altogether proof against this influence, and that
of adroit and subtle flattery from the lips of a
fascinating woman. Mrs. Whiteside was madame
de Waldeck's staunch friend and upholder;

the latter was now an inmate of the
house in Fitzroy Square. As regarded facilitated
divorce, Mrs. Tullia had not a doubt that
it would be a blessing to the human race ; she
introduced the subject whenever it was possible,
and spoke enthusiastically in its favour.
She pressed tickets for her friend's lectures
on this subject upon every visitor ; it almost
threatened to drive the lady-helps and reformed
criminals from the field. As regarded Madame
de Waldeck's other crusade, Mrs. Tullia
was not at all so warm. She would not, indeed,
have objected to sandals, but she clung to her
succinct garments, and felt a necessity for the
sustaining power of which Madame de Wal-deck
would have deprived her. On the whole
though she was tolerant of her friend's classical
costume, she was inclined to think — sculpture
not having preserved for us the effigy of a stout
woman in a peplum — that the experiment would
be dangerous, and she did not press the tickets
for these lectures on her visitors.

These were the friends whose acquaintance
Lord Athelstone was desirous his wife should

malvG, and whose intimacy he looked that she
should cultivate, on her return to London.

A card of invitation to an evening party was
awaiting her arrival. The dowager called for
her daughter-in-law the following day, to introduce
her to certain great ladies who had expressed
their willingness to receive the new
Lady Athelstone — a concession to the benefits
of which Wilfred was haughtily blind, though
his mother assured him it was '• a great thing."

*but first," said Nellie, "I must drive to
Fitzroy Square."

"Fitzroy Square ! What can you want there,
my dear?"

*' Wilfred desired me to leave cards upon
Mrs. TuUia Whiteside and Madame de Wal-deck."


*mrs. Tullia Whiteside! Who on earth is
she?"

*' Wilfred says she is a very delightful person."


*' I am sure I hope so. 1 know nothing of
her. And Madame de Waldeck — that is the
name of the woman I see placarded about as

giving lectures. I have a horror of a woman
giving lectures or putting herself prominently
forward in any way. These must be some of
his revolutionary friends, I am afraid. Poor
dear fellow ! it is very sad his having got into
such hands. You must work hard to counteract
this influence, my dear — you really must.
I am not quite sure — I hardly think — that I
should call upon these women."

Surely you would not have me disobey
Wilfred, Lady Athelstone r

Well — no — not generally, of course ; but
you might put it off — I really think you might
put off this visit. You see, in your position,
you must be so Careful. The world not unnaturally
attributes to you this — this increase
of democracy in dear Wilfred's opinions. They
think that his marriage has alienated him from
his own class, and that you encourage his associating
with people of another sphere. You
must do all in your power to prove that such is
not the case."

Nellie flushed to the roots of her hair.

I quite understand ; but the world must

think as it likes. I will not disobey Wilfred"'
*well, leave your card, then, my dear; but
let it go no further. I am almost sure, now I
come to think about it, that this Tullia White-side
is the woman who first put those dreadful
ideas into Wilfred's head about servants —
wanting us to treat them like ourselves, setting
class against class, and doing a world of mischief."


Nellie thought it wiser to be silent touching
that invitation. She would be required to ga
to Mrs. Whiteside's party, she felt sure. There
was no use in discussing the point with Wilfred's
mother. It was her first experiment at
tact."

CHAPTER IV.

rpHE assembly in Mrs. TuUia Whiteside's
-*- rooms, when young Lady Athelstone
entered them with her husband the following
evening, struck her as remarkable. To anyone
used to society, the aspect of the crowd would
have seemed still more strange. There were
none of the elements of an ordinary party.
The complacent chaperon, in matronly and
unobtrusive attire ; the golden youths, towards
whom the eager eyes of countless maidens are
turned — maidens, all immaculately dressed, and
as like each other as sheep in a pen ; the conventional
wits, and married flirts and gossips,
and professional beauties, and nondescript per-vol.
ni. E

sons who make up the crowd of a London
drawing-room, — where were they?

In their place were a number of women who
were all supposed to have *' done something," —
women, mostly elderly, but without caps, and,
in two instances, with long grey tresses hanging
far down their backs ; politicians of the
wildest and most advanced school ; a Fenian or
two ; a bricklayer who had blossomed out into
oratory, and was supposed to have founded a
School ; destructionists with trim whiskers ;
philosophers with capacious brows and stronghold
shoes ; painters and poetasters with distraught
locks ; and three or four Communist
refugees. There were, besides these, a gentleman
who was called '' the General," because he
had served in Garibaldi's army, and still wore a
red shirt, and a fiery denunciator of the Established
Church, who once held a living, had
abandoned it for his conscience's sake, and had
sought refuge in Rome, and now lectured
eloquently in favour of nothing in particular,
and had a large following. Furthermore, there
were a few Americans, and a few younger

women, some of whom had adopted the learned
professions, as might be inferred from the rigid
severity of their costume, while some pursued
the flowery paths of light literature, and were
of more festive appearance. One lady in spangles,
with a paste star upon her forehead, was
said to be an amateur actress of such capacity
that a London manager had offered to engage
her, if she would make the stage her profession.
But, as it transpired that he had valued
her abilities at thirty shillings a week, it seemed
doubtful whether she was deterred from accepting
the offer by " family considerations alone,"
as she averred.

Conspicuous among these, 'Hike a snowy
dove trooping with crows," stood Madame de
Waldeck, attired in white drapery, her arms
bared to the shoulder, where the robe was fastened
by brooches of Greek design. She wore no
gloves, nor was there a single ring upon the
long taper fingers that held a sprig of myrtle.
A gold armlet, fashioned like a snake, high
above the right elbow, and a fillet of the same
material through the dark hair which bound

E 2

Library

her classically-shaped head, were her only ornaments.
She was undeniably a very striking-looking
woman, and moved with ease and
grace. One felt what an effect she would make
upon the platform or the stage.

Her only glaring personal defect was concealed
by the folds of her long drapery. Her
enemies whispered that her feet were of
elephantine dimensions, and her ankles of
preternatural bulk, but few persons had ever
succeeded in seeing them. The face was a
curious one, very attractive to some, and almost
repulsive to others. " A sa physionomie Ton
voit que c'est une femme compliance," said a
French painter, looking at her. The mouth
was rather hard ; the eyes were merciless —
glittering eyes that could not be fathomed, and
were never taken by surprise ; the nose, handsome
in profile, was somewhat too thick in full
face ; the smile, the voice, the manner, were all
most winning. Her self-confidence, without
amounting to unfeminine boldness, was amazing.
Nothing seemed capable of disconcerting
her; her colour never varied, her voice never

trembled, unless she meant it to do so. She
took as much pains, perhaps, in most cases, more,
to captivate women than men. Situated as she
was, she was too clever not to know the enormous
value of having the moral support of her
own sex. She was generally successful; men
more easily distrusted her than women ; but some
few women did instinctively shrink from herat
first sight, and never could conquer their
repugnance.

Among these was young Lady Athelstone.

Mrs. Whiteside came forward with extended
hands and a beaming smile.

I am rejoiced to make your acquaintance,
my dear Lady Athelstone. I have long desired
to know you : first, as the wife of Wilfred Athelstan,
a name that will be revered hereafter by
every lover of humanity ; secondly, as one
whom our great poet chose from among the
people, regardless of the prejudices of caste. It
is this that will make your society doubly precious
to us all here. We love the dear people —

the very smell of honest toil is sweet to us "

and this admirable woman sniffed the air, as

though the aroma of labour were borne to her
from the vicinity of the oratorical bricklayer,
Nellie, who was not generally afflicted with
self-consciousness, felt exceedingly uncomfortable.
Her innate good breeding shrank from
this familiarity. She was anxious to please
and to like Wilfred's friends ; but she could not
simulate an enthusiasm she did not feel; and
the odd manners of the strange-looking men
who stood round, staring at her with an
admiration unrestricted by the laws of ordinary
society, made her shy. Wilfred had left her
side, and was talking to the lady dressed like a
statue, who now advanced, twirling the myrtle-sprig
in her hand, with her glittering eyes fixed
in keen scrutiny upon the young wife, while
she smiled in reply to some remark of the
husband's.

'' This is Madame de Waldeck, Nellie."
Madame de Waldeck felt the hand shiver
slightly, which she pressed with so much
warmth ; and the sweet, shy eyes fell beneath
her own.

I hope we shall become great friends,"

said the lady, in a silvery voice. Nellie murmured
something ; she scarcely knew what ; her
new acquaintance became voluble in personal
compliment. She turned to Wilfred.

'* You did not say half enough about your
wife's beauty, Lord Athelstone. Her head is
like that of Athens. And she has what the
French call 'la ligne.' So few have it. She
should adopt my costume; it would suit her to
perfection. Most of the women here have
figures like battered wooden dolls — or else pin-cushions
of saw-dust — no ease, no pliancy of
pose — so un-Greek ! And I am afraid it is
hopeless' she added, with a sigh. ^' Unless I
can effect a revolution from the artifices of
fashion the next generation will be no better —
stiff and stilted puppets. — Do you like my robe
and peplum ?"

It looks very well on 3'ou," replied Nellie,
timidly. But Wilfred's eyes were upon her ;
she felt that she was expected to say something
more. " It must be very difficult to make
it hang so beautifully."

"Not at all. It is cut like this, you see.

Nothing can be simpler. And it is just pinned
here — and here. Let me bring you one tomorrow,
and try it on. You would be quite
charming in it."

*' Thank you. I have not a figure like you
and my arras are thin — I should not
dare''

She felt relieved at this moment to catch
eight of a familiar face, radiant with smiles,
approaching.

"Oh my, Lady Athelstone! This is unexpected.
I am ever so glad to see you. I
heard you were poorly, and gone right away
somewhere. I wanted to meet you again ever
so much, and Lord Athelstone too."

Miss Decker, who was the only woman in
the room dressed — a little over-dressed, perhaps
— as a Parisian, and who carried a costly
bouquet in her hand, seemed genuinely glad to
greet her Roman acquaintances.

I have travelled right round since we
parted, and been twice to America and back,
and up the Nile, and to Jerusalem, where I had
a real good time, and to Constantinople. In

short, for the last fourteen months I've lived on
the sea or in the cars, and I'm just about glad
to rest awhile and enjoy a little social intercourse.
These are hurry interesting assemblies.
Do you know my eminent countryman, Josiah
Spark ? That's he with the abnormal development
of brow. He's a lovely man ; he offered
me a dinner to-night, and bunched me too. He
lives at the ' Alexandra like a prince — the
dinner was exQUisite — he is awfully rich ; and
yet that man rose from nothing — all by his
brains !"

Nellie looked at the man with the abnormal
development ; he had such a kindly expression
of face that she felt little Miss Decker's happiness
would be tolerably secure if the dinner
and the bouquet should prove to be precursors
to an " offer" of something less perishable. She
did not know how little significance such attentions
have among that hospitable and generous
people. Wilfred, with Madame de Waldeck,
had moved to a sofa a little distance off.

Do you know Madame de Waldeck well ?"
asked Lady Athelstone of her loquacious friend.

Why, no. I guess she's a difficult woman
to know well'' responded the little American,
with a twinkling eye. " Perhaps her husband
knew her well, and that's about all that ever
did."

•' She is a widow, then ?"

Not a bit. She's divorced. She's ever so
strong upon divorce, you know. She lectures
on it. She wants to go to Ainurrica — but it's
nothing new there. It's common enough in
some of the States."

*• What is common ? I do not understand.
Did she — do nothing wrong?"

Miss Decker laughed.

I daresay plenty ; but that wasn't why she
was divorced, if you mean that. It was by
mutual consent. You can't do that in England
yet ; but she wants to get it made the law."

Her hearer looked distressed. *' She won't
succeed, I hope f '

I don't know. She's hurry clever, is
Madame de VValdeck. She gets round most
people. There is quite a number of women
who are devoted to her. Tullia Whiteside

believes in her. Josiah Spark's as 'cute as most
men, and he believes in her. That man there,,
waving his hand,, he's been in the Protestant
ministry, and in a Catholic monastery, and now
he believes in nothing, they tell me ; but he
seems to believe in Madame de Waldeck. Anyhow,
he listens to her. And your husband
believes in her — one can see that."

Nellie felt an unaccountable antipathy to the
handsome lady in classic robes ; but her faith in
her husband's judgment, insight, and wisdom
was yet unshaken.

Wilfred is so large-minded. He recognizes
good where others do not ; and then he is so
charitable in his opinions. He always makes-allowances."


"I guess he doesn't think she requires allowances,"
laughed Miss Decker. Then, with a
sudden change of tone, she said — " Have you
seen Miss Brabazon since she is fixed up in
England?"

No, I have not."

I met her on the street two wrecks ago ; but
she comes scarcely any into London. She inhabits

a very eligible location ia the neighbourhood.
That's rather a different style of woman
from Madame de Waldeck."

Oh I" responded Nellie, warmly, " no one in
the world was ever like Miss Brabazon."

"That's why she don't marry. Women of
superior intelligence rarely marry." Nellie
smiled ; the remark was so naively rude, and
intended so entirely to apply to the speaker.

To be unmarried' returned the young wife,
*' must be far better than to be wrongly married
— to exchange no vows better than to wish
them unmade, like this poor lady."

Well, anyhow, it don't stop at wishing in
her case. She tries marriage ; it don't answer ;
and then she tries something else. Miss Braba-
son will never do that. If she marries, she'll
stick to the man till all's blue. Do you know,
we all thought in Rome she would marry Lord
Athelstone. I'd have bet my bottom dollar on
it, at one time."

Nellie was spared, from the awkwardness of
finding something to reply to this by Mrs.
Whiteside's bringing up a little wizened man at

that moment, whom she begged to introduce to
Lady Athelstone.

"One of our chief political lights, — very
amusing, — and, moreover, an ardent admirer of
beauty," she whispered; then continued, aloud,
You prophesy great things of Lord Athelstone,
do you not, Mr. Punchett ? Mr. Punchett thinks
he will go far, and we sadly need such men among
the nobility — men who are not afraid to castaway
the chains of prejudice and the manacles of
superstition. Men of genius in the high social
position of Wilfred Athelstone can do much to
liberate the world," added Mrs. Tullia, expanding
her chest, " and we look to them for it. I
hope you go with us, my dear? I hope you
encourage your husband — that you will ever
lege him onward. A woman's voice can do so
much. Our responsibilities are very great —
very great indeed." — Here she stroked her face
reflectively. —-there is no limit to what we
can effect, if we only determine to accomplish it.
I am proud to say 1 made him write those magnificent
lines of his on * Domestic Slavery !' He
has promised me to recite them by-and-by ; but

eye ^vill not begin with that — we will keep that
for the bouquet my dear."

Herewith she moved on. The wizened man's
conversation was not much to the young
woman's taste. Some of his wit was — perhaps
fortunately — lost upon her ; but she felt the
cynicism of his tone, and his flattery was of a
kind that can only be pleasing to a very silly
woman, being at the expense of her intelligence.
She was glad when the lady With the paste star
on her forehead began reciting, with mellifluous
monotony, '* The May Queen." The poem was
a great favourite of Lady Athelstone's, and
always recalled to her her cottage home, her
dead mother, and the far-off days that were so
dear to her. She liked to listen to it now better
than to the wizened man.

Horrid trash !" he declared, when the lady
had finished. *"' * If you're waking, call me
early,' indeed ! Why, it's enough to send one
to sleep !"

A Frenchman, who was understood to be an
alien, on compulsion, from his native land, was
then asked to perform his famous imitations of

the live-stock of a farm-yard. He sang a song
in which the crowing of cocks, and quacking of
ducks, the barking of dogs, and the braying of
donkeys, the neighing, and lowing, and baaing,
and bleating of every quadruped familiar to the
bucolic ear were introduced ; and the reproduction
of those unmusical sounds afforded the
same sort of pleasure to many of the assembled
company that a Dutch picture of two drunken
boors, or of an old woman washing a cabbage,
does to persons who would not be entranced
by either spectacle in real life.

After this followed some pianoforte playing,
to which no one, not even Mrs, Tullia herself,
thought it necessary to listen. To this accompaniment
several introductions to Lady
Athelstone took place. They were all persons
of mark, she was assured : an eminent painter
who desired ardently to paint her portrait ; a
writer in the Blackwell Review, who purposed
contributing her biography to that periodical
(the unusual features of the story would be
fraught with interest) ; and two ladies of masculine
intellect, to whom a peasant peeress was

a gratifying subject to be worked upon, and one
out of which considerable profit ought to be
made.

Nellie felt bewildered. All this talk 'was
pitched in too high a key for her voice to respond
without an unnatural strain. She was
not used to exaggerated compliment, which a
woman of the world, if she is also a woman
of sense, takes for what it is worth, a ball of
thistle-down, to be lightly blown away; and
the conversation of Mary Goldwin and Hubert
St. John had not prepared her for the tone of
this 'earnest and intellectual society." Wilfred's
wild denunciations, to right and left, she
regarded, half unconsciously, as the aberrations
of genius. She listened ; she accepted some
portion of nearly all that he said as true ; her
fine instinct, without argument, without reasoning
almost, rejected the rest. Here, however,
were a set of men and women who seemed
mostly to be as dissatisfied as he with the condition
of everything in this world — except themselves.
Had she read Faust, she would probably
have asked with him,

Seems nothing ever right to you on earth?"
The ladies of masculine intellect troubled her
much with questions, and with requests — which
might almost be termed demands, they were so
imperative — that she would sign certain petitions,
attend certain meetings, and vigorously
support certain measures they were bent on
imposing upon the world. Their jargon frightened
her ; she timidly declared that she had as
yet no fixed opinions on many of these subjects.
It was a relief when Mrs. Tullia cried
"Hush!" in a loud, clear voice, and Wilfred —
dear Wilfred, looking so noble so unlike everyone
else present — stood up, and with emphatic
declamation spoke his verses on ^' Domestic
Slavery." The enthusiasm with which they
were received justified his yielding to the general
demand that he would favour the company
with something else. " Such a rare privilege'*
as Mrs. Tullia said, " to hear a poet recite his
own poetry."

Upon the subject of this poem Nellie had
suffered a good deal. Her mother-in-law had
bewailed the spirit in which it was written ; St.
VOL. III. F

John had said openly he thought it calculated
to do more harm than good ; a scoffing criticism
of it had appeared in one of the weekly papers.
Yet the sympathy with what seemed to him to
be oppressed appealed strongly to Nellie, and
the lines had a ring which was beautiful in the
young wife's ears. Therefore was the applause
sweet to her. Whatever some might think,
there were those who appreciated her Wilfred's
Verses at their just value.

The poem Athelstone next recited was new,
even to Nellie, and, unfortunately, was much
less to her taste. It was a rabid attack upon
Church and State. He foamed at the mouth
in his denunciations of " priestcraft," in his
Cassandra-like prophecies that the hour was
at hand when all the formula? of religion
and all ecclesiastical authority should be set
at naught. The reign of liberty — which
meant the reign of tyranny over those who
desired to cling to their old beliefs — was to
follow. Then should Royalties be at an end,
and class-distinctions levelled in the dust,

and the lion should lie down with the lamb
(which probably meant that the lamb should
nibble up the lion's food), and the prison doors
be open, and the world should for the first time
learn the full meaning of those words, -' Peace
and good-will to men."

There was nothing new in this. It had been
better said by abler men a hundred times
before. But the swing of vehement verse " almost
persuaded " many who are proof against
sober prose, and the audience — even some who
did not hold such views — were ready to be
carried away by a handsome young lord, advocating
equality in fiery numbers, and ready to
pull down the little pedestal upon which Providence
had set him, even if in so doing he demolished
edifices of more enduring utility.

The enthusiasm was great. Madame de
Waldeck clasped her hands above her head in
an ecstasy, but Nellie felt, none the less, distressed.
Whenever he spoke to her in this
strain, she .begged him to desist. She had
hoped that he would never put forth these

opinions, which she felt confident he would not
hold through life. And now he had committed
himself to them, as he had committed himself
before to sentiments which his better nature
regretted.

She heard the verses praised on every side,
and she heard, almost in the same breath, things
she had been taught to venerate since childhood
slightingly or patronizingly spoken of.
Mrs. Tullia said the Bible was a collection of
very beautiful myths ; it also contained some
fine poetry. It had done a great deal of harm,
of course — had propagated a vast amount of
error ; but there were portions that, if freed
from superstition, were calculated to benefit
mankind. Some one else doubted this ; all that
was good was taken from the Koran, he said.
Another declared that Nature, whose wise laws
were only beginning to be understood, was his
only god, her dictates those alone which he
obeyed. Among these people the old landmarks
seemed to be all swept away. Science,
research, philosophy had destroyed faith. Who
believed in religion now as religion was fifty

years ago? Nod but the ignorant poor. It
was time their eyes were opened. The young-wife
went home saddened.

Some weeks afterwards (she bad been studying
Italian sedulously since she was at Rome)
she came upon an epigram of Giusti's, which recalled
this party of destructionists.

II Buonsenso, che gia f u capo-schola,
Ora in parecchie scuole e morton affatto :
La Science, sua figliuola,

L'uccise, per veer' com' era facto !"

CHAPTER V.

TT is probable that if '' the world"— that work
■*■ which the Dowager Lady Athelstone regarded
with respect, and her son with contempt — had
shut its doors, at this time, against the beautiful
young woman whose first appearance at
Derwentwater House made a considerable stir,
the best side of Wilfred's nature, no less than
his combativeness, would have been roused ;
and he would very seldom have left her. As
it was, a thing not without precedent came to
pass. The small county magnates round Athelstan
had looked upon her as an unfit associate
fur their wives and daughters : some of the
greatest of London ladies received her with an
effusion which made cynics like Mr. Punchett

smile bitterly. She was '' a new thing," and
might become '* the fashion' it was evident, if
she were so minded. But those who would
have set her up as a rival sovereign to the professional
beauty of the day were disappointed.
Success only afforded her pleasure as long as it
did so to Wilfred ; and with him it was short-lived.
The difficulties of the position once
conquered he had no taste for parading his
wife in crowded drawing-rooms. She was duly
presented at Court, he took her to a State
Concert, and to one or two of the great Liberal
houses ; and then, despite his mother's entreaties,
he declined to go into any more
fashionable crowds.

The dowager was much exercised as to what
she ought to do, under the circumstances. Her
son gave his wife full liberty to accompany her
mother-in-law wherever she went. Was it
wiser to secure Nellie's position by letting herbe
seen everywhere, and thus, by degrees perhaps
effect Wilfred's return into the fold of
good society ? or to proclaim at once the inexpediency
of a beautiful young woman's going

about without her husband? She sought advice
of several of her friends ; and, in the perplexity
caused by opposed counsels, was finally
guided by the Bishop of Oporto, who said,

If he is willing to remain at home my dear
lady, by all means do nothing to separate the
young people."

But remaining at home was what Athelstone
showed now no inclination for. There were
men-gatherings after dinner to which he was
constantly going, when he did not attend the
House of Lords, and end the evening by driving
to Fitzroy Square for a cup of tea. He and
Nellie never now passed an evening alone.
Even on Sundays, the day on which she looked
forward to a monopoly of his society, they
were not much together. He never accompanied
her to church. Occasionally he went
into the City to listen to a lecture upon " Possibilities,"
— for such the invitation to consider as
tentative all theories, doctrines, and beliefs,
concerning our origin and future, might be
termed. He sometimes walked with her in the
afternoon, but more often paid visits alone, and

he always invited friends to dinner. She began
to feel that she was nothing in her husband's
life. He was invariably kind, constantly desirous
that she should be " improved " by some
lecture, or democratic meeting, or by intercourse
"with the enlightened, whether male or female :
solicitous for her health, lavish in expenditure
for her comfort. But the companionship of old
days, the sweet interchange of thought between
master and pupil, between lover and mistress,
between husband and wife, was at an end. Her
life during this spring might be described as the
gradual awakening from a dream.

Some have the capacity of sleeping on when
the uncurtained sunrise pours down upon their
closed eyelids ; others, with every desire to do
so, and to shut out the fierce truth of daylight,
find it impossible. Of that number was the
worldly-ignorant young wife. She was not a
fool, who could delude herself into the belief
that this change was due solely to the engrossing
interests and pursuits of a busy London life.
The hard reality dawned on her — her dream
was at an end.

During the day now she scarcely saw him for
ten minutes alone. At night he either sat up
writing, or he was at Iiis club, or with some of
his friends, for hours after she was in bed. He
rose proportionately late. She breakfasted
alone. A cup of tea was taken to him while he
dressed, a couple of hours later ; and, by this
time, there was generally a file of persons in
the hall waiting to see him. His interviews
with these — chiefly belonging to the "great
unwashed" class — occupied most part of the
morning : and it happened more than once that
he hurried out to an appointment without even
having seen Nellie. She never looked injured,
or even patient; her bright smile always welcomed
him ; neither he, nor his mother, nor
anyone, save Hubert St. John, guessed what
she suffered. He could not help it, she said to
herself; her society was insufficient to him.
He was a man whose affections required to be
dominated by intellectual influence, and she
had none. There was one who, if he had
married hers would have possessed this for

good ; and there was one, alas ! now who she
feared might possess it for evil.

No day passed without his seeing Madame
de Waldeck. To do her justice, she had striven
hard to become intimate with Lady Athelstone ;.
but Nellie's instinctive dread had increased
rather than diminished, at each interview ; and
the clever lady, who piqued herself on overcoming
the prejudices of her own sex, was incensed
at finding her advances met with passive resistance
at the hands of this low-born and common-minded
young person. Had it been otherwise,
her own interests might possibly have led to her
adopting a different line of conduct with respect
to Wilfred. As it was, she had nothing to gain
by refraining from making a caspar of him.

The logic of events induced St. John, during
this time, to revoke the decision he had coma
to before returning to London. He saw that
Lady Athelstone was in need of a true friend
on whose judgment she could lean, and that,
in her perplexities, she turned naturally to him.
She avoided all discussions as to Alfred's

but not so as to principles which were
naturally repellent to her, but which her husband
urged her to adopt. St. John persuaded
himself, therefore, that his constant visits to
Whitehall Gardens were no longer to be regarded
as a dangerous pleasure which it became
him to shun, but rather as a duty which
it would be cowardly to shirk. He hated the
whole set of people into whose clutches Wilfred
had fallen. He could hardly speak of Mrs.
Tullia Whiteside's mischievous extravagance
with common patience. Of Madame de Wal-deck
he conceived such abhorrence that he did
not trust himself to speak at all. He watched
Wilfred's growing subservience to her will,
though he never breathed a suspicion of it to
the young wife. Only, when asked by the
latter whether he admired that clever lady, he
replied shortly, *not at all."

Wilfred wished me to like her . I wish I
could."

'* The less you see of her the better, io my
opinion." And then he turned the conversation
abruptly into another channel.

It was not till the Academy Soiree that
Wilfred and Miss Brabazon met ; and that
was more than two months after the Athens
came to town. Sylvia went into no
society, owing to her mother having been laid
sup with rheumatism ever since the winter ; and
the Athelstan had not driven down to Barnes,
though St. John, as we know, had given Wilfred
the Brabazons' address. Lady Athelstone
had one day, in the dowager's presence, suggested
doing so, but Wilfred made no response.
When he had left the room, which he did abruptly,
his mother said,

"I do not wonder at his not wishing to renew
the acquaintance. He suffered very much
on Miss Brabazon's account. I consider that
she behaved extremely ill, giving him every

encouragement, and then If she had not

done so "

Here she broke off a second time ; but, though
apparently incoherent, there was no difficulty
in supplying the context to this speech. Nellie
coloured, but made no reply; she never mentioned
Miss Brabazon's name from that day.

The only member of the Athelstone household
who had visited Sylvia two or three times, was
Lorenzo. He would have talked unreservedly of
his master's concerns, but that she stopped him.
Still it was impossible to check his volubility
altogether, and he had the conviction of a
common nature that it must be gratifying to
his auditor to learn that ray lord was restless
at home, and too plainly dissatisfied in his
marriage. He suggested, though he never
actually formulated this in words. Madame de
Waldeck's name frequently dropped from him,
and so did Hubert St. John's, as Lady Athelstan's
constant visitor. Sylvia Brabazon was
startled ; she could but think that the boy, for
some reason or other, saw things with jaundiced
eyes. Only fourteen months ! It could not have
come to this. She understood his avoidance of
her : perhaps it was better so ; still her pride
was hurt : she could not but feel wounded at
the neglect of an act cf common courtesy towards
her mother.

Madame de Surville was in England for a
few days, and Briggs, whose big picture of

*' The Rape of the Sabines " on the walls of the
Academy had met with considerable success,
tempered with reprobation, had sent Sylvia
some tickets for the soiree. She had a curiosity
to see it, and persuaded her old friend to break
through her rule and accompany her.

Thus it came to pass that, in the course of
the evening, the two ladies, escorted by Briggs,
were standing together in the second room
when Professor Spooner, with a dissatisfied
condition of mouth, and spectacles which
flashed depreciation on all around, approached
them.

What do you think of the Academy this
year ?" asked Miss Brabazon.

Reckless, when not utterly ignoble in aim,"
he replied, shaking his head. '^ I see nothing
wholly commendable but that small picture
there upon the ground, brushed by the hem of
your garment — hung, in the insolent ignorance
of the committee, where its modest truth and
faithful endeavour are overlooked. Stoop down ;
examine the worm-eaten cabbage in the right
corner ; observe the humility, the sorrowful

obedience to Nature's law of decay in the
patient following of the canker's pati through
the leaf. The mind, rightly attuned, reads in
it a homily, far beyond the pomp of perfect
fruit and flawless flower."

It is very carefully painted, certainly," said
Sylvia.

It is dreadfully ugly I" sighed Madame
Barbara.

*' There is nothing ugly in Nature but what
is base' rejoined the professor, casting a
mournful glance askance at Madame Barbara.
Sensuality is base," — here his eye rested for
an instant on Briggs, — "foulness and tumult
are base; but there is no baseness here; this is
a sweet parable. Here is the grass of the field,
which to-day is, and tomorrow is cast into the
oven."

"No one casts cabbages into ovens, Spooner.
Go to the school of cookery," laughed Briggs.

Full of infinite and beautiful suggestion'*
continued the professor, heedless of the impertinent
interruption, " is the track of the worm
that has eaten his way through the leaf — the

record of his persistent course, through good
report and bad report. The leaf was made for
him, as it was made for us. Are we not all
worms ? There is a noble unsightliness in this
parable which "

But Sylvia heard no more. At that moment,
through the doorway of the third room, her eyes
fell upon two figures; the one was Wilfred
Athelstone, the other a tall, classically-draped
lady who leant upon his arm.

"There's Lord Athelstone," said Briggs,
and that is Madame de Waldeck— the woman
who wants to simplify dress and matrimony.
She loosens both. Ha ! ha !"

Sylvia turned away, and appeared to be
engrossed in contemplation of the small
Tadema " before her. But Wilfred had seen
her ; and, after a momentary hesitation he conducted
his companion to a sofa and left her
there, saying he saw a friend to whom he must
speak. Madame de Waldeck's quick eyes
noticed that he flushed, and that his manner
was nervous. She watched the meeting with
curiosity. Madame de Surville and Briggs had

VOL. III. G

walked on a few paces. The tall, slight woman,
not unlike the great white lily that was held by
a band of diamonds in her hair, received him
with a calmness which did not seem altogether
unstudied to the accomplished actress who
looked on. Miss Brabazon affected no surprise ;
neither did she evince pleasure or resentment ;
her countenance was inscrutable, as her frame of
mind would have been incomprehensible, to the
person who sought to read it. Athelstone, on
the other hand, coloured, and looked ill at ease.
He sought to conceal this by an attempt to
swagger ; he talked more rapidly and gesticulated
more unnecessarily than usual ; he held
his head high, and tried to give back to those
deep, unfathomable eyes look for look. But
Madame de Waldeck saw his eyelids quiver ;
saw, through the thin coating of effrontery, the
sore reality of wounded vanity, and the irritation
of an unwonted effort at self-assertion.

*' That must be the woman I have heard of
who had such an influence over him. She
jilted him, they say, which made him marry
that idiot. Well, in spite of it, I can see he

loves her still. She is handsomer than I am.
If she chose it, I should be nowhere. But she
does not choose it, and never will," was the
satisfactory conclusion at which Madame de
Waldeck arrived.

'rand you are not very much bored in
England?" he asked, quickly, after the first
greetings had been interchanged. "You remain
here, for the present, as a matter of duty,
I conclude ? for Mrs. Brabazon must hate it."

No ; we have never known what it is to
have a home ; and we both like it. My mother
is tired of wandering about always. Without
roots, one attaches oneself to nothing."

•' \Vhat on earth can she find to amuse her at
Barnes ?"

The housekeeping, the poultry-yard, the
garden — everything. Then, generally one or
two of my mother's old friends are staying with
us."

That can't be lively for you. Why don't
you come and live in London ?"

"In London one lives for one's acquaintances
out of it one lives for one's friends. We are

g2

near enough for all who care to see us to comedown.
The only thing I really miss in England
is light ; and in London you have even less
than we."

But surely you miss your artistic surroundings
— and your interesting society at Rome?
Ordinary society in this country of shams and
snobbism is unendurable."

"It maybe; I know nothing of it. I hate
crowds anywhere. I suppose they are much
the same in London as in Rome. As to Art, it
has far more vitality here than in Italy, where it
is only the bones of the past galvanized. And
for society," she added, smiling, " in nine cases
out of ten I find that of my books more interesting
than that of men."

You would not say so if you knew some of
my friends. The only society I frequent is
where I find people of unconventional views —
people who go off the beaten lines ; original
minds, in short."

*' To go off the beaten lines is easy enough —
perhaps too easy," she replied, quietly.

"I don't know that," he returned, in his old

argumentative way. " It requires some moral
courage."

*' Or immoral — as the case may be."

Oh ! anything new and startling is branded
as immoral. You see that handsome vv'oman on
the sofa Now, she is a woman of a decidedly
original mind. Because she is so — because she
is trying to reform dress, and — and — the
marriage-laws, narrow-minded people are prejudiced
against her."

I am afraid I shall be among the narrow-minded,
Lord Athelstan' said Miss Brabazon,
coldly, and she looked the other way.

"Why? Because she is not dressed like
everyone else? Fow eire the last person to be
severe on that. Let me introduce you to her.
I assure you she is a most delightful person ; so
agreeable, and always an especial favourite with
other women."

Sylvia turned, and looked straight into his
eyes.

'• Is she an especial favourite of Lady Athelstan's?"


He winced.

My wife is not quite up to the mark of so
very clever a 'woman, and "

''No doubt Lady Athelstone and I are more
on a par— and I had rather talk to her. Where
is she?"

'^I left her in the big room, under St. John's
care. I did not know that you would like to
see her, otherwise — otherwise — I would have
taken her down to Barnes before this. When
may we come ?"

*' Oh, it is too late now. We go to Wiesbaden
tomorrow."

"For how long? I am very sorry."

We shall probably go on to St. Merits
afterwards, to give mamma strength, and we
may return by the Italian lakes ; but we shall
be back in the winter, I believe."

He answered quickly — almost without reflection
—

'rand that will be too late for me. In the
winter I shall be in America."

In America ! What takes you there T

"I — think of giving some lectures. I have
been invited to do so. And it will interest me

to visit a country which is the cradle, if
not the birthplace, of all that is free and enlightened."


'* Of course. Lady Athelstone goes with
you?"

*' No — I think not. I have not named the
subject to her yet ; but I doubt whether her
health would stand rapid travelling ; and she
hates the sea."

She said nothing ; she turned away.

Madame de Surville and Briggs came up at
that moment ; and Athelstone's conversation
during the next few minutes was devoted to
the elder lady. She listened to him with
some curiosity, tinctured by her sense of
humor*, as, in reply to the inquiry, " What are
you about? Are you writing?" he held forth
upon the approaching emancipation of all
classes from slavish bonds of custom, which he
was helping to inaugurate.

'^ It is a pity you wouldn't marry him my
dear," she said sotto voce to Sylvia, as they
sauntered away a few minutes later. "You
would have prevented his talking — you would

have prevented his thinking all that stuff."

Miss Brabazoii flushed.

*' Should 1 ? I doubt it."

'' He is that sort of man that a clever woman
can do anything she likes with."

I am afraid she can. It is very sad." Then
she added, " tie is thinking of leaving his
young wife, and going; off to America. If that
is the consequence of having enlarged ideas, let
us all remain narrow."

He would not think of going to America if
he had married you."

^' AVho can say ?" She looked magnificently
scornful as she added, " I am glad I did not put
him to the test."

'' Ah ! you might have made something of
him. I used to like him ; there was a great
charm about the handsome, eager young fellow,
though he was always dogmatical — always a
little anxious to astonish one. But he is
grown ridiculous. I suppose it is living with a
half-educated young woman who thinks all he
does perfect."

"I am afraid it is from not living enough

with her. And I doubt her thinking now all
he does perfect*'

You don't mean that he neglects her ?"

perhaps not absolutely that. I have no
right to say so. But " She paused.

It comes to what I said. He was really
attached to you — as attached as he could be to
any woman ^"

'^ Yes — that was just it."

— And his attachment would have strengthened,
you would have had an immense influence
over him; he would have been a different man.
My favourite Landor says ' Love always makes i
us better ; religion sometimes ; power never.' |
Wilfred Athelstone's love is weak, you seem to
say ; and certainly he has very little religion.
He has only a certain power from his talents
and his position, and this without guidance I
see will prove his destruction."
f '^ A man who requires guidance is not one to '-
I entrust one's happiness to' returned Sylvia,
with a touch of something akin to anger.
'look!" she continued. *' Look ! Do you see
her there, in white, seated under that picture

of * The Forsaken — a girl standing at the very
edge of the cold, grey sea ? The expression of
Lady Athelstone's face is really not unlike that
of the girl. How thin she is grown, and how
weary she looks, poor thing ! And this is only
the beginning !"

Madame Barbara calmly surveyed Nellie and
her companion for some minutes without reply.

"That is Mr. St. John beside her?" she said
at last. " I remember his honest ugly face perfectly.
I hope it doesn't belie him."

*' I have heard that he has a fine character.
I scarcely know him. He is a great friend of
Lord Athelstone's.*'

1 hope he is a true friend . I hope he is
honest."

"Why should you doubt it — you who are
such a physiognomist?"

The interest he takes in his friend's wife is
no common interest. Did I not hear that he
once wanted to marry her?"

There was some rumour of the sort. I do
not know if it was true — I daresay not."

*' What you can see as well as I, my dear,"

said Madame Barbara, turning and looking into
Sylvia's face, *' is that his heart and soul are
wrapped up in that woman now. God help
her!"

CHAPTER VI.

A FEW days later, a piece of news, calculated
-^ to arouse divergent opinions and cause
some animadversion among elderly dames, circulated
through London society in the .space of
a few hours. It was announced at White's at
five o'clock , and was discussed at half the din-vegetables
that night. The Dowager Lady
Athelstone had, after much hesitation, consented
to become the wife of the Bishop of Oporto.

Why should she not ? said some of her
friends. There was nothing derogatory to her
dignity in the marriage. The Bishop was a
most charming person, of independent means,
and of suitable age. She had no longer her
son to think of; he had married contrary to

her wishes — why should she not please herself?
Perhaps there was no answering this, which
may have irritated the more those who were
adverse to the match.

Cynics, like Punchett, said the Athelstone
family was really worth its weight in gold : it
was always preparing little surprises for society.
First the young man outrages public opinion
by the publication of his very lively love-poems
; then he shocks all the traditions of
aristocracy by the profession of socialistic opinions
; next he marries a milkmaid. There is
very little doubt how that will end ; he has already
taken to flirting desperately with another
woman ; but in the meantime his mamma provides
a little interlude to prevent our all getting
too dull, yhe has drawn this courtly Bishop —
who no one will believe is sincere, he is so
well-bred — into her toils. All this is really like
an old comedy, so full of intrigue — it is delightful
!

Wilfred was probably in some measure prepared
for the announcement ; it could hardly be
but that he must have foreseen the possibility

of his mother's marrying again, and six months
ago he would have been well pleased to receive
the Bishop as his step-father. Now things
were changed ; it would interfere with certain
plans of Wilfred's, in which he meant his
mother to play a part. He was annoyed, but
silent. Henceforward his mother's movements
would be made without reference to him, but
depend on the will of another.

He entered his wife's room one morning, and
said, abruptly,

I am going to let Athelstone for a year,
Nellie."

Let Athelstone ! Oh I Wilfred, why ?"

I don't care to go back there at present.
Some of the neighbours behaved insolently
about you. And, since I have been here, I
have received *" remonstrances ' from a number
of the clergy and others about the opinions I
promulgate. It is disagreeable to me to come
into contact with all these people just now. I
have had a capital offer for the place from a
Birmingham man, and I have accepted it."

'^ Will your mother be very much distressed
?"

Horrified ; but I can't help that. It is
better the place should be lived in than empty,

and next winter " Here he broke off

abruptly ; he could not bring himself to tell her
of his American scheme, he would break it to
her gradually as the time drew near. '^ My
mother will have her own concerns to occupy
her now. She will say it is very derogatory to
my dignity to let the old place ; but I don't
care about that, I only hope the Bishop will
show her the absurdity of all such rubbish."

I can't help being sorry, dear ; I was so
happy at Athelstone. I have always loved it so
much. But I daresay you are right. Where
shall we go ?"

"I have heard of a charming cottage in
Wales where I should like to spend three
months. You won't mind?"

Mind, Wilfred ! I shall like it, with you—
oh ! so much better than London." Then, with
a little trepidation, " We shall be alone, shan't
ewer

Yes, virtually ; we may have a friend or
two. I daresay old Hubert will come down to
see us."

A letter of Nellie's to Mrs. Goldwin, written
about this tinge, portrays, in some measure,
the state of the young wife's mind, and serves
to show how her character bad matured during
the past year. If she did not write with entire
openness to her friend, she at least wrote with
more openness toller than she would have done
to any other person. Her reliance on Mrs.
Gold win's discretion, her confidence that nothing
her letters might contain would be misconstrued
by her tolerant, large-minded friend,
emboldened her to discuss points she would not
otherwise have touched upon. The letter was
addressed to \Yiesbadeu, where Mrs. Goldwin
had joined her husband. She wrote :

We have been in London three months,
since I returned from Brighton, and I am glad
to think that the time is at hand for us
to leave it, but not for dear Athelstone,
alas ! — Wilfred has let it, and has taken
a cottage in Wales. At all events, I shall

be alone with him, more than I have been
here, where he is so constantly occupied that I
cannot expect to see much of him. Nothing
can compensate to me for that loss, and I may
confess to you that T hate London. Wilfred
will not go into what is called 'society;' he
took me to a few of the great houses at first,
but very soon gave it up. His mother would
have taken me out — nay, urged it as almost a
duty, seeing that ' the world ' was kindly disposed
towards me — but I declined ; there was,
indeed, no virtue in this, for, without Wilfred,
I should not have been amused. On the other
hand, I am afraid I am to blame for not
cultivating my husband's friends more. I
have tried to like them, indeed I have, but I
find their society paralyses my energies. No
doubt this is my fault, but I cannot help it,
Wilfred says my mind is contracted, and needs
expanding. I am sure it does ; but somehow I
do not feel that these are the people to do it.
Their conversation is distasteful to me; the discussion
of subjects about which I know nothing
fatigues me ; while the ridicule of things about
VOL. III. H

'which I feel strongly is often offensive. In both
cases I am silent, and my silence is not unnaturally
regarded as a proof of imbecility. I
overheard this dialogue the other night : ' One
might as well try to get sparks from a bit of
lead as draw anything from that young Lady
Athelstone !' said a lady to her neighbour, who
replied, * With her education, one can't expect
much ; but at least she might follow her brilliant
husband's lead. When a woman marries such
a husband as that, all she has to do is to adopt
his views.' Now, unfortunately, that is just
what I ceiunot do ; I cannot shake off the beliefs
and prejudices in which I was bred. I know
that, in every respect, I am immeasurably my
dear husband's inferior, but I cannot see everything
with his eyes ; I even think that, if I could
make him see with mine, he would be happier.
There is one person whom he regards as very
admirable, for whom I have a special aversion.
She is very handsome and very clever, but she
has no religion, and disseminates horrible
doctrines about marriage; yet dear Wilfred, in
his chivalrous enthusiasm for what he considers

a noble and suffering woman, has taken up her
cause warmly. This is another reason why I
am glad we are leaving London.

How I wish, dear friend, I were cleverer,
and worthier of him ! This is my daily regret,
my almost constant thought. A fortnight ago
I saw her, that beautiful, noble woman who
ought to have been his wife — if she had loved
him ! It was at the Academy soiree. She
came up and spoke to me with the old sweet
graciousness, which is unlike everyone else's
manner in the world. She used to awe me a
little ; I never could feel that now. There is a
tender sympathy in her voice which draws me
irresistibly to her. But circumstances, I suppose,
will prevent our ever being intimate. She
has left England, and I do not know when we
may meet again. By4he-by, I think she said
they were going to Wiesbaden ; so perhaps you
may meet,"

And they did meet. The acquaintance, which
had been slight in Rome, was renewed. They
liked each other, and had one subject of common
interest — Nellie. The result of those con

2

sensations was to have a painful impression
on Mary Goldwin's mind. Nellie's letter
had distressed her ; the truth which she instinctively
felt, Sylvia Brabazon's words corroborated.


Lady Athelstone looks ill," she said ; " like
a person who is possessed by some fear which
she cannot shake off."

That may be morbid. But he ? Does he
strike you as happy? as being really attached
to her?"

Sylvia waited a minute or two before she
replied. Her large eyes were fixed upon the
lake in the public garden, near which they sat.
She did not look up ; but a slight spot of colour
came into her cheek.

Lord Athelstone's is a very difficult character
to read. I once thought I could read it,
but I was mistaken. How much or how little
he cares for anyone it is impossible to tell, for
he does not know himself. The marriage is
certainly not what I had hoped it would be;
but she is very young, and does not at present
supply the mental stimulus he needs. I daresay

he is fond of her. He does not mean to
neglect her — has no idea that she suffers ; but
she has no power over him, and he possesses,
unfortunately, but little over himself. I have
grown to think it a miserable thing when a
man is thus easily influenced. I once thought
it would be beautiful to exercise such sway. I
should now dread it.'^

Poor child !*' sighed Mrs. Goldwin, presently.
" I wish you were near her, Miss Brabazon.
I am afraid she has not a single friend to whom
she can appeal for comfort or advice, except
Hubert St. John ; and that is not what I
should wish."

"Is he not a most excellent man?"

Yes. But he is a man who feels strongly
too strongly, I fear, in this case, to be an
impartial friend."

Then she abruptly changed the subject, and
never again spoke of Hubert to Miss Brabazon.
She felt instinctively how much her cousin Alas
suffering at this time. It was a state of things
for which she saw no remedy. Advice to him
would be utterly thrown away. And Nellie,

she knew, was safe. Hubert was sacrificing ibis
life to " aD idea." It was thus Mary Godwin
viewed the passion which dominated the young
man's existence, and which she so deeply
deplored. She felt she had no right to try to
deprive young Lady Athelstone of a firm and
devoted friend. Still she heartily wished he
was not so much at Whitehall Gardens.

Wilfred had not told his wife the true cause
of his letting Athelstone, neither did he tell his
mother, when she implored him " to reconsider
a decision which must materially lower his
position in the county."

Say no more about it, my dear mother: the
thing is done."

What was the use of aggravating the evil by
the information that he had largely exceeded
his income this year, and that he must retrench
his expenses or go to the Jews V He was very
generous ; and the calls upon his purse since he
came to London had been various. His fortune,
sufficient for his father's manner of life, hospitable
as the old county magnate had been, was
not such as to admit of his son's keeping up a

similar establishment, and at the same time
making munificent donations in support of
various objects he was induced to befriend. It
was impossible to say what sums' had passed
through Mrs. TuUia Whiteside's hands ; it was
only when his banker's book showed him a
balance considerably on the wrong side of the
ledger that he was compelled to look his affairs
steadily in the face.

The only person to whom he confided his
difficulties was Madame de Waldeck, and she
it was who suggested the idea of his giving a
series of lectures in the chief cities of the United
States. She said,

Your name is already well known there.
Your poems, your speeches, are no doubt discussed
— equally admired and abused. It is
known that you have enlarged views on all
subjects ; and then you are a lord ! The attraction
of listening to a lord, who is at once
a poet and a socialist, will draw crowds. It
will be a great success. You may clear nearly
four thousand pounds in three months, and
enjoy a delightful tour — one which will be * a

series of ovations as the papers say, into the
bargain."

The proposition startled even Wilfred at
first, but by 'degrees he accustomed his mind to
the idea. After that, he sought to fortify his
position with sophistical arguments against the
objections which he foresaw would be urged to
the scheme. He would leave Nellie with his
mother ; but this plan fell to the ground, naturally,
when the dowager announced her engagement.
A few weeks later, it was decided that
she and the Bishop were to visit the Holy Land
next winter. Lady Athelstone would not even
have the protection of her mother-in-law's presence
in England. He was annoyed ; but must
he abandon his scheme on this account ? No,
he would make a spinster cousin of his come
and stay with his wife during his absence. No
one could then say a word ; and as to Nellie,
why, she always accepted everything that he
proposed without a murmur. He had brought
himself to believe that he could easily reconcile
her to his absence for three months, when he
represented to her how important to his interior


nests, to his influence, and to his reputation, this

visit to the States would be.

Of course he was conscious that everything
depended on the way in which this thing was
^' put." But he was a master in the art of
"putting" things, even to himself, being equally
desirous to satisfy his conscience and not to
be thwarted in whatsoever he was minded todo.


Sylvia Brabazon was the only person to
whom he had been stung to speak of his project.
Why ? He knew that she would reprehend
it ; he knew that, in the old days, she
would have sought to dissuade him from such
a step ; he knew that, had she been his wife, he
would never even have contemplated it. But
be was irritated by her manner ; he wished to
startle her ; perhaps he hoped that she would
urge him eloquently to renounce the idea, in
order that he might prove how completely her
influence was destroyed. This was childish ;
lout then Wilfred, Lord Athelstone, aged twenty-four,
reformer, legislator, poet, was but a spoiled
child.

'* What is this Miss Brabazon tells me of
Lord Athelstone's probable visit alone to America
next winter? I have not alluded to it in writing
to Nellie, for her husband has not thought
fit to tell her of his intention yet, it seems. It
is most deplorable. What will the world say ?
Poor Nellie, left alone, will be miserable. Can't
you try to persuade hiui to give up this wild
idea?"

Thus ran a passage in one of Mary Goldwin's
letters to Hubert. He had heard nothing of
this, and was startled. The Athelstan had
already left London for Wales, where Hubert
was invited to join them.

CHAPTER Iii.

'I7AGLESCRAG was no more than a longs
cottage, one story high, situated a few
feet from the edge of a steep cliff on the western
coast of Wales. In the fact that this cliff
was thickly wooded with pines, which had been
cut away in front of the cottage to the extent
of half an acre, consisted the peculiarity and
the charm of the situation. All the rooms,
except the pisces, faced the sea. Between
them and it was a space of level lawn, on
which were a few old-fashioned flower-beds —
a sweet tangle of bloom, springing up without
rule or principle of colour, but harmonious ta
the eye, as all Nature's combinations are. A
sun-dial stood on this grass-plat ; some benches

vere ou the lawn, overlooking the rocks and
the sea beyond.

The plan of the cottage, which had been
built by a rheumatic admiral some sixty years
since, was simple. A broad passage, into which
the hall-door, with its deep rustic porch, opened,
ran along the back of the house. Into this
passage all the rooms opened. At the north
end the offices and servants' rooms bulged out
towards the east ; at the south, a bath and
some dressing and lumber-closets formed a
corresponding though smaller excrescence.
There was but one large best bed-room, which
still Event by the name of '^ the Admiral's," and
two smaller ones, all opening on the lawn ; and
three sitting-rooms, one of which was of considerable
size, being in the centre of the cottage,
facing the hall-door, and having a very wide
and deep bay-window. The Avails of this
pleasant chamber were hung With an old
Chinese paper, such as one rarely sees now, in
Which birds of strange plumage had refuge in
trees of impossible growth, the atmosphere both
inhaled being of a pigeon's egg green. An

Indian cabinet, some fine Nankin jars, and
dishes of Burmese metal-work further indicated
the sea-faring life which, after every vicissitude
of climate, had ended peacefully in this quiet
corner of the world. To him it had been rest ;
he had wished for nothing more. To his
daughter, now a middle-aged matron who had
never journeyed further than London or harrogate,
it was intolerably dull ; and, whenever
she could let Eaglescrag for the summer, she
was delighted to do so.

In this room Nellie read, or worked, or played
on the piano ; in which latter accomplishment
she was desirous to improve herself, being buta
beginner, and labouring under the delusion
that Wilfred would be pleased could she become
a tolerable performer. The fact was that, like
most poets, he cared little for music ; and his
wife's " practising " was a trial which, to do
him justice, he supported with great fortitude.
He wrote in the adjoining room ; and, if he
cursed the piano, it was in silence. During the
first days after their arrival, he was shut up
here, and his wife saw nothing of him till the
vol, UL h

evening. Then, one morning, a MS. was despatched
to the printers by post ; after which, he
came in with the air of a man who is well
pleased at having achieved a difficult task, and
proposed to Nellie to go out sailing.

The sun was hot, and the sea anything but
smooth, and she was an indifferent sailor; but
she did not hesitate. The delight of being with
Wilfred alone for some hours compensated for
everything. He was passionately fond of sailing,
and was engrossed for some time after they
started in managing the boat with the man
who accompanied them. At last, when they
were well out to sea, and the sail was trimmed
to his satisfaction, he lit his pipe, and sat down
on the bench facing her. How handsome he
looked in his blue jersey, his cheek flushed by
the wind! This was a different man from the
sallow student with knit brows she had been
accustomed to see lately.

You look pale, my child," he said.

She tried to smile. *' I always feel giddy at
sea."

Ah I you would never stand a long sea-voyage.

I was sure of it." Then, after a
pause — " What day does old Hubert come ?"

The beginning of next week."

"We have another spare room; it may as
well be occupied. I should like you to write
and ask Madame de Waldeck."

There was no reply for some minutes. At
last she said, in a low voice —

I hoped we were to be alone here."

"flow can we be aloes if Hubert comes f

I had much rather he were not coming."

I thought you liked him ?"

So I do ; but I had rather be alone with

you."

"We can't be always alone. A man wants
some further interchange of thought ; and a
woman, too. As it is, a third person is always
in the way, and Madame de Waldeck will make
us an even number."

Then Nellie nerved herself for a great effort
of courage. Her voice shook as she said,

"Mr. St. John does not like Madame de
Waldeck— neither do I."

Wilfred was surprised and annoyed. He took

the pipe from his mouth, and replied, more
sharply than he had ever done to her before,

*'I am sorry for it. As to Hubert, he hasn't
spoken twice in his life to her, so it can only be
prejudice — a prejudice unworthy of a man, and
which I should have thought him superior to.
As to you, Nellie, you seem, unfortunately, to
like no women — especially no clever ones —
which is a great mistake."

I like Miss Brabazon very very much."
"You are not likely to see much of her. But
I hoped you would have cultivated some of my
present friends — women who are strenuous
workers for the removal of error and the destruction
of evil in the world. On the contrary,
you have avoided them. Madame de Waldeck
is a very superior woman, and one who has
suffered injustice and misapprehension. You
might learn much from her if you chose. Nary
is abhorrent to me. 1 should
have liked my wife to share my views, and to
despise public opinion. But then it is no use
hoping for that, I see. If you choose to bind
yourself as a slave to the Avorld's chariot,

you will only find that its wheels crush you."

Poor Nellie ! She felt crushed by more cruel
wheels than the world's.

Say no more, dear Wilfred. I will write to
her."

He was in brilliant spirits during the rest of
the sail. He took great care that she should
not get wet, from the waves which broke several
times over the boat, covering her with
tarpaulin, and arranging the cushions for her
head, as he would have done for a suffering
child. Was she not a child, whose whims and
fancies were of no serious account?

The child, however, was now a wife, and the
whim she had expressed was one not so lightly
removed. She remained silent and depressed.
But neither that afternoon, nor subsequently,
did the recollection of what she had said disquiet
Wilfred ; and this was characteristic of the
man.

That her dislike of Madame de Waldeck

was deepening into a passionate jealousy was

what he never saw. Her dread of this visit

was like a nightmare, it weighed heavily at

VOL. III. I

her heart — the restfuhiess of Eaglescrag was
gone.

The reply to Lady Athelstone's brief note of
invitation came by return of post. Madame de
Waldeck regretted that she could not leave
London till the middle of the following week,
and that her visit must be limited to a few
days, as she had engagements to lecture in
Liverpool and Manchester. Nellie breathed
more freely ; she had anticipated that this infliction
would be prolonged for weeks — for a
short time anything could be endured.

It was the night of St. John's arrival, and the
two men were pacing the terrace at the edge
of the cliff, smoking their cigars after Lady
Athelstone had retired. The talking had been
done chiefly by Wilfred during the evening.
Hubert had struck him as more pre-occupied
than usual ; but then he had seen very little of
his friend lately. Nellie had observed no
change. She never looked up from her work
without finding his eyes fixed upon her — she
Alas used to it now. The fidelity she read there

was pleasant, as the fidelity we read in the eyes
of a faithful dog, and it said to her no more.
Once, when Madame de Waldeck's name was
casually mentioned, as being expected later in
the week, he frowned, and Lady Athelstone
glanced from him to her husband, hoping the
expression of dissatisfaction on his friend's face
would not be lost upon Wilfred. It was entirely
so. He was generally too engrossed in
what he was saying not to be obtuse to its
effect upon others ; and this would, no doubt,
prevent his ever being an orator. The man to
move multitudes must keep his finger on the
pulse of his auditory.

The two men were alone now. It was a dark
night; a few stars above, and the burning ends
of their cigars, did not give sufficient light to
see each others' faces ; the wash of the waves
below, and a little wind through the pine
branches now and again, were the only accompaniment
to their words,

Is it true, Athelstone, that you are going
to America ?"

I 2

*' Who told you?"

Mary Goldwin wrote that she had heard the
rumour from Miss Brabazon."

*' Women can never hold their tongues. Yes,
I have some idea of it ; but I have not mentioned
it yet to Nellie, and therefore I done want
it talked about. You see, I can't take her ; she
suffers horribly at sea, and would knock up
with the fatigue of constant travelling, and I
shall have to make long journeys almost daily.
I am going on a lecturing tour."

*' What are you going to lecture about ?"

Oh ! a variety of subjects — things I want to
ventilate my views upon."

*' And is the attraction of lecturing so great
as to make you leave jour wife, and all your
home-duties in England?"

"The truth is, I have spent more money
than J ought this year ; I am to be paid very
largely, and it is an easy way of getting out of
my difficulties."

'* Easy ? I think it is the worst way I ever
heard of. You must give up this idea ; you
must indeed."

*' Indeed I shall do no such thing ! Why
should IV I could write nothing in three
months that would bring me a tenth of the
money, and money I must have."

Retrench ; sell your town house ; take your
wife abroad, do anything but this. You have
no idea the injury you will do. Taking simply
the lowest worldly view of the thing '''

— That I decline to take. People will think
it derogatory to a peer to go round the States
lecturing for money. I care nothing for that."

Then take the next argument in the scale
against it. You are ambitious to be a reformer.
Your capacity for influencing the world will be
entirely marred, if the judgment formed of your
conduct be an adverse one. Your wife is absolutely
alone in the world. From the circumstances of her
early life, it would be difficult to find any other
young woman as much so. The world at first
resented your marrying as you did, but at least
it was in harmony with your views of ' equality.'
If such a marriage is not justified by devotion, —
if, at the end of eighteen months, you start off*
for America alone " He stopped dead short

in his Avalk, struck by a sudden thought. *' You
are going alone ? You have no companion ?"

Wilfred, with all his faults, was incapable of
prevarication. He would have given a great
deal not to answer that direct question. He
knew the conclusion at which Hubert would
arrive, and it was a false one. He was not in
love with Madame de Waldeck. The woman,
by her extraordinary cleverness, had obtained
considerable influence over him ; but it was not
an influence of the passions, still less of the
heart ; it was purely an intellectual ascendancy,
which absorbed his interest for the time being,
and rendered other society flat. Thus he, no
doubt, "put it" to himself. But how far this
result was due to subtle flattery, and feminine
skill in pandering to his peculiar weaknesses,
still more what the ultimate effects of a prolonged
subjection to such influence might be,
were questions he never asked himself. There
are few things a self-indulgent man will not
bring himself to believe are justifiable. Wilfred's
intimacy with Madame de Waldeck had been,
up to the present time, in one sense, innocent.

He persuaded himself it would always remain
so. But not being an absolute fool, he was
conscious that the world, — and Hubert stood in
the light of "the world" at this moment, —
would decline to believe this.

*'If I were to tell you that lam going alone'
he replied, reluctantly after a pause, " it would
be the strict truth, but I do not choose to convey
a false impression to you. I hope not to be
alone during a great part of the time that I amin
the States. A friend of mine has a similar
engagement, to lecture and I hope we may
travel together. What I tell you Hubert, of
course is in confidence; I am going to do
nothing I am ashamed of, but there are reasons
why, for the present, I do not wish my movements
to be discussed."

I shall speak of your plans to no one," replied
the other, " for the best reason : that I
hope they will never be carried into execution.
Is your wife the last to be informed of them ?
And have you reflected how cruelly she will
suffer ? Why, in God's name," he added, with
sudden passion, " did you marry, Athelstone, if

it was to try her thus ? If you do this thing —
if you and your friend go off to the States I
give you my word I believe you will break her
heart."

'you must allow me to be the best judge of
that. Nellie is extremely sensible — far more so
than you give her the credit of being. She
unfortunately does not always see things as I
do ; but I have never found her deaf to reason,
or given to overstrained sentimentality. When
I point out to her that my absence for three or
four months is a necessity which cannot be obviated,
except by crippling our means for a
considerable time to come, she is too wise and,
I hope, has too much confidence in me, not to
look at the thing in its just light. But I want
to spare her the prolonged pain of thinking of
our separation for months beforehand, and
therefore I defer speaking of it as long as possible."


I think you are making a great mistake."
Hubert had regained his self-command, and
spoke with quiet sternness. ** If you are resolved
to do this, before you make your final

arrangements, you ought to speak to Lady
Athelstone, and not run the chance of her hearing
it by some side-wind. But I shall say no
more. I have spoken to you warmly, perhaps
too warmly , as a friend. Henceforward I shall
give no advice; you must take your own
course."

He threw away his cigar, and would have
turned towards the house ; but Wilfred's desire
to defend his position, and to air all the specious
arguments in support of it which he would be
called upon to use before long, was not to be
thwarted. He talked plausibly, almost eloquently.
St. John remained silent. He was
not to be entrapped into admitting that, under
any circumstances, such a course of conduct
could be justifiable. It was past midnight when
the two men retired to rest.

There was but one post, in and out, at
Eaglescrag. It came in at eleven in the morning,
and left at one. To answer Wilfred's
numerous correspondents by return-post was
impossible. On the morning after the colloquy
just recorded, the bag contained a thick packet

of MS. and proof-sheets. Nellie and Hubert
were present when Wilfred tore open the cover.

I want to return this, corrected, if possible,
at once," he said. "Will you both help me?
If we divide the *copy' into three parts, we
shall get through it by post-hour. There are
the first pages for you, Nellie. Tou have only
to be careful, and compare the proof, line by
line, with the Ms," and he handed to each a
third of the sheets before him.

"Prose!" exclaimed St. John. "I did not
know you ever wrote in prose. What is it?"

"A pamphlet which I have promised should
be published next week, simultaneously with
the delivery of Madame de Waldeck's lectures
at Liverpool. I believe it will sell well," and
he fell to at once examining the portion he had
retained for his own correction.

Hubert's eyes, at that moment, fell upon the
word "Divorce," heading each page. With
knit brows, he attacked the fragment before
him ; certainly in no frame of mind to detect
the substitution of a comma for a semicolon.
At the end of a minute or two, he looked across

the table. Lady Athelstone seemed turned to
stone. Her face was deadly white ; her respiration
hardly perceptible. She had read the first
few lines, and then a film had gathered before
her eyes. Could it be possible that she had
truly seized the import of those words ? Could
it be that Wilfred — her husband — had written
them?

She remembered afterwards that some one —
she supposed it was Mr. St. John — had fetched
a tumbler of water, and given it to her.

Wilfred, engrossed in his proof-sheets, was-unconscious
of what was passing around him.

There was a dead silence. She drank the
Vater, and then read on, at first mechanically ;.
but by degrees her mind cleared ; she understood
fully the import of the words before her.

Here is a passage which shows the style and
line of argument of this new '' Protest in favour
of Divorce " : —

Great men of all ages and of all religions
have felt the oppression of a chain which, when
riveted upon them, they believed to be of gold,
and which, as the years rolled on, proved to beef

iron and of lead, wearing to the flesh, and
entering into the very soul. To go no further
back than this century, think of Napoleon,
Shelley, and many other prominent men nearer
our own day, who have sought to rid themselves
of bonds which had become unendurable,
and have been stigmatized as cruel or immoral
for acting according to the dictates of a justifiable
impulse. How much crime would have
been avoided, how much misery spared, how
many a life would have been rendered happy
and useful that has been blasted by an early
marriage had not the Church anathematized
the ' putting asunder ' of those ' whom God
hath joined !' The wisdom of any doctrine is
best shown by its tendency to raise man's fallen
nature. The guile and treachery engendered
by an outward subservience to the ecclesiastical
law, Ashen hearts have ceased to beat in unison,
debases it. Why should we expect of a fallible
human being that, in the tender early summer
of life, when the flesh and the judgment are
alike weak, he should make such election as, in
the rich maturity of autumn, he shall never

desire to cancel? Is it not a premium upon
vice to render a man's freedom from the living
death of an uncongenial union contingent upon
his committing a sin, or conniving at his wife's
committing it ? Constituted as we are, bonds
which perjury or death alone can dissever are
immoral, and calculated to produce the very
evil they aim at correcting.

Let the contract of marriage, like any other
covenant between civilized beings, be binding
so long as each contracting party desires it
should be so. When mutual consent points to
a separation, and the consequent possibility of
forming new ties, whereby each may become
happier, and therefore better members of the
great Human Family, it is iniquitous to demand
that one or other should pass through the degrading
courtyard of crime before being permitted
to arrive at healthier upper chambers,
through which the air of heaven, untainted by
treachery, untroubled by dispute, blows freely.'^

She was quite calm, but it was the calm of a
person who has received a deadly hurt. After
eighteen months of marriage, her husband, at

the iiistig;itiou of the woman who would be
their guest tomorrow, had written in support
of that woman's horrible doctrines. He advocated
the loosening of the marriage-tie. To
poor Nellie it seemed that this could bear but
one interpretation.

AVhen she had read to the end of the portion
allotted to her, she had the courage to take
the MS. and compare it, line by line, as Wilfred
had directed her, with the proofs. And then,
looking up, and finding St. John's eyes fixed
on her, she stretched her hand across the table,
and pointed to the sheets before him. Fie
handed them in silence.

A quarter of an hour liter, she rose quietly
and left the room.

A conversation between Lorenzo and Miss
Staples, concerning their master and mistress,
is being carried on about the same time. The
boy is outside her bed-room, seated on the
window-sill, and smoking a cigarette, the
young woman at her work within. They are
good friends, on the whole, though they have

their quarrels, chiefly with reference to the
respective merits of my lord and my lady.
Staples is a staunch adherent of her mistress.
That her advocacy is not always wise will be
apparent presently, but it is thorough. Nellie
has been invariably kind to her, and the woman
has a warm heart. Nothing, on the other hand,
can change the boy's obstinate and almost passionate
belief that Lady Athelstone is a poor,
mean-spirited creature, and quite unworthy the
honour of being my lord's wife.

^' The other comes to-morrow' the boy is
saying. '^ My lord finds pleasure to be with
her more than with my lady. She has a fine
speeritJ^

It's my belief she's a devil !" returns Miss
Staples. " It's a shame her being brought here,
that it is. Let him go on as he likes out of the
house— that is what I say; but to bring her
here, under my lady's nose I"

She never complains," he observes, contemptuously.
*' She never say one word, do
what he like."

'* Well, I'm sure I hope she'll have her revenge,
that's all'' replies the maid, with heat. " /
wouldn't stand it, if / was she. If he wasn't as
blind as a mole, he'd see that there's others as
can appreciate her, if Fie can't."

Ah ! bah ! she not have the spirit to revenge
herself. But I know something," continued
Lorenzo, rubbing his hands with malicious delight,
as he watched the effect of his words on
his auditor. '' I know that me and ray lord we
go across the seas, we go to America, for eevev
so long, and Madame go too."

My lord go to America with that woman ?
Wherever did you pick up such rubbish ? It's
impossible."

"Is it? I know better. I read it in a letter
to my lord."

'' A letter you found about ? Who from ?"

Madame de Waldeck. I not able to understand
him all ; there is about money ; there is
about voyaging through towns, and speaking.
But I know it is fissato — arranged. My lord
and me will sail in October."

'' Well, I never !" cried Miss Staples. '' Of
all the audacious, indecent things I ever heard
of ! But he'll repent it— you mark my words
he'll repent it — and serve him right, too !"

VOL. m.

CHAPTER Viii.

rpO interfere between husband and wife is
-^ proverbially dangerous. In Hubert St.
John's case he felt it would be doubly so. He
had already gone far, in remonstrating with
Athelstone, on the subject of his visit to the
States. He had vowed to himself last night
that he would speak no more. There was a
limit beyond which Wilfred might take umbrage
at his interference, and even misapprehend his
motives. Yet here, as he sat at the table,
opposite the man who was ruining his own
happiness and — that was of far greater moment
to St. John — that of his wife, he asked himself
whether he ought not to make one last effort
to arrest his course. It needed tact and command

of temper, feeling indignant as he did, to
say what should not do more harm than good ;
and he waited a considerable time — indeed,
Athelstone had finished correcting his proofs —
before St. John spoke.

Eow long, may I ask, have you held these
views upon marriage?"

Ever since I thought about marriage at all,
I believe."

"But they have assumed a more definite
form of late? otherwise why did you never write
in this strain till now ?"

"There is an intellectual movement now
arousing attention to the evil, and I have felt ita
duty to do what I can in endeavouring to
remedy it."

It is a pity that you waited till you were
married before flinging stones at the institution."


'^ I done agree with you. My words would
have lost half their weight had I written as a
bachelor. People would have said I shrank from
the responsibilities of matrimony. I have not
shrunk from them ; and, therefore, I am entitled

K 2

to say that the law which renders its dissolution
well-nigh impossible is flagitious."

I cannot admit your 'title' to speak thus
if the person whom you asked to share the
responsibilities of marriage with you does not
hold the same views. Had Madame de Wal-deck
been your wife, you would be justified ;
both feeling alike on this subject. But you
married a person to whose sentiments and
principles such a doctrine as this is equally
repugnant. You should have told her in what
light estimation you held an institution which
to her is sacred, before you married — you
should have given her the option of declining
to link her fate with yours, when you had
candidly avowed your principles — or you
should now be silent. ; . You are inflicting
infinite pain. . . . Perhaps I ought not to say
this; but you are blind, like all men who are
absorbed in a subject ; otherwise you would

see '^ He paused an instant ; and Wilfred

interrupted him impetuously, though without
a touch of resentment.

You re mad, man. Why, Nellie takes no

more notice of anything I write than if it was
Sanscrit. I wish she did. I wish it was in
her nature to rebel against the expression of
tiny opinions — to argue with me, to abuse me —
to do anything rather than receive them with
stolid indifference. She is very religious —
she knows I am not : she never was under
any delusion on that point. She is an angel —
only too good for this wicked world, in the
concerns of which she takes no interest whatever.
The questions that absorb me — all the
questions that pertain to humanity — she regards
with indifference. I am sorry for it ; but so it
is. To suppose that my views upon this
matter of divorce can affect her is ridiculous.
She probably scarcely seized the tenor of the
sheets she read — and, if she did, regarded it as
one of my hobbies which she does not pretend
to understand."

It was incomprehensible to Hubert that Wilfred
should be so obtuse, but he saw it would
be impossible, by any words of his, to shake the
husbands rooted conviction that his wife dwelt
in a region of superhuman placidity, unassailable

by shafts that wound most women.
Nothing but the assurance from her own hips
that she was not indifferent, but enduring,
nothing but her own direct appeal would move
him.

The post was gone ; the luncheon was announced;
Nellie did not appear. Wilfred ran
upstairs, and found her lying on her bed, looking
rather pale.

'' What is the matter, my child?"

"I have a headache. You won't mind my
not coming down ?"

*' Of course not. Yon had better remain
quiet. Hubert and I are going for a long
stretch across the hills. By-the-by/' he added,
suddenly inspired to disarm his friend by a
coup de main, " he has been talking about

you."

*' What has he been saying?" she asked?
quickly. Her white face flushed, and she raised
it from the pillow, so that her eyes should
follow him as he walked to and fro.

*' Trying to make me believe that my writing
gave you infinite pain.' As if he could tell

what you felt as well as I, who have known
you wince you were ten years old ! I told him
you had always recognized the truth that there
must be freedom of opinion in married life —
that you concerned yourself very little about
my views; and I never interfered with yours.
I told him that, though you were religious, you
were tolerant. You knew I hated priestcraft,
and half the dogmas of the Church, when we
married ; and you have had the good sense to
lease me at liberty to act according to the dictates
of my conscience since."

Yes — all you say is true, dear. Only — only
I am sorry you should write so about marriage."


'* My dear child, I write about a great many
things you can't understand — or, ought I to
say, you ivon'tf You shut your eyes wilfully.
I am sorry for it ; but, as you prefer blindness,
there is an end of it."

Her head dropped back upon the pillow, and
she closed her eyes.

If I were only cleverer !"

You have plenty of intelligence, my child —

if you would only exercise it ; but orthodoxy
and mental freedom, I am afraid, are incompatible."


He stooped and kissed her. She seized his
hand, and pressed it almost convulsively between
both hers.

When you are weary of me you will tell me,
won't you?" she murmured.

My darling, what nonsense !" He gave her
that bright smile she had so rarely seen of late ;
but it was darkened suddenly by a cloud.
"What has put this into your head? Has
Hubert spoken to you about me ?"

He has never said anything that I should
not wish to hear. I would not listen to him or
to anyone against you. Only — only when I
see with my own eyes — when I hear from your
own lips that the chain 'presses, dear, — the chain
that you say becomes of iron and lead — I think it
will snap, and then you will be free."

Madame de Waldeck arrived late the following
day. She responded to Nellie's simple
greeting with effusion, insisted upon kissing

her, and thanked her for her very, very kind
invitation. Nellie coloured, and felt herself
shrinking up like a sensitive plant: she had
too little guile to be able to meet this with
decorum.

At dinner her guest looked brilliantly handsome
in a robe made of soft white Indian shawl,
without an ornament of any description; and
she exerted herself with success to be generally
agreeable, as even Hubert St. John was compelled
to admit. Her conversation was addressed
chiefly to Nellie, but she talked for
them all ; even Wilfred, so fond of the sound
of his own voice, seemed content to play the
part of listener. She kept aloof from fields
where there was a possibility of discussion ; she
gave humorous descriptions of German life, she
related anecdotes of eminent men she had met ;
she touched, with the hand of an artist, one
subject after another, playfully or with precision,
as the case might be, appealing occasionally
to Nellie or to St. John — rarely to Wilfred
in confirmation of some opinion she advanced.


Perhaps this was a little overdone : St. Forethought
so. It seemed to fall short of the
highest art, that she should ignore Wilfred as
she did: that her efforts should so clearly be
directed to winning over Nellie and himself.
Still Madame de Waldeck's conversational abilities
were unquestionably great ; she Alas no
ordinary charlatan, whose claim to distinction
rested upon moral audacity and a peplum. Her
power over Athelstone was best shown by his
listening to her. Hubert liked her no whit
better, but he feared her, for his friend's sake, a
great deal more at the end of dinner than he
had yet done.

He scarcely spoke himself. She made sundry
efforts to *' draw him out'' but failed. He
pulled his brown beard, after his wont, and
watched her with his steady grey eyes. Nellie,
who had at heart far more true poetry and
perception of beauty than this woman had at
the end of her tongue, was silenced — incapable
of more than a monosyllable or two. How
could she attempt to compete with such brilliancy,
such volubility ?

After dinner, Wilfred proposed that the ladies
should not retire, but that they should all
adjourn to the terrace, where the fruit and wine
should be brought. Nellie hailed the suggestion
; she had looked forward to even ten
minutes' tete-astute with Madame de Waldeck
with terror. It was a soft English night. A
young moon shed its mild lustre on the lawn
as it rose above the pine-trees ; a single planet
shone over the quiet sea ; the air Alas heavy
with the blended breath of honeysuckle and
sweet peas. It had just that tinge of saline
damp which is rarely felt on the continental
coast in summer-time. Nellie fetched her hat,
and Madame de Waldeck a long black veil, such
as Iphigenia, or other sacrificial victim, might
have been wrapped in.

Soon after they sat down, occurred one of
those silences which occasionally fall upon a
company — a silence of less than a minute perhaps
and yet which appears like five. It was
probably utilized by Madame de Waldeck ; she
had arrived with a line of action definitely laid
down. Hitherto she had but paved the way.

How wonderfully fill it is, after the turmoil
of London ! It is delightful ! ]3ut I have lived
such a busy life in towns always, having to
struggle for my daily bread, that the inertia of
country life is almost oppressive to me. 1
suppose you do not feel that, Lady Athelstan?"


*'I like the quiet of the country; I have
always been used to it, though not to 'inertia.'
"

*'Ah! yes. Of course you have more leisure
to pursue your studies in the country. You
read, I daresay, a great deal. And do you
play?"

Very little."

"My dear child," Wilfred struck in, irrepressibly,
" I should say you play a great deal."

*' I meant very badly."

^'You must practise; there is nothing like
constant practice," said the-wily guest, who
instantly divined what Wilfred suffered under
the infliction. " Solitude and Nature are the
best conditions for perfecting any talent. You
know what Goethe says,

Es billet ein Talent such in der Still,
Such ein Character in dem Strom der Welt !'

Lord Athelstone, with all his wide human
interests, feels more at home, of course in the
Strom der Welt'"

I don't understand German' said Nellie.

"Really? I felt sure you did. It means
that a strong character needs the strife of the
world to develop it. Men whose actions are
to influence their fellows, — not *the idle singers
of an empty day — must be brought into contact
with them before they wrestle. Lord
Athelstone is a poet but he is also a reformer,
and there is no rest for such.

Still to be strenuous for the bright reward,
And in the soul admit of no decay,
Brook no continuance of weak-mindedness,
Great is the glory, for the strife is hard !' "

"That is Wordsworth's," said Nellie, with
naore alacrity than she had yet shown.

Madame de Waldeck concealed her disappointment
with a smile.

Yes ; we all learnt those lines in the schoolroom,
I think."

"Lady Athelstone is better read in the
English poets than most people," observed St.
John, gruffly.

'* I am sure of it," returned Madame, with a
tone of conviction. '' I have no doubt she is
far better read than I am, who have been
too much buffeted about the world, and under
the necessity of studying hard, dry books, to
afford much time to the lighter fields of literature.
I believe it would be wiser not to own
this ; one can conceal one's ignorance so well by
silence!" (This arrow glanced from the target
at which it was aimed, and struck St. John.)
"What is the Latin proverb that says 'Things
unknown are taken to be magnificent?"

*' I daresay you know it in the original,"
growled Hubert again.

I wish I could pretend to know it," she
laughed, *' but 1 cannot.

For some small worth he had, the man was prized,
He added frankness, and he grew despised!' "

"Whose is that?" asked Athelstone,
Whetstone's, is it not ? I really forget.
Lady Athelstone, no doubt, can tell us."

*' 1 never heard the Ones before," she replied.

"And are not Hkely to remember them, if
you had," said St. John, quickly. " It requires
people to have been 'buffeted about the world ^
like Madame de Waldeck, — and myself to
appreciate their satire."

*' I don't know that I appreciate it," she returned
g9,ily, "for it is directed against myself.
I am frank to a fault."

"As I see you know Whetstone, I daresay
you remember one of his prose axioms : that
Virtues, like essences, lose their fragrance on
being exposed

She was beginning to feel a little afraid of
St. John ; but she was an accomplished actress ;
she laughed heartily as she said —

'frankness, I fear, is seldom ' fragrant ' ; but
it is the one virtue which cannot help being
exposed. I have made a great many enemies
in life through it — my own husband, to begin
with, who could not stand my plain-speaking."

"It is your plain-speaking which has won
you the admiration of unprejudiced minds,"
struck in Wilfred, warmly. " Your courage in

ascending the public platform, and your fearlessness
in advancing views at variance with
received opinions, is beyond all praise. Few
women dare to speak so plainly."

Hubert muttered, under his breath, " Happily
not ;" but Nellie was the only one who heard
him, for Madame had begun hastily to say,

"You are very kind, Lord Athelstone. Still
there is no denying that, in a worldly point of
view, it is impolitic. I am sure Lady Athelstan
thinks so?"

Thus brought to bay, Nellie hesitated a
moment before she replied,

I know too little of the world to say if it is
impolitic or not."

That is a very politic reply. Ah ! you are
not as frank as I am !"

St. John could have strangled her.

What Nellie says is quite true," said Alfred.
*' She knows nothing of the world, and
does not care to improve her acquaintance. It
isn't my fault, is it, Nellie? I tried to make
her like iivj friends — she said they were too
clever. I offered to let her go out with my

mother, and she declined that also. So she is
still a school-girl as to knowledge of the
world."

Ah ! In Lady Athelstone's position — having
all that this life can offer — it little signifies. It
is when a woman is placed as I am, having ta
battle for existence , that knowledge of the
world is essential. One has to be armed at all
points ; though, to be sure, I recollect a line by
Cesare della Valle, which says —

' E un arma, spesso, il non averse.'

You understand Italian Lady Athelstone ? A
little ? I thought so. I shall never be able ta
test the truth of that line in my own case.
Patient endurance — to 'poser en victime is not in
my way. When I am indignant I speak out ;
I try to rouse my sister-women to their wrongs.
But, by so doing, I rob myself of a great deal
of sympathy. Of that I am quite conscious."

Nellie felt that she was expected to reply to
this — that Wilfred expected it. She could find
nothing to say, and glanced appealingly at St.
John.

VOL. III. L

You do not require such help," he observed,
coming to the rescue immediately. "As Talleyrand
said to Madame de Stael, when she
asked him whether he Avould save her or
Madame de Readier from drowning, *Ah!
vous qui savez tout savez nager, Madame !' "

"I do not know if that is a compliment or
not ; I only know I am not Madame de Stall,
unfortunately."

The moon had now risen high enough above
the pine-tops to touch the silver flagon and
rosy-cheeked nectarines on the table. It
brought into prominence, moreover , the soft
white folds of Madame de Waldeck's robe, as it
lay upon the gravel-path, her chair being
pushed back a little distance from the table.
Unluckily for a daddy-long-legs who was
hurrying across the path upon business of his
own, he encountered these snowy hillocks,
which he was proceeding to traverse when the
lady uttered a sharp exclamation and drew
back her dress quickly. She had but one weakness,
perhaps ; and that was her dread of
spiders. It mastered her on this occasion,

making her oblivious of everything — even of
her foot. She extended that terrible engine of
destruction, and crushed the spider.

It was, morally and artistically, an ugly
action. The foot was an offence to the eyes ;
the cruelty revolted the higher instincts of
humanity. Even Wilfred could not help sait

was harmless. I am sorry you killed it."

So was she, by this time. Both the men had
seen her foot. And both of them might see, if
they were not blind, that she would crush as
ruthlessly whatsoever came in her path.

'' These are points of resemblance to Madame
de Stael," growled St. John, so low as scarcely
to be heard.

But she heard him. AVhat did he mean ?
Had Necker's famous daughter ever committed
such a blunder as she had just committed?
Her quick memory, sparred by mortified vanity,
lighted almost instantly on the fact that
Corinne " had a hideous foot. She remembered,
with rage, the anecdote of that vain genius
appearing at a masked ball disguised as a

statue, when a passer-by, glancing downwards,
exclaimed, " J'ai reconnu la statue an ined-de-
Stair

Her dread of St. John deepened into hatred
from that moment. But she never permitted
this to appear by word or look. Even to Wilfred
she spoke of his friend with the warmest
praise. It was part of her deep-laid scheme
that nothing should disturb Athelstone's implicit
confidence in St. John, when he left his
Avise for a period which — to put it mildly —
should be indefinite.

CHAPTER IX.

Tubers ST. JOHN'S condition at this time
•^^ was uncommon in a man of eight and
twenty. He was passionately in love ; and yet
there was no sacrifice he would not have made
to secure Nellie's domestic happiness. By the
wreck of that happiness alone could there be a
hope for him in the future; but he was too
loyal not to endeavour to save the man who
had been his early friend ; too upright to entertain
the thought of profiting by an infatuation
which would more and more estrange husband
and wife.

To attempt to counteract Madame de Wal-deck's
influence now was useless. All he could
do in this direction was to bring the fine edge

of sarcasm to bear on her favourite views, when
she gave a serious exposition of them. This
she never did willingly at Eaglescrag. There
was nothing to be gained by it ; it was loss of
time. Whenever she could, she kept to the
wide field of general topics, where she enjoyed
the double advantage of displaying her own
culture and Nellie's insufficiency. But from
time to time St. John " forced a card " on her ;
and he was pitiless in his grim raillery of her
crusades. Wilfred saw nothing of this. In his
eyes Hubert, who had always been rough in his
manner, had become intolerably bearish ; and
his brilliant friend showed her superiority by
the good humour and perfect breeding with
which she met his ill-timed satire.

Nellie would have been more than human
had she not on these occasions let Hubert see
that she rejoiced in Madame's temporary discomfiture.
His presence Alas, indeed, she
acknowledged to herself, a solace to her at this
time. His strong, manly nature was a refuge
to which she could turn for advice; and she
could speak to him, almost without reserve, of

Madame de Waldeck. Almost, not quite ; their
estimation of the lady did not differ materially,
except that St. John's was by many degrees the
worse ; but Wilfred name in connection with
hers never passed the lips of either. Both had
laid down that law to themselves. He was her
husband ; he was St. John's friend ; his infatuation
for this woman to whom they had a
common dislike was a subject never to be
named. Each knew what the other felt. He
grieved for her, seeing how she suffered under
Madame de Waldeck's presence — exposed to
infinite hourly humiliation and the pangs of
acute jealousy. If he could have ousted this
designing adventuress from her position, he
assuredly would ; though to his own loss. In
the meantime Wilfred's weakness was ground
he studiously avoided with Nellie ; and she
respected his reticence.

Madame de Waldeck had arrived on a Thursday.
The tenor of the two following days
was what I have indicated, generally, without
occurrence or conversation worth special record.
On the Sunday, at breakfast, Wilfred asked

Nellie if she was going to church. On her
replying in the affirmative, he turned to
Madame de Waldeck —

Will you come and listen to one of Nature's
sermons on the shore, instead V

The lady assented.

What are you going to do, Hubert ?" he
then inquired.

*^I shall walk to church with Lady Athelstan."


I advise you to leave her at the door, then.
The curate will aggravate you to that degree,
you will come out in a worse frame of mind
than you went in. I tried it the first Sunday
we were here. The man talked such abominable
rubbish, it was as much as I could do not
to jump up and tell him so."

He is a good man' said Nellie, gently,
*' and the poor like his preaching''

*' You don't mean to tell me, my dear, that
you like it V

*' Indeed I do — I like it very much."

I admire you for your courage, Lady Athelstan"
— and Madame de AValdeck beamed at

her across the table with an appreciative smile :
" and I think you, Lord Athelstone, are quite
wrong. Because such discourses do not suit
you it is no reason that those to whom they
are specially addressed — the poor and uneducated
— should not have what they like. A
profound, analytical sermon would be thrown
away upon them. A village congregation
wants a text that shall be repeated over andover
again, as though there were some mysterious
virtue in the iteration, with a good deal
about faith and the devil ; and I do not see
why everyone should not have what suits him.
It does not suit me, but then I am not orthodox."


The covert impertinence of this speech was
so adroitly blent with its defence of Nellie that
in the mouth of a less clever woman it might
have been taken as a blundering attempt to
reconcile opposite views. Hubert St. John bit
his lip, and walked to the window. If he spoke
at all, he felt he might be irritated into saying
what were wiser left unsaid. When he turned,
he found that Nellie had left the room.

Half au hour later, she joined him in the
garden, dressed for church, her Prayer-book in
her hand. She looked the image of sweetness
and purity in her white frock, and as he glanced
from her to the lady sweeping the lawn with
her tawny-coloured robes, under a Japanese
parasol, he marvelled at the blindness of any
man who could hesitate between the two
women.

They started to walk. The church was three-quarters
of a mile distant, across some fields
inland. It was a lovely August morning;
everything sparkled in the sunlight. They
rose over some undulating ground, where the
feathered edges of long grass shone like silver,
and tall butter-cups caught the golden rays,
and kept them. It was not too warm for the
walk to be enjoyable, yet neither spoke. Just
as the grey church tower came in sight, and
the toll of its feeble bell reached them on the
breeze, a small bird rose straight into the air
near them, singing as he soared.

What bird is that?" he asked.

You have not lived in the country," she

replied, with a sad little smile. '' You are not
one of * the poor and uneducated,' or you would
not ask — it is a lark."

*' Ah I" Then, responding to her allusion, he
added — " I think that woman is the fiend incarnate."


She made no immediate reply ; but, presently,
Intellect is a great gift' she said, " but I see
it is a dangerous one. It is able to make wrong
seem like right."

How can you say so, when it does not convince
you? When conscience is not wilfully
blind, no specious arguments can persuade us
that wrong is right, I believe."

Apparently she did not care to pursue the
discussion. They walked on in silence, and a
few minutes brought them to the church door.

The service, aesthetically regarded, was ill
enough executed to justify the criticism of
those more concerned in the execution than
in the spirit of the performance. The reading
was monotonous, the choir nasal ; and, when
the young curate came to the sermon, it was
manifest that he had not the most elementary

knowledge of elocution. But he spoke with
conviction, and what he said went home to
NelHe's heart. Possibly it was not his own.
There was a certain originality in the treatment
of his text which was hardly consonant
with the mild-eyed young man's phrenological
development. St. Paul places charity above
the other two cardinal virtues. After repeating
this verse, the curate directed the attention of
his hearers almost exclusively to the importance
of hope. A passage, the substance of
which impressed Nellie, ran thus :

Faith is for God ; Charity is for our neighbour
; Hope is for ourselves. It is true that,
when we meet together here, we pray — that is,
we hope — for all sorts and conditions of men,
especially, no doubt, for all we love. But the
soul's strong individual aspiration is the source
of that longing for a future which embraces all
mankind. Even as to the things of this world,
how could we endure the failures, the deceptions,
the disappointments that befall us, were
we not buoyed up by hope 'I To few is it
:given to be universally prosperous, and those

are not always to be pointed the most blest.
the Lord loveth whom He chastened.'

"But, whatever your trial, whether it be illness,
or moneyed loss, or, worse than all, the death of
some loved one in your home, hope sustains
you, or you could not face the future, you could
not work on courageously from day to day.
The sanguine belief in ' better times ' enables
men to fight on here, until they fall ; and it is
the steadfast hope in an existence after death,
where tears shall be wiped from every eye, that
we all of us need, to raise our spiritual energy,
just as our temporal hopes prevent our physical
energies from flagging. Never let us despair
but through failure and affliction, if we he
called upon to bear them, let us look forward
in a manly. Christian spirit, from year to year,
knowing that our loss is not eternal, and that,
when those years are told, our best hope in life
will be the one that enables us to leave it with
the certainty of a joyful resurrection, through
the merits of our Lord and Master."

Hubert St. John was surprised at the serenity
he read in Nellie's face, as she came out from

the cbiircb-porch into the clear sunlight. She
was infinitely comforted by these simple words ;
she little thought how soon she-would have to
test their strength.

That sauntering walk home across the fields
in the hot noonday — 'how often he remembered
it in after-years ! It seemed to divide two
epochs in their lives. It stood on the threshold
of a time of passionate agony and bewilderment
to her, of passionate distress and difficulty to
him. Never again, in the bright summer
weather, should their footsteps linger among
the meadow-sweet and clover, with their hearts
lulled into momentary tranquillity by the
preacher's words.

On entering her bed-room Nellie saw a paper
lying on her dressing-table. It was half a sheet
of note-paper, folded up, without an envelope,
and closely written over. The handwriting
was Wilfred's. Where did it come from ? The
few notes of his she possessed (addressed to herat
Brighton) were all locked away. Had he
written to her while she was at church? That

idea was dispelled when she examined the
document. There was uo beginning : it was
part of a letter , of which the first page was
torn off, and the words at the top of the sheet
ran thus —

*' resolved that nothing shall prevent my

sailing in October as arranged. All the arrangements
you have made for me I shall gladly
concur in. I await your arrival here with impatience,
that I may talk them over, and confer
with you as to our further plans. Be very careful
not to allude to them during your stay here,
as my wife knows nothing of my projected trip,
nor do I mean to tell her till the last moment.
The pamphlet you wished me to write is already
in the press, and will be published in time to be
circulated when you deliver your lecture in
Manchester.

^' Ever yours,

Athelstone."

She looked round her bewildered. Was she
in a dream ? There stood the bed, the chest
of drawers, the writing-table, as she had left

them two hours ago. She took up the letter,
Which had dropped on the floor, with trembling
hands, and read it again. She never questioned
her right to do so, though she knew now that
it was not addressed to her. Indeed it wa
not possible for her to doubt that it was written
to Madame de "Waldeck. He was going to
leave his wife, and to cross the seas somewhere
with this vile woman — and he calmly discussed
this infamy in a letter to her ! Her temples
throbbed, the hot tears blinded her, and then
she flung herself upon the sofa in a paroxysm of
grief, crying out,

It is not possible ! It is not possible !"
And yet she never really doubted its truths
Those proof-sheets , a few days before, had conveyed
a shock which prepared her mind in
some measure for this blow. There are things
which it takes a long time before we will admit
them to ourselves ; but, when once admitted,
they obtain obstinate possession of the intellect.
He was weary of her : that was the idea which
haunted her now by day and night. Since
Madame de AValdeck's arrival this conviction

bad grown daily stronger. The brilliant accomplished
woman had made the young wife
feel, more keenly than she had ever felt before,
how unfit she was to be Wilfred's companion.
How could Nellie wonder that he had yielded
to her rival's fascination ? She did not wonder ;
but she had believed, or rather she had hoped,
until now, that the mutability of his impressions,
which she knew often exceeded their warmth,
would render Madame de Waldeck's influence
transient. She had taken heart with the
preacher's words ; she would not despair ; she
would believe in the result of time, and patience,
and unalterable love on her part, to bring her
husband back to her again. But now — now
how could she continue " to hope " ? He had
secretly planned to cross the seas with this
woman ; and possessing the fatal influence over
him she did, if he really carried this scheme into
effect, Nellie said to herself, he would be irretrievably
lost.

And yet she could do nothing ! Lying there,
she felt her isolation as she had never yet felt
it. There was no one to whom she could turn

VOL. III. M

for counsel aud support. If Mary had been at
hand, she might have confided in her ; but to
St. John she could not speak of Wilfred's infirmities.
And, after all, how could anyone
help her ? She had lost her husband's love ;
she was a burden to him, of which he would
gladly be rid, did not the law oppose such
severance. What comfort could any human
being find for her in this bitter anguish ? To
God alone could she pour out her heart. And,
alas ! for the first time in her young life, the
consolation she had always found in prayer
seemed denied. Her faith was unshaken, but
her hope was dead.

By what accident could that fragment of a
letter have found its way to her dressing-table?
Had it been placed there intentionally ? From
the central thought burning in her brain, radiated
suddenly this subsidiary one. She rose
quickly ; she must satisfy herself, if possible, on
this point. After bathing her eyes, she rang
the bell.

How came this letter here ? Do you know,

Staples?" she inquired, when the young woman,
a little pale, but perfectly composed, answered
the summons.

I put it there myself, my lady."

For a moment Nellie was taken aback. She
looked into Staples' bright black eyes ; they
never flinched.

Pray where did you find it ?"

On the path, just outside the window, my
lady."

All the windows open on the path ! It
must have blown out. What made you think
it was mine ?"

Seeing my lord's signature, I supposed it
must be addressed to you, my lady," she replied,
glibly.

Nellie had an instinct that this and her previous
answer were lies — prepared lies. She
had never thought the woman's nature evil ;
she had no reason to believe that Staples would,
from pure malice, inflict this torture; she did
not distrust the heart, but she absolutely distrusted
— from experience — the veracity of her

M 2

attendant. Was it possible to believe that she
should not have read the open letter which
would have proved the falsity of her pretended
conclusion ? And yet what motive but a mischievous
one could have prompted her to do
this thing ?

"The letter is not mine," she said, slowly,
and I should wish it to be put back — inhere you
found it. You had better not have touched it,"
she added, gently.

Staples' face flushed and with indiscreet
haste she blurted out,

I did it for the best. I thought it but right
you should know what was going on. * It's a
shame,' I said, ' as my lady should be the last
to know that my lord's going to America, when
Lorenzo says as it's all settled, and

I feel sure," interrupted her mistress, " his
lordship never told Lorenzo ; he learnt this — as
you have, Staples — by underhand means."

*' Well, my lady, if Madame leaves her letters
about in her blotting-book "

Say no more, Staples. I am ashamed to
think you could imagine for an instant that I

would countenance such dishonourable conduct."


"I didn't; that's why I said I picked it

You mean well by me, I hope," Nellie said,
with a faltering voice. *but I am not to be
served by such means as these." Then, as a
faint colour rose in her cheek, she added,
misunderstand this: what my lord wishes me to
know, he tells me himself; I do not choose to
learn anything by Lorenzo or by purloined
letters, and I have a horror of lies."

Well, my lady," retorted Staples, roused to
further indiscretion (in self-defence, as she
considered), " when lies is going on all around
you, where are you, if you remain as innocent
as a child? That Madame is carrying on such
a game as i/ou don't see, but / have my eyes
open, and Lorenzo says ■"

'' I have told you already I do not choose to
hear anything Lorenzo says."

So it had come to this already : that Wilfred
and Madame de Waldeck were a topic of
.scandal with the servants ! Nellie turned away

quickly, and walked to the further end of the
room. She could hardly contain herself, as
Staples persisted,

Oh ! it isn't against his lordship, my lady.
Lorenzo is very fond of my lord, and makes
excuses for everything — but he knows a deal
about Madame, and he says she is that artful,
she could twist any man round her finger."

If his lordship knew Lorenzo gossiped in
this way, he would discharge him tomorrow,"
was Nellie's half choked reply.

But Miss Staples stuck to her guns. Though
perfectly respectful in her manner, Nellie's birth
was not without its influence on her. She
looked upon her mistress as a poor guileless
young creature, raised to a position for which
her ignorance of the world rendered her unfit;
and whose eyes it behove her abigail, with her
extended knowledge of evil, to open, whether
Nellie wished it or not.

There's gossip, and gossip, my lady ; and
servants icill talk of what they see going on
under the same roof, no matter who it is. I've
no wish to make mischief; at the same time, it

is but right you should know what a viper
you're nourishing here. You'd far better turn
Tier out o' the house at once. And if you ask
Mr. St. John, my lady, I'm sure he'll say the
same."

If you wish to remain in my service," said
Nellie, with forced composure, " you will never
renew this subject. Leave me.^'

Staples had performed what she honestly
conceived to be her mission ; she retired.

At the same moment the sound of voices on
the lawn reached Nellie's ear. Wilfred and she
had returned, then ; and Nellie must meet them
with an unruffled brow, as though a chasm
had not opened under her feet since the
morning.

CHAPTER X.

SHE was white and silent all that day. But
so she had been, more or less, ever since
Madame de Waldeck's arrival. There was no
such alteration in her demeanour as to attract
the notice of the two persons to whom Nellie
was concerned chiefly not to betray herself.
But St. John, ever watchful of the lights and
shades on that young face was troubled by the
expression he read there — an expression so
opposed to the hope and courage that had
illumined it upon their homeward walk from
church.

She seemed scarcely conscious of the talk that
went on around her at first. Indeed, when Wilfred
addressed a question to her once or twice,

it was evident her thoughts were absent. She
Roused herself for a while, and then St. John
noticed that the lustreless eyes became fixed
again, and the pinched look about the mouth,
which told of painful inward struggle, became
more rigid.

Wilfred was particularly animated that afternoon.
He took a more active part in the
conversation than he had yet done ; evincing, ina
discussion with Hubert, the old truculent
spirit which Madame de Waldeck's presence
had hitherto, in some unaccountable manner,
quelled. That lady, for reasons of her own,
seemed content to sit by, for the most part,
smoking Russian cigarettes, and listening to the
men sparring. She occasionally threw herself into
the fight — always on Wilfred's side ; but she
preferred watching the hard straight blows delivered
by St. John's heavy hand, without
Finesse, and with no skill to parry his adversary's
nimble, though often wild, attack. She learnt
thus more of the man's capacity than she had
yet done : its limitations, and its strength ; and
she saw something, too, of that passionate

nature which, though subject to restraint, she
had divined from the very first, and upon
which she counted as an important factor in
her designs.

At last something was said which awoke the
young wife's attention. They were discussing
a measure which had passed the Lower House
during the last Session, but to which obstruction
had been offered in the *' Lords," when Athelstan
expressed himself thus —

The Upper House cannot last much longer ;
it has had its day. A few years hence, and
such folly as hereditary rank will be abolished.
Those who have served the state will be rewarded
according to their several capacities,
and even, perhaps, be distinguished by life-peerage,
so that their fellow-citizens may
honour those men individually — not their sons,
and their sons' sons. Men thus elevated should
have part in the councils of the nation — there
should be a distinct place for them. But, emphatically,
not for the effete descendants of any
able man, be he warrior in the sixteenth, or
banker-lord in the nineteenth, century. We

shall hear no more of * an empty title,' when
such rubbish is swept away ; for no title will be
'empty' that challenges personal admiration
and respect."

You had better not practise what you preach,
Athelstan,, unless you give up public speaking."
Hubert's manner had less of sarcasm than his
words. "i\. lord' he continued — "a lord advocating
democracy is very attractive, na
doubt ; and old titles, I believe, are dear to the
masses. If Madame de Waldeck were Duchess
of York, we should have all the farmers'
daughters in pepluras before six mouths were
over."

"But, being nobody' said the lady, taking
the cigarette from her mouth and watching the
smoke curl upwards, "you trust my following
will not be numerous — eh?"

"I should be sorry if the women of England
adopted all your views , Madame de Waldeck.
How they clothe themselves is a matter of
perfect indifference to me."

An evil smile crossed Madame's lips.

''1 look forward to seeing you a convert

some day, Mr. St. John— a convert to many of
my views."

"You are a narrow-minded old Tory, Hubert,
"who cannot progress with the age," said his
host. " England is moving rapidly onward ; and
the more we cast overboard that which is heavy
and obstructive— what was once ballast, and is
now mere lumber — the swifter our course will
be. A few will shriek out that it is their household
gods we are casting away, but Humanity
at large will benefit."

'will it? I doubt it. My sympathies are
with the few whose household gods you would
destroy."

"They will not really be destroyed at all.
Those who are satisfied have only to hold fast
by them," returned Wilfred, with a shrug.

"In momentary anger, or led astray by
transitory passion' — here St. John's eye
glanced for an instant at Madame, — '' the gods
will be broken that can never be mended again.
Did I ever tell you of an old couple in Whitechapel
whom 1 see a good deal of, and whose
story supports my conservative view very

strongly ? They led a miserable life for years.
The wife was a good and a clever woman, but
something of a termagant ; a rigid chapel-goer,
but incapable of making * allowances ' for her
husband's weaknesses. In his cups he was very
quarrelsome. Both have told me that, had it
been possible to be divorced before the first ten
years were over, they would have been. After
that, the man had a long illness, and the wife
watched him with unremitting care. They
were drawn nearer to each other ; the fellow
reformed in a great measure ; the wife's tongue
lost much of its asperity — at all events towards
him. Sometimes I find old Jones a little booty ;
sometimes I hear Mrs. Jones's voice raised to an
unmusical pitch ; but what of that? They are
sincerely attached to each other. As the years
have rolled on, they have grown more and more
used to each other's ways — more and more dependent
on each other. If they had been
divorced, the old age of both would now be
desolate and dreary."

"They would probably both have married
again," objected Wilfred.

"I doubt it. To begin with, both would
have been afraid to try the experiment again.
Then the husband, enjoying the reputation he
did, might not readily have found a woman to
take him — or, at all events, who would have
borne with him as his first wife did. And she,
on her side, with her youth faded and her temper
soured, would certainly not have had many
offers of marriage."

And so people are to endure misery for
years, in order that, at the end of life, with
their spirits broken, they may possibly be able
to tolerate each other's society !"

*' Where there is a basis of real affection,
mutual forbearance ought not to be hard. Of
course, if there is not a strong attachment — if
there is no sense of the solemn responsibilities
of marriage, and of the happiness of both being-bound
up together — the sacred flame of ' home '
may be blown out by the first pestilent wind
that blows."

There may be real affection, but " began

Wilfred. Here he stopped short, and started
afresh. " Characters develop so differently that

a man marrying young must often find his
wife at thirty quite another woman from the
one he married at twenty. In short, she is
another woman, as he, probably, is another
man."

That is no argument' said St. John, curtly.
A man has no business to marry till his character
is developed — till he knows definitely
what he wants, and why. If he is a thistledown,
caught by every brier, well, such natures
as that ought not to marry, and it would be
monstrous to undermine the foundations of
domesticity to satisfy his requirements."

Far from undermining, it would fortify
domesticity. It is the fact of the chain being
indissoluble which — which so many find galling
which irritates and exasperates," he said,
hastily. Then he stopped again. Apparently
he held it inexpedient to pursue the subject in
that direct channel further, for, after a moment's
pause, he added — " However, it is of no
use talking to you. You are one of the class
who cling obstinately to old ideas, and resolutely
refuse to admit new ones. Of course,
vol. Hi. in

all reforms, all innovations meet with obloquy,
and the innovators, as liladame de Waldeck
knows, suffer merciless injustice. One must
not mind that. If one has the enthusiasm of
humanity — if one has a holy horror of shams —
one must have the courage to deliver the message
that is given us to say. I will repeat you
a short poem I wrote the other day. I call it
Martyrs " and he began, with the ricci musical
cadence so peculiar to him, to recite the following:—


When Day was just beginning

In a world where reigned the Night,
And the Dawn, priests called it sinning,

And the Dark, priests called it Light :
And victims to Faith or Science

Suffered for Conscience' sake.
And fell, in firm reliance

On Truth, at the martyr's stake ;

^' Was it worse, — that slow submitting

Of the strong man's patient powers,
The buffets, gibes, and spitting,

The cross, and the seven hours —
Was it worse than our daily trials,

And the arrows by night that fiy ?
God's death comes once : man's trials

Of bitterness run not dry.

When fables no more beguile ye,

And ye cast your myths away,
And the lips ye loved revile ye,

Because ye no longer pray ;
And creeds of the old world vanish,

And Faith has a wider sense,
And, because of the false ye banish.

The real grows more intense —

When the bay-leaves all are scattered.

And the music of praise is dead,
And crowns in the dust lie shattered

That might have encircled your head —
When reproach and loathing duly

Stone you, my Brothers, then —
Then are ye martyrs truly

Who fall for your fellow-men !"

How beautiful ! — bow original !" ejaculated
Madame de Waldeck. Then — as Nellie rose,
with an expression of infinite pain, and walked
away — " I am afraid Lady Athelstan does not
appreciate your noble verses — sbe looks horrified
!"

St. John said nothing. He scowled at the
speaker, while be lit another cigar, then slowly
followed Nellie to the terrace facing the
sea.

VOL. III. N

A little later, as they all four stood there,
watching the red sin sink into a bank of clouds,
Wilfred said,

I am afraid the weather will change tomorrow.
It looks stormy."

I hope it will not interfere with our fishing,"
Madame rejoined. "You know you promised
me we should go sea-fishing— and tomorrow is
my last day."

Nellie's heart gave a little feeble bound ; she
had hardly expected such speedy release from
the torture of this woman's presence. And yet
of what avail was that — or anything else now V
She will carry him off across the seas with
her ; he will be swept away to his destruction,
unless — unless "

She was at Hubert's side. The others had
strolled on ; the young man's thoughtful eyes
were riveted on the sea. She spoke to him,
hesitatingly.

Will you do something to oblige me ?"

Anything. How can you doubt it ?"

"Because you dislike Madame de "Waldeck.

Wilfred will, of course, ask you to go out fishing
tomorrow — don't refuse."

I will certainly go. Are you not coming?"


I should be very miserable."

Then their eyes met. He understood her.
It was hardly worth her adding, " You know, I
am such a bad sailor."

He felt sure that something had occurred to
irritate the soreness of her wound. He would
have given the world to ask her to confide in
him, but he had strength to resist the temptation
; he hated the thought of leaving her alone
on the morrow, and of passing the day on the
sea with Wilfred and Madame, to both of whom
his company would be unwelcome ; but he had
no difficulty in divining that Nellie dreaded the
effect of so prolonged a tete-astute upon her
impressionable husband.

The restraint, if not the antagonism, of Hubert's
presence, would rob this fishing-excursion
of its danger. He read this thought in
the young wife's face, as he consented to the

n2

act of self-renunciation. He would have walked
bare-footed to London, if it could have served
her— nay, if it could have eased her heart-ache
for a single hour.

CHAPTER XI.

"flTILFRED's prognostications were, in a
' measure, justified. With the grey of the
dawn the wind rose, and Nellie, as she lay in
bed, heard it lashing the waves into angry
remonstrances upon the shingly beach. Storm
there was not, nor rain at present, nor did it
blow sufficiently hard to prevent any *' good
sailor," as it is called, from going' to sea.
Still, unquestionably, there was " a change ;"
the warm glory of yesterday was gone ; the air
was chilly ; some leaves, still green, were blown
about the lawn ; to anyone not ardent in quest
of profit or adventure, it was an uninviting day
to pass in an open boat.

But to Athelstone all weather was alike, and
Madame de Waldeck declared that, with a
waterproof dress and a glazed sailor's hat, she
was impervious to the elements, and should
enjoy the tossing beyond measure. Then,
turning to St. John, as a titter of form — feeling
sure that he had no deep-sea fishing proclivities
— Athelstone said,

*' You will not care to come, of course,
Hubert ? It would bore you."

To his dismay, St. John replied that he would
come. Wilfred, very characteristically, pointed
out that he imagined that Hubert would have
preferred keeping Nellie company at home, —
"for, of course, you won't come, ray dear?
You would be frightfully ill''

She shook her head.

"No. I have promised, too, to go to the
school this morning, and look at the girls'
work."

How they must prize your presence here !"
said Madame, with the most benign smile.
*' To have some one who knows, from experience,
all about it, and takes an interest in such

tedious work as a village school, nest be
invaluable."

St. John gnawed his beard, and, if a glance
could kill, his still grey eyes would have
stabbed her.

*' Lady Athelstone will be engaged, you see ;
therefore, I have no compunction in joining
you," he said.

At ten they started, taking luncheon with
them, and it was understood that they might
possibly be absent all day.

St. John's position was certainly not enviable,
as he felt himself being carried out to sea
for an indefinite number of hours with two
persons who wished him at the bottom of it —
one a woman whom he abominated, the other,
formerly his friend, for whom, he was bound
to confess to himself, he had now lost all
cordiality of regard. As he sat there, coiled up
in his pea-jacket, smoking his pipe, with his
eyes fixed upon the oily surface of the unquiet
waves, he asked himself what purpose his
coming could serve. Had he not done all that
man could do to save Wilfred Athelstone from

the clutches of this devil ? Had he missed an

opportunity of exposing the woman's true
character V Had he flinched from that most
ungrateful of tasks, remonstrance and advice,
even to the verge of rupture? Could he be
expected, indeed, was it possible, to do more
than this ? There was but one answer, a negative,
to each of these. He was here because she
desired it ; and, with the simple fact of his
presence, the power of helping her for the moment
seemed to end. Wilfred was a good deal
occupied with the men in the management of the
boat and the nets. From time to time he sat
down near Madame de Waldeck, who was between
the two men, wrapped in tarpaulin. She
did not attempt to engage St. John in conversation
; a few desultory remarks on the state
of the sea, the chances of a big haul, and of
a storm towards evening, were all that passed.

The hours wore away. They stood well out
to sea, and as the wind increased it became
colder. They had caught next to nothing; to
windward the sky had grown a deep indigo ; it
was certain that before evening there would bea

storm. Wilfred himself proposed to return,
aud Madame, who had behaved like a Spartan,
confessed that, in spite of whisky within, and
tarpaulin without, she was perishing, and would
not be sorry to land. To laud at Eaglescrag
itself, however was found to be impracticable,
owing to the tide and the state of the sea.
There was a little bay a mile up the coast,
where there were no rocks, and comparatively
no surf. They ran the boat in here without
difficulty about three o'clock, just as the first
drops of the coming storm fell.

The had walked a few minutes over the
shingle, and the rain was now coming on fast,
when Wilfred exclaimed,

These confounded stones ! We shall be an
hour getting home over them, and you'll be
wet through, Madame de Warbeck. You had
better take refuge under the sand-cliffs — there
are almost caves there, where you will be quite
dry, and, when the rain abates, you can walk
home through the wood. You go home, Hubert,
and tell Nellie we are all safe — she maybe
anxious about us, poor child !"

St. John felt tempted to observe that Madame's
waterproof had resisted (so she valiantly
declared) all the heavy seas which had broken
over the boat. But his eagerness to return to
Nellie, and the prospect of being alone with her
for awhile, held him silent. !Madame might
have parried the attack, and punished him by
insisting on returning straight to the house.
Besides, his task was over, it had lasted five
mortal hours; if Wilfred meant to be alone
with the lady now, nothing could prevent it,
whether under the sand-cliffs or elsewhere.
St, John and his companions parted on the
shingle, he bearing on slantways to the pine-wood,
which came nearer to the shore a few
hundred yards off", where a path struck into the
private grounds of Eaglescrag; they turning
sharp to the left, where, in two or three minutes,
they were under the shelter of the cliffs.

Meanwhile Nellie, with a throbbing head, and
feeling a weariness in all her limbs she had
never known before, had crawled through the
wood to the village school-house, about three-quarters
of a mile distant, where she had remained

some time, trying to rivet her attention
upon the children's answers, and encourage the
teachers by showing interest in their work.

Would I were one of them !'' she said to
herself. '^ Would I were a poor pupil-teacher
again, working for daily bread, and cherishing
an ideal which nothing could destroy ! I could
have carried that to my grave with me. The
reality is gone — gone never to return ! Oh !
mother ! mother ! If I had only the cottage to
go back to ! — if 1 could only lay my head
on your breast once more, and find refuge
there !"

It was after one o'clock when she left the
school, and walked slowly to the edge of the
cliff. There was a nearer way home through
the back of the wood ; but the path she took
led to a favourite spot of hers , where she <5ften
brought her book and sat for hours. The afternoon
was before her; she felt oppressed indoors,
and could not touch food; she heeded not the
lowering sky ; she would rest among the sand-hills,
and the sea-winds might cool her fevered
brow.

When she left the cone-strewn path, walled
in by the red stems of pines on either side, and
reached the jagged cliff, sparsely clothed with
tamarisk, and upheld from crumbling by a network
of pine-roots, the wind blew fiercely. It
drove the whirling sand into her e3'es; it bent
the sapling firs, and bowed the long grey
grasses ; she could not sit in so exposed a spot.
But, just below, the cliff was hollowed into a
succession of natural caves, deep enough to
afford shelter, and fringed with a pendent
frame-work of roots. Masses of blue-green seakale
grew among the yellow sand-heaps and
shingle here. Occasionally a promontory,
crowned with young firs, ran out upon the
shore, marking the limits that the cliff had
reached, till land-springs had broken it down,
wheresoever destruction was not arrested by
vegetation. Nothing could be less like England
than the fantastic uncertainties — the depressions
and excrescences and deep hollows in
these cliffs : nothing more picturesque than their
-colouring, when sunset fed the rich-toned sand
with fire, and touched the wet slope of lilac

shingle with a thousand sparkles of gold.
But now the hue of sky and sea alike was
that of lead. The only light seemed to be
emitted by the spray of the foaming waves, as
they broke against the stones. Sea-gulls and
petrels were whirling close to the surface of the
water, uttering their wild, desolate cries. Nellie
loved the sea in all its aspects ; but this one
especially fitted her present frame of mind. She
descended the steep cliff, and seated herself
within a hollow just wide enough to shelter a
single person, but really forming part of a
broader cavern, from which it was divided and
obscured by a sip of sand which had consolidated
into a species of buttress. As she sank
down upon the carpet of fine, dry pebbles, this
buttress was commodious to lean against.
Seated there, she could watch the yeasty waves-breaking
upon the beach, the hard indigo horizon
of the sea, the fishing-boats scudding before
the wind, the heavy clouds gathering and advancing
landward. And yet it was quite
possible to pass this aperture, and take refuge
beneath the wider portico I have named without

observing the grey-clad figure whoso
colouring, in deep shadow, was scarcely distinguishable
from its surroundings.

The young creature's limbs found rest here ;
her thoughts, for a long time, found none.
They beat from side to side of those narrow
confines beyond which they could not escape;
as captive wings beat fruitlessly against the
wires. She had not slept all night; she had
scarcely touched food to-day ; physically and
mentally, she was exhausted. It was good to
be here, with no other sound in her ears than
the monotony of breakers, grinding slowly back
over the pebbles when their strength was spent.
It was good to be here, absolutely alone with
Nature ; removed from the friction of any irritating
contact ; relieved from all exigencies of
restraint or dissimulation. She had rather
remain here for ever than endure the hourly
torture to which she had been subjected of late.
Was this simply jealousy? She answered
vehemently, ^' No." She said now, as she had
told herself before, that, supposing it were possible
for Sylvia Brabazon to have resumed her

old ascendancy over Wilfred, however bitterly
wounded Nellie might have been, she would
have felt it was natural — almost excusable.
The woman whom Nellie admired and reverenced
beyond all others would have exercised
no evil influence. She recognized beyond the
possibility of doubt now that his heart had
always been Sylvia's. He had married out of
pique, and from a romantic endeavour to rekindle
the embers of his boyish passion. He
had deceived himself, and he had deceived her.
She did not attempt to blind herself to that fact.
But she said that, had he returned to his former
allegiance, miserable as she might have been, it
would not have been this misery. At Sylvia's
feet, his nature would only have been fed with
what was strong and noble ; while in the lap of
Circe it would deteriorate from day to dUy.
The polished surface of Madame de Waldeck's
mind, which had such a glittering attraction for
him, was backed by the quicksilver of ever-shifting
adaptability ; there was no fixed metal
of principle behind her brilliant intellect. Ignorant
of the world as Nellie was, she saw with

extraordinary clearness that Madame de Wal-deck
would be deterred from nothing which it
was her pleasure or her interest to achieve ; and
her ascendancy over Wilfred could only be for
evil.

Could she save him? Was it possible, by
any means, to prevent this woman's designs
from taking effect '? "Would it be of any avail
to write to the dowager? Her good sense
instantly discarded the idea. Little could ever
be effected with Wilfred by opposition ; by such
weak remonstrance as his mother's, absolutely
nothing. He would strengthen his own position
with specious arguments, and rout the attacking
force, even if supported by the Bishop's
solid artillery. A step-father's interference is
rarely well received ; by Wilfred it would be
resented. No ; help could not come from that
quarter.

Her thoughts then turned, almost against her
own will, to one to whom she had hitherto
resolutely refused to confide her anxiety, although
that wise and devoted friend was at
band. The instinct which made her feel that

such confidence might be dangerous — seeing, as
she could not fail to see, that St. John's heart
was absolutely unchanged — had hitherto restrained
her even more than her repugnance to
discussing Wilfred's infatuation with his friend.
But now, as she lay there, coiled up on the sand,
with eyes fixed upon the ocean, which seemed
to her no unfit emblem of eternity, she asked
herself whether such paltry scruples should
weigh in the balance against the immortal welfare
of her husband"? Consideration for St.
John's feelings, and her own delicacy as to
speaking at all on this subject, must, and ought
to, give way. His mind, so full of resource,
might see a way to save Wilfred. Nothing had
escaped his keen grey eyes; he had seen all,
and perhaps more than poor Nellie could tell
him ; he had attacked the woman with trenchant
words ; was it not time to bid him rescue his
friend ?

She would speak openly to Hubert St. John.
That resolve was uppermost in her mind, before
nature had its way at last, and she fell asleep.
It was the deep sleep of exhaustion, absolutely

VOL. III. O

dreamless. The over wrought brain, soothed
by wind and waves, enjoyed a temporary oblivion
of its crushing sorrow.

How long she had slept she never knew,
when she was awoke by a terrific clap of thunder,
which resounded along the cliffs. She
opened her eyes with a shiver ; it was pouring.
The entire aspect of the scene was changed.
She could scarcely see the sea now for the
driving rain. At the same moment the sound
of a voice, so near at hand that not a syllable
was lost, fell upon her ear. She recognized it
at once — it was Madame de Waldeck's. She
was speaking with the intonation proper to a
continuous flow of gently persuasive argument,
instead of with the dominant brilliancy that
belonged to her utterances in general society.
Nellie never doubted who was her companion.
They were both sheltering in that other portion
of the cave, from which the buttress divided
her. Though she lost no word of what was
said, the drift of Madame de Waldeck's harangue
for the first few moments escaped Nellie. The
context was wanting;. Then Wilfred murmured

something, apparently with hesitation and what
he said Nellie failed to catch ; but the meaning
of the reply was at once and painfully apparent.


Only for three days — she cannot be so unreasonable
as to mind that. The wife of an
eminent man must sacrifice herself occasionally,
and this is a small sacrifice."

'• She will be called to make a greater one
before long. And, you see, it would be different
if she had any sympathy with your views ;
but she has none. She was annoyed (I confess
to my surprise, for I had no notion she would
care) at my writing in favour of divorce. If I
speak at Liverpool in the same sense — and, of
course, the papers will report my speeches — I
shall have a scene with her, I'm afraid. It certainly
will not reconcile her to being left here
-alone," he added.

*' Why alone ? You can leave that excellent
man, Mr. St. John, to look after her."

*' You don't understand her — she is a romantic
child, like many who are only partially educated.
If she hasn't me, she cares for no one.

o2

Old Hubert would almost bore her, I am afraid."^

Really I . It is unfortunate that Lady
Athelstone should be so little able to appreciate
your highest claims to the admiration aud gratitude
of Mankind. But she is such a sweet
creature I I can well understand that to anyone,
as you say, ' partially educated,' our wider
views are incomprehensible. Still, in the interests
of the world at large, I think you must
make a stand against the encroachments of a
young wife's selfish affection. This visit to
Liverpool with me would pave the way for
your longer absence."

For that there is a reasonable plea — that I
am hard up, and shall make a pot of money.
For this, I could only plead that — that "

"That you were rendering me a great service.
Your pamphlet will be sold at the doors.
An introductory address from you, if it were
only a few words, would give such eclat to my
lecture." Then, in a lower key — "Ah I I should
feel so proud."

"Well, if you really attach such importance
to it "

indeed — indeed I do'

'' — I will come; but my 'rendering you a
service' will not reconcile Nellie to my advocating
your views on the platform, I am afraid.
1 shall say nothing about it, and trust to her
not reading the papers : she seldom does. One
scene is enough, and I confess I rather dread
breaking the news of my long absence in
America to her."

No doubt Lady Athelstone will propose to
accompany you."

Oh ! that is out of the question — she never
would stand the voyage. I shouldn't think of
taking her. When the wrench is once made,
she will do very well. I shall get an old cousin
of mine to come and stay with her while I am
absent."

"And then there is Mr. St. John — although
you think that he bores her."

"Oh! she likes him well enough. But the
fact is, she really cares for no society but rhine.
Of course, I ought to be glad — in one way ; but
it is a little trying when your wife dislikes all

your friends and takes no interest in questions
that engross your life."

Ah ! I feel for you. You require sympathy
— you require a companion of an enlarged
and highly educated mind. Lady Athelstone
is an angel, but of course you must feel a avant
it could not be otherwise."

Yes, and I must confess that, since you

came, 1 have felt it doubly. To know that one

is understood — to be able to speak of one's

views and aspirations openly with a Avoman

who is free from the common prejudices of her

sex, is a great privilege. But you are more

than this ; your brilliant intellect is like a book

which I constantly open at a fresh page. All

other reading seems dull after it. You are the

only woman of whom I could say, as Enobarbus

does of Cleopatra,

'Age cannot-wither her, nor custom stale
Her infinite variety.' "

"Ah! You are too flattering. Still — I may
say so without fear of being misunderstood ? — I
have often thought, I will confess, how different
life might have been to us both, had we met

loiig ago, before either of us contracted ties,
which — in my case, at least — did not tend to
happiness."

You have snapped the chain that was
riveted in the folly of youth. I can never
break mine — even if I could

At that moment a vivid flash of lightning,
followed so instantaneously by a crash of
thunder that it seemed as though the heavens
had opened directly over the cliff, elicited an
exclamation of alarm from Madame de Waldeck.
Nellie sat motionless, with closed eyes. How
gladly would she have met swift sudden death
at that moment !

As the thunder rolled away in the distance,
strange to say, a passage of Robert Browning's
she had lately read recurred to her. The
human mind is so constituted that it is difficult
to account for such things. In those few
minutes, the last hope to which she had clung
had drifted from her ; her life was absolutely
wrecked. And yet her mind could not free
itself of those lines in " Pippa Passes," where
Optima describes the storm overtaking her

and her paramour in the wood. There
was no similarity of circumstance, but she
found herself repeating the guilty woman's
words.

Swift ran the searching tempest overhead ;
And ever and anon some bright white shaft
Burnt thro' the pine-tree roof, here burnt and there,
As if God's messenger thro' the close wood-screen
Plunged and plunged his weapon at a venture,
Feeling for guilty thee and me ; then broke
The thunder, like a whole sea overhead "

What they said after this was of little
moment. While the storm gradually cleared
off, they discussed matters which in no way
touched Nellie. Madame de Waldeck had gained
her point. Wilfred Athelstone would accompany
her to Liverpool; her present interests,
her devilish schemes for the future, would
profit alike by this. Nellie, with bitterness and
jealousy at heart, would be left alone with St.
John. Would she not, herself, *' snap the chain "?
Madame, who knew much of poor weak human
nature, felt confident that she would do so.

Half an hour later the wind had abated ; the

rain had cleared off; a pale streak of light
appeared ou the horizon of the sea; the storm
was past, and they who had sheltered under
the cliff, were strolling np its sandy side by
a winding path beset with long wet grasses.

It was some time before the young wife
found strength to rise, and follow them, with
feeble steps, to Eaglescrag.

CHAPTER XII.

SHE did not see Madame de Waldeck again.
On reaching home, she crept into bed, feeling
so ill that it was no fiction to assure Wilfred
she was incapable of the exertion of
appearing at dinner.

In the morning a flood of golden light and
the shadow of wavering rose-leaves fell upon
her bed through the open shutter. He stood
by the bed-side. Her face was turned to the
wall ; but he stooped and kissed her, asking
how she felt. She murmured that she was
tired — very tired ; nothing more. In that case,
he replied, she had best remain quiet. Madame
de Waldeck was departing early ; and business

also called him away from Eaglescrag for a
couple of days. She manifested no surprise;
she neither spoke nor moved.

Of comes, Hubert remains here," he continued.
" I shall be back positively on Thursday.
Hubert will take good care of you till
then."

I want no care' she moaned, — " the less
care the better. Let me die ! Let me die I It
will be better for all I"

"AVhat is the matter? You are overwrought,
Nellie. You have been doing too
much. I shall send for the doctor to look at

you."

'•' I want no doctor," she cried. *' I want
you — only you — and that woman is taking
you from me !" Then, turning suddenly
she cast her arms about him, sobbing hysterically.


My dear child, this is really too silly. I
cannot stand this sort of thing. You must
learn to control this foolish jealousy, ' That
Avomau,' as you call her, is not ' taking me
away ' at all. Can't I leave you for a couple of

days without your jumping at such an absurd
conclusion ?"

'' You are going with her to propagate her
horrible doctrines. I know all — all ^^'ilfred !
Oh, my husband, for God's sake pause ! I
know you do all this under a blind delusion — a
belief that men and women will be better for it*
You are not wicked, as sie is ; she wants to get
you from me, but she shan't — she slant! I will
die first, and then you will be free to marry the
only woman worthy of you — the woman you
ought to have married, if you had only waited,
dear. If you had only waited I Ah ! I am not
fit to be your wife ; you sacrificed yourself tome.
I have no talents, no powers of persuasion,
nothing, nothing but my infinite love. But,
oh, do listen to me — do for your own sake,
dear, not for mine ! That woman will lead you
to your destruction ! If you go with her to
America "

Who told you I was going to America 'f

*' I heard it from your own lips ; I was thereunder
the cliff*. I heard everything."

*' I would not have believed it, if anyone else

had told me you had played eavesdropper,
Nellie."

He answered angrily, as men often do, when
their consciences prick them.

I could not help it ; I had fallen asleep.
The storm woke me, and I heard you both
talking close to me."

Listening is always dishonourable' he replied,
parading his resentment as a bulwark for
self-defence. ^^If you heard anything that
pained yoa , I am sorry for it; but it is your own
fault. As to my intention of lecturing in
America, you have only learnt it a little sooner
than you would otherwise have done. I have
been offered a large sum, and I want the
money, which I have no other means of
making."

Then let me go with you. I ask no more
than that."

"Nonsense, Nellie! How could you stand
the fatigue of constantly travelling, when your
nerves are in the state they are — when you are
knocked up with the slightest thing? How could
you possibly stand the voyage, when you are ill.

if I take you out for an hour in an open boat ?
It is out of the question. You would be a
constant anxiety, and hamper me in all my
arrangements."

"Ah I I hamper your arrangements now,"
she sobbed, as she flung herself back upon the
pillow ; " but only wait a little — wait till I am
gone. It will not be very long, dear ; you will
soon be free, I promise you. I feel it here. Only,
if I die while you are away, I know you will
become that woman's. You weill never, never
escape ; she will make you marry her ! And she
counts upon it now ; I read it in her face. She
would kill me, if she dare !"

This is raving lunacy. I am really ashamed
of you, Nellie. Supposing anyone were to hear
you ? The servants "

— Ah ! the servants know what she is ; they
would have opened my eyes before, if I had
allowed them."

They know nothing, and i/ou certainly overheard
nothing, to warrant this monstrous
insinuation. Madame de Waldeck is my friend,
an intellectual woman, whose views are in

sympathy with mine. Unfortunately, yours
are not. When I married, I hoped to have
moulded your mind, but it obstinately resists
change from old beliefs and ways. I can't help
that. Is it my fault if others understand me,
and you do not? Is it my fault if others appreciate
and encourage my efforts in the great
cause of liberty, and you remain indifferent or
else condemn them ? I think you cannot accuse
me of unkindness. I have done — I shall
always do, everything I can to make you
happy. But I will not sacrifice my independence
of thought and of action. You are ill, your
nerves are upset, therefore I will give up going
to Liverpool ; but understand, I shall not yield
in this way again. It would be weakness to do
so.

He turned from her without another word
and left the room. He was thoroughly put
out; it was so seldom he permitted his arrangements
to be thwarted. Nellie's triumph was
dearly purchased. Perhaps it would have been
better to let him go. He would have felt some
sting of self-reproach at leaving her ailing,

some contrition on his return at the end of two
days. As it was, his heart was hardened
against her by reason of his self-sacrifice to
what he chose to consider her puerile and
exacting jealousy.

Madame de Waldeck was gone. Hubert St.
John remained ; but lie did not see Nellie till
late that day.

In the afternoon the two men started for a
walk, which they performed, after the manner
of Englishmen, in perfect silence, at the rate of
four miles an hour. They smoked their pipes
as they swung along, each absorbed in his own
thoughts ; neither of them being accustomed, or
holding it needful between men, to sacrifice
largely to the exigencies of courtesy. On their
return, they found her, almost as wan as her
cream-coloured tea-gown, in a garden-chair
upon the terrace. Her hands lay listlessly
upon an open book in her lap ; but a rose lays
upon the book, and the book itself was topsy-turvy.
There were deep hollows under her
large eyes, and her whole face looked drawn
and aged. The afternoon tea-table stood beside

her, and on it lay the day's papers that had
come by train.

St. John took one of the basket-chairs that
were near the table ; Wilfred stood. He asked
Nellie how she felt ; but there was no tenderness
there was little beyond benevolence — in the
inquiry. Then be poured out some tea, and
opened his papers ; after which he walked into
the house.

For a few minutes there was a silence.
Hubert drank his tea and watched her with
grieved, wondering eyes. Her rival was departed
; the air was disinfected from her presence;
yet there seemed to be no relief — no
shaking off the malaria whose poison had
entered the young wife's veins.

She looked away from him towards the pale,
primrose-coloured sky against the shadowy
horizon of the darkening sea as she said at last,
in a low voice, and with deliberation —

"Mr. St. John, do you know when Miss
Brabazon returns to England ?"

No ; I do not."

"I want so much to see her before — the

VOL. III. P

middle of October. You know that Wilfred
means to go to America ?"

I do — and I deplore it."

**If he goes, Mr. St. John, he will be lost;
nothing can save him. The only person whose
influence may prevent his going is Miss Braba-
son — mine is of no avail," she added, with a
quivering voice. *' If I could die, it would stop
him ; but, however earnestly we desire it death
does not come to us all as quickly as we wish.
It will come — for I have not the courage to goon
living now ; but if his deliverance — and
mine — comes when he is far away, when he is
under that baleful influence, he will never escape
from it. My only thought is for him now. If
Miss Brabazon knew this "

She does know it. He told her before she
left England' interrupted St. John, incautiously.


Before she left England ? All those weeks
ago ? And I was left to learn this through
servants !" she cried, with bitterness. Her eyes
were tearless; but she clasped her trembling
hands over her face for an instant before she

added — '' Surely, surely she made an effort to
stop him?"

I do not know — I cannot tell. I feel sure
she strongly disapproved, from the tone of
Mary's letter; but whether, under the circumstances,
she felt entitled to remonstrate with
Athelstone is more than I can say."

"Will you try to see her when you go back?
She may be returned. Mrs. Goldwin mentioned
in a letter yesterday that she had left
Wiesbaden last week. Will you tell her — what
I could not write — how — how he is changed,
and lory ? Will you implore her to use her
great influence over him for good, to counteract
the power of his evil genius, who will otherwise
be his ruin ?"

I will, certainly. But Athelstone won't
leave you — I feel sure he won't — when it comes
to the point."

She shook her head.

Why not ? He will persuade himself that it
is right to resist my entreaties ; and I daresay
the world will be on his side. I am a weak,
foolish woman; I ought to be thankful to be

Lis Avise at any price — I who was in such a
different station. I have no right to oppose his
leaving me to travel. Other husbands do so —
why not mine? That is what they will say,
perhaps."

It is the — the object of his travelling — I
mean his lecturing," he added, hastily, " which
distresses you most, and you may be sure the
world will sympathise with you in that. It will
create a great outcry. But you must not let
the fear of all this prey upon you and undermine
your health ; for I believe it will never
come to pass,"

He spoke with a confidence he was far from
feeling : for he saw that her nerves had sustained
some severe shock, and he was alarmed.
She would never have spoken as she had just
done, but under the stress of an acute anguish
which had almost reached the confines of
despair.

He bent forward, with his elbows on his
knees, his deep, earnest eyes fastened upon her
face. She did not look at him ; her gaze was
still fixed on the sea's horizon ; her pale fingers-pulled

to pieces unconsciously the rose upon her
lap.

*' You are mistaken," she said, at last. " He
has sacrificed himself to me to-day. He has
given up going to Liverpool, and speaking
there, out of consideration to what he calls my
'nerves.' He resents having done so; he thinks
it an unjustifiable interference with his ' independence
of thought and action' on my part.
He will not do so again unless ^'

Here she stopped short.

"Unless what?" he asked, anxiously.

Unless r should be dying."

For God's sake don't talk like this !" and,
by an irresistible impulse, he took the hand that
lay near him, and held it between his. " Think
how precious your life is to — to some ! Your
trial is only one that numberless women are
bearing daily — bearing bravely — with hope in
the future. Think of that fellow's words
in the pulpit last Sunday — ^ Never let us
despair'"

I am a coward — yes, I have no courage to
face the future, knowing that my life is a

burden and a detriment to 1dm. If he were

free " she broke off again, with a deep

sigh.

It pained him to cauterise her wound, but,
after a moment's hesitation, he said, in his deep
rough voice,

Perhaps he would marry Madame de AVul-
deck. You must have courage to live, if only
to keep him from that fate. This infatuation
will pass. You know how his imagination runs
away with him. But, like a restive horse, give
him his head, and depend on it he will come
lioine — sooner or later."

Yes," she said, turning her sad eyes at last
upon him, *' but his ' home ' is not here. Why
deceive myself? It was a mistake from the
beginning. His heart (and is not that * home ' ?)
will always be with her — the only woman worthy
of him."

Worthy of him ? When Athelstone's conduct
made St. John's blood boil! Worthy of him?
When he had not even, as St. John felt sure
the excuse of an overwhelming passion to plead
for this behaviour towards this divine creature

who was far too good to be his wife ! How
blind — how incomprehensible ! It irritated the
young man to hear her : his heart felt sore ; but
habitual self-control enabled him to say,

"At least his ' home' can never be with Madame
de Waldeck — rest assured of that. She
f
has obtained a temporary hold over him. If he

saw more of her it would soon be relaxed.
Probably their being thrown constantly together
in America would be the speediest cure.
He would learn what she really is — he would
see through her, and the spell would be
broken."

Sooner or later — yes ; but his eyes
might be open too late. You understand me?
I should like to repair the wrong I have done
Wilfred before I die, not make it irretrievable by
letting him fall into evil hands. Will you try
to see Miss Brabazon ?"

'• I promise you I will."

'• And will you speak to Wilfred yourself before
you go ?"

What could he say ? He would not tell her
that he had already urged Athelstone to abandon

this scheme, and had employed every argument
he could think of against it. He would
not tell her that he knew AVilfred's combative
spirit was only roused by opposition. He
raised the hand he held to his lips, and promised
to do her bidding.

She withdrew her hand quickly, and I'ose.
The dressing-bell for dinner had sounded, and
Lorenzo, for the last few minutes, had been
stationary at his master's dressing-room window,
which, like all the others, looked upon the
lawn, where Lady Athelstone and Hubert St.
John sat.

CHAPTER Xii.

TITILFRED Athelstan continued to be
' restless and pre-occupied during the
remainder of St. John's stay at Eaglescrag.
The two men were but little alone together,
except during their ten-mile walks, when they
rarely spoke. Not till the last night before
his departure did St. John once more broach
the subject of America. What he said was
said more with a view of discovering whether
time and reflection had influenced Athelstone's
decision than with any hope that further
remonstrance from St. John could affect it. He
found him more stubborn — entrenched more
strongly behind a fortification of plausible

reasoning— than when St. John had last
appealed to him. The sacrifice of his visit to
Liverpool still rankled. Madame de Waldeck
had written of the universal disappointment
felt at his absence — the ovation that had been
prepared for him — the rapid sale of every copy
of his pamphlet — the brilliant success of her
own lecture. It was annoying to have missed
all this, because of his wife's irrational jealousy
and hysterical demonstrations. She must be
taught that such sacrifices were not to be demanded
of a husband. She had disappointed
him. He had believed that her affection for
him Tvoiild enable her to support any trial
which he thought fit to impose; but it had not
done so. Her education as the wife of a public
man — a man in whose career the benefit of
mankind at large must supersede all domestic
considerations — this education had yet to be
made. It would begin with their separation of
three or four months. He had even persuaded •
himself, by a chain of sophistical reasoning, that
this was a wholesome probation for poor ill-disciplined
Nellie.

Such was his contention, briefly stated. To
reproduce his words to Hubert verbatim would
be to weary the reader by traversing ground
with no new features to recommend it. He put
his case ably and vehemently ; and all Hubert's
arguments were powerless to dislodge lira
from his position. He had evidently well
considered (with a view to demolition) the
objections that would be raised to his scheme;,
they left him unconvinced.

Hubert departed with a heavy heart. The
last few days at Eaglescrag he had been almost
constantly with Nellie. Her condition filled
him with passionate anguish, with rage against
AVilfred, and with an anxiety which he dared
not formulate to himself in words. He was
haunted at night by her pale, sad face ; it
obtained such possession of him as to render
him unfit for work when he returned to London.
Unless Athelstone could be deterred by some
means from carrying the idea upon which he
was so obstinately set into execution, St. John
dared not contemplate what the effect upon
Nellie's delicate organization might be. And,,

although he never admitted it to her, he was
now very hopeless of Miss Brabazon's — or anyone
else's — remonstrances being of avail. He walked
out to Barnes the day after his return. The
ladies, he was told, were not expected home for
six weeks, at earliest. It was then the last week
in August. Miss Brabazon could barely arrive,
therefore, before Wilfred's departure.

In the middle of September the Athelstan
came to London, to attend the dowager's
marriage. It had originally been understood
that they were to return to Eaglescrag after
the ceremony, and remain there a few weeks
longer. "Wilfred now announced, however, that
sundry matters of business would detain him in
town, and he made no attempt to conceal that
this business was connected with his approaching
tour in the States. To the young wife all
pleas were alike just now. She moved about
as though in a dream. Whether it was the
rolling Atlantic, flecked with fishing-smacks, or
the grey Thames and its penny steamers, that
bounded her lawn, she scarcely noted. The
garden opened upon the Embankment by a door

in the wall ; and the room where she habitually
sat , upon the ground-floor, communicated by a
few iron steps with this plat of grass. Hereunder
a lime-tree, she often sat in those warm
autumn days ; and it was here the morning
-after her arrival that St. John found her. He
was horrified at the change in her appearance.
In the short time that had elapsed since he had
left Eaglescrag, she was so fallen away that the
dress which had fitted her lithe figure now
hung loosely upon her. Dark rings encircled
her eyes, and the eyes themselves had an indescribable
expression which startled Hubert
even more than her pallid cheek and her wasted
form. She said very little. She wished for
Miss Brabazon's address ; and he promised to
procure it for her.

She had been nearly three weeks alone with
her husband ; the ardent desire of the last few
months had been realized. And the realization
had brought, as so often happens in life, an
anguish far more bitter than its non-fulfilment
could have done. She felt with the keen insight
of a " clairvoyante," that all was changed

between them. He was uniformly kind in ibis
manner — far more affectionate, indeed, than he
bad been of late. He was solicitous for her
health, insisting upon her driving daily, and
even going the length of accompanying her
occasionally, which she knew he detested doing.
Though, otherwise, he was not much with her
during the day, he read aloud to her every
evening ; but, with the sensitiveness of highly-sharpened
perceptions, she was conscious that
he found in a book the best solution of the
problem, how to pass an evening alone with
her. And equally conscious was she that he
regarded, and desired her to regard, every little
attention as an item added to the balance of
compensation against the sura of her fancied
causes of complaint in the past or in the future.
He did not see how ill she was ; still less did
he comprehend the necessity of endeavouring
to *' minister to a mind diseased." She was
weak in body, and she was worried — no doubt
fie was worried about his leaving her, but that
she would get ever ; and as to her health, she
had been in much the same condition as a girl,

when the doctor had ordered rest and nourishment,
and she had stayed at the Castle during
that memorable week. He did not see that
now the body refused nourishment, and the
mind was incapable of rest.

His mother saw it, and so did the Bishop,
when they dined in Whitehall Gardens the
night of the Athelstan' arrival from Eagles-crag.
The dowager was genuinely concerned
-about her daughter-in-law, and tried to arouse
her son's anxiety. But there are natures that
resent the advances of anxiety as intrusive, and
who seem to regard it as the precursor of evils
that can be dismissed by simply shutting the
door against them. Of such a kind was Wilfred's
; and when he boldly announced his approaching
visit to the States, and stated his
conviction that Nellie's ailment was due solely
to temporary depression of spirits consequent
thereon, though he greatly startled his mother,
he relieved her apprehensions almost equally.
What shocked and distressed her ought equally
to shock and distress his wife. She beat the
air with a few idle remonstrances ; the Bishop

held bis peace. He saw that the young man
was immoveable as a rock, and against rocks
the Bishop never broke the waves of his persuasive
eloquence. He kept them for the sands
of indecision, which there was, at least, a chance
of their consolidating.

Nellie could not bring herself to say much to
the dowager on the subject. What she felt
was of too complicated a nature to be understood
by a lady of this stamp and, indeed, it
impinged on a domain of wild suggestion, self-reproach,
and utter hopelessness, which might
well be docketed by the world as " morbid."
Even to St. John and he was the only person
who had a partial perception of her condition,
she could not commit the prominent dread,
which, like a swift-spreading tree, cast its
dark shadow more widely over her each day.
If she could only die before Wilfred left her !
What alternative was there? She was ready
for any sacrifice, if she could secure his redemption
by it. In vain she prayed ; no comfort
came in answer. She was conscious that physical
weakness accounted for the fact that her

volition seemed to lie more and more at the
mercy of her imagination, over which she had
lost all control. Her thoughts for ever brooded
on her husband's future, and how his misery
and moral annihilation would be the consequences
of any connection with Madame de
Waldeck. He had sacrificed himself by his
marriage, and he would give worlds now to be
free. If she, his wife, did not free him — if he
was not released from that galling chain before
he sailed for the New World — he would be
lost.

What she wrote to Sylvia was very little
more than this :

*' I implore you to come here, to put away
all pride, to forget what our relative positions
are, only to remember that the future of two
human souls lies in your hands. You alone can
save him — and perhaps me tooJ^

Not a day passed that St. John was not in
Whitehall Gardens; and, after the dowager's
marriage when Nellie had fewer interruptions,
he often spent the whole afternoon with her.
It was not surprising that the servants — Staples

VOL. Ill Q

and Lorenzo — formed certain conclusions. The
maid regarded her mistress's position with
abundant sympathy. The boy, with the curious
persistence which was indicated by his
close-set eyes, never for an instant forgot that
bis master's freedom, by any means whatsoever,
must be preparatory to the installation of
another as mistress of the establishment. Ee
had foreseen it from the first ; this girl from the
people was unfit for the position which she
had usurped ; she was herself tired of the life,
and my lord was tired of her. The sooner she
decamped the better. What he had witnessed
on the lawn at Eaglescrag had sunk into his
mind : the Signer was devoted to my Miladi.
Things were ripening daily, but he would drop
no word to rouse his master's suspicions, if,
indeed, it were possible to do so. My lord was
wonderfully blind ; and perhaps it was as well
BO, until the evidence of this was clear and past
concealment. Lorenzo, in the meantime, was
vigilant night and day.

It was at the Villa teste, on the Lake of

Como, that Sylvia Brabazon found Nellie's
letter, which, with a packet of others, had been
awaiting her arrival for some days. It was then
the 1st of October, and the letter bore the postmark
of the 20th of September. Mrs. Brabazon
was absorbed in her own letters ; she did not
perceive the effect on her daughter as Sylvia read
those few lines. Anyone watching her face would
have observed the pallor that overspread it —
the anxiety, the consternation, the momentary
doubt that her whole attitude indicated, as she
sat motionless for some minutes, the letter lying
upon her lap, her eyes riveted across the lake,
which lay in the shadow, upon the sun-tipped
mountains beyond. The day was dying, 
were returning to the hotel, and the
laughter that rose from them came nearer and
nearer across the water. The delicious breath
of the " olea fragrant " was wafted to her from
the garden ; and then, through an open window,
she heard a man's voice singing. It was one of
the stornelli she loved so well — one which she
had sung the night she dined with the Athelstan
in Rome.

Q2

Her eyes saw these things, her ears heard
them, she could even recall them afterwards;
and yet her thoughts were far away, and her
heart more painfully perturbed than it had been
for a long time. No appeal less urgent could
have moved her to contemplate taking a step
which was repugnant to her, on all accounts,
and which might very naturally be misinterpreted
by those who knew in what relation
Lord Athelstone and she had stood towards
each other. If she considered her own dignity,
she would certainly not run the risk of placing
herself in what the world calls " a false position."
This man, whom she had once sa
nearly' married, who had been so unstable that,
three months after her rejection (a rejection
which was certainly not final), he had engaged
himself to another — this man, who was so careless
of retaining her friendship now that he
never even came to see her in London, how
could she thrust herself upon him ? What right
had she to endeavour to influence him, now
that he was another woman's husband, even

though the wife supplicated her to do so ? She
had suffered much because of him. It had not
been without a severe struggle that she had
refused him, eighteen months ago ; and, though
she had never repented her decision, she knew
that, even now, in spite of wounded pride,
reprobation, critical estimate of his faults and
follies, he was not, and never would be, wholly
indifferent to her.

Among her other letters was one from Mary
Goldwin, which she had read before opening
Nellie's, and which formed the supplement to it ;
containing, as it did, fuller information, derived
from Hubert, concerning Athelstone and his
wife's consequent misery. Mary's commentaries
on this, her evident alarm concerning her
cousin whose passion for Lady Athelstone
seemed to be inflamed by pity, and indignation
at the treatment to which she was subjected,
enabled Sylvia to understand — or to believe that
she understood — the perils to which Nellie alluded,
and the part which she, Sylvia, was
-entreated to play in this drama. It sounded

like the cry of a drowning creature — a supplication
to hold out a saving hand, which she felt,
after a momentary hesitation, that she had not
the heaii; to resist.

But Mrs. Brabazon's condition was such that
a hurried return to England was impossible ; she
was unequal to travelling more than a certain
number of hours at a time. She always acquiesced
in her daughter's arrangements without
a murmur, but she was exhausted with her
journey to-day, and must have twenty-four
hours' rest at least. And then she was a
wretched sailor, and might be detained at
Bologna, waiting for a fair passage. Sylvia
knew that it was impossible to calculate, with
any approach to certainty, on being in England
in less than ten days. And Lord Athelstone
was to sail on the 12th !

Under these circumstances, all she could do
was to write to Nellie, promising to be with her
as soon as possible, and enclosing a letter to
Athelstone, in which she begged him not to
leave England without seeing her.

"With the uncertainty which sometimes
attends letters entrusted to waiters at foreign
hotels, this one unfortunately, never reached
its destination.

CHAPTER XIV.

TT was the afternoon of the 10th of October ;
-*• the air was chilly for the first time that
autumn, and a grey mist hung over the
river.

Lady Athelstone sat at the open window of
the morning-room ; she did not feel it cold.
There was a bright spot of colour on her cheek ;
her eyes moved restlessly from her husband,
writing at a distant table, to the foggy river,
and then to a sealed letter which her thin hands
fingered. Her dress was the same grey one
she had worn that day upon the sands, and her
garden-hat lay upon the chair beside her.
She did not utter a sound; she had scarcely

spoken all day. Hubert St. John had been
present the previous evening, when the same
dumb agony, the same eager, glittering eyes
had sent the poor fellow away to his sleepless
bed, a prey to the sharpest agony a man can
suffer for the woman he worships: a fear for the
overthrow of her reason.

He had not called yet to-day ; he had wandered
about in an aimless, hopeless way all the
morning. Then, feeling that even failure was
better than to sit down opposite to that piteous
face, without something definite to tell, he
walked to Barnes to bring back such tidings ashe
might gather of Miss Brabazon.

Athelstone's letters were finished ; he looked
at his watch; it was already the post hour.
Lorenzo entered the room, at the same moment,
to ask some question about the preparations
for departure.

*' You will put up these books," said Wilfred,
pointing to some on the table, "and this
revolver, and see that everything is ready
by tomorrow night. These letters — no, I
will post them myself at Charing Cross, as

I go out ; they Avill catch the day's mail'*

As Lorenzo retired, after giving a sharp
glance of curiosity at his mistress, Wilfred
turned to her.

"I shall not be out more than an hour,
Nellie ; I have two or three things to get, and
I shall look in at the ' Reform ' before I come
in. Hadn't you better shut that window ? It is
getting cold."

Then suddenly she rose from her chair, and
they stood face to face in the twilight.

*' Stop a moment. I know it is useless, but
I would appeal to you once more — for the last
time. Will nothing — nothing induce you to
delay your departure, only a few weeks?"

My dear Nellie, you know that my passage
was taken a month ago, and all my engagements
are made. I am advertised to lecture in
New York on the 1st of November. How can
I put it off?"

** If you will only wait a little — a very little
longer, you will have ample excuse."

This is morbid in the extreme, Nellie. The
doctor says there is nothing the matter with

you ; you make yourself ill by encouraging all
manner of absurd ideas, and then you fancy
you are going to die. Do be rational. In leaving
you for threOj or, at the most, four months,
I am only doing what half the husbands in
England do. Instead of salmon-fishing or
bear-hunting, I am going among my fellowmen
to speak to them, that's all. You have
not the slightest reason to be uneasy about mein
any way. I shall be back by the end of
January, cleared of all my difficulties, and I
hope to find you perfectly well on my return."

No, you do not hope it, you cannot," she
said, with increasing agitation; "you know, in
your heart, Wilfred, you desire to be free, and
you shall be free — free to choose more worthily,
only wait — only wait, or you will regret it all
your life I"

•' For God's sake, calm yourself ! You talk
wildly."

How can I be calm ? My brain is on fire.
I know that, if you go from me now, that vile
"woman "

I will not listen to you if you speak of

Madame de Waldeck thus," he interrupted,
sternly.

She is vile ! — she has tried to take you from
me !" she cried, with increased passion. " But
she shall not — no, she shall not! I will only
give you up to Sylvia Brabazon. I will sacrifice
myself to her, as she sacrificed herself tome.
She loved you as that other woman never
could, and you must marry her — when I am
gone. God will forgive me, I think," she ended,
raising her trembling hands to her head,
*' if I save you in spite of yourself."

Strange to say, Wilfred's attention at the
moment was only arrested by one thing in this
cry of a despairing soul. It was not till later
that the last words recurred to his mind with
distinctness.

You are altogether under a delusion' he
said. "There was no sacrifice on Miss Bra-bacon's
part. She never really cared for me,
and, when I saw that, I returned to the first
affection of my boyhood. We are not perhaps
exactly suited to each other, but, if you will
only be sensible, we shall be very happy. We

have probably both a long life before us ; do
not let us embitter it by useless regrets or fanciful
grievances. If your religion' he added,
with a touch of sarcasm, which he thought
might have a salutary effect, but which he
keenly regretted later — " if your religion cannot
enable you to support our temporary separation
with fortitude, Nellie , it is not worth
much."

As she stood there, with her hands pressed
to her temples, there Alas a singing in her ears
and a confusion in her brain, where the blood
seemed to be rising every moment. She scarcely
comprehended his words, and her parched
lips refused to utter a sound when he had
ceased speaking.

He came up, and, putting his arm round her,
tried to lead her to a sofa. At his touch, she
shivered, as though stricken by the ague.

Go and lie down — your nerves are overstrung.
Try to* go to sleep before dinner."

Sleep !" she moaned, half inaudibly, as sh
sank upon the couch — " oh ! if I could sleep,
and never, never wake again !"

He stooped and pressed his lips upon her
burning brow. She stretched forth her fevered
hands, and tried to clutch him as he
moved from her towards the bell, which he
rang. Then, as Lorenzo appeared (the footmen
were discharged ; the old butler alone remained),
*' Tell Staples her ladyship is not very
well," he said. " She had better come down
here, and remain with her ladyship while I am
out ;" and, seizing his hat, he left the house.

The maid entered the room softly a few
minutes later. It was almost dark, but she
discerned her mistress's figure crouched down
upon her knees beside the sofa. Her hands
were clasped, her head was sunk ; she was
moaning, but, whether the words she uttered
from time to time were words of prayer, the
woman could not distinguish.' She bent over
her mistress and said,

*' Is there anything I can get you, my lady's'*

The poor young creature started, like some
wounded animal that is touched.

No, no — leave the room — don't come near

She spoke ia a hoarse, broken voice, and the
woman obeyed without another word. Lorenzo,
who had just brought up the reading-lamp, was
in the hall.

*' She is in a dreadful way," observed Staples,
with indignant commiseration. " You had
better not go in ; she don't want the lamp, I'm
sure. She desired to be left alone."

The boy shrugged his shoulders.

'' He have not been here yet to-day — she will
see My

Staples muttered something Lorenzo did not
hear as she ascended the stair. He set the
lamp down on the hall table. The butler was
out ; the boy decided on remaining where he
was, at hand for the hall door or for his mistress's
bell. He drew " Reynolds' Miscellany "
from his pocket, and proceeded to enlighten his
mind and improve his English by the study of
that periodical.

It was certainly less than ten minutes since
Staples had left him, when there was a ring at
the hall door.

Hubert St. John entered. 'ris Lady Athelstan
alone V"

Yes, she was alone, the boy said, with a
smile ; and, taking up the lamp, he opened the
door of the morning-room, and preceded St.
John, announcing his name as he did so.

They both looked round; the room was-empty.
The window , with the iron steps leading
from it to the garden, still stood open.

"Miladi will be out there," said Lorenzo
She have not pass by the hall."

St. John stepped hastily out. It was now sa
dark and foggy that he could not have distinguished
a figure, had it been stationary, at the
further end of the lawn near the wall. He
called — there was no reply. And then, suddenly,
a dreadful suspicion shot across his mind.
All day long he had been oppressed by fears

concerning her ; and now He tore down the

garden to the door in the Embankment-walL
It stood open !

He ran across with a terrible directness to
the Whitehall steps. Something told him that
the first — the imminent peril was there. The

Embankment was almost deserted ; there was
not a policeman in sight — no one he could
question. The dim gaslight showed a pedestrian
or two faintly discernible in the fog on
the opposite pavement, and a four-wheeler
approaching at a foot's pace.

He ran as swiftly as ever man did, who felt
that the issues of life and death trembled in the
balance. The fog lay thick on the river. When
he reached the projecting stone pier, he could
only distinguish the first two or three of the
steps that lead right and left to the water's
edge. He paused for a second — he thought he
heard the moan of a human voice at the bottom
of the right hand flight — and sprang down
it.

Something — a shadow swaying to and fro in
the pale, gaslit mist — was there close to the
wall, upon the lowest step, over which the water
washed now and then. He clutched at it — he
grasped it. There was a cry — and he held her
in his arms !

She struggled to be free. '' Let me go I Let
me go I"

VOL. III. R

He never relaxed his hold, and she sank down
in a heap upon the wet stone.

What are you doing here ?" he asked, in a
voice that shook with emotion. '' For God's
sake, come away !"

"No. He calls my soul to Him. Let me
go ! Do not keep me ! I asked Him upon my
knees whether I might go to Him, and He told
me I might."

This is a delusion ; you are ill. For God's
sake, come back to your home, before you are
missed."

No — no !" she almost screamed. " If I go
back, ho will sail tomorrow. His soul will be
destroyed, and his sin will be upon me through
all eternity ! I can never go back — never !"

'* You must come away from here, at all
events," he said, desperately. " It is useless
struggling ; I will not let you free."

*' Cruel !" She burst into sobs, and lay exhausted
in his arms. " Where am I to go —
away from him — out of the world — anywhere,
anywhere where he cannot find me?"

He shall not find you. Come with me," he
said, quickly.

And she did not resist — she lay passive,
though sobbing and moaning bitterly. He said
no more; not a second was to be lost. He did
not stop to consider the consequences of this
^ct. His passionate love — his agony at the
thought of losing her — swept all else away at
the moment.

She had been half lying on the stone, encircled
by his strong arms. He lifted her now
like a child, and ran up the steps. He remembered
the cab he had seen going at a footpace,
and he quickly overtook it. A few
minutes' drive brought them to his small house
in Great Queen Street.

Thank God she was safe !

E 2

CHAPTER XV.

T Lorenzo, from the open window, had seen
-■■^ Hubert St. John plunge across the lawn
into the fog — and he saw no more. A quarter
of an hour passed — not a sound. Then the
boy, consumed with curiosity, slipped out, and
traversed the garden on tiptoe. The door in
the wall was still ajar ; he peeped out — there
was no vestige of either St. John or his mistress.


He ran back excited, scared, and called to
Staples. She came down, and the two servants
scoured the garden together. After that,
searching the sitting-room for any traces of the
missing lady, they found two letters ; one addressed
to Miss Brabazon, the other a hasty

scrawl in pencil, so wild and wavering in character
that it was difficult to recognize their
mistress's neat handwriting. This was directed
to Lord Athelstone.

All doubt was dispelled from the servants'
minds. Lady Athelstone, stung by her husband's
approaching departure, and moved by
Mr. St. John's constancy, had eloped. They
were discussing the event with the passion of
partizans when they were startled by a ring at
the front door. It was then nearly seven
o'clock. Staples remained in the hall; and
when Lorenzo opened the door, the maid was
surprised to see a tall lady, whose face was unknown
to her, but whom the boy greeted with
effusion, enter the house without inquiry — without
a word.

The Brabazons had just arrived from Folkestone
at Charing Cross, where two carriages
were awaiting them. Sylvia, who had been
vexed at the unavoidable delay in their return,
and whose thoughts had been very constantly
with Nellie during the journey, begged her
mother to go straight home with the servants,

and let her drive round to Whitehall Gardens
in the brougham. She had told Mrs. Brabazon
of Nellie's letter.

I am anxious," she said, " and every hour
may be of consequence." Of how much consequence
she little guessed, however, as she
opened the door of the brougham for herself.
and rang the bell.

*' How do you do, Lorenzo ? I am just
arrived, and want to see Lady Athelstone."

The expression of the boy's face struck her
as strange. He shook his head, and then,
feeling the insufficiency of the English language,
began to tell her volubly, in Italian, that she
could not see Miladi, because she was gone —
gone away with " hin certo Signor St. John

Sylvia turned pale. But she knew how ill-disposed
the boy had always been to his
mistress ; and she had never placed any reliance
on his statements. She turned to Staples .

'' Are you Lady Athelstone's maid ? Do you
know where she is ?"

"I don't know inhere she is, ma'am. All I

know is, she's gone," replied the woman,
distinctly.

When ? — How long ago ?" asked Sylvia,
rapidly.

About three quarters of an hour."

'did she go — alone

Yes. She must have gone out a-foot, by
the garden-gate. Just afterwards, Mr. St.
John called, and he ran out after her. They're
gone, ma'am— it's clear."

She then described how she had found her
mistress on her knees, evidently in great mental
agony, and had been told to leave the room.
She added how anyone could see (who was not
as blind as his lordship) the devotion of Mr. St.
John. Lorenzo here joined issue, enumerating
instances of this; but Sylvia cut short his
loquacity.

"I do not want to hear all this. Where is
Lord Athelstone V

*' We don't know ; he is out."

Then they may be gone to join him."

The woman shook her head.

Impossible, ma'am. She left a note for
him."

Ha ! I had forgotten !" cried Lorenzo ;
and he ran into the room and fetched the one
directed to Miss Brabazon. Her heart sank as
she tore it open. Inside was written —

When you read this, do not be too hard on
me. My brain is on fire while I write. I am
going to make one last appeal to Wilfred ; if
that fails — he shall he free — he shall not be
sacrificed. If you had come, I should not have
done this. If you had spoken, it might have
saved me — but not for long ! God forgive me !
Wilfred never loved me — I know it now. He
only loved you — he loves you still. I give him
up to you. Farewell I"

It was true, then. Was any other conclusion
possible than the one at which the servants had
arrived? Sylvia was grievously distressed.
She felt herself in some sort responsible for this
mad act ; though the letter showed clearly that
the young creature's mind was temporarily unhinged.
It was from no love for St. John, it
was not from pique or jealousy, she had left her

home with this man. It was from some wild,
wrong-headed impulse to liberate Athelstone
from the bondage of his marriage, and to
prevent his going to America with Madame de
Waldeck. Poor little wife ! Sylvia's heart bled
for her.

Could she still do anything ? Was it
too late to save her ? she asked herself,
quickly. There was yet one chance. She
turned to the servants. Where did Mr. St.
John live ? Her decisions were always rapid.
She would go there. It was just possible

And five minutes later she was at the door of
the small house in Great Queen Street.

Nellie lay upon a sofa near the fire, in a bay-widowed
room looking upon the park. There
was no light but that of the fire, which played
upon the slender figure prostrate on the couch,
and upon the back of the man who knelt at her
feet, holding her hands in his, and striving to
soothe her by words which fell unheeded on
her ear. For her mind Wandered now, and
she was quite oblivious of what had passed.
One idea, however, remained paramount; she

must escape, she must bide from Wilfred.

"You will not let him kill me?" she kept on
saying. " It is not because I fear to die, but he
must not have that on his conscience. Keep
him away — he wants to get rid of me — he said
so! Keep him away! He will not have long
to wait. How cool the river looks!— and my
head is on fire ! I am not afraid. Let me go.
God said I might go to him . a little sooner
or later. "What matter? But he must not kill
me. I have been his curse through life — it would
be dreadful in hell to know he might have been
blessed but for me ! Hide me anywhere — anywhere
from him V

'' You are safe here my darling !" cried the
agonized man who knelt beside her. "No harm
shall come near you here. If Wilfred wishes to
be free, you will free him by staying here. All
my life is yours to do with as you will."

But she attached no definite idea to his words ;
she rambled on about Madame de Waldeck,
and America, and Sylvia — why had Sylvia not
come? Why had she not written? Well, she
would get her letter iioiv.

The poor fellow was distracted. What should
he do? Ought he to send for a doctor? At
that moment he heard a carriage drive fast
down the quiet street; it stopped at his door.
He ran out to give orders that no one should
on any pretence be admitted ; and there he
stood upon the stairs, listening with a beating
heart, and with a strange conflict of feelings,
for the voice of the man he once called his
friend — the voice he fully expected to hear
now.

But, instead, it was a woman's that he heard
and that he instantly recognized ; the
only voice in the world that seemed likely to
tranquillize Nellie at this moment. He dashed
down the stairs ; he brushed aside the servant,
and taking Miss Brabazon by both hands, he
drew her into the small front parlour.

She stood there, with her large listening
eyes fixed on the man's white, agitated face, ashe
poured forth his story. Sylvia gave a sigh
of comparative relief.

She is up there," he said, " and keeps constantly
talking of you. There is evidently some

pressure on the brain. She does not know
-where she is, or what she says, but I am in
hopes that your presence will soothe her'*

She cannot remain here, Mr. St. John. You
acted on the impulse of the moment in bringing
her here, but she cannot remain. You must
feel yourself how impossible it is."

"My God! Miss Brabazou, is this a time to
discuss propriety ? I have saved her from suicide
— and it is impossible to take her home. The
sight of Athelstone would drive her to frenzy, I
believe. She is pursued by the idea that he wants
to get rid of her— and I have promised her that
she shall not go back to Whitehall."

*' Then she shall go home with me."

It was as if she had driven a knife into him,
but he was silent.

Her reputation should be dearer to you — as
lev friend — than anything. Every moment she
remains here it is in greater danger. Come,"
and she turned to the door.

When the poor young creature, who lay
moaning and muttering on the couch, heard
Sylvia's voice at her side, she started up, and.

-witli a feeble ciy, flung her arms about her
neck.

Wilfred Athelstone had been detained at the
Club. It was nearly eight o'clock when he
reached his home.

He let himself in with his latch-key, and the
next moment both servants came forward to
meet him.

"I am late. Let dinner be served in ten
minutes. Is her ladyship dressed f he asked.

'' Her ladyship is — omV replied Staples, emphasizing
the last word.

Out ? What the devil do you mean f '

She looked at him with her unflinching black
eyes, and handed him Nellie's note.

'' Perhaps this will explain, my lord."

He drew near the lamp in a state neither of
doubt nor fear, simply of wonderment. What
could have taken her out? He tore open the
note. Inside were these words, faintly traced
in pencil :

When you read this, you will he free, hut do not

sail for America, It is to save you I do this, God
forgive us our sins /"

His face turned ashy pale, and the hand that
held the note shook as he re-read the lines.
He was horror-struck, but utterly bewildered.
What did they mean? He looked up. There
were both servants staring at him, but his
tongue clove to the roof of his mouth ; he could
not ask them, he could not speak ; he stood
there, speechless with the terror he dared not
put into words.

*tell me," he said, hoarsely, at length,
what do you know — of — of this ?"

They told him, as they had told Sylvia.

*the thing is impossible!" he cried. "I
never can believe it. Good God !"

He sat down, and, leaning both elbows on
the table, covered his face with his hands. The
servants, looking at him, saw that his whole frame
quivered. But they could little understand the
revulsion of feeling that agitated him. How the
past year rose up accusingly ! In what sharp
black lines his selfishness, his neglect of the
poor little plant he had torn from its native

soil and left to wither, now appeared to him !
What upbraiding memories swept over him,
wave after wave ! Mrs. Dawson's pale, sad
face, his own father's stern warnings, the sweet
girlhood, the glad womanhood he had blasted, —
this was the end of it all I Casuistry was forgotten
; ingenious self-defences broken down.
He stood face to face, as men do at rare
moments in life, with Conscience. We dig
graves for it we bury it, we trample it underfoot,
but there comes a day of judgment, even
in this world, when it bursts its bonds, and
stands confronting us and we can blind our
eyes and stop our ears no more.

The silence was broken by Lorenzo. He
told his master, in Italian, of the beloved signorina's
visit, and how she had gone off instantly
to Signer St. John's house.

For some minutes there was no reply. Then
he started up.

*' Call me a hansom."

The servants left the room. The window
into the garden was still open, and, at this
moment, he heard the sound of a footfall on

the gravel, and then of feet ascending the iron
steps. He took a pace forward ; he looked
into the blackness, and St. John stood before
him.

He had thought the door on the Embankment
might still be open, and had preferred to come
in, as he had gone out, that way, to avoid the
servants, if possible.

The two men faced each other, for a moment,
in silence. Both were deadly pale ; but one
was struck dumb, as much from amazement as
from the violence of emotion that could not
readily find utterance; the other had just passed
through a crisis of such passionate agony that,
after it, nothing could move him very deeply.
Even indignation and resentment left him
cold — but as a merciless judge is cold — before
the man who was the cause of all this
suffering.

"I have come to tell you," he said, slowly,
"that Lady Athelstone is safe."

*' You come to me, St. John ! You dare to
come here ! What does this mean? Where is
she ?"

With the Brabazons — safe, but, I fear, very
ill."

'iii! What is the matter?"

"I imagine it is brain-fever. She is quite
delirious."

That is why she left home then. She did
not go with you ?"

"No," he replied, sternly, *she did not go
with me. I got to the river just in time to
save her from death, and you from the curse of
an act which would have embittered your whole
life. Had your wife died by her own hand,
you could never have forgiven yourself. Her
mind has suffered so much under all she has
been called upon to bear of late that this is the
result. She saw that you were weary of her ;
she believed that you were going to America
chiefly to break away from a chain that was
unendurable to you. She was haunted by the
obligation of freeing you, and preventing your
voyage. This produced the fever of the brain ;
the river was at hand, and reason, — self-control,
were gone."

** Good God ! how terrible !" He turned, and
VOL. Ill, S

took a step or two across the room ; then, with
a quick impulse, he came back and held out his
hand. " I wronged you, old fellow . . . God
-will reward you for what you have done forme."


But the other made no movement forward.
He looked at Athelstone straight in the face ashe
said, slowly,

*' It was not for you — it was for her, I love
her better than my life — I tell you so plainly —
therefore I will never take your hand again.
She went home with me and, but for Miss
Brabazon, she might have remained there, for
she would not return here, and I swore I would
protect her. No good to me could have come
of it, for I am no more to her, and never shall
be now, than the first waterman who might
have saved her. But it was not always so.
There was a time when, if you had not come
between us, she might have consented to marry
me ; and, God knows, if devotion could have
made her happy, she would have been so. You
took her from me out of pique — out of vanity.
But she loved you only too well, and this is

the result. I have laid bare my feelings ; I
have told you plainly the part I have played
in this. Friendship between us is impossible
henceforward."

You have much greater cause of complaint
against me than I have against you," cried
Wilfred ; " and you have saved her ! I owe
you a debt of gratitude for that which can never
be wiped out. And if, when she is recovered,
and come back here "

Lorenzo appeared just then ; the hansom was
at the door. The boy's amazement at seeing
St. John almost paralyzed his speech.

I shall drive instantly, of course, to Barnes."

'^ You had best secure the first medical opinion
you can, and take him down with you."

A couple of hours later, Wilfred, accompanied
by an eminent physician, reached Mrs. Braba-
son's house.

s2

CHAPTER XVI.

nnHEY were shown into a small library which,
^ in spite of a good fire, smelt damp, and
the light of one shaded lamp was insufficient to
illuminate the heavy furniture and book-lined
walls.

They were not kept waiting two minutes.
The door opened, and Sylvia Brabazon entered
rapidly. She was still in her travelling-dress ;
her hair was in disorder, lines of anxiety were
on her face, and yet she had never looked more
nobly beautiful.

*' I will take Dr. upstairs," she said.

"You must not come — at present," she added,
with decision.

Why not ? I will be quiet — I will not
speak."

She is terribly excited, and I am afraid
that you are the person of all others who must
be kept away. Remain here, and I will return
to you."

Wilfred was left alone. He paced the room
nervously. How long the doctor was ! She
could not be very ill ; he had left her much as
usual so lately. It was nervousness — it was hysteria.
After the revulsion to relief he had just
experienced, he would not allow himself to feel
seriously alarmed. And then, when Sylvia's
ivory-white face stood before him once more,
backed by the dark books, his heart suddenly
failed him.

What does he say T

She is in a very critical state, and must be
kept absolutely quiet. He has ordered ice to
her head. He expects the fever will increase
as the night advances. You will remain hereof
course, but you must not see her. She is
pursued by a dread of your finding her, and —
in short, seeing you would excite her terribly ;
you must be patient."

He leant his head against the mantelpiece

near which they were standing, concealing his
face from her.

Tell me, does she know you ?"

Yes ; though her mind rambles, she knows
me, and seems to like my being near her."

Then, with his head still averted, he said —

-' Does she reproach me bitterly ? Tell me
everything."

She would not tell him everything ; but she
replied —

There is no reproach. There is a delusion
that you wish to get rid of her ; that you would
have dissolved your marriage, had it been possible
; that even her presence is insupportable to
you. It was this brought on the fever."

My poor little Nell ! If I had only known I
But I swear to you she was mistaken in all she
fancied. I have been to blame ; I don't want to
defend myself; but she never understood me."

Then the flame of a righteous wrath kindled
in the beautiful woman's eyes that flashed on
him as she said, quickly —

Do not talk of being misunderstood ! This
is no moment to discuss what she fancied ; but

I feel very sure that what she saw — what she
could not help seeing — would have wounded
any sensitive nature so situated. I don't wish
to be hard on you ; you must be suffering
keenly ; but done talk of being ' misunderstood.'
Think only of her, and of the infinite
sorrow (for you, more than for herself,) which
has brought her to this !"

He walked up and down with agitated
strides.

'' I do think of it. That cursed pamphlet was
the beginning. Would to God I had never
written it !" Then, stopping suddenly and
looking into her face, he said — *' You do not —
you do not surely think she is m danger ?"

She is very weak. It would be wrong to
tell yoa there is no danger. But I trust in
God's mercy that her life may be spared, for
your sake more than for hers."

"Why do you say that?" he asked, almost
fiercely.

'' Because she seems, all through her delirium,
to have the most intense longing to betaken.
It is strange to see one so young

without the desire to live, common to us all."

A consultation was held the following morning.
All that human skill could suggest was
done. But vitality was wanting to resist the
fever which nothing could allay. It continued,
accompanied by delirium, diminishing her
strength hour by hour.

Five days went by ; and Wilfred was the last
to abandon a belief that she might recover. He
was not allowed to go beyond the threshold of
her room, but came there fifty times a day, and
heard his own name invoked in her ravings
with terror and supplication. Perhaps this was
his severest punishment : to be debarred from
the solace of nursing her; to know that the
sight of him would aggravate her sufferings
fourfold. He wandered restlessly about the house
or in the shrubbery, walked up and down stairs,
sat a few minutes with Mrs. Brabazon in the
drawing-room, took up the Times and threw it
down again, and was miserable as only men
can be ; women having the occupation of their
hands, and the thousand little duties, the

raecliauism of which affords a wholesome outlet
for some surface energy.

St. John came daily, but he took precautions
not to meet Wilfred, entering by the back
premises, and remaining there until Sylvia was
at liberty, and could run down to him for a few
minutes. His way of receiving the daily bulletin
offered a curious contrast to Athelstone's.
From the iSrst he had no hope, and Sylvia saw
that the iron had entered his soul ; but he was
very quiet, his demeanour was characterized by
the repression of demonstrative feeling, and he
never trusted himself to speak of Wilfred.
On the fifth day he said, as he was going
away,

"I shall never see her again. But, if she
recovers consciousness before she dies give her
this message. Tell her that the only joy which
has come into my life for years came through
her, and that her memory will always remain
green with me, though I should live to be an
old man."

During that night the fever left her. But in
the morning she was so prostrate that the

doctors thought it improbable she would live
through the day. Her intellect was clear, and
she asked for Wilfred. She was quite calm,
and smiled peacefully, as he knelt down beside
her bed, and tenderly kissed the thin little hand
he held between his. Sylvia administered a
stimulant to give her strength to speak to him,
and then left the room. They were alone.

He tried to control his emotion, but now and
again a low sob burst from him. She fixed her
loving eyes on his face with a fearlessness such
as she had never before shown.

Do not grieve for me, darling !" she said,
almost in a whisper. " I am so happy to go.
All the pain and trouble is gone, and I feel at
peace. I feared I should die alone, while you
were across the seas. That was before my head
began to pain so. And now I. have no pain ;
for 1 leave you safe with her, and I am going to
my leinster."

Forgive me, Nellie ! Say that you forgive
me, though I can never forgive myself*'

I have nothing to forgive, dear. Do not
reproach yourself— it was not your fault. You

were mistaken in me, and I should never have
let you sacrifice yourself. My dying saves you
from — evil ; therefore I am glad to go. I should
be miserable now to live on, feeling so unfit to
be your wife. Ah ! dear Wilfred, I cannot love
you more in heaven than I have done on earth,
but my ignorance will not signify there. God
bless and strengthen you, my darling !" Her
head fell back upon the pillow, as she added,
faintly, " Call Miss Brabazon."

Sylvia entered, and Nellie motioned that she
should kneel on the other side of the bed.

"Pray for me and for /wm," she whispered.
And Sylvia steadied her voice to offer up a
short prayer. The dying woman's eyes were
riveted upon the pale morning sky, and her
lips moved, though no sound issued from
them.

Then, after a silence, she raised herself by a
sudden effort, and, looking from one to the
other, drew their hands together.

'' Be his good angel !" she said. '' I give
him to your keeping !"

They were her last words. An hour later her

gentle spirit had passed from a world where
it had suffered so cruelly, to one where the
wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are
at rest.

THE END.

LONDON • PRINTED BY DUNCAN iLVCDONALD, Blenheim HOUSE.

MESSRS. HURST AND Blackest

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

ROYAL WINDSOR. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Second Edition. Volumes I. and 11. Demy 8vo. SOs.
CONTEXTS OF VOLS. I AND II.— Castle Hill, Norman Keep, First King's House.
Lion Heart. Kingless "Windsor, Windsor Won, Geoffrey Plantagenet, Windsor
Lost, The Fallen Deputy, The Queen Mother, Maud de Braose, The Barons'
War. Second King's House, Edward of Carnarvon, Pert de Gaston, Isabel
de France, Edward of Windsor, Crecy, Patron Saints. St. George, Society of
St. George, Lady Salisbury, David King of Scots, Third King's House, Ballad
Windsor, The Fair Countess, Richard of Bordeaux. Court Parties. Eoyal Favourites,
Rehearsing for Windsor. In the Great Hall, Simon de Burley, Eadcote
Bridge, A Feast of Death, Geoffrey Chaucer, At Winchester Tower, St. George's
Chapel, The Little Queen, At Windsor, Duchess Philippine, The Windsor Plot,
Bolingbroke, Court of Chivalry, Wager of Battle, Captive Little Queen, A New
Year's Plot, Night of the Kings, Dona Juan, Constance of York, The Norman
Tower, The Legal Heir. Prince Hal, The Devil's Tower, In Captivity Captive,
Attempt at Rescue. .Agincourt, Kaiser Sigismund, The Witch Queen, Sweet
Kate, The Maid of Honour, Lady Jane, Henry of Windsor, Richard of York,
Two Duchesses, York and Lancaster, Union of the Roses.
' Eoyal Windsor ' follows in the same lines as ' Her Majesty's Tower,' and aims
at weaving a series of popular sketches of striking events which centre round
Windsor Castle. Mr. Dixon makes everything vivid and picturesque. Those who
liked ' Her Majesty's Tower ' will find these volumes equally pleasant reading"—
Alienum.

"A truly fine and interesting book. It is a valuable contribution to English
history; worthy of Mr. Dixon fame, worthy of its grand subject"— i/ornfng' Post.
Mr. Dixon has supplied us with a highly entertaining book. ' Royal Windsor '
is eminently a popular work, bristling with anecdotes and amusing sketches of
historical characters. It is carefully written, and is exceedingly pleasant reading.
The story is brightly told ; not a dull page can be found. Mr. Dixon is to be congratulated
on having put so much information into so agreeable a shape"— £'xamjHe7\
These volumes will find favour with the widest circle of readers. From the first
days of Norman Windsor to the Plantagenet period Mr. Dixon tells the story of this
famous castle in his own picturesque, bright, and vigorous way"— Z>a<7i/ Tdegrapli.

Mr. Hepworth Dixon has found a congenial subject in 'Eoyal Windsor.' Under
the sanction of the Queen, he has enjoyed exceptional opportunities of most
searching and complete investigation of the Eoyal House and every other part of
"Windsor Castle, in and out, above ground and below ground"— Z'«i7?/ Heirs.

VOLS. III. AND IV. OF ROYAL WINDSOR. By

W. Hepworth Dixon. Demy 8vo. SOs. Completing the Work.

CONTENTS OF VOLS. III. AND IV.— St. George's Hall, The Tudor Tower, A
Windsor Comedy, The Secret Room, Treaties of Windsor, The Private Stair,
Disgracing a Knight, In a King's House, The Maiden's Tower, Black Days,
The Virgin Bride, Elegy on Windsor, Fair Geraldine, Course of Song, Windsor
Gospeller, Windsor Martyrs, A Eoyal Reference, Hatchment Down, The
People's Friend, St. George's Enemy, Lady Elizabeth's Grace, Queen Mary,
Grand Master of St. George, Deanery and Dean, Sister Temperance, Elizabeth's
Lovers, Dudley Constable, The Schoolmaster, Peace, Proclaimed,
Shakespeare's Windsor, The Two Shakespeare, The Merry Wives, Good Queen
Bess, House of Stuart, The Little Park, The Queen's Court, The King's
Knights, Spurious Peace, King Christian. A Catholic Dean, Apostasy, Expulsion,
Forest Eights, Book of Sports, Windsor Cross, In the Forest, Windsor
Seized, Under the Keep, At Bay, Feudal Church, Parleying, Roundheads,
Cavalier Prisoners, Head-Quarters, The New Model, Last Days of Loyalty,
Saints in Council, Changing Sides, Earshot Lodge, At Length, Cutting Down,
Windsor Uncrowned, A " Merry " Caesar, Windsor Catholic, The Catastrophe,
Domestic Life, Home.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW V(OB.KS—Cojitmued.

DIARY OF A TOUR IN SWEDEN, NORWAY,

AND RUSSIA, IX l.s27. By The Marchioness of Westminster.
1 vol. Demy 8vo, 15s.

"A bright and lively record So pleasantly are the letters written which Lady
Westminster sent home, so full are they of the enthusiasm and good humour
which enabled her to appreciate the sunny, and endure the cloudy, side of her
wanderings, that her book is most agreeable; and it has this special merit, that it
brings clearly before us a number of the great people of former days, royal and
imperial personages, whose intimate acquaintance the traveller's rank enabled her
to make." — Athenaeum.

A very agreeable and instructive volume." — Saturday Review.

"We recommend Lady Westminster diary to all classes of readers as a
highly instructive book of interesting travel, replete with graphic sketches of
social life and scenery', and abounding in many entertaining anecdotes. It is
written throughout with excellent taste and good sense"— Court Journal.

HOLIDAYS IN EASTERN FRANCE; Sketches

of Travel in Champagne, Franx'Hk-Comte, the Jura, the Valley of
the DouBS, &c. By M. Bentham-Edwards, Author of " A Winter
with the Swallows," &c. 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
Miss Edwards passed her holidays last summer in visiting a singularly interesting
and beautiful country. Her present volume, written in the same pleasant style
as that which described her wanderings in Western France, is so much the more
to be recommended that its contents are fresher and more novel" — Saturday Review.
"Readers of this work will find plenty of fresh information about some of the
most delightful parts of France. The descriptions of scenery are as graphic as the
sketches of character are lifelike"— Globe.

The tourist could not have a pleasant companion than this pretty book, and
its well laid out itineraries"— (r/Y/;)Aic.

THE YOUTH OF QUEEN ELIZABETH. Edited,

from the French of L. Wiesener, by Charlotte M. Yonge, Author
of " The Heir of RedclyfYe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"M. Wiesener is to be complimented on the completeness, accuracy, and research
shown in this work. He has drawn largely on the French Archives, the
Public Record Office, and British Museum, for information contained in original
documents, to some of which notice is directed for the first time. M. Wieseners
work is well worth translating, for it is most interesting as showing the education
and circumstances which tended to form the character of that extraordinary
queen. Miss Yonge appears to have successfully accomplished the tusk which she
has undertaken." — Athenaeum.

An excellent and interesting book. M. Wiesener has worked conscientiously
and carefully from original sources"— J ca^/e/Hy.

RORAIMA AND BRITISH GUIANA, with a

Glance at Bermuda, the West Indies, and the Spanish Main. By
J. W. Boddam-Wuetham. 8vo. With Map and Illustrations, los.

"The author has succeeded in producing an interesting and readable book of
travels. His remarks on everyday life in the tropics, his notes on the geography
and natural history of the countries he visited, and, above all, his vivid descriptions
of scenery, combine to form a record of adventure which in attractiveness it
will not be easy to surpass " — Athenceufii.

Mr. Whetham writes with vigour, and describes the life in the forests and on
the rivers and prairies of South America with a picturesqueness and freshness of
interest not inferior to that of the late Mr. Watertown's immortal wanderings. Mr.
Whetham travelled in portions of Guiana little known, meeting with many adventures
seeing many strange sights, and taking notes which have furnished matter
for a book of fascinating interest." — Laili/ A'ejfi.

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW WOYdi^— Continued.

CONVERSATIONS with Distinguished Persons

during the Second Empire, from 1860 to 1863. By the Late
Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M. Simpson.
2 vols. 8vo. sos.
Among other persons whose conversations are given in these volumes are:— Prince
Napoleon; the Due de Broglie; the Marquises Chambre, Lasteyrie, Pallas
Vogue Marshal Random ; Counts Arrivabene, Circourt, Corneille, Kern
Montalembert, Re'musat, Zamoyski; Generals Changarnier, Fdn^lon,
Trochus; Lords Cowley and Clyde; Sir W. Erie; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont,
Chamber, Chevalier, Cousin, Dayton, Drouyn de Lhuys, Duchatel, Du-fare,
Demon, Duvergier de Lausanne, Guizot, Haldimand, Hotze, Lamartine,
Dominie, Auvergne, Sanguinis, Maury, Marochetti, Mason, Me'rimee, Moil,
Dillon Barrot, Pellets, Pietro, Renal, St. Hilaire, Slide, Thiers, De Witt ;
Mesdames Circourt, Come, Moil, &c.
"Mr. Senior's 'Conversations with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,' &c., published about a
year and a half ago, were the most interesting volumes of the series which had
appeared up to that time, and these new 'Conversations ' are hardly, if at all, less
welcome and important. A large part of this delightful book is made up of studies
hy various critics, from divers points of view, of the character of Louis Napoleon,
and of more or less vivid and accurate explanations of his tortuous policy. The
work contains a few extremely interesting reports of conversations with M. Thiers.
There are some valuable reminiscences of Lamartine, and among men of a somewhat
later day, of Prince Napoleon, Drouyn de Lhuys, Montalembert, Victor
Cousin, Eenan, and the CheYsMers."— At Jienoe urn.

CONVERSATIONS with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,

and other Distinguished Persons, during the Second Empire. By
the Late Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M.
Simpson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
Among other persons whose conversations are recorded in these volumes are : —
King Leopold; the Due de Broglie; Lord Cowley; Counts Arrivabene. corneille,
Daru, Flahault, Kergolay, Montalembert; Generals Lamoriciere and
Chrzanowski; Sir Henry Ellis; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont, Blanchard,
Buffet, Auguste Chevalier, Victor Cousin, De Witt, Duchatel, Ducpetiaux,
Demon, Dastard, Duvergier de Lausanne, Leon Faucher, Frere-Orban, Grim-blot,
Guizot, Lafltte, Baume, Lamartine, Sanguinis, Mallac, Main, Me'rimee,
Magnet, Jules Moil, Monticello, Dillon-Barrot, Quetelet, Eemusat, Roger,
Rivet, Rossini, Horace Say. Thiers, Trouve'-Chauvel, Villain, Wolowski;
Mesdames Circourt, Cornu, History, &c.
This new series of Mr. Senior's ' Conversations ' has been for some years 'past
known in manuscript to his more intimate friends, and it has always been felt that
no former series would prove more valuable or important. Mr. Senior had a social
position which gave him admission into the best literary and political circles of
Paris. He was a cultivated and sensible man, who knew how to take full advantage
of such an opening. And above all, he had by long practice so trained ibis
memory as to enable it to recall all the substance, and often the words, of the long
conversations which he was always holding. These conversations he wrote down
with a surprising accuracy, and then handed the manuscript to his friends, that
they might correct or modify his report of what they had said. This book thus
contains the opinions of eminent men given in the freedom of conversation, and
afterwards carefully revised. Of their value there cannot be a question. The book
is one of permanent historical interest. There is scarcely a page without some
memorable statement by some memorable man. Politics and society and literature
the three great interests that make up life — are all discussed in turn, and there is
no discussion which is unproductive of weighty thought or striking UcV'—Athenxum.
"The present selection of Mr. Seniors Journals, edited with remarkable skill
and judgment by Mrs. Simpson, is extraordinarily full and interesting. Although
the unreserved and original communications of Thiers are especially fascinating,
the book would be abundantly interesting if it consisted only of the reports of
conversations with Guizot, Montalembert, Cousin, Lamartine, and other persons of
celebrity and eminence"— ^aiMr(ia2/ Review.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WOllKS— Continued.

HISTORY OF TWO QUEENS: CATHARINE

OF ARAGON and ANNE Boleyn. By W. Hepworth Dixon.
Second Edition. Vols. 1 & 2. Demy 8vo. sos.

"In two handsome volumes Mr. Dixon here gives us the first instalment of a
new historical work on a most attractive subject. The book is in many respects a
favourable specimen of Mr. Dixon's powers. It is the most painstaking and

elaborate that he has yet written On the whole, we may say that the book

is one which will sustain the reputation of its author as a writer of great power
and versatility, that it gives a new aspect to many an old subject, and presents ina
very striking light some of the most recent discoveries in English history." —
Athenaeum.

In these volumes the author exhibits in a signal manner his special powers-and
tlncst endowments. It is obvious that the historian has been at especial pains
to justify his reputation, to strengthen his hold upon the learned, and also to
extend his sway over the many who prize an attractive .style and interesting narrative
more highly than laborious research and philosophic insight"— J/or/ii/)<; Post.

The thanks of all students of English history are due to Mr. Hepworth Dixon
for his clever and original work, 'History of two Queens.' The book is a valuable
contribution to English history. The author has consulted a number of original
Sources of information — in particular the archives at Simancas. Alcala, and Venice.
Mr. Dixon is a skilful writer. His style, singularly vivid, graphic, and dramatic —
is alive with human and artistic interest. Some of the incidental description
reach a very high level of picturesque power." — Daily A'eits.

VOLS. III. & IV. OF THE HISTORY OF TWO

QUEENS : CATHARINE OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN.
By W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Price sos.
Completing the Work.

"These concluding volumes of Mr. Dixon's ' History of two Queens ' will be perused
with keen interest by thousands of readers. Whilst no less valuable to the
student, they will be far more enthralling to the general reader than the earlier
half of the history. Every page of what may be termed Anne Boleyn's stores affords
a happy illustration of the author's vivid and picturesque style. The work should
be found in every library." — Post.

Mr. Dixon has pre-eminently the art of interesting his readers. He has produced
a narrative of considerable value, conceived in a spirit of fairness, and
written with power and picturesque effect." — Daily ^'eics.

HISTORY OF WILLIAM PENN, Founder of

Pennsylvania. By W. Hepworth DixoN. A New Library Egmont

vol. demy 8vo, with Portrait. 12s.

Mr. Dixon's ' William Penn ' is, perhaps, the best of his books. He has now revised
and issued it with the addition of much frc-^h mutter. It is now offered in a
sumptuous volume, matching with Mr. Dixon's recent books, to a new generation of
reader's, who will thank Mr. Dixon for his interesting and instructive memoir of
one of the worthies of England." — Examiner.

FREE RUSSIA. By W. Hepworth Dixon. Third

Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Coloured Illustrations. sos.
"Mr. Dixon's book will be certain not only to interest but to please its reader?*
and it deserves to do so. It contains a great deal that is worthy of attention, and
is likely to produce a very useful effects"— Saturday Review.

THE Swimmers. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Third Edition. 1 vol. demy 8vo. los.
"A lively, interesting, and altogether novel book on Switzerland. It is full of
valuable information on social, political, and ecclesiastical questions, and, like all
Mr. Dixon's books, is eminently readable"— Z^ai/i/ Aeics.

MESSRS. PIUliST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW 'WOUKS—ContiJiued.

MEMOIRS OF Georgians, LADY chatterton

; "With some Passages from her Diary. By E. Engage
During. 1 vol, demy 8vo. 15s.
Among other persons mentioned in this work are Lords Vanstone, Brougham,
Macaulay, Lytton, Houghton; messrs. Wilberforce, Wordsworth, Hallam,
Rogers, gilmore, Sydney Smith. Landor, Lockhart, Fonblanque, "Warburton,
Harness, Chantry; Count Montalembert, Dr. Ullathorne, Dr. Newman,
Joanna Baillie, Lady Gifford. Lady Cork, Mrs. Somerville, Mrs. Norton, &c.
"Lady Chatterton's Diary gives a sketch of society during a well known but
'Over-interesting period. Mr. During may be congratulated on having furnished a
graceful epilogue to the story of an interesting life'' — Athenxuni.

"In this work we have the pleasant picture of a literary artist and an amiable
lady, and some interesting anecdotes which give value to the volume"— /oAra Bull.

A LEGACY : Being the Life and Remains of John

]Martin, Schoolmaster and Poet. Written and Edited by the
Author of " John Halifax." 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Portrait. 21s.

This is, in many respects, a remarkable book. It records the life, work, aspirations,
and death of a schoolmaster and poet, of lowly birth but high-strung and
ambitious soul. His writings brim with vivid thought, keen analysis of feeling,
touches of poetic sentiment, and trenchant criticism of men and books, expressed
in scholarly language." — Guardian.

"Mrs. Craik has related a beautiful and pathetic story — a story of faith and
courage and untiring energy on the part of a young and gifted man, who might
under other circumstances have won a place in literature. The story is one worth
reading." — Pall Mall Gazette.

In these volumes a well-known novelist presents us with a history so touching,
so marvellous, and so simple, as no invention could produce. Few more pathetic
or more instructive volumes have fallen in our way." — Morning Post.

LONDOXIANA. By Edward Walford, Mea.,

Author of " The County Families," &c. 2 volumes crown 8vo. 21s.

"A highly interesting and entertaining book. It bristles with anecdotes and
amusing sketches. The style is vivid, graphic, and dramatic, and the descriptions
are given with a terseness and vigour that rivet the attention of the reader. The
historian, the antiquarian, and the lover of romance will combine in pronouncing
'Londoniana' one of the most readable books of the day." — Court Journal.

There is variety and amusement in Mr. Walford's volumes." — Pall Mall Gazette.

These volumes are interesting and entertaining." — John Bull.

THE THEATRE Francis IN THE REIGN

OF LOUIS XV. By Alexander Baillie Cochrane, :M.P. 1 vol.
demy 8vo. 15s.

A most valuable contribution to dramatic Literature. All members of the profession
should read it." — Morning Post.

In this handsome volume Mr. Cochrane gives us a new work on a most attractive
subject, which will be perused with keen interest by thousands of readers. It is
written iu a style singularly vivid, dramatic, and interesting. The variety of scenes
described in this pleasant volume, the historical personages and dramatic artists
crowded on the canvas, and the truthful account of the French stage, form an intellectual
treat of the highest order. 'The Theatre Francis ' will take its place
among the best standard works of the day. and tint its way into every well-selected
library, fully sustaining the reputation of its skilful author." — Cou}-t Journal.

HISTORIC CHATEAUX: Blois, Fontainebleau,

Vincennes. By Alexander Bailie Cochrane, M.P. Ivol.Svo. 15s.
"A very interesting volume." — Times.

"A lively and agreeable book, full of action and colour'" — Athenaeum.
"This book is bright, pleasant reading." — British Quarterly Review.
A well executed book by a polished and vigorous writer." — Tie World.

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WO?AiS—Co7iti7iued.

VOLS. I. & II. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Sixth Edition. 8vo. SOs.
From the Times:— "All the civilized world— English, Continental, and American—
takes an interest in the Tower of London. The Tower is the stage
upon which has been enacted some of the grandest dramas and saddest tragedies
in our national annals. If, in imagination, we take our stand on those time-worii
walls, and let century after century flit past us, we shall see in duo succession the
majority of the most famous men and lovely women of England in the olden time.
We shall see them jesting, jousting, love-making, plotting, and then anon, perhaps,
commending their souls to God in the presence of a hideous masked figure-bearing
an axe in his hands. It is such pictures as these that Mr. Dixon, with
considerable skill as an historical limner, has set before us in these volumes. Mr.
Dixon dashes off the scenes of Tower history with great spirit His descriptions
hire given with such terseness and vigour that we should spoil them by any attempt
at condensation. In conclusion, we may congratulate the author on this work. Both
volumes are decidedly attractive, and throw much light on our national history."

VOLS. III. & IV. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER.

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Completing the Work. Third
Edition. Demy 8vo. SOs.

ROUND THE WORLD IN SIX MONTHS. By

LiEUT.-CoLONKL E. S. BRIDGES, Grenadier Guards. 1. vol 8vo. 15s.

"The author may be congratulated on his success, for his pages are light and
pleasant The volume will be found both amusing and useful." — Athenaeum.

Colonel Bridges' book has the merit of being lively and readable. His advice
to future travellers as well as his estimate of expenses may be found serviceable."
—Pall Mall Gazette.

"A thoroughly interesting and amusing book, as full of solid matter as pleasant
anecdote. We have not met a truer picture of American, .Japanese, Chinese,
Indian, Egyptian, or Maltese scenery and surroundings." — Court Journal.

A YOUNG SQUIRE OF THE SEVENTEENTH

CENTURY, from the Papers of Christopher Jefferson, of Bellingham
House, Cambridgeshire. Edited by John Cord Jefferson,
Author of "A Book about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"Two volumes of very attractive matter: — letters which illustrate agriculture,
commerce, war, love, and social manners, accounts of passing public events, and
details which are not to be found in the Gazettes, and which come with singular
freshness from private letters." — Athenaeum.

"Two agreeable and important volumes. They deserve to be placed on library
shelves with Pepys, Evelyn, and Hereby. "—i\'ote and Queries.

THE SEA OF MOUNTAINS : An Account of

Lord Dufferin's Tour through British Columbia in 1876. By

MoLYNEux St. John. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Portrait of Lord

Culverin. 21s.

"■Mr. St. John has given us in these pages a record of all that was seen and done

in a very successful visit Lis book is instructive, and it should be interesting to

the gciu'rai reader." — Times.

Mr. St. John is a shrewd and lively writer. The reader will find ample variety
in his book, which is well worth perusal. ' — J'all Mull Gazette.

"These volumes are amusing, interesting, and even valuable. They give us a
very cleiir idea of the great quarrel between British Columbia and the Dominion
of Canada; and the' contain a full report of Lord Dufferin's great speech at
Victoria. Thin there arc some graphic sketches of social life and scenery, and
£one entertaining Htnrieia "Spectator.

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW ^YOnKS— Continued,

CELEBRITIES I HAVE KNOWN. By Lord

William Pitt Lennox. Second Series. 2 volumes demy 8vo. sos.

Among other persons mentioned in the Second Series of this work are — The
Princess Charlotte and Prince Leopold ; the Dukes of "Wellington and Beaufort;
the Earls of Durham and Carlisle; Lords Byron, Clyde, Adolphus Fits
and Cockburn; Sirs Walter Scott, G. Wombwell, A. Barnard, John
Elle, Sidney, Harry, and C. F. Smith ; Count Doorway ; Dr. Dodd ; Messrs.
Thomas Moore, Theodore Hook, Leigh Hunt, Jordan, James, Horace, and
Albert Smith, Bentley, Tattersall, Hudson Ude, George Coleman, The Kemble,
G. F. Cooke, Charles Young, Edmund and Charles Kean, Yates, Harley ; Miss
Foote; Mrs. Nisbet; Mesdames Catalani,Grassini, Rachel, &c.
This new series of Lord William Lennox's reminiscences is fully as entertaining
as the preceding one. Lord William makes good use of an excellent memory,
and he writes easily and pleasantly." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"One of the best books of the season. Pleasant anecdotes, exciting episodes, smart
sayings, witticisms, and repartees are to be found on every page"— Cowri Journal.

COACHING ; With Anecdotes of the Road. By

Lord William Pitt Lennox, Author of " Celebrities I have
Known," &c. Dedicated to His Grace the Duke of Beaufort,
Keg., President, and the Members of the Coaching
Club. 1 vol. demy 8vo. I5s.

Lord William's book is genial, discursive, and gossipy. We are indebted to the
authors personal recollections for some lively stories, and pleasant sketches of
some of the more famous dragoman. Nor does Lord William by any means limit
himself to the English roads, and English coaches. Bianconi's Irish cars, the continental
diligences, with anecdotes of His Grace of Wellington, when Lord William
was acting as his aide-de-camp during the occupation of Paris, with many other
matters more or less germane to his subject, are all brought in more or less
naturally. Altogether his volume, with the variety of its contents, will be found
pleasant reading"— Pati Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.
2 vols, large post 8vo, with Portrait. 24s.

This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. We need scarcely state that all the portions of Moche
diary which refer to his intercourse with Beethoven, Hummel, Weber, Czemy,
Sporting, Rossini, Auber, Halevy, Schumann, Cherubini, Spohr, Mendelssohn, F.
David, Chopin, J B. Cramer. Clement, John Field, Habeneck, Hauptmann, Kalk-
brenner, Kiesewetter, C. Klingemann, Laplace, Dragonetti, Sontag, Persian,
Malian, Paganini, Rachel, Ronzi de Begnis, De Heriot, Ernst, Donzelli, Cinti-
Moreau, Heard, Bochsa, Reporte, Charles Kemble, Paton (Mrs. Wood),
SchriJder-Devrient, Mrs. Siddons, Sir H. Bishop, Sir G. Smart, Staudigl, Thalers,
Berlioz, Veluti, C. Young, Bale, Abraham, and many other artists of note in their
time, will recall a flood of recollections. It was a delicate task for Madame 
to select from the diaries in reference to living persons, but her extracts have
been judiciously made. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of the
Future ' and its disciples, and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, bernstein,
Dr. von Billow, Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a
liberal spirit. He recognizes cheerfully the talents of our native artists, Sir Stem-dale
Bennett, Mr. Macfarren, Madame Arabella Goddard, Mr. John Barnett, Mr.
Hullah, Mrs. Shaw, ilr. A. Sullivan, &c. The celebrities with whom Moscheles
came in contact, include Sir Walter Scott, Sir Robert Peel, the late Duke of Cambridge,
the Bunsen, Louis Philippe, Napoleon the Third, Humboldt, Henry Heine,
Thomas More, Coimt Nesselrode, the Duchess of Orleans, Prof. Wolf, &c. Indeed,
the two volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum,

Messrs. Hurst AND BLACKETT'S
NEW Vi^ORKS—Coniijiued.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to, 58. bound.

"These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature."—^ theatrum.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
ami fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly And even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulate.
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to ntTord now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life." — British
Quarterly Review.

This touching and most comforting work is dedicated to The Queen', who took
a gracious interest in its first appearance, when printed for private circulation, and
found comfort in its pages, and has now commanded its publication, that the
world in general may profit by it. A more practical and heart-stirring appeal to
the afflicted we have never examined." — Standard,

A MAN OF OTHER DAYS : Recollections of the

Marquis de Beauregard. Edited, from the French, by Charlotte
M. YoNGE, Author of " The Heir of Redclyfie," &c. 2 vols. 2l8.
*' M. Costa de Beauregard lived long enough to see the last years of the Monarchy
Revolution, and the early promise of General Bonaparte. The opening chapters
of the work introduce us to Paris society at the time when it was perhaps the
most brilliant; and it is amusing to accompany our hero to Mme. Geofi^rin's salon,
where Yarmouth, Rochefoucauld, Greuze, Diderot, and many others, discourse
literature, art, and philosophy." — Saturday Review.

OUR BISHOPS AND DEANS. By the Rev. F.

Arnold, Bea., late of Christ Church, Oxford. 2 vols. 8vo. SOs.
"This work is good in conception and cleverly executed, and as thoroughly
honest and earnest as it is interesting and &hle."— John Bull.

LIFE OF THE RT. HON. SPENCER PERCEVAL ;

Including His Correspondence. By His Grandson, Spencer Wax,-
POLE. 2 vols. 8vo. With Portrait. sos.
"This biography will take rank, as a faithful reflection of the statesman and
his period, as also for its philosophic, logical, and dramatic completeness"— Post.

MY YOUTH, BY" SEA AND LAND, from 1809 to

1816. By Charles Loftus, formerly of the Eoyal Navy,

late of the Coldstream Guards. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

Major Loftus played the part allotted to him with honour and ability, and he

relates the story of his sea life with spirit and vigour. Some of his sea stories are

us laughable as anything in 'Peter Simple,' while many of his adventures on

shore remind us of Charles Lever in his freshest days. During his sea life

Sloior Foetus became acquainted with many distinguished persons. Besides the

Duke of Wellington, the Prince Regent, and \Villium IV., he was brought into

personal relation with the allied Sovereigns, the Due DAngouleme, Lord William

Bentinck, and Sir Hudson Lowe. A more genial, pleasant, wholesome book we

have not often read." — Standard.

ACROSS CENTRAL America. By J. W. .

bvo. AVith illustrations. l.'s.
"Mr. r<.i!»liim-Whc'thnm writes easily and agreeably'— Pa// Jaw Gazette.
"A bright aLd lively account of interesting travel"— Cic

MESSRS. HUEST AND BLACKETT'S

Publications— Continued.

HISTORY OF ENGLISH HUMOUR. By the

Rev. A. G. L'EsTRANGE, Author of " The Life of the Rev. W.

Harness," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
This work contains a large anil varied amount of information. It is impossible
to give any idea of the wealth of anecdote and epigram in its pages, and for anything
like a proper appreciation of its value we must refer our readers to the book
itself"— /o;!« Bull.

MY YEAR IN AN INDIAN FORT. By Mrs.

Guthrie. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 21s.
"Written with intelligence and ability." — Fall Mall Gazette.

"A pleasantly written book. Those who know India, and those who do not, may
read the work with pleasure and profit." — Standard.

RECOLLECTIONS of COLONEL DE Bonneville.

Edited from the French by Charlotte M. Yonge,

Author of the " Heir of Radcliffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. dis.

"This work discloses a variety of details of interest connected with Napoleon's

escape from Elba, the Hundred Days, the Bourbon Restoration, and the Revolution

of July, 1S30."— The Times.

THROUGH FRANCE AND BELGIUM, BY

RIVER AND CANAL, IN THE Steals! YACHT " YTENE."
By W. J. C. Mons. R.V.Y.C. 1 vol. Bvo. With Illustrations. 15s.

MY LIFE, FROM 1815 to 1849. By Charles Loftus,

formerly of the Royal Navy, late of the Coldstream Guards.
Author of " My Youth by Sea and Land." 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
"A thoroughly interesting and readable book." — Standard.

A BOOK ABOUT THE TABLE. By J. C.

Jefferson. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.
"This book is readable and amusing from first to last." — Morning Post.

Costs ESPANOLAS ; or, Every-day Life in

Spain. By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury, Author of " Turkish
Harems and Circassian Homes." Second Edition. 1 vol. 8vo. 15s.

PEARLS OF THE PACIFIC. By J. W, Boddam-

Whetham 1 vol. Demy 8vo, with 8 Illustrations. 15s.

"The literary merits of this work are of a very high order." — Athens,

TURKISH HAREMS & CIRCASSIAN HOMES.

By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. 8vo. Second Edition. 15s.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OF NAPOLEON III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.
A biography of the beautiful and unhappy Queen, more satisfactory than any we
have yet met with." — Daily News.

RECOLLECTIONS OF SOCIETY IN FRANCE

AND ENGLAND. By Lady Clementina Davies. 2nd Edition. 2 v.
Two charming volumes, full of the most interesting matter." — Post.

THE EXILES AT ST. GERMAINS. By the

Author of " The Lady Shakerley." 1 vol. 7s. 6d. bound.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

A SYLVAN QUEEN. By the Author of " Rashers

Secret," &c. 3 vols.

LILY OF THE VALLEY. By Mrs. Randolph,

Author of " Gentianella," &c. 3 vols.

YOUNG LORD PENRITH. By John Berwick

Haywood, Author of " Lady Flavian," &c. 3 vols.
"Throughout this novel there is an abundance of well-written passages, in
which force and brightness prevail, whilst the descriptions of scenery are as vividly
interesting as every other detail is exciting'" — Messenger.

IN THE SWEET SPRING-TIME. By Mrs. Mac-quod,

Author of " Patty," &c. 3 vols.

"A most interesting story ot"^ domestic life, written in Mrs. Acquits best
style. It abounds with dramatic situations, and is not wanting in pathos and.
humour. It is a delightful and refreshing took, in every way deserving of popularity,
and worthy of its author's reputation." — Mot-king Post.

•'A bright and pleasant tale. There are few living novelists who know better
how to tell a love-story than Mrs. Macquoid. The quiet grace and tenderness of
her style seem to lend themselves most readily to such a theme, and she has exceptional
skill in depicting and analysing the finer and subtler shades of character
and emotion. " — Scotsman.

THE GREATEST HEIRESS IN ENGLAND. By

Mrs. Oliphant, Author of " Chronicles of Carlingford," &c. Second
Edition. 3 vols.

'The Greatest Heiress in England ' should add to Mrs. Oliphant reputation.
It is noticeably good among the great number of her good novels. The story runs
along pleasantly, and maintains the reader's interest throughout." — Athenxuin.

This book is a delightful one — fresh, interesting, wholesome, and well written.
It deserves to take rank among the best works of the author'' — Examiner.

"There is a great deal of Mrs. Oliphant's best humour and cleverness in this
novel. Her great store of observation and power of amusing description are
largely displayed." — Daily News.

FRIEND AND LOVER. By Iza Duffus Hard,

Author of " Glencairn," itc. 3 vols.

A powerful story, well worth reading. The plot is ingenious, original, and yet
perfectly natural. Miss Harder sketches of character are truthful, vivid and
graphic. It is decidedly one of the best written books of the season." — Post.

The best novel Miss Hardy has written." — John Bull.

"A remarkable, powerful, and fascinating book." — Sunday Times.

LITTLE MISS PRIMROSE. By the Author of

St. Slave's," " The Last of her Line," &c. 3 vols.

"The graceful tone and quality of the work of the author of 'SL Slave's' are well
known to novel readers. 'Little Miss Primrose' is a very good example of her
manner." — Academy.

The author has succeeded in this charming tale in maintaining her popularity.
She has drawn, in the heroine, a delightful character, of exceptional grace and
elegance'' — Morning Post.

THROUGH THE STORM. By Charles Question,

Author of " So Young, my Lord, and True." 3 vols.

"These is more than the average of exciting incident in this decidedly interesting
talk." — At/ienwuni.

There certainly is in this story not a little that both interests and pleases the
reader. "saturday lievietc.



PUBLISHED BY HUEST & BLACKETT.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE. By the Author of ^' John

Halifax, Gentleman." Second Edition. 3 vols,
'Young Mrs. Jardine' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — The Times.
'moliere is much tenderness and good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and
wholesome'" — Athenaeum.

'Young Mrs. Jardine' is a book that all should read. Whilst it is quite tha
equal of any of its predecessors in elevation of thought and style, it is, perhaps,
their superior in interest of plot and dramatic intensity." — Morning Post.

SIR JOHN. By the Author of " Anne Dysart." 3 v.

' Sir John ' has abundant interest without any straining after the sensational."
—Athenaeum.

'Sir John ' is pleasantly written. The author shows a grasp of character and
power of expression of no mean order." — Examiner.

RECORDS OF A STORMY LIFE. By the Author

of "Recommended to Mercy," &c. 3 vols.
•' This book shows decided skill in the delineation of character, and it contains
scenes of no little force and pathos." — The Times.

This story has merit, and is decidedly interesting'" — Morning Post.

Godwin ORDEAL. By Mrs. J. K. Spender,

Author of " Parted Lives," &c. 3 vols.
Novel readers owe Mrs. Spender a debt of gratitude for her book. The interest
undoubtedly centres in the heroine herself, who is a charming creation " — A theatrum.
This story is pleasantly written, intelligent and earnest." — Pall Mall Gazette.

FALSE HEARTS AND TRUE. By Mrs. Alexander

Fraser, Author of "A Fatal Passion," &c. 3 vols,
This work is well calculated to enhance the reputation of Mrs. Fraser as one of
our most accomplished novelists. Few readers will fail to be charmed with the-easy,
pleasant style of the author." — Post.

THE HONOURABLE ELLA. By the Earl of

Desart, Author of "Coverdale." Second Edition. 3 vols.
Lord Desart's humour, vivacity, and witty comparisons make his pages sparkle,
and give the reader many a pleasant laugh." — Athenaeum.

ROSE Mervin. By Anne Beale, Author of " Fay

Arlington," &c. 3 vols.

'•A good novel. The story steadily develops in interest to the close, and Rose,
the heroine, is charming." — Spectator.

Macedon Heroine. By Mrs. Leith Adams,

Author of " "Winston," &c. 3 vols.
' Macedon Heroine ' is a carefully written book — thoughtful, pleasant, and high
toned. The plot of the story is well worked out." — Athenaeum.

ORANGE LILY. By the Author of " Queene." 2 v.

"This story is told with both pathos and humour." — Athenaeum.
"This is a really charming story, one which, by simple power of description and
vivid presentment of character, arrests and holds fast the attention.' — Spectator.

DORCAS. By Georgians M. Craik. 3 vols.

Miss Craik's new novel is clever. Her women are all pleasantly fresh and
real. " ' — A thence.



Published annually, in One Vol., royal 8ro, with the Arms beautifully
engraved, hatidsoniely bound, with gilt eyes, price 31s. 6t/.

LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE rOBTY-NINTH EDITION FOB 1 880 IS NOW Ready.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
-complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the title aristocracy, no work has
over stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood RoyaL

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husbands Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight, Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stables at this day. It la
a most useful publication. We nre happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and second j', it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject" — Spectator.

"A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the anaio-
crack of the day"— Post.

"The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the subject"— <Sran(/ard



OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS,

ILLUSTRATED BY SIR J. GILBERT, MILLAIS, HUNT, LEECH, FOSTER,
Pointer, TENNIEL, Sands, HUGHES, Tambourine, &C.

Each in a Single Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.

1. SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions-forms
a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
'Nature and Human Nature' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous
and is well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain
in its present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type, and good paper, the lesser but attractive merits of
being well illustrated and elegantly bound." — Post.

2. JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career-from
boyhood to age of a perfect man— a Christian gentleman; and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and
written with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass
freely from hand to hand as a gift book in many households." — Examiner.

3. THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.
"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is
its reverent and serious spirit" — Quarterly Review.

4. NATHALIE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort Its manner is gracious and.
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her
which are as individual as they are elegant" — Athenaeum.

5. A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well-written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a-
young lady may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

6. ADAM Gramme. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its admirable pictures
of Scottish life and scenery. The author sets before us the essential attributes of"
Christian virtue, with a delicacy, power, and truth which can hardly be surpassed-P05;,.

7. SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND MODERN
INSTANCES.

"The reputation of this book will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's Novels
Its remarkable originality and happy descriptions of American life still continue the-subject
of universal admiration"— J/e.<:5e«$rer.

8. CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS OF
THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has treated a special subject with so much geniality, that
his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously opposed
to every idea of hmnan infallibility represented in Papal domination." — Athenaeum.

9. A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"In 'A Life for a Life ' the author ia fortunate in a good subject, and has produced a
work of strong eSecV-'Athenaeum.

U

10. THE OLD COURT SUBURB. By LEIGH HUNT.

"A delightful book, that will be welcome to all readers, and most welcome to those
who have a love for the best kinds of reading." — Examiner.

11. MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming." — Atlienmutn.

12. THE OLD JUDGE. By SAM SLICK.

"The publications included in this Library have all been of good quality; many give
information while they entertain, and of that class the book before us is a specimen.
The manner in which the Cheap Editions forming the series is produced, deserves
especial mention. The paper and print are unexceptionable ; there is a steel engraving
in each volume, and the outsides of them will satisfy the purchaser who likes to see
books in handsome uniform." — Examiner.

13. DARIEN. By ELIOT WARBURTON.

"This last production of the author of 'The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

14. FAMILY ROMANCE.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting hoo^"'— Standard.

15. THE LAIRD OF NORLAW. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"The 'Laird of Norlaw' fully sustains the author's high reputation"— 5M«<iaj/ Time.

16. THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

"Mrs. Bretton's book is interesting, and full of opportune instruction." — Times.

17. NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

18. FREER'S LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET.

"Nothing can be more interesting than Miss Freer's story of the life of Jeanne
D'Albret, and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive. " — Post.

19. THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BF THE AUTHOR OF "MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."
If asked to classify this work, w e should give it a place between 'John Halifax * and
•* The Cantons.' "Standard.

20. THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM.

BY PETER BURKE, SERGEANT AT LAW.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to cha-vm."— Illustrated New

21. ADELE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

' Adele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-paintings"— .4</im«M7n.

22. STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
Those ' Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. TLe
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author." — Saturday Revteu.

23. GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

"We commend 'Grandmother's Money' to readers in search of a good novel The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting"— ^(Aen«um.



24. A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY J. C. Jefferson.
A. delightful book." — Athenaeum. " A book to be read and re-read; flt for the study
as well as the drawing-room table and the circulating library." — Lancet.

25. NO CHURCH.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this hook"— Athenaeum.

26. MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN Halifax, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive"—
.4</ien<Kum. " A charming tale charmingly tol"— Standard.

27. LOST AND SAVED. By HON. MRS. NORTON.

'lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest. It is a vigorous novel" — Times.
"A novel of rare excellence. It is Mrs. Norton's best prose work." — Examiner.

28. LES Miserable. By VICTOR HUGO.

AUTHORISED COPYRIGHT ENGLISH TRANSLATION.
"The merits of 'Les Miserable' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of ge.mus."— Quarterly Review.

29. BARBARA'S HISTORY. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as ' Barbara's
History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very graceful
and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and sentiments
expressed with an exquisite elocution. It is a book which the world will like"— Times.

30. LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme"— Km^^.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. Irving's Life ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

31. ST. Slave's.

This charming novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, aa
well as experience and knowledge of the world. ' — Athenaeum,

32. SAM SLICK'S AMERICAN HUMOUR.

"Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize." — Post.

33. CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. Even if tried by the standard of
the Archbishop of York, we should expect that even he would pronounce ' Christian's
Mistake' a novel without a fault"— rtmes.

34. ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the l&sXJ'—Athemeum.

35. AGNES. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

' Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.
"A story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Post

36. A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax' speaks
out of a generous heart the purest truths of MIq."— Examiner.



37. NEW AMERICA. By HEPWORTH DIXON.

"A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well" — Times.
"We recommend every cue who feels any interest iu human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting book." — Saturday Review.

38. ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.
' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
Interest. It is a book to bo returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feoiing^."— Athenaeum.

39. THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"the Woman's Kingdom' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the
purest and noblest kind of domestic Biov'ieB.—At)ien{euin.

40. ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.
"A racy, well-written, and original novel The interest never flags. The whole
work sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Rtvieic.

41. DAVID ELGINBROD. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

"The work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of readers." — Times.

42. A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

.\ very good novel ; a thoughtful, well-written book, showing a tender, sympathy
with human nature, and permeated by a pure and noble spirit" — Examiner.

43. HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a
wide circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

44. SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"I'his is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.

45. THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"The author of 'John Halifax 'has written many fascinating stories, but we can
en 11 to mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful
sketches in this work." — United Service Magazine.

46. A ROSE IN JUNE. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its
own with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' " — Times.

47. MY LITTLE LADY. By E. F. Pointer.

"There is a great deal of fascination about this book. The author writes in a clear,
unaffected style; she has a decided gift for depicting character, while the descriptions
of Scenery convey a distinct pictorial impression to the reader." — Time.'i.

48. Phoebe, JUNIOR. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This novel shows great knowledge of human nature. The interest goes on
growing to the end. Phuibo is excellently drawn'" — Tijiies.

49. LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.
"A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the
most popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.
"This book is well written, and of thrilling interest"— ^4caJi7ny,

Ifi
