L I b Mary

OF Thun

Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8X3 ,

-.1

im**-

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

OCT 3 4o
APR 2 1933

L161— O-1096

A PICTURE FROM THE PERIOD.

Major-general G. G. ALEXANDER, Cab.

Fiction is a fabric woven by Fancy with threads of Truth.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.
isti.

wall Rights Reset-vet.]

'BzVicixtxon.

Critic. A doctor heroine ! Sir, it will not do.
Z Besides, the story is all tags and shreds :
i It wants in sequence ; fits not with the taste

^ Of modern readers, who must need have food
That pricks the palate — toothsome and well s]
5. Take my advice : it will not suit the trade.

'^ ^'luthor. Ah, there the note which gives the key to all
"Which forms our judgment : AVill our action pay i
*' It is in tatters " ? So is each man's life,

^) And but for patches, small man's moral gear.

V " It wants in sequence "? Being thus, most true ;
cr And morbid mouths may mumble it in vain,

"sto find the flavour fits their appetites.

•^ But, as it is, so every word shall stand ;

v^ For he dio fears the verdict writes in chains :

Q And without freedom, nothing worth remains.

"^ So to the Public I now dedicate

^ This pen-sketched picture : in their hands its fate.

i

S A R x\ H BECK HA E, Y E Y,

■\YI10SE ^RIE^'DSIIIP And EARE Gifts

IIAAE BROUGHT ME SO MANY

HOURS OF PLEASURE.

Change PAGE

I. THE END OF A SIIOKT LIFE - - - 1

II. TWENTY Yeares AFTER - - - - 10

III. "home" - .- 21

IV. AX AFTERNOON " TEA " IN Belgravia - 30
V. THE HEAD OF THE HOUSE - - - 44

YI. A FEW PAGES FROM A JOURNAL - - 57

YII. DEEPDALE AND ITS INMATES - - - 77

Viii. CUPID SHOOTS HIS SHAFTS - - - 92

IX. MIDSUMMER-EYE - - 107

X. Awaiting FOR THE Verdict - - - 117

XL right or wrong? - 129

XII. OUT IN THE RAIN - 144
XIIL THE major's " LITTLE GAME " - - - IGl

CIIAFIER Take

XIV. IX tup: country - - - . - 183

XV. Min Autumn LEAVES - 101

XVI. WOIIKIXG FOn THE WORLD - - - 212

XVJL 'M)E.vi) AT last" - 227

xvii r.EEii wins - - - - . - 235

D>*iC

CHAPTER I.

THE END OF A Sort LIFE.

Its flight was upward :

Let no cynic sait
was not heavenward.

What ! that one poor ray,
Because it wandered —

Hapless went astray —
Is gone for ever,

Quenched and cast away
In endless night !

No ! it were false ;
For Perfect Love stood by,

And gave His aid
To guide its path on high."

The rays of the setting sun stream through
the mountains which form the northern and
southern shores of the beautiful lake of Thun,
and light up with a roseate glow the glorious

VOL. I. 1

group of snow-clad peaks of which the Jungfrau
is the queen. The day is dying, and
never, never could its beauty have been
greater, more wonderful, than now. Brighter
and brighter, higher and higher, that heaven-born
blush moves onward, upward, till, all
aglow with golden light, the highest point
retains it lovingly, then loosens its embrace,
and cold, pale hues spread stealthily o'er
all, and tell of night and darkness soon to
come.

In a chalet under the Niece Horn,
perched high above the lake, the last flush
of departing life had lighted up and brought
back all the beauty — aye, in the presence of
the sanctifier Death, all the purity which
belongs to innocence and youth — to a dying
girl.

A girl in face and form, but yet a mother,
for a sleeping babe lay folded in her wasted
arms.

Her bed had been so placed by the open
window, that the full glory of this her last
earthly sunset was spread out before her ;
but it seemed as if she did not dare to gaze
upon its beauty, for she had turned away her
head from it. And as she now lay, with her
cheek pressed against the slumbering babe

upon her bosom, she, from time to time, gave
a little low wail, which spoke of mental agony
too deep for words.

It was a little low wail, but low as it was,
it attracted the attention of the only other
person in the room, who rose from her seat —
she did so with difficulty, for she was very
lame — and drew near the invalid's bedside.

'violet, you must be calm."

The speaker, whose naturally harsh voice
seemed softened by emotion, was a person
approaching middle age, with a pale and
anxious face, bearing traces of many trials and
much sorrow. To have judged from the expression
of her mouth alone, it might have
been concluded that those trials — whatever
their nature might have been — had hardened
her character and made her utterly unsympathetic
to the wants and feelings of others ;
for it was one of those mouths which, though
it would not have been without beauty in a
man, had a stern determination about its
every line — whether in movement or at rest
which took away from it every trace of that
indescribable, though well-defined, sweetness
of expression which is one of woman's most
charming characteristics.

But if the harsh lineaments of her mouth

1—2

repelled, there was a depth of tenderness in
those dark-grey eyes which revealed a warm
and loving heart.

Two distinct and opposite natures seemed
to be united in one person.

It was impossible to look at those eyes and
not think of what she must have been in youth,
or at that mouth without being reminded of
the hardening effects of the lessons taught
by age.

'* Violet, you must be calm."

The soft grey eyes were dim with tears,
but the voice seemed hard even to harshness.


The doctor says that if you would get well,
you must keep quite quiet."

Aunt dear, I shall never get well. I am
dying."

The stern mouth quivered ; it was but fora
moment.

My child, there is still hope. You are
young. The doctor tells me you are only
weak, and that you are free from all disease."

'* But one — a broken heart !"

There was no hardness about the mouth now,
and even the tone of the voice was softened :

'^ Hush ! My poor Violet, you must not
speak like this ! You must live ! You must

try — to live ! If not for your own sake, for
the sake of this poor child !"

There was something in the last word
which seemed to renew the failing strength
of the dying girl.

My child ! my child !" she said. " My
curse ! my shame ! Oh that I had died before
its birth !" Then, encircling it more closely in
her arms, and raising its little hands to her
lips : '^ My beautiful — my precious one — why
did I give you life '? Oh, it was shameless !
a cruel, cruel wrong! But who had thought
a man could be so base ? Ah, coward !
monster ! What ! forsake your child ?" She
was silent for a moment. Then, softly, as if
in supplication : '* God, forgive me ! I was
so young and weak — so young and weak.
Why didst Thou let it be ? Sweet Jesus,
pity us, and take us both — my child and me
I dare not come alone ! She shall protect
me with her innocence. Yes, I am guilty,
but I do repent. Oh, save me ! save me !
Ah, His touch is cold — so icy cold ! It is the
hand of Death !"

Then, as if exhausted and worn out by the
exertion she had made, she shuddered convulsively
and hid her face in her hands, as if
to shut out some hideous object.

The hard, stern mouth was closed more firmly
than ever ; it seemed pitiless even to cruelty,
but the dark-grey eyes were suffused with
tears.

For a time the ticking of a clock, on a table
near the door, was the only distinct sound ;
then the silence was broken by an occasional
little bleat, which showed that the slumbers
of the sleeping babe had been disturbed, and
that it would soon awake.

Again the sick girl spoke — this time slowly
and calmly, with longer intervals between her
words.

'* Marmaduke," she said, "you will not
leave me — 'twould break my heart — I know
you will not leave me ! No — no ! — you are
too good — too kind ! Did I not give you all ?
My love ! — I had no more — and this poor
little life !" Then, raising herself on her pillow,
she stretched out her hands imploringly :
'' Marmaduke, you must not go ! You shall
not leave your child ! — it is your child !"
Her voice had become loud and piercing ; in
an instant it subsided into a low wail of
despair : '' What, gone ? gone 1 Deserted in
my need ? Oh, who shall hide me — save me
from my shame ?"

She fell back upon her pillow, and seemed

to sleep, notwithstanding the shrill ad passionate
cries of the now wide awake infant,
who resisted every effort made by the owner
of the dark-grey eyes to soothe it. But they
had the effect of bringing another actor upon
the scene.

It was a young woman in the dress of a
peasant, who, opening the door quietly but
quickly, hurried up to the screaming child,
and endeavoured to soothe it by her caresses.

'you do not well," she said, in the peculiar
patois spoken in the Bernese Oberland — '' you
do not do well to let the mistress talk. I
heard her high-toned words. She, the good,
gentle one. And this poor lambkin, too, has
lost her sleep."

So saying, she took the infant in her arms,
and singing, only as loving nurses can sing,
laid it upon her breast.

She sang so softly, it was difficult to catch
the words :

' Hush thee ! oh, hush thee !

The angels are singing.
To my white one, my wee one,

A crown they are bringing ;
A crown of bright stars

Fresh plucked from the sky.
Hark ! the angels sing softly ;

Sleep, sleep ! God is nigh." '

The eyes of the infant were again closed in
sleep, and as the nurse rocked it backwards
and forwards, the clock seemed to tick more
loudly, as if to mark the cadence, whilst she
sang, again and again :

* Hark ! the angels sing softly ;
Sleep, sleep ! God is nigh.' "

The roseate glow was passing from the
mountains, as Margaret Marsh — she of the
dark grey eyes — knelt by the side of the
dying Violet ; and as she pressed her lips —
tender now as her eyes — upon that pallid
cheek, a tear would not be restrained, but fell
upon it.

violet— dear Violet!"

The tear — it fell before the words — seemed
to bring back the ebbing tide of life.

** Aunt, dear!" the voice was scarce a whisper
now, " don't cry. I have been very weak and
wicked. If I had not been so weak, I had
not been so wicked. Foro-ive me !"

From the bottom of my heart, my child."

Promise me."

What can I promise ?"

'' To love my poor child as your own."

I will give her all my love. She shall bethe
child of my old age."

Do not let her be weak, like her mother.

Let her have a good name — not Violet. Call
her Victoria — after a good woman and a good
queen. Aunt dear, I die happy. Kiss me."

The last ray from the setting sun had leapt
from the highest peak, and as it did so, it
seemed as if a chill had passed through
Nature's heart, so pale and wan the shade
which fell upon her.

So too had the last hectic flush of life
passed from the cheek of the dying girl : a
few incoherent words, "It is dark !" *' So
dark !" *' Marmaduke !" one deep-drawn sigh
and yet another spirit was released from its
earthly bondage, and Violet Marsh had ended
her short life.

At the same moment, whilst earth hid her
face in the gloomy shroud of night, one solitary
star rose rapidly above the Jungfrau's
Snowy screen. It was but a lone star ; but as
its silvery rays fell on that fair face, making
it shine forth as the face of an angel, to the
mourner by the couch, as she turned her eyes
to heaven, it was more than a lone star — it
was a messenger of peace from the Eternal.

CHAPTER II.

TWENTY YEARS AFTER.

Twenty years have passed away since the
events in the last chapter. Twenty long
years ! How difficult to realise what those few
words mean !

Change upon change — a never-ending
substitution of the new for the old ! And
yet the stream of time rolls on so silently,
that to those who float down it, it often seems
as if it had neither currents nor motion.

Change upon change ! With no two incidents
of our lives alike ; those of the Past
producing a Present never to be renewed.

Change upon change ! The Future flying
before us in our youth, and hastening to meet
us in our age.

An eternity of changes, with but one eternal
law — to change.

And so our scene has changed. We are

no longer amongst the mountains of the Bernese
Oberland, we are in the midst of the
roar and movement of the great metropolis.
We are in London.

A fine soft April day. In the Parks the
trees are beginning to bud and the grass to
grow. Everywhere Nature is casting off her
russet garb, and as she does so, those who live
in the country regard her changeful moods
with anxious thoughts for the future fruits
and flowers. Here in this great, grimy,
smoke-stained city, Spring brings other cares;
for nowadays, all that we do is done so seriously,
that even our daily pleasures are made
to assume that form.

It was half-past three in the afternoon, and
the sun, which had shone out somewhat
brightly in the morning, was now peering
through the spread of yellow smoke and
fog which in London is the usual afternoon
substitute for sky, when a continuous roll of
carriages announced that Fashion was abroad,
and about — according to the old phrase — ^' to
take the air."

Poor Fashion ! who, when it is the season,
must be content to take such air as the cold
east wind, mixed with the city smoke and river
fog, may chance to give her.

But now the wind was from the west ; and
if there were any fog few people observed it,
for during the last few months they had seen
little else.

Amongst the many carriages which oscillated
with pendulum-like precision between the extremities
of that portion of the Park which
Fashion has seized on and sanctified as her
own, there was one which stood out from all
its competitors — for there is competition now
in all things, even in carriages — so that it
could not fail to attract the attention of the
most casual observer. Yet it was only a
brougham, drawn by a pair of bright bays
with plain black harness, and a coachman and
footman in simple dark liveries. But though
nothing could have been more unostentatious
than the whole turn-out, no one could see it
without feeling that it was an aesthetic
success.

A nice turn-out that of the Yorke."

So said the Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps, late of
the Guards, to Major Decimus Fits-Jones,
late of the Greys, as they walked slowly side
by side, with that air of contemplative
dejection which is one of the most striking
peculiarities of masculine loungers in the
Parks.

Yes. Good steppes, and a perfect match.
I positively believe "

What the major's belief at that particular
'moment may have been, remains a mystery
to this day ; for the word '^ match " had no
sooner been uttered, than the Hon. Pierre-point
Phipps — commonly called P. P. by his
intimates, and by some who were not his
intimates, behind his back — exclaimed with
unwonted animation, for he prided himself on
his sang-froid :

'how much do you think they are
worth r

^' At least four hundred."

'^ My dear fellow, you are too absurd ! I
meant the girls — not the horses."

The gallant major was about to reply, but
it seemed fated that on this day his brief
utterances — Fits Jones was always brief —
were doomed to be interrupted; for he had
scarcely delivered himself of one of those
deep gutturals with which languid men about
town are wont to call their words together
and set them up in sentences, when various
exclamations and an excited movement in
the crowd gave evidence of something unusual
having taken place.

Turning quickly in the direction of the

spot towards which the attention of the
public seemed to be concentrated, the cause
of the excitement became evident.

The carriage with the bright bays had'
driven on until it had reached that portion
of the line where from time to time the
mounted policemen on duty, with that imposing
air common to all who exercise
authority, from an admiral of the fleet to a
custom-house officer, waved back the advancing
carriages, and brought them to a sudden
stand. Directly this was done a stream of
pedestrians was graciously permitted to move
on, and under another policeman's protecting
care to effect a crossing, through dangers
which, without his aid, would have been only
inferior to those of a passage through the
*' pack " in the Arctic regions.

The deaf old lady and her nieces from the
country, who on such occasions always
manage to be last, had just completed their
frantic charge, and reached the opposite side
in a state of breathless exhaustion ; the
policeman had given the signal, and the
bright bays who led the line, as if to spite
the coachman, had answered his intimation
that they were to go on by a playful plunge,
when a young child, whose friends had

arrived at the crossing just as the embargo
on the carriages was taken off, rushed into
the road, and before anyone could prevent it
was apparently entangled in the horses' legs,
and in another moment would have been
trampled under their feet, but that through
the horses rearing, partly from fright and
partly from being pulled back upon their
haunches, a short respite was given from
what seemed all but certain deaths

A cry of terror came from the bystanders ;
but, as frequently happens when prompt
action is needed, everyone, including the
child's friends, seemed to be perfectly paralysed.


Fortunately, however, there was one exception.
A tall, well-dressed girl sprang
forward, and seeing at a glance that it would
be impossible, from the position of the child,
to stoop down and lift it up before the horses
were upon her, she seized them by their
heads, and with an exertion of strength
which seemed marvellous from so slight a
form, swung them round, so that their forefeet
came to the ground clear of the child,
who was taken up all but unhurt.

A sound which seemed almost like a sigh

of relief came from the crowd, followed by
loud cheers.

*' A monstrously plucky girl !" exclaimed
the Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps.

Knows how to handle a horse," chimed in
the major.

It was the highest compliment he was ever
known to pay — even to a man.

In the meantime she, whose courage and
presence of mind had led to such a happy
result, was endeavouring to escape from the
overwhelming expressions of gratitude with
which she was greeted. She had bent down
and kissed the now weeping child, and was
on the point of turning away, when a livery
servant — the footman of the carriage — came
hurriedly towards her, and touching his hat
respectfully, informed her that her ladyship
Lady Arabella Yorke — desired to speak
with her.

A shade of annoyance flitted across the
young lady's face ; it was but momentary,
and she followed the servant without remark
to the carriage, which had been drawn up by
the side of the rails, a short distance off.^

Lady Arabella Yorke, its occupant — the
wife of Mr. Yorke, the richest of rich brewers,
and most respectable of men — had lost no

time in making herself acquainted with the
details of the accident, and having assured
herself that nothing serious had occurred,
sent her footman in search of the young lady
whose action in the matter had been pronounced
by her ladyship's coachman as " stunning."


Lady Arabella's carriage had been surrounded
by a small circle of sympathising
friends ; amongst whom were the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps and Major Fits-Jones, and
the conversation had become animated.

'•' I shall never drive in the Park again,"
said Lady Arabella. '' This has been a scene,
and I hate scenes. Children should not be
allowed to come near our public drives."

*' I wish you could have seen her," said the
Iron. Pierrepoint Phipps. *^ She was magnificent.
As she stood before the horses she
reminded me of a — of a — beautiful Grecian
statue."

She knows how to handle a horse," remarked
for perhaps the thirteenth time the
major ; for it was no easy matter for him to
get rid of an idea when it had once seized
hold of him.

'' Do you know who or what she is ?" asked
Lady Arabella.

VOL. I. 2

No one seemed to know more than that
she was young, and tall, and ladylike, and
good-looking.

They had just commenced discussing
whether she might not be this or might not
be that, when the near approach of the subject
of their discussion produced a sudden
silence. All eyes were turned inquiringly
towards her, but curiosity was changed into
astonishment when Lady Arabella — whose
near sight prevented her from recognising
anyone at a distance — greeted the stranger
as an acquaintance, and in a tone which
clearly showed that the meeting, under other
circumstances, might not have been a particularly
agreeable one.

*' Victoria ! Good gracious, child ! is it
you ? How can you be so thoughtless ?"

*' In what way?" asked the young lady,
with a quiet dignity which rebuked the
patronising petulance of Lady Arabella,
though she spoke so calmly that it seemed
as if she did not think it worth her while to
resent it.

"You might have been killed! Oh, Victoria,
Victoria ! when will you learn to act
like other people and think of yourself? You
really are too eccentric. Besides, it is not

right that you should be walking in the Park
alone."

Lady Arabella's friends had bowed and
walked on at the young lady's approach, yet
it was not without a blush that she replied
curtly :

It is the shortest and best way to where
I am going."

*' But you should not go out in London by
yourself. It is not comme ilfaut.*'

The young lady had resumed her usual
manner, and there was something of playfulness
in her smile as she said :

'^ Walking is not always a matter of choice,
and I certainly should prefer an escort if I
could find an agreeable one."

Since you are going in the same direction,
I will drive you across the Park."

With a bow of assent — it almost seemed
as if she did not realise that she was receiving
a favour — the young lady stepped into
the carriage.

Stop near the Marble Arch," was the
direction to the footman as he closed the
carriage-door.

''A friend of the family's?" asked the
coachman — who had only been a short time
in Mr. Yorke's service — of the footman, as

2—2

soon as the latter had reseated himself on
the box.

Yes," said the footman. " She lives
down in Middleshire, and is often at our
place."

Lots of pluck. What's her name ?"
Her name is Marsh — Miss Victoria
Marsh — but we always call her amongst ourselves
Miss Vic."

CHAPTER III.

HOME."

Lady Arabella, with scant courtesy — for
her temper had been ruffled, or, as she would
have expressed it, her " nerves had been
shaken" — took leave of her companion at the
northern entrance of the Park.

The short drive had been one continuous
lecture, and she had talked herself into such
a state of exhaustion that when the footman
touched his hat inquiringly she could only
gasp out the word ** Home !" and fall back
upon the pillows, which were always specially
arranged for her support.

Poor Lady Arabella ! She too has had to
pay the penalty which would seem to belong
to wealth and rank and fashion — a weak
back.

Home 1" The distance is not great, and
it does not take long , before the order has

been obeyed. Lady Arabella has reached
her home.

A large house in one of our largest squares.
One of those localities where the senses become
oppressed by the weight of wealth
which is exhibited on every side, and through
which the poor man cannot pass without
asking himself how it is that he has escaped
being rich.

One of those localities which fashion
favours and calls *good;" in which is
brought together a crowd of people who are
not only placed by fortune in a position
which has spared them all those trials, humiliations,
and heart-burnings which belong to
poverty and form part of its heritage : but
are enabled to gratify every taste, however
noble or ignoble, and make all that is beautiful
in art or applicable in science, minister
to their enjoyment.

To some the sight of this may be an incitement
to exertion : what others have
done, they too may do. *^ Excelsior I"

And the success of the few is made a rule
of encouragement for the many.

But to those whose lot has been cast in the
lowest depths of destitution, the sight of this
superabundance of superfluities but serves to

intensify their misery through the contrast
which it presents to their own sufferings.
The sight of Paradise can bring no joy to
those" who are in Hades. Benevolence forgets
this when it doles out its aid, and charitable
people are shocked to find that there is so
deep a gulf between the two extremes of
poverty and wealth that even sympathy can
scarcely bridge it over.

But Lady Arabella has reached her Belgravian
home, and a loud rat-tat-tat has informed
the neighbourhood of her having done
so. On the instant the double doors fly wide
open ; two tall powdered footmen hasten forward
to unroll a carpet so that the passage
between the carriage and the mansion maybe
made undefiled ; two more, equally tall
and powdered, stand motionless on either
side of the entrance ; the footman who has
been out with her ladyship is at his post,
ready to open the carriage-door ; a page is
to be seen at the foot of the staircase ; whilst
in the distance, mounted some few steps
above him, looms, in a graceful attitude,
expressive of expectation, another model
specimen of over-fed humanity. The other
servants had been chosen for their height,
good looks, broad shoulders, and big calves,

but the groom of the chambers, Mr. Mortimer
his enemies basely asserted that his real
name was Chunks — belonged to that superior
class who are required, in addition to those
personal advantages, to possess great discrimination,
unfailing gravity, and undeniably
good manners. All these were possessed by
Mr. Mortimer in a very high degree : and
were it not that his grammatical construction
was somewhat peculiar, and that the letter H
had been a source of trouble to him from his
youth, he might easily have passed, amongst
strangers, as a university man who had come
out in honours — Oxford, not Cambridge — or
even in his happier moments as a Privy
Councillor, or an ex-Cabinet Minister.

It is doubtful, however, whether Mr.
Mortimer would have felt flattered had the
latter mistake been made. He had once
walked across the park behind the, then,
Prime Minister. He returned in a state of
virtuous indignation.

"Mr. Cox," he said, to the butler, "I am
ignorant, and I know it. Had I been
educated " — his difficulty with his aspirates
was chiefly in the long words — '* I should not
have been what I am, and there is no knowing
to what I might not have rose to. I do

not know much, but this I do know, that if
her Majesty were to make me the Prime
Minister of this great and glorious country, I
would act in a proper aristocratic manner,
and I would not disgrace myself, nor demean
myself, nor lower myself by a- walking through
the Park in an old pair of boots a-busted at
the sides. It made me sick to see it."

Meanwhile, Lady Arabella has managed,
with the assistance of — including the coachman
and the footman of the carriage — seven
full-grown men and a boy, to effect an entrance
into her own house, and is now once more at
home.

But it must not be supposed that such an
interesting spectacle had been without spectators.


The unrolling of the carpet had arrested
the progress of a young man who was either
not in a hurry, or else objected to wading
through the mud round the carriage, and he
soon became the centre of a small group, to
which the inevitable baby in the perambulator,
who would seem to be always on the watch
for such opportunities, was hurriedly wheeled
up. Thanks to the skilful generalship of his
little sister who pushed him forward in a
manner which showed she was utterly regardless

of the fact that other people had toes, he
obtained a front place, from which he surveyed
the scene with a mingled expression of
deep interest and the most placid composure.

What a strange world this world must be
to babies ! not unfrequently, when they lookout
upon it from their nurses' arms, it is not
difficult to detect a tinge of pity in their
large, wondering eyes.

There was one individual in that small
group of spectators whose appearance was so
remarkable, that he could not have been
passed by without notice.

It was a gaunt, bent old man, whose
threadbare suit of black had reached that
painful state of shiny shabbiness which
gives the idea of the wearers having endeavoured
to coax back its original gloss by the
application of some compound of an unctuous
nature. It is possible that, in the first instance,
the process might have been attended
with a certain degree of success ; but at the
present time it was quite evident it had
been carried too far, for there is a limit to all
things, and with old coats, just as with old
men and old women, a point may be reached
beyond which revival becomes impossible, and
any attempt to produce it only brings out

more clearly, and with a ghastly distinctness,
the melancholy ravages which the wear and
tear of time has occasioned. His hat was in
perfect keeping with his coat ; it had the
same shiny, shabby, doubtful sort of look,
and his well-patched boots were polished into
a state which made any injurious comparison
between the covering of his feet and that of
his head impossible.

That he was extremely poor there could be
no doubt. But that he had once seen better
days was equally apparent, for there was an
air of deliberation and ease about all his
movements which can seldom be acquired,
but which is natural to, and is rarely lost by,
those whose early youth has been spent
amidst the refinements of good society.
Some of his old tastes, too, still seemed to
cling to him, for he wore a flower in his
button-hole — it was only a sprig of wallflower
— and though his gloves, like their
owner, were very much the worse for wear,
they were tight-fitting, indeed too tight-fitting,
judging from the extensive repairs
they seemed to have undergone — and were
kept scrupulously buttoned.

A dejected, broken-down, miserable-looking
old man, whose face was so full of sadness.

subdued by resignation, that he might have
sat for a portrait of one of the early martyrs,
had it not been that from time to time all
expression passed away from it, and left
nothing behind but a helpless, vacant stare.

He had arrived on the scene just as the
carpet had been laid down, and stood quietly
waiting for Lady Arabella to pass, v^hen he
caught sight of a small piece of paper on the
pavement. It was only a small scrap, but he
stooped and seized it with eagerness ; his
whole appearance was changed in a moment :
his limbs trembled with emotion, and as he
raised it to his eyes it almost seemed as if he
had recovered some long-lost talisman which
was to bring back the joys and pleasures of
some happier time. Alas ! vain hope. In
another instant he had flung it away, and his
former air of dejection seemed deepened by
despair, as he muttered, in a low tone, again
and again :

'' If I could but find it ! if I could but find
it !"

When he had finished speaking he would
have moved on, but one of the footmen kept
him back, for Lady Arabella had alighted
and was on the point of sweeping by. A
flash of intelligence lighted up his wan and

wasted face as his eye rested, as if for the
first time, upon the scene before him.

"Aye, aye," he said, with a kind of gentle
bitterness, as if in answer to the footman's
gesture; "you are quite right, my good
friend, the poor Lazarus should not be allowed
to cross the path of Dives."

The carriage has been driven off. The
carpet has been rolled up, to the intense
satisfaction of the baby, who is so carried
away by his feelings that he thumps the
sides of his perambulator and crows. The
small crowd of spectators has dispersed, and
he who spoke of himself as Lazarus has
tottered feebly on.

The ceremonial has been completed. The
doors are closed. Lady Arabella is " Home."

CHAPTER IV.

AN AFTERNOON *' TEA " IN BELGRAVIA.

Mr. Yorke's house was a large one, and the
architect who had designed it would have
made the entrance-hall imposing if he could
have managed it. He evidently had tried
hard, but he had failed ; instead of being
imposing, it was an imposture.

The first impression on entering it was
that it was too small ; the next, that it was
too large, for it looked so bare, and comfortless,
and cold.

Perhaps this was greatly due to two life-sized
groups of nude figures in white marble ;
beautiful, no doubt, as works of art, and
agreeable objects to contemplate in a comfortable
studio, or even in those countries where
the sun shines so brightly, it gives rise to a
sort of feeling that clothing might be dispensed
with ; but scarcely to be tolerated ina

climate where you can rarely take oiF your
great-coat without a shiver.

Beauty may be charming to look at, but
even beauty may be misplaced. What sight
can be more melancholy than a marble Venus,
whose white limbs have become green through
the humidity of the public garden in which
she stands, as if appealing to the benevolent
public to subscribe and buy a blanket, wherewith
to cover her nakedness.

But these statues had been brought from
Italy. Mr. Yorke did not like to say what
he had paid for them and they were a source
of great pride both to him and Lady Arabella.

To Mr. Yorke because they had cost so
much money ; to Lady Arabella because . . .
well, it is hard to say ; perhaps because she
had been told they were beautiful. For it is
very doubtful whether, after the first few
days of their having been unpacked, she had
ever looked at them.

But if the entrance-hall of Mr. Yorke's
house gave rise to a sensation of cheerlessness,
that feeling was dispelled the moment the
foot was planted upon the stairs. The
carpets were so thick, so soft, so yielding ;
they appealed to the senses like low, sweet
notes, or gentle words. It was impossible to

tread upon them without being soothed and
comforted. Mr. Mortimer, the principal portion
of whose time — or at least that portion
of it which was devoted to the performance
of what he was pleased to call his " duties "^ —
was spent in going up and down stairs,
seemed to have found this out, for he had
been once heard to say, when discussing, ashe
was very fond of doing, the conditions
necessary to matrimonial happiness :

No, Mary, no ! Believe me, there can be
no happiness without harmony, for where the
tempers are incompatible, how can the
wheels of Cupid's car run smoothly on ? But
our tempers grow up out of our circumstances,
and if men's employments and avocations
are rough their tempers will be irritable.
Take my word for it, Mary ; the seat of the
temper is in the feet, not the heart ; it is all
easy shoes and thick carpets — especially the
carpets. As for those soil-cloths, and parker,
and such like — well, don't talk to me about
them, that's all, or we shall quarrel."

But it was in the morning-room where
Lady Arabella reigned supreme, that the
evidences were to be found of that refined
and cultivated taste in small matters on
which she so greatly piqued herself, and in

the indulgence of which she seemed to concentrate
all her energies.

In this case it was impossible to say she
had not succeeded. Here, no single article
of furniture — however beautiful in structure
or design — was allowed to appear, unless to
fulfil some special object or intention. Here
was to be seen no garish colours, no vulgar
contrasts, no heaping together of expensive
trifles, but a harmonious whole, to the effect
of which even the most fastidious would have
found it difficult to make objections. At the
same time it would not be easy to explain
why it was, on entering it for the first time,
most people felt impelled to use the only
word which seemed applicable to it — " Exquisite
!"

In this room, at the moment that Lady
Arabella reached her home, several ladies and
gentlemen were assembled near a small table
plentifully furnished with the most delicate
of china cups, which were being filled and
distributed by a tall, fair girl, who was evidently
doing the duty of hostess.

'' I do not think I will give you any, Sir
Francis," she said, looking up archly at a
dark, good-looking young man near her, " for
you are so obstinate, and so disagreeable,

VOL. I. 3

that really something ought to be done to
correct you. You must be punished."

No correction, coming from Miss Yorke,
could be a punishment," said the gentleman
she called Sir Francis, with a pleasant smile.

Miss Yorke raised her head and looked at
the speaker, as if she were going to reply,
but appearing suddenly to change her mind,
she cast her eyes down again, and remained
silent.

She was a tall, handsome girl, with fair
hair fringed over her forehead ; bright-blue
eyes, and an expression so frank and open,
that, combined with an unaffected manner approaching
to carelessness, and sundry little
eccentricities in dress, many people —-judging
from externals only — were led to the conclusion
that Geraldine Yorke belonged to that
category of young ladies who are usually
spoken of as " fast." But if she at times
spoke somewhat louder, with more decision,
and with less deference to others, than was
quite befitting in a young lady of her age —
if she prided herself on riding boldly to
hounds, or on being able to swim better than
her brother, and could boast, as she not an-frequently
did, of the skill with which she
could " paddle her own canoe " — all this was

rather the effect of an exuberance of animal
spirits which had been directed into no more
profitable channels ; and her fastness was of
that guileless effervescent kind which belongs
to the thoughtlessness of youth, and disappears
before the realities of life and the
matured judgment of age.

Very different the appearance of a pale,
slight girl who sat somewhat apart from the
others, and seemed to be more absorbed in
her own thoughts than interested in what
was going on around her.

Eva Yorke was nearly two years younger
than her sister, but the quiet though fulness
of a face which still bore the traces of suffering
inseparable from ill-health, gave her
the appearance of being at least a year older.

Hers was a beauty which impressed less
through the wondrous delicacy of features
which might have been taken for a model by
a sculptor, than from the singular parity of
an expression which seemed as if it could only
belongs to one whose mind had been dedicated
to the contemplation of high and holy things;
but yet her thoughts could not have been
devoid of sadness, for there was a tinge of
melancholy even in her smile. Usually silent,
when she did speak, there was a music in her

3—2

voice, and a gentleness approaching to tenderness
in her manner, which was made the more
striking by the contrast which it offered to
the self-confident and not unfrequently defiant
tone which seemed natural to her
sister.

Yet Geraldine Yorke was not deficient insensibility;
it was, perhaps, the very excess of
it which made her at times assume an indifference
she did not feel. Often, too, it was
when she was most attracted towards others,
particularly if they belonged to the opposite
sex, that she said and did things which were
most likely to have an, unfavourable construction
put upon them.

It was impossible for two sisters to be more
unlike ; the one fair, tall, a model of physical
development, full of independence and self-assertion
; the other dark, slight, delicate,
and drooping, with such a deep sense of her
"Own deficiencies that she was, as it were, oppressed
by it.

Yet Allegra and Penserosa — for so their
mother, in her playful moods, was pleased
to call them — were united so closely by the
bonds of the deepest affection that their happiness
seemed to depend on their being together.
Their very divergences of character served

but to unite them, for the affections are full
of enigmas, and we often love those best whom
we resemble least.

Sir Francis Hawthorne, to whom, notwithstanding
the threat of punishment, a cup of
tea had been graciously handed, was a dark,
sunburnt young man, whose age might have
been anything between three-and-twenty and
thirty, of middle height, with a strong active
frame, and an air of quiet determination, which
showed itself in everything he said or did,
and would have caused him to have been
recognised, in any part of the world, as an
Englishman.

He was not strictly handsome, for his
features were irregular, and his eyes were
too close together, though they were not the
less bright and pleasant to look at. He had
a good mouth, white teeth — all the whiter,
perhaps, from their being brought into contrast
with a short, but soft, black beard — a
frank unaffected manner, and an engaging
smile.

The possessor of a large estate in Middle-shire
— not far from Mr. Yorke's country seat
to which he had succeeded a few years
before, on the death of a grandfather by whom
he had been brought up, his own parents

having died when he was quite a child, he
had devoted himself, since he had come of
age, to the management of his estate, and
especially to the improvement of the condition
of the labourers employed upon it.

Had it not been for his wealth, his agreeable
manners, and his many popular qualities,
it is possible that the extent to which he
carried out his socialistic theories would have
seriously interfered with his position in the
county ; as it was, the men only laughed and
said : '^ He is so young. As he grows older,
he will become wiser."

The ladies, however, especially those who
had marriageable daughters, took a different
view of what they called his eccentricities.
They said :

^'It is because he is a bachelor. He will
become just like other people after he is
married''

But he appeared to be in no hurry to
marry, and to be more and more engrossed
in the endeavour to reduce his theories to
practice, when to the great surprise of everyone
he suddenly announced his intention of
starting on a round-the-world tour ; and it
was from this tour that he had only just
returned, after an absence of more than a year.

He was still standing with the cup of tea
in his hand, when Lady Arabella entered the
room, with an air of complete exhaustion and
a gush of words :

*'Ah! My dear friends, don't move — pray
don't. Sir Francis ! What ! Sir Francis !
Can that be you ? If I were not rendered
incapable of it by what I have gone through,
I should be astonished. How do you do ?
How d'ye do ? Pray sit down. Ah ! my
dear children — Je suis ereintee !" Lady Arabella
was rather fond of introducing French
phrases. " Je suis ereintee ! A drive in the
Park is no longer possible ; it is now only fit
for the people. Only imagine "

And then throwing herself back in an armchair,
without giving a sufficient interval between
her sentences to allow of a single word
from anyone else, she proceeded to give a
minute and exhaustive account of all her
feelings and sensations on discovering that a
wretched little child had nearly been run over,
and that she had narrowly escaped the painful
notoriety of a paragraph in the penny
papers.

Only imagine, Sir Francis, how horrible !
I shudder when I think of it. It really is
quite time the Government should interfere."

She went on for a long time in the same
strain ; but though she mentioned, parenthetically,
that she had been saved the disagreeable
publicity she so much dreaded,
through the child's having been dragged
away by some one in the crowd, it was only
at the end, when she had nearly talked herself
faint, that she suddenly exclaimed :

*^ Ah ! I forgot. And who do you think it
was picked the child up ?"

A dozen eyes looked up inquiringly. Sir
Francis played with his watch-chain. One or
two voices were heard uttering a timid —
*' Who r whilst Geraldine broke in with a
somewhat petulant —

My dear mother, how is it possible we can
know ? I don't suppose it was anyone we
have ever heard of"

'^ Tout au contraire. It was some one you
know very well indeed. Imaginez ! it was
none other than that incomprehensible of incomprehensible
— Victoria Marsh !"

The name seemed to produce a degree of
interest far beyond that which had been excited
by Lady Arabella's account of her sufferings
and dangers.

Sir Francis left off twisting and untwisting
his watch-chain, and became all attention.

Eva drew her chair somewhat closer to the
circle, and looked as if she had been suddenly-awakened
from a dream.

A young high-church curate, part of whose
daily duty, in default of higher ministrations,
was to assist at afternoon teas, became more
serious and solemn than usual ; whilst those
who had previously never heard Victoria
Marsh's name affected a curiosity they could
scarcely be said to feel, as Lady Arabella repeated
:

'^ Ma chere Alleo^ra ! Ma chere Penserosa !
Imaginez I Victoria Marsh !"

I cannot help loving her — she has such
pluck ; if it were not for that I believe I
should hate her," was Geraldine's reply.

She spoke with such emphasis, it almost
seemed as if she had stamped an accompaniment
to the last word with her foot.
Then, as if repentant — was it that she had
detected the expression of deep pain which
had flitted across Sir Francis's face ? — she
added :

But love her, or hate her, I only wish I
was more like Vic."

"May I be allowed to ask why?" said Sir
Francis.

Because — because, whenever I wish to be

independent and give myself masculine airs,
I always feel I can never get beyond a poor
imitation of a lubberly boy : whilst Victoria,
without ceasing to be a woman, can think,
and talk, and act with as much strength of
mind and self-possession as a man. Oh, how
I wish I had been one !"

** Woman's mission is a very sacred one,"
observed the curate.

Oh yes ! To make life endurable to your
miserable sex — as I read somewhere only a few
days since," was the retort.

*' Mother," asked Eva, "did Victoria say
when she was coming to see us ? Has she
returned to the hospital ?"

Of course she has' said Lady Arabella,
in reply to the second question ; and worse
still— ma chere Penserosa, c'est terrible ! — she
told me it is now settled she is to be a
doctor."

How horrible !" in a chorus of many
voices.

Geraldine looked indignant ; Eva turned
pale ; and the curate was once more heard to
say something about woman's mission. It
seemed to catch the ear of Sir Francis.

"Yes, sir," he said, " you are right. Woman
has her mission ; but whether for men or for

women, that mission is the most sacred which
seeks to minister to the happiness of others
by useful work. I honour Miss Marsh for
her resolve. You see, I am as eccentric as
ever," he said laughingly, as he rose from his
seat and held out his hand to Lady Arabella.
"Allow me to congratulate you on your escape,
and on your having met to-day with — what
I have not seen in all my wanderings — a
heroine."

As he left the room, he narrowly escaped
upsetting Mr. Mortimer, who was about to
enter it with a letter on a silver salver.

Good gracious a-mercy I" muttered that
gentleman, as soon as he had recovered his
equilibrium, " our baronet is in a hurry. Bad
form ! — decidedly bad form ! All very well
for the working-classes ; but when a man is a
baronet, and has twenty thousand a year,
there is no call for him to run against people,
and rush about like a operative."

CHAPTER V.

THE HEAD OF THE HOUSE.

Had the question been asked of those who
were best fitted to answer it : " Of all the
men of your acquaintance, which is the one
who has been the most favoured by fortune ?"
there is little doubt but that a chorus of
voices would have answered : " Mr. Yorke."

For was not Mr. Yorke one of the richest
amongst rich men ? Was he not the owner
of the fastest yacht, the master of the fleetest
hounds, and the possessor of the best shooting
in the three kingdoms ? Was he not, too,
supposed — of course under a feigned name —
to have been almost as successful on the turf
as his firm had been in the brewery ? And
outside all this, how fortunate he had been
in his domestic life ! A marriage of affection
into a noble family ; two charming daughters,
and a son who gave promise of exhibiting in

an eminent degree all those respectable qualities
by which the various members of the
great firm of Souseman and Soppit had been
distinguished for so rainy generations.

Who could be said to be fortunate if Mr.
Yorke were not ?

Mr. Yorke was still young, for he was little
more than five-and-forty, but he looked older
than his age ; and it was difficult to imagine
that he had ever looked differently, for he
belonged to that class of men who always
make you feel they never could have been
boys. Bankers and lawyers generally have
this look, and it belongs to most men on
whom has devolved all the responsibilities
and cares which belong to the employment
of a large capital. Indeed of all men the
rich capitalist, who has not retired from business,
is the one who becomes the soonest
frown over with the moss of ao^e."

He was an only son, and had been educated
at Eton. There his character had been
such as belongs to respectable mediocrity ; in
his classes he usually took a middle place ; in
all outdoor amusements he was a useful fag ;
and he was only redeemed from being looked
upon as a "muff" by his reserved disposition
and well-filled purse — for a boy generally

stands well with his comrades who knows
how to hold his tongue and has money in his
pocket.

From Eton he had gone to Oxford, but did
not take his degree, for his father dying suddenly,
it was decided that he should at once
become initiated in the mysteries of business,
so as to be able to take his place as a member
of the firm in which his father had for many
years been the senior partner.

Of course the health of valuable members
of society must not be allowed to suffer from
over-work, and so it became necessary that
daily attendance for a few hours at the office
should be varied by a large amount of shooting
and hunting in the winter, and by frequent
and sometimes protracted visits to the
Continent in the summer.

Mr. Yorke had never been " fast ;" but it
was at this period of his life that — if scandal
is to be believed — he showed some tendency
towards being what the world calls " g'^y"
If, however, he had had wild oats they were
soon sown, for he had barely completed his
twenty-fifth year when he led to the altar
the Lady Arabella, the beautiful and accomplished
daughter of the proudest, but poorest,
peer in the United Kingdom.

His mother died soon after his marriage,
some said from joy. Her last words were :

Thank God I have lived to see it ! An
earl's daughter 1 My dear, dear boy ! An
earl's daughter !"

He had been a good son, and soon the
world pointed to him as a good husband and
a good father. Of his being a good citizen
there could be no doubt, for he was ever
ready to associate his name with any undertaking
which had for its object the moral or
material elevation of some neglected or degraded
class.

There was not a charity which had not
enrolled his name, and against that name was
always to be seen a row of figures, in any of
which a whole army of widows' mites might
easily have been swallowed up. Sums so
large that the hearts of many charitable
people were filled with envy, whilst a vague
feeling came over them that the secret of the
philosopher's stone must have something todo
with beer.

As a recognition of this great generosity,
there was hardly a society of any note of
which Mr. Yorke was not either president,
vice-president, patron, or trustee. It is true
he did not frequently — it would be more

accurate, perhaps, to leave out the " frequently
" — attend committee-meetings, or
take any active part in the organisation or
management of the institutions in the welfare
of which he felt such a deep interest. For
this he pleaded he had no time, and that he
had unbounded confidence in the committees,
but, nevertheless, at the annual public meetings,
to which his presence gave great weight,
he always deeply lamented how little he had
been able to do personally, and dilated in
glowing terms on the services of those " who,
more fortunate than himself, had been enabled,
through an untiring devotion, which
needed no comment, to confer benefits on
their fellows which formed the noblest monuments
to themselves."

But Mr. Yorke did more than this. He
had all the printed reports placed upon his
breakfast-table, and never failed to recommend
their perusal to his wife and daughters
and their friends.

Mr. Yorke was a Churchman : he would
allow of no other term. He hated controversy,
and liked dogma. To indulge, so it
was said. Lady Arabella's aesthetic tastes,
St. Stylites — which he had built at the cost
of some forty thousand pounds, in a goodyear

when the excise returns were high —
had been made unusually ornate, and the
services were accused of being extremely
ritualistic ; but Mr. Yorke himself professed
to be moderate in all things, for he wished
to stand well with all men — that is to say,
all men with whom it was worth while to
stand well.

St. Stylites had cost Mr. Yorke forty
thousand pounds — a large sum ; but then he
not only had the satisfaction of feeling he
had done a good work — and that always
brings its own reward — but of hearing from
all quarters that he had achieved a great
architectural success.

As he drove each morning towards the
city it was a source of honest pride to him to
see how the tall spire of St. Stylites shot up
high above all other spires, and to know that
so long as St. Stylites might stand, his name
would be connected with it. And even now
in certain clerical circles no man's name stood
higher ; it had even once been mentioned in
Convocation, but with bated breath ; and it
was whispered that a very " high personage "
had been graciously pleased to use some very
condescending expressions with respect to
him in connection with this act of public-vol.

I. 4

spirited liberality, so that an idea had got
abroad amongst Mr. Yorke's friends that in
the course of a very short time he would be
made a baronet.

It is given to so few people to have an
opportunity of worshipping in churches built
by themselves, that it is difficult for those to
whom such a privilege has been denied to
realise the feelings of those to whom it has
been granted. But that it must have its
attractions and advantages, is scarcely to be
doubted.

Lady Arabella and her daughters often
declared they could never pray so well anywhere
else as in St. Stylites ; and Mr. Yorke
seemed to share this feeling, though, practical
man that he was, he gave expression toit
in a somewhat different manner. On his
way to the city he was not satisfied with
looking at St. Stylites from a distance ; he
always drove to it, though it was somewhat
out of his way, and joined in the daily morning
service, which through the practised
fluency of the curate, the Kev. Ingenious
Weeks — of which that gentleman was not a
little proud — was never allowed to exceed
the limits of a quarter of an hour.

This habit on the part of a wealthy city

man was naturally a source of extreme edification
to the whole neighbourhood ; and well
it might be so. Yet — it almost seems incredible
— so rancorous are the feelings of certain
sections of the community, that Jarvis
the grocer, whose shop was on the opposite
side of the street exactly facing the church,
had been known to say :

I hate such humbug ! Why doesn't he
go the rounds of his beastly gin-palaces

and " — he used a word not fit for polite

ears — ^' of an evening, and see where his
money comes from !"

But then Jarvis was a Radical Dissenter,
who never went inside a church ; and, although
he sold cheap wines, always boasted of being
an abstainer.

As the possessor of a large fortune, the
husband of an earl's daughter, the owner of
a, large landed property, and last — and not
least in the eyes of many — a good Churchman,
it was but natural that Mr. Yorke
should have claims upon society which society
could not ignore, and you had but to take up
the fashionable papers during the season to
see that they had been recognised. No
bishop could give a dinner without Mr. and
Lady Arabella Yorke; city feasts required

4—2

DIVERSITY OF \a^N01S

their presence ; the leaders of fashion attached
them to their train ; and Yorke was
the name which not unfrequently struck the
eye amongst the privileged few who had
been favoured with invitations on the occasion
of an exalted personage having deigned
to accept the hospitality of some noble peer
or rich commoner. It would seem as if such
a position as this — so far as society was
concerned — had left little to be desired.
But it was not so ; climb as we will we never
reach, we only extend, the horizon of our
wishes.

Thus it was that Mr. Yorke, not a little
exercised, perhaps, in the matter by the
regrets of Lady Arabella, had a secret
source of sorrow. The charmed circle which
encloses those who take an active part in
political life was closed to him. He had no
place at the Speaker's festive board ; the
various members of the Cabinet or the
leader of the Opposition gave their official
dinners, and he was not present ; when his
friends who had seats in Parliament spoke
authoritatively on questions about which they
were in reality absolutely and entirely ignorant,
they were listened to with rapt attention,
whilst he was not even appealed to.

All this was very galling. Mr. Yorke felt
it keenly ; and hence it was it had become
the great object of his ambition to see his
name followed by the two letters — which he
regarded as the " open sesame " before which
all these closed doors were to fly open — M.P. ;
and it was generally understood that whenever
a vacancy occurred in his own county he
was to stand for it.

He had been once or twice tempted to
enter Parliament in some other way, but of
course a borough for a member of the firm of
Souseman and Soppit was out of the question,
and success in such counties as had offered
themselves was far from certain. So Mr.
Yorke preferred to wait, rather than run the
risk of tarnishing the reputation of that which
laid claim to being one of the most successful
commercial undertakings in the country, by
associating it with anything approaching to
failure.

Mr. Yorke was a Conservative. Of the
three estates, the House of Lords was the
one he regarded with the greatest interest.
It had been said it was because he secretly
looked forward to a seat in that august
assembly ; but he had an equal reverence for
the bench of bishops, and yet no one could

pretend he had ever aspired to the dignity of
wearing lawn sleeves. If Mr. Yorke had
been asked why it was, he probably would
have said it was because he loved our glorious
constitution, and looked upon the House of
Peers as its chief bulwark and defence.

In his county Mr. Yorke was much looked
up to. He attended the Bench as regularly
as could be expected from a man who hunted
his own hounds, shot over his own covers,
and assisted in shooting over those of his
neighbours. In his magisterial decisions he
was generally lenient, unless the rights of
property were infringed by unlawful trespass,
or the pursuit of game, in which cases he
never failed to insist upon the necessity of a
severe example.

Silent, grave, and sedate, there was something
in his manner more than in anything
he ever said or did which impressed those
who came in contact with him for the first
time with the idea that he was a man of
sound judgment. He owed much of his
influence to this, and to the fact that he
seldom gave an opinion till after the event,
which enabled him to say that things had
turned out exactly as he had anticipated.
Besides, by his silence, he did not impede

action, nor offend people by trying to prove
them in the wrong.

In person, Mr. Yorke was tall and well-made,
though a tendency to stoutness was
beginning to interfere with the symmetry of
a naturally active figure. His hair was prematurely
grey and thinner about the temples
than is generally seen in a man of his age.
He had regular, well-cut features, but his
expression was cold and impenetrable, the
more so, perhaps, because his eyes avoided,
rather than met, the eyes of those with
whom he was in conversation. Bub, take
him all in all, he was a fine, good-looking
man ; the model of respectability ; and he
placed himself before the world in a light of
which the great firm of Souseman and Soppit
had every reason to be proud.

Mr. Yorke's affection for his wife and
children showed itself chiefly in allowing
them to do just as they pleased. Oddly
enough he seemed to be less looked up to in
his own family than by the outside world ;
Lady Arabella's manner to her husband
would have been called condescending to anyone
else ; and his children, with the instinctive
knowledge which the young possess

of the characters of those with whom the
live, never felt quite at ease in his presence
and loved him, as it were despite themselves
because he was their father.

CHAPTER YI.

A FEW PAGES FROM A Journal.

It was a little more than a year before the
incident in the Park that Victoria Marsh,
then on the eve of entering into training asa
nurse at St. Tobias's Hospital, had, on retiring
to her room for the night, sat down
and written as follows :

This is probably my last day of freedom
for a long, long time.

But is it freedom ? Is there such a thing
as freedom 1

For thought, perhaps — yes. For action —
no. Are not most of our actions the slaves
of our thoughts ? Yet our thoughts have to
submit to a higher power — the will. Even
our poor thoughts are not free.

*but what is this mysterious will, this
prime motor of our lives ? I wish that I

could think it out, but I cannot ; and yet I
try, and try

'' Try, till my very brain allies, and find
myself not one whit wiser than when I began
to think.

It sometimes strikes me that I think too
much ; and it is this over-thinking which
makes me feel different from other people.
It may not be perceived — for I try to hide it
but I ctm different.

'' This is perhaps why I take so much
delight in jotting down my innermost
thoughts ; in making as it were a confidante
of myself, and in placing my whole life in
the form of a written picture between the
clasped cover of the book in which I am now
writing.

When I have written a few pages, it often
seems to me as if I had created a sympathy
outside myself, or rather as if the scenes and
incidents as they are jotted down, became
scenes and incidents in some other life than
mine, which interest me to a degree that is
only limited by the amount of sensibility
belonging to my nature. I believe it is this
habit of keeping a journal which has preserved
my thoughts from becoming morbid, and
given my mind a healthier tone than naturally

belongs to it. How iDUch have I not learned
through this daily examination of myself — by
myself?

^' It seems so very long since I began to
keep a journal, for I commenced when a mere
child. It was only yesterday I came across a
few stray pages — the only surviving fragments
■ — of this early record. How precious each
reminiscence they recall is to me now ! Yet
after it was written, I remember I set so
little store upon it, that it was chiefly with
the leaves of my old journal that my manufactory
of kites — and I was a great maker of
kites in those days — was kept going.

I do not know why, but this evening my
thoughts are carried back, more than ever, to
those early days, and the scenes of the past
present themselves so vividly to my imagination,
that I am, as it were, compelled to
revert to them. Perhaps it is the sight of
these few torn and faded pages. When I
look upon them, It is as if they reproached
me for my forgetfulness and neglect. They
seem to say : ' Oh, foolish one, the things
we speak of once made up your life — they
make it now — for all the present is built upon
the past, and all the future is but its door
heir.'

^' Dear old fragments, I will rescue you Iron*
oblivion, and with your aid I will complete
the story of my life.

Ah me ! when I look back I can scarcely
believe I am still young. I ought to be a
hundred years old at the very least.

The first roll I take up — it was some years
later before I had arrived at keeping my
journal in a book — consists of a few sheets of
coarse, very yellow paper, written over closely
in a bold, ill-formed hand, with lines which,
no matter how straight they may have been
at first, always in the end sloped down in a
most provoking manner to the rights There
is no date, but I know some of the incidents
which are mentioned took place between my
ninth and tenth year. My aunt was then
alive, and I was living with her in my dear
old home.

Extracts from my old Journal
(With the spelling connected).

' To-day was very fine, and the sun shone
out quite bright. I was idle with my lessons,
for the sky was so blue, and the garden looked
so nice, and the old robins were out upon the
lawn, that I could nob help looking out of

window, and then auntie was cross — no, not
quite cross, but very quiet and grave, which
she always is when I do anything she does
not like. How I wish she would scold, I
should not mind it half so much. Another
egg from my white hen, and she cackled so
when she had laid it. I shall be quite rich
soon.

' Sunday. — I went to church this morning.
Auntie was not well, and could not go. So
many people in church, and Jane Hawkins's
little girl in a nice new hat with yellovvr
strings. I liked the sermon very much ; it
was all about the sheep who went astray, and
the Good Shepherd, and I thought of my little
lamb the savage dog killed last year. But I
was so ashamed, when I got home from
church auntie asked me the text, and I
could not tell her; the truth is, just as Mr.
Dorian spoke it, I was thinking of the
organ, and wondering, if I were one of the
gilt pipes, whether I should like to be a big
one or a small one. I did not tell auntie
that, it was so silly ; and it was bad enough
as it was when she said, '* Victoria" — she
always calls me Victoria when she is not
pleased — " you grieve me very much when you
let your thoughts wander in church. You

must never let your thoughts wander."
Auntie is always telling me this, and looks
so sad when she does so. Poor dear old
auntie ! I wonder why it is she looks so pale
and her hand trembles so ? and how tiresome
it must be to be so lame and to walk with a
stick. Last night, just before I went to bed,
I saw such a lovely glow-worm on the bank
by the gate. It looked just as big and just
as bright as a star. How can glow-worms
carry a fire about in their insides without
being burnt ? I must ask Dr. Prince.

* Monday. — May-day. I took auntie such
a nice nosegay of flowers before she was up,
all out of my own garden, and oh ! she was
so pleased, and said that, of all the beautiful
things with which God has blessed us on this
earth, there was nothing she loved so much
as flowers, and that she never looked at them
without thinking of heaven. Was it not
nice '] It rained in the afternoon, and I tore
my striped frock against the nail in the
rabbit-hutch — it was very tiresome.'

'' Here there is a hiatus of some months, for
when I next wrote, although the day of the
week even had been torn oft', it was evidently
winter :

' I do not like these dark, cold days ; and
the evenings are so long now, that auntie is
too ill to come downstairs. When the time
comes for me to go to bed, I feel quite glad.
To-day I saw such a funny thing, and it made
me laugh so, but it is a long story, and I am
tired, so I will write it down another day.'
* * * *

'* Another break.

jan. 1st. — I don't like the first day of the
new year at all. It seems so unkind to turn
one's back on the poor old year that is gone.
But the new year may be a kinder year than
the last to me ; and if auntie should only get
well and bright again, I will say Dear, dear
new year, it is you I love the best. It was so
fine and frosty when we drove over here this
morning, and I should have liked it very
much, but I could not help crying all the way
at leaving dear auntie, though Dr. Prince
said that he hoped it would only be for a
short time, and that if auntie were kept very
quiet, she might soon get well again; and
that a short visit to Deepdale, which is the
name of the place where he lives, would dome
good. Dear auntie, what can it be makes
her look so strange ? and why do I almost
always find a tear upon her cheek when I

stoop down to kiss her ? And how beautifully
she talks ! But what did she mean
this morning, when she said that she might
soon have to go on a long journey ; but that,
if she did, the time would soon pass, and it
would not be very long before we should meet
again ? And when 1 asked if she were
not too weak to go, and whether I could help
her, she said, *' That God would give her
strength, and that when she had been well,
she had tried to get everything ready, though
she feared she might have forgotten many
things." Then she kissed me, and said : '^ Remember,
my darling !" — she had never called
me so before — 'remember, my darling, we
must always try and be ready, for we know
not what a day may bring forth ; if you wish
to be happy, remember this. Now, go ; Dr.
and Mrs. Pringle are very kind, and you
must obey them in everything." And then
she said good-bye, and kissed me twice ; and,
whilst she held me in her arms, she said a
short prayer and blessed me. It was so
solemn — much more solemn than being in
church. They are so kind here. I have
such a nice pet of a little room ; and I like
Chub and Sis so much. Chub is just my age,
and such a jolly boy. When he came into

the room where I was sitting with Dr. and
Mrs. Pringle and Sis — who is nearly two years
younger than I am — the doctor called out, in
his funny way : '^ Come here, Chub, I have
brought you another sister, whom you are to
love exactly as you love Sis, but not one
atom more ; and if you don't make her a
good brother, I will break every bone in your
skin." And then Chub came bouncing up tome,
and gave me a kiss as loud as the crack
of a whip, and said : 'come along and help
Sis and me build up a snow-house ; it is
awfully jolly out in the yard :" and so it was,
though I have two fresh chilblains since the
morning, and they itch terribly.'

*****

'' The next entry, written nearly a month
later, is all but illegible, and the many blots,
as if from fallen tears, have added to the difficulty
of deciphering it :

'' ^ Jan. 26th. — It is so long since I have
written anything ; and now T don't know what
to write, for when I try to think, my thoughts
seem to fly away and hide themselves in a
place that is so dark — black just like night —
that I cannot find them ao^ain. I think it
must be my black dress. And then my eyes
fill with tears, and I can't see, and I make

VOL. I. 5

great blots. It is just three weeks to-day
since dear auntie died. How dreadful it is
to think of, and I playing on that very afternoon
with Chub and Sis, and laughing and
so happy. I shall never be happy again, for
all my unkind thoughts of dear old auntie
when she was alive, and my naughty words
to her when I was in a pet, will come up.
And I shall never be able to throw my arms
round her again, and say, Dear auntie, I am
so — so — sorry ; and I will be good and never
make you unhappy again ! I wonder why
God lets people die ; I am sure / would not !
'''Jan. Both. — Three days and I have written
nothing ; but then my cold has been so bad
that I could do nothing but sneeze. What
funny things dreams are ; and how dreadful
it would be sometimes if they turned out
true ! Susanna, the cook, says that hers
often do, and that she would not dream of a
white cat for ten pounds — or, as she always
say, ten puns — for whenever she does, someone
is sure to die. And I had such a horrid
dream last night — no, it was not horrid, for
some of it was quite lovely — and I remembered
it all when I awoke, and so I will write
it down ; and this was my dream : 1 thought
I had grown up, but what made it so odd,

although it was I who did everything, yet it
seemed all the while as if it were being
done by some one else, and that I was standing
by and looking on. And so I saw myself
grown quite tall, and dressed in grey, with the
skirts tucked up and made much tighter than
they are worn now, and with such a pretty little
black hat with a white feather in it, walking
along a path which led amongst trees high up
above a stream which rushed through great
rocks ; and when I looked up, very high
indeed above me, there was the top of a snow
mountain, and the clear blue sky, and I
thought it must be Switzerland, just as I
used to see it in the two pictures in the
parlour of my dear old home. And so I
went on walking, and wondering where I
was, when all of a sudden I thought I heard
a great noise, like a horse galloping ; but
when I turned round to see, I found there
was no horse, but that it was the beating of
my own heart I had heard : and though I
placed my hands upon it, and tried to keep it
quiet, it would not be still. So I became
frightened, for I thought there must be some
danger near, and was about to cry out for
help, when I felt a hand touch mine, and
there, close to me, stood a man, with dark

5—2

hair and beautiful blue eyes, and such a soft
sweet voice, though he only said one word,
and that was "Victoria." But I knew he loved
me, for he looked so kind ; and just as I was
about to tell him that I loved him, and would
be his wife, the earth seemed to tremble, and
the trees all to change into stones, and from
behind one of them came a figure all in
white, and I knew it was an angel ; and
though she was young and beautiful, I knew
at once it was dear auntie when she turned
her soft loving eyes upon me and said :
*' Child, stop ! You must not love him. If
you did, and became his wife, it would be
very cruel and unkind. If you would show
your love, you must never nmrry — never !"
Then, just as she said the last word, it was
no longer an angel, nor my dear auntie, looking
on me with soft loving eyes, but a hideous
shape, I could not make out whether it was
an animal or what ; and just as I felt I was
going to die, I was so frightened, I heard a
great rattle like the sound of a gun, and a
hunter, who was just like Chub, only that
he had grown into a big man, ran down the
rocks, and called out, and — then I awoke,
and there was the sun shining in at my
window, and Chub throwing up gravel, and

calling out : *^ Vic, Vic ! don't be so lazy. I
want you to come down as quickly as you
can ; the cat has got six kittens, and I want
you to help me to choose which to keep; one
has such a jolly white tip to its tail, and
another is a beautiful black, just like an old
boot.

'' * Feb. ijtJi. — To-day Dr. Pringle called me
into his library. I am always afraid when I
go there, it is so full of cross-looking books,
and there are all sorts of queer-shaped glass
things upon shelves behind the door. When
I went in he looked very grave, and said :
Victoria, I want to have a little quiet talk
with you." And when I had sat down he
told me that before dear auntie died she had
written two letters to me, one of which was
to be given me shortly after her death, and
the other was to be kept until I was nineteen;
and that he thought it right I should now
read the first one, so that I might know what
my aunt's wishes were. My hand shook so
I thought I never should open the letter, but
when I did there was dear auntie's writing,
only made larger that I might read it more
easily ; and it said — but I will write it down,
though I am not sure that I need do so, for
I know every word by heart — better even

than my catechism. This is what dear auntie
said :

iicii My own dear Child,

*'**'! am about to die, and to leave
you alone in this world of trials and temptations.
There is much I would wish to say
to you, but you are too young to have it said
to you now, so I have written it all down,
that when you are grown up — should it so
please God — into a young woman, and are
old enough to understand it, you may read
it and learn from it — with God's help, for
without that we can do nothing — so to guide
your conduct that whatever you do in this
world may be beneficial to others and acceptable
to Him whose will it is our bounden
duty to find out and do. Yes, my dear child,
let that word 'duty" be ever present in
your thoughts. Whenever you are in doubt
as to how you should act, only ask yourself
what you ought to do in order to do right,
and all will go well. I leave you in the
charge of valued friends. Mrs. Pringle will,
I know, watch over you with a mother's care,
and I am quite sure there is no one who is
able to give you better advice than the kind
doctor. It is my wish that you should seek

it on all occasions, and that you should obey
him in all things. I would say much more
to you, but I am very weak. That God may
watch over you and bless you is my earnest
prayer — the last words that I shall ever
write. I feel that my end is very near.
Remember — duty — there is no other rule— =-
none.

* *' Margaret M ."

'' ^ She had begun her name — it was not at
all like her beautiful writing ; the strokes
were so crooked — and Doctor Prince told
me, as I fell sobbing in his arms, that
she had become too weak to finish it, and
that she laid her head quietly upon her pillow,
and never spoke again. Oh, auntie, dear
auntie, I never knew how much I loved you
till now ! I shall never be happyjtill I see
you again. But I shall have to die, and I
don't want to die, for I should have to be
buried, and have earth thrown upon me, and
left alone in a dreadful churchyard ; no ! I
am too wicked ; I am not fit to die. I will
not ask God to let me die until I am good.'

'/--Jr-vt-Sc-Jr

Now comes a great gap in my journal,
and the demand upon it for kites must have

been very great. Several years are wanting,
and the writing has become much what it is
at the present day. It is now no longer
written on loose sheets, carelessly stitched
together, but is kept in a small account-book,
to be changed ere long for one of those yearly
diaries, which is its form at the present time.
Each year becoming more and more voluminous
: a vivid picture of my life at the time —
a history of the causes which have made me —
for it is a reality, and no mere freak of fancy
so different from others. Yes; I must write
it down again : ' so different from others.'
But need I be perpetually lamenting over
this ? No, no ! Victoria ! No lamentations ;
no weak wailing and wringing of hands.
When courage is lost, life has no hope. Leave
it to cowards to despair and — die."

Victoria wrote the last few lines so rapidly
that her pen seemed to fly over the paper,
and when she had finished the last word she
threw it from her, and drawing back from^the
table at which she had been sitting, she leant
back in her chair, and bowing down her head,
covered her face with her hands.

She remained in this attitude for a long,
long time ; motionless, with her hair, which

she had released from its plaits before sitting
down to write, streaming in wild luxuriance
over her neck and shoulders. In silent communion
with herself she forgot all else. The
lamp, which for some time had been burning-low,
went out unnoticed, and when she next
raised her head and looked around her she
would have been in darkness but for the
gleaming stars. Ursa Major stood high above
the horizon, and her eyes — they were red
with weeping — attracted towards it as by
some irresistible impulse, followed the direction
of the pointers. " Ah ! had not each life
its pole-star ; some great outside interest
upon which it could concentrate itself; some
aim and object immeasurably higher than the
contemplation and study of its own individuality
? Was it not through external and not
internal forces that each star was kept in its
appointed place and moved in its appointed
orbit ? Were not the educators of our lives
the objects by which we were surrounded,
and our thoughts but the outcome of impressions
produced upon the senses by external
influences ? Why, then, this perpetual study
and self-examination of ourselves, until self-consciousness
dominates over every other sentiment,
and egoism assumes the direction of

our lives? How can those who are perpetually
dwelling on themselves hope to escape
from themselves ? And yet this is just what
I am ever doing ; I, who would give vigour
to this poor weak brain and firmness to this
faltering will. The lessons of the past I have
already learnt — sad, painful lessons ; it is
enough that I should apply them to the
present. This battle of life can only be fought
and won by looking forward. It is a battlefield
from which there is no retreat, and he
only dies with honour who receives all his
wounds in front."

Such were some of Victoria Marsh's reflections
as she sat with folded arms, gazing
upon the stars. Suddenly heavy clouds
swept across the sky, and her room became
quite dark. It seemed to awaken her from
the deep reverie into which she had fallen. .

"What silly sentimental creatures we poor
women are I" she said, as she arose and
lighted a match. " Here I sit dreaming my
life away, when I ought to be up and doing.
But I will dream no more ; I will bid adieu
to the past, and to clench my resolution will
cut off my retreat."

Saying this, she took up the loose sheets
of paper which were lying on her table, and

throwing them into the grate, piled the 
volumes of her journal upon them.
In a few minutes a bright blaze, then a
smouldering mass, showed but too plainly
that strength of will had overcome all sentimental
scruples. There was no going back
now ; it was with Victoria as it was with the
Athenians of old, when they had burnt their
ships.

But one paper remained. It was her
aunt's letter ; not that which she had copied
in her journal, but the one Dr. Pringle had
been directed to give her when she was old
enough to understand its contents. This
letter Victoria now took up ; as she did so
her hand trembled, and the convulsive twitching
of her mouth showed the painful nature
of the emotions the sight of it renewed.

This I will keep," she said ; " keep sacred
from every living soul. For why should I
care to be understood ? I am too proud for
pity — but why pity T she quickly added ;
I have but done my duty, and the sense
that I have done it — am doing it — shall be
my solace, my reward. Aunt, dear," she
said, kissing the letter, '' I will be firm ;
your last wishes shall be obeyed. I will have

no guide but duty. To that I will sacrifice
all— all."

She spoke in a clear, decided tone, but as
she said the last words the tenderness of the
woman's nature asserted itself, and a flood of
tears revealed but too clearly that the tenderness
of a woman's heart cannot be obliterated,
however inflexible may be a woman's will.

Chapter VII.

DEEPDALE AND ITS INMATES.

Perhaps no one was better known in the
part of Middleshire in which Mr. Yorke lived,
than Dr. Pringle.

Now, no one could come into contact with
the good doctor without feeling, that though
old in years and somewhat less physically
strong than he might have been, he had preserved
more freshness and elasticity of rain
than is generally to be found in men of his
age. Indeed, his manner was so genial and
cheery, that it was impossible to look upon
him as old ; but the greenness of his age was
due in no small measure to his originality of
thought, and to the readiness with which he
was able to accept new ideas ; and this
intellectual vigour had been preserved
by his mind having been kept in constant
exercise — for it vas one of his favourite

maxims, and one that he was constantly
enforcing on his patients : " If you would
keep the machinery in order, no matter
whether of the mind or body, there must be
no corrosion — no rust." And hence it was
that nothing annoyed him more than having
to deal with those ailments which are but the
natural consequence of indolence or excess.

Dr. Pringle, himself the son of a country
surgeon, had gained a high position in his
profession at a comparatively early age. Like
most doctors, he had been very much behind
the scenes of life, and was perhaps on that
account somewhat inclined, at times, to be
cynical ; but he was too open, too benevolent,
and too warm-hearted, to be really so.

But there was one thing of which the
doctor had a thorough hatred — and Dr. Pringle
certainly was a good hater. It was of everything
which came under the denomination
of that which he called " humbug."

He had commenced practice in London,
where he had attained very considerable eminence
; and through his many popular qualities,
was fast arriving at the position of a
fashionable doctor. But a London life had
no attractions for him, and the nature of the
greater part of the ailments he was called

upon to cure was not such as to afford any great
scope for professional skill.

'' ] was being paid for being a mere medical
humbug," he used to say; 'rand I am afraid
to think of what;! should have grown into had
I remained a few years longer. However, I
believe I should have died, for work in which
one can take no interest is killing — and good
heavens ! what work it was !"

He was fond of illustrating his assertions,
and so continued :

"How well I remember going to bed one very
cold winter's night, thoroughly fagged out, having
left directions that I was not to be disturbed
unless it was absolutely necessary ; when, lo
and behold ! before I had been in bed an
hour, there was a furious ringing of the bell, and
I was roused up to go as quickly as possible
to see the old Dowager Lady Dowdycomb,
who was seriously ill. I had my suspicions,
80 I at first refused to go, and sent a polite
message to say I would call early in the morning
; but when the servant sent up to say it
would not do, ' for her ladyship was so bad,
that it was likely .she might die in no time,'
there was no help for it. So I had to dress
and sally forth. The night was horribly cold,
and I was not in the best of tempers. On

entering the old lady's room, I gently drew
back the curtains, and assuming my blandest
tones, inquired how she felt.

' Oh ! doctor, doctor !' answered her ladyship,
' I don't know what is the matter with
me, it is so cold, and I can't keep warm.'

^' ' Cold, madam !' I cried in a fury.
Cold ! I should think you were cold, and
everybody else in this frost-bitten world, on
such a night as this. What do you want me
to do 1 Do you want me to get into bed
and warm you ?"

It can easily be supposed that a feud
sprang up between the Dowager Lady Duwdy-
comb and Dr. Pringle — two separate camps
were formed by the friends of each — and some
very pretty fighting was the consequence,
which lasted at least three months.

I have had quite enough of London and
Dowager Lady Dowdycombs," said the doctor,
as he retired into the country ; where, having
a fair private fortune, partly his own and
partly brought him by his wife, he purchased
Deepdale, and practised more for pleasure
than profit — for he hated fees, and only took
them from rich people.

In a pretty cottage in the neighbourhood
of Deepdale, a lady named Marsh, with her

little niece Victoria, had shortly before taken
up her residence ; and a close intimacy soon
sprang up between her and the doctor's family.
Mrs. Marsh was an intelligent, clever
woman, who, although her manner was generally
very reserved, took a warm interest
in many of the subjects which formed the
doctor's favourite hobbies. This perhaps it
was which had at first attracted him towards
her — until the relations ordinarily existing
between a doctor and his patients had gradually
changed into a feeling of the most
sincere friendship. Then, too, the peculiar
state of Mrs. Marsh's health was a source of
great interest to Dr. Pringle, for he was fond of
psychological studies and of investigating the
relations in which mind stands to matter, and
there was something in Mrs. Marsh's state he
could not quite niake out. Sometimes he
thought it was her mind that was sick ; sometimes
that it was her body. He never quite
knew, though with all his frankness it is
doubtful whether he would have confessed
this had he been asked, for there are some
things which people do not confess, even to
themselves.

It was, perhaps, only a natural consequence
of the great friendship between Dr. Pringle

VOL. I. 6

and Mrs. Marsh, that when she died, he found
he had been constituted guardian to the little
Victoria, to whom a small but sufficient fortune
had been left ; and from that time she was
looked upon, in every respect, as one of the
doctor's family.

Mrs. Pringle was an amiable, good woman,
utterly devoid of any individuality of character ;
but she had the rare virtue of being a good
listener, and was a comfortable kind of indoor
wife ; for if she had any talent at all, it was
for housekeeping ; and probably there was no
house in the county kept in better order — no
house where there was greater punctuality —
certainly none where, without pretension, the
dinners were served in better style. This,
perhaps, may have been the reason why few
people were more popular than Mrs. Pringle.
The doctor used to say laughingly, "My dear,
everybody loves you because you feed them
so well." And, although no gourmand himself,
he liked things to be well cooked ; for he believed
there could be no real happiness with
a bad digestion, and was suspected by many
of his friends of holding to the opinion of the
Chinese— and an opinion some thousand years
old is always valuable — that the seat of the
affections is in the stomach.

With regard to Chub and Sis — whose
names, as given them by their godfathers and
godmothers, were Charles and Elizabeth.
Chub was a jolly roundabout fellow, fair at
lessons, good at play, with a temper like an
india rubber ball, that you may throw about
for ever without finding a hard point in,
and an appetite — never was there such an
appetite, it seemed to increase with eating.

Sis was younger than her brother. Even
as a baby she had such pretty, bright, wicked
eyes, and such pretty, winning little ways,
that no one — not even excepting those who
profess to hate babies — could resist her ; and
as she grew older her captivating powers
seemed to increase rather than to diminish.

In the companionship of Chub and Sis,
Victoria had been brought up and educated,
for it was one of the doctor's favourite
theories that the system of education fur
both sexes, up to the time when it became
necessary for them to commence a course of
technical study, ought to be identical.
• " Take care what you are about," urged
some of his friends, " or we shall find ail our
girls turned into boys."

The doctor laughed.

o

** My dear ladies, do not be alarmed ; the

6—2

assimilation of the same knowledge will produce
a totally different set of ideas. We do
not find that feeding on the same food produces
the disastrous results you so much
fear, and I should so much deplore. It were
perhaps better that each one of us should
have a selected diet, and that each child's
character should be strengthened and formed
by a separate educational process ; but the
best thing has often to give way to the next
best, and so we can only seek to provide the
food which best nourishes the many, and the
knowledge which has the most general application."


So it was that Victoria had received all the
elements of a thoroughly practical education
with Chub and Sis. She and Chub distinguishing
themselves — she most — in natural
history and the natural sciences ; whilst Sis
devoted herself to German and French, and
gave more time to music than the doctor
cared to reckon np, for a wheedling little
puss was Sis, and none knew better how to
find out the soft places in her father's hearts

time flew on. The doctor observing and
directing, or thinking he was directing, as he
probably would have been had it not been
for the charming coaxing Utile ways of Miss

Sis. Victoria miles ahead, and poor boast
Chub, painfully impressed with his inferiority,
plodding op behind. He loved her dearly,
but he did not like it.

'confound it," he used to say, 'rit is too
bad to be beaten by a girl ! I wish she had
been a boy."

But a girl she was, and so he had to put
up with it ! Sis, who was younger, did not
mind it ; she hated every word in the dictionary
which ended in ology, and gave herself
pretty, captivating little airs, which
seemed as natural to her as a golden sunbeam
upon a butterfly's wing.

Mrs. Pringle loved them all equally, for
hers was a large roomy heart, but it had not
many mansions. The doctor, on the contrary,
seemed to have a special niche for each — for
he loved each one differently. Victoria held
the highest place in his esteem ; Chub he
loved because Chub was such a dear good
fellow, and he had been a brute not to have
done so; and Sis — provoking, teasing, little Sis
it was difficult to say what was the exact
place she occupied in her father's heart ; but
one thing is very certain, the niche, wherever
it might be, was hung around with wreaths,
and strewn with flowers.

It was about a year after Mrs. Marsh's
death, that Mr. Yorke became the purchaser
of the Littleton estate. The house, Nettle-ton
Court, was only two miles from Deepdale,
and in the course of time the younger
members of the two families had become inseparable,
to the great surprise and annoyance
of several other families whose endeavours to
gain the friendly recognition of the rich newcomers
had been coldly repelled.

The fact is, the young people were of the
same age, and youth in the country would
find it very dull without companionship.
Then the doctor, with all his peculiar views,
had seen the world and was full of anecdote ;
and Mrs. Pringle was so unpretending and
amiable that she never placed herself in anybody's
way. There was, however, another
reason ; from the very first moment of Mr.
Yorke's seeing Victoria Marsh, he had seemed
greatly attracted towards her, and in a short
time it was one of the playful jokes of the
home circle that he cared more for her than
he did for his own daughters. This feeling,
however, did not seem to be reciprocated.
Victoria, who had soon established relations
with Gerald fine and Eva, of that close and
affectionate kind which is characteristic of

feminine attachments whilst life is young
and its emotions have not been chilled by the
cold heartlessness of the world, for some unaccountable
reason never felt at ease in Mr.
Yorke's presence. She was angry with herself
for not being able to respond to his
advances, for he was — so fair as his nature
permitted him to be — kindness itself. Yet
do what she would, a feeling she could not
describe crept over her whenever he drew
near ; and sometimes it seemed to her as if
she felt his presence the moment he entered
the room, although she had not observed that
he had done so.

'' I am afraid you do not love my father,
Vic," said Eva to her one day, as they walked
up and down one of the shady avenues
near the Court, with their arms encircling
each other's waists.

*' He is very kind to me, and he is your
father, my dear Eva, and perhaps it may
seem very ungrateful. But, you know, the
only person I ever truly loved is in the grave ;
and I have not been taught to love as you
have, darling, for ray parents both died when
I was so young that I have not even the
slightest remembrance of them. It is true I
love the Princes very much, and you know

I love you ; but then there is a difference —
it can never be the same as with one's own
flesh and blood."

*' Poor child !" said Eva, caressingly ; "I
wonder if your mother were like you."

*' Why ?" asked Victoria.

Because I am sure I should have loved
her. Did your aunt never talk to you about
her ?"

Never," said Victoria ; '' and I often
thought it was very strange of dear auntie
not to have done so. I only know that my
mother's name was Violet, for it is the name
engraved on the locket which I always wear,
and which contains a little curl of her soft
brown air."

Violet !" said Eva ; " what a charming
name ! I am sure she must have been very
sweet."

The only discordant element in the intercourse
between the two families was the
dislike which Chub entertained for Geraldine's
and Eva's brother Marmaduke, or, as he was
always spoken of in his own family, "Duke."

Though frequently away from home during
his vacations, he was there often enough to
take a part in the amusements which were
shared in common by his sisters and the

young people from Deepdale ; and to Chub
he made himself thoroughly disagreeable, for
he was older, and was supposed to have seen
something of the world, and so gave himself
airs of great superiority, which were gall and
bitterness to Chub. Then he was, or pretended
to be, very fond of Sis, and that Chub
did not like, though Sis did, which was
another source of deep annoyance to him.
Besides, Duke had once had the impertinence
to speak of his sister as Fizz — little Fizz —
declaring that she was so bright and so sweet
and so sparkling that she reminded him of a
bottle of champagne, and so he had dared to
call her Fizz ; but he never ventured to do
so a second time, for though he pretended to
look upon Chub as a boy whose anger was
quite beneath his notice, there was something
in the boy's anger which made him quail ; and
with all his braggadocio and loud talking,
Duke was a coward. But he was a good-looking
fellow, who could put on pleasing
manners, and make himself very agreeable
when he chose, so that it is not to be wondered
at that Sis took his part whenever Chub said
anything against him, or that Duke and his
doings often formed the subject of her meditations.
When Duke was at home, he

became the centre round which everyone else
was made to revolve ; it was Duke here, Duke
there, Duke everywhere. Lady Arabella
seemed to think of no one else ; all her
affection was centred on Duke.

When he was away, the youn people
paired off in couples ; Eva and Victoria,
Geraldine and Sis ; with poor roundabout
good-natured Chub at the beck and call of
each, performing very much the functions of
a well-trained Newfoundland dog, and passing
very much of his spare time in goinor to and
fro upon that portion of the earth which lay
between the two houses, with little scented
notes folded up in a triangular form. Poor
Chub ! he sometimes was inclined to growl
and show his teeth, but a few gentle pats
and kind words always brought him to his
senses, unless Sis interposed with a request
that he would not make himself ridiculous,
when it would require much coaxing to bring
him back to obedience.

So things had gone on, each year seeming
to repeat itself. But silent old Time had
been working stealthily none the less. The
lads had passed the hobbledehoy stage, and
the girls had reached that advanced period of
life when they affect to scorn all those they

call " boys," and profess to prefer the society
of '' men."

It was at this critical moment that Sir
Francis Hawthorne appeared upon the scene,
and became a frequent visitor at the two
houses.

Chapter VIII.

CUPID SHOOTS HIS SHAFTS.

Sir Francis hawthorne was soon in high
favour at the Court, and at Deepdale he was
sure to meet with a warm welcome. He
divided his attentions fairly between them ;
in the summer passing much of his time with
the family at the Court, should they happen
to be in the county ; in the winter frequenting
the doctor's cosy fireside with a persistence
which made saucy Miss Sis say that he had
become her father's tame cat.

But this was said in pure spite by Miss
Sis. Spite, because Sir Francis would not
fall at once a victim to her winning little
ways, but would go on talking upon tiresome
dry subjects which she could not, and would
not, understand.

Yet those winning little ways had gone
much nearer than she was aware of towards

effecting their object. As Sir Francis discoursed
with the doctor, as he was wont todo,
upon the true and the false, upon right
and wrong, upon the government of the few,
and the happiness of the many, upon the
best mode of binding together in the bonds
of love the various classes with their several
interests into which society is divided, etc.,
etc., etc., he gradually found himself addressing
his remarks less to the doctor than to the
owner of the bright eyes which from time
to time were directed towards him.

No wonder that at times he became a little
incoherent, and that when he and the doctor
differed he was sure to get the worst of the
argument.

The only wonder is, how he could have
overlooked Victoria, and bestowed all his
attention on that sly little puss Sis ; merely
because Victoria, who was worth a dozen of
her, was silent and pale, and did not know
how to use her eyes.

But all men are given to making mistakes
in such matters, and Sir Francis was no
exception to the rule.

For some little time Sis seemed each day
to grow prettier, to become more captivating.
Then she began to show herself — a very little,

but yet too much — as she was, for Sis was as
changeable as a chameleon, only that she
changed her little winning ways and not her
colours, changed them for other little winning
ways, each one so charming that it was
difficult to know when it was you liked her
best ; but it was in these frequent changes,
and in the act of changing, that she betrayed
herself.

At first she would be all attention, and
look as grave as a judge. Then, by degrees,
she gave up even the pretence of listening,
and would sit down to chess with Chub.
He, poor fellow, dreadfully in earnest, and
hesitating over his moves in a way which
gave a pretty sure indication of approaching
defeat ; she, dashing away at tangents to every
accepted rule, and from time to time interrupting
the conversation with some little playful
exclamation, which was only redeemed from
being silly by the little wise air with which
it was said, and the rosy pouting lips which
gave it utterance. Then, now and again, she
would open her eyes as if in wonder, and
look straight at Sir Francis, just as he was
in the midst of one of his pet theories. There
was no mistaking the meaning of that look ;
it said as clearly as words could have done :

Why do you talk so much about all these
dry, disagreeable things, and waste your
thoughts upon all sorts of people, when — "
She never seemed to get farther than the
when," for just at that moment Chub would
be sure to do something to attract her attention,
and so the sentence was never finished.
But who could meet such a glance from those
bright, blue, speaking eyes, and not be
moved ? Sir Francis was greatly moved ; he
bad never seen such eyes before, and they
were seldom out of his thoughts. But alas !
alas for Sis I It was impossible to be in her
company day after day without finding her
out. Before the winter was over Sir Francis
had discovered she was acting a part — a part
so pretty that it was almost difficult to
wish she would not act it; but still in the
end, if there be only time, the real will gain
the victory over the false : and so Sir Francis,
tearing his heart, as it were, from Deepdale,
sought some other shrine upon which to lay
it — for it is difficult for young hearts to
remain in their own keeping. ' He did not
seek long before he became attracted — and
what more natural, knowing how beautiful
she was — to Allegra.

But here it would only bo right to say.

that of all this nothing whatever was known
to anybody but himself, for the young ladies
themselves had not as yet found out whether
he had a heart or not. And if it be objected
that this easy transfer of the affections is
somewhat damaging to the reputation of a
young man of Sir Francis Hawthorne's acknowledged
strength of character, it should
be remembered that to be true to nature we
must take things as we find them ; and after
all is it not the case that it is he who
endeavours to seek out, and love the best,
who is the most worthy of being loved, even
though he may have to flutter round a few
flowers before he is able to find out, which is
the best ?

Be this as it may, there can be no doubt
that for a short time Geraldine's image was
the one which presented itself most frequently,
whether in thought by day or in dreams by
night, to Sir Francis. But it was not long
before strange suspicions, like drops of gall
in honey, embittered his cup of happiness.
He began to ask himself ugly questions :
Was she not too masculine in her tastes ?
Was she not too flippant? Could she be
sympathetic ? and to each of these ugly questions
an answer came but too readily; and

for the moment Sir Francis was made unhappy,
for an internecine warfare was raging
between his heart and his head, and it was
difficult to say which would conquer. There
was something about Geraldine which made
him love her despite himself, and when she
was in one of her graver moods, and looked
thoughtfully out of those beautiful eyes, while
she spoke in a low musical voice on subjects
which might have been deemed far too deep
and dry for her to have felt any interest in,
and spoke on them, too, as if she had
thoroughly thought them out, how was it
possible for him not to love her ?

But in her other moods !

Ah me ! what a change I Exchanging
silly badinage with silly young men ; laughing
when she ought to have looked grave;
assuming masculine airs, and talking about
horses a& if she had been brought up in the
stables, and of betting and the odds like an
officer of dragoons. Ah me ! what a change!
But when Sir Francis found her as he once
did, in the smoking-room with her brother
and some college friends, a smoking-cap on
her head and a cigarette in her mouth, the
great crisis came, the internecine war was
brought to an end by the head winning a

VOL. I. 7

great victory over the heart, and Sir Francis
found himself once more free.

Winter was fifone, the spring had passed
away, and it was now summer.

Ostensibly, no change had taken place in
the relations between Sir Francis and the
family at the Court, and there were many days
when he was to be found, racket in hand, with
Geraldine at his side, doing battle against the
redoubtable Chub, assisted by the still more
redoubtable Sis, whilst Victoria and Eva sat
under the shade of a leafy chestnut tree and
watched the game ; for Eva was too delicate
for any kind of violent exercise, and although
Victoria could play, and played well, she did
not care much about the game, and only took
a part in it when she was wanted.

'' How well Sir Francis plays !" remarked
Eva.

'* Very," answered Victoria, absently, as if
she were thinking of something else.

Then a silence of some minutes ; again
broken by Eva :

Have you not observed that he has very
much changed of late ?"

"Who— ir asked Victoria. 'why?
What makes you think so V

She spoke in a startled, hurried manner,

and plucked almost fiercely at the petals of an
ox-eye daisy as she did so.

'because," said Eva, calmly, *' he used to
talk so much more ; and Geraldine and he
were always teasing each other."

'' Don t they do so now T

"Oh no! never! He, is all politeness ; and
she, is never rude. It is nothing but ' If you
please,' and ' Thank you '."

'' How tiresome!" said Victoria ; she might
perhaps have said more, but at this moment
Lady Arabella joined them, followed by a
manservant carrying her own special easy-chair
and a plentiful supply of pillows, with
which, in a few minutes, with the assistance
of Eva and Victoria — for Lady Arabella
never did anything without assistance — she
was carefully propped up.

A pause in the game brought the players
around her.

Ah, Sir Francis," she said, as the young
baronet approached her, " you really must be
prevented from putting your theories into
practice. If you go on as you are doing, we
shall all be ruined."

Ah, poor me ! What have I done
now?" said Sir Francis, with an air of mock
humility.

7—2

"Only by your insisting upon paying higher
wages than anyone else, you have created
universal discontent. You will hardly believe
it, but not less than three of Mr. Yorke's farm
people have left him during the last month,
in order, as the foolish creatures say, to better
their condition. And you know," she continued,
turning to Geraldine, '' how kind your
papa has been to them."

'* How ungrateful !" said Geraldine ; " but
we must not expect gratitude from the lower
classes; they are getting worse and worse
every day."

"Are ive getting better?" asked Eva.

My dear Penserosa/' said her mother,
*' that is not the question ; it does not matter
whether ive are getting better or worse, but
you must allow that in no country in the
world is so much money given away in charity
as in ours."

Because," observed Sir Francis, " there is
no country in the world in which charity is
so much needed. For that reason I look
upon charity as a disgrace to us. It ought
to be the duty of the rich to seek to prevent
its need, rather than to alleviate the misery
which proceeds from need."

Utopian I" said Lady Arabella, playfully

threatening him with her fan ; *' as indeed you
Radicals always are'*

But, mamma dear' said Eva, ^' I think
Sir Francis has forgotten that there always
must be poor, for are we not told that the
poor will always be with us? and I cannot see
why we should not help them in such a
manner as to make them love us."

Lady Arabella shook her head mournfully,
as if she would have said : 'M have tried, but
it is hopeless."

What nonsense, Eva I" said Geraldine,
sharply ; " people cannot be made to love
each other."

** True," said a voice, in clear, measured
tones; "for there can be no true love without
sympathy."

Sir Francis looked up at the speaker — it
was Victoria —-and as he did so, his eyes met
hers.

He had never looked into them before.
What a depth of tenderness they revealed !
How was it he had overlooked the possessor
of them till now ? True, he had very frequently
seen her and often spoken to her,
but she had appeared to him only as a reserved,
silent girl, who seemed to live amongst
her books and in communion with her own

thoughts. But then he had been so much
engrossed, first by little Sis, and secondly —
it is sad to think of such fickleness — by
Geraldine.

*' There can be no true love without sympathy."


Could Victoria have foreseen the effects of
those few words she might perhaps have remained
silent. Would it have been better
for her to have done so ? Who can tell ?

From that moment Sir Francis was more
than ever at Deepdale.

We understand each other," said the
doctor ; '' you know the adage : birds of a
feather flock together."

*' Poor fellow ! he is so dull at home," said
Mrs. Pringle.

"It is all that beautiful pet curl Sis has
been training over her left eyebrow," said
Chub.

If it were not wicked, I should call you
names, sir," cried Sis.

Am I not right, Vic ?" asked Chub.

But Chub asked in vain, for Victoria made
him no answer. Yet her heart was full, and she
felt her cheeks flush at Sir Francis's name.
She knew why he was so often at Deepdale.
His admiration — his love had been suddenly

revealed to her : how, she could scarcely tell,
for as yet he had said no word of either.

The last few weeks had indeed produced
a great change in the feelings of both. It
was a marvel now to Sir Francis that he had
ever looked with admiration on any other
form than hers ; that he had ever sought to
catch the glances of any other eyes ; or that
he had ever hung on the words from any
other lips. It was true that Victoria had
not the captivating graces of Sis, nor the undeniable
beauty of Geraldine — though there
was a strong resemblance between them —
but then she had the charm, which they had
not, of being always the same, and of making
the time spent in her society a source of
profit as well as of pleasure, for when she
spoke she seemed to do so out of the fulness
of her convictions, and to lay bare a heart
which was incapable of guile.

True, she might not be strictly beautiful,
but she was certainly very handsome; and it
seemed as if she grew more and more so everyday.
The sad look was fast fading away, and
the dark eyes were more frequently relieved
from the shade of their long lashes as she
looked towards him — not shyly now — but
with a glance which expressed trust and interest,

and — why should it not be said? — love.
Why she knew not, but now it was for the
first time that she seemed to gain an insight
into her own heart. Life, which for some
mysterious reason had always appeared to
her so unreal, so full of littleness, so disappointing,
suddenly assumed a new aspect.
She was not old, but it seemed as if she had
lived so long, and now — at last — at last ! It
was no idle fancy, no foolish dream of youth,
no fevered fantasy of a morbid imagination.
No, no ; it was true — so true : she was loved,
and loved by one who was worthy of her love.

No wonder that her eyes were brighter,
that a blush of red had mantled her pale
cheek, that her carriage had become more
erect, her step more buoyant ; that her heart
beat stronger. How could it not be so, when
she loved and was beloved ?

Yes ; she had known of this love, even
before it had taken the form of words, and
yet when Sir Francis did speak of it, though
she could have wished those words to have
dwelt upon his lips for ever, it came upon
her as a surprise.

They were walking side by side at the time.
She stopped, looked up at him, put her hand
in his, and said :

If L could speak to you now as I would
wish to speak I should be inexpressibly
happy. As it is, I can only ask you to bear
with me for a few days ; it will be my birthday
then, and I have promised the kind doctor
to remain free till after I am nineteen ; and
I must try and keep my promise, though I
fear I have been sadly forgetful of it of
late."

'' A few days ?" said Sir Francis. " It is
such an age to wait !"

"But I may have to say 'No'" said Victoria,
disengaging her hand, but not before
Sir Francis had pressed it — it is not necessary
to say how many times — to his lips.

You would not be so cruel as to make me
miserable "

Please don't speak of being miserable'
said Victoria ; *' it is a bad omen."

Are you superstitious ?"

'* I am sometimes."

'* But during these horrible few days — may
I come as usual V

*' Yes, if you will promise to be very wise
and very good, and not talk of love."

Remember, I am more than nineteen,
and am under no promise to remain free. I
am a slave."

** Is love, then, such a bondage .?" asked
Victoria, archly.

*' Yes !" said Sir Francis, *' from which
there is no escape ; and the sweetest of all
sounds is the chink of its chains."

Come," said Victoria ; " remember the
first duty of a slave is obedience. I order
you to be silent — and for the next few days
I free you from your fetters."

*' And when these few days are over ?"

The bank of silence shall be taken off, and
you shall have fresh chains."

'^ Let me wear them for ever," said Sir
Francis. ** Liberty has become hateful to me."

'* It seems to me that we are talking great
nonsense," said Victoria, as she turned in the
direction of the house.

And for the next few days Victoria had to
play a part ; she dared not show her happiness.


The only person who observed it was Mrs.
Pringle.

How well Victoria is looking," she said.
I am so glad I advised her to take camomile
tea."

She did not know that Victoria had not
followed her advice.

CHAPTER IX.

MIDSUMMER EVE.

Oh, how sweet it is this soft midsummer
evening ! The air redolent of nature's purest
perfumes ; the sky without a cloud ; the
moon rising lazily and round ; the stars
awaiting her in pale expectancy ; silence,
broken but by a fountain's plash.

On such a night as this loving hearts commune
without words, and wreaths are woven
by Fancy for the Future's wear.

On such a night as this the world would
seem to sleep, and we, who are but as the
watchers by its couch, to dream. Oh, golden
dreams, which woo us in our youth, and with
fleet footsteps fly from us in age !

The doctor has been called away to a
patient ; Chub and Sis are lawn-tennising at
the Court, and will not be back till late, as
they intend to walk. Mrs. Pringle is at

home, for she can be seen through the
French window which opens on the lawn,
seated at her work-table, and thoroughly
engrossed in one of her favourite complications
in woo].

Victoria, too, is at home, for as the moon
rises an observer on the lawn might have
seen her shadow distinctly outlined on the
gravel walk. She is sitting on a rustic seat,
and is evidently not alone, for there is another
and a larger shadow by the side of, and
bending over towards hers— the shadow of
Sir Francis Hawthorne.

Since Sir Francis had declared his love
they had met each day, but this was the first
time they had been alone.

For some time neither of them had
spoken, then the silence was broken by Sir
Francis.

"Why is it, Victoria," he said, " that weare
so little disposed to talk when we are
most happy ? Now, because I am sitting by
you, it seems as if the sense of happiness
had so taken possession of my whole being
that every other faculty had been destroyed.
You must forgive me for being so stupid, for
it is love which has made me so."

** Hush !" said Victoria. '* Kemember you

are in the position of a cardinal whose mouth
has not yet been opened. But why should
we wish to talk when we are happy ! It has
always seemed to me that the highest happiness
is that for which there can be found no
words ; just as with grief, those who mourn
most, neither weep nor wail."

There was again a long pause. It was
Victoria who now spoke.

*' I do not know why it is," she said, " but
there is something either in the darkness, orin
the stillness, of the night which makes me
melancholy, even when my heart is most full
of joy."

It cannot be the darkness," said Sir
Francis, ^* for see how brightly the moon is
now shining ; it has almost turned night into
day."

** Ah ! The moon, the moon," repeated
Victoria, dreamily. " I sometimes think it is
the moon which exerts such a strange influence
over me. It looks so pale — so sad. Do
you not think," she added hurriedly, as she
turned her eyes towards it, " that it looks
very sad ? Oh, so sad ! As if it had been
a silent witness of all the sin and wickedness
committed on the earth."

You must not give way to such thoughts,

my dear Victoria. If looking at the moon
makes you melancholy, turn from it. Think
of how Nature revels in the brightness of the
sun. There is a sun for each and all of us,
as well as moon."

*' Ah !" said Victoria, mournfully. " But I
am one of the children of the moon." Then,
suddenly changing her tone, she asked
quickly, *' Tell me, are you a believer in
dreams ?"

'" Only in one," said Sir Francis ; '' and
that, I feel, will come true."

But, tell me truly."

'' No, certainly not," said Sir Francis.

'^ But I have heard some wonderful instances
of their being realised," said Victoria.
** However, I agree with you, though
it is very singular — very singular."

What is singular ?" asked Sir Francis.

'* When T was a child I had a dream which
has haunted me to this day, and I saw ycu
in it. A strange dream, which has sometimes
made me very unhappy."

'' Dear little dreamer !" said Sir Francis,
pressing her hand, which he had been holding
in his own for the last ten minutes. " Dear
little dreamer, remember dreams come by
contraries; and when tomorrow comes, and

you have made me happy, you shall prove
that it is so."

'' I cannot tell you how I dread tomorrow,"
said Victoria. " I never knew before that I
was so weak. Ah ! can it be my fancy V
she cried, as she shrank back and trembled
violently.

What is it, darling V asked Sir Francis,
as he put his arm around her waist and drew
her towards him.

See ! see !" she cried, as she pointed in
the direction of the orchard; 'rit is the second
time I have seen it — and all in white."

Sweet one, be calm ; it is but the moonlight
streaming through the trees ;" he
stooped down and kissed her on her forehead
as he spoke.

There was a shout.

Hurrah ! hurrah ! Home at last. I
hope you have not eaten all the supper, for I
am as hungry as a hunter."

It was Chub and Sis. Chub vowing
that he would play lawn-tennis no more.
'' Only fancy," he said, '* having to jump about
the whole afternoon with that baboon Duke
showing his white teeth and grinning at you
from the other side of the net !"

I only wish you were half as good-looking,"

said Sis ; '' don't you ?" This last was
addressed to Victoria, who, with Sir Francis,
had advanced to meet them. ** But, good
gracious, child ! how pale you look !"

It is only the moonlight," said Victoria.

The moon," said Chub, " I hate moons,
and moon-calves too, Sis, even though they
may be more good-looking than I am !"

Silence, sirrah !" said Sis, as full of all
sorts of conflicting sentiments they walked
into supper together.

The doctor came in before it was over ; he
was even more cheery than usual.

I was just in time," he said ; ^' a few
minutes more and he would have bled to
death."

What was it 1" asked Sir Francis.

Tom Bates," said the doctor. " He was
stupid enough to get entangled in the threshing
machine, and so will have to go through
life with one hand less than his neighbours."

'* How long did it take you to cut it off?"
asked Chub.

Twice as long as I ought to have been,"
said the doctor ; " for I am sadly out of
practice."

^* Oh, papa ! how can you do such horrid
things !" exclaimed Sis.

You foolish little puss," said the doctor,
if no one could do what you are pleased to
call horrid things, this would be a remarkably
unpleasant world for some of us to
live in."

'* I suppose you know, Sis, what is supposed
to be the most difficult operation in
surgery ?" said Chub.

It was not the first time Chub had asked
Sis the same question. She looked at him
scornfully.

I wish, Chub," she said, " that you would
not be so fond of slang."

'' What did I say T asked Chub. '' As
for slang, I should like to know where a
fellow is to be found more slangy than
Duke."

** Is Duke at home now ?" asked Mrs.
Pringle.

It was the first time she had spoken.

Yes, mamma," said Sis, blushing ; " he is
going to stay three weeks."

*sin that case we must ask him over," said
Mrs. Pringle.

"Let me have fair notice, my dear, that I
may be out," said the doctor. " I hate
prigs."

'' You hear, Sis V said Chub.

VOL. I. 8

Come, come, Chub," said the doctor, " I
cannot allow yoa to tease your sister. I will
have none of my privileges infringed upon.
But what is the matter. Sir Francis ? I
have not heard your voice since we have sat
down. And as for Vic, she has evidently
put on her thinking-cap ; perhaps it is that
she begins to be oppressed by the burden of
age, for sweet eighteen is nearly past. And
tomorrow, well, tomorrow we must have a
feast, mind that, mother, and we will drink
her health in a bumper of the old Johannisberg,
for I always think, teetotaler as I nearly
am, that the best of drinking is when there
is a toast in the cup. What say you, Sir
Francis 1 Will you come ?"

'* With the greatest pleasure," said Sir
Francis.

"And mind you bring a good appetite,"
said Mrs. Pringle, '' for I can promise you a
good dinner. But, remember, the doctor is
responsible for the wine."

'' The women always throw the heaviest
responsibility on our shoulders," said the
doctor, " cunning creatures that they are ;
you will find that out to your cost one of
these days. Sir Francis."

'* The sooner the better," said Sir Francis.

"I can't think how a man can be such a
fool as to marry," said Chub ; at which wise
remark Sis exclaimed, saucily :

*' Sour grapes." And the doctor laughed.

*' But really, Vie," he said, ** you must
cheer up, or instead of a birthday-feast you
will make us all think it is an entertainment
in honour of somebody's funeral."

'* Is it really tomorrow ?" said Victoria.
Then I have a favour to ask — let me have
tomorrow to myself Remember that tomorrow
I shall be nineteen."

*' Ah ! how stupid of me, I had forgotten,"
said the doctor, looking unusually grave.
*' You are quite right. So we will ask our
friend here to come to the celebration of your
'natal anniversary' a day later. And now"
as he saw Sir Francis rising to take leave
'ewe must all off to bed, for I see that
some of us want it, and you, my dear Vic, as
much as any."

'' Then, the day after tomorrow," said Sir
Francis, as he shook hands all round, and, of
course by accident, with Victoria twice.

As he rode over the hill which stood midway
between Hawthornedene and Deepdale,
and from which both houses could be seen, he
reined in his horse and gazed long and 



fully in the direction of Deepdale. A single
light showed that one of its inmates was still
astir ; his heart told him it was Victoria.

Her sadness seemed to have communicated
itself to him, and it was difficult to believe
that the solitary horseman who peered anxiously
through the darkness at that distant
light, could be a suitor waiting for a verdict
from one of whose love he could not have the
smallest doubt.

But this intense dejection T he asked
himself. " This fear of tomorrow ? Can it
be the shadow which coming events are ever
said to cast before them ?"

He had reached Hawthornedene before he
had found an answer to the question ; and ashe
dismounted his expression was so unlike
what it usually was, that even the servants
were struck with it, and said amongst themselves
they thought their master must be ill.

The shadow had fallen upon him as well as
upon Victoria.

CHAPTER X

WAITING FOR THE VERDICT.

I KNOW we are going to have a thunderstorm,"
said Mrs. Pringle, as she sat down to
breakfast the next morning, '^ for I feel such
a swimming in my head."

'^Pishl" said the doctor. "Pish" was a
favourite word of his whenever anyone presumed
to speak of their ailments in his
presence without consulting him. " Pish 1
my dear. Pish !"

I only wish you had it, John ; but no,
indeed I don't, for you men make such a fuss
about trifles. But my head swims all the
same."

** Too much tea," said the doctor. '* How
can you women expect not to have pains and
aches when you treat your nerves as if they
were harp-strings, and always have some kind
of tuning-fork at work, either screwing them

up or letting them down ? But where is Victoria
?"

The door opened as he spoke. It was not
Victoria, but Sis.

Papa," she said, "Vic has a bad headache,
and I am going to take her a cup of tea ; but
she told me to tell you she will be down soon,
and that she particularly wishes to see you
before you go out."

A headache !" said the doctor. *' Why,
wonders will never cease. Vic with a
headache !"

It is all the thunder in the air," said his
wife."

The doctor knew it was impossible to overcome
Mrs. Pringle in argument, for although
she did not say much, she always insisted
upon having the last word ; so he contented
himself with an almost inaudible " Pish I"
and went on with his breakfast.

After breakfast, Victoria came down, looking
pale and agitated. She still complained
of headache, and answered with a faint smile
the kind congratulations of her friends.

Now to business," said the doctor.
Come with me, my dear, into the library."
He put on much the same grave, serious air
he would have assumed had he been about

to perform some difficult operation, and was
somewhat doubtful as to the result. " Come
with me, my dear''

When he had closed the library-door he
went to his writing - table, and opening a
drawer, took from it a packet of letters carefully
tied together. Amongst them was one
with a large black seal. This he handed to
Victoria.

'^ I must now carry out your poor old aunt's
wishes. Sit down, my dear child, and read
this. But before you do so, summon up all
the courage, ail the fortitude which belongs to
you, for although I have no exact knowledge
of what the letter contains, I have every
reason to believe there is much in it of a very
painful nature. Kemember, my dear, that
many circumstances by which our lives are influenced
are utterly beyond our control; and
that whilst the weak are often overwhelmed and
destroyed by them, they can be made a source
of good, a blessing, to the strong. Since you
have been under my roof I have never ceased
to endeavour to give strength to your character
; show me now that my labour has not
been thrown away. Promise the poor bungling
old doctor, as the greatest favour you can

confer upon him, that you will be strong and
of good heart."

Victoria threw her arms round his neck.

My kindest best of friends," she said, *' I
will do my best, and trust you will not be
disappointed in me. But for the rest of the
day I would be alone — quite alone, for I foresee
I shall have much to suffer."

All that day Victoria remained in her
room. To the frequent and anxious inquiries
of Mrs. Pringle there was but one reply :

*^ She was not feeling quite well, and wished
to be quiet."

'^ Ought you not to see her ?" suggested
Mrs. Pringle to the doctor. '^ I really fear
she is seriously ill."

*' My dear," said her husband, " in that
case we will have a little patience, and see
v/hat my great rival Dame Nature may do."

Sis could not understand it. Why should
Vic shut herself up in her room on her birthday,
of all days in the year ? She thought it
very extraordinary.

*' Why should she not have a headache ?"
said Chub. " Eva often has."

You are always talking about Eva," said
Sis.

** I'm sure I don't talk or think more about

Eva than anybody else," said Chub, growing
red.

Sour grapes," said Sis.

I don't understand you, with your sour
grapes," said Chub, growing redder still.

Poor boy !" said Sis.

I am not a boy," said Chub, angrily. '' I
was nineteen last week ; in another month I
shall be walking the hospitals, and I am at
all events twice the man of that jackanapes
Duke."

Remember, he is Eva s brother," said Sis.

And my sister's pet," said Chub.

Sir, how dare you !" It was the turn of
Sis to get angry now.

The doctor interposed.

Come, come, children ! what is all this
about?" he asked.

Nothing, sir," said Chub ; " a mere storm
in a teacup."

** Then, my boy, after a storm let there bea
calm, for I hate jangling. Why, Sis, my
little puss, come here ; what has made you
blush so ? I declare you are as red as a
peony."

'never mind," said Chub. "You know
what a good-natured fellow you have for a
brother — I won't tell."

'^ Papa, I wish you would beat him," cried
Sis. *' I am not strong enough, or I would doit
myself."

You had better beat some one else," said
Chub ; '^ then it would be so nice making it
up with a kiss for each blow."

You provoking boy !" cried Sis, as she
ran out of the room.

The next morning Victoria still remained
in her room. Through Sis, who had found
her door fastened, she sent down a request
that her breakfast might be brought her;
and the servant who took it to her returned
with a slip of paper for the doctor, on which
was written : " Come to me. I am ready to
see you now. I wish you to know all."

The doctor went to her room, and more
than an hour elapsed before he returned.

Mother," he said to his wife, in a voice
which still bore traces of emotion, " Sir
Francis will not dine here to-day, our birthday
dinner must be put off. Vie, though
better, is still suffering from a nervous attack,
which will necessitate great care and quiet
for some days."

'* Is it infectious ?" asked Mrs. Pringle.
*' There is plenty of carbolic acid."

"Pish!" said the doctor, ringing the bell, and

giving a note to the servant with directions
that it should be sent at once to Sir Francis
Hawthorne's.

'' Dear me, what a pity!" said Mrs. Pringle;
*' and I have got such a beautiful salmon."

When the messenger reached Hawthorne-done,
he found Sir Francis pacing the chestnut
avenue, which formed one of the approaches
to the house, in a state of feverish impatience,
not unmixed with anxiety. He could not
tell why, but he had never felt so ill at ease.
The pale, sad face of Victoria had haunted
him even in his dreams.

'' Why so sad ? Why so sad'' he had kept
repeating to himself

He had gone to bed late, and had risen
early. The sun had scarcely topped the distant
hills, when, in all the solitude of early
morn, he had whistled to his dogs and sallied
forth. Ah, how beautiful is this world of
ours to those whose hearts are full of
love I

As he walked rapidly along the path which
led in the direction of the midway hill, at
every step his pulse beat quicker, his hopes
rose higher ; at every step the air seemed
purer, the perfume of the dew-steeped flowers
sweeter. It was as if he drew in new life

with every breath : as if another heart were
beating responsive to his own.

As he neared the summit of the hill, he
was obliged to stop for a few minutes to
recover breath, so rapid had been his upward
course. Then, passing through the
clump of fir-trees which crowned it, he threw
himself down upon the dew-dank grass, forgetful
of all else but that Deepdale, embowered
in trees and bathed in a flood of
sunlight, stood in the vale before him.

But he thought not of Deepdale. It saith
him as with the miser who heeds not
the casket which enshrines his gems, and
thinks but of the priceless pearl within.

*' God, let her be mine ! — be mine ! — be
mine ! And make me worthy of the gift !"
was all his morning prayer.

The wind sighed out an answer through
the trees. It seemed to him as if he had
heard a moan.

^^ Victoria !" he cried.

The echo of the moan had fled, but from
the silence came an answering wail.
He could remain no longer, but fleeing, as
it were, from his own thoughts, hastily retraced
his steps. By degrees he became
calmer, so that he was able to go through his

usual routine of morning work ; but what he
did, he did mechanically ; he continued to
move restlessly about from place to place ;
and so it was without aim or object that he
was walking in the chestnut walk when the
doctor's groom had met him.

Even before the groom had touched his hat
and turned away, Sir Francis had torn open
the letter.

It was from the doctor, enclosing one from
Victoria. Alas ! his worst fears were confirmed.


The doctor's letter, though short, was kind
and sympathetic. With much warmth of
feeling, he regretted he had not sooner known
all the circumstances which had led Victoria
to decide that it was her duty to act in a
manner which must necessarily be the cause
of great pain to both ; for then he most certainly
would have exercised greater caution,
and have prevented their being thrown so
much together — but it was too late for useless
regrets. As it was, he could only beseech him,
by every sentiment of affection he might
entertain for his ward, to abstain from any
attempt to alter her decision, for he felt that
it was, and ought to be, irrevocable.

Sir Francis staggered to the nearest seat ;

he held Victoria's unopened letter in his
hand, but it was as if he had not courage to
read it.

*' How strange!" he murmured; *^ now that
I feel there is no hope, I love her ten thousand
times more dearly than I did before ! But is
there no hope ?"

He opened the letter slowly, almost reluctantly,
as he said this, and read as follows :

"My dear Sir Francis,

'^ If I were to try, I should be unable
to find words in which to tell you all that I
have felt — all that I now feel. I know not
why, but I had a presentiment that the one
bright day-dream of my life would not be
realised — and so it is. I shall never marry.
I must not be your wife. In the future, you
will be the happier for this ; and the time
will come when I trust we may both be
enabled to meet as firm and — why should
I not write the word ? — loving friends. Try
to find one more worthy of your love — I will
promise to be to her as a sister. The last few
hours have seemed to me a life. I have
learned so much — so much, alas I that I
would not have known. Yet I thank God
that it is even as it is. To have had your

love will be something more than a mere
meteor across my path, leaving no trace ; it
shall be to me as the recollection of the cloud
of fire to the Israelites of old, and I trust
that I may have strength given me to the
end — to show — that I was worthy of it :
strength given me to perform in all things,
as in this, my duty. Let me be enabled to
think of you as of one to whom I may look
for h help as from a brother ; but it is better
that for some long time we should not meet.
Till then, help me by your example. Till
then, farewell. Think of me as

* Your faithful friend,

Victoria."

Within three weeks, Sir Francis, to the
astonishment of all the world of Middleshire,
announced his intention of starting immediately
on a lengthened tour — it was given
out, for the purpose of making himself acquainted
with all those various conditions of
human life which, to the observant traveller,
form such a never-ending source of instruction
and amusement. But there were some
who shook their heads ; and Mr. Mortimer
was heard to observe, with a significant air :

^' Well, well, we've a right to look forward

to something more aristocratic than a baronet,
and when we quarter ourselves with our
husband's arms, to find something better thana
dirty red hand."

One thing was very certain : Geraldine had
been for some time looking, for her, unusually
grave, and from some unaccountable cause —
though the doctor was supposed to know the
reason why — the Pringle family were less with
the Yorkess' than usual.

It was shortly .sifter Sir Francis had sailed,
that Victoria entered into training, as a nurse,
in St. Tobias's Hospital, where she threw
herself into her work with an energy which
had gained her much commendation from all
those with whom she had been brought into
contact. The matron said she was invaluable.
The secretary, that she was an honour to the
institution ; and Professor Sharpe, that " she
had more nous in her little finger than
half the students in their whole united brain-boxes."


CHAPTER XL

RIGHT OR WRONG?

*' Come, come, my little man ; you are looking
glum. That won't do ; you must laugh."

My '^ little man " was a plump urchin of
some four years old, lying on his back on a
small bed, which was one of some thirty other
small beds, each one of which had its small
tenant, in a spacious ward in St. Tobias's
Hospital ; and my " little man " had his large
black eyes fixed somewhat ruefully on the
point of his great toe, for his right leg — it
was the old story : run over by a cab — had
been broken, and in order to dry the gum
bandage in which it had been placed the leg
had been hoisted up to a kind of tripod, in
such a way that his foot was considerably
higher than his head.

Thus it was that " my little man," utterly
amazed by the variety of incidents which had

VOL. I. 9

so suddenly crowded themselves into his little
life, and not the least astonishing of which
was the elevation of his great toe to such an
unwonted height, was lost in perplexity, and
continued to gaze upon it with a sad and
mournful interest. It was as if he were not
quite sure whether it was his own great toe
or the great toe of some one else, placed therefor
his amusement ; and this state of uncertainty
and doubt had so worked upon his
feelings that while his curiosity, not unmixed
with a certain degree of apprehension, was
intensely excited, the sense of pain was almost
entirely lost.

Come, come, my little man, you must
laugh."

The voice in which this was said was so
sweet and pleasant, there was such a sympathetic
ring in every word, that the little
fellow gave up for the moment the contemplation
of his toe, and turned his dark lustrous
eyes, as if perforce, full upon the
speaker.

There must have been something in her
to complete the favourable impression produced
by her voice, for the mournful expression
of the child's face passed away as if it
had been a cloud, and a little roguish smile

took its place, which said as clearly as a little
roguish smile could : " Is not all this very
funny ?"

Good boy !" said the nurse, nodding approvingly.


'^ Bravo ! well done, Victoria !" said Dr.
Pringle, who had entered unobserved, as he
held out his hand. *' I wish some of the fond
mothers I wot of were here, to learn the difference
between the real sympathy, which
strengthens and cheers, and the spurious,
maudlin sympathy, which weakens and
spoils. I congratulate you : when we can
make our patients laugh we have not much
to learn. But I must not gossip ; I am in a
great hurry, and I only looked in to tell you
that I hope that everything is satisfactorily
arranged, and that you will be able to do all
you want at Zurich."

He had no time for more, for at that moment
the matron and Professor Sharpe entered
the ward.

Now the professor was an old friend of Dr.
Pringle's, though, considering they had been
partly educated together and belonged to the
same profession, it was remarkable how few
ideas they had in common.

A thin, angular, somewhat bilious-looking

9—2

little man was the professor, with an incisive,
cutting manner, perfectly in keeping with his
name. He had the misfortune of being just
three inches shorter than he considered he
ought to have been, and so irritated was he
against Dame Nature for her ill-treatment
of him in this matter that it would have been
extremely disagreeable for that worthy dame
had she fallen into his practised professional
hands, for he would most assuredly have
made her pass a remarkably 'mauvaise quart
heure.

Not that the professor was naturally unamiable
; quite the reverse. But how is it
to be expected that a man can be in the best
of tempers who never ceases to be conscious
of being just three inches under the five feet
ten he had fixed upon as his proper height,
and who is under the necessity of rising upon
his toes — as the professor perpetually did at
the interval of a few seconds — in order to
assert himself and preserve his proper position
in society.

It was this want of height which made the
professor hate tall people, and woe to the
students with long legs, for it was upon them
that he was ever ready to pour out the vials
of his wrath. A singular contradiction this,

considering how very much he disliked being
short himself ! However, so it was, and you
could not be in the professor's society many
minutes without finding out his weak point.

Next to his hatred of tall people was his
intense dislike to women who did not *' keep
their proper places." He spoke of them with
the same contempt as he did of tall men, and
spoke to them as he indeed did to all women
but one — as if they were intelligent babies
who had been permitted to increase in size.
And here again he was guilty of another
strange inconsistency ; for though he constantly
dilated on one of his pet theories, that
no woman should be allowed to think, he
secretly paid the greatest deference to the
opinions of the matron, Mrs. Wainscot,
though when he acted upon them he always
made it appear he was merely following out
his own.

Mrs. Wainscottt herself, though trained ina
school which made her readily accept the
position of inferiority assigned to her sex, and
so strongly insisted upon by the professor,
was a remarkable instance of the amount of
beneficial work which may be effected in a
large institution by a clever, energetic woman.
Everything over which she had charge was in

perfect working order. The discipline of the
nurses left nothing to be desired. The wards
were models of comfort, cleanliness, and order,
and apart from the skill of the medical officers,
much of the reputation which belonged to St.
Tobias was due to her watchful, sympathetic
care, and to her great administrative ability.

And yet it was supposed by Professor
Sharpe — and all those Professor Shapes who
are to be found in the world under other
names — that she had no right to think !

But in order that there may be no misapprehension
as to his views — for it is no light
matter to deal unjustly with the character of
such a man as Professor Sharpe — it will be as
well to state them in his own words, thus :

"Do as you will" — the professor has raised
himself to the very point of his toes as he
utters emphatically the last word — " Do as
you will, you never can teach the woman to
reason — that is, to think. Do not misunderstand
me. I do not mean that a woman is
unable to arrive at conclusions or decisions
based upon motives equally with the man ;
but the motives themselves are arrived at by
a totally different process ; in the one case
they are the outcome of a variety of factors
working together in that great factory of

thought, the brain ; in the other they are, as
it were, spontaneous emotions emanating
from structural causes, necessarily limited in
their sphere of action. Thus it is we find
that whilst the range of a man's thoughts are
boundless, the woman's mind, as a rule —
remember, I am not speaking of your exceptional
monstrosities — the woman's mind, I
repeat, is, as a rule, entirely occupied — apart
from such thoughts as men choose to give
her, for some special purpose — with the subject
of dress, the choice of beef or mutton
for her husband's dinner, or some one of the
thousand and one trifles of which human
existence is made up, and which I, for one,
most certainly do not undervalue."

The only person to whom the professor did
not care to enunciate his views on woman
was his wife ; for he had married very early
in life a young lady so tall that when still in
her teens she had been danced round by her
schoolfellows on the first of May. She had
considerably developed since that time, and
the professor knew but too well that in her
case, *' spontaneous emotions emanating from
structural causes " were not to be trifled
with.

It was observed, too, that he never stood

upon his toes when his wife was present.
She did not like it, and whatever question
there might be as to the nature of her mind,
there could be none as to the fact of her
having a very strong will.

Surgery was the professor's passion, and
he had the reputation of being a very skilful
surgeon ; but he cared more for the operation
than the patient, and was not at all prepared
to admit that recovery formed one of the
chief elements of success.

His dexterity was a favourite theme of
conversation amongst the pupils, and one of
them had been once heard to remark that
the sweetest thing in nature was to see Professor
Sharpe handling the knife. Peace be
to his ashes — for the professor is now dead.

Ah ! my good friend Pringle," said the
professor, as he and the matron entered the
room. ** Just the very man. We were talking
of you. You must put a stop to it. Mustn't
he, Mrs. Wainscottt ?"

At least, give me time to say — How d'ye
do ?" said the doctor, holding out his hand to
the matron.

Time is precious," said the professor ; *not
a minute to lose. Operation — amputation at
the hip — splendid case ! Will make my

tenth. Of course you'll come — all through
obstinacy."

Through what ?" asked the doctor.

*' Obstinacy," said the professor. '' Injury
in foot. Amputation necessary — would not
submit. Spread to knee — still held out.
Now, just in time^given in. A splendid
case, under best possible conditions."

'' It is a poor girl," said the matron, ^' whose
friends interfered no less than three times
the night before the operation was decided
on, and now this is the last hope. It is very
sad."

*' Mrs. Wainscottt," said the professor. ^' I
have no time now. I must leave the doctor to
you. You know my views. This great institution
will suffer. It must be put a stop to.
Pringle, your ward must not be allowed to
make a fool of herself You must prevent it.
Women must keep to their own sphere. snow,
for the present, good-bye ; remember, I shall
beorin in half-an-hour. It's a first-rate chance.

o

So mind you come."

The professor brought his heels down to
the ground with a stamp, as he said this,
made a pirouette, and walked off in the direction
of an adjacent ward, leaving the doctor
in charge of Mrs. Wainscottt.

Well, my dear madam T said the doctor,
interrogatively.

I would much rather the professor had
spoken to you himself' said the matron. " It
is about Miss Marsh. Of course you know
that she is going to leave the hospital ?"

^^Yes."

** And the object she has in view T

Certainly."

May I ask if she is acting with your
sanction ?"

She is old enough to judge for herself
in this matter, and she is acting after due
experience. There is therefore no reason
why I should oppose her wishes."

But, my dear sir, do you really think it is
desirable that women should be doctors ?
Was it ever intended ?"

'^ The first question I find no difficulty in
answering. To the second I must confess
being obliged to plead entire ignorance. But
though I would answer the first question
generally in the affirmative, I should prefer
to qualify my opinion, and say that I can
conceive cases in which it might not only
be desirable, but very desirable that some
women should be duly qualified for medical
practice."

"But remember what girls will have to
submit to in the course required from them.
Will not their modesty suffer T

'' No more than it does at present, from
what they have to see and do as nurses,"
said the doctor ; " and I would ask if the
natural repugnance which every girl of refined
and delicate feelings must have to the performance
of duties — which are often of the
most repulsive and distressing nature — can
be overcome through the influence of motives
without which her work would be impossible,
and if she can be prepared for, and do this
work, with advantage rather than injury to her
moral qualities, how much less likely is she to
suffer when the object to be effected becomes
greater, the interests deeper, and the preparation
not one whit more objectionable than
that which they have to undergo under your
watchful care. Am I not right in this ?"

Mrs. Wainscottt was silent for a moment.

There is certainly much truth in what you
say. It may be prejudice, however, but I
cannot reconcile myself to the idea ; it seems
unnatural."

"All new ideas do seem unnatural at first ;
but come, come, Mrs. Wainscottt, said the doctor,
kindly, " you are a practical woman, and the

work of this world can only be properly done
by people who are so. Just look round at your
poor little friends in this ward, and ask yourself
what does a man doctor know about them?
he does not even know their language. What
is understood by every mother, by every woman
with ordinary sympathies, is to him a sealed
book ; he has either to grope about in the
dark, or seek out some woman to act as his
assistant. Take the word of an old practitioner,
that in almost all such cases the woman's
diagnosis would be quicker, surer. Then as
regards much of our practice with your own
sex — dear me, dear me ! Surely here all objection
ceases ?"

^^ But we women have no confidence in
women," said the matron, laughing.

'ewe must educate your judgment, my good
madam, and teach you to perceive that the
best is the best whether it exhibits itself
before the world in pantaloons or petticoats."

But with regard to operations T asked
the matron.

'sall medical men are not operative surgeons,"
said the doctor ; " and I know of
some — aye, and very good, useful fellows in
their way — whom I would not trust to cut off
the leg of a roast fowl. But allowing the

major surgical operations to remain more
especially as a part of the man's work, there
are hundreds of the minor ones which mio^ht
be done as well, indeed more easily, and therefore
better, by the women. Take the eye for
instance, and those operations which require
the use of very small and fine instruments :
surely a woman would find less difficulty in
handling them with her delicate and practised
hands, than I possibly could with these great
awkward thumbs."

The doctor held out his hands as he spoke ;
and there could be no doubt but that it could
only be by great practice and extremely good
management that they could be made to
adapt themselves to any work which might
require delicate manipulation.

And yet," said the matron, " I have
heard that you have used them very skilfully."


'' I have done my best ; one can do no
more," said the doctor. " But I should like
to know why a young girl, anxious to do good
in her generation — who has mastered all the
mystery of nursing, and overcome all the
horror with which, until we are familiarised
with it, the sight of much that the surgeon
has to do produces — is to be doomed to stand

by everlastingly with a basin and sponge,
when she may feel that she has something
more in her, and when she is half inclined to
say to some bungling operator — for there are
bunglers in all professions — ^ Come, hold this,
and let me take your place. I could do it in
half the time, and twice as well myself '."

'^ Really, doctor," said the matron, " I must
confess to being more than half converted."

** It will take time," said the doctor, *' to
reconcile the public to the change ; but all
honour to those who have the courage to
become the pioneers in those unknown paths
which become in time the frequented highways
of human progress."

*^ But what shall I say to the professor V
asked the matron. '' He will be furious."

'^ So much the better," said the doctor.
The more furious the gale, the sooner it
is over. I would see him myself, but to-day
I must be off at once. Will you kindly tell
him, as he did not give me time to do so,
that I have an engagement which will prevent
me, much to my regret, being present in
the theatre this morning 1"

Ah, poor thing ! Poor thing !" said the
matron.

It was evident that familiarity with distressing

scenes had not hardened her heart,
for, as the doctor took leave of her, her eyes
were filled with tears.

A few minutes later, as the doctor was
hurrying along Great George Street, on his
way to the Park, he brushed against a tall,
red-faced man, dressed in a suit of unmistakably
sporting cut.

I beg your pardon," said the doctor,
lifting his hat.

The stranger growled a response — it almost
sounded like an oath — as he passed on.

How very odd," thought the doctor. " I
certainly have seen that face before." He
slackened his pace, as he reflected for a few
moments. " I have it ! I have it !" he said
out loud. '* What singular resemblances
there are in this world ! It is a disagreeable
and bloated likeness of the good-looking
youth whose portrait hung opposite the bed
of my old friend Mrs. Marsh. Poor dear old
soul ! What a life of trial hers must have
been !"

CHAPTER XII.

OUT IN THE RAIN.

It is evening. Cabs roll unceasingly towards
the theatres. It rains, and hapless foot-passengers
hail omnibuses in vain — they are
all full to overflowing ; and the conductors, so
watchful and vociferous at other times, have
assumed an air of dignified repose, and
appear to be rather amused than otherwise
at the idea of people being obliged to walk
in a drenching shower. Walking is decidedly
unpleasant — in the emphatic language of the
period, " most awfully " so — for above it is
all downpour and drip, whilst below, the
water streams over the pavement in a way
which makes the owner of a pair of waterproof
shoes an envied man.

The shops are either closed or closing,
though at distant intervals one is to be found
open, whose owner, more greedy of gain, or

more impecunious than his neighbour, seeks
to obtain the custom of those waifs and strays
whose daily wants have not yet been supplied.
By a stretch of imagination, and a slight
departure from the truth, Regent Street, the
Strand, and the other great thoroughfares maybe
said to be lighted ; but when we turn off
them into the narrow streets which form such
an interminable network in the great metropolis,
we should find but " darkness visible,"
were it not that here and there — and but too
often here and there seem very close together
the street is made all ablaze by streams of
light from gas-burners grouped together so
regardless of expense, that the unsophisticated
stranger who visits London for the first time
would be struck with wonder at the unselfish
liberality which prompts those whose aim is
to minister to the simple wants of the multitude
by the sale of beer and. gin, to act as if
gas were supplied gratis, and gas shares were
not paying ten per cent. But without light
what should we be in this world ? Is not
light the source of heat and life ? We all
have heard of the deeds of darkness, and it
cannot be but with sentiments of honest pride
that the Englishman who takes an interest
in the welfare of his fellow-creatures, finds,
VOL. r. 10

as he walks through the streets of London,
evidences of the liberality with which this
great blessing has been diffused — not by the
Government, certainly not by the gas companies,
not even by charitable societies, but
by the private efforts of rich individuals and
wealthy firms competing with each other in
honourable rivalry, and amongst which will be
found holding a forward place the time-honoured
names of Souseman and Soppit.

Well do such names deserve to be emblazoned
in green and gold on so many noble — or
ignoble — houses, in letters so large that all
who run can read ! Virtue brings its own
reward. The names of some of our greatest
philosophers and men of science may remain
unknown, but those of Souseman and Soppit
have become household words.

Then, too, here and there we come upon
streets which, as soon as Regent Street and
the other great fashionable commercial
thoroughfares have become dark, are lighted
through their entire length by the lanterns —
or more frequently tallow-candles, protected
from the wind by paper shades — on the
costermonger's trucks which line their entire
length. In these streets the pavement is
thronged with purchasers, now carefully

examining the wares which are temptingly
spread out before them ; now in what seems
to be in noisy altercation with the dealers,
but it is not so — it is merely the ordinary
process by which purchases are made ; with
the uneducated of the Anglo-saxon race, the
choice of language is extremely small, so that
in order to be emphatic, it is necessary to
use strong and coarse expletives, to do the
work of adjectives and other parts of speech,
required, but unknown. All kinds of wares
are exposed for sale on these trucks. Fish,
vegetables, fruits, wearing apparel, hats and
caps, boots and shoes, crockery and tin ware ;
indeed everything which might be likely to
enter into the requirements of those who
have but little money, and who weigh well
every penny they spend. Many of the shops
in the streets themselves are for butchers'
meat, temptingly displayed, not in joints, orin
any recognised form, but scraps heaped
together, with the price — from one penny
upwards — marked in large printed figures,
stuck into them with skewers.

Some of these streets run parallel to, and
within a very short distance of, the Strand ;
but how far apart with respect to all that is
to be found in them ! A few paces, and you

10—2

enter, as it were, into a different world. No
handsome shops full of rich and tempting wares.
No stream of well-dressed men and women
passing onward, to and from distant quarters
of the city — but squalor, filth, and degradation
on every side.

At the time of which we speak, these streets

have their crowds : they are filled with the

denizens of the narrow courts and alleys ; and

these narrow courts and alleys teem with life

life made so hideous by poverty, neglect,

drunkenness, debauchery, and disease, that it

shuns, if it can, the light of day. The men

are in their working-suits — most of them have

none other — and bear upon their persons the

toil-stains of the day, indeed of many days ;

for to be dirty has become a habit in some

cases of life-long growth, and cleanliness is a

word the signification of which is unknown.

The women are equally shabby and unwashed.

If husbands and wives are seen together, they

are usually bent upon the same errand ; for

there is one point upon which they are in

entire sympathy — in their love of drink. If

the husband is in work and earns fair wages,

so much the better for the beer-shop and the

gin-palace. It is but so many more jugs of

beer, pots of porter, and quarterns of gin ; so

many more oaths and execrations ; so many
more kicks and cuffs.

But there is no amount of evil in this world
out of which some good is not evolved. It is
the drunkenness of these degraded wretches
which gives elegance to the homes of the
members of such respectable firms as Souse-man
and Soppit ; and it might be fairly asked,
were no one to be found patriotic enough to
indulge freely in our national beverages and
alcoholic drinks, how would it be possible to
raise the large revenue which is mainly derived
from them ? How would it be possible
for Great Britain to preserve her place amongst
the powers of the earth ? No, no ! The end
does sometimes justify the means ; and to the
judiciously educated mind it must always be
quite clear, that if England be at this moment
the great champion of liberty, the teacher of
morality, and the leader of progress, it is to
be attributed in no small measure to the indefatigable
and devoted efforts of her capitalist
brewers and distillers; in short, to her
Houseman and Poppies.

Rain, rain, rain ! The clerk of the weather
has evidently given orders for a wet evening —
perhaps for a wet night. The would-be sellers
are becoming drenched for little purpose, and

wheel off their barrows in despair ; whilst the
would-be buyers take shelter at the hospitable
bars of 'republics," where comforting fluids
are substituted for the solids 'they had intended
to have purchased. The streets are
no longer crowded, but there are dense clusters
round the doors of these houses ; for it
is an ill wind that blows no one good, and the
publicans are driving a roaring trade.

I wish you were in " the word, an

improper noun in common use, does not look
well in print, so we will omit it — '' and your
brat too."

The speaker — his voice was harsh and husky
was a tall, dissipated-looking man, with a
bloated, pimply face, dressed in a shabby suit
of that unmistakable cut affected by men who
frequent stables, and who like to speak of
themselves as being fond of sport. As if to
dispel all doubts on the subject, a gilt horse's
head projected from a faded blue scarf wound
tightly round his neck, and he walked with
that peculiar circular gait which would seem
natural to jockeys and postillions — that is to
say, when postillions were, for the race is
now nearly extinct — and gives the idea of
their having ridden a long way, and of their
still feeling extremely stiff.

A slender and delicate-looking woman was
walking meekly by his side. It was to her he
spoke. Her head had been bent down ; but
the last words were scarcely spoken than she
stopped, drew herself up to her full height,
and turned her pale face towards him — it
still bore the traces of beauty — with a singular
expression of mingled contempt, submission
and fear. But if the former feeling
made her eyes flash and her movements almost
fierce, the latter soon predominated, and relapsing
almost as quickly into her former
attitude of dejection, she ejaculated — the
depth of the struggle within was revealed by
the way it was gasped out — the one word —

'^ Jack !"

Jack 1" The word was repeated in a
strangely different key by a deep bass voice,
which seemed to proceed from the inner
depths of a burly, big-waistcoated man who
had stepped up close behind them. A burly,
jovial-looking man ; at a first glance the personification
of light-heartedness and good-humour
; but a nearer examination disclosed
an anxious, eager restlessness in the bloodshot
eyes, which spake of a nature allied
rather to that of the vulture than of the
turtledove.

Jack !" The word was the same. The
same, but how unlike ! In the one case it
was full of expostulation, tinged with a shade
of long-lost tenderness, made pathetic by the
depth of its despair. In the other, it was as
the voice of the spirit of evil, which, whether
in whispers or in trumpet-tones, stirs up all
that is latent within us, and appealing to the
grosser senses, sets at naught all the nobler
instincts of the heart.

The man turned.

'*Ah, Trenton, you old scoundrel! It is
you, is it ? What are you doing out in this
cursed wet ? But I am devilish glad to see
you ; for I need not look twice to see that
luck has changed."

"I believe you, my dear boy; and to give you
a proof of it, come with me. I was on my way
to look you lip. I have a little supper on at
the old place, and you look as if you wanted
cheering. Confound this weather ! It is
enough to give the devil himself the blues.
Ah ! your wife ! Madam, your humble servant.
Unfortunately our rules do not admit
ladies ; but we will drink your health in a
bumper."

I am much obliged to you, sir ; but I had
rather my husband came home. It is so late."

"Ah, I see you like early hours — so do I —
ha, ha ! Jack — you shall be home early — in
the morning. You may make your mind
easy, my dear madam ; your husband will be
quite safe. God bless you ! I should like to
know who is not safe with Tom Trenton —
honest Tom Trenton."

So saying, he placed his arm within her
husband's, and with a deep bow of exaggerated
politeness, walked his only too willing
companion rapidly off in the opposite direction.


The woman stood for a few moments motionless.
Her eyes were full of tears; she dashed
them angrily away.

*' God forgive me," she said, '^ for having
ever loved him ! I wish that I could hate
him, but he has made me do worse, I loath
and despise him ! Pah !" saying this, with
a gesture of disgust, she hurried onward.

She was sick at heart. The rain still fell
in a heavy downpour. She was wet and
cold.

One, two, three — she had all but passed the
fourth of the brightly lit-up corner houses,
from which there flowed a steady stream of
ill-clad misery, seeking, and finding for a
time, those bright visions of life which belong.

as realities, to those who have been enabled
to tread its tangled paths with firm footsteps,
or for whom fortune has had nought but
smiles. But a few more steps and she is
Saved. No ! See ! she falters in her course !
It is but for a moment, but moments are the
turning-points of lives.

After months of brave battling against the
ocean storms, the pilot but closes his eyes for
an instant, and the ship is lost.

But it is not the storms of life which man
has most to fear.

She is cold and wet, and sick at heart. It
is a struggle either way. The weak body
struggling with a still weaker will. Who
could doubt the issue ?

She had entered timidly, furtively, bowed
down with a load of shame. She comes forthwith
a firm step, erect and almost radiant.
Misery has no more dominion over her, for
she feels as if she had ceased to think.

There is no sense of cold and chilliness now.
She is all aglow ; and as the blood courses
in unwonted flow through her exhausted
frame, it is as if she had renewed all the
vigour and elasticity of her youth ; and of
all physical pleasures, what pleasure can be

compared to that which is produced by the
sense of life when life is at its best ?

Ah ! who can wonder that the craving for
drink becomes an irresistible impulse with the
miserable ? The apple offered to Eve was as
nothing to this great temptation, for she was
in Paradise, and these in a world where man
has marred most of his Maker's works.

Still onward. It is but two streets more
but what streets I Even darker and dirtier
than those tha t she has left. One of them, the
narrowest of the two, is full of houses where
a night's lodging can be had for a few pence,
and many wet and hungry wretches are
wending their way towards them. Wretches
so destitute that they possess nothing beyond
the foul and loathsome rags they carry on
their backs. Wretches whose whole career
might be summed up as — through the gin-palace
to the grave.

Still onward ! She has reached her goal
at last. Panting and exhausted, she pauses
on the threshold of a dirty ill-cared-for house.
Reaction has now set in ; she is more miserable
than before ; very cold, and very wet,
and oh, how heart-sick !

She shakes off the wet which streams from
her threadbare garments, and then, with a

convulsive shudder, enters a dark passage —
the door of the house stood open — and gropes
her way up a narrow flight of stairs to the
second story. Then another pause ; and as
she leans against the wall for support, she
gasps for breath, as if half suffocated by
the fetid air which is the only atmosphere
of the houses in these localities. At this
moment the moon broke through a cloud, and
in the light of the few stray beams which
forced their way through a dirty paper-patched
window, a pale worn face might have
been seen turned heavenward, with that expression
of intense anguish which belongs to
despair.

Involuntarily a sob burst from her, as she
turned and laid her hand upon the handle of
the door near which she had been standing.
It must have been heard by some one within ;
some one who, perhaps, had been awaiting her
return, for almost at the same moment it
opened, and she stood face to face with an
old man whose gaunt form, wrapped up in
the dingy folds of a faded flowered dressing-gown,
stood out in bold, almost grotesque,
relief, as he leant forward, and peering at her,
made, with many significant gestures, some

whispered inquiry, of which the word "found"
was alone audible.

•' Of course not, Uncle, it never will be
found. Come here, like a dear good boy, and
don't be silly."

The answer came from a corner of the room
near the fireplace. The speaker was a little
girl who, though she was in truth older, did
not look more than six years old. She was
seated on a low stool near a chair, which,
from the variety of articles placed upon it,
evidently did duty as a table. She had soft,
regular features, and a profusion of light-brown
hair which flowed over her shoulders
in a wild wavy mass, which in the fire-light
there was none else there — was tinged with
red and flecked with gold.

The old man made no reply, but with a
deep sigh walked meekly to an arm-chair
by the side of the fire, opposite to where the
child was seated ; and as the light fell on his
face, it was evident, from its shy, abashed
expression, that he felt ashamed of having
laid himself open to rebuke.

'^ Ah, mother 1" said the child, '' I am so
glad you are come back. But the time has
not seemed long, for dear old Uncle has
been so good ; he has been telling me of all

the beautiful sights I should have seen if
God had only given me a pair of eyes like
those He has given to other people."

She raised her head as she spoke, and as
she did so the dull, lifeless orbs showed but
too plainly that she was blind.

She paused for a moment, and then added
■ — the voice was the same, but it quivered
strangely as she spoke :

*' But where is father ?"

The mother, who had been standing silently
by the door, made no answer, but she stepped
rapidly across the room, and kneeling down
by the side of the child, threw her arms
round her.

^' Madge," she sobbed out, rather than
spoke, ''my angel — my guardian angel ! Oh,
if I could but die !" and her voice became
choked with tears.

The child looked up with a pained, puzzled
look.

'come here, dear old Uncle," she said,
in her clear, silvery, soft voice. " Come here,
I want you. Tell me what all this means.
You are so strange ; father's so strange ; and
now mother is strangest of all. But perhaps
it is only poor me, because I have got no eyes
like other people. Is not that it, dear Uncle?"

The old man had risen from his seat when
appealed to. He shook his head sorrowfully.

No, Madge — no !" he said ; " it is not
you, nor I, nor any of us. It is fate ! It
was written in the Book, and so 'twas lost.
Ah, if I could but find it ! If I could but
find itr

'^ Rubbish, Uncle dear !" said the silvery
voice — '* rubbish, or you would have told me
long ago what it was you have lost. And
what good is rubbish when it is found, I
should like to know ?"

It was not rubbish, Madge !" said the old
man, ruefully.

'^ But you know, Uncle dear, it must be
all right if it were written in the Book."

'* Tut — tut ! I have my doubts," said a
deep and solemn but somewhat cracked voice
out of the darkness of the corner in which
Madge sat, and near which her mother still
remained, crouched and sobbing. '* I have
my doubts — have my doubts — my doubts —
doubts !"

The voice gradually died away, as if too
much doubting had made the speaker drowsy.
But if so, the drowsiness must have been
successfully resisted, for in a few seconds a
peal of laughter rang through the room, and

with a preliminary whistle, as if to command
attention, a sharp shrill voice called out in
peremptory tones :

Mum's the word. Don't tell the cats !"
'^ I tell you what, sir, if you don't go to
sleep this very minute, I'll come and whip
you," was Madge's response.

The threat seemed to have its proper effect,
for the mysterious voice became silent after
a few inarticulate sounds, which made it
appear that sleep had overtaken the speaker
whilst endeavouring to renew his solemn
warning to the world at large against being
on too confidential terms with — cats !

CHAPTER XIII.

THE major's '' LITTLE GAME."

Honest Tom Trenton — or as he was known
in those happy moments when he was, as he
expressed it, " basking in the blaze of Fortune's
favour," " Major " Trenton — was in
his glory. He vas exercising the virtue of
hospitality, he was performing the duties of
a host, and his face beamed with the satisfaction
which all hosts ought to feel, and with
the prospect of good things to come.

And it was evident, from the appearance
of the table, which had been laid for three
persons, that the prospect was not a remote
one.

'' Make yourself at home. Jack," he said
to his companion. '' Our friend will soon be
here, and we will have a cosy time of it.
Yes, he is late — just a ' beetle' late — but then,
what can you expect from a West-ender who,

VOL. L 11

like our friend, goes in for fashion, and all
that sort of thing ? But you will find him
of the right sort. Just the man we want.
But talk of the devil, and "

The door opened, and in walked Mr. Mortimer.


Jack, who was standing before the fire,
making himself at home by drying his nether
garments, and so filling the small room, which
the major had selected on account of its being
'' snug " and *' quiet," with a steam which
smelt of burnt wool, looked as morose as
ever ; but the major advanced to meet Mr.
Mortimer with the most exuberant cordiality.

Ah, my dear fellow, here you are at last !
Let me introduce you to my friend Jack
Marsh, than whom you will find no better
card in the pack — a very ace of trumps is
my friend Jack ! Jack, this is Mr. Mortimer,
of whom you have heard me speak so highly.
It is a pleasure and a profit to know Mr.
Mortimer ; and I am confoundedly glad to
give you an opportunity of sharing such a
privilege with me. You were made to befriends,
and it is honest Tom Trenton who
says so."

Mr. Mortimer — our friend Mr. Mortimer,
as well as the major's — had entered the room

somewhat timidly, but the terms in which he
has been spoken of has restored his self-possession.
He expresses — somewhat incoherently
— his delight at having the honour
to be introduced to any friend of the major's.
He rolls out the word *' major " as if it were
something sweet and pleasant to the palate,
to be kept upon the tongue as long as possible;
and he swallows the last sound of it
with a gulp, as if regretting he could not
retain it any longer. The fact is, Mr. Mortimer,
who somehow or other frequently found
himself under the necessity of reminding his
acquaintances that he was not " infallible'*
was not quite devoid of some of the weaknesses
belonging to ordinary mortals, and amongst
them, we fear, must be included the extraordinary
satisfaction which he felt at being
on terms of very great intimacy with a real
major.

We say real major, for a major he undoubtedly
was, in his own estimation and
that of his friends; though the how, the when,
and the where of his having obtained that
distinguished military rank was a mystery
so deep, that it is doubtful whether a careful
search amongst the records at the War
Office, could have solved it. It is true he

11—2

had served some three years and three-quarters
in that highly-famed regiment, the
Koyal Restorers; but his military career had
been brought to an untimely end through the
obnoxious action of a court-martial, composed
of members who were jealous of his superior
skill at cards — indeed, some had been great
sufferers from it — and so had the audacity to
ruin the prospects of a gallant officer by
sentencing him to be cashiered. He must,
however, notwithstanding this, have found
means to get reinstated — though it was
never clearly shown to what particular branch
of the service he had been subsequently
attached — for amongst his friends, and particularly
after his fifth glass of gin and water,
he was fond of alluding to his services, and
more especially to the hardships he had undergone
during a longtourof dutyin the colonies —
from his description it would seem to have been
in Australia — and it was generally supposed
he had received brevet rank in consequence.

In any case, Major Thomas Trenton would
seem, on his return to England, to have devoted
his talents, aided by the experience he
had gained in the Koyal Loiterers, and
generally in her Majesty's Service, to a careful
study, and a practical application, of those

combinations which belong to financial operations
connected with the Turf. He had not,
as far as anybody knew, ever served in the
cavalry, but his interest in horses was very
great indeed ; so much so, that though he did
not pretend to eloquence, he never lost an opportunity
of descanting upon the necessity of our
keeping up the breed of horses in this country,
by encouraging and seconding, in every possible
way — and of this he took a very liberal
and broad view — the efforts of those who, on
public or private grounds, have devoted themselves
to extending, and making as general
as possible, an interest in horse-racing — or
as he preferred to call it, as he emphatically
did'* the Turf"

In manner, there was a marked contrast
between the major and the friend whom he
had introduced as Jack Marsh. The major
had a *' make it-pleasant-all-round " way of
putting things which had obtained for him
the sobriquet of old " Try-it-on ;" indeed,
he had cultivated blandness to such an extent
that it sometimes assumed the character of
benignity ; the other, on the contrary, was
always brusque, and frequently brutal ; and
if he did not interlard his cutting sentences
with oaths, it was only because he possessed

a large stock of slang expressions which
answered his purpose equally well ; so much
for manner. With respect to character, it
may be said that such characters as they
possessed were very nearly equal in degree,
though somewhat different in kind — not sufficiently
so, however, to prevent their being
thoroughly congenial ; and had the world
been an oyster, they would probably have
been found trying to open it at the same
time, though possibly from different sides.

The major and Mr. Marsh were dressed
somewhat in the same style, though it was
evident that at this moment the major stood
on the best terms with his tailor ; they both
gave unmistakable evidence of being devoted
to potations of a more stimulating nature
than toast and water ; from both there came
that peculiar emanation which belongs to
those who indulge largely in beer, brandy,
and tobacco ; and upon both there remained
a slight impress — faded, but still there — of a
'* something better " stamped upon them in
their youth.

Honest Tom Trenton, as the major delighted
to call himself, was, as we have said
before, in his glory. He rubbed his hands

with intense satisfaction as the waiter
brought in the supper.

This is what a supper ought to be," he
said. " Snug and cosy ; snug and cosy.
None of your saloons for Tom Trenton.
Honest Tom Trenton is an old glutton ; he
likes to keep his friends to himself, and
when he finds a good thing to share it with
them — he'll be hanged if he don't ! — and not
blare it out to all the world."

On any other occasion, 'come, Tom, none
of your cursed humbug !" would have been
Mr. Marsh's rejoinder. " I know you want
something. What is it ? Out with your
little game !" but now he was restrained by
Mr. Mortimer's presence, and by his having
been allowed an insight into the said '' little
game" — so far as it had suited the major's
purpose to enlighten him — as they had
walked arm-in-arm, under the same umbrella,
through the streets. He did not as yet
know any of the details, but what of that ?
He had* great confidence in the major, though
it is true that sometimes, when he had declared
that he had six trumps in his hand, he
would manage to lose the trick. But the major
could keep cool, and he could not. He could
not do better than put his trust in the major.

Now the major's "little game" was simply
this : to pluck Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, junior,
of his last feather, through the aid, in the
first instance, of the unsuspecting Mr. John
Mortimer.

Now Mr. John Mortimer's besetting sin was
ambition. His great object was to follow in
the footsteps of those whom he looked upon
as his '' betters." He had gained from their
conversation, to which he had been an attentive
listener, that the topic in which a large
number of them took the greatest interest
was the information in the sporting columns
of the daily papers ; and in a short time he
cared to read nothing else. By degrees he
had advanced from a few desultory bets to
making a regular book ; and it was in the
society of a few choice spirits of similar tastes
that he had come across the major.

From the very first moment the major had
treated him with marked, it might, indeed,
be said deferential, attention.

Never before had Mr. Mortimer been, ashe
conceived, rated at his proper value ; and
when through the major's having put him
upon a thing or two, his book for the
last Derby — though the bets were not large
became something to be proud of, his

gratitude knew no bounds. Indeed, he
would have been a very brute had he not
been grateful, for the disinterested kindness
of the major had been bestowed upon him at a
moment when that gallant officer was suffering
under the frowns of fortune, and that to an
extent which had obliged him, soon after, to
withdraw for a time from the haunts of — sporting
— men. Indeed, the period of his seclusion
would have been considerably prolonged had
it not been for the proffered and accepted aid
of Mr. John Mortimer.

My purse does not contain much," said
that gentleman, " but it is all I have."

The major shook him by the hand until it
ached.

'* Bless you, my dear fellow — bless you !"
he said. " Tom Trenton may want money —
and he very often does want money — but
what is a dirty hundred pounds to him in
comparison with the friendship of a man who
has a heart — yes, sir, a heart ?"

He could say no more ; his feelings were
too much for him, so he carefully unfolded
his pocket-handkerchief, and blew his nose
with a kind of '* boot-and-saddle " blast.

Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, junior — nicknamed
Marmalade at school, and called, as we know,

Duke at home — had whilst at Eton betted ia
a small way, and made the state of the odds
one of his favourite studies. During the
holidays he had, with the natural frankness
of a boy, often communicated his views oncoming
events " to Mr. Mortimer, and that
gentleman had more than once alluded to the
young gent " when in conversation with his
sporting friends. The major, who was always
on the look-out for opportunities, as,
indeed, all great men are, pricked up his ears
when he heard the name of the rich brewer's
son. Hundreds of thousands of pounds
floated in visions before him ; and he was
determined to lose no time in opening the
campaign.

It was so far in his favour that Mr. Mar-mature
Yorke, junior, out of respect to his
father's scruples, dared not enter publicly
into transactions connected with the turf;
though he had already laid out a few ** ponies,"
through the medium of Mr. Mortimer, with
encouraging success. But young fish, though
not so wary as old ones, are often more difficult
to catch, for they have not settled down
into steady habits, and you never quite know
where to find them. They are fond, too, of
rising at every kind of bait but the one you

want them to take, and it is especially mortifying
to find them going off after your
neighbour's blue fly when you had every
reason to believe they preferred a red one.

But, above all, the major's scheme required
time and patience. Nothing could be done
until Duke had become of age, and had
entered into business as a member of his
father's firm. In the interval he could
mature his plans, and this he had now done
most thoroughly.

Mr. Mortimer was an important factor in
the major's scheme, but the services of his
friend Jack had become equally indispensable ;
for though Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, in making
his books, was principally guided by Mr.
Mortimer's advice, and the " tips " that
gentleman was enabled to obtain for him,
through the judicious employment of secret
service money, the major felt that, in order
to obtain the financial advantages he was
hoping to derive from the operation he had
in hand, it would be necessary to have the
aid of some trusty and experienced coadjutor,
who would act implicitly under his directions.

He rather piqued himself upon his knowledge
of character, and had discovered at a
very early period that the very man he

wanted was his old friend Jack, for there
was something in Jack's coarse bluntness of
manner which disarmed suspicion. By mantle
would have been looked upon as only too
frank and open-hearted : the last man in the
world of whom it could be possible to make
a tool ; but the major knew better. Just as, in
Napoleonic phrase, you have but to scratch a
Russian and you find a Cossack — so with
Jack ; the fierce swagger which seemed to
betoken courage, and the frank utterances
which were as the outpouring of an honest
heart, served but as a cloak to hide a nature
made up of qualities even more despicable
than his own.

When the supper was finished, which it
was in a thoroughly good style, Jack taking
the lead, the major making a good second,
and Mr. Mortimer well placed at the distance
of a few lengths, his pace having been
effected by his having made very respectable
running in a previous event, the table was
cleared. Brandy-ands water was introduced,
and the host having lighted his cigar, and
requested his friends to follow his example —
which they were not slow to do — proceeded, it
must be confessed in a somewhat roundabout
way, to open the real business of the evening.

Yes," he said, as if in reference to some
remark made by Mr. Mortimer, though that
respectable individual had not opened his
mouth, except for the purpose of putting
something in it, for the previous ten minutes.
** Yes, Mortimer, you are quite right." Mr.
Mortimer put on a conscious look which
seemed to say, '' I very often am, but pray
don't say too much about it' '' Quite right.
I thoroughly agree with you. There is no
use trying to do anything with the governor ;
but it is quite time that something should be
done to induce the ' Junior ' to do something
more in support of the Turf"

'' Certainly," echoed Mr. Mortimer. '* It
is quite time that something should be
done."

"If he don't care for sport, he's a sneak,"
chimed in Jack.

'' What would this country be without it T
said Mr. Mortimer.

Sport, sir, sport," said the major, "is the
pivot upon which all that is worthy of being
called society — I use the word in its highest
sense — revolves. Where, I would ask, without
sport, would be found the courage, the
pluck, the endurance, the " — a puff at his
cigar — 'the dash by which the British

soldier has distinguished himself on so many
bloody fields, and of which I have had some
small opportunity of being a humble witness.
To this, no doubt, our cultivation of
the noble art of self-defence and our love of
field-sports have largely contributed ; but, asa
man of no small experience, who has had
especial opportunities for gaining a practical
insight into the subject, whilst serving under
her Majesty's colours, and more particularly
through the facilities afforded for observation
during a long period of Colonial service, I
would observe, that of the various pursuits
which are included under the general name
of * sport,' there is none, to my mind, so beneficial
in its effects as that which is carried on
by those — be they noblemen or be they not "
he thumps his chest violently at the last
word — " who are patrons of the Turf."

Here the major, quite out of breath through
the length of his peroration, was obliged to
stop and refresh himself

Jack, who had heard much of this before,
only thumped the table and emptied his glass
as if in honour of a toast ; whilst Mr.
Mortimer, under the excitement of the
major's eloquence, threw back his shoulders,
protruded his chest, placed his thumbs in

the armholes of his waistcoat, in the fashion
sometimes adopted by popular public speakers,
and was just on the point of taking up the
parable, when the major, ever jealous of interruption,
laid his hand upon his arm :

*' Stop, my dear friend. I would add but
one word more. I think I spoke of the Turf
A more glorious institution never existed.
What man is there whose patriotism is so
dead that he would wish to see it destroyed ?
No matter from what point of view it may be
regarded, its beneficial influences are undeniable.
Where, I should like to ask, can be
found a better school for our inexperienced
youth ? for does it not teach more thoroughly
than any other, the principles upon which all
honourable intercourse ought to be regulated ?
Good faith, confidence, forbearance, and a
thousand other virtues upon which I need
not dwell. For, is it not enough to know
that what I have thus humbly asserted is
daily borne testimony to by the great leaders
and directors of public opinion in this country.
I refer, sir, to the Press ; for how many
columns do we not find — read, perhaps, by
all who have any pretension to true manly
feeling, with greater attention than any other
dedicated to the most minute and interesting

details connected with the heart-stirring
incidents belonging to the Turf?"

Here another pause, another demonstration
of approval from Jack, another series of
elocutionary preparations from Mr. Mortimer,
again ruthlessly suppressed by the major,
who, under the inspiration of his third glass,
continued as follows :

But, gentlemen, it is not from purely
moral or sentimental points of view that the
question of the Turf has to be regarded.
Tom Trenton, as all the world knows, is a
practical man ; and as a practical man it is
that he now tells you, that the material
benefits of the Turf far outweigh all others.
Look, gentlemen — I don't ask you to take
Tom Trenton's word for it ; just use your
own eyes, and look at our horses. I say our
horses, and I say so advisedly, for I feel with
honest pride — and Tom Trenton has his pride
that every man who throws his leg over a
saddle, whether in the hunting-field or in the
Park, is indebted for all the perfections belonging
to the animal he bestrides — is a
debtor, I say, to those humble individuals
who, like some I could name, did not modesty
forbid, have done all they can to encourage
the breed of horses in this country by most

strenuous, unceasing, and untiring efforts to
further the interests of all that concerns the
Turf The Jockey Club, gentlemen, maybe
worthy of our respect ; Tattersall's may
have its advantages and its merits ; but it is
to the unpretending and ceaseless labours of
independent individuals — I repeat fearlessly,
independent individuals, whose voices are to
be heard on every racecourse in the three
kingdoms, that the greatest credit is due. It
would be false modesty, gentlemen, were we
to shut our eyes to our own merits. Gentlemen,
I drink to our noble selves, and with
the toast I associate the name of that true
lover and patron of sport, my valued friend
Mr. John Mortimer'*

Mr. Mortimer, who is a thorough believer
in the major, a thorough believer in Jack,
and a thorough believer in himself, rises to
respond, with as much gravity and dignity as
if he had been assisting at a city feast, and
had been called upon to return thanks for
the House of Lords by Mr. Harder.

'' You treat me with an honour I do not
deserve," he said, bowing to the major, '' but
I will not deny that I love sport, and that
for some years I have done my best to give
it such support as has been in my power.

VOL. I. 12

Circumstances, to which I need not now
refer, have prevented me from entering into
the amusements belonging to country life,
so far as hunting or shooting is concerned ;
though during that part of the year in which
the duties of my office compel me to reside
away from this great city, I think I may say,
few gentlemen have had better opportunities
of becoming acquainted with everything
which concerns those sports than I have,
for we talk of nothing else from morning
to night : 'Tis nothing but foxes here
and foxes there ; and pheasants in this place
and pheasants in that, till sometimes I feel
all of a daze, and get no sound sleep at night
from a-dreaming of foxes a-running after
pheasants, and dogs a-barking and chasing
the foxes, and men on horses a-halloing and
galloping after the dogs. It makes my brain
all of a whirl, that it does. But when I
come to the Turf, gentlemen, then I feel at
home. All that the major says in that direction
is as true as the sun ; there is, however,
one little remark I should like to make. In
an old country like ours, there are natural
divisions between man and man, as everyone
who thinks at all must see and feel. 'Twas
ever so, and so 'twill ever be ; but as the poet

says," continued Mr. Mortimer, as he liberated
his thumbs and pulled down his waistcoat
with an emphatic jerk, ** on the racecourse
I feel — you know the lines — ' my name is
Macgregor, my foot's on the heather ' — the
equal of the Duke — of — no matter what, for
are we not a-standing on the same turf,
a-doing of the same thing ? And was it not
at the last Hepsom races that, as I brushed
up against him, and touched my hat, his
grace called out, ' Halloa, Mortimer, is that
you ? what the devil do you mean by treading
on my corns V By Jove ! gentlemen, it made
me feel that I was a man. And if I were to
show some of the names a-written in my
book, for the next event, a few people that I
know of would open their eyes a little wider
when they met a certain John Mortimer than
they do now."

*' Bosh !" ejaculated the gentleman called
Jack. '' It's all a case of odds. I'll be hanged
if I care where the money comes from, and
those confounded puppies with their long
purses and perfumed pocket-handkerchief's,
are not the weight of a curse more particular.
But what I hate, is, that they are nowadays so
infernal knowing, that honest fellows — like
our friend the major here — stand but a poor

12-— 2

chance. The times are changed — as I have
found out to my cost."

'* My dear Jack," said the major, "you
know my motto, ' Nil desperado ' — never
despair. We should not allow ourselves to
lose sight of such noble examples as the past
history of the Turf affords. Look, for instance,
at the case of CufFwell, who from small beginnings
became a man of large fortune and an
M.P. Mark that, Mortimer— an M.P., all
through his having employed his abilities in
what is undoubtedly the best of fields for any
man who has more brains than his neighbours,
and would coin money out of them."

'* For any man who is not cursed with ill-luck,"
grumbled Jack.

*' My dear Jack, why will you be so desponding?"
said the major, in his blandest
tones. " There is no lane without a turning;
and who knows what fortune may not have in
store for you, and not only for you, but for me
for the jade has used me somewhat scurvily
of late — and for our friend Mortimer more
especially, for whom, if he will only go on ashe
has begun, and not allow himself to be
discouraged by occasional checks, I venture
to predict a brilliant future. But, my dear
friends, we must not be always thinking of

ourselves ; we must take the interests of
others sometimes into our keeping. Let me
see — yes, we were talking of the Junior ; we
really must see if we cannot do something for
him. Mortimer, you should really take him
in hand — by the way, I think you told us he
was of age, and in the firm."

Yes," said Mr. Mortimer, assuming an
air of importance, " the double event was
celebrated just nine weeks ago come next
Wednesday. I ought to know something
about it, for I was a participator in the
festivities."

In that case," said the major, " I think
Tom Trenton can see his way — or, to speak
more correctly, our way towards lending him
a helping hand. And I know no reason why
for we have it from the best authority that
the labourer is worthy of his hire — whilst furthering
the great objects, which are the aim
of that admirable institution to which we are
all so devoted, the Turf, and benefiting a
worthy young member of society, we should
not at the same time derive certain legitimate
and substantial ad vantages, the nature of which
it is not necessary for me to go into."

Mr. Mortimer pricked up his ears ; but Jack
only looked fiercely mournful. His confidence

in the major was great, but continued ill-luck
had made him desponding.

The major ceased speaking, and puffed complacently
at his cigar. He had a sanguine
temperament, and was not slow at building
castles in the air.

** But will it not be difficult ?" mildly suggested
Mr. Mortimer.

'^ I should like to know how it is to be
done," said Jack.

"My dear boys," said the major, "leave it
to me ; there's nothing easier in the world.
Mortimer, my man, you shall help me make
his next book ; and you, my dear Jack, shall
sell him a horse."

I !" shouted Jack. " I sell him a horse ?"

Yes, my dear Jack, there is nothing easier.
It is all arranged : you shall sell him a horse ;
and on that blessed animal's back we will all
ride to Fortune."

To the devil !" growled Jack.

CHAPTER XIV.

IN THE COUNTRY.

The Yorkess have been spending the summer
in the country. This year — no one seems to
know exactly why — there has been no yachting,
and the Nautilus j as if weary of winning
cups, reposes in ignominious ease upon the
muddy couch of Haslar Creek.

There has been no trip to the Continent ;
for Duke has suddenly voted travelling '*a
bore," and expressed a wish to pass the
summer months at home. He must have
found that " a bore " too, judging from the
anxious weary expression which of late has
been creeping over his drawn and pallid
cheeks, and the frequent necessity he has
been under of making short trips for change
of air : generally to one of those parts of the
three kingdoms upon which, for the time, the

whole attention of '' the sporting world " is
concentrated.

Lady Arabella has become anxious. She is
afraid he is ill, and talks about the Riviera,
or Davos, for the winter.

Mr. Yorke does not share her anxiety ; his
attention has been taken up with other
matters. Lady Arabella thinks it odd, and
openly expresses her conviction that her husband
takes more interest in that " disgusting
wish " of Victoria Marsh to become a doctor,
than he does in the interests of his own
children.

'look at poor Duke!" she said. ^' It
does not require a mother's eye to see that
he has fallen into a very serious state of health;
and yet his father seems to think nothing of
it — whilst he frets and fumes because this
comparative stranger, a girl whom we have
only known a few years, does not act exactly
as he likes. He could not make more fuss
about her if she were his own daughter. Ah,
mon Dieu — mon Dieu !"

Poor Lady Arabella ! She would not have
said " Mon Dieu — mon Dieu !" in English, for
the world.

It is true that when Mr. Yorke had heard,
at first by accident, of Victoria's intention, he

had sent for Dr. Pringle, and pointed out how
objectionable, from every point of view, such
a course of action appeared to him. He was
greatly astonished, and not a little annoyed,
to find that the doctor held very different
opinions on the subject.

'' I am sorry to find that you approve of
her conduct, my dear sir — very sorry I It is a
subject upon which I ought, perhaps, not to
have spoken. But I look upon Victoria as
one of your family ; and as one of a family
thrown together so intimately as yours has
been with mine, it is only natural I should
take an interest in her welfare, and feel
pained at what I still look upon as a singularly
injudicious proceeding on her part."

"Although we differ so strongly, I appreciate
very highly the motives which have induced
you to use your friendly influence in
this matter," said the doctor.

It will be most injurious to her prospects,"
said Mr. Yorke. ^* Victoria is a very
clever and attractive girl, and ought to make
a good marriage."

She will never marry," said the doctor,
with decision.

*' My dear doctor !" said Mr. Yorke, " you
speak as if you were the oracle of Fate. Perhaps

she says so now. But pray tell me,
did you ever in the course of your experience
meet with a woman who never changed her
mind ?"

The doctor smiled.

^' I know something of character," he said ;
*rand firmness in Victoria almost amounts to
obstinacy. She will never change it."

But what could have induced her to have
come to this decision T asked Mr. Yorke.

You are a man of honour, Mr. Yorke,"
said the doctor, *' and will, I know, keep inviolate
any communication I may make to
you. To such a question from any other man
I should remain silent ; but the friendly feeling
you have shown towards Victoria makes
me reluctant that you should misinterpret
her motives. It may be, however, you would
prefer that I remained silent."

*^ Pray go on," said Mr. Yorke.

'^ You are of course not aware that Victoria
Marsh is illegitimate ?" said the doctor. At
this moment Mr. Yorke leant back in his
chair and shaded his eyes with his hand —
the light was evidently too strong for him.
'* This fact was lately revealed to her, together
with some very painful incidents connected
with her family history — the details of

some of which I do not myself know, in a
letter which, in accordance with a promise
made to her aunt when she was dying, I
handed to her on her last birthday. To a
sensitive and proud nature — for Victoria,
though utterly without vanity, is not devoid
of pride — such a revelation would be very
likely to lead to a determination never to
marry ; but I am inclined to think, though I
have not read the letter, that it contained a
direct request to that effect. Victoria had a
deep affection for her aunt ; and words which
are spoken to us from the verge of the grave
by those we love cease to be counsels — they
become commands."

Mr. Yorke was silent for a few seconds.

*poor girl !" he said at length ; *' it is a sad
story. The old, old tale." His voice trembled
as he spoke. ^* But you are quite right,
this should be kept secret. A strange world
this !"

In which the innocent often have to bear
the burdens imposed upon them by the guilty,"
said the doctor.

'' Had Mrs. Marsh, then, think you, no
knowledge of her niece's parentage — of Victoria
s— father r'

*^ I know not — she too had much pride.

and I should hardly think would be likely to
allow her mind to dwell upon — or care for
Victoria to have any knowledge of — a man
she had so much reason to despise."

The light is evidently too strong for Mr.
Yorke's eyes, for again he has to shade them
with his hands.

*' Ah, it is all those cursed cigars !" said
the doctor to himself, as he saw how those
hands trembled.

** I think she has an independent fortune,"
at length said Mr. Yorke.

Her aunt left everything to her, and it is
more than sufficient for her needs. It is not
from necessity that Victoria prefers work to
idleness."

Then you think she has quite made up
her mind, doctor ?"

I am quite sure."

*' It would be no use then, for me or Lady
Arabella to speak to her on the subject ?"

*' Not the slightest ; and it would only be
painful to all parties."

** And she is to go to Zurich ?"

*^ Yes ; at the end of the month it has been
decided on as the best place for her to commence
her studies in."

*' Why not London ?"

"At every step she would have to overcome
a prejudice."

Well, well ! I suppose there is no more
to be said ; what cannot be cured must be
endured."

Giving utterance to this wise adage, Mr.
Yorke rose from his chair.

Dear me," thought the doctor, as he did
so, " what can be the matter with the man ?
How ill he looks !"

Within a few days of this conversation, a
note was received at Deepdale from Lady
Arabella :

My dear Mrs. Pringle," she said in it,
we are moped to death ; the dulness of the
summer months we have passed at Nettle-stone
is beyond expression, and has told upon
us all. Will you, good, kin creature that
you are, do an act of great kindness by letting
your charming daughter and our clever friend
Miss Marsh come to us for a few days'? I
cannot tell you how pleased my dear children
will be if you accede to this request ; and, as
Marmaduke is now at home, if your good
son will accompany them, Mr. Yorke and
myself will be very glad to see him."

*' What does Mrs. Pringle say ?" asked Mr.

Yorke, as the footman handed Lady Arabella
the answer.

It was at his instigation that the note had
been written, in spite of some resistance on
her part ; but she had given in gracefully at
last, for she knew that with Mr. Yorke opposition
beyond a certain point was hopeless.

I am sorry to say they are coming."

'' Umph !" said Mr. Yorke.

Lady Arabella never liked to hear that
'^ Umph !"

CHAPTER XV.

MID AUTUMN LEAVES.

Nettlestone Court was a spacious 
building of cut stone, with
a solid portico utterly devoid of originality,
yet belonging to no known style, under
which you drove with a certain sense of apprehension,
for it is quite possible to pile up
blocks of stone in such a way that all the
pillars in the world cannot dispel the idea
that the whole mass may at any moment
topple down upon your head and crush you.

Nettlestone Court stood in a park of some
eight hundred acres, so carefully laid out that
the drive from the lodge-gates gave a very
exaggerated idea of its extent. Before Mr.
Yorke's time, the park had been much smaller,
and the distance from the high-road had been
comparatively short ; but an addition of five
hundred acres had been made to it; the

old lodge pulled down, and two new ones
erected at the opposite extremities of the
demesne. Lady Arabella had then taken the
matter in hand, and by means of much planting,
embanking, and curving, had succeeded
in producing an effect full of the most agreeable
surprises to all but those to whom time
and distance were an object.

'' Very good indeed," was the verdict of
Dr. Pringle when called upon to admire it ;
'' but your ladyship has managed matters so
skilfully that I have to drive over two miles
now, where before it was but one."

'^ How dreadfully matter of fact !" said
Lady Arabella.

** Kemember, that to some people time is
money," said the doctor.

'' Then, my dear doctor, you must raise
your fees !"

^' No, no!" said the doctor, laughing, *' that
would never do. I should lose some of my
best patients. I have lived too long in the
world not to know how few people there are
in it who do not resent being called upon to
put their hands in their pockets."

'^ Yes," said Lady Arabella, " it is melancholy
to see hove fond most people are of
money. I am sure I hate it ! If I could

have my own way, I would have nothing but
diamonds."

But this conversation had taken place some
years before. At the time of which we are
writing, the approaches to Nettlestone had
greatly increased in beauty, for the shrubs
were full of luxuriant growth, and the young
saplings had shot up into trees of respectable
size, whilst a few older trees, the remaining
representatives of the forest which had once
spread over this part of the county, towered,
in all the majesty of hoary age, above them.
It seemed almost as if their gnarled and
knotted arms were spread abroad to mock
the puny strength of their companions ; and,
as the autumnal breezes touched through
their lofty branches, it was as if one heard
voices, now lifted up in hymns of praise, now
sinking into murmurs, which fell upon the
ear like an earnest, whispered prayer.

On a fine autumnal afternoon, some few
months after Dr. Pringle's visit to St. Tobias's,
three persons might have been seen walking
slowly towards one of these trees, round the
stem of which a seat had been encircled. In
the tall, lithe, firm-treading girl, whose every
movement gave evidence of strength of body,
as of will ; in the slighter, drooping figure

VOL. I. 1.3

by her side, stepping timidly, as if to feel
her way — it was impossible not to recognise
the two daughters of the house, Geraldine
and Eva. The third was Duke, but he
seemed to have grown prematurely old, for
he walked with his head bent, and eyes fixed
on the ground, and had that tired, languid
air which belongs to the weariness of age.

They were walking down the avenue from
the house ; and it was evident they were expecting
some one, for they looked frequently
in the direction of the lodge, of which the
battlemented roof could be seen in the distance.


As they sat down, the conversation was
renewed at the point where it had just before
been broken off, by Geraldine :

I cannot imagine what it was made papa
alter his mind. You know, in the spring, he
was full of it."

'well, if you must know, Lai," — Lai and
Pen were the names by which Duke called
his sisters when he was in a good humour —
it is I to whom the honour is due of having
converted our most respectable parent. I do
not want to leave England just now, or even
to cruise along its shores. I have other fish
to fry."

I am so glad of it," said Eva. ^' I hate
yachting."

You provoking child !" said Geraldine.
I am so sorry, for I love it. The dear old
Nautilus ! I cannot bear to think of her behoof
laid up, during all this lovely weather, upon
that horrid mud. Dear old thing ! what
happy days we have had in her ! Do you
remember our trip to Guernsey V

Pray don't mention it ! I was never so
ill in my life," said Eva.

** And so lost the best fun I ever saw in
my life' said Duke, " when the baronet
jumped overboard to save an imaginary somebody,
and was within an ace of being drowned.
I shall never forget Lai's face ; it nearly
killed me with laughing."

^' Duke," said Geraldine, indignantly, " it
always seems to me that you laugh at the
wrong time. I really believe you have no
heart."

Then we are both much alike," he retorted
; " for yours, I know, has been the
baronet's from that hour."

Geraldine was about to answer, but for the
moment her anger prevented her ; and before
she could speak, Eva had interposed. Eva
was always the peace-maker.

13—2

'^ It is only his foolish fun. You knowe
does not niean what he says — do you,
Duke r

It is — is cowardly !" said Geraldine, gasping
out the words. '* It is too cruel ; but
what can you expect from Duke ? He has
no feeling for anyone ! He loves nothing
but money ! He is only fit to be a brewer !"

Hush, hush !" said Eva ; " please don't
talk like that."

fiddlestick!" said Duke. "My dear
Pen, let her talk. I like to hear her. Of
course, we poor brewers are hateful to her
since the baronet's grand temperance speech.
But where would we all be, I should like to
know, if it were not for beer ? And as to
love of money, pray tell me, my most
virtuously indignant sister, whether it is
more criminal to love money than to spend
it ? Why, if it were not for this vulgar beer,
and the contemptible money beer brings, how
would some young ladies of my acquaintance
be able to pay for the fifty thousand little
fads with which they indulge their fancies ?
But this is always the way with you women;
you spend the money that we men make
without scruple, and then abuse us for making
it. You would like money to rain down

from heaven in golden showers ! But what
is the meaning of this ?" he said, breaking
off suddenly and looking towards the trunk
of the tree under which they sat. ** Another
E, and freshly cut, for I could swear it was
not there a week ago. Eva, I don't like
these E's ! I saw one the other day on the
Deepdale beech."

There are plenty of people in the world
whose names begin with E," said Eva, becoming
in her turn very red.

Very true, Pen ; but when that unlicked
cub Chub, whose handiwork I more than
suspect in this, goes about the country cutting
E's on everything bigger than a stick, it does
not require a man to be a Senior Wrangler to
supply two other letters. He had better
look out."

Duke, Duke !" said Eva, imploringly.

Oh, do not be alarmed, dear ; Chub is
quite capable of taking care of himself,
although he is not a rich brewer," said
Geraldine.

^'Is her said Duke. "Then I should
advise him to do so. And I would request
my sapient sister to remember that he is
no longer a little boy."

And that Sis is no longer a little girl,"
said Geraldine.

Duke made no answer, for he was busily
employed at that moment re-lighting his
ciofar. Before he had finished doings so, the
sound of wheels was heard, and Dr. Pringle's
waggonette was seen driving up the avenue.

'* Come, girls, a truce to this nonsense,"
cried Duke. *' I cannot afford to quarrel ; it
annoys me, and I have quite enough to annoy
me as it is. It is enough to make a fellow
out of sorts. I did not tell you, Lai, but
Fortuna has had a sprain. I had a letter
this morning from Jack Marsh."

'^ I wonder if he can be any relation to
Vic," said Eva.

'* What nonsense ! I should hope not,
from all I have heard of him," said Geraldine.
Then, turning to her brother : " I am glad
you had some reason for your horrible ill-temper
; but this is serious. You had better
have followed my advice. I knew you would
be taken in."

"You be hanged!" said Duke ; 'rit is not
too late. I have written to the major. I
shall hedge."

From this it will be seen that Mr. Armature
Yorke had become the owner of '^ a

horse," and that his sisters were in his
confidence ; Geraldine somewhat sympathising
with him, and Eva having but a very
cloudy perception of what it meant. Of
course, it was a secret. It would not do for a
member of the firm of Souseman and Soppit
to keep racehorses and enter into transactions
on the Turf So it was as the property
of Mr. Marsh — the Jack being in this case
omitted — that Fortuna stood before the
world ; and Mr. Marsh's brown filly Fortuna
had already excited some interest in the
sporting world by having taken a good place
in one or two minor events ; and amongst the
knowing ones — this on the authority of the
major — there was a very decided opinion that
she was the " comines '^ horse.

The major had not taken any part in the
purchase of the horse. Of course not. He
had but stood behind the scenes and pulled
the strings, much to the satisfaction of all
the world and to his own profit.

Meanwhile, the Deepdale waggonette has
drawn up before the tree. Chub hands the
reins to the groom, and jumps down with a
thud, for a heavy fellow is Chub. Duke
opens the door and hands down Victoria and
Sis, who are inside. The girls kiss. The

youn men shake hands. The groom is
ordered to drive on to the Court, and leave
the shawls, etc. And the party move slowly
together in the direction of the house.

It is so very kind of you all to come,"
said Geraldine. " Particularly when we are
so dull, and have no one with us. '

'^ I am so glad I am at home," said Duke
aside to Sis.

'* But a week is too short," said Eva.
*' When the time comes, we will not let you go."

Whom was she most thmkino^ of? Could
it have been that great, good-natured, heavy,
hearty-looking fellow Chub ?

Sis looked more radiant, more loveable
than ever. There was no withstanding her.
There was only one word which would describe
her exactly, and her friends had hit
upon that word, when they said she always
looked so ^' sweet." So sweet indeed that no
one could see Sis without wishing to kiss her.
Her lady friends — no matter, young or old —
kissed her at meeting, and kissed her at
parting; whilst little children clambered
up and kissed her again and again with
their rosy lips.

Sweet Sis ! charming, and conscious of her
charms : full of gay prattle and gleesome

quips. Sis trips lightly on the sward which
bounds the road, Duke — forgetting for the
time Fortuna and all his woes — ever at her
side.

They had started in a group. But when
young people walk together they are sure erelong
to be found in pairs ; and so Sis and
Duke, Eva and Chub— both looking in their
way supremely happy — Victoria and Geraldine,
move slowly forwards, not by the avenue,
but by shady circuitous paths through the
shrubberies and grounds, on their way to the
house.

Cupid "must have been in a malicious mood
when he had transfixed the hearts of two
such very opposite young people as Eva and
Chub with the same shaft. How they could
have fallen so deeply in love with each other
as they were, is utterly incomprehensible ;
indeed, it would be incredible, were not
things equally strange happening every day
around us.

There was Eva ; gentle, sensitive Eva !
frail of form, and given to melancholy
thoughts, with many ideas, and few opinions,
setting her affections upon, of all people in
the world, that great, hulking, unimaginative,
open-hearted fellow Chub : Chub, with his

few ideas and many opinions. Why, physically
and mentally, they were as different
as light from darkness. Yet they were
over head and ears in love with each other
none the less ; and at this very moment
Chub had reached that happy, or unhappy,
frame of mind, which belongs to lovers, when
it would have been a joy to him if he could
have thrown himself down before Eva and
kissed the ground on which she stood.

Most strange, that this cheery, matter-of-fact,
unpoetical, big youth must needs set all
the affections belonging to his honest heart
on the fragile, delicate, sad-thinking Pense-rosa
; and in his solitary moments could find
no other solace or means of soothing his
emotions than, to use his own words, ^' pulling
" at a huge pipe, which he had been
endeavouring — fruitlessly — for many months
to blacken, whilst he thought of her.

But what, perhaps, had first attracted
Chub to Eva, was that she was the only
person who listened to him, who did not contradict
him, and who even went to the extent
of asking his advice. Now, to young or old,
there is no greater charm than being appreciated
; and Eva's appreciation was to Chub an
irresistible spell. Everybody else, to use a

very expressive phrase, "sat upon him." Sis
made him fetch and carry like a dog ; Victoria
always spoke as if she were instructing
him ; his father had got into a disagreeable
way of speaking of and to him as if he were
an object for compassion, and nothing annoyed
him more than to hear himself spoken of as
*' poor" Chub. His mother seemed to think
he could only be made happy by being treated
as frequently as possible to some favourite
dish ; Sir Francis was horribly civil to him ;
Gerald fine appeared hardly to be aware of his
presence ; and Duke assumed patronising
airs towards him, until his blood boiled with
indignation. Is it to be wondered then that
he was ready, as we have said before, to fill
down and worship the very ground upon which
Eva stood.

There had been a time when Chub was a
great talker, but he had become silent and reserved
of late. Eva and Chub seemed also to
have found out the secret, that when love is
deepest it has fewest words ; ibr, as they
walked along side by side, the only sound
was the crush of the fallen leaves under the
heavy tramp of Chub's great feet. Yes, they
were silent ; but so happy !

At some little distance — the windings of

the path often hid the couples from each other
came Victoria and Geraldine.

For some time, by an almost imperceptible
process, an estrangement had sprung up between
them — an estrangement which had

o

puzzled Victoria, and the cause for which
Geraldine would not willingly have confessed
even to herself.

This was the first time they had been thrown
together since Victoria's return from London,
and there was a constraint in the manner of
the two girls which made it awkward for both.

As they walked along the path, side by side,
the resemblance between them was very striking.
They were nearly of the same height ;
their figures seemed as if moulded in the same
form ; they both walked very erect, and there
was something in the bearing of each which
spoke of self-confidence and strength of will.
They had, too, the same regular features, the
same frank fearlessness in the expression of
the eyes; but there the resemblance ended, and
no one could have observed them more closely
without a feeling of surprise at having thought
them so alike — they became so different.

The beauty of Geraldine was in her exquisite
complexion, her transparent skin, her
golden hair, her fascinating smile, her ruddy

lips closing over a row of teeth of unrivalled
whiteness. She charmed no less by her
vivacity, her unaffected grace ; by the unstudied
piquancy of all she said and did, than
by her beauty. She only ceased to charm
when she ceased to be herself, and affected a
st^de and manner that did not belong to her.

Victoria s complexion was not good ; her
dark hair, through its luxuriance, fell in too
heavy tresses ; there was a want of elasticity
about her movements ; something of hardness
about her mouth ; and her teeth, though regular
and white, were too solid and firmly set. It
was only when you spoke with her and came to
know her that all her beauty was revealed ;
for when she looked straight up into the eyes
of those to whom she spoke, out of her own
large, lustrous, truthful, trusting eyes — those
marvellous "windows of the soul" — she seemed
as if she were speaking with thoughts and not
with words, and as if candour, purity, and love
had joined to form each phrase ; and she became
truly beautiful.

Yet the expression of those eyes could change.
Duke knew it to his cost. For once or twice,
when he had been speaking lightly on subjects
which Victoria considered should be inviolate,
he had seen them turned upon him

full of contempt and scorn. And he had
quailed under that glance.

'^ It is all very well," he said one day to Sis,
** for you to tell me that Vic is this, or Vic is
that ; she may be a very angel, but there is a
devil lurking in those eyes of hers, which I
for one don't like."

Perhaps it was the fear of arousing this
devil that made Duke more careful in Victoria's
presence, than he was either when with
his sisters or alone with Sis. It was singular,
but there were times when from the bright
blue eyes of Geraldine there streamed forth
the same expression of scornful indignation —
only different, from its being perhaps less intense.
The resemblance between the two girls
at such times was even greater than usual,
and it was probably from this cause that
Duke, who always affected to be amused
when his sisters were displeased, used to jeer
at her and request, if she set any value on her
beauty, she would not look so fierce and give
herself these '' Victorian " airs.

This likeness between Geraldine and Victoria
had not been lost on Mr. Mortimer —
whose language, by the way, had assumed a
very sporting character since his connection
with the Turf " A good spanking pair " was

his remark ; " a little out in colour, but bright
bay and dark brown don't make a bad match.
Take em all round, I don't think you would
see anything finer — and sound as a bell. But
I doubt if it would be easy to break 'em to
double harness — our young un would be always
jumping over the traces — and Miss Vic
would get the bit between her teeth. A man
would have to sit tight."

So you have really decided on being a
doctor !" said Geraldine, at length, to Victoria.

I would say rather, on trying to be a
doctor."

"What courage you must have ! But have
you not to go through a great deal of nasty
work ?"

In a certain sense, undoubtedly ; but not
more than I have gone through as a nurse.
And then the aim is higher — and no work
can be called nasty when it becomes interesting,
as the means to a great end."

And will you really have to cut up horrid
dead bodies, and all that sort of thing T

"I shall have to study anatomy in the usual
manner ; and I am determined not to give
way to any feelings which would interfere with
my becoming a more useful member of society
than I can hope to be at present."

"But are we women strong enough for such
work ?"

Women — who are born into this world
with an average amount of health — are
either weak or strong, as they have been
made weak or strong. Look at the poor, and
see how the women work."

Yes," said Geraldine, laughing, '^ and at
the rich, and see how some girls can play.
Why, I must confess to having sometimes
danced all night without being tired, and
taken my share of lawn-tennis the next day
without turning a hair. But our nerves —
our brains, are they strong enough 1"

It has always seemed to me that women
are never at a loss for nerve when they want
it ; or how do you account for their having
been found on the tops of the highest mountains
— on the backs of unbroken horses — full
of delight in gales of wind at sea ? No !
nerves, like muscles, must be exercised, or
they become weak ; and so with the brain."

'* But I have heard that our brains are
smaller than a man's," said Geraldine.

If it be so, what matter ! All men have
not large brains ; and if we cannot hope to
rival extraordinary men, we may at least compete
with ordinary ones. Besides, there is

such a thing as quality as well as quantity ;
and whenever the brain of some great philosopher
or acknowledged genius is found to be
smaller than it ought to be, it is always declared
to make up for its deficiency in size or
weight by its superior quality — it is more
convolute — more something. Let us hope
that that is also the case with ours."

'' Do you then really think that we women
are equal in physical and mental strength to
men {

Undoubtedly. Not in kind, however, butin
degree. Physically, a woman possesses a
greater amount of "stored-up strength" than a
man. Mentally, her quicker perception makes
up for his greater inductive power. But, of
course, I am speaking of woman, not as she
is, but as she would be if properly brought up
properly educated."

." You must 'think me very frivolous," said
Geraldine.

Victoria paused for a moment.

*' I think," she said slowly, as she turned
her truthful eyes full upon her, " that if you
only did yourself justice, you would be as
lovable as Eva ; and you know how I love
her."

Yes — the strong always love the weak —

VOL. I. 14

it is because she is so weak. Why do you
love her more than Sis T

"" Because she has a heart," said Victoria.

There was another pause ; then abruptly :

Victoria — what if you should marry T

What was it that made Victoria stop —
almost stagger ; that made her lips turn pale ?
It was but for a moment ; then she moved on
as calmly as before, and it would have been
difficult to have detected any emotion in her
voice, as she replied :

*'No, I shall never marry."

Ah, you think so now — but who knows I
you may alter your mind."

Never, never' said Victoria, sternly, and
her eyes were full of wrath ; " when I say a
thing I mean it. Am I so untrue ? No, no ;
there is a fate for each of us. Yours, I know
not ; but mine is to be Victoria Marsh to the
end."

The passion in her voice had gradually
subsided as she spoke, and there was something
almost plaintive in the accent of the
last words. They seemed to go straight to
Geraldine's heart, and, moved by an impulse
she would have found it difficult to explain,
she threw her arms round Victoria's neck,
and kissed her on each cheek.

"Victoria," she said, 'Hill this moment I
have misunderstood you. Do not despise me
because I am such a heartless, worldly fool ;
help me to conquer this poor miserable self:
from this be my friend — be my sister."

And so it was that Geraldine Yorke and
Victoria Marsh became fast friends. Duke
and Sis thought they loved each other ; Eva
and Chub were unquestionably deeply in love
with each other ; but the most unchanging,
most enduring love — most enduring because
it was based upon a greater love cherished by
both within the secret recesses of their hearts
was the love which had been established
between Geraldine and Victoria, as they had
walked, side by side, in all the gushing confidence
of youth, through that bough-shadowed
path, 'mid the autumn leaves.

14—2

CHAPTER Xii.

WORKING FOR THE WORLD.

Sir Francis Hawthorne had also, with a
few occasional short absences, spent his
summer in the country. He had renewed
his intimacy with his old friend the doctor
and his family, but his visits were less frequent
; and he was now so seldom at the
Court, that Lady Arabella had spoken of
him for some time as ** ce cher misanthrope."
Another mistake on Lady Arabella's part, for
no man could justly be called a misanthrope
who had determined, with a certain example
ever before his eyes, to devote his every effort
to the benefit of others.

''Ah, my good friend," said Dr. Pringle
one day, shaking his finger warningly at him,
mind what you are about ! If you don't
take care you will find yourself enrolled

amongst the Philanthropists before you know
where you are, and mixed up with them in
all sorts of impracticable schemes for doing
good. Take an old man's advice, work with
whatever individual powers you may possess,
but avoid combinations. When men combine
and act together, one well-meaning fool may
mar all. Social questions are as difficult to
manage as four young thoroughbreds, and
who would wish to place the ribbons in more
than one pair of hands ? No ! whenever you
can, always do the work yourself."

And so let all the bkme of failure fall on
my own shoulders, eh, doctor ?"

Failure, my dear sir," said the doctor,
is only feared by fools ; all success is built
up out of failures, and I would not give a Qg
for the man who boasts that he always
succeeds."

"But failure is very disheartening."

Not a whit," said the doctor ; " it should
be a whet to exertion. How do you sharpen
that scythe ? certainly not by cutting something
soft with it, but by knocking sparks of
fire out of it with a rough stone."

The fact is, Sir Francis, with all his schemes
for the good of others, was often driven to

the very verge of despair. He had not taken
into account that men and women are in
moat cases the mere children of circumstances,
and that the habits and prejudices which
those circumstances have created are often
so deep-rooted that they can never be eradicated
; he had overlooked the fact that progress
can never be dragged on with post-horses,
and that the man who does most in
his generation — for himself as well as for
others — is he who best knows how to work
and wait. He must do both.

Now Sir Francis liked to work, but he
hated the waiting. So he was often disappointed
and out of heart.

He means well — he means well, neighbour,"
said Goody Giles, " that he do ; but
drat it ! why don't he leave things be '?"

Aye, aye ! we moves too fast — too fast !
Thanet for the wage, I'd rather work for
ould Hicks."

Ah, Hicks do give beer in harvest."

Then the new houses on his estate did not
give satisfaction. They were not so *' snug
like." *' In the old un's, all us wanted seemed
so to come to hand. Now, one must scrub,
and scrub from morn to night, and if they

don't a-shine out like new pins, well, there's

a row."

The farmers, too, were not satisfied.

It is all very well to talk about low
rents, but how about these new-fangled
schools ? Time was when we got boys to do
men's work for next to nothing ; now they
are not to be had for love or money. They
must be at school, forsooth ! and precious
little use will be all they learn there. Don't
tell me, sir ! give me the good old times.
People did a good day's work then, and it
was a sight to see them going home when it
was done, a regularly tired out ; the women
and boys, as well as men. And as to drink !
Lord, sir, if them men did take a drop more
than they ought when the Saturday night
came, it kept them contented. In those days
there was no Arches ; they never passed an
employer without touching their hats. And
the farmers — well, perhaps I oughtn't to say
it — but if their men fell sick, and their
families were in want, well, we put our hands
in our pockets and helped 'em as much as we
could ; and there is always the Union in the
end."

But he who was most discontented of all

with Sir Francis's doings was the Reverend
St. John Softridge, the clergyman of the
united parishes of Slocum-cum-Magnus, in
which both the Court and Hawthornedene
stood ; Deepdale was just over the border.
That gentleman lamented in touching tones,
through his wife, for she generally acted as
spokesman for her husband, and indeed was
by many regarded as the real incumbent of
the parish, to whom the Rev. St. John acted
as a kind of curate — not in charge — the sad
spirit of independence which had been engendered
amongst the poor by Sir Francis's
indiscreet action.

** It is indeed sad' she said, *^ to see it ;
and it has affected my husband very much.
A parish priest cannot have any influence
amongst his people when they have been
taught they are capable of thinking for themselves
; and pray what have all these high
wages led to 1 To nothing but a feeling that
they can do without help ; and that all interference
with their affairs is an impertinence.
You know how Mr. Softridge used to visit
amongst the people ; and the misery we used
to find amongst them ; and the quantity of
soup and old clothes we were able to distribute

is something incredible. 1 am sure it
used to make my arms ache. Now, what a
change ! A young chit of a child will bring
out its savings' bank-book, and the mother
will ask you to sit down and take a cup of
tea with all the airs of an equal. No one
can have better intentions than Sir Francis,
but these democrats unfortunately do so
much harm with their wild ideas ; I only
wish he was more like Mr. Yorke. My
husband always says, with a few more men
like him, we might hope to see the Church
put in its right place. And then we should
not have this dissenting chapel built on the
very borders of the parish, and no less than
four of Sir Francis's servants Baptists or
Brethren,' or whatever they choose to call
themselves."

One might have thought that if this were
the state of feeling produced in the Bev. St.
John Softridge by Sir Francis's well-intentioned
efforts, that the Bev. Jonas Smallpage,
the Independent minister, who had lately
taken charge of the circuit in which the unsightly
chapel, built upon ground given by
Sir Francis, was situated, would have been
better satisfied. Not one whit. The Bev.

Jonas was always lamenting that for a man
of his views Sir Francis *' wanted breadth."

Look you' he would say, " look you, in
these days, when men's ideas have to be
thrown into the crucible and purified as it
were by fire ; when — I speak as a man — the
spirit of inquiry is abroad, and turns upon
the world, even as it were from a lantern, its
bright and searching rays, so that the darkest
regions are illumined, and the secrets hidden
within the deepest recesses of the human
heart are revealed, we must let our light so
shine before men that there may be no going
astray, no following after false lights ; our
notes of warning must be rung out clear and
sharp. The bell fixed on the shoal must
give no uncertain sound. Sir Francis wants
breadth ; he wants thoroughness. Look you 1
if 'twere not so, would he speak of temperance
whilst his cellar is yet full of wine ?
Would he preach tolerance, and speak, as I
have heard him speak, to my sorrow, my
deep sorrow, of the benefits conferred in
olden times upon the world by that harlot
who still sits, until her time comes, and it is
coming, upon her seven hills? And who, no
later than last week, said, before our worthy

friend the deacon, that as matters now stood,
and in face of all the benefits which had been
conferred upon the community by the Church
of England, he could not make up his mind
that the time had arrived for its disestablishment.
Fancy that, gentlemen, fancy that !
A man who professes advanced opinions, and
calls himself a Liberal, not able to make up
his mind on the one great question, certainly
the greatest crucial question, of the day. No,
my friends, it is to be deeply lamented, but
it is so— Sir Francis is too narrow ; he wants
breadth."

No wonder that there were times when
Sir Francis felt disheartened. He would
have been entirely so but for the example of
Victoria.

Whilst on his travels, he had kept up a
correspondence with Dr. Pringle, and had
learnt from him how courageously and
steadily she had been working.

'what pleases me most," had said the
doctor, on one occasion, *ris that she works
hard without overworking herself. She never
loses her balance, and keeps her mind occupied
with wholesome thoughts, instead of
giving way to useless regrets, and to the

morbid fascination which belong to melancholy."


Had his love for her been less deep, or had
it not been based upon those very qualities
"which he felt were in themselves the stern
and. unrelenting arbiters of his fate, he might
perhaps, on his return, have done what so
many others would have done under similar
circumstances, made an effort to induce her to
change her mind. But how could he do that
which he knew could but give her pain ; perhaps
build up a barrier between them forever;
and — well, there was something within
for love is full of mysterious revelations,
which told him it would be useless.

Surely there is some happiness in knowing
that she loves me, and that the hand
which I am denied will never be given to
another."

He repeated this very often to himself, but
he did not find much consolation in it.

He was struggling on, doing the best he
could — somewhat badly, it must be confessed
when Victoria left St. Tobias's and returned
to Deepdale.

Victoria met him with a frank cordiality
such as she might have shown to any other
old and dear friend. Her frank and unaffected

manner did more than anything else
to confirm Sir Francis in the opinion that it
would be the height of folly to say one word
which might have the effect of endangering
a friendship he felt might become in time
the one great consolation of his life. So he
remained silent.

Besides, he felt a little flattered. Was not
Victoria's manner the greatest proof she
could offer of the sincerity of her affection ?
Did she not show by it that she felt she
could confide in his honour, and rely upon his
mastery over himself to spare her every allusion
to that one topic upon which his lips, as
well as hers, were to be closed for ever ? She
never could be his wife ! True. But he would
love her still : love her as a friend — and why
should not friendship, which is based upon
love, become even more than love ?

Poor Sir Francis ! Though he had made
the round-the-world tour, he does not seem
to have mastered all the mysteries of the
human heart, or he would have known that of
all passions love is the most intractable.

Nourishing, however, this idea, he became,
for the time being, quite happy. His whole
time was taken up with the execution of
some one of his many schemes for the bettering

of something or somebody, and Victoria
kind, good, clever, and perhaps all the
dearer because firm and unrelenting — Victoria
was within reach to sympathise and
advise.

His time was taken up from morning tonight,
and yet not a day passed without his
riding over to Deepdale — there were so many
points upon which he must have advice ; and
it was a pleasant sight to watch the conference.
Sir Francis reporting progress and
unfolding his future plans ; Victoria calmly
listening, and now and again interposing
some judicious word. Sir Francis wondering
how it was he had not seen things as Victoria
saw them ; Victoria tempering yet admiring
the enthusiastic ardour he brought to
bear upon all he did, and in contrast with
which her own action was made to seem so
cold and tame. He mounting his horse and
riding away, his head full of schemes, but his
heart more deeply in love than ever ; she
turning to her books and reading, reading,
reading for a while, and then — why does she
suddenly close the book and say, ^' Never !
never !" ?

Poor Victoria ! She had been a year in a
hospital ; yet she, too, had not found out

that of all diseases love is the most intractable
!

** Absent for a week at Nebtlestone 'i Dear
me ! and I wanted so much to see her." And
consult her he does. Once more Sir Francis
is to be seen riding up the Nettlestone avenue;
he is to be seen riding up it daily ; the conferences
are longer even than they were
before. There was a reason, perhaps, for
their being so, for Victoria had found some
of the questions propounded by Sir Francis
so difficult that she had thought it better to
call in the aid of another expert. 'two
heads are better than one," she said, laughingly
; and so three heads were to be found
daily in deep consultation,

*' I really hardly know which is the most
beautiful," said Sir Francis to himself on the
third day, as he rode home.

He was thinking of the two heads, and
more particularly at that moment of the one

which belonged to well, no matter ; it

might have been Victoria or — there would
have been no harm in it — the golden locks of
Geraldine.

The week flew by. At the earnest request
of Lady Arabella — again under the pressure
we wot of — the visit of the young people was

prolonged to ten days. Ten days of supreme
happiness ; ten days pregnant — as what
time, indeed, is not ? — with much to influence
the lives of each and all.

A ride to-day ; an excursion on the
morrow ; a picnic — to which Sir Francis
came — to Headlands Abbey. Lawn-tennis
at all hours of the day. In the evenings
music : Geraldine and Eva singing together
as only sisters can sing ; Sir Francis, when
there, in ecstasies, and forgetting for the
moment all else ; Chub, looking melancholy
and out of sorts, but cheering up somewhat
in the lighter parts, and now and then, when
he could catch the air, swinging one great
foot backwards and forwards as if to mark the
time ; Duke and Sis looking at each other
across a table, on which chessmen were
arranged ; Mr. Yorke deep in the arguments
by which the Right Hon. Hugh Forrester
sought to show, in a pamphlet of three
hundred pages, that the Pope had exceeded
his authority in the way in which he had
established his infallibility, and so had
wounded the tender consciences of many of
the faithful. Such a subject could but be
deeply interesting to a good Churchman like
Mr. Yorke ; and he pitied those who professed

to think that outside the pale of the
Eoraan Church it embittered very little what
the Pope said or did.

The pamphlet was evidently a very hard
nut to crack, and the kernel either very
small or difficult to find ; perhaps because,
through a wish to preserve it from injury, the
Right Hon. Hugh Forrester had surrounded
it with a plentiful padding of pungent words,
for Mr. Yorke's whole attention appeared to
be concentrated upon it.

Lady Arabella reposes upon a couch,
arranged at such an angle that had there
been no ceiling she might have seen the stars
without moving her head.

*' When I hear music," she said, *' I like to
look upward ; but it must be good music.
When it is — and my children sing so sweetly —
then my thoughts are carried away to heaven,
and I see angels.'

Once or twice the Rev. St. John Softridofe
and Mrs. Suftridge came to dinner.

"They are suitable people to meet our
young friends," remarked Lady Arabella to
her husband, " and won't mind it ; and indeed,
just now there is no one else to ask."

Then there were evenings when Mr. Yorke
had called Victoria to him and sat talking

VOL. I. 15

with her with an earnestness and degree of
interest very rare with him.

You have indeed bewitched my husband,"
said Lady Arabella to her one evening ; "he
will not condescend to speak to anyone else.
Really, if you were not going away so soon I
should have to undergo the fatigue of being
jealous."

On these occasions, when Sir Francis was
there, he was frequently left with Geraldine ;
and he was surprised to find what a change
had taken place in her. She seemed to know
so much of subjects on which before she had
either professed entire ignorance or a supreme
indifference.

Can I have misunderstood her '?" was his
first question. The answer came quickly.
'' No ; she is changed. It is Victoria's influence
; it is all Victoria !"

So it was that, as an evidence of Victoria's
power, of Victoria's work, that Geraldine
once more began to take up her old place in
Sir Francis's heart.

Once more : '' Poor Sir Francis !"

CHAPTER XVII.

DEAD AT LAST."

The party at Nettlestone is broken up. Mi",
and Mrs. Yorke and their two daughters
only remain at the Court, for Duke — who
always speaks as if he were overwhelmed
with work — has found something to do elsewhere.
Deepdale is deserted, for Victoria is
on her way, escorted by Dr. and Mrs. Pringle
and Sis, to Switzerland ; and Chub has gone
to London, where he is to study medicine
:ind " walk the hospitals." Sir Francis, too,
has gone abroad. He is just now full of the
advantages of small holdings and peasant
proprietors, and intends to make himself
practically acquainted with the subject in
France and Belgium.

Geraldine is only reconciled to the dulness
of Nettlestone, of which she makes frequent
complaints, by her father having promised

15—2

her that in another month the house shall be
full of visitors, and that this year they will
go to London earlier than usual, and that she
shall be " presented " and formally introduced
; which, it seems, she has not yet been,
for Lady Arabella thinks young people should
be kept in the background as long as possible.
Each day seemed to go on much as another,
and Geraldine was beginning to count
the hours when the pheasants — the season is
a late one — would be given up to slaughter :
when " presto !" as if by the touch of a magician's
wand, the whole scene changes, and
the daily routine at the Court is completely
destroyed.

They were at breakfast — Mr. Yorke, as
usual, dividing his attention between his
letters, the newspapers, and the buttered
toast — when his whole family were thrown
into consternation by his suddenly ejaculating
:

'' Good God ! He is dead at last !"
Mr. Mortimer, who had just placed a dish
upon the table, immediately assumed an expression
befitting so solemn an incident, and
crept out of the room more noiselessly than
ever. It almost seemed as if he would not —
no, not for worlds — have disturbed the peaceful

slumbers of him who was spoken of as
dead.

*' He is dead at last !"

'^ Who— who is dead ?"

'* Slumberton is dead."

*' You don't say so ! What, poor old
Slumberton dead !"

"Yes ; dead at last."

And so there was joy in the house of
Yorke. For he whose death was thus announced
was no other than the senior
member for Middleshire, who had sat — it
would be more correct, perhi^-ps, to say had
slept — in the House of Commons for the last
forty years, and whose tenacious hold upon
his seat had so long prevented Mr. Yorke' s
great desire to enter into Parliamentary life
Iron being realised.

Poor old Slumberton ! though he had
often talked about resigning, dozing on the
benches of the House of Commons during a
portion of each year had become so completely
a part and parcel of his daily life,
that he could never screw his courage up to
the point of applying for the Chiltern Hundreds;
and so, although his working days had
long been past, he died in harness.

He had passed away into the next world,

as he had passed through this, very quietly.
'' I think I shall have a little sleep ; do not
Jet me be disturbed," were his last words.
Life had been made so easy to him, that he
could not understand what people meant when
they spoke of its trials. " People ought to be
contented," he used to say. " If I am happy, it
is because I am contented. There is no truer
saying than that contentment is a perpetual
feast." Contentment was his panacea for all
ills ; his political creed was based upon it.
If people would but let things alone and be
content, what a country this would be !" True,
as far as the race of Slumbering is concerned ;
and the race is very far from being extinct.

Mr. Yorke had thought the time would
never come. Now it had arrived.

"He is dead at last!" and Mr. Yorke
becomes a candidate for Middleshire.

Lady Arabella is full of it; the girls talk
of nothing else ; the servants'-hall is turned
into a debating society, in which Mr. Mortimer
exercises his oratorical powers to his heart's
content.

*' I have belonged to many parties in my
time," said Mr. Mortimer, grandiloquently,
and have heard h after-dinner speeches from
some of the most eminent men on both

sides of the House, but don't talk to me of
your Whigs and your Tories, of your Liberals
and your Conservatives, of your Radicals and
your what-not. When you know them as
I do, they are all alike — the same men under
different names, all a-looking out for themselves
; a regular case of six of one and half-a-dozen
of the other. Good of the country?
Lord bless you ! if I go in for politics, the
country means me, though I don't talk of inch
but of progress and my party; and if my party
is out, and another in, then look out for squalls,
for no matter what the Ins may say or do, there's
I and all the other Outs ready to be down upon
them with arguments like sledge hammers to
prove that they are wrong, and that the country
is wrong, and that everybody is wrong, who
does not belong to our party — that is, agree
with me. It is just like dogs — the Ins have
got the bone, and the Outs go on a-tugging
and a-worrying until they get it from them.
And so on and on. There are some little
curs, too, who belong to no party, and so
can only have a sniff at the bone from a distance
; but this makes them so cantankerous,
that though they have not the strength or
pluck to go in and win, they yelp and yowl
more than all the others put together, and

very often end with a free fight amongst
themselves. I tell you what, it is in public
life just what it is in private life ; men will
be men, and there is just as much difference
between what they do, and what they say,
as there is between a piece of chalk and that
there cheese. Why, when I first entered
upon the duties of my profession, I accepted
an engagement with an M.P. who was a
regular old political wolf in sheep's clothing.
He was all for the people. And to hear
him talk I As I stood behind his chair and
heard him a-discoursing about liberty and
equality, no taxation, and cheap bread, I
never could have believed he was the greatest
old bully that ever lived, who treated his
family like dogs, and we, who gave him our
faithful services, like Russians or nigger
slaves. At the end of three months I terminated
our engagement in disgust. 'No
more of your Radical shams,' said I. * You
may be a man and a brother, but may I be
silicates if I am going to be an Habet to
such another Cain.' To stop his jaw, they
made him a minister — top-sawyer of the
works, or something of the sort ; and from
that day to this, though I have often heard
him a-mouthing away at City feasts, he is

never tired of talking of * responsibility,' and
the way he brings out the word is enough
to choke you. But that little bit of experience
did me good — that it did. Had it
not been for that, I might have remained a
party man ; and I repeat it, and I care not
who hears me say it, a thorough-going party
man is a poor mean thing who does not dare
to call his soul his own, but allows himself
to be a-whipped here, and a-whipped there,
just as — Well, well ! there is no use in
a-talking more about it; my name is Mortimer,
and I am a man. What do I care f »r
party ? But I do say this : I do like to seethe
members of the House a-driving up to ic
in their own carriages ; and it will be a credit
to the county to have for its representative
the gentleman in whose 'household we have
taken office. For it won't be easy, search
the country where you will, to find one — I
care not if he be a member of the aristocracy
or not — with half his money. And I
would ask," continued Mr. Mortimer, '' what
is a man without money? Why, just
this " — here Mr. Mortimer turned down his
empty glass, with an expression of intense
disgust — " but give him money " — Mr. Mortimer
pours out a bumper — '' and he becomes

like this glass when 'tis full. Where is the
man who is not ready to raise it to his lips ?
No, no; take my word for it, there is nothing
like money: 'tis better than brains."

The excitement in Middleshire is intense.

Have you heard the news ?"

'' No— what r

He is dead at last."

'' Who is dead ?"

*' What ! you don't know ? Slumberton
is dead !"

*' Old Slumberton ? Indeed, then there
is no time to be lost. Yorke must be brought
forward."

** Yorke must be opposed. Fits-King is
the man."

We must do this — we must do that !"

It is like the awakening out of a deep sleep.
Middleshire is now wide awake, for Slumberton
is dead !

CHAPTER XVIII.

BEER WINS,

MiDDLESHiRE is indeed aroused. There are
meetings of the county magnates ; electioneering
agents start into life like butterflies in
the summer sun : Sharpus and Sly, who do
all the law-work of the county, put on a
cheerful, cheery look, such as they have not
had for years ; and in all directions' toiling
along the county roads are to be seen waggons
laden with preparations for the coming
fray, in the shape of huge barrels filled with
the sustaining and exhilarating beverage prepared
by that patriotic and philanthropic firm,
Souseman and Soppit.

A contested election at last.

** Hurrah ! A real trial of strength !
Middleshire is no looser to be under the
shadow of political compromise. No I we will
fight it out ! We will nail our colours to the
mast ! No surrender !"

But as the time approaches, an unaccountable
fear falls upon the Middleshire electors :
there is a Vague rumour that Lord Tom Fitting,
the Whig nominee, show symptoms of
wavering. There can be no bribery, of course ;
but it is said that there is a suspicious number
of desertions from the Liberal ranks. Lord
Tom FitzKing is not rich. Why should
he impoverish himself in a hopeless cause ?
Alas ! the rumour is but too true. Lord Tom
FitzKing suddenly finds that his health has
become so delicate that he is utterly incapacitated
from undertaking Parliamentary duties ;
he puts forward a manifesto to that effect ;
and is off for the Engadine by the next train.

The whole county is in a state of confusion ;
the Liberals in a state of collapse ; the Conservatives
almost as gloomy as if they had
suffered a defeat — when, ting, ting ! the curtain
rises to a new act — and a new actor takes
Lord Tom FitzKing's part.

Good news ! Great news ! We are to
have a fight after all. But he has no chance.
He is a dreamer." ** He is a good fellow. He
is just the man." "No — he is a democrat ; he
is a socialist." " What are his principles ?
What does he say V

He says only this :

*' Gentlemen,

In obedience to the request of a
numerously signed requisition, I beg to offer
myself as a candidate for the vacant seat in
the representation of the county."

And he signs himself :

Francis Hawthorne."

Lady Arabella thinks it is unneighbourly ;
Eva that it is unkind. Geraldine suddenly
discovers that she hates politics, and that
elections are her peculiar aversion. She retires
into private life, and obstinately refuses
to leave the house " until all this horrid vulgar
fuss is over." She even takes off the blue
and orange ribbons she had taken so much
trouble to procure. Lady Arabella is angry ;
but she has no time to spare ; she owes every
moment of her time to her husband — to her
country. She is here, there, and everywhere.
She is buying up all the dark-blue and orange
in the county. She has kissed so many babies
that she says she cannot get the horrid smell
of babies out of her nose. She shakes great
rough hands till her own aches. She tells
everybody who has a vote that Mr. Yorke is
his best friend. She no longer complains of

being ereintee, and sits bolt upright in her
carriage, without cushions. Everybody is
charmed with her kindness and condescension.


As for Mr. Yorke, he was not idle. He,
too, is driving all over the county, from
one committee-room to another ; and the
whole county has become one mass of .
There is hardly a public-house
that has not a great printed placard with
Central," or ^' District", or " Sub-committee
Room" stuck up in its windows, with an address
from Mr. Yorke underneath, in which ^
in eloquent terms, he refers to our glorious
Queen ; to our imperishable constitution ; to
the rights of property ; to the duties of
Churchmen ; to liberty of conscience ; to the
claims of the agricultural interests ; to the
malt-tax and cheap beer. There is no Cerberus
in the shape of a county voter to whom
he does not throw a sop. But he is not content
with this. Wherever he finds a room
large enough, he speaks in it ; wherever there
is a balcony he speaks from it — he has bought
up so many bronchial trochus that they have
become scarce, and he has sucked more
oranges in a few days than he had sucked
before in his whole life. No doubt he was

right in this. Electors do not care for
dumb candidates — there is no satisfaction
in a man who cannot talk. It is not everyone
who has time to read speeches ; but most
people like to hear them when they are likely
to contain flattering allusions to themselves.

Mr. Yorke was not a speaker likely to attract
much attention within the House ; but as a
stump orator seeking to obtain the suffrages
of a mixed community he certainly knew what
he was about, for he never spoke as if he possessed
any special knowledge himself, but
simply as if he had been allowed to hold a
brief for those who had been so kind as to
favour him with their opinions ; and he had the
art of making it appear that he was speaking
for, and not to, those he was addressing.

He was what might be called a very safe
speaker, for he dealt in platitudes and well-worn
truths to such an extent that it was
almost as difficult to criticise as to contradict
him.

"Aye, how well he do talk I He be a
real farmer's friend."

None of your nonsense about disestablishment.
He takes just my views of the
Church. Every sound Churchman should
rally round him."

^* He don't say much for Dissent ; but then
there's no humbug about him ; and he spends
more money in my shop than the whole boiling
of Salem Chapel put together."

Yes, yes ; it is what I have always said —
take off the malt tax, and there will be no more
talk about drunkenness. The people would
then be able to get really cheap beer ; for
there would be no excuse for its not being
good, and then we should get rid of this
radical teetotalism, which is only rank socialism
in disguise."

*' I like to hear him talk ; he puts things
so clear like. He knows what he is about ;
he would not be the rich man that he is, if he
didn't."

Of course he was asked questions, and
some of them to ordinary men might have been
considered posers. But Mr. Yorke, not being
an ordinary man, always had his answer ready
an answer so admirably framed, that it
suited all parties equally well ; the oracles of
Delphi could not have been more craftily
contrived.

Of course there was no bribery. Mr. Yorke,
as a good Churchman, would have been the
last man in the world to have sanctioned such
a proceeding ; besides, he felt that, rich man

as he was, the expenses of a contested election
in a county were quite heavy enough as they
were. Committee-rooms had to be paid for.
The time of those voters — and they were legion
who were employed as messengers and
agents, suddenly became of great value ; and
all the world seemed to have lost the power
of walking, judging from the number of vehicles
which had to be placed at its disposal.
Then came looming in the distance that
voluminous document which would be sure
to end with a line of four figures, just above
the signatures of Sharpus and Sly.

No, Mr. Yorke was a strictly conscientious
man ; he would not bribe.

And then he was almost certain of success.

They keep it dark'' said Mr. Mortimer,
*' but they know as well as I do they are
running the wrong horse. The baronet is a
good un enough to go, but he is ticklish to
handle, and given to bolt."

The fact was, the amiable country gentlemen
of Liberal proclivities, who had signed the
requisition to Sir Francis and formed his committee,
were in despair. He had put forward
an address, without having consulted them
upon it, which they were unanimous in
characterising as "most objectionable ;" and

VOL. I. 16

afterwards, instead of having endeavoured to
remove any injurious impressions this injudicious
address might have created by
explanations which would have placed his
views before those, who had been shocked by
them in a somewhat different light, he had
insisted uponretainingitintact,and of referring
to it on every occasion as the exact expression
of his political convictions. Not content with
this, he was given to answering questions
with a candid recklessness which set all the
rules of political reticence at defiance.

What is to be done with such a man T
asked the Chairman of the Liberal Committee,
Mr. Thomas Freeman. '' He shocks
everybody ; he is always putting the truth
before the public as naked as my hand ; he
wants prudence. Look at all our great public
men. See how they dress up facts. It is
too bad ; no man can hope to be at the head
of the poll who acts as he does."

No, indeed ! no man could. His address
was as bad as bad could be. It offended
everybody. Mr. Mortimer was quite right
the Liberals were running the wrong
horse.

For what could be hoped from a candidate
who declared that he would not spend a

penny beyond what was absolutely necessary
and legitimate ; that he wanted neither 
nor messengers ; and who had
answered, when asked how his supporters
were to get to the poll, " On their legs."

Give and Take, the Liberal lawyers, pronounced
him to be utterly impracticable.

We knew that he was a gentleman of
advanced opinions, but we thought he would
have had a greater regard to his interests
than to act in this wild manner."

Then he was so candid !

He was so anxious that people should
know what he meant, that he left them no
loophole to creep out of.

*'Do you really mean that you approve of
manhood suffrage V

Yes, under certain conditions. It is the
only means of elevating the masses."

'' And let women have votes ?"

Decidedly, with certain restrictions ;
under the same conditions as the men."

And seats in Parliament ?"

'^ Assuredly, if the constituency preferred
to have a woman for their member."

'' May I be allowed to ask a question ?
Would you interfere with capital ?"

IG— 2

*' Certainly, in all cases where interference
might be needed."

You forget, sir, capital is like water ; it
will always find its own level."

Very true," said Sir Francis. " So true,
that I would wish no better simile ; and
what does water do when it is left to find its
own level ? Simply this — it turns plains into
swamps, or passing by large tracts leaves
them deserts. And so it remains, till man
comes in to irrigate the desert and to drain
the swamp. The tendency of capital is in
like manner to accumulate unduly in a few
hands, so that large numbers of the community
are left destitute ; and it then becomes
the duty of those upon whom the
regulation of society has devolved to devise
means to check this tendency as far as
possible, and to promote schemes for its
greater distribution."

*^ It seems to me, then, that you would
interfere with the rights of property."

•'* I deny that property has only rights — it
has equally its duties."

** Would you not allow me to do as I please
with my own ?"

Only so far as you might do so without
injury to others."

I don't quite understand. Let me put it
more clearly. I am the owner of a great
estate, and my individual idiosyncrasy makes
me place all my happiness on ray farms being
left unlet, the ground untilled ; tell me, sir,
would you oblige me to cultivate it ?"

Before / answer your question, let me
ask you one ? I am the owner of the county
of Northumberland, and my especial idiosyncrasy
makes me base all my happiness upon
its being kept waste ; would that be any
justification for my being allowed to do that
which would be so manifestly injurious to
others ?"

** Of course not — the question is absurd ;
that is stating an extreme case. You doctrinaires
always deal with extreme cases."

Allow me, however, to ask what would
be the difference, as regards the public weal,
between one man allowing the county of
Northumberland to remain waste, and a
thousand men allowing an area equal in
extent to the county of Northumberland to
remain so V

"■ Then, sir, you would divide properties.
What would become of our great families V*

*' It would simply be the replacing of one
very rich family by many tolerably rich

ones. Younger sons, being men of average
energy and ability, having capital to work
with, would be able to found fresh fortunes.
And many nice girls, who are now doomed
to lead a life of poverty and 'single blessedness,
would be able to marry men of their
choice. So that you would have thousands
of useful centres where you have only hundreds
now. Besides, there would be another advantage."


*' Pray, sir, what is it ?*'

There would not be so many younger
sons to be provided for ; and then, and not
till then, dare we hope to see a reduction in
our public expenditure."

But, as regards the House of Peers,
surely you will allow that some of our
greatest statesmen have been peers ?"

*' Undoubtedly ; and such men would
probably be found either in the House of
Commons or in the Senate. But is it not
humiliating to know that, as things are, a
born idiot — provided he has a sufficient
modicum of brains to prevent his being
qualified for an asylum, and not one atom
more — has a place in the legislature which
gives him the same weight, as regards his
vote, as the ablest man of his time, who may

have earned his peerage by a lifelong devotion
to the consideration of economic questions
and to the performance of important
official duties in the service of the
State r

** Oh, Sir Francis, Sir Francis !"
And this beer question ? Is it true, as I
have heard, that you would confiscate the
property of brewers T

I would do nothing of the kind. I would
simply turn fiction into fact, and give a bond
Fide license — not to the house, but to the
individual whose name is written upon it, to
terminate with his withdrawal from business.
Nominally it is so now ; but our laws are so
ingeniously framed by the interested individuals
who have the making of them, that
in reality the great mass of the licenses are
in the hands of a few capitalists."

*' What would you effect by this change ?"
Greater freedom of action as regards
those upon whom the granting of licenses
devolves, and an enormous reduction in the
number of gin-palaces and public-houses ; for
the greater number of them would not exist
a moment were they not owned by capitalist
brewers and distillers."

"But surely the brewers could make advances

to the publicans, so that the results
would be the same ?"

"Not at all. The brewers miorht make
advances, it is true, but if they did, they
would have no security for their money."

Of course, sir, you would be in favour of
compensation ?"

"Compensation! May I ask for what?
Because a number of capitalists have made
enormous fortunes out of the public by the
advantages obtained from a monopoly? for
which they have paid comparatively next to
nothing, they are to receive — when it is
found necessary for the benefit of public
morality that this monopoly should be
abolished — a large sum of money, either in
lieu of fortunes yet unmade, or as a set-off
against the depreciation of a property the
value of which had nothing but monopoly
and the continuance of monopoly for its basis.
Really, sir, this is too absurd ! The value of
commodities, of shares, of stocks, of land, of
everything you may be pleased to name, is
being altered every day by a variety of causes
very frequently by the action of Government
and by legislative enactments ; yet who ever
talks of compensation ? No, my dear sir ; it
will not do ; the brewers have been putting

their hands into the poor man's pocket quite
long enough ; and I suspect they will nut
find themselves penniless when they are
obliged for the future to keep them in their
own."

Sir Francis had gradually become excited,
and his audience could hardly be expected to
remain calm. If he had had for his object
the alienation of the great majority of the
voters he could not have taken a better line.
The landowners looked upon him as so dangerous
that the word Communist was not
strong enough for him ; every man who could
lay claim to being a capitalist shrunk from
him in dismay. The clergy regarded him
with intense dislike ; the Dissenters with
suspicion ; even the philanthropists, who
might have been expected to have been on
his side, were against him.

To their questions on many subjects his
answers had been favourable. They had
loudly applauded when he declared that it
was the duty of all governments to look after
the poor, and see that those necessary things
were done for them which they were unable
to do for themselves. Yes ; they had even
cheered him, but more faintly, when he said :

*much of the misery and degradation

which is to be found amongst the politer
classes in modern society is due to the
manner in which the rich have neglected
their duties. For the poor must be helped —
not by charity, which, taken in the aggregate,
is nothing but an easy method for soothing
the consciences of those who might otherwise
be made to feel uneasy when forced to recognise
the misery proceeding from their neglect
— but by taking care that out of their
abundance those who are in themselves helpless
should be provided with all those necessaries,
without which life becomes brutalised
and society endangered. And if this cannot
be done, or is not done, by individual effort,
then it becomes the duty of the State to step
in and see that full justice be done to all.
For instance, air and light and water and
shelter are primary necessaries ; but how can
the poor man obtain them unless they are
provided for him by others ? He cannot
build a house, so he must put up with what
he can get, perhaps with one that is small,
overcrowded, ill-lighted, badly drained, that
has no ventilation, and a water-supply which
would mean slow poisoning were he not addicted
to other means for slaking his thirst ;
and yet look at our overcrowded villages and

the squalid meanness of the poorer quarters
in many of our towns, and ask yourselves
whether there are no rich men whose duty it
is, by a co-operative effort, to come to the
rescue. (Sensation.) I will not deny that
much has been done ; but it has generally
been done in a perfunctory, spasmodic
manner. If it were not so, should we still
find so many myriads of the industrious poor
crowded together in reeking courts and
alleys, or having no other shelter than that
afforded them each night, for a few pence, ina
common lodging-house ? Or think you, if
this principle were better understood, that a
rich town like Liverpool would have spent a
third of a million of money on a ' people's
park ' before some better provision had been
made for housing the industrious dock
labourers than the filthy quarters they are
compelled to live in, with a whisky-shop at
every corner ? Why, positively, they might
have done all that was needed, instead of
making the park, and have got five per cent,
for their money into the bargain ; but then
they would have had no monument in proof
of their munificence — and corporations, just
like individuals, like to have something to
show for their money, something that people

may point to and say : ' Just look and see
what has been done.' This is why, whilst
people are still to be found dying in our
streets from destitution, there is no lack of
money wherewith to build big churches with
tall spires."

Now the bump of benevolence may be
very largely developed, but most people have
other bumps as well ; hence it was that Sir
Francis's philanthropic friends did not quite
like the kind of cap he was fitting on their
benevolent heads. Then, too, it is bad enough
to be preached at from the pulpit, but it is
still worse to be preached to by anyone out
of it. They did not like his treatment of
the subject, so they changed it.

Some of them had long since given up as
hopeless the question of suffering humanity,
and transferred all their sympathies to suffering
" animate." Just as many good men
and women, despairing, as it would seem, of
being able to make any impression on the
ignorance and vice of the masses at home,
devote all their time, or their money, or their
energies, to the reformation of some amiable
man-eating race abroad.

Hence it was that Mr. Placidusus Wilkinson,
a member, indeed vice-president, of many

benevolent associations, and chairman of the
lately-formed Cheap Cats-meat Company,
and who — perhaps it was out of respect for
the offices he held — always appeared in public
in a white tie and black kid gloves, felt that
the time had arrived when Sir Francis should
be called upon to declare himself upon what
Mr. Wilkinson characterised as " one of those
vital points which has been so insidiously
touched upon by science, and which, perhaps
more than any other, requires the intervention
of the legislature, in order to prevent
those humane instincts being perverted and
destroyed, without which the whole social
structure can be said to have no firm foundation."


*' I would, sir, on my own part, and in
behalf of many of my friends, ask what are
your views on vivisection V*

'' Vivisection !" said Sir Francis ; " why,
really, gentlemen, you are questioning me on
a subject with regard to \^fhich I must unless
to knowing very little. Indeed, I do
not care to know much, for I regard it simply
as a detail ; and I always prefer, when I can,
dealing with principles. I believe in connection
with vivisection some horrible cases
of cruelty have been cited which every

humane and reasonable man must condemn ;
but we must never allow ourselves to confound
the abuse with the use : and it is quite
possible that within certain limits the practice
of vivisection may not only be justifiable
but necessary. I beg you to remark I only
say possible, for I have not as yet had time
to enter fully into the matter. But this I
do know," said Sir Francis, emphatically,
that of all the rank impostures in this world
of sham, there can be none greater than the
horror professed by many men with regard to
this practice, who are themselves habitually
guilty of the greatest cruelties to the lower
creatures ; and this without even a pretence
of furthering scientific truth, or of acting for
the benefit of others, but simply and wholly
for their own selfish pleasure and amusement.
I speak, sir, of those who hunt and shoot
and fish ; and I ask you, gentlemen, whether
it is in an assembly in which a large proportion
of the members are sportsmen, that such
a question can be dealt with without the
grossest hypocrisy ? For what man can lay
claim to a just perception of what is right or
wrong in such a matter whose, chief delight
is to play a salmon, hunt a fox or hare, and
show his skill as a shot by shooting at

pigeons ? Not that I think all sport is
criminal ; that opens out another question.
But I cannot help sometimes asking myself
whether directing the moral forces of the
country upon these comparatively minor
matters does not do injury, from its diverting
the public mind from the major ones."

Mr. Placidusus Simkinson was not satisfied.

** Sir," he said angrily, *' I find — and my
friends are of the same opinion — that your
answer is highly unsatisfactory ; and I do
not see how it is possible for us to support ^
gentleman who can speak so lightly of such
an outrage on humanity as vivisection, and who
holds in so little esteem the labours of some of
the best of men — aye, and of women — who
have devoted themselves to this great cause."

I am very sorry," said Sir Francis, " if I
should have been misunderstood, for no man
honours more than I do those who are really
workers in a noble cause,"

Too late ; too late ! The philanthropists,
led by Mr. Placidusus Simkinson, become
Conservatives for the nonce, and vote for the
Conservative candidate to a man.

Ah, Sir Francis, Sir Francis ! It is indeed
too late. What can possibly be done with
such a man ?

Even his old friend Dr. Pringle looked
grave. He had thrown himself into the
fray with even more than his usual energy ;
but go where he might, he was sure to find
that something had been said or done by Sir
Francis which had done far more injury to
his own cause than to that of his opponent.
It is true that most of the opinions which Sir
Francis had put forth were equally professed
by him ; but there is a time for all things.
Virtues may be carried so far that they may
do as much harm as vices.

'' My dear friend," he wrote to Sir Francis,
*' you have made a sad mistake. The great
bulk of those who are pleased to call themselves
Liberals are totally unprepared to
accept many of the principles which are so
dear to us both, and your frank profession of
them has done much to injure the cause all
real lovers of progress have so much at heart.
If you would succeed in educating the public
mind you must seek to be practical, and confine
your efforts within the limits of the possible.
The Anglo-saxon race, as a whole, detests
change, unless it commends itself by some
prospect of immediate and certain advantage;
and new ideas are never acceptable — indeed,
there is no place for them until the prejudices

upon which all our habits and convictions
are formed have been undermined by
those secret, silent, and slow, but sure, processes
through which time works out such
marvellous results. That is why those men
have succeeded best as reformers who have
confined themselves to dealing with one thing
at a time, and have taken care that in dealing
with that one thing they have not been
too far ahead of the wants and wishes of
those they sought to benefit. For, believe
me, the most undeniable truths will always
reveal themselves as truths to the few long
before they will be accepted as even worthy
of attention by the many ; you must not,
therefore, force truth down people's throats
like physic. They will spue it up if you do."

** If the electors don't like me and my
principles, there is Mr. Yorke," said Sir
Francis.

The electors did not like Sir Francis and
his principles, so Mr. Yorke became the man
of their choice. He was returned with an
overwhelming majority, and the Liberal
interest in Middleshire had received a crushing
defeat.

^' All through Sir Francis and his uncompromising
candour. Confound it, sir! better

VOL. I. 17

put up a man who cannot speak at all, thana
fellow who will shout out everything, and
does not know when to shut his mouth.
No wonder that beer has won !"

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

imam

At'2G3ci

<>S*> ?

^

"LI E) R.AR.Y

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

8Z3 ,

V.I

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

></

sponilbLforitsS *!''\-='t-riaI is reach
it was withdrawn" '^' "'l''^^ fr"™
lowest Dote statnpTbdor °^ '^^''^ ^^^

*^neft, mutilation an

A PICTURE FROM THE PERIOD.

Major-general G. G. ALEXANDER, Cab.

Fiction is a fabric woven by Fancy with threads of Truth.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.
isti.

[Ail Rights Reserved.]

S A Pv A H BECK H A li V E Y,

WHOSE FKIENDSIIir And RARE GIFTS

HAVE BROUGHT ME .SO MANY

HOURS OF PLEASURE.

Chance J PAGE

I. THE END OF A SIIOKT LIFE - - - 1

ir. TWENTY Years AFTER - - - - 10

III. " HOME " - 21

lY. AN Afternoon " TEA " IN RELCIIAYIA - 80

\. THE HEAD OF THE HOUSE - - - 44

YI. A FEW Faces From A JOURNAL - - 57

YII. DEEl'DALE AND ITS INMATES - - - 77

Yin. Curia SHOOTS HIS SHAFTS - - - 92

IX. MIDSUMMER-EYE - - - - - 107

X. AYAITINCr FOR THE Verdict - - - 117

XI. Right OR WRONG? - 129

XII. OUT IN THE RAIN - 144

XIIL THE major's " LITTLE GAME " - - - IGl

CHAPTER PAGE

XIV. m THE COUNTRY - - - - - 183

XV, ^IID Autumn LEAVES - - - - 191

XVI. Working FOR THE WORLD - - - 212

XVn. 'dead AT LAST" - 227

xvi. BEER wins 235

^>Ht

CHAPTER I.

THE END OF A SHORT LIFE.

Its flight was upward :

Let no cynic say
It was not heavenward.

"What ! that one poor ray,
Because it wandered —

Hapless went astray —
Is gone for ever,

Quenched and cast away
In endless night !

No ! it were false ;
For Perfect Love stood by,

And gave His aid
To guide its path on high."

The rays of the setting sun stream through
the mountains which form the northern and
southern shores of the beautiful lake of Thun,
and light up with a roseate glow the glorious

VOL. I. 1

group of snow-clad peaks of which the Jungfrau
is the queen. The day is dying, and
never, never could its beauty have been
greater, more wonderful, than now. Brighter
and brighter, higher and higher, that heaven-born
blush moves onward, upward, till, all
aglow with golden light, the highest point
retains it lovingly, then loosens its embrace,
and cold, pale hues spread stealthily o'er
all, and tell of night and darkness soon to
come.

In a chalet under the Niece Horn,
perched high above the lake, the last flush
of departing life had lighted up and brought
back all the beauty — aye, in the presence of
the sanctifier Death, all the purity which
belongs to innocence and youth — to a dying
girl.

A girl in face and form, but yet a mother,
for a sleeping babe lay folded in her wasted
arms.

Her bed had been so placed by the open,
window, that the full glory of this her last
earthly sunset was spread out before her ;
but it seemed as if she did not dare to gaze
upon its beauty, for she had turned away her
head from it. And as she now lay, with her
cheek pressed against the slumbering babe

upon her bosom, she, from time to time, gave
a little low wail, which spoke of mental agony
too deep for words.

It was a little low wail, but low as it was,
it attracted the attention of the only other
person in the room, who rose from her seat —
she did so with difficulty, for she was very
lame — and drew near the invalid's bedside.

** Violet, you must be calru."

The speaker, whose naturally harsh voice
seemed softened by emotion, was a person
approaching middle age, with a pale and
anxious face, bearing traces of many trials and
much sorrow. To have judged from the expression
of her mouth alone, it might have
been concluded that those trials — whatever
their nature might have been — had hardened
her character and made her utterly unsympathetic
to the wants and feelings of others ;
for it was one of those mouths which, though
it would not have been without beauty in a
man, had a stern determination about its
every line — whether in movement or at rest
which took away from it every trace of that
indescribable, though well-defined, sweetness
of expression which is one of woman's most
charming characteristics.

But if the harsh lineaments of her mouth

1—2

repelled, there was a depth of tenderness in
those dark-grey eyes which revealed a warm
and loving heart.

Two distinct and opposite natures seemed
to be united in one person.

It was impossible to look at those eyes and
not think of what she must have been in youth,
or at that mouth without being reminded of
the hardening effects of the lessons taught
by age.

'* Violet, you must be calm."

The soft grey eyes were dim with tears,
but the voice seemed hard even to harshness.


The doctor says that if you would get well,
you must keep quite quiet."

'^ Aunt dear, I shall never get well. I am
dying."

The stern mouth quivered ; it was but fora
moment.

'^ My child, there is still hope. You are
young. The doctor tells me you are only
weak, and that you are free from all disease."

'* But one — a broken heart 1"

There was no hardness about the mouth now,
and even the tone of the voice was softened :

'^ Hush ! My poor Violet, you must not
speak like this ! You must live ! You must

try — to live ! If not for your own sake, for
the sake of this poor child !"

There was something in the last word
which seemed to renew the failing strength
of the dying girl.

My child ! my child !" she said. " My
curse ! my shame! Oh that I had died before
its birth !" Then, encircling it more closely in
her arms, and raising its little hands to her
lips : '' My beautiful — my precious one — why
did I give you life 1 Oh, it was shameless !
a cruel, cruel wrong ! But who had thought
a man could be so base ? Ah, coward !
monster ! What ! forsake your child ?" She
was silent for a moment. Then, softly, as if
in supplication : " O God, forgive me ! I was
so young and weak — so young and weak.
Why didst Thou let it be '? Sweet Jesus,
pity us, and take us both — my child and me
I dare not come alone ! She shall protect
me with her innocence. Yes, I am guilty,
but I do repent. Oh, save me 1 save me !
Ah, His touch is cold— so icy cold ! It is the
■ hand of Death !"

Then, as if exhausted and worn out by the
exertion she had made, she shuddered convulsively
and hid her face in her hands, as if
to shut out some hideous object.

The hard, stern mouth was closed more firmly
than ever ; it seemed pitiless even to cruelty,
but the dark-grey eyes were suffused with
tears.

For a time the ticking of a clock, on a table
near the door, was the only distinct sound ;
then the silence was broken by an occasional
little bleat, which showed that the slumbers
of the sleeping babe had been disturbed, and
that it would soon awake.

Again the sick girl spoke — this time slowly
and calmly, with longer intervals between her
words,

Marmaduke," she said, " you will not
leave me — 'twould break my heart — I know
you will not leave me ! No — no ! — you are
too good — too kind ! Did I not give you all ?
My love ! — I had no more — and this poor
little life !" Then, raising herself on her pillow,
she stretched out her hands imploringly :
Marmaduke, you must not go ! You shall
not leave your child ! — it is your child !"
Her voice had become loud and piercing ; in
an instant it subsided into a low wail of
despair : '' What, gone ? gone 1 Deserted in
my need ? Oh, who shall hide me — save me
from my shame ?"

She fell back upon her pillow, and seemed

to sleep, notwithstanding the shrill and passionate
cries of the now wide awake infant,
who resisted every effort made by the owner
of the dark-grey eyes to soothe it. But they
had the effect of bringing another actor upon
the scene.

It was a young woman in the dress of a
peasant, who, opening the door quietly but
quickly, hurried up to the screaming child,
and endeavoured to soothe it by her caresses.

*' You do not well," she said, in the peculiar
patois spoken in the Bernese Oberland — '' you
do not do well to let the mistress talk. I
heard her high-toned words. She, the good,
gentle one. And this poor lambkin, too, has
lost her sleep."

So saying, she took the infant in her arms,
and singing, only as loving nurses can sing,
laid it upon her breast.

She sang so softly, it was difficult to catch
the words :

' Hush thee ! oh, hush thee !

The angels are singing.
To my white one, my wee one,

A crown they are bringing ;
A crown of bright stars

Fresh plucked from the sky.
Hark ! the angels sing softly ;

Sleep, sleep ! God is nigh." '

The eyes of the infant were again closed in
sleep, and as the nurse rocked it backwards
and forwards, the clock seemed to tick more
loudly, as if to mark the cadence, whilst she
sang, again and again :

' Hark ! the angels sing softly ;
Sleep, sleep ! God is nigh.' "

The roseate glow was passing from the
mountains, as Margaret Marsh — she of the
dark grey eyes — knelt by the side of the
dying Violet ; and as she pressed her lips —
tender now as her eyes — upon that pallid
cheek, a tear would not be restrained, but fell
upon it.

violet— dear Violet 1"

The tear — it fell before the words — seemed
to bring back the ebbing tide of life.

*' Aunt, dear!" the voice was scarce a whisper
now, '^ don't cry. I have been very weak and
wicked. If I had not been so weak, I had
not been so wicked. Forgive me !"

From the bottom of my heart, my child."

Promise me."

What can I promise V

'^ To love my poor child as your own."

I will give her all my love. She shall bethe
child of my old age."

^' Do not let her be weak, like her mother.

Let her have a good name — not Violet. Call
her Victoria — after a good woman and a good
queen. Aunt dear, I die happy. Kiss me."

The last ray from the setting sun had leapt
from the highest peak, and as it did so, it
seemed as if a chill had passed through
Nature's heart, so pale and wan the shade
which fell upon her.

So too had the last hectic flush of life
passed from the cheek of the dying girl : a
few incoherent words, "It is dark !" "So
dark !" '* Marmaduke 1" one deep-drawn sigh
and yet another spirit was released, from its
earthly bondage, and Violet Marsh had ended
her short life.

At the same moment, whilst earth hid her
face in the gloomy shroud of night, one solitary
star rose rapidly above the Jungfrau's
snowy screen. It was but a lone star ; but as
its silvery rays fell on that fair face, making
it shine forth as the face of an angel, to the
mourner by the couch, as she turned her eyes
to heaven, it was more than a lone star — it
was a messenger of peace from the Eternal.

Chapter II.

TWENTY YEARS AFTER.

Twenty years have passed away since the
events in the last chapter. Twenty long
years ! How difficult to realise what those few
words mean !

Change upon change — a never-ending
substitution of the new for the old ! And
yet the stream of time rolls on so silently,
that to those who float down it, it often seems
as if it had neither currents nor motion.

Change upon change ! With no two incidents
of our lives alike; those of the Past
producing a Present never to be renewed.

Change upon change ! The Future flying
before us in our youth, and hastening to meet
us in our age.

An eternity of changes, with but one eternal
law — to change.

And so our scene has changed. We are

no longer amongst the mountains of the Bernese
Oberland, we are in the midst of the
roar and movement of the great metropolis.
We are in London.

A fine soft April day. In the Parks the
trees are beginning to bud and the grass to
grow. Everywhere Nature is casting off her
russet garb, and as she does so, those who live
in the country regard her changeful moods
with anxious thoughts for the future fruits
and flowers. Here in this great, grimy,
smoke-stained city, Spring brings other cares;
for nowadays, all that we do is done so seriously,
that even our daily pleasures are made
to assume that form.

It was half-past three in the afternoon, and
the sun, which had shone out somewhat
brightly in the morning, was now peering
through the spread of yellow smoke and
fog which in London is the usual afternoon
substitute for sky, when a continuous roll of
carriages announced that Fashion was abroad,
and about — according to the old phrase — " to
take the air."

Poor Fashion ! who, when it is the season,
must be content to take such air as the cold
east wind, mixed with the city smoke and river
fog, may chance to give her.

But now the wind was from the west ; and
if there were any fog few people observed it,
for during the last few months they had seen
little else.

Amongst the many carriages which oscillated
with pendulum-like precision between the extremities
of that portion of the Park which
Fashion has seized on and sanctified as her
own, there was one which stood out from all
its competitors — for there is competition now
in all things, even in carriages — so that it
could not fall to attract the attention of the
most casual observer. Yet it was only a
brougham, drawn by a pair of bright bays
with plain black harness, and a coachman and
footman in simple dark liveries. But though
nothing could have been more unostentatious
than the whole turn-out, no one could see it
without feeling that it was an aesthetic
success.

A nice turn-out that of the Yorkess."

So said the Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps, late of
the Guards, to Major Decimus Fits Jones,
late of the Greys, as they walked slowly side
by side, with that air of contemplative
dejection which is one of the most striking
peculiarities of masculine loungers in the
Parks.

Yes. Good steppes, and a perfect match.
I positively believe "

What the major s belief at that particular
'moment may have been, remains a mystery
to this day ; for the word *^ match " had no
sooner been uttered, than the Hon. Pierre-point
Phipps — commonly called P. P. by his
intimates, and by some who were not his
intimates, behind his back — exclaimed with
unwonted animation, for he prided himself on
his sang-froid :

'how much do you think they are
worth ?"

At least four hundred."

*^ My dear fellow, you are too absurd ! I
meant the girls — not the horses."

The gallant major was about to reply, but
it seemed fated that on this day his brief
utterances — Fits Jones was always brief —
were doomed to be interrupted; for he had
scarcely delivered himself of one of those
deep gutturals with which languid men about
town are wont to call their words together
and set them up in sentences, when various
exclamations and an excited movement in
the crowd gave evidence of something unusual
having taken place.

Turning quickly in the direction of the

spot towards which the attention of the
public seemed to be concentrated, the cause
of the excitement became evident.

The carriage with the bright bays had'
driven on until it had reached that portion
of the line where from time to time the
mounted policemen on duty, with that imposing
air common to all who exercise
authority, from an admiral of the fleet to a
custom-house officer, waved back the advancing
carriages, and brought them to a sudden
stand. Directly this was done a stream of
pedestrians was graciously permitted to move
on, and under another policeman's protecting
care to effect a crossing, through dangers
which, without his aid, would have been only
inferior to those of a passage through the
'^ pack " in the Arctic regions.

The deaf old lady and her nieces from the
country, who on such occasions always
manage to be last, had just completed their
frantic charge, and reached the opposite side
in a state of breathless exhaustion ; the
policeman had given the signal, and the
bright bays who led the line, as if to spite
the coachman, had answered his intimation
that they were to go on by a playful plunge,
when a young child, whose friends had

arrived at the crossing just as the embargo
on the carriages was taken off, rushed into
the road, and before anyone could prevent it
was apparently entangled in the horses' legs,
and in another moment would have been
trampled under their feet, but that through
the horses rearing, partly from fright and
partly from being pulled back upon their
haunches, a short respite was given from
what seemed all but certain deaths

A cry of terror came from the bystanders ;
but, as frequently happens when prompt
action is needed, everyone, including the
child's friends, seemed to be perfectly paralysed.


Fortunately, however, there was one exception.
A tall, well-dressed girl sprang
forward, and seeing at a glance that it would
be impossible, from the position of the child,
to stoop down and lift it up before the horses
were upon her, she seized them by their
heads, and with an exertion of strength
which seemed marvellous from so slight a
form, swung them round, so that their forefeet
came to the ground clear of the child,
who was taken up all .but unhurt.

A sound which seemed almost like a sigh

of relief came from the crowd, followed by
loud cheers.

'' A monstrously plucky girl !" exclaimed
the Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps.

Knows how to handle a horse," chimed in
the major.

It was the highest compliment he was ever
known to pay — even to a man.

In the meantime she, whose courage and
presence of mind had led to such a happy
result, was endeavouring to escape from the
overwhelming expressions of gratitude with
which she was greeted. She had bent down
and kissed the now weeping child, and was
on the point of turning away, when a livery
servant — the footman of the carriage — came
hurriedly towards her, and touching his hat
respectfully, informed her that her ladyship
Lady Arabella Yorke — desired to speak
with her.

A shade of annoyance flitted across the
young lady's face ; it was but momentary,
and she followed the servant without remark
to the carriage, which had been drawn up by
the side of the rails, a short distance off. ^

Lady Arabella Yorke, its occupant — the
wife of Mr. Yorke, the richest of rich brewers,
and most respectable of men — had lost no

time in making herself acquainted with the
details of the accident, and having assured
herself that nothing serious had occurred,
sent her footman in search of the young lady
whose action in the matter had been pronounced
by her ladyship's coachman as "stunning."


Lady Arabella's carriage had been surrounded
by a small circle of sympathising
friends ; amongst whom were the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps and Major Fits Jones, and
the conversation had become animated.

*•' I shall never drive in the Park again,"
said Lady Arabella. '' This has been a scene,
and I hate scenes. Children should not be
allowed to come near our public drives."

*' I wish you could have seen her," said the
Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps. ^' She was magnificent.
As she stood before the horses she
reminded me of a— of a — beautiful Grecian
statue."

She knows how to handle a horse," remarked
for perhaps the thirteenth time the
major ; for it was no easy matter for him to
get rid of an idea when it had once seized
hold of him.

'^ Do you know who or what she is ?" asked
Lady Arabella.

VOL. I. 2

No one seemed to know more than that
she was young, and tall, and ladylike, and
good-looking.

They had just commenced discussing
whether she might not be this or might not
be that, when the near approach of the subject
of their discussion produced a sudden
silence. All eyes were turned inquiringly
towards her, but curiosity was changed into
astonishment when Lady Arabella — whose
near sight prevented her from recognising
anyone at a distance — greeted the stranger
as an acquaintance, and in a tone which
clearly showed that the meeting, under other
circumstances, might not have been a particularly
agreeable one.

'' Victoria ! Good gracious, child! is it
you ? How can you be so thoughtless 1"

'ein what way?" asked the young lady,
with a quiet dignity which rebuked the
patronising petulance of Lady Arabella,
though she spoke so calmly that it seemed
as if she did not think it worth her while to
resent it.

'you might have been killed! Oh, Victoria,
Victoria ! when will you learn to act
like other people and think of yourself ? You
really are too eccentric. Besides, it is not

right that you should be walking in the Park
alone."

Lady Arabella's friends had bowed and
walked on at the young lady's approach, yet
it was not without a blush that she replied
curtly :

*' It is the shortest and best way to where
I am going."

** But you should not go out in London by
yourself. It is not comme ilfaut."

The young lady had resumed her usual
manner, and there was something of playfulness
in her smile as she said :

'' Walking is not always a matter of choice,
and I certainly should prefer an escort if I
could find an agreeable one."

Since you are going in the same direction,
I will drive you across the Park."

With a bow of assent — it almost seemed
as if she did not realise that she was receiving
a favour — the young lady stepped into
the carriage.

"Stop near the Marble Arch," was the
direction to the footman as he closed the
carriage-door.

'^A friend of the family's?" asked the
coachman — who had only been a short time
in Mr. Yorke's service — of the footman, as

2—2

soon as the latter had reseated himself on
the box.

'' Yes," said the footman. " She lives
down in Middleshire, and is often at our
place. '*

Lots of pluck. What's her name ?"
Her name is Marsh — Miss Victoria
Marsh — but we always call her amongst ourselves
Miss Vic."

CHAPTER III.

"home."

Lady Arabella, with scant courtesy — for
her temper had been ruffled, or, as she would
have expressed it, her " nerves had been
shaken" — took leave of her companion at the
northern entrance of the Park.

The short drive had been one continuous
lecture, and she had talked herself into such
a state of exhaustion that when the footman
touched his hat inquiringly she could only
gasp out the word " Home !" and fall back
upon the pillows, which were always specially
arranged for her support.

Poor Lady Arabella ! She too has had to
pay the penalty which would seem to belong
to wealth and rank and fashion — a weak
back.

Home 1" The distance is not great, and
it does not take long .before the order has

been obeyed. Lady Arabella has reached
her home.

A large house in one of our largest squares.
One of those localities where the senses become
oppressed by the weight of wealth
which is exhibited on every side, and through
which the poor man cannot pass without
asking himself how it is that he has escaped
being rich.

One of those localities which fashion
favours and calls ^'good;" in which is
brought together a crowd of people who are
not only placed by fortune in a position
which has spared them all those trials, humiliations,
and heart-burnings which belong to
poverty and form part of its heritage : but
are enabled to gratify every taste, however
noble or ignoble, and make all that is beautiful
in art or applicable in science, minister
to their enjoyment.

To some the sight of this may be an incitement
to exertion : what others have
done, they too may do. " Excelsior !"

And the success of the few is made a rule
of encouragement for the many.

But to those whose lot has been cast in the
lowest depths of destitution, the sight of this
superabundance of superfluities but serves to

intensify their misery through the contrast
which it presents to their own sufferings.
The sight of Paradise can bring no joy to
those who are in Hades. Benevolence forgets
this when it doles out its aid, and charitable
people are shocked to find that there is so
deep a gulf between the two extremes of
poverty and wealth that even sympathy can
scarcely bridge it over.

But Lady Arabella has reached her Belgravian
home, and a loud rat-tat-tat has informed
the neighbourhood of her having done
so. On the instant the double doors lily wide
open ; two tall powdered footmen hasten forward
to unroll a carpet so that the passage
between the carriage and the mansion maybe
made undefiled; two more, equally tall
and powdered, stand motionless on either
side of the entrance ; the footman who has
been out with her ladyship is at his post,
ready to open the carriage-door ; a page is
to be seen at the foot of the staircase ; whilst
in the distance, mounted some few steps
above him, looms, in a graceful attitude,
expressive of expectation, another model
specimen of over-fed humanity. The other
servants had been chosen for their height,
good looks, broad shoulders, and big calves,

but the groom of the chambers, Mr. Mortimer
his enemies basely asserted that his real
name was Chunks — belonged to that superior
class who are required, in addition to those
personal advantages, to possess great discrimination,
unfailing gravity, and undeniably
good manners. All these were possessed by
Mr. Mortimer in a very high degree : and
were it not that his grammatical construction
was somewhat peculiar, and that the letter H
had been a source of trouble to him from his
youth he might easily have passed, amongst
strangers, as a university man who had come
out in honours — Oxford, not Cambridge — or
even in his happier moments as a Privy
Councillor, or an ex-Cabinet Minister.

It is doubtful, however, whether Mr.
Mortimer would have felt flattered had the
latter mistake been made. He had once
walked across the park behind the, then,
Prime Minister. He returned in a state of
virtuous indignation.

"Mr. Cox," he said, to the bather, "I am
ignorant, and I know it. Had I been
educated " — his difficulty with his aspirates
was chiefly in the long words — " I should not
have been what I am, and there is no knowing
to what I might not have rose to. I do

not know much, but this I do know, that if
her Majesty were to make me the Prime
Minister of this great and glorious country, I
would act in a proper aristocratic manner,
and I would not disgrace myself, nor demean
myself, nor lower myself by a- walking through
the Park in an old pair of boots a-busted at
the sides. It made me sick to see it."

Meanwhile, Lady Arabella has managed,
with the assistance of — including the coachman
and the footman of the carriage — seven
full-grown men and a boy, to effect an entrance
into her own house, and is now once more at
home.

But it must not be supposed that such an
interesting spectacle had been without spectators.


The unrolling of the carpet had arrested
the progress of a young man who was either
not in a hurry, or else objected to wading
through the mud round the carriage, and he
soon became the centre of a small group, to
which the inevitable baby in the perambulator,
who would seem to be always on the watch
for such opportunities, was hurriedly wheeled
up. Thanks to the skilful generalship of his
little sister who pushed him forward in a
manner which showed she was utterly regardless

of the fact that other people had toes, he
obtained a front place, from which he surveyed
the scene with a ringed expression of
deep interest and the most placid composure.

What a strange world this world must be
to babies ! not unfrequently, when they lookout
upon it from their nurses' arms, it is not
difficult to detect a tinge of pity in their
large, wondering eyes.

There was one individual in that small
group of spectators whose appearance was so
remarkable, that he could not have been
passed by without notice.

It was a gaunt, bent old man, whose
threadbare suit of black had reached that
painful state of shiny shabbiness which
gives the idea of the wearers having endeavoured
to coax back its original gloss by the
application of some compound of an unctuous
nature. It is possible that, in the first instance,
the process might have been attended
with a certain degree of success ; but at the
present time it was quite evident it had
been carried too far, for there is a limit to all
things, and with old coats, just as with old
men and old women, a point may be reached
beyond which revival becomes impossible, and
any attempt to produce it only brings out

more clearly, and with a ghastly distinctness,
the melancholy ravages which the wear and
tear of time has occasioned. His hat was in
perfect keeping with his coat ; it had the
same shiny, shabby, doubtful sort of look,
and his well-patched boots were polished into
a state which made any injurious comparison
between the covering of his feet and that of
his head impossible.

That he was extremely poor there could be
no doubt. But that he had once seen better
days was equally apparent, for there was an
air of deliberation and ease about all his
movements which can seldom be acquired,
but which is natural to, and is rarely lost by,
those whose early youth has been spent
amidst the refinements of good society.
Some of his old tastes, too, still seemed to
cling to him, for he wore a flower in his
button-hole — it was only a sprig of wallflower
— and though his gloves, like their
owner, were very much the worse for wear,
they were tight-fitting, indeed too tight-fitting,
judging from the extensive repairs
they seemed to have undergone — and were
kept scrupulously buttoned.

A dejected, broken-down, miserable-looking
old man, whose face was so full of sadness.

subdued by resignation, that he might have
sat for a portrait of one of the early martyrs,
had it not been that from time to time all
expression passed away from it, and left
nothing behind but a helpless, vacant stare.

He had arrived on the scene just as the
carpet had been laid down, and stood quietly
waiting for Lady Arabella to pass, when he
caught sight of a small piece of paper on the
pavement. It was only a small scrap, but he
stooped and seized it with eagerness ; his
whole appearance was changed in a moment :
his limbs trembled with emotion, and as he
raised it to his eyes it almost seemed as if he
had recovered some long-lost talisman which
was to bring back the joys and pleasures of
some happier time. Alas ! vain hope. In
another instant he had flung it away, and his
former air of dejection seemed deepened by
despair, as he muttered, in a low tone, again
and again :

'' If I could but find it ! if I could but find
it I"

When he had finished speaking he would
have moved on, but one of the footmen kept
him back, for Lady Arabella had alighted
and was on the point of sweeping by. A
flash of intelligence lighted up his wan and

wasted face as his eye rested, as if for the
first time, upon the scene before him.

*' Aye, aye," he said, with a kind of gentle
bitterness, as if in answer to the footman's
gesture; 'you are quite right, my good
friend, the poor Lazarus should not be allowed
to cross the path of Dives."

The carriage has been driven off. The
carpet has been rolled up, to the intense
satisfaction of the baby, who is so carried
away by his feelings that he thumps the
sides of his perambulator and crows. The
small crowd of spectators has dispersed, and
he who spoke of himself as Lazarus has
tottered feebly on.

The ceremonial has been completed. The
doors are closed. Lady Arabella is '' Home."

CHAPTER IV.

AN AFTERNOON ** TEA '' IN BELGRAVIA.

Mr. Yorke's house was a large one, and the
architect who had designed it would have
made the entrance-hall imposing if he could
have managed it. He evidently had tried
hard, but he had failed ; instead of being
imposing, it was an imposture.

The first impression on entering it was
that it was too small ; the next, that it was
too large, for it looked so bare, and comfortless,
and cold.

Perhaps this was greatly due to two life-sized
groups of nude figures in white marble ;
beautiful, no doubt, as works of art, and
agreeable objects to contemplate in a comfortable
studio, or even in those countries where
the sun shines so brightly, it gives rise to a
sort of feeling that clothing might be dispensed
with ; but scarcely to be tolerated ina

climate where you can rarely take off your
great-coat without a shiver.

Beauty may be charming to look at, but
even beauty may be misplaced. What sight
can be more melancholy than a marble Venus,
whose white limbs have become green through
the humidity of the public garden in which
she stands, as if appealing to the benevolent
public to subscribe and buy a blanket, wherewith
to cover her nakedness.

But these statues had been brought from
Italy. Mr. Yorke did not like to say what
he had paid for them, and they were a source
of great pride both to him and Lady Arabella.

To Mr. Yorke because they had cost so
much money ; to Lady Arabella because . . .
well, it is hard to say ; perhaps because she
had been told they were beautiful. For it is
very doubtful whether, after the first few
days of their having been unpacked, she had
ever looked at them.

But if the entrance-hall of Mr. Yorke's
house gave rise to a sensation of cheerlessness,
that feeling was dispelled the moment the
foot was planted upon the stairs. The
carpets were so thick, so soft, so yielding;
they appealed to the senses like low, sweet
notes, or gentle words. It was impossible to

tread upon them without being soothed and
comforted. Mr. Mortimer, the principal portion
of whose time — or at least that portion
of it which was devoted to the performance
of what he was pleased to call his " duties " —
was spent in going up and down stairs,
seemed to have found this out, for he had
been once heard to say, when discussing, ashe
was very fond of doing, the conditions
necessary to matrimonial happiness :

^' Nos Mary, no ! Believe me, there can be
no happiness without harmony, for where the
tempers are incompatible, how can the
wheels of Cupid's car run smoothly on ? But
our tempers grow up out of our circumstances,
and if men's employments and avocations
are rough their tempers will be irritable.
Take my word for it, Mary ; the seat of the
temper is in the feet, not the heart ; it is all
easy shoes and thick carpets — especially the
carpets. As for those soil-cloths, and parker,
and such like — well, don't talk to me about
them, that's all, or we shall quarrel."

But it was in the morning-room where
Lady Arabella reigned supreme, that the
evidences were to be found of that refined
and cultivated taste in small matters on
which she so greatly piqued herself, and in

the indulgence of which she seemed to concentrate
all her energies.

In this case it was impossible to say she
had not succeeded. Here, no single article
of furniture — however beautiful in structure
or design — was allowed to appear, unless to
fulfil some special object or intention. Here
was to be seen no garish colours, no vulgar
contrasts, no heaping together of expensive
trifles, but a harmonious whole, to the effect
of which even the most fastidious would have
found it difficult to make objections. At the
same time it would not be easy to explain
why it was, on entering it for the first time,
most people felt impelled to use the only
word which seemed applicable to it — " Exquisite
!"

In this room, at the moment that Lady
Arabella reached her home, several ladies and
gentlemen were assembled near a small table
plentifully furnished with the most delicate
of china cups, which were being filled and
distributed by a tall, fair girl, who was evidently
doing the duty of hostess.

*' I do not think I will give you any, Sir
Francis," she said, looking up archly at a
dark, good-looking young man near her, *' for
you are so obstinate, and so disagreeable,

VOL. I. S

that really something ought to be done to
correct you. You must be punished."

'' No correction, coming from Miss Yorke,
could be a punishment," said the gentleman
she called Sir Francis, with a pleasant smile.

Miss Yorke raised her head and looked at
the speaker, as if she were going to reply,
but appearing suddenly to change her mind,
she cast her eyes down again, and remained
silent.

She was a tall, handsome girl, with fair
hair fringed over her forehead ; bright-blue
eyes, and an expression so frank and open,
that, combined with an unaffected manner approaching
to carelessness, and sundry little
eccentricities in dress, many people —-judging
from externals only — were led to the conclusion
that Geraldine Yorke belonged to that
category of young ladies who are usually
spoken of as " fast." But if she at times
spoke somewhat louder, with more decision,
and with less deference to others, than was
quite befitting in a young lady of her age —
if she prided herself on riding boldly to
hounds, or on being able to swim better than
her brother, and could boast, as she not an-frequently
did, of the skill with which she
could ** paddle her own canoe " — all this was

rather the effect of an exuberance of animal
spirits which had been directed into no more
profitable channels ; and her fastness was of
that guileless effervescent kind which belongs
to the thoughtlessness of youth, and disappears
before the realities of life and the
matured judgment of age.

Very different the appearance of a pale,
slight girl who sat somewhat apart from the
others, and seemed to be more absorbed in
her own thoughts than interested in what
was going on around her.

Eva Yorke was nearly two years younger
than her sister, but the quiet though fulness
of a face which still bore the traces of suffering
inseparable from ill-health, gave her
the appearance of being at least a year older.

Hers was a beauty which impressed less
through the wondrous delicacy of features
which might have been taken for a model by
a sculptor, than from the singular purity of
an expression which seemed as if it could only
belong to one whose mind had been dedicated
to the contemplation of high and holy things;
but yet her thoughts could not have been
devoid of sadness, for there was a tinge of
melancholy even in her smile. Usually silent,
when she did speak, there was a music in her

3—2

voice, and a gentleness approaching to tenderness
in her manner, which was made the more
striking by the contrast which it offered to
the self-confident and not unfrequently defiant
tone which seemed natural to her
sister.

Yet Geraldine Yorke was not deficient insensibility;
it was, perhaps, the very excess of
it which made her at times assume an indifference
she did not feel. Often, too, it was
when she was most attracted towards others,
particularly if they belonged to the opposite
sex, that she said and did things which were
most likely to have an. unfavourable construction
put upon them.

It was impossible for two sisters to be more
unlike ; the one fair, tall, a model of physical
development, full of independence and self-assertion
; the other dark, slight, delicate,
and drooping, with such a deep sense of her
own deficiencies that she was, as it were, oppressed
by it.

Yet Allegra and Penserosa — for so their
mother, in her playful moods, was pleased
to call them — were united so closely by the
bonds of the deepest affection that their happiness
seemed to depend on their being together.
Their very divergences of character served

but to unite them, for the affections are full
of enigmas, and we often love those best whom
we resemble least.

Sir Francis Hawthorne, to whom, notwithstanding
the threat of punishment, a cup of
tea had been graciously handed, was a dark,
sunburnt young man, whose age might have
been anything between three-and-twenty and
thirty, of middle height, with a strong active
frame, and an air of quiet determination, which
showed itself in everything he said or did,
and would have caused him to have been
recognised, in any part of the world, as an
Englishman.

He was not strictly handsome, for his
features were irregular, and his eyes were
too close together, though they were not the
less bright and pleasant to look at. He had
a good mouth, white teeth — all the whiter,
perhaps, from their being brought into contrast
with a short, but soft, black beard — a
frank unaffected manner, and an engaging
smile.

The possessor of a large estate in Middle-shire
— not far from Mr. Yorke's country seat
to which he had succeeded a few years
before, on the death of a grandfather by whom
he had been brought up, his own parents

na.

having died when he was quite a child, he
had devoted himself, since he had come of
age, to the management of his estate, and
especially to the improvement of the condition
of the labourers employed upon it.

Had it not been for his wealth, his agreeable
manners and his many popular qualities,
it is possible that the extent to which he
carried out his socialistic theories would have
seriously interfered with his position in the
county ; as it was, the men only laughed and
said : *^ He is so young. As he grows older,
he will become wiser."

The ladies, however, especially those who
had marriageable daughters, took a different
view of what they called his eccentricities.
They said :

^*It is because he is a bachelor. He will
become just like other people after he is
married."

But he appeared to be in no hurry to
marry, and to be more and more engrossed
in the endeavour to reduce his theories to
practice, when to the great surprise of everyone
he suddenly announced his intention of
starting on a round-the-world tear ; and it
was from this tour that he had only just
returned, after an absence of more than a year.

He was still standing with the cup of tea
in his hand, when Lady Arabella entered the
room, with an air of complete exhaustion and
a gush of words :

"Ah! My dear friends, don't move — pray
don't. Sir Francis ! What ! Sir Francis !
Can that be you ? If I were not rendered
incapable of it by what I have gone through,
I should be astonished. How do you do ?
How d'ye do ? Pray sit down. Ah ! my
dear children — Je suis ereintee !" Lady Arabella
was rather fond of introducing French
phrases. '^ Je suis 6reintee ! A drive in the
Park is no longer possible ; it is now only fit
for the people. Only imagine "

And then throwing herself back in an armchair,
without giving a sufficient interval between
her sentences to allow of a single word
from anyone else, she proceeded to give a
minute and exhaustive account of all her
feelings and sensations on discovering that a
wretched little child had nearly been run over,
and that she had narrowly escaped the painful
notoriety of a paragraph in the penny
papers.

Only imagine, Sir Francis, how horrible !
I shudder when I think of it. It really is
quite time the Government should interfere."

She went on for a long time in the same
strain ; but though she mentioned, parenthetically,
that she had been saved the disagreeable
publicity she so much dreaded,
through the child's having been dragged
away by some one in the crowd, it was only
at the end, when she had nearly talked herself
faint, that she suddenly exclaimed :

*^ Ah ! I forgot. And who do you think it
was picked the child up T

A dozen eyes looked up inquiringly. Sir
Francis played with his watch-chain. One or
two voices were heard uttering a timid —
'^ Who T whilst Geraldine broke in with a
somewhat petulant —

My dear mother, how is it possible we can
know 1 I don't suppose it was anyone we
have ever heard of."

^^ Tout au contraire. It was some one you
know very well indeed. Imaginez 1 it was
none other than that incomprehensible of incomprehensible
— Victoria Marsh !"

The name seemed to produce a degree of
interest far beyond that which had been excited
by Lady Arabella's account of her sufferings
and dangers.

Sir Francis left off twisting and untwisting
his watch-chain, and became all attention.

Eva drew her chair somewhat closer to the
circle, and looked as if she had been suddenly
awakened from a dream.

A young high-church curate, part of whose
daily duty, in default of higher ministrations,
was to assist at afternoon teas, became more
serious and solemn than usual ; whilst those
who had previously never heard Victoria
Marsh's name affected a curiosity they could
scarcely be said to feel, as Lady Arabella repeated
:

Ma chere Alleofra ! Ma chere Penserosa !
Imaginez I Victoria Marsh !"

I cannot help loving her — she has such
pluck ; if it were not for that I believe I
should hate her," was Geraldine's reply.

She spoke with such emphasis, it almost
seemed as if she had stamped an accompaniment
to the last word with her foot.
Then, as if repentant — was it that she had
detected the expression of deep pain which
had flitted across Sir Francis's face ? — she
added :

But love her, or hate her, I only wish I
was more like Vic."

'^ May I be allowed to ask why ?" said Sir
Francis.

Because — because, whenever I wish to be

ora.

independent and give myself masculine airs,
I always feel I can never get beyond a poor
imitation of a lubberly boy : whilst Victoria,
without ceasing to be a woman, can think,
and talk, and act with as much strength of
mind and self-possession as a man. Oh, how
I wish I had been one !"

*' Woman's mission is a very sacred one,"
observed the curate.

Oh yes I To make life endurable to your
miserable sex — as I read somewhere only a few
days since," was the retort.

*' Mother," asked Eva, "did Victoria say
when she was coming to see us *? Has she
returned to the hospital ?"

Of course she has' said Lady Arabella,
in reply to the second question ; and worse
still— ma chere Penserosa, c'est terrible ! — she
told me it is now settled she is to be a
doctor."

How horrible !" in a chorus of many
voices.

Geraldine looked indignant ; Eva turned
pale ; and the curate was once more heard to
say something about woman's mission. It
seemed to catch the ear of Sir Francis.

"Yes, sir," he said, " you are right. Woman
has her mission ; but whether for men or for

women, that mission is the most sacred which
seeks to minister to the happiness of others
by useful work. I honour Miss Marsh for
her resolve. You see, I am as eccentric as
ever," he said laughingly, as he rose from his
seat and held out his hand to Lady Arabella.
"Allow me to congratulate you on your escape,
and on your having met to-day with — what
I have not seen in all my wanderings — a
heroine."

As he left the room, he narrowly escaped
upsetting Mr. Mortimer, who was about to
enter it with a letter on a silver salver.

Good gracious a-mercy !" muttered that
gentleman, as soon as he had recovered his
equilibrium, " our baronet is in a hurry. Bad
form ! — decidedly bad form 1 All very well
for the working-classes ; but when a man is a
baronet, and has twenty thousand a year,
there is no call for him to run against people,
and rush about like a operative."

CHAPTER V.

THE HEAD OE THE HOUSE.

Had the question been asked of those who
were best fitted to answer it : " Of all the
men of your acquaintance, which is the one
who has been the most favoured by fortune T
there is little doubt but that a chorus of
voices would have answered : "Mr. Yorke."

For was not Mr. Yorke one of the richest
amongst rich men ? Was he not the owner
of the fastest yacht, the master of the fleetest
hounds, and the possessor of the best shooting
in the three kingdoms ? Was he not, too,
supposed — of course under a feigned name —
to have been almost as successful on the turf
as his firm had been in the brewery ? And
outside all this, how fortunate he had been
in his domestic life ! A marriage of affection
into a noble family ; two charming daughters,
and a son who gave promise of exhibiting in

an eminent degree all those respectable qualities
by which the various members of the
great firm of Souseman and Soppit had been
distinguished for so many generations.

Who could be said to be fortunate if Mr.
Yorke were not ?

Mr. Yorke was still young, for he was little
more than five-ands forty, but he looked older
than his age ; and it was difficult to imagine
that he had ever looked differently, for he
belonged to that class of men who always
make you feel they never could have been
boys. Bankers and lawyers generally have
this look, and it belongs to most men on
whom has devolved all the responsibilities
and cares which belong to the employment
of a large capital. Indeed of all men the
rich capitalist, who has not retired from business,
is the one who becomes the soonest
"grown over with the moss of age."

He was an only son, and had been educated
at Eton. There his character had been
such as belongs to respectable mediocrity ; in
his classes he usually took a middle place ; in
all outdoor amusements he was a useful fag ;
and he was only redeemed from being looked
upon as a "muff" by his reserved disposition
and well-filled purse — for a boy generally

stands well with his comrades who knows
how to hold his tongue and has money in his
pocket.

From Eton he had gone to Oxford, but did
not take his degree, for his father dying suddenly,
it was decided that he should at once
become initiated in the mysteries of business,
so as to be able to take his place as a member
of the firm in which his father had for many
years been the senior partner.

Of course the health of valuable members
of society must not be allowed to suffer from
over-work, and so it became necessary that
daily attendance for a few hours at the office
should be varied by a large amount of shooting
and hunting in the winter, and by frequent
and sometimes protracted visits to the
Continent in the summer.

Mr. Yorke had never been " fast ;" but it
was at this period of his life that — if scandal
is to be believed — he showed some tendency
towards being what the world calls " gay."
If, however, he had had wild oats they were
soon sown, for he had barely completed his
twenty-fifth year when he led to the altar
the Lady Arabella, the beautiful and accomplished
daughter of the proudest, but poorest,
peer in the United Kingdom.

His mother died soon after his marriage,
some said from joy. Her last words were :

*' Thank God I have lived to see it! An
earl's daughter ! My dear, dear boy ! An
earl's daughter !"

He had been a good son, and soon the
world pointed to him as a good husband and
a good father. Of his being a good citizen
there could be no doubt, for he was ever
ready to associate his name with any undertaking
which had for its object the moral or
material elevation of some neglected or degraded
class.

There was not a charity which had not
enrolled his name, and against that name was
always to be seen a row of figures, in any of
which a whole army of widows' mites might
easily have been swallowed up. Sums so
large that the hearts of many charitable
people were filled with envy, whilst a vague
feeling came over them that the secret of the
philosopher's stone must have something todo
with beer.

As a recognition of this great generosity,
there was hardly a society of any note of
which Mr. Yorke was not either president,
vice-president, patron, or trustee. It is true
he did not frequently — it would be more

accurate, perhaps, to leave out the " frequently
" — attend committee-meetings, or
take any active part in the organisation or
management of the institutions in the welfare
of which he felt such a deep interest. For
this he pleaded he had no time, and that he
had unbounded confidence in the committees,
but, nevertheless, at the annual public meetings,
to which his presence gave great weight,
he always deeply lamented how little he had
been able to do personally, and dilated in
glowing terms on the services of those *' who,
more fortunate than himself, had been enabled,
through an untiring devotion, which
needed no comment, to confer benefits on
their fellows which formed the noblest monuments
to themselves."

But Mr. Yorke did more than this. He
had all the printed reports placed upon his
breakfast table, and never failed to recommend
their perusal to his wife and daughters
and their friends.

Mr. Yorke was a Churchman : he would
allow of no other term. He hated controversy,
and liked dogma. To indulge, so it
was said. Lady Arabella's aesthetic tastes,
St. Stylites — which he had built at the cost
of some forty thousand pounds, in a goodyear

wliea the excise returns were high —
had been made unusually ornate, and the
services were accused of being extremely
ritualistic ; but Mr. Yorke himself professed
to be moderate in all things, for he wished
to stand well with all men — that is to say,
all men with whom it was worth while to
stand well.

St. Stylites had cost Mr. Yorke forty
thousand pounds — a large sum ; but then he
not only had the satisfaction of feeling he
had done a good work — and that always
brings its own reward — but of hearing from
all quarters that he had achieved a great
architectural success.

As he drove each morning towards the
city it was a source of honest pride to him to
see how the tall spire of St. Stylites shot up
high above all other spires, and to know that
so long as St. Stylites might stand, his name
would be connected with it. And even now
in certain clerical circles no man's name stood
horner : it had even once been mentioned in
Convocation, but with bated breath ; and it
was whispered that a very "high personage"
had been graciously pleased to use some very
condescending expressions with respect to
him in connection with this act of public-vol.

I. 4

spirited liberality, so that an idea had got
abroad amongst Mr. Yorke's friends that in
the course of a very short time he would be
made a baronet.

It is given to so few people to have an
opportunity of worshipping in churches built
by themselves, that it is difficult for those to
whom such a privilege has been denied to
realise the feelings of those to whom it has
been granted. But that it must have its
attractions and advantages, is scarcely to be
doubted.

Lady Arabella and her daughters often'
declared they could never pray so well anywhere
else as in St. Stylites ; and Mr. Yorke
seemed to share this feeling, though, practical
man that he was, he gave expression toit
in a somewhat different manner. On his
way to the city he was not satisfied with
looking at St. Stylites from a distance ; he
always drove to it, though it was somewhat
out of his way, and joined in the daily morning
service, which through the practised
fluency of the curate, the E,ev. Ingenious
Weeks — of which that gentleman was not a
little proud — was never allowed to exceed
the limits of a quarter of an hour.

This habit on the part of a wealthy city

man was naturally a source of extreme edification
to the whole neighbourhood ; and well
it might be so. Yet — it almost seems incredible
— so rancorous are the feelings of certain
sections of the community, that Jarvis
the grocer, whose shop was on the opposite
side of the street, exactly facing the church,
had been known to say :

I hate such humbug ! Why does t he
go the rounds of his beastly gin-palaces

and " — he used a v/ord not fit for polite

ears — "of an evening, and see where his
money comes from !"

But then Jarvis was a Eadical Dissenter,
who never went inside a church ; and, although
he sold cheap wines, always boasted of being
an abstainer.

As the possessor of a large fortune, the
husband of an ears daughter, the owner of
a large landed property, and last — and not
least in the eyes of many — a good Churchman,
it was but natural that Mr. Yorke
should have claims upon society which society
could not ignore, and you had but to take up
the fashionable papers during the season to
see that they had been recognised. No
bishop could give a dinner without Mr. and
Lady Arabella Yorke ; city feasts required

4—2

ai^ivERsiTY Of w-vm^

IDD/^RY

their presence ; the leaders of fashion attached
them to their train ; and Yorke was
the name which not unfrequently struck the
eye amongst the privileged few who had
been favoured with invitations on the occasion
of an exalted personage having deigned
to accept the hospitality of some noble peer
or rich commoner. It would seem as if such
a position as this — so far as society was
concerned — had left little to be desired.
But it was not so ; climb as we will we never
reach, we only extend, the horizon of our
wishes.

Thus it was that Mr. Yorke, not a little
exercised, perhaps, in the matter by the
regrets of Lady Arabella, had a secret
source of sorrow. The charmed circle which
encloses those who take an active part in
political life was closed to him. He had no
place at the Speaker s festive board ; the
various dq embers of the Cabinet or the
leader of the Opposition gave their official
dinners, and he was not present ; when his
friends who had seats in Parliament spoke
authoritatively on questions about which they
were in reality absolutely and entirely ignorant,
they were listened to with rapt attention,
whilst he was not even appealed to.

All this was very galling. Mr. Yorke felt
it keenly ; and hence it was it had become
the great object of his ambition to see his
name followed by the two letters — which he
regarded as the 'open sesame" before which
all these closed doors were to fly open — M.P. ;
and it was generally understood that whenever
a vacancy occurred in his Oven county he
was to stand for it.

He had been once or twice tempted to
enter Parliament in some other way, but of
course a borough for a member of the firm of
Souseman and Soppit was out of the question,
and success in such counties as had offered
themselves was far from certain. So Mr.
Yorke preferred to wait, rather than run the
risk of tarnishing the reputation of that which
laid claim to being: one of the most successful
commercial undertakings in the country, by
associating it with anything approaching to
failure.

Mr. Yorke was a Conservative. Of the
three estates, the House of Lords was the
one he regarded with the greatest interest.
It had been said it was because he secretly
looked forward to a seat in that august
assembly ; but he had an equal reverence for
the bench of bishops, and yet no one could

pretend he had ever aspired to the dignity of
wearing lawn sleeves. If Mr. Yorke had
been asked why it was, he probably would
have said it was because he loved our glorious
constitution and looked upon - the House of
Peers as its chief bulwark and defence.

In his county Mr. Yorke was much looked
up to. He attended the Bench as regularly
as could be expected from a man who hunted
his own hounds, shot over his own covers,
and assisted in shooting over those of his
neighbours. In his magisterial decisions he
was generally lenient, unless the rights of
property were infringed by unlawful trespass,
or the pursuit of game, in which cases he
never failed to insist upon the necessity of a
severe example.

Silent, grave, and sedate, there was something
in his manner more than in any shingle
ever said or did which impressed those
who came in contact with him for the first
time with the idea that he was a man of
sound judgment. He owed much of his
influence to this, and to the fact that he
seldom gave an opinion till after the event,
which enabled him to say that things had
turned out exactly as he had anticipated.
Besides, by his silence, he did not impede

action, nor offend people by trying to prove
them in the wrong.

In person, Mr. Yorke was tall and well-made,
though a tendency to stoutness was
beginning to interfere with the symmetry of
a naturally active figure. His hair was prematurely
grey and thinner about the temples
than is generally seen in a man of his age.
He had regular, well-cut features, but his
expression was cold and impenetrable, the
more so, perhaps, because his eyes avoided,
rather than met, the eyes of those with
whom he was in conversation. But, take
him all in all, he was a fine, good-looking
man ; the model of respectability ; and he
placed himself before the world in a light of
which the great firm of Souseman and Soppit
had every reason to be proud.

Mr. Yorke's affection for his wife and
children showed itself chiefly in allowing
them to do just as they pleased. Oddly
enough he seemed to be less looked up to in
his own family than by the outside world ;
Lady Arabella's manner to her husband
would have been called condescending to anyone
else ; and his children, with the instinctive
knowledge which the young possess

of the characters of those with whom they
live, never felt quite at ease in his presence,.
and loved him, as it were despite themselves,
because he was their father.

CHAPTER YI.

A FEW PAGES FJEIOM A Journal.

It was a little more than a year before the
incident in the Park that Victoria Marsh,
then on the eve of entering into training asa
nurse at St. Tobias's Hospital, had, on retiring
to her room for the night, sat down
and written as follows :

This is probably my last day of freedom
for a long, long time.

But is it freedom ? Is there such a thing
as freedom 1

'' For thought, perhaps — yes. For action —
no. Are not most of our actions the slaves
of our thoughts ? Yet our thoughts have to
submit to a higher power — the will. Even
our poor thoughts are not free.

"But what is this mysterious will, this
prime motor of our lives ? I wish that I

'I a

could think it out, but I cannot ; and yet I
try, and try

"Try, till my very brain allies, and find
myself not one whit wiser than when I began
to think.

It sometimes strikes me that I think too
much ; and it is this over-thinking which
makes me feel different from other people.
It may not be perceived — for I try to hide it
but I am different.

This is perhaps why I take so much
delight in jotting down my innermost
thoughts ; in making as it were a confidante
of myself, and in placing my whole life in
the form of a written picture between the
clasped cover of the book in which I am now
writing.

When I have written a few pages, it often
seems to me as if I had created a sympathy
outside myself, or rather as if the scenes and
incidents as they are jotted down, became
scenes and incidents in some other life than
mine, which interest me to a degree that is
only limited by the amount of sensibility
belonging to my nature. I believe it is this
habit of keeping a journal which has preserved
my thoughts from becoming morbid, and
given my mind a healthier tone than naturally

belongs to it. How much have I not learned
through this daily examination of myself — by
myself?

It seems so very long since I began to
keep a journal, for I commenced when a mere
child. It was only yesterday I came across a
few stray pages — the only surviving fragments
of this early record. How precious each
reminiscence they recall is to me now ! Yet
after it was written, I remember I set so
little store upon it, that it was chiefly with
the leaves of my old journal that my manufactory
of kites — and I was a great maker of
kites in those days — was kept going.

I do not know why, but this evening my
thoughts are carried back, more than ever, to
those early days, and the scenes of the past
present themselves so vividly to my imagination,
that I am, as it were, compelled to
revert to them. Perhaps it is the sight of
these few torn and faded pages. When I
look upon theist is as if they reproached
me for my forgetfulness and neglect. They
seem to say : ' Oh, foolish one, the things
we speak of once made up your life — they
make it now — for all the present is built upon
the past, and all the future is but its poor
heir.'

^^ Dear old fragments, I will rescue you froid
oblivion, and with your aid I will complete
the story of my life.

Ah me ! when I look back I can scarcely
believe I am still young. I ought to be a
hundred years old at the very least.

The first roll I take up — it was some years
later before I had arrived at keeping my
journal in a book — consists of a few sheets of
coarse, very yellow paper, written over closely
in a bold, ill-formed hand, with lines which,
no matter how straight they may have been
at first, always in the end sloped down in a
most provoking manner to the rights There
is no date, but I know some of the incidents
which are mentioned took place between my
ninth and tenth year. My aunt was then
alive, and I was living with her in my dear
old home.

Extracts from my old Journal
(With the spelling corrected),

^ To-day was very fine, and the sun shone
out quite bright. I was idle with my lessons,
for the sky was so blue, and the garden looked
so nice, and the old robins were out upon the
lawn, that I could not help looking out of

window, and then auntie was cross — no, not
quite cross, but very quiet and grave, which
she always is when I do anything she does
not like. How I wish she would scold, I
should not mind it half so much. Another
egg from my white hen, and she cackled so
when she had laid it. I shall be quite rich
soon.

sunday. — I went to church this morning.
Auntie was not well, and could not go. So
many people in church, and Jane Hawkins's
little girl in a nice new hat with yellow
strings. I liked the sermon very much ; it
was ail about the sheep who went astray, and
the Good Shepherd, and I thought of my little
lamb the savage dog killed last year. But I
was so ashamed, when I got home from
church auntie asked me the text, and I
could not tell her; the truth is, just as Mr.
Dorian spoke it, I was thinking of the
organ, and wondering, if I were one of the
gilt pipes, whether I should like to be a big-one
or a small one. I did not tell auntie
that, it was so silly ; and it was bad enough
as it was when she said, "Victoria" — she
always calls me Victoria when she is not
pleased — " you grieve me very much when you
let your thoughts wander in church. You

must never let your thoughts wander."
Auntie is always telling me this, and looks
so sad when she does so. Poor dear old
auntie ! I wonder why it is she looks so pale
and her hand trembles so ? and how tiresome
it must be to be so lame and to walk with a
stick. Last night, just before I went to bed
I saw such a lovely glow-worm on the bank
by the gate. It looked just as big and just
as bright as a star. How can glow-worms
carry a fire about in their insides without
being burnt ? I must ask Dr. Pringle.

*' ' Monday. — May-day. I took auntie such
a nice nosegay of flowers before she was up,
all out of my own garden, and oh ! she was
so pleased, and said that, of all the beautiful
things with which God has blessed us on this
earth, there was nothing she loved so much
as flowers, and that she never looked at them
without thinking of heaven. Was it not
nice ? It rained in the afternoon, and I tore
my striped frock against the nail in the
rabbit-hutch — it was very tiresome.'

'' Here there is a hiatus of some months, for
when I next wrote, although the day of the
week even had been torn oft', it was evidently
winter :

' I do not like these dark, cold days ; and
the evenings are so long now, that auntie is
too ill to come downstairs. When the time
comes for me to go to bed, I feel quite glad.
To-day I saw such a funny thing, and it made
me laugh so, but it is a long story, and I am
tired, so I will write it down another day.'

^ ^^ ^ ^ :^

'' Another break.

'Jan. 1st. — I don't like the first day of the
new year at all. It seems so unkind to turn
one's back on the poor old year that is gone.
But the new year may be a kinder year than
the last to me ; and if auntie should only get
well and bright again, I will say Dear, dear
new year, it is you I love the best. It was so
fine and frosty when we drove over here this
morning, and I should have liked it very
much, but I could not help crying all the way
at leaving dear auntie, though Dr. Pringle
said that he hoped it would only be for a
short time, and that if auntie were kept very
quiet, she might soon get well again; and
that a short visit to Deepdale, which is the
name of the place where he lives, would dome
good. Dear auntie, what can it be makes
her look so strange ? and why do I almost
always find a tear upon her cheek when I

stoop down to kiss her ? And how beautifully
she talks ! But what did she mean
this morning, when she said that she might
soon have to go on a long journey ; but that,
if she did, the time would soon pass, and it
would not be very long before we should meet
again ? And when 1 asked if she were
not too weak to go, and whether I could help
her, she said, '' That God would give her
strength, and that when she had been well,
she had tried to get everything ready, though
she feared she might have forgotten many
things." Then she kissed me, and said : ^^ Remember,
my darling I" — she had never called
me so before — remember, my darling, we
must always try and be ready, for we know
not what a day may bring forth ; if you wish
to be happy, remember this. Now, go ; Dr.
and Mrs. Pringle are very kind, and you
must obey them in everything," And then
she said good-bye, and kissed me twice ; and,
whilst she held me in her arms, she said a
short prayer and blessed me. It was so
solemn — much more solemn than being in
church. They are so kind here. I have
such a nice pet of a little room ; and I like
Chub and Sis so much. Chub is just my age,
and such a jolly boy. When he came into

the room where I was sitting with Dr. and
Mrs. Pringle and Sis — who is nearly two years
younger than I am — the doctor called out, in
his funny way : '^ Come here, Chub, I have
brought you another sister, whom you are to
love exactly as you love Sis, but not one
atom more ; and if you don't make her a
good brother, I will break every bone in your
skin." And then Chub came bouncing up tome,
and gave me a kiss as loud as the crack
of a whip, and said : "Come along and help
Sis and me build up a snow-house ; it is
^-wfuUy jolly out in the yard ;" and so it was,
though I have two fresh chilblains since the
morning, and they itch terribly.'

* * # *

The next entry, written nearly a month
later, is all but illegible, and the many blots,
as if from fallen tears, have added to the difficulty
of deciphering it :

' Jan. 26th. — It is so long since I have
written anything ; and now I don't know what
to write, for when I try to think, my thoughts
seem to fly away and hide themselves in a
place that is so dark — black just like night —
that I cannot find them again. T. think it
must be my black dress. And then my ej^es
fill with tears, and I can't see, and I make

VOL. I. 5

great blots. It is just three weeks to-day
since dear auntie died. How dreadful it is
to think of, and I playing on that very afternoon
with Chub and Sis, and laughing and
so happy. I shall never be happy again, for
all my unkind thoughts of dear old auntie
when she was alive, and my naughty words
to her when I was in a pet, will come up.
And I shall never be able to throw my arms
round her again, and say, Dear auntie, I am
so — so — sorry ; and I will be good and never
make you unhappy again ! I wonder why
God lets people die ; I am sure / would not !
'''Jan. Both. — Three days and I have written
nothing ; but then my cold has been so bad
that I could do nothing but sneeze. What
funny things dreams are ; and how dreadful
it would be sometimes if they turned out
true ! Susanna, the cook, says that hers
often do, and that she would not dream of a
white cat for ten pounds — or, as she always
say, ten puns — for whenever she does, someone
is sure to die. And I had such a horrid
dream last night — no, it was not horrid, for
some of it was quite lovely — and I remembered
it all when I awoke, and so I will write
it down ; and this was my dream : 1 thought
I had grown up, but what made it so odd,

although it was I who did everything, yet it
seemed all the while as if it were being
done by some one else, and that I was standing
by and looking on. And so I saw myself
grown quite tall, and dressed in grey, with the
skirts tucked up and made much tighter than
they are worn now, and with such a pretty little
black hat with a white feather in it, walking
along a path which led amongst trees high up
above a stream which rushed through great
rooks ; and when I looked up, very high
indeed above me, there was the top of a snow
mountain, and the clear blue sky, and I
thought it must be Switzerland, just as I
used to see it in the two pictures in the
parlour of my dear old home. And so I
went on walking, and wondering where I
was, when all of a sudden I thought I heard
a great noise, like a horse galloping ; but
when I turned round to see, I found there
was no horse, but that it was the beating of
my own heart I had heard : and though I
placed my hands upon it, and tried to keep it
quiet, it would not be still. So I became
frightened, for I thought there must be some
danger near, and was about to cry out for
help, when I felt a hand touch mine, and
there, close to me, stood a man, with dark

5—2

hair and beautiful blue eyes, and such a soft
sweet voice, though he only said one word,
and that was "Victoria." But I knew he loved
me, for he looked so kind ; and just as I was
about to tell him that I loved him, and would
be his wife, the earth seemed to tremble, and
the trees all to change into stones, and from
behind one of them came a figure all in
white, and I knew it was an angel ; and
though she was young and beautiful, I knew
at once it was dear auntie when she turned
her soft loving eyes upon me and said :
*' Child, stop ! You must not love him. If
you did, and became his wife, it would be
very cruel and unkind. If you would show
your love, you must never marry — never !"
Then, just as she said the last word, it was
no longer an angel, nor my dear auntie, looking
on me with soft loving eyes, but a hideous
shape, I could not make out whether it was
an animal or what ; and just as I felt I was
going to die, I was so frightened, I heard a
great rattle like the sound of a gun, and a
hunter, who was just like Chub, only that
he had grown into a big man, ran down the
rocks, and called out, and — then I awoke,
and there was the sun shining in at my
window, and Chub throwing up gravel, and

calling out : " Vic, Vic ! don't be so lazy. I
want you to come down as quickly as you
can ; the cat has got six kittens, and I want
you to help me to choose which to keep; one
has such a jolly white tip to its tail, and
another is a beautiful black, just like an old
boot.

* Feb. idtli. — To-day Dr. Pringle called me
into his library. I am always afraid when I
go there, it is so full of cross-looking books,
and there are all sorts of queer-shaped glass
things upon shelves behind the door. When
I went in he looked very grave, and said :
Victoria, I want to have a little quiet talk
with you." And when I had sat down he
told me that before dear auntie died she had
written two letters to me, one of which was
to be given me shortly after her death, and
the other was to be kept until I was nineteen;
and that he thought it right I should now
read the first one, so that I might know what
my aunt's wishes were. My hand shook so
I thought I never should open the letter, but
when I did there was dear auntie's writing,
only made larger that I might read it more
easily ; and it said — but I will write it down,
though I am not sure that I need do so, for
I know every word by heart — better even

than my catechism. This is what dear auntie
said :

'" " My own dear Child,

'^ ' *^ I am about to die, and to leave
you alone in this world of trials and temptations.
There is much I would wish to say
to you, but you are too young to have it said
to you now, so I have written it all down,
that when you are grown up — should it so
please God — into a young woman, and are
old enough to understand it, you may read
it and learn from it — with God's help, for
without that we can do nothing — so to guide
your conduct that whatever you do in this
world may be beneficial to others and acceptable
to Him whose will it is our bounden
duty to find out and do. Yes, my dear child,
let that word '' duty " be ever present in
your thoughts. Whenever you are in doubt
as to how you should act, only ask yourself
what you ought to do in order to do right,
and all will go ^vell. I leave you in the
charge of valued friends. Mrs. Pringle will,
I know, watch over you with a mother's care,
and I am quite sure there is no one who is
able to give you better advice than the kind
doctor. It is my wish that you should seek

it on all occasions, and that you should obey
him in all things. I would say much more
to you, but I am very weak. That God may
watch over you and bless you is my earnest
prayer — the last words that I shall ever
write. I feel that my end is very near.
Remember — duty — there is no other rule— =-
none.

* '' Margaret M ."

'' ^ She had begun her name — it was not at
all like her beautiful writing ; the strokes
were so crooked — and Doctor Pringle told
me, as I fell sobbing in his arms, that
she had become too weak to finish it, and
that she laid her head quietly upon her pillow,
and never spoke again. Oh, auntie, dear
auntie, I never knew how much I loved you
till now ! I shall never be happy^till I see
you again. But I shall have to die, and I
don't want to die, for I should have to be
buried, and have earth thrown upon me, and
left alone in a dreadful churchyard ; no ! I
am too wicked ; I am not fit to die. I will
not ask God to let me die until I am good.'

-rr re-55-5;- ^

Now comes a great gap in my journal,
and the demand upon it for kites must have

been very great. Several years are wanting,
and the writing has become much what it is
at the present day. It is now no longer
written on loose sheets, carelessly stitched
together, but is kept in a small account-book,
to be changed ere long for one of those yearly
diaries, which is its form at the present time.
Each year becoming more and more voluminous
: a vivid picture of my life at the time —
a history of the causes which have made me —
for it is a reality, and no mere freak of fancy
so different from others. Yes ; I must write
it down again : * so different from others.'
But need I be perpetually lamenting over
this ? No, no 1 Victoria ! No lamentations ;
no weak wailing and wringing of hands.
When courage is lost, life has no hope. Leave
it to cowards to despair and — die."

Victoria wrote the last few lines so rapidly
that her pen seemed to fly over the paper,
and when she had finished the last word she
threw it from her, and drawing back from^the
table at which she had been sitting, she leant
back in her chair, and bowing down her head,
covered her face with her hands.

She remained in this attitude for a long,
long time ; motionless, with her hair, which

she had released from its plaits before sitting
down to write, streaming in wild luxuriance
over her neck and shoulders. In silent communion
with herself she forgot all else. The
lamp, which for some time had been burning
low, went out unnoticed, and when she next
raised her head and looked around her she
would have been in darkness but for the
gleaming stars. Ursa Major stood high above
the horizon, and her eyes — they were red
with weeping — attracted towards it as by
some irresistible impulse, followed the direction
of the pointers. '' Ah ! had not each life
its pole-star; some great outside interest
upon which it could concentrate itself; some
aim and object immeasurably higher than the
contemplation and study of its own individuality
? Was it not through external and not
internal forces that each star was kept in its
appointed place and moved in its appointed
orbit ? Were not the educators of our lives
the objects by which we were surrounded,
and our thoughts but the outcome of impressions
produced upon the senses by external
influences 1 Why, then, this perpetual study
and self-examination of ourselves, until self-consciousness
dominates over every other sentiment,
and egoism assumes the direction of

our lives? How can those who are perpetually
dwelling on themselves hope to escape
from themselves ? And yet this is just what
I am ever doing ; I, who would give vigour
to this poor weak brain and firmness to this
faltering will. The lessons of the past I have
already learnt — sad, painful lessons ; it is
enough that I should apply them to the
present. This battle of life can only be fought
and won by looking forward. It is a battlefield
from which there is no retreat, and he
only dies with honour who receives all his
wounds in front."

Such were some of Victoria Marsh's reflections
as she sat with folded arms, gazing
upon the stars. Suddenly heavy clouds
swept across the sky, and her room became
quite dark. It seemed to awaken her from
the deep reverie into which she had fallen. ,

"What silly sentimental creatures we poor
women are I" she said, as she arose and
lighted a match. " Here I sit dreaming my
life away, when I ought to be up and doing.
But I will dream no more ; I will bid adieu
to the past, and to clench my resolution will
cut off my retreat."

Saying this, she took up the loose sheets
of paper which were lying on her table, and

throwing them into the grate, piled the 
volumes of her journal upon them.
In a few minutes a bright blaze, then a
smouldering mass, showed but too plainly
that strength of will had overcome all sentimental
scruples. There was no going back
now ; it was with Victoria as it was with the
Athenians of old, when they had burnt their
ships.

Eut one paper remained. It was her
aunt's letter ; not that which she had copied
in her journal, but the one Dr. Pringle had
been directed to give her when she was old
enough to understand its contents. This
letter Victoria now took up ; as she did so
her hand trembled, and the convulsive twitching
of her mouth showed the painful nature
of the emotions the siofht of it renewed.

This I will keep," she said ; " keep sacred
from every living soul. For why should I
care to be understood ? I am too proud for
pity — but why pity ?" she quickly added ;
I have but done my duty, and the sense
that I have done it — am doing it — shall be
my solace, my reward. Aunt, dear," she
said, kissing the letter, " I will be firm ;
your last wishes shall be obeyed. I will have

no guide but duty. To that I will sacrifice
all— all."

She spoke in a clear, decided tone, but as
she said the last words the tenderness of the
woman's nature asserted itself, and a flood of
tears revealed but too clearly that the tenderness
of a woman's heart cannot be obliterated,
however inflexible may be a woman's will.

CHAPTER YTI.

DEEPDALE AND ITS INMATES.

Perhaps no one was better known in the
part of Middleshire in which Mr. Yorke lived,
than Dr. Pringle.

Now, no one could come into contact with
the good doctor without feeling, that though
old in years and somewhat less physically
strong than he might have been, he had preserved
more freshness and elasticity of mind
than is generally to be found in men of his
age. Indeed, his manner was so genial and
cheery, that it was impossible to look upon
him as old ; but the greenness of his age was
due in no small measure to his originality of
thought, and to the readiness with which he
was able to accept new ideas ; and this
intellectual vigour had been preserved
by his mind having been kept in constant
exercise — for it vas one of his favourite

maxims, and one that lie was constantly
enforcing on his patients : " If you would
keep the machinery in order, no matter
whether of the mind or body, there must be
no corrosion — no rust." And hence it was
that nothing annoyed him more than having
to deal with those ailments which are but the
natural consequence of indolence or excess.

Dr. Pringle, himself the son of a country
surgeon, had gained a high position in his
profession at a comparatively early age. Like
most doctors, he had been very much behind
the scenes of life, and was perhaps on that
account somewhat inclined, at times, to be
cynical ; but he was too open, too benevolent,
and too warm-hearted, to be really so.

But there was one thing of which the
doctor had a thorough hatred — and Dr. Pringle
certainly was a good hater. It was of everything
which came under the denomination
of that which he called " humbug."

He had commenced practice in London,
where he had attained very considerable eminence
; and through his many popular qualities,
was fast arriving at the position of a
fashionable doctor. But a London life had
no attractions for him, and the nature of the
greater part of the ailments he was called

upon to cure was not such as to afford any great
scope for professional skill.

*' I was being paid for being a mere medical
humbug," he used to say; 'rand I am afraid
to think of what I should have grown into had
I remained a few years longer. However, I
believe I should have died, for work in which
one can take no interest is killing — and good
heavens ! whatv.ork it was !"

He was fond of illustrating his assertions,
and so continued :

"How well I remember going to bed one very
cold winter's night, thoroughly fagged out, having
left directions that I was not to be disturbed
unless it was absolutely necessary ; when, lo
and behold ! before I had been in bed an
hour, there was a furious ringing of the bell, and
I was roused up to go as quickly as possible
to see the old Dowager Lady Dowdycomb,
who was seriously ill. I had my suspicions,
so I at first refused to go, and sent a polite
message to say I would call early in the morning
; but when the servant sent up to say it
would not do, ' for her ladyship was so bad,
that it was likely .she might die in no time,'
there was no help for it. So I had to dress
and sally forth. The night was horribly cold,
and I was not in the best of tempers. On

entering the old lady's room, I gently drew
back the curtains, and assuming my blandest
tones, inquired how she felt.

'' ' Oh ! doctor, doctor !' answered her ladyship,
' I don't know what is the matter with
me, it is so cold, and I can't keep warm.'

'' ' Cold, madam !' I cried in a fury.
Cold ! I should think you were cold, and
everybody else in this frost-bitten world, on
such a night as this. What do you want me
to do ? Do you want me to get into bed
and warm you ?"

It can easily be supposed that a feud
sprang up between the Dowager Lady Dowdy-comb
and Dr. Pringle — two separate camps
were formed by the friends of each — and some
very pretty fighting was the consequence,
which lasted at least three months.

'' I have had quite enough of London and
Dowager Lady Dowdycombs," said the doctor,
as he retired into the country ; where, having
a fair private fortune, partly his own and
partly brought him by his wife, he purchased
Deepdale, and practised more for pleasure
than profit — for he hated fees, and only took
them from rich people.

In a pretty cottage in the neighbourhood
of Deepdale, a lady named Marshy with her

little niece Victoria, had shortly before taken
up her residence ; and a close intimacy soon
sprang up between her and the doctor's family.
Mrs. Marsh was an intelligent, clever
woman, who, although her manner was generally
very reserved, took a warm interest
in many of the subjects which formed the
doctor's favourite hobbies. This perhaps it
was which had at first attracted him towards
her — until the relations ordinarily existing
between a doctor and his patients had gradually
changed into a feeling of the most
sincere friendship. Then, too, the peculiar
state of Mrs. Marsh's health was a source of
great interest to Dr. Pringle, for he was fond of
]psychological studies and of investigating the
relations in which mind stands to matter, and
there was something in Mrs. Marsh's state he
could not quite make out. Sometimes he
thought it was her mind that was sick ; sometimes
that it was her body. He never quite
knew, though with all his frankness it is
doubtful whether he would have confessed
this had he been asked, for there are some
things which people do not confess, even to
themselves.

It was, perhaps, only a natural consequence
of the great friendship between Dr. Pringle

VOL. I. G

and Mrs. Marsh, that when she died, he found
he had been constituted guardian to the little
Victoria, to whom a small but sufficient fortune
had been left; and from that time she was
looked upon, in every respect, as one of the
doctor's family.

Mrs. Pringle was an amiable, good woman,
utterly devoid of any individuality of character ;
but she had the rare virtue of being a good
listener, and was a comfortable kind of indoor
wife ; for if she had any talent at all, it was
for housekeeping ; and probably there was no
house in the county kept in better order — no
house where there was greater punctuality —
certainly none where, without pretension, the
dinners were served in better style. This,
perhaps, may have been the reason why few
people were more popular than Mrs. Pringle.
The doctor used to say laughingly, ''My dear,
everybody loves you because you feed them
so well." And, although no gourmand himself,
he liked things to be well cooked ; for he believed
there could be no real happiness with
a bad digestion, and was suspected by many
of his friends of holding to the opinion of the
Chinese— and an opinion some thousand years
old is always valuable — that the seat of the
affections is in the stomach.

With regard to Chub and Sis — whose
names, as given them by their godfathers and
godmothers, were Charles and Elizabeth.
Chub was a jolly roundabout fellow, fair at
lessons, good at play, with a temper like an
india rubber ball, that you may throw about
for ever without finding a hard point in,
and an appetite — never was there such an
appetite, it seemed to increase with eating.

Sis was younger than her brother. Even
as a baby she had such pretty, bright, wicked
eyes, and such pretty, winning little ways,
that no one — not even excepting those who
profess to hate babies — could resist her ; and
as she grew older her captivating powers
seemed to increase rather than to diminish.

In the companionship of Chub and Sis,
Victoria had been brought up and educated,
for it was one of the doctor's favourite
theories that the system of education fur
both sexes, up to the time when it became
necessary for them to commence a course of
technical study, ought to be identical.
• " Take care what you are about," urged
some of his friends, " or we shall find ail our
girls turned into boys."

The doctor lauded.

o

My dear ladies, do not be alarmed ; the

6—2

assimilation of the same knowledge will produce
a totally different set of ideas. We do
not find that feeding on the same food produces
the disastrous results you so much
fear, and I should so much deplore. It were
perhaps better that each one of us should
have a selected diet, and that each child's
character should be strengthened and formed
by a separate educational process ; but the
best thing has often to give way to the next
best, and so we can only seek to provide the
food which best nourishes the manj^, and the
knowledge which has the most general application."


So it was that Victoria had received all the
elements of a thoroughly practical education
with Chub and Sis. She and Chub distinguishing
themselves — she most — in natural
history and the natural sciences ; whilst Sis
devoted herself to German and French, and
gave more time to music than the doctor
cared to reckon np, for a wheedling little
puss was Sis, and none knew better how to
find out the soft places in her father's heart.

So time flew on. The doctor observing and
directing, or thinking he was directing, as he
probably would have been had it not been
for the charming coaxing little ways of Miss j

Sis. Victoria miles ahead, and poor honest
Chub, painfully impressed with his inferiority,
plodding op behind. He loved her dearly,
but he did not like it.

"Confound it," he used to say, "it is too
bad to be beaten by a girl ! I wish she had
been a boy."

But a girl she was, and so he had to put
up with it ! Sis, who was younger, did not
mind it ; she hated every word in the dictionary
which ended in ology, and gave herself
pretty, captivating little airs, which
seemed as natural to her as a golden sunbeam
upon a butterfly's wing.

Mrs. Pringle loved them all equally, for
hers was a large roomy heart, but it had not
many mansions. The doctor, on the contrary,
seemed to have a special niche for each — for
he loved each one differently. Victoria held
the highest place in his esteem ; Chub he
loved because Chub was such a dear good
fellow, and he had been a brute not to have
done so; and Sis — provoking, teasing, little Sis
it was difficult to say what was the exact
place she occupied in her father s heart ; but
one thing is very certain, the niche, wherever
it might be, was hung around with wreaths,
and strewn with flowers.

It was about a year after Mrs. Marshes
death, that Mr. Yorke became the purchaser
of the Littleton estate. The house, Nettle-ton
Court, was only two miles from Deepdale,
and in the course of time the younger
members of the two families had become inseparable,
to the great surprise and annoyance
of several other families whose endeavours to
gain the friendly recognition of the rich newcomers
had been coldly repelled.

The fact is, the young people were of the
same age, and youth in the country would
find it very dull without companionship.
Then the doctor, with all his peculiar views,
had seen the world and was full of anecdote ;
and Mrs. Pringle was so unpretending and
amiable that she never placed herself in anybody's
way. There was, however, another
reason ; from the very first moment of Mr.
Yorke's seeing Victoria Marsh, he had seemed
greatly attracted towards her, and in a short
time it was one of the playful jokes of the
home circle that he cared more for her than
he did for his own daughters. This feeling,
however, did not seem to be reciprocated.
Victoria, who had soon established relations
with Geraldine and Eva, of that close and
affectionate kind which is characteristic of

feminine attachments whilst life is young
and its emotions have not been chilled by the
cold heartlessness of the world, for some unaccountable
reason never felt at ease in Mr.
Yorke's presence. She was angry with herself
for not being able to respond to his
advances, for he was — so far as his nature
permitted him to be — kindness itself. Yet
do what she would, a feeling she could not
describe crept over her whenever he drew
near ; and sometimes it seemed to her as if
she felt his presence the moment he entered
the room, although she had not observed that
he had done so.

'' I am afraid you do not love ray father,
Vic," said Eva to her one day, as they walked
up and down one of the shady avenues
near the Court, with their arms encircling
each other's waists.

•* He is very kind to me, and he is your
father, my dear Eva, and perhaps it may
seem very ungrateful. But, you know, the
only person I ever truly loved is in the grave ;
and I have not been taught to love as you
have, darling, for ray parents both died when
I was so young that I have not even the
slightest remembrance of them. It is true I
love the Princes very much, and you know

I love you ; but then there is a difference — •
it can never be the same as with one's own
flesh and blood."

'poor child!" said Eva, caressingly; "I
wonder if your mother were like you."

*' Why ?" asked Victoria.

Because I am sure I should have loved
her. Did your aunt never talk to you about
her ?"

'' Never," said Victoria ; '* and I often
thought it was very strange of dear auntie
not to have done so. I only know that my
mother's name was Violet, for it is the name
engraved on the locket which I always wear,
and which contains a little curl of her soft
brown air."

Violet !" gait Eva ; '^ what a charming
name ! I am sure she must have been very
sweet''

The only discordant element in the intercourse
between the two families was the
dislike which Chub entertained for Geraldine's
and Eva's brother Marmaduke, or, as he was
always spoken of in his own family, "Duke."

Though frequently away from home during
his vacations, he was there often enough to
take a part in the amusements which were
shared in common by his sisters and the

young people from Deepdale; and to Chub
he made himself thoroughly disagreeable, for
he was older, and was supposed to have seen
something of the world, and so gave himself
airs of great superiority, which were gall and
bitterness to Chub. Then he was, or pretended
to be, very fond of Sis, and that Chub
did not like, though Sis did, which was
another source of deep annoyance to him.
Besides, Duke had once had the impertinence
to speak of his sister as Fizz — little Fizz —
declaring that she was so bright and so sweet
and so sparkling that she reminded him of a
bottle of champagne, and so he had dared to
call her Fizz ; but he never ventured to do
so a second time, for though he pretended to
look upon Chub as a boy whose anger was
quite beneath his notice, there was something
in the boy's anger which made him quail ; and
with all his braggadocio and loud talking,
Duke was a coward. But he was a good-looking
fellow, who could put on pleasing
manners, and make himself very agreeable
when he chose, so that it is not to be wondered
at that Sis took his part whenever Chub said
anything against him, or that Duke and his
doings often formed the subject of her meditations.
When Duke was at home, he

became the centre round which everyone else
was made to revolve ; it was Duke here, Duke
there, Duke everywhere. Lady Arabella
seemed to think of no one else ; all her
affection was centred on Duke.

When he was away, the yonge people
paired off in couples ; Eva and Victoria,
Geraldine and Sis ; with poor roundabout
good-natured Chub at the beck and call of
each, performing very much the functions of
a well-trained Newfoundland dog, and passing
very much of his spare time in goinor to and
fro upon that portion of the earth which lay
between the two houses, with little scented
notes folded up in a triangular form. Poor
Chub ! he sometimes was inclined to growl
and show his teeth, but a few gentle pats
and kind words always brought him to his
senses, unless Sis interposed with a request
that he would not make himself ridiculous,
when it would require much coaxing to bring
him back to obedience.

So things had gone on, each year seeming
to repeat itself. But silent old Time had
been working stealthily none the less. The
lads had passed the hobbledehoy stage, and
the girls had reached that advanced period of
life when they affect to scorn all those they

call " boys," and profess to prefer the society
of*' men."

It was at this Critical moment that Sir
Francis Hawthorne appeared upon the scene,
and became a frequent visitor at the two
houses.

CHAPTER Viii.

CUPID SHOOTS HIS SHAFTS.

Sm Francis Hawthorne was soon in high
favour at the Court, and at Deepdale he was
sure to meet with a warm welcome. He
divided his attentions fairly between them ;
in the summer passing much of his time with
the family at the Court, should they happen
to be in the county ; in the winter frequenting
the doctor's cosy fireside with a persistence
which made saucy Miss Sis say that he had
become her father's tame cat.

But this was said in pure spite by Miss
Sis. Spite, because Sir Francis would not
fall at once a victim to her winning little
ways, but would go on talking upon tiresome
dry subjects which she could not, and would
not, understand.

Yet those winning little ways had gone
much nearer than she was aware of towards

effecting their object. As Sir Francis discoursed
with the doctor, as he was wont todo,
upon the true and the false, upon right
and wrong, upon the government of the few,
and the happiness of the many, upon the
best mode of binding together in the bonds
of love the various classes with their several
interests into which society is divided, etc.,
etc., etc., he gradually found himself addressing
his remarks less to the doctor than to the
owner of the bright eyes which from time
to time were directed towards him.

No wonder that at times he became a little
incoherent, and that when he and the doctor
differed he was sure to get the worst of the
argument.

The only wonder is, how he could have
overlooked Victoria, and bestowed all his
attention on that sly little puss Sis ; merely
because Victoria, who was worth a dozen of
her, was silent and pale, and did not know
how to use her eyes.

But all men are given to making mistakes
in such matters, and Sir Francis was no
exception to the rule.

For some little time Sis seemed each day
to grow prettier, to become more captivating.
Then she began to show herself — a very little,

but yet too much — as she was, for Sis was as
changeable as a chameleon, only that she
changed her little winning ways and not her
colours, changed them for other little winning
ways, each one so charming that it was
difficult to know when it was you liked her
best ; but it was in these frequent changes,
and in the act of changing, that she betrayed
herself

At first she would be all attention, and
look as grave as a judge. Then, by degrees,
she gave up even the pretence of listening,
and would sit down to chess with Chub.
He, poor fellow, dreadfully in earnest, and
hesitating over his moves in a way which
gave a pretty sure indication of approaching
defeat ; she, dashing away at tangents to every
accepted rule, and from time to time interrupting
the conversation with some little playful
exclamation, which was only redeemed from
being silly by the little wise air with which
it was said, and the rosy pouting lips which
gave it utterance. Then, now and again, she
would open her eyes as if in wonder, and
look straight at Sir Francis, just as he was
in the midst of one of his pet theories. There
was no mistaking the meaning of that look ;
it said as clearly as words could have done :

Why do you talk so much about all these
dry, disagreeable things, and waste your
thoughts upon all sorts of people, when — "
She never seemed to get further than the
when," for just at that moment Chub would
be sure to do something to attract her attention,
and so the sentence was never finished.
But who could meet such a glance from those
bright, blue, speaking eyes, and not be
moved ? Sir Francis was greatly moved ; he
had never seen such eyes before, and they
were seldom out of his thoughts. But alas !
alas for Sis I It was impossible to be in her
company day after day without finding her
out. Before the winter was over Sir Francis
had discovered she was acting a part — a part
80 pretty that it was almost difficult to
wish she would not act it; but still in the
end, if there be only time, the real will gain
the victory over the false : and so Sir Francis,
tearing his heart, as it were, from Deepdale,
sought some other shrine upon which to lay
it — for it is difficult for young hearts to
remain in their own keeping. ' He did not
seek long before he became attracted — and
what more natural, knowing how beautiful
she was — to Allegra.

But here it would only be right to say,

that of all this nothing whatever was known
to anybody but himself for the young ladies
themselves had not as yet found out whether
he had a heart or not. And if it be objected
that this easy transfer of the affections is
somewhat damaging to the reputation of a
young man of Sir Francis Hawthorne's acknowledged
strength of character, it should
be remembered that to be true to nature we
must take things as we find them ; and after
all is it not the case that it is he who
endeavours to seek out, and love the best,
who is the most worthy of being loved, even
though he may have to flutter round a few
flowers before he is able to find out, which is
the best ?

Be this as it may, there can be no doubt
that for a short time Geraldine's image was
the one which presented itself most frequently,
whether in thought by day or in dreams by
night, to Sir Francis. But it was not long
before strange suspicions, like drops of gall
in honey, embittered his cup of happiness.
He began to ask himself ugly questions :
Was she not too masculine in her tastes ?
Was she not too flippant? Could she be
sympathetic ? and to each of these ugly questions
an answer came but too readily; and

for the moment Sir Francis was made unhappy,
for an internecine warfare was raging
between his heart and his head, and it was
difficult to say which would conquer. There
was something about Geraldine which made
him love her despite himself, and when she
was in one of her graver moods, and looked
thoughtfully out of those beautiful eyes, while
she spoke in a low musical voice on subjects
which might have been deemed far too deep
and dry for her to have felt any interest in,
and spoke on them, too, as if she had
thoroughly thought them out, how was it
possible for him not to love her ?

But in her other moods !

Ah me ! what a change I Exchanging
silly badinage with silly young men ; laughing
when she ought to have looked grave;
assuming masculine airs, and talking about
horses aS if she had been brought up in the
stables, and of betting and the odds like an
officer of dragoons. Ah me ! what a change!
But when Sir Francis found her as he once
did, in the smoking-room with her brother
and some college friends, a smoking-cap on
her head and a cigarette in her mouth, the
great crisis came, the internecine war was
brought to an end by the head winning a

VOL. I. 7

great victory over the heart, and Sir Francis
found himself once more free.

Winter was sone, the spring had passed
away, and it was now summer.

Ostensibly, no change had taken place in
the relations between Sir Francis and the
family at the Court, and there were many days
when he was to be found, racket in hand, with
Geraldine at his side, doing battle against the
redoubtable Chub, assisted by the still more
redoubtable Sis, whilst Victoria and Eva sat
under the shade of a leafy chestnut-tree and
watched the game ; for Eva was too delicate
for any kind of violent exercise, and although
Victoria could play, and played well, she did
not care much about the game, and only took
a part in it when she was wanted.

^' How well Sir Francis plays !" remarked
Eva.

<« Very," answered Victoria, absently, as if
she were thinking of something else.

Then a silence of some minutes ; again
broken by Eva :

Have you not observed that he has very
much changed of late V

'' Who — I r asked Victoria. '' Why ?
What makes you think so V

She spoke in a startled, hurried manner,

and plucked almost fiercely at the petals of an
ox-eye daisy as she did so.

"Because," said Eva, calmly, *' he used to
talk so much more ; and Geraldine and he
were always teasing each other."

^' Don't they do so now 1"

Oh no! never! He, is all politeness ; and
she, is never rude. It is nothing but ' If you
please,' and ' Thank you '."

How tiresome!" said Victoria ; she might
perhaps have said more, but at this moment
Lady Arabella joined them, followed by a
manservant carrying her own special easy-chair
and a plentiful supply of pillows, with
which, in a few minutes, with the assistance
of Eva and Victoria — for Lady Arabella
never did anything without assistance — she
was carefully propped up.

A pause in the game brought the players
around her.

"Ah, Sir Francis," she said, as the young
baronet approached her, " you really must be
prevented from putting your theories into
practice. If you go on as you are doing, we
shall all be ruined."

Ah, poor me ! What have I done
now?" said Sir Francis, with an air of mock
humility.

7—2

'only by your insisting upon paying higher
wages than anyone else, you have created
universal discontent. You will hardly believe
it, but not less than three of Mr. Yorke's farm
people have left him during the last month,
in order, as the foolish creatures say, to better
their condition. And you know," she continued,
turning to Geraldine, '* how kind your
papa has been to them."

'' How ungrateful !" said Geraldine ; *' but
we must not expect gratitude from the lower
classes; they are getting worse and worse
every day."

Axe ive getting better V asked Eva.

My dear Penserosa/' said her mother,
'* that is not the question ; it does not matter
whether we are getting better or worse, but
you must allow that in no country in the
world is so much money given away in charity
as in ours."

'' Because," observed Sir Francis, '^ there is
no country in the world in which charity is
so much needed. For that reason I look
upon charity as a disgrace to us. It ought
to be the duty of the rich to seek to prevent
its need, rather than to alleviate the misery
which proceeds from need."

"■ Utopian !" said Lady Arabella, playfully

threatening him with her fan ; *' as indeed you
Radicals always are."

"But, mamma dear," said Eva, "I think
Sir Francis has forgotten that there always
must be poor, for are we not told that the
poor will always be with us? and I cannot see
why we should not help them in such a
manner as to make them love us."

Lady Arabella shook her head mournfully,
as if she would have said : 'M have tried, but
it is hopeless."

What nonsense, Eva I" said Geraldine,
sharply ; " people cannot be 7nade to love
each other."

*' True," said a voice, in clear, measured
tones ; " for there can be no true love without
sympathy."

Sir Francis looked up at the speaker — it
was Victoria — and as he did so, his eyes met
hers.

He had never looked into them before.
What a depth of tenderness they revealed !
How was it he had overlooked the possessor
of them till now ? True, he had very frequently
seen her and often spoken to her,
but she had appeared to him only as a reserved,
silent girl, who seemed to live amongst
her books and in communion with her own

thoughts. But then he had been so much
engrossed, first by little Sis, and secondly —
it is sad to think of such fickleness — by
Geraldine.

*' There can be no true love without sympathy."


Could Victoria have foreseen the effects of
those few words she might perhaps have remained
silent. Would it have been better
for her to have done so ? Who can tell \

From that moment Sir Francis was more
than ever at Deepdale.

We understand each other' said the
doctor ; '' you know the adage : birds of a
feather flock together."

Poor fellow ! he is so dull at home," said
Mrs. Pringle.

^^Ifc is all that beautiful pet curl Sis has
been training over her left eyebrow," said
Chub.

If it were not wicked, I should call you
names, sir," cried Sis.

^' Am I not right, Vic T asked Chub.

But Chub asked in vain, for Victoria made
him no answer. Yet her heart was full, and she
felt her cheeks flush at Sir Francis's name.
She knew why he was so often at Deepdale.
His admiration — his love had been suddenly

revealed to her : how, she could scarcely tell,
for as yet he had said no word of either.

The last few weeks had indeed produced
a great change in the feelings of both. It
was a marvel now to Sir Francis that he had
ever looked with admiration on any other
form than hers ; that he had ever sought to
catch the glances of any other eyes ; or that
he had ever hung on the words from any
other lips. It was true that Victoria had
not the captivating graces of Sis, nor the undeniable
beauty of Geraldine — though there
was a strong resemblance between them —
but then she had the charm, which they had
not, of being always the same, and of making
the time spent in her society a source of
profit as well as of pleasure, for when she
spoke she seemed to do so out of the fulness
of her convictions, and to lay bare a heart
which was incapable of guile.

True, she might not be strictly beautiful,
but she was certainly very handsome ; and it
seemed as if she grew more and more so everyday.
The sad look was fast fading away, and
the dark eyes were more frequently relieved
from the shade of their long lashes as she
looked towards him — not shyly now — but
with a glance which expressed trust and in-tests

and — mhj should ifc not be said? — lore.
Why die knew ro* 'h^'i now it was for the
first time rl?/: s'^ r ito gain an insight

into her c - f :t Life, which for some

r r 1 appeared to

so imr^ fss. so disappoints

5 Zrw aspect.

SieivaB n:: :: she had

lived so hmg. s z i. — — : ^ — - : It
nr no idle ^

fio cdfeied i;^ i.-^.;T -. ; (a j.^-.-io --.'-.^i. — ,
Nov no ; it was true — so tie : she was ~ t :.
and loved by one who was worthy of her lova
No wonder that her eyes were brighter,
that a Ua of red had mantled her pale
d»€ek. '' ^ \~T r-^Tri-'.^e had become more
ez^r aDt : that her heart

-~ ' : not be so, when

pon

by ?ide at the time,
oat her hand

If I- could speak to you now as I would
wish to speak I should be inexpressibly
happy. As it is, I can only ask you to bear
with me for a few days ; it will be my birthday
then, and I have promised the kind doctor
to remain free till after I am nineteen ; and
I must try and keep my promise, though I
fear I have been sadly forgetful of it of
late."

A few days said Sir FianGSs. "It is
such an age to wait T

"But I may have to say ' Ho'" said Vic-tone,
disengaging her hand, but not before
Sir Francis had preyed it — it is not necessary
to say how many times — to his lips.

You would not be so cruel as to make me
miserable ^

"Please don't speak of being miserable,"
said Victoria ; " it is a bad omen.*

** Are you superstitious I"

I am sometimes."

But during these horrible few days — may
I come as usual !"

** Yes, if you will promise to be very wise
and very good, and not talk of love."

"Remember, I am more than nineteen,
and am under no promise to remain fine. I
am a slave."

'ris love, then, such a bondage?" asked
Victoria, archly.

'' Yes !" said Sir Francis, '' from which
there is no escape ; and the sweetest of all
sounds is the chink of its chains."

*^ Come," said Victoria ; " remember the
first duty of a slave is obedience. I order
you to be silent — and for the next few days
I free you from your fetters."

*^ And when these few days are over ?"

The bank of silence shall be taken off, and
you shall have fresh chains."

*' Let me wear them for ever," said Sir
Francis. 'liberty has become hateful to me."

'' It seems to me that we are talking great
nonsense," said Victoria, as she turned in the
direction of the house.

And for the next few days Victoria had to
play a part ; she dared not show her happiness.


The only person who observed it was Mrs.
Pringle.

How well Victoria is looking' she said.
I am so glad I advised her to take camomile
tea."

She did not know that Victoria had not
followed her advice.

CHAPTER IX.

MIDSUMMER EVE.

Oh, how sweet it is this soft midsummer
evening ! The air redolent of nature's purest
perfumes ; the sky without a cloud ; the
moon rising lazily and round ; the stars
awaiting her in pale expectancy ; silence,
broken but by a fountain's plash.

On such a night as this loving hearts commune
without words, and wreaths are woven
by Fancy for the Future's wear.

On such a night as this the world would
seem to sleep, and we, who are but as the
watchers by its couch, to dream. Oh, golden
dreams, which woo us in our youth, and with
fleet footsteps fly from us in age !

The doctor has been called away to a
patient ; Chub and Sis are lawn-tennising at
the Court, and will not be back till late, as
they intend to walk. Mrs. Pringle is at

home, for she can be seen through the
French window which opens on the lawn,
seated at her work-table, and thoroughly
engrossed in one of her favourite complications
in wool.

Victoria, too, is at home, for as the moon
rises an observer on the lawn might have
seen her shadow distinctly outlined on the
gravel-walk. She is sitting on a rustic seat,
and is evidently not alone, for there is another
and a larger shadow by the side of, and
bending over towards hers— the shadow of
Sir Francis Hawthorne.

Since Sir Francis had declared his love
they had met each day, but this was the first
time they had been alone.

For some time neither of them had
spoken, then the silence was broken by Sir
Francis.

*' Why is it, Victoria," he said, *' that weare
so little disposed to talk when we are
most happy ? Now, because I am sitting by
you, it seems as if the sense of happiness
had so taken possession of my whole being
that every other faculty had been destroyed.
You must forgive me for being so stupid, for
it is love which has made me so."

** Hush !" said Victoria. '' Remember you

are in the position of a cardinal whose mouth
has not yet been opened. Bat why should
we wish to talk when we are happy ! It has
always seemed to me that the highest happiness
is that for which there can be found no
words ; just as with grief, those who mourn
most, neither weep nor wail."

There was again a long pause. It was
Victoria who now spoke.

** I do not know why it is," she said, " but
there is something either in the darkness, orin
the stillness, of the night which makes me
melancholy, even when my heart is most full
of joy."

*' It cannot be the darkness," said Sir
Francis, " for see how brightly the moon is
now shining ; it has almost turned night into
day."

*' Ah ! The moon, the moon," repeated
Victoria, dreamily. *' I sometimes think it is
the moon which exerts such a strange influence
over me. It looks so pale — so sad. Do
you not think," she added hurriedly, as she
turned her eyes towards it, " that it looks
very sad ? Oh, so sad ! As if it had been
a silent witness of all the sin and wickedness
committed on the earth."

You must not give way to such thoughts,

my dear Victoria. If looking at the moon
makes you melancholy, turn from it. Think
of how Nature revels in the brightness of the
sun. There is a sun for each and all of us,
as well as moon."

*' Ah !" said Victoria, mournfully. '^ But I
am one of the children of the moon." Then,
suddenly changing her tone, she asked
quickly, *' Tell me, are you a believer in
dreams V

'" Only in one," said Sir Francis ; '' and
that, I feel, will come true."

But, tell me truly."

No, certainly not," said Sir Francis.

"But I have heard some wonderful instances
of their being realised," said Victoria.
" However, I agree with you, though
it is very singular — very singular."

What is singular ?" asked Sir Francis.

*^ When I was a child I had a dream which
has haunted me to this day, and I saw you
in it. A strange dream, which has sometimes
made me very unhappy."

'^ Dear little dreamer !" said Sir Francis,
pressing her hand, which he had been holding
in his own for the last ten minutes. " Dear
little dreamer, remember dreams come by
contraries; and when tomorrow comes, and

you have made me happy, you shall prove
that it is so."

'' I cannot tell you how I dread tomorrow,"
said Victoria. " I never knew before that I
was so weak. Ah ! can it be my fancy ?'
she cried, as she shrank back and trembled
violently.

What is it, darling V asked Sir Francis,
as ne put his arm around her waist and drew
her towards him.

See ! see !" she cried, as she pointed in
the direction of the orchard; 'rit is the second
time I have seen it — and all in white."

Sweet one, be calm ; it is but the moonlight
streaming through the trees ;" he
stooped down and kissed her on her forehead
as he spoke.

There was a shout.

Hurrah ! hurrah ! Home at last. I
hope you have not eaten all the supper, for I
am as hungry as a hunter."

It was Chub and Sis. Chub vowiuor
that he would play lawn-tennis no more.
'' Only fancy," he said, *' having to jump about
the whole afternoon with that baboon Duke
showing his white teeth and grinning at you
from the other side of the net !"

I only wish you were half as good-looking,"

said Sis ; '' don't you ?" This last was
addressed to Victoria, who, with Sir Francis,
had advanced to meet them. '* But, good
gracious, child ! how pale you look !"

It is only the moonlight," said Victoria.

The mooD," said Chub, " I hate moons,
and moon-calves too, Sis, even though they
may be more good-looking than I am V

*' Silence, sirrah !" said Sis, as full of all
sorts of conflicting sentiments they walked
into supper together.

The doctor came in before it was over ; he
was even more cheery than usual.

'^I was just in time," he said; '^ a few
minutes more and he would have bled to
death."

What was it V asked Sir Francis.

Tom Bates," said the doctor. " He was
stupid enough to get entangled in the threshing
machine, and so will have to go through
life with one hand less than his neighbours."

'' How long did it take you to cut it off?"
asked Chub.

Twice as long as I ought to have been,"
said the doctor ; " for I am sadly out of
practice."

Oh, papa ! how can you do such horrid
things !" exclaimed Sis.

'* You foolish little puss," said the doctor,
if no one could do what you are pleased to
call horrid things, this would be a remarkably
unpleasant world for some of us to
live in."

*' I suppose you know, Sis, what is supposed
to be the most difficult operation in
surgery ?" said Chub.

It was not the first time Chub had asked
Sis the same question. She looked at him
scornfully.

I wish, Chub," she said, " that you would
not be so fond of slang."

*what did I say?" asked Chub. 'ras
for slang, I should like to know where a
fellow is to be found more slangy than
Duke."

*' Is Duke at home now ?" asked Mrs.
Pringle.

It was the first time she had spoken.

'* Yes, mamma," said Sis, blushing ; " he is
going to stay three weeks."

"In that case we must ask him over," said
Mrs. Pringle.

** Let me have fair notice, my dear, that I
may be out," said the doctor. " I hate
prigs."

'' You hear. Sis V said Chub.

VOL. I. 8

Come, come, Chub," said the doctor, " I
cannot allow yoa to tease your sister. I will
have none of my privileges infringed upon.
But what is the matter. Sir Francis ? I
have not heard your voice since we have sat
down. And as for Vic, she has evidently
put on her thinking-cap ; perhaps it is that
she begins to be oppressed by the burden of
age, for sweet eighteen is nearly past. And
tomorrow, well, tomorrow we must have a
feast, mind that, mother, and we will drink
her health in a bumper of the old Johannisberg,
for I always think, teetotaler as I nearly
am, that the best of drinking is when there
is a toast in the cup. What say you. Sir
Francis ? Will you come ?"

'' With the greatest pleasure," said Sir
Francis.

'rand mind you bring a good appetite,"
said Mrs. Pringle, '' for I can promise you a
good dinner. But, remember, the doctor is
responsible for the wine."

'* The women always throw the heaviest
responsibility on our shoulders," said the
doctor, " cunning creatures that they are ;
you will find that out to your cost one of
these days. Sir Francis."

'* The sooner the better," said Sir Francis.

I can't think how a man can be such a
fool as to marry," said Chub ; at which wise
remark Sis exclaimed, saucily :

'' Sour grapes." And the doctor laughed.

But really, Vic," he said, ** you must
cheer up, or instead of a birthday-feast you
will make us all think it is an entertainment
in honour of somebody's funeral."

** Is it really tomorrow ?" said Victoria.
Then I have a favour to ask — let me have
tomorrow to myself. Kemember that tomorrow
I shall be nineteen."

*' Ah ! how stupid of me, I had forgotten,"
said the doctor, looking unusually grave.
*you are quite right. So we will ask our
friend here to come to the celebration of your
natal anniversary' a day later. And now "
as he saw Sir Francis rising to take leave
"we must all off to bed, for I see that
some of us want it, and you, my dear Vic, as
much as any."

*' Then, the day after tomorrow," said Sir
Francis, as he shook hands all round, and, of
course by accident, with Victoria twice.

As he rode over the hill which stood midway
between Hawthornedene and Deepdale,
and from which both houses could be seen, he
reined in his horse and gazed long and wiat-

8—2

fully in the direction of Deepdale. A single
light showed that one of its inmates was still
astir ; his heart told him it was Victoria-her

sadness seemed to have communicated
itself to him, and it was difficult to believe
that the solitary horseman who peered anxiously
through the darkness at that distant
light, could be a suitor waiting for a verdict
from one of whose love he could not have the
smallest doubt.

** But this intense dejection T he asked
himself. *^ This fear of tomorrow ? Can it
be the shadow which coming events are ever
said to cast before them ?"

He had reached Hawthornedene before he
had found an answer to the question ; and ashe
dismounted his expression was so unlike
what it usually was, that even the servants
were struck with it, and said amongst themselves
they thought their master must be ill.

The shadow had fallen upon him as well as
upon Victoria.

CHAPTER X

WAITING FOR THE VERDICT.

I KNOW we are going to have a thunderstorm,"
said Mrs. Pringle, as she sat down to
breakfast the next morning, *^ for I feel such
a swimming in my head."

'apish!" said the doctor. "Pish" was a
favourite word of his whenever anyone presumed
to speak of their ailments in his
presence without consulting him. " Pish I
my dear. Pish !"

I only wish you had it, John ; but no,
indeed I don't, for you men make such a fuss
about trifles. But my head swims all the
same."

Too much tea," said the doctor. ** How
can you women expect not to have pains and
aches when you treat your nerves as if they
were harp-strings, and always have some kind
of tuning-fork at work, either screwing them

up or letting them down ? But where is Victoria
T

The door opened as he spoke. It was not
Victoria, but Sis.

Papa' she said, *vic has a bad headache,
and I am going to take her a cup of tea ; but
she told me to tell you she will be down soon,
and that she particularly wishes to see you
before you go out."

A headache !" said the doctor. *' Why,
wonders will never cease. Vic with a
headache !"

It is all the thunder in the air' said his
wife."

The doctor knew it was impossible to overcome
Mrs. Pringle in argument, for although
she did not say much, she always insisted
upon having the last word ; so he contented
himself with an almost inaudible " Pish I"
and went on with his breakfast.

After breakfast, Victoria came down, looking
pale and agitated. She still complained
of headache, and answered with a faint smile
the kind congratulations of her friends.

Now to business," said the doctor,
** Come with me, my dear, into the library."
He put on much the same grave, serious air
he would have assumed had he been about

to perform some difficult operation, and was
somewhat doubtful as to the result. *' Come
with me, my dear."

When he had closed the library-door he
went to his writing - table, and opening a
drawer, took from it a packet of letters carefully
tied together. Amongst them was one
with a large black seal. This he handed to
Victoria.

I must now carry out your poor old aunt's
wishes. Sit down, my dear child, and read
this. But before you do so, summon up all
the courage, ail the fortitude which belongs to
you, for although I have no exact knowledge
of what the letter contains, I have every
reason to believe there is much in it of a very
painful nature. Remember, my dear, that
many circumstances by which our lives are influenced
are utterly beyond our control; and
that whilst the weak are often overwhelming
destroyed by them, they can be made a source
of good, a blessing, to the strong. Since you
have been under my roof I have never ceased
to endeavour to give strength to your character
; show me now that my labour has not
been thrown away. Promise the poor bungling
old doctor, as the greatest favour you can

confer upon him, that you will be strong and
of good heart."

Victoria threw her arms round his neck.

My kindest best of friends," she said, '' I
will do my best, and trust you will not be
disappointed in me. But for the rest of the
day I would be alone — quite alone, for I foresee
I shall have much to suffer."

All that day Victoria remained in her
room. To the frequent and anxious inquiries
of Mrs. Pringle there was but one reply :

She was not feeling quite well, and wished
to be quiet."

*' Ought you not to see her ?" suggested
Mrs. Pringle to the doctor. ''" I really fear
she is seriously ill."

*' My dear," said her husband, " in that
case we will have a little patience, and see
v/hat my great rival Dame Nature may do."

Sis could not understand it. Why should
Vic shut herself up in her room on her birthday,
of all days in the year ? She thought it
very extraordinary.

** Why should she not have a headache ?"
said Chub. " Eva often has."

You are always talking about Eva," said
Sis.

*' I'm sure I don't talk or think more about

Eva than anybody else," said Chub, growing
red.

*' Sour grapes," said Sis.

I don't understand you, with your sour
grapes," said Chub, growing redder still.

Poor boy !" said Sis.

I am not a boy," said Chub, angrily. *' I
was nineteen last week ; in another month I
shall be walking the hospitals, and I am at
all events twice the man of that jackanapes
Duke."

Remember, he is Eva's brother," said Sis.

*' And my sister's pet," said Chub.

Sir, how dare you !" It was the turn of
Sis to get angry now.

The doctor interposed.

Come, come, children ! what is all this
about ?" he asked.

Nothing, sir," said Chub ; " a mere storm
in a teacup'*

Then, my boy, after a storm let there bea
calm, for I hate jangling. Why, Sis, my
little puss, come here ; what has made you
blush so ? I declare you are as red as a
peony."

Never mind," said Chub. *' You know
what a good-natured fellow you have for a
brother — I won't tell."

'^ Papa, I wish you would beat him," cried
Sis. " I am not strong enough, or I would doit
myself."

You had better beat some one else," said
Chub ; *^ then it would be so nice making it
up with a kiss for each blow."

"You provoking boy!" cried Sis, as she
ran out of the room.

The next morning Victoria still remained
in her room. Through Sis, who had found
her door fastened, she sent down a request
that her breakfast might be brought her;
and the servant who took it to her returned
with a slip of paper for the doctor, on which
was written : '' Come to me. I am ready to
see you now. I wish you to know all."

The doctor went to her room, and more
than an hour elapsed before he returned.

Mother," he said to his wife, in a voice
which still bore traces of emotion, *' Sir
Francis will not dine here to-day, our birthday
dinner must be put off. Vic, though
better, is still suffering from a nervous attack,
which will necessitate great care and quiet
for some days."

'sis it infections?" asked Mrs. Pringle.
*' There is plenty of carbolic acid."

"Pish!" said the doctor, ringing the bell, and

giving a note to the servant with directions
that it should be sent at once to Sir Francis
Hawthorne's.

Dear me, what a pity!" said Mrs. Pringle;
and I have got such a beautiful salmon."

When the messenger reached Hawthorne-done,
he found Sir Francis pacing the chestnut
avenue, which formed one of the approaches
to the house, in a state of feverish impatience,
not unmixed with anxiety. He could not
tell why, but he had never felt so ill at ease.
The pale, sad face of Victoria had haunted
him even in his dreams.

Why so sad ^ Why so sad?" he had kept
repeating to himself

He had gone to bed late, and had risen
early. The sun had scarcely topped the distant
hills, when, in all the solitude of early
morn, he had whistled to his dogs and sallied
forth. Ah, how beautiful is this world of
ours to those whose hearts are full of
love I

As he walked rapidly along the path which
led in the direction of the midway hill, at
every step his pulse beat quicker, his hopes
rose higher ; at every step the air seemed
purer, the perfume of the dew-steeped flowers
sweeter. It was as if he drew in new life

with every breath : as if another heart were
beating responsive to his own.

As he neared the summit of the hill, he
was obliged to stop for a few minutes to
recover breath, so rapid had been his upward
course. Then, passing through the
clump of fir-trees which crowned it, he threw
himself down upon the dew-dank grass, forgetful
of all else but that Deepdale, embowered
in trees and bathed in a flood of
sunlight, stood in the vale before him.

But he thought not of Deepdale. It saith
him as with the miser who heeds not
the casket which enshrines his gems, and
thinks but of the priceless pearl within.

*' God, let her be mine ! — be mine ! — be
mine ! And make me worthy of the gift !"
was all his morning prayer.

The wind sighed out an answer through
the trees. It seemed to him as if he had
heard a moan.

'^ Victoria !" he cried.

The echo of the moan had fled, but from
the silence came an answering wail.

He could remain no longer, but fleeing, as
it were, from his own thoughts, hastily retraced
his steps. By degrees he became
calmer, so that he was able to go through his

usual routine of morning work ; but what he
did, he did mechanically ; he continued to
move restlessly about from place to place ;
and so it was without aim or object that he
was walking in the chestnut walk when the
doctor's groom had met him.

Even before the groom had touched his hat
and turned away, Sir Francis had torn open
the letter.

It was from the doctor, enclosing one from
Victoria. Alas ! his worst fears were confirmed.


The doctor s letter, though short, was kind
and sympathetic. With much warmth of
feeling, he regretted he had not sooner known
all the circumstances which had led Victoria
to decide that it was her duty to act in a
manner which must necessarily be the cause
of great pain to both ; for then he most certainly
would have exercised greater caution,
and have prevented their being thrown so
much together — but it was too late for useless
regrets. As it was, he could only beseech him,
by every sentiment of affection he might
entertain for his ward, to abstain from any
attempt to alter her decision, for he felt that
it was, and ought to be, irrevocable.

Sir Francis staggered to the nearest seat ;

he held Victoria's unopened letter in his
hand, but it was as if he had not courage to
read it.

*' How strange!" he murmured; " now that
I feel there is no hope, I love her ten thousand
times more dearly than I did before ! But is
there no hope V

He opened the letter slowly, almost reluctantly,
as he said this, and read as follows :

''My dear Sir Francis,

'' If I were to try, I should be unable
to find words in which to tell you all that I
have felt — all that I now feel. I know not
why, but I had a presentiment that the one
bright day-dream of my life would not be
realised — and so it is. I shall never marry.
I must not be your wife. In the future, you
will be the happier for this ; and the time
will come when I trust we may both be
enabled to meet as firm and — why should
I not write the word 1 — loving friends. Try
to find one more worthy of your love — I will
promise to be to her as a sister. The last few
hours have seemed to me a life. I have
learned so much — so much, alas ! that I
would not have known. Yet I thank God
that it is even as it is. To have had your

love will be something more than a mere
meteor across my path, leaving no trace ; it
shall be to me as the recollection of the cloud
of fire to the Israelites of old, and I trust
that I may have strength given me to the
end — to show — that I was worthy of it :
strength given me to perform in all things,
as in this, my duty. Let me be enabled to
think of you as of one to whom I may look
for h help as from a brother ; but it is better
that for some long time we should not meet.
Till then, help me by your example. Till
then, farewell. Think of me as

*' Your faithful friend,

'' Victoria."

Within three weeks. Sir Francis, to the
astonishment of all the world of Middleshire,
announced his intention of starting immediately
on a lengthened tour — it was given
out, for the purpose of making himself acquainted
with all those various conditions of
human life which, to the observant traveller,
form such a never-ending source of instruction
and amusement. But there were some
who shook their heads ; and Mr. Mortimer
was heard to observe, with a significant air :

*' Well, well, we've a right to look forward

to something more aristocratic than a baronet,
and when we quarter ourselves with our
husband's arms, to find something better thana
dirty red hand."

One thing was very certain : Geraldine had
been for some time looking, for her, unusually
grave, and from some unaccountable cause —
though the doctor was supposed to know the
reason why — the Pringle family were less with
the Yorkess' than usual.

It was shortly after Sir Francis had sailed,
that Victoria entered into training, as a nurse,
in St. Tobias's Hospital, where she threw
herself into her work with an energy which
had gained her much commendation from all
those with whom she had been brought into
contact. The matron said she was invaluable.
The secretary, that she was an honour to the
institution ; and Professor Sharpe, that " she
had more nous in her little finger than
half the students in their whole united brain-boxes."


CHAPTER XL

RIGHT OR WRONG?

** Come, come, my little man ; you are looking
glum. That won't do ; you must laugh."

My '* little man " was a plump urchin of
some four years old, Ijing on his back on a
small bed, which was one of some thirty other
small beds, each one of which had its small
tenant, in a spacious ward in St. Tobias's
Hospital ; and my " little man " had his large
black eyes fixed somewhat ruefully on the
point of his great toe, for his right leg — it
was the old story : run over by a cab — had
been broken, and in order to dry the gum
bandage in which it had been placed the \Qg
had been hoisted up to a kind of tripod, in
such a way that his foot was considerably
higher than his head.

Thus it was that " my little man," utterly
amazed by the variety of incidents which had

VOL. I. 9

so suddenly crowded themselves into his little
life, and not the least astonishing of which
was the elevation of his great toe to such an
unwonted height, was lost in perplexity, and
continued to gaze upon it with a sad and
mournful interest. It was as if he were not
quite sure whether it was his own great toe
or the great toe of some one else, placed therefor
his amusement ; and this state of uncertainty
and doubt had so worked upon his
feelings that while his curiosity, not unmixed
with a certain degree of apprehension, was
intensely excited, the sense of pain was almost
entirely lost.

Come, come, my little man, you must
laugh."

The voice in which this was said was so
sweet and pleasant, there was such a sympathetic
ring in every word, that the little
fellow gave up for the moment the contemplation
of his toe, and turned his dark lustrous
eyes, as if perforce, full upon the
speaker.

There must have been something in her
to complete the favourable impression produced
by her voice, for the mournful expression
of the child's face passed away as if it
had been a cloud, and a little roguish smile

took its place, which said as clearly as a little
moorish smile could : " Is not all this very
funny ?"

Good boy !" said the nurse, nodding approvingly.


*' Bravo ! well done, Victoria !" said Dr.
Pringle, who had entered unobserved, as he
held out his hand. " I wish some ot* the fond
mothers I wot of were here, to learn the difference
between the real sympathy, which
strengthens and cheers, and the spurious,
maudlin sympathy, which weakens and
spoils. I congratulate you : when we can
make our patients laugh we have not much
to learn. But I must not gossip ; I am in a
great hurry, and I only looked in to tell you
that I hope that everything is satisfactorily
arranged, and that you will be able to do all
you want at Zurich."

He had no time for more, for at that moment
the matron and Professor Sharpe entered
the ward.

Now the professor was an old friend of Dr.
Pringle's, though, considering they had been
partly educated together and belonged to the
same profession, it was remarkable how few
ideas they had in common.

A thin, angular, somewhat bilious-looking

9—2

little man was the professor, with an incisive,
cutting manner, perfectly in keeping with his
name. He had the misfortune of being just
three inches shorter than he considered he
ought to have been, and so irritated was he
against Dame Nature for her ill-treatment
of him in this matter that it would have been
extremely disagreeable for that worthy dame
had she fallen into his practised professional
hands, for he would most assuredly have
made her pass a remarkably mauvaise quart
heure.

Not that the professor was naturally unamiable
; quite the reverse. But how is it
to be expected that a man can be in the best
of tempers who never ceases to be conscious
of being just three inches under the five feet
ten he had fixed upon as his proper height,
and who is under the necessity of rising upon
his toes — as the professor perpetually did at
the interval of a few seconds — in order to
assert himself and preserve his proper position
in society.

It was this want of height which made the
professor hate tall people, and woe to the
students with long legs, for it was upon them
that he was ever ready to pour out the vials
of his wrath. A singular contradiction this,

considering how very much he disliked being
short himself 1 However, so it was, and you
could not be in the professor's society many
minutes without finding out his weak point.

Next to his hatred of tall people was his
intense dislike to women who did not '* keep
their proper places." He spoke of them with
the same contempt as he did of tall men, and
spoke to them as he indeed did to all women
but one — as if they were intelligent babies
who had been permitted to increase in size.
And here again he was guilty of another
strange inconsistency ; for though he constantly
dilated on one of his pet theories, that
no woman should be allowed to think, he
secretly paid the greatest deference to the
opinions of the matron, Mrs. Wainscottt,
though when he acted upon them he always
made it appear he was merely following out
his own.

Mrs. Wainscottt herself, though trained ina
school which made her readily accept the
position of inferiority assigned to her sex, and
so strongly insisted upon by the professor,
was a remarkable instance of the amount of
beneficial work which may be effected in a
large institution by a clever, energetic woman.
Everything over which she had charge was in

perfect working order. The discipline of the
nurses left nothing to be desired. The wards
were models of comfort, cleanliness, and order,
and apart from the skill of the medical officers,
much of the reputation which belonged to St.
Tobias was due to her watchful, sympathetic
care, and to her great administrative ability.

And yet it was supposed by Professor
Sharpe — and all those Professor Shapes who
are to be found in the world under other
names — that she had no right to think !

But in order that there may be no misapprehension
as to his views — for it is no light
matter to deal unjustly with the character of
such a man as Professor Sharpe — it will be as
well to state them in his own words, thus :

"Do as you will" — the professor has raised
himself to the very point of his toes as he
utters emphatically the last word — *^Do as
you will, you never can teach the woman to
reason — that is, to think. Do not misunderstand
me. I do not mean that a woman is
unable to arrive at conclusions or decisions
based upon motives equally with the man ;
but the motives themselves are arrived at by
a totally different process ; in the one case
they are the outcome of a variety of factors
working together in that great factory of

thought, the brain ; in the other they are, as
it were, spontaneous emotions emanating
from structural causes, necessarily limited in
their sphere of action. Thus it is we find
that whilst the range of a man's thoughts are
boundless, the woman's mind, as a rule —
remember, I am not speaking of your exceptional
monstrosities — the woman's mind, I
repeat, is, as a rule, entirely occupied — apart
from such thoughts as men choose to give
her, for some special purpose — with the subject
of dress, the choice of beef or mutton
for her husband's dinner, or some one of the
thousand and one trifles of which human
existence is made up, and which I, for one,
most certainly do not undervalue."

The only person to whom the professor did
not care to enunciate his views on woman
was his wife ; for he had married very early
in life a young lady so tall that when still in
her teens she had been danced round by her
schoolfellows on the first of May. She had
considerably developed since that time, and
the professor knew but too well that in her
case, *' spontaneous emotions emanating from
structural causes " were not to be trifled
with.

It was observed, too, that he never stood

upon his toes when his wife was present.
She did not like it, and whatever question
there might be as to the nature of her mind,
there could be none as to the fact of her
having a very strong will.

Surgery was the professor's passion, and
he had the reputation of being a very skilful
surgeon ; but he cared more for the operation
than the patient, and was not at all prepared
to admit that recovery formed one of the
chief elements of success.

His dexterity was a favourite theme of
conversation amongst the pupils, and one of
them had been once heard to remark that
the sweetest thing in nature was to see Professor
Sharpe handling the knife. Peace be
to his ashes — for the professor is now dead.

Ah ! my good friend Pringle," said the
professor, as he and the matron entered the
room. "Just the very man. We were talking
of you. You must put a stop to it. Mustn't
he, Mrs. Wainscottt ?"

At least, give me time to say — How d ye
do ?" said the doctor, holding out his hand to
the matron.

Time is precious," said the professor ; "nota
minute to lose. Operation — amputation at
the hip — splendid case ! Will make my

tenth. Of course you'll come — all through
obstinacy."

Through what ?" asked the doctor.

*' Obstinacy," said the professor. '^ Injury
in foot. Amputation necessary — would not
submit. Spread to knee — still held out.
Now, just in time — given in. A splendid
case, under best possible conditions."

*' It is a poor girl," said the matron, ^* whose
friends interfered no less than three times
th night before the operation was decided
on, and now this is the last hope. It is very
sad."

'^ Mrs. Wainscottt," said the professor. " I
have no time now. I must leave the doctor to
you. You know my views. This great institution
will suffer. It must be put a stop to.
Pringle, your ward must not be allowed to
make a fool of herself You must prevent it.
Women must keep to their own sphere. snow,
for the present, good-bye ; remember, I shall
begin in half-an-hour. It's a first-rate chance.
So mind you come."

The professor brought his heels down to
the ground with a stamp, as he said this,
made a pirouette, and walked off in the direction
of an adjacent ward, leaving the doctor
in charge of Mrs. Wainscottt.

Well, my dear madam ?" said the doctor,
interrogatively.

I would much rather the professor had
spoken to you himself," said the matron. *^ It
is about Miss Marsh. Of course you know-that
she is going to leave the hospital T

"Yes."

And the object she has in view ?"

Certainly."

May I ask if she is acting with your
sanction ?"

** She is old enough to judge for herself
in this matter, and she is acting after due
experience. There is therefore no reason
why I should oppose her wishes."

But, my dear sir, do you really think it is
desirable that women should be doctors ?
Was it ever intended ?"

'^ The first question I find no difficulty in
answering. To the second I must confess
being obliged to plead entire ignorance. But
though I would answer the first question
generally in the affirmative, I should prefer
to qualify my opinion, and say that I can
conceive cases in which it might not only
be desirable, but very desirable that some
women should be duly qualified for medical
practice."

"But remember what girls will have to
submit to in the course required from them.
Will not their modesty suffer V

** No more than it does at present, from
what they have to see and do as nurses,"
said the doctor ; " and I would ask if the
natural repugnance which every girl of refined
and delicate feelings must have to the performance
of duties — which are often of the
most repulsive and distressing nature — can
be overcome through the influence of motives
without which her work would be impossible,
and if she can be prepared for, and do this
work, with advantage rather than injury to her
moral qualities, how much less likely is she to
suffer when the object to be effected becomes
greater, the interests deeper, and the preparation
not one whit more objectionable than
that which they have to undergo under your
watchful care. Am I not right in this ?'*

Mrs. Wainscottt was silent for a moment.

There is certainly much truth in what you
say. It may be prejudice, however, but I
cannot reconcile myself to the idea ; it seems
unnatural."

All new ideas do seem unnatural at first ;
but come, come, Mrs. Wainscottt, said the doctor,
kindly, " you are a practical woman, and the

work of this world can only be properly done
people who are so. Just look round at your
poor little friends in this ward, and ask yourself
what does a man doctor know about them?
he does not even know their language. What
is understood by every mother, by every woman
with ordinary sympathies, is to him a sealed
book ; he has either to grope about in the
dark, or seek out some woman to act as his
assistant. Take the word of an old practitioner,
that in almost all such cases the woman's
diagnosis would be quicker, surer. Then as
regards much of our practice with your own
sex — dear me, dear me I Surely here all objection
ceases ?"

" But we women have no confidence in
women," said the matron, laughing.

"We must educate your judgment, my good
madam, and teach you to perceive that the
best is the best whether it exhibits itself
before the world in pantaloons or petticoats."

But with regard to operations ?" asked
the matron.

"All medical men are not operative surgeons,"
said the doctor ; '' and I know of
some — aye, and very good, useful fellows in
their way — whom I would not trust to cut off
the leg of a roast fowl. But allowing the

major surgical operations to remain more
especially as a part of the man's work, there
are hundreds of the minor ones which might
be done as well, indeed more easily, and therefore
better, by the women. Take the eye for
instance, and those operations which require
the use of very small and fine instruments :
surely a woman would find less difficulty in
handling them with her delicate and practised
hands, than I possibly could with these great
awkward thumbs."

The doctor held out his hands as he spoke ;
and there could be no doubt but that it could
only be by great practice and extremely good
management that they could be made to
adapt themselves to any work which might
require delicate manipulation.

And yet," said the matron, " I have
heard that you have used them very skilfully."


'' I have done my best ; one can do no
more," said the doctor. " But I should like
to know why a young girl, anxious to do good
in her generation — who has mastered all the
mystery of nursing, and overcome all the
horror with which, until we are familiarised
with it, the sight of much that the surgeon
has to do produces — is to be doomed to stand

by everlastingly with a basin and sponge,
when she may feel that she has something
more in her, and when she is half inclined to
say to some bungling operator — for there are
bunglers in all professions — ' Come, hold this,
and let me take your place. I could do it in
half the time, and twice as well myself '."

'^ Really, doctor," said the matron, " I must
confess to being more than half converted."

'* It will take time," said the doctor, *^ to
reconcile the public to the change ; but all
honour to those who have the courage to
become the pioneers in those unknown paths
which become in time the frequented highways
of human progress."

But what shall I say to the professor 1"
asked the matron. '' He will be furious."

'^ So much the better," said the doctor.
The more furious the gale, the sooner it
is over. I would see him myself, but to-day
I must be off at once. Will you kindly tell
him, as he did not give me time to do so,
that I have an engagement which will prevent
me, much to my regret, being present in
the theatre this morning '?"

Ah, poor thing ! Poor thing !" said the
matron.

It was evident that familiarity with distressing

scenes had not hardened her heart,
for, as the doctor took leave of her. her eyes
were filled with tears.

A few minutes later, as the doctor was
hurrying along Great George Street, on his
way to the Park, he brushed against a tall,
red-faced man, dressed in a suit of unmistakably
sporting cut.

I beg your pardon," said the doctor,
lifting his hat.

The stranger growled a response — it almost
sounded like an oath — as he passed on.

How very odd," thought the doctor. " I
certainly have seen that face before." He
slackened his pace, as he reflected for a few
moments. " I have it ! I have it !" he said
out loud. *' What singular resemblances
there are in this world ! It is a disagreeable
and bloated likeness of the good-looking
youth whose portrait hung opposite the bed
of my old friend Mrs. Marsh. Poor dear old
soul ! What a life of trial hers must have
been 1'^

CHAPTER XII.

OUT IN THE RAIN.

It is evening. Cabs roll unceasingly towards
the theatres. It rains, and hapless foot-passengers
hail omnibuses in vain — they are
all full to overflowing ; and the conductors, so
watchful and vociferous at other times, have
assumed an air of dignified repose, and
appear to be rather amused than otherwise
at the idea of people being obliged to walk
in a drenching shower. Walking is decidedly
unpleasant — in the emphatic language of the
period, '^ most awfully " so — for above it is
all downpour and drip, whilst below, the
water streams over the pavement in a way
which makes the owner of a pair of waterproof
shoes an envied man.

The shops are either closed or closing,
though at distant intervals one is to be found
open, whose owner, more greedy of gain, or

more impecunious than his neighbour, seeks
to obtain the custom of those waifs and strays
whose daily wants have not yet been supplied.
By a stretch of imagination, and a slight
departure from the truth, Regent Street, the
Strand, and the other great thoroughfares maybe
said to be lighted ; but when we turn off
them into the narrow streets which form such
an interminable network in the great metropolis,
we should find but " darkness visible,"
were it not that here and there — and but too
often here and there seem very close together
the street is made all ablaze by streams of
light from gas-burners grouped together so
regardless of expense, that the unsophisticated
stranger who visits London for the first time
would be struck with wonder at the unselfish
liberality which prompts those whose aim is
to minister to the simple wants of the multitude
by the sale of beer and gin, to act as if
gas were supplied gratis, and gas shares were
not paying ten per cent. But without light
what should we be in this world ? Is not
light the source of heat and life ? We all
have heard of the deeds of darkness, and it
cannot be but with sentiments of honest pride
that the Englishman who takes an interest
in the welfare of his fellow-creatures, finds,
VOL. r. 10

as he walks through the streets of London,
evidences of the liberality with which this
great blessing has been diffused — not by the
Government, certainly not by the gas companies,
not even by charitable societies, but
by the private efforts of rich individuals and
wealthy firms competing with each other in
honourable rivalry, and amongst which will be
found holding a forward place the time-honoured
names of Souseman and Soppit.

Well do such names deserve to be emblazoned
in green and gold on so many noble — or
ignoble — houses, in letters so large that all
who run can read ! Virtue brings its own
reward. The names of some of our greatest
philosophers and men of science may remain
unknown, but those of Souseman and Soppit
have become household words.

Then, too, here and there we come upon
streets which, as soon as Regent Street and
the other great fashionable commercial
thoroughfares have become dark, are lighted
through their entire length by the lanterns —
or more frequently tallow-candles, protected
from the wind by paper shades — on the
costermonger's trucks which line their entire
length. In these streets the pavement is
thronged with purchasers, now carefully

examining the wares which are temptingly-spread
out before them ; now in what seems
to be in noisy altercation with the dealers,
but it is not so — it is merely the ordinary
process by which purchases are made ; with
the uneducated of the Anoflo-Saxon race, the
choice of language is extremely small, so that
in order to be emphatic, it is necessary to
use strong and coarse expletives, to do the
work of adjectives and other parts of speech,
required, but unknown. All kinds of wares
are exposed for sale on these trucks. Fish,
vegetables, fruits, wearing apparel, hats and
caps, boots and shoes, crockery and tin ware ;
indeed everything which might be likely to
enter into the requirements of those who
have but little money, and who weigh well
every penny they spend. Many of the shops
in the streets themselves are for butchers'
meat, temptingly displayed, not in joints, orin
any recognised form, but scraps heaped
together, with the price — from one penny
upwards — marked in large printed figures,
stuck into them with skewers.

Some of these streets run parallel to, and
within a very short distance of, the Strand ;
but how far apart with respect to all that is
to be found in them ! A few paces, and you

10—2

enter, as it were, into a different world. No
handsome shops full of rich and tempting wares.
No stream of well-dressed men and women
passing onward, to and from distant quarters
of the city — but squalor, filth, and degradation
on every side.

At the time of which we speak, these streets
have their crowds : they are filled with the
denizens of the narrow courts and alleys ; and
these narrow courts and alleys teem with life
• — life made so hideous by poverty, neglect,
drunkenness, debauchery, and disease, that it
shuns, if it can, the light of day. The men
are in their working-suits — most of them have
none other — and bear upon their persons the
toil-stains of the day, indeed of many days ;
for to be dirty has become a habit in some
cases of life-long growth, and cleanliness is a
word the signification of which is unknown.
The women are equally shabby and unwashed.
If husbands and wives are seen together, they
are usually bent upon the same errand ; for
there is one point upon which they are in
entire sympathy — in their love of drink. If
the husband is in work and earns fair wages,
so much the better for the beer-shop and the
gin-palace. It is but so many more jugs of
beer, pots of porter, and quarterns of gin ; so

many more oaths and execrations ; so many
more kicks and cuflPs.

But there is no amount of evil in this world
out of which some good is not evolved. It is
the drunkenness of these degraded wretches
which gives elegance to the homes of the
members of such respectable firms as Souse-man
and Soppit ; and it might be fairly asked,
were no one to be found patriotic enough to
indulge freely in our national beverages and
alcoholic drinks, how would it be possible to
raise the large revenue which is mainly derived
from them ? How would it be possible
for Great Britain to preserve her place amongst
the powers of the earth ? No, no ! The end
does sometimes justify the means ; and to the
judiciously educated mind it must always be
quite clear, that if England be at this moment
the great champion of liberty, the teacher of
morality, and the leader of progress, it is to
be attributed in no small measure to the indefatigable
and devoted efforts of her capitalist
brewers and distillers; in short, to her
Houseman and Poppies.

Rain, rain, rain ! The clerk of the weather
has evidently given orders for a wet evening — •
perhaps for a wet night. The would-be sellers
are becoming drenched for little purpose, and

wheel off their barrows in despair ; whilst the
would-be buyers take shelter at the hospitable
bars of 'republics," where comforting fluids
are substituted for the solids 'they had intended
to have purchased. The streets are
no longer crowded, but there are dense clusters
round the doors of these houses ; for it
is an ill wind that blows no one good, and the
publicans are driving a roaring trade.

I wish you were in " the word, an

improper noun in common use, does not look
well in print, so we will omit it — '' and your
brat too."

The speaker — his voice was harsh and husky
was a tall, dissipated-looking man, with a
bloated, pimply face, dressed in a shabby suit
of that unmistakable cut affected by men who
frequent stables, and who like to speak of
themselves as being fond of sport. As if to
dispel all doubts on the subject, a gilt horse's
head projected from a faded blue scarf wound
tightly round his neck, and he walked with
that peculiar circular gait which would seem
natural to jockeys and postillions — that is to
say, when postillions were, for the race is
now nearly extinct — and gives the idea of
their having ridden a long way, and of their
still feeling extremely stiff.

A slender and delicate-looking woman was
walking meekly by his side. It was to her he
spoke. Her head had been bent down ; but
the last words were scarcely spoken than she
stopped, drew herself up to her full height,
and turned her pale face towards him — it
still bore the traces of beauty — with a singular
expression of mingled contempt, submission
and fear. But if the former feeling
made her eyes flash and her movements almost
fierce, the latter soon predominated, and relapsing
almost as quickly into her former
attitude of dejection, she ejaculated — the
depth of the struggle within was revealed by
the way it was gasped out — the one word —

'^ Jack !"

"Jack!" The word was repeated in a
strangely different key by a deep bass voice,
which seemed to proceed from the inner
depths of a burly, big-waistcoated man who
had stepped up close behind them. A burly,
jovial-looking man ; at a first glance the personification
of light-heartedness and good-humour
; but a nearer examination disclosed
an anxious, eager restlessness in the bloodshot
eyes, which spake of a nature allied
rather to that of the vulture than of the
turtledove.

Jack !" The word was the same. The
same, but how unlike ! In the one case it
was full of expostulation, tinged with a shade
of long-lost tenderness, made pathetic by the
depth of its despair. In the other, it was as
the voice of the spirit of evil, which, whether
in whispers or in trumpet-tones, stirs up all
that is latent within us, and appealing to the
grosser senses, sets at naught all the nobler
instincts of the heart.

The man turned.

Ah, Trenton, you old scoundrel ! It is
you, is it ? What are you doing out in this
cursed wet ? But I am devilish glad to see
you ; for I need not look twice to see that
luck has changed."

''I believe you, my dear boy ; and to give you
a proof of it, come with me. I was on my way
to look you up. I have a little supper on at
the old place, and you look as if you wanted
cheering. Confound this weather ! It is
enough to give the devil himself the blues.
Ah ! your wife ! Madam, your humble servant.
Unfortunately our rules do not admit
ladies ; but we will drink your health in a
bumper."

** I am much obliged to you, sir ; but I had
rather my husband came home. It is so late."

"Ah, I see you like early hours — so do I —
ha, ha ! Jack — you shall be home early — in
the morning. You may make your mind
easy, my dear madam ; your husband will be
quite safe. God bless you ! I should like to
know who is not safe with Tom Trenton —
honest Tom Trenton."

So saying, he placed his arm within her
husband's, and with a deep bow of exaggerated
politeness, walked his only too willing
companion rapidly oflP in the opposite direction.


The woman stood for a few moments motionless.
Her eyes were full of tears; she dashed
them angrily away.

'^ God forgive me," she said, '^ for having
ever loved him ! I wish that I could hate
him, but he has made me do worse, I loath
and despise him ! Pah !" saying this, with
a gesture of disgust, she hurried onward.

She was sick at heart. The rain still fell
in a heavy downpour. She was wet and
cold.

One, two, three — she had all but passed the
fourth of the brightly lit-up corner houses,
from which there flowed a steady stream of
ill-clad misery, seeking, and finding for a
time, those bright visions of life which belong,

as realities, to those who have been enabled
to tread its tangled paths with firm footsteps,
or for whom fortune has had nought but
smiles. But a few more steps and she is
saved. No ! See ! she falters in her course !
It is but for a moment, but moments are the
turning-points of lives.

After months of brave battling against the
ocean storms, the pilot but closes his eyes for
an instant, and the ship is lost.

But it is not the storms of life which man
has most to fear.

She is cold and wet, and sick at heart. It
is a struggle either way. The weak body
struggling with a still weaker will. Who
could doubt the issue ?

She had entered timidly, furtively, bowed
down with a load of shame. She comes forthwith
a firm step, erect and almost radiant.
Misery has no more dominion over her, for
she feels as if she had ceased to think.

There is no sense of cold and chilliness now.
She is all aglow ; and as the blood courses
in unwonted flow through her exhausted
frame, it is as if she had renewed all the
vigour and elasticity of her youth ; and of
all physical pleasures, what pleasure can be

compared to that which is produced by the
sense of life when life is at its best 1

Ah ! who can wonder that the craving for
drink becomes an irresistible impulse with the
miserable '? The apple offered to Eve was as
nothing to this great temptation, for she was
in Paradise, and these in a world where man
has marred most of his Maker's works.

Still onward. It is but two streets more
but what streets! Even darker and dirtier
than those tha t she has left. One of them, the
narrowest of the two, is full of houses where
a night's lodging can be had for a few pence,
and many wet and hungry wretches are
wending their way towards them. Wretches
so destitute that they possess nothing beyond
the foul and loathsome rags they carry on
their backs. Wretches whose whole career
might be summed up as — through the gin-palace
to the grave.

Still onward ! She has reached her goal
at last. Panting and exhausted, she pauses
on the threshold of a dirty ill-cared-for house.
Reaction has now set in ; she is more miserable
than before; very cold, and very wet,
and oh, how heart-sick !

She shakes off the wet which streams from
her threadbare garments, and then, with a

convulsive shudder, enters a dark passage —
the door of the house stood open — and gropes
her way up a narrow flight of stairs to the
second story. Then another pause ; and as
she leans against the wall for support, she
gasps for breath, as if half suffocated by
the fetid air which is the only atmosphere
of the houses in these localities. At this
moment the moon broke through a cloud, and
in the light of the few stray beams which
forced their way through a dirty paper-patched
window, a pale worn face might have
been seen turned heavenward, with that expression
of intense anguish which belongs to
despair.

Involuntarily a sob burst from her, as she
turned and laid her hand upon the handle of
the door near which she had been standing.
It must have been heard by some one within ;
some one who, perhaps, had been awaiting her
return, for almost at the same moment it
opened, and she stood face to face with an
old man whose gaunt form, wrapped up in
the dingy folds of a faded flowered dressing-gown,
stood out in bold, almost grotesque,
relief, as he leant forward, and peering at her,
made, with many significant gestures, some

whispered inquiry, of which the word "found"
was alone audible.

•' Of course not, Uncle, it never will be
found. Come here, like a dear good boy, and
don't be silly."

The answer came from a corner of the room
near the fireplace. The speaker was a little
girl who, though she was in truth older, did
not look more than six years old. She was
seated on a low stool near a chair, which,
from the variety of articles placed upon it,
evidently did duty as a table. She had soft,
regular features, and a profusion of light-brown
hair which flowed over her shoulders
in a wild wavy mass, which in the fire-light
there was none else there — was tinged with
red and flecked with gold.

The old man made no reply, but with a
deep sigh walked meekly to an arm-chair
by the side of the fire, opposite to where the
child was seated ; and as the light fell on his
face, it was evident, from its shy, abashed
expression, that he felt ashamed of having
laid himself open to rebuke.

'' Ah, mother 1" said the child, '^ I am so
glad you are come back. But the time has
not seemed long, for dear old Uncle has
been so good ; he has been telling me of all

the beautiful sights I should have seen if
God had only given me a pair of eyes like
those He has given to other people."

She raised her head as she spoke, and as
she did so the dull, lifeless orbs showed but
too plainly that she was blind.

She paused for a moment, and then added
the voice was the same, but it quivered
strangely as she spoke :

But where is father T

The mother, who had been standing silently
by the door, made no answer, but she stepped
rapidly across the room, and kneeling down
by the side of the child, threw her arms
round her.

''Madge," she sobbed out, rather than
spoke, ''my angel — my guardian angel ! Oh,
if I could but die !" and her voice became
choked with tears.

The child looked up with a pained, puzzled
look.

"Come here, dear old Uncle," she said,
in her clear, silvery, soft voice. " Come here,
I want you. Tell me what all this means.
You are so strange ; father's so strange ; and
now mother is strangest of all. But perhaps
it is only poor me, because I have got no eyes
like other people. Is not that it, dear Uncle?"

The old man had risen from his seat when
appealed to. He shook his head sorrowfully.

No, Madge — no !" he said ; " it is not
you, nor I, nor any of us. It is fate ! It
was written in the Book, and so 'twas lost.
Ah, if I could but find it ! If I could but

find itr

'^ Rubbish, Uncle dear !" said the silvery
voice — '* rubbish, or you would have told me
long ago what it was you have lost. And
what good is rubbish when it is found, I
should like to know "?"

It was not rubbish, Madge !" said the old
man, ruefully.

But you know, Uncle dear, it must be
all right if it were written in the Book."

*' Tut — tut ! I have my doubts," said a
deep and solemn but somewhat cracked voice
out of the darkness of the corner in which
Madge sat, and near which her mother still
remained, crouched and sobbing. "I have
my doubts — have my doubts — my doubts —
doubts !"

The voice gradually died away, as if too
much doubting had made the speaker drowsy.
But if so, the drowsiness must have been
successfully resisted, for in a few seconds a
peal of laughter rang through the room, and

with a preliminary whistle, as if to command
attention, a sharp shrill voice called out in
peremptory tones :

'' Mum's the word. Don't tell the cats !"
I tell you what, sir, if you don't go to
sleep this very minute, I'll come and whip
you," was Madge's response.

The threat seemed to have its proper effect,
for the mysterious voice became silent after
a few inarticulate sounds, which made it
appear that sleep had overtaken the speaker
whilst endeavouring to renew his solemn
warning to the world at large against being
on too confidential terms with — cats !

CHAPTER XIIL

THE major's '' LITTLE GAME."

Honest Tom Trenton — or as he was known
in those happy moments when he was, as he
expressed it, " basking in the blaze of Fortune's
favour," "' Major " Trenton — was in
his glory. He vas exercising the virtue of
hospitality, he was performing the duties of
a host, and his face beamed with the satisfaction
which all hosts ought to feel, and with
the prospect of good things to come.

'And it was evident, from the appearance
of the table, which had been laid for three
persons, that the prospect was not a remote
one.

Make yourself at home, Jack," he said
to his companion. " Our friend will soon be
here, and we will have a cosy time of it.
Yes, he is late — just a ' beetle' late — but then,
what can you expect from a West-ender who,

VOL. L 11

like our friend, goes in for fashion, and all
that sort of thing ? But you will find him
of the right sort. Just the man we want.
But talk of the devil, and "

The door opened, and in walked Mr. Mortimer.


Jack, who was standing before the fire,
making himself at home by drying his nether
garments, and so filling the small room, which
the major had selected on account of its being
*' snug " and *' quiet," with a steam which
smelt of burnt wool, looked as morose as
ever ; but the major advanced to meet Mr.
Mortimer with the most exuberant cordiality.

Ah, my dear fellow, here you are at last !
Let me introduce you to my friend Jack
Marsh, than whom you will find no better
card in the pack — a very ace of trumps is
my friend Jack ! Jack, this is Mr. Mortimer,
of whom you have heard me speak so highly.
It is a pleasure and a profit to know Mr.
Mortimer ; and 1 am confoundedly glad to
give you an opportunity of sharing such a
privilege with me. You were made to befriends,
and it is honest Tom Trenton who
says so."

Mr. Mortimer — our friend Mr. Mortimer,
as well as the major's — had entered the room

somewhat timidly, but the terms in which he
has been spoken of has restored his self-possession.
He expresses — somewhat incoherently
— his delight at having the honour
to be introduced to any friend of the major s.
He rolls out the word "' major " as if it were
something sweet and pleasant to the palate,
to be kept upon the tongue as long as possible;
and he swallows the last sound of it
with a gulp, as if regretting he could not
retain it any longer. The fact is, Mr. Mortimer,
who somehow or other frequently found
himself under the necessity of reminding his
acquaintances that he was not " infallible,"
was not quite devoid of some of the weaknesses
belonging to ordinary mortals, and amongst
them, we fear, must be included the extraordinary
satisfaction which he felt at being
on terms of very great intimacy with a real
major.

We say real major, for a major he undoubtedly
was, in his own estimation and
that of his friends; though the how, the when,
and the where of his having obtained that
distinguished military rank was a mystery
so deep, that it is doubtful whether a careful
search amongst the records at the War
Office, could have solved it. It is true he

11—2

had served some three years and three-quarters
in that highly-famed regiment, the
Royal Restorers; but his military career had
been brought to an untimely end through the
obnoxious action of a court-martial, composed
of members who were jealous of his superior
skill at cards — indeed, some had been great
sufferers from it — and so had the audacity to
ruin the prospects of a gallant officer by
sentencing him to be cashiered. He must,
however, notwithstanding this, have found
means to get reinstated — though it was
never clearly shown to what particular branch
of the service he had been subsequently
attached — for amongst his friends, and particularly
after his fifth glass of gin and water,
he was fond of alluding to his services, and
more especially to the hardships he had undergone
during a longtourof dutyin the colonies —
from his description it would seem to have been
in Australia — and it was generally supposed
he had received brevet rank in consequence.

In any case. Major Thomas Trenton would
seem, on his return to England, to have devoted
his talents, aided by the experience he
had gained in the Koyal Loiterers, and
generally in her Majesty's Service, to a careful
study and a practical application, of those

combinations which belong to financial operations
connected with the Turf. He had not,
as far as anybody knew, ever served in the
cavalry, but his interest in horses was very
great indeed ; so much so, that though life did
not pretend to eloquence,he never lost an opportunity
of descanting upon the necessity of our
keeping up the breed of horses in this country,
by encouraging and seconding, in every possible
way — and of this he took a very liberal
and broad view — the efforts of those who, on
public or private grounds, have devoted themselves
to extending, and making as general
as possible, an interest in horse-racing — or
as he preferred to call it, as he emphatically
did— 'the Turf."

In manner, there was a marked contrast
between the major and the friend whom he
had introduced as Jack Marsh. The major
had a ^' make it-pleasant-all-round " way of
putting things which had obtained for him
the sobriquet of old " Try-it-on ;" indeed,
he had cultivated blandness to such an extent
that it sometimes assumed the character of
benignity ; the other, on the contrary, was
always brusque, and frequently brutal ; and
if he did not interlard his cutting sentences
with oaths, it was only because he possessed

a large stock of slang expressions which
answered his purpose equally well ; so much
for manner. With respect to character, it
may be said that such characters as they
possessed were very nearly equal in degree,
though somewhat different in kind — not sufficiently
so, however, to prevent their being
thoroughly congenial ; and had the world
been an oyster, they would probably have
been found trying to open it at the same
time, though possibly from different sides.

The major and Mr. Marsh were dressed
somewhat in the same style, though it was
evident that at this moment the major stood
on the best terms with his tailor ; they both
gave unmistakable evidence of being devoted
to potations of a more stimulating nature
than toast and water ; from both there came
that peculiar emanation which belongs to
those who indulge largely in beer, brandy,
and tobacco ; and upon both there remained
a slight impress — faded, but still there — of a
*' something better " stamped upon them in
their youth.

Honest Tom Trenton, as the major delighted
to call himself, was, as we have said
before, in his glory. He rubbed his hands

with intense satisfaction as the waiter
brought in the supper.

This is what a supper ought to be," he
said. '* Snug and cosy ; snug and cosy.
None of your saloons for Tom Trenton.
Honest Tom Trenton is an old glutton ; he
likes to keep his friends to himself, and
when he finds a good thing to share it with
them — he'll be hanged if he don't ! — and not
blare it out to all the world."

On any other occasion, *come, Tom, none
of your cursed humbug !" would have been
Mr. Marsh's rejoinder. " I know you want
something. What is it ? Out with your
little game !" but now he was restrained by
Mr. Mortimer's presence, and by his having
been allowed an insight into the said '^ little
game " — so far as it had suited the major's
purpose to enlighten him — as they had
walked arm-in-arm, under the same umbrella,
through the streets. He did not as yet
know any of the details, but what of that 1
He had* great confidence in the major, though
it is true that sometimes, when he had declared
that he had six trumps in his hand, he
would manage to lose the trick. But the major
could keep cool, and he could not. He could
not do better than put his trust in the major.

Now the major s " little game " was simply
this: to pluck Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, junior,
of his last feather, through the aid, in the
first instance, of the unsuspecting Mr. John
Mortimer.

Now Mr. John Mortimer s besetting sin was
ambition. His great object was to follow in
the footsteps of those whom he looked upon
as his 'betters." He had gained from their
conversation, to which he had been an attentive
listener, that the topic in which a large
number of them took the greatest interest
was the information in the sporting columns
of the daily papers ; and in a short time he
cared to read nothing else. By degrees he
had advanced from a few desultory bets to
making a regular book ; and it was in the
society of a few choice spirits of similar tastes
that he had come across the major.

From the very first moment the. major had
treated him with marked, it might, indeed,
be said deferential, attention.

Never before had Mr. Mortimer been, ashe
conceived, rated at his proper value ; and
when through the major's having put him
upon a thing or two, his book for the
last Derby — though the bets were not large
became something to be proud of, his

gratitude knew no bounds. Indeed, he
would have been a very brute had he not
been grateful, for the disinterested kindness
of the major had been bestowed upon him at a
moment when that gallant officer was suffering
under the frowns of fortune, and that to an
extent which had obliged him, soon after, to
withdraw for a time from the haunts of — sporting
— men. Indeed, the period of his seclusion
would have been considerably prolonged had
it not been for the proffered and accepted aid
of Mr. John Mortimer.

'* My purse does not contain much," said
that gentleman, " but it is all I have."

The major shook him by the hand until it
ached.

'* Bless you, my dear fellow — bless you !"
he said. " Tom Trenton may want money —
and he very often does want money — but
what is a dirty hundred pounds to him in
comparison with the friendship of a man who
has a heart — yes, sir, a heart ?"

He could say no more ; his feelings were
too much for him, so he carefully unfolded
his pocket-handkerchief, and blew his nose
with a kind of '* boot-and-saddle " blast.

Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, junior — nicknamed
Marmalade at school, and called, as we know,

Duke at home — had whilst at Eton betted ina
small way, and made the state of the odds
one of his favourite studies. During the
holidays he had, with the natural frankness
of a boy, often communicated his views oncoming
events '^ to Mr. Mortimer, and that
gentleman had more than once alluded to the
young gent " when in conversation with his
sporting friends. The major, who was always
on the look-out for opportunities, as,
indeed, all great men are, pricked up his ears
when he heard the name of the rich brewers
son. Hundreds of thousands of pounds
floated in visions before him ; and he was
determined to lose no time in opening the
campaign.

It was so far in his favour that Mr. Mar-mature
Yorke, junior, out of respect to his
father's scruples, dared not enter publicly
into transactions connected with the turf;
though he had already laid out a few " ponies,"
through the medium of Mr. Mortimer, with
encouraging success. But young fish, though
not so wary as old ones, are often more difficult
to catch, for they have not settled down
into steady habits, and you never quite know
where to find them. They, are fond, too, of
rising at every kind of bait but the one you

want them to take, and it is especially mortifying
to find them going off after your
neighbour's blue fly when you had every
reason to believe they preferred a red one.

But, above all, the major's scheme required
time and patience. Nothing could be done
until Duke had become of age, and had
entered into business as a member of his
father's firm. In the interval he could
mature his plans, and this he had now done
most thoroughly.

Mr. Mortimer was an important factor in
the major's scheme, but the services of his
friend Jack had become equally indispensable ;
for though Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, in making
his books, was principally guided by Mr.
Mortimer's advice, and the "' tips " that
gentleman was enabled to obtain for him,
through the judicious employment of secret
service money, the major felt that, in order
to obtain the financial advantages he was
hoping to derive from the operation he had
in hand, it would be necessary to have the
aid of some trusty and experienced coadjutor,
who would act implicitly under his directions.

He rather piqued himself upon his knowledge
of character, and had discovered at a
very early period that the very man he

wanted was his old friend Jack, for there
was something in Jack's coarse bluntness of
manner which disarmed suspicion. By many
he would have been looked upon as only too
frank and open-hearted : the last man in the
world of whom it could be possible to make
a tool ; but the major knew better. Just as, in
Napoleonic phrase, you have but to scratch a
Russian and you find a Cossack — so with
Jack ; the fierce swagger which seemed to
betoken courage, and the frank utterances
which were as the outpouring of an honest
heart, served but as a cloak to hide a nature
made up of qualities even more despicable
than his own.

When the supper was finished, which it
was in a thoroughly good style. Jack taking
the lead, the major making a good second,
and Mr. Mortimer well placed at the distance
of a few lengths, his pace having been
effected by his having made very respectable
running in a previous event, the table was
cleared. Brandy-ands water was introduced,
and the host having lighted his cigar, and
requested his friends to follow his example —
which they were not slow to do — proceeded, it
must be confessed in a somewhat roundabout
way, to open the real business of the evening.

Yes," he said, as if in reference to some
remark made by Mr. Mortimer, though that
respectable individual had not opened his
mouth, except for the purpose of putting
something in it, for the previous ten minutes.
Yes, Mortimer, you are quite right." Mr.
Mortimer put on a conscious look which
seemed to say, *' I very often am, but pray
don't say too much about it." " Quite right.
I thoroughly agree with you. There is no
use trying to do anything with the governor ;
but it is quite time that something should be
done to induce the ' Junior ' to do something
more in support of the Turf"

'* Certainly," echoed Mr. Mortimer. '* It
is quite time that something should be
done."

If he don't care for sport, he's a sneak,"
chimed in Jack.

'* What would this country be without it ?"
said Mr. Mortimer.

Sport, sir, sport," said the major, "is the
pivot upon which all that is worthy of being
called society — I use the word in its highest
sense — revolves. Where, I would ask, without
sport, would be found the courage, the
pluck, the endurance, the " — a puff at his
cigar — " the dash by which the British

soldier has distinguished himself on so many
bloody fields, and of which I have had some
small opportunity of being a humble witness.
To this, no doubt, our cultivation of
the noble art of self-defence and our love of
field-sports have largely contributed ; but, asa
man of no small experience, who has had
especial opportunities for gaining a practical
insight into the subject, whilst serving under
her Majesty's colours, and more particularly
through the facilities afforded for observation
during a long period of Colonial service, I
would observe, that of the various pursuits
which are included under the general name
of * sport,' there is none, to my mind, so beneficial
in its effects as that which is carried on
by those — be they noblemen or be they not "
■ — he thumps his chest violently at the last
word — ^* who are patrons of the Turf."

Here the major, quite out of breath through
the length of his peroration, was obliged to
stop and refresh himself

Jack, who had heard much of this before,
only thumped the table and emptied his glass
as if in honour of a toast ; whilst Mr.
Mortimer, under the excitement of the
majors eloquence, threw back his shoulders,
protruded his chest, placed his thumbs in

the armholes of his waistcoat, in the fashion
sometimes adopted by popular public speakers,
and was just on the point of taking up the
parable, when the major, ever jealous of interruption,
laid his hand upon his arm :

*' Stop, my dear friend. I would add but
one word more. I think I spoke of the Turf
A more glorious institution never existed.
What man is there whose patriotism is so
dead that he would wish to see it destroyed ?
No matter from what point of view it may be
regarded, its beneficial influences are undeniable.
Where, I should like to ask, can be
found a better school for our inexperienced
youth ? for does it not teach more thoroughly
than any other, the principles upon which all
honourable intercourse ought to be regulated 1
Good faith, confidence, forbearance, and a
thousand other virtues upon which I need
not dwell. For, is it not enough to know
that what I have thus humbly asserted is
daily borne testimony to by the great leaders
and directors of public opinion in this country.
I refer, sir, to the Press ; for how many
columns do we not find — read, perhaps, by
all who have any pretension to true manly
feeling, with greater attention than any other
dedicated to the most minute and interesting

details connected with the heart-stirring
incidents belonging to the Turf?"

Here another pause, another demonstration
of approval from Jack, another series of
elocutionary preparations from Mr. Mortimer,
again ruthlessly suppressed by the major,
who, under the inspiration of his third glass,
continued as follows :

But, gentlemen, it is not from purely
moral or sentimental points of view that the
question of the Turf has to be regarded.
Tom Trenton, as all the world knows, is a
practical man ; and as a practical man it is
that he now tells you, that the material
benefits of the Turf far outweigh all others.
Look, gentlemen — I don't ask you to take
Tom Trenton's word for it ; just use your
own eyes, and look at our horses. I say our
horses, and I say so advisedly, for I feel with
honest pride — and Tom Trenton has his pride
that every man who throws his leg over a
saddle, whether in the hunting-field or in the
Park, is indebted for all the perfections belonging
to the animal he bestrides — is a
debtor, I say, to those humble individuals
who, like some I could name, did not modesty
forbid, have done all they can to encourage
the breed of horses in this country by most

strenuous, unceasing, and untiring efforts to
further the interests of all that concerns the
Turf The Jockey Club, gentlemen, maybe
worthy of our respect ; TattersalFs may
have its advantages and its merits ; but it is
to the unpretending and ceaseless labours of
independent individuals — I repeat fearlessly,
independent individuals, whose voices are to
be heard on every racecourse in the three
kingdoms, that the greatest credit is due. It
would be false modesty, gentlemen, were we
to shut our eyes to our own merits. Gentlemen,
I drink to our noble selves, and with
the toast I associate the name of that true
lover and patron of sport, my valued friend
Mr. John Mortimer."

Mr. Mortimer, who is a thorough believer
in the major, a thorough believer in Jack,
and a thorough believer in himself, rises to
respond, with as much gravity and dignity as
if he had been assisting at a city feast, and
had been called upon to return thanks for
the House of Lords by Mr. Harder.

You treat me with an honour I do not
deserve," he said, bowing to the major, '' but
I will not deny that I love sport, and that
for some years I have done my best to give
it such support as has been in my power.

VOL. I. 12

Circumstances, to which I need not now
refer, have prevented me from entering into
the amusements belonging to country life,
so far as hunting or shooting is concerned ;
though during that part of the year in which
the duties of my office compel me to reside
away from this great city, I think I may say,
few gentlemen have had better opportunities
of becoming acquainted with everything
which concerns those sports than I have,
for we talk of nothing else from morning
to night : 'Tis nothing but foxes here
and foxes there ; and pheasants in this place
and pheasants in that, till sometimes I feel
all of a daze, and get no sound sleep at night
from a-dreaming of foxes a-running after
pheasants, and dogs a-barking and chasing
the foxes, and men on horses a-halloing and
galloping after the dogs. It makes my brain
all of a whirl, that it does. But when I
come to the Turf, gentlemen, then I feel at
home. All that the major says in that direction
is as true as the sun ; there is, however,
one little remark I should like to make. In
an old country like ours, there are natural
divisions between man and man, as everyone
who thinks at all must see and feel. 'Twas
ever so, and so 'twill ever be ; but as the poet

says' continued Mr. Mortimer, as he liberated
his thumbs and pulled down his waistcoat
with an emphatic jerk, '* on the racecourse
I feel — you know the lines — * my name is
Macgregor, my foot's on the heather ' — the
equal of the Duke — of — no matter what, for
are we not a-standing on the same turf,
a-doing of the same thing ? And was it not
at the last Hepsom races that, as I brushed
up against him, and touched my hat, his
grace called out, 'Halloa, Mortimer, is that
you ? what the devil do you mean by treading
on my corns V By Jove ! gentlemen, it made
me feel that I was a man. And if I were to
show some of the names a-written in my
book, for the next event, a few people that I
know of would open their eyes a little wider
when they met a certain John Mortimer than
they do now."

*' Bosh !" ejaculated the gentleman called
Jack. " It's all a case of odds. I'll be hanged
if I care where the money comes from, and
those confounded puppies with their long
purses and perfumed pocket-handkerchiefs,
are not the weight of a curse more particular.
But what I hate, is, that they are nowadays so
infernal knowing, that honest fellows — like
our friend the major here — stand but a poor

12—2

chance. The times are changed — as I have
found out to my cost."

'* My dear Jack," said the major, '' you
know my motto, ' Nil desperado ' — never
despair. We should not allow ourselves to
lose sight of such noble examples as the past
history of the Turf affords. Look, for instance,
at the case of Cuflfwell, who from small beginnings
became a man of large fortune and an
M.P. Mark that, Mortimer— an M.P., all
through his having employed his abilities in
what is undoubtedly the best of fields for any
man who has more brains than his neighbours,
and would coin money out of them."

For any man who is not cursed with ill-luck,"
grumbled Jack.

^* My dear Jack, why will you be so desponding?"
said the major, in his blandest
tones. ^^ There is no lane without a turning;
and who knows what fortune may not have in
store for you, and not only for you, but for me
for the jade has used me somewhat scurvily
of late — and for our friend Mortimer more
especially, for whom, if he will only go on ashe
has begun, and not allow himself to be
discouraged by occasional checks, I venture
to predict a brilliant future. But, my dear
friends, we must not be always thinking of

ourselves ; we must take the interests of
others sometimes into our keeping. Let me
see — yes, we were talking of the Junior ; we
really must see if we cannot do something for
him. Mortimer, you should really take him
in hand — by the way, I think you told us he
was of age, and in the firm."

'' Yes," said Mr. Mortimer, assuming an
air of importance, *' the double event was
celebrated just nine weeks ago come next
Wednesday. I ought to know something
about it, for I was a participator in the
festivities."

In that case," said the major, " I think
Tom Trenton can see his way — or, to speak
more correctly, our way towards lending him
a helping hand. And I know no reason why
for we have it from the best authority that
the labourer is worthy of his hire — whilst furthering
the great objects, which are the aim
of that admirable institution to which we are
all so devoted, the Turf, and benefiting a
worthy young member of society, we should
not at the same time derive certain legitimate
and substantial ad vantages, the nature of which
it is not necessary for me to go into."

Mr. Mortimer pricked up his ears ; but Jack
only looked fiercely mournful. His confidence

in the major was great, but continued ill-luck
had made him desponding.

The major ceased speaking, and puffed complacently
at his cigar. He had a sanguine
temperament, and was not slow at building
castles in the air.

** But will it not be difficult T mildly suggested
Mr. Mortimer.

'* I should like to know how it is to be
done," said Jack.

"My dear boys' said the major, "leave it
to me ; there's nothing easier in the world.
Mortimer, my man, you shall help me make
his next book ; and you, my dear Jack, shall
sell him a horse."

I !" shouted Jack. " I sell him a horse ?"

Yes, my dear Jack, there is nothing easier.
It is all arranged : you shall sell him a horse ;
and on that blessed animal's back we will all
ride to Fortune."

To the devil !" growled Jack.

CHAPTER XIV.

IN THE COUNTRY.

The Yorkess have been spending the summer
in the country. This year — no one seems to
know exactly why — there has been no yachting,
and the Nautilus, as if weary of winning
cups, reposes in ignominious ease upon the
muddy couch of Haslar Creek.

There has been no trip to the Continent ;
for Duke has suddenly voted travelling ''a
bore," and expressed a wish to pass the
summer months at home. He must have
found that ^^ a bore " too, judging from the
anxious weary expression which of late has
been creeping over his drawn and pallid
cheeks, and the frequent necessity he has
been under of making short trips for change
of air : generally to one of those parts of the
three kingdoms upon which, for the time, the

whole attention of ^' the sporting world " is
concentrated.

Lady Arabella has become anxious. She is
afraid he is ill, and talks about the Riviera,
or Davos, for the winter.

Mr. Yorke does not share her anxiety ; his
attention has been taken up with other
matters. Lady Arabella thinks it odd, and
openly expresses her conviction that her husband
takes more interest in that " disgusting
wish " of Victoria Marsh to become a doctor,
than he does in the interests of his own
children.

"Look at poor Duke!" she said. 'rit
does not require a mother's eye to see that
he has fallen into a very serious state of health ;
and yet his father seems to think nothing of
it — whilst he frets and fumes because this
comparative stranger, a girl whom we have
only known a few years, does not act exactly
as he likes. He could not make more fuss
about her if she were his own daughter. Ah,
mon Dieu — mon Dieu !"

Poor Lady Arabella ! She would not have
said '' Mon Dieu — mon Dieu !" in English, for
the world.

It is true that when Mr. Yorke had heard,
at first by accident, of Victoria s intention, he

had sent for Dr. Pringle, and pointed out how
objectionable, from every point of view, such
a course of action appeared to him. He was
greatly astonished, and not a little annoyed,
to find that the doctor held very different
opinions on the subject.

I am sorry to find that you approve of
her conduct, my dear sir — very sorry I It is a
subject upon which I ought, perhaps, not to
have spoken. But I look upon Victoria as
one of your family ; and as one of a family
thrown together so intimately as yours has
been with mine, it is only natural I should
take an interest in her welfare, and feel
pained at what I still look upon as a singularly
injudicious proceeding on her part."

"Although we differ so strongly, I appreciate
very highly the motives which have induced
you to use your friendly influence in
this matter," said the doctor.

It will be most injurious to her prospects,"
said Mr. Yorke. " Victoria is a very
clever and attractive girl, and ought to make
a good marriage."

She will never marry," said the doctor,
with decision.

My dear doctor !" said Mr. Yorke, " you
speak as if you were the oracle of Fate. Perhaps

she says so now. But pray tell me,
did you ever in the course of your experience
meet with a woman who never changed her
mind T

The doctor smiled.

'^ I know something of character," he said ;
"and firmness in Victoria almost amounts to
obstinacy. She will never change it."

But what could have induced her to have
come to this decision V asked Mr. Yorke.

You are a man of honour, Mr. Yorke,"
said the doctor, '* and will, I know, keep inviolate
any communication I may make to
you. To such a question from any other man
I should remain silent ; but the friendly feeling
you have shown towards Victoria makes
me reluctant that you should misinterpret
her motives. It may be, however, you would
prefer that I remained silent."

'^ Pray go on," said Mr. Yorke.

You are of course not aware that Victoria
Marsh is illegitimate ?" said the doctor. At
this moment Mr. Yorke leant back in his
chair and shaded his eves with his hand —
the light was evidently too strong for him.
This fact was lately revealed to her, together
with some very painful incidents connected
with her family history — the details of

some of which I do not myself know, in a
letter which, in accordance with a promise
made to her aunt when she was dying, I
handed to her on her last birthday. To a
sensitive and proud nature — for Victoria,
though utterly without vanity, is not devoid
of pride — such a revelation would be very
likely to lead to a determination never to
marry ; but I am inclined to think, though I
have not read the letter, that it contained a
direct request to that effect. Victoria had a
deep affection for her aunt ; and words which
are spoken to us from the verge of the grave
by those we love cease to be counsels — they
become commands."

Mr. Yorke was silent for a few seconds.

"Poor girl !" he said at length ; " it is a sad
story. The old, old tale." His voice trembled
as he spoke. '* But you are quite right,
this should be kept secret. A strange world
this !"

In which the innocent often have to bear
the burdens imposed upon them by the guilty,"
said the doctor.

'' Had Mrs. Marsh, then, think you, no
knowledge of her niece's parentage — of Victoria's
— father 1"

*' I know not — she too had much pride.

and I should hardly think would be likely to
allow her mind to dwell upon — or care for
Victoria to have any knowledge of — a man
she had so much reason to despise."

The light is evidently too strong for Mr.
Yorke's eyes, for again he has to shade them
with his hands.

Ah, it is all those cursed cigars !" said
the doctor to himself, as he saw how those
hands trembled.

'' I think she has an independent fortune,"
at length said Mr. Yorke.

Her aunt left everything to her, and it is
more than sufficient for her needs. It is not
from necessity that Victoria prefers work to
idleness."

Then you think she has quite made up
her mind, doctor ?"

I am quite sure."

*' It would be no use then, for me or Lady
Arabella to speak to her on the subject ?"

Not the slightest ; and it would only be
painful to all parties."

And she is to go to Zurich ?"

*' Yes ; at the end of the month it has been
decided on as the best place for her to commence
her studies in."

Why not London ?"

"At every step she would have to overcome
a prejudice."

Well, well ! I suppose there is no more
to be said ; what cannot be cured must be
endured."

Giving utterance to this wise adage, Mr.
Yorke rose from his chair.

Dear me," thought the doctor, as he did
so, " what can be the matter with the man ?
How il] he looks !"

Within a few days of this conversation, a
note was received at Deepdale from Lady
Arabella :

My dear Mrs. Pringle," she said in it,
we are moped to death ; the dulness of the
summer months we have passed at Nettle-stone
is beyond expression, and has told upon
us all. Will you, good, kind creature that
you are, do an act of great kindness by letting
your charming daughter and our clever friend
Miss Marsh come to us for a few days? I
cannot tell you how pleased my dear children
will be if you accede to this request ; and, as
Marmaduke is now at home, if your good
son will accompany them, Mr. Yorke and
myself will be very glad to see him."

'' What does Mrs. Pringle say ?" asked Mr.

Yorke, as the footman handed Lady Arabella
the answer.

It was at his instigation that the note had
been written, in spite of some resistance on
her part ; but she had given in gracefully at
last, for she knew that with Mr. Yorke opposition
beyond a certain point was hopeless.

I am sorry to say they are coming."

'' Umph !" said Mr. Yorke.

Lady Arabella never liked to hear that
'' Umph !"

Chapter XY.

MID AUTUMN LEAVES.

Nettlestone Court was a spacious 
building of cut stone, with
a solid portico utterly devoid of originality,
yet belonging to no known style, under
which you drove with a certain sense of apprehension,
for it is quite possible to pile up
blocks of stone in such a way that all the
pillars in the world cannot dispel the idea
that the whole mass may at any moment
topple down upon your head and crush you.

Nettlestone Court stood in a park of some
eight hundred acres, so carefully laid out that
the drive from the lodge-gates gave a very
exaggerated idea of its extent. Before Mr.
Yorke's time, the park had been much smaller,
and the distance from the high-road had been
comparatively short ; but an addition of five
hundred acres had been made to it; the

old lodge pulled down, and two new ones
erected at the opposite extremities of the
demesne. Lady Arabella had then taken the
matter in hand, and by means of much planting,
embanking, and curving, had succeeded
in producing an effect full of the most agreeable
surprises to all but those to whom time
and distance were an object.

i' Very good indeed," was the verdict of
Dr. Pringle when called upon to admire it ;
'' but your ladyship has managed matters so
skilfully that I have to drive over two miles
now, where before it was but one."

'^ How dreadfully matter of fact 1" said
Lady Arabella.

"Remember, that to some people time is
money," said the doctor.

^' Then, my dear doctor, you must raise
your fees !"

*' No, no!" said the doctor, laughing, ^^ that
would never do. I should lose some of my
best patients. I have lived too long in the
world not to know how few people there are
in it who do not resent being called upon to
put their hands in their pockets."

Yes," said Lady Arabella, '' it is melancholy
to see hove fond most people are of
money. I am sure I hate it ! If I could

have my own way, I would have nothing but
diamonds."

But this conversation had taken place some
years before. At the time of which we are
writing, the approaches to Nettlestone had
greatly increased in beauty, for the shrubs
were full of luxuriant growth, and the young
saplings had shot up into trees of respectable
size, whilst a few older trees, the remaining
representatives of the forest which had once
spread over this part of the county, towered,
in all the majesty of hoary age, above them.
It seemed almost as if their gnarled and
knotted arms were spread abroad to mock
the puny strength of their companions ; and,
as the autumnal breezes touched through
their lofty branches, it was as if one heard
voices, now lifted up in hymns of praise, now
sinking into murmurs, which fell u^^on the
ear like an earnest, whispered prayer.

On a fine autumnal afternoon, some few
months after Dr. Prinorle's visit to St. Tobias's,
three persons might have been seen walking
slowly towards one of these trees, round the
stem of which a seat had been encircled. In
the tall, lithe, firm-treading girl, whose every
movement gave evidence of strength of body,
as of will ; in the slighter, drooping figure

VOL. I. 13

by her side, stepping timidly, as if to feel
her way — it was impossible not to recognise
the two daughters of the house, Geraldine
and Eva. The third was Duke, but he
seemed to have grown prematurely old, for
he walked with his head bent, and eyes fixed
on the ground, and had that tired, languid
air which belongs to the weariness of age.

They were walking down the avenue from
the house ; and it was evident they were expecting
some one, for they looked frequently
in the direction of the lodge, of which the
battlemented roof could be seen in the distance.


As they sat down, the conversation was
renewed at the point where it had just before
been broken off, by Geraldine :

I cannot imagine what it was made papa
alter his mind. You know, in the spring, he
was full of it."

'' Well, if you must know, Lai," — Lai and
Pen were the names by which Duke called
his sisters when he was in a good humour —
it is I to whom the honour is due of having
converted our most respectable parent. I do
not want to leave England just now, or even
to cruise along its shores. I have other fish
to fry."

'' I am so glad of it," said Eva. ^' I hate
yachting."

You provoking child !" said Geraldine.
*' I am so sorry, for I love it. The dear old
Nautilus ! I cannot bear to think of her beinor
laid up, during all this lovely weather, upon
that horrid mud. Dear old things ! what
happy days we have had in her ! Do you
remember our trip to Guernsey V

Pray don't mention it ! I was never so
ill in my life," said Eva.

And so lost the best fun I ever saw in
my life," said Duke, " when the baronet
jumped overboard to save an imaginary somebody,
and was within an ace of being drowned.
I shall never forget Lai's face ; it nearly
killed me with laughing."

Duke," said Geraldine, indignantly, " it
always seems to me that you laugh at the
wrong time. I really believe you have no
heart."

*' Then we are both much alike," he retorted
; " for yours, I know, has been the
baronet's from that hour."

Geraldine was about to answer, but for the
moment her anger prevented her ; and before
she could speak, Eva had interposed. Eva
was always the peace-maker.

13—2

It is only his foolish fun. You know
he does not mean what he says — do you,
Duke r

« It is — is cowardly !" said Geraldine, gasping
out the words. '' It is too cruel ; but
what can you expect from Duke ? He has
no feeling for anyone ! He loves nothing
but money ! He is only fit to be a brewer !"

Hush, hush !" said Eva ; " please don't
talk like that."

Fiddlestick !" said Duke. " My dear
Pen, let her talk. I like to hear her. Of
course, we poor brewers are hateful to her
since the baronet's grand temperance speech.
But where would we all be, I should like to
know, if it were not for beer ? And as to
love of money, pray tell me, my most
virtuously indignant sister, whether it is
more criminal to love money than to spend
it ? Why, if it were not for this vulgar beer,
and the contemptible money beer brings, how
would some young ladies of my acquaintance
be able to pay for the fifty thousand little
fads with which they indulge their fancies ?
But this is always the way with you women ;
you spend the money that we men make
without scruple, and then abuse us for making
it. You would like money to rain down

from heaven in golden showers ! But what
is the meaning of this ?" he said, breaking
off suddenly and looking towards the trunk
of the tree under which they sat. *' Another
E, and freshly cut, for I could swear it was
not there a week ago. Eva, I don't like
these E's ! I saw one the other day on the
Deepdale beech."

'' There are plenty of people in the world
whose names begin with E," said Eva, becoming
in her turn very red.

Very true, Pen ; but when that unlocked
cub Chub, whose handiwork I more than
suspect in this, goes about the country cutting
E's on everything bigger than a stick, it does
not require a man to be a Senior Wrangler to
supply two other letters. He had better
look out."

'* Duke, Duke !" said Eva, imploringly.

Oh, do not be alarmed, dear ; Chub is
quite capable of taking care of himself,
although he is not a rich brewer," said
Geraldine.

"Is her said Duke. "Then I should
advise him to do so. And I would request
my sapient sister to remember that he is
no longer a little boy."

'' And that Sis is no longer a little girl,"
said Geraldine.

Duke made no answer, for he was busily
employed at that moment re-lighting his
cigar. Before he had finished doing so, the
sound of wheels was heard, and Dr. Pringle's
waggonette was seen driving up the avenue.

"Come, girls, a truce to this nonsense,"
cried Duke. " I cannot afford to quarrel ; it
annoys me, and I have quite enough to annoy
me as it is. It is enough to make a fellow
out of sorts. I did not tell you, Lai, but
Fortuna has had a sprain. I had a letter
this morning from Jack Marsh."

^^ I wonder if he can be any relation to
Yic," said Eva.

What nonsense ! I should hope not,
from all I have heard of him," said Geraldine.
Then, turning to her brother : " I am glad
you had some reason for your horrible ill-temper
; but this is serious. You had better
have followed my advice. I knew you would
be taken in."

'you be hanged !" said Duke ; ^'it is not
too late. I have written to the major. I
shall hedge."

From this it will be seen that Mr. Armature
Yorke had become the owner of '^ a

horse," and that his sisters were in his
confidence ; Geraldine somewhat sympathising
with him, and Eva having but a very
cloudy perception of what it meant. Of
course, it was a secret. It would not do for a
member of the firm of Souseman and Soppit
to keep racehorses and enter into transactions
on the Turf So it was as the property
of Mr. Marsh — the Jack being in this case
omitted — that Fortuna stood before the
world ; and Mr. Marsh's brown filly Fortuna
had already excited some interest in the
sporting world by having taken a good place
in one or two minor events ; and amongst the
knowing ones — this on the authority of the
major — there was a very decided opinion that
she was the '* comines " horse.

The major had not taken any part in the
purchase of the horse. Of course not. He
had but stood behind the scenes and pulled
the strings, much to the satisfaction of all
the world and to his own profit.

Meanwhile, the Deepdale waggonette has
drawn up before the tree. Chub hands the
reins to the groom, and jumps down with a
thud, for a heavy fellow is Chub. Duke
opens the door and hands down Victoria and
Sis, who are inside. The girls kiss. The

youn men shake hands. The groom is
ordered to drive on to the Court, and leave
the shawls, etc. And the party move slowly
together in the direction of the house.

It is so very kind of you all to come,"
said Geraldine. "Particularly when we are
so dull, and have no one with us. '

'^ I am so glad I am at home," said Duke
aside to Sis.

'but a week is too short," said Eva.
"When the time comes, we will not let you go."

Whom was she most thinking: of? Could
it have been that great, good-natured, heavy,
hearty-looking fellow Chub ?

Sis looked more radiant, more loveable
than ever. There was no withstanding her.
Thei:e was only one word which would describe
her exactly, and her friends had hit
upon that word, when they said she always
looked so " sweets So sweet indeed that no
one could see Sis without wishing to kiss her.
Her lady friends — no matter, young or old —
kissed her at meeting, and kissed her at
parting ; whilst little children clambered
up and kissed her again and again with
their rosy lips.

Sweet Sis I charming, and conscious of her
charms : full of gay prattle and gleesome

quips. Sis trips lightly on the sward which
bounds the road, Duke — forgetting for the
time Fortuna and all his woes — ever at her
side.

They had started in a group. But when
young people walk together they are sure erelong
to be found in pairs ; and so Sis and
Duke, Eva and Chub — both looking in their
way supremely happy — Victoria and Geraldine,
move slowly forwards, not by the avenue,
but by shady circuitous paths through the
shrubberies and grounds, on their way to the
house.

Cupid must have been in a malicious mood
when he had transfixed the hearts of two
such very opposite young people as Eva and
Chub with the same shaft. How they could
have fallen so deeply in love with each other
as they were, is utterly incomprehensible ;
indeed, it would be incredible, were not
things equally strange happening every day
around us.

There was Eva ; gentle, sensitive Eva !
frail of form, and given to melancholy
thoughts, with many ideas, and few opinions,
setting her affections upon, of all people in
the world, that great, hulking, unimaginative,
open-hearted fellow Chub : Chub, with his

few ideas and many opinions. Why, physically
and mentally, they were as different
as light from darkness. Yet they were
over head and ears in love with each other
none the less ; and at this very moment
Chub had reached that happy, or unhappy,
france of mind, which belongs to lovers, when
it would have been a joy to him if he could
have thrown himself down before Eva and
kissed the ground on which she stood.

Most strange, that this cheery, matter-of-fact,
un poetical, big youth must needs set all
the affections belonging to his honest heart
on the fragile, delicate, sad-thinking Pense-rosa
; and in his solitary moments could find
no other solace or means of soothing his
emotions than, to use his own words, " pulling
" at a huge pipe, which he had been
endeavouring — fruitlessly — for many months
to blacken, whilst he thought of her.

But what, perhaps, had first attracted
Chub to Eva, was that she was the only
person who listened to him, who did not contradict
him, and who even went to the extent
of asking his advice. Now, to young or old,
there is no greater charm than being appreciated
; and Eva's appreciation was to Chub an
irresistible spell. Everybody else, to use a

very expressive phrase, 'sat upon him." Sis
made him fetch and carry Uke a dog ; Victoria
always spoke as if she were instructing
him ; his father had got into a disagreeable
way of speaking of and to him as if he were
an object for compassion, and nothing annoyed
him more than to hear himself spoken of as
'* poor" Chub. His mother seemed to think
he could only be made happy by being treated
as frequently as possible to some favourite
dish ; Sir Francis was horribly civil to him ;
Geraldine appeared hardly to be aware of his
presence ; and Duke assumed patronising
airs towards him, until his blood boiled with
indignation. Is it to be wondered then that
he was ready, as we have said before, to fall
down and worship the very ground upon which
Eva stood.

There had been a time when Chub was a
great talker, but he had become silent and reserved
of late. Eva and Chub seemed also to
have found out the secret, that .when love is
deepest it has fewest words ; for, as they
walked along side by side, the only sound
was the crush of the fallen leaves under the
heavy tramp of Chub's great feet. Yes, they
were silent ; but so happy !

A-t some little distance — the windings of

the path often hid the couples from each other
came Victoria and Geraldine.

For some time, by an almost imperceptible
process, an estrangement had sprung up between
them — an estrangement which had
puzzled Victoria, and the cause for which
Geraldine would not willingly have confessed
even to herself.

This was the first time they had been thrown
together since Victoria's return from London,
and there was a constraint in the manner of
the two girls which made it awkward for both

As they walked along the path, side by side,
the resemblance between them was very striking.
They were nearly of the same height ;
their figures seemed as if moulded in the same
form ; they both walked very erect, and there
was something in the bearing of each which
spoke of self-confidence and strength of will.
They had, too, the same regular features, the
same frank fearlessness in the expression of
the eyes; but there the resemblance ended, and
no one could have observed them more closely
without a feeling of surprise at having thought
them so alike — they became so different.

The beauty of Geraldine was in her exquisite
complexion, her transparent skin, her
golden hair, her fascinating smile, her ruddy

lips closing over a row of teeth of unrivalled
whiteness. She charmed no less by her
vivacity, her unaffected grace ; by the unstudied
piquancy of all she said and did, than
by her beauty. She only ceased to charm
when she ceased to be herself, and affected a
style and manner that did not belong to her.

Victoria's complexion was not good ; her
dark hair, through its luxuriance, fell in too
heavy tresses ; there was a want of elasticity
about her movements ; something of hardness
about her mouth : and her teeth, though regular
and white, were too solid and firmly set. It
was only when you spoke with her and came to
know her that all her beauty was revealed ;
for when she looked straight up into the eves
of those to whom she spoke, out of her own
large, lustrous, truthful, trusting eyCvS — those
marvellous 'windows of the soul" — she seemed
as if she were speaking with thoughts and not
with words, and as if candour, purity, and love
had joined to form each phrase ; and she became
truly beautiful.

Yet the expression of those eyes could change.
Duke knew it to his cost. For once or twice,
when he had been speaking lightly on subjects
which Victoria considered should be inviolate,
he had seen them turned upon him

full of contempt and scorn. And lie had
quailed under that glance.

'^ It is all very well," he said one day to Sis,
*^ for you to tell me that Vic is this, or Vic is
that ; she may be a very angel, but there is a
devil lurking in those eyes of hers, which I
for one don't like."

Perhaps it was the fear of arousing this
devil that made Duke more careful in Victoria's
presence, than he was either when with
his sisters or alone with Sis. It was singular,
but there were times when from the bright
blue eyes of Geraldine there streamed forth
the same expression of scornful indignation —
only different, from its being perhaps less intense.
The resemblance between the two girls
at such times was even greater than usual,
and it was probably from this cause that
Duke, who always affected to be amused
when his sisters were displeased, used to jeer
at her and request, if she set any value on her
beauty, she would not look so fierce and give
herself these '' Victorian " airs.

This likeness between Geraldine and Victoria
had not been lost on Mr. Mortimer —
whose language, by the way, had assumed a
very sporting character since his connection
with the Turf " A good spanking pair " was

his remark ; " a little out in colour, but bright
bay and dark brown don't make a bad match.
Take 'em all round, I don't think you would
see anything finer — and sound as a bell. But
I doubt if it would be easy to break 'em to
double harness — our young un would be always
jumping over the traces — and Miss Vic
would get the bit between her teeth. A man
would have to sit tight."

So you have really decided on being a
doctor !" said Geraldine, at length, to Victoria.

I would say rather, on trying to be a
doctor."

What courage you must have ! But have
you not to go through a great deal of nasty
work ?"

In a certain sense, undoubtedly ; but not
more than I have gone through as a nurse.
And then the aim is higher — and no work
can be called nasty when it becomes interesting,
as the means to a great end."

** And will you really have to cut up horrid
dead bodies, and all that sort of thing T

"I shall have to study anatomy in the usual
manner ; and I am determined not to give
way to any feelings which would interfere with
my becoming a more useful member of society
than I can hope to be at present."

"But are we women strong enough for such
work ?"

Women — who are born into this world
with an average amount of health — are
either weak or strong, as they have been
r)iade weak or strong. Look at the poor, and
see how the women work."

Yes," said Geraldine, laughing, '' and at
the rich, and see how some girls can play.
Why, I must confess to having sometimes
danced all night without being tired, and
taken my share of lawn-tennis the next day
without turning a hair. But our nerves —
our brains, are they strong enough V

It has always seemed to me that women
are never at a loss for nerve when they want
it ; or how do you account for their having
been found on the tops of the highest mountains
— on the backs of unbroken horses — full
of delight in gales of wind at sea ? No !
nerves, like muscles, must be exercised, or
they become weak ; and so with the brahe."

'but I have heard that our brains are
smaller than a man's," said Geraldine.

If it be so, what matter ! All men have
not large brains ; and if we cannot hope to
rival extraordinary men, we may at least compete
with ordinary ones. Besides, there is

such a thing as quality as well as quantity ;
and whenever the brain of some great philosopher
or acknowledged genius is found to be
smaller than it ought to be, it is always declared
to make up for its deficiency in size or
weight by its superior quality — it is more
convolute — more something. Let us hope
that that is also the case with ours."

Do you then really think that we women
are equal in physical and mental strength to

*' Undoubtedly. Not in kind, however, butin
degree. Physically, a woman possesses a
greater amount of "stored-up strength" than a
man. Mentally, her quicker perception makes
up for his greater inductive power. But, of
course, I am speaking of woman, not as she
is, but as she would be if properly brought up
properly educated."

•" You must 'think me very frivolous," said
Geraldine.

Victoria paused for a moment.

*' I think," she said slowly, as she turned
her truthful eyes full upon her, *' that if you
only did yourself justice, you would be as
lovable as Eva ; and you know how I love
her."

Yes — the strong always love the weak —

VOL. I. 14

it is because she is so weak. Why do you
love her more than Sis ?"

Because she has a heart," said Victoria.
There was another pause ; then abruptly :
Victoria — what if you should marry ?"
What was it that made Victoria stop —
almost stagger ; that made her lips turn pale ?
It was but for a moment ; then she moved on
as calmly as before, and it would have been
difficult to have detected any emotion in her
voice, as she replied :

^' No, I shall never marry."
Ah, you think so now — but who knows !
you may alter your mind."

Never, never," said Victoria, sternly, and
her eyes were full of wrath ; " when I say a
thing I mean it. Am I so untrue ? No, no ;
there is a fate for each of us. Yours, I know
not ; but mine is to be Victoria Marsh to the
end."

The passion in her voice had gradually
subsided as she spoke, and there was something
almost plaintive in the accent of the
last words. They seemed to go straight to
Geraldine's heart, and, moved by an impulse
she would have found it difficult to explain,
she threw her arms round Victoria's neck,
and kissed her on each cheek.

Victoria' she said, " till this moment I
have misunderstood you. Do not despise me
because I am such a heartless, worldly fool ;
help me to conquer this poor miserable self:
from this be my friend — be my sister."

And so it was that Geraldine Yorke and
Victoria Marsh became fast friends. Duke
and Sis thought they loved each other ; Eva
and Chub were unquestionably deeply in love
with each other; but the most unchanging,
most enduring love — most enduring because
it was based upon a greater love cherished by
both within the secret recesses of their hearts
was the love which had been established
between Geraldine and Victoria, as they had
walked, side by side, in all the gushing confidence
of youth, through thatbough-enshadowed
path, 'mid the autumn leaves.

14—2

CHAPTER XVI.

WORKING FOR THE WORLD.

Sir Francis Hawthorne had also, with a
few occasional short absences, spent his
summer in the country. He had renewed
his intimacy with his old friend the doctor
and his family, but his visits were less frequent
; and he was now so seldom at the
Court, that Lady Arabella had spoken of
him for some time as *' ce cher misanthrope."
Another mistake on Lady Arabella's part, for
no man could justly be called a misanthrope
who had determined, with a certain example
ever before his eyes, to devote his every effort
to the benefit of others.

'^Ah, my good friend," said Dr. Pringle
one day, shaking his finger warningly at him,
mind what you are about ! If you don't
take care you will find yourself enrolled

amongst the Philanthropists before you know-where
you are, and mixed up with them in
all sorts of impracticable schemes for doing
good. Take an old man's advice, work with
whatever individual powers you may possess,
but avoid combinations. When men combine
and act together, one well-meaning fool may
mar all. Social questions are as difficult to
manage as four young thoroughbreds, and
who would wish to place the ribbons in more
than one pair of hands ? No ! whenever you
can, always do the work yourself."

** And so let all the blame of failure fall on
my own shoulders, eh, doctor ?"

"Failure, my dear sir," said the doctor,
is only feared by fools ; all success is built
up out of failures, and I would not give a Qg
for the man who boasts that he always
succeeds."

But failure is very disheartening."

Not a whit," said the doctor ; '' it should
be a whet to exertion. How do you sharpen
that scythe ? certainly not by cutting something
soft with it, but by knocking sparks of
fire out of it with a rough stone."

The fact is, Sir Francis, with all his schemes
for the good of others, was often driven to

the very verge of despair. He had not taken
into account that men and women are inmost
cases the mere children of circumstances,
and that the habits and prejudices which
those circumstances have created are often
so deep-rooted that they can never be eradicated
; he had overlooked the fact that progress
can never be dragged on with post-horses,
and that the man who does most in
his generation — for himself as well as for
others — is he who best knows how to work
and wait. He must do both.

Now Sir Francis liked to work, but he
hated the waiting. So he was often disappointed
and out of heart.

'' He means well — he means well, neighbour,"
said Goody Giles, " that he do ; but
drat it ! why don't he leave things be T

Aye, aye ! we moves too fast — too fast !
Thanet for the wage, I'd rather work for
ould Hicks."

Ah, Hicks do give beer in harvest."

Then the new houses on his estate did not
give satisfaction. They were not so '^ snug
like." ^' In the old un's, all us wanted seemed
so to come to hand. Now, one must scrub,
and scrub from morn to night, and if they

don't a-shine out like new pins, well, there's

row."

The farmers, too, were not satisfied.

It is all very well to talk about low
rents, but how about these new-fangled
schools ? Time was when we got boys to do
men's work for next to nothing ; now they
are not to be had for love or money. They
must be at school, forsooth ! and precious
little use will be all they learn there. Don't
tell me, sir ! give me the good old times.
People did a good day's work then, and it
was a sight to see them going home when it
was done, a regularly tired out ; the women
and boys, as well as men. And as to drink !
Lord, sir, if them men did take a drop more
than they ought when the Saturday night
came, it kept them contented. In those days
there was no Arches ; they never passed an
employer without touching their hats. And
the farmers — well, perhaps I oughtn't to say
it — but if their men fell sick, and their
families were in want, well, we put our hands
in our pockets and helped 'em as much as we
could ; and there is always the Union in the
end."

But he who was most discontented of all

with Sir Francis's doings was the Reverend
St. John Softridge, the clergyman of the
united parishes of Slocum-cum-Magnus, in
which both the Court and Hawthornedene
stood ; Deepdale was just over the border.
Twixt gentleman lamented in touching tones,
through his wife, for she generally acted as
spokesman for her husband, and indeed was
by many regarded as the real incumbent of
the parish, to whom the Eev. St. John acted
as a kind of curate — not in charge — the sad
spirit of independence which had been engendered
amongst the poor by Sir Francis's
indiscreet action.

'rit is indeed sad' she said, 'Ho see it;
and it has affected my husband very much.
A parish priest cannot have any influence
amongst his people when they have been
taught they are capable of thinking for themselves
; and pray what have a]l these high
wages led to ? To nothing but a feeling that
they can do without help ; and that all interference
with their affairs is an impertinence.
You know how Mr. Soft ridge used to visit
amongst the people ; and the misery we used
to find amongst them ; and the quantity of
soup and old clothes we were able to distribute

is something incredible. 1 am sure it
used to make my arms ache. Now, what a
change ! A young chit of a child will bring
out its savings' bank-book, and the mother
will ask you to sit down and take a cup of
tea with all the airs of an equal. No one
can have better intentions than Sir Francis,
but these democrats unfortunately do so
much harm with their wild ideas ; I only
wish he was more like Mr. Yorke. My
husband always says, with a few more men
like him, we might hope to see the Church
put in its right place. And then we should
not have this dissenting chapel built on the
very borders of the parish, and no less than
four of Sir Francis's servants Baptists or
Brethren,' or whatever they choose to call
themselves."

One might have thought that if this were
the state of feeling produced in the Bev. St.
John Softridge by Sir Francis's well-intentioned
efforts, that the Bev. Jonas Smallpage,
the Independent minister, who had lately
taken charge of the circuit in which the unsightly
chapel, built upon ground given by
Sir Francis, was situated, would have been
better satisfied. Not one whit. The Bev.

Jonas was always lamenting that for a man
of his views Sir Francis '' wanted breadth."

'^ Look you' he would say, " look you, in
these days, when men's ideas have to be
thrown into the crucible and purified as it
were by fire ; when — I speak as a man — the
spirit of inquiry is abroad, and turns upon
the world, even as it were from a lantern, its
bright and searching rays, so that the darkest
regions are illumined, and the secrets hidden
within the deepest recesses of the human
heart are revealed, we must let our light so
shine before men that there may be no going
astray, no following after false lights ; our
notes of warning must be rung out clear and
sharp. The bell fixed on the shoal must
give no uncertain sound. Sir Francis wants
breadth ; he wants thoroughness. Look you !
if 'twere not so, would he speak of temperance
whilst his cellar is yet full of wine ?
Would he preach tolerance, and speak, as I
have heard him speak, to my sorrow, my
deep sorrow, of the benefits conferred in
olden times upon the world by that harlot
who still sits, until her time comes, and it is
coming, upon her seven hills ? And who, no
later than last week, said, before our worthy

friend the deacon, that as matters now stood,
and in face of all the benefits which had been
conferred upon the community by the Church
of England, he could not make up his mind
that the time had arrived for its disestablishment.
Fancy that, gentlemen, fancy that!
A man who professes advanced opinions, and
calls himself a Liberal, not able to make up
his mind on the one great question, certainly
the greatest crucial question, of the day. No,
my friends, it is to be deeply lamented, but
it is so — Sir Francis is too narrow ; he wants
breadth."

No wonder that there were times when
Sir Francis felt disheartened. He would
have been entirely so but for the example of
Victoria.

Whilst on his travels, he had kept up a
correspondence with Dr. Pringle, and had
learnt from him how courageously and
steadily she had been working.

'what pleases me most," had said the
doctor, on one occasion, 'ris that she works
hard without overworkinor herself She never ^
loses her balance, and keeps her mind occupied
with wholesome thoughts, instead of
giving way to useless regrets, and to the

morbid fascination which belong to melancholy."


Had his love for her been less deep, or had
it not been based upon those very qualities
which he felt were in themselves the stern
and unrelenting arbiters of his fate, he might
perhaps, on his return, have done what so
many others would have done under similar
circumstances, made an effort to induce her to
change her mind. But how could he do that
which he knew could but give her pain ; perhaps
build up a barrier between them forever;
and — well, there was something within
for love is full of mysterious revelations,
which told him it would be useless.

'' Surely there is some happiness in knowing
that she loves me, and that the hand
which I am denied will never be given to
another."

He repeated this very often to himself, but
he did not find much consolation in it.

He was struggling on, doing the best he
could — somewhat badly, it must be confessed
when Victoria left St. Tobias's and returned
to Deepdale.

Victoria met him with a frank cordiality,
such as she might have shown to any other
old and dear friend. Her frank and unaffected

manner did more than anything else
to confirm Sir Francis in the opinion that it
would be the height of folly to say one word
which might have the effect of endangering
a friendship he felt might become in time
the one great consolation of his life. So he
remained silent.

Besides, he felt a little flattered. Was not
Victoria's manner the greatest proof she
could offer of the sincerity of her affection ?
Did she not show by it that she felt she
could confide in his honour, and rely upon his
mastery over himself to spare her every allusion
to that one topic upon which his lips, as
well as hers, were to be closed for ever ? She
never could be his wife ! True. But he would
love her still : love her as a friend — and why
should not friendship, which is based upon
love, become even more than love ?

Poor Sir Francis ! Though he had made
the round-the-world tour, he does not seem
to have mastered all the mysteries of the
human heart, or he would have known that of
all passions love is the most intractable.

Nourishing, however, this idea, he became,
for the time being, quite happy. His whole
time was taken up with the execution of
some one of his many schemes for the bettering

of something or somebody, and Victoria
kind, good, clever, and perhaps all the
dearer because firm and unrelenting — Victoria
was within reach to sympathise and
advise.

His time was taken up from morning tonight,
and yet not a day passed without his
riding over to Deepdale — there were so many
points upon which he must have advice ; and
it was a pleasant sight to watch the conference.
Sir Francis reporting progress and
unfolding his future plans ; Victoria calmly
listening, and now and again interposing
some judicious word. Sir Francis wondering
how it was he had not seen things as Victoria
saw them ; Victoria tempering yet admiring
the enthusiastic ardour he brought to
bear upon all he did, and in contrast with
which her own action was made to seem so
cold and tame. He mounting his horse and
riding away, his head full of schemes, but his
heart more deeply in love than ever ; she
turning to her books and reading, reading,
reading for a while, and then — why does she
suddenly close the book and say, '' Never !
never !" ?

Poor Victoria ! She had been a year in a
hospital ; yet she, too, had not found out

that of all diseases love is the most intractable
!

** Absent for a week at Nettlestone '{ Dear
me ! and I wanted so much to see her." And
consult her he does. Once more Sir Francis
is to be seen riding up the Nettlestone avenue;
he is to be seen riding up it daily ; the conferences
are longer even than they were
before. There was a reason, perhaps, for
their being so, for Victoria had found some
of the questions propounded by Sir Francis
so difficult that she had thought it better to
call in the aid of another expert. *two
heads are better than one," she said, laughingly
; and so three heads were to be found
daily in deep consultation.

*' I really hardly know which is the most
beautiful," said Sir Francis to himself on the
third day, as he rode home.

He was thinking of the two heads, and
more particularly at that moment of the one

which belonged to well, no matter ; it

might have been Victoria or — there would
have been no harm in it — the golden locks of
Geraldine.

The week flew by. At the earnest request
of Lady Arabella — again under the pressure
we wot of — the visit of the young people was

prolonged to ten days. Ten days of supreme
happiness ; ten days pregnant — as what
time, indeed, is not ? — with much to influence
the lives of each and all.

A ride to-day ; an excursion on the
morrow ; a picnic — to which Sir Francis
came — to Headlands Abbey. Lawn-tennis
at all hours of the day. In the evenings
music : Geraldine and Eva singing together
as only sisters can sing ; Sir Francis, when
there, in ecstasies, and forgetting for the
moment all else ; Chub, looking melancholy
and out of sorts, but cheering up somewhat
in the lighter parts, and now and then, when
he could catch the air, swinging one great
foot backwards and forwards as if to mark the
time ; Duke and Sis looking at each other
across a table, on which chessmen were
arranged ; Mr. Yorke deep in the arguments
by which the Right Hon. Hugh Forrester
sought to show, in a pamphlet of three
hundred pages, that the Pope had exceeded
his authority in the way in which he had
established his infallibility, and so had
wounded the tender consciences of many of
the faithful. Such a subject could but be
deeply interesting to a good Churchman like
Mr. Yorke ; and he pitied those who professed

to think that outside the pale of the
Woman Church it mattered very little what
the Pope said or did.

The pamphlet was evidently a very hard
nut to crack, and the kernel either very
small or difficult to find ; perhaps because,
through a wish to preserve it from injury, the
hight Hon. Hugh Forrester had surrounded
it with a plentiful padding of pungent words,
for Mr. Yorke's whole attention appeared to
be concentrated upon it.

Lady Arabella reposes upon a couch,
arranged at such an angle that had there
been no ceiling she might have seen the stars
without moving her head.

When I hear music," she said, '' I like to
look upward ; but it must be good music.
When it is — and my children sing so sweetly —
then my thoughts are carried away to heaven,
and I see angels.'

Once or twice the Eev. St. John Softridge
and Mrs. Softridge came to dinner.

"They are suitable people to meet our
young friends," remarked Lady Arabella to
her husband, " and won't mind it ; and indeed,
just now there is no one else to ask."

Then there were evenings when Mr. Yorke
had called Victoria to him and sat talking

VOL. I. 15

with her with an earnestness and degree of
interest very rare with him.

You have indeed he witched my husband,"
said Lady Arabella to her one evening ; "he
will not condescend to speak to anyone else.
Really, if you were not going away so soon I
should have to undergo the fatigue of being
jealous."

On these occasions, when Sir Francis was
there, he was frequently left with Geraldine ;
and he was surprised to find what a change
had taken place in her. She seemed to know
so much of subjects on which before she had
either professed entire ignorance or a supreme
indifference.

'' Can I have misunderstood her ?" was his
first question. The answer came quickly.
'' No ; she is changed. It is Victoria s influence
; it is all Victoria !"

So it was that, as an evidence of Victoria's
power, of Victoria's work, that Geraldine
once more began to take up her old place in
Sir Francis's heart.

Once more : ^' Poor Sir Francis !"

CHAPTER XVII.

DEAD AT LAST."

The party at Nettlestone is broken up. Mr.
and Mrs. Yorke and their two daughters
only remain at the Court, for Duke — who
always speaks as if he were overwhelmed
with work — has found something to do elsewhere.
Deepdale is deserted, for Victoria is
on her way, escorted by Dr. and Mrs. Pringle
and Sis, to Switzerland ; and Chub has gone
to London, where he is to study medicine
and " walk the hospitals." Sir Francis, too,
has gone abroad. He is just now full of the
advantages of small holdings and peasant
proprietors, and intends to make himself
practically acquainted with the subject in
France and Belgium.

Geraldine is only reconciled to the dulness
of Nettlestone, of which she makes frequent
complaints, by her father having promised

15—2

her that in another month the house shall be
full of visitors, and that this year they will
go to London earlier than usual, and that she
shall be " presented " and formally introduced
; which, it seems, she has not yet been,
for Lady Arabella thinks young people should
be kept in the background as long as possible.
Each day seemed to go on much as another,
and Geraldine was beginning to count
the hours when the pheasants — the season is
a late one — would be given up to slaughter :
when *' presto !" as if by the touch of a magician's
wand, the whole scene changes, and
the daily routine at the Court is completely
destroyed.

They were at breakfast — Mr. Yorke, as
usual, dividing his attention between his
letters, the newspapers, and the buttered
toast — when his whole family were thrown
into consternation by his suddenly ejaculating
:

'' Good God ! He is dead at last !"
Mr. Mortimer, who had just placed a dish
upon the table, immediately assumed an expression
befitting so solemn an incident, and
crept out of the room more noiselessly than
ever. It almost seemed as if he would not —
no, not for worlds — have disturbed the peaceful

slumbers of him who was spoken of as
dead.

'* He is dead at last !"

'^ Who— who is dead ?"

Slumbering is dead."

You don't say so ! What, poor old
Slumberton dead !"

"Yes ; dead at last."

And so there was joy in the house of
Yorke. For he whose death waa thus announced
was no other than the senior
member for Middleshire, who had sat — it
would be more correct, perhaps, to say had
slept — in the House of Commons for the last
forty years, and whose tenacious hold upon
his seat had so long prevented Mr. Yorke's
great desire to enter into Parliamentary life
Iron being realised.

Poor old Slumberton ! though he had
often talked about resigning, dozing on the
benches of the House of Commons during a
portion of each year had become so completely
a part and parcel of his daily life,
that he could never screw his courage up to
the point of applying for the Chiltern Hundreds;
and 80, although his working days had
long been past, he died in harness.

He had passed away into the next world,

as he had passed through this, very quietly.
'' I think I shall have a little sleep ; do not
Jet me be disturbed," were his last words.
Life had been made so easy to him, that he
could not understand what people meant when
they spoke of its trials. " People ought to be
contented," he used to say. '' If I am happy, it
is because I am contented. There is no truer
saying than that contentment is a perpetual
feast." Contentment was his panacea for all
ills ; his political creed was based upon it.
If people would but let things alone and be
content, what a country this would be !" True,
as far as the race of Slumbering is concerned ;
and the race is very stir from being extinct.

Mr. Yorke had thought the time would
never come. Now it had arrived.

"He is dead at last!" and Mr. Yorke
becomes a candidate for Middleshire.

Lady Arabella is full of it; the girls talk
of nothing else ; the servants'-hall is turned
into a debating society, in which Mr. Mortimer
exercises his oratorical powers to his heart's
content.

I have belonged to many parties in my
time," said Mr. Mortimer, grandiloquently,
and have heard h after-dinner speeches from
some of the most eminent men on both

sides of the House, but don't talk to me of
your Whigs and your Tories, of your Liberals
and your Conservatives, of your Radicals and
your what-not. When you know them as
I do, they are all alike — the same men under
different names, all a-looking out for themselves
; a regular case of six of one and half-a-dozen
of the other. Good of the country?
Lord bless you ! if I go in for politics, the
country means me, though I don't talk of me,
but of progress and my party; and if my party
is out, and another in, then look out for squalls,
for no matter what the Ins may say or do, there's
I and all the other Outs ready to be down upon
them with arguments like sledge hammers to
prove that they are wrong, and that the country
is wrong, and that everybody is wrong, who
does not belong to our party — that is, agree
with me. It is just like dogs — the Ins have
got the bone, and the Outs go on a-tugging
and a-worrying until they get it from them.
And so on and on. There are some little
curs, too, who belong to no party, and so
can only have a sniff at the bone from a distance
; but this makes them so cantankerous,
that though they have not the strength or
pluck to go in and win, they yelp and yowl
more than all the others put together, and

very often end with a free fight amongst
themselves. I tell you what, it is in public
life just what it is in private life ; men will
be men, and there is just as much difference
between what they do, and what they say,
as there is between a piece of chalk and that
there cheese. Why, when I first entered
upon the duties of my profession, I accepted
an engagement with an M.P. who was a
regular old political wolf in sheep's clothing.
He was all for the people. And to hear
him talk I As I stood behind his chair and
heard him a-discoursing about liberty and
equality, no taxation, and cheap bread, I
never could have believed he was the greatest
old bully that ever lived, who treated his
family like dogs, and we, who gave him our
faithful services, like Russians or nigger
slaves. At the end of three months I terminated
our engagement in disgust. *No
more of your Radical shams,' said I. ' You
may be a man and a brother, but may I be
silicates if I am going to be an Habet to
such another Cain.' To stop his jaw, they
made him a minister — top-sawyer of the
works, or something of the sort ; and from
that day to this, though I have often heard
him a-mouthing away at City feasts, he is

never tired of talking of ' responsibility ami
the way he brings out the word is enough
to choke you. But that little bit of experience
did me good — that it did. Had it
not been for that, I might have remained a
party man ; and I repeat it, and I care not
who hears me say it, a thorough-going party
man is a poor mean thing who does not dare
to call hia soul his own, but allows himself
to be a-whipped here, and a-whipped there,
just as — Well, well ! there is no use in
a-talking more about it; my name is Mortimer,
and I am a man. What do I care for
party ? But I do say this : I do like to seethe
members of the House a-driving up to it
in their own carriages ; and it will be a credit
to the county to have for its representative
the gentleman in whose 'household we have
taken office. For it won't be easy, search
the country where you will, to find one — I
care not if he be a member of the aristocracy
or not — with half his money. And I
would ask," continued Mr. Mortimer, " what
is a man without money? Why, just
this " — here Mr. Mortimer turned down his
empty glass, with an expression of intense
disgust — " but give him money " — Mr. Mortimer
pours out a bumper — *rand he becomes

like this glass when 'tis full. Where is the
man who is not ready to raise it to his lips ?
No, no; take my word for it, there is nothing
like money: 'tis better than brains."

The excitement in Middleshire is intense.

Have you heard the news 1"

'' No— what r

He is dead at last."

Who is dead r

What ! you don't know ? Slumberton
is dead !"

^^ Old Slumberton ? Indeed, then there
is no time to be lost. Yorke must be brought
forward."

*' Yorke must be opposed. Fits-King is
the man."

We must do this — we must do that !"

It is like the awakening out of a deep sleep.
Middleshire is now wide awake, for Slumberton
is dead !

CHAPTER XYITI.

BEER WINS,

MiDDLESHiRE is indeed aroused. There are
meetings of the county magnates ; electioneering
agents start into life like butterflies in
the summer sun : Sharpus and Sly, who do
all the law-work of the county, put on a
cheerful, cheery look, such as they have not
had for years ; and in all directions' toiling
along the county roads are to be seen waggons
laden with preparations for the coming
fray, in the shape of huge barrels filled with
the sustaining and exhilarating beverage prepared
by that patriotic and philanthropic firm,
Souseman and Soppit.

A contested election at last.

** Hurrah ! A real trial of strength!
Middleshire is no longer to be under the
shadow of political compromise. No I we will
fight it out ! We will nail our colours to the
mast ! No surrender !"

na.

But as the time approaches, an unaccountable
fear falls upon the Middleshire electors :
there is a vague rumour that Lord Tom Fitting,
the Whig nominee, show symptoms of
wavering. There can be no bribery, of course ;
but it is said that there is a suspicious number
of desertions from the Liberal ranks. Lord
Tom FitzKing is not rich. Why should
he impoverish himself in a hopeless cause ?
Alas ! the rumour is but too true. Lord Tom
FitzKing suddenly finds that his health has
become so delicate that he is utterly incapacitated
from undertaking Parliamentary duties ;
he puts forward a manifesto to that effect ;
and is off" for the Engadine by the next train.

The whole county is in a state of confusion ;
the Liberals in a state of collapse ; the Conservatives
almost as gloomy as if they had
suffered a defeat — when, ting, ting ! the curtain
rises to a new act — and a new actor takes
Lord Tom FitzKing's part.

Good news ! Great news ! We are to
have a fight after all. But he has no chance.
He is a dreamer." '' He is a good fellow. He
is just the man." "No — he is a democrat ; he
is a socialist." " What are his principles ?
What does he say ?"

He says only this :

Gentlemen,

In obedience to the request of a
numerously signed requisition, I beg to offer
myself as a candidate for the vacant seat in
the representation of the county."

And he signs himself :

'' Francis Hawthorne."

Lady Arabella thinks it is unneighbourly ;
Eva that it is unkind. Geraldine suddenly
discovers that she hates politics, and that
elections are her peculiar aversion. She retires
into private life, and obstinately refuses
to leave the house " until all this horrid vulgar
huss is over." She even takes off the blue
and orange ribbons she had taken so much
trouble to procure. Lady Arabella is angry ;
but she has no time to spare ; she owes every
moment of her time to her husband — to her
country. She is here, there, and everywhere.
She is buying up all the dark-blue and orange
in the county. She has kissed so many babies
that she says she cannot get the horrid smell
of babies out of her nose. She shakes great
rough hands till her own aches. She tells
everybody who has a vote that Mr. Yorke is
his best friend. She no longer complains of

being ereintee, and sits bolt upright in her
carriage, without cushions. Everybody is
charmed with her kindness and condescension.


As for Mr. Yorke, he was not idle. He,
too, is driving all over the county, from
one committee-room to another ; and the
whole county has become one mass of .
There is hardly a public-house
that has not a great printed placard with
^' Central," or ^* District", or " Sub-committee
Room" stuck up in its windows, with an address
from Mr. Yorke underneath, in which
in eloquent terms, he refers to our glorious
Queen ; to our imperishable constitution ; to
the rights of property ; to the duties of
Churchmen ; to liberty of conscience ; to the
claims of the agricultural interests ; to the
malt-tax and cheap beer. There is no Cerberus
in the shape of a county voter to whom
he does not throw a sop. But he is not content
with this. Wherever he finds a room
large enough, he speaks in it ; wherever there
is a balcony he speaks from it — he has bought
up so many bronchial trochus that they have
become scarce, and he has sucked more
oranges in a few days than he had sucked
before in his whole life. No doubt he was

right in this. Electors do not care for
dumb candidates — there is no satisfaction
in a man who cannot talk. It is not everyone
who has time to read speeches ; but most
people like to hear them when they are likely
to contain flattering allusions to themselves.

Mr. Yorke was not a speaker likely to attract
much attention within the House ; but as a
stump orator seeking to obtain the suffrages
of a mixed community he certainly knew what
he was about, for he never spoke as if he possessed
any special knowledge himself, but
simply as if he had been allowed to hold a
brief for those who had been so kind as to
favour him with their opinions ; and he had the
art of making it appear that he was speaking
for, and not to, those he was addressing.

He was what might be called a very safe
speaker, for he dealt in platitudes and well-worn
ti-ths to such an extent that it was
almost as difficult, to criticise as to contradict
him.

Aye, how well he do talk ! He be a
real farmer's friend."

None of your nonsense about disestablishment.
He takes just my views of the
Church. Every sound Churchman should
rally round him."

^' He don't say much for Dissent ; but then
there's no humbug about him ; and he spends
more money in my shop than the whole boiling
of Salem Chapel put together."

'' Yes, yes ; it is what I have always said —
take off the malt tax, and there will be no more
talk about drunkenness. The people would
then be able to get really cheap beer ; for
there would be no excuse for its not being
good, and then we should get rid of this
radical teetotalism, which is only rank socialism
in disguise."

'' I like to hear him talk ; he puts things
so clear like. He knows what he is about ;
he would not be the rich man that he is, if he
didn't."

Of course he was asked questions, and
somers them to ordinary men might have been
considered posers. But Mr. Yorke, not being
an ordinary man, always had his answer ready
an answer so admirably framed, that it
suited all parties equally well ; the oracles of
Delphi could not laye been more craftily
contrived.

Of course there was no bribery. Mr. Yorke,
as a food Churchman, would have been the
last man in the world to have sanctioned such
a proceeding ; besides, he felt that, rich man

as he was, the expenses of a contested election
in a county were quite heavy enough as they
were. Committee-rooms had to be paid for.
The time of those voters — and they were legion
who were employed as messengers and
agents, suddenly became of great value ; and
all the world seemed to have lost the power
of walking, judging from the number of vehicles
which had to be placed at its disposal.
Then came looming in the distance that
voluminous document which would be sure
to end with a line of four figures, just above
the signatures of Sharpus and Sly.

No, Mr. Yorke was a strictly conscientious
man ; he would not bribe.

And then he was almost certain of success.

They keep it dark," said Mr. Mortimer,
but they know as well as I do they are
running the wrong horse. The baronet is a
good un enough to go, but he is ticklish to
handle, and given to bolt."

The fact was, the amiable country gentlemen
of Liberal proclivities, who had signed the
requisition to Sir Francis and formed his committee,
were in despair. He had put forward
an address, without having consulted them
upon it, which they were unanimous in
characterising as " most objectionable ;" and

VOL. I. 16

afterwards, id stead of having endeavoured to
remove any injurious impressions this injudicious
address might have created by
explanations which would have placed his
views before those who had been shocked by
them in a somewhat different light, he had
insisted uponretainingitintact,and of referring
to it on every occasion as the exact expression
of his political convictions. Not content with
this, he was given to answering questions
with a candid recklessness which set all the
rules of political reticence at defiance.

'^ What is to be done with such a man ?"
asked the Chairman of the Liberal Committee,
Mr. Thomas Freeman. '' He shocks
everybody ; he is always putting the truth
before the public as naked as my hand ; he
wants prudence. Look at all our great public
men. See how they dress up facts. It is
too bad ; no man can hope to be at the head
of the poll who acts as he does."

No, indeed ! no man could. His address
was as bad as bad could be. It offended
everybody. Mr. Mortimer was quite right
the Liberals were running the wrong
horse.

For what could be hoped from a candidate
who declared that he would not spend a

penny beyond what was absolutely necessary
and legitimate ; that he wanted neither 
nor messengers ; and who had
answered, when asked how his supporters
were to get to the poll, " On their legs."

Give and Take, the Liberal lawyers, pronounced
him to be utterly impracticable.

We knew that he was a gentleman of
advanced opinions, but we thought he would
have had a greater regard to his interests
than to act in this wild manner."

Then he was so candid !

He was so anxious that people should
know what he meant, that he left them no
loophole to creep out of.

^* Do you really mean that you approve of
manhood suffrage ?"

Yes, under certain conditions. It is the
only means of elevating the masses."

And let women have votes ?"

Decidedly, with certain restrictions ;
under the same conditions as the men."

And seats in Parliament ?"

Assuredly, if the constituency preferred
to have a woman for their member."

'' May I be allowed to ask a question ?
Would you interfere with capital ?"

16—2

^' Certainly, in all cases where interference
might be needed."

You forget, sir, capital is like water ; it
will always find its own level."

Very true," said Sir Francis. " So true,
that I would wish no better simile ; and
what does water do when it is left to find its
own level 1 Simply this — it turns plains into
swamps, or passing by large tracts leaves
them deserts. And so it remains, till man
comes in to irrigate the desert and to drain
the swamp. The tendency of capital is in
like manner to accumulate unduly in a few
hands, so that large numbers of the community
are left destitute ; and it then becomes
the duty of those upon whom the
regulation of society has devolved to devise
means to check this tendency as far as
possible, and to promote schemes for its
greater distribution."

^'^ It seems to me, then, that you would
interfere with the rights of property."

•' I deny that property has only rights — it
has equally its duties."

^' Would you not allow me to do as I please
with my own ?"

"Only so far as you might do so without
injury to others."

I don't quite understand. Let me put it
more clearly. I am the owner of a great
estate, and my individual idiosyncrasy makes
me place all my happiness on my farms being
left unlet, the ground untilled ; tell me, sir,
would you oblige me to cultivate it ?"

Before / answer your question, let me
ask you one ? I am the owner of the county
of Northumberland, and my especial idiosyncrasy
makes me base all my happiness upon
its being kept waste ; would that be any
justification for my being allowed to do that
which would be so manifestly injurious to
others ?"

*' Of course not — the question is absurd ;
that is station an extreme case. You coco



trinaires always deal with extreme cases."

Allow me, however, to ask what would
be the difference, as regards the public weal,
between one man allowing the county of
Northumberland to remain waste, and a
thousand men allowing an area equal in
extent to the county of Northumberland to
remain so ?"

*' Then, sir, you would divide properties.
What would become of our great families V

*' It would simply be the replacing of one
very rich family by many tolerably rich

ones. Younger sons being men of average
energy and ability, having capital to work
with, would be able to found fresh fortunes.
And many nice girls, who are now doomed
to lead a life of poverty and 'single blessedness,
would be able to marry men of their
choice. So that you would have thousands
of useful centres where you have only hundreds
now. Besides, there would be another advantage."


' Pray, sir, what is it ?'*

There would not be so many younger
sons to be provided for ; and then, and not
till then, dare we hope to see a reduction in
our public expenditure."

But, as regards the House of Peers,
surely you will allow that some of our
greatest statesmen have been peers ?"

*' Undoubtedly ; and such men would
probably be found either in the House of
Commons or in the Senate. But is it not
humiliating to know that, as things are, a
born idiot — provided he has a sufficient
modicum of brains to prevent his being
qualified for an asylum, and not one atom
more — has a place in the legislature which
gives him the same weight, as regards his
vote, as the ablest man of his time, who may

have earned his peerage by a lifelong devotion
to the consideration of economic questions
and to the performance of important
official duties in the service of the
State r

*' Oh, Sir Francis, Sir Francis !"
And this beer question ? Is it true, as I
have heard, that you would confiscate the
property of brewers V

I would do nothing of the kind. I would
simply turn fiction into fact, and give a bond
fide license — not to the house, but to the
individual whose name is written upon it, to
terminate with his withdrawal from business.
Nominally it is so now ; but our Jaws are so
ingeniously framed by the interested individuals
who have the making of them, that
in reality the great mass of the licenses are
in the hands of a few capitalists*'

What would you effect by this change T
Greater freedom of action as regards
those upon whom the granting of licenses
devolves, and an enormous reduction in the
number of gin-palaces and public-houses ; for
the greater number of them would not exist
a moment were they not owned by capitalist
brewers and distillers."

** But surely the brewers could make advances

to the publicans, so that the results
would be the same ?"

"Not at all. The brewers might make
advances, it is true, but if they did, they
would have no security for their money."

Of course, sir, you would be in favour of
compensation ?"

Compensation ! May I ask for what ?
Because a number of capitalists have made
enormous fortunes out of the public by the
advantages obtained from a monopoly for
which they have paid comparatively next to
nothing, they are to receive — when it is
found necessary for the benefit of public
morality that this monopoly should be
abolished — a large sum of money, either in
lieu of fortunes yet unmade, or as a set-off
against the depreciation of a property the
value of which had nothing but monopoly
11 nd the continuance of monopoly for its basis.
Really, sir, this is too absurd ! The value of
commodities, of shares, of stocks, of land, of
everything you may be pleased to name, is
being altered every day by a variety of causes
very frequently by the action of Government
and by legislative enactments ; yet who ever
talks of compensation ? No, my dear sir ; it
will not do ; the brewers have been putting

their hands into the poor man's pocket quite
long enough ; and I suspect they will nut
find themselves penniless when they are
obliged for the future to keep them in their
own."

Sir Francis had gradually become excited,
and his audience could hardly be expected to
remain calm. If he had had for his object
the alienation of the great majority of the
voters he could not have taken a better line.
The landowners looked upon him as so dangerous
that the word Communist was not
strong enough for him ; every man who could
lay claim to being a capitalist shrunk from
him in dismay. The clergy regarded him
with intense dislike ; the Dissenters with
suspicion ; even the philanthropists, who
might have been expected to have been on
his side, were against him.

To their questions on many subjects his
answers had been favourable. They had
loudly applauded when he declared that it
was the duty of all governments to look after
the poor, and see that those necessary things
were done for them which they were unable
to do for themselves. Yes ; they had even
cheered him, but more faintly, when he said :

*much of the misery and degradation

which is to be found amongst the politer
classes in modern society is due to the
manner in which the rich have neglected
their duties. For the poor must be helped —
not by charity, which, taken in the aggregate,
is nothing but an easy method for soothing
the consciences of those who might otherwise
be made to feel uneasy when forced to recognise
the misery proceeding from their neglect
— but by taking care that out of their
abundance those who are in themselves helpless
should be provided with all those necessaries,
without which life becomes brutalised
and society endangered. And if this cannot
be done, or is not done, by individual effort,
then it becomes the duty of the State to step
in and see that full justice be done to all.
For instance, air and light and water and
shelter are primary necessaries ; but how can
the poor man obtain them unless they are
provided for him by others ? He cannot
build a house, so he must put up with what
he can get, perhaps with one that is small,
overcrowded, ill-lighted, badly drained, that
has no ventilation, and a water-supply which
would mean slow poisoning were he not addicted
to other means for slaking his thirst ;
and yet look at our overcrowded villages and

the squalid meanness of the poorer quarters
in many of our towns, and ask yourselves
whether there are no rich men whose duty it
is, by a co-operative effort, to come to the
rescue. (Sensation.) I will not deny that
much has been done ; but it has generally
been done in a perfunctory, spasmodic
manner. If it were not so, should we still
find so many myriads of the industrious poor
crowded together in reeking courts and
alleys, or having no other shelter than that
afforded them each night, for a few pence, ina
common lodging-house ? Or think you, if
this principle were better understood, that a
rich town like Liverpool would have spent a
third of a million of money on a ' people's
park ' before some better provision had been
made for housing the industrious dock
labourers than the filthy quarters they are
compelled to live in, with a whisky-shop at
every corner ? Why, positively, they might
have done all that was needed, instead of
making the park, and have got five per cent.
for their money into the bargain ; but then
they would have had no monument in proof
of their munificence — and corporations, just
like individuals, like to have something to
show for their money, something that people

may point to and say: 'Just look and see
what has been done.' This is why, whilst
people are still to be found dying in our
streets from destitution, there is no lack of
money wherewith to build big churches with
tall spires."

Now the bump of benevolence may be
very largely developed, but most people have
other bumps as well ; hence it was that Sir
Francis's philanthropic friends did not quite
like the kind of cap he was fitting on their
benevolent heads. Then, too, it is bad enough
to be preached at from the pulpit, but it is
still worse to be preached to by anyone out
of it. They did not like his treatment of
the subject, so they changed it.

Some of them had long since given up as
hopeless the question of suffering humanity,
and transferred all their sympathies to suffering
" animality." Just as many good men
and women, despairing, as it would seem, of
being able to make any impression on the
ignorance and vice of the masses at home,
devote all their time, or their money, or their
energies, to the reformation of some amiable
man-eating race abroad.

Hence it was that Mr. Placidusus Wilkinson,
a member, indeed vice-president, of many

benevolent associations, and chairman of the
lately-formed Cheap Cats-meat Company,
and who — perhaps it was out of respect for
the offices he held — always appeared in public
in a white tie and black kid gloves, felt that
the time had arrived when Sir Francis should
be called upon to declare himself upon what
Mr. Simkinson characterised as " one of those
vital points which has been so insidiously
touched upon by science, and which, perhaps
more than any other, requires the intervention
of the legislature, in order to prevent
those humane instincts being perverted and
destroyed, without which the whole social
structure can be said to have no firm foundation."


I would, sir, on my own part, and in
behalf of many of my friends, ask what are
your views on vivisection ?"

'* Vivisection !" said Sir Francis ; " why,
really, gentlemen, you are questioning me on
a subject with regard to which I must unless
to knowing very little. Indeed, I do
not care to know much, for I regard it simply
as a detail ; and I always prefer, when I can,
dealing with principles. I believe in connection
with vivisection some horrible cases
of cruelty have been cited which every

humane and reasonable man must condemn ;
but we must never allow ourselves to confound
the abuse with the use : and it is quite
possible that within certain limits the practice
of vivisection may not only be justifiable
but necessary. I beg you to remark I only
say possible, for I have not as yet had time
to enter fully into the matter. But this I
do know," said Sir Francis, emphatically,
that of all the rank impostures in this world
of sham, there can be none greater than the
horror professed by many men with regard to
this practice, who are themselves habit uallly
guilty of the greatest cruelties to the lower
creatures ; and this without even a pretence
of furthering scientific truth, or of acting for
the benefit of others, but simply and wholly
for their own selfish pleasure and amusement.
I speak, sir, of those who hunt and shoot
and fish ; and I ask you, gentlemen, whether
it is in an assembly in which a large proportion
of the members are sportsmen, that such
a question can be dealt with without the
grossest hypocrisy ? For what man can lay
claim to a just perception of what is right or
wrong in such a matter whose, chief delight
is to play a salmon, hunt a fox or hare, and
show his skill as a shot by shooting at

pigeons ? Not that I think all sport is
criminal ; that opens out another question.
But I cannot help sometimes asking myself
whether directing the moral forces of the
country upon these comparatively minor
matters does not do injury, from its diverting
the public mind from the major ones."

Mr. Placidusus Simkinson was not satisfied.

*' Sir' he said angrily, ^' I find — and my
friends are of the same opinion — that your
answer is highly unsatisfactory ; and I do
not see how it is possible for us to support -a
gentleman who can speak so lightly of such
an outrage on humanity as vivisection, and who
holds in so little esteem the labours of some of
the best of men — aye, and of women — who
have devoted themselves to this great cause."

I am very sorry," said Sir Francis, " if I
should have been misunderstood, for no man
honours more than I do those who are really
workers in a noble cause."

Too late ; too late ! The philanthropists,
led by Mr. Placidusus Simkinson, become
Conservatives for the nonce, and vote for the
Conservative candidate to a man.

Ah, Sir Francis, Sir Francis ! It is indeed
too late. What can possibly be done with
such a man ?

Even his old friend Dr. Pringle looked
grave. He had thrown himself into the
fray with even more than his usual energy ;
but go where he might, he was sure to find
that something had been said or done by Sir
Francis which had done far more injury to
his own cause than to that of his opponent.
It is true that most of the opinions which Sir
Francis had put forth were equally professed
by him ; but there is a time for all things.
Virtues may be carried so far that they may
do as much harm as vices.

^* My dear friend," he wrote to Sir Francis,
** you have made a sad mistake. The great
bulk of those who are pleased to call themselves
Liberals are totally unprepared to
accept many of the principles which are so
dear to us both, and your frank profession of
them has done much to injure the cause all
real lovers of progress have so much at heart.
If you would succeed in educating the public
mind you must seek to be practical, and confine
your efforts within the limits of the possible.
The Anglo-saxon race, as a whole, detests
change, unless it commends itself by some
prospect of immediate and certain advantage;
and new ideas are never acceptable — indeed,
there is no place for them until the prejudices

upon which all our habits and convictions
are formed have been undermined by
those secret, silent, and slow, but sure, processes
through which time works out such
marvellous results. That is why those men
have succeeded best as reformers who have
confined themselves to dealing with one thing
at a time, and have taken care that in dealing
with that one thing they have not been
too far ahead of the wants and wishes of
those they sought to benefit. For, believe
me, the most undeniable truths will always
reveal themselves as truths to the few long
before they will be accepted as even worthy
of attention by the many ; you must not,
therefore, force truth down people's throats
like physic. They will spue it up if you do."

'*If the electors don't like me and my
principles, there is Mr. Yorke," said Sir
Francis.

The electors did not like Sir Francis and
his principles, so Mr. Yorke became the man
of their choice. He was returned with an
overwhelming majority, and the Liberal
interest in Middleshire had received a crushing
defeat.

All through Sir Francis and his uncompromising
candour. Confound it, sir! better

VOL. I. 17

Doctor Victtyna,

put up i\ mau who cannot speak at aJl, thana
fellow wKo will shout out everything, and
does not know when to shut his mouth.
Xo wonder that beer has won !'*

END OF VOL. I.

A5» saai^ PBxsTEBa ass EUEcrnBenmcKS, omarocDi.

mi

3 0112 037330997

^

OF Thou

University

or ILLINOIS

8Z3

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was borrowed on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

TfMft/ mutilation, and undermining of books or* reasons
for disciplinary action and may result In dismissal from
the University.
TO Renew CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

APR 2 1993

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. 79521 L162

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

m

m

OCT 7 1180

\m

L161— O-1096

A PICTURE FROM THE PERIOD.

BY

Major-general G. G. ALEXANDER, Cab.

Fiction is a fabric woven by Fancy with threads of Truth.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

l88l.

hall Rights Reset ved.\

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

I. '*' A GOOD CHRISTIAN " - - - - 1

n. TRANSFORMATIONS - - - - - 10

III. A FOOTSTEP ON THE STAIRS - - - 31

IV. WOMEN IN COUNCIL - - - - 42
V. MUSINGS BY THE WAY - - - - G4

VI. THE BELLE OF THE SEASON - - - 93

Vn. THE TURN OF THE TIDE - - - - 123

Vin. WRECKAGE ON THE SHORE - - - 160

IX. Made 186

X. POPS IS JEALOUS - - - - - 201

XI. FRIENDS IN NEED - - - - - 228

3i»;<

CHAPTER I.

A GOOD CHRISTIAN."

Mr. Yorke bears his triumph meekly, though
he, somehow or other, appears within the last
few days to have become wider across the
chest, and to require a larger waistcoat. His
speech, thanking his supporters, is a model
of what such speeches should be ; he has no
end of sweet words for his supporters, and he
refers to his late opponents in such touching
terms, it is impossible to read it without
tears.

Ah, that is what I call a truly good man,"
said old Miss Draggled, as she took off her
spectacles and wiped her eyes. "Whilst he
will always remember the kindness he has

VOL. II. 18

received from his friends, he promises to
forget and forgive those who have fought
against him. I am sure no man could say-more.
Those are the words of a true
Christian."

Never was the church so full as it was on
the following Sunday. The whole parish, and
many from the adjoining parishes, were thereto
gladden their eyes with a sight of the
great man of their own making. And when
Mr. Yorke walked up the aisle, with his
blue tie and spotless — and ample — white
waistcoat, the excitement was intense, so
that an apple was heard to fall in John
Lore's orchard, although the tree from which
it fell must have been at least six hundred
yards from the church-door. As Mr. Yorke
prayed, in the depths of his well-brushed hat,
many people wondered in what form of words
he was expressing his gratitude for the great
honour that had been done him. And when
he sat down, with the back of his head —
beginning to show signs of baldness — exhibiting
itself over the edge of the high-backed
pew, the children of the schools,
whose ordinary amusement, when opportunity
offered, was to pinch, or tickle, or kick their
neighbours, became suddenly so quiet and

good that Miss Judge, the schoolmistress,
thought they must be ill, and was frightened.
The fact is, they had heard so much of the
election, and of Mr. Yorke being made an
M.P., that they thought something very
strange must have happened to him, and so
they sat with eyes and mouths opened as
wide as possible, it may be in the expectation
that the somewhat sparse hairs, which
stood out in the sunlight from that bit of
bald head, would before long develop themselves
into some kind of glory, such as the
saints had round theirs in the great picture
with which the Rev. St. John had lately
decorated the chancel, and the meaning of
which he had been very careful to explain to
them in the most incomprehensible manner.

But they wondered still more when Sir
Francis came into the church, looking much
as usual, and not as if he had been crying ;
for they had heard that he had been beaten
dreadfully.

If, however, the excitement had been great
before, it reached the highest point of intensity
when, on the termination of the
service, Mr. Yorke, as he stepped into the
churchyard, was brought into contact with
Sir Francis, and it was with a thrill of

18—2

emotion that he was seen holding out his
hand.

Aye, they has shaken hands ! Lor', to
have seen it ! Well, he do be a good ran —
that he be ! And the parson, how he do
preach ! His words do be so fine !"

'* Aye, do ye look at Miss Geldreen's
gown ! if its tail hasn't as long as the church
is wide."

A victor can afford to be generous, so Mr.
Yorke walked by the side of Sir Francis as
if nothing had happened, and in a few minutes
any awkwardness which the latter may have
felt had completely disappeared. Lady
Arabella had come to church in her pony-chaise,
but the rest of the family had walker,
for it was against Mr.Yorke's principles to have
his horses out on Sundays — in fine weather.

They had not gone very far, when Mr.
Yorke stopped to speak to one of his tenants,
and Eva having lagged behind, for there was
not an old woman or young child in the
village to whom she had not some kind word
to say, Sir Francis found himself alone with
Geraldine.

Of course I am glad that my father has
gained the day," said Geraldine, " but I am
not the less sorry for you ; and I tell you

candidly, had I been a man, you should have
had my vote."

And yet it seems to be the general opinion
that I have made a great fool of myself," said
Sir Francis.

"Of course," said Geraldine, " because you
acted with pluck ; and most people are full of
cowardice, which they pretend is prudence.
There is nothing so contemptible as a
coward."

*' To have won your good opinion," said
Sir Francis, " is quite sufficient to reconcile
me to defeat."

'* Mind you continue to deserve it," said
Geraldine, blushing. She had no time for
more; Mr. Yorke rejoined them, and Sir Francis
took his leave ; he could not help pressing
Geraldine's hand with unusual warmth as he
did so.

'* I never saw her looking more beautiful,"
he thought, as he walked away.

The same afternoon, Mr. Yorke, who was in
the habit, on a Sunday of retiring for a couple
of hours after luncheon to the solitude of
his study, from which he generally emerged
rubbing his eyes, as if he were experiencing
the sensations which usher in an attack of
ophthalmia, was surprised to find himself followed,

on leaving the dining-room, by Mr.
Mortimer.

^' I hope my request may not be inopportune,"
said that gentleman, *' but I should
be greatly obliged, sir, if you would grant me
the favour of an audience."

'' Certainly," said Mr. Yorke, entering his
study and taking a seat. " Well, Mortimer,
what is it T

Sir," said Mr. Mortimer, *' the pain with
which I put forward the request T am about
to make, is assuaged by the proud satisfaction
I feel, iu common with your many other
humble friends, that you have been placed ina
position of which we are so hexc usably
proud. Had it been defeat, instead of victory,
I hardly know if I should have had the courage
to have spoken."

'* I hope nothing disagreeable has happened,
Mortimer," said Mr. Yorke, encouragingly.

Noways in the least, sir," said Mr. Mortimer.
" Of all my engagements, the office
I have held in your family, is the one upon
which I shall always look back with the
proudest satisfaction. I have always endeavoured
to do my duty; and I am proud of
being able to say that you, sir, and her ladyship
— not to speak of your amiable family

have given me every satisfaction ; and it is
with deep regret that, from unavoidable circumstances,
I find myself obliged to retire
from a position which I have filled, I trust,
with credit to myself and to the advantage
of all concerned."

Bless me, Mortimer," said Mr. Yorke,
"this comes upon me very suddenly. No
quarrels below, I hope ?"

*' Dear me, no, sir," said Mr. Mortimer,
"there has been no unpleasantness; besides,
it takes two people tu make a quarrel, and I
never would demean myself to be one of
them. No, sir; it is all private affairs."

It is very awkward," said Mr. Yorke.
I don't know what Lady Arabella will say :
she hates these changes, when she is once
suited. But I suppose there is no help for
it. Let me see — it is, of course, the usual
notice, and we shall have a month to lookout
for a substitute — but it is just now
extremely awkward."

That is why, sir, I wished to speak to
you on the subject, instead of acting in the
ordinary course through Mr. Cox : for I
should be sorry to be the cause of any
inconvenience, and an amicable understanding
in a interview between parties

often prevents obstacles arising, to which
I for one would object. I am anxious,
indeed it is indispensable, that I should goat
once ; but I know of a gentleman with the
highest testimonials who is in every way
qualified to enter upon my duties. A telegram
would bring him down tomorrow.
And on his arrival, I should, with a reluctance
which I find it difficult to express, retire
into private life."

I suppose you have come into a fortune,"
said Mr. Yorke.

*' Not quite that, sir," said Mr. Mortimer,
modestly ; " but my prospects have greatly
improved."

I suppose there is no help for it," said
Mr. Yorke ; " but I am sorry for it."

If ever I can be of any use to you," said
Mr. Mortimer, " I shall always be proud to
place my services at your disposal."

Fortunately, the gentleman to whom a
telegraphic despatch had been sent, seemed
in Lady Arabella's eyes worthy to be Mr.
Mortimer's successor. And on the evening of
the following day Mr. Mortimer, in a fashionable
travelling suit, and with most irreproachable
luggage, was seen awaiting the arrival of
the night train to London. His spirits were

so low that he was obllofed to seek a restorative
at the refreshment-bar. His leave-taking
at Nettlestone had been quite affecting. In
offering his dutiful respects to Lady Arabella
and her daughters, he had expressed himself
in the kindest terms, and had been so lavish
of his good wishes, that one might have
thought his power of wishing had been
exhausted, if they had not been renewed
with redoubled energy in the housekeeper's
room and servants'-hall. Poor Mary, the
housemaid, could not conceal her tears.

** My good girl," said Mr. Mortimer, condescendingly,
" I wish you well, and shall
always be glad to lend you a helping hand ;
but circumstances have dug a gulf between
ns which no affection can bridge over.
Hades — hades I"

It was the thought of Mary in tears which
had probably necessitated the restorative at
the refreshment bar. It seemed to have a
reviving effect.

"No, no," he said, "it would never do;
she is a dear good girl, and has a heart as
tender as a sweetbread ; but she could never
occupy a prominent position — her ignorance
is positively lawful; why she has not a hatch
in her alphabet."

Chapter 11.

TRANSFORMATIONS.

It really seemed as if honest Tom. Trenton,
as we prefer to call him — for in these days
though every second man you meet has a
handle to his name, it is still a distinction
to be called honest — was not far wrong in
predicting that the horse which had Mr.
John Marsh for its ostensible owner was to
carry him and his confederates to fortune.
For although that wonderful animal had
jot as yet realised the great expectations
which Mr. Marmaduke Yorke had been led
to indulge in — and that could easily be
explained by its having, as it was supposed,
caught cold and so contracted some rheumatic
affection, leading to a temporary lameness
which obstinately resisted cure — it had, in
other respects, proved itself a remarkably
useful quadruped. Through its purchase,

Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, junior, had been relieved
from any inconvenience he might have
experienced from an undue overplus of money,
whilst, after the claims of the owner had been
duly satisfied, honest Tom, of course taking
to himself, as he had a just right to do, the
lion's share, had been able to divide a sum of
money into three — unequal — parts, and gratify
the natural benevolence of his best of hearts
by raising his friend Jack from the depths of
poverty to comparative affluence, and releasing
Mr. Mortimer from a position which could
not but be most galling to a man of his high
aspirations.

To honest Tom Trenton's friends, it was
indeed most gratifying to find him once more
taking his old place amongst them, after his
long absence. He did not consider it necessary
to say where he had been — but he spoke
sometimes of sporting adventures in the
Rocky Mountains, and gave mysterious hints
of the money to be made by a good shot,
whose love of sport enabled him to rough it
in the wilds of South Africa. So that many
thought that he owed his money — not to his
creditors, as formerly — but to the elephants
he had shot ; in fact, to ivory. But the
major would have scorned to use the word

'' ivory;" he spoke only of husks," and of
elephants as quakers, ignoring the existence
of those who had none as creatures utterly
beneath his notice.

Now it must not be thought that the
major was untruthful ; such a suspicion
would be a cruel injustice to a man who was
open and honest to a fault, as he indeed often
regretted ; but he had a lively imagination,
and certainly had been a great traveller, or
he could not have talked as he did. He
talked so well ! It was quite pleasant to see
him the centre of a little group at his club,
for he had returned to the only mode of life
which, as he was fond of saying, " befitted a
man who had any claim to being considered
a gentleman, and whose habits of life have
been formed in the service."

Mr. Mortimer, too, had joined a club. Not
the one which had the honour of having Major
Trenton as a member, for which he was not
eligible, but the newly-formed "Ring and
Rail," the committee of which consisted, on
"paper, of a member of Parliament, two
dignitaries of the Church, and a sufficient
number of naval and military officers to give
it the air of superlative exclusiveness ; butin
fact, of the proprietor, who with the

assistance of the button-boy and head bottle-washed,
carried out the weekly elections by
ballot with a most scrupulous regard to the
interest of the club.

It was indeed a proud moment for Mr.
Mortimer, when he saw his name for the first
time in the gorgeously bound book which
contained the twenty-six rules of the club
and the names of its members, headed by
certain royal personages, who had the privilege
of participating in the advantages offered by
the club, without payment, though they
seemed strangely indifferent to the honour
which had been conferred upon them. One
thing puzzled Mr. Mortimer ; it was that,
stamped in gold letters on the cover was a
winged wheel, under which was the motto
Ubique." What could the word mean ?
He did not like to ask, but after much thinking,
came to the conclusion that it was
French, and had something to do with wings
and wheels.

On the twelfth page of this book, last of
the names headed by a capital M, stood inlarge
print :

J. MONTJOY MORTIMORE, EsQ."

Now the change which Mr. Mortimer had
made in his name, though slight, had become

necessary through the gentleman to whom he
had paid five shillings for establishing his
coat of arms, having informed him that his
ancestors, at the time of the crusades, had
Used that mode of spelling, and that all the
Mortifies were Montjoys, much in the same
way that most of the Smiths are Sydney.
To those who had only known Mr. John
Mortimer when in ** office," there would
have been some difficulty in recognising
Montjoy Mortimore, Esq., the newly-elected
member of the Ring and Rail, as he sauntered
gracefully through the entrance-hall and
placed himself in a befitting pose before the
telegram which gave the latest odds. Mr.
John Mortimer had worn long and carefully-curled
whiskers, and rather piqued himself
upon the precision with which he parted his
somewhat long back hair. Montjoy Mortimore,
Esq., indulged in a decidedly red
moustache, and his whiskers were reduced
to a small cropped patch some inch or two in
length between the cheekbone and the ear ;
and as for partings, his hair was cut so close
that it was only by much coaxing and a liberal
use of pomade he was able to produce a feeble
attempt at a dividing line above the centre of
his forehead.

I don't think I should know myself," said
Mr. Mortimore, as he looked into the glass
on the morning of his entry in his club, " and
I should most certainly cut him if I did.
Ah, those days are oyer. I am h emancipated.
I can't imagine how he could ever
have remained what he was. He must have
been a poor, mean fellow to have done so, and
did not know how easy it is to be a gentleman,
provided he's learnt to calculate the
odds and is fond of sport."

Mr. Marsh, for no one now dared to address
the owner of Fortuna as Jack, had also
benefited by the major's combinations. It
is true that he was still as bloated and
pimply-faced as ever, and that the atmosphere
in which he seemed to live was even more
redolent of the odour of stale tobacco and
gin-ands water than before ; but his altered
circumstances were apparent, not only in his
dress, but in his manner, for a jovial, self-satisfied
look had replaced his old sullenness,
and it was for his pleasure now that he extended
his potations into the small hours of
the night, and not, as formerly, to drown dull
care. A club was of course a necessity for a
man in the distinguished position of Mr.
Marsh. The major, whose experience in the

service and knowledge of the world had made
his opinion on such points invaluable, had
pointed out that as humble workers in the
cause of sport, the operations of himself and
Mr. Mortimore could be made more beneficial
to society in general and most conducive to
the object they had in view, with respect to
their owen benefit, by mixing with those whose
education was as yet incomplete, and who, as
the major justly observed, ought to be glad
to have an opportunity of remunerating
handsomely those to whom they would be
indebted for such extremely valuable experience.
" But as regards Marsh," said the
major, " he is peculiarly placed. As the
ostensible owner of a horse possessing the
character of Fortuna, he occupies a position
with regard to society which he cannot ignore.
The only club for him is the ' Equestrian,'
there he will find himself amongst men of his
owen kidney, and working as we shall be
towards the same laudable object from three
several centres, it will be our own fault if weare
not able to produce, through our mutual
energy and prudence, some extremely valuable
combinations."

It was in accordance with this advice
that Mr. Marsh became a member of

the " Equestrian," to which a short time
before Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, june., had also
been elected.

To the members of the Imperial — the
major's club — it was a source for congratulation
to have the advantage of associating
with one so thoroughly ait courant with all
the past, present, and future of the Turf It
was not long before — " What does Trenton
think?" " What does Trenton say ?" ^' What
is Trenton going to do ?" were the three questions
most frequently on the lips of the
sporting members of the club. Honest Tom
Trenton could not but feel a pride — an honest
pride — in the position he had won for himself,
a position which had become so far recognised,
that in the space of an extraordinary
short limit of time he had advanced in his
intercourse with such men as the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps and Major Decimus Fits
— acknowledged leaders in their peculiar
section of society — from the very outside
edge of porte incivility to a degree of
cordiality which had absolutely reached the
point of a friendly greeting in the Park.

Indeed his popularity had reached to so
high a pitch, that Major Decimus Fitzjones
had been overheard to say : '' A deuced clever

VOL. II. ly

fellow is that Trenton ; knows all about a
horse."

To which remark the Hon. Pierrepoint
Phipps was contented to reply in the monosyllable
'* Haw !" But the tone in which
that one word was uttered, was unmistakably
indicative of assent.

Major Thomas Trenton and Mr. Mortimore
had the advantage of possessing the degree
of freedom essential to those whose ambition
is to take that high position in the social
scale which is only open to men who do not
find themselves kept down by the heavy
weight inseparable from family ties. Mr.
Marsh was not so fortunate. He was, as we
know, a married man, and his sickly wife and
blind child were the occasion of continual
annoyance and inconvenience to him. The
same might perhaps have been equally said
of the old gentleman, whose acquaintance the
reader has already made, and who stood in
the relation of an uncle, had it not been fora
small annuity, which, when times were bad,
had made it desirable that he should become
a member of his nephew's family, and contribute
— indeed provide for — its support. Of
course all this was extremely disagreeable to
Mr. John Marsh ; in seasons of adversity

there was nothing for him but to accept the
position : but now that a current had set in
which might lead to fortune, independent
action had become necessary. For him to
leave the neighbourhood of his club was impossible.
For his family, change of air to the
outskirts of London would unquestionably
be advantageous ; and his uncle's modest
means, when not required as formerly to administer
to Mr. John Marsh's imperative
wants, would be quite sufficient to provide
a respectable house and the necessaries, if not
the superfluities, of life for his nephew's wife
and child. It was therefore with a feeling
that he was acting in a most disinterested
and liberal spirit, that Mr. John Marsh permitted
his wife and child, necessarily accompanied
by his uncle, to take up their residence
with an old servant who had married whilst
in the service of Mrs. Marsh's family, who lived
in a small house in the neighbourhood of
Hackney and let furnished apartments. Mr.
Marsh's liberality had also gone to the extent
of contributing a small sum of money,
sufficient to enable his family to be provided
with some better raiment than that which
belonged to their poverty. Thus it was that
when a cab, with a small but decent modicum

19—2

of luggage, drove up to No. 4, Woodbine
Terrace, there was nothing to denote that
the well-dressed but feeble old gentleman
who was so carefully searching, even under
the cushions of the cab, as if for something
he had lost, the pale, well-dressed lady and
the pretty child, had but a few weeks before
been living in a squalid street in the very
depths of poverty.

As the cab stopped at the gate of the small
garden which separated the house from the
street, the front-door flew open and a little
woman, wearing a voluminous white apron,
stepped briskly down the steps, followed by a
heavy-looking man whose comparatively slow-movements
seemed to make her activity the
more conspicuous.

'* Come, Fulford, man, look alive ! This is
Mrs. Marsh. Law, mem ! Well, 'tis nigh
twenty years since — and time do change us
all, the Lord be praised for it !"

What the last ejaculation meant, it is not
easy to say ; but it met with no response, for
at the sight of the old servant Mrs. Marsh
had burst into tears.

The child, who still remained in the cab,
with a cage containing a large grey parrot on
her lap, seemed to have an intuitive perception

of what had taken place, for she looked
up and said, as sharply as a soft, silvery voice
would permit :

'' Mother, why do you cry ? This is better
than our old home. I can smell flowers —
sweet flowers ! It is so nice. Shan't we be
happy, Pops V

*pops has his doubts," said the parrot, ina
deep voice, which made Mrs. Afford
start.

Don't be a fool, Pops !'* said the child ;
** you know you are as certain as I am."

Pops contented himself with a long, low
whistle in reply ; and, putting his head on
one side, looked out knowingly with one eye,
as much as to say, *' We shall see."

Mrs. Fulford, whose attention had been
diverted from Mrs. Marsh to the child,
stepped towards the cab and held out her
hand towards the cage, as if expecting it
would have been handed out to her ; but, on
finding that no notice was taken of the
movement, she seemed suddenly to remember
that the little girl was blind.

'rand so, mem, this is the poor little
dear ? May the Lord be merciful to her in
her affliction — as He doubtless will. Ah I
Miss Margaret, my dear, I knew your mother

when she was no bigger than you are. That
I did, Miss Margaret."

*' Don't call me Miss Margaret," said the
child. '' My name is Madge ; isn't it,
Pops T

Pops has his '*

Before the parrot could finish the sentence,
a rap on the cage reduced him to
silence.

'' You shall have no supper if you make
such a fool of yourself — and before strangers,
too ! I am ashamed of you. If you can't
speak sense, you had better hold your
tongue."

Yes, mum's the word. Don't tell
the "

Another rap on the cage seemed to have the
effect of frightening off the cats; but they could
not be got rid of entirely, for no amount of
rapping could prevent Pops from completing
his sentence with a series of doleful mews,
which were renewed at intervals during the
process of conveying him from the cab to the
house, which was done in a kind of procession.
First Mrs. Fulford, with shawls and
wraps, followed by Mrs. Marsh ; then Mr.
Fulford, in all the majesty of stolidity and
strength, with little Madge in his arms, and

the cage of the lamenting Pops suspended from
one of his little fingers. Then the old uncle,
still on the look-out for something he could
not find; and last of all, the cabman with a
shouldered trunk.

*' Mem," said Mrs. Fulford, as she threw
open the parlour-door, "you will find it clean
and comfortable, though, mem, it is not I
who should say it, and quiet ; for, though he
is my husband, and I say it, there is no
quieter man, and no better man, no, not if
you searched through Woodbine Terrace.
No, mem ; he may be, and is, silent, as I
often say, but he is every inch a man. That
you are, Fulford, and you know it ; so you
need not look as if you didn't."

Mr. Fulford, who seemed to combine
strength with taciturnity and much placidity
of temper, looked as if he would have
blushed if time had not tanned and thickened
his skin to an extent which rendered such a
manifestation of feeling impossible. So, not
being able to blush, he contented himself
with rubbing his hands, the moment they
had become free, through his having set
down Madge and Pops on the small horsehair
sofa which formed the most imposing
article of the front parlour's furniture, and

to repeat in a deprecatory manner, as if her
good opinion were too much for him :

Please, Tibs, don't !"

Mr. Fulford, when speaking to his wife,
always called her '* Tibs." though he never
failed to speak of her as the " missus." And
to hear him speak without knowing this, you
might imagine he had to do with two very
different people. To Tibs he always spoke as
if he were still in all the agonies of his first
courtship, and had never got over the bashfulness
which is the torture of timid lovers; but
of the missus, it was as if he referred to someone
before whom — though every inch a man
not only he but every one else ought to
tremble ; of some one whose word must be
law ; of some one who could not be wrong.

No, dang it !" he would say, *' the missus
is a woman, and that is the worst that can be
said against her. Why, she's more sense in
her little finger than I have in my whole
body."

It is difficult to explain it, but so it was :
Mr. Fulford had been for twenty years most
tenderly in love with ** Gibbs," whilst all that
time he had continued in most abject fear of
the "missus." The resultant of these two
forces was, that not in Woodbine Terrace, no

not in all Hackney, was there to be found a
steadier man, or a more submissive husband,
than John Fulford.

For many years before his marriage he had
worked steadily at his trade as a smith ;
and it was to the heat of the smithy fire
that he owed his swarthy complexion, and to
his daily labours at the forge that he had
gained the muscular development which was
probably the cause of his v/ife so repeatedly
reminding his friends that her husband,
despite his mildness of character, " was every
inch a man." Their united savings, carefully
invested in No. 4, Woodbine Terrace, and
other small freehold properties, had enabled
him, after their marriage, to retire from
business ; and since then, whilst his wife
occupied herself in the performance of the
household duties, his time was principally
engaged in marketing, going on errands, and
in keeping the front and back gardens in
order. In this he took a special pride, nothing
could exceed their neatness, and, it was surprising,
considering the smallness of the
space, the number and variety of the flowers
he had managed to crowd within them.

In the back-garden he had built a small
summer-house, in the further corner, to

which, when it rained, he retired of an afternoon
to read his newspaper — he seldom got
beyond the ponce reports — and smoke his
pipe ; but, when the weather was fine, he
generally took up his position on a rustic seat
under an acacia, in the front plot, which,
though partly concealed from view by a
bushy laurustinus, was close to the iron
railing, so that, without being seen, he could
overhear the comments of the passers-by as
they looked at his flowers, and have his pride
gratified by such remarks as: *'My eye, what
roses!" ''I say, Bella, ain't that a nice garden !"
What awfully fine tulips !" and so forth.

Mrs. Fulford was a wonderfully active
little woman, and never so happy as when
she was working or talking, for she could do
both equally well.

As a rule, she had not very much spare
time, for her apartments were generally full ;
and besides the rooms which were now to be
occupied by the new arrivals, the back parlour
on the ground-floor and the front bedroom
third had been for some months in
possession of a gentleman of whom she spoke
to Mrs. Marsh as —

A young gent who is now a-walking of
the hospitals; but though a fine, big fellow —

ain't he, Fiilford ? — he is none of your boisterous,
out-at-all-hours, graceless scamps,
such as so many of your medical students —
God help them I — so frequent are, but a
quiet, well-conducted gentleman, as good as
gold. He has a beautiful painted text just
above his bed, and I see that it is a-looking
in him ; for once or twice when I have been
in his room I have seen him look at it and
sigh and sigh till I was ready to jump for
very joy, for 1 saw, mem, that he was looking
upon himself as a lost sinner, and we who
have gone through the same know that the
darker the clouds of sin seem the sooner will
the sure hope come, over which shall be
never more a cloud."

From this it will be seen that Mrs. Fulford
was a good woman, and, indeed, she was
never so happy as when she was endeavouring
to do good. But unfortunately for her
friends, and most people with whom she
came in contact, Mrs. Fulford had had her
experiences, and had, after much wrestling
with the evil one, arrived at the consoling
conviction that she was one of the elect ; and
this had made her so happy that she felt it
to be her duty to endeavour to induce others
to become participators in the same privilege,

or, as she expressed it, ^*to make herself a
finger-post to point out the narrow and
crooked way, and to snatch brands from the
burning."

Talking, then, ceaselessly of her experiences,
Mrs. Fulford, after having established
old Mr. Marsh in the front parlour — through
which he immediately began to prosecute a
very minute and exhaustive search — conducted
Mrs. Marsh, Madge, and the inseparable
Pops upstairs.

On entering the drawing-room, on the first
floor, she pointed to some prints in maple
frames, which hung round the cold and
naked-looking walls — for the room had a
north aspect, and the paper was of the
peculiar pale, faded green, which even on
hot days makes one feel cold, and long to put
a match to the still colder-looking white
paper which fills the grate, as if in mockery
of fire — and directed Mrs. Marsh's attention
to the subjects they represented.

"You will see, mem," she said, '^ that the
one great object has never been lost sight of.
We know that the heart is deceitful and
desperately wicked, but here, when we sit at
work or what not, we have but to raise our
eyes — and what do we see 1 What do we.

mem ? What do we, Miss Madge ? Why,
as we look we are made to feel how vile weare,
and how thankful we ought to be. For
these are the parables ; and thanks be to
God who has given them for our learning.
Oh, we have to thank Him for much, mem.
He has been very kind, Miss Madge."

*' Not to me," said Madge ; '* He has not
been kind to me. He has given me no eyes.
I can see no pictures, nor flowers, nor anything."


'' Hush ! hush !" said her mother, who had
relapsed into the silent, tearful state which
seemed habitual to her. *' Hush, my dear
child ; you do not know what you are
saying."

Mrs. Fulford had been so shocked at
Madge's remark that for a moment she was
unable to do more than utter : " Dear me !
dear me !" but she quickly recovered, and was
about to express the anguish of her heart at
hearing what she was pleased to call such
wicked words, when she was again brought
to silence through Pops suddenly breaking
out into an apparently uncontrollable fit of
laughter, varied with spasmodic mews and
a request that nobody would tell the cats.

Madge's threats, enforced by sundry

thumps upon the cage, had at last the effect
of reducing him to silence ; but the thread of
Mrs. Fulford's discourse had been so suddenly
broken that that lady found herself
unable to bring it to a close, and she was
glad to beat a retreat from what she found
to be an untenable position, by entering into
the necessary details concerning Mrs. Marsh's
immediate and future wants.

CHAPTER III.

A FOOTSTEP ON THE STAIRS.

It took many days before Madge could settle
down in her new home. All was so strange
to her. The weather had become cold and
wet, and the sweet smell of flowers which
had greeted her arrival was washed away.
She almost regretted the dingy, squalid
rooms, in which so much of her past life had
been spent ; the dingy squalor of which,
happily — for in this, at all events, blindness
had been an advantage to her — she had
never known.

Here, she was in an unknown world, and
she could not take a step without striking
against some object, the very nature of which
she had to find out. There, she knew everything
: the distance between the corner in
which she sat and the fire ; the number of
steps between it and the door ; the exact

position of her great-uncle's chair; and she
could even find out the whereabouts of Pops
when he endeavoured to escape some well-deserved
chastisement by hiding himself,
with an air of intense satisfaction, behind the
coal-scuttle, or by perching on the back of
her uncle's chair — discovering himself, as he
was generally sure to do, by informing the
world at large that '* mum " was *' the word."
There, too, old uncle, or dear uncle, or
good old uncle, or cross old uncle — for
she varied her style according to her mood
and to the degree of favour in which he stood
at the moment — was always ready to talk orbe
silent at her bidding, for she had almost
arrived at the point of regarding him as a
superior sort of big animated toy, who had
been called into existence for no other purpose
than to speak or move in obedience to
his little niece's will. Here it was quite
different ; their lives suddenly seemed to
have been cut apart ; cross old uncle — for
she called him by no other name now — confined
himself almost entirely to the ground-floor
front ; and when Madge had groped
her way there he would not talk, but kept
on saying :

** Hush ! hush ! you must not disturb me ;

I am trying to make what I have lost." And
when she asked why he had not done that
before in their old home, he would answer :
•* Hush ! hush ! I was ill then, and weak,
and my poor brain would not work ; but
now I am quite strong again, and my brain
quite clear — so clear ! But hush ! Madge
dear, hush ! you must go away now ; but do
not tell — mind you do not tell !"

And when you find it, you cross old
uncle ?" asked Madge.

We shall all be rich — ah, so rich, Madge
dear !"

And will you buy Pops a new cage, you
dear, cross old uncle V

Yes ; if you are good, Madge, and go
away ; a big cage — a beautiful cage — all gilt
and bright as gold."

Then Madge would go away, sorrowfully,
though somewhat cheered by the prospect of
that beautiful gilt cage. But she was not
quite satisfied until she had asked Mrs. Ful-ford
what it was old uncle did all by himself
in that stupid dull room ; and she was
not much the wiser when that good lady
told her :

"Lord bless you. Miss Madge, and take you
in His keeping ! how should I know ? Why

VOL. II. 20

there he sits and writes and writes, and, as is
evident to all, hardly gives himself a minute
for his meals ; and the sheets of paper that
he covers over is next to awful ; and all with
lines of small figures so close together, there's
no getting between them. Why, they must
represent billions upon billions at the very
least."

With her mother Madge did not talk
much : it was as if there were something in
her manner that repelled her, and there were
times that this feeling seemed so completely
to take possession of her, that when her
mother would throw her arms round her and
weep over her, and kiss her, she would push
her away with a pettish, '' T wish you would
go away and let me alone ; I don't like it !"
and when Mrs. Marsh, weeping more bitterly
than ever, would say : '* Ah, Madge, you do
not love your poor mother I" Madge would
reply : '^ Oh, yes I do !" in a manner that
never failed to make Pops exclaim — but
cautiously, and as if he were pondering over
each word : '' I — have — my — doubts."

The idea of its being necessary to teach
Madge anything seemed never to have
entered into Mrs. Marsh's head. Her child
was blind — another drop of gall in her bitter

cup to be lamented and moaned over ; and
certainly, if that formed a part of her maternal
duty, she did it well. But in all other respects,
apart from being kept tolerably well dressed
and scrupulously clean, which latter was due
in no small measure to little Madfje's intuitive
horror of everything like dirt, the poor child
was utterly neglected, and her mind would
have remained perfectly fallow, had it not
been for her old uncle, of whom she was
never tired of asking questions, though the
knowledge which she gained from his answers
was of such a peculiar nature that Madge
seemed to have nothing in common with other
children, and the manner in which she expressed
her thoughts was often the cause of
Mrs. Fulford's being greatly scandalised.

We must take her in hand — we must take
her in hand, John'' said she to her husband ;
'' she has never been fed with the true milk
of babes."

"We can take in an extra two-pennyworth,
Tibs," was the unguarded reply.

"John," she said, "you are a man, every
inch of you, but you will not think. What is
milk — but the Word ? I was not speaking of
carnal things. No, it is her soul — her poor
soul, John. She is blinded to outward things,

20—2

to all the miserable dross which is but so
much rags and ashes ; but who knows ?
maybe she will one day see all the clearer
through those clouds which shut out the
glory from so many sinful eyes. No, John,
we must take her in hand."

And so Madge was taken in hand. Of her
father, to her great joy, she saw very little :
he came now and then to Woodbine Terrace,
for he did not like to cast himself off entirely
from an uncle who had an annuity ; but he
always excused himself for a short visit on
the plea that he was overwhelmed with
business, and he cared not to notice that
Madge shrank from him when he drew her
towards him on his arrival, and was frequently
not to be found when he went away.

Mr. Fulford had at first felt a little shy of
Madge. It was almost as if her blindness
had made him afraid of her. But after some
days this feeling wore off, so that he had the
courage to take her little white hand in his
brown brawny one, and lead her through the
tortuous walks which intersected the little
back garden, to the summer-house ; but he
would not let her sit there, because he said —
and he always spoke to her as if she were
deaf — in winter it was too cold and damp.

Bat only wait till summer, then wasn't it
pleasant to sit in ! why, it was then as warm
as Madeira, and as sweet with the honeysuckles
and roses as the Spice islands.

And may I come and sit in it, and
bring Pops, and have it all to ourselves ?"
asked Madge.

Of* course you may, miss," said Mr.
Fulford ; "but you must teach that bird
manners, for he do scream and mew terrible."

So Madge's great dream during the winter
was the happy summer hours she would
spend in that pleasant bovver, and much of
her time was spent in preparing Pops for the
privilege of being allowed to go there with
her by teaching him manners. Poor Pops,
he was quite tired of being talked to about
that arbour, and of being told how happy they
would be in it. He began to hate the word
"arbour," and considering the number of
quieting thumps upon his cage which he
associated with it, it is not to be wondered at
that he sometimes would insist upon saying
that he had his " doubts."

There was one subject of never-ending
interest to little Madge — it was with respect
to the person whose heavy step she heard
early in the morning and late in the evening,

going up and down the third pair stairs.
She heard him, too, sometimes calling out to
Mr. and Mrs. Fiilford, and she fancied it
must be some one she would like, his voice
sounded so pleasantly as he shouted :

'' Fulford, my boots ;" or, '' Good-morning,
Mrs. Fulford; breakfast, please — I am ready
for breakfast."

It was then with a feeling of disappointment
that she found out it was the young
gentleman lodger who was " walking the
hospitals." For one day, when being piloted
by Mr. Fulford through the mazes of the
box-edged walks of the back garden, she had
ventured to ask what " walking the hospitals"
meant, and had heard, with dismay, that it
was to learn all about old bones and dead
bodies, and how to cut off arms and legs, and
to make up medicines ; so that walking the
hospitals presented itself to her mind as a
horrible and disgusting occupation, and she
could not divest herself of the idea that the
person who did it must be something very
hideous and disagreeable to look at. So much
so, that not being able to see " the young gent
who walks the hospitals," was one of the
exceptional cases in which she did not refer
to God having given her no eyes as He had

done to other wicked people, which was the
formula she usually employed when out of
temper or annoyed. And all this notwithstanding
that Mr. Fulford had informed her,
that " as times go, Mr. Pringle was not half
a bad young chap."

Mr. Pringle ? Yes, no other than Mr.
Charles Pringle of Deepdale — so much better
known to his friends and in the bosom of his
family as Chub. The world is very small,
and people are shuffled together in it in a
very strange manner, some think by mere
chance, others in accordance with some great
design ; it must be by one or the other, but
though to settle the question — if it be capable
of settlement — would take up more pages than
all the chapters of this book put together ; so
to avoid controversy and any possible loss of
temper it might occasion, it will be better
perhaps to put it, that by mere chance, or in
accordance with some deep design, Chub and
Madge were brought together under the
hospitable roof of No. 4, Woodbine Terrace,
Hackney.

Brought together under the same roof, and
for some time no more ; but by degrees little
Madge listened for those heavy footsteps on
the stairs, and felt quite sorry when the

pleasant voice did not call out so cheerily as
usual that its owner wanted breakfast.
Perhaps it was sympathy, but even Pops
seemed to interest himself in those steps on
the stairs. He might have been seen with
his head on one side listening attentively,
and making a strange little click with his
tongue as an accompaniment to each creak of
the stairs, so that it seemed he was counting
the footsteps in order that he might be ready
the moment the landing-place was reached to
give that shrill whistle which said as plainly asa
whistle could, 'come here ! we want you."

And the time came when that whistle did
its work : first, but only now and then, a
somewhat feeble response ; then a bolder one ;
next a kind of duet, gradually prolonged in a
variety of keys, with the delighted Pops ; and
last of all, the door being open, '' May I come
in and look at your beautiful parrot ?"

Do you like parrots '?"

When they are as clever as yours. What
is his name T

'' Pops."

Pops, Pops, Pops, Pops ! we must befriends,
Pops."

But from the instant that Madge had
spoken, Pops had withdrawn in sulky silence

to the swing in the centre of his cage, where
he sat with his feathers all ruffled up. Was
it jealousy ? — perhaps it was, for coming
events cast their shadows before them, and
from that day forth there was one person in
the world that Madge loved more than Pops,
and that notwithstanding all that Mr. Ful-ford
had said about walking the hospitals.

CHAPTER lY.

WOMEN IN COUNCIL.

There was a frequent interchange of letters
between Geraldine and Victoria.

'^ How I envy you, my dear Vie !" wrote
Geraldine. " No — not Vic — Victoria ; for I
never intend to use that stupid abbreviation
again. A student who aspires to attaching
letters of grave import to her name, must be
treated with more respect. Yes ! my dear
Victoria, I do indeed envy you. Here I am,
frittering my life away in an endless round of
frivolity, despising myself for my weakness,
yet no more capable of emancipating myself
from the dominion of Folly, Fashion, and
Misrule, than the poor moth is capable of
flying away from the light around which it
flutters, but until its poor wings are scorched,
and then — well, it dies, and that is some
comfort.

You will see, from what I have written,
that I am cross and out of temper. And I
were an angel if I were not so. For we have
shot all our pheasants, and the house has
been full of pheasant-shooters. How I honour
Sir Francis for not allowing himself to be one
of them ! I thought it great fun once, but now
it makes me absolutely angry when 1 see all
these great strong men starting ois armed cap-a-pie,
in order that they may gain an appetite
for their horrid dinners by killing a number of
innocent, inoffensive birds who up to the first
of October had been taught to look upon man
as a friend and benefactor, and little knew
what a cold, cruel, calculating heart was beating
all the time in the breast of that hypocritically
benevolent monster. Why men
should have so much pleasure in killing
pheasants, I can't make out — except that
they have long tails, and so perhaps are easier
to hit than barn-door fowls, for they are quite
as tame. Indeed, a pheasant is tamer than a
goose, for it was only a few days before the
slaughter began that we drove past a field in
which a flock of geese and a number of pheasants
were amicably feeding together, and at
the sound of the carriage the geese were the
first to take to flight, which they did over a

hedge, in a heavy lumbering kind of way,
followed by the pheasants, who seemed even
less able to use their winofs. And then to hear
the men talk — foolish woman that I am, I feel
ashamed of them — one would think, to hear
them, they had been shooting lions and tigers,
and not poor little home-bred birds, who have
to be driven out of their hiding-places by great
brutes armed with sticks, for the amusement
of some still greater brutes armed with guns.
And this is how we, who belong to the world
of fashion, take our pleasures.

^' I am writing all this seriously; but I fear
if I am serious, it is only because I have been
bored. You must know, that amongst our
guests who are invited at this season, there
are some who come habitually — cousins of
mamma's or some old friends of papa's, who
would be offended if they were left out —
and so were not able to let all the club-world
in which they live know that they were
going to shoot at Nettlestone. Old friends,
indeed ! Some of them so old that they find
it difficult to carry a gun, and so generally
manage to catch a cold in the train, or to have
a slight touch of the gout, when, instead of
their valuable time being occupied in slaying
fat pheasants, it is taken up in torturing your

humble servant ; for these superannuated
bird-killers are always handed over to Eva
and me ; and I suppose it is because I am the
eldest they seem to think that I, more especially,
am bound to amuse them. In the
morning I generally manage to escape, but
after luncheon I am like poor Sinbad the
sailor, who had to walk about day by day with
an old man sitting on his shoulders. To-day
it was a poor old admiral — some kind of
cousin — you may have heard of him. Sir
Charles Chesterfield — who is especially unendurable
; for he prides himself on having
at some period of his life been a lady-killer,
and so the poor old wretch crawls down from
the awfully high star-and-garter stilts upon
which he generally stands, and flounders at
the feet of every pretty girl he comes across.
I suppose I must be pretty, for I repeat it,
I have been bored to death. Foolish young
men are my detestation ; but for foolish old
ones I have no words with which to express
my contempt. But all this is so egotistical
and silly.

Now I have written it I am quite
ashamed of it — particularly when the great
object of my letter was to ask you to write
me a long long letter all about your dear self,

and your work, and how you like it, and, indeed,
about everything ; for now you are gone,
and Sir Francis is away, I seem never to hear
a sensible word : and if you don't take compassion
on me, poor weak creature that I
am, I shall become a backslider, and sink
down and down into the slough of silliness,
which Fashion has carpeted with her scentless
flowers. Ah, me ! my Victoria, if I could
but possess some of your strength of character
I should indeed be happy. But I am so
weak."

But Geraldine was wrong. She was not
weak. She might not possess Victoria's
strength of character, for she had been
brought up in a different school ; and the
effects of youthful impressions, like those of
hereditary tendencies, though they may be
modified, can never be entirely eradicated.
She had been nursed in the lap of luxury,
and had grown up In the midst of conventional
modes of thought and action, in that
narrow sphere in which refinement is mistaken
for enlightenment, amiable impulses forvirtue,
vanity for self-respect, and social pleasures —
or what was intended to be pleasures — as
duties. A school in which amusement is often

made the chief aim of life, and excitement its
moving force.

Gifted with much natural good sense, there
were times when Geraldine rebelled, as it were,
against herself She despised herself, as we
have seen, for her want of strength. She
envied Victoria. She looked up to Sir Francis
as a superior being ; and jet there was not a
day in which she did not show some quality-she
was most ready to condemn ; say or do
something, of which, when it was said or done,
she was not thoroughly ashamed.

Hers was, as it were, a double character,
and it is this '* duality " of character in
the same individual, which makes it so difficult,
for those who would place the actions of
each life within some recognised category of
good or evil.

If the strong were never weak, the honest
never false, the virtuous never vicious — aye,
and the converse of all this — if the vicious
were never virtuous, the dishonest never true,
the weak never strong, what a world would
this world be for those who would describe it !
But the ease of description would be gained
at the sacrifice of all those lights and shades
which make such marvellous diversities of
colour blend into the beauty of a harmonious

whole ; and of that great bond which binds
all humanity together — the mutual consciousness
of weakness.

Victoria had had a fuller and deeper experience.
Her own struggles had shown her
the difficulty of overcoming the obstacles
with which our several paths are beset ; and
she had been made tolerant to others, whilst
remaining a tyrant to herself

'' Dear Geraldine," she had written to her
in return, ''I can quite understand your trials,
but there are many things in this world we
have to put up with though we may not like
them ; for when we keep ourselves apart from
those with whom we live, and make them feel
we do so because we despise their pleasures,
and have opposite opinions with respect to
every question which may arise between us, all
family and social ties become severed, and we
become, as it were, wanderers on some distant
shore, the beauty of which is shrouded from all
other eyes but our own. I have often felt that
so long as we are members of a domestic
circle, we owe a certain amount of passive if
not active conformity to the habits and ideas
of those around us. It has been wisely
arranged that the ^ capacity of conformity '

13 greater in our sex than with men ; and
well that it should be so, for subservience is
woman's heritage : unless she is, as I am,
free ! — yes, free ! But remember that even
freedom has its price."

It will be seen from this, that do what
Victoria would, the visions of the past would
occasionally present themselves before her.
Yet she was able to write :

You ask me if I am happy. My answer
is Yes ! far happier than I had dared to
anticipate. Every moment of my time is
occupied; and my studies are so interesting in
themselves, and so varied, that they produce
no fatigue. Neither does — as you suppose —
anything I have to do disgust me; for nothing
is aimless, the object is always in view, increasing
in interest as we proceed ; and we
pass by all that is disagreeable in our path,
in the same way that the traveller passes
through the narrow squalid streets of some
great city and has no thought but of some
beautiful monument, some lovely statue, some
legacy of the past's greatness that he has
seen, or that he has to see. Uh, Gerald fine !
you know not — a few months since I knew

VOL. II. 21

not — how beautifully this world is ordered !
Everything is so simple, yet so varied, so
diverse, yet so harmonious ; whilst above
all and below all, are those great mysteries —
the origin and end, — the connection between
spirit and matter, — the processes which produce
life, — the transformations which follow
death, — the boundlessness of space, — the
illimitable nature of time : great mysteries
never to be solved, yet ever to be studied !
Can you wonder, that I feel sometimes
oppressed with the sense of my own littleness,
at other times lifted up to a height
which makes me look with contempt upon
what man calls greatness, but at all times
filled with reverential awe, and ready to throw
myself down in abject helplessness before
that great Powder by whom all things have
been so fearfully and wonderfully made 1"

So wrote Victoria to Geraldine. But she
had another correspondent who sought for
counsel and advice.

It can easily be supposed that Eva had even
less in common with those by whom she was
habitually surrounded than Geraldine. Had it
not been for the vision — ever before her eyes —
of that great, honest fellow Chub, she might

perhaps have fallen an easy prey to such
insidious but well-reading councillors as the
Rev. St. John Softridofe and that high-handed
directress under whose despotic guidance he
so meekly performed the duties of his office.
The E,ev. St. John loved his wife, but he
would have been more than human had he
not at sundry times devoutly wished that
celibacy had been the rule of what he always
spoke of as the Anglican Church ; and this is
probably one of the reasons why he was always
so ready to fall into his wife's views when she
advocated brotherhoods and sisterhoods.

** It is her vocation," said Mrs. Softridge.
Eva is too good for the ordinary work of
this world, you have only to look at her to
see that. And how charming she would be
in the dress worn at St. Ursula's ; she would
make a perfect picture I"

But she may wish to marry ?" mildly
suggested her husband.

'* Marry I Mr. Softridge, how can you be
so absurd I Eva has far higher thoughts.
Why, it would bring her down to the vulgar
level of other people ; and 1 never look at
her without being reminded of a Madonna.
I hope if she asks your advice, you will know
what to say to her."

21—2

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

Eva did ask the Rev. St. John Softridge's
advice, and what he said to her was exactly
in accordance with the instructions he had
received from that inestimable woman, his
wife. But there is a great difference between
asking advice and following it, so Eva wrote
to Victoria.

She had not long to wait for the reply :

I beseech you, my dear Eva, to pause,'
it said, *' before you take a step which can
be nothing else than a complete renunciation
of all — remember of good as well as evil —
which belongs to the fulfilment of the duties
inseparable from the position in life in which
you have been placed. 1 will not enter into
the subject from a religious or sentimental
point of view, but shall confine myself as
closely as I can to the practical side of the
question as it presents itself to my mind, and
speak only of those things of which I have
gained some knowledge from personal experience.


"Now, you tell me that you would like to
join some sisterhood where you would be a
nurse, and you ask me whether I think you
are strong enough to perform a work which
} ou speak of as being the noblest to which a

woman can devote herself. My answer is :
Nursing is the only one of very many duties a
woman may be called upon to perform, and that
though it is a duty which circumstances may
enable her to perform without repugnance,
and in many cases with the satisfaction which
1 suppose belongs to the proper fulfilment of
all duties, it is often surrounded by so many
disagreeable and distressing details that it
is impossible to conceive an office in itself
more trying or, at times, more painful.
It may seem odd that I should speak in this
way of nursing, after having become a nurse
from choice ; but a knowledge of all that a
nurse may be required to do is unquestionably
useful, and in my case it was only one
of the means by which I sought to reach a
higher end. The case becomes quite different
when a woman, brought up as you have been
in an atmosphere of refinement, suddenly resolves,
from a wish, perhaps, to make some
meritorious self-sacrifice, to throw all her
feelings and susceptibilities to the wind, and
become a nurse — professionally a nurse, for,
disguise it by what names you please, dress
it up in what clothes you may, it is that and
nothing more.

** And are you really wanted, for the sake

of others, to do this work ? That is the
question to which I answer, No ! I am
quite ready to admit that a certain number
of women of education and refinement,
provided they have energy, health, and
administrative ability, are greatly needed to
fill the positions of matrons and directresses
in our hospitals and benevolent institutions ;
to officer, in fact, the rank and file, upon
whom all the menial work should fall; and that
women, to be enabled to fill these positions,
must be properly trained. But let us stop
there. Every sentimental or religiously disposed
woman of independent means who undertakes
some lower work, and has no wish to
rise above it, is simply filling the place of someone
to whom such an employment might bean
object of great importance, and whose
antecedents might better fit her for it ; of
some woman of middle age ; of a childless
widow; of one whose susceptibilities had been
deadened in her passage through life — none,
perhaps, pretending to higher motives than
an honest wish to gain their daily bread, but
working well none the less, for self-interest is
a powerful incentive, and selfishness in the
end does far more continuous labour, in this
world of labour, than sentiment."

True, most sapient Victoria," objects the
lady reader ; " but self-interest ever works
for a worldly profit, whilst sentiment may be
producing self-sacrifice and working for a
worldly loss."

My dear lady," replies the cynic, " do
think a little, and you will see that both
are working to obtain some future personal
advantage, and that the motives of both
when reduced to their simplest forms will
equally be found to be based on nothing
more nor less than pure and unmitigated
selfishness."

My good people, you must settle your
difference of opinion in the best way you can.
The nature and extent of selfishness is really
far too difficult a question to be dealt with
here ; we only know that it is a subtle
element pervading all humanity, and disguised
in such a variety of forms that it has
even been detected in the odour of sanctity.

Eva was not satisfied with Victoria's advice
; she thought it had a cold, worldly ring,
for when advice is not liked there is always
something wrong about it.

The idea of entering into a sisterhood was
given up, none the less, and with a readiness
which somewhat scandalised the Rev. bt. John

and shocked his wife. They had believed she
would have had more strength of will ; they
did not know that, do all she might to prop it
up, there was always that great dead weight
pulling it down on the other side — the
thought of Chub.

Yet, as we have said, Eva was not satisfied
with Victoria's advice.

^' I really am astonished," she wrote,
'' to find that it is not my unfitness for
the work, so much as the work itself, to
which you object. Surely you will admit
that works of charity, even when they necessitate
the greatest self-denial, come within
the special sphere of woman's action ; and
what greater act of charity than the alleviation
of suffering? I confess there is much
truth in what you say, but it is disappointing
to think that because a woman who wishes
to do good in her generation has been
brought up amidst all the spoiling effects of
luxury and over-refinement, she is rendered
incapable of taking her share in work in
which her sympathies may be deeply engaged,
not so much from her own unfitness,
cis because she may be taking up the ground
which ought to be occupied by others. Surely
this argument might be applied to almost

everything in the shape of work she might
attempt ?"

"Not so," replied Victoria; "you have
mistaken mv meanings. " What it is that I
would not have done, is to employ razors
for work that might he better done by clasp-knives.
But you may ask : * What, then,
would you do with your razors ?' I answer,
Apart from the work for which they were
especially made, I would use them for
every other kind of work which cannot be
done with clasp-knives, for which their
keener edge might better suit them. There
are a great many highly-educated girls who,
quite out of place as nurses, might occupy
themselves in a way which, in my opinion,
would be far more advantageous to the community
at large and agreeable to themselves.
Why should they not become teachers ?
What higher or more useful work than
moulding the minds of the young ? Yet how
few girls there are who ever give it a passing
thought. And here, as a rule, there
would be no displacement of others, for the
mistresses in the primary schools are usually
taken from those classes which I conceive
might best supply nurses. As matters now
stand, our children in these schools are chiefly

taught by machine-made teachers. Surely if
all the earnestness which is so often misapplied
by those who possess an intellectual culture
far beyond that of a girl who is the mere
product of a normal school, where to be
concentrated on the education of the young,
what great results might we not anticipate !
I cannot conceive that the work would be
less interesting, whilst certainly it would be
less fatiguing, to both mind and body, than
nursing. Take the school at Nettlestone
as an example. It is impossible to talk for
five minutes with the schoolmistress, good
Miss Puntis, without finding that she is
little more than an animated machine, wound
np to do her duties in a strictly methodical,
correct manner; but when she has done that,
she has done all, and is incapable of anything
else. The children she teaches are but so
many units on her registers ; she has not the
slightest interest in them outside their
classes, and they thoroughly reciprocate her
indifference. Can you not picture to yourself
the good which might be done could you put
in her place some sensible, well-educated,
earnest-minded woman, whose heart is in her
work ; the most valuable part of whose
teaching is nut that which has been learned

from books, but the lessons which are impressed
upon her pupils by those indescribable
influences which proceed from a teacher's
individuality ?"

To this Eva replied :

"You put things before me in a way which
makes it very difficult to find out why it is
I cannot quite agree with you. But I think
when you advocate teaching rather than
nursing as a vocation for girls belonging to
the upper classes of society, who wish to
occupy themselves with useful work, that
you have overlooked the fact that in the case
where they become nurses there is no loss of
caste, whilst in the other there is ; and
besides this, how very few amongst us there
are who would be able to go through the
daily drudgery of teaching. To me there is
really something dreadful in the idea, and I
would far rather become a housemaid and
have to scour down the back-stairs."

Victoria was not silenced, though she felt
so thoroughly the uselessness of endeavouring
to convince others, that she was half
inclined to let Eva have the last word.

'* I see," my dear Eva, " she wrote, '^ that
even you, good, kind, unselfish creature that
you are, cannot imagine anyone taking a

single step in life without putting the question
to themselves first, What will the
world think ? Why, as a rule, the ' world ' —
that is to say, the great majority of the men
and women in it — never thinks ; though it
accepts very readily the advantages which
may be conferred upon it by those who do.
However, there it is, this obstructive * world ;'
so let us put the question fairly before us,
What would the ' world ' think ? and see if
we can gain a satisfactory answer by taking
some individual case. That of Mrs. Howard,
for instance, of Branksome Cottage, who is
known to us both. She has small means —
very small means — for though her husband
had a good living, when he died, he left very
little behind him. She has three daughters :
one a hopeless invalid ; the other two the
very girls to illustrate the subject of our
discussion, for they are both in perfect
health, well educated, actuated by an earnest
wish to do good, and not likely to marry, for
they have very little beauty and no money.
The eldest of them, as you know, has joined
a sisterhood, and spends all her time in
nursing strangers, though she has a sister
who requires constant care and attention at
home. She gives her services gratuitously

to the institution she has joined, and requires
a certain sum yearly from her mother's
slender purse. The second daughter makes
herself very useful in the parish in which
she lives, and is never weary of well-doing.
They are well connected, and, as you know,
are occasionally asked to some of the best
houses in the neighbourhood : but of course
their very scanty means utterly precludes
their entering into the society of the county
on anything like equal terms ; so that they
cannot be said to belong to it, though I must
not forget to mention that when Sister Dorothea
comes home for a short holiday, wearing
her 'sister's ' dress — which improves her
mightily, she is much sought after, not only
by all the gay world, but, if my memory is
not at fault, by a certain young lady who is
called Eva.

*' Now, within easy reach of Branksome
Cottage are two primary schools, each with
its schoolmistress. Now I cannot understand
why, if the two Miss Towards had qualified
themselves for the work, they might not have
had those two schools. They would at once
have been raised from a state which certainly
fur them is one of great poverty, and their
time being only occupied for a few hours each

day, they would have been enabled to aid their
mother, who is by no means young or strong,
in her double duty of managing the house,
and nursing their sick sister. Why, then,
should this ' world ' be allowed to step in between
them and a career which offers so
many advantages, and say, No, we won't have
it ; you shall not teach children ; we will only
allow you to — well, my dear Eva, I will have
compassion on you and not finish my sentence,
for there are essential duties connected with a
sick room which, if put too clearly before you,
might have the effect of bringing down your
poetical visions of nursing to a somewhat
disagreeable prosaic level, and make you
prefer the employment you characterise as
"drudgery."

Drudgery I Is that the word to be used
when speaking of one of woman's highest,
noblest occupations : the training of the young?
To the moulding of the youthful mind into
such forms as will best adapt it to the requirements
of daily life, and the performance
of the duties which belong to each and all of
us ; to the progressive advance towards that
great goal — the perfect good — which, however
unattainable, is the true end and aim of all
human effort ? No, my dear Eva, education

is a high and holy work. You are wrong to
speak of it as drudgery.

Perhaps you think I am too enthusiastic,
and may wonder why, with my ideas, I have
not become a teacher. But because I have
instituted a comparison between teaching and
nursing, it does not follow that there may
not be other careers open to women in which
they can make themselves equally if not more
useful."

So it was that Eva, though unsatisfied, remained
quietly at home nursing her affection
in a patient, hopeless sort of way for the big,
burly, medical student, who was walking the
hospitals, and rejoiced in the name of Chub.

CHAPTER V.

MUSINGS BY THE WAY.

People may say what they please to the
contrary, but money is a great blessing. Of
course wealth has its temptations, but the
trials of poverty are not one whit less severe ;
indeed sometimes they are so severe that
man is driven by them to that terrible point
of suffering and despair which tempted Job,
in the anguish of his heart, to curse God
and die.

Yes, money is a great blessing, and those
who having it, affect to despise it, and speak
to those who are without it, as if they were
to be envied, whilst they themselves were
poor pitiable objects, bowed down by cares
and responsibilities from which there is no
escape, are hypocrites of the deepest dye ;
for it is in the power of the rich with a pen-stroke
to became poor, whilst the poor may

wear their pens down to the very stump and
not gain so much as will give them their
daily bread.

For poverty there is frequently no change.
However painful the scenes by which the poor
may be surrounded, however distasteful or
monotonous their daily occupations, there is
no escape from them. Life is often reduced
by poverty to a dull, dreary round, and only
made endurable to those who are enabled,
through the eye of faith, to see those bright
visions which belong to a higher and better
state. Glorious visions before which all the
material splendours of this world become
pale. But how few are those who rise
on the wings of faith compared with the
multitudes who have no thought beyond
those things which are confined within the
dark and narrow precincts of their daily
lives.

Such were some of the reflections which
passed through Sir Francis Hawthorne's
mind as the white cliffs of England receded
from his view, a short time after his defeat in
Middleshire.

He had been defeated. What of that ?
The race is not always to the swift, nor the
battle to the strong. But he felt how little

VOL. II. 22

his views were in unison with those from
whom he had expected more support. He had
found Liberals and Radicals professing the
most advanced opinions turning away from
every question which trenched in however
small a degree upon their own interests,
though they were perfectly ready to take
action with respect to those questions which
only affected the interests of their neighbours.
What could be done when men thought only
of themselves, and not of the common weal ?
for once, sanguine as he was, he felt inclined
to withdraw from all participation in the
struggles which belong to public life, and to
give up the cause of progress as hopeless.

It was evident he must have a change ; he
abhorred the shooting season; he felt that
his visits to Nettlestone would be ill-timed.
So he followed Dr. Pringle's advice, packed
up his portmanteau, and started for the Continent.


He had never been in Italy, so he made
Home his objective point ; perhaps it may
have been that a remark made by Geraldine,
when he made known his intention to her :
'* Oh, Sir Francis, why don't you go to Home ?
I wish you would," had somewhat influenced
his choice.

As he sat buttoned up in his ulster, gazing
thoughtfully on those receding cliffs, he
looked the very personification of a healthy,
well-to-do, unsentimental Englishman. There
was nothing in his appearance to indicate the
defeated candidate, the rejected lover, and
the suitor in embryo, whose heart was bleeding
from fresh wounds. Perhaps it was
because the disappointments of the past were
fading away from his memory, just as the
white cliffs were becoming less and less distinct,
as he was borne onward towards
another shore ; for the effects of distance
and time are much alike, and they are both
irresistible. His eyes, as we have said, were
fixed upon the receding white cliffs, but he
did not see them, he was thinking of something
else.

^' In three months T shall be back, and
then r

The answer must have been full of sweetness,
for he sat dwelling upon it till he was
rudely awakened out of his reverie by finding
that the steamer was passing between the
pier heads of Calais Harbour.

A few days later he was in Rome.

Rome ! That city of visions, in which life
is breathed into the dry bones which lie

22 2

before us, until we so move amidst the forms
we have created that it is our own existence
which seems unreal.

Rome ! That city of strange contrasts, in
which all that is beautiful and rare is found
side by side with all that is most tasteless
and commonplace. Gems of art so surrounded
that they become as the flowers
which are strewn upon the crumbling remains
of the dead.

Rome ! That city in which the Past looms
out of the dimness of time in proportions
which dwarf the Present, stand out as the
Present may in all the gloss and glitter of
its modish garb.

Rome ! That sanctuary of superstition,
where Reason is bound captive, Foolishness
is made to take the place of Wisdom, and
man receives the homage which is due to
God.

Sir Francis felt as if he stood in presence
of a corpse, and the thoughts which the sight
of that corpse produced were sad ones.

How could he look at the Coliseum and not
think of the devilish passions of which it
had been the theatre ; of the human agony
of which it had been the shrine; of the
grossness and brutality which may be found

side by side with the taste which produces
and fosters art ; of the luxurious refinements,
which, as much now as then, are mistaken for
civilisation and progress. It was this aspect
of the Past which made it so sad. The union
of so much from which the thoughtful modern
mind recoils in horror, with that upon which
the eye rests with a pleasure which never
palls.

He turned away for consolation to the
Present — even sadder the spectacle which it
presented.

What could they mean — those bamboos,
those virgins, those statues — was it before
such stocks and stones as these that men
should be taught to bow the knee '? He had
in his travels entered the Buddhist temples in
China ; but he had seen nothing like the image
worship he now saw in Rome. The images
there had no special sanctity ; here, many of
them possessed individual attributes and miraculous
powers. He was prepared for much,
but he was not prepared to see — as he did one
afternoon — each priest belonging to the chapter
of St. Peter's, as he passed through the
nave on his way to vespers, stop before the
brazen image of the saint, kiss its much-worn
great toe with great fervour, and reverently

press it to his forehead ! Alas ! so it
is. Superstition can never change ; it is
ever the same — yesterday, to-day, and tomorrow."


No — it can never change ; it tears the
hearts out of living men, and makes them
mere animated machines, mere organisms in
some great system for the enslavement of
the human mind. Yet it is these men, who
become the guides, the counsellors, the
directors of men and women who are moved
by impulses and united by a love, they cannot
understand.

As Sir Francis saw the young men preparing
for the priesthood marching through the streets
in all the elastic strength of youth, he could
not suppress a feeling of compassion ; for what
greater subject for pity than the man who is
taught that every emotion which belongs to
his nature is a sin, and that he can only obtain
the favour of the God he would seek
to serve by condemning the nature which
only belongs to him through that God's

whin

But there is another Rome, and that Sir
Francis did not care to see — the Rome of
tourists and guide-books — of those who talk
art and smatter small knowledge ; the Rome

of Palazzo and Principe, of the Pope and the
Pappilini.

He left Rome and went to Naples, passing
through the Campagna, where neglect has
turned the pure air of Italy to poison, and
energy might create a paradise. Everywhere he
was filled with astonishment. By what possible
process could a people naturally so intelligent,
so industrious, have been reduced to such a
state of degradation — for to the mass of the
peasantry it would be difficult to apply any
other term. Where could Nature be found
to have scattered her gifts with a more
lavish hand, and where could man be found
to have marred her beauty in such a ruthless
manner ? Mountains that were once clothed
with luxuriant forests, so bare that the traveller
is oppressed with their sterility ; and
large tracts in which the rich crop of weeds
showed that man's labour was alone needed
to make it grow richer crops of fruit or
grain allowed to remain a barren waste. In
contrast to this, there were times when the
road passed through field after field cultivated
with a care which in other lands is to be found
only in a garden. What more exquisite view
than the one which met his eyes when
driving from La Cava to Amalfi 1 Between

him and the sea terraced gardens full
of lemon trees with their golden fruit ;
gardens so carefully cultivated that they
seemed as if the cultivators had concentrated
their whole care and love upon them. Below
and beyond the. blue waters of the bay of
Salerno, and in the distance the still snowcapped
Apennines, with the majestic ruins of
Paestum, reduced to a dot of white upon the
strand.

Sir Francis drank in the beauty of the scene
until his whole soul seemed filled with it.
What a world might not this be made, he
said. He said it aloud, and the venturing,
though he knew no English, seemed to divine
his thoughts ; for he turned round with a —
Si, Signor, e vero."

At Amalfi he found how true it is that to
the natural man there is no source of elevation
in the beauty of the objects by which he
may be surrounded. It was impossible to
conceive anything more filthy than the streets,
or disgusting than the habits of the people.
An intelligent boy — indeed all boys are intelligent
in Italy — acted as his guide.

*' This," he said, pointing to a large marble
font in the church, " was found floating on the
sea ; it was brought to Amalfi by angels."

'^ Believe me, my good boy," said Sir
Francis, " you will see no more angels at
Amalfi ; you must become cleaner first. Now
when the angels come near, they will say,
'Impossible! this dirty place cannot be Amalfi.
They will hold their noses and fly away."

During all these centuries," thought Sir
Francis, "could not their bishops" — for
Amalfi is a see — '* and their priests teach
these poor people that there is such a virtue
in this world as decency T

He visited Sorrento, Capri. Dreams could
not conjure up greater loveliness. In the
ruins of Pompeii he pictured to himself the
terrors of that time when a sudden horror
broke in upon the daily lives of thousands —
when even strong men trembled before the
mysterious working of the Unknown, and
shrieking fugitives sought to find shelter
from the destruction which was thought to be
but the beginning of the great end. In the
Museum fancy brought back to life those disfigured
and discoloured forms, and he felt a
tenderness towards them, as if they must have
belonged to beings who when alive would
have been worthy of love — a feeling something
more than pity, yet which belongs to
all pity — a recognition of our own weakness,

and of the miserable object which we see before
us, being nought else than that which
we ourselves might have been.

As he walked through the narrow streets,
fancy was busy portraying the busy life with
which they must have been filled at the time
when those deep ruts were being cut by the
car wheels. He saw the slaves who drew
these cars ; for the streets were crossed at
intervals by high stepping-stones, which rendered
them impassable for vehicles drawn by
any other animal than man ; and he contrasted
them with the loungers on the raised side-paths,
who, clothed in purple and fine linen,
were just beginning to ask themselves what
manner of faith this new creed must be, in
which purple and fine linen had no place —
and master and slave were made equal.

As he was leaving the ruins his attention was
attracted by a small group of persons near the
gate — of which a lady was the principal figure.
In front of her was an old man — very poor, if
his ragged garments were to be trusted — who
seemed to be in charge of one of the custodians.

"Signora," asked the custodian of her, as Sir
Francis approached, " will you be so good as
to tell me whether you have seen this old
man before T

Yes," said the lady ; " he gave me a cup
of water from a fountain near which he was
working.

And you gave him a present of money?"

Yes"'

'* Do you remember what it was you gave

him r

*' I think two pieces of two sous each."

*' Perhaps you are not aware that a twenty-franc
piece was between them V

No, T am not ; but I can easily see."

The lady looked at her purse, and found
that it was indeed true.

'thank God!" said Sir Francis, "that
such honesty as this is not yet dead. The
grains may be small, but there they are, and
it is the fault of society if they are not made
to grow until their branches overshadow the
earth."

The lady had given the old man a small
present. Sir Francis shook him by the hand
and pressed a coin into it as he did so.

It was but an honest act, my friend, butin
doing it you have done honour to Italy."

He raised his hat as he spoke, and turned
away.

Vesuvius ! Baiae 1 What cared he now for
failure in Middleshire ? What room for

selfish thoughts when he stood in the presence
of the stupendous grandeur of the one — of
the supreme beauty of the other ?

Ah, if Geraldine could have been with him !

At Florence, that great art-centre, he once
more found himself in contact with masterpieces
of human skill. His days were spent
in her galleries, in her churches, and he marvelled
at the genius, the patience, the lifelong
assiduity, which had left such a lasting
record of loving labour. But could those
great artists have looked into the future,
would they have been satisfied at finding
their works huddled pell-mell together, so
placed that their delicacy of detail was often
lost thrush want of liirht, and the effect of
colour destroyed by close proximity to some
unfavourable contrast? At finding that which
had been intended to have formed the one
ornament, the chief interest, of a princely
chamber, to be dwelt on lovingly by appreciating
eyes, made one of a great motley
mass, to be passed by with indifference, or
stared at as something which ought to be
seen by thousands to whom a picture is little
more than a number in a catalogue, and who
would not bestow a glance upon it were it
without its gilt frame.

And in the churches was it better ? No !
most frequently it was worse. It was very
seldom that a picture could be seen — in the
sense of seeing as a picture should be seen —
and as often as not, it would be partly hidden
by a row of tall candles and by paltry vases
holding bouquets of that faded crumbling
artificial rubbish with which men seek to
show their gratitude to that Divine Being
who has scattered beauties every hand can
reach, and made a marvel of the meanest
flower.

Then again, the end ? To what extent
had art performed its mission as a teacher ?
Had the \vt)rks of these great masters done
more than educate the taste by producing a
higher standard with respect to the beautiful?
for man has no innate idea of beauty. The
answer came, but Sir Francis was not satisfied
with it.

Those painters, whom we speak of as the
** Great Painters'* were but the outcome of
the time in which they lived, of the forces
by which they were surrounded. Now, at
the epoch when art may be said to have
most flourished, the power of the Church
was nearly dominant, and the distribution
of the world's wealth was in its hands. The

Church became then the great patron whose
favour the artist was most anxious to obtain,
and it was working under its direction that
he became a new agent in a system which
aimed at nothing less than to bring the
human mind within the circle of a certain
formulary of ideas. They did their work
well. Art, in the hands of genius, soon assumed
a position of supremacy which made
it direct rather than follow ; religion, through
its teachings, became more sensuous, more
emotional, more material ; the supernatural,
by its aid, was brought down to the level of
humanity ; the very passions were enlisted
on the side of piety ; and pent-up emotions
found a legitimate vent in the adoration of
ideals, which were brought before the eye
with a freedom of treatment which might
frequently have been considered voluptuous,
had the subjects been profane. Yes ! it is unquestionable
art has been a great teacher ;
but has art been a good teacher ? Only in
proportion to the amount of the true, preponderating
over the false ; and what is the
true ?

Here Sir Francis came to a pause. What
is the true ? A mere point in the eternal
space which never can be reached, yet always

to be moved towards. A distant speck surrounded
by false lights — so distant that
deviate but a hair-breadth from the right
track, and what we mistake for progress is
but a moving onwards towards that sea of
error from whose shoals there is no escape.

No ! art has not been a teacher of the true.
Had it been so, its votaries could not have
remained callous to the world's loveliness
being so marred by so much that is hideous
around them. It would have produced healthy
emotions leading to useful actions, instead of
sickly emotions wasting themselves in morbid
thoughts.

Might not Sir Francis himself have been
morbid ? Perhaps so. But the train of his
thoughts was the result of incidents happening
before his eyes.

He saw crowds of refined and cultivated
people standing in silent admiration before
the beautiful picture of a child. Was ever
anything so lovely ? Was ever anything so
touching? In the streets they had passed
by living children — and of all created things,
what is there more lovely than a young child? —
without a thought. Living children, so neglected,
that none but the indifferent could have
looked upon them without a sense of shame.

He had seen in a church an old priest
gazing with tearful eyes upon a picture, in
which the artist had portrayed some incident,
in a saintly life, of sacrifice of self, of help
in need. He was still gazing, when an old
woman came up and asked for alms. The
old priest's expression changed in an instant,
and there was not a trace of softness in it ashe
drove her angrily away. How was this ?
Sir Francis thought he knew. The chief
interest of the picture belonged to the attractive
manner in which all the actors in the
scene it represented were portrayed. The
saint herself was beautiful, so beautiful that
it was her personality which took possession
of the spectator; and could it be expected
that the emotions which it produced could be
made subservient to sympathetic action
towards a dirty old woman whose wants were
of the most common and everyday kind.
The old priest did not intend to be cruel ;
he was only an instance of how our emotions
may be worked upon by a false and artificial
treatment, until they become deadened to
aught that concerns the vulgar realities of
everyday life ; but it is with the vulgar
realities of this everyday life that man has
most to do.

Sir Francis stopped many days at Florence.
There was something in the quiet repose of
the place which seemed to harmonise with
his feelings. A man, too, had once lived in
Florence, the echoes of whose voice still
seemed to ring through the silence of St.
Mark. Alas ! Savonarola, hadst thou been
content to have remained as others were,
thou wouldst perhaps have passed away
unknown ; but there would have been no
agony of soul through wrestling with doubt,
no protracted torture of that wretched body,
no fiery pile to cast a blush upon the face of
day in the Piazza della Signora. How terrible
it is to conjure up the scene upon which the
cold grey stones of the Palazzo Vecchio must
have looked on that sad May morning ! Let
us thank God that, bad as we are, cruel as
we are, and stupid as we are, we have outlived
burning, and that even when superstition
seeks to edify her votaries, she is obliged to
devise some less exciting spectacle than an
auto da fe.

Full of thoughts in which great men, great
pictures, beautiful buildings and historic
incidents formed a kind of mosaic. Sir Francis
left Florence. He travelled through Verona —
paying a short visit to the Arena and the

VOL. II. 23

house of the Capulet — to Bologna. Here he
was brought again face to face with two of
the great forces which seek to rule the
world.

In its university, which dates from the
twelfth century, Bologna pays homage to the
force which seeks to elevate humanity through
the enlargement of the understanding, through
the cultivation of the intelligence, by the
diffusion of — knowledge.
X In its one hundred and thirty churches
and twenty monasteries, it has recognised
another force — a force which acknowledges
no equal ; which would elevate man by
turning his attention from this world to the
next ; a force which has built up a fabric out
of ignorance, credulity, and deceit upon
eternal truth, and calls itself — religion.

A university with but a few hundred
students where there were once thousands.
A university which was one of the earliest to
teach anatomy ; in which galvanism was discovered,
and in which — all honour to it —
women were allowed to prosecute their studies
and become professors.

But a greater force prevailed. How could
a university be expected to hold its own
against one hundred and thirty churches and

twenty monasteries ; against the misdirection
of the public mind by the narrowing influences
proceeding from them ? In one of the seven
churches which forms the pile of Santo
Sterno, once the site of a temple to Isis, is
the tomb of a saint ; but what interested Sir
Francis most, was a printed paper attached
to the wall. It was a form of prayer, with a
notice to the faithful that two several popes
had been pleased, in the plenitude of their
power, to grant an indulgence of exemption
from the pains of purgatory for eighty
thousand years, to anyone by whom it might
be recited in that church. Eighty thousand
years ! But that was not all. It was provided
that, in the case of those who could not
recite the prayer through not being able to
read, the same indulgence might be gained
by the repetition of three Paternosters.
Eighty thousand years ! well, there was some
cleverness in that; for how powerful must
those be who can deal so liberally with
Divine favour ! And it is towards a system
which has acknowledged and exercised every
kind of presumptuous profanity, and which
still sanctifies error, so long as it may be
useful and further its secret ends, that so
many well-meaning people outside its pale

are found in these days of enlightenment
to be gravitating. At least a tour through
Italy ought to change the current of their
thoughts ; and so it would, were they to see,
when travelling, something more than external
forms ; but with Baedeker or Murray in his
hand, the traveller is frequently a mere
automaton, and, unlike Sir Francis, finds, even
in Bologna, little else to interest him than
its churches, its leaning towers, and its
Raphael's St. Cecilia.

It was too late for Venice. Venice cannot
be seen without sunshine, and it was now
November.

At Milan, Sir Francis found the Past
and Present side by side, represented by
the cathedral and the galleries Victoria
Emanate, both built in the form of a cross —
in that alike, and in naught else. At first
the contrast somewhat shocked him. Surely
there was something nobler, grander, purer
in the ideas belonging to an age which has
left such exquisite monuments of its creative
power ? Surely this vulgar Mammon-worship
which gives birth to no higher aspirations in
its votaries than those which produce factories
and shops, and makes art subservient to its
ignoble behests, shows a retrogression inhuman
progress *?

Think again, sir," said a stranger, with
whom he had entered into conversation in
the Piazza del Duomo. " Think again, sir.
Do not allow yourself to be blinded by the
glamour which belongs to the beautiful. These
past ages which stand out before the fancy in
such lovely forms, become hideous when we
resuscitate them. Adoration of the beautiful
had covered the world with architectural
gems, with statues in which marble was
made to assume a grace and comeliness
unknown to life, with pictures still studied,
and never yet surpassed ; but — ah ! if we
could only get rid of these * buts !' — it had
not caused men to turn away with horror
from what the worst amongst us now would
deem horrible : men and women exposed to
the most terrible tortures that studied ingenuity
could devise ; shows of gladiators ;
tournaments d Voutrance; burnings at the
stake ; public executions in which death was
made to assume some frightful form ; slavery
for the poor, bondage for the wise — a bondage
so severe that even a Galileo dared not assert
the truth, and a state of society which showed
its miserable depravity when all the high-life
of Paris crowded to the Place de la Grave, to
witness the all-day-long-continued torture of

the wretched Damien — a state of society
which led up to its own retribution, and was
ignominiously engulfed in the shameful excesses
and brutal depravity of the French
Revolution. So much for the mere adoration
of the Beautiful. Is Mammon worship better?
Unquestionably yes, for it is based on labour,
it needs peace, and can only flourish in
prosperity. It belongs to an epoch in which
full liberty of speech, thought, and action have
been recognised ; in which slavery has been
abolished ; in which the laws have been made
more humane. Many brutal pastimes have
been discontinued, and with the English,
amongst whom it is said to flourish most,
men have learned to differ without quarrelling,
and have left off the stupid trick of
firing at each other with pistols, or prodding
at each other with swords, because they
cannot think exactly in the same way."

*' It may be you are right," said Sir
Francis. He never knew with whom he had
been conversing, but he thought from his
accent the stranger must have been an
American. ** But there is a religion higher
than Mammon-worship : the religion which
teaches man to love his neighbour as himself;

let us hope it may become the religion of the
future."

*' I see, sir, you are an enthusiast," said
the stranger, as he bowed and passed on.

There is nothing so unanswerable as an
epithet.

Onward, over the Alps. It is winter in
these regions, whilst the autumn sun still
shines warm on the plains below. The road
is already deep with snow — snow is everywhere.
The tree limit has been passed, and
as the traveller gains a glimpse through some
rift in the encircling clouds of the depths
below, it seems as if he were being borne
aloft in the arms of a giant. Silence reigns
supreme. There is no sound, save the
tinkling of the horses' bells, and the crunching
of jbhe crisp, dry snow under the horses'
feet. A solitude in which there is no loneliness,
for the grandeur of the scene fills the
mind v^ith mighty thoughts, for which there
is no room amidst the busy, bustling haunts
of men.

On the shores of the Lake of Geneva, Sir
Francis lingered for a while. Never was a
scene more fair ! The weather, which he was
told had been wet and foggy, had become
fine. The deep blue of the sky was reflected

in the waters of the lake. The first snow
had capped the mountains with a covering of
spotless white. The trees were still in full
foliage ; some still quite green, some in a
garb of gold, others mantled in red ; whilst
mounting upwards, till they stood out black
in contrast to the snow, grew the dark,
sombre pines, those emblems of constancy
and strength. The season was very late, so
that the grapes had not yet been gathered,
and the vineyards were still full of life ;
whilst above them, on the mountain-slopes,
grazed herds of cattle, the sound of whose
bells was accompanied by the melodious
undertone of a thousand rills.

Had he not known Switzerland before, Sir
Francis might have been tempted to exclaim,
"Ah, happy people with a lot so blest."
But, smile as Nature might, he had seen her
in other moods. He knew that the mountaineer
has to spend his whole life in wrestling
against the difficulties with which she has
surrounded him, and that it is indeed with
the sweat of his brow that he has to wring
out the bare sustenance of life from her beautiful
but cold and rugged bosom.

Yet honest labour has its charms, no matter what it be,
When he who labours, looks around and feels that he
is free."

It was a few days after his arrival, and he
had combed up to that point on the mountains
above Montreux, from which a view is
to be obtained which has been immortalised
as " beautiful as a summer dream," when he
heard voices, and, turning in the direction
from which they came, saw three ladies advancing
towards him. As they came nearer,
what was his astonishment to find that one
of them was Victoria.

She and two German friends had been
tempted by the fine weather to make a short
excursion to the Lake of Geneva through the
Simmer Thai, and they were now on their
way to Cares.

'* This is indeed an unexpected pleasure,"
she said, as she held out her hand to Sir
Francis. "You see, Bertha," she continued,
after she had presented him to her friends,
"how quickly what I was saying just now
has been verified."

What was it you said ?" asked Sir
Francis.

When we were looking at the beautiful
view, and were full of wonder, I exclaimed :
To be happier were impossible !' Miss
Marsh would have it that there is no happiness
which has not a greater happiness a

little further off, if we take care not to
miss it."

And my greater happiness has already
come, in the meeting of an old friend' said
Victoria, laughing. '* Yours, my dear Bertha,
may yet be a little way off; as for Adele, we
know exactly where she will meet with hers,
if the Herr Brautigam only keeps his tryst at
Cares."

If he does not come to meet us, I will
never speak to him again," said Adele,
blushing.

Is the gentleman you are referring to
tall and good-looking, with a full, fair beard V
asked Sir Francis.

Why' said Adele, '* do you inquire ?"

*' Because' said Sir Francis, " as I came
up the path I passed a gentleman seated by
a stream, so engrossed in pleasant thoughts,
and I fear I must add a large pipe, that I
don't believe he even saw me."

'' Fritz," said Bertha. '' Adele's Fritz, to
the life. He smokes when he is away, because
he says he is so sad. And when he is
with Adele he smokes too, to calm, so he
pretends, his too great joy."

And now tell me all about yourself," said
Victoria, as they moved downwards ; " you

have been a great traveller, and T am only a
poor student ; so it is for you to talk and me
to listen."

'' Tell me first," said Sir Francis, '' have
you heard lately from Nettlestone ? but not
until I have told you how well you are looking.
Why, this mountain air seems to agree with
you mightily."

It was true. Victoria was radiant with
health ; and there was a bright cheerfulness
in her manner which had not belonged to it
before. She was handsomer than ever. It
was impossible to look at her without admiration
; yet Sir Francis felt that he could
be with her now and — yes ! if he had a
sister, it would be exactly like it — she never
could be anything to him now but a sister.
How different it was when he thought of
Geraldine ! Then his heart beat more quickly
far more quickly even than it had done on
that expectant morning ; and again he asked
himself :

Ah ! how could I ever have thought of
any other ? But, as a sister, I can love
her — still love her, as I can love none other,
but Geraldine ?"

Fickle, fickle Sir Francis !

And Victoria ?

The long period daring which her mind
had been engrossed by studies, which filled
up every moment of her time, had so
changed the current of her thoughts that it
was impossible to renew feelings which had
become memories. The tenderness which
belongs to love was no longer there, but she
had not ceased to regard Sh Francis with
affection ; and, when she had held out her
hand to welcome him, her eyes had sparkled
with pleasure, and her voice had trembled
with emotion as she introduced him as her
friend — her " dearest " friend.

It was strange, but, from different causes,
a friendship which was based on the deepest
affection had become sweeter to them both
than love. It is doubtful whether Victoria
would have been so happy as she was without
it ; and, though Sir Francis knew it not, it
was this deep friendship for Victoria which
gave intensity to his love for Geraldine ; and
so it was that one of the first questions he
asked of her whom he had once loved most,
was whether she had heard lately from Nettle-stone.


Yes, unquestionably ; of all mysteries, the
mystery of love is the greatest and deepest.

CHAPTER VI.

THE BELLE OF THE SEASON.

The shooting season is over. Pheasants who
have escaped destruction are allowed to live
in peace. They have even ceased to form
the chief topic of conversation, for foxes have
taken their place. The Nettlestone country
affords good sport, and the Nettlestone pack
has a great reputation. The Court is again
full of guests, and now in her letters to
Victoria — shorter letters with longer intervals
between them — Geraldine no longer speaks
of the life she is leading being distasteful to
her. No I far from it. Her new horse '^ is
a beauty, and can do all but speak." In a
run across the most difficult part of the
country, she was one of the three, including
the huntsman, in at the death. She loves
hunting, it is ''so delicious," "so exhilarating."
Then, too, she speaks of the party at the

Court being a pleasant one, and amongst
other names she mentions more than once
the Marquis of Runnymede, son of the Duke
of Beaumanoir, as one of the best riders to
hounds she has ever seen. '' It is true," she
said, ** he can do little else besides but dance
and spend money ; but he is not a bad looking
fellow, and has a good tailor, which after
all is something in these days when most
men look as if they wanted to make themselves
as hideous as possible." She only once
or twice alluded to Sir Francis, wondering
where he was, or supposing that he was
poking about in dreary ruins or blinding
himself in picture galleries. She wrote in a
lively playful manner. But there was something
unreal about her letters, and Victoria
could not help feeling that much she had
washed to say remained unsaid, and that
much of this lively playfulness vas forced.

Perhaps it was so ; but there could be no
doubt in the minds of those who saw
Geraldine Yorke, as she sat her favourite
hunter, beautiful, and graceful, and dexterous,
full of courage, and beaming with happiness
and health, that riding, and above all riding
to hounds, was to her not only an exhilarating
exercise, but the source of exquisite pleasure.

It were indeed odd had it not been so. The
most modest of mortals have a secret satisfaction
in doing those things which they know
they can do well, and women have another
source of enjoyment — denied to most men —
when they become conscious that they are
looking their best and are being admired.
And how was it possible for Geraldine to
remain unconscious of this, when she found
herself attracting the attention and receiving
the homage of that gallant galaxy of old and
middle-aged and young horsemen, who, keen
sportsmen as they were, returned home from
a run as gloomily as if it had been a blank
day, when they had not been cheered by the
fascinating presence of that pearl of riders,
the beautiful Geraldine Yorke.

What a girl she is !" remarked the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps to his friend the major, as
they rode to the station together after a run
with the Nettlestone hounds. " What a girl
she is !"

The Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps sighed heavily
as he said this, and would have looked sentimental
had he been able, but he was not ;
sentiment seldom survives the severe trials of
a garrison and barrack life, so he could do no
more than reiterate, ** What a girl she is 1"

"And with a hand like velvet," said the
major. '* I have it from Tom Trenton, that
chestnut of hers pulls like ten thousand devils
when he has a man on his back, and she can
ride him with a cobweb."

** Lucky fellow that Runnymede," sighed the
Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps.

"Don't like his horse," said the major,
too long in the back. Those dealers can
sell him anything provided it has a long
price."

He is always riding by her side," said the
Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps.

^* They say he is confoundedly dipped," said
the major. " His last book was something
awful. "

"Then he will marry her," said the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps ; '' for what girl is there
who will refuse a man who can make her a
duchess ? I tell you what it is, Fits-Jones,
younger sons ought to be drowned as soon as
they are born, like puppies. The world is
getting so small there is no room for them."

The major looked at his friend with astonishment
; he had never heard him talk
like this before. A sudden idea struck
him.

Never mind, Pierrepoint, my boy," he

said ; " if the grey did refuse the brook, it
was a rasper, and you ride two stone heavier
than Runnymede, and his horse "

Confound him !" said the Hon. Pierre-point
Phipps, with vehemence, " and his big-beast
of a horse. I hate them both !"

An angel could not have been more shocked
than the major, for the Hon. Pierrepoint
Phipps prided himself on never making use of
strong language.

Ah I" he exclaimed, but not aloud, *she
is out of sorts. If he were a horse I would
give him a bran-mash."

But soon — too soon for Geraldine and many
of those who had come down to Nettlestone to
have a few days with the hounds — came frost
and snow. The hunting was at an end.
What a season ! could there be anything
more disagreeable ! and foxes so plentiful !
Bitter as the weather was, it could not come
up to the bitterness of the biting things which
were said of it. Indeed the wretchedness of
the weather was, like all other disagreeable
subjects, a favourite topic of conversation ;
had it been in the hands of a department,
and that department ruled over by a head
weather-maker, who, like the heads of some

VOL. II. 24

departments that we wot of, ranked ignorance
of his duties amongst his principal qualifications,
it could not have been more severely
handled.

The country has become simply detestable.
How glad I am to leave it ; and those who
know best, say the season is to be a very good
one." So wrote Geraldine to Victoria, and
not one word of Sir Francis in her letter.
Poor Sir Francis ! laid up with fever in
Paris, not able to move, yet dying to get
home, and turning oyer and over in his mind
every word and look — and there were many
words and looks — with which to brighten up
the hope of the happiness he was to find on
his return.

But a few weeks, and it is the height of
the season ; the feverish, restless, anxious
time which makes mothers grow prematurely
old, which takes the bloom off youth, and
which accumulates within the space of a few
short weeks, emotions and experiences which
under the ordinary circumstances of everyday
life would extend over as many years.
What a whirl, what a giddy, mazy round,
what a chaotic struggling mass of pleasure-seekers
! Seeking and not finding. Finding
and not holding. Holding and throwing

from them in disgust that which had turned
to dust and ashes in their grasp.

Geraldine is in the midst of this ceaseless
movement. Indeed she has become one of
its chief centres. For her beauty, which had
been acknowledged by those to whose opinion
all knees bow low, at her debut, is proclaimed
by that great authority to be the
one beauty, the chief beauty, of the season.
She leads a life of perpetual excitement, and
the excitement of each moment lends an additional
beauty to each charm. She knows
that she is admired, that she is the cynosure
of all eyes, that when she enters a room all
conversation ceases, to be renewed in an
animated buzz, of which she knows as well as
if she had heard the words, that she is the
theme and object, and she is intoxicated with
pleasure. Never had she known before the
charm which belongs to being beautiful, which
belongs to the triumph of distancing all competitors,
which belongs to a homage before
which all other homage pales — the homage
which belongs to that one being unto whom
no rank is too high to kneel, for that one being
is for the time the goddess set up by fashion,
in which fashion adores herself — the Belle
of the Season.

24—2

And can this be Geraldine ? Can this bethe
counsellor to whom Sh' Francis had deferred
in his moments of difficulty and doubt ?
the counsellor whose views harmonised with
his own ; whose thoughtful expressions put
more lucidly before him the practical issue he
had vainly sought to find ?

Yes ! it is Geraldine ; but a counsellor, an
adviser no more. How can she be so, when
she has not a moment left to spare for thought
at least for thought of aught else than of that
which has to dominate over every other interest
— of her dress, or of the dress of others.
For the belle of the season owes it to the
world in which she lives, that she should not
be eclipsed ; that she should do nothing to
shock the loyalty of those upon whom her
rule depends ; and that in all matters of taste
she should direct, and not consult — take the
lead, and not follow.

Alas ! poor Geraldine !

Not an hour, not a minute, not a moment
in which she could call herself free. Yet
every hour, every minute, every moment dedicated
to herself Inventing new combinations
of colours for this dress and that ;
shopping ; sitting for her portraits in many
styles; riding in the Park, driving in the

Park ; morning calls ; daily services in fashionable
churches ; morning concerts and daily
kettle-drums ; dinners, dances, theatres, operas,
drawing-rooms — all following each other
unceasingly, endlessly. Moving from one
point of vantage to another. Admiration
here, admiration there. Somewhat of satiety
at last. Something else to seek for. Something
more lasting, more real — for the reign
of the belle of the season cannot last ; the
worshippers of beauty need change. It is
for this season. But for the next — who can
tell?

Lady Arabella it was, perhaps, who knew
this best. She was proud, very proud, of the
position which her daughter had achieved.
Mr. Yorke had not felt greater pride in the
M.P. now attached to his name. But she
was not satisfied. It would be difficult to
find anyone who is. To be the mother of the
belle of the season is to be in a position which
for the moment may fill all other mothers with
envy ; but it is a fleeting glory, and to make
it lasting something more is wanting. Hymen
must light his torch, and the best match of
the season be the season's crowning joy.

There were many eligible young men hovering
butterfly-like in this beautiful garden of

living flowers, of which Geraldine was the
chief. Who was the most eligible ? and was
he to be won ? The most eligible ? — that is
to say, the one whom fashion held to be the
best. For whose v\^ife there would in time,
if not just yet, be no second place. For
whose wife, even though she be the belle of
the season, there would be no abdication ; but
rather an extension of her power, established
on a new basis, which time even could not
weaken. The most eligible ? The problem
was not difficult to solve.

The Marquis of Runny mede, the' heir to
the oldest and richest dukedom in the three
kingdoms — popular, good-looking, full of
small talk of the most agreeable kind — had,
as we know, already shown a marked preference
for Geraldine's society. And it seemed
as if, with a little tact — and Lady Arabella
piqued herself upon her tact — he might be
made to declare himself, and Geraldine to
accept him. It is true that Lady Arabella
knew, for Mr. Yorke had told her, that Lord
Runnymede was not quite immaculate ; that
his relations with one or more female notorieties
were matters which had given rise
to much public comment ; and that he was
supposed to have been so unfortunate in his

turf transactions, and in his somewhat too
high play at his dub, as to have seriously
compromised his future prospects ; but Lady
Arabella knew that 'young men will be young
men" — that in his position of life it is excusable
to give way to temptations from which
ordinary mortals are spared — and that marriage
is the only process in such cases by which
reform can be effected. So after long and
anxious consultations with Mr. Yorke it was
decided that their daughter's hand might
safely be given to Lord Runnymede, and her
happiness confided to his keeping. Provided
always, that Lord Runnymede could be induced
to come forward.

Now it so happened that at this moment
my Lord Runnymede did not require much
inducement to come forward, for he was just
about to do so. Honor he knew that Mr.
Yorke's wealth was magnified by the lying
tongues of rumour, there could be no doubt
but that he was very rich ; and my Lord Runnymede
wanted money — sadly wanted money.
It was quite true that he was deeply 'dipped,"
deeper than was known to any one person on
earth, save that respectable, sedate, lynx-eyed
financial gentleman who kept his carriage and
brought up a large family in the most creditable

manner, upon the small gains — he never
charged more than twenty-five per cent — he
was able to make upon transactions undertaken
with the aim, outside his own profit,
of assisting impecunious young men, with
good prospects, to run through their fortunes
before they came into them, whilst avoiding
all those distressing scenes which are certain
to occur when fathers and sons enter into
discussions upon pecuniary matters, from those
essentially different points of view which naturally
belong to youth and age.

My Lord Runnymede felt that a financial
crisis had arrived, and that it had become
necessary to meet it by some personal sacrifice
; so he had decided upon matrimony — a
rich marriage — as an unavoidable necessity.

As the belle of the season he admired Geraldine
Yorke immensely. Indeed, he had
once or twice arrived at such a pitch of
enthusiasm as to declare she was *^ quite the
nicest girl" he knew ; but what he wanted ina
wife was money — 'beauty, and all that sort
of thing," is always to be found — but money
is indispensable, particularly to a budding
peer who is going to be a duke, and who is
reduced to that vulgar strait so common to

ordinary mortals, of beings awfully hard up.
Yes, by Jove ! ^' awfully " bard up.

For more money be would bave married
any other richer girl be could have found ;
but be could not find her, so be decided to
go in" — those are the exact words be used
when informing the old duke, his father, of
his intention — for Geraldine York.

Now the old duke had not for some time
been quite satisfied with many things which
bad come to his knowledge with respect to
bis son's proceedings. In his youth he bad
not been quite a model of propriety himself;
but as he sometimes said, *'he only did in those
days what everybody else did." Now, it was
very disagreeable to hear bis son's name associated
with pretty horse-breakers and fashionable
Migrates. It was quite time for ibis
son to bave sown bis wild oats ; and a marriage
— a good marriage — was what be bad long
desired for him. But was it a good marriage?
Was it a suitable marriage for the son and
heir of a rich duke? Under ordinary circumstances
he would have said no ; but under
the pressure of these very uncomfortable reports,
and the vague fear that his son might
do worse, he decided upon throwing no obstacles
in the way of a marriage which, after

all, could not be considered as a mesalliance;
for although his son's future bride might bethe
daughter of a brewer, she was none the
less the grand-daughter of an earl — a very poor
one, no doubt, but still an earl, and to most
people that would suffice, for it is not everyone
to whom it is given to know, that in the great
world of fashion there are earls and earls.

So the Marquis of Runnymede, withdrawing
for a time from his favourite haunts,
took upon himself the task — for he looked
on it in no other light — of making himself
acceptable to Geraldine. A few months since,
he would have found it very difficult to have
done so. But Geraldine Yorke, as we have
known her, and the spoilt beauty of the
season, were two very different persons. She
had ceased to think or reason, for indeed she
had no time for either. Everything she
did was the outcome of impulse ; and she
seemed to have lost the power of carrying
her thoughts outside the circle of existing
pleasures in which she lived. In these no
one seemed to take a more sympathetic
interest than Lord Runny mede, and in a
short time she had become so habituated to
his attentions that they had become almost
necessary to her.

He was," she said, " so useful."
Then what girl would not be flattered at
finding a notoriously fast young man in the
position of my Lord Runnymede, suddenly
putting himself before the world as a reformed
character, and letting the world know
for fast young men never make those sacrifices
of their selfish pleasures, which are looked
upon as reformation, without letting the world
know the cause — that it is her influence
which has done it. In such cases most girls
are led to believe that this rescue of some
erring admirer must have been their special
mission, and there is, perhaps, nothing in this
world which affords them so much genuine
satisfaction. At any other time, she might
not have been quite satisfied with the frequent
companionship of a man whose conversation
never rose beyond the trivialities of fashionable
life — the cut of a skirt, the length of a train,
the colour of a dress, the number of buttons
best for gloves, and the multitudinous matters
which belong to the adornment of female
loveliness — but these were no long-er trivialities
to her, for they required almost daily consideration,
and everyone allowed that the
marquis was an authority in all matters of
taste ; so much so, that it was agreed, that

if you were to search the world over, it would
be impossible to find any other so capable ashe
was of arranging a trousseau, selecting
wedding presents, or furnishing a house.
Then he knew so much of all that had been
said or done in the exclusive precincts of highlife,
the minute relation of which never fails
to excite the deepest interest in a fashionable
auditory ; so that he was said to know everything,
and his society was very much appreciated
in consequence.

My Lord Runnymede, though much thrown
with Geraldine, did not approach the subject
of marriage at once, but advanced gradually
to it in an easy, pleasant, off-hand sort of way;
so that when he did speak, there was very
little left for him to say, beyond :

'^ I have been a sad scamp, you know, and
all that sort of thing ; and you are too good
for me — or for anybody else, as far as that
goes — you know. All that I can say is, if
you marry me, you shall have everything that
a woman can wish for — including a good
husband, you know, provided you succeed in
making him one."

How could Geraldine say "No" to a man with
whom she had been talking and riding and
dancing, day after day, until it had become

quite natural to have him by her side — to a
man upon whom both her father and Lady
Arabella looked with so much favour — to a man
who frankly threw himself at her feet — metaphorically,
for my lord was not demonstrative
— and confessed to having been a scamp?

Perhaps — no, the word is not strong enough
certainly, the title of marchioness, with
duchess looming in the distance, had something
to do with it ; and who knows what
effect the consciousness that she would achieve
that which would swell so many breasts with
envy, did not also help to turn the scale.
Turn the scale ? Why, there was nothing in
it but a memory, so hollow had her life become.
There was nothing for her but to answer
''Yes/'

Yes, was her answer ; and she had the
satisfaction of hearing that she had made
my Lord Runnymede " awfully happy :" and
if she had had no time for thin kin or before,
she had still less now, so occupied was she
with congratulations, with fetes with preparations
for that eventful day which was to
hand her over to a life-companionship with a
man of whose real character she knew next
to nothing. She had answered " Yes," and
if she could have found time for thought,

she would have despised herself for having
said it.

Mr. Yorke and Lady Arabella expressed
their entire satisfaction at an occurrence which
they declared to have been totally unexpected,
for parents on these occasions never think it
right to confess that they have had the
slightest suspicion of that which has been
apparent to all the world, and which they
themselves have been watching with the most
intense interest and anxiety.

The only one who did not seem quite
pleased was Eva. She could not explain',
even to herself, the reason why. And she
felt ashamed of herself, when she threes her
arms round her sister's neck and kissed her
tenderly, at not being able to feel as she would
like to have felt towards the man who was to
be that sister's husband. No ! she could not
tell why — for she never listened to gossip —
but she had an instinctive horror of him.
Perhaps it was that he was so unlike Chub?
for even in the midst of this whirl of fashion,
she still held firm to Chub. Secretly though,
without a word to a living soul. Almost unconfessed
to herself So secretly that it was
not even suspected, and her love of solitude,
her frequent refusal to enter into society,

and her early walks and drives, were lamented
over by Lady Arabella as the consequence?
of her feeble health. In point of fact, it
was not feeble health at all, it was nothing
more than intensity of feeling towards that
dear, big, honest fellow Chub.

Geraldine had answered " Yes." Now,
there is a question connected with this answer
which even now, with all the advantages
belonging to retrospective knowledge, it is
very difficult to decide. Would she have
answered " Yes " if Sir Francis had been —
as he ought to have been, had he not been
laid up with that tiresome fever — in England ?

It is a question upon which it is very
difficult to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion,
and when the reader knows, as he will
by-and-by, much more than he does now, it
is doubtful whether he will find himself one
whit the wiser with regard to it.

For human nature is so full of contradictions
; and consorts and twists itself into such
a variety of strange forms, that each moment,
each movement, requires a special study; and
general conclusions become so faulty it is a
mere waste of time to indulge in them.

Indeed, there is nothing in this world — or
outside this world — so difficult to deal with

as an "If;" so let us confine ourselves to
facts, and leave suppositions to themselves.
It is enough to know that Geraldine did
answer " Yes," and, the first few days' whirl
over, hated herself for having done so.

Hating herself, yet holding on to that
Yes " all the same, with a courage worthy of
a better cause, had it not been a courage based
upon cowardice, and upon the miserable fear
of the opinion of that fashionable world,
which in her calm and thoughtful moments
before the healthy tone of her mind had
been destroyed by an unceasing round of
enervating excitement — she had despised
from the very bottom of her heart.

Holding to that ^' Yes " all the more
obstinately because she is miserable, because
no living soul shall know that she has been a
fool, because she knows she had only to wait,
and — and — never mind ! She could not then
have become a duchess ; she must have descended
from the height to which she had been
raised to the commonplace, everyday, humdrum
life of ordinary mortals.

No ; it is better as it is — much better as
it is." She will allow no other thought to
enter her head. " The die is cast, it is too
late ; he should have spoken before. If he

really loved me, he would not have been such
a laggard. Runnymede is not such a bad
fellow after all. Perhaps it is better as it is
better as it is."

So she continues to smile out upon the
world as she receives its congratulations with
one of those sweet meaningless smiles with
which women know so well how to mask their
feelings.

But it may be asked, why all this difficulty
and doubt, after she had answered '* Yes,"
and not before ?

It was all through a look. She had seen a
pair of eyes turned upon her with an expression
she could never forget.

And this is how it happened :

A short time after the eventful day upon
which my Lord Runnymede had declared
himself to have been made '' awfully happy,"
there was a ball in the city, to which all the
creme de la creme had been invited to do
honour to his Highness the Sultan of ,
who was the special lion of the
moment ; though it was not clearly known
upon what his claim to public favour rested,
beyond the fact that he was the possessor of
some marvellously big jewels, and had the

VOL. II. 25

reputation of being the happy husband of
some dozen marvellously fat wives. He
had been well feasted by all the great City
Companies, and was supposed to have been
greatly edified by the after-dinner speeches
he had heard on those occasions ; and now
the period having nearly arrived for his
return to Buddleapoora, it was considered
that a ball in his honour might constitute an
agreeable change after so many banquets, and
sanguine people, who see a movement towards
progress in the very disintegration of the pavement
beneath their feet, were inclined to
think that the influence of a ball, with the
conventional nudity affected by ladies as ball-dress,
upon the happy husband of a dozen
fat wives, might even be more beneficial, as
regards the future regeneration of society —
known to be at an extremely low ebb in
Buddleapoora — than that of long speeches and
great dinners.

From a ball given to the Sultan of ,
with the presence of exalted personages,
and all that sort of thing, it was, of
course, impossible for Mr. Yorke and his
family to be absent ; and the presence of the
belle of the season on such an occasion was
also absolutely indispensable, for Sultans of

Buddleapoora are not always pleasing objects
to look at, and a ball without beauty is confessedly
a lamentable mistake.

So Geraldine was there, looking lovelier
than lovely ; wearing diamonds, chosen with
the most perfect taste, as the first-fruits of
that single \vord " Yes." Almost made
happy, for the time being, by the consciousness
of the splendour of those diamonds, for
she would not have been a woman had she
been indifferent to them, and thinking far
more of her diamonds — it is very disagreeable
to have to tell these ugly truths — than
she did of that ^' awfully happy " man, my
Lord Runnymede, who was ever by her side,
or standing looking on with his vacant,
pleased, grown-up, spoilt-childlike stare, as
she took her place in obedience to the commands
of some exalted personage in that
charmed circle, to which the only entree is to
blue blood, or beauty, or Sultans of Buddlea-
poor.

The rooms were crowded. It was a
** crush." Except for those who had the
titre to the charmed circle, dancing was
impossible. The heat was intense. The
atmosphere, despite artfully arranged essence
sprays, was overpowering. Yet no one dared

25—2

to complain. It would have been the extreme
of bad taste to have done so. What !
when exalted personages were so condescending
and charming 1 When the Sultan of
Buddleapoora was all ablaze with the effulgence
of his biggest gems ? When every
variety of silk and satin, and velvet and lace,
were worked up into toilettes of the most
startling and novel kind, in order to set off —
they could not by any possible stretch of
imagination be said to cover — that dense
mass of real — or would-be — female beauty
which had become so closely packed together ;
and mixed up with it, and seeming as they
could not belong to it, were the ordinary
matter-of-fact-looking men, whose heads stood
high above that sea of white shoulders and
naked arms, as if they had naught in common
with those to whom they belonged.
Poor fellows ! A father wedged in within a
group composed of his wife and four
daughters, so hopelessly entangled in their
trains that he dared not move. A bald-headed
deputy-lieutenant, on the very verge
of apoplexy, through the tightness of a
uniform, which seemed to shrink in proportion
as his waist had expanded, every time he
put it on. A naval officer, full of fight and

dancing, firmly fixed between two dowagers,
and not even able to move his feet in time to the
music. A member of the Government, trying
to look at his ease and seem profound, despite
the anguish caused by heavy heels and corns.
An angular American, with plain black coat
and stereotyped sardonic smile, side by side
with his sable excellency of Neuritis, in all the
splendour of gold-lace and stars ; and — can
it be ? — it is, indeed, no less — our old friend
Mr. Montjoy Mortimore, firmly fixed against
the wall, calmly surveying the scene before
him through the eyeglass he has stuck, as a
matter of taste, in his right eye.

Mr. Montjoy Mortimore, wearing the
gorgeous, newly-invented uniform of the
Pimlico Pioneers — in which he has obtained
a lieutenancy. Mr. Montjoy Mortimore, who
is really enjoying himself, if nobody else
is ; who is gradually working his way along
the wall in a crab like fashion towards the
supper-room, and who from time to time
gives expression to his satisfaction by uttering,
in a sufficiently audible tone to be somewhat
startling to his immediate neighbours,
the single word, *' Admirable ! Admirable
!"

That period of the evening had arrived

when *' exalted personages " withdraw from
public view to refresh exhausted nature —
if it be possible to suppose that the nature
of " exalted personages " can ever be exhausted.
A dense stream of struggling
victims was turned, it could hardly be said,
moved, towards that portion of the suite of
rooms which was devoted to supper, and the
greater space left in the ball-room gave some
hope, to those who had previously only been
tantalised by the music, that at last the
moment had arrived when dancing might be
possible.

In the movement towards the supper-rooms
Geraldine found herself separated
from her party, for neither she nor Lord
Runnymede, on whose arm she leant, had
felt inclined to enter into competition for
place in a crowd upon which they both looked
round with scorn.

'•' Take me out of this dreadful crush," said
Geraldine ; ^' it is too horrible."

^' Shall we waltz ?" asked my lord.

Not now. Let us see if it be not possible
to find some place where we can sit down."

In one of the corridors, which had been
tastefully decorated with flowers, they
managed to find a vacant seat. Truth to

tell, my Lord Runnymede began to need
some of that refreshment with which he was
wont to stimulate his languid frame, and had
he been asked at that moment by one of his
intimates how he felt, he would probably
have answered that he was frightfully bored.
As it was, he had to make the best of it, and
endeavour to amuse his companion with playful
criticisms upon the dresses, and figures,
and characters, of the people who came near
them. But playful criticisms may become
wearisome, as indeed all monotony is ; and
Geraldine, who, as we know, had naturally
considerable intellectual power, though of
late it had been sadly stifled and suppressed,
began to feel quite as much bored as my
Lord Runnymede, indeed rather more so, for
she had not only to submit with good grace,
but to make it appear to all the world that it
was not boredom at all, but something that
she liked immensely, and that she was —
being about to make the best match of the
season — intensely happy. So she answered
his playful criticisms with playful smiles, or
el-se looked thoughtfully at her bouquet of
violets and stephanotis, or pressed it to her
lips, as if she were contemplating and caressing
her own happiness.

Happiness ! How few there are who
"wear their hearts upon their sleeves for
days to peck at " ! And if they did ?

Happiness ! A thing for men to feel, and
not to show. No mere shimmer upon the
surface of a summer sea, but a subterranean
fire which fills the earth with heat, and life,
and joy.

It was whilst she was thus caressing and
coquetting with the flowers, that she was
startled by a well-known voice :

*' Miss Yorke ! I am so glad to see you !
I thought you would be here. 1 have been
looking for you everywhere."

It was Sir Francis Hawthorne, holding out
his hand with frank cordiality.

I only returned to town to-day," he said,
almost before she had time to return his
greeting; "but finding a card upon my
table, T hurried here, feeling sure it would bethe
quickest way to meet my friends."

But your anxiety to meet your friends
did not seem to hasten your return to
England," she said, speaking with a shade of
bitterness ; and then, with a degree of earnestness
quite foreign to her former manner, yet
almost as if she were speaking to herself, she
added : " But why did you remain away

so long ? Why did you not come back
sooner?"

'' I was detained in Paris — I was ill," said
Sir Francis.

111 !" she repeated, looking up at him
anxiously. '^ I am so sorry, and I ought to
have seen you are looking pale and thin,
but "

She was interrupted by my lord.

Geraldine, will you have the goodness to
introduce me to your friend ?"

There was something the voice and
manner which grated harshly on Sir Francis's
ear. The words were mere ordinary words,
but he seemed to detect in them a tone of
authority almost approaching to command,
and there was a confusion in Geraldine's
manner, as she complied with Lord Runnymede's
request, which instantly confirmed
what might otherwise have remained a
suspicion. Geraldine was no longer free :
she, too, was lost to him for ever — he was
too late. With the speed of an electric
flash the hopelessness of his position burst
upon him ; and it was whilst assuming an
outward calm, though inwardly wrestling
with the demon of despair, that he turned
towards Geraldine that look which was to

form the one memory by which her future life
was to be haunted.

It was known to all the world that the
belle of the season had been so overpowered
by the heat at the great ball to the Sultan of
Buddleapoora, that she had been obliged to
leave at a very early hour ; but it was not
known to all the world that her suffering had
been so great, that she had passed the chief
hours of the night in an agony of tears, and
that during those few hours it would have
been difficult to have found a heart more
torn, a sorrow more deep, or a penitence more
sincere, than that of the belle of the season,
the envied of fashion, the successful competitor
for the best match of the season.

'* Oh that I could die !" she said.

But she did not die. She lived — lived her
old life — despising herself for not having the
courage to turn round and face the opinion of
that world which had made her what she was
which had made her the affianced bride of
a man for whom she had no love, and for
whom respect was impossible, even though he
might be the best match of the season, and
my Lord Runnymede.

CHAPTER VIL

THE TURN OF THE TIDE.

Mr. Yorke has declared himself "not quite
well." With one exception, he is "not at
home " to anyone who may call.

Lady Arabella tells Eva — there is only
Eva at home now — that there is not much
the matter with her father, though she thinks
he ought to see a doctor, for there must be
something wrong with his liver, "he has
become so irritable of late, and has these
horrid * blues.' But then your father is more
entete than ever ; he will not see anyone, not
even Dr. Pringle, though he knows he is in
town, and has promised to call this afternoon."


So it would seem that Mr. Yorke is not
quite happy, and that his unhappiness has
taken that disagreeable form known as the
"blues."

And this, too, at a time when his prosperity
has reached the highest point of flood. When
he not only sits in Parliament, but has spoken
a maiden speech which has been warmly
received, and for which even the head of his
party condescended to thank him, and thank
him with so much heartiness that he was
seen, instead of the usual official two fingers,
to hold out three, some said four, and the
latter number is the most probable, for the
little finger is an unruly member, and does
not like to be separated from its companions.

That alone was something to be proud of

But on the surface of this brimful tide still
rests the glow of another great event. The
most brilliant marriage — so 'tis said — that
has been known for years. His daughter,
so beautiful, so charming, so lovable, a
marchioness ; some day, perhaps at no very
distant date, a duchess. Surely that ought to
cheer a father's heart !

Why then these '' blues " ?

It could not be want of money, for never
during the annals of the great house of
Souseman and Soppit had there been such a
prosperous year. The revenue had gone up
by leaps and bounds, and its chief item, the
excise, gave convincing evidence, despite all

teetotalers may say to the contrary, that
prosperity and alcohol will soon have to be
considered as synonymous terms.

Indeed it would seem as if Mr. Yorke had
every reason to be satisfied with the condition
of life in which he had been placed, and certainly
ought not to have had the '' blues."

But to think this is not to know what is
meant by the " blues."

It is a state of mind to be felt, but hardly
to be described, in which the sufferer suddenly
finds himself rendered incapable of
seeing things in their usual light, or as they
may appear to others. He may be in the
centre of all that is beautiful and pleasing,
but he passes it by and allows his mind to
carry him down — down — down into scenes
of misery made more hideous by darkness
and gloom. It is as if when looking at some
beautiful fruit one saw nothing but the cankerworm
within, thought of nothing but of the
rottenness which must be its end. The eye
seems to rest upon vivid pictures of miseries
to come, a future of startling shapes which
attract as if by some irresistible force — a kind
of fascination from which, so long as the fit
lasts, there is no escape, indeed no wish to
escape.

Alone, in his library, Mr. Yorke sat hour
after hour in front of the fire, with folded
arms and outstretched legs, gazing fixedly
upon the embers and seeing in them an endless
combination of suggestive forms ; now
feeding his memory and making his whole
life so full of error that he contemplated it
with dismay ; now stimulating his imagination
till he saw naught before him but disgrace,
disappointment, and despair.

Under the influence of these morbid feelings,
his parliamentary success had become a
mere inflated bubble ; he fancied that the
statesmen of his party looked upon him, in
their hearts, as a mere nonentity, a simple
tool, made useful only by his money. His
short experience in Parliament had disenchanted
him. As he had sat hour after hour
on one of the back benches, he had learnt
much of what he had been ignorant before.

Then his money ? Whence did it come ?

From the mechanic who had made his
home a hell, from the husband who had made
his wife a fiend, from the mother who had
become a curse to her own child, from all
who haunt the paths of vice. Yes, as he
looked into the fire he saw them all — they
were all, there.

Then the marriage ?

He was proud of his daughter. Of course
he loved her. She had made a great match
a great match which had cost him a very
large sum of money — rich as he was, far more
than he ought to have given. But Lady
Arabella ! The world ! He could not have
refused. But could all that he had heard of
his son-in-law be true ? As he looked into
the fire he saw that it was true. He saw
his high-spirited, frank, innocent daughter in
the arms of a profligate, a gambler, and he
saw — no, he would not see — he would look
no more.

But the fire was there, and he must look.

No longer his daughter, but his son —
Marmaduke — his associate, his partner ; his
happiness, his honour in his hands. The fire
is taking strange forms. Do what he will,
he can see traced by the embers in letters
of flame, one single word ; change as those
embers may, that word is still there — four
letters, and they spell but a single word.
No wonder that he shuts his eyes and seeks
to shut it out, for that word is — Ruin !

Ruin I What does it mean 1 Surely those
reports cannot also be true ? Then these
anonymous letters ? — these reports that Mar-manlike

has within the last few months lost
largely to my Lord Runnymede at cards ? —
these strange hints that Marmaduke is interested
in the Turf? Then the knowledge,
only just obtained, that his private account
is largely overdrawn. What does it all
point to ? And now this mysterious stranger
this Mr. Marsh, with his pressing importunity
for an interview. What can that, too,
mean '?

Mr. Marsh ?

The name diverted his attention from that
fiery word, or rather it transformed it into
another word — Victoria — and then into
another — Violet — and then he saw no more,
for his eyes were blinded with tears.

Yes ! In the solitude of his room, under
the gloomy influence of the present, gazing
upon those embers until they conjured up
the past in all the reality of life-like form, the
eyes of the stern man, who had been borne
on by the tide of prosperity until it had
reached its topmost flood, became blinded
with tears.

He rose, he did so with an effort ; and
opening a drawer in his writing-case, took
out a small locket — a small golden Locket.
On the outside, *' Violet " in raised letters.

In the inside, the miniature of a beautiful
girl whose face was beaming with the happiness
which belongs to innocence ; and a single
curl of soft brown hair.

Mr. Yorke pressed it to his lips.
• " Violet' he said, as he did so, '' my poor
lost Violet, you have been avenged. My
heart died when you died. Since then, I
have never known what it is to love. No !
Those whom I ought to love, I cannot love,
not even as I love your child — our child — to
whom, coward that I am, I do not dare to
hold my outstretched arms and say, * My
child ! my child ! Your mother was my first
my only love ; and I, wretch that I am,
your father !' "

He sank down in his seat, overcome by his
emotion. He had scarcely done so when the
door opened, and the servant introduced Mr.
Marsh.

Mr. Yorke's back was turned towards him,
and as he rose and replaced the locket in the
drawer of the writing-case, he gained sufficient
time to enable him to recover his
composure.

May I ask, sir, to what I am indebted for
the honour of this visit ?" he asked, as he
pointed to a chair.

VOL. II. 26

Mr. Marsh, whom we first knew as Jack,
was only changed inasmuch that though he
still retained his dissipated sporting appearance,
there were no signs of poverty about
him ; and he exhibited a quiet self-assurance,
such as belongs to a man who has a thorough
confidence in the strength of his position and
does not intend to allow himself to be driven
readily from it.

''My visit, Mr. Yorke," he said, as he
seated himself and comfortably placed one
leg over the other, " is one of business, and,
I regret to say, deucedly unpleasant business."


'' It is r asked Mr. Yorke.
'' A bill," said Mr. Marsh'' a confoundedly
disagreeable affair for all concerned. But, as
you know, young men will be young men.
We have all had our day."

Mr. Yorke felt inclined to resent as an
impertinence the cool manner in which his
dissipated-looking visitor referred to him as
to an equal. He was not accustomed to such
familiarity. But the word '' bill " had made
him uneasy, so he restrained himself

May I ask you to explain the nature of
the transaction to which you refer T said Mr.
Yorke ; '' at present I must confess to having

DO knowledge of any bill in which I have the
slightest interest."

"Undoubtedly," said Mr. Marsh, "it is
the first you will have heard of it. I will back
the writer of the name on that bill against
the field for keeping things dark. An
awfully knowing shot is my friend Armature
!"

Marmaduke ?" exclaimed Mr. Yorke, now
really interested and alarmed. '' What ! my
son {

'' Neither more nor less," replied Mr. Marsh ;
"and a right good fellow too, if the lack did
not go so infernally against him."

Mr. Yorke was deadly pale, and his limbs
trembled so violently that his visitor perceived
it.

"You are ill — ague ?" he asked.

No, sir; I am not ill," gasped Mr. Yorke.
Give me the bill."

He would have held out his hand for it,
but an unaccountable numbness in his arm
seemed to paralyse its action.

Thank you, I know a trick worth two of
that," said Mr. Marsh ; " the bill does not
go out of this hand until I hold the money
for it in the other ; but you may read it if
you like :" he spread it out before Mr. Yorke

26—2

as he spoke. '' It is made payable to a friend
of nine ; and, as you see, is for twenty
thousand pounds."

Mr. Yorke's eyes rested for an instant on
the signature, '' Marmaduke Yorke, junior;"
the numbness seemed to extend to his very
heart, and he fell back insensible.

A continued peal at the library bell brought
in quick succession the footman, Dr. Pringle,
who happily had just arrived, Lady Arabella,
and Eva.

As Dr. Pringle entered the room, he met
Mr. Marsh coming out of it.

'*Mr. Yorke has had a fit' said Mr. Marsh,
as he passed him hurriedly. " Wants a
doctor. Deuced awkward. '*

Dr. Pringle only saw him for an instant,
but he recognised in that instant the man
whom he had brushed against in the Park;
and again he looked at him, and thought
how very singular."

In the skilful hands of Dr. Pringle, Mr.
Yorke soon returned to consciousness ; but
it was found that his right side was paralysed,
and that his speech was seriously affected.

** He must be kept as quiet as possible,"
said the doctor, in answer to the anxious
inquiries of Lady Arabella and her daughter.

'^ Ah," said Lady Arabella, '' I knew he
was gong to be ill. I had a presentiment —
les malheurs n'arrivent jamais seals — and I
had such a very extraordinary and incomprehensible
letter this morning from Duke."

*' Duke," said the doctor. " Where is
Duke r

At Bologna ; and seems to have just
arrived there when he wrote. Best tres
singulier. I would not mention it to anyone
else, but he wrote to ask me for money."

'' Indeed ?" said the doctor, thoughtfully.
Can you tell me ?" he asked, after a pause,
*' who the gentleman was who was with Mr.
Yorke when he was taken ill ?"

'' I have not the slightest idea," said Lady
Arabella. '' Perhaps Empson knows ; I
will ring and ask."

The servant was not quite sure, but he
thought the name was Marsh, and he came
by appointment.

'' Marsh !" exclaimed the doctor. " Then
it was no imagination. What a strange world
is this world we live in I"

Lady Arabella did not seem to notice the
doctor's remark ; and Eva was too much occupied
with her father's state to think of anything
else.

May I speak to you a moment ?" she
said, taking the doctor aside ; but she need
not have done so, for Lady Arabella excused
herself at that moment for being obliged to
leave Dr. Pringle '' sans ceremonie''

I have not a moment to lose, my dear
doctor' she said. "Mr. Yorke's illness today
is particularly unfortunate. The Grand-duke
of Gross Krieg-land was to have dined
with us, for the first time, to-day ; and we
had managed to get up a very nice party to
meet him. It is very unfortunate. I have
not a moment to lose. I must write to everybody,
and put them off at once. Au revoir !
I shall hope to see you again before you leave,
for I should like you to remain until Dr.
Masters arrives."

Dr. Pringle," said Eva to him, the
moment her mother had left the room, "tell
me frankly — remember I am not so weak as
I seem ; T can bear the worst — what state
is my father really in ? Is he in any
danger ?"

"Not in immediate danger," said the doctor.
*' I should have preferred waiting for Dr.
Master's opinion before having said more, but
since you have asked me, I must confess
to thinking his state is extremely serious ;

though, as I said before, I do not anticipate
any immediate danger."

'' Thank you," said Eva, gently. " I heard
you say' she continued, '' that he must not
be left alone ; may I sit with him ? May I
nurse him ?"

Certainly," said the doctor. '' But you
must take care and not overdo it, or your
power of being useful will soon be exhausted,
and your father's illness may be a long one.
Remember that he is to be kept as quiet as
possible, and that nothing is to be said or
done which may be likely to produce the
slightest excitement. It is evident that
great excitement, at a time when he was
suffering from some functional derangement,
has been the cause of this seizure ; and in his
present state, any recurrence of it might be
fatal."

Dr. Masters, on his arrival, fully agreed
with the view which had been taken of Mr.
Yorke's case by Dr. Pringle; he, too, enjoined
the necessity of avoiding anything which
right have the effect of producing, in however
slight a degree, irritation or excitement.

** Your great effort must be, my dear young
lady," he said, ^'to soothe and calm your father
as much as possible. For the brain is just

now singularly sensitive to external impressions,
and the knowledge that the mind has
lost its power of control over the body, is in
itself a source of irritation of the most distressing
kind. Where the whole structure of
the nervous system is so shattered, as it is in
your father's case, we doctors cannot pretend
to do much in the shape of restoration, but
we can preserve and fortify the powers which
have been left untouched, and that must be
our chief aim ; perfect repose and quiet is
absolutely necessary, and no one is better
able to help us in this than you are."

The road covered deep with tan and a
muffled knocker, informed the outside world'
that some one was ill — dangerously ill — at
Mr. Yorke's. Soon it was known to be Mr.
Yorke — a seizure, said to have been occasioned
by the excitement of that maiden speech.
Arrangements are at once made for daily
inquiries, but the number of carriages which
drive past Mr. Yorke's house in the afternoon
is strangely reduced, for there are many people
who do not like to be reminded of the illness
of their friends, nor, indeed, of illness in any
shape or form. A telegram has been sent to
Duke, but for some reason, which no one can
quite make out, he finds it impossible to return

to England. The Runnymede have come
back in haste from their Continental tour ;
Geraldine really anxious, and quite unable to
look upon her father's illness as a matter of
no moment, as my lord bids her.

*' You fret a vast deal too much," he tells
her; " my father once had a fit, you know,
and though he has been a little shaky ever
since, the old boy, by Gad, stands a precious
good chance of outliving half the peerage ;
and it will be awfully lucky if I get into the
parental shoes before my credit with my
boot maker is worn out, you know."

Geraldine says nothing. If she did say
anything, it would be to tell my lord that
she is tired of these silly jokes.

And the honeymoon scarcely over !

She comes daily, and stays for hours, but
her visits to her father are only short ones,
for her presence seems to excite him ; and
frequently before she has been with him ^wq
minutes, he says : '' Go ! go !" and she has to
leave him, mournfully, and with her eyes
filled with tears.

Lady Arabella in her boudoir, perpetually
writing or answering notes. A note to my
dearest Lady Frogsmere, asking her where
the valuable restorative is to be obtained,

which she may remember having spoken to
her about at the Uppertons' last ball. A note
to Sir Croaker Horsey, thanking him for his
kind inquiries. A note beginning, '' My dear
Duchess je suis desoUe^ Another ending,
"You, of all others, can sympathise with the
feelings of a wife. I am so exhausted with
anxiety and nursing I cannot write another
word. Achilles amities" etc., etc. A note
to her dressmaker. Another to her milliner — ■
for in Mr. Yorke's state her toilettes must be
subdued — anxiety should wear a befitting
garb as well as woe ; we mourn in black, and
clothe our sufferings in a neutral tint.

The sick-room was Eva's domain. There
she sat day by day, hour by hour, seeking to
soothe the poor invalid, whose feeble restless
state was something pitiable to witness.
The strong, and apparently hale, man of a
few days since sat, propped up in his armchair
by the fire, in all the helplessness of
infancy. Formerly Mr. Yorke had been
remarkable for placidity and evenness of
temper, now his lacklustre eyes were only
capable of expressing impatience and anger.
His speech was so much affected that it was
very difficult to understand what he said, and
this difficulty was increased by his constantly

making use of the wrong word instead of the
right one. And the more anxious he was to
communicate his wishes, the more unintelligible
he became. Then he would become
angry, and repeat over and ovoragain, '' Stupid !
cruel !" and sometimes shed tears.

'* Patience, my dear young lady, we must
have patience," said Dr. Masters. '* The
worst is over for the time, and we may hope
for some little amendment by-and-by. In
the meantime we must endeavour to find out
what it is your father is so anxious to communicate,
for it is evident there is something,
and his irritation proceeds in great measure
from his being unable to make it intelligible."

'' Do you think," asked Eva, '' that he is
able to understand what is said to him ?"

Perfectly," said the doctor, '' for his mind,
though weakened, has not lost its coherence ;
and this complete consciousness is perhaps the
most painful part of his malady." So said
also Dr. Pringle, for at the request of Lady
Arabella and her daughters he had remained
in town ; for singularly enough, although Mr.
Yorke had many friends, and Lady Arabella
many near relatives, the " good doctor," for so
he was always called by Lady Arabella, was
the only person to whom they could turn in

their present great trouble. Dr. Masters was
all very well in his medical capacity, but there
was a vague feeling, an ill-defined fear, that
other advice might be wanted, the advice
of a friend; and where was a truer friend,
an abler adviser to be found than the good
doctor ?

The cause of this secret anxiety — for neither
mother nor daughters had exchanged a syllable
on the subject — was not difficult to find.
Lady Arabella knew that her son was in want
of money, and more than suspected that it
was this, and not the state of his health,
which prevented his return to England. Eva
knew that Marsh was the name of the man
who nominally owned the racehorse which
was in reality her brother's; and she had been
struck with the coincidence of Marsh beinor
the name of the visitor who was with her
father at the time of his seizure. AndGeraldine
knew from her husband that Duke, *' you
know," had been making a great mess of it :
in what way he did not condescend to say,
and she did not care to ask.

Dr. Pringle could not help sharing the anxiety
of Lady Arabella and her daughters, feeling
somewhat ill at ease. He, too, had heard
rumours with respect to Duke, and he could

not but connect the dissipated-looking man he
had met coming out of Mr. Yorke's room, in
some vague way with Duke's difficulties.
Then, too, this man's name — Marsh — and
his extraordinary resemblance, bloated and
blurred though it was, to the picture in his
old friend's room. It was very puzzling.
But one thing was very clear. It must have
been something said by this dissipated
bloated man which had produced Mr. Yorke's
seizure ; there may have been existing predisposition,
but something said or done in
that interview must have been the exciting
cause. He inquired of Lady Arabella, but
she knew nothing of this Mr. Marsh. Had
he been a sporting man he would have known
that Marsh was the name of the owner — or, as
we know, of the reputed owner — of "Fortuna"
and ** the Coming Crack," for a second horse
had been bought. But the doctor had never
known the name of a racehorse in his life,
and it is doubtful if he had ever heard of
Eclipse.

But the most anxious of all was Eva. For
to her anxiety was added one of those strange
indescribable emotions which belongs to a
sudden insight into the hidden life of those
we love. She had been sitting by her father

the day after his seizure, when, after many
vain and painful efforts, he made her comprehend
that he wished to have his writing-case
brought him. On going into the library to
fetch it she found that the drawer, which
closed with a spring-lock, was partly open,
and that it could not be shut without some
re-arrangement of its contents. On opening
it for that purpose, the first object that caught
her eye was a locket — a locket which had evidently
been placed there hurriedly, for it had
not been closed. Her eyes were riveted upon
that beautiful joyous face ; she thought she
had never seen anything so beautiful before ;
and yet she had seen some face like it. Who
could it be that was so like it ? And that
soft, brown hair ? But she dared not linger ;
she must not add to the poor invalid's irritation.


She closed the locket, and as she placed it in
the drawer, the side with '^ Violet," in raised
letters was uppermost. *' Violet !" she gasped,
trembling and pale. '' Violet!" The name of
Victoria's mother was Violet. She, too, had
brown hair. Then the likeness — the likeness —
I ought to have known. If it were not that
Victoria is always grave and thoughtful the
portrait might be hers."

She staggered to a chair. And then
this visitor — this dreadful Mr. Marsh ? She
had no time for further thought. A servant
came to say Mr. Yorke was impatient, and
could not be pacified. He wanted her at
once.

Closing the drawer of the writing-case,
she returned to the sick-chamber. The
subdued light would have prevented the
invalid from perceiving her increased pallor,
even if his eyes had not been fixed on
the writing-case, which he motioned to have
placed by his side. It seemed to act asa
talisman — a charm of soothing power
upon his poor shattered frame. He turned
towards it : placed his left hand — the one
hand that has sensation in it now — upon it;
closed his eyes ; and, if it had not been for
the restless movement of his lips, would have
seemed to sleep.

Ah ! would that I could sleep ! Would
that I could sleep ! But there is no sleep —
none — none !"

Ever, ever, ever the same images before his
eyes : Violet, in all her beauty ; Violet, who
had filled him — cold, heartless that he was —
with such a sense of love that his whole behoof
was pervaded with it ; Violet, his victim —

the victim of his love ; Violet, the avenger,
tearing from out his heart the blossoms of
its youth, and leaving nought but barrenness
for age ; Violet, the only picture on his
brain ; Violet, the one word ever on his lips.
Violet ! Violet ! Violet ! Violet ! — without
surcease, Violet.

Then the child — the helpless, deserted child;
the child of his — of their — love.

Ah ! would that I could sleep ! Would
that I could sleep ! But there is no sleep —
none — none !"

A spasm, as if from pain, distorted the
poor sufferer's face. There was a convulsive
movement of the lips, but the word ever on
them was — Violet !

And Eva, watching by her father s side —
she, too, had ever the same images before her
eyes : the picture of that brown-haired, joyous
girl ; the grave and thoughtful semblance ;
her once dear friend ; her — she dare not frame
the word — it mayn't be, although she knows it
is — Victoria. She knows it is — it must be so,
yet she dares not reveal this knowledge — no,
not to a living soul. No, not to Geraldine.
If she should be mistaken. How could she
dare to cast a doubt upon her father's honour?
And so she sits watching, hiding her deeper

anxiety, her suspicions, her more than suspicions,
from all around her.

It was the sixth day after Mr. Yorke's
seizure, that he sat propped up in his armchair
by the fire, with Eva by his side. Close
to him a small table with his writing-case,
upon which from time to time he placed his
hand, as if to satisfy himself of its safety.
For the last two days he had vainly endeavoured
to communicate something to Eva,
which she bad been unable to understand, for
the slightest excitement had the effect of
making him substitute another word for the
one he wished to use. And though she had
at last been able to make out, " Send for
Violet," it had not struck her until this
mornings that it was Victoria her father
wanted.

Lady Arabella, who looked in upon her
husband now and then, to ask him how he
was, to pat him on the shoulder, to tell him
he must be good and patient, and to lament
over the state of her own nerves, had wondered
when she had heard the word *' Violet;"
what could have put such a pretty name into
her husband's head He had had no sisters,
and had never known anyone of that name,
that she had ever heard of But when Eva

VOL. II. 27

explained to her that he meant Victoria, she
saw it at once.

'^ Of course, mv dear, we ought to have
known ; they both begin with a Y. Mais
c'est bieii drove." She did not say what was
bien drove. " We must send for Victoria at
once. She is so thoroughly cm fait at nursing,
and you cannot go on as you have of
late ; it would kill you. Victoria is just the
right person. She has more influence over
your poor father than anyone else, and I am
sure she will come if we place it plainly
before her."

When Eva told her father that she had
written to Victoria a bright gleam passed
over his face, such as had not been seen since
his illness ; and when, on the third day, a telegram
came from Victoria, to say that she
would come, it was painful to see the mute
expression of a pleasure for which he could
find no words.

Victoria," he would ask — for when he had
been told the right word he could repeat it —
*' Victoria — when?" And this he would ask
over and over again, as if he had but one
thought. To pacify him he was told he must
keep quiet, and try and get strong, for Victoria's
sake. Why Eva said this she hardly

knew. And yet she said it ; and each time
she said it there was an interval of calm, to
be again broken by the same question :

*' Victoria — when T

The letter to which the telegram had been
a reply, was from Eva. It was so sorrowfully,
so beseechingly, so tenderly written, that Victoria
felt she would have been a wretch to
have refused the request contained in it.
And the telegram was her answer. Go she
must ; and yet it was at no slight sacrifice ;
it might entail the recommencement of a
course of lectures, some of which had nearly
terminated, and retard her progress in no
slight degree. Had not Eva written as she
did, it might have been different ; but there
was such a deep earnest cry for help in her
letter, that Victoria could not read it without
emotion.

I cannot tell sou," Eva had said, " how
much you are wanted ! My poor father
seems to have set his heart on your coming,
and to think of nothing else ; and to me especially,
what a blessing, what a comfort, it
will be to have you near me ! for since Geraldine
has gone I have felt so lonely, and I
want you sadly, dearest, to fill her vacant

27—2

place. Come to us, dearest Victoria, if you
can. I shall be so grateful. I know it will
be at a great sacrifice, and it seems selfish to
ask you, but — I cannot tell you why, now —
I must still ask you to come ; though I have
nothing to offer you in return but a sister's
love."

Eva had never written to her with such
warmth before. Indeed, it was Geraldine with
whom she had of late been most allied, though
for some short time before her marriage she
had heard from her less frequently, and the
only letter she had received since was so conventional
and so different in tone from those
which she had been in the habit of receiving
from her, that she felt their correspondence
was at an end.

Perhaps the change was not entirely on
Geraldine's side. Victoria had felt keenly
what she looked upon as the heartless abandonment
— for that which she considered such
a miserable motive — of a man so worthy of a
woman's love as Sir Francis. She secretly
resented it as an act of perfidy ; for though no
promise had been made, no absolute engagement
had been entered into, she knew that
Sir Francis had not concealed his feelings,
and that Geraldine had given him as much

encouragement as any man could reasonably
hope for from the woman that he loves.

Moreover she was deeply pained, for she
had loved Geraldine, and she was disappointed
cruelly disappointed, at finding how deceived
she had been in her character. She had
fancied she had detected in her a noble nature ;
hidden, it is true, under that superficial folly
which belongs to fashion, but ready to assert
itself the moment it was emancipated from
fashion's toils, and brought in contact with
such an influence as a man like Sir Francis
would have exercised over her.

Yes, she was cruelly disappointed !

But though her love for Geraldine had
been thus wounded, it was not extinct. If
she grieved over her, it was more in sorrow
than in anger. For she knew that Geraldine
was dissatisfied with herself, and even now
far from happy. What then would she be
when all the miserable consequences of her
folly became more and more apparent !

She felt for and pitied Sir Francis — but
Geraldine it was she felt for and pitied
most.

She had written to Sir Francis when she
had heard of Geraldine's marriage. A letter
such as a sister might have written, full of

loving counsel ; for she knew that, in such a
case as his, something more than sympathy
was wanted, and that words which give most
comfort are those upon which we can lean
and find support.

She had received but a few words in reply.

**.T cannot now write a long letter," he
said, " or express my gratitude in words ; but
I trust to be able to show you that your
advice has not been cast upon a barren soil.
No ! not one syllable of it shall be thrown
away ; and I should be the most ungrateful
of men did I not do my best to make some
return for what is my one great consolation
the only source of happiness I have left —
your friendship. What a dreadful blank
would my life now be without it !"

It was late in the afternoon when Victoria
reached London, and it was nearly dark
when her cab stopped before Mr. Yorke's
house. The driver had hardly time to ring
the bell before the door flew open ; and in a
few moments she was in the hall and clasped
in Eva's arms.

I knew you would be here to-day," she
said, '' and I have been watching for you for
hours. How good ! how kind !" and she
kissed her so tenderly that Victoria seemed

to realise, what she had never known — a
sister's love.

*^ And jour father V she asked.

*just the same. You must be prepared
to see a great change : indeed I cannot tell
you how dreadfully changed he is."

And does he still wish to see me ?"

He seems to have no other thoughts'*

o

How very singular I" said Victoria.

Why did Eva blush and look down ? For
an instant she did not dare meet the gaze of
the friend to whom she had promised to be
as a sister.

'' But you must be tired," she said
hurriedly ; *' I must show you your room.
And you must have something to eat, I am
sure you must be famished; but first come,
just for one second, and see my mother."

Lady Arabella was, as usual, condescendingly
kind. She bewailed Mr. Yorke's sad state,
speaking of it as the source of an amount ot*
suffering: to herself which no words could
describe. It almost seemed to Victoria, as
she listened to her, as if it had been an act of
cruelty on Mr. Yorke's part to fall ill and
torture a poor wife who had such delicate
nerves.

No one was ever tried as I have been

tried," said Lady Arabella; 'sand with my
exquisite sensitiveness, it is almost a miracle
that I am alive."

She would have gone on in the same strain
for she was never tired of talking of herself
had not Eva come to the rescue, and reminded
her mother that Victoria had been
travelling day and night, and wanted rest and
food.

'' Ah, how strong you must be ! Que tu es
heureux; but I will not detain you — ademainP'

''A deraainr How much lies hid in that
small word ''to-morrow" ! But one step nearer
to the verge of time : it seems so small, but
who knows where — the brink ?

Victoria had scarcely time to throw off
her travelling-wraps and take a few mouthfuls
of the refreshment she so much needed,
before a servant came to say that Mr. Yorke
had heard that Miss Marsh had arrived, and
was anxious to see her at once.

I will try and persuade him to wait till
tomorrow," said Eva, as she hurried to him.

In a few minutes she returned.

"If you would not mind, dearest," she said,
*' I think perhaps it would be better for you
to come and see our poor invalid " — how she
longed to say our poor father — 'now — only fora

moment ; it will pacify him : and in his state
we must not thwart him in anything if we
can help it."

Victoria rose at once, and followed her into
the sick-room.

Mr. Yorke was sitting in his arm-chair by
the fire, with, as ever, his hand on the
writing-case placed on the table beside him.
As Victoria entered he motioned to the old
servant, who took turns with Eva to be with
him, to leave the room, and held out his
trembling hand.

^' Thank you — thank you," he said — it
almost seemed as if her presence had given
him strength. " I am very ill — kiss me."

Victoria bent down and kissed him tenderly
on his forehead ; as she did so, it was with
difficulty she could restrain her tears, and
Eva sobbed audibly.

*' Now, go, my child — go !"

He spoke so indistinctly, Victoria could
only just catch the words '* Go — tomorrow."

He, too, said '* tomorrow."

Victoria stooped down — she felt as if impelled
to do so by some irresistible impulse —
and kissed him even more tenderly than she
had done before.

** Good-night," she said, mastering her

la.

emotion — for the change which had taken
place in Mr. Yorke had greatly shocked her —
and endeavouring to speak cheerfully, 'goodnight,
and tomorrow I will endeavour to
show you what a good nurse I am ; but you
must sleep well, and have a good night, or
Eva and I will be obliged to scold you."

As she left the room his lips moved, and
Eva heard him murmur softly — it was as if a
child had spoken :

'violet— Violet!"

He sat still for a few moments, then he
said, '' Come — open "

He pointed to the writing-case as he spoke.

Eva, following his directions, opened the
drawer; the moment she had done so, he
grasped the locket — so hurried was the
action, it almost seemed as if he had not an
instant to lose — and pressed it to his lips.
He did not care for concealment now ; he had
but one thought — his one buried love, his
one living child.

Paper," he said ; '* pencil."

Eva gave him a sheet of note-paper.

*' No, no !" he said impatiently ; " half."

She tore it in two, and gave him the half

Taking the pencil in his hand he would
have written, but he could not form the

letters. After several vain trials, he threw
the pencil angrily away.

"Write," he said— '* quick— write !" And
as Eva placed herself pen in hand, ready to
obey, again he said :

Write — forgive."

Then, taking the paper from her hand, he
placed the locket within it, and endeavoured
to fold it up ; she tried to help him, but he
resisted angrily.

** For Victoria' he said ; '^ Victoria — when
I die. Take — now — Victoria "

He ceased speaking. A convulsive shudder
passed through his frame, his head fell back
heavily against the back of the chair ; and
Eva knew, as she cried out in her agony of
fear, that she was in the presence of Death.

That night Eva and Victoria sat side by
side, hour by hour, clasped in each other's
arms. They had both lost a father.

Victoria held the locket in her hand ; with
it she had learnt what she never else had
known, what she never else had suspected.
It was as if a new world lay opened out before
her, and her heart was torn by the intensity
and the diversity of her emotions. Pity for
that beautiful young mother, sorrow for that
erring, selfish father, whose whole life had

been a deception and a torture. Indignation
no, there was no room for that now, with
the sound of those few trembling, incoherent
words still in her ears ; that one kiss ever
given to a father still on her lips.

** You are ten times dearer to me, now I
know all, than ever," said Eva. ' 'Promise that
you will be to me a dear, dear sister. Now
Geraldine has gone — for a married sister can
never be as she was before — I have no one
else. I want your love now, more than
ever. I know you will not think hardly
of him who is now no more — he was our
father ; yours as much as mine : we will
mourn together."

And thinking and speaking thus it was
that they sat entwined in each other's arms.

Then the time came that they must separate,
for it was long, long past midnight, and
both were exhausted.

'' Promise me," said Victoria, as they
parted, '* that all that has come to your
knowledge shall be kept sacred within your
own breast. For the sake of him who now
lies dead, for the sake of the living, it is
better that the secret which he — who was
my father — kept locked up within his heart
for so many years, should remain unknown to

all but ourselves. Promise me, solemnly —
as you love me — never to divulge it to a
living soul ; not to Gerald fine ; not to the
man who may be one day your husband ; not
even to Lady Arabella."

Ah ! my poor mother !" said Eva ; '' I
believe she hardly yet realises the dreadful
calamity which has befallen her."

'^ You will promise T said Victoria.

Yes," said Eva ; " unless you should
think it better at some future time to release
me from it. It shall be inviolable ; but only
on one condition — that you too make a promise.
From this moment and for evermore,
we are to be sisters."

Ah I can you doubt it ?" said Victoria.
You would not, if you knew how I have
longed, yearned, for a share in that love
which the dearest, truest friendship can
never quite supply ; and that love I have now
found in yours, my dear, dear sister. A love
which will shed a light upon my life it never
had before. May God bless you, my dearest,
my darling sister !" she said. *' We must
not forget it is our duty to humble ourselves
before His judgments, and that we are but
the poor creatures of His will. How small all
things seem in the face of Death !"

She tore herself away as she spoke. The
distance between Eva's room and her own
was not great, but in those few steps she had
regained all her self-composure.

*' Yes : how small all things seem in the
face of Death," she repeated, as she closed the
door.

And, as she said it, it seemed as if it were
no longer a mourner who stood there, but
one who was ready once more to enter "upon
the great conflict which belongs to life, and
to face with courage that death which is life's
bitter end.

Mr, Yorke was buried at Nettlestone.
Duke telegraphed to say that his health
would not permit him to travel. Lady
Arabella was now really ill, and neither Eva
nor Geraldine could leave her ; and so it was
that in the large cortege which followed the
rich and respected brewer to the grave, there
was no member belonofinor to his immediate
family; for none knew that the tall, handsome
girl who leant on Dr. Pringle's arm, and who
wept silently through the service for the
dead, was more than a friend of the family,
a recipient, as some thought, of the dead man's
bounty.

Dr. Pringle felt her hand tremble on his

arm, but he too did not know the true cause
of that emotion. He knew that Victoria
had a warm and loving heart, but little did
he imagine that the tears which fell from her
eyes as she bent over the coffin and placed a
wreath on it ere it was lowered in the grave,
were the tears shed by a child, in the fulfilment
of an inscrutable destiny, over the remains of
one whom she had known only in death, to
be her father.

CHAPTEH YIIL

WRECKAGE ON THE SHORE.

Victoria remained a few days in her old
Deepdale home. Chub, too, was there, for
he had come down to the funeral, and she
found herself once more in the centre of a
family which she had loved and been taught
to look upon as her own. Now she felt,
without loving them the Jess, a sense of
estrangement which almost startled her.
Between her and Doctor and Mrs. Pringle
there would arise the remembrance of that
poor conscience-stricken father, as she had
seen him last — for it almost seemed as if she
had had no other knowledge of him — of that
bright happy-looking young mother whose
portrait now was ever pressed upon her heart.
Mysterious fate ! unreal reality ! How could
she be like others, when every filial instinct
had been stifled from her birth, when she had

but phantoms for her parents, when she had
naught to remind her that they once had
lived, but a portrait and a grave.

And Chub and Sis ?

She loved them still — loved them dearly
as the playmates of her childhood, as the
companions of her later age ; but she could
not love them as she loved Eva, as she loved
Geraldine, for with them she felt as Joseph
felt, when even towards those brothers who
had treated him so despitefully, his heart
yearned with such a fulness of a brother's
love, that he went out and wept. And from
her sisters — how sweet the word ! — she had
known nothing but kindness and love.

Yes, she loved her sisters dearly — both.

But for Duke there was no place in her
heart. Never for an instant did she think of
him as a brother. If she thought of him at
all, it was with contempt. No ! he could be
no brother to her — he who was undeserving
of the name of a son ; and so she avenged
the wrong done to a dead father, whose
life had been one continued wrong to her.
Besides, Duke had acted so heartlessly to
Sis. For Sis he had professed, as we know,
the greatest admiration. He had turned her
poor little head — her heart did not go for much

VOL. II. 28

m the matter — with his protestations ; stopping
only on the verge of such a declaration
as would have placed him publicly before the
world as her acknowledged suitor, her accepted
lover. Doing all this so cunningly,
that none but his sisters and Victoria knew
to what lengths he had gone. And when
Eva took him to task for his heartlessness,
calling her a silly little goose for thinking he
could have been in earnest ; and when she
continued her remonstrances, begging she
would be good enough to hold her tongue
and not presume to meddle with him and his
affairs.

His affairs, forsooth ! Bright-eyed, captivating
little Sis to be spoken of in the same
breath with the tangled outcome of stupidity
and folly which he spoke of as his " affairs."
No ! Duke might be her father's son, but he
could never be her brother — never be so dear
to her as Chub — never. No ! why need she
disguise it ? Never be to her as that friend
who was dearer to her than a brother. Oh
that it could have been ! Now more than
ever, yet now less than ever.

Again a blight cast on his hopes.

Geraldine was clearly wrong. Had she,
herself, been right ?

The small still voice of conscience answered
"Yes." In the silent hours of the
night it answered " Yes ;" and she seemed to
hear another voice in clear, decided tones —
*• Courage, Victoria I"

Courage !" It was as if the word had

o

something in it which renewed all her
energies. It was as the trumpet-call to the
tired soldier. No ! she must not lag by the
way. Courage !

A few days more at Deepdale ; a few
days more in London ; and then she would
return to her studies — strengthened, not
weakened, by all she had gone through.
Courage !

What, had she not regained this courage,
would have pained her most, was the state
in which she had found Sir Francis. He had
returned to his home ill, dejected, and discouraged.
He had ceased to take any
interest in his old pursuits, and was fast
sinking into a state of listless indifference.

It is something more than the effects of
Roman fever," said Dr. Pringle to Victoria.
** There is something on his mind. I cannot
make him out. You must see what you can
do. He is beyond my skill."

For the arrival of Victoria had aroused him,

28—2

for the moment, out of his usual lethargy, and
the day after the funeral he, for the first time
since his return to England, niade his appearance
at Deepdale.

Victoria was shocked at the change which
had taken place in him, but was careful not
to allow him to see that she was so:

You must come again," she said, as he
went away ; " I particularly want to see you.
Come tomorrow."

And when he came on the morrow, the
effort seemed to have done him good, for he
was a shade less rueful.

Victoria asked him about some of his
favourite plans. He had given them up.
He had no plans now.

- Why r

Because I have nothing to work for. I
have no energy."

^^ Nothing to work for ? For shame !
When the world is teeming with wants,
when progress is nothing but the union of
individual effort, when labour is the single
source of healthy life 1 Oh, my dear friend,"
she said, and she coloured as she spoke,
forgive me ! You are capable of something
far better than a mere folding of the hands,
and that because — because you have been

disappointed — because a woman has been
false "

"Victoria !" said Sir Francis, deprecatingly.

'' Forgive me," she said ; 'you know that
I love Geraldine, and even now think that
she was worthy of your love — worthy to have
been" — she looked down as she spoke — '' your
wife. It is impossible for any human being
to feel more deeply than I do for you — to
have a greater pity than I have for her —
for indeed, indeed, she is greatly to be pitied,
the most to be pitied. I know how cruelly
you have suffered, but I would not have you
borne down by the weight of your sorrow.
Oh that I could help you to bear the burden
of it!"

"Help me?" said Sir Francis. "Help
me ? What a poor craven miserable creature
have I not become ! Victoria, you have once
more made me feel ashamed of myself I
have been a poor sentimental fool 1"

'you have bewitched him," said Dr.
Pringle a few days afterwards. " I never saw
such a change. I begin to think that we
men doctors are a mistake, and will soon have
to retire from practice."

But during the short time Victoria had
been absent from Deepdale, the greatest

^hanfife which had taken place was that
which had taken place in Chub.

She had left him at that awkward age
when the man asserts himself with difficulty
over the boy. She found him now, self-reliant
without being self-asserting, working well and
anxious to work, pleasing his father by his
steadiness and the interest he was developing
in professional matters, and his mother by his
many delicate attentions, not the least appreciated
of which was his having brought
down as a present some kind of knitted
shawl which had caught his eye in a shop ashe
walked down Regent Street, and which
she now wore on every conceivable occasion,
telling everyone that '' It was just the thing
of all others she had wanted, and that it was
so thoughtful of dear Chub."

To Sis, perhaps, he showed a certain want
of this thought fulness, for he was constantly
talking to her of Eva ; and this might have
brought back painful recollections to Sis, had
they not been for some time rapidly fading
away. Poor Sis ! Duke's cruel conduct would
most certainly have made her unhappy had
it not been for the charming new curate, and
his — to her — irresistible dreamy eyes. For
he had from the very first turned those

dreamy eyes upon her, and each time he had
done so, there seemed for a moment very
little of dreamland left in them. They must,
however, have had the power of imparting
their expression to those they looked upon,
for soon a certain dreaminess might have
been detected in the bright eyes of Sis, and
ere long the picture which presented itself
most frequently to her fancy was not that of
her old and faithless admirer Duke, but of
that long-coated, tight-collared young curate
with the dreamy eyes.

Nature had certainly been bountiful to
Sis in the matter of affection, for hers was of
such an expansive, elastic kind, that she was
always ready to love anybody who professed
to love her, provided her affection was for
the moment disengaged, and that the new
object of it was, to use one of her pet words,
lovable. It will be seen that Miss Sis was a
flirt — a born flirt — for she had commenced
her flirtations when in long-clothes, and
simply flirted because she could not help it.

But it was not only of Eva that Chub now
talked ; and to have heard him talk no one
could have supposed it was the same Chub
who had considered himself but a short time
since as " so sat upon." He talked about

London as if he had lived there all his life,
and of horrible operations, as if to dissect and
be dissected comprised the whole purport of
existence ; but he waxed most eloquent —
even more eloquent than when be spoke of
Eva, for then he had to leave some of his
most cherished thoughts unsaid — when he
descanted on the merits of his new friend —
his little Madge.

Oh, she is such a pet !" he said, ^' such a
little darling ! She is so quaint, and talks
just as no other child ever talked since the
world was. Victoria, you must come and see
her, you must indeed. I know you will fall
in love with her just as I have. And I want
Eva to see her. She is so pretty, no one
would know she is blind."

*' Blind !" said Victoria and Sis both at
once.

'' Yes, blind."

And then Chub flew off at a tangent, talking
learnedly of the eye, and of optics, and of
blindness, and — his father not being present,
and Victoria only a student like himself — of its
treatment and mode of cure. To have heard
him you might have supposed that if people
were blind it was entirely through their own
fault, and because they had been so ill-advised

as not to have availed themselves of the skilful
aid of some distinguished oculist and surgeon,
such as would be, one of these days, Charles
Pringle, Esq., student of St. Tobias's.

I have arranged it all, Victoria," he said;
*' we both must go in for the eye, and some
day or other we will get her sight back for
her. I say we, but I am not quite sure
whether it would not be more in your line ;
it's a specialty that might suit you, and I
should always be ready to help you with my
advice, for — now you must not be offended,
Vic — I am not quite sure that you or any
other woman doctor will ever be able to get
on without the help of a man. Do you think
they will, Sis r

Of course Sis thought they would not ;
she was thinking of dreamy eyes. Whilst
Victoria laughed, and said she intended to
try, but that it was a comfort for her to know
that she should always have Chub to fall
back upon.

'' To be sure it will," said Chub, taking it
quite seriously. '' But about little Madge V
and then he rambled on, telling them of the
queer old uncle, and his lost treasure ; and
even more of Pops, that prince of parrots
Pops ; and somewhat, though not much, of

Madge's mother, and of Mr. and Mrs. Ful-ford
; and then going back, again and again, to
Madge.

'' And what is the father ?" asked Victoria.


I really don't quite know," said Chub ;
but I believe him to be an arrant scamp."

What did you say his name was ?" said
Victoria.

I do not think I mentioned it," said
Chub; "it is Marsh."

There is a fatality in the name," said
Victoria ; ** it is always cropping up. It was
a Mr. Marsh who was with Mr. Yorke when
he was taken ill."

'' I don't think he could be my man," said
Chub ; " he's not quite the style one would
be likely to meet in Belgravia. But remember,
Vic, you must promise to come and see
my little Madge before you leave town, and
if you don't fall in love with her I shall have
no faith in you for the future, but shall, like
dear old Pops, ' have my doubts.' But,
mind, when you do come, look well at her
eyes, and tell me what you think. I am inclined
to the opinion that it is a case of "

and then Chub fired off a whole broadside of
hard, technical terms, which made Sis stop

her ears and be; him to remember that she
was not walking the hospitals, and that she
was quite certain that even Vic could not
understand him.

Never had Dr. Pringle been so happy in
his son, so thorough in his enjoyment of
Victoria's society, as during the few days the
old family circle was reunited at Deepdale ;
and Mrs. Pringle sat with an air of placid
contentment contemplating the group, and
devising all sorts of surprises in the way of
delicacies and favourite dishes ; and who so
happy as she, when she saw the active movement
of Chub's knife and fork, and the rapid
disappearance of the contents of his plate.
Not that Chub was a gourmand, but he had
always been blessed with a good appetite,
and it was that appetite which was the
source of half his mother's happiness. It is
doubtful whether she could have lived long
with people having bad digestions, for, as she
often said, there is nothing so depressing as
to have to provide dinners for people who
don't knew the difference between beef and
mutton, and can't enjoy their food.

Sir Francis had not quite returned to the
good lady's favour, because, when he again
made his appearance at the doctor's hospitable

board, he did not appear to eat with
his usual relish, though she declared she
had lain awake half the night wondering
what she could get to suit his taste.

But ten days soon pass away, and at the
end of that time Victoria and Chub travelled
up to town together ; Victoria to stay for a
few days with Lady Arabella before returning
to Switzerland, Chub to resume his student's
life in his old quarters.

At one end of the journey, a parting farewell
from the doctor, and a last wave of the
hand from Sir Francis ; at the other, a warm
greeting from Eva for both the travellers. A
warm greeting, equal in degree, but somewhat
different in kind.

As Chub stood by and saw Eva kiss Victoria
tenderly on each cheek, he thought he
had never seen her look so lovely. And
when Eva looked at Chub, his eyes beaming
with pleasure, she thought something which
made her eyes sparkle, and mantled her pale
cheek with a most becoming blush.

What could it have been ?

It was that she had never before seen such
a fine, pleasant-looking fellow as Chub.

But there was no time for more than a few
thoughts, and still fewer words. Luggage

had to be looked to, tickets to be given
up.

Good-bye, Eva ! good-bye, Vic !" cried
Chub, as the door of the carriage closed upon
them. " Mind, you are both to come and
see me soon ! Why not tomorrow, when I
shall be sure to be at home ?"

No ; they could not come tomorrow, but
they would some day soon, in the afternoon
about four. " We will send a card, and mind
you have tea."

And then they all shake hands, and the
carriage drives off; whilst Chub vociferates :
Let it be soon — very soon !" in much the
way as he might have called out the winning
number of a lottery. 'rand, Vic, remember,
don't forget to take a good look at her
eyes !

Oh, I am so glad you have come, dear !"
said Eva. " We want you more than ever.
Geraldine and I do not know what to do.
There is something very dreadful about to
happen ; and we cannot make our dear mother
realise that anything has gone wrong. You
have so much more knowledge of the world
than we have ; we want you to advise us —
to help us."

*but surely there is Lord Runnymede'
said Victoria.

Selfish horrid man !" said Eva. " What
could have induced dear Geraldine to marry
him ? He thinks of nothing but himself; and
I am sure he only married her for her money."

Lady Arabella, languid and much propped
up, received Victoria with her usual condescending
kindness.

"Ah, ma chere !" she said, ^^you must
stay with us as long as you can. Ma pauvre
Penserosa is so triste ; and with my poor
nerves, and all I have gone through, it tries
nie sadly. And then it seems the affairs are
in a wretched state — something gone wrong ;
and I cannot tell you how I hate those horrid
things they call affairs. Ah, c'est terrible !"

Lady Arabella was quite right as to the
state of what she had spoken of as " the
affairs." Mr. Yorke's comparatively sudden
death had brought to light the hopeless
entanglement into which Duke had brought
himself through his unfortunate Turf transactions.
It had become known to the firm
that his private account had been overdrawn
to an amount which could not be represented
by less than five figures ; and they had
become aware of the existence of I U's

and post-obits which rendered his position
irretrievable.

Such a disgrace had never befallen the highly
respectable firm of Souseman and Soppit.
A meeting of the partners had been called
a few days before, and it had been decided,
after post anxious deliberation, that Mr.
Marmaduke Yorke should cease to be a
member of the firm.

By Mr. Yorke's will, his share in the
brewery and his landed estate had been left
to his son, together with the residue of his
fortune, after his wife's jointure, and a
legacy of ten thousand pounds to Eva, had
been provided for. But it was found that
he was in debt to a degree no one had
anticipated. His election expenses had been
enormous; this last brilliant season in London
had plunged him into expenses which had
necessitated a recourse to his capital, and the
purchase of the heir to a dukedom for a son-in-law
had cost him no less than one hundred
thousand pounds, only ten thousand of which
had been settled on his daughter.

Lady Arabella's jointure was a thousand a
year; that, and Eva's few hundreds, was all
she and her daughter had to live on ; and —
there was no use disguising it — Marmaduke,

the heir, had made himself penniless, and
but for the assistance of the firm, who would
not allow a liability to remain unpaid so long
as it had been incurred whilst he had been
one of its members, would have become a
bankrupt.

All this had to be explained-as gently yet
as clearly as possible to Lady Arabella. Mr.
Hobson, the family lawyer, tried, but failed;
Lady Arabella declared at once, that in her
nervous state it was impossible to enter upon
business matters. The executors would not
attempt it. Eva, who had only a general idea
that something was wrong, suggested Dr.
Pringle ; then, on Victoria's name being mentioned,
it was decided unanimously that it
would come better from a woman ; she would
be able to break it to her more gently. Yes,
no one could do it so well as Miss Marsh, as
Victoria.

It was then agreed that on the morrow of
her arrival she should be made acquainted
with everything it was necessary for her
to know, and that she should be asked to
undertake the painful task of explaining it
to Lady Arabella.

And this Victoria did.

Poor Lady Arabella, it was pitiable to see

her ! She who had never, from the day oilier
marriage, denied herself the slightest wish
though she had always been under the impression
that no one was more economical
and self-denying — suddenly to become a
pauper — yes, a pauper ! " Ah, c'est hortense !"
and all through the extravagance of that
foolish boy ! A pauper ! for how was it possible
to live and keep up her position on a
bare pittance of a thousand a year ? It would
kill her, she knew it would ; in her weak,
nervous state, she required something more
than the bare necessaries of life. How was
it possible for her — she who had always been
accustomed to have her carriage, a comfortable
home, and a good chef — to habituate herself
to being wheeled about Kensington Gardens
in a bath-chair, to living in poky lodgings, and
to have nothing to eat but bread and cheese ?
Ah, ma die re Victoria, laissez moi mourir !"

It was singular how all her thoughts were
centred on herself, scarcely a word of aught
else. No mention of Eva, hardly a reproach
for her son ; but slight recollection of him
who had been her companion for so many
years ; yet suffering none the less, for she
was not devoid of susceptibility, perverted
as it might be, and that susceptibility was

VOL. II. 29

wounded in its most vulnerable point. She
knew that for the future she would have no
place in her accustomed set — that her position
as one of those who had reached the height of
a leader of society would be ^ irretrievably
forfeited, and that henceforth she would
have to accept, from her former friends,
the amiable condescension she herself had
so freely bestowed on others. The cup was
too bitter. No wonder that in her despair
she could only cry out, as Geraldine had done
before, *' Oh, let me die! — laissez moi mourir 1'

'* My dear Lady Arabella," said Victoria,
'' I know how great the trial must be, but
there is no trial we cannot be made strong
enough to bear' The shadow of her own trials
may have flitted across her mind, but she
was not thinking of herself; she was thinking
only of the poor weak woman before her — the
spoilt child of fortune, who had been so little
schooled in suffering that she had neither
courage nor resignation, and who without
sympathy herself, was perpetually demanding
sympathy from others.

You are a good kind creature," said Lady
Arabella, " but life has been made easy to
you, and you do not know what it is to suffer
as I do ; my poor shattered nerves render me

perfectly incapable of bearing up against this
terrible calamity — ah! que je suis malheureuse.
Indeed I am greatly to be pitied. I shall belittle
better than a beggar — and Eva still unmarried
— ah me ! ah me !"

She continued to bewail her said fate,
sometimes wondering whether the Runnymede,
" who ought to be rich, could not let
us live with them ;" sometimes wondering
how she could manage to exist without her
dear china ; sometimes wondering what her
brother the earl, who had always envied her
wealth, and had almost cut her husband because
he was a brewer, would say now. '^Ah I
que je suis malheureuse. Ah me ! ah me !"

Victoria, treating her as an experienced
nurse would treat a wayward child, let her
talk on, until she became silent from exhaustion
; then she sought to attract her
attention by placing before her the various
plans for the future which had suggested
themselves to Eva and herself, as the most
suitable under the circumstances.

'' I have been talking the matter over with
Geraldine and Eva," she said, " and they
agree with me in thinking that after all you
have gone through you ought to have
change of air and scene. Your health is

29 — 2

delicate ; there is nothing more natural than
;your leaving London just now for a milder
climate ; and it is not necessary you should
give any other reason for your wishing to do
so. It is quite enough that you want blue
sky and sunshine."

'' Sunshine and blue sky' repeated Lady
Arabella, catching at her words. " Ah ! sunshine
and blue sky! my dear, dear child, that
is indeed what I want. Oh ! I shall never
forget the beautiful blue sky of Italy, and
how happy I was at Rome ; but I was young
then, and "

She did not finish her speech, for she
suddenly remembered that it was because
her father, the earl, had found it inconvenient
to live in England that he had taken up his
residence for a time abroad. He, too, had
wanted sunshine and blue sky, and if the
truth be told, at that moment more than all,
money — and yet they had all been so happy.

Sunshine — blue sky — Italy — E,ome ! Oh
yes, they would go abroad. She must work
up her Italian at once. She feared it was
sadly rusty. How very odd they had never
thought of it before. It might have saved
her poor dear husband's life. It was the
very thing. She would take the baths at

Ischia. Who knows ? it might restore her
weak, sorely-tried frame to health. And Eva —
yes, it would be the very thing for Eva. They
could go to the Engadine for the hot months ;
then on to the Italian lakes ; and so on and
on.

The idea had taken entire possession of
her. There was no room for any other.

'* But you must come with us, my dear
Victoria ; we shall want your help. 
is no great traveller, and — your —
ah ! how stupid of me — I mean her poor
dear father will not be with us to take care
of us ; and he used to manage everything so
admirably."

Her eyes filled with tears, but before one
tear could fall, her thoughts were turned into
another channel.

She must see Eva at once ; there was so
much to arrange. And now, of course, she
had not a single dress fit to travel in ; and in
black it is so difficult to find the exact
thing."

She was like a child who had been promised
a new toy — this bereaved wife, this mother
of a family, this woman of fifty years' experience.
How could it be otherwise with one
who had no inner life; whose whole existence

bad been a search after the happiness which
is based upon the gratification of the senses
beautiful objects, sweet sounds, pleasant
companionship, innocent indulgences ; who
had been taught to turn from and despise
everything outside the pale of her own set ;
and who only tolerated those who did not
belong to it, when they could be made useful ?

^' Yes, my dear ; I am sure I could not do
better. My health must be the first consideration.
In my weak state, it is only
wonderful I am alive after all I have gone
through this winter ; and after this sad loss,
and these terrible trials, the only thing which
can possibly save my life is change of scene —
blue skies and sunshine. Ah ! mia care,
you must talk it over with the girls ; tomorrow
I will see Dobson, for there is no
time to lose ; tell Eva I will see her in an
hour. Now, I must compose myself a little.
Actio — a riverderla."

A few days afterwards three separate paragraphs
appeared in the Fashionable Intelligencer.


From the City we learn that, in consequence
of the delicate state of Mr. Armature
Yorke's health necessitating a lengthened

residence abroad (some think at Monte
Carlo), that gentleman has ceased to be a
member of the great firm of Souseman and
S )pit, of which his father was the principal
partner for so many years''

We regret to learn that Lady Arabella
Yorke is about to leave London for Italy,
and we fear that her absence will be a protracted
one. A gap in the world of fashion
not to be easily filled. A season without
Lady Arabella Yorke and her beautiful
daughters is something we do not dare to contemplate.
But we trust — the days of mourning
over — the Marchioness of Runnymede
may be induced to give those poor mortals, to
whom London seasons are not yet things of
the past, an opportunity for sunning themselves
in the effulgence of a beauty rarely
equalled and never yet surpassed."

'^ Wonders upon wonders ! The vacancy
in Middleshire, caused by the lamented death
of Mr. Yorke, is likely to be filled in a totally
unexpected manner. That eccentric baronet,
Sir Francis Hawthorne, has been again invited
to stand, and it is said is to be permitted,
by some hole-and-corner arrangement, to walk

over the course. What can it all mean ?
Some say that money is at the bottom of it,
and that it is because the man who is first
favourite, should Sir Francis not get in, owes
a pot of money in the county, and has not
yet paid his last election expenses when he
contested Dumbleshire. We give this for
what it is worth."

The same day there appeared in Spite the
following paragraph :

'' We hear that since the death of a certain
great brewer there has been a terrible blowup
amongst the beer barrels in the brewery,
and we are told that there are cheques flying
about which are not worth the value of the
paper they are written on. It is always
dangerous for trade to venture on the Turf.
We would warn our friends to look to their
bills."

** How coarse and vulgar !" said Geraldine,
when her husband, my lord, brought these
paragraphs to her notice.

'* Most consumedly disagreeable, you
know," said his lordship.

But he did not say he had one of those

bills — a bill for no small figure — referred toby
Spite in his pocket.

Happily neither Lady Arabella nor Eva
read the papers, and Victoria was too much
occupied to think of anything else. Not
so, however, Eva : she had found time to
think of Chub, and the consequence was, a
postal-card, addressed to Charles Pringle,
Esq., was duly delivered at No. 4, Woodbine
Terrace, which caused that gentleman to contort
himself in every possible manner expressive
of joy, though on that postal-card there
was but a single line:

"We shall come tomorrow — four o'clock —
tea."

CHAPTER IX.

Made.

What a change of life for little Madge !
What a change in little Madge herself had
been produced by these few months in
Woodbine Terrace, and by the new influences
which had been brought to bear upon her !

Mrs. Marsh had become weaker and weaker,
with alternating fits of deep despondency
and strange excitement. Shut up in her own
room when in her melancholy moods, she
occasionally sallied forth, to return in a state
which filled Madge with a feeling akin to that
which she felt whenever her father approached
her. Why was it ? She did not know. She
would ask Mrs. Fulford, ^' What is it makes
poor mam ma so — so strange?" But Mrs. Fulford
would give no answer, and Madge could not
see the sad shake of the good woman's head,
and the way in which her lips were drawn

tightly together as if to restrain herself from
speaking. Once only were her feelings too
much for her ; but she spoke rather as if
to herself than in answer to the child's
question.

** Yes, it is a very sad case ; and I am
afraid hopeless."

Madge could neither understand the words
nor forget them.

'* What was a very sad case ? and why
should Mrs. Fulford say it was hopeless ?"

She was filled, young as she was, with an
instinctive fear, and did not like to ask Mrs.
Fulford any more questions. She would see
if her uncle could tell her.

"Dear uncle, what is it that makes poor
mamma so — so strange ?"

She had interrupted him in his work, aspen
in hand, he went over and over those
closely written rows of cramped figures.

"Hush — hush!" he said; "you must not
interrupt me, or I shall never find it, and I
am so near'*

But she would not be content; she must
have an answer.

You shall tell me, you cross old uncle.
I will give you no peace till you tell me, and
then you will never find it."

Then the old man tried to pacify her, pretending
not to know what she wanted ; but
the sharpness of the child was more than a
match for the old man's cunning.

Don't be such a sly old fox, uncle ; you
know quite well what it is. Come now, tell
me.

'' What is it, Madge ?"

Why is poor mamma so strange — so very
strange ?"

Then the old man, as if impelled by some
irresistible force, stammered out :

Oh, you should not, Madge. It is the
curse — the curse ! She has caught it from
him — the curse. It is in his blood — the
curse ; but for that I had not lost it ; and
now it is too late — too late, and I am so near
so near. Oh, child ! leave me — leave me.

I am a poor — poor old man — a miserable old

I"
man !

His tone was so piteous that Madge's heart
was touched.

No, uncle dear," she said. '' I will not
go away until you kiss me and say I have not
made you very sorry. Ah ! if I had but my
eyes, I would help you, and I know we should
soon find it. But how can I do anything
when it is all dark ? Ah ! I too must have

the curse. Poor — poor mamma I now I know
what it means. Yes, yes, it is the curse I"

Then in his turn the old man tried to
soothe her.

I did not know what I said, I did not
indeed. It is my foolish old brain. It is not
true."

But she answered :

Uncle dear, don't tell stories. It is
wicked to tell stories. Yes, I know now, it is
the curse — the curse !"

And so she left him sadder than before.

Oh, it was so dreadful! But what was a
curse 1"

She had heard much from Mrs. Fulford
of the curse which had fallen on mankind
through the disobedience of our first parents.
But she could not be made to understand it.
Licked she had taken Eve's part, and said,
'' Oh, Mrs. Fulford, why was it so very wicked
to eat that nice apple ? I like apples, though
I like pears better. Why should God have
been so very, very angry ?"

Because Eve was disobedient, and it is
very wicked to be disobedient."

'* But when I am disobedient, you are only
cross, Mrs. Fulford. You do not curse, as
father does, when he is put out. Does God

curse people, then, when He is angry like
father?"

Poor Mrs. Falford ! she had enough to do
to pacify that restless, inquiring little mind.
Her theology was of a very simple kind, and
though she was a remarkably sincere believer,
she was a remarkably bad teacher, and could
find no other refuge in her perplexities than
the oft-repeated request that Madge would
not ask so many questions.

** It is all true," she said, " and that is
enough for us. All we have to do is to
believe it, and little girls must not be too
inquisitive."

Then little Madge would sit rocking liersel f
to and fro on the low stool by Mrs. Fulford's
side, and wonder how it could be that God
could be so good, and yet get so angry, and
like her wicked therefor Mrs. Fulford had
told her he was wicked — curse poor Eve.
And only for eating that one apple ! She felt
so sorry for poor Eve, for a nice ripe apple
was what of all things, next to pears, she
liked best.

But what was a curse ? Ah ! now she
thought she could tell. Yes, she knew. It
was when people are rough and used bad
words, and smell of nasty tobacco and horrid

gin, that must be because of the curse ; and
when they can only weep and sigh and
moan, and are sometimes silly, and have the
same horrid smell of gin, that too must bethe
curse ; and when they are old and foolish,
and are always looking for what they cannot
find ; and when like poor little me they
have no eyes, and can see no sun nor
flowers nor pretty toys, but are always in the
dark, that too is the curse — that dreadful
curse !

She did not dare to speak to Mr. Fulford
about it. Mr. Fulford never talked of anything
but his garden and his flowers. There
was no one to whom she could pour out her
heart but Pops, and when they were alone
together, she would tell him all she thought ;
Pops pressing his head against her cheek,
and sometimes giving a little click with his
tongue as if to show that he was all attention,
and to encourage her to go on. Then she
would ask, " Don't you think so, Pops ?" and
oh, it was such a comfort to her to hear Pops,
after a moment's pause, as if deeply reflecting
on all she had said, answer : " Pops has his
doubts — has his doubts."

Oh ! dear, dear old Pops, how I love you !"

she would say — *' love you better than anything
in the world."

But Pops would interrupt-her petulantly,
and say, *' Pops has his doubts ;" and flutter
about and make such discordant sounds, that
Madge would threaten to shut him up in his
cage and never say one word again to such a
nasty jealous bird.

It was Chub who had told her that Pops
was jealous.

*' Dear Mr. Pringle !" — she never could be
induced to call him anything else, though
Chub had confided to her the secret of that
name, and wished her to call him by it. —
Dear Mr. Pringle ! How stupid of poor Pops
to be jealous. But I do love him very much
very much indeed, quite as much as Pops
perhaps more, for Pops can only listen, and
Mr. Pringle talks as no one else I have ever
heard can talk. But he must know nothing
of the curse. I will hide it from him. He
would never let me into his room again,
into that nice sunny back parlour, if he were
to know that I had a curse upon me — that
dreadful curse !"

But one evening when they were sitting
together — for not a day passed without Chub
having a long visit from Madge — she, suddenly

jerking her head so as to toss back her rebel
curls, and turning her sightless eyes upon
him, said :

Mr. Pringle, you are smoking. Why do
you smoke ?"

'really," said Chub, "I do not quite
know. It makes me feel comfortable, particularly
when I am doing nothing else and am
idle."

Is smoking wicked ?"

*' What a funny question. I hope not."

Does God like it T

He has given us tobacco, and I do not
know that it could be put to any other use."

*' Do you love God ?"

I ought to. We should all love him. He
has given us so many blessings. He has
been so kind to us."

Chub was thinking of, to him, the greatest
of all blessings, Eva's love.

*' I do not love him at all," said Madge ;
He has not been kind to me. You won't
tell anyone — you won't tell Mrs. Fulfurd ?" —
she dropped her voice as she spoke — '' I hate
Him."

Here was a difficulty for Chub — he, of all
people in the world ; and yet, though the
difficulty with him was as great as with Mrs.

VOL. II. 30

Fulford, he dealt with it so differently that
poor little Madge felt comforted. He encouraged
her to talk, and as she poured forth
the long-pent-up secrets of her heart — those
secrets which it had been her fixed intention
that Chub should never know — there was
something so touching in her artless tale of
childish misery, that Chub could not restrain
himself from taking her in his arms and
endeavouring: to soothe her with kind words.

'' My dear little Madge," he said, '' all is
not so dark as you think. If God has sent
curses into the world. He has sent blessings
too. But I am such a stupid fellow, I
cannot teach you ; but I know of somebody
who can, and I will ask somebody to come
and see you : and you shall love somebody,
and she shall tell you all that God has done
for you, and for me, and for everybody
else."

"Is 'somebody then, a lady?" asked
Madge, her thoughts turned into another
channel, and her curiosity aroused.

'* Yes, she is a lady ; a young lady," said
Chub, blushing as he spoke.

And is she pretty ?"

*' Very pretty, and very nice," said Chub ;
'sand if you are very good, I know she will love

you. But you must not tell ber that you
Late God. You must never say that again."

'' No, I will not," said Madge.

This was just before Mr. Yorke's death.
Since that time, Madge and Chub had often
talked together about ** somebody." Indeed, it
is astonishing how ingeniously he turned the
conversation in that direction ; so much so,
that Madge for a time was so fully occupied
ill thinking about " somebody," that she took
very little interest in anything else.

''Do tell me 'somebody's' name ?" she would
ask, over and over again.

But Chub would not. *' She must wait
till * somebody' came."

Then she would guess — the number of
names she knew was not very great — but it
was of no use, Chub would not give in.

"It is very naughty of you, Mr. Pringle," she
would say; "indeed it is! Oh, how I wish she
would come ! How I long to see ' somebody !' "

She would say this aloud, when sitting
alone with Pops in Chub's sanctus, the
ground-floor back. For Mrs. Marsh would
not let Pops stay in her room ; she said the
very sight of him distracted her ; and Madge
herself was not allowed to remain for any
length of time, so impatient had the poor

:J0 — 2

invalid become of the slightest movement,
or of anything which roused her from the
half-torpid, dreamy state in which the
greater portion of her time was spent. Their
own sitting-room was cheerless, and had no
sun ; her great-uncle was so engrossed in
his calculations that he became fidgety and
fretful whenever she went near him. Mrs.
Fulford was bustling about the greater part
of the day; and, left entirely to herself,
the solitary child was only too glad to take
refuge with Pops in the snug back parlour,
with its sunny aspect.

For Madge loved to bask in the sunshine;
and in the early spring mornings, when the
weather was fine, she would open the window
and sit hour after hour listening to the twitter
of the sparrows ; and if Mr. Fulford were at
work in the little garden ; to the sharp grind
of his spade as he forced it into the crisp
earth, and to the thud following thud in steady
cadence, as he turned it over with a jerk and
released it from its load. She knew exactly
what it was, for she had asked him to show her
how to dig, and it was so pleasant to sit there
and picture all that he was doing; and sometimes
she would call out : *' Please, Mr. Ful-ford,
where are you digging V

And he, having no great power of description
— strong man though he was — would
say:

I don't see, Miss Madge, how I could
make it clear. I am only a-digglng in the
garden ;" which answer would make her
wonder all the more as to the exact spot.

Could it be near the sweetbread, or near
the bed of wall-flowers ? for before the
weather had become cold and wet, she had
learnt to know every inch of the little garden
and the whereabouts of every flower in it.
She would have gone on questioning Mr. Ful-ford
if, instead of Mr. Fulford, it had been
someone else, but Mr. Fulford was not a man
of many words, and had a great dislike to
being questioned ; besides which he would
always insist on calling her Miss — Miss
Madge — and that frightened her. She liked
to hear him at work ail the same, and to know
that he was digging, or clipping the box-edging,
or raking the walks, or using the
roller. Ah, it was so pleasant to hear the
crushing of the gravel under the roller ; she
knew all about that, too, for had she not
helped Mr. Fulford to drag that heavy roller,
and did she not know what hard work it
was, and how smooth the rough path became

after it had passed over it ? It was so nice
to sit there and picture all that was goings
on in that garden ; to think of that budding
sweetbread, whose young leaves were already
filling the air with fragrance; of the wallflowers
with their stronger perfume ; of the
lilacs just about to unclose their little round-clustered
flowers; of the newly-turned clods;
of all that smelt so fresh and sweet on that
bright spring morn. Other pictures of inanimate
objects were but dull, colourless
forms — she knew them only through her sense
of touch — but these sweet-scented ones appealed
to her fancy through another sense,
and she loved them in proportion to the
enjoyment they afforded her. Just at this
moment, it was the sweetbread which stood
highest in her favour.

^* I am so glad it has thorns' she said to
Mrs. Fulford one day, as that lady came into
the room.

So glad that what has thorns ?"

*' The sweetbread ; to prick naughty people
who want to pick its leaves. Oh, Mrs. Ful-ford
! do tell me ; are there sweetbread trees
in heaven ?"

Dear — dear me, child!" said Mrs. Fulford;
'' what will you ask next ?"

"I think there must be," said Madge,
thoughtfully ; "but without thorns."

Mrs. Fulford had, as we know, commenced
by taking Madge " in hand ;" but gradually,
and almost imperceptibly, though still feeling
a kind and compassionate interest in the poor
blind child, she had discontinued her attempts
to instruct her. How, indeed, was it possible
for lier to teach, when there was scarcely a
moment that she was not disconcerted by
some strange question, for which she could
find no answer. If Madge had not been
blind it might have been less difficult ; for
children are more easily taught by pictures
than by words. With the aid of pictures it
is so much easier to excite their curiosity or
fix their attention, or — when necessary — to
divert their thoughts from subjects which
have become difficult to deal with.

*' Poor dear child !" said Mrs. Fulford to her
husband ; '' I do not know how to manage
her. She is always wanting to know something
that I can't tell her ; and when I read
to her, she is sitting thinking all the time ;
and when 1 have done, she wants to kiiovv
why God did this, and why God did that,
until I am all of a daze."

Take my advice, Tibs," said Mr. Fulford,

with an oracular shake of the Jiead. " Take
my advice. Let her alone."

Mrs. Fulford did not often take Mr. Ful-ford's
advice — not from any want of confidence
in her husband's judgment, but because self-reliance
was one of her most prominent virtues.
In this case, however, she did ; and from that
time little Madge was, in the words of Mr.
Fulford, 'Met acme."

'^ God will enlighten her in His own good
time," was the worthy woman's consolatory
remark. " I would teach her if I could ; but
I can't, and that's a fact."

Mrs. Fulford did not know that children
cannot be taught without love ; and Madge,
although she liked, did not love Mrs. Fulford.
She only thought her very kind.

So Madge was " let alone," and this is why
she so often sat for hours in the 'Aground-floor
back," deeply communing with herself, or
pouring forth her inmost thoughts to Pops,
with no better consolation than to know that
he, too, had his " doubts."

CHAPTEH X.

POPS IS JEALOUS.

Yes ! Pops had his doubts. He was always
doubting ; but never had he been in a more
doubting, restless, disagreeable mood than
on the afternoon of the day upon which Chub
had called out to Madge :

*' Madge — I shall be back early. You must
come down. ' Somebody ' is coming — and
mind you make yourself very nice ; there
will be tea and toast."

Then Madge heard Chub calling out to
Mrs. Fulford to take care that there was a
nice bright fire in the sitting-room ; and to let
him have her best tea-set; and to ask Fulford
to pick a few fresh flowers for the centre of
the table ; and to have some cream ; and to do
this and to do that, until even the patience of
that amiable woman was exhausted, and she
said :

*' Lor', Mr. Pringle ! one would think the
world was coming to an end, instead of its
being only two young ladies a-coming to
tea."

And even after Chub had left the house, he
came back — letting himself in with the latchkey
— to call out down the kitchen-stairs :

*' Mrs. Fulford, you won't mind ; but will
you see that little Madge looks nice, and hasher
hair all right ?" Hurrying off and slamming
the door before he could receive an
answer, as if he were not quite sure that it
might be a pleasant one — for Mrs. Fulford's
answers were not always soft and pleasant to
the ear when she was a little put out ; and
nothing put Mrs. Fulford out more than being
told to do anything — which was, she would
say, '* being treated as if she were only fit
for Colnev Hatch, as if she did not know
better what was wanted than Mr. Pringle."
The only thing which brought her round was
any interposed remark by Mr. Fulford :

** Never mind, Tibs ; he's only a boy."

Boy indeed I I wish, Fulford, you would
mind your own business. Boy, indeed ! I
should like to know where you would find
a nicer and better-behaved young man than
Mr. Charles. Never mind, if he do aggravate

a little sometimes, you should not lose your
temper, Fulford. It's not Christian."

Under such a rebuke as this, what could
John Fulford do but sneak off to the garden,
to wait till the missus had cooled ? There he
smoked a pipe over it very pleasantly.

"Dang it!" he would say to himself;
** why, the little woman was up at me like
a tarrier dog ! She is a plucky one, and no
mistake." It was a source of pride to him
to feel that he had a wife who could stand up
and face a husband who was always being told
that he was every inch a man. *' Dang it !
she's a plucky one !"

Madge's excitement was so great that she
could not sit quiet ; and Pops had a hard time
of it, for he was turned out of his cage in
order that it might be well cleaned, and was
not allowed as of wont to perch upon the
window-ledge of the back parlour and amuse
himself by disturbing the siesta of Mrs.
Fulford's tabby-cat, who would have remained
comfortably coiled up in some snug sunny
corner of the garden, had it not been for the
hideous mews which were the heart's delight
of Pops whenever he caught sight of a cat.
No ! now — and he could not tell why — he was
shut up by himself in that comfortless front

parlour. Can it then be wondered at, that
under the irritation of his wounded feelings
he sought for consolation by endeavouring topick
a hole in the back of a mahogany armchair,
and had to suffer condign punishment
from Mrs. Fulford when he was discovered
amusing himself by reducing a large splinter
to shreds, and covering the carpet with the
result of his labours.

No wonder that Madge could eat very
little dinner.

It was one of Mrs. Marsh's good days, and
she had got up in time to dine with her little
daughter. She heard of the expected visit,
which had so excited the child's imagination,
with complete indifference ; but that was
usual with her. She had become indifferent
to everything.

May I wear my best frock, mamma T
asked Madge.

You may wear what you like, my dear ;"
and Mrs. Fulford coming into the room at the
moment, she added : "And Mrs. Fulford will,
I am sure, be kind enough to dress you, for I
am going out."

Certainly, mem," said Mrs. Fulford ; " but
there is a cold wind, and I think, mem, if I
may be allowed to say so, it would be better

for you to stay at home, or wait till tomorrow,
when you could take Miss Madge
with you."

It was evident Mrs. Fulford did not like
this going out alone.

I cannot wait till tomorrow," said Mrs.
Marsh, curtly. " I have business."

Mrs. Fulford screwed up her mouth, but
made no answer, for it was not the first time
by many that Mrs. Marsh had gone out on
business.

It was still quite early in the afternoon
v^hen little Madge, full of expectation, sat in
the little back parlour by the side of Pops.
Pops's cage had been marvellously brightened
up by Mr. Fulford ; but Pops did not seem
to appreciate it, for he remained sulky and
silent at the end of the perch farthest from
Madge, as if he wanted to show her that he
was displeased. But Madge had something
else than Pops to think of now, and after she
had asked if his cage looked clean and nice,
seemed to have dismissed him from her
thoughts. As she sat on a stool by the fire,
w with one arm resting on the seat of a chair
and the other hanging listlessly by her side,
with her head bent down so that her long
silky hair fell in a flowing fringe of curls, as

if to screen her face, she was formmig^ bright
visions of that beautiful "somebody" whose
name she was so soon to hear ; of that other
young lady of whom Mr. Pringle had spoken
MS Vic ; of that nice buttered toast which Mrs.
Fulford knew so well how to make, and of
\A which Madge was nearly as fond as a ripe
sweet apple.

She wondered how long it would be before
they came ; it seemed as if the time would
never pass. The clock on the chimney piece
made a little premonitory click, as if in answer
to her thoughts, and then in a slow, measured,
pompous sort of way struck three. " Only
three ! Dear me, dear me !"

Then she wondered how the clock knew it
was three, and what it was that made it tick,
tick, day and night. She had never thought
of this before, though she had once felt the
clock all over, and knew what its outside was
like. She must ask Mr. Pringle about it.
It is so odd. What can make it go on tick,
tick ? What can it be ? What is it, Pops 1"

But Pops was still in the dumps, and
would not say whether he knew or not, would
not even say whether he had his doubts.

I wonder if I should know, if I could see
like other people ?" Then she asked herself

how people felt when they could see. She
thought over it for a longs time, bub she could
not make it out ; she only knew that people
who could see did not run against chairs and

o

tables and hurt themselves as she did.

Ah, how nice it must be to see !"

She said this with a deep sigh ; but as she
said it the whole current of, her thoughts
were changed, for she heard the hurried rattle
of a latch-key and the opening of the front
door.

Ah, here comes Mr. Pringle ! I am so
glad."

And Chub, coming in panting and out of
breath, j must put his head into the room :

All right, Madge ; I shall be down
directly ;" and then hurried upstairs, to return
in less than a quarter of an hour,
smelling most unmistakably of brown Windsor
soap : and if Madge had had eyes like other
people, she would have seen that he had
jmt on his Sunday coat, and had made a
]parting down his hair, which for accuracy,
might have served to have demonstrated the
geometrical definition of a straight line.

Now would have been the time for Madre
to have asked him about the clock, but sht3
was too anxious. She felt that " somebody "

iiiust very soon arrive ; and even had she
done so, it is doubtful whether Chub could
have given a coherent answer, so much,
too, had " somebody " taken possession of his
thoughts.

*' Yes, she will soon be here, and Vic too."

But I don't want to see Vic ; it is ' somebody
' I want to see."

Madge always spoke of seeing people ; she
did so simply because it was the way in which
other people talked, for it is not to be expected
that blind children should have a
language of their own.

She was sitting on the little low stool by
his side, with both her arms resting on his
knee ; and as she said *' somebody," she turned
her face upwards towards his, appealingly,
and in her coaxing little voice :

Dear Mr. Pringle, now you will tell me,
won't you ? What is ' somebody's ' name T

* Somebody's' name is Eva," said Chub ;
^' but you must always call her Miss Yorke."

'* Yes 1" said Madge, almost as if she were
disappointed ; " I like that best. Miss
Yorke. Why did they call her Eva ? It
is like the name of poor silly Eve, who
listened to the fine stories of that horrid
serpent. Oh! I wish Mrs. Fulford had never

told me, for it makes me sit and think, and
think, and I can't make it out. But I will
never say again what you told me not. No,
never. But the other young lady ? Is her
real name Vic V

Before Chub could answer, or express his
surprise at Madge having any objection to
the name of all others which he thought
most beautiful — Eva — the bell was pulled
violently, and on the door being opened — so
quickly was it opened that Mrs. Fulford must
have been on the watch — a man's voice was
heard inquiring it* Mr. Pringle were at home.

Here they are !" cried Chub, jumping up
excitedly, whilst Madge turned pale and
seemed to shrink within herself, and Pops
ruffled his feathers, gave himself a shake,
and uttered a defiant '' Whew !"

The passage of No. 4, Woodbine Terrace,
was not wide, and Mrs. Fulford stood, in consequence,
as fiat as she could make herself,
with the door in her hand, rather overcome
with the feeling that the eyes of the neighbourhood
were upon her, and that in many
breasts much envy was being excited ; for
carriages were seldom, it might be said never,
seen drawn up before houses in Woodbine
Terrace, the inhabitants of that locality, as

VOL. II. 31

well as the friends who visited, them, belonging
principally to that extensive class who,
when they do not walk, aspire to nothing
higher than omnibuses or cabs. The only exceptions
were mourning-coaches and doctors'
broughams, and they always caused an immense
sensation.

To the people in these neighbourhoods, a
funeral excites the greatest interest, and the
touch of melancholy which belongs to it adds
to the fascination. As a source of distraction,
the doctor's carriage stands next ; and when
it stops, there are not a few of the neighbours
who look out narrowly to see whether the
doctor is going to take into the house with
him some of those dreadful instruments
with which he is always supposed to be accompanied
: the length of his visit, too, leads
to all sorts of surmises as to the nature of
the case, and when he comes out an attempt
in made to discover, by the expression of his
face, what opinion he may have formed as to
his patient's condition.

The visit to a neighbour of a doctor who
drives his carriage is therefore always regarded
as a most agreeable incident by those
whom fate has obliged to take up their residence
in a quarter which is remarkable for

nothing better than its duchess ; for quiet
places are always dull, and the people who
live in them are often only kept alive by it,
in addition to doctors and funerals, occasional
visits from Punch, barrel-organs, hurdy-
guides, and brass bands.

But what is a brass band, a Punch and
Judy show, a doctor's brougham, or even a
funeral, to a beautiful carriage with a pair of
high-stepping horses, a tall footman, and —
*' Look, he has opened the door, and they are
stepping out ! What a pity they are in
black !" — two most lovely young ladies !

'* Who can they be '{ and who can they be
going to call on at No. 4 '?"

The question is soon answered. Chub
runs down the steps, almost runs against the
young ladies in his haste, and shakes them
warmly by the hand. Mrs. Fulford flattens
herself more and more against the wall, keeping
fast hold of the door the while, as if
under the impression that it would slam to
unless she did so. Chub and the lovely
young ladies squeeze past her. The door is
shut, and then for the moment the mystery
ends — if mysteries ever can be said to
end.

*' Oh, what a nice room sou have !" said

31—2

Eva, with unwonted warmth, as she followed
Chub into the back parlour. " And this is
little Madge ?" as she stooped down and
stroked the hair of the now almost crouching
child. " My dear Madge, we must become
friends ; and you must tell me all about Pops.
Where is Pops ?"

A violent rapping from Pops's beak against
the bars of his cage was the only answer.
Madge was too shy to speak, and would have
hid herself if she could ; and Chub was so
busy arranging chairs, that he had just then
few spare thoughts for anyone or anything.

'' Oh yes, Mr. Pops : I see you'' said Eva.
*' I will come and talk to you by-and-by ;"
she sat down as she spoke, and drawing her
chair close to the little stool upon which Madge
still sat, took the child's hand in one of hers,
whilst with the other she caressed her soft,
flowing curls.

Then she felt a strange feeling of embarrassment;
oddly enough, she had never spoken
to a blind child before. She felt the deepest
compassion for her, but those sightless eyes
were so cold and meaningless they seemed to
destroy all sympathy. She was shocked at
her own heartlessness, yet it was with an
effort that she repeated :

*' Yes, dear Madge ; we must be friends!"
and stooped down and kissed her on the
forehead.

Then it was that Madge felt another hand
take hers — a hand not quite so soft and
small as Eva's, but with more power in it —
a hand the pressure of which seemed to say,
Here I am, ready to help you 1" — a hand to
hold on by in danger or distress; and a voice,
not quite so sweet and musical as Eva's, but
clear and vibrating with tenderness, said :

'' Madge, you must let me be a friend as
well as Miss Yorke. I dare say Mr. Pringle
has spoken to you of me, of Victoria — Victoria
Marsh 1 You see, we have the same
names ! Is not that nice V

Then Madge found herself lifted up by a
pair of strong arms ; and almost before she
knew where she was, she found herself sitting
on Victoria's lap, with her head resting
upon her shoulder, and a soft, loving cheek
pressed against hers, and a feeling of happiness
such as she had never — never felt
before.

And whilst Chub and Eva sat talking
together on one side of the fire, Victoria,
with Madge still on her lap, broke down,
little by little, that barrier of shyness, and

reserve, and vao^ue wonderment, which had
stood between her and the sightless child.

'give me your hand," she had said; " I want
you to know what I am like :" and as she
passed it over her face, " now you know that I
have a nose, mouth, and chin ; and how I
wear my hair ; and that I have no ear-rings.
And you must call me Victoria, and not Miss
Marsh ; and promise to love me."

And as she felt the child press her cheek
more closely to hers, as if in answer, she too
stooped down and kissed her ; but it was
not a cold kiss on the forehead, as Eva's
had been, but a warm, loving kiss — such asa
tender mother gives her child — lip to

lip.

Oh, that kiss ! that kiss !

It was as a charm. The child threw her
arms round Victoria's neck and burst into
tears.

*' Why do you cry, Madge ?"

*' Oh, Miss — oh, Victoria ! — because I am
so happy," sobbed the child.

'' Do you always cry when you are
happy T

'* No ; only when I am naughty ; but then
it is not like this."

'well," said Victoria, '' I will kiss this

big tear away, and then we must not have
another."

Then she asked her about Pops, and what
she could do, and how she amused herself;
and when Madge said she could not do
much, for she had no eyes — why had she no
eyes ? other people had eyes — Victoria told
her of other little girls and boys whom
she had known, who could not see ; of their
being able to read and to do many things ;
and of some who had nice little gardens of
their own, and grew sweet-smelling flowers ;
and of some who were fond of music, and
had learnt to play on some instrument.

But Madofe said she would like best to have
a garden and have roses and flowers. She
did not care for music ; it was pleasant to
hear people talk, and read — when they read
pretty books.

And who reads to you ?" asked Victoria.

Mother did once, but now she says she is
too weak, and that it makes her head ache.
And sometimes Mrs. Fulford— but I don't,
like her books. Though I like to hear about
David and Samson and Jonah. Poor Jonah I
we never have fish for dinner but I think of
Jonah ! And is the Bible all true ? Mrs.
Fulford says it is."

She could talk quite freely now, and ask
all sorts of strange questions : and as she
rested her head on Victoria's shoulder, and
felt herself encircled in those loving: arms,
she felt as if she had known Victoria all her
life, and she only wondered how she could
have been so silly as to have been afraid
of her. And how nice it was to hear Victoria
talk. She did not keep pitying her, and
speak in a whisper about people being blind.
No ; she made it seem natural for people not
to see ; and it was so pleasant to know that
she was not the only little girl to whom God
had not given eyes like other people, and that
children who had no eyes could run about and
play, and that when they grew up they did
not knock against chairs and tables and hurt
themselves, but could work, and make baskets,
and read books. It was not so bad after all
to have no eyes.

Then Pops had to be introduced ; and
whilst Madge is coaxing him, and Chub is
whistling to him, and Eva and Victoria are
looking at him and admiring him, and hoping
every moment that he will talk and come out
of the sulks — for it is clear to all the world
that something has gone wrong with Pops, and
that he is sulky — a thud against the door.

followed by a sound as of tea-cups in collision,
intimates the arrival of Mrs. Fulford with
the tray.

Perhaps it is the sight of the sugar-basin
which has the effect of raising Pops's spirits
and making him for a moment forget the
cause of his dejection, for he raised his head
and mewed twice, though somewhat dismally,
and then relapsed into his attitude of defiant
dulness.

Chub explains that Pops always mews
when he sees Mrs. Fulford, probably because
there is some association in his mind between
her and her favourite tom-cat.

Madge called Pops a cross, sulky old thing ;
she would perhaps have said more, but at that
moment she smelt the buttered toast, and
that mollified her.

It might have been expected that Chub
would have asked Victoria to have done the
honours, but he did not ; and by some skilful
management — for he did not ask her, and yet
she did it so naturally that it seemed as if he
must have done so — Eva took her place at
the table and poured out the tea; Madge
once more seating herself on the low stool,
ready for the buttered toast, and Chub
buzzing about as busy and as happy as a

young bee who is flying home for the first
time with a load of honey.

*' This is what I call nice !" cries Chub.

Madge says it is very nice, with her mouth
full of buttered toast.

Victoria pats her on the head, and 
is always nice to be with kind friends,
even though there should be no buttered
toast ; and Eva wonders where Chub can get
such nice tea — she has never tasted anything
so delicious in her life.

At which remark the sulky Pops venturer
a malicious '' Whew !" and goes back at once
into a state of collapse.

But he is not allowed to remain so. He is
attacked on both flanks at the same time
with bits of biscuit and lumps of sugar, and
further resistance is useless. He obstinately
refuses, however, to surrender to Victoria
and continues to threaten her fingers with
fierce pecks, whenever they approach his-cage
; and it is by the small, white, dainty
hand of Eva that he is made captive.

Chub begins to love him for his choice.
Oh yes I Pops is one of the cleverest birds,
that ever lived ; and when he sees him, first
pecking at Eva's finger, as she puts it in the
cage, and then grasping it in his claw, and

allowing himself to be brought out of the
cage that Eva may kiss him and have the
kiss returned — for poor Pops seems suddenly
to have found out how lovable Eva is — ashe
brings his little smooth black tongue in
contact with her pouting lip, Chub is filled
with envy, and wishes himself a bird.

'* Why is it, Madge," asked Victoria,
*' that your old friend Pops is so churlish, and
will have nothing to say to poor me ? What
have I done to offend him T

*' Come here, and I will tell you' said
Madge. " Here — quite — quite close, and I
will speak it in your ear."

And as Victoria knelt by the side of the
low stool, the child, putting her arms round
her neck, raised herself up until her mouth
was in contact with her ear, and whispered :

*' You must not tell — Pops is jealous. He
never likes anyone that I love : and I love
you, oh, so dearly !"

But don't you love Miss Yorke, too ?
You have known her quite as long as you
have known me."

*• Ah ! Miss Yorke," said Madge, still in a
whisper; "that is very different. It is a
secret — a very great secret ; but Mr. Pringle
loves somebody — more than he does me or

anybody else — but not so much as I love
you, my darling, darling Victoria I — may I
call you Victoria ? — and that cunning jealous
old Pops has found it out. You don't know
what a clever bird Pops is — he finds everything
out."

'* Sh-h ! don't tell the cats !" cried Pops ;
and then he whistled and mewed, and had
his doubts, ever and anon interrupting himself
to return Evan caresses, or to make
fierce feints at Victoria, as if to show his dislike
to her, and treating Chub with an
indifference which could have been but
deeply humiliating to that gentleman's feelings
; but Chub's feelings were so concentrated
on Eva that he could think of nothing else —
so that he even forgot to remind Victoria, ashe
had intended to have done, to take a
good look at Madge's eyes. But Victoria
had not required to be reminded — she had
from the first looked at those poor dull eyes ;
and whilst the hearts of Chub and Eva were
filled with all the tender emotions which
belong to a pure and youthful love, hers was
filled with a longing that the day might come
when her labours should be crowned with a
skill and a knowledge which would enable
her to help even such a one as this poor

afflicted child. ^' What a privilege, what a
power," she thought, "to give sight to the
blind ! Why, it is God-like. Oh that I
may be found worthy of it !"

She was still kneeling by the low stool,
with the child clinging to her, and for a few
minutes she had not spoken a word; but it
seemed almost as if there must be some unknown
sympathy between them, for it was
just at this moment that Madge again put
her mouth to her ear and whispered :

'^ I cannot tell why it is, when I am by
you, and you hold me in your arms, it makes
me think of God ; not the cruel one that Mrs.
Fulford tells me about, but of a good kind
God, that I love as I do you. Why is it ?"

Because God is love," she answered almost
mechanically. Had she had time for thought
she might have answered less shortly, but a
loud ring at the bell announced that the carriage
had returned, and the little clock oil
the chimney piece showed but too plainly that
the time had come for saying good-bye.

*' Is she not nice T asked Chub of Badges
when they were once more alone — of course
he was thinking of Eva.

I love her better than anybody in the
world," said Madge, thinking of Victoria.

Whew !" whistled Pops.

'' Dear old Pops !" said Chub.

'^ Foolish, jealous old Pops !" said Madge.

It was nearly dusk when, not long after
Eva and Victoria had driven off, another carriage
stopped opposite the gate of No. 4, Woodbine
Terrace. This time it was not a well-appointed
carriage with high-stepping horses,
but a humble — a more than humble, an extremely
disreputable-looking — four-wheeler.
The driver, whose limbs seemed to have been
stiffened with rheumatism, swung himself
with no little difficulty off his seat ; and
after having communicated with some one in
the cab — which he did by standing on his toes
and thrusting his head in at the window — he
hobbled through the little garden and up the
steps, ringing the bell in a jerky, spasmodic
manner, as if he were doing something he
did not like, outside the sphere of his proper
duty.

This time, Mrs. Fulford was evidently not
on the watch ; for it was only after a considerable
delay that that worthy person opened
the door. A delay which seemed somewhat
to irritate the cab-driver, judging from the
objurgations with which he warned the horse
that he had better not move on ; though had

Le taken the trouble of looking, he miorht
easily have seen, from the heaving flanks and
the trembling limbs of the wretched animal,
that moving on was the last thing in the world
it had the slightest intention of doing. The
cabman had scarcely time to say, '' Lady — very
bad — two bob," — when Mrs. Fulford, who
seemed to take in the whole position at a
glance, called out *' Fulford !" at the top of her
voice, from the head of the kitchen stairs ;
but on there being no response, she suddenly
remembered that Fulford had gone out on an
errand.

Now, Mrs. Fulford, although she was a
stout, active, energetic little woman, was not
physically strong, and she knew from experience
that unaided she was not equal to the
task which was before her ; and even had the
cabman not been the broken-down hobbling
creature he was, there was something in his
manner, and the disagreeable leer which had
accompanied the information of the lady
being '* very bad," which made her shrink
from having recourse to his assistance. Telling
him, therefore, that she would come in a
minute, she hurried to the back-parlour, and
knocked at the door. A loud '* Come in "
showed that Chub was still there.

'^ Please, Mr. Pringle, can I speak to you a
minute T

She looked significantly at Madge, and
beckoned as she spoke.

As soon as Chub was outside the door, and
Mrs. Fulford had carefully closed it —

''Oh, Mr. Pringle," she whispered, "will
you help me ? Fulford is out, and I don't
know what to do. She has come back, and I
fear worse than ever. Oh dear ! oh dear !
thank God, it is nearly dark !"

Chub braced himself up to the task like a
man ; he did not like it, but he was ready todo
it, nevertheless.

With his aid Mrs. Marsh, in a state of complete
helplessness, was supported into the
house and carried upstairs ; she explaining
all the time in incoherent terms that she had
been out on business. Oh, the difficulty she
had to bring out the words ! 'eyes, business —
business — and had been taken ill and faint;
but she was better now." And then she repeated
still more incoherently all she had said
before ; and being laid upon her bed and left
to the care of Mrs. Fulford, fell asleep, repeating
" business " to herself, as if she were seeking
to pacify her own conscience.

Has mother come back ?" asked Madge
when Chub returned.

** Yes," he only spoke in monosyllables now.
How different from what it had been but a
few short moments ago, when Chub was full
of gleeful talk, and Madge's merry laugh had
accompanied his words :

*' And she is ill again ?"

Yes."

Then a long silence broken by Madge.

*' How odd it is !" she said. " I can't make
it out. I can make nothing out. Just now
it was as if I were sitting in a garden filled
with violets and roses, and now I feel as if I
had nothing about me but dead leaves. Do
you know that I think Miss Yorke is like a
violet, and Miss — no, I will always call her
Victoria — is like a rose ? Oh, how I like
roses — but you like violets best, don't
you ? Don't say no — I know you do. But
oh, these dead leaves — these dismal dead
leaves !"

Dead leaves I How much is there that
is most beautiful in nature — young buds
prematurely withered ; flowers that have
made the air fragrant with their perfume, or
dazzled the eye with their brightness — which
the ruthless hand of Time turns into mere
VOL. II. 32

dead leaves, or, as Madge called them —
*' Dismal dead leaves."

Dead leaves," with no trace left of their
living loveliness ; serving but to point a
moral to the few who moralise — to the many,
nothing more nor less than what they seem —
mere dead leaves.

Poor Madge ! She little knew, as late in
the evening she went to say good-night to
her mother, and turned from her embrace
with ill-concealed disgust; that in the poor
fallen, leaf before her, there had been, no longer
since than she herself now counted years, as
much freshness, as much sweetness, and as
much beauty as belonged to those whose presence
had made her feel as if she had been sitting
in a garden filled with violets and roses.

It was with an aching heart that Madge
laid herself upon her little bed that night.
It seemed as if she had been suddenly awakened
out of a beautiful dream. Ob, if she
could but sleep and dream it again, or still
better, die ! — for Mrs. Fulford had told her,
that to die, if people were good, was only to
fall asleep. And why was she not good ?
What had she done to make God angry ?
Why should He not be kind to her ? — kind
to her as Victoria was. Oh, how safe and

happy she had felt in her arms. If God
would only be kind to her, like Victoria —
dear Victoria ! She pressed her cheek more
closely against the pillow as she spoke ; it
was almost as if her head rested once more
upon Victoria's shoulder, and with a little
half-sigh, half-sob, the child fell asleep.

32—2

CHAPTER XI.

Friends IN NEED.

Lady Arabella had received many letters
in which condolences and excuses were equally
balanced. Her brother, the earl, had written
to say he was sorry, but not surprised, to
find that Mr, Yorke had left his affairs in
such an embarrassed state, for he had always
anticipated something of the kind ; and it
only confirmed him in what he supposed was
his hereditary horror of everything like trade.
He was too much occupied to come to town
at that moment, or he would have been very
glad to have made himself useful to her.
But generally speaking, her friends confined
themselves to expressing what they called their
deep sympathy."

My Lord Runnymede had been to see her,
and expressed himself as "awfully sorry that
he could be of no use, but that he had never

been taught to help himself, and so, you
know, he could not be expected to help anybody
else."

My lord ^yas, in fact, out of temper. He
looked upon himself as an injured individual,
and had vented his feelings in anything but
pleasant language to his wife :

This breakdown is confoundedly disagreeable
for me, you know. It does not
signify how people may make money, but
they should not break down. People may
forget that a duchess has been a rich brewer's
daughter ; but when there is a breakdown,
and she has a broken-down brother — Gad I
Geraldine, it is very unfortunate for me, you
know."

As a contrast to this came a letter from
Sir Francis Hawthorne, in which he begged
to place his services at Lady Arabella's
disposal.

'* The very man," said Lady Arabella,
\vhen she had read the note. '' Write to him
at once, my dear Penserosa, and beg him to
come. He will be very useful ; he knows all
about Italy."

Eva suggested that, having Victoria with
them, they wanted no other help. But Lady
Arabella thought differently.

'* Two heads are better than one," she said.
Victoria is all very well, but she has never
crossed the Alps."

So Sir Francis was written to, and came at
once to see her. Came day by day to talk
with her, and help Eva and Victoria in their
arrangements. It was as if he had been their
brother.

What a help he was to them I They
wondered how they could have gob on
without him ; for practical as Victoria was,
she was not good at finding out routes in
Bradshaw, and Lady Arabella, in imagination,
was always on the move.

OnedayGeraldine looked in upon them when
they were hard at work, trying to find out the
exact time it would take by the several routes
between Paris and Naples. She had been
sitting with Lady Arabella, and had heard
from her how kind Sir Francis had been.

'' He is such a dear good fellow," she said,
and knows all about business and those
troublesome lawyers, and about travelling.
Ah, ma chere, though he is tant soit peu
roturier, I sometimes wish your Runnymede
was like him."

For a moment it had been with a feeling
approaching to arger that Geraldine had heard

of Sir Francis being: in her mother's house ; it
almost seemed as if he had done it out of
bravado, in order to revenge himself on her
for her heartlessness ; he had come to torture
her in her — no, not misery : it could nut be
misery; and she but six weeks married.

Her first impulse was not to see him.

But would it not look odd ? Would it
not add to his triumph if he were allowed to
feel that she had not the courage to meet
him ? And then softer feelings took possession
of her heart. Was he not, after all,
doing the work of a true friend ? and the
came a contrast — too late — too late ! She
had had a hideous, feverish dream ; consciousness
had returned, alas ! too late — too late !

All this, and much more, passed through
her mind on her way downstairs from her
mother's room to the library. As she entered
it, she thought of her father — for it was there
she had seen him last — and of how he had
said to her :

T have done all I can for you ; I have
done my best, and God grant you may never
have occasion to repent your choice."

Ah ! he little knew their repentance was
there, even as he spoke. Yet it was without
any trace of emotion that she greeted Sir

Francis with the formal politeness due to an
acquaintance from one who had been removed
to a sphere which had no place for old friendships.


But though she might conceal her emotion,
it was impossible for her to hide the extraordinary
change which the few short weeks
of married life had produced in her. It was
as if every trace of girlhood had departed
from her, and it was difficult to believe that
the pale, calm, cold woman, whose dignity
sat upon her as if it had been the growth of
years — whose beauty had become, as it were,
petrified — was she who had been so full of
life, so unguarded in her speech, so impulsive
in her actions, so full of warmth and affection
to those she loved. Now, she had become so-undemonstrative
that she kissed Eva — the
sister that she had so much loved — and
Victoria — the one being next to Eva whom
she had the most affection for — as if they rid
been statues, and placed her hand into that
of Sir Francis as she might have done into
the hand of a stranger.

Yet at times, to anyone who had closely
watched her, there might have been detected
a kind of scared, startled look, accompanied
with a slight convulsive movement, such as

might be produced by the momentary remembrance
of some hideous recollection, on
one who had determined to banish it for ever.

Of course, by her friends, the change, too
perceptible to be overlooked, which had
taken place in the beautiful Marchioness of
Runnymede, was readily accounted for through
the shock which the death of her father had
produced, coming upon her, as it had done,
in the midst of such a period of happiness.
Some, however, said it was because black did
not become her, and there were some evil
tongues who were wicked enough to say that
her former brilliant complexion had not been
natural, and affected to pity my lord, as if he
had been cruelly imposed upon.

Of course, this change had been perceived
by Eva ; but under the circumstances some
sort of change seemed natural, and Eva
was not one of those troublesomely gifted
people who find themselves compelled to
dive deep down under the surface of things.
Not so Victoria ; she had, as it were , an
instinctive knowledge that Geraldine, under
that calm, cold exterior, was hiding the subterranean
fires which were burning within
her, fed by self-condemnation and wounded
pride ; and her heart bled for her, but she

knew the slightest demonstration of sympathy
would only add intensity to feelings which
time alone could soften.

As Geraldine placed her hand so coldly in
his, Sir Francis was grieved to find the alteration
which had taken place in her. What a
contrast between her, as she stood before him
now, and as she had appeared when he had
last seen her! Then, his heart was filled
with love, admiration, and bitter disappointment
; now, there was no room in it for any
other feeling than the deepest pity. Not
that the change had made her less beautiful —
in some respects she was even more so; but it
was the beauty of a Niobe, in whom the
sparkling current of youthful life had been
suddenly arrested — the beauty of a dead
thing — of a stone.

He remembered Victoria's words : '* Indeed,
indeed, she is greatly to be pitied !" and
he knew by his own feelings how true those
words were.

Yet the last feelings in the world that
Geraldine would have wished to have excited
was *' pity."

As she sat down, she glanced at the papers
with which the table was covered.

*' It is very kind of you, Sir Francis, to

come and help mamma," she said ; " and it
makes me doubly angry with my brother " —
she did not call him Duke, now — '' to think,
in addition to the heartless way in which he
has acted, he has been the cause of giving
so much trouble to friends who, like you,
have not deserted my dear mother in her
great trouble." Then, as if glad to change the
conversation, she added: "And I hear you
have been again brought forward for Middle-shire,
and, as yet, there is no other candidate.
Is it true ?"

Yes," said Sir Francis ; " my name was
put forward almost without my consent."

Ah, what chancres a few short months
have produced !" said Geraldine, as if speaking
to herself; "who could have foreseen
them ?" Then, with that strange, scarcely
perceptible spasmodic movement, she added :
But you really ought not to be neglecting
your own interests on my mother's account.
You should be in Middleshire."

"Experience tells me," said Sir Francis,
that others can act for me better than I
can act for myself."

Sir Francis has promised that he will not
remain beyond the end of the week," said
Eva. " It is very wrong of him to stay, but

I don't know what we should have done without
him."

And, Victoria," said Geraldine, turning
towards her, " I fear you, too, are sacrificing
yourself for others ; but then that is your
vocation," she added, in a tone that made it
sound almost like a reproach.

Victoria looked at her for a moment before
she spoke ; then, with a more than usual
degree of gravity, she said :

'* My dear Geraldine, you must know that
what we do for those we love, can never bea
sacrifice ; and, at the best, I can be of very
little use."

'' But you must be neglecting your studies,"
said Geraldine, almost with an air of indifference.


'* I shall resume them the beo^innino^ of the
month, for Lady Arabella has agreed to take
Zurich on her way to Italy."

Eva had taken Victoria's hand and kissed
her tenderly, whilst Geraldine had been
speaking.

'' Yes, is it not kind of Victoria ? We
shall all travel together ; and Sir Francis
has insisted upon coming to see us off."

A suspicion shot through Geraldine's mind,
and, perhaps, gave even greater acerbity to

her manner than it had before, as she said,
very kindly :

Indeed ? But I hardly think it necessary ;
for of course I shall come, and Runnymede
will be there."

It was the first time she had mentioned
his name ; it seemed less painful for her to
speak it now, since that suspicion had shot
through her mind.

She had been so weak herself, that she
could not quite realise it was possible for
others to be strong; and for that of which she
had herself been guilty, she felt the greatest
contempt. She knew that Sir Francis and
Victoria loved each other. She had changed
without love ; why, then, should they not
change, with it ? But, if they did, she would
despise them for it. Sir Francis most, for
weakness was a woman's privilege.

Who would have known that such thoughts
as these were passing through Geraldine's
mind as, cold and calm, she sat talking over
her mother's future plans, and discussed the
easiest route to the Continent, the best hotels,
the expense of living, the most suitable winter
climates, and the many similar topics which
have a special interest for those about to expatriate
themselves.

Tt was astonishing how studiously she
avoided all reference to her dead whither — to
her ruined brother — to her own home, or to
her husband, and took refuge in the minor
incidents connected with the change which
was about to take place — even descending
to talk about the weather, and to lament
over the muddiness of the streets ; not one
word coming from her heart, and her heartburning
within her none the less : a relief to
herself — a relief to all, when she rose and
took her leave ; weary of acting a part, and
yet not acting a part — for every word she
uttered was but the outcome of those artificial
feelings which were suppressing and taking
the place of those generous impulses still
smouldering within her breast.

*' Poor Geraldine !" said Eva, when she had
gone. '* She looks so pale, and is so altered,
that sometimes I think she cannot be happy.
Did you ever meet Eunnymede V she asked
Sir Francis.

*' Our acquaintance is very slight."

'' He is one of those people," said Eva,
*' who, I am sorry to say, do not improve on
acquaintance ; but I must confess to knowing
very little of him, although he is my brother-in-law.

Is it not singular ? — you will hardly
believe it, when I tell you that I don't think
I have spoken to him a dozen times ; indeed,
he always seemed to consider me as too
uninteresting a person to be worthy ot*
notice."

Victoria had remained silent. She was
wondering whether she could have been deceived
in the estimate she had formed of
Geraldine's character ; but if so, how could
this sudden and sad change be accounted for?
The more she thought over it, the more convinced
she became, that she had not been
deceived — but that Geraldine was miserable
; and she knew there is no misery so
dilhcult to bear as that which is self-imposed.


Oh, how I wish dear Geraldine had
never married him !" she exclaimed, as Eva
finished speaking.

That night, before they retired to rest, Eva
had confided to Victoria that she loved Chub
had always loved him — never had thought
of anyone else.

He is a fine true-hearted fellow," said
Victoria, ** is dear old Chub ; but you must
remember the contrast that will exist between
the sister who marries Mr. Charles Pringle and

the one who has married a Marquis of Runnymede."


Am I such a worldling Vic," said Eva, reproachfully,
*' that you should make such a
remark. I would rather be the wife of an
honest man such as Chub will, I am certain,

always be, than of a No, he is my sister's

husband, and I will not say anything against
him. But, oh, I do really love Chub — love
him dearly !"

But has Chub ever asked you to marry
him V said Victoria, archly. '' Remember, it
is not leap-year."

You dear provoking old thing," said Eva.
*' He has never spoken a word of love to me,
and always blushes when he looks at me — and
I am as bad ; and yet it seems to me that we
have been making love to each other, without
intending it, ever since I can remember."

It seemed to be Victorias fate that she
should be made the repository of other
people's secrets, and that she should be required
to sympathise with feelings which by
an equally irrevocable fate she was bound to
suppress.

She could but be interested in Eva's love
ic was so simple and childlike, and she
knew that Chub was worthy of it.

'' Good-night, my dear Pen," she said, '' be
patient and trusting, and it will all come
right ; but take care that you do not interpose
any disturbing dreams of happiness between
Chub and his studies, for I verily
believe it would break his father's heart were
he to fail and be unable to write M.R.C.S.
after his name. But you, may dream as much
as you like. Good-night."

Good-night, my darling sister," said Eva.
*' What should I — what should we, do without
you ? I really believe the reason why you can
be so useful to others, is that you are so
thoroughly unselfish, whilst I am always either
thinking of myself, or of — Chub."

It was with the name of him she loved on
her lips that they separated.

^' Am I really unselfish ?" was the question
Victoria asked of herself as she laid her head
upon her pillow.

Before she could answer it, she had fallen
asleep ; but the last picture which presented
itself to her mind was that of a little blind
child with flowing hair ; and when she awoke
the next morning it was as if that picture
were still there. How was it possible for her
to think only of herself when she saw looming
in the distance before her, the possibility of

VOL. II. 33

being able to restore to some afflicted fellow-creature,
that one sense, without which, the
all pervading beauty of this world is unknown
; life has no other surrounding than
dark shadows ; and all objects removed from
the reach of touch, are without form and void.

^' If I can only arrive at this, I shall not
have lived in vain."

It was such thoughts as these Which had
soothed her sorrows and calmed the wild
throbbing of her heart.

She, too, was calm ; almost as calm — some
said as cold — calm and cold as Geraldine.

But with Victoria it was because, after
years of striving, she had conquered self, and
had a goal in life — something to work towards
beyond the mere gratification of sense, or
the advancement of her own interests. She
had extended her sympathies ; and she
seemed cold, only, because her love was spread
over a wide surface — cold as the rays of the
sun may be called cold when compared with
the blaze from a furnace fire.

Geraldine's coldness was rather that of the
volcanic mountain whose surface remains
white with eternal snow, though the very
rock is melted into a molten mass, by the fire
raging with fierce imprisoned fury within.

Geraldine had only learnt to conceal her
natural emotions ; Victoria had reduced hers
to subjection, and made them subservient to
her will.

She might have spent her time in morbid
regrets, in melancholy reflections, in brooding
over the revelations of a past which had
cast its broad shadows over her whole
life, happily for her, she had outlived the
weakness which had commenced by turning
her whole attention upon herself, and had
reached a height which had enabled her to
extend her horizon beyond the boundaries of
barren regrets. Excelsior was her motto.
x\nd as she mounted, each step made her foot
firmer, her eye surer, and her heart beat with
a throb of thankfulness that life was still so
full of that which was worth working for.

Now, she had so much to do for Lady
Arabella, that her time was fully occupied.
With the help of Sir Francis, everything was
soon sufficiently arranged to enable Lady
Arabella to leave for the Continent the moment
the doctor pronounced it safe for her to do
so ; and, as the very prospect of change
seemed to hasten her recovery, in less than
ten days a group might have been seen on
the platform of the South-Eastern Railway,

33—2

standing by the side of a first-class carriage
just about to start. It was composed of
Lord and Lady Runnymede, Sir Francis
Hawthorne, Dr. Pringle and Chum; and at a
little distance, standing in an attitude of
attention, two tall men-servants carrying
shawls. The guard came to shut the door
just as Geraldine leant forward to exchange
kisses with Eva and Victoria, and to press
once more the outstretched hand of Lady
Arabella, who, in a faint voice, was heard
begging her to take care of herself. The
door was shut in the midst of her good-bye,
and then commenced a waving of hats, and
kissing of hands, and fluttering of pocket-handkerchiefs
— the two tall footmen putting
their fore-fingers to their hats — until the train
was out of sight. Then Geraldine, with tearless
eyes, after shaking hands with Sir
Francis, Dr. Pringle, and Chub, took the arm
of her husband — who had contented himself
with a stiff" bow — and moved ofi* towards
her carriage.

My lord was more than usually silent on
their drive home: he had been obliged to getup
early, and he hated getting up early.
Then it was too soon for him to go to his club ;
there was nothing for it but to drive home.

And what was he to do when he arrived
there ?

No wonder my lord was somewhat out of
temper.

"I tell you what it is, Geraldine," he said,
'standing about on that platform will bethe
death of me ; and then you will never
be a duchess, you know." And, perhaps
still more annoyed by her silence, for she did
not answer : '' What a prior that Sir Francis
is, confound the fellow ! And they are going
to send him up for Middleshire^ as if we
had not Radicals enough in the House
already."

"Is he a Eadical '?" asked Geraldine, much
in the same tone as if she had never heard
of Sir Francis before.

The worst kind of Radical," said her
husband, "for he objects to the game-laws,
you know. But who was that big, healthy
looking young fellow with the old doctor V

His son," said Geraldine, curtly.

Then I advise Lady Arabella to keep
him at arm's length," said my lord. ** Eva
never took her eyes off him. He may be a confounded
nice fellow in his respectable line of
business, whatever that may be, you know ;

but hang me if I should like to have him
for a brother-ia-law ! It is bad enough as

it IS.

Indeed 1" was Geraldine's only reply.
And this was the man she had made her
husband !

END OF VOL. IT.

Billing AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPEBS, Guildford.

OF Thun

Diversity

or ILLINOIS

8Z3

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was borrowed on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, ««»ll«»lo«, cid undermining •* ^»»f«'", "• ^T"
fm disciplinary action and may revolt in dUmUsal from
the University.
TO Renew CAll Telephone Cinder. 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS UBRAKY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

APR 2 1993

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. 79o21 L162

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

A PICTURE FROM THE PERIOD.

BY

Major-general G. G. ALEXANDER, Cab.

Fiction is a fabric woven by Fancy \vith threads of Truth.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.
Isle.

[^ // Rights Reset vet. J

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. '-' A GOOD CHRISTIAN " - - - - 1

II. TRANSFORMATIONS - - - - - 10

III. A FOOTSTEP ON THE STAIRS - - - 31

IV. WOMEN IN COUNCIL - - - - 42
V. MUSINGS BY THE WAY - - - - 64

VI. THE BELLE OF THE SEASON - - - 93

VIL THE TURN OF THE TIDE - - - - 123

Vii WRECKAGE ON THE SHORE - - - 160

IX. Made 186

X. POPS IS JEALOUS 201

XI. FRIENDS IN NEED - - - --228

3>«^c

CHAPTER I.

**A GOOD CHRISTIAN."

Mr. Yorke bears his triumph meekly, though
he, somehow or other, appears within the last
few days to have become wider across the
chest, and to require a larger waistcoat. His
speech, thanking his supporters, is a model
of what such speeches should be ; he has no
end of sweet words for his supporters, and he
refers to his late opponents in such touching
terms, it is impossible to read it without
tears.

'* Ah, that is what I call a truly good man,"
said old Miss Draggled, as she took off her
spectacles and wiped her eyes. " Whilst he
"will always remember the kindness he has

VOL. II. 18

received from his friends, he promises to
forget and forgive those who have fought
against him. I am sure no man could say
more. Those are the words of a true
Christian."

Never was the church so full as it was on
the following Sunday. The whole parish, and
many from the adjoining parishes, were thereto
gladden their eyes with a sight of the
great man of their own making. And when
Mr. Yorke walked up the aisle, with his
blue tie and spotless — and ample — white
waistcoat, the excitement was intense, so
that an apple was heard to fall in John
Lore's orchard, although the tree from which
it fell must have been at least six hundred
yards from the church-door. As Mr. Yorke
prayed, in the depths of his well-brushed hat,
many people wondered in what form of words
he was expressing his gratitude for the great
honour that had been done him. And when
he sat down, with the back of his head —
beginning to show signs of baldness — exhibiting
itself over the edge of the high-backed
pew, the children of the schools,
whose ordinary amusement, when opportunity
offered, was to pinch, or tickle, or kick their
neighbours, became suddenly so quiet and

good that Miss Judge, the schoolmistress,
thought they must be ill, and was frightened.
The fact is, they had heard so much of the
election, and of Mr. Yorke being made an
M.P., that they thought something very
strange must have happened to him, and so
they sat with eyes and mouths opened as
wide as possible, it may be in the expectation
that the somewhat sparse hairs, which
stood out in the sunlight from that bit of
bald head, would before long develop themselves
into some kind of glory, such as the
saints had round theirs in the great picture
with which the Rev. St. John had lately
decorated the chancel, and the meaning of
which he had been very careful to explain to
them in the most incomprehensible manner.

But they wondered still more when Sir
Francis came into the church, looking much
as usual, and not as if he had been crying ;
for they had heard that he had been beaten
dreadfully.

If, however, the excitement had been great
before, it reached the highest point of intensity
when, on the termination of the
service, Mr. Yorke, as he stepped into the
churchyard, was brought into contact wish
Sir Francis, and it was with a thrill of

18—2

emotion that he was seen holding out his
hand.

Aye, they has shaken hands ! Lor', to
have seen it ! Well, he do be a good man —
that he be ! And the parson, how he do
preach ! His words do be so fine !"

'' Aye, do ye look at Miss Geldreen's
gown ! if its tail ain't as long as the church
is wide."

A victor can afford to be generous, so Mr.
Yorke walked by the side of Sir Francis hs
if nothing had happened, and in a few minutes
any awkwardness which the latter may have
felt had completely disappeared. Lady
Arabella had come to church in her pony-chaise,
but the rest of the family had walked,
for it was against Mr.Yorke's principles to have
his horses out on Sundays — in fine weather.

They had not gone very far, when Mr.
Yorke stopped to speak to one of his tenants,
and Eva having lagged behind, for there was
not an old woman or young child in the
village to whom she had not some kind word
to say. Sir Francis found himself alone with
Geraldine.

Of course I am glad that my father has
gained the day," said Geraldine, " but I am
not the less sorry for you ; and I tell you

candidly, had I been a man, you should have
had my vote."

And yet it seems to be the general opinion
that I have made a great fool of myself," said
Sir Francis.

"Of course," said Geraldine, " because you
acted with pluck ; and most people are fall of
cowardice, which they pretend is prudence.
There is nothing so contemptible as a
coward."

*' To have won your good opinion," said
Sir Francis, " is quite sufficient to reconcile
me to defeat."

'* Mind you continue to deserve it," said
Geraldine, blushing. She had no time for
more; Mr. Yorke rejoined them, and Sir Francis
took his leave ; he could not help pressing
Geraldine's hand with unusual warmth as he
did so.

'* I never saw her looking more beautiful,"
he thought, as he walked away.

The same afternoon, Mr. Yorke, who was in
the habit, on a Sunday of retiring for a couple
of hours after luncheon to the solitude of
his study, from which he generally emerged
rubbing his eyes, as if he were experiencing
the sensations which usher in an attack of
ophthalmia, was surprised to find himself followed,

on leaving the dining-room, by Mr.
Mortimer.

I hope my request may not be inopportune,"
said that gentleman, *' but I should
be greatly obliged, sir, if you would grant me
the favour of an audience."

^' Certainly' said Mr. Yorke, entering his
study and taking a seat. " Well, Mortimer,
what is it V

'' Sir," said Mr. Mortimer, ** the pain with
which I put forward the request T am about
to make, is assuaged by the proud satisfaction
I feel, ia common with your many other
humble friends, that you have been placed ina
position of which we are so hexc usably
proud. Had it been defeat, instead of victory,
I hardly know if I should have had the courage
to have spoken."

I hope nothing disagreeable has happened,
Mortimer," said Mr. Yorke, encouragingly.

Noways in the least, sir," said Mr. Mortimer.
**' Of all my engagements, the office
I have held in your family, is the one upon
which I shall always look back with the
proudest satisfaction. I have always endeavoured
to do my duty; and I am proud of
being able to say that you, sir, and her ladyship
— not to speak of your amiable family

have given me every satisfaction ; and it is
with deep regret that, from unavoidable circumstances,
I find myself obliged to retire
from a position which I have filled, I trust,
with credit to myself and to the advantage
of all concerned."

'' Bless me, Mortimer," said Mr. Yorke,
*' this comes upon me very suddenly. No
quarrels below, I hope ?"

"Dear me, no, sir," said Mr. Mortimer,
"there has been no unpleasantness; besides,
it takes two people tu make a quarrel, and I
never would demean myself to be one of
them. No, sir; it is all private affairs."

'* It is very awkward," said Mr. Yorke.
I don't know what Lady Arabella will say :
she hates these changes, when she is once
suited. But I suppose there is no help for
it. Let me see — it is, of course, the usual
notice, and we shall have a month to lookout
for a substitute — but it is just now
extremely awkward."

That is why, sir, I wished to speak to
you on the subject, instead of acting in the
ordinary course through Mr. Cox : for I
should be sorry to be the cause of any
inconvenience, and an amicable understanding
in a interview between parties

often prevents obstacles arising, to which
I for one would object. I am anxious,
indeed it is indispensable, that I should goat
once ; but I know of a gentleman with the
highest testimonials who is in every way-qualified
to enter upon my duties. A telegram
would bring him down tomorrow.
And on his arrival, I should, with a reluctance
which I find it difficult to express, retire
into private life."

*^ I suppose you have come into a fortune,"
said Mr. Yorke.

'* Not quite that, sir," said Mr. Mortimer,
modestly ; " but my prospects have greatly
improved."

I suppose there is no help for it," said
Mr. Yorke ; " but I am sorry for it."

If ever I can be of any use to you," said
Mr. Mortimer, '' I shall always be proud to
place my services at your disposal."

Fortunately, the gentleman to whom a
telegraphic despatch had been sent, seemed
in Lady Arabella's eyes worthy to be Mr.
Mortimer's successor. And on the evening of
the following day Mr. Mortimer, in a fashionable
travelling suit, and with most irreproachable
luggage, was seen awaiting the arrival of
the night train to London. His spirits were

so low that he was obliged to seek a restorative
at the refreshment-bar. His leave-taking
at Nettlestone had been quite affecting. In
offering his dutiful respects to Lady Arabella
and her daughters, he had expressed himself
in the kindest terms, and had been so lavish
of his good wishes, that one might have
thought his power of wishing had been
exhausted, if they had not been renewed
with redoubled energy in the housekeeper's
room and servants'-hall. Poor Mary, the
housemaid, could not conceal her tears.

*' M}^ good girl," said Mr. Mortimer, condescendingly,
" I wish you well, and shall
always be glad to lend you a helping hand ;
but circumstances have dug a gulf between
ns which no affection can bridge over.
Hades — hades !"

It was the thought of Mary in tears which
had probably necessitated the restorative at
the refreshment bar. It seemed to have a
reviving effect.

*' No, no," he said, *' it would never do ;
she is a dear good girl, and has a heart as
tender as a sweetbread ; but she could never
occupy a prominent position — her ignorance
is positively lawful; why, she has not a hatch
in her alphabet,"

CHAPTER 11.

TRANSFORMATIONS.

It really seemed as if honest Tom. Trenton,
as we prefer to call him — for in these days
though every second man you meet has a
handle to his name, it is still a distinction
to be called honest — was not far wrong in
predicting that the horse which had Mr.
John Marsh for its ostensible owner was to
carry him and his confederates to fortune.
For although that wonderful animal had
not as yet realised the great expectations
which Mr. Marmaduke Yorke had been led
to indulge in — and that could easily be
explained by its having, as it was supposed,
caught cold and so contracted some rheumatic
affection, leading to a temporary lameness
which obstinately resisted cure — it had, in
other respects, proved itself a remarkably
useful quadruped. Through its purchase,

Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, junior, had been relieved
from any inconvenience he might have
experienced from an undue overplus of money,
whilst, after the claims of the owner had been
duly satisfied, honest Tom, of course taking
to himself, as he had a just right to do, the
lion's share, had been able to divide a sum of
money into three — unequal — parts, and gratify
the natural benevolence of his best of hearts
by raising his friend Jack from the depths of
poverty to comparative affluence, and releasing
Mr. Mortimer from a position which could
not but be most galling to a man of his high
aspirations.

To honest Tom Trenton's friends, it was
indeed most gratifying to find him once more
taking his old place amongst them, after his
long absence. He did not consider it necessary
to say where he had been — but he spoke
sometimes of sporting adventures in the
Rocky Mountains, and gave mysterious hints
of the money to be made by a good shot,
whose love of sport enabled him to rough it
in the wilds of South Africa. So that many
thought that he owed his money — not to his
creditors, as formerly — but to the elephants
he had shot ; in fact, to ivory. But the
major would have scorned to use the word

'* ivory;" he spoke only of ^' tusks," and of
elephants as quakers, ignoring the existence
of those who had none as creatures utterly
beneath his notice.

Now it must not be thought that the
major was untruthful ; such a suspicion
would be a cruel injustice to a man who was
open and honest to a fault, as he indeed often
regretted ; but he had a lively imagination,
and certainly had been a great traveller, or
he could not have talked as he did. He
talked so well ! It was quite pleasant to see
him the centre of a little group at his club,
for he had returned to the only mode of life
which, as he was fond of saying, " befitted a
man who had any claim to being considered
a gentleman, and whose habits of life have
been formed in the service."

Mr. Mortimer, too, had joined a club. Not
the one which had the honour of having Major
Trenton as a member, for which he was not
eligible, but the newly-formed " Ring and
Rail," the committee of which consisted, on
"paper, of a member of Parliament, two
dignitaries of the Church, and a sufficient
number of naval and military officers to give
it the air of superlative exclusiveness ; butin
fact, of the proprietor, who with the

assistance of the button-boy and head bottle-washed,
carried out the weekly elections by
ballot with a most scrupulous regard to the
interest of the club.

It was indeed a proud moment for Mr.
Mortimer, when he saw his name for the first
time in the gorgeously bound book which
contained the twenty-six rules of the club
and the names of its members, headed by
certain royal personages, who had the privilege
of participating in the advantages offered by
the club, without payment, though they
seemed strangely indifferent to the honour
which had been conferred upon them. One
thing puzzled Mr. Mortimer ; it was that,
stamped in gold letters on the cover was a
winged wheel, under which was the motto
Ubique." What could the word mean ?
He did not like to ask, but after much thinking,
came to the conclusion that it was
French, and had something to do with wings
and wheels.

On the twelfth page of this book, last 0£
the names headed by a capital M, stood inlarge
print :

"J. MONTJOY MORTIMORE, EsQ."

Now the change which Mr. Mortimer had
made in his name, though slight, had become

necessary through the gentleman to whom he
had paid ^yq shillings for establishing his
coat of arms, having informed him that his
ancestors, at the time of the crusades, had
used that mode of spelling, and that all the
Mortifies were Montjoys, much in the same
way that most of the Smiths are Sydney.
To those who had only known Mr. John
Mortimer when in *' office," there would
have been some difficulty in recognising
Montjoy Mortimore, Esq., the newly-elected
member of the Ring and Rail, as he sauntered
gracefully through the entrance-hall and
placed himself ia a befitting pose before the
telegram which gave the latest odds. Mr.
John Mortimer had worn long and carefully-curled
whiskers, and rather piqued himself
upon the precision with which he parted his
somewhat long back hair. Montjoy Mortimore,
Esq., indulged in a decidedly red
moustache, and his whiskers were reduced
to a small cropped patch some inch or two in
length between the cheekbone and the ear ;
and as for partings, his hair was cut so close
that it was only by much coaxing and a liberal
use of pomade he was able to produce a feeble
attempt at a dividing line above the centre of
his forehead.

I don't think I should know myself," said
Mr. Mortimore, as he looked into the glass
on the morning of his entry in his club, " and
I should most certainly cut him if I did.
Ah, those days are over. I am emancipated.
I can't imagine how he could ever
have remained what he was. He must have
been a poor, mean fellow to have done so, and
did not know how easy it is to be a gentleman,
provided he's learnt to calculate the
odds and is fond of sport."

Mr. Marsh, for no one now dared to address
the owner of Fortuna as Jack, had also
benefited by the major's combinations. It
is true that he was still as bloated and
pimply-faced as ever, and that the atmosphere
in which he seemed to live was even more
redolent of the odour of stale tobacco and
gin-and-water than before ; but his altered
circumstances were apparent, not only in his
dress, but in his manner, for a jovial, self-satisfied
look had replaced his old sullenness,
and it was for his pleasure now that he extended
his potations into the small hours of
the night, and not, as formerly, to drown dull
care. A club was of course a necessity for a
man in the distinguished position of Mr.
Marsh. The major, whose experience iu the

service and knowledge of the world had made
his opinion on such points invaluable, had
pointed out that as humble workers in the
cause of sport, the operations of himself and
Mr. Mortimore could be made more beneficial
to society in general and most conducive to
the object they had in view, with respect to
their own benefit, by mixing with those whose
education was as yet incomplete, and who, as
the major justly observed, ought to be glad
to have an opportunity of remunerating
handsomely those to whom they would be
indebted for such extremely valuable experience.
" But as regards Marsh," said the
major, '^ he is peculiarly placed. As the
ostensible owner of a horse possessing the
character of Fortuna, he occupies a position
with regard to society which he cannot ignore.
The only club for him is the ' Equestrian,'
there he will find himself amongst men of his
own kidney, and working as we shall be
towards the same laudable object from three
several centres, it will be our own fault if weare
not able to produce, through our mutual
energy and prudence, some extremely valuable
combinations."

It was in accordance with this advice
that Mr. Marsh became a member of

the " Equestrian," to which a short time
before Mr. Marmaduke Yorke, june., had also
been elected.

To the members of the Imperial — the
major's club — it was a source for congratulation
to have the advantage of associating
with one so thoroughly au courant with all
the past, present, and future of the Turf It
was not long before — " What does Trenton
think?" " What does Trenton say r '^ What
is Trenton going to do ?" were the three questions
most frequently on the lips of the
sporting members of the club. Honest Tom
Trenton could not but feel a pride — an honest
pride — in the position he had won for himself,
a position which had become so far recognised,
that in the space of an extraordinary
short limit of time he had advanced in his
intercourse with such men as the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps and Major Decimus Fits
— acknowledged leaders in their peculiar
section of society — from the very outside
edge of polite incivility to a degree of
cordiality which had absolutely reached the
point of a friendly greeting in the Park.

Indeed his popularity had reached to so
high a pitch, that Major Decimus Fitzjones
had been overheard to say : '^ A deuced clever

VOL. II. ly

fellow is that Trenton ; knows all about a
horse."

To which remark the Hon. Pierrepoint
Phipps was contented to reply in the monosyllable
** Haw !" But the tone in which
that one word was uttered, was unmistakably
indicative of assent.

Major Thomas Trenton and Mr. Mortimore
had the advantage of possessing the degree
of freedom essential to those whose ambition
is to take that high position in the social
scale which is only open to men who do not
find themselves kept down by the heavy
weight inseparable from family ties. Mr.
Marsh was not so fortunate. He was, as we
know, a married man, and his sickly wife and
blind child were the occasion of continual
annoyance and inconvenience to him. The
same might perhaps have been equally said
of the old gentleman, whose acquaintance the
reader has already made, and who stood in
the relation of an uncle, had it not been fora
small annuity, which, when times were bad,
had made it desirable that he should become
a member of his nephew's family, and contribute
— indeed provide for — its support. Of
course all this was extremely disagreeable to
Mr. John Marsh ; in seasons of adversity

there was nothing for him but to accept the
position : but now that a current had set in
which might lead to fortune, independent
action had become necessary. For him to
leave the neighbourhood of his club was impossible.
For his family, change of air to the
outskirts of London would unquestionably
be advantageous ; and his uncle's modest
means, when not required as formerly to administer
to Mr. John Marsh's imperative
wants, would be quite sufficient to provide
a respectable house and the necessaries, if not
the superfluities, of life for his nephew's wife
and child. It was therefore with a feeling
that he was acting in a most disinterested
and liberal spirit, that Mr. John Marsh permitted
his wife and child, necessarily accompanied
by his uncle, to take up their residence
with an old servant who had married whilst
in the service of Mrs. Marsh's family, who lived
in a small house in the neighbourhood of
Hackney and let furnished apartments. Mr.
Marsh's liberality had also gone to the extent
of contributing a small sum of money,
sufficient to enable his family to be provided
with some better raiment than that which
belonged to their poverty. Thus it was that
when a cab, with a small but decent modicum

19—2

of luggage, drove up to No. 4, Woodbine
Terrace, there was nothing to denote that
the well-dressed but feeble old gentleman
who was so carefully searching, even under
the cushions of the cab, as if for something
he had lost, the pale, well-dressed lady and
the pretty child, had but a few weeks before
been living in a squalid street in the very
depths of poverty.

As the cab stopped at the gate of the small
garden which separated the house from the
street, the front-door flew open and a little
woman, wearing a voluminous white apron,
stepped briskly down the steps, followed by a
heavy-looking man whose comparatively slow
movements seemed to make her activity the
more conspicuous.

Come, Fulford, man, look alive ! This is
Mrs. Marsh. Law, mem! Well, 'tis nigh
twenty years since — and time do change us
all, the Lord be praised for it !"

What the last ejaculation meant, it is not
easy to say ; but it met with no response, for
at the sight of the old servant Mrs. Marsh
had burst into tears.

The child, who still remained in the cab,
with a cage containing a large grey parrot on
her lap, seemed to have an intuitive perception

of what had taken place, for she looked
up and said, as sharply as a soft, silvery voice
would permit :

'* Mother, why do you cry ? This is better
than our old home. I can smell flowers — •
sweet flowers ! It is so nice. Shan't we be
happy, Pops V

"Pops has his doubts," said the parrot, ina
deep voice, which made Mrs. Falford
start.

'* Don't be a fool, Pops !" said the child ;
** you know you are as certain as I am."

Pops contented himself with a long, low
whistle in reply ; and, putting his head on
one side, looked out knowingly with one eye,
as much as to say, *' We shall see."

Mrs. Fulford, whose attention had been
diverted from Mrs. Marsh to the child,
stepped towards the cab and held out her
hand towards the cage, as if expecting it
would have been handed out to her ; but, on
finding that no notice was taken of the
movement, she seemed suddenly to remember
that the little girl was blind.

And so, mem, this is the poor little
dear ? May the Lord be merciful to her in
her affliction — as He doubtless will. Ah I
Minis Margaret, my dear, I knew your mother

when she was no bigger than yoa are. That
I did, Miss Margaret."

*' Don't call me Miss Margaret' said the
child. *' My name is Madge ; isn't it,

Pops r

Pops has his "

Before the parrot could finish the sentence,
a rap on the cage reduced him to
silence.

** You shall have no supper if you make
such a fool of yourself — and before strangers,
too ! I am ashamed of you. If you can't
speak sense, you had better hold your
tongue."

'' Yes, mum's the word. Don't tell
the "

Another rap on the care seemed to have the
effect of frightening off the cats; but they could
not be got rid of entirely, for no amount of
rapping could prevent Pops from completing
his sentence with a series of doleful mews,
which were renewed at intervals during the
process of conveying him from the cab to the
house, which was done in a kind of procession.
First Mrs. Fulford, with shawls and
wraps, followed by Mrs. Marsh ; then Mr.
Fulford, in all the majesty of stolidity and
strength with little Madge in his arms, and

the cage of the lamenting Pops suspended from
one of his little fingers. Then the old uncle,
still on the look-out for something he could
not find; and last of all, the cabman with a
shouldered trunk.

Mem," said Mrs. Fulford, as she threw
open the parlour-door, " you will Had it clean
and comfortable, though, mem, it is not I
who should say it, and quiet ; for, though he
is my husband, and I say it, there is no
quieter man, and no better man, no, not if
you searched through Woodbine Terrace.
No, mem ; he may be, and is, silent, as I
often say, but he is every inch a man. That
you are, Fulford, and you know it ; so you
need not look as if you didn't."

Mr. Fulford, who seemed to combine
strength with taciturnity and much placidity
of temper, looked as if he would have
blushed if time had not taaued and thickened
his skin to an extent which rendered such a
manifestation of feeling impossible. So, not
being able to blush, he contented himself
with rubbing his hands, the moment they
had become free, through his having set
down Madge and Pops on the small horsehair
sofa which formed the most imposing
article of the front parlour's furniture, and

to repeat in a deprecatory manner, as if her
good opinion were too much for him :

'please, Tibs, don't!"

Mr. Fulford, when speaking to his wife,
always called her '* Tibs." though he never
failed to speak of her as the *' missus." And
to hear him speak without knowing this, you
might imagine he had to do with two very
different people. To Tibs he always spoke as
if he were still in all the agonies of his first
courtship, and had never got over the bashfulness
which is the torture of timid lovers; but
of the missus, it was as if he referred to someone
before whom — though every inch a man
not only he but every one else ought to
tremble ; of some one whose word must be
law ; of some one who could not be wrong.

** No, dang it !" he would say, '* the missus
is a woman, and that is the worst that can be
said against her. Why, she's more sense in
her little finger than I have in my whole
body."

It is difficult to explain it, but so it was :
Mr. Fulford had been for twenty years most
tenderly in love with ^' Gibbs," whilst all that
time he had continued in most abject fear of
the " missus." The resultant of these two
forces was, that not in Woodbine Terrace, no

not in all Hackney, was there to be found a
steadier man, or a more submissive husband,
than John Fulford.

For many years before his marriage he had
worked steadily at his trade as a smith ;
and it was to the heat of the smithy fire
that he owed his swarthy complexion, and to
his daily labours at the forge that he had
gained the muscular development which was
probably the cause of his wife so repeatedly
reminding his friends that her husband,
despite his mildness of character, " was every
inch a man." Their united savings, carefully
invested in No. 4, Woodbine Terrace, and
other small freehold properties, had enabled
him, after their marriage, to retire from
business ; and since then, whilst his wife
occupied herself in the performance of the
household duties, his time was principally
engaged in marketing, going on errands, and
in keeping the front and back gardens in
order. In this he took a special pride, nothing
could exceed their neatness, and, it was surprising,
considering the smallness of the
space, the number and variety of the flowers
he had managed to crowd within them.

In the back-garden he had built a small
summer-house, in the further corner, to

which, when it rained, he retired of an afternoon
to read his newspaper — he seldom got
beyond the ponce reports — and smoke his
pipe ; but, when the weather was fine, he
generally took up his position on a rustic seat
under an acacia, in the front plot, which,
though partly concealed from view by a
bushy laurustinus, was close to the iron
railing, so that, without being seen, he could
overhear the comments of the passers-by as
they looked at his flowers, and have his pride
gratified by such remarks as: ^'My eye, what
roses!" "I say, Bella, ain't that a nice garden !"
What awfully fine tulips !" and so forth.

Mrs. Fulford was a wonderfully active
little woman, and never so happy as when
she was working or talking, for she could do
both equally well.

As a rule, she had not very much spare
time, for her apartments were generally full ;
and besides the rooms which were now to be
occupied by the new arrivals the back parlour
on the ground-floor and the front bedroom
third had been for some months in
possession of a gentleman of whom she spoke
to Mrs. Marsh as —

'' A young gent who is now a-walking of
the hospitals ; but though a fine, big fellow —

ain't he, Falford ? — he 13 none of your boisterous,
out-at-all-hours, graceless scamps,
such as so many of your medical students —
God help them ! — so frequent are, but a
quiet, well-conducted gentleman, as good as
gold. He has a beautiful painted text just
above his bed, and I see that it is a-working
in him ; for once or twice when I have been
in his room I have seen him look at it and
sigh and sigh till I was ready to jump for
very joy, for 1 saw, mem, that he was looking
upon himself as a lost sinner, and we who
have gone through the same know that the
darker the clouds of sin seem the sooner will
the sure hope come, over which shall be
never more a cloud."

From this it will be seen that Mrs. Fulford
was a good woman, and, indeed, she was
never so happy as when she was endeavouring
to do good. But unfortunately for her
friends and most people with whom she
came in contact, Mrs. Fulford had had her
experiences, and had, after much wrestling
with the evil one, arrived at the consoling
conviction that she was one of the elect ; and
this had made her so happy that she felt it
to be her duty to endeavour to induce others
to become participators in the same privilege,

or, as ste expressed it, ^*to make herself a
finger-post to point out the narrow and
crooked way, and to snatch brands from the
burning."

Talking, then, ceaselessly of her experiences,
Mrs. Fulford, after having established
old Mr. Marsh in the front parlour — through
which he immediately began to prosecute a
very minute and exhaustive search — conducted
Mrs. Marsh, Madge, and the inseparable
Pops upstairs.

On entering the drawing-room, on the first
floor, she pointed to some prints in maple
frames, which hung round the cold and
naked-looking walls — for the room had a
north aspect, and the paper was of the
peculiar pale, faded green, which even on
hot days makes one feel cold, and long to put
a match to the still colder-looking white
paper which fills the grate, as if in mockery
of fire — and directed Mrs. Marsh's attention
to the subjects they represented.

*' You will see, mem," she said, '^ that the
one great object has never been lost sight of.
We know that the heart is deceitful and
desperately wicked, but here, when we sit at
work or what not, we have but to raise our
eyes — and what do we see ? What do we.

mem ? What do we, Miss Madge ? Why,
as we look we are made to feel how vile weare,
and how thankful we ought to be. For
these are the parables ; and thanks be to
God who has given them for our learning.
Oh, we have to thank Him for much, mem.
He has been very kind, Miss Madge."

Not to me," said Madge ; " He has not
been kind to me. He has given me no eyes.
I can see no pictures, nor flowers, nor anything."


*' Hush ! hush !" said her mother, who had
relapsed into the silent, tearful state which
seemed habitual to her. *' Hush, my dear
child ; you do not know what you are
saying."

Mrs. Fulford had been so shocked at
Madge's remark that for a moment she was
unable to do more than utter : " Dear me !
dear me !" but she quickly recovered, and was
about to express the anguish of her heart at
hearing what she was pleased to call such
wicked words, when she was again brought
to silence through Pops suddenly breaking
out into an apparently uncontrollable fit of
laughter, varied with spasmodic mews and
a request that nobody would tell the cats.

Madge's threats, enforced by sundry

thumps upon the cage, had at last the effect
of reducing him to silence ; but the thread of
Mrs. Fulford's discourse had been so suddenly
broken that that lady found herself
unable to bring it to a close, and she was
glad to beat a retreat from what she found
to be an untenable position, by entering into
the necessary details concerning Mrs. Marsh's
immediate and future wants.

CHAPTER Il

A FOOTSTEP ON THE STAIRS.

It took many days before Madge could settle
down in her new home. All was so strange
to her. The weather had become cold and
wet, and the sweet smell of flowers which
had greeted her arrival was washed away.
She almost regretted the dingy, squalid
rooms, in which so much of her past life had
been spent ; the dingy squalor of which,
happily — for in this, at all events, blindness
had been an advantage to her — she had
never known.

Here, she was in an unknown world, and
she could not take a step without striking
against some object, the very nature of which
she had to find out. There, she knew everything
: the distance between the corner in
which she sat and the fire ; the number of
steps between it and the door ; the exact

position of her great-uncle's chair; and she
could even find out the whereabouts of Pops
when he endeavoured to escape some well-deserved
chastisement by hiding himself,
with an air of intense satisfaction, behind the
coal-scuttle, or by perching on the back of
her uncle's chair — discovering himself, as he
was generally sure to do, by informing the
world at large that '* mum " was ^' the word."
There, too, old uncle, or dear uncle, or
good old uncle, or cross old uncle — for
she varied her style according to her mood
and to the degree of favour in which he stood
at the moment — was always ready to talk orbe
silent at her bidding, for she had almost
arrived at the point of regarding him as a
superior sort of big animated toy, who had
been called into existence for no other purpose
than to speak or move in obedience to
his little niece's will. Here it was quite
different ; their lives suddenly seemed to
have been cut apart ; cross old uncle — for
she called him by no other name now — confined
himself almost entirely to the ground-floor
front ; and when Madge had groped
her way there he would not talk, but kept
on saying :

Hush ! hush ! you must not disturb me ;

I am trying to make what I have lost." And
when she asked why he had not done that
before in their old home, he would answer :
** Hush ! hush ! I was ill then, and weak,
and my poor brain would not work ; but
now I am quite strong again, and my brain
quite clear — so clear ! But hush ! Madge
dear, hush ! you must go away now ; but do
not tell — mind you do not tell !"

'' And when you find it, you cross old
uncle ?" asked Madge.

We shall all be rich — ah, so rich, Madge
dear !"

^' And will you buy Pops a new cage, you
dear, cross old uncle f

Yes ; if you are good, Madge, and go
away ; a big cage — a beautiful cage — all gilt
and bright as gold."

Then Madge would go away, sorrowfully,
though somewhat cheered by the prospect of
that beautiful gilt cage. But she was not
quite satisfied until she had asked Mrs. Ful-ford
what ib was old uncle did all by himself
in that stupid dull room ; and she was
not much the wiser when that good lady
told her :

"Lord bless you, Miss Madge, and take you
in His keeping ! how should I know ? Why

VOL. II. 20

'^a.

there he sits and writes and writes, and, as is
evident to all, hardly gives himself a minute
for his meals ; and the sheets of paper that
he covers over is next to awful ; and all with
lines of small figures so close together, there's
no getting between them. Why, they must
represent billions upon billions at the very
least."

With her mother Madge did not talk
much : it was as if there were something in
her manner that repelled her, and there were
times that this feeling seemed so completely
to take possession of her, that when her
mother would throw her arms round her and
weep over her, and kiss her, she would push
her away with a pettish, ^' T wish you would
go away and let me alone ; I don't like it !"
and when Mrs. Marsh, weeping more bitterly
than ever, would say : '^ Ah, Madge, you do
not love your poor mother I" Madge would
reply : " Oh, yes I do !" in a manner that
never failed to make Pops exclaim — but
cautiously, and as if he were pondering over
each word : '* I — have — my — doubts''

The idea of its being necessary to teach
Madge anything seemed never to have
entered into Mrs. Marsh's head. Her child
was blind — another drop of gall in her bitter

cup to be lamented and moaned over ; and
certainly, if that formed a part of lier maternal
duty, she did it well. But in all other respects,
apart from being kept tolerably well dressed
and scrupulously clean, which latter was due
in no small measure to little Madge's intuitive
horror of everything like dirt, the poor child
was utterly neglected, and her mind would
have remained perfectly fallow, had it not
been for her old uncle, of whom she was
never tired of asking questions, though the
knowledge which she gained from his answers
was of such a peculiar nature that Madge
seemed to have nothing in common with other
children, and the manner in which she expressed
her thoughts was often the cause of
Mrs. Fulford's being greatly scandalised.

We must take her in hand —-we must take
her in hand, John," said she to her husband ;
'* she has never been fed with the true milk
of babes."

We can take in an extra two-pennyworth,
Tibs," was the unguarded reply.

"John," she said, "you are a man, every
inch of you, but you will not think. What is
milk — but the Word ? I was not speaking of
carnal things. No, it is her soul — her poor
soul, John. She is blinded to outward things,

20—2

to all the miserable dross which is but so
much rags and ashes ; but who knows ?
maybe she will one day see all the clearer
through those clouds which shut out the
glory from so many sinful eyes. No, John,
we must take her in hand."

And so Madge was taken in hand. Of her
father, to her great joy, she saw very little :
he came now and then to Woodbine Terrace,
for he did not like to cast himself off entirely
from an uncle who had an annuity ; but he
always excused himself for a short visit on
the plea that he was overwhelmed with
business, and he cared not to notice that
Madge shrank from him when he drew her
towards him on his arrival, and was frequently
not to be found when he went away.

Mr. Fulford had at first felt a little shy of
Madge. It was almost as if her blindness
had made him afraid of her. But after some
days this feeling wore off, so that he had the
courage to take her little white hand in his
brown brawny one, and lead her through the
tortuous walks which intersected the little
back garden, to the summer-house ; but he
would not let her sit there, because he said —
and he always spoke to her as if she were
deaf — in winter it was too cold and damp.

Bat only wait till summer, then wasn't it
pleasant to sit in ! why, it was then as warm
as Madeira, and as sweet with the honeysuckles
and roses as the Spice islands.

And may I come and sit in it, and
bring Pops, and have it all to ourselves T'
asked Madge.

Of course you may, miss," said Mr.
Fulford ; 'but you must teach that bird
manners, for he do scream and mew terrible."

So Madge's great dream during the winter
was the happy summer hours she would
spend in that pleasant bower, and much of
her time was spent in preparing Pops for the
privilege of being allowed to go there with
her by teaching him manners. Poor Pops,
he was quite tired of being talked to about
that arbour, and of being told how happy they
would be in it. He began to hate the word
'' arbour," and considering the number of
quieting thumps upon his cage which he
associated with it, it is not to be wondered at
that he sometimes would insist upon saying
that he had his " doubts."

There was one subject of never-ending
interest to little Madge — it was with respect
to the person whose heavy step she heard
early in the morning and late in the evening.

going up and down the third pair stairs.
She heard him, too, sometimes calling out to
Mr. and Mrs. Falford, and she fancied it
must be some one she would like, his voice
sounded so pleasantly as he shouted :

'^ Fulford, my boots ;" or, '^ Good-morning,
Mrs. Fulford; breakfast, please — I am ready
for breakfast."

It was then with a feeling of disappointment
that she found out it was the young
gentleman lodger who was " walking the
hospitals." For one day, when being piloted
by Mr. Fulford through the mazes of the
box-edged walks of the back garden, she had
ventured to ask what " walking the hospitals"
meant, and had heard, with dismay, that it
was to learn all about old bones and dead
bodies, and how to cut off arms and legs, and
to make up medicines ; so that walking the
hospitals presented itself to her mind as a
horrible and disgusting occupation, and she
could not divest herself of the idea that the
person who did it must be something very
hideous and disagreeable to look at. So much
so, that not being able to see " the young gent
who walks the hospitals," was one of the
exceptional cases in which she did not refer
to God having given her no eyes as He had

done to other wicked people, which was the
formula she usually employed when out of
temper or annoyed. And all this notwithstanding
that Mr. Fulford had informed her,
that " as times go, Mr. Pringle was not half
a bad young chap."

Mr. Pringle ? Yes, no other than Mr.
Charles Pringle of Deepdale — so much better
known to his friends and in the bosom of his
family as Chub. The world is very small,
and people are shuffled together in it in a
very strange manner, some think by mere
chance, others in accordance with some great
design ; it must be by one or the other, but
though to settle the question — if it be capable
of settlement — would take up more pages than
all the chapters of this book put together ; so
to avoid controversy and any possible loss of
temper it might occasion, it will be better
perhaps to put it, that by mere chance, or in
accordance with some deep design, Chub and
Madge were brought together under the
hospitable roof of No. 4, Woodbine Terrace,
Hackney.

Brought together under the same roof, and
for some time no more ; but by degrees little
Madge listened for those heavy footsteps on
the stairs, and felt quite sorry when the

pleasant voice did not call out so cheerily as
usual that its owner wanted breakfast.
Perhaps it was sympathy, but even Pops
seemed to interest himself in those steps on
the stairs. He might have been seen with
his head on one side listening attentively,
and making a strange little click with his
tongue as an accompaniment to each creak of
the stairs, so that it seemed he was counting
the footsteps in order that he might be ready
the moment the landing-place was reached to
give that shrill whistle which said as plainly asa
whistle could, *' Come here ! we want you."

And the time came when that whistle did
its work : first, but only now and then, a
somewhat feeble response ; then a bolder one ;
next a kind of duet, gradually prolonged in a
variety of keys, with the delighted Pops ; and
last of all, the door being open, '' May I come
in and look at your beautiful parrot ?"

Do you like parrots ?"

When they are as clever as yours. What
is his name T

"Pops."

Pops, Pops, Pops, Pops ! we must befriends.
Pops."

But from the instant that Madge had
spoken, Pops had withdrawn in sulky silence

to the swing in the centre of his cage, where
he sat with his feathers all ruffled up. Was
it jealousy ? — perhaps it was, for coming
events cast their shadows before them, and
from that day forth there was one person in
the world that Madge loved more than Pops,
and that notwithstanding all that Mr. Ful-ford
had said about walking the hospitals.

CHAPTER lY.

WOMEN IN COUNCIL.

There was a frequent interchange of letters
between Geraldine and Victoria.

How I envy you, my dear Yic !" wrote
Geraldine. '* No — not Yic — Victoria ; for I
never intend to use that stupid abbreviation
again. A student who aspires to attaching
letters of grave import to her name, must be
treated with more respect. Yes ! my dear
Victoria, I do indeed envy you. Here I am,
frittering my life away in an endless round of
frivolity, despising myself for my weakness,
yet no more capable of emancipating myself
from the dominion of Folly, Fashion, and
Misrule, than the poor moth is capable of
flying away from the light around which it
flutters, but until its poor wings are scorched,
and then — well, it dies, and that is some
comfort.

You will see, from what I have written,
that I am cross and out of temper. And I
were an angel if I were not so. For we have
shot all our pheasants, and the house has
been full of pheasant-shooters. How I honour
Sir Francis for not allowing himself to be one
of them ! I thought it great fun once, but now
it makes me absolutely angry when 1 see all
these great strong men starting off armed cap-a-pie,
in order that they may gain an appetite
for their horrid dinners by killing a number of
innocent, inoffensive birds who up to the first
of October had been taught to look upon man
as a friend and benefactor, and little knew
what a cold, cruel, calculating heart was beating
all the time in the breast of that hypocritically
benevolent monster. Why men
should have so much pleasure in killing
pheasants, I can't make out — except that
they have long tails, and so perhaps are easier
to hit than barn-door fowls, for they are quite
as tame. Indeed, a pheasant is tamer than a
goose, for it was only a few days before the
slaughter began that we drove past a field in
which a flock of geese and a number of pheasants
were amicably feeding together, and at
the sound of the carriage the geese were the
first to take to flight, which they did over a

ora.

hedge, in a heavy lumbering kind of way,
followed by the pheasants, who seemed even
less able to use their wings. And then to hear
the men talk — foolish woman that I am, I feel
ashamed of them — one would think, to hear
them, they had been shooting lions and tigers,
and not poor little home-bred birds, who have
to be driven out of their hiding-places by great
brutes armed with sticks, for the amusement
of some still greater brutes armed with guns.
And this is how we, who belong to the world
of fashion, take our pleasures.

'' I am writing all this seriously; but I fear
if I am serious, it is only because I have been
bored. You must know, that amongst our
guests who are invited at this season, there
are some who come habitually — cousins of
mamma's or some old friends of papa's, who
would be offended if they were left out —
and so were not able to let all the club-world
in which they live know that they were
going to shoot at Nettlestone. Old friends,
indeed ! Some of them so old that they find
it difficult to carry a gun, and so generally
manage to catch a cold in the train, or to have
a slight touch of the gout, when, instead of
their valuable time being occupied in slaying
fat pheasants, it is taken up in torturing your

humble servant ; for these superannuated
bird-killers are always handed over to Eva
and me ; and I suppose it is because I am the
eldest they seem to think that I, more especially,
am bound to amuse them. In the
morning I generally manage to escape, but
after luncheon I am like poor Sinbad the
sailor, who had to walk about day by day with
an old man sitting on his shoulders. To-day
it was a poor old admiral — some kind of
cousin — you may have heard of him. Sir
Charles Chesterfield — who is especially unendurable
; for he prides himself on having
at some period of his life been a lady-killer,
and so the poor old wretch crawls down from
the awfully high star-and-garter stilts upon
which he generally stands, and flounders at
the feet of every pretty girl he comes across.
I suppose I must be pretty, for I repeat it,
I have been bored to death. Foolish young
men are my detestation ; but for foolish old
ones I have no words with which to express
my contempt. But all this is so egotistical
and silly.

Now I have written it I am quite
ashamed of it — particularly when the great
object of my letter was to ask you to write
me a long long letter all about your dear self,

and your work, and how you like it, and, indeed,
about everything ; for now you are gone,
and Sir Francis is away, I seem never to hear
a sensible word : and if you don't take compassion
on me, poor weak creature that I
am, I shall become a backslider, and sink
down and down into the slough of silliness,
which Fashion has carpeted with her scentless
flowers. Ah, me ! my Victoria, if I could
but possess some of your strength of character
T should indeed be happy. But I am so
weak."

But Geraldine was wrong. She was not
weak. She might not possess Victoria's
strength of character, for she had been
brought up in a different school ; and the
effects of youthful impressions, like those of
hereditary tendencies, though they may be
modified, can never be entirely eradicated.
She had been nursed in the lap of luxury,
and had grown up in the midst of conventional
modes of thought and action, in that
narrow sphere in which refinement is mistaken,
for enlightenment, amiable impulses for virtue,
vanity for self-respect, and social pleasures —
or what was intended to be pleasures — as
duties. A school in which amusement is often

made the chief aim of life, and excitement its
moving force.

Gifted with much natural good sense, there
were times when Geraldine rebelled, as it were,
against herself She despised herself, as we
have seen, for her want of strength. She
envied Victoria. She looked up to Sir Francis
as a superior being ; and yet there was not a
day in which she did not show some quality
she was most ready to condemn ; say or do
something, of which, when it was said or done,
she was not thoroughly ashamed.

Hers was, as it were, a double character,
and it is this ^' duality " of character in
the same individual, which makes it so difficult,
for those who would place the actions of
each life within some recognised category of
good or evil.

If the strong were never weak, the honest
never false, the virtuous never vicious — aye,
and the converse of all this — if the vicious
were never virtuous, the dishonest never true,
the weak never strong, what a world would
this world be for those who would describe it !
But the ease of description would be gained
at the sacrifice of all those lights and shades
which make such marvellous diversities of
colour blend into the beauty of a harmonious

whole ; and of that great bond which binds
all humanity together — the mutual consciousness
of weakness.

Victoria had had a fuller and deeper experience.
Her own struggles had shown her
the difficulty of overcoming the obstacles
with which our several paths are beset ; and
she had been made tolerant to others, whilst
remaining a tyrant to herself.

'' Dear Geraldine," she had written to her
in return, ^'I can quite understand your trials,
but there are many things in this world we
have to put up with though we may not like
them ; for when we keep ourselves apart from
those with whom we live, and make them feel
we do so because we despise their pleasures,
and have opposite opinions with respect to
every question which may arise between us, all
family and social ties become severed, and we
become, as it were, wanderers on some distant
shore, the beauty of which is shrouded from all
other eyes but our own. I have often felt that
so long as we are members of a domestic
circle, we owe a certain amount of passive if
not active conformity to the habits and ideas
of those around us. It has been wisely
arranged that the ' capacity of conformity '

is greater in our sex than with men ; and
well that it should be so, for subservience is
woman's heritage : unless she is, as I am,
free ! — yes, free ! But remember that even
freedom has its price."

It will be seen from this, that do what
Victoria would, the visions of the past would
occasionally present themselves before her.
Yet she was able to write :

^' You ask me if I am happy. My answer
is Yes ! far happier than I had dared to
anticipate. Every moment of my time is
occupied; and my studies are so interesting in
themselves, and so varied, that they produce
no fatigue. Neither does — as you suppose —
anything I have to do disgust me; for nothing
is aimless, the object is always in view, increasing
in interest as we proceed ; and we
pass by all that is disagreeable in our path,
in the same way that the traveller passes
through the narrow squalid streets of some
great city and has no thought but of some
beautiful monument, some lovely statue, some
legacy of the past's greatness that he has
seen, or that he has to see. Oh, Geraldine !
you know not — a few months since I knew

VOL. II. 21

not — how beautifully this world is ordered !
Everything is so simple, yet so varied, so
diverse, yet so harmonious ; whilst above
all and below all, are those great mysteries — ■
the origin and end, — the connection between
spirit and matter, — the processes which produce
life, — the transformations which follow
death, — the boundlessness of space, — the
illimitable nature of time : great mysteries
never to be solved, yet ever to be studied !
Can you wonder, that I feel sometimes
oppressed with the sense of my own littleness,
at other times lifted up to a height
which makes me look with contempt upon
what man calls greatness, but at all times
filled with reverential awe, and ready to throw
myself down in abject helplessness before
that great Power by whom all things have
been so fearfully and wonderfully made ?"

So wrote Victoria to Geraldine. But she
had another correspondent who sought for
counsel and advice.

It can easily be supposed that Eva had even
less in common with those by whom she was
habitually surrounded than Geraldine. Had it
not been for the vision — ever before her eyes —
of that great, honest fellow Chub, she might

perhaps have fallen an easy prey to such
insidious but well-meaning councillors as the
Kev. St. John Softridge and that high-handed
directress under whose despotic guidance he
so meekly performed the duties of his office.
The Eev. St. John loved his wife, but he
would have been more than human had he
not at sundry times devoutly wished that
celibacy had been the rule of what he always
spoke of as the Anglican Church ; and this is
probably one of the reasons why he was always
so ready to fall into his wife's views when she
advocated brotherhoods and sisterhoods.

** It is her vocation," said Mrs. Softridge.
^*Eva is too good for the ordinary work of
this world, you have only to look at her to
see that. And how charming she would be
in the dress worn at St. Ursula's ; she would
make a perfect picture I"

But she may wish to marry V mildly
suggested her husband.

*' Marry I Mr. Softridge, how can you be
so absurd ! Eva has far higher thoughts.
Why, it would bring her down to the vulgar
level of other people ; and I never look at
her without being reminded of a Madonna.
T hope if she vases your advice, you will know
what to say to her."

21—2

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
I IRRARY

Eva did ask the Rev. St. John Softridge's
advice, and what he said to her was exactly
in accordance with the instructions he had
received from that inestimable woman, his
wife. But there is a great difference between
asking advice and following it, so Eva wrote
to Victoria.

She had not long to wait for the reply :

I beseech you, my dear Eva, to pause,'
it said, *' before you take a step which can
be nothing else than a complete renunciation
of all — remember of good as well as evil—
which belongs to the fulfilment of the duties
inseparable from the position in life in which
you have been placed. 1 will not enter into
the subject from a religious or sentimental
point of view, but shall confine myself as
closely as I can to the practical side of the
question as it presents itself to my mind, and
speak only of those things of which I have
gained some knowledge from personal experience.


*' Now, you tell me that you would like to
join some sisterhood where you would be a
nurse, and you ask me whether I think you
are strong enough to perform a work which
you speak of as being the noblest to which a

woman can devote herself. My answer is :
Nursing is the only one of very many duties a
woman may be called upon to perform, and that
though it is a duty which circumstances may
enable her to perform without repugnance,
and in many cases with the satisfaction which
1 suppose belongs to the proper fulfilment of
all duties, it is often surrounded by so many
disagreeable and distressing details that it
is impossible to conceive an office in itself
more trying or, at times, more painful.
It may seem odd that I should speak in this
way of nursing, after having become a nurse
from choice ; but a knowledge of all that a
nurse may be required to do is unquestionably
useful, and in my case it was only one
of the means by which I sought to reach a
higher end. The case becomes quite different
when a woman, brought up as you have been
in an atmosphere of refinement, suddenly resolves,
from a wish, perhaps, to make some
meritorious self-sacrifice, to throw all her
feelings and susceptibilities to the wind, and
become a nurse — professionally a nurse, for,
disguise it by what names you please, dress
it up in what clothes you may, it is that and
nothing more.

** And are you really wanted, for the sake

of others, to do this work ? That is the
question to which I answer, No I I am
quite ready to admit that a certain number
of women of education and refinement,
provided they have energy, health, and
administrative ability, are greatly needed to
fill the positions of matrons and directresses
in our hospitals and benevolent institutions ;
to officer, in fact, the rank and file, upon
whom all the menial work should fall; and that
women, to be enabled to fill these positions,
must be properly trained. But let us stop
there. Every sentimental or religiously disposed
woman of independent means who undertakes
some lower work, and has no wish to
rise above it, is simply filling the place of someone
to whom such an employment might bean
object of great importance, and whose
antecedents might better fit her for it; of
some woman of middle age ; of a childless
widow; of one whose susceptibilities had been
deadened in her passage through life — none,
perhaps, pretending to higher motives than
an honest wish to gain their daily bread, but
working well none the less, for self-interest is
a powerful incentive, and selfishness in the
end does far more continuous labour, in this
world of labour, than sentiment."

"True, most sapient Victoria," objects the
lady reader ; " but self-interest ever works
fur a worldly profit, whilst sentiment may be
producing self-sacrifice and. working for a
worldly loss."

My dear lady," replies the cynic, " do
think a little, and you will see that both
are working to obtain some future personal
advantage, and that the motives of both
when reduced to their simplest forms will
equally be found to be based on nothing
more nor less than pure and unmitigated
selfishness."

My good people, you must settle your
difference of opinion in the best way you can.
The nature and extent of selfishness is really
far too difficult a question to be dealt with
here ; we only know that it is a subtle
element pervading all humanity, and disguised
in such a variety of forms that it has
even been detected in the odour of sanctity.

Eva was not satisfied with Victoria's advice
; she thought it had a cold, worldly ring,
for when advice is not liked there is always
something wrong about it.

The idea of entering into a sisterhood was
given up, none the less, and with a readiness
which somewhat scandalised the lie v. St. John

and shocked his wife. They had believed she
would have had more strength of will ; they
did not know that, do all she might to prop it
up, there was always that great dead-weight
pulling it down on the other side — the
thought of Chub.

Yet, as we have said, Eva was not satisfied
with Victoria's advice.

^* I really am astonished," she wrote,
*' to find that it is not my unfitness for
the work, so much as the work itself, to
which you object. Surely you will admit
that works of charity, even when they necessitate
the greatest self-denial, come within
the special sphere of woman's action ; and
what greater act of charity than the alleviation
of suffering? I confess there is much
truth in what you say, but it is disappointing
to think that because a woman who wishes
to do good in her generation has been
brought up amidst all the spoiling effects of
luxury and over-refinement, she is rendered
incapable of taking her share in work in
which her sympathies may be deeply engaged,
not so much from her own unfitness,
cs because she may be taking up the ground
which ought to be occupied by others. Surely
this argument might be applied to almost

everything in the shape of work she might
attempt ?"

"Not so," replied Victoria; "you have
mistaken mv meanings. " What it is that I
would not have done, is to employ razors
for work that might he better done by clasp-knives.
But you may ask : ' \Yhat, then,
would you do with your razors T I answer.
Apart from the work for which they were
especially made, I would use them for
every other kind of work which cannot be
done with clasp-knives, for which their
keener ed;^e mio^ht better suit them. There
are a great many highly-educated girls who,
quite out of place as nurses, might occupy
themselves in a way which, in my opinion,
would be far more advantageous to the community
at large and agreeable to themselves.
Why should they not become teachers ?
What higher or more useful work than
moulding the minds of the young ? Yet how
few girls there are who ever give it a passing
thought. And here, as a rule, there
would be no displacement of others, for the
mistresses in the primary schools are usually
taken from those classes which I conceive
might best supply nurses. As matters now
stand, our children iu these schools are chiefly

taught by mrtchine-raade teachers. Surely if
all the earnestness which is so often misapplied
by those who possess an intellectual culture
far beyond that of a girl who is the mere
product of a normal school, were to be
concentrated on the education of the young,
what great results might we not anticipate !
I cannot conceive that the work would be
less interesting, whilst certainly it would be
less fatiguing, to both mind and body, than
nursing. Take the school at Nettlestone
as an example. It is impossible to talk for
five minutes with the schoolmistress, good
Miss Puntis, without finding that she is
little more than an animated machine, wound
up to do her duties in a strictly methodical,
correct manner; but when she has done that,
she has done all, and is incapable of anything
else. The children she teaches are but so
many units on her registers ; she has not the
slightest interest in them outside their
classes, and they thoroughly reciprocate her
indifference. Can you not picture to yourself
the good which might be done could you put
in her place some sensible, well-educated,
earnest-minded woman, whose heart is in her
work ; the most valuable part of whose
teaching is not that which has been learned

foro books, but the lessons which are impressed
upon her pupils by those indescribable
influences which proceed from a teacher's
individuality ?"

To this Eva replied :

*^ You put tailors before me in a way which
makes it very difficult to find out why it is
I cannot quite agree with you. But I think
when you advocate teaching rather than
nursing as a vocation for girls belonging to
the upper classes of society, who wish to
occupy themselves with useful work, that
you have overlooked the fact that in the case
where they become nurses there is no loss of
caste, whilst in the other there is ; and
besides this, how very few amongst us there
are who would be able to go through the
daily drudgery of teaching. To me there is
really something dreadful in the idea, and I
would far rather become a housemaid and
have to scour down the back-stairs."

Victoria was not silenced, though she felt
so thoroughly the uselessness of endeavouring
to convince others, that she was half
inclined to let Eva have the last word.

I see," my dear Eva, '* she wrote, '* that
even you, good, kind, unselfish creature that
you are, cannot imagine anyone taking a

single step in life without putting the question
to themselves first, What will the
world think ? Why, as a rule, the ' world ' —
that is to say, the great majority of the men
and women in it — never thinks ; though it
accepts very readily the advantages which
may be conferred upon it by those who do.
However, there it is, this obstructive ' world ;'
so let us put the question fairly before us,
What would the ' world ' think ? and see if
we can gain a satisfactory answer by taking
some individual case. That of Mrs. Howard,
for instance, of Branksome Cottage, who is
known to us both. She has small means —
very small means — for though her husband
had a good living, when he died, he left very
little behind him. She has three daughters :
one a hopeless invalid ; the other two the
very girls to illustrate the subject of our
discussion, for they are both in perfect
health, well educated, actuated by an earnest
wish to do good, and not likely to marry, for
they have very little beauty and no money.
The eldest of them, as you know, has joined
a sisterhood, and spends all her time in
nursing strangers, though she has a sister
who requires constant care and attention at
home. She gives her services gratuitously

to the institution she has joined, and requires
a certain sum yearly from her mother's
slender purse. The second daughter makes
herself very useful in the parish in which
she lives, and is never weary of well-doing.
They are well connected, and, as you know,
are occasionally asked to some of the best
houses in the neighbourhood ; but of course
their very scanty means utterly precludes
their entering into the society of the county
on anything like equal terms ; so that they
cannot be said to belong to it, though I must
not forget to mention that when Sister Dorothea
comes home for a short holiday, wearing
her 'sister's ' dress — which improves her
mightily, she is much sought after, not only
by all the gay world, but, if my memory is
not at fault, by a certain young lady who is
called Eva.

"Now, within easy reach of Branksome
Cottage are two primary schools, each with
its schoolmistress. Now I cannot understand
why, if the two Miss Towards had qualities
themselves for the work, they might not have
had those two schools. They would at once
have been raised from a state which certainly
for them is one of great poverty, and their
time being only occupied for a few hours each

day, they would have been enabled to aid their
mother, who is by no means young or strong,
in her double duty of managing the house,
and nursing their sick sister. Why, then,
should this ' world ' be allowed to step in between
them and a career which offers so
many advantages, and say, No, we won't have
it ; you shall not teach children ; we will only
allow you to — well, my dear Eva, I will have
compassion on you and not finish my sentence,
for there are essential duties connected with a
sick room which, if put too clearly before you,
might have the effect of bringing down your
poetical visions of nursing to a somewhat
disagreeable prosaic level, and make you
prefer the employment you characterise as
** drudgery."

Drudgery I Is that the word to be used
when speaking of one of woman's highest,
noblest occupations : the training of the young?
To the moulding of the youthful mind into
such forms as will best adapt it to the requirements
of daily life, and the performance
of the duties which belong to each and all of
us ; to the progressive advance towards that
great goal — the perfect good — which, however
unattainable, is the true end and aim of all
human effort ? No, my dear Eva, education

is a high and holy work. You are wrong to
speak of it as drudgery.

Perhaps you think I am too enthusiastic,
and may wonder why, with my ideas, I have
not become a teacher. But because I have
instituted a comparison between teaching and
nursing, it does not follow that there may
not be other careers open to women in which
they can make themselves equally if not more
useful''

So it was that Eva, though unsatisfied, remained
quietly at home nursing her affection
in a patient, hopeless sort of way for the big,
burly, medical student, who was walking the
hospitals, and rejoiced in the name of Chub.

CHAPTER V.

MUSINGS BY THE WAY.

People may say what they please to the
contrary, but money is a great blessing. Of
course wealth has its temptations, but the
trials of poverty are not one whit less severe ;
indeed sometimes they are so severe that
man is driven by them to that terrible point
of suffering and despair which tempted Job,
in the anguish of his heart, to curse God
and die.

Yes, money is a great blessing, and those
who having it, affect to despise it, and speak
to those who are without it, as if they were
to be envied, whilst they themselves were
poor pitiable objects, bowed down by cares
and responsibilities from which there is no
escape, are hypocrites of the deepest dye ;
for it is in the power of the rich with a pen-stroke
to became poor, whilst the poor may

wear their pens down to the very stump and
not gain so much as will give them their
daily bread.

For poverty there is frequently no change.
However painful the scenes by which the poor
may be surrounded, however distasteful or
monotonous their daily occupations, there is
no escape from them. Life is often reduced
by poverty to a dull, dreary round, and only
made endurable to those who are enabled,
through the eye of faith, to see those bright
visions which belong to a higher and better
state. Glorious visions before which all the
material splendours of this world become
pale. But how few are those who rise
on the wings of faith compared with the
multitudes who have no thought beyond
those things which are confined within the
dark and narrow precincts of their daily
lives.

Such were some of the reflections which
passed through Sir Francis Hawthorne's
mind as the white cliffs of England receded
from his view, a short time after his defeat in
Middleshire.

He had been defeated. What of that?
The race is not always to the swift, nor the
battle to the strong. But he felt how little

VOL. II. 22

his views were in unison Vv^ith those from
whom he had expected more support. He had
found Liberals and Radicals professing the
most advanced opinions turning away from
every question which trenched in however
small a degree upon their own interests,
though they were perfectly ready to take
action with respect to those questions which
only affected the interests of their neighbours.
What could be done when men thought only
of themselves, and not of the common weal ?
for once, sanguine as he was, he felt inclined
to withdraw from all participation in the
struggles which belong to public life, and to
give up the cause of progress as hopeless.

It was evident he must have a change ; he
abhorred the shooting season; he felt that
his visits to Nettlestone would be ill-timed.
So he followed Dr. Pringle's advice, packed
up his portmanteau, and started for the Continent.


He had never been in Italy, so he made
Home his objective point ; perhaps it may
have been that a remark made by Geraldine,
when he made known his intention to her :
'* Oh, Sir Francis, why don't you go to Rome ?
I wish you would," had somewhat influenced
his choice.

As lie sat buttoned up in his ulster, gazing
thoughtfully on those receding cliffs, he
looked the very personification of a healthy,
well-to-do, unsentimental Englishman. There
was nothing in his appearance to indicate the
defeated candidate, the rejected lover, and
the suitor in embryo, whose heart was bleeding
from fresh wounds. Perhaps it was
because the disappointments of the past were
fading away from his memory, just as the
white cliffs were becoming less and less distinct,
as he was borne onward towards
another shore ; for the effects of distance
and time are much alike, and they are both
irresistible. His eyes, as we have said, were
fixed upon the receding white cliffs, but he
did not see them, he was thinking of something
else.

'' In three months I shall be back, and
then r

The answer must have been full of sweetness,
for he sat dwelling upon it till he was
rudely awakened out of his reverie by finding
that the steamer was passing between the
pier heads of Calais Harbour.

A few days later he was in Rome.

Rome ! That city of visions, in which life
is breathed into the dry bones which lie

22—2

before us, until we so move amidst the forms
we have created that it is our own existence
which seems unreal.

Rome ! That city of strange contrasts, in
which all that is beautiful and rare is found
side by side with all that is most tasteless
and commonplace. Gems of art so surrounded
that they become as the flowers
which are strewn upon the crumbling remains
of the dead.

Rome ! That city in which the Past looms
out of the dimness of time in proportions
which dwarf the Present, stand out as the
Present may in all the gloss and glitter of
its modish garb.

Pome ! That sanctuary of superstition,
where Reason is bound captive, Foolishness
is made to take the place of Wisdom, and
man receives the homage which is due to
God.

Sir Francis felt as if he stood in presence
of a corpse, and the thoughts which the sight
of that corpse produced were sad ones.

How could he look at the Coliseum and not
think of the devilish passions of which it
had been the theatre ; of the human agony
of which it had been the shrine; of the
grossness and brutality which may be found

side by side with the taste which produces
and fosters art ; of the luxurious refinements,
which, as much now as then, are mistaken for
civilisation and progress. It was this aspect
of the Past which made it so sad. The union
of so much from which the thoughtful modern
mind recoils in horror, with that upon which
the eye rests with a pleasure which never
palls.

He turned away for consolation to the
Present — even sadder the spectacle which it
presented.

What could they mean — those bamboos,
those virgins, those statues — was it before
such stocks and stones as these that men
should be taught to bow the knee 1 He had
in his travels entered the Buddhist temples in
China ; but he had seen nothing like the image
worship he now saw in Rome. The images
there had no special sanctity ; here, many of
them possessed individual attributes and miraculous
powers. He was prepared for much,
but he was not prepared to see — as he did one
afternoon — each priest belonging to the chapter
of St. Peter's, as he passed through the
nave on his way to vespers, stop before the
brazen image of the saint, kiss its much-worn
great toe with great fervour, and reverently

press it to his forehead ! Alas ! so it
is. Superstition can never change ; it is
ever the same — yesterday, to-day, and tomorrow."


No — it can never change ; it tears the
hearts out of living men, and makes them
mere animated machines, mere organisms in
some great system for the enslavement of
the human mind. Yet it is these men, who
become the guides, the counsellors, the
directors of men and women who are moved
by impulses and united by a love, they cannot
understand.

As Sir Francis saw the young men preparing
for the priesthood marching through the streets
in all the elastic strength of youth, he could
not suppress a feeling of compassion ; for what
greater subject for pity than the man who is
taught that every emotion which belongs to
his nature is a sin, and that he can only obtain
the favour of the God he would seek
to serve by condemning the nature which
only belongs to him through that God's
whin

But there is another Bone, and that Sir
Francis did not care to see — the Rome of
tourists and guide-books — of those who talk
art and smatter small knowledge ; the Rome

of Palazzo and Principe, of the Pope and the
Pappilini.

He left Rome and went to Naples, passing
through the Campagna, where neglect has
turned the pure air of Italy to poison, and
energy might create a paradise. Everywhere he
was filled with astonishment. By what possible
process could a people naturally so intelligent,
so industrious, have been reduced to such a
state of degradation — for to the mass of the
peasantry it would be difficult to apply any
other term. Where could Nature be found
to have scattered her gifts with a more
lavish hand, and where could man be found
to have marred her beauty in such a ruthless
manner ? Mountains that were once clothed
with luxuriant forests, so bare that the traveller
is oppressed with their sterility ; and
large tracts in which the rich crop of weeds
showed that man's labour was alone needed
to make it grow richer crops of fruit or
grain allowed to remain a barren waste. In
contrast to this, there were times when the
road passed through field after field cultivated
with a care which in other lands is to be found
only in a garden. What more exquisite view
than the one which met his eyes when
driving from La Cava to Amalti ! Between

him and the sea terraced gardens fall
of lemon trees with their golden fruit ;
gardens so carefully cultivated that they
seemed as if the cultivators had concentrated
their whole care and love upon them. Below
and beyond the. blue waters of the bay of
Salerno, and in the distance the still snowcapped
Apennines, with the majestic ruins of
Festum, reduced to a dot of white upon the
strand.

Sir Francis drank in the beauty of the scene
until his whole soul seemed filled with it.
What a world might not this be made, he
said. He said it aloud, and the venturing,
though he knew no English, seemed to divine
his thoughts ; for he turned round with a —
"Si, Signor, e vero."

At Amalfi he found how true it is that to
the natural man there is no source of elevation
in the beauty of the objects by which he
may be surrounded. It was impossible to
conceive anything more filthy than the streets,
or disgusting than the habits of the people.
An intelligent boy — indeed all boys are intelligent
in Italy-acted as his guide.

This," he said, pointing to a large marble
font in the church, " was found floating on the
sea ; it was brought to Amalfi by angels."

Believe me, my good boy," said Sir
Francis, " you will see no more angels at
Amalfi ; you must become cleaner first. Now
when the angels come near, they will say,
'Impossible! this dirty place cannot be Amalfi.
They will hold their noses and fly away."

During all these centuries," thought Sir
Francis, "could not their bishops" — for
Amalfi is a see — '^ and their priests teach
these poor people that there is such a virtue
in this world as decency V

He visited Sorrento, Capri. Dreams could
not conjure up greater loveliness. In the
ruins of Pompeii he pictured to himself the
terrors of that time when a sudden horror
broke in upon the daily lives of thousands —
when even strong men trembled before the
mysterious working of the Unknown, and
shrieking fugitives sought to find shelter
from the destruction which was thought to be
but the beginning of the great end. In the
Museum fancy brought back to life those disfigured
and discoloured forms, and he felt a
tenderness towards them, as if they must have
belonged to beings who when alive would
have been worthy of love — a feeling something
more than pity, yet which belongs to
all pity — a recognition of our own weakness,

and of the miserable object which we see before
us, being nought else than that which
we ourselves might have been.

As he walked through the narrow streets,
fancy was busy portraying the busy life with
which they must have been filled at the time
when those deep ruts were being cut by the
car wheels. He saw the slaves who drew
these cars ; for the streets were crossed at
intervals by high stepping-stones, which rendered
them impassable for vehicles drawn by
any other animal than man ; and he contrasted
them with the loungers on the raised side-paths,
who, clothed in purple and fine linen,
were just beginning to ask themselves what
manner of faith this new creed must be, in
which purple and fine linen had no place —
and master and slave were made equal.

As he was leaving the ruins his attention was
attracted by a small group of persons near the
gate — of which a lady was the principal figure.
In front of her was an old man — very poor, if
his ragged garments were to be trusted — who
seemed to be in charge of one of the custodians.

"Signora," asked the custodian of her, as Sir
Francis approached, ** will you be so good as
to tell me whether you have seen this old
man before?"

Yes," said the lady ; " he gave me a cup
of water from a fountain near which he was
working.

A.nd you gave him a present of money?"

'' Yes"'

*' Do you remember what it was you gave
him

*' I think two pieces of two sous each."

*' Perhaps you are not aware that a twenty-franc
piece was between them ?"

'' No, T am not ; but I can easily see."

The lady looked at her purse, and found
that it was indeed true.

** Thank God!" said Sir Francis, "that
such honesty as this is not yet dead. The
grains may be small, but there they are, and
it is the fault of society if they are not made
to grow until their branches overshadow the
earth."

The lady had given the old man a small
present. Sir Francis shook him by the hand
and pressed a coin into it as he did so.

It was but an honest act, my friend, butin
doing it you have done honour to Italy."

He raised his hat as he spoke, and turned
away.

Vesuvius ! Baiae ! What cared he now for
failure in Middleshire ? What room for

selfish thoughts when he stood in the presence
of the stupendous grandeur of the one — of
the supreme beauty of the other ?

Ah, if Geraldine could have been with him !

At Florence, that great art-centre, he once
more found himself in contact with masterpieces
of human skill. His days were spent
in her galleries, in her churches, and he marvelled
at the genius, the patience, the lifelong
assiduity, which had left such a lasting
record of loving labour. But could those
great artists have looked into the future,
would they have been satisfied at finding
their works huddled pell-mell together, so
placed that their delicacy of detail was often
lost through want of light, and the effect of
colour destroyed by close proximity to some
unfavourable contrast? At finding that which
had been intended to have formed the one
ornament, the chief interest, of a princely
chamber, to be dwelt on lovingly by appreciating
eyes, made one of a great motley
mass, to be passed by with indifference, or
stared at as something which ought to be
seen by thousands to whom a picture is little
more than a number in a catalogue, and who
would not bestow a glance upon it were it
without its gilt frame.

And in the churches was it better ? No !
most frequently it was worse. It was very
seldom that a picture could be seen — in the
sense of seeing as a picture should be seen —
and as often as not, it would be partly hidden
by a row of tall candles and by paltry vases
holding bouquets of that faded crumbling
artificial rubbish with which men seek to
show their gratitude to that Divine Being
who has scattered beauties every hand can
reach, and made a marvel of the meanest
flower.

Then again, the end ? To what extent
had art performed its mission as a teacher ?
Had the ^vt)rks of these great masters done
more than educate the taste by producing a
higher standard with respect to the beautiful?
for man has no innate idea of beauty. The
answer came, but Sir Francis was not satisfied
with it.

Those painters, whom we speak of as the
"Great Painters," were but the outcome of
the time in which they lived, of the forces
by which they were surrounded. Now, at
the epoch when art may be said to have
most flourished, the power of the Church
was nearly dominant, and the distribution
of the world's wealth was in its hands. The

Church became then the great patron whose
favour the artist was most anxious to obtain,
and it was working under its direction that
he became a new agent in a system which
aimed at nothing less than to bring the
human mind within the circle of a certain
formulary of ideas. They did their work
well. Art, in the hands of genius, soon assumed
a position of supremacy which made
it direct rather than follow ; religion, through
its teachings, became more sensuous, more
emotional, more material ; the supernatural,
by its aid, was brought down to the level of
humanity ; the very passions were enlisted
on the side of piety ; and pent-up emotions
found a legitimate vent in the adoration of
ideals, which were brought before the eye
with a freedom of treatment which might
frequently have been considered voluptuous,
had the subjects been profane. Yes ! it is unquestionable
art has been a great teacher ;
but has art been a good teacher ? Only in
proportion to the amount of the true, preponderating
over the false ; and what is the
true ?

Here Sir Francis came to a pause. What
is the true ? A mere point in the eternal
space which never can be reached, yet always

to be moved towards. A distant speck surrounded
by false lights — so distant that
deviate but a hair-breadth from the right
track, and what we mistake for progress is
but a moving onwards towards that sea of
error from whose shoals there is no escape.

No ! art has not been a teacher of the true.
Had it been so, its votaries could not have
remained callous to the world's loveliness
being so marred by so much that is hideous
around them. It would have produced healthy
emotions leading to useful actions, instead of
sickly emotions wasting themselves in morbid
thoughts.

Might not Sir Francis himself have been
morbid ? Perhaps so. But the train of his
thoughts was the result of incidents happening
before his eyes.

He saw crowds of refined and cultivated
people standing in silent admiration before
the beautiful picture of a child. Was ever
anything so lovely ? Was ever anything so
touching ? In the streets they had passed
by living children — and of all created things,
what is there more lovely than a young child? —
without a thought. Living children, so neglected,
that none but the indifferent could have
looked upon them without a sense of shame.

He had seen in a church an old priest
gazing with tearful eyes upon a picture, in
which the artist had portrayed some incident,
in a saintly life, of sacrifice of self, of help
in need. He was still gazing, when an old
woman came up and asked for alms. The
old priest's expression changed in an instant,
and there was not a trace of softness in it ashe
drove her angrily away. How was this ?
Sir Francis thought he knew. The chief
interest of the picture belonged to the attractive
manner in which all the actors in the
scene it represented were portrayed. The
saint herself was beautiful, so beautiful that
it was her personality which took possession
of the spectator; and could it be expected
that the emotions which it produced could be
made subservient to sympathetic action
towards a dirty old woman whose wants were
of the most common and everyday kind.
The old priest did not intend to be cruel ;
he was only an instance of how our emotions
may be worked upon by a false and artificial
treatment, until they become deadened to
aught that concerns the vulgar realities of
everyday life ; but it is with the vulgar
realities of this everyday life that man has
most to do.

Sir Francis stopped many days at Florence.
There was something in the quiet repose of
the place which seemed to harmonise with
his feelings. A man, too, had once lived in
Florence, the echoes of whose voice still
seemed to ring through the silence of St.
Mark. Alas ! Savonarola, hadst thou been
content to have remained as others were,
thou wouldst perhaps have passed away
unknown ; but there would have been no
agony of soul through wrestling with doubt,
no protracted torture of that wretched body,
no fiery pile to cast a blush upon the face of
day in the Piazza della Signora. How terrible
it is to conjure up the scene upon which the
cold grey stones of the Palazzo Yecchio must
have looked on that sad May morning ! Let
us thank God that, bad as we are, cruel as
we are, and stupid as we are, we have outlived
burning, and that even when superstition
seeks to edify her votaries, she is obliged to
devise some less exciting spectacle than an
auto da fe.

Full of thoughts in which great men, great
pictures, beautiful buildings and historic
incidents formed a kind of mosaic. Sir Francis
left Florence. He travelled through Verona —
paying a short visit to the Arena and the

VOL. II. 23

house of the Capulet — to Bologna. Here he
was brought again face to face with two of
the great forces which seek to rule the
world.

In its university, which dates from the
twelfth century, Bologna pays homage to the
force which seeks to elevate humanity through
the enlargement of the understanding, through
the cultivation of the intelligence, by the
diffusion of — knowledge.

In its one hundred and thirty churches
and twenty monasteries, it has recognised
another force — a force which acknowledges
no equal ; which would elevate man by
turning his attention from this world to the
next ; a force which has built up a fabric out
of ignorance, credulity, and deceit upon
eternal truth, and calls itself — religion.

A university with but a few hundred
students where there were once thousands.
A university which was one of the earliest to
teach anatomy ; in which galvanism was discovered,
and in which — all honour to it —
women were allowed to prosecute their studies
and become professors.

But a greater force prevailed. How could
a university be expected to hold its own
against one hundred and thirty churches and

twenty monasteries ; against the misdirection
of the public mind by the narrowing influences
proceeding from them ? In one of the seven
churches which forms the pile of Santo
Sterno, once the site of a temple to Isis, is
the tomb of a saint ; but what interested Sir
Francis most, was a printed paper attached
to the wall. lb was a form of prayer, with a
notice to the faithful that two several popes
had been pleased, in the plenitude of their
power, to grant an indulgence of exemption
from the pains of purgatory for eighty
thousand years, to anyone by whom it might
be recited in that church. Eighty thousand
years ! But that was not all. It was provided
that, in the case of those who could not
recite the prayer through not being able to
read, the same indulgence might be gained
by the repetition of three Paternosters.
Eighty thousand years ! well, there was some
cleverness in that; for how powerful must
those be who can deal so liberally with
Divine favour ! And it is towards a system
which has acknowledged and exercised every
kind of presumptuous profanity, and which
still sanctifies error, so long as it may be
useful and further its secret ends, that so
many well-meaning people outside its pale

are found in these days of enlightenment
to be gravitating. At least a tour through
Italy ought to change the current of their
thoughts ; and so it would, were they to see,
when travelling, something more than external
forms ; but with Baedeker or Murray in his
hand, the traveller is frequently a mere
automaton, and, unlike Sir Francis, finds, even
in Bologna, little else to interest him than
its churches, its leaning towers, and its
Raphael's St. Cecilia.

It was too late for Venice. Venice cannot
be seen without sunshine, and it was now
November.

At Milan, Sir Francis found the Past
and Present side by side, represented by
the cathedral and the galleries Victoria
Emanate, both built in the form of a cross —
in that alike, and in naught else. At first
the contrast somewhat shocked him. Surely
there was something nobler, grander, purer
in the ideas belonging to an age which has
left such exquisite monuments of its creative
power ? Surely this vulgar Mammon-worship
which gives birth to no higher aspirations in
its votaries than those which produce factories
and shops, and makes art subservient to its
ignoble behests, shows a retrogression inhuman
progress ?

'* Think again, sir," said a stranger, with
whom he had entered into conversation in
the Piazza del Duomo. *^ Think again, sir.
Do not allow yourself to be blinded by the
glamour which belongs to the beautiful. These
past ages which stand out before the fancy in
such lovely forms, become hideous when we
resuscitate them. Adoration of the beautiful
had covered the world with architectural
gems, with statues in wd^ich marble was
made to assume a grace and comeliness
unknown to life, with pictures still studied,
and never yet surpassed ; but — ah ! if we
could only get rid of these ' buts !' — it had
not caused men to turn away with horror
from what the worst amongst us now would
deem horrible : men and women exposed to
the most terrible tortures that studied ingenuity
could devise ; shows of gladiators ;
tournaments a Voutrance; burnings at the
stake ; public executions in which death was
made to assume some frightful form ; slavery
for the poor, bondage for the wise — a bondage
so severe that even a Galileo dared not assert
the truth, and a state of society which showed
its miserable depravity when all the high-life
of Paris crowded to the Place de la Grave, to
witness the all-day-long-continued torture of

the wretched Dam lens — a state of society
which led up to its own retribution, and was
ignominiously engulfed in the shameful excesses
and brutal depravity of the French
Revolution. So much for the mere adoration
of the Beautiful. Is Mammon worship better?
Unquestionably yes, for it is based on labour,
it needs peace, and can only flourish in
prosperity. It belongs to an epoch in which
full liberty of speech, thought, and action have
been recognised ; in which slavery has been
abolished ; in which the laws have been made
more humane. Many brutal pastimes have
been discontinued, and with the English,
amongst whom it is said to flourish most,
men have learned to differ without quarrelling,
and have left off the stupid trick of
firing at each other with pistols, or prodding
at each other with swords, because they
cannot think exactly in the same way."

*' It may be you are right," said Sir
Francis. He never knew with whom he had
been conversing, but he thought from his
accent the stranger must have been an
American. '' But there is a religion higher
than Mammon-worship : the religion which
teaches man to love his neighbour as himself;

let us hope it may become the religion of the
future."

I see, sir, you are an enthusiast," said
the stranger, as he bowed and passed on.

There is nothing so unanswerable as an
epithet.

Onward, over the Alps. It is winter in
these regions, whilst the autumn sun still
shines warm on the plains below. The road
is already deep with snow — snow is everywhere.
The tree limit has been passed, and
as the traveller gains a glimpse through some
-rift in the encircling clouds of the depths
below, it seems as if he were being borne
aloft in the arms of a giant. Silence reigns
supreme. There is no sound, save the
tinkling of the horses' bells, and the crunching
of the crisp, dry snow under the horses'
feet. A solitude in which there is no loneliness,
for the grandeur of the scene fills the
mind with mighty thoughts, for which there
is no room amidst the busy, bustling haunts
of men.

On the shores of the Lake of Geneva, Sir
Francis lingered for a while. Never was a
scene more fair ! The weather, which he was
told had been wet and foggy, had become
fine. The deep blue of the sky was reflected

in the waters of the lake. The first snow
had capped the mountains with a covering of
spotless white. The trees were still in full
foliage ; some still quite green, some in a
garb of gold, others mantled in red ; whilst
mounting upwards, till they stood out black
in contrast to the snow, grew the dark,
sombre pines, those emblems of constancy
and strength. The season was very late, so
that the grapes had not yet been gathered,
and the vineyards were still full of life ;
whilst above them, on the mountain-slopes,
grazed herds of cattle, the sound of whose
bells was accompanied by the melodious
undertone of a thousand rills.

Had he not known Switzerland before, Sir
Francis might have been tempted to exclaim,
"Ah, happy people with a lot so blest."
But, smile as Nature might, he had seen her
in other moods. He knew that the mountaineer
has to spend his whole life in wrestling
against the difficulties with which she has
surrounded him, and that it is indeed with
the sweat of his brow that he has to wring
out the bare sustenance of life from her beautiful
but cold and rugged bosom.

Yet honest labour has its charms, no matter what it be,
When he who labours, looks around and feels that he
is free."

It was a few days after his arrival, and he
had combed up to that point on the mountains
above Montreux, from which a view is
to be obtained which has been immortalised
as *' beautiful as a summer dream," when he
heard voices, and, turning in the direction
from which they came, saw three ladies advancing
towards him. As they came nearer,
what was his astonishment to find that one
of them was Victoria.

She and two German friends had been
tempted by the fine weather to make a short
excursion to the Lake of Geneva through the
Simmer Thai, and they were now on their
way to Cares.

This is indeed an unexpected pleasure,"
she said, as she held out her hand to Sir
Francis. '^ You see, Bertha," she continued,
after she had presented him to her friends,
"how quickly what I was saying just now
has been verified."

•* What was it you said ?" asked Sir
Francis.

When we were looking at the beautiful
view, and were full of wonder, I exclaimed :
To be happier were impossible !' Miss
Marsh would have it that there is no happiness
which has not a greater happiness a

little further off, if we take care not to
miss it."

*' And my greater happiness has already
come, in the meeting of an old friend' said
Victoria, laughing. '' Yours, my dear Bertha,
may yet be a little way off; as for Adele, we
know exactly where she will meet with hers,
if the Herr Brautigam only keeps his tryst at
Cares."

'' If he does not come to meet us, I will
never speak to him again," said Addle,
blushing.

Is the gentleman you are referring to
tall and good-looking, with a full, fair beard ?"
asked Sir Francis.

*' Why," said Adele, ''do you inquire?"

*' Because," said Sir Francis, "■ as I came
up the path I passed a gentleman seated by
a stream, so engrossed in pleasant thoughts,
and I fear I must add a large pipe, that I
don't believe he even saw me."

'' Fritz," said Bertha. '' Adele's Fritz, to
the life. He smokes when he is away, because
he says he is so sad. And when he is
with Adele he smokes too, to calm, so he
pretends, his too great joy."

'' And now tell me all about yourself," said
Victoria, as they moved downwards ; " you

have been a great traveller, and T am only a
poor student ; so it is for you to talk and me
to listen."

'' Tell me first," said Sir Francis, '' have
you heard lately from Nettlestone ? but not
until I have told you how well you are looking.
Why, this mountain air seems to agree with
you mightily."

It was true. Victoria was radiant with
health ; and there was a bright cheerfulness
in her manner which had not belonged to it
before. She was handsomer than ever. It
was impossible to look at her without admiration
; yet Sir Francis felt that he could
be with her now and — yes ! if he had a
sister, it would be exactly like it — she never
could be anything to him now but a sister.
How different it was when he thought of
Geraldine ! Then his heart beat more quickly
far more quickly even than it had done on
that expectant morning ; and again he asked
himself :

Ah ! how could I ever have thought of
any other ? But, as a sister, I can love
her — still love her, as I can love none other,
but Geraldine ?"

Fickle, fickle Sir Francis !

And Victoria ?

The long period during which her mind
had been engrossed by studies, which filled
up every moment of her time, had so
changed the current of her thoughts that it
was impossible to renew feelings which had
become memories. The tenderness which
belongs to love was no longer there, but she
had not ceased to regard Sir Francis with
affection ; and, when she had held out her
hand to welcome him, her eyes had sparkled
with pleasure, and her voice had trembled
with emotion as she introduced him as her
friend — her ^^ dearest " friend.

It was strange, but, from different causes,
a friendship which was based on the deepest
affection had Become sweeter to them both
than love. It is doubtful whether Victoria
would have been so happy as she was without
it ; and, though Sir Francis knew it not, it
was this deep friendship for Victoria which
gave intensity to his love for Geraldine ; and
so it was that one of the first questions he
asked of her whom he had once loved most,
was whether she had heard lately from Nettle-stone.


Yes, unquestionably ; of all mysteries, the
mystery of love is the greatest and deepest.

CHAPTER VI.

THE BELLE OF THE SEASON.

The shooting season is over. Pheasants who
have escaped destruction are allowed to live
in peace. They have even ceased to form
the chief topic of conversation, for foxes have
taken their place. The Nettlestone country
affords good sport, and the Nettlestone pack
has a great reputation. The Court is again
full of guests, and now in her letters to
Victoria — shorter letters with longer intervals
between them — Geraldine no longer speaks
of the life she is leading being distasteful to
her. No I far from it. Her new horse *^ is
a beauty, and can do all but speak." In a
run across the most difficult part of the
country, she was one of the three, including
the huntsman, in at the death. She loves
hunting, it is "so delicious," "so exhilarating."
Then, too, she speaks of the party at the

Court being a pleasant one, and amongst
other names she mentions more than once
the Marquis of Runnymede, son of the Duke
of Beaumanoir, as one of the best riders to
hounds she has ever seen. '' It is true," she
said, " he can do little else besides but dance
and spend money ; but he is not a bad looking
fellow, and has a good tailor, which after
all is something in these days when most
men look as if they wanted to make themselves
as hideous as possible." She only once
or twice alluded to Sir Francis, wondering
where he was, or supposing that he was
poking about in dreary ruins or blinding
himself in picture galleries. She wrote in a
lively playful manner. But there was something
unreal about her letters, and Victoria
could not help feeling that much she had
washed to say remained unsaid, and that
much of this lively playfulness vas forced.

Perhaps it was so ; but there could be no
doubt in the minds of those who saw
Geraldine Yorke, as she sat her favourite
hunter, beautiful, and graceful, and dexterous,
full of courage, and beaming with happiness
and health, that riding, and above all riding
to hounds, was to her not only an exhilarating
exercise, but the source of exquisite pleasure.

It were indeed odd had it not been so. The
most modest of mortals have a secret satisfaction
in doing those things which they know
they can do well, and women have another
source of enjoyment — denied to most men —
when they become conscious that they are
looking their best and are being admired.
And how was it possible for Geraldine to
remain unconscious of this, when she found
herself attracting the attention and receiving
the homage of that gallant galaxy of old and
middle-aged and young horsemen, who, keen
sportsmen as they were, returned home from
a run as gloomily as if it had been a blank
day, when they had not been cheered by the
fascinating presence of that pearl of riders,
the beautiful Geraldine Yorke.

What a girl she is !" remarked the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps to his friend the major, as
they rode to the station together after a run
with the Nettlestone hounds. '* What a girl
she is !"

The Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps sighed heavily
as he said this, and would have looked sentimental
had he been able, but he was not ;
sentiment seldom survives the severe trials of
a garrison and barrack life, so he could do no
more than reiterate, '' What a girl she is 1"

'sand with a hand like velvet," said the
major. '^ I have it from Tom Trenton, that
chestnut of hers pulls like ten thousand devils
when he has a man on his back, and she can
ride him with a cobweb."

'lucky fellow that Runnymede," sighed the
Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps.

*' Don't like his horse," said the major,
too long in the back. Those dealers can
sell him anything provided it has a long
price."

He is always riding by her side," said the
Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps.

'' They say he is confoundedly dipped," said
the major. " His last book was something
awful. "

** Then he will marry her," said the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps ; "for what girl is there
who will refuse a man who can make her a
duchess ? I tell you what it is, Fits-Jones,
younger sons ought to be drowned as soon as
they are born, like puppies. The world is
getting so small there is no room for them."

The major looked at his friend with astonishment
; he had never heard him talk
like this before. A sudden idea struck
him.

Never mind, Pierrepoint, my boy," he

said ; " if the grey did refuse the brook, it
was a rasper, and yoa ride two stone heavier
than Runnymede, and his horse "

*' Confound hint 1" said the Hon. Pierre-point
Phipps, with vehemence, " and his big
beast of a horse. I hate them both !"

An angel could not have been more shocked
than the major, for the Hon. Pierrepoint
Phipps prided himself on never making use of
strong language.

Ah I" he exclaimed, but not aloud, ''he
is out of sorts. If he were a horse I would
give him a bran-mash."

But soon — too soon for Geraldine and many
of those who had come down to Nettlestone to
have a few days with the hounds — came frost
and snow. The hunting was at an end.
What a season ! could there be anything
more disagreeable ! and foxes so plentiful !
Bitter as the weather was, it could not come
up to the bitterness of the biting things which
were said of it. Indeed the wretchedness of
the weather was, like all other disagreeable
subjects, a favourite topic of conversation ;
had it been in the hands of a department,
and that department ruled over by a head
weather-maker, who, like the heads of some

VOL. II. 24

departments that we wot of, ranked ignorance
of his duties amongst his principal qualifications,
it could not have been more severely
handled.

The country has become simply detestable.
How glad I am to leave it ; and those who
know best, say the season is to be a very good
one." So wrote Geraldine to Victoria, and
not one word of Sir Francis in her letter.
Poor Sir Francis ! laid up with fever in
Paris, not able to move, yet dying to get
home, and turning oyer and over in his mind
every word and look — and there were many
words and looks — with which to brighten up
the hope of the happiness he was to find on
his return.

But a few weeks, and it is the height of
the season ; the feverish, restless, anxious
time which makes mothers grow prematurely
old, which takes the bloom off youth, and
which accumulates within the space of a few
short weeks, emotions and experiences which
under the ordinary circumstances of everyday
life would extend over as many years.
What a whirl, what a giddy, mazy round,
what a chaotic struggling mass of pleasure-seekers
! Seeking and not finding. Finding
and not holding. Holding and throwing

from them in disgust that which had turned
to dust and ashes in their grasp.

Geraldine is in the midst of this ceaseless
movement. Indeed she has become one of
its chief centres. For her beauty, which had
been acknowledged by those to whose opinion
all knees bow low, at her debut, is proclaimed
by that great authority to be the
one beauty, the chief beauty, of the season.
She leads a life of perpetual excitement, and
the excitement of each moment lends an additional
beauty to each charm. She knows
that she is admired, that she is the cynosure
of all eyes, that when she enters a room all
conversation ceases, to be renewed in an
animated buzz, of which she knows as well as
if she had heard the words, that she is the
theme and object, and she is intoxicated with
pleasure. Never had she known before the
charm which belongs to being beautiful, which
belongs to the triumph of distancing all competitors,
which belongs to a homage before
which all other homage pales — the homage
which belongs to that one being unto whom
no rank is too high to kneel, for that one being
is for the time the goddess set up by fashion,
in which fashion adores herself — the Belle
of the Season.

24—2

And cau this be Geraldine ? Can this bethe
counsellor to whom Sir Francis had deferred
in his moments of difficulty and doubt ?
the counsellor whose views harmonised with
his own ; whose thoughtful expressions put
more lucidly before him the practical issue he
had vainly sought to find ?

Yes ! it is Geraldine ; but a counsellor, an
adviser no more. How can she be so, when
she has not a moment left to spare for thought
at least for thought of aught else than of that
which has to dominate over every other interest
— of her dress, or of the dress of others.
For the belle of the season owes it to the
world in which she lives, that she should not
be eclipsed ; that she should do nothing to
shock the loyalty of those upon whom her
rule depends ; and that in all matters of taste
she should direct, and not consult — take the
lead, and not follow.

Alas ! poor Geraldine !

Not an hour, not a minute, not a moment
in which she could call herself free. Yet
every hour, every minute, every moment dedicated
to herself Inventing new combinations
of colours for this dress and that ;
shopping ; sitting for her portraits in many
styles; riding in the Park, driving in the

Park ; morning calls ; daily services in fashionable
churches ; morning concerts and daily
kettle-drums ; dinners, dances, theatres, operas,
drawing-rooms — all following each other
unceasingly, endlessly. Moving from one
point of vantage to another. Admiration
here, admiration there. Somewhat of satiety
at last. Something else to seek for. Something
more lasting, more real — for the reign
of the belle of the season cannot last ; the
worshippers of beauty need change. It is
for this season. But for the next — who can
tell?

Lady Arabella it was, perhaps, who knew
this best. She was proud, very proud, of the
position which her daughter had achieved.
Mr. Yorke had not felt greater pride in the
M.P. now attached to his name. But she
was not satisfied. It would be difficult to
find anyone who is. To be the mother of the
belle of the season is to be in a position which
for the moment may fill all other mothers with
envy ; but it is a fleeting glory, and to make
it lasting something more is wanting. Hymen
must light his torch, and the best match of
the season be the season's crowning joy.

There were many eligible young men hovering
butterfly-like in this beautiful garden of

living flowers, of which Geraldine was the
chief. Who was the most eligible ? and was
he to be won ? The most eligible ? — that is
to say, the one whom fashion held to be the
best. For whose vv^ife there would in time,
if not just yet, be no second place. For
whose wife, even though she be the belle of
the season, there would be no abdication ; but
rather an extension of her power, established
on a new basis, which time even could not
weaken. The most eligible ? The problem
was not difficult to solve.

The Marquis of Runnymede, the' heir to
the oldest and richest dukedom in the three
kingdoms — popular, good-looking, full of
small talk of the most agreeable kind — had,
as we know, already shown a marked preference
for Geraldine's society. And it seemed
as if, with a little tact — and Lady Arabella
piqued herself upon her tact — he might be
made to declare himself, and Geraldine to
accept him. It is true that Lady Arabella
knew, for Mr. Yorke had told her, that Lord
Runnymede was not quite immaculate ; that
his relations with one or more female notorieties
were matters which had given rise
to much public comment ; and that he was
supposed to have been so unfortunate in his

turf transactions, and in his somewhat too
high play at his chin, as to have seriously
compromised his future prospects ; but Lady
Arabella knew that 'young men will be young
men" — that in his position of life it is excusable
to give way to temptations from which
ordinary mortals are spared — and that marriage
is the only process in such cases by which
reform can be effected. So after long and
anxious consultations with Mr. Yorke it was
decided that their daughter's hand might
safely be given to Lord Runnymede, and her
happiness confided to his keeping. Provided
always, that Lord Runnymede could be induced
to come forward.

Now it so happened that at this moment
my Lord Runnymede did not require much
inducement to come forward, for he was just
about to do so. Though he knew that Mr.
Yorke's wealth was magnified by the lying
tongues of rumour, there could be no doubt
but that he was very rich ; and my Lord Runny
mede wanted money — sadly wanted money.
It was quite true that he was deeply 'dipped,"
deeper than was known to any one person on
earth, save that respectable, sedate, lynx-eyed
financial gentleman who kept his carriage and
brought up a large family in the most creditable

manner, upon the small gains — he never
charged more than twenty-five per cent — he
was able to make upon transactions undertaken
with the aim, outside his own profit,
of assisting impecunious young men, with
good prospects, to run through their fortunes
before they came into them, whilst avoiding
all those distressing scenes which are certain
to occur when fathers and sons enter into
discussions upon pecuniary matters, from those
essentially different points of view which naturally
belong to youth and age.

My Lord Runnymede felt that a financial
crisis had arrived, and that it had become
necessary to meet it by some personal sacrifice
; so he had decided upon matrimony — a
rich marriage — as an unavoidable necessity.

As the belle of the season he admired Geraldine
Yorke immensely. Indeed, he had
once or twice arrived at such a pitch of
enthusiasm as to declare she was ^^ quite the
nicest girl" he knew ; but what he wanted ina
wife was money — 'beauty, and all that sort
of thing," is always to be found — but money
is indispensable, particularly to a budding
peer who is going to be a duke, and who is
reduced to that vulgar strait so common to

ordinary mortals, of beings awfully hard up.
Yes, by Jove ! " awfully " hard up.

For more money he would have married
any other richer girl he could have found ;
but he could not find her, so he decided to
"go in" — those are the exact words he used
when informing the old duke, his father, of
his intention — for Geraldine York.

Now the old duke had not for some time
been quite satisfied with many things which
had come to his knowledge with respect to
his son's proceedings. In his youth he had
not been quite a model of propriety himself;
but as he sometimes said, *'he only did in those
days what everybody else did." Now, it was
very disagreeable to hear his son's name associated
with pretty horse-breakers and fashionable
Migrates. It was quite time for his
son to have sown his wild oats ; and a marriage
— a good marriage — was what he had long
desired for him. But was it a good marriage?
Was it a suitable marriage for the son and
heir of a rich duke ? Under ordinary circumstances
he would have said no ; but under
the pressure of these very uncomfortable reports,
and the vague fear that his son might
do worse, he decided upon throwing no obstacles
in the way of a marriage which, after

all, could not be considered as a mesalliance;
for although his son's future bride might bethe
daughter of a brewer, she was none the
less the grand-daughter of an earl — a very poor
one, no doubt, but still an earl, and to most
people that would suffice, for it is not everyone
to whom it is given to know, that in the great
world of fashion there are earls and earls.

So the Marquis of Runny mede, withdrawing
for a time from his favourite haunts,
took upon himself the task — for he looked
on it in no other Fight — of making himself
acceptable to Geraldine. A few months since,
he would have found it very difficult to have
done so. But Geraldine Yorke, as we have
known her, and the spoilt beauty of the
season, were two very different persons. She
had ceased to think or reason, for indeed she
had no time for either. Everything she
did was the outcome of impulse ; and she
seemed to have lost the power of carrying
her thoughts outside the circle of existing
pleasures in which she lived. In these no
one seemed to take a more sympathetic
interest than Lord Runny mede, and in a
short time she had become so habituated to
his attentions that they had become almost
necessary to her.

He was," she said, " so useful."
Then what girl would not be flattered at
finding a notoriously fast young man in the
position of my Lord Runny mede, suddenly
putting himself before the world as a reformed
character, and letting the world know
for fast young men never make those sacrifices
of their selfish pleasures, which are looked
upon as reformation, without letting the world
know the cause — that it is her influence
which has done it. In such cases most girls
are led to believe that this rescue of some
erring admirer must have been their special
mission, and there is, perhaps, nothing in this
world which affords them so much genuine
satisfaction. At any other time, she might
not have been quite satisfied with the frequent
companionship of a man whose conversation
never rose beyond the trivialities of fashionable
life — the cut of a skirt, the length of a train,
the colour of a dress, the number of buttons
best for gloves, and the multitudinous matters
which belong to the adornment of female
loveliness — but these were no longer trivialities
to her, for they required almost daily consideration,
and everyone allowed that the
marquis was an authority in all matters of
taste ; so much so, that it was agreed, that

if you were to search the world over, it would
be impossible to find any other so capable ashe
was of arranging a trousseau, selecting
wedding presents, or furnishing a house.
Then he knew so much of all that had been
said or done in the exclusive precincts of highlife,
the minute relation of which never fails
to excite the deepest interest in a fashionable
auditory ; so that he was said to know everything,
and his society was very much appreciated
in consequence.

My Lord Runnymede, though much thrown
with Geraldine, did not approach the subject
of marriage at once, but advanced gradually
to it in an easy, pleasant, off-hand sort of way;
so that when he did speak, there was very
little left for him to say, beyond :

'^ I have been a sad scamp, you know, and
all that sort of thing ; and you are too good
for me — or for anybody else, as far as that
goes — you know. All that I can say is, if
you marry me, you shall have everything that
a woman can wish for — including a good
husband, you know, provided you succeed in
making him one."

How could Geraldine say "No" to a man with
whom she had been talking and riding and
dancing, day after day, until it had become

quite natural to have him by her side — to a
man upon whom both her father and Lady-arabella
looked with so much favour — to a man
who frankly threw himself at her feet — metaphorically,
for my lord was not demonstrative
— and confessed to having been a scamp?

Perhaps — no, the word is not strong enough
certainly, the title of marchioness, with
duchess looming in the distance, had something
to do with it ; and who knows what
effect the consciousness that she would achieve
that which would swell so many breasts with
envy, did not also help to turn the scale.
Turn the scale ? Why, there was nothing in
it but a memory, so hollow had her life become.
There was nothing for her but to answer
*'Yes/'

Yes, was her answer ; and she had the
satisfaction of hearing that she had made
my Lord Runnymede 'lawfully happy :" and
if she had had no time for thinking before,
she had still less now, so occupied was she
with congratulations, with fetes with preparations
for that eventful day which was to
hand her over to a life-companionship with a
man of whose real character she knew next
to nothing. She had answered " Yes," and
if she could have found time for thought,

she woulel have despised herself for having
said it.

Mr. Yorke and Lady Arabella expressed
their entire satisfaction at an occurrence which
they declared to have been totally unexpected,
for parents on these occasions never think it
right to confess that they have had the
slightest suspicion of that which has been
apparent to all the world, and which they
themselves have been watching with the most
intense interest and anxiety.

The only one who did not seem quite
pleased was Eva. She could not explain,
even to herself, the reason why. And she
felt ashamed of herself, when she threes her
arms round her sister's neck and kissed her
tenderly, at not being able to feel as she would
like to have felt towards the man who was to
be that sister's husband. No ! she could not
tell why — for she never listened to gossip —
but she had an instinctive horror of him.
Perhaps it was that he was so unlike Chub?
for even in the midst of this whirl of fashion,
she still held firm to Chub. Secretly though,
without a word to a living soul. Almost unconfessed
to herself. So secretly that it was
not even suspected, and her love of solitude,
her frequent refusal to enter into society,

and lier early walks and drives, were lamented
over by Lady Arabella as the consequence?
of her feeble health. In point of fact, it
was not feeble health at all, it was nothing
more than intensity of feeling towards that
dear, big, honest fellow Chub.

Geraldine had answered " Yes." Now,
there is a question connected with this answer
which even now, with all the advantages
belonging to retrospective knowledge, it is
very difficult to decide. Would she have
answered " Yes " if Sir Francis had been —
as he ought to have been, had he not been
laid up with that tiresome fever — in England ?

It is a question upon which it is very
difficult to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion,
and when the reader knows, as he will
by-and-by, much more than he does now, it
is doubtful whether he will find himself one
whit the wiser with regard to it.

For human nature is so full of contradictions
; and consorts and twists itself into such
a variety of strange forms, that each moment,
each movement, requires a special study; and
general conclusions become so fault' it is a
mere waste of time to indulge in them.

Indeed, there is nothing in this world — or
outside this world — so difficult to deal with

as an "If;" so let us confine ourselves to
facts, and leave suppositions to themselves.
It is enough to know that Geraldine did
answer '* Yes," and, the first few days' whirl
over, hated herself for having done so.

Hating herself, yet holding on to that
Yes " all the same, with a courage worthy of
a better cause, had it not been a courage based
upon cowardice, and upon the miserable fear
of the opinion of that fashionable world,
which in her calm and thoughtful moments
before the healthy tone of her mind had
been destroyed by an unceasing round of
enervating excitement — she had despised
from the very bottom of her heart.

Holding to that *eyes" all the more
obstinately because she is miserable, because
no living soul shall know that she has been a
fool, because she knows she had only to wait,
and — and — never mind ! She could not then
have become a duchess ; she must have descended
from the height to which she had been
raised to the commonplace, everyday, humdrum
life of ordinary mortals.

No ; it is better as it is — much better as
it is." She will allow no other thought to
enter her head. " The die is cast, it is too
late ; he should have spoken before. If he

really loved me, he would not have been such
a laggard. Runnymede is not such a bad
fellow after all. Perhaps it is better as it is
better as it is."

So she continues to smile out upon the
world as she receives its congratulations with
one of those sweet meaningless smiles with
which women know so well how to mask their
feelings.

But it may be asked, why all this difficulty
and doubt, after she had answered '^ Yes,"
and not before ?

It was all through a look. She had seen a
pair of eyes turned upon her with an expression
she could never forget.

And this is how it happened :

A short time after the eventful day upon
which my Lord Runnymede had declared
himself to have been made '' awfully happy,"
there was a ball in the city, to which all the
creme de la creme had been invited to do
honour to his Highness the Sultan of ,
who was the special lion of the
moment ; though it was not clearly known
upon what his claim to public favour rested,
beyond the fact that he was the possessor of
some marvellously big jewels, and had the

VOL. II. 25

reputation of being the happy husband of
some dozen marvellously fat wives. He
had been well feasted by all the great City
Companies, and was supposed to have been
greatly edified by the after-dinner speeches
he had heard on those occasions ; and now
the period having nearly arrived for his
return to Buddleapoora, it was considered
that a ball in his honour might constitute an
agreeable change after so many banquets, and
sanguine people, who see a movement towards
progress in the very disintegration of the pavement
beneath their feet, were inclined to
think that the influence of a ball, with the
conventional nudity affected by ladies as ball-dress,
upon the happy husband of a dozen
fat wives, might even be more beneficial, as
regards the future regeneration of society —
known to be at an extremely low ebb in
Buddleapoora — than that of long speeches and
great dinners.

From a ball given to the Sultan of ,
with the presence of exalted personages,
and all that sort of thing, it was, of
course, impossible for Mr. Yorke and his
family to be absent ; and the presence of the
belle of the season on such an occasion vas
also absolutely indispensable, for Sultans of

Buddleapoora are not always pleasing objects
to look at, and a ball without beauty is confessedly
a lamentable mistake.

So Geraldine was there, looking lovelier
than lovely ; wearing diamonds, chosen with
the most perfect taste, as the first-fruits of
that single word " Yes." Almost made
happy, for the time being, by the consciousness
of the splendour of those diamonds, for
she would not have been a woman had she
been indifferent to them, and thinking far
more of her diamonds — it is very disagreeable
to have to tell these ugly truths — than
she did of that '^ awfully happy " man, my
Lord Runnymede, who was ever by her side,
or standing looking on with his vacant,
pleased, grown-up, spoilt-childlike stare, as
she took her place in obedience to the commands
of some exalted personage in that
charmed circle, to which the only entree is to
blue blood, or beauty, or Sultans of Buddlea-
poor.

The rooms were crowded. It was a
** crush." Except for those who had the
entree to the charmed circle, dancing was
impossible. The heat was intense. The
atmosphere, despite artfully arranged essence
sprays, was overpowering. Yet no one dared

25—2

to complain. It would have been the extreme
of bad taste to have done so. What !
when exalted personages were so condescending
and charming ? When the Sultan of
Buddleapoora was all ablaze with the effulgence
of his biggest gems ? When every
variety of silk and satin, and velvet and lace,
were worked up into toilettes of the most
startling and novel kind, in order to set off —
they could not by any possible stretch of
imagination be said to cover — that dense
mass of real — or would-be — female beauty,
which had become so closely packed together ;
and mixed up with it, and seeming as they
could not belong to it, were the ordinary
matter-of-fact-looking men, whose heads stood
high above that sea of white shoulders and
naked arms, as if they had naught in common
with those to whom they belonged.
Poor fellows ! A father wedged in within a
group composed of his wife and four
daughters, so hopelessly entangled in their
trains that he dared not move. A bald-headed
deputy-lieutenant, on the very verge
of apoplexy, through the tightness of a
uniform, which seemed to shrink in proportion
as his waist had expanded, every time he
put it on. A naval officer, full of fight and

dancing, firmly fixed between two dowagers,
and not even able to move his feet in time to the
niusic. A member of the Government, trying
to look at his ease and seem profound, despite
the anguish caused by heavy heels and corns.
An angular American, with plain black coat
and stereotyped sardonic smile, side by side
with his sable excellency of Neuritis, in all the
splendour of gold-lace and stars ; and — can
it be ? — it is, indeed, no less — our old friend
Mr. Montjoy Mortimore, firmly fixed against
the wall, calmly surveying the scene before
him through the eyeglass he has stuck, as a
matter of taste, in his right eye.

Mr. Montjoy Mortimore, wearing the
gorgeous, newly-invented uniform of the
Pimlico Pioneers — in which he has obtained
a lieutenancy. Mr. Montjoy Mortimore, who
is really enjoying himself, if nobody else
is ; who is gradually working his way along
the wall in a crab like fashion towards the
supper-room, and who from time to time
gives expression to his satisfaction by uttering,
in a sufficiently audible tone to be somewhat
startling to his immediate neighbours,
the single word, " Admirable ! Admirable
!"

That period of the evening had arrived

when *' exalted personages " withdraw from
public view to refresh exhausted nature —
if it be possible to suppose that the nature
of '* exalted personages " can ever be exhausted.
A dense stream of struggling
victims was turned, it could hardly be said,
moved, towards that portion of the suite of
rooms which was devoted to supper, and the
greater space left in the ball-room gave some
hope, to those who had previously only been
tantalised by the music, that at last the
moment had arrived when dancing might be
possible.

In the movement towards the supper-rooms
Geraldine found herself separated
from her party, for neither she nor Lord
Runny mede, on whose arm she leant, had
felt inclined to enter into competition for
place in a crowd upon which they both looked
round with scorn.

'• Take me out of this dreadful crush," said
Geraldine ; ^' it is too horrible."

^' Shall we waltz ?" asked my lord.

Not now. Let us see if it be not possible
to find some place where we can sit down."

In one of the corridors, which had been
tastefully decorated with flowers, they
managed to find a vacant seat. Truth to

tell, my Lord Runnymede began to need
some of that refreshment with which he was
wont to stimulate his languid frame, and had
he been asked at that moment by one of his
intimates how he felt, he would probably
have answered that he was frightfully bored.
As it was, he had to make the best of it, and
endeavour to amuse his companion with playful
criticisms upon the dresses, and figures,
and characters, of the people who came near
them. But playful criticisms may become
wearisome, as indeed all monotony is; and
Geraldine, who, as we know, had naturally
considerable intellectual power, though of
late it had been sadly stifled and suppressed,
began to feel quite as much bored as my
Lord Runnymede, indeed rather more so, for
she had not only to submit with good grace,
but to make it appear to all the world that it
was not boredom at all, but something that
she liked immensely, and that she was —
being about to make the best match of the
season — intensely happy. So she answered
his playful criticisms with playful smiles, or
else looked thoughtfully at her bouquet of
violets and stephanotis, or pressed it to her
lips, as if she were contemplating and caressing
her own happiness.

Happiness ! How few there are who
"wear their hearts upon their sleeves for
days to peck at " ! And if they did ?

Happiness ! A thing for men to feel, and
not to show. No mere shimmer upon the
surface of a summer sea, but a subterranean
fire which fills the earth with heat, and life,
and joy.

It was whilst she was thus caressing and
coquetting with the flowers, that she was
startled by a well-known voice :

Miss Yorke ! I am so glad to see you !
I thought you would be here. 1 have been
looking for you everywhere."

It was Sir Francis Hawthorne, holding out
his hand with frank cordiality.

I only returned to town to-days'* he said,
almost before she had time to return his
greeting; *but finding a card upon my
table, I hurried here, feeling sure it would bethe
quickest way to meet my friends."

But your anxiety to meet your friends
did not seem to hasten your return to
England," she said, speaking with a shade of
bitterness ; and then, with a degree of earnestness
quite foreign to her former manner, yet
almost as if she were speaking to herself, she
added : " But why did you remain away

so long? Why did you not come back
sooner ?"

I was detained in Paris — I was ill," said
Sir Francis.

111 !" she repeated, looking up at him
anxiously. ^' I am so sorry, and I ought to
have seen you are looking pale and thin,
but "

She was interrupted by my lord.

Geraldine, will you have the goodness to
introduce me to your friend ?"

There was something in the voice and
manner which grated harshly on Sir Francis's
ear. The words were mere ordinary words,
but he seemed to detect in them a tone of
authority almost approaching to command,
and there was a confusion in Geraldine's
manner, as she complied with Lord Runnymede's
request, which instantly confirmed
what might otherwise have remained a
suspicion. Geraldine was no longer free :
she, too, was lost to him for ever — he was
too late. With the speed of an electric
flash the hopelessness of his position burst
upon him ; and it was whilst assuming an
outward calm, though inwardly wrestling
with the demon of despair, that he turned
towards Geraldine that look which was to

form the one memory by which her future life
was to be haunted.

It was known to all the world that the
belle of the season had been so overpowered
by the heat at the great ball to the Sultan of
Buddleapoora, that she had been obliged to
leave at a very early hour ; but it was not
known to all the world that her suffering had
been so great, that she had passed the chief
hours of the night in an agony of tears, and
that during those few hours it would have
been difficult to have found a heart more
torn, a sorrow more deep, or a penitence care
sincere, than that of the belle of the season,
the envied of fashion, the successful competitor
for the best match of the season.

*' Oh that I could die !" she said.

But she did not die. She lived — lived her
old life — despising herself for not having the
courage to turn round and face the opinion of
that world which had made her what she was
which had made her the affianced bride of
a man for whom she had no love, and for
whom respect was impossible, even though he
might be the best match of the season, and
my Lord Runnymede.

CHAPTER YII.

THE TURN OF THE TIDE.

Mr. Yorke has declared himself 'not quite
well." With one exception, he is "not at
home " to anyone who may call.

Lady Arabella tells Eva — there is only
Eva at home now — that there is not much
the matter with her father, though she thinks
he ought to see a doctor, for there must be
something wrong with his liver, "he has
become so irritable of late, and has these
horrid * blues.' But then your father is more
entete than ever ; he will not see anyone, not
even Dr. Pringle, though he knows he is in
town, and has promised to call this afternoon."


So it would seem that Mr. Yorke is not
quite happy, and that his unhappiness has
taken that disagreeable form known as the
"blues."

And this, too, at a time when his prosperity
has reached the highest point of flood. When
he not only sits in Parliament, but has spoken
a maiden speech which has been warmly
received, and for which even the head of his
party condescended to thank him, and thank
him with so much heartiness that he was
seen, instead of the usual official two fingers,
to hold out three, some said four, and the
latter number is the most probable, for the
little finger is an unruly member, and does
not like to be separated from its companions.

That alone was something to be proud of

But on the surface of this brimful tide still
rests the glow of another great event. The
most brilliant marriage — so 'tis said — that
has been known for years. His daughter,
so beautiful, so charming, so lovable, a
marchioness ; some day, perhaps at no very
distant date, a duchess. Surely that ought to
cheer a father's heart !

Why then these '' blues " ?

It could not be want of money, for never
during the annals of the great house of
Souseman and Soppit had there been such a
prosperous year. The revenue had gone up
by leaps and bounds, and its chief item, the
excise, gave convincing evidence, despite all

teetotalers may say to the contrary, that
prosperity and alcohol will soon have to be
considered as synonymous terms.

Indeed it would seem as if Mr. Yorke had
every reason to be satisfied with the condition
of life in which he had been placed, and certainly
ought not to have had the " blues."

But to think this is not to know what is
meant by the " blues."

It is a state of mind to be felt, but hardly
to be described, in which the sufferer suddenly
finds himself rendered incapable of
seeing things in their usual light, or as they
may appear to others. He may be in the
centre of all that is beautiful and pleasing,
bub he passes it by and allows his mind to
carry him down — down — down into scenes
of misery made more hideous by darkness
and gloom. It is as if when looking at some
beautiful fruit one saw nothing but the cankerworm
within, thought of nothing but of the
rottenness which must be its end. The eye
seems to rest upon vivid pictures of miseries
to come, a future of startling shapes which
attract as if by some irresistible force — a kind
of fascination from which, so long as the fit
lasts, there is no escape, indeed no wish to
escape.

Alone, in his library, Mr. Yorke sat hour
after hour in front of the fire, with folded
arms and outstretched legs, gazing fixedly
upon the embers and seeing in them an endless
combination of suggestive forms ; now-feeding
his memory and making his whole
life so full of error that he contemplated it
with dismay ; now stimulating his imagination
till he saw naught before him but disgrace,
disappointment, and despair.

Under the influence of these morbid feelings,
his parliamentary success had become a
mere inflated bubble ; he fancied that the
statesmen of his party looked upon him, in
their hearts, as a mere nonentity, a simple
tool, made useful only by his money. His
short experience in Parliament had disenchanted
him. As he had sat hour after hour
on one of the back benches, he had learnt
much of what he had been ignorant before.

Then his money ? Whence did it come ?

From the mechanic who had made his
home a hell, from the husband who had made
his wife a fiend, from the mother who had
become a curse to her own child, from all
who haunt the paths of vice. Yes, as he
looked into the fire he saw them all — they
were all, there.

Then the marriage ?

He was proud of his daughter. Of course
he loved her. She had made a great match
a great match which had cost him a very
large sum of money — rich as he was, far more
than he ought to have given. But Lady
Arabella ! The world ! He could not have
refused. But could all that he had heard of
his son-in-law be true ? As he looked into
the fire he saw that it was true. He saw
his high-spirited, frank, innocent daughter in
the arms of a profligate, a gambler, and he
saw — no, he would not see — he would look
no more.

But the fire was there, and he must look.

No longer his daughter, but his son —
Marmaduke — his associate, his partner ; his
happiness, his honour in his hands. The fire
is taking strange forms. Do what he will,
he can see traced by the embers in letters
of flame, one single word ; change as those
embers may, that word is still there — four
letters, and they spell but a single word.
No wonder that he shuts his eyes and seeks
to shut it out, for that word is — Ruin !

Ruin I What does it mean ? Surely those
reports cannot also be true ? Then these
anonymous letters ? — these reports that Mar-manlike

has within the last few months lost
largely to my Lord Runny mede at cards ? —
these strange hints that Marmaduke is interested
in the Turf? Then the knowledge,
only just obtained, that his private account
is largely overdrawn. What does it all
point to ? And now this mysterious stranger
this Mr. Marsh, with his pressing importunity
for an interview. What can that, too,
mean ?

Mr. Marsh ?

The name diverted his attention from that
fiery word, or rather it transformed it into
another word — Victoria — and then into
another — Violet — and then he saw no more,
for his eyes were blinded with tears.

Yes ! In the solitude of his room, under
the gloomy influence of the present, gazing
upon those embers until they conjured up
the past in all the reality of life-like form, the
eyes of the stern man, who had been borne
on by the tide of prosperity until it had
reached its topmost flood, became blinded
with tears.

He rose, he did so with an effort ; and
opening a drawer in his writing-case, took
out a small locket — a small golden Locket.
On the outside, *' Violet " in raised letters.

In the inside, the miniature of a beautiful
girl whose face was beaming with the happiness
which belongs to innocence ; and a single
curl of soft brown hair.

Mr. Yorke pressed it to his lips.
• " Violet' he said, as he did so, *' my poor
lost Violet, you have been avenged. My
heart died when you died. Since then, I
have never known what it is to love. No !
Those whom I ought to love, I cannot love,
not even as I love your child — our child — to
whom, coward that I am, I do not dare to
hold my outstretched arms and say, * My
child ! my child I Your mother was my first
my only love ; and I, wretch that I am,
your father !' "

He sank down in his seat, overcome by his
emotion. He had scarcely done so when the
door opened, and the servant introduced Mr.
Marsh.

Mr. Workers back was turned towards him,
and as he rose and replaced the locket in the
drawer of the writing-case, he gained sufficient
time to enable him to recover his
composure.

May I ask, sir, to what I am indebted for
the honour of this visit ?" he asked, as he
pointed to a chair.

VOL. II. 26

Mr. Marsh, whom we first knew as Jack,
was only changed inasmuch that though he
still retained his dissipated sporting appearance,
there were no signs of poverty about
him ; and he exhibited a quiet self-assurance,
such as belongs to a man who has a thorough
confidence in the strength of his position and
does not intend to allow himself to be driven
readily from it.

'*My visit, Mr. Yorke," he said, as he
seated himself and comfortably placed one
leg over the other, ^' is one of business, and,
I regret to say, deucedly unpleasant business."


'' It is ?" asked Mr. Yorke.
A bill," said Mr. Marsh — '' a confoundedly
disagreeable affair for all concerned. But, as
you know, young men will be young men.
We have all had our day."

Mr. Yorke felt inclined to resent as an
impertinence the cool manner in which his
dissipated-looking visitor referred to him as
to an equal. He was not accustomed to such
familiarity. But the word '' bill " had made
him uneasy, so he restrained himself

*' May I ask you to explain the nature of
the transaction to which you refer V said Mr.
Yorke ; *' at present I must confess to having

no knowledge of any bill in which I have the
slightest interest."

'undoubtedly," said Mr. Marsh, "it is
the first you will have heard of it. I will back
the writer of the name on that bill against
the field for keeping things dark. An
awfully knowing shot is my friend Armature
!"

Marmaduke ?" exclaimed Mr. Yorke, now
really interested and alarmed. " What ! my
son {

'' Neither more nor less," replied Mr. Marsh ;
'' and a right good fellow too, if the luck did
not go so infernally against him."

Mr. Yorke was deadly pale, and his limbs
trembled so violently that his visitor perceived
it.

*' You are ill — ague ?" he asked''

No, sir; I am not ill," gasped Mr. Yorke.
'' Give me the bill."

He would have held out his hand for it,
but an unaccountable numbness in his arm
seemed to paralyse its action.

Thank you, I know a trick worth two of
that," said Mr. Marsh ; '' the bill does not
go out of this hand until I hold the money
for it ill the other ; but you may read it if
you like :" he spread it out before Mr. Yorke

26—2

na.

as he spoke. " It is made payable to a friend
of mine ; and, as you see, is for twenty
thousand pounds."

Mr. Yorke's eyes rested for an instant on
the signature, '* Marmaduke Yorke, junior;"
the numbness seemed to extend to his very
heart, and he fell back insensible.

A continued peal at the library bell brought
in quick succession the footman, Dr. Pringle,
who happily had just arrived, Lady Arabella,
and Eva.

As Dr. Pringle entered the room, he met
Mr. Marsh coming out of it.

'' Mr. Yorke has had a fit'' said Mr. Marsh,
as he passed him hurriedly. " Wants a
doctor. Deuced awkward."

Dr. Pringle only saw him for an instant,
but he recognised in that instant the man
whom he had brushed against in the Park;
and again he looked at him, and thought
how very singular."

In the skilful hands of Dr. Pringle, Mr.
Yorke soon returned to consciousness ; but
it was found that his right side was paralysed,
and that his speech was seriously affected.

'' He must be kept as quiet as possible,"
said the doctor, in answer to the anxious
inquiries of Lady Arabella and her daughter.

Ah," said Lady Arabella, '' I knew he
was going to be ill. I had a presentiment —
les malheurs n arrivent jamais seuls — and I
had such a very extraordinary and incomprehensible
letter this morning from Duke."

'dukes' said the doctor. "Where is
Duke r

At Bologna ; and seems to have just
arrived there when he wrote. Best tres
singulier. I would not mention it to anyone
else, but he wrote to ask me for money."

Indeed ?" said the doctor, thoughtfully.
** Can you tell me ?" he asked, after a pause,
** who the gentleman was who was with Mr.
Yorke when he was taken ill ?"

"■ I have not the slightest idea," said Lady
Arabella. '' Perhaps Empson knows; I
will ring and ask."

The servant was not quite sure, but he
thought the name was Marsh, and he came
by appointment.

Marsh !" exclaimed the doctor. " Then
it was no imagination. What a strange world
is this world we live in !"

Lady Arabella did not seem to notice the
doctor's remark ; and Eva was too much occupied
with her father's state to think of anything
else.

May I speak to you a moment ?" she
said, taking the doctor aside ; but she need,
not have done so, for Lady Arabella excused
herself at that moment for being obliged to
leave Dr. Pringle '^ sans ceremonies'

I have not a moment to lose, my dear
doctor' she said. "Mr. Yorke's illness today
is particularly unfortunate. The Grand-duke
of Gross Krieg-land was to have dined
with us, for the first time, to-day ; and we
had managed to get up a very nice party to
meet him. It is very unfortunate. I have
not a moment to lose. I must write to everybody,
and put them off at once. Au revoir !
I shall hope to see you again before you leave,
for I should like you to remain until Dr.
Masters arrives."

Dr. Pringle," said Eva to him, the
moment her mother had left the room, "tell
me frankly — remember I am not so weak as
I seem ; I can bear the worst — what state
is my father really in ? Is he in any
danger ?"

"Not in immediate danger," said the doctor.
** I should have preferred waiting for Dr.
Master's opinion before having said more, but
since you have asked me, I must confess
to thinking his state is extremely serious ;

though, as I said before, I do not anticipate
any immediate danger."

*' Thank you," said Eva, gently. " I heard
you say," she continued, *' that he must not
be left alone ; may I sit with him ? May I
nurse him ?"

Certainly," said the doctor. " But you
must take care and not overdo it, or your
power of being useful will soon be exhausted,
and your father's illness may be a long one.
Remember that he is to be kept as quiet as
possible, and that nothing is to be said or
done which may be likely to produce the
slightest excitement. It is evident that
great excitement, at a time when he was
suffering from some functional derangement,
has been the cause of this seizure ; and in his
present state, any recurrence of it might be
fatal."

Dr. Masters, on his arrival, fully agreed
with the view which had been taken of Mr.
Yorke's case by Dr. Pringle; he, too, enjoined
the necessity of avoiding anything which
might have the effect of producing, in however
slight a degree, irritation or excitement.

'' Your great effort must be, my dear young
lady," he said, ''to soothe and calm your father
as much as possible. For the brain is just

now singularly sensitive to external impressions,
and the knowledge that the mind has
lost its power of control over the body, is in
itself a source of irritation of the most distressing
kind. Where the whole structure of
the nervous system is so shattered, as it is in
your father's case, we doctors cannot pretend
to do much in the shape of restoration, but
we can preserve and fortify the powers which
have been left untouched, and that must be
our chief aim ; perfect repose and quiet is
absolutely necessary, and no one is better
able to help us in this than you are."

The road covered deep with tan, and a
muffled knocker, informed the outside world
that some one was ill — dangerously ill — at
Mr. Yorke's. Soon it was known to be Mr.
Yorke — a seizure, said to have been occasioned
by the excitement of that maiden speech.
Arrangements are at once made for daily
inquiries, but the number of carriages which
drive past Mr. Yorke's house in the afternoon
is strangely reduced, for there are many people
who do not like to be reminded of the illness
of their friends, nor, indeed, of illness in any
shape or form. A telegram has been sent to
Duke, but for some reason, which no one can
quite make out, he finds it impossible to return

to England. The Runnymede have come
back in haste from their Continental tour ;
Geraldine really anxious, and quite unable to
look upon her father's illness as a matter of
no moment, as my lord bids her.

'' You fret a vast deal too much," he tells
her ; '' my father once had a fit, you know,
and though he has been a little shaky ever
since, the old boy, by Gad, stands a precious
good chance of outliving half the peerage ;
and it will be awfully lucky if I get into the
parental shoes before my credit with my
boot maker is worn out, you know."

Geraldine says nothing. If she did say
anything, it would be to tell my lord that
she is tired of these silly jokes.

And the honeymoon scarcely over !

She comes daily, and stays for hours, but
her visits to her father are only short ones,
for her presence seems to excite him ; and
frequently before she has been with him five
minutes, he says : '' Go ! go !" and she has to
leave him, mournfully, and with her eyes
filled with tears.

Lady Arabella in her boudoir, perpetually
writing or answering notes. A note to my
dearest Lady Frogsmere, asking her where
the valuable restorative is to be obtained,

which she may remember having spoken to
her about at the Uppertons' last baU. A note
to Sir Croaker Horsey, thanking him for his
kind inquiries. A note beginning, " My dear
Duchess je suis desolee.^' Another ending,
** You, of all others, can sympathise with the
feelings of a wife. I am so exhausted with
anxiety and nursing I cannot write another
word. Achilles amities'' etc., etc. A note
to her dressmaker. Another to her milliner —
for in Mr. Yorke's state her toilettes must be
subdued — anxiety should wear a befitting
garb as well as woe ; we mourn in black, and
clothe our sufferings in a neutral tint.

The sick-room was Eva's domain. There
she sat day by day, hour by hour, seeking to
soothe the poor invalid, whose feeble restless
state was something pitiable to witness.
The strong, and apparently hale, man of a
few days since sat, propped up in his armchair
by the fire, in all the helplessness of
infancy. Formerly Mr. Yorke had been
remarkable for placidity and evenness of
temper, now his lacklustre eyes were only
capable of expressing impatience and anger.
His speech was so much affected that it was
very difficult to understand what he said, and
this difficulty was increased by his constantly

making use of the wrong word instead of the
riofht one. And the more anxious he was t^
communicate his wishes, the more unintelligible
he became. Then he would become
angry, and repeat over and ovoragain, '' Stupid!
cruel !" and sometimes shed tears.

'* Patience, my dear young lady we must
have patience," said Dr. Masters. " The
worst is over for the time, and we may hope
for some little amendment by-and-by. In
the meantime we must endeavour to find out
what it is your father is so anxious to communicate,
for it is evident there is something,
and his irritation proceeds in great measure
from his being unable to make it intelligible."

'' Do you think," asked Eva, '' that he is
able to understand what is said to him ?"

Perfectly," said the doctor, " for his mind,
though weakened, has not lost its coherence ;
and this complete consciousness is perhaps the
most painful part of his malady." So said
also Dr. Pringle, for at the request of Lady
Arabella and her daughters he had remained
in town ; for singularly enough, although Mr.
Yorke had many friends, and Lady Arabella
many near relatives, the " good doctor," for so
he was always called by Lady Arabella, was
the only person to whom they could turn in

their present great trouble. Dr. Masters was
all very well in his medical capacity, but there
was a vague feeling, an ill-defined fear, that
other advice might be wanted, the advice
of a friend; and where was a truer friend,
an abler adviser to be found than the good
doctor ?

The cause of this secret anxiety — for neither
mother nor daughters had exchanged a syllable
on the subject — was not difficult to find.
Lady Arabella knew that her son was in want
of money, and more than suspected that it
was this, and not the state of his health,
which prevented his return to England. Eva
knew that Marsh was the name of the man
who nominally owned the racehorse which
was in reality her brother's; and she had been
struck v\dth the coincidence of Marsh being
the name of the visitor who was with her
father at the time of his seizure. AndGeraldine
knew from her husband that Duke, '' you
know," had been making a great mess of it :
in what way he did not condescend to say,
and she did not care to ask.

Dr. Pringle could not help sharing the anxiety
of Lady Arabella and her daughters, feeling
somewhat ill at ease. He, too, had heard
rumours with respect to Duke, and he could

not but connect the dissipated-looking man he
had met coming out of Mr. Yorke's room, in
some vague way with Duke's difficulties.
Then, too, this man's name — Marsh — and
his extraordinary resemblance, bloated and
blurred though it was, to the picture in his
old friend's room. It was very puzzling.
But one thing was very clear. It must have
been something said by this dissipated
bloated man which had produced Mr. Yorke's
seizure ; there may have been existing predisposition,
but something said or done in
that interview must have been the exciting
cause. He inquired of Lady Arabella, but
she knew nothing of this Mr. Marsh. Had
he been a sporting man he would have known
that Marsh was the name of the owner — or, as
we know, of the reputed owner — of 'fortuna"
and ** the Coming Crack," for a second horse
had been bought. But the doctor had never
known the name of a racehorse in his life,
and it is doubtful if he had ever heard of
Eclipse.

But the most anxious of all was Eva. For
to her anxiety was added one of those strange
indescribable emotions which belongs to a
sudden insight into the hidden life of those
we love. She had been sitting by her father

the day after his seizure, when, after many
vain and painful efforts, he made her comprehend
that he wished to have his writing-case
brought him. On going into the library to
fetch it she found that the drawer, which
closed with a spring-lock, was partly open,
and that it could not be shut without some
re-arrangement of its contents. On opening
it for that purpose, the first object that caught
her eye was a locket — a locket which had evidently
been placed there hurriedly, for it had
not been closed. Her eyes were riveted upon
that beautiful joyous face ; she thought she
had never seen anything so beautiful before ;
and yet she had seen some face like it. Who
could it be that was so like it ? And that
soft, brown hair ? But she dared not linger ;
she must not add to the poor invalid's irritation.


She closed the locket, and as she placed it in
the drawer, the side with '^ Violet," in raised
letters was uppermost. "Violet !" she gasped,
trembling and pale. *' Violet !" The name of
Victoria's mother was Violet. She, too, had
brown hair. Then the likeness — the likeness —
I ought to have known. If it were not that
Victoria is always grave and thoughtful the
portrait might be hers."

She staggered to a chair. And then
this visitor — this dreadful Mr. Marsh ? She
had no time for further thought. A servant
came to say Mr. Yorke was impatient, and
could not be pacified. He wanted her at
once.

Closing the drawer of the writing-case,
she returned to the sick-chamber. The
subdued light would bave prevented the
invalid from perceiving her increased pallor,
even if his eyes had not been fixed on
the writing-case, which he motioned to have
placed by his side. It seemed to act asa
talisman — a charm of soothing power
upon his poor shattered frame. He turned
towards it : placed his left hand — the one
hand that has sensation in it now — upon it;
closed his eyes ; and, if it had not been for
the restless movement of his lips, would have
seemed to sleep.

'' Ah ! would that I could sleep ! Would
that I could sleep ! But there is no sleep —
none — none !"

Ever, ever, ever the same images before his
eyes : Violet, in all her beauty ; Violet, who
had filled him — cold, heartless that he was —
with such a sense of love that his whole being
was pervaded with it ; Violet, his victim —

the victim of his love ; Violet, the avenger,
tearing from out his heart the blossoms of
its youth, and leaving nought but barrenness
for age ; Violet, the only picture on his
brain ; Violet, the one word ever on his lips.
Violet ! Violet ! Violet I Violet ! — without
surcease, Violet.

Then the child — the helpless, deserted child ;
the child of his — of their — love.

Ah 1 would that I could sleep ! Would
that I could sleep ! But there is no sleep —
none — none !"

A spasm, as if from pain, distorted the
poor sufferer's face. There was a convulsive
movement of the lips, but the word ever on
them was — Violet !

And Eva, watching by her father's side —
she, too, had ever the same images before her
eyes : the picture of that brown-haired, joyous
girl ; the grave and thoughtful semblance ;
her once dear friend ; her — she dare not frame
the word — it may not be, although she knows it
is — Victoria. She knows it is — it must be so,
yet she dares not reveal this knowledge — no,
not to a living soul. No, not to Geraldine.
If she should be mistaken. How could she
dare to cast a doubt upon her father's honour?
And so she sits watching, hiding her deeper

anxiety, her suspicions, her more than suspicions,
from all around her.

It was the sixth day after Mr. Yorke's
seizure; that lie sat propped up in his armchair
by the ire, with Eva by his side. Close
to him a small table with his writing-case,
upon which from time to time he placed his
hand, as if to satisfy himself of its safety.
For the last two days he had vainly endeavoured
to communicate something to Eva,
which she bad been unable to understand, for
the shortest excitement had the effect of
making him substitute another word for the
one he wished to use. And though she had

o

at last been able to make out, " Send for
Violet," it had not struck her until this
morning that it was Victoria her father
wanted.

Lady Arabella, who looked in upon her
husband now and then, to ask him how he
was, to pat him on the shoulder, to tell him
he must be good and patient, and to lament
over the state of her own nerves, had wondered
when she had heard the word 'violet;"
what could have put such a pretty name into
her husbands head? He had had no sisters,
and had never known anyone of that name,
that she had ever heard of But when Eva

VOL. II. 27

explained to her that he meant Victoria, she
saw it at once.

Of course, mv dear, we ought to have
known ; they both begin with a Y. Mais
c'est bien drove." She did not say what was
bien drove. *' We must send for Victoria at
once. She is so thoroughly cm fait at nursing,
and you cannot go on as you have of
late ; it would kill you. Victoria is just the
right person. She has more influence over
your poor father than anyone else, and I am
sure she will come if we place it plainly
before her."

When Eva told her father that she had
written to Victoria a bright gleam passed
over his face, such as had not been seen since
his illness ; and when, on the third day, a telegram
came from Victoria, to say that she
would come, it was painful to see the mute
expression of a pleasure for which he could
find no words.

Victoria," he would ask— for when he had
been told the right word he could repeat it —
** Victoria — when?" And this he would ask
over and over again, as if he had but one
thought. To pacify him he was told he must
keep quiet, and try and get strong, for Victoria's
sake. Why Eva said this she hardly

knew. And yet she said it ; and each time
she said it there was an interval of calm, to
be again broken by the same question :

** Victoria — when ?"

The letter to which the telegram had been
a reply, was from Eva. It was so sorrowfully,
so beseechingly, so tenderly written, that Victoria
felt she would have been a wretch to
have refused the request contained in it.
And the telegram was her answer. Go she
must; and yet it was at no slight sacrifice;
it might entail the recommencement of a
course of lectures, some of which had nearly
terminated, and retard her progress in no
slight degree. Had not Eva written as she
did, it might have been different ; but there
was such a deep earnest cry for help in her
letter, that Victoria could not read it without
emotion.

I cannot tell you," Eva had said, " how
much you are wanted ! My poor father
seems to have set his heart on your coming,
and to think of nothing else ; and to me especially,
what a blessing, what a comfort it
will be to have you near me ! for since Geraldine
has gone I have felt so lonely, and I
want you sadly, dearest, to fill her vacant

27 2

place. Come to us, dearest Victoria, if you
can. I shall be so grateful. I know it will
be at a great sacrifice, and it seems selfish to
ask you, but — I cannot tell you why, now —
I must still ask you to come ; though I have
nothing to offer you in return but a sister's
love."

Eva had never written to her with such
warmth before. Indeed, it was Geraldine with
whom she had of late been most allied, though
for some short time before her marriage she
had heard from her less frequently, and the
only letter she had received since was so conventional
and so different in tone from those
which she had been in the habit of receiving
from her, that she felt their correspondence
was at an end.

Perhaps the change was not entirely on
Geraldine's side. Victoria had felt keenly
what she looked upon as the heartless abandonment
— for that which she considered such
a miserable motive — of a man so worthy of a
woman's love as Sir Francis. She secretly
resented it as an act of perfidy ; for though no
promise had been made, no absolute engagement
had been entered into, she knew that
Sir Francis had not concealed his feelings,
and that Geraldine had given him as much

encouragement as any man could reasonably
hope for from the woman that he loves.

Moreover she was deeply pained, for she
had loved Geraldine, and she was disappointed
cruelly disappointed, at finding how deceived
she had been in her character. She had
fancied she had detected in her a noble nature ;
hidden, it is true, under that superficial folly
which belongs to fashion, but ready to assert
itself the moment it was emancipated from
fashion's toils, and brought in contact with
such an influence as a man like Sir Francis
would have exercised over her.

Yes, she was cruelly disappointed !

But though her love for Geraldine had
been thus wounded, it was not extinct. If
she grieved over her, it was more in sorrow
than in anger. For she knew that Geraldine
was dissatisfied with herself, and even now
far from happy. What then would she be
when all the miserable consequences of her
folly became more and more apparent !

She felt for and pitied Sir Francis — but
Geraldine it vv^as she felt for and pitied
most.

She had written to Sir Francis when she
had heard of Geraldine's marriage. A letter
such as a sister might have written, full of

loving counsel ; for she knew that, in such a
case as his, something more than sympathy
was wanted, and that words which give most
comfort are those upon which we can lean
and find support.

She had received but a few words in reply.

"I cannot now write a long letter," he
said, " or express my gratitude in words ; but
I trust to be able to show you that your
advice has not been cast upon a barren soil.
No ! not one syllable of it shall be thrown
away ; and I should be the most ungrateful
of men did I not do my best to make some
return for what is my one great consolation
the only source of happiness I have left —
your friendship. What a dreadful blank
would my life now be without it !"

It was late in the afternoon when Victoria
reached London, and it was nearly dark
when her cab stopped before Mr. Yorke's
house. The driver had hardly time to ring
the bell before the door flew open ; and in a
few moments she was in the hall and clasped
in Eva's arms.

*' I knew you would be here to-day," she
said, '' and I have been watching for you for
hours. How good ! how kind !" and she
kissed her so tenderly that Victoria seemed

to realise, what she had never known — a
sister's love.

*^ And your father ?" she asked.

"Just the same. You must be prepared
to see a great change : indeed I cannot tell
you how dreadfully changed he is."

And does he still wish to see me ?"

He seems to have no other thought."

o

How very singular !" said Victoria.

Why did Eva blush and look down ? For
an instant she did not dare meet the gaze of
the friend to whom she had promised to be
as a sister.

But you must be tired," she said
hurriedly ; " I must show you your room.
And you must have something to eat, I am
sure you must be famished; but first come,
just for one second, and see my mother."

Lady Arabella was, as usual, condescendingly
kind. She bewailed Mr. Yorke's sad state,
speaking of it as the source of an amount o'l
sufferings to herself which no words could
describe. It almost seemed to Victoria, as
she listened to her, as if it had been an act of
cruelty on Mr. Yorke's part to fall ill and
torture a poor wife who had such delicate
nerves.

** No one was ever tried as I have been

tried," said Lady Arabella; 'rand with my
exquisite sensitiveness, it is almost a miracle
that I am alive."

She would have gone on in the same strain
for she was never tired of talking of herself
had not Eva come to the rescue, and reminded
her mother that Victoria had been
travelling day and night, and wanted rest and
food.

Ah, how strong you must be ! Que tu es
heureux; but I will not detain you — ademainP'

'' A certain /" How much lies hid in that
small word '^ tomorrow" ! But one step nearer
to the verge of time : it seems so small, but
vfliO knows where — the brink ?

Victoria had scarcely time to throw off
her travelling-wraps and take a few mouthfuls
of the refreshment she so much needed,
before a servant came to say that Mr. Yorke
had heard that Miss Marsh had arrived, and
was anxious to see her at once.

I will try and persuade him to wait till
tomorrow," said Eva, as she hurried to him.

In a few minutes she returned.

If you would not mind, dearest," she said,
*' I think perhaps it would be better for you
to come and see our poor invalid " — how she
longed to say our poor father — *snow — only fora

moment ; it will pacify him : and in his state
we must not thwart him in anything if we
can help it."

Victoria rose at once, and followed her into
the sick-room.

Mr. Yorke was sitting in his arm-chair by
the fire, with, as ever, his hand on the
writing-case placed on the table beside him.
As Victoria entered he motioned to the old
servant, who took turns with Eva to be with
him, to leave the room, and held out his
trembling hand.

*' Thank you — thank you," he said — it
almost seemed as if her presence had given
him strength. " I am very ill — kiss me."

Victoria bent down and kissed him tenderly
on his forehead ; as she did so, it was with
difficulty she could restrain her tears, and
Eva sobbed audibly.

** Now, go, my child — go !"

He spoke so indistinctly, Victoria could
only just catch the words "Go — tomorrow."

He, too, said " tomorrow."

Victoria stooped down — she felt as if impelled
to do so by some irresistible impulse —
and kissed him even more tenderly than she
had done before.

'* Good-night," she said, mastering her

emotion — for the change which had taken
place in Mr. Yorke had greatly shocked her —
and endeavouring to speak cheerfully, "goodnight,
and tomorrow I will endeavour to
show you what a good nurse I am ; but you
must sleep well, and have a good night, or
Eva and I will be obliged to scold you."

As she left the room his lips moved, and
Eva heard him murmur softly — it was as if a
child had spoken :

'violet— Violet!"

He sat still for a few moments, then he
said, '' Come — open "

He pointed to the writing-case as he spoke.

Eva, following his directions, opened the
drawer ; the moment she had done so, he
grasped the locket — so hurried was the
action, it almost seemed as if he had not an
instant to lose — and pressed it to his lips.
He did not care for concealment now ; he had
but one thought — his one buried love, his
one living child.

*' Paper," he said ; '' pencil."

Eva gave him a sheet of note-paper.

^' No, no 1" he said impatiently ; " half."

She tore it in two, and gave him the half

Taking the pencil in his hand he would
have written, but he could not form the

letters. After several vain trials, he threw
the pencil angrily away.

"Write," he said — ** quick — write!" And
as Eva placed herself pen in hand, ready to
obey, again he said :

Write — forgive."

Then, taking the paper from her hand, he
placed the locket within it, and endeavoured
to fold it up ; she tried to help him, but he
resisted angrily.

*' For Victoria' he said ; 'victoria — when
I die. Take — now — Victories. "

He ceased speaking. A convulsive shudder
passed through his frame, his head fell back
heavily against the back of the chair ; and
Eva knew, as she cried out in her agony of
fear, that she was in the presence of Death.

That night Eva and Victoria sat side by
side, hour by hour, clasped in each other's
arms. They had both lost a father.

Victoria held the locket in her hand ; with
it she had learnt what she never else had
known, what she never else had suspected.
It was as if a new world lay opened out before
her, and her heart was torn by the intensity
and the diversity of her emotions. Pity for
that beautiful young mother, sorrow for that
erring, selfish father, whose whole life had

been a deception and a torture. Indignation
no, there was no room for that now, with
the sound of those few trembling, incoherent
words still in her ears ; that one kiss ever
given to a father still on her lips.

'' You are ten times dearer to me, now I
know all, than ever," said Eva. 'promise that
you will be to me a dear, dear sister. Now
Geraldine has gone — for a married sister can
never be as she was before — I have no one
else. I want your love now, more than
ever. I know you will not think hardly
of him who is now no more — he was our
father ; yours as much as mine : we will
mourn together."

And thinking and speaking thus it was
that they sat entwined in each other's arms.

Then the time came that they must separate,
for it was long, long past midnight, and
both were exhausted.

'* Promise me," said Victoria, as they
parted, " that all that has come to your
knowledge shall be kept sacred within your
own breast. For the sake of him who now
lies dead, for the sake of the living, it is
better that the secret which he — who was
my father — kept locked up within his heart
for so many years, should remain unknown to

all but ourselves. Promise me, solemnly

as you love me — never to divulge it to a
living soul ; not to Gerald fine ; not to the
man who may be one day your husband ; not
even to Lady Arabella."

Ah ! my poor mother !" said Eva ; ^' I
believe she hardly yet realises the dreadful
calamity which has befallen her."

*^ You will promise ?" said Victoria.

'' Yes," said Eva ; '^ unless you should
think it better at some future time to release
me from it. It shall be inviolable ; but only
on one condition — that you too make a promise.
From this moment and for evermore,
we are to be sisters."

Ah I can you doubt it ?" said Victoria.
You would not, if you knew how I have
longed, yearned, for a share in that love
which the dearest, truest friendship can
never quite supply ; and that love I have now
found in yours, my dear, dear sister. A love
which will shed a light upon my life it never
had before. May God bless you, my dearest,
my darling sister !" she said. *' We must
not forget it is our duty to humble ourselves
before His judgments, and that we are but
the poor creatures of His will. How small all
things seem in the face of Death !"

She tore herself away as she spoke. The
distance between Eva's room and her own
was not great, but in those few steps she had
regained all her self-composure.

Yes ; how small all things seem in the
face of Death," she repeated, as she closed the
door.

And, as she said it, it seemed as if it were
no longer a mourner who stood there, but
one who was ready once more to enter upon
the great conflict which belongs to life, and
to face with courage that death which is life's
bitter end.

Mr. Yorke was buried at Nettlestone.
Duke telegraphed to say that his health
would not permit him to travel. Lady
Arabella was now really ill, and neither Eva
nor Geraldine could leave her ; and so it was
that in the large cortege which followed the
rich and respected brewer to the grave, there
was no member belonofinor to his immediate
family; for none knew that the tall, handsome
girl who leant on Dr. Pringle's arm, and who
wept silently through the service for the
dead, was more than a friend of the family,
a recipient as some thought, of the dead man's
bounty.

Dr. Pringle felt her hand tremble on his

arm, but he too did not know the true cause
of that emotion. He knew that Victoria
had a warm and loving heart, but little did
he imagine that the tears which fell from her
eyes as she bent over the coffin and placed a
wreath on it ere it was lowered in the grave,
Averse the tears shed by a child, in the fulfilment
of an inscrutable destiny, over the remains of
one whom she had known only in death, to
be her father.

la.

CHAPTEH YIIL

WRECKAGE ON THE SHORE.

Victoria remained a few days in her old
Deepdale home. Chub, too, was there, for
he had come down to the funeral, and she
found herself once more in the centre of a
family which she had loved and been taught
to look upon as her own. Now she felt,
without loving them the less, a sense of
estrangement which almost startled her.
Between her and Doctor and Mrs. Pringle
there would arise the remembrance of that
poor conscience-stricken father, as she had
seen him last — for it almost seemed as if she
had had no other knowledge of him — of that
bright happy-looking young mother whose
portrait now was ever pressed upon her heart.
Mysterious fate ! unreal reality ! How could
she be like others, when every filial instinct
had been stifled from her birth, when she had

but phantoms for her parents, when she had
naught to remind her that they once had
lived, but a portrait and a grave.

And Chub and Sis ?

She loved them still — loved them dearly
as the playmates of her childhood, as the
companions of her later age ; but she could
not love them as she loved Eva, as she loved
Geraldine, for with them she felt as Joseph
felt, when even towards those brothers who
had treated him so despitefully, his heart
yearned with such a fulness of a brother's
love, that he went out and wept. And from
her sisters — how sweet the word ! — she had
known nothing but kindness and love.

Yes, she loved her sisters dearly — both.

But for Duke there was no place in her
heart. Never for an instant did she think of
him as a brother. If she thought of him at
all, it was with contempt. No ! he could be
no brother to her — he who was undeserving
of the name of a son ; and so she avenged
the wrong done to a dead father, whose
life had been one continued wrong to her.
Besides, Duke had acted so heartlessly to
Sis. For Sis he had professed, as we know,
the greatest admiration. He had turned her
poor little head — her heart did not go for much

VOL. II. 28

in the matter — with his protestations ; stopping
only on the verge of such a declaration
as would have placed him publicly before the
world as her acknowledged suitor, her accepted
lover. Doing all this so cunningly,
that none but his sisters and Victoria knew
to what lengths he had gone. And when
Eva took him to task for his heartlessness,
calling her a silly little goose for thinking he
could have been in earnest ; and when she
continued her remonstrances, begging she
would be good enough to hold her tongue
and not presume to meddle with him and his
affairs.

His affairs, forsooth ! Bright-eyed, captivating
little Sis to be spoken of in the same
breath with the tangled outcome of stupidity
and folly which he spoke of as his " affairs."
No 1 Duke might be her father's son, but he
could never be her brother — never be so dear
to her as Chub — never. No ! why need she
disguise it ? Never be to her as that friend
who was dearer to her than a brother. Oh
that it could have been ! Now more than
ever, yet now less than ever.

Again a blight cast on his hopes.

Geraldine was clearly wrong. Had she,
herself, been right ?

The small still voice of conscience answered
" Yes." In the silent hours of the
night it answered " Yes ;" and she seemed to
hear another voice in clear, decided tones —
'• Courage, Victoria I"

Courage !" It was as if the word had
something in it which renewed all her
energies. It was as the trumpet-call to the
tired soldier. No ! she must not lag by the
way. Courage !

A few days more at Deepdale ; a few
days more in London ; and then she would
return to her studies — strengthened, not
weakened, by all she had gone through.
Courage !

What, had she not regained this courage,
would have pained her most, was the state
in which she had found Sir Francis. He had
returned to his home ill, dejected, and discouraged.
He had ceased to take any
interest in his old pursuits, and was fast
sinking into a state of listless indifference.

'' It is something more than the effects of
Ptoman fever," said Dr. Pringle to Victoria.
*' There is something on his mind. I cannot
make him out. You must see what you can
do. He is beyond my skill."

For the arrival of Victoria had aroused him,

28—2

for the moment, out of his usual lethargy, and
the day after the funeral he, for the first time
since his return to England, made his appearance
at Deepdale.

Victoria was shocked at the change which
had taken place in him, but was careful not
to allow him to see that she was so.

You must come again," she said, as he
went away ; '•' I particularly want to see you.
Come tomorrow."

And when he came on the morrow, the
effort seemed to have done him good, for he
was a shade less rueful.

Victoria asked him about some of his
favourite plans. He had given them up.
He had no plans now.

Why r

Because I have nothing to work for. I
have no energy."

^^ Nothing to work for ? For shame !
When the world is teeming with wants,
when progress is nothing but the union of
individual effort, when labour is the single
source of healthy life ? Oh, my dear friend,"
she said, and she coloured as she spoke,
forgive me 1 You are capable of something
far better than a mere folding of the hands,
and that because — because you have been

disappointed — because a woman has been
false "

"Victoria !" said Sir Francis, deprecatingly.

** Forgive me," she said ; "you know that
I love Geraldine, and even now think that
she was worthy of your love — worthy to have
been" — she looked down as she spoke — " your
wife. It is impossible for any human being
to feel more deeply than I do for you — to
have a greater pity than I have for her —
for indeed, indeed, she is greatly to be pitied,
the most to be pitied. I know how cruelly
you have suffered, but I would not have you
borne down by the weight of your sorrow.
Oh that I could help you to bear the burden
of it!"

*' Help me ?" said Sir Francis. " Help
me ? "What a poor craven miserable creature
have I not become 1 Victoria, you have once
more made me feel ashamed of myself I
have been a poor sentimental fool !"

'you have bewitched him," said Dr.
Pringle a few days afterwards. " I never saw
such a change. I begin to think that we
men doctors are a mistake, and will soon have
to retire from practice."

But during the short time Victoria had
been absent from Deepdale, the greatest

<^han2:e which had taken place was that
which had taken place in Chub.

she had left him at that awkward age
when the man asserts himself with difficulty
never the boy. She found him now, self-reliant
without being self-asserting, working well and
anxious to work, pleasing his father by his
steadiness and the interest he was developing
in professional matters, and his mother by his
many delicate attentions, not the least appreciated
of which was his having brought
down as a present some kind of knitted
shawl which had caught his eye in a shop ashe
walked down Regent Street, and which
she now wore on every conceivable occasion,
telling everyone that " It was just the thing
of all others she had wanted, and that it was
so thoughtful of dear Chub."

To Sis, perhaps, he showed a certain want
of this thoughtfulness, for he was constantly
talking to her of Eva ; and this might have
brought back painful recollections to Sis, had
they not been for some time rapidly fading
away. Poor Sis ! Duke's cruel conduct would
most certainly have made her unhappy had
it not been for the charming new curate, and
his — to her — irresistible dreamy eyes. For
he had from the very first turned those

dreamy eyes upon her, and each time he had
done so, there seemed for a moment very
little of dreamland left in them. They must,
however, have had the power of imparting
their expression to those they looked upon,
for soon a certain dreaminess might have
been detected in the bright eyes of Sis, and
ere long the picture which presented itself
most frequently to her fancy was not that of
her old and faithless admirer Duke, but of
that long-coated, tight-collared young curate
with the dreamy eyes.

Nature had certainly been bountiful to
Sis in the matter of affection, for hers was of
such an expansive, elastic kind, that she was
always ready to love anybody who professed
to love her, provided her affection was for
the moment disengaged, and that the new
object of it was, to use one of her pet words,
lovable. It will be seen that Miss Sis was a
flirt — a born flirt — for she had commenced
her flirtations when in long-clothes, and
simply flirted because she could not help it.

But it was not only of Eva that Chub now
talked ; and to have heard him talk no one
could have supposed it was the same Chub
who had considered himself but a short time
since as " so sat upon." He talked about

London as if he had lived there all his life,
and of horrible operations, as if to dissect and
be dissected comprised the whole purport of
existence ; but he waxed most eloquent —
even more eloquent than when he spoke of
Eva, for then he had to leave some of his
most cherished thoughts unsaid — when he
descanted on the merits of his new friend —
his little Madge.

'' Oh, she is such a pet !" he said, " such a
little darling ! She is so quaint, and talks
just as no other child ever talked since the
world was. Victoria, you must come and see
her, you must indeed. I know you will fall
in love with her just as I have. And I want
Eva to see her. She is so pretty, no one
would know she is blind."

*' Blind !" said Victoria and Sis both at
once.

'' Yes, blind."

And then Chub flew off at a tangent, talking
learnedly of the eye, and of optics, and of
blindness, and — his father not being present,
and Victoria only a student like himself — of its
treatment and mode of cure. To have heard
him you might have supposed that if people
were blind it was entirely through their own
fault, and because they had been so ill-advised

as not to have availed themselves of the skilful
aid of some distinguished oculist and surgeon,
such as would be, one of these days, Charles
Pringle, Esq., student of St. Tobias's.

I have arranged it all, Victoria," he said;
Vie both must go in for the eye, and some
day or other we will get her sight back for
her. I say we, but I am not quite sure
whether it would not be more in your line ;
it's a specialty that might suit you, and I
should always be ready to help you with my
advice, for — now you must not be offended,
Vic — I am not quite sure that you or any
other woman doctor will ever be able to get
on without the help of a man. Do you think
they will, Sis V

Of course Sis thought they would not ;
she was thinking of dreamy eyes. Whilst
Victoria laughed, and said she intended to
try, but that it was a comfort for her to know
that she should always have Chub to fall
back upon.

'' To be sure it will," said Chub, taking it
quite seriously. " But about little Madge V
and then he rambled on, telling them of the
queer old uncle, and his lost treasure ; and
even more of Pops, that prince of parrots
Pops ; and somewhat, though not much, of

Madge's mother, and of Mr. and Mrs. Ful-ford
; and then going back, again and again, to
Madge.

'' And what is the father V asked Victoria.


I really don't quite know," said Chub ;
but I believe him to be an arrant scamp."

What did you say his name was V said
Victoria.

** I do not think I mentioned it," said
Chub; ^'it is Marsh."

There is a fatality in the name," said
Victoria ; '' it is always cropping up. It was
a Mr. Marsh who was with Mr. Yorke when
he was taken ill."

'' I don't think he could be my man," said
Chub ; " he's not quite the style one would
be likely to meet in Belgravia. But remember,
Vic, you must promise to come and see
my little Madge before you leave town, and
if you don't fall in love with her I shall have
no faith in you for the future, but shall, like
dear old Pops, ^ have my doubts.' But,
mind, when you do come, look well at her
eyes, and tell me what you think. I am inclined
to the opinion that it is a case of "

and then Chub fired off a whole broadside of
hard, technical terms, which made Sis stop

her ears and beg him to remember that she
was not walking the hospitals, and that she
was quite certain that even Vic could not
understand him.

Never had Dr. Pringle been so happy in
his son, so thorough in his enjoyment of
Victoria s society, as during the few days the
old family circle was reunited at Deepdale ;
and Mrs. Pringle sat with an air of placid
contentment contemplating the group, and
devising all sorts of surprises in the way of
delicacies and favourite dishes ; and who so
happy as she, when she saw the active movement
of Chub's knife and fork, and the rapid
disappearance of the contents of his plate.
Not that Chub was a gourmand, but he had
always been blessed with a good appetite,
and it was that appetite which was the
source of half his mother's happiness. It is
doubtful whether she could have lived long
with people having bad digestions, for, as she
often said, there is nothing so depressing as
to have to provide dinners for people who
don't knew the difference between beef and
mutton, and can't enjoy their food.

Sir Francis had not quite returned to the
good lady's favour, because, when he again
made his appearance at the doctor's hospitable

board, he did not appear to eat with
his usual relish, though she declared she
had lain awake half the night wondering
what she could get to suit his taste.

But ten days soon pass away, and at the
end of that time Victoria and Chub travelled
up to town together ; Victoria to stay for a
few days with Lady Arabella before returning
to Switzerland, Chub to resume his student's
life in his old quarters.

At one end of the journey, a parting farewell
from the doctor, and a last wave of the
hand from Sir Francis ; at the other, a warm
greeting from Eva for both the travellers. A
warm greeting, equal in degree, but somewhat
different in kind.

As Chub stood by and saw Eva kiss Victoria
tenderly on each cheek, he thought he
had never seen her look so lovely. And
when Eva looked at Chub, his eyes beaming
with pleasure, she thought something which
made her eyes sparkle, and mantled her pale
cheek with a most becoming blush.

What could it have been ?

It was that she had never before seen such
a fine, pleasant-looking fellow as Chub.

But there was no time for more than a few
thoughts, and still fewer words. Luggage

had to be looked to, tickets to be criveu
up.

Good-bye, Eva ! good-bye, Vic !" cried
Chub, as the door of the carriage closed upon
them. '^ Mind, you are both to come and
see me soon ! Why not tomorrow, when I
shall be sure to be at home ?"

No ; they could not come tomorrow, but
they would some day soon, in the afternoon
about four. " We will send a card, and mind
you have tea."

And then they all shake hands, and the
carriage drives off; whilst Chub vociferates :
'' Let it be soon — very soon !" in much the
way as he might have called out the winning
number of a lottery. *rand, Vic, remember,
don't forget to take a good look at her
eyes !

Oh, I am so glad you have come, dear !"
said Eva. " We want you more than ever.
Geraldine and I do not know what to do.
There is something very dreadful about to
happen; and we cannot make our dear mother
realise that anything has gone wrong. You
have so much more knowledge of the world
than we have ; we want you to advise us —
to help us."

*but surely there is Lord Eunnymede,"
said Victoria.

Selfish, horrid man !" said Eva. " What
could have induced dear Geraldine to marry
him 1 He thinks of nothing but himself; and
I am sure he only married her for her money."

Lady Arabella, languid and much propped
up, received Victoria with her usual condescending
kindness.

"Ah, ma chere !" she said, "you must
stay with us as long as you can. Ma pauvre
Penserosa is so triste ; and with my poor
nerves, and all I have gone through, it tries
me sadly. And then it seems the affairs are
in a wretched state — something gone wrong ;
and I cannot tell you how I hate those horrid
things they call affairs. Ah, c'est terrible !"

Lady Arabella was quite right as to the
state of what she had spoken of as '' the
affairs." Mr. Yorke's comparatively sudden
death had brought to light the hopeless
entanglement into which Duke had brought
himself through his unfortunate Turf transactions.
It had become known to the firm
that his private account had been overdrawn
to an amount which could not be represented
by less than ewe figures ; and they had
become aware of the existence of I U's

and post-obits which rendered his position
irretrievable.

Such a disgrace had never befallen the highly
respectable firm of Souseman and Soppit.
A meeting of the partners had been called
a few days before, and it had been decided,
after most anxious deliberation, that Mr.
Marmaduke Yorke should cease to be a
member of the firm.

By Mr. Yorke's will, his share in the
brewery and his landed estate had been left
to his son, together with the residue of his
fortune, after his wife's jointure, and a
legacy of ten thousand pounds to Eva, had
been provided for. But it was found that
he was in debt to a degree no one had
anticipated. His election expenses had been
enormous; this last brilliant season in London
had plunged him into expenses which had
necessitated a recourse to his capital, and the
purchase of the heir to a dukedom for a son-in-law
had cost him no less than one hundred
thousand pounds, only ten thousand of which
had been settled on his daughter.

Lady Arabella's jointure was a thousand a
year; that, and Eva's few hundreds, was all
she and her daughter had to live on ; and —
there was no use discruisinor it — Marmaduke,

the heir, had made himself penniless, and
but for the assistance of the firm, who would
not allow a liability to remain unpaid so long
as it had been incurred whilst he had been
one of its members, would have become a
bankrupt.

All this had to be explained as gently yet
as clearly as possible to Lady Arabella. Mr.
Hobson, the family lawyer, tried, but failed;
Lady Arabella declared at once, that in her
nervous state it was impossible to enter upon
business matters. The executors would not
attempt it. Eva, who had only a general idea
that something was wrong, suggested Dr.
Pringle ; then, on Victoria's name being mentioned,
it was decided unanimously that it
would come better from a woman ; she would
be able to break it to her more gently. Yes,
no one could do it so well as Miss Marsh, as
Victoria.

It was then agreed that on the morrow of
her arrival she should be made acquainted
with everything it was necessary for her
to know, and that she should be asked to
undertake the painful task of explaining it
to Lady Arabella.

And this Victoria did.

Poor Lady Arabella, it was pitiable to see

her ! She who had never, from the day ot*
lier marriage, denied herself the slightest wish
though she had always been under the impression
that no one was more economical
and self-denying — suddenly to become a
pauper — yes, a pauper ! *' Ah, c'est honteuse !"
and all through the extravagance of that
foolish boy ! A pauper ! for how was it possible
to live and keep up her position on a
bare pittance of a thousand a year ? It would
kill her, she knew it would ; in her weak,
nervous state, she required something more
than the bare necessaries of life. How was
it possible for her — she who had always been
accustomed to have her carriage, a comfortable
home, and a good chef — to habituate herself
to behoof wheeled about Kensington Gardens
in a bath-chair, to living in poky lodgings, and
to have nothing to eat but bread and cheese ?
'• Ah, ma chere Victoria, laissez moi mourir !"

It was singular how all her thoughts were
centred on herself, scarcely a word of aught
else. No mention of Eva, hardly a reproach
for her son ; but slight recollection of him
who had been her companion for so many
years ; yet suffering none the less, for she
was not devoid of susceptibility, perverted
as it might be, and that susceptibility was

VOL. II. 29

wounded in its most vulnerable point. She
knew that for the future she would have no
place in her accustomed set — that her position
as one of those who had reached the height of
a leader of society would be irretrievably
forfeited, and that henceforth she would
have to accept, from her former friends,
the amiable condescension she herself had
so freely bestowed on others. The cup was
too bitter. No wonder that in her despair
she could only cry out, as Geraldine had done
before, *' Oh, let me die! — laissez moi mourir !'

My dear Lady Arabella," said Victoria,
I know how great the trial must be, but
there is no trial we cannot be made strong
enough to bear." The shadow of her own trials
may have flitted across her mind, but she
was not thinking of herself; she was thinking
only of the poor weak woman before her — the
spoilt child of fortune, who had been so little
schooled in suffering that she had neither
courage nor resignation, and who without
sympathy herself, was perpetually demanding
sympathy frorii others.

You are a good kind creature'' said Lady
Arabella, ^' but life has been made easy to
you, and you do not know what it is to suffer
as I do ; my poor shattered nerves render me

perfectly incapable of bearing up against this
terrible calamity — ah! que je suis malheureuse.
Indeed I am greatly to be pitied. I shall belittle
better than a beggar — and Eva still unmarried
— ah me ! ah me !"

She continued to bewail her said fate,
sometimes wondering whether the runnymede,
** who ought to be rich, could not let
us live With them ;" sometimes wondering
how she could manage to exist without her
dear china ; sometimes wondering what her
brother the earl, who had always envied her
wealth, and had almost cut her husband because
he was a brewer, would say now. ^^Ah !
que je suis malheureuse. Ah me ! ah me !"

Victoria, treating her as an experienced
nurse would treat a wayward child, let her
talk on, until she became silent from exhaustion
; then she sought to attract her
attention by placing before her the various
plans for the future which had suggested
themselves to Eva and herself, as the most
suitable under the circumstances.

'* I have been talking the matter over with
Geraldine and Eva," she said, " and they
agree with me in thinking that after all you
have gone through you ought to have
change of air and scene. Your health is

29 — 2

delicate ; there is nothing more natural than
;your leaving London just now for a milder
climate ; and it is not necessary you should
give any other reason for your wishing to do
so. It is quite enough that you want blue
sky and sunshine."

'' Sunshine and blue sky' repeated Lady
Arabella, catching at her words. '^ Ah ! sunshine
and blue sky! my dear, dear child, that
is indeed what I want. Oh ! I shall never
forget the beautiful blue sky of Italy, and
how happy I was at Rome ; but I was young
then, and "

She did not finish her speech, for she
suddenly remembered that it was because
her father, the earl, had found it inconvenient
to live in England that he had taken up his
residence for a time abroad. He, too, had
wanted sunshine and blue sky, and if the
truth be told, at that moment more than all,
money — and yet they had all been so happy.

Sunshine — blue sky — Italy — Rome ! Oh
yes, they would go abroad. She must work
up her Italian at once. She feared it was
sadly rusty. How very odd they had never
thought of it before. It might have saved
her poor dear husband's life. It was the
very thing. She would take the baths at

Ischia. Who knows ? it might restore her
weak, sorely-tried frame to health. Ad Eva —
yes, it would be the very thing for Eva. They
could go to the Engadine for the hot months ;
then on to the Italian lakes ; and so on and
on.

The idea had taken entire possession of
her. There was no room for any other.

'* But you must come with us, my dear
Victoria ; we shall want your help. 
is no great traveller, and — your —
ah ! how stupid of me — I mean her poor
dear father will not be with us to take care
of us ; and he used to manage everything so
admirably."

Her eyes filled with tears, but before one
tear could fall, her thoughts were turned into
another channel.

She must see Eva at once ; there was so
much to arrange. And now, of course, she
had not a single dress fit to travel in; and in
black it is so difficult to find the exact
thing."

She was like a child who had been promised
a new toy — this bereaved wife, this mother
of a family, this woman of fifty years' experience.
How could it be otherwise with one
who had no inner life; whose whole existence

had been a search after the happiness which
is based upon the gratification of the senses
beautiful objects, sweet sounds, pleasant
companionship, innocent indulgences ; who
had been taught to turn from and despise
everything outside the pale of her own set ;
and who only tolerated those who did not
belong to it, when they could be made useful ?
^'^ Yes, my dear ; I am sure I could not do
better. My health must be the first consideration.
In my weak state, it is only
wonderful I am alive after all I have gone
through this winter ; and after this sad loss,
and these terrible trials, the only thing which
can possibly save my life is change of scene —
blue skies and sunshine. Ah ! mia cava,
you must talk it over with the girls ; tomorrow
I will see Dobson, for there is no
time to lose ; tell Eva I will see her in an
hour. Now, I must compose myself a little.
Actio — a riverderla."

A few days afterwards three separate paragraphs
appeared in the Fashionable Intelligencer.


From the City we learn that, in consequence
of the delicate state of Mr. Armature
Yorke's health necessitating a lengthened

residence abroad (some think at Monte
Carlo), that gentleman has ceased to be a
member of the great firm of Souverain and
S 'pit, of which his father was the principal
partner for so many years."

We regret to learn that Lady Arabella
Yorke is about to leave London for Italy,
and we fear that her absence will be a protracted
one. A gap in the world of fashion
not to be easily filled. A season without
Lady Arabella Yorke and her beautiful
daughters is something we do not dare to contemplate.
But we trust — the days of mourning
over — the Marchioness of Runnymede
may be induced to give those poor mortals, to
whom London seasons are not yet things of
the past, an opportunity for sunning themselves
in the effulgence of a beauty rarely
equalled and never yet surpassed."

Wonders upon wonders ! The vacancy
in Middleshire, caused by the lamented death
of Mr. Yorke, is likely to be filled in a totally
unexpected manner. That eccentric baronet,
Sir Francis Hawthorne, has been again invited
to stand, and it is said is to be permitted,
by some hole-and-corner arrangement, to walk

over the course. What can it all mean ?
Some say that money is at the bottom of it,
and that it is because the man who is first
favourite, should Sir Francis not get in, owes
a pot of money in the county, and has not
yet paid his last election expenses when he
contested Dumbleshire. We give this for
what it is worth."

The same day there appeared in Spite the
following paragraph :

'' We hear that since the death of a certain
great brewer there has been a terrible blowup
amongst the beer barrels in the brewery,
and we are told that there are cheques flying
about which are not worth the value of the
paper they are written on. It is always
dangerous for trade to venture on the Turf
We would warn our friends to look to their
bills."

How coarse and vulgar !" said Geraldine,
when her husband, my lord, brought these
paragraphs to her notice.

Most consumedly disagreeable, you
know," said his lordship.

But he did not say he had one of those

bills — a bill for no small figure — referred toby
Spite in his pocket.

Happily neither Lady Arabella nor Eva
read the papers, and Victoria was too much
occupied to think of anything else. Not
so, however, Eva : she had found time to
think of Chub, and the consequence was, a
postal-card, addressed to Charles Prhigle,
Esq., was duly delivered at No. 4, Woodbine
Terrace, which caused that gentleman to contort
himself in every possible manner expressive
of joy, though on that postal-card there
was but a single line:

*' We shall come tomorrow — four o'clock —
tea."

CHAPTER IX.

Made.

What a change of life for little Mado^e !
What a change in little Madge herself had
been produced by these few months in
Woodbine Terrace, and by the new influences
which had been brought to bear upon her !

Mrs. Marsh had become weaker and weaker,
with alternating fits of deep despondency
and strange excitement. Shut up in her own
room when in her melancholy moods, she
occasionally sallied forth, to return in a state
which filled Madge with a feeling akin to that
which she felt whenever her father approached
her. Why was it ? She did not know. She
would ask Mrs. Fulford, '' What is it makes
poor mamma so — strange?" But Mrs. Fulford
would give no answer, and Madge could not
see the sad shake of the good woman's head,
and the way in which her lips were drawn

tightly together as if to restrain herself from
speaking. Once only were her feelings too
much for her ; but she spoke rather as if
to herself than in answer to the child's
question.

Yes, it is a very sad case ; and I am
afraid hopeless."

Madge could neither understand the words
nor forget them.

'* What was a very sad case ? and why
should Mrs. Fulford say it was hopeless ?"

She was filled, young as she was, with an
instinctive fear, and did not like to ask Mrs.
Fulford any more questions. She would see
if her uncle could tell her.

"Dear uncle, what is it that makes poor
mamma so — so strange ?"

She had interrupted him in his work, aspen
in hand, he went over and over those
closely written rows of cramped figures.

"Hush — hush!" he said; "you must not
interrupt me, or I shall never find it, and I
am so near."

But she would not be content; she must
have an answer.

You shall tell me, you cross old uncle.
I will give you no peace till you tell me, and
then you will never find it."

Then the old man tried to pacify her, pretending
not to know what she wanted ; but
the sharpness of the child was more than a
match for the old man's cunning.

*' Don't be such a sly old fox, uncle ; you
know quite well what it is. Come now, tell
me."

'' What is it, Madge T

Why is poor mamma so strange — so very
strange ?"

Then the old man, as if impelled by some
irresistible force, stammered out :

Oh, you should not, Madge. It is the
curse — the curse ! She has caught it from
him — the curse. It is in his blood — the
curse; but for that I had not lost it; and
now it is too late — too late, and I am so near
so near. Oh, child ! leave me — leave me.

I am a poor — poor old man — a miserable old

I"
man !

His tone was so piteous that Madge's heart
was touched.

No, uncle dear," she said. " I will not
go away until you kiss me and say I have not
made you very sorry. Ah ! if I had but my
eyes, I would help you, and I know we should
soon find it. Bat how can I do anything
when it is all dark ? Ah ! I too must have

the curse. Poor — poor mamma ! now I know
what it means. Yes, yes, it is the curse !"

Then in his turn the old man tried to
soothe her.

I did not know what I said, I did not
indeed. It is my foolish old brain. It is not
true."

But she answered :

** Uncle dear, don't tell stories. It is
wicked to tell stories. Yes, I know now, it is
the curse — the curse !"

A.nd so she left him sadder than before.

Oh, it was so dreadful ! But what was a
curse '?"

She had heard much from Mrs. Fulford
of the curse which had fallen on mankind
through the disobedience of our first parents.
But she could not be made to understand it.
ludeed she had taken Eve's part, and said,
'* Oh, Mrs. Fulford, why was it so very wicked
to eat that nice apple ? I like apples, though
I like pears better. Why should God have
been so very, very angry ?"

Because Eve was disobedient, and it is
very wicked to be disobedient."

'* But when I am disobedient, you are only
cross, Mrs. Fulford. You do not curse, as
father does, when he is put out. Does God

curse people, then, when He is angry like
father?"

Poor Mrs, Falford ! she had enough to do
to pacify that restless, inquiring little mind.
Her theology was of a very simple kind, and
though she was a remarkably sincere believer,
she was a remarkably bad teacher, and could
tint no other refuge in her perplexities than
the oft-repeated request that Madge would
not ask so many questions.

** It is all true," she said, " and that is
enough for us. All we have to do is to
believe it, and little girls must not be too
inquisitive."

Then little Madofe would sit rocking herself f
to and fro on the low stool by Mrs. Fulford's
side, and wonder how it could be that God
could be so good, and yet get so angry, and
like her wicked father — ^^for Mrs. Fulford had
told her he was wicked — curse poor Eve.
And only for eating that one apple ! She felt
so sorry for poor Eve, for a nice ripe apple
was what of all things, next to pears, she
liked best.

But what was a curse ? Ah ! now she
thought she could tell. Yes, she knew. It
was when people are rough and used bad
words, and smell of nasty tobacco and horrid

gin, that must be because of the curse ; and
when they can only weep and sigh and
moan, and are sometimes silly, and have the
same horrid smell of gin, that too must bethe
curse ; and when they are old and foolish,
and are always looking for what they cannot
find ; and v/hen like poor little me they
have no eyes, and can see no sun nor
flowers nor pretty toys, but are always in the
dark, that too is the curse — that dreadful
curse !

She did not dare to speak to Mr. Fulford
about it. Mr. Fulford never talked of anything
but his garden and his flowers. There
was no one to whom she could pour out her
heart but Pops, and when they were alone
together, she would tell him all she thought ;
Pops pressing his head against her cheek,
and sometimes giving a little click with his
tongue as if to show that he was all attention,
and to encourage her to go on. Then she
would ask, " Don't you think so. Pops ?" ani
oh, it was such a comfort to her to hear Pops,
after a moment's pause, as if deeply reflecting
on all she had said, answer : "Pops has his
doubts — has his doubts."

Oh ! dear, dear old Pops, how I love you !"

she would say — 'love you better than anything
in the world."

But Pops would interrupt her petulantly,
and say, *' Pops has his doubts ;" and flutter
about and make such discordant sounds, that
Madge would threaten to shut him up in his
cage and never say one word again to such a
nasty jealous bird.

It was Chub who had told her that Pops
was jealous.

*' Dear Mr. Pringle !" — she never could be
induced to call him anything else, though
Chub had confided to her the secret of that
name, and wished her to call him by it. —
Dear Mr. Pringle ! How stupid of poor Pops
to be jealous. But I do love him very much
very much indeed, quite as much as Pops
perhaps more, for Pops can only listen, and
Mr. Pringle talks as no one else I have ever
heard can talk. But he must know nothing
of the curse. I will hide it from him. He
would never let me into his room again,
into that nice sunny back parlour, if he were
to know that I had a curse upon me — that
dreadful curse !"

But one evening when they were sitting
together — for not a day passed without Chub
having a long visit from Madge — she, suddenly

jerking her head so as to toss back her rebel
curls, and turning her sightless eyes upon
him, said :

Mr. Pringle, you are smoking. Why do
you smoke ?"

Really," said Chub, " I do not quite
know. It makes me feel comfortable, particularly
when I am doing nothing else and am
idle."

Is smoking wicked ?'*

*' What a funny question. I hope not."

Does God like it ?"

He has given us tobacco, and I do not
know that it could be put to any other use."

'' Do you love God T

I ought to. We should all love him. He
has given us so many blessings. He has
been so kind to us."

Chub was thinking of, to him, the greatest
of all blessings, Eva's love.

I do not love him at all," said Madge ;
He has not been kind to me. You won't
tell anyone — you won't tell Mrs. Fulfurd ?" —
she dropped her voice as she spoke — '^ I hate
Him."

Here was a difficulty for Chub — he, of all
people in the world ; and yet, though the
difficulty with him was as great as with Mrs.

VOL. II. 3u

Fulford, he dealt with it so differently that
poor little Madge felt comforted. He encouraged
her to talk, and as she poured forth
the long-pent-up secrets of her heart — those
secrets which it had been her fixed intention
that Chub should never know — there was
something so touching in her artless tale of
childish misery, that Chub could not restrain
himself from taking her in his arms and
endeavouring to soothe her with kind words.

'' My dear little Madge," he said, '' all is
not so dark as you think. If God has sent
curses into the world, He has sent blessings
too. But I am such a stupid fellow, I
cannot teach you ; but I know of somebody
who can, and I will ask somebody to come
and see you : and you shall love somebody,
and she shall tell you all that God has done
for you, and for me, and for everybody
else."

"Is 'somebody,' then, a lady?" asked
-Madge, her thoughts turned into another
channel, and her curiosity aroused.

'' Yes, she is a lady ; a young lady," said
Chub, blushing as he spoke.

And is she pretty ?"

'' Very pretty, and very nice," said Chub ;
"and if you are very good, I know she will love

you. But you must not tell her that you
hate God. You must never say that again."

'' No, I will not," said Madge.

This was just before Mr. Yorke's death.
Since that time, Madge and Chub had often
talked together about ** somebody." Indeed, it
is astonishing how ingeniously he turned the
conversation in that direction ; so much so,
that Madge for a time was so fully occupied
in thinking about " somebody," that she took
very little interest in anything else.

*'Do tell me * somebody's' name ?" she would
ask, over and over again.

But Chub would not. " She must wait
till * somebody' came."

Then she would guess — the number of
names she knew was not very great — but it
was of no use, Chub would not give in.

"It is very naughty of you, Mr. Bring] e," she
would say; "indeed it is! Oh, how I wish she
would come ! How I long to see ' somebody !' "

She would say this aloud, when sitting
alone with Boys in Chub's sanctum, the
ground-floor back. For Mrs. Marsh would
not let Boys stay in her room ; she said the
very sight of him distracted her ; and Madge
herself was not allowed to remain for any
length of time, so impatient had the poor

:30 — 2

invalid become of the slightest movement,
or of anything which roused her from the
half-torpid, dreamy state in which the
greater portion of her time was spent. Their
own sitting-room was cheerless, and had no
sun ; her great-uncle was so engrossed in
his calculations that he became fidgety and
fretful whenever she went near him. Mrs.
Fulford was bustling about the greater part
of the day; and, left entirely to herself,
the solitary child was only too glad to take
refuge with Pops in the snug back parlour,
with its sunny aspect.

For Madge loved to bask in the sunshine';
and in the early spring mornings, when the
weather was fine, she would open the window
and sit hour after hour listening to the twitter
of the sparrows ; and if Mr. Fulford were at
work in the little garden ; to the sharp grind
of his spade as he forced it into the crisp
earth, and to the thud following thud in steady
cadence, as he turned it over with a jerk and
released it from its load. She knew exactly
what it was, for she had asked him to show her
how to dig, and it was so pleasant to sit there
and picture all that he was doing ; and sometimes
she would call out : " Please, Mr. Ful-ford,
where are you digging ?"

And he, having no great power of description
— strong man though he was — would
say:

I don't see, Miss Madge, how I could
make it clear. I atn only a-digging in the
garden ;" which answer would make her
wonder all the more as to the exact spot.

Could it be near the sweetbread, or near
the bed of wall-flowers 1 for before the
weather had become cold and wet, she had
Itarnt to know every inch of the little garden
and the whereabouts of every flower in it.
She would have gone on questioning Mr. Ful-ford
if, instead of Mr. Fulford, it had been
someone else, but Mr. Fulford was not a man
of many words, and had a great dislike to
being questioned ; besides which he would
always insist on calling her Miss — Miss
Madge — and that frightened her. She liked
to hear him at work ail the same, and to know
that he was digging, or clipping the box-edging,
or raking the walks, or using the
roller. Ah, it was so pleasant to hear the
crushing of the travel under the roller ; she
knew all about that, too, for had she not
helped Mr. Fulford to drag that heavy roller,
and did she not know what hard work ic
was, and hove smooth the rough path became

after it had passed over it ? It was so nice
to sit there and picture all that was goings
on in that garden ; to think of that budding
sweetbread, whose young leaves were already
filling the air with fragrance ; of the wallflowers
with their stronger perfume ; of the
lilacs just about to unclose their little round-clustered
flowers; of the newly-turned clods;
of all that smelt so fresh and sweet on that
bright spring morn. Other pictures of inanimate
objects were but dull, colourless
forms — she knew them only through her sense
of touch — but these sweet-scented ones appealed
to her fancy through another sense,
and she loved them in proportion to the
enjoyment they afforded her. Just at this
moment, it was the sweetbread which stood
highest in her favour.

^' I am so glad it has thorns' she said to
Mrs. Fulford one day, as that lady came into
the room.

So glad that what has thorns ?"

*' The sweetbread ; to prick naughty people
who want to pick its leaves. Oh, Mrs. Ful-ford
! do tell me ; are there sweetbread trees
in heaven ?"

*dear — dear me, child!" said Mrs. Fulford;
'' what will you ask next ?"

"I think there must be," said Madre,
thoughtfully ; '* but without thorns."

Mrs. Fulford had, as we know, commenced
by taking Madge " in hand ;" but gradually,
and almost imperceptibly, though still feeling
a kind and compassionate interest in the poor
blind child, she had discontinued her attempts
to instruct her. How, indeed, was it possible
for lier to teach, when there was scarcely a
moment that she was not disconcerted by
some strange question, for which she could
find no answer. If Madge had not been
blind it might have been less difficult ; for
children are more easily taught by pictures
than by words. With the aid of pictures it
is so much easier to excite their curiosity or
fix their attention, or —-when necessary — to
divert their thoughts from subjects which
have become difficult to deal with.

'' Poor dear child !" said Mrs. Fulford to her
husband ; '^ I do not know how to manage
her. She is always wanting to know something
that I can't tell her ; and when I read
to her, she is sitting thinking all the time ;
and when 1 have done, she wants to know
why God did this, and why God did that,
until 1 am all of a daze."

Take my advice, Tibs," said Mr. Fulford,

with an oracular shake of the head. ** Take
my advice. Let her alone."

Mrs. Fulford did not often take Mr. Ful-ford's
advice — not from any want of confidence
in her husband's judgment, but because self-reliance
was one of her most prominent virtues.
In this case, however, she did ; and from that
time little Madge was, in the words of Mr.
Fulford, 'Met alone."

'^ God will enlighten her in His own good
time," was the worthy woman's consolatory
remark. " I would teach her if I could ; but
I can't, and that's a fact."

Mrs. Fulford did not know that children
cannot be taught without love ; and Madge,
although she liked, did not love Mrs. Fulford.
She only thought her very kind.

So Madge was " let alone," and this is why
she so often sat for hours in the 'Aground-floor
back," deeply communing with herself, or
pouring forth her inmost thoughts to Pops,
with no better consolation than to know that
he, too, had his " doubts."

CHAPTER X.

POPS IS JEALOUS.

Yes ! Pops had his doubts. He was always
doubting ; but never had he been in a more
doubting, restless, disagreeable "mood than
on the afternoon of the day upon which Chub
had called out to Madge :

Madge — I shall be back early. You must
come down. ' Somebody ' is coming — and
mind you make yourself very nice ; there
will be tea and toast."

Then Madge heard Chub calling out to
Mrs. Fulford to take care that there was a
nice bright fire in the sitting-room ; and to let
him have her best tea-set; and to ask Fulford
to pick a few fresh flowers for the centre of
the table ; and to have some cream ; and to do
this and to do that, until even the patience of
that amiable woman was exhausted, and she
bait :

'* Lor', Mr. Pringle ! one would think the
world was corning to an end, instead of its
being only two young ladies a-coming to
tea."

And even after Chub had left the house, he
came back — letting himself in with the latchkey
— to call out down the kitchen-stairs :

^' Mrs. Fulford, you won't mind ; but will
you see that little Madge looks nice, and hasher
hair all right T Hurrying off and slamming
the door before he could receive an
answer, as if he were not quite sure that it
might be a pleasant one — for Mrs. Fulford's
answers were not always soft and pleasant to
the ear when she was a little put out ; and
nothing put Mrs. Fulford out more than being
told to do anything — which was, she would
say, '* being treated as if she were only fit
for Colnev Hatch, as if she did not know
better what was wanted than Mr. Pringle."
The only thing which brought her round was
any interposed remark by Mr. Fulford :

^* Never mind, Tibs ; he's only a boy."

Boy indeed I I wish, Fulford, you would
mind your own business. Boy, indeed ! I
should like to know where you would find
a nicer and better-behaved young man than
Mr. Charles. Never mind, if he do aggravate

a little sometimes, you should not lose your
temper, Fulford. It's not Christian."

Under such a rebuke as this, what could
John Fulford do but sneak off to the garden,
to wait till the missus had cooled 1 There he
smoked a pipe over it very pleasantly.

** Dan it!" he would say to himself;
*' why, the little woman was up at me like
a tarrier dog ! She is a plucky one, and no
mistake." It was a source of pride to him
to feel that he had a wife who could stand up
and face a husband who was always beinor told
that he was every inch a man. '* Dang it !
she's a plucky one !"

Madge's excitement was so great that she
could not sit quiet ; and Pops had a hard time
of it, for he was turned out of his cage in
order that it might be well cleaned, and was
not allowed as of wont to perch upon the
window-ledge of the back parlour and amuse
himself by disturbing the siesta of Mrs.
Ful ford's tabby-cat, who would have remained
comfortably coiled up in some snug sunny
corner of the garden, had it not been for the
hideous mews which were the heart's delight
of Pops whenever he caught sight of a cat.
No ! now — and he could not tell why — he was
shut up by himself in that comfortless front

parlour. Can it then be wondered at, that
under the irritation of his wounded feelings
he sought for consolation by endeavouring topick
a hole in the back of a mahogany armchair,
and had to suffer condign punishment
from Mrs. Fulford when he was discovered
amusing himself by reducing a large splinter
to shreds, and covering the carpet with the
result of his labours.

No wonder that Madge could eat very
little dinner.

It was one of Mrs. Marsh's good days, and
she had got up in time to dine with her little
daughter. She heard of the expected visit,
which had so excited the child's imagination,
with complete indifference ; but that was
usual with her. She had become indifferent
to everything.

"May I wear my best frock, mamma'*
asked Madge.

You may wear what you like, my dear ;"
and Mrs. Fulford coming into the room at the
moment, she added : " And Mrs. Fulford will,
I am sure, be kind enough to dress you, for I
am going out."

'* Certainly, mem," said Mrs. Fulford ; '' but
there is a cold wind, and I think, mem, if I
may be allowed to say so, it would be better

for you to stay at home, or wait till tomorrow,
when von could take Miss Madi^e
with you."

It was evident Mrs. Fulford did not like
this going out alone.

I cannot wait till tomorrow," said Mrs.
Marsh, curtly. " I have business."

Mrs. Fulford screwed up her mouth, but
made no answer, for it was not the first time
by many that Mrs. Marsh had gone out on
business.

It was still quite early in the afternoon
when little Madge, full of expectation, sat in
the little back parlour by the side of Pops.
Pops's cage had been marvellously brightened
up by Mr. Fulford ; but Pops did not seem
to appreciate it, for he remained sulky and
silent at the end of the perch farthest from
Madge, as if he wanted to show her that he
was displeased. But Madge had something
else than Pops to think of now, and after she
had asked if his cage looked clean and nice,
seemed to have dismissed him from her
thoughts. As she sat on a stool by the fire,
w with one arm resting on the seat of a chair
and the other hanging listlessly by her side,
with her head bent down so that her long
silky hair fell in a showing fringe of curls, as

if to screen her face, she was formless bright
visions of that beautiful "somebody" whose
rame she was so soon to hear ; of that other
young lady of whom Mr. Pringle had spoken
?<s Vic ; of that nice buttered toast which Mrs.
Fulford knew so well how to make, and of
vkhich Madge was nearly as fond as a ripe
sweet apple.

She wondered how long it would be before
they came ; it seemed as if the time would
never pass. The clock on the chimneypiece
made a little premonitory click, as if in answer
to her thoughts, and then in a slow, measured,
pompous sort of way struck three. " Only
three ! Dear me, dear me !"

Then she wondered how the clock knew it
was three, and what it was that made it tick,
tick, day and night. She had never thought
of this before, though she had once felt the
clock all over, and knew what its outside was
like. She must ask Mr. Pringle about it.
It is so odd. What can make it go on tick,
tick ? What can it be ? What is it, Pops V

But Pops was still in the dumps, and
would not say whether he knew or not, would
not even say whether he had his doubts.

I wonder if I should knows if I could see
like other people ?" Then she asked herself

how people felt when they could see. She
thought over it for a long time, but she could
not make it out ; she only knew that people
who could see did not run against chairs and
tables and hurt themselves as she did.

Ah, how nice it must be to see !"

She said this with a deep sigh ; but as she
said it the whole current of. her thoughts
were changed, for she heard the hurried rattle
of a latch-key and the opening of the front
door.

Ah, here comes Mr. Pringle ! I am so
glad."

And Chub, coming in panting and out of
breath, just put his head into the room :

"All right, Madge; I shall be down
directly ;" and then hurried upstairs, to return
in less than a quarter of an hour,
smelling most unmistakably of brown Windsor
soap : and if Madge had had eyes like other
people, she would have seen that he had
put on his Sunday coat, and had made a
parting down his hair, which for accuracy,
might have served to have demonstrated the
geometrical definition of a straight line.

Now would have been the time for Madge
to have asked him about the clock, but sit)
was too anxious. She felt that " somebody "

ora.

ihust very soon arrive ; and even had she
done so, it is doubtful whether Chub could
have given a coherent answer, so much,
too, had " somebody " taken possession of his
thoughts.

Yes, she will soon be here, and Vic too."

But I don't want to see Vic ; it is ' somebody
' I want to see."

Madge always spoke of seeing people ; she
did so simply because it was the way in which
other people talked, for it is not to be expected
that blind children should have a
language of their own.

She was sitting on the little low stool by
his side, with both her arms resting on his
knee ; and as she said *' somebody," she turned
her face upwards towards his, appealingly,
and in her coaxing little voice :

Dear Mr. Pringle, now you will tell me,
won't you ? What is ' somebody's ' name ?"

' Somebody's' name is Eva," said Chub ;
^' but you must always call her Miss Yorke."

** Yes !" said Madge, almost as if she were
disappointed ; " I like that best. Miss
Yorke. Why did they call her Eva ? It
is like the name of poor silly Eve, who
listened to the fine stories of that horrid
serpent. Oh! I wish Mrs. Fulfurd had never

told me, for it makes me sit and think, and
think, and I can't make it out. But I will
Dover say again what you told me not. No,
never. But the other young lady ? Is her
real name Vic ?"

Before Chub could answer, or express his
surprise at Madge having any objection to
the name of all others which he thought
most beautiful — Eva — the bell was pulled
violently, and on the door being opened — so
quickly was it opened that Mrs. Fulford must
have been on the watch — a man's voice was
heard inquiring if Mr. Pringle were at home.

'^ Here they are !" cried Chub, jumping up
excitedly, whilst Madge turned pale and
seemed to shrink within herself, and Pops
ruffled his feathers, gave himself a shake,
and uttered a defiant *' Whew !"

The passage of No. 4, Woodbine Terrace,
was not wide, and Mrs. Fulford stood, in consequence,
as flat as she could make herself,
with the door in her hand, rather overcome
with the feeling that the eyes of the neighbourhood
were upon her, and that in many
breasts much envy was being excited ; for
carriages were seldom, it might be said never,
seen drawn up before houses in Woodbine
Terrace, the inhabitants of that locality, as
VOL. II. 3i

well as the friends who visited them, belonging
principally to that extensive class who,
when they do not walk, aspire to nothing
higher than omnibuses or cabs. The only exceptions
were mourning-coaches and doctors'
broughams, and they always caused an immense
sensation.

To the people in these neighbourhoods, a
funeral excites the greatest interest, and the
touch of melancholy which belongs to it adds
to the fascination. As a source of distraction,
the doctor's carriage stands next ; and when
it stops, there are not a few of the neighbours
who look out narrowly to see whether the
doctor is going to take into the house with
him some of those dreadful instruments
with which he is always supposed to be accompanied
: the length of his visit, too, leads
to all sorts of surmises as to the nature of
the case, and when he comes out an attempt
in made to discover, by the expression of his
face, what opinion he may have formed as to
bis patient's condition.

The visit to a neighbour of a doctor who
drives his carriage is therefore always regarded
as a most agreeable incident by those
whom fate has obliged to take up their residence
in a quarter which is remarkable for

nothing better than its dulness ; for quiet
places are always dull, and the people who
live in them are often only kept alive by it,
in addition to doctors and funerals, occasional
visits from Punch, barrel-organs, hurdy-
guides, and brass bands.

But what is a brass band, a Punch and
Judy show, a doctor's brougham, or even a
funeral, to a beautiful carriage with a pair of
high-stepping horses, a tall footman, and —
*' Look, he has opened the door, and they are
stepping out ! What a pity they are in
black !" — two most lovely young ladies !

Who can they be '{ and who can they be
going to call on at No. 4 '?"

The question is soon answered. Chub
runs down the steps, almost runs against the
young ladies in his haste, and shakes them
warmly by the hand. Mrs. Fulford flattens
herself more and more against the wall, keeping
fast hold of the door the while, as if
under the impression that it would slam to
unless she did so. Chub and the lovely
young ladies squeeze past her. The door is
shut, and then for the moment the mystery
ends — if mysteries ever can be said to
end.

^' Oh, what a nice room you have 1" said

31—2

via.

Eva, with unwonted warmth, as she followed
Chub into the back parlour. " And this is
little Madge ?" as she stooped down and
stroked the hair of the now almost crouching
child. " My dear Madge, we must become
friends ; and you must tell me all about Pops.
Where is Pops ?"

A violent rapping from Pops's beak against
the bars of his cage was the only answer.
Madge was too shy to speak, and would have
hid herself if she could ; and Chub was so
busy arranging chairs, that he had just then
few spare thoughts for anyone or anything.

*' Oh yes, Mr. Pops : I see you," said Eva.
** I will come and talk to you by-and-by f
she sat down as she spoke, and drawing her
chair close to the little stool upon which Madge
still sat, took the child's hand in one of hers,
whilst with the other she caressed her soft,
flowing curls.

Then she felt a strange feeling of embarrassment;
oddly enough, she had never spoken
to a blind child before. She felt the deepest
compassion for her, but those sightless eyes
were so cold and meaningless they seemed to
destroy all sympathy. She was shocked at
her own heartlessness, yet it was with an
effort that she repeated :

Yes, dear Madge ; we must be friends !"
and stooped down and kissed her on the
forehead.

Then it was that Madge felt another hand
take hers — a hand not quite so soft and
small as Eva's, but with more power in it —
a hand the pressure of which seemed to say,
Here I am, ready to help you !" — a hand to
hold on by in danger or distress; and a voice,
not quite so sweet and musical as Eva's, but
clear and vibrating with tenderness, said :

Madge, you must let me be a friend as
well as Miss Yorke. I dare say Mr. Pringle
has spoken to you of me, of Victoria — Victoria
Marsh ? You see, we have the same
names ! Is not that nice ?"

Then Madge found herself lifted up by a
pair of strong arms ; and almost before she
knew where she was, she found herself sitting
on Victoria's lap, with her head resting
upon her shoulder, and a soft, loving cheek
pressed against hers, and a feeling of happiness
such as she had never — never felt
before.

And whilst Chub and Eva sat talking
together on one side of the fire, Victoria,
with Madge still on her lap, broke down,
little by little, that barrier of shyness, and

reserve, and vague wonderment, which had
stood between her and the sightless child.

"Give me your hand," she had said; " I want
you to know what I am like :" and as she
passed it over her face, " now you know that I
have a nose, mouth, and chin ; and how I
wear my hair ; and that I have no ear-rings.
And you must call me Victoria, and not Miss
Marsh ; and promise to love me."

And as she felt the child press her cheek
more closely to hers, as if in answer, she too
stooped down and kissed her ; but it was
not a cold kiss on the forehead, as Eva's
had been, but a warm, loving kiss — such asa
tender mother gives her child — lip to

lip.

Oh, that kiss ! that kiss !

It was as a charm. The child threw her
arms round Victoria's neck and burst into
tears.

*' Why do you cry, Madge ?"

'' Oh, Miss — oh, Victoria ! — because I am
so happy," sobbed the child.

'* Do you always cry when you are
happy r

'* No ; only when I am naughty ; but then
it is not like this."

'swell," said Victoria, '' I will kiss this

big tear away, and then we must not have
another."

Then she asked her about Pops, and what
she could do, and how she amused herself;
and when Madge said she could not do
much, for she had no eyes — why had she no
eyes ? other people had eyes — Victoria told
her of other little girls and boys whom
she had known, who could not see ; of their
being able to read and to do many things ;
and of some who had nice little gardens of
their own, and grew sweet-smelling flowers ;
and of some who were fond of music, and
had learnt to play on some instrument.

But Madofe said she would like best to have
a garden and have roses and flowers. She
did not care for music ; it was pleasant to
hear people talk, and read — when they read
pretty books.

And who reads to you ?" asked Victoria.

Mother did once, but now she says she is
too weak, and that it makes her head ache.
And sometimes Mrs. Fulford — but I don't,
like her books. Though I like to hear about
David and Samson and Jonah. Poor Jonah I
we never have fish for dinner but I think of
Jonah ! And is the Bible all true ? Mrs.
Fulford says it is."

She could talk quite freely now, and ask
all sorts of strange questions : and as she
rested her head on Victoria's shoulder, and
felt herself encircled in those loving arms,
she felt as if she had known Victoria all her
life, and she only wondered how she could
have been so silly as to have been afraid
of her. And how nice it was to hear Victoria
talk. She did not keep pitying her, and
speak in a whisper about people being blind.
No ; she made it seem natural for people not
to see ; and it was so pleasant to know that
she was not the only little girl to whom God
had not given eyes like other people, and that
children who had no eyes could run about and
play, and that when they grew up they did
not knock against chairs and tables and hurt
themselves, but could work, and make baskets,
and read books. It was not so bad after all
to have no eyes.

Then Pops had to be introduced ; and
whilst Madge is coaxing him, and Chub is
whistling to him, and Eva and Victoria are
looking at him and admiring him, and hoping
every moment that he will talk and come out
of the sulks — for it is clear to all the world
that something has gone wrong with Pops, and
that he is sulky — a thud against the door.

followed by a sound as of tea-cups in collision,
intimates the arrival of Mrs. Fulford with
the tray.

Perhaps it is the sight of the sugar-basin
which has the effect of raising Pops's spirits
and making him for a moment forget the
cause of his dejection, for he raised his head
and mewed twice, though somewhat dismally,
and then relapsed into his attitude of defiant
dulness.

Chub explains that Pops always mews
when he sees Mrs. Fulford, probably because
there is some association in his mind between
her and her favourite tom-cat.

Madge called Pops a cross, sulky old thing ;
she would perhaps have said more, but at that
moment she smelt the buttered toast, and
that mollified her.

It might have been expected that Chub
would have asked Victoria to have done the
honours, but he did not ; and by some skilful
management — for he did not ask her, and yet
she did it so naturally that it seemed as if he
must have done so — Eva took her place at
the table and poured out the tea; Madge
once more seating herself on the low stool,
ready for the buttered toast, and Chub
buzzing about as busy and as happy as a

young bee who is flying home for the first
time with a load of honey.

This is what I call nice !" cries Chub.

Madge says it is very nice, with her mouth
full of buttered toast.

Victoria pats her on the head, and 
is always nice to be with kind friends,
even though there should be no buttered
toast ; and Eva wonders where Chub can get
such nice tea — she has never tasted anything
so delicious in her life.

At which remark the sulky Pops ventures
a malicious '* Whew !" and goes back at once
into a state of collapse.

But he is not allowed to remain so. He is
attacked on both flanks at the same time
with bits of biscuit and lumps of sugar, and
further resistance is useless. He obstinately
refuses, however, to surrender to Victoria,
and continues to threaten her fingers with
fierce pecks, whenever they approach his-cage
; and it is by the small, white, dainty
hand of Eva that he is made captive.

Chub begins to love him for his choice.
Oh yes I Pops is one of the cleverest bird
that ever lived ; and when he sees him, first
pecking at Eva's finger, as she puts it in the
cage, and then grasping it in his claw, and

allowing himself to be brought out of the
cage that Eva may kiss him and have the
kiss returned — for poor Pops seems suddenly
to have found out how lovable Eva is — ashe
brings his little smooth black tongue in
contact with her pouting lip, Chub is filled
with envy, and wishes himself a bird.

•' Why is it, Madge," asked Victoria,
'That your old friend Pops is so churlish, and
will have nothing to say to poor me ? What
have I done to offend him T

Come here, and I will tell you," said
Madge. " Here — quite — quite close, and I
will speak it in your ear."

And as Victoria knelt by the side of the
low stool, the child, putting her arms round
her neck, raised herself up until her mouth
was in contact with her ear, and whispered :

'^ You must not tell — Pops is jealous. He
never likes anyone that I love : and I love
you, oh, so dearly !"

But don't you love Miss Yorke, too ?
You have known her quite as long as you
have known me."

''Ah ! Miss Yorke," said Madge, still in a
whisper; "that is very different. It is a
secret — a very great secret ; but Mr. Pringle
loves somebody — more than he does me or

anybody else — but not so much as I love
you, my darling, darling Victoria ! — may I
call you Victoria ? — and that cunning jealous
old Pops has found it out. You don't know
what a clever bird Pops is —-he finds everything
out."

'* Sh-h ! don't tell the cats 1" cried Pops ;
and then he whistled and mewed, and had
his doubts, ever and anon interrupting himself
to return Eva's caresses, or to make
fierce feints at Victoria, as if to show his dislike
to her, and treating Chub with an
indifference which could have been but
deeply humiliating to that gentleman's feelings
; but Chub's feelings were so concentrated
on Eva that he could think of nothing else —
so that he even forgot to remind Victoria, ashe
had intended to have done, to take a
good look at Madge's eyes. But Victoria
had not required to be reminded — she had
from the first looked at those poor dull eyes ;
and whilst the hearts of Chub and Eva were
filled with all the tender emotions which
belong to a pure and youthful love, hers was
filled with a longing that the day might come
when her labours should be crowned with a
skill and a knowledge which would enable
her to help even such a one as this poor

addicted child. '' What a privilege, what a
power' she thought, "to give sight to the
blind ! Why, it is God-like. Oh that I
may be found worthy of it !"

She was still kneeling by the low stool,
with the child clinging to her, and for a few
minutes she had not spoken a word; but it
seemed almost as if there must be some unknown
sympathy between them, for it was-just
at this moment that Madge again put
her mouth to her ear and whispered :

''I cannot tell why it is, when I am by
you, and you hold me in your arms, it makes
me think of God ; not the cruel one that Mrs.
Fulford tells me about, but of a good kind
God, that I love as I do you. Why is it ?"

Because God is love," she answered almost
mechanically. Had she had time for thought
she might have answered less shortly, but a
loud ring at the bell announced that the carriage
had returned, and the little clock oa
the chimney piece showed but too plainly that
the time had come for saying good-bye.

Is she not nice ?" asked Chub of Madofe,
when they were once more alone — of course
he was thinking of Eva.

I love her better than anybody in the
world' said Madge, thinking of Victoria.

'' Whew !" whistled Pops.

'' Dear old Pops !" said Chub.

*' Foolish, jealous old Pops !" said Madge.

It was nearly dusk when, not long after
Eva and Victoria had driven off, another carriage
stopped opposite the gate of No. 4, Woodbine
Terrace. This time it was not a well-appointed
carriage with high-stepping horses,
but a humble — a more than humble, an extremely
disreputable-looking — four-wheeler.
The driver, whose limbs seemed to have been
stiffened with rheumatism, swung himself
with no little difficulty off his seat ; and
after having communicated with some one in
the cab — which he did by standing on his toes
and thrusting his head in at the window — he
hobbled through the little garden and up the
steps, ringing the bell in a jerky, spasmodic
manner, as if he were doing something he
did not like, outside the sphere of his proper
duty.

This time, Mrs. Fulford was evidently not
-on the watch ; for it was only after a considerable
delay that that worthy person opened
the door. A delay which seemed somewhat
to irritate the cab-driver, judging from the
objurgations with which he warned the horse
that he had better not move on ; though had

}

Le taken the trouble of looking, he might
easily have seen, from the heaving flanks and
the trembling limbs of the wretched animal,
that moving on was the last thing in the world
it had the slightest intention of doing. The
cabman had scarcely time to say, '' Lady — very
bad — two bob," — when Mrs. Fulford, who
seemed to take in the whole position at a
glance, called out ''Fulford !" at the top of her
voice, from the head of the kitchen stairs ;
but on there being no response, she suddenly
remembered that Fulford had gone out on an
errand.

Nov, Mrs. Fulford, although she was a
stout, active, energetic little woman, was not
physically strong, and she knew from experience
that unaided she was not equal to the
task which was before her ; and even had the
cabman not been the broken-down hobbling
creature he was, there was something in his
manner, and the disagreeable leer which had
accompanied the information of the lady
being " very bad," which made her shrink
from having recourse to his assistance. Telling
him, therefore, that she would come in a
minute, she hurried to the back-parlour, and
knocked at the door. A loud '* Come in "
showed that Chub was still there.

'^ Please, Mr. Pringle, can I speak to you a
minute T

She looked significantly at Madge, and
beckoned as she spoke.

As soon as Chub was outside the door, and
Mrs. Fulford had carefully closed it —

Oh, Mr. Pringle," she whispered, '^ will
you help me ? Fulford is out, and I don't
know what to do. She has come back, and I
fear worse than ever. Oh dear ! oh dear !
thank God, it is nearly dark 1" ^

Chub braced himself up to the task like a
man ; he did not like it, but he was ready todo
it, nevertheless.

With his aid Mrs. Marsh, in a state of complete
helplessness, was supported into the
house and carried upstairs ; she explaining
all the time in incoherent terms that she had
been out on business. Oh, the difficulty she
had to bring out the words ! *eyes, business —
business — and had been taken ill and faint;
but she was better now." And then she repeated
still more incoherently all she had said
before ; and being laid upon her bed and left
to the care of Mrs. Fulford, fell asleep, repeating
" business " to herself, as if she were seeking
to pacify her own conscience.

Has mother come back 1" asked Madi^e

o

\vhen Chub returned.

*' Yes," he only spoke in monosyllables now.
How different from what it had been but a
few short moments aro, when Chub was full
of gleeful talk, and Madge's merry laugh had
accompanied his words :

*' And she is ill again ?"

Yes."

Then a honor silence broken bv MacK>-e.

*' How odd it is !" she said. " I can't make
it out. I can make nothing out. Just now
it was as if I were sitting in a garden filled
with violets and roses, and now I feel as if I
had nothing about me but dead leaves. Do
you know that I think Miss Yorke is like a
violet, and Miss — no, I will always call her
Victoria — is like a rose ? Oh, how I like
roses — but you like violets best, don't
you ? Don't say no — I know you do. But
oh, these dead leaves — these dismal dead
leaves 1"

Dead leaves I How much is there that
is most beautiful in nature — young buds
prematurely withered ; flowers that have
made the air fragrant with their perfume, or
dazzled the eye with their brightness — which
the ruthless hand of Time turns into mere

VOL. II. ^il

Doctor Victoria.

dead leaves, or, as Madge called them —
Dismal dead leaves."

Dead leaves," with no trace left of their
living loveliness ; serving but to point a
moral to the few who moralise — to the many,
nothing more nor less than what they seem —
mere dead leaves.

Poor Madge ! She little knew, as late in
the evening she went to say good-night to
her mother, and turned from her embrace
with ill-concealed disgust; that in the poor
fallen leaf before her, there had been, no longer
since than she herself now counted years, as
much freshness, as much sweetness, and as
much beauty as belonged to those whose presence
had made her feel as if she had been sitting
in a garden filled with violets and roses.

It was with an aching heart that Madge
laid herself upon her little bed that night.
It seemed as if she had been suddenly awakened
out of a beautiful dream. Ob, if she
could but sleep and dream it again, or still
better, die ! — for Mrs. Fulford had told her,
that to die, if people were good, was only to
fall asleep. And why was she not good ?
What had she done to make God angry ?
Why should He not be kind to her ? — kind
to her as Victoria was. Oh, how safe and

happy she had felt in her arms. If God
would only be kind to her, like Victoria-dear
Victoria ! She pressed her cheek more
closely against the pillow as she spoke ; it
was almost as if her head rested once more
upon Victoria's shoulder, and with a little
half-sigh, half-sob, the child fell asleep.

32—2

CHAPTER XI,

FfllENDS IN NEED,

Lady Arabella had received many letters
in which condolences and excuses were equally
balanced. Her brother, the earl, had written
to say he was sorry, but not surprised, to
find that Mr, Yorke had left his affairs in
such an embarrassed state, for he had always
anticipated something of the kind ; and it
only confirmed him in what he supposed was
his hereditary horror of everything like trade.
He was too much occupied to come to town
at that moment, or he would have been very
glad to have made himself useful to her.
But generally speaking, her friends confined
themselves to expressing what they called their
deep sympathy."

My Lord Runny mede had been to see her,
and expressed himself as "awfully sorry that
he could be of no use, but that he had never

been taught to help himself, and so, you
know, he could not be expected to help anybody
else."

My lord ^yas, in fact, out of temper. He
looked upon himself as an injured individual,
and had vented his feelings in anything but
pleasant language to his wife :

This breakdown is confoundedly disagreeable
for me, you know. It does not
signify how people may make money, but
they should not break down. People may
forget that a duchess has been a rich brewer's
daughter; but when there is a breakdown,
and she has a broken-down brother — Gad I
Geraldine, it is very unfortunate for me, you
know."

As a contrast to this came a letter from
Sir Francis Hawthorne, in which he beo^ired
to place his services at Lady Arabella's
disposal.

The very man," said Lady Arabella,
when she had read the note. *' Write to him
at once, my dear Penserosa, and beg him to
come. He will be very useful ; he knows all
about Italy."

Eva suoforested that, having Victoria with
them, they wanted no other help. But Lady
Arabella thought differently.

"■ Two heads are better than one," she said.
Victoria is all very well, but she has never
crossed the Alps."

So Sir Francis was written to, and came at
once to see her. Came day by day to talk
with her, and help Eva pnd Victoria in their
arrangements. It was as if he had been their
brother.

What a help he was to them I They
wondered how they could have gob on
without him ; for practical as Victoria was,
she was not good at finding out routes in
Bradshaw, and Lady Arabella, in imagination,
was always on the move.

OnedayGeraldine looked in upon them when
they were hard at work, trying to find out the
exact time it would take by the several routes
between Paris and Naples. She had been
sitting with Lady Arabella, and had heard
from her how kind Sir Francis had been.

He is such a dear good fellow," she said,
and knows all about business and those
troublesome lawyers, and about travelling.
Ah, ma chere, though he is tant soit peu
roturier, I sometimes wish your Runnymede
was like him."

For a moment it had been with a feeling
approaching to arger that Geraldine had heard

of Sir Francis beings in her mother's house ; if,
almost seemed as if he had done it out of
bravado, in order to revenge himself on her
for her heartlessness ; he had come to torture
lier in her — no, not misery : it could nut be
misery ; and she but six weeks married.

Her first impulse was not to see him.

But would it not look odd ? Would it
not add to his triumph if he were allowed to
feel that she had not the courage to meet
him ? And then softer feelings took possession
of her heart. Was he not, after all,
doing the work of a true friend ? and lieu
Crime a contrast — too late — too late ! She
had had a hideous, feverish dream ; consciousness
had returned, alas ! too late — too late !

All this, and much more, passed through
her mind on her way downstairs from her
mother's room to the library. As she entered
it, she thought of her father — for it was there
she had seen him last — and of how he had
said to her :

I have done all I can for you ; I have
done my best, and God grant you may never
have occasion to repent your choice''

Ah ! he little knew that repentance was
there, even as he spoke. Yet it was without
any trace of emotion that she greeted Sir

Francis with the formal politeness due to an
acquaintance from one who had been removed
to a sphere which had no place for old friendships.


But though she might conceal her emotion,
it was impossible for her to hide the extraordinary
change which the few short weeks
of married life had produced in her. It was
as if every trace of girlhood had departed
from her, and it was difficult to believe that
the pale, calm, cold woman, whose dignity
sat upon her as if it had been the growth of
years — whose beauty had become, as it were,
petrified — was she who had been so full of
life, so unguarded in her speech, so impulsive
in her actions, so full of warmth and affection
to those she loved. Now, she had become so-undemonstrative
that she kissed Eva — the
sister that she had so much loved — and
Victoria — the one being next to Eva whom
she had the most affection for — as if they had
been statues, and placed her hand into that
of Sir Francis as she might have done into
the hand of a stranger.

Yet at times, to anyone who had closely
watched her, there might have been detected
a kind of scared, startled look, accompanied
with a slight convulsive movement, such as

might be produced by the momentary remembrance
of some hideous recollection, on
one who had determined to banish it for ever.

Of course, by her friends, the change, too
perceptible to be overlooked, which had
taken place in the beautiful Marchioness of
Runnymede, was readily accounted for through
the shock which the death of her father had
produced, coming upon her, as it had done,
in the midst of such a period of happiness.
Some, however, said it was because black did
not become her, and there were some evil
tongues who were wicked enough to say that
her former brilliant complexion had not been
natural, and affected to pity my lord, as if he
had been cruelly imposed upon.

Of course, this change had been perceived
by Eva ; but under the circumstances some
sort of change seemed natural, and Eva
was not one of those troublesomely gifted
people who find themselves compelled to
dive deep down under the surface of things.
Not so Victoria ; she had, as it were, an
instinctive knowledge that Geraldine, under
that calm, cold exterior, was hiding the subterranean
fires which were burning within
her, fed by self-condemnation and wounded
pride ; and her heart bled for her, but she

knew the slightest demonstration of sympathy
would only add intensity to feelings which
time alone could soften.

As Geraldine placed her hand so coldly in
his, Sir Francis was grieved to find the alteration
which had taken place in her. What a
contrast between her, as she stood before him
now, and as she had appeared when he had
last seen her! Then, his heart was filled
with love, admiration, and bitter disappointment
; now, there was no room in it for any
other feeling than the deepest pity. Not
that the change had made her less beautiful —
in some respects she was even more so; but it
was the beauty of a Niobe, in whom the
sparkling current of youthful life had been
suddenly arrested — the beauty of a dead
thing — of a stone.

He remembered Victoria's words : *' Indeed,
indeed, she is greatly to be pitied !" and
he knew by his own feelings how true those
words were.

Yet the last feelings in the world that
Geraldine would have wished to have excited
was " pity."

As she sat down, she glanced at the papers
with which the table was covered.

"It is very kind of you, Sir Francis, to

come and help maine," she said; "and it
makes me doubly angry with my brother" —
she did not call him Duke, now — ** to think,
in addition to the heartless way in which he
has acted, he has been the cause of giving
so much trouble to friends who, like you,
have not deserted my dear mother in her
great trouble." Then, as if glad to change the
conversation, she added : "And I hear you
have been again brought forward for Middle-shire,
and, as yet, there is no other candidate.
Is it true ?"

*' Yes," said Sir Francis ; " my name was
put forward almost without my consent."

"Ah, what changes a few short months
have produced !" said Geraldine, as if speaking
to herself ; " who could have foreseen
them ?" Then, with that strange, scarcely
perceptible spasmodic movement, she added :
But you really ought not to be neglecting
your own interests on my mother's account.
You should be in Middleshire."

"Experience tells me," said Sir Francis,
that others can act for me better than I
can act for myself"

Sir Francis has promised that he will n(^t
remain beyond the end of the week," said
Eva. " It is very wrong of him to stay, but

I don't know what we should have done without
him."

"And, Victoria," said Geraldine, turning
towards her, ^' I fear you, too, are sacrificing
yourself for others ; but then that is your
vocation," she added, in a tone that made it
sound almost like a reproach.

Victoria looked at her for a moment before
she spoke ; then, with a more than usual
degree of gravity, she said :

'* My dear Geraldine, you must know that
what we do for those we love, can never bea
sacrifice ; and, at the best, I can be of very
little use."

** But you must be neglecting your studies,"
said Geraldine, almost with an air of indifference.


'^ I shall resume them the beginning of the
month, for Lady Arabella has agreed to take
Zurich on her way to Italy."

Eva had taken Victoria's hand and kissed
her tenderly, whilst Geraldine had been
speaking.

** Yes, is it not kind of Victoria ? We
shall all travel together ; and Sir Francis
has insisted upon coming to see us off."

A suspicion shot through Geraldine's mind,
and, perhaps, gave even greater acerbity to

lier manner than it had before, as she said,
very kindly :

Indeed ? But I hardly think it necessary;
for of course I shall come, and Eunnymede
\vill be there."

It was the first time she had mentioned
his name; it seemed less painful fur her to
speak it now, since that suspicion had shot
through her mind.

She had been so weak herself, that she
could not quite realise it was possible for
others to be strong; and for that of which she
had herself been guilty, she felt the greatest
contempt. She knew that Sir Francis and
Victoria loved each other. She had chanced
w without love ; why, then, should they not
change, with it ? But, if they did, she would
despise them for it. Sir Francis most, for
weakness was a woman's privilege.

Who would have known that such thoughts
as these were passing through Geraldine's
mind as, cold and calm, she sat talking over
her mother's future plans, and discussed the
easiest route to the Continent, the best hotels,
the expense of living, the most suitable winter
climates, and the many similar topics which
have a special interest for those about to expatriate
themselves.

Tt was astonishing how studiously she
avoided all reference to her dead father — to
her ruined brother — to her own home, or to
her husband, and took refuge in the minor
incidents connected with the change which
was about to take place — even descending
to talk about the weather, and to lament
over the muddiness of the streets ; not one
word coming from her heart, and her heartburning
within her none the less : a relief to
herself — a relief to all, when she rose and
took her leave ; weary of acting a part, and
yet not acting a part — for every word she
uttered was but the outcome of those artificial
feelings which were suppressing and taking
the place of those generous impulses still
smouldering within her breast.

Poor Geraldine !" said Eva, when she had
gone. " She looks so pale, and is so altered,
that sometimes I think she cannot be happy.
Did you ever meet Eunnymede ?" she asked
Sir Francis.

'' Our acquaintance is very slight."

''He is one of those people," said Eva,
*' who, I am sorry to say, do not improve on
acquaintance ; but I must confess to knowing
very little of him, although he is my brother-in-law.

Is it not singular ? — you will hardly
believe it, when I tell you that I don't think
I have spoken to him a dozen times ; indeed,
he always seemed to consider me as too
uninteresting a person to be shortly ot*
notice."

Victoria had remained silent. She was
wondering whether she could have been deceived
in the estimate she had formed of
Geraldine's character ; but if so, how could
this sudden and sad chancre be accounted for?
The more she thought over it, the more convinced
she became, that she had not been
deceived — but that Geraldine was miserable
; and she knew there is no misery so
dilhcult to bear as that which is self-imposed.


Oh, how I wish dear Geraldine had
never married him !" she exclaimed, as Eva
finished speaking.

That night, before they retired to rest, Eva
had confided to Victoria that she loved Chub
had always loved him — never had thought
of anyone else.

He is a fine true-hearted fellow," said
Victoria, *' is dear old Chub ; but you must
remember the contrast that will exist between
the sister who marries Mr. Charles Prince and

Doctor Victoria,

the one who has married a Marquis of Runnymede."


Am I such a worldling Vic," said Eva, reproachfully,
*' that you should make such a
remark. I would rather be the wife of an
honest man such as Chub will, I am certain,

always be, than of a No, he is my sister's

husband, and I will not say anything against
him. But, oh, I do really love Chub — love
him dearly !"

But has Chub ever asked you to marry
him V said Victoria, archly. '' Remember, it
is not leap-year."

'' You dear provoking old thing," said Eva.
He has never spoken a word of love to me,
and always blushes when he looks at me — and
I am as bad ; and yet it seems to me that we
have been making love to each other, without
intending it, ever since I can remember."

It seemed to be Victorias fate that she
should be made the repository of other
people's secrets, and that she should be required
to sympathise with feelings which by
an equally irrevocable fate she was bound to
suppress.

She could but be interested in Eva's love
ic^was so simple and childlike, and she
knew that Chub was worthy of it.

'good-night, my dear Pen," she said, " be
patient and trusting, and it will all come
right ; but take care that you do not interpose
any disturbing dreams of happiness between
Chub and his studies, for I verily
believe it would break his father's heart were
he to fail and be unable to write M.R.C.S.
after his name. But you, may dream as much
as you like. Good-night."

Good-night, my darling sister," said Eva.
What should I — what should we, do without
you ? I really believe the reason why you can
be so useful to others, is that you are so
thoroughly unselfish, whilst I am always either
thinking of myself, or of — Chub."

It was with the name of him she loved on
her lips that they separated.

Axa I really unselfish ?" was the question
Victoria asked of herself as she laid her head
upon her pillow.

Before she could answer it, she had fallen
asleep ; but the last picture which presented
itself to her mind was that of a little blind
child with flowing hair ; and when she awoke
the next morning it was as if that picture
were still there. How was it possible for her
to think only of herself when she saw looming
in the distance before her, the possibility of

VOL. II. 33

being able to restore to some afflicted fellow-creature,
that one sense, without which, the
all pervading beauty of this world is unknown
; life has no other surrounding than
dark shadows ; and all objects removed from
the reach of touch, are without form and void.

If I can only arrive at this, I shall not
have lived in vain."

It was such thoughts as these which had
soothed her sorrows and calmed the wild
throbbing of her heart.

She, too, was calm ; almost as calm — some
said as cold — calm and cold as Geraldine.

But with Victoria it was because, after
years of striving, she had conquered self, and
had a goal in life — something to work towards
beyond the mere gratification of sense, or
the advancement of her own interests. She
had extended her sympathies ; and she
seemed cold, only, because her love was spread
over a wide surface — cold as the rays of the
sun may be called cold when compared with
the blaze from a furnace fire.

Geraldine's coldness was rather that of the
volcanic mountain whose surface remains
white with eternal snow, though the very
rock is melted into a molten mass, by the fire
raging with fierce imprisoned fury within.

Geraldine had only learnt to conceal her
natural emotions ; Victoria had reduced hers
to subjection, and made them subservient to
her will.

She might have spent her time in morbid
regrets, in melancholy reflections, in brooding
over the revelations of a past which had
cast its broad shadows over lier whole
life, happily for her, she had outlived the
weakness which had commenced by turning
her whole attention upon herself, and had
reached a height which had enabled her to
extend her horizon beyond the boundaries of
barren regrets. Excelsior was her motto.
And as she mounted, each step made her foot
firmer, her eye surer, and her heart beat with
a throb of thankfulness that life was still 50
full of that which was worth working" for.

Now, she had so much to do for Lady
Arabella, that her time was fully occupied.
With the help of Sir Francis, everything was
soon sufficiently arranged to enable Lady
Arabella to leave for the Continent the moment
the doctor pronounced it safe for her to do
so ; and, as the very prospect of change
seemed to hasten her recovery, in less than
ten days a group might have been seen on
the platform of the South-Eastern Hail way,

33—2

standing by the side of a first-class carriage
just about to start. It was composed of
Lord and Lady Eunnymede, Sir Francis
Hawthorne, Dr. Pringle and Chub'; and at a
little distance, standing in an attitude of
attention, two tall men-servants carrying
shawls. The guard came to shut the door
just as Geraldine leant forward to exchange
kisses with Eva and Victoria, and to press
once more the outstretched hand of Lady
Arabella, who, in a faint voice, was heard
begging her to take care of herself The
door was shut in the midst of her good-bye,
and then commenced a waving of hats, and
kissing of hands, and fluttering of pocket-handkerchiefs
— the two tall footmen putting
their fore-fingers to their hats — until the train
was out of sight. Then Geraldine, with tearless
eyes, after shaking hands with Sir
Francis, Dr. Pringle, and Chub, took the arm
of her husband — who had contented himself
with a stiff bow — and moved off towards
her carriage.

My lord was more than usually silent on
their drive home : he had been obliged to getup
early, and he hated getting up early.
Then it was too soon for him to go to his club ;
there was nothing for it but to drive home.

And what was tie to do when he arrived
there ?

No wonder my lord was somewhat out of
temper.

''I tell you what it is, Geraldine," he said,
'standing about on that platform will bethe
death of me ; and then you will never
be a duchess, you know." And, perhaps
still more annoyed by her silence, for she did
not answer : *' What a prig that Sir Francis
is, confound the fellow ! And they are going
to send him up for Middleshire, as if we
had not Radicals enough in the House
already."

*' Is he a Eadical '?" asked Geraldine, much
in the same tone as if she had never heard
of Sir Francis before.

"■ The worst kind of Radical," said her
husband, "for he objects to the game-laws,
you know. But who was that big, healthy
looking young fellow with the old doctor V

His son," said Geraldine, curtly.

Then I advise Lady Arabella to keep
him at arm's length," said my lord. *' Eva
never took her eyes off him. He may be a confounded
nice fellow in his respectable line of
business, whatever that may be, you know ;

but hang me if I should like to have him
for a brother-in-law! It is bad enough as
it is." '

Indeed !" was Geraldine's only reply.

And this was the man she had made her
husband !

END OF VOL. 11.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

•4'E^>©>^>S>fe>^

OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS

8Z3

N-3

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was borrowed on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutllotioiv end undermining of books oro reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CAll TELEPHONE CENTER, M3-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

APR U L ibS:

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. 79521 L162

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

OCT 7 198

A PICTURE FROM THE PERIOD,

BY

Major-general G. G. ALEXANDER, Cab.

section is a fabric woven by Fancy with threads of Tnith.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.
1881.

[All Rights Reserved']

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. MR. MONTJOY MORTIMORE MAKES AN ASS

OF HIMSELF 1

n. THE CUP DAY AT BOWOOD - - - 28

III. SUNSHINE AND GLOOM - - - - 56

IV. LOST AND FOUND 77

V. A LOAD OFF A LOVING HEART - - - 109

VI. REVELATIONS 119

Vn. A DAY WITH THE HOUNDS - - - 135

Vm. "OH, THAT I COULD BUT SEE!" - - 155

IX. "AND THERE WAS LIGHT" - - - 175

X. GROUPED ON THE LAWN - - - - 198

-.voJOic

CHAPTER I.

MR. MONTJOY MORTIMORE MAKES AN ASS OF
Himself.

Honest Tom Trenton has become radiant.
As he stands on the steps of his club, and lights
his cigar, he looks out upon the world so benevolently,
that the one-armed commissioners
with six medals cannot keep his eyes off
him, and only wonders how it was that during
the fifteen years he had the honour of serving
under the colours, he never had the good
fortune to be commanded by such an officer.
From his officers he had generally received
either hard words, or no words at all ; and
here stood this gentleman — the major — who,
VOL. III. 34

even when a man carrying a short ladder
was within an ace of running against him
and putting his eye out, had no severer
reproach than '* Bless you, my good fellow !
bless you !"

But whilst the gallant major stood upon
the steps of his club, smiling upon his
friends — and who was there not his friend ? —
and scattering blessings amongst his enemies
if such a man could have enemies — a
spectacle for gods and men to rejoice at — a
very different scene was being enacted outside
the door of a suite of rooms in the
** King and Bail " Club Chambers, upon
which a card had been attached to inform
those who might have any curiosity in the
matter, that they stood outside the domicile
of that now well-known individual, amongst
all who felt any interest in the Turf,

Me, Montjoy Mortimore,

Her Majesty's Reserve Forces.

A gentleman stood near it, who, when he
turned, after a prolonged rap with his stick
in such close proximity to the card that one
of the tacks bv which it was fastened fell out.

as if in abject terror, revealed himself as Mr.
John Marsh. It seemed as if the act of
knocking against a door with a stick had
something irritating in it, for he was evidently
in anything but an amiable mood ;
and when he renewed his attack upon the
door — this time with kicks instead of knocks
the language with which he accompanied
it was anything but Parliamentary.

*' Come now, no more of this infernal humbug!
I know you are there. There is no
use your sporting your oak against me — so
don't go on making a fool of yourself, but
open the door at once, or I'll be — something
— if I don't kick it in I's

The threat appeared to produce some effect,
or perhaps it may have been that the voice of
the speaker had been recognised, for a sound
of some one moving was heard from within,
and then a voice in languid tones requesting
the door might not be kicked again.

*for really," said Mr. Mortimore, as he
opened it, *' the noise you made was most
excruciating*'

Mr. Marsh's rejoinder was more forcible
than polite ; but, by the time he had seated

34—2

himself in an arm-chair, he was sufficiently
mollified to inquire how the world was usinor
Mr. Mortimore, which he did by reducing the
question to the simple terms of

Well, how goes it ?"

Mr. Mortimore — whose general appearance
had greatly changed since we saw him last,
chiefly through his having acquired a dejected
limp look, which gave him a remarkable
resemblance to a linen shirt-collar before it
has been starched and ironed — stopped for a
moment in certain preparations which seemed
to have brandy and soda for their object, and
leaning towards his visitor, as if he were
going to impart some tremendous state secretin
a deep, hollow voice, answered :

** Lawful ! All but smashed up !"

And yet you look confoundedly snug and
comfortable," said Mr. Marsh, looking round.

'rand that's the worst of it," said Mr.
Mortimore, letting the cork fly from a soda-water
bottle with a loud pop ; " that's the
worst of it. 'Tis a gentlemanly place" — he
looked round with a complacent air — " a
deuced gentlemanly place ; but how am I
to go on living in it without money or credit.

and the first gone, and the second nearly
ditto ? I can't see it — no, hang me if I can I
I would if I could."

But you gained a pot of money. Why,
that scoundrel Trenton told me so. What
have you done with it ?"

Just what you've done : put it in his
pockets and in the pockets of his friends ;
because I was idiot enough to think because
I had made it so easily it would be just as
easy to make more — But, good gracious,
Marsh ! what are you going to do ? No, no,
not here — not here. Since I have had these
rooms there have been nothing smoked in
them under sixpence. My olfactory organs
are that delicate they will not tolerate anything
but the best tobacco."

Saying this, Mr. Mortimore interrupted his
friend in the operation of filling an extremely
high-flavoured-looking pipe from a sealskin
pouch, by drawing his attention to a very
elaborately ornamented cigar-case on the
table near him.

Let me recommend you one of these. I
keep them for my friends. For my part, I
smoke nothing but cigarettes, though they

do tell me that they are damaging to the
intellect."

Then you may smoke away like a chimney
on fire," said Mr. Marsh ; " you, are safe, at
any rate. But tell me," he added, in a
different tone, for he could see that Mr.
Mortimore was nettled, as well he might befor
if there were one thing more than another
upon which he prided himself it was his
*intellects," — '^ tell me, have you seen Tom
Trenton lately ?"

Not lately' said Mr. Mortimore, somewhat
fiercely. " Not lately. No, indeed,
not since I booked up after the Derby. The
major is a rat. Rats don't like falling houses.
Then he has become aristocratic. Lawfully
aristocratic ! He is a regular swell now,
and no mistake. Officers in her Majesty's
reserve forces are not good enough for a man
of his kidney ; by no means. The major has
gone in for lords. For lords, Marsh ; nothing
else will satisfy his insatiable ambition.
Lords and marquises ! as true as I sit here.
Marsh. I passed him in the Park last Sunday
a- walking arm in arm with that 
swell runnymede ; they are lawfully

on together: and when I passed them, confound
him for his impertinence ! the major had
the audacity to look at me and touch his
hat with just the same smile he puts on when
he gives a copper to a crossing-sweeper. I
don't know how it may be with you, but he
has treated me with indignity and insult,
and I will let him know that John — no —
Montjoy Mortimore is not to be so treated,
and that he is as great an officer and a
gentleman as he is."

"The major is a confounded knowing dog,"
said his companion — '^ a confounded knowing
dog ; and he has given me some bites
lately that have brought the ends of his
teeth nearer the bone than the skin, but" —
biting the end off a cigar savagely as he
spoke — '^ we will be even with him yet,
Mortimore, my boy, take my word for it. I
think I have got him — I think we have got
him — this time !"

*' I tell you what it is. Marsh," said Mr.
Mortimore, bending towards him and speaking
in a confidential whisper, '' I begin to
think he is one too many for us."

'' You be hanged !" rejoined Mr. Marsh.

** Yes, one too many for us' said Mr.
Mortimore. " It may be exasperating, but
that don't make it the less true. Look back
a little, Marsh, when we three first started
on the Turf together ; as far as money goes,
there wasn't a pin to choose between you and
him, and my paltry hundred can't be counted
as much. But we were to share and share
alike — and what has come of it ? Nothing.
Only this. Look at the major; why, we two
innocents have been and put all the money
that was dropped by that young booby Yorke
into his pocket, and lots besides, all of which
he keeps as tight as if he had made it himself,
and had had no friends to help him. Whilst
look at us : why, of all the thousands
and tens of thousands that have passed
through these hands " — he held them out,
palms upwards, as if to give weight to his
assertion — " not a stiver has stuck to them.
And if you want further evidence, why,
look round this room : of all these pictures
and articles of vertoo, how many do you
think have been paid for ? Why, not one. I
had to sell my last lot, and these are simple
replaces, but * articles der looks ' have become

necessary to my existence, for without
elegance, what is life ? Why, it is its hall
in hall. A pig may be happy in a palace,
but confound me if a king could make it
out in a sty !"

Mortimore, you're a fool !" said Mr.
Marsh, after he had smoked in silence for a
few minutes.

No greater fool than you are," retorted
the gentleman so addressed; "and I would
trouble you, Mr. Marsh, speaking as one
gentleman would speak to another, to be a
little more guarded in your expressions.
Fool, indeed 1 and pray, sir, may I ask in
what respect has Mr. John Marsh done
better ?"

He has the horses," said Mr. Marsh
coolly, as if he did not care to resent his
companion's anger. " The horses, Mortimore
and that's something."

They ruined some one we know of," said
Mr. Mortimore.

** They were intended to do so," was the
reply ; '* but I'll be hanged if they ruin me !"

**liut is that all?" said Mr. Mortimore,
putting on a contemptuous air.

I would not take fifty thousand for my
Wood book — and both horses are entered
for the cup."

*' The Crack won't get placed, and Fortuna
will be nowhere," said Mr. Mortimore, maliciously.


'the Crack will win!" said Mr. Marsh,
decidedly.

*• I'll eat my hat if he does!" said Mr.
Mortimore.

'then you'll die of indigestion," said Mr.
Marsh, in a marvellously bland manner for
one who was usually so brusque and rough.
Come now, I'll tell you what it is— you
did me a good turn once, and I'll repay
it. Do you want to know of a good
thing ?"

Of course I do," said Mr. Mortimore,
becoming interested.

Then I can give you the straight tip."

What is it r

Don't back the favourite."
*' But I have been backing him," said Mr.
Mortimore, ruefully.

'' Then you must hedge."

But it will play the devil with my book."

'' Han and bum and blister your book !"
said Mr. Marsh, losing patience. *' It is a
question of winning or losing, of life or death,
of these snug bachelor's quarters or a garret.
T tell you as a friend — don't back the favourite."


'* How do you know he won't win ?"

How do I know ? Come, swear not to
tell."

Mr. Mortimore took up a book — as he
might have done when about to take an
affidavit in a court of justice — but on perceiving
it was only an army list, which
opened of itself at 'her Majesty's Reserved
Forces," he put it down again, and contented
himself with a sepulchral

I swear !"

Before divulging the momentous secret,
which required such a solemn action on the
part of Mr. Mortimore, Mr. Marsh rose, and,
opening the door leading into the bedroom,
convinced himself by a careful scrutiny that
no one was concealed there ; he then walked
back on tip-toe — though why he walked on
tip-toe he probably could not for the life
of him have explained — to his seat ; then,

putting his fingers to his lips, which somehow
or other had the effect of making his
nose look redder than usual :

Titmouse is to ride the favourite, and I
have squared Titmouse."

That was conclusive. Titmouse had been
squared. What could Mr. Mortimore say in
the face of such a masterly operation as that ?
He was fairly vanquished, and fell prostrate
at once.

And are you sure that the Crack will
win ?

Not one particle of bounce left in his voice
now. He seemed as if you could have
knocked him down with a feather, from the
moment he had heard that ** Titmouse had
been squared."

'' As sure as I sit here now."

But " — in a feeble voice — 'don't the Crack
bolt sometimes 1 Didn't he bolt at Hepsom?"

"Bolt! Bolt, indeed I I should like to
see him. What, with Whipcord on his back ?"

'' Oh ! Whipcord is to ride ? Ah ! that
alters the case'* His limpness had become
pitiable.

^' So tar, so good' said Mr. Marsh, lighting

a fresh cigar. " Now, if you don't mind
letting me have another S. and B., I'll clear
off the cobwebs, and then we'll put our two
wise heads together and proceed to business.
1 think, as I said before, that I see my way
to a devilish good thing ; and if we can fire
an infernal hot broadside into that cunning
old snob Trenton, en passant, why, so much
the better. But, tell me, first — does anyone
know that you are hard-up ? Is our credit at
the club as good as ever 1 You are not
economising, I hope ; that would be fatal —
anything rather than that. No man can be
ruined so long as he is spending money.
You must launch out, Mortimore ! You must
launch out. And if a couple of hundreds
will help you to tide over the time till
Wood sets us on our legs again — well, 1
think I can manage that."

Mr. Mortimore's eyes brightened ; nothing
takes the limpness out of a man like money.
Who ever saw a rich man exhibiting any
signs of limpness ? And so low had Mr.
Mortimore fallen, that even the idea of
pocketing a miserable two hundred pounds
made him sit up in his chair as if he had

only past discovered that a backbone wai=i
part of his anatomy.

'but you have not, I hope, been such a
cursed fool as to let anyone know that you
are hard up V asked again Mr. Marsh. '* That
is the chief point. If you have, you may as
well cut and run at once."

Of course I have not," said Mr. Mortimer.
" If I have not been at the club for
my rubber as much as usual, no one knows
that want of money is at the bottom of it ;
they attribute it to indisposition, and a-
staying in country houses."

*' You must pluck up. Mortimore, and
launch out. If the Derby has been too much
for you — as it has been for me — keep it dark,
and Wood will set us on our legs again.
Come, now to business. Let me look at
your book. You must set to work at once —
and remember that Titmouse has been
squared, and the Crack wins."

Mr. Mortimore felt restored to life. When
Mr. Marsh had entered the room he was in
the depths of despair ; now he felt — as in
truth he had felt several times before — as if
he held fortune in his grasp.

*' Marsh," he said, *' you're a man of
action, and have been endowed with what I
most want — audacity. I certainly bungled
with my Hepsom book, for I had no longer
the young un to deal with: and it seemed as
if the few thousands he had put in my
pocket had been scented out by every h infernal
hawk with two legs, and that they
had made up their minds to pluck me to the
last feather. But you have given me fresh
hope and courage. * Nile dressperandum '
was the motto of our great hadniiral, and
Montjoy Mortimore will show that he knows
how to act when adversity threatens him
with her devilish frowns. Come on 1" — he
placed himself in an attitude of defence, as if
against some invisible foe. '' Come on ! The
die is cast. Like Caesar, he has crossed the
Hesperus, and is ready to march on to fresh
victories. Marsh, he is ready, lead on !
Where John Marsh leads, Montjoy Mortimer
will follow."

To all of which Mr. Marsh contented himself
by taking a longer whiff at his cigar
than usual, and simply ejaculating : '* Bosh !'

He was less concise whelp after an hour

devoted to a careful consideration of Mr.
Mortimore's book, and the odds to be offered
and taken under every conceivable circuit
stance connected with the running at Wood
of which the two leading points were the
facts that Titmouse had been squared, and
that the Crack must win — he pointed out to
Mr. Marsh the absolute necessity of his assuming
a cheerful countenance, and above all, of
his deceiving: that arch-dissembler, honest
Tom Trenton.

Confound the fellow !" said Mr. Marsh,
he is already beginning to hug himself over
his own good fortune ; and he would snigger
over our break-down, as if we had been his
enemies instead of his greatest friends.
When you have known as much of the world
as I do, Mortimore, you will find out that
next to the pleasure of success, there is
nothing so agreeable to the feelings as being
able to kick away the ladder by which you
have climbed to it. But only follow my
advice, and we will be even with him yet ;
but don't forget to book him whenever you
get a chance — then, however high he may hold
his nose now, I have no doubt but that we

shall be able to bring it to the grindstone."


Mr. Mortimore had no time to lose, and he
set to work most manfully ; wherever bets
were being made, he was to be seen, book in
hand, and there was a quiet confidence about
him which made even honest Tom Trenton
doubt whether after all he had been right in
his surmises as to the Derby ; and he began
to have more respect for a man who knew
how to keep things dark, and to win largely
without being elated.

So thoroughly occupied was Mr. Mortimore
in making his book, that he had no time for
anything else ; and the gentle reproofs of the
adjutant of the Pimlico Pioneers were insufficient
to bring him to a proper sense of his
duty to that distinguished corps.

"Every man cannot unexpected to become
an effective all at once," said Mr. Mortimore.
** It is no doubt very interesting for you
to amuse yourself by standing men in rows
like skittles. You have nothing else to do,
and it is your occupation ; but, as one of the
skittles, it is an employment you must excuse
me for not appreciating. I'll allow that

VOL. III. ;^5

the uniform, and all that sort of thing, is very
gentlemanly ; but when you are told to turnout
your toes by word of command, why it's
all very well for the ignorant, and for young
men of the lower orders, but it don't suit
me, nor any other man who has been bora
with a spirit for command."

But to command, we must have been
taught to obey," mildly suggested the adjutant.


*' There I differ from you entirely," retorted
the lieutenant. " My experience has convinced
me to the contrary. I have known
those whose whole lives were spent in doing
what they were told, and a pretty mess they
would have made of command. No, sir, it
must be inherent — inherent ! Though I'll
allow it may be cultivated ; but your system
of teaching everybody to move like an
automaton at the word of command of
some one else, won't do it — you may be convinced
of that. But in my case, it is inherent
!"

Mr. Mortimore had subscribed largely to the
funds of the Pimlico Pioneers, his liberality
and his reputation on the Tars had made him

very popular with his brother officers ; when
he walked through the streets in uniform, on
the occasion of some great review, his appearance
was a credit to the corps. So that,
although he still continued amongst the "hin-efficient'
he managed to preserve a certain
reputation ; and it was even rumoured that,
in the event of a vacancy, he would be promoted
to a captaincy.

The adjutant, too, had held this bait out to
him, in the hope that it would induce him to
attend his drills a little more regularly, but
Mr. Mortimore did not take it with the readiness
he had expected.

*' I am not sure I should like the rank," he
said ; "it is all very well to be a lieutenant,
there is nothing serious in it, and you can
keep it, as it were, in your coat-pocket ; but
to walk about ticketed as captain, or major,
or colonel — no, my dear sir ! — please don't
take offence at my frankness — I doubt if I
could stand it, for I should always feel like a
Christmas hamper with a label on it."

Day by day Mr. Mortimore's book increased
in its proportions ; it was beginning to represent
a very large sum, and if the Crack

35—2

won — and who, knowing all he did, could
doubt of the Crack's success ? — he would once
more be the possessor of a fortune ,' it was
therefore becoming a very serious consideration
with Mr. Mortimore how that fortune
should be spent.

He was constantly thinking of this when
he was alone ; and not unfrequently, when
he did so, interrupted his meditations by
thumping himself violently on his chest, or
slapping his forehead, and exclaiming at the
same time :

*' Montjoy Mortimore ! Montjoy Mortimore t
how could you have been such an infernal
lass I"

To explain this, it should be known, that
only the evening before he had received the
visit from his friend Mr. Marsh, he had sat
down and poured out, from the depths of his
despair, all his woes, in a letter bearing the
simple signature " J. M.," to the young Lady,
once in Lady Arabella's service, but now
transferred to Deepdale, of whom in former
days the then groom of the chambers had
condescended to take some little notice, and
from whom he had parted with the disparaging

remark that she had not '* an hatch in her
alphabet."

He had thought very little of her in his
prosperity, but when his prospects had become
clouded, and he saw little but ruin before
him, he began to feel the want of some
sympathising bosom into which he could pour
out all his misery. He began to realise the
fact that, although Montjoy Mortimore might
have associates and acquaintances, he could
not have friends ; and in the state of terrible
isolation in which he found himself, what more
natural than that his thoughts would turn
to the honest and admiring Mary ! For there
was this in Mary : that whilst John Mortimer,
the groom of the chambers, had equally
excited admiration in others, they had always
thought themselves good enough for him,
whilst she never did; and it was this humility
in her tenderness which had so deeply touched
one who was inclined to characterise anything
like an idea of equality amongst those
with whom he associated, whether in the
housekeeper's-room or servants'-hall, as *share


No, Mary was not " arrogant ;" she knew

how to " appreciate " superior merit when
she came in contact with it ; she worshipped
the very soles of Mr. John Mortimer's shoes.
And so it was that in the anguish of his heart
Montjoy Mortimore could think of nothing
but Mary, and could find no greater consolation
than sitting down and writing that letter
signed " J. M."

How could I have been such an infernal
lass !"

My dear Mary," it had said, '' my dear
good girl, you will no doubt be agreeably
surprised at receiving a letter from me, for,
moving as we do in different spheres, it
cannot be expected that we can continue to
have much in common ; but there are times
when even those who have been exalted to
high stations look back with a feeling of
pleasure on the scenes of their simpler joys,
and their companions in them, though lost to
sight, may still be to memory dear, as the
poet says. But I forget, my dear girl, that
you never have read the poets ; ' a a pity,
but then i:>ity's akin to love — that's from
another poet — and as I write the word, oh !

Mary, I will not say whose image it is springs
up before my eyes. How odd it is L O V E
has four letters, and so has MARY! I never
thought of it before. Oh, my dear girl, you
do not know what I have gone through since
we parted. I have rose greatly, but I hope
I am not arrogant, though I know what is
due to my position ; but after all, I do sometimes
think if I could but abdicate from it
all and retire to some pretty spot in the
country, with a pony-chaise and what not,
and a wife — yes, my dear girl, a wife such as
I have once or twice dreamed of Oh ! Mary,
Mary, I shall never quite forget that day
when you thanked me for letting you say you
loved me, but that you knew I was too
superior. Ah ! sometimes how I wish it was
not so ; but our paths in this world are all
cut out and dried for us, as Shakespeare says,
and we must bear our honours meekly. But
don't think it is all pleasure for us men of
fashion. No; indeed, Mary, 1 have sometimes
to work that hard that I have known days,
or rather nights, when 1 have scarce a leg to
stand on — and you know, my dear girl, that if
J. M. has a strong point it is his legs. No ;

we men about town have very hard work of
it ; we wear our boots out in going from one
dissipation to another. Oh, Mary ! what
with attending of races, and — but what's the
odds as long as you're happy ? — I have heard
it said scores and scores of times before T
knew what the odds were ; and now I do
know, I say they are a device and a snare,
and I do hate the very name. And sometimes
I think I will leave it all, and when I do
settle, go to some place where there are no
horses, not even a horse-hair sofa for that
dear creature, who I will call Mary, to rest
her dear limbs on. And I will drink nothing
but brisk table-beer with a head on, and she
and me shall share and share alike out of the
same pewter ; and we will keep a pig and
have a garden, and eat our own beans and
bacon. I declare it makes my mouth water
when I think of it, for I am tired of kickshaws,
and the smell of the dining-room at
the club — they call it a Sally Money — is that
strong, from all the dinners of the years gone
by, that I can't abide it.

*' But on second thoughts we won't have
beans and bacon. No, Mary, we will kill it

yonn^, for I do declare that a nice bit of
tender spare-rib with the crackling, Mary —
and whatever you do, Mary, don't go and
forget the crackling — and sage and onions,
with gravy and apple-sauce, is that nice that
I have often wondered why those blessed
alderman will go on and on eating of their
kallypash and kallypee, when pork is in the
market and apples on the tree ; excuse the
rhine — I know it's vulgar, except when 'tis
made by poets for money, for, as the song
says, men must live. No, Mary, we will not
eat beans and bacon ; we will kill it young,
for I do dote on spare-rib ; and remember,
Mary, that the crackling must be crisp, and
go off between the teeth like a volley of —
but that's shop, for you must know I am an
officer, Mary, and you would be proud to
see me a-drawing of my sword and deporting
of myself ahead of my men in an easy, dignified
way, and a-shouting out the words the
sergeant whispers in my ear until I am that
horse — no, I have not spelt it right, there
ought to be an a somewhere — but do now so
hate the word 1 will pass on. Oh, Mary,
don't you be led away by foolish admiration

for those soldiers — be they regulars or volunteers
— they are all alike. I have found out
the secret, it's all the uniform ; strip them
of that, and what is left ? Why, nothing.
No, Mary, without the uniform no gentleman
could stand being obliged to go here and go
there whether he likes it or not, perhaps upto
the very canon's mouth — Shakespeare again
to please some ignorant fellow who rides
about on horse — well, I must put it — back,
and bellows at you like a bull. No, Mary ;
catch rae being an officer, if it were not that
the girls — not you, Mary ; I shouldn't wish
to think it was you — liked the uniform.
And it sounds well at the club to be able to
talk about the service, and say it is going to
the devil, as we all do. As if the devil wanted
to have anything to say to it. He is not
such a fool ; but that's profane, so I won't
say it. Oh, Mary, what a world of vanity
this is I to think that we should pass the
flower of our days in attending races, where
men do shout at each 'ther rr^ost awful, and
in a-calculating odds, and in relating at cards,
and a- betting on this event and a-betting on
that, and the time passing and eternity a-

coming, and debtors — no, creditors — at the
door, clambering for that which you have
not got. Oh, Mary, I do so think, when I
feel low and down-hearted, as I do sometimes,
of past days, and of one — I won't say
who — but this I do know, that she hangs
about my heart a sweet burden that I
would not part from ; no ! and her name is
MARY. Oh, Mary, think of him sometimes,
and when the sad time comes and he
is no more — for I feel I shan't be able to
stand it much longer — let a tear of pity — and
shall I still say affection ? — fall from those
lovely eyes, and water with those pearly
drops the lowly grave of one who has gone
through many vicissitudes of fortune, but
had a true heart and a manly fortitude to
the last.

Your ever sincere well-wisher (whilst
good, faithful and true — I mean you, ney dear

"J. M."

Well might Montjoy Mortimore, Esq., of
Her Majesty's Reserve Forces, ask how he
could have been such an '' infernal lass."

CHAPTER 11.

THE CUP DAY AT BOWOOD.

Of all dull country towns, DItchwater is
certainly the dullest — indeed, 'ras dull as
Ditch water" has become a proverb — and that
in spite of its being a cathedral town, and
possessing the enlivening presence of a bishop
and a dean. Its cathedral is its chief beauty,
and its tall spire stands up high above all
neighbouring buildings, as if it were protesting
against, and struggling to get away from,
the dulness by which it was surrounded:
perhaps, too, smarting somewhat under the
treatment it has received at the hands of
modern restorers ; for when, some years before,
it had obstinately refused to continue an
existence which had become insupportable
to \t, and fell, one fine morning, all of a heap,

to the great astonishment of the Blackwater
people and the detriment of the neighbouring
landscape — of which it had always formed
the central point — it was built up again,
shorn of its just proportions, by some one
who had evidently said to it, " Fall again,
now, if you dare I 1 should like to see you
try it."

Yes, Ditchwater is indeed dull ; so dull,
that as soon as the American invention by
which grass can be heard growing becomes
general, it is probable that grass will be
sown in the public thoroughfares, in order to
get rid of their present depressing stillness.

But, although this is the normal state of
Ditchwater, there is one period of the year
when Ditchwater asserts itself, when its
inhabitants put off their usual lethargy, and
when its streets swarm with busy life. Then
it is that the White Lion becomes so excited
that, as you look up at it, you expect every
moment to see it wag its tail ; and the Rising
Sun shines so fiercely out of its newly-cleaned
windows, that the Blue Posts on the opposite
side of the way become green with envy.
This change always takes place at the same

season of the year, and if a stranger were to
ask the cause of this unwonted stir and
bustle, he would be told — and there would
be a shade of pity for his ignorance in the
answer — that it was all through Wood —
the Wood races.

Now this enlivening fact — that is to say,
the races — is due to the circumstance that
not far from Ditchwater is the great mansion
of a great man, the Duke of Beaurivage,
under whose protecting shadow Ditchwater
may be said to live and move and have its
being, so far as living and moving can be
applied in such a case of habitual torpidity.
For some of the earlier owners of Wood
had, perhaps in common with most great
men of their period, sporting proclivities ;
and it is to one of them — the third duke,
known in the domestic history of those days
as the " beau duke," from his having had the
reputation of being the handsomest man at
court — that the races owe their existence.
Some of his successors would have given
them up if they could ; but Wood — the
races, not the house — had somehow or other
so identified itself with every interest connected

with the ducal position, that no one
lead possessed sufficient courage to undertake
so revolutionary a procedure. For, Wood
abolished, who could tell what might happen ?
The idea was too awful — shooting Niagara
seemed nothing to it.

Then again, the Wood races are in themselves,
as races, something unique. The distance
from London prevents their being assailed
— even in these days of cheap special
trains — by the unwashed hordes whose great
hoHday in the year is Epsom ; or by the
fashionable seldom which congregates in
such large numbers at Ascot.

The situation of the race-course is delightful
; the view from it splendid ; the five miles
drive to it, past the great house — when there
is not too much dust, and we all have to eat
a peck of that before we die — charming ; and
the rank and beauty and fashion forming the
galaxy which revolve round the central stars
of the great house, give it a distinctive
character, which is recognised by the fact
that many faces are to be seen at Wood
which are not to be seen elsewhere, and that
many very straitlaced mammas have been

heard to say : " Oh no ! I never let the girls
go to races ; but you know, my dear, Wood
is quite a different kind of thing. We only
go to Wood."

Indeed, so good is the reputation of
Wood, that it is not unusual to see white
cravats and unmistakable clerical hats in the
grand stand ; as a matter of course not belonging
to wearers who pride themselves on being
very high or very low, but to good average
mortals, sound in wind and limb, with rather
a fondness for a horse, and a secret feeling that
what is not wrong for their sisters, or for
those sweet young creatures to whom they
are ever turning their faces as assiduously as
the fire-worshippers to the rising sun, cannot
be very wrong or verj^ wicked for strong
muscular Christians such as they feel themselves
to be.

Leaving out the sporting element and the
riff-raff common to all race-courses, the frequenters
of Wood may be classified in three
great divisions ; and to-day being cup-day,
and the weather all it ought to be, each of
these three divisions has mustered in great
force.

In the first division naturally falls the
family from the great house, and the distinguished
guests to whom the Wood week is
a pleasant distraction from the fatiguing dissipations
which are supposed to form the relaxations
of society, together with a sprinkling
of families and guests from other large
country seats.

The second division includes all the smaller
gentry, the families of professional men from
the neighbouring towns, and of well-to-do
farmers and tradesmen of the higher-class.

The third is principally composed of the
contingent from the great Naval Arsenal of
Docktown, in which, although the naval
element is well represented, the military
predominates. The sailors, with a firm conviction
that the world is a huge kind of ship,
and that they are walking its quarter-deck,
enjoy themselves greatly in their peculiar
fashion. They take a quiet interest in all
that is going on around them, and look
fixedly at the horses and the preparations
for the several races, in much the same grim
way as they might have watched the hippopotami
at play in the Zambesi, or the sport of

VOL. III. 36



dolphins in the Atlantic. Very few of them
seem to have any real taste for racing ; and
though they may try to put it on, and even
reach the point of offering and accepting the
odds, in a blundering, doubtful sort of way,
they cannot keep it up ; and after a time they
are sure to be found with their eyes fixed in
some direction in which some very pretty girl
is certain to be the central point, as if by dint
of looking out to windward they had found a
squall — a white squall — at last, to which they
would have to lower their topsails.

The soldiers from the garrison are in great
force. They are generally young men, all
shaven and shorn alike, with clothes cut in the
same pattern. Many of them, through constant
athletic exercises, models of muscular
development ; but hiding the consciousness
of their strength under an air of calm and
dignified repose. At other times they might
appear listless, but listlessness is quite out
of the question now, for had they not been
discussing these races for weeks and months,
before mess and at mess and after mess, making
their bets on this horse and on that horse;
or, if not betting themselves, showing others,

in the most disinterested manner, how money
could be made by simply following their
advice ?

Had they not, too, studied the Sporting Intelligencer
with as much care, and far more
interest, than they had the contents of that
admirable work, the *' Pocket Soldier," in
which the whole art of war is to be acquired
for eighteen pence ? There were some exceptions
amongst the older officers, whose
interests seemed to be somewhat divided
between the horses and the ladies ; but this
was a disloyalty to the turf which their
younger comrades would have been ashamed
of, and besides, being principally infantry,
with a sprinkling of gunners, who might be
known by their walking as if in all the
throes of difficulty which is produced by the
perpetual dangling of a sabretache between
the legs, it was necessary to show Dasher
and Slasher, and the other cavalry fellows,
that they knew quite as much about horses
as they did, indeed more, as they hoped this
year to be able to show ; for Sharpe of the
117 th Trincomalee Rangers was known to
have made a very heavy book — and not only

36—2

the dashing 117th, but the whole garrison of
Docktown, especially the infantry, were proud
of Sharpe and his book.

There was only one drawback to this feeling
: Sharpe was the surgeon of the regiment
the brother, probably, of the celebrated
professor ; and what with his book and his
billiards and his whist, for he was good at
everything, was supposed to have a very
pretty — being a medical man, we will call it
practice of some two thousand a year ;
sometimes more, sometimes less ; but, taking
one year with another, that was generally
supposed to be the average.

This is the third day — the day of the
great event — the Wood Cup. The racing
on the previous days had presented nothing
of peculiar interest ; everyone's attention
seemed concentrated on what was coming.
Odds were being freely offered, and as freely
taken, on the favourite ; so freely taken that
some knowing ones began to think that there
must be some foundation for the extraordinary
confidence which led Mr. Marsh's friends to
back his horse — the Crack — with a persistency
which seemed bordering on temerity.

Still Exquisite — the favourite — held his
own ; and some of the old wiseacres of the
turf shook their sapient heads when the
Crack was mentioned — though it was
universally allowed that the race lay between
the two, and the owners of the horses, Lord
Muddlehead and Mr. Marsh, were for the
time the two men whose names were most
frequently in people's mouths.

Judging from the assiduity with which
Mr. Marsh had been working, his book must
have assumed colossal proportions ; and Mr.
Mortimore, who was full of gratitude to Mr.
Marsh, and constantly blessing him in his
heart for having informed him that " Titmouse
had been squared," endeavoured to
make as much as possible out of so valuable
a piece of information. Already he had
booked the Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps and his
inseparable shadow Fitzjones ; honest Tom
Trenton, too, had even ventured a bet upon
the favourite ; but the crowning point of Mr.
Montjoy Mortimore s later operations was a
heavy stake upon the Crack, accepted by no
less a personage than my Lord Runnymede.
This was soraethinnr to have lived for. He

was elevated to a kind of seventh heaven ;
but — a few hours more, and — a shudder
passed over Mr. Montjoy Mortimore's frame,
such a shudder as is said to be produced by
some one walking over your grave ; but Mr.
Montjoy Mortimore shook himself, and
as he did so thought only of his good fortune,
of *' Titmouse having been squared," and of
the thousands which, on the settling-day,
would be transferred to his pocket.

Happy Montjoy Mortimore !

The day was perfect. Never had finer
weather been known at Wood. The grand
stand pulsated with happiness. That portion
of it which was set apart for the guests of
the great house was so brilliant, that few
eyes could look towards it without being
dazzled.

Never had finer weather been known at
Wood," was repeated over aud over again ;
never had there been such a brilliant party
at the great house ; never had there been so
many exalted personages. What is to be
done with people who are not happy under
such conditions ? Nothing. They are simply
not fit to live !

x\nd when luncheon was over, and the
popping of champagne corks had ceased, and
all the world, under the stimulating process
of digestion, seemed to have renewed any of
the powers of enjoyment they might previously
have lost, came the period when a
strange flutter and excitement became evident
amongst the fairer portion of the assemblage ;
for, taking advantage of one or two minor
races before the great race of the day, the
struggle for the Cup, the whole of the party
from the great house — with the exception of
the gallant veteran von Schwerin, who was
as usual suffering from the gout — issued from
the grand stand and promenaded on the lawn.

Nowhere else is there to be found such a
background of noble trees. From no other
racecourse is there such a varied view ; but,
above all, near no other grand stand is thereto
be found such an artistic frame for an animated
picture as this Wood ** lawn."

And are not animated pictures, after all,
the most beautiful ? Beautiful, when, as this
one is, it is composed of all that is most
lovely, most graceful, and most refined,
grouped in a harmonious whole produced out

of every diversity of colour, with, underneath,
the great throb of life ; harmonious, too, despite
all the diversity of feeling, the passions,
the instincts, the grand aspirations, the petty
weaknesses, and the worldly littleness which
are comprised in it.

The grand stand had discharged the great
people from the great house upon the lawn.
The smaller people had also descended from
their posts of vantage ; and some of them —
for the first time in their lives — found themselves
not only breathing the same air, but
treading in the very footsteps, of exalted personages
and leaders of fashion, whose names
alone had exercised a strange fascination over
them from the time they had first devoted a
portion of the day to the perusal of that
column of the daily paper which treats of
high life, and of that charmed circle of which
exalted personages form the centre.

No, they were not myths ; there they all
moved before them in the flesh, and oh ! in
such toilettes !

Of exalted personages it would be impertinent
to speak ; but is not that magnificent
person in yellow, with that sweet

embroidery in dead leaf and moss-greens,
the Dowager Duchess of Amalekite ? And
that tall, handsome girl near her — who can
she be ? Is not her dress lovely ? And there,
there ! — in a line with her — oh, it is, I know
it by her portrait — that is Mrs. Kurr Crawley;
and the man — not walking with her, of course
by the side of the fat, made-up woman in
the green dress, is her husband, poor Kurr
Crawley, who flaunts about in the grand
world under the regis of his wife's beauty,
and when the grand world shuts its eyes
and pretends to be blinded by its blaze, thinks
that it is from himself and not from her that
the effulgence comes. Peachblossom, too, is
there, with a detachment of the frail sisterhood.
Peachblossom, who looks round with
scorn upon her rivals, for she knows that she
is more beautiful and better dressed than they
are, and that she holds many of the men
they love entangled in her toils. And that
heavy, fat man — who is he ? What, Lumpus !
amongst the swells ? Yes, Lumpus as large
as life. Lumpus, who has reduced sandals
to a system, and who sucks slanders
from society as greedily as a bee sucks sweets

from flowers. And, for a moment, racing
being slack, the Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps
and Major Fitzjones appear upon the scene ;
and then, walking side by side — they had
been arm in arm — the Marquis of Bunny-mede
and Tom Trenton — Honest Tom, the
personification of all that is respectable in a
retired officer — upright, brisk, well-brushed,
with that bland, pleasant expression which
shows the heart of him who wears it to be
in the right place. He takes off his hat
with a deferential air, as he passes a stout,
squat, red-faced man, whose appearance is certainly
anything but aristocratic, though he
is greeted by everyone he meets in a manner
which shows most plainly that he is someone
worth knowing. Indeed, were he an exalted
personage, he could not receive a greater
amount of homage. But if he be not an
exalted personage, he is, at least, a power in
the State, for Sir Midas Money has an
advantage over other potentates, in that
his rule is despotic, and that his vast
financial operations are so extensive, that
they may be said to have had no frontiers.
Ashe walked or rather rolled alone*, it seemed

as if a ^fi^olden emanation issued from every
pore, and dazzled the spectators with its
brilliant rays. Geraldine had once said —
in her days of freedom, before the sirocco-like
breath of the London season had withered
the freshness of her young life — that she
never could look at him without thinking of
the golden calf

It was before the gold of which the calf
was made that the Israelites prostrated themselves,
and most assuredly, but for his wealth,
Sir Midas would not have been a centre of
fashionable circles ; as it was, the man had
a calf-like complacency about him which was
almost touching.

Sir Midas had got tired of being roared
at by the book-makers, and had returned to
the lawn. And it would have been wonderful
had he not done so, for upon whom did
fashionable beauty smile more sweetly than
upon portly, calf-like Sir Midas ? Other men
had to win smiles, he had simply to receive
them.

But although Sir Midas was on the lawn,
and a few other men whose books were made,
or who had no books, or who preferred being

with the ladies, the majority of the men
were absent ; and the ladies, for once, indifferent
to their presence, were devoting themselves,
with all the thoroughness which
belongs to their sex, to carrying on a fierce
war of rivalry against each other ; a costly
war, as many of their husbands — for it was
the married women who fought most fiercely
in it — knew but too well.

Beautiful women of high rank paced the
lawn with an assumed unconscious air, and a
kind of parade step, in toilettes upon which
they had concentrated all their powers of
thought, and upon which so much time
and money had been lavished, that they
might be said to represent, in those toilettes
alone, as much mind and matter as would goto
make up a dozen ordinary lives.

Some of them paced along in dresses so
long that they swept the ground with undulating
trains of silk or satin, which seemed to
writhe under the vulgar contact with the dirt
and dust through which they were trailed
by their fashionable mistresses. Toilettes
out of the great Vautrien's brain, tight where
they ought to have been loose, and loose

where they ought to have been tight ; so
designed as to show that the human form
was a miserable mistake and a wretched
blunder from beginning to end, and that
had Vautrien been its originator, he would
have made something very different.

Then the colours ! Pink flaunts itself
against yellow ; green against blue ; browns
assert themselves in every variety of shade.
A dowager duchess, fat, fair, and (at least)
forty, disports herself in a light-grey, trimmed
with rose-colour, with boots, parasol, and
gloves to match, and she is much admired.
Mrs. Kurr Crawley, being dark, has arrayed
herself in yellow, with dashes of brown and
green; there is no other dress like hers in cut
or colour, and she is enchanted.

Lady Mounty Bankes, who has invented a
marvellous costume of brilliant green and
black, is spiteful with respect to Mrs. Kurr
Crawley ; she cannot see how people can
admire her — in that hideous yellow dress she
reminds her of a sunflower. Mrs. Crawley, a
short time before, had made an exalted
personage laugh by saying that, with her
peculiar figure, poor Lady Mounty Bankes

looked exactly like a cabbage. All who
wore these grand toilettes seemed to have
much pity for each other's want of taste ;
and the only people who thoroughly admired
them were those whose means did not allow
of their competing in this great exhibition of
high millinery art. They felt it a privilege
to be allowed to feast their eyes on what
they always spoke of as *'so charming!"
The Miss Crumbles of Crumble Court, just
ten miles off across the Downs, declared they
had never seen anything half so beautiful in
the whole course of their lives, and it is
questionable whether either of them went
to bed for at least a month after the
great Wood day, without being tortured
by visions of green, blue, yellow, or pink
toilettes prancing about on that Wood
lawn.

There was one person, however, who
affected displeasure — old Lady Wyse, who
in her youth had had the reputation of being
a blue-stocking, and who was in the habit of
driving over to Wood on the Cup-day, for
the purpose, as she said, of studying human
nature, and of seeing with her own eyes

something of this progress of which it was
the fashion to talk so much. Whether it
was that each year, as we grow older, makes
us less pleased with the present and more
inclined to take a favourable view of the past,
Lady Wyse became each year less and less
satisfied with what she saw. On this day
she was absolutely irate.

*' My dear," she said to that patient
enduring creature, her niece. Miss Biggs ;
*' my dear, we were great fools in my youth
great fools ; but at least we had preserved
some little simplicity, if we possessed nothing
else. Now, I am positively disgusted; the
female mind is so highly educated in folly
that I no longer see amiable simpletons, but
clever, artificial creatures, whose chief aim
seems to me to emulate the dress and bearing
of bad women — yes, positively, bad women.
If it were not so, how could they strut about
and display their figures in these marvellous
dresses, in order that they may be looked at ?
Why, in my young days, when a man stared
at a girl she looked down and blushed ; now
she stares again, and if she wants blushes on
her cheeks she has to paint them."

It is possible that Lady Wyse had overheard
Mrs. Kurr Crawley ask an exalted personage,
when he had politely acknowledged the
old lady's loyal curtsey, who the old " quiz "
in curls and a dust suit might be.

But the ladies hour is broken in upon, and
for a time their triumph ends. The time is
approaching when the great event of the day
has to be decided. The grand stand rapidly
fills, and in the reserved section Field-marshal
von Schwerin is seen standing on
his least gouty leg. The young ladies cease
to look at the young gentlemen, and are full
of admiration for the jackets of the jockeys,
and make little bets on the colours, not on
the horses. It seems cruel to them that the
jockey who rides the favourite should wear
black, and that the charming mauve and
white should be only an outsider ; but they
back mauve and white, or any other colour
which strikes their fancy, all the same. Then
there is a canter past, and the military contingent
from Docktown put on an air of
ferocious gravity and desperate resolve, whilst
the naval brigade survey the scene through

huge circulars which might have done good
service in the Zulu War.

In the ring the betting waxes fast and
furious, and the roar of hoarse voices is so
wild-deathlike, that it is difficult not to think
that Darwin paid humanity a compliment
when he traced its descent from a monkey,
for all the monkeys in the world could not
have roared like that.

But what can it be which has produced at
this moment a degree of excitement in the
betting-ring, which rapidly extends to the
grand stand, and even stirs the party belonging
to the great house into visible emotion ?
At the last moment it has become known
that Titmouse, the jockey of jockeys, who
was to have ridden the favourite, has suddenly
been taken ill, and that the fortunes of his
backers are to be entrusted to Scrubs.
Scrubs '? who knows anything of Scrubs ?
There is consternation down the whole line ;
odds fly about in a wild incoherent way ;
the strategy of the military contingent is
nowhere ; the tactics of the naval brigade
have become obsolete ; an exalted personage
is seen in excited conversation with my Lord

VOL. 111. 37

Runnymede, and the whole ground is much
in the same state as a swarm of bees when
they have lost their queen. And all because
Titmouse has been taken ill, and Scrubs is to
take his place.

It was at this crisis that Montjoy Mortimer,
Esq., of H.M.S. Reserve Forces, then at
the height of his hopes, came across Mr. John
Marsh. Mr. Montjoy Mortimore was more
blooming than ever, feeling more confident
than ever that the great Titmouse was ill,
simply because the great Titmouse had been
squared.

'^ Marsh, old fellow," he said, " Fm ready ;
the die is cast ; it is all right ; my book is
enormous." Then, struck by the appearance
of Mr. Marsh, he added : " But it's all right,

I hope r

Mr. Marsh's answer was a volley of imprecations.
Horror of horrors ! taking Mr. Mortimore
aside, he informed him in a hoarse
whisper, that there had been foul play.
Some one else had been squaring Titmouse.

But can Scrubs do it ?" asked Mr. Mortimer,
pale with apprehension.

*' Of course he will, if he can. He has a

name to make — for until he has made a name,
it don't matter how he rides — he won't be
squared."

But still, the Crack has a good chance,"
said Mr. Mortimore.

"Yes," said Mr. Marsh. '^ Now 'tis a
chance ; but before 'twas a certainty. I don't
care two buttons for the Crack. My backing
him has been all moonshine. I have been
backing the field through Slopes."

The devil I" said Mr. Mortimore. " Then
what made you lead me on to put all my
money on the Crack?"

Mr. Marsh made no reply, for at that moment
the bell rang for the start.

To the uninitiated it would have been
difficult to have decided which of the ten
horses which came up to the post would have
the best chance of winning ; for though the
favourite and the Crack might be faultless,
there were others which seemed to possess
every qualification likely to ensure success.
But those who were thoroughly conversant
with the points of a horse, could see that this
one was a little too heavy in the shoulder ;
that one too weak in the hind-quarters ; that

y^^^^^'SsRlRi

there was a sly, wicked look about the Crack's
eye ; and so on. So that there always seemed
a reason why each individual horse should
lose ; and the only wonder was, how any horse
could win.

Three false starts — and expectation is at
its highest. At the fourth they go off — as
one ; and from that moment they are followed
by every eye on the ground, and not a thought
but what is concentrated on that varying
mass of colour which circles round the great
sweep of the course. At first, each spectator
imagines that his favourite is winning, and
there is a strange confusion in the cries which
arise on every side ; then three horses are
seen to issue as it were from the tangled mass
their backers become frantic — the howling
in the ring is something diabolic — and in it,
prominent through his fierce gesticulations,
is Mr. Mortimore, hatless and breathless, and
foaming with exultation — for of those three
horses the Crack gallops first ! — " The Crack
the Crack !" he shouts ; and as he shouts,
he makes a jerking movement forward, as if
it were he who was riding the Crack, and not
Whipcord. "The Crack !— the Crack!—

fifty to one on the Crack I Seventy to one
on the Crack ! — a hundred to one on the
Crack !"

Nothing is heard but 'crack! — Crack!"
When suddenly, above it all, in that sharp,
penetrating tone which belongs to those who
have to make their voices heard amid the
deafening roar of storms, some one shouts out :

By Jove ! she has bolted ! The Crack
has bolted !"

The voice came from one of the naval
brigade, who, with his huge double-glasses
bracketed on the horses, had followed every
incident of the race, and had been the first
to detect that the Crack, true to her instincts,
had taken the bit between her teeth, and,
despite the efforts of Whipcord, was carrying
him away from victory, and driving all
his backers to despair. Then the cry of " The
Crack'' ceased, and public favour veering towards
the favourite — now some lengths ahead
clamour took another form,

MontjoyMortimore, pale and panting, slunk
silently away.

To be ruined when so near Fortune I
Oh 1 it is inexplicable ! — inexplicable 1"

That same evening two figures strangely
mutinied up, considering the weather, might
have been seen taking their seats in a third-class
carriage for London. The slighter of
the two was so weak and limp in his movements,
that no one would have recognised in
him the swaggering, self-asserting Montjoy
Mortimore, of Her Majesty's Reserve Forces,
of but a few hours before. His companion
had a defiant air, and rolled so much as he
walked along the platform, that without the
strong flavour of brandy which accompanied
him, it would have been evident that if he
had not succeeded in drowning care, he had at
least made locomotion somewhat difficult in
the attempt.

On the same platform, and at the same time,
a gentleman might have been seen assisting
an unmistakably overdressed young lady,
with a profusion of golden hair, into a first-class
carriage. As he did so, he attracted
the attention of two well-dressed men, who
were standing in the shadow of a pile of
luggage.

I did not know that Runnymede was
such a fool," said the taller of the two.

It is bad taste, to say the least of it''
said his companion. *' When a man is married,
he ought to have some regard for the convenances."


** And with such a wife I" said the other,
with a sigh ; he turned his face to the light
as he spoke, and disclosed the features of the
Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps. " He is a beast !"
he said ; " a confounded beast ! I only wish
I had had his luck ; but we poor younger
sons ought not to be allowed to live. Nowe
should all be drowned I"

CHAPTER III.

SUNSHINE AND GLOOM.

Oh, Pops 1 I am so happy !"

Madge was sitting in the arbour with Pops,
no longer in his cage, but on a swing perch
by her side.

'* Oh, Pops ! I am so happy !"

Pops was too busily employed at the time,
in investigating the interior economy of a
rosebud, to do more than make a kind of
clucking noise with his tongue in reply,
whilst he brought the bud more closely to his
eye in order to examine the surface revealed
by the last bite ; and there was something in
the way in which he accentuated his clucks,
which seemed to say : " Oh yes, I know all
about it — all about it; but I am tired of
hearing it. Do speak of something else."

It is astonishing how much meaning there
may be in a '* cluck."

Oh, you dear, stupid old thing ! I know
you are jealous, and you don't like it ; for
with all your eyes, you can't read, or play
on the accordion, or do half what I can ;
can you, Pops T

A contemptuous '^ Whew " showed that
Pops was not inclined to accept such a very
low estimate of his powers.

Yes, within the short space of time which
had elapsed since Victoria's visit, a great
change had taken place in Adore.

She was not only happier, but she looked
happier ; her face was flushed with happiness.
Happiness had driven away her old
listlessness, and her voice had no longer a
querulous complaining tone, but was vibrating
with happiness. The now nearly imbecile
mother was still there to throw a shade of
sorrowing shame over her child's life. The
dissipated, brutal father still came, from time
to time, to remind his child of her abhorrence.
And yet Madge could say :

'* Oh, Pops ! I am so happy 1"

All was as dark as ever. No light, no

shade ; no sun, no stars. The bright petals
which speak to us with their varied beauty —
the changing clouds which make us turn our
eyes upwards, and raise our thoughts to
something higher than ourselves — were not
for her. The look of* affection — the sweet
smile — the responsive glance with which
love answers words with a tenderness no
words can express — were still denied to her.
Apart from its being summer, and not winter,
her surroundings were just the same, and
yet she could say :

** Oh, Pops I I am so happy !"
It was Victoria's visit which had produced
the change. Victoria, from the first moment
she had seen Madge, was attracted towards
her in even a greater degree than she was
always attracted to those who required sympathy
and help. Each day she remained in
England, she had spent an hour or two with
Madge, and each day found Madge brighter
and happier.

'* Oh, dear auntie I" — she had decided that
Victoria must be a relation, and had asked
permission to call her auntie — '' Oh, dear
auntie!" she said, "I wonder if there are

many more people in the world like you !
I love Mr. Pringle, and I love Mis Yorke,
but though they are very nice, they are not
like my dear auntie."

Before three days were over, it was as if
Victoria had given her a new life. In those
few days, Victoria had taught her so much.
She had told her of the flowers, how they
grow ; of the trees beginning as little seeds ;
of the bees which she heard buzzing around
her; of the butterflies, who love bright sunshine
; of the worms, whose home is in the
cold, dark ground.

Whilst teaching Madge, she had taught
Chub how to teach. she had brought an
alphabet and some books in the raised
character for the blind, and she and Chub and
Madge sat learning to read by it together ;
and Madge was filled with glee when,
sitting by Chub's side, she could make out
the pointed letters before he could.

Are you quite sure that Mr. Pringle
keeps his eyes quite — quite shut?" she would
ask.

And there sat Chub with his face screwed
up in a comical expression of bewilderment

and intense earnestness, such as never probably
had been seen on that face before,
trying to make out the little pointed dots
with his big fingers.

Madge learned to distinguish the letters
much sooner than either he or Victoria did,
but she had to be taught to spell, and to
learn the meaning of many words ; and this
had become, since that time, part of Chub's
daily work. Mr. Fulford, too, had been enlisted
by Victoria. She had made him
promise, when the spring was far enough
advanced, that he would give her a little
o-arden and show her how to sow seeds in
it ; and the promise had been religiously
kept, and Madge's delight, when she felt
the young sprouts pushing their way upwards
through the moist, warm earth, was unbounded.


Oh, Mr. Fulford, come and look ! my
seeds are growing! Mrs. Fulford, do come !
I shall be able to give you some mustard-address.
And the lupin has put up a great
big head. Oh, how good it is of God to let
my seeds grow !"

And as Mr. Fulford looked at the little kneeling

form as she turned her face towards him,
radiant with excitement and happiness, he
whispered to his wife :

** Tibs — if she ain't more like an angel
than a child, my name's not John Ful-ford."


Then Victoria had talked about music,
and Chub had bethought him that once, ina
musical fit — such as all boys have once in
their lives ; perhaps it was inspired by Eva —
he had bought an accordion and learnt the
notes ; he believed that he had even been
able to play a few tunes — and that accordion
was at home now. So he sent for it, and
taught Madge all he knew ; and he gave her
the accordion. And when the weather was
wet or cold, and she could not go out, from
the parlour-back was sure to be heard the
sound of that accordion, and sometimes a
little silvery voice singing softly — singing as
children sing, not that others may listen and
applaud, but out of the overflowing fulness
of their own pure hearts — songs often full of
meaning, though without words, such as
grown-up men and women would sing if they

could, would sing if their voices were not too
rough and their hearts too hard.

But Pops hated the accordion ; indeed, he
did not much like any of the occupations
which withdrew Madge's attention from himself.
The accordion, however, was something
which seemed beyond his powers of endurance ;
the very sight of it was enough to make him
sulk ; but when Madge sounded its high notes
he became perfectly furious, and expressed his
feeling in a series of discordant screams.
Then Madge would scold him, and call him
a naughty, jealous old bird, and sing a little
song to him, which she had made about
him :

Oh, you naughty, jealous bird !

Jealous Popsy, jealous Popsy,
Oh, you nasty, jealous bird !

Dear old Popsy, dear old Popsy,
Go to bed and hide your head,

You naughty, jealous Popsy Topsy !"

Then sometimes, in the midst of her singing,
she would become silent, and her eyes
would fill with tears — for across her bright
vision, would flit that shade of the poor, weak,
suffering mother, who kissed and sobbed over

her night and morning ; whose caresses were
so distasteful to her ; and who drove even her
child from the darkened room in which the
poor remains of a life which had not reached
its prime were flickering away.

Of her uncle she saw less than ever. He
had but one thought ; he had nearly found
it.

** I cannot talk to you to-day," he would
say; 'await until tomorrow. Do not tell
anyone, my dear Madge. I have all but
found it. Come tomorrow."

It was always '* tomorrow." But then
her thoughts would revert to Victoria.
Every word that Victoria had said to her
was treasured in her memory ; and now once
a week a letter came from her, which Chub
read, full of kind encouraging words, which
Madge added to the other words, until it
seemed as if her head were full of them, and
her heart had no room for more.

Oh, how she loved to talk to Chub of
Victoria I whilst he, poor fellow 1 was ever
thinking of Eva, and would ingeniously turn
the conversation upon her. Then Madge, with
her child's cunning, seeing through the many

subterfuges by which he managed to make
Eva, and not Victoria, the subject of their
talk, would tease him, by pretending to think
it was Victoria of whom he was speaking ;
and when he said, as he often did — though
not always in the same words —

The dearest girl in the world, is "

*^ Victoria," would Madge, interrupting him,
say archly; and then would soothe him by
saying she knew Eva was very sweet and
nice, but that she loved Victoria better, and
that it would not do for them both to be in
love with the same person, for then they might
be jealous, like old Pops, and quarrel. '' Besides,
I don't intend Victoria to marry anyone
; and I know you want to marry Miss
Yorke."

And poor Chub, blushing dreadfully, would
say:

** Don't talk nonsense, Madge !" and goon
talking of Eva more than ever.

So time had passed very happily with little
Madge ; and never had a day been happier
than the day on which the events that have
been described were taking place at Wood.
For on that day she had received a long letter

from Victoria, full of kind counsel and loving
thoughts ; and she had gone to sleep with a
smile, and *' Victoria " on her lips.

Before she had known Victoria, all had been
dark to her — with little flickers of light here
and there, just enough to make the gloom
deeper and more horrible. Since she had
known her, it was as if a great flood of light
had illumined her being — a light growing
brighter and brighter with increasing knowledge
and awakened consciousness — a light
which had given her a mental vision, which
had enabled her to fill her heart with the
beautiful and the lovable, which had sent
her smiling to sleep, with a half-uttered name
upon her lips.

Well for those for whom, when so sleeping,
there is no awakening.

The next day was wet and gloomy. Chub
had gone out early — earlier than usual — for
he had some commissions to execute for his
father on his way to the hospital ; and, what
was unusual with him, had done so without
seeing Madge, and being cheered with her
calling after him, in her clear, silvery voice as

VOL. III. 38

he walked through the passage to the front-door
:

Good-bye, Mr. Pringle. Mind and come
back very early — very T with immense emphasis
on the word " very."

Perhaps it was that he had not seen
her — for to shut the door without carrying
away the last notes of that pretty, childlike
farewell made him feel as if he had forgotten
something ; or perhaps it was the dull drizzle
out of doors ; but a strange sensation came
over him — a feeling of apprehension he could
not define. Nothing that he did could get rid
of it. He could not help wondering what
could be the cause of it. Surely it was
not because he had not said good-bye to little
Madge. The idea was too absurd ; and yet,
do what he would, it was as if little Madge
was ever before him, looking as she had done
the evening before, when she had said :

"Good-night, Mr. Pringle. You are so
kind, and I am so happy I — so happy that I
know now a little — a very little, but still I
know — what Mrs. Fulford means when she
tells me of heaven. It is not wicked to say

so, is it ? Tell me when I am wicked, and I
will try to be good."

And it was as she had looked when saying
this, that she was always presenting herself
to his imagination ; looking up at him
with her sightless eyes and deep earnest
face, throwing back her golden curls as she
spoke.

•* Poor dear little Madge 1"

As soon as his day's work was over he hurried
home. He had started on foot, but before
he had walked very far, impelled by an irresistible
feeling of anxiety, he called a cab. It
was a hansom, and the horse was a fast one ;
but to Chub it seemed that no four-wheeler
had ever crawled along so slowly. So impatient
was he, that he paid the fare before he
had reached the end of his journey; and the
instant the cab stopped he jumped out and
ran quickly through the garden and up the
steps. The door flew open as he approached
it ; and Mrs. Fulford stood ready to receive
him, with her husband a few paces in the
background.

A glance at their faces was sufficient to
show him that something had happened.

38—2

What is it ?" cried Chub, before they had
time to speak. *' Tell me what is the matter.
Is Mrs. Marsh dead T

Oh ! worse than that, sir — may the Lord
forgive me for saying it ! They are gone."
*' Gone ?" echoed Chub. '' When ? where V
They went two hours agone," said Mr.
Fulford, "and the Lord knows where."

And Madge — why did you let her go V^
asked Chub, fiercely.

*law!" said Mrs. Fulford; "law, Mr.
Pringle, how you do talk ! Fulford may be
strong, but he's not strong enough to infant
the law."

All this had been said in the passage. In
the back parlour Chub learned from Mrs.
Fulford—Mr. Fulford standing by — all that
had occurred.

"You see, sir," she said, "these trials don't
come down upon us all of a sudden-like
without warning, and I said to Fulford only
this morning, * I have that feeling come over
me, I shouldn't wonder as if something were
to be brought down upon us.' * Bear up,
Tibs,' said Fulford — like a man as he is —
don't meet troubles half way ; there's no use

striking at the iron till 'tis hot So I said
no more, but went about my work as usual ;
but do what I would, I could not get it out
of my head — no, that I couldn't — it seemed
as if 'twere sent down a purpose. And when
I saw you going out, I thought it might so
be that you might meet with an accident in
the streets, or fall from a 'bus, or swallow
poison by mistake in the spenser, or catch
one of those bad fevers and bring it back,
and it made me feel quite cold down the back
when I thought of it ; but I knew in whose
hands we were, and that He would not desert
us. But I little thought, as I heard dear
little Miss Madge a-singing like a bird, and
talking to that odious parrot, who screams
enough at times to wake the very dead — may
I be forgiven for so speaking ! — that the poor
dear child was to be taken from us, come
that very day ; and it was just as the clock
was striking "

No, it had struck, Tibs," interposed Mr.
Fulford.

"Do hold your tongue, John," said his
wife ; " don't you see Mr. Pringle wants to
know what happened, and not hear you talk

about time. And what is time — or clocks,
or watches, or chronometers, or such-like —
to eternity, John ? Think of that, John ;
think of your — no, John, no ! don't ever
make light of time."

"Please go on," said Chub mildly, suppressing
his impatience, for he knew by
experience that any attempt to make Mrs.
Fulford come to the point was sure to lead
to the opposite result. *' Please go on, Mrs.
Fulford."

Well, as I was saying, Mr. Pringle, whilst
I was listening to Miss Madge singing like a
bird, for I never did hear a voice like hers,
and I often thought when the blessed angels
sing they must sing — not the words, no, not
the words, of course — but in such sweet silver
notes ; and as she sang and I was a-listening
Fulford had just come in with a hammer
in his hand — all of a sudden came a ring at
the front-door bell which made me all of a
tremble, though I said nothing ; but before I
could reach the door, it was pulled again.
Lord have mercy upon me, I thought, you
are in a hurry, whoever you may be ; and
when I opened the door, without saying with

your leave, or by your leave, in stalked that
horrid, dissipated, broken down, horse-keeping
for I once lived near stables — looking man,
Mr. Marsh. * Shut the door,' says he, as
gruff as can be ; * shut the door. How long
will it take to pack up ? We are going to
leave ' — we, forsooth ! We are going to leave,
and shall be off in an hour.' And there was
dear little Miss Madge all the time a-singing
in the garden, as bathe as a bird."

But we must tell it in our way, or we shall
never get to the end.

The apparition of Mr. Marsh was never
the source of pleasure to the members of his
family. Now, when his errand had become
known it filled them with consternation.
For the moment it had the effect of rousing
his wife from her state of hopeless lethargy,
and she declared firmly that she would not
go ; but the spirit of resistance soon died out,
and returning to her usual state of apathetic
listlessness, she allowed herself to be dressed
by Mrs. Fulford, much as if she had been a
kind of overgrown doll, or a lay figure.

Old Mr. Marsh was as ready as ever to do
his nephew's bidding, for he had long ceased

to have a will of his own ; and the idea of
change seemed to amuse him. He had,
however, expressed a wish that the move
might have been put off for a day — " only till
tomorrow, for by tomorrow I shall have
found it I am so near." But when he was
told in rough, brutal tones that they must
go at once, he resigned himself to his fate,
and devoted himself to arranging and packing
up his papers.

Madge, when she heard that they were to
leave the only home where she had met with
those she really loved, and where she had
spent so many happy days, was plunged into
a paroxysm of grief She would do nothing ;
she seemed as if dead to all around her, as
she sat by the side of Pops on the floor in
the corner of Chub's back parlour, with her
head bent forward and her face hidden by
her disordered hair. She had ceased to sob,
but silent tears were streaming over her
cheeks from those sightless eyes, and her
hands hung down helplessly by her side.

Even Pops was silent, and moved noiselessly
on his perch, as if afraid to break in
upon her sorrow.

Dear Miss Madge, you must not take on
so," said Mrs. Fulford, looking in upon her.
The Lord will not let you out of His hands."

"Oh, Mrs. Fulford, how I wish I could
die!"

What could Mrs. Fulford do but take her
in her arms, and in her kind, blundering, but
tender way, do her best to console her ?

It is only a change," she said ; *' and
Fulford and I will come and see you on
Sundays ; and Mr. Pringle and me will bring
you a nosegay out of the garden. And
why shan't you come and see us ? for perhaps
it won't be far, and Fulford can fetch
you by underground or 'bus — or maybe a
cab."

"And my garden, and my rose-tree,"
sobbed Madge. " I love them so ! — and oh,
Mrs. Fulford, now I am going away, I love
you and Mr. Fulford more than I ever did
before ; and I know sometimes I have been
ungrateful and naughty."

Then Mrs. Fulford kissed her, and tears
might have been seen rolling down her
cheeks as she tried to speak cheerfully ; and
Madge gave her messages for Chub, and was

able once more to talk so much more like her
old self that Pops expressed his satisfaction
by a series of taps against the bars of his
cage ; and Madge, reminded of him, said :

** Dear old Pops, we shall have no nice
garden now, but you will be happy, for there
will be no Mr. Pringle to be jealous of, you
naughty, jealous old creature I''

But Pops repeated in sad, melancholy
tones, " Pops has his doubts ;" and whether
it was the way in which he said it, or the
thought of going away without seeing Chub,
Madge had burst again into an agony of
tears.

Poor Madge ! she was not alone in her
anguish. At that very moment, myriads of
other young lives were being warped and
made miserable by irresistible influences
against which there is no other power of
protest than the silent agony of tears.

Poor Madge I with her natural sense of
refinement, her sensitive nature and her
loving heart, to have no better guides, companions,
and controllers than that dissipated
worthless father, that wretched, weak, and

worse than helpless mother, and that poor
crazed uncle. What can she do ? She is as
powerless as the clay in the potter's hands ;
she has but to submit, to weep, and to ask God,
if He be a kind and good and loving God, tolet
her die.

'^ Oh, let me die ! let me die !'* was again
the cry.

For young, as well as old, there are times
when Death has no terrors — he is no longer a
destroyer, but a benefactor.

In little more than an hour a cab was at
the door. Its roof was piled with luggage,
and on the seat near the driver was a parrot
in a cage.

Mr. Marsh was the last to get in.

"Please, sir, what address, in case of
letters ?" asked Mr. Fulford, as he closed
the door.

D— n the letters !" said Mr. Marsh. '' I
don't want any letters. Burn them."

And don't you know where they have
gone ?" asked Chub, when Mrs. Fulford had
finished her story.

Not in the least, sir," she answered ruefully.


Chub was struck with a happy thought.

*' Mr. Fulford, did you take the number of
the cab T

No, Mr. Fulford had not. How could he
have been such a fool as not to have done so I
His anger against himself was so strong for
his neglect, that it was with a word which
sounded very like a naughty one that he confessed
to it.

Dang it, no I What a great, big, blundering
fool I am ! — I never thought of that."

*' What is to be done T asked Chub.

*what, indeed?" echoed Mr. and Mrs.
Fulford, in the same breath.

Then there was a pause.

We must ask for direction," said Mrs,
Fulford.

'^ How could I have been such an oaf as
not to have taken the number I" said her
husband.

'' What will Eve say V muttered Chub.

I will sit down and write to Victoria."

CHAPTER IV.

LOST AND FOUND.

Chub's letter filled victoria with dismay.
Since the day on which she had first seen
Madge, her interest in her had increased,
until she had begun to regard herself as her
natural protector. It was delightful for her
to think that she was gradually developing
the latent powers of the poor neglected child ;
and now to find that she was withdrawn from
her influence, and that the loving care of
such friends as Chub and Mr. and Mrs.
Fulford was no longer hers. What could
have become of her ?

Each letter she received from Chub was
more hopeless than the preceding one ; yet
he had done all in his power to find her ; but
London is a large place, and for those who

wish to hide themselves in it, hiding is made
very easy.

She began to think that Chub's inexperience
might be the cause of his want of
success. She thought of asking Dr. Pringle,
but she hesitated, for she knew how difficult
it was for him to leave his patients. But
there was Sir Francis — he was in London,
and she knew she could rely upon him to do
all he could, not only for the poor child's sake,
but for hers. What more natural than that
she should write to him ?

I feel," she said, " that before long, the
dear child will be alone with that most
miserable father, for it is impossible that the
life of the poor wretched mother can be prolonged
; and what a sad, sad fate for her to
have no other protector than that horrible
man, and no other companion than her
imbecile old uncle ! It makes my heart bleed
when I think of her. If her whereabouts
could be found, it is possible the father would
be glad to get rid of her ; and I am quite
ready — more than ready, most anxious — to
assume all the responsibilities connected with
her care, and if any money difficulties stand

in the way, to meet them so far as T possibly
can. I know that you will do your best to
help me to find her; but there is no time to
be lost — it is indeed a matter of life and
death."

Sir Francis was in London at the time,
attending strictly to his parliamentary duties,
for with him being in Parliament meant
something more than the privilege of having
two letters attached to his name. And so
successful had he been, on the one or two
occasions on which he had addressed the
House, that he was already spoken of with
respect as one of the coming men.

On receiving Victoria's letter, he wrote to
says he would not " leave a stone unturned,"
and set to work in earnest to discover Mr.
Marsh's whereabouts. But all his efforts
were vain. He was not one whit more successful
than Chub had been. One night,
however, on leaving the Lyceum, where he
had been to see Irving in 'charles the First,"
heavy rain having come suddenly on, and
there being a great dearth of cabs, a shabbily
dressed man offered to fetch one. As Sir
Francis was about to give him something for

his trouble, it struck him the man's face was
familiar to him.

Surely, my good fellow, I have seen you
before ?"

The man hesitated for a moment, then
touching his hat respectfully :

To tell you the truth, Sir Francis — for
now 1 see it is you — I would rather have
preserved my incognito ; for life has many
ups and downs, and when we are down — as
I am unfortunately now, and very low down
too — experience teaches us that the world
does not regard indigence as a virtue."

What, Mortimer I Surely you have not
come to this ?"

*^ Indeed I have, sir. I was ambitious —
and "

"Jump in," said Sir Francis, interrupting.
" You are the very man I want to
see."

From Mr. Mortimer, with whose career on
the turf and as a man about town Sir Francis
had become acquainted, he had hoped to have
obtained some information about Mr. Marsh ;
but Mr. Mortimer could tell him very little ;
he had only seen him once — and that by

accident, late one evening in the Strand — since
that dreadful Bo wood.

He was hardly to be called sober when I
saw him," said Mr. Mortimer. ** Indeed,
intoxication is his habit ; he was swaggering
with drink, and accosted me with such
epithets that I did not care to remain in his
company ; but he told me that his wife was
dead, and that he was going to take the old
fool and the brat, as he called them, to
America."

How long was this ago T asked Sir
Francis.

About three months," said Mr. Mortimer
; " and he did swear most lawful."

And he gave you no clue to where he
was living ?" asked Sir Francis.

'' None, sir ; and I did not care to ask,
feeling that, in his haltered circumstances, he
was beneath my notice."

Finding he could get no further information
from Mr. Mortimer, Sir Francis dismissed
him with a handsome present. He had
asked if he were going into service again, and
if he could help him.

'* Thank you kindly, sir," said Mr. Mor-vol.

III. 39

timer, '' not just yet ; I am not yet reconciled
to the change in my condition, and to tell
you honestly the truth, sir, do not at present
dare to emerge from my obscurity. But
the time will come, sir, when Montjoy Mortimore,
of Her Majesty's Reserve Forces, will
be forgotten ; and then John Mortimer will
venture to obtrude himself upon you in his
old character as an honest man, and ask you
to assist him to realise his humble aspirations."


Sir Francis lost no time in causing inquiries
to be made at all the ports from which it was
likely Mr. Marsh might have sailed, but he
could gain no tidings of anyone answering to
his description.

The only intelligence he was able to give
Victoria was that which he had heard from
Mr. Mortimer, and his anxiety on the poor
child's account became very great.

And so the autumn had passed away, and
it was again winter — mid-winter. Winter,
with his wind and wet, and snow and storm ;
Winter, with his gloomy frown and chilly
breath ; Winter, with icy hands binding up
Nature's bosom in his iron bonds ; Winter,

scattering suffering broadcast o'er the land,
amongst the poor, the old, the weak.

It was a cold, cruel winter. For many
who lived by labour there was no work, and
without work there was no bread. Strong
men and women broke down under his hard
hand ; poverty yielded to temptation under
the pressure of cold and hunger ; the workhouses
were filled, the hospitals could take
no more, gaunt starving forms stalked about
the streets ; but the hidden misery, the
misery which shuts itself close from the sight
of others, was the deepest misery, the misery
most difficult to bear.

It was a cold, cruel winter. People were
known to drop down dead in the streets ;
children were found frozen to death on doorsteps
; no one claimed the poor stiffened
bodies, no one was found to tell from whence
they came. A few lines in the police report ;
a notice in the paragraph before which the
word "inquest" stands in large letters, and the
miserable deaths of some dozen people is half
detailed in smaller ones ; a pauper's grave —
another life has glided down and been engulphed
in the stream of time. Not even a

G9 — 2

bubble upon its surface, but for a moment's
space, to show where it had been.

A cold, cruel winter. Thousands and tens
of thousands shivering, and cov^'erino- and
starving, in the neighbourhood of the great
theatre for which Fashion, clad in warm furs,
relinquishes her luxurious home ; within a
stone's-throw of the comfortable church in
which Faith, sheltered from draughts, raises
her eyes to heaven ; not a dozen yards from
the hospital built by Charity, and pointed
to by the pride which walks hand in hand
with benevolence. Faith typified by the
Church, Charity by the hospital — but
Hope ?

Alas for many of these thousands and
tens of thousands, too young to be guilty, too
weak to be criminal, too old to be capable of
change ! with all our Faith, with all our
Charity, there is no Hope.

Mr. Marsh had not left England. He had
made no less than four changes of residence
since he had removed his family from Woodbine
Terrace, and each move had been a
downward one. The sudden shock of the first
change had been too much for his wife, and

she only outlived it a few days. The expenses
connected with her death had necessitated
a move to cheaper quarters, and Mr.
Marsh, having no resources of his own, was
constrained — it must be confessed much
against his will — to return to live as he had
done before, with his old uncle, for his old
uncle had the advantage of still enjoying his
weekly pension. He would have preferred
the money without the uncle, but as that
could not be, he had to put up with him ; and
as he knew that he would probably starve
without him, the preservation of such a life
became a matter of some importance. He took,
therefore, just sufficient care of the poor, imbecile
old man, as might give him a fair
chance of being enabled to spend his pension
for him for some few years longer. But to
his child he was more than indifferent ; he
hated her, and she had no pension. In his
present house — the fifth — situated in a squalid
neighbourhood in the outskirts of London,
he had furnished three rooms in the most
meagre manner. " It does not matter about
its being comfortable, I shan't be much at
home," he had said.

Anything was good enough for his child —
his blind brat, as he called her. " Take care
of the old man, and see that he gets something
warm for his dinner," he would say to
the dirty, miserable woman he had hired fora
servant. '' The old man's life is valuable,
but the sooner the blind brat dies the better."
He had no other feeling than that of bitter
hatred towards his poor afflicted child. He
hated her because, weak and blind as she
was, he feared her ; hated her because in her
presence he felt his own degradation, and was
humiliated into a sense of shame.

The season of Christmas had passed. The
shops had exhibited their abundance, and the
lounger through the streets, as he saw those
countless carcases of fat bullocks and fat
sheep — those myriads of fat turkeys, and fat
geese, and plump fowls — those piles of fresh
turbot, and huge cod, and soles, and barrelled
oysters — those long rows of pheasants, and
hares, and wild-fowl, competing with each
other, and against hams, and sausages, and
loins of pork, and dainty little pigs, might
well ask, " Is there not food for all ? Is it
possible, whatever may take place at other

times, that there can be one case of starvation
now ?"

Christmas ! the season when Plenty feasts,
and Abundance displays itself to hungry eyes;
when Poverty fasts, and Want hides its
death-stamped face.

Christmas had passed, but it had brought
nothing but gloom to little Madge. To
her, now, all seasons would have been alike,
were it not that winter was cold. And as
she sat shivering and cowering in a corner of
the wretched room which answered the double
purpose of a sitting-room by day and her
bedroom by night, she thought of the little
back parlour, and of Mr. Pringle, and of
Victoria, and of all she had lost ; and then tears
would roll silently down her cheeks, for now
hers was a life of sighs and tears — of nought
but sighs and tears.

There, in a corner of that wretched room,
she remained huddled together, hour after
hour ; not the bright, well-cared-for child of
a few months since, but with pale, sunken,
sallow cheeks, with eyes made more dull
through their hollowness, with neglected
hair, and torn and shabby clothes.

lb was early in the afternoon of one of these
mid-winter days — though it was almost dark,
so dense was the cold, thick fog — that Madge
sat crouching in her usual corner, silent, listless,
and helpless. She might have been
asleep, she was so motionless, but that from
time to time she turned towards the cage upon
the floor within her reach, and guiding her
hand by its bars, placed it caressingly upon
Pops, who, with drooping head and ruffled
feathers, was perched upon it. And sometimes
when she did so, she would say, in a
soft, silvery whisper : ** Dear, dear Pops !"
and then the bird, as if in answer, would rub
his head gently against her hand and peck at
it lovingly ; and had there been light enough
in that dark, fog-filled room, it might have
been seen that his feathers had become smooth,
and that his eyes had contracted with pleasure,
and that he kissed her finger again and again
with his smooth, black tongue. Then too
a tear might have been seen rolling down her
cheek, as she repeated : " Dear, dear Pops !
you are my only friend now ;" and then correcting
herself, and as if angry with herself
for her forgetfulness : "' and my poor, dear

old uncle." For not far from her sat the
bent, wistful-looking old nan, with his eyes
fixed on vacancy, from time to time holding
out his trembling hands towards the expiring
embers in the broken and rusty grate,
or folding and unfolding a paper which he
took out of his pocket furtively, and as furtively
returned.

The fire was going out, and he was shivering,
but he did not attempt to stir it — he
only drew his chair nearer and nearer to it ;
and he did this so noiselessly, looking
anxiously at the child the while, as if he
thought she might be asleep and was afraid
of awakening her. When she moved and
caressed the parrot, his face assumed a timid,
conscious expression, as if he had disturbed
her ; but when he heard her speak to the bird,
his poor, worn face lightened up, and he looked
at her affectionately, and nodded many times,
as if he would have said : '' And your poor
old uncle loves his little Madge too, but he
is too busy now to talk ; only wait until he
has found it."

He is now so near — so very near — he does
not even speak of '' tomorrow."

He was thus nodding, screwing up his poor
old wrinkled face into an expression of mingled
shyness and tenderness as he did so, when a
heavy step was heard upon the stairs. In an instant
the whole manner of the old man changed;
he pushed his chair rapidly back to the side
of the fire farthest from the corner in which
Madge was sitting, and in his nervous desire
to appear to be at ease, and to be occupied
with anything else but the poor blind child,
began to button and unbutton his coat with
the most praiseworthy assiduity.

But he was not the only one who was
startled by that step, for no sooner had Madge
heard it, than, with a movement which was
so sudden that it was almost convulsive, she
held out her hand to the cage, and in an
instant Pops was upon it, and in another
nestling in her bosom ; he, too, was under
the influence of that step, for he had fluttered
his wings and stretched out his head
towards her the instant it had sounded on
the stairs.

The step was that of Mr. Marsh. He had
gone out only a short time before, but it
seems that he had forgotten something, and

he had returned more out of temper and
more brutal than usual.

The first object upon which he turned his
wrath was his child.

'' What are you moping in that corner for,
with that beast of a bird ? It gives me the
blue devils to look at you."

It seemed as if Pops had understood what
he had said, for though Madge could feel him
trembling in every limb, he put his head forward
and opened his beak with a threatening
gesture in the direction where Mr. Marsh
was standing. It may be that Mr. Marsh
had observed it, and it had added to his
irritation, for he came at once towards
Madge.

Come," he said, " I am not going to have
any more of this nonsense ! When I am
away, you may sit whimpering in that corner
as long as you like, but when I am at home,
I will have nothing of the kind. You could
be merry enough when you were with that
unlicked cub of a Sawbones ; and I'll teach
you better manners now, or know the reason
why." And as Madge neither moved nor
answered : " Oh, you are in the sulks, miss,

are you ? Come, I'll have no more of this
humbug : get up at once !"

As he spoke, he stooped down and seized
her roughly by the arm, but he had no sooner
done so than he released her, and stepped
backwards with a volley of oaths — for his
hand had scarcely touched her when Pops
had rushed at him with a shrill scream, and
bitten one of his fingers to the bone.

His retreat was but momentary.

Curse you and your grey devil !" he
said, in a voice hoarse with passion, as he
again came towards her. " T wish I could
wring both your necks at once ; but one, at
all events, shall go to kingdom come."

The child had shrunk instinctively from
him, and folded the still screaming Pops
closely in her arms, but her father, shaking
her roughly with his left hand, struck
the bird fiercely to the ground with his
right.

A stifled cry ; a dull crashing thud ;
and Pops was dead. He had been crushed
under the brutal father's heel the moment he
had touched the floor.

There !" he said, lifting up the mangled

body of the bird and flinging it in Madge's
face, " take your pet !"

The child uttered no cry — no sound — but
pressing the poor bird's body to her lips,
turned round on her face and lay prostrate
on the floor. She could not see that the
old man had risen, and stood erect before
her father. She did not hear that he had
said :

Shame upon you ! Is it not enough for
you to have lamed your mother, that you
must now needs kill your child ? Monster,
go!"

His eyes flashed with indignation as he
spoke, and it was difficult to recognise in
the tall, erect man, whose voice had lost all
its weakness, the poor, bowed-down, timid
creature who had been trembling but a few
minutes before with fear and the infirmity
of aofe.

The wretched bully was cowed for an
instant, and slunk towards the door ; but
before he had passed through it he had recovered
his blustering and defiant air.

You chattering' old fool !" he said : '' who
told you to speak ? You are only fit for

Bedlam; and you would have been there long
ago, had it not been for your money."

He went out of the room as he said this,
and the violent slamming of the front-door
showed that he had left the house.

The old man had remained standing. As
his nephew spoke the last words he shrunk
together and became once more a feeble,
tottering, helpless creature — so shaken and
agitated that he had to support himself
against the chimney-piece near which he
stood.

'' Oh, if I had but found it !" he murmured.
'^ If I had but found it ! But it is
so near — so near !"

There was silence for a space. Not a
sound — not even a sob from Madge ! She
might have been dead, she lay so still.
Then the old man, under the fear, perhaps,
that she was so, moved across the room to
the corner where she lay, and stooping down
and stroking her soft, dishevelled hair, said
gently :

Madge, my darling, speak ! Speak to
your poor old uncle ! Do not be angry with
him, because he — he is weak, and old, and

silly, and could not help you. Your poor
old uncle, who loves you better than all the
world."

A low moan from Madge was the only
answer; but the old man's words seemed to
have restored her to herself, for she turned
round and, placing the dead Pops in her
lap, sat up against the wall

'* Sit down, uncle dear," she said. " Sit
down by me close — quite close — I want to
talk to you." And when the old man had
placed himself on the ground by her side, she
threw her arms round his neck, and laid her
head on his shoulder, and then, and not before,
burst into a flood of tears. 'but I will
not cry, uncle dear," she said, suddenly restraining
herself. '' What good is crying 1
it will not punish that wicked, bad man !
And I shall never hear dear Pops again —
never ! — never ! I do not want to live
without Pops ! And I cannot die, for God
will not let me ! Oh, it is very unkind of
God not to let me die, though I asked Him
and prayed to Him when I knew Pops was
dead. Why did not that wicked man kill
me too V

'^ Oh ! Madge, he is your father," said the
old man, gently.

"He is not," said Madge; "I will not
have him. I hate him ! hate him ! hate him 1"
she said, raising her voice. Then, suddenly
changing her tone, " Come, uncle dear, put
your things on, quick! — we must go."

^' Go ?" asked the old man, ruefully.

*' Yes," said Madge, 'ewe must go. I will
not stay. We ought to have gone before ;
and then that wicked man would not have
killed my darling."

But where are we to go ?"

Why, to Mr. Fulford's, to be sure ; and
there we shall see Mr. Pringle, and I shall
have letters from Victoria, and I will bury
my darling in my garden under the ,
and I will sit by him when the
sun shines, and talk to him just as I used to
talk to him ; but I shall never hear my darling's
voice again — no, never ! Come, uncle
dear — be quick ! — we must go."

"But I do not know the v/ay," said the
old man, as if he felt powerless to resist her.

Then we must find it, uncle dear," said
the child.

The words seemed to strike upon the chord
which was ever vibrating in the old man's
mind:

"Ah ! if we shall find it — if we shall find it !"

It was as if no further objection could be
made. He was impatient to set out at once.

They were soon ready. Madge in a scanty
cloak, with poor Pops wrapped up in the only
silk handkerchief she had, pressed against
her heart ; the old man buttoned up in his
threadbare coat, with a comforter round his
neck. They met the slatternly servant on the
stairs.

What, going out !" she cried, in astonishment.
'' Why, Mr. Marsh, you will catch
your death of cold, and the fog is that thick
you might cut it with a knife."

She would have persuaded him to return,
but he pushed her aside ; he seemed to have
regained all his strength now that he was
going to *find it."

Holding Madge by the hand he walked on,
now turning to the right, now turning to the
left. The fog was thick, but he did not heed
it. There was no hesitation in his movements.
No one observing him would have

VOL. III. 40

suspected that he did not know where he was
going.

Madge, too, had regained all her old confidence
in him. For the time, he was no
longer her poor foolish old uncle. She never
asked herself how they were to find the way.
She only knew they were going to Mrs.
Fiilford's, and that if they walked on and on
she would see Mr. Pringle. But from time
to time she would ask :

'* And is it very far, uncle ?"

But her uncle did not know ; he only
knew that if they walked on and on they
must get there at last.

Strange that he, who of late had been so
taciturn and silent, talked as he strode along
incessantly — now to his little niece, now to
himself; now as if some one, whom Madge
did not know, was walking by his side.
When they passed through the larger
thoroughfares, Madge could only hear his
voice without catching the words ; but whenas
was often the case, they where in quiet
back streets, and only heard the roar of the
great city in the distance, she listened to him
with wonder. She had never heard him talk

like that before. But yet it made her think
of what he had once told her — of the curse.
That terrible curse.

'* Madge," he said, suddenly, " do you
know this is my birthday ? Your old uncle's
birthday ;" and before she could answer, and
say how glad she was :

*eyes, Madge, so old, so poor, so weak
now ; fifty years ago I was young and rich
and strong, and I had a young wife, Madge
a beautiful young wife and a child — oh, my
God ! a child !"

And when he paused for a moment, Madge
clinging to him, and forgetting for awhile
her own grief:

Oh, uncle dear ! is it all true ?"

Madge," he said, as he stooped down towards
her, " I will tell you. 1 can tell you
now, for the fog is thick and dark, and no
one can see us, and there is no one to hear it.
I broke her heart — broke my beautiful young
wife's loving heart — for she loved me. Yes,
and I loved her more than she knew, more
than I can tell — and yet I broke her heart."

Oh, uncle dear ! I do not believe it," said
Madge. " You are too kind."

40—2

"I tell you I did' said the old man
angrily, as if impatient of contradiction. *' I
tell you I did — I was under the curse — the
curse that is in our blood — and I became a
gambler, and drank and swore and went on
from bad to worse ; and she died, and I shall
never see her more. And the curse was in the
blood of my child — my Violet — and she left
me, and I heard that she too had died ; and I
became more wild and reckless, and I lost my
fortune. What cared I ? I had lost all I loved.
What cared I ? Then you came, Madge, and
for your sake I would have been rich again ;
and one night the devil stood by my bed and
promised that I should find it — find the way
to become rich again ; and day and night I
have sought for it, for your sake, Madge — for
your sake — and now it is so near — so near."

Before Madge could speak they had reached
a busy street, and his voice was drowned in
the sound of wheels ; when next she could
distinguish what he was saying he was no
longer speaking to her — he was talking to
some one else — to some one whom he called
Margaret, and to whom he spoke as if she
too were walking by his side.

*' Margaret' he said, ^' I will not have it.
It was not I who made your son what he is.
It was the curse in his blood — in our blood —
in your blood. What else was it that drove
your husband from you ? what else made
your son hate you from his birth ? You maybe
as gentle as you please now, it will not
recall the past. You sowed hate, and wanted
to reap love. You were hard and cold and
cruel then — what matter if your heart be
softened now ? What matter if I did teach
your boy to swear and to drink and to
gamble — did I give him the temper of a
hend ? I tell you I will not have it ! And
for twenty years have I not sheltered him,
when you have cast him off? Have I not
drunk water that he might drink wine ? and
starved and stinted — and for what ? in order
that the selfish wretch might continue in his
wickedness — to nourish the monster that you
should have strangled in his birth."

He had said this with fierce energy. It
was in soft, tremulous tones — speaking as if
he were breaking the silence for the first time
that he asked :

Madge, my darling, are you tired ?"

*' A little, uncle dear," she said ; " a very
little."

Are your feet wet ?"

Madge was obliged to confess that her
feet were wet — for her shoes were thin and
worn, and the water oozed into them at
every step.

A little," she again murmured. " Shall
we soon be there ?"

'' Of course we shall," he said ; " we have
only to walk on till we find it — walk on till
we find it I"

And then again he began to talk in low
tones to himself She could only hear :

Yes, she shall have it all — she shall be
rich — little Madge — like the lilies of the field
clothed in glory — a little longer — but a
little longer — wait until it is found — then
death oh, most welcome death !"

Madge was becoming very tired ; they had
walked for more than an hour ; her feet were
cold and sore, and she felt hungry and faint.
They were passing a baker's shop.

*' Uncle' she asked, " have you any
money ? I should so like a piece of bread."

He bought her a small loaf, and they

walked on ; but it was at a slower pace than
before, and the old man had become silent.
Suddenly he stopped.

''I want strength, child," he said, strength.
I am old and weak. I must have strength,
or I shall never find it. Stay here for a
moment."

He left her standing helpless and alone,
but it was pleasant to stop : her feet were
sore, and her legs ached so dreadfully ; besides,
she was still hungry, for as they had
walked along she had only been able to eat a
few mouthfuls ; now she would have finished
the little loaf, but the thought of the poor
dead Pops made her feel as if she could not
swallow. No, she could eat no more.

She was beginning to be anxious, standing
alone in that dreary street. It was getting
quite dark, but she did not know it; she only
knew that she was alone. And now, for the
first time, she began to feel afraid. She
suddenly remembered what Mrs. Fulford had
said about her poor old uncle's silliness.

Could it be that he could not find the
way, and that they would never get there ?
What would become of them ? They could

not stay oat all night in the cold — she must
sit down soon, she could not walk much
farther. Oh, if dear Pops were still alive !
Though dead, it was a comfort to have him
with her. Poor Pops ! she thought of how
gentle and loving he had been only just before
her cruel father had killed him. She
thought no more of being footsore and cold
and tired. She was not thinking of herself,
but of Pops, when she burst into tears.

But she heard steps. Could they be her
uncle's ? No, they were too firm and quick.
But she was mistaken. He once more took
her by the hand.

'* Madge," he said, and as he spoke she
detected the horrible smell of spirits which
had been one of the tortures of her young
life, " we must walk on quickly — I am quite
strong now — and we shall soon find it." Then
he muttered to himself, "The first time for
twenty years — the first time for twenty
years."

Pie walked on so quickly she could hardly
keep up with him, and yet he urged her to
walk faster. It seemed to Madge that the
air had become purer, and that they must

have left the streets and entered some open
space, and she thought as they hurried along
that she heard at times the distant plash of
water. And this greatly puzzled Madge, for
when she had walked out with Mr. and Mrs.
Fulford she had never heard this sound.
Where could they be ?

Oh, uncle — dear uncle I" she cried ; *' is it
far ? I am so tired."

'* Only a little farther, Madge," he said ;
we shall soon be there, my darling ; I see it
before me."

*' See what T asked Madge.

*' The great palace with its tall tower, and
the great clock-face on fire, looking down
upon us. Mercy upon us, Madge, did you
hear nothing '?"

** What, uncle — what T asked Madge, now
thoroughly frightened.

*' Hush ! don't speak," said the old man,
pulling her along. " The devil is at work —
we are followed."

A vague terror seized upon the child.
Was it her infuriated father who was following
them, and would he kill them as he had
killed Pops ? Her fear gave her strength.

Let us run, uncle," she said, urging the
old man forward in her terror.

They had for some little time been walking
along the Thames Embankment in the
direction of Westminster, and as they hurried
onward they came to the bridge. The old
man stopped when they had reached it.

*' Madge," he said, " they are gone ; I
knew they would not catch us, the cowards !
and here we are at last, close — close 1"

He turned upon the bridge as he spoke.

*' Madge," he said, *' something tells me
that this very night, this very hour, I am to
find it; who knows how soon ?"

But, uncle dear," she cried, ^' this is not
Mr. Fulford's. Oh, do pray take me to Mr.
Belford's !"

There was an agony of apprehension in her
appeal.

He did not answer her. He was again
talking to himself

Oh, do pray take me to Mr. Fulford's !"
she repeated.

Many people were crossing over the bridge.
But it so happened that one side of it was
comparatively clear.

'^ Come, Madge, there is no time to be
lost," said the old man, crossing over to it.

The child's courage had left her ; all her
weariness had returned ; and it was with
difficulty that he could drag her on.

Oh, uncle, we shall never find it," she
cried.

** It is a lie — a base lie, child !" he shouted ;
it is there ! I see it now ; it is floating on
the water ; it shall not escape me ; I have
won at last !"

He released her hand, she heard a sound
as of some one clambering over a wall ; then,
as if in the distance, a faint cry — it was her
uncle's voice — of " Found !"

There was a confused murmur of many
voices, the rush of many feet.

"What is the matter?" 'what is it?"
What's up r

Only an old bloke been and thronged
himself into the river."

'Ope he likes it."

Madge, with outstretched arms, had staggered
forward towards the roadway, and missing
her step as she reached the lower level,
had fallen heavily to the ground. When she

was picked up, it was seen that she was
bleeding from a cut across the forehead, for
her head had struck the curb, and that she
was senseless.

A policeman had come upon the scene.
** Does anyone know the girl ?" he asked.

"Don't say if you knows. Bill," said the
owner of the voice which had spoken before,
to his neighbour.

*' Not I. I'm not so jolly green ; I don't
want to be inquest."

"What's to be done?" asked the policeman
of his sergeant, as he came up.

Take her to the hospital. Take her to
St. Tobias's."

CHAPTER V.

A LOAD OFF A LOVING HEART.

Victoria was alone in her room at Zurich.
A bright, cheerful room, with windows overlooking
the peaceful dove coloured lake.

On the table a vase, with a nosegay of
tastefully arranged wild flowers ; on the walls
a few well-selected prints and photographs,
the largest of which was a good copy of that
marvellous picture, which is well worth a
journey to the Hague to see, the *' Lecture on
Anatomy," by Rembrandt. Many books were
scattered about, some in German, some in
English, some in French, principally in prose,
though there was a sprinkling of poetry. On
one side of the room a console, with a few
nicknames ; by the window a work-table, on
which lay a piece of unfinished embroidery ;

and near it, placed in a carefully chosen light,
an easel, with a landscape in water-colours,
the last touches of which were not yet
dry.

The only sign that this was a student's
room was to be found in the large book-case,
occupying nearly the whole of the wall-space
between the door and the windows, filled
with books which required to be studied
rather than read — books on the Natural
Sciences, Natural History, Anatomy, Medicine
and Surgery — ranged on the shelves in the
most perfect order. Amongst the books on
Surgery there was a vacant space, one volume
was absent' ; but it lay on a chair by the side
of the easel, and a glance at the illustrations
on its open pages showed that it was a treatise
on diseases of the eye.

It was quite clear that Victoria had not
forgotten Madge.

Just now she was standing by the window,
with an open letter in her hand. It was
from Sis, for of late Sis had taken to writing
to Victoria. At first in a most mournful
strain, for the curate with the 'dreamy"
eyes had suddenly taken it into his wise head

that it was his duty to join a mission for the
conversion of the heathen in the interior of
Africa, and so had departed one fine morning
with a beard of three weeks growth, and a
portmanteau labelled "Timbuctoo." Thrown
once more upon her own resources, what
could Sis do better in her desolation but seek
for comfort from Victoria ?

It must be confessed that Victoria was just
then too much occupied with her work and
her anxiety about Madge to give her much ;
and happily, in a short time, consolation had
ceased to be needed, for there was suddenly a
rift in the cloud caused by the curate's cruel
conduct. The incumbent of ,
the Reverend St. John Softridge,
was made a dean, and his successor, the
Reverend Aloysius Kempster, was, although
verging on middle age, still unmarried.
What a chance for Sis ! She opened the
trenches at once ; in a short time the line of
circumvallation was complete, her guns in
position, and nothing remained but to pour an
overwhelming fire of shot and shell into the
citadel. And all this time she must needs
keep boring — it is the only word — Victoria,

who had other things to think of, with her
letters.

She had first tried Chub, but a single letter
from him had put a stop to the correspondence.
And no wonder, for Sis, not content
with having, under the influence of the
Reverend Aloysius, forsaken her own parish
church for his, and joined some kind of sisterhood
which gave her the privilege of wearing
suspended round her neck a lozenge-shaped
medallion with mystic characters, and of
attaching certain letters of the alphabet to
her signature, must forsooth make use of this
latter privilege when writing to Chub, to
practical, unsentimental — always putting
Eva on one side — matter-of-fact Chub. She
ought to have known what it would have led
to, and she need not have been so very angry
when he wrote back to ask for an explanation,
saying " that although the first three letters
were perfectly familiar to him, and perhaps
appropriate to her, the others were beyond
bis comprehension."

Bat she was very angry, and it is not to be
wondered at that the correspondence closed
with a letter from her in which his conduct

was characterised as unkind, ungentlemanly,
vulgar, and profane, with three dashes under
the last word.

Now, Sis was in earnest — at least she
thought she was — and so was never weary
of lamenting over the frivolity of her former
life. But then she had not had the advantage
of the Reverend Aloysius Dempster
ministrations ; now she was for ever trudging
through the mud to Slocum for matins, for
vespers, for primes, or for some other of the
many services which it had been the heart s
delight of the Eeverend Aloysius to institute.


Oh, Victoria," she wrote, " what a comfort
it is, that if we cannot have daily services
in our own parish church, Slocum is within
walking distance ! and though it takes up the
greater part of the morning, I don't think I
have missed it more than twice, and then
through having a cold, during the last month.
The only thing which makes me feel unhappy
about it is that papa does not quite like it —
though, good, dear, kind old creature that he
is, he does not say much, but I know he

VOL. III. 41

does not like it —and were it not that Mr.
Kempster has pointed out to me what my
duty is, in such a clear and unmistakable
manner that I should be grievously wrong
were I not to do it, I fear I should never
have had the courage to have persevered. I
wish you could have heard Mr. Kempster's
last sermon : it was upon faith ; and he
pointed out how little faith there was at the
present time, and what a falling off there had
been since those days when such numbers of
men and women gave up the world, and,
separating themselves from their families and
friends, devoted themselves to pious meditation
under the guidance of the holy Church ;
when prayer was looked upon as the first
and chief duty of life, and science was made
subservient to a higher teaching, which kept
it in its proper place, so that it was from the
pulpit and not from the professor's chair that
the world was taught. He said all this so
simply that my heart was deeply touched,
and 1 have felt better ever since."

*' Poor little Sis," said Victoria, as she put

down the letter. " What would Mr.
Kempster say to such a teaching as this V
She took up a book from the table and read
aloud : " ' Work is the great end of man's
existence, and faith shows itself in work
better than in words. But the work must be
based upon the cultivation and employment
of every divine gift, so that man may be
enabled to move on towards a higher state by
endeavouring to find out those unchangeable
laws which best teach him the Will of that
Great Being to whom obedience is the most
acceptable worship. That faith, when so
working, is blessed, there can be no room for
doubt ; for, though man may not be able to
move mountains, knowledge working with
faith has enabled him to pierce them — nay
more, it has enabled him to give sight to the
blind, to make the deaf hear, the dumb to
speak, and even to raise those who, without
its aid, were dead to life.'

I like this theology best," she said, as she
replaced the book on the table ; " but now to
work."

She seated herself at the work-table, and

41—2

in a short time was completely absorbed in her
embroidery, and the contents of the treatise
on the eye. There was no room for thoughts
of Sis.

Now it always had been one of Dr. Pringle's
jokes, that Sis must marry a fool.

** Indeed you must," he would say; ''if you
were to marry a sensible man he would beat

you."

And yet he loved her as the apple of his eye;
and perhaps, so inscrutable is human nature,
loved her all the better for her weakness. And
soon, though he called him a *' simpleton'
the new rector of Slocum-cum-Magnus became
endurable to him ; for he could not deny that
he was an amiable, well-intentioned fellow ;
and he had it not in his heart to think unkindly
of a man who began to give unmistakable
signs of being in love with Sis. For
almost before the batteries had opened fire,
the citadel had capitulated. And from that
time forward the E-ev. Aloysius Kempster
stood before the world as the future husband
of the happy Sis. And it is remarkable that
henceforward Dr. Pringle was no more beard

expressing his wonder that Nature could have
been so eccentric as to create brains incapable
of producing higher thoughts than belong to
ceremonies and vestments.

There was one point connected with the
Eev. Aloysius Dempster's engagement which
had somewhat exercised many of the members
of his congregation : he had always
given out that priests ought not to marry ;
and Sis had professed to think so too.

No one knew by what arguments they had
been induced to change their opinions ; for
it was a subject on which, as it were with
a tacit understanding, they both held their
tongues.

A letter announcing the engagement to
Victoria was being penned by Sis, at the
very time that the former had seated herself
at her work-table and become absorbed in her
embroidery and in the contents of the treatise
on the eye.

But when it came she had very little time
to give to thoughts of Sis; for whilst she was
still working and reading, a telegram had been
brought her. It was from Chub :

Have found her ! She is safe. Will
write."

Thank God !" said Victoria.
She felt as if a load had been taken off her
heart.

CHAPTER VI.

REVELATIONS.

Time has rolled on. The year has again
grown old.

The cold, cruel Winter had shrunk away
before the warm breath of Spring. Spring
had lost her youth, and ripened into Summer
under Sol's fierce wooing ; and when he had
turned from her, and was once more travelling
to the distant south, Summer, arraying herself
as Autumn, had sought to hold him by a richer
beauty ; but he fleeing from her with greater
swiftness, Autumn, desolate and forsaken, had
cast off her variegated vestments, and robing
herself in russet weeds, had again fallen,
shivering and shuddering, into hoar Winter's
outstretched arms.

A bright fire burnt in the snug, rosy
dining-room of Deepdale.

On opposite sides of it sat Dr. Pringle and
Sir Francis Hawthorne. It was evident that
the ladies had only that moment left the room,
for the worthy doctor was just settling himself
in his chair, after having drawn the table
nearer the fire, so as to bring the decanters
within his reach.

*' This is what I like," said the doctor, rubbing
his hands : "a cheerful fire, when one hears
the wind, as we do now, roaring without ; a
good glass of wine after a good dinner ; and
above all, a companion like you. Sir Francis,
to whom I can talk freely, and in whom I
know I possess a friend who takes a sufficient
interest in my affairs not to be bored when I
talk a little too much about them. I suppose
all men at my age like talking — but talking
at any age is only agreeable when you have a
sympathetic listener."

*' Am I a good listener ?" asked Sir Francis,
smiling. ** I thought talking was rather my
forte."

Not at all," said the doctor ; " by a good
listener I do not mean a silent, but a responsive

one. In this you are not like my
good friend — I suppose I must call him so,
now that he is about to become my son-in-law
— who has forsaken our society for that of
the ladies. He is a most patient, I might indeed
say, a most deferential, listener ; but to
talk to him, is about as pleasant as striking a
chord upon a piano of which half the notes
are dumb — the more you thump, the less music
you get out of it."

He is a good, well-meaning fellow," said
Sir Francis.

I really believe there is good in him — if
it were not so, he should not have Sis ; but as
to his being well-meaning, half the evil that
is to be found in this world is to be laid at the
door of well-meaning people. Between ourselves,
the man is an ass ; but dear little Sis
has set her mind upon having him for her
husband ; and she is now old enough, if not
wise enough, to choose for herself And if the
Kev. Aloysius had been a Solomon, he might
not perhaps have fallen over head and ears in
love with Sis. She is my child, and I love
her dearly, but I am not blind to her faults
and failings. I wish it had been different'*

The doctor poured out a glass of wine, and
passed the bottle. He was silent for a
moment ; had his thoughts been revealed,
it would have been seen that his companion
had ha 1 some place in them, and that of
all men, Sir Francis was the husband he
would have chosen for Sis.

** Yes, he is a good fellow," he resumed,
with a sigh, as if only now answering Sir
Francis's remark ; " and his mission is evidently
to minister to those whose intellects
are too weak to make the ministrations of
stronger minds acceptable ; and we must not
forget that the thousand millions who inhabit
this earth have been truly said to be mostly
fools. What a contrast between Sis and
Victoria !" he added, as if speaking to himself.

*' I sometimes think," said Sir Francis,
** that the capacity possessed by different
people is rather of kind than of degree. A
mere concentration of power in those we
consider strong, a distribution of it in those
we look upon as weak. Victoria seems tome
to have arrived at a power of concentrating
herself upon whatever she undertakes,
and that is the great secret of her success."

I predict a great career for her," said the
doctor ; " her progress has been remarkable.
She seems already to have gained an exhaustive
knowledge of everything connected with
the diseases of the eye, and is said to possess
a dexterity of hand which leads one to hope
she may be able to turn her knowledge to
good account. No doubt but that little
Madge's blindness has made her direct her
attention especially to this subject."

Do you think there is any possibility of
the poor child regaining her sight?" asked
Sir Francis.

It is just possible," said the doctor. " I
imagine, from what little knowledge I could
gain from the state of her eyes when she was
here, that she could not have been born blind,
but that she must have become so in infancy.
There have been one or two instances
in which eyes in the state hers are have been
operated on with the most extraordinary results.
But success in such cases depends
not only on the skill of the operator, which
must be of the highest order, but upon the
most watchful care and attention after the
operation. A great deal depends, too, upon

the health of the patient. In the state of
health caused bj all the mental and physical
suffering the poor child has undergone, success
would be very questionable; but Victoria
writes that Madge has very much improved
of late, and that she is growing stronger
daily. She could not be in better hands.
I have quite made up my mind, if she ever
gets her sight, it will be through Victoria."

'' I saw the poor child when I was last at
Zurich, and she was looking very happy,"
said Sir Francis ; " and the power Victoria
exercises over her is extraordinary."

I wonder what relation the child is to
her ?" said the doctor, thoughtfully.

"Do you think that their names being
alike is anything more than a coincidence ?"
asked Sir Francis.

I cannot help doing so," said the doctor ;
** for, though in the letter which has had
such a remarkable influence upon Victoria's
life, her aunt confined herself to a relation
of the sad aberrations of mind and conduct
which seemed to have been for generations
the fatal inheritance of so many members of
her family, she most scrupulously avoided

every detail as to name or place which would
have given the slightest clue to their identity.
I have no reason to believe that the name
she went by was not her real one, but twice
I have been struck by a remarkable, though
distorted, resemblance between a portrait
which hung up in her room, but which at her
express desire was destroyed shortly after her
death, and the man whom I subsequently discovered
to be little Madge's father."

^* Have you ever mentioned this to Victoria
?"

'* No. There is a sort of tacit understanding
between us that all subjects should be
avoided which only produce painful feelings
without any useful object. I know, too, that
she would not love little Madge more, or take
a greater interest in her, because she was a
cousin. It is very possible, however, that
she may have some suspicion with regard
to it."

Does anyone know what has become
of Madge's wretched father ?" asked Sir
Francis.

Nothing has been heard of him," said
the doctor. " From his appearance and

character, I should think he would either
drink himself to death, or, honey failing
him, die from want of the stimulants which
have become a necessity of existence. Chub
caused inquiries to be made, but could learn
nothing."

*' And how is Chub getting on?" asked Sir
Francis.

'' He will do well," said the doctor. " Chub
may never set the Thames on fire, but he is
a sensible, well-conducted young fellow ; and
his engagement to Eva, which is no longer a
secret, has given him an object to work for,
without which I fear his easy-going nature
would soon have subsided into indolence.
Chub is a dear good fellow, and will do very
well by-and-by. Fill your glass, Sir Francis
the wine is good and sound, and not of
the Hugh Forrester brand — here's a health
to Chub !"

The mention of Eva's name had turned Sir
Francis's thoughts in a new direction.

Have you heard whether Davos has
benefited Lady Runnymede" he asked, with
a simulated air of indifference.

Victoria speaks very hopefully," said the

doctor; " she had only just returned from a
short visit to her when she last wrote. The
death of the child appears to have been a
great blow to her. Then there are other
circumstances. I fear she is unhappy, and of
all diseases unhappiness is the most difficult
to cure."

Lord Runny mede is hunting at Norton,"
said Sir Francis, drily.

He is a brute !" said the doctor, who
prided himself on being plain spoken, or, ashe
expressed it, on calling a spade a spade.
Chub has told me things of him which
prove that he is unworthy of such a wife as
Geraldine. At the very time she was so ill,
he was constantly at the theatre, screening
himself from observation behind one of the
most notorious members of the demi-monde
in London. He ought to be ashamed of
himself!"

Sir Francis was silent. His indignation
was far greater than the doctor's, but he
did not dare trust himself to express it.

"Come, doctor," he said, ** let us join the
ladies."

In the drawing-room Mrs. Pringle sat, as

usual, in a state of silent satisfaction over her
everlasting wool-work. She was more than
usually happy, for the dinner had been well-cooked,
and the gentlemen had shown that
they had appreciated it. Indeed, the only time
when Mrs. Pringle's usually placid temper
could be said to be perturbed was on those
days of the week when Sis, following the
example and precept of the Rev. Aloysius,
refused to eat anything but bread and butter,
or eggs and vegetables.

It is quite tiresome," Mrs. Pringle would
say, *'to be obliged to remember those horrid
omelettes ; and I am sick of seeing Sis
and Aloysius " — with great difficulty she
had arrived at calling her intended son-in-law
Aloysius — " eating them. I am sure they
cannot be wholesome, taken in such large
quantities, and must injure their stomachs ;
indeed, I always observe that people who fast
are inclined to pimples."

She had even thought it necessary to
speak to her husband very seriously on the
subject, but she was not at all satisfied with
his reply.

Pish ! my dear, pish I If the poor

child thinks she will get to heaven the easier,
through eating eggs, why, let her eat them."

*' But they give pimples," objected Mrs.
Pringle.

** Pish !" said the doctor ; " they do
nothing of the kind. Perhaps it would be
better for us all if we eat less ; but you have
spoiled us with your good dinners."

Mrs. Pringle was mollified ; her pride as a
housekeeper was satisfied. If you wanted to
win her heart, you had — as we know — only
to praise her dinners.

It was, then, under the influence of an appreciated
dinner, that, as the gentlemen
entered the room, Mrs. Pringle sat placidly
at her wool-work.

Sis and the Eev. Aloysius were sitting in a
somewhat remote part of the room, rather
closer together than ordinary mortals would
have found convenient — Sis hard at work on
some ecclesiastical pattern ; she does nothing
but what she calls " Church work " now — the
Kev. Aloysius with hands clasped, head a little
turned on one side, and an expression of the
deepest, very deepest, interest, listening to her.
For Sis loved to talk when she worked, and

VOL. III. 42

loved more than all, to talk to her dear Aloy-
sins, for he hung upon every word as if real
pearls of wisdom were dropping from her lips.
Poor dear Sis ! she little knew that the
apparently entranced listener was thinking
more of those lips than of the words.

Don't you think I am right ?" she asked
suddenly.

*' Of course I do," said the Reverend
Aloysius.

He declared he was perfectly of her
opinion ; though, truth to tell, he had not
for the last eve, minutes heard a single
syllable of what she had said. The hypocrite
! he was thinking of those lips.

But Sis wanted something more than his
assent — she wanted his views ; and it was
just as the position of the Eev. Aloysius was
becoming very embarrassing, that the door
opened, and Dr. Pringle and Sir Francis
walked in.

Then it was that the Rev. Aloysius and
Sis had simultaneously drawn back their
chairs, and assumed a more distant manner
towards each other.

Mrs. Pringle presided at the tea-table ;

and in a short time the doctor and Sir Francis
sat down to chess, and the silence was only
broken by the low murmur of the conversation
between the two lovers. From the few stray
words which were occasionally audible, it
was evident they had returned to the one
topic which seemed to exclude all others, and
that they were talking '* Church."

Poor little Sis ! it was astonishing how
glibly she spoke about chasubles, reredoses,
and birettas ; and what a depth of interest
she showed when the Rev. Aloysius dwelt
upon the marvels of what he had seen at
Ober-Ammergau, and on the intensity of the
emotion they had produced in him ; then
they became critical, and after skirmishing
a little with Church-music, proceeded to a
fierce onslaught on heartless services and
Calvinistic preachers ; descending step by
step from generalities to personalities ; and
then Sis was in her element, for though she
hated being ridiculed herself, she had a keen
sense of the ridiculous in others, and always
had some little phrase ready with which to
point her satire.

42—2

na.

She was describing an old gentleman who
had preached the Sunday before in the parish
church :

It really was quite dreadful to be obliged
to listen to him," she said, *she had such an
absurd voice. He did not speak — he quacked
like a duck !"

She was so pleased with the idea that she
spoke a little louder than usual, and her
father heard her remark.

** Sis, Sis !" he said, '* better far to quack
out sense like a duck, than talk nonsense
like a goose !"

Sis made no answer ; but she and the Rev.
Aloysius exchanged glances full of pity for
the speaker — at least the glances began with
pity — but being continued a little too long,
ended in such an evident expression of love
on the part of the impressionable Aloysius,
that Sis, unable to sustain it, looked down
and blushed.

The game between the doctor and Sir
Francis was a very close one. The doctor
had just said " Check to the king," and was
rubbing his hands — a habit of his when he
was pleased — at the prospect of victory, when

the sound of wheels was heard, and a carriage
drove rapidly up to the house.

Confound it !" said the doctor — it was
the worst language he was ever known to
use. " Confound it ! How true it is, that
there is no peace for the wicked."

Under ordinary circumstances Sis would
have said : '* But you are not wicked,
papa ;" now, however, she sat silent, for she
had not yet digested having been called a
goose."

*^ A carriage, sir, from Dornton," said the
servant, entering the room. "You are
wanted there immediately."

Who is ill ?" asked the doctor.

*' I do not quite know, sir," said the
servant; 'but they had a good run, and the
marquis has not returned. It is thought
there must have been an accident. They
are getting anxious at the house, and have
sent out in all directions."

What was the line of country ?" asked
Sir Francis of the groom who had come with
the carriage.

They found in the dingle, and ran the
fox through Hangman's Wood, past Breton

hill, and killed him in the open, on Stratton
Downs."

'* When was Lord Runnymede last seen T

'' He was well up to nearly the last ; but
no one seems to know what became of him."

And his horse ?"

'^ Has not been seen."

Tell Hawkins to bring up the dogcart,"
said Sir Francis. *' I will make a circuit in
the direction he must have taken, and call in
at Dornton on my way back. His horse must
have met with an accident, and he may have
been obliged to take shelter from the rain in
one of the houses on Springs Common. I
will drive there and see."

Do so," said the doctor. " I will, at all
events, wait for you at Dornton ; I dare say
it is a false alarm. Oh, who would be a
doctor ? My old luck ! I am always called
out in bad weather."

To the ladies' expressions of anxiety he
had no other answer than :

'' Pish ! It is nothing."

CHAPTER Il

A DAY WITH THE HOUNDS.

The earlier part of the day, which had closed
at Deepdale as described in the last chapter,
had been fine, with that southerly wind and
cloudy sky which is said to " proclaim a
hunting morning."

The new owner of Dornton, who had only
lately come to reside there — for his predecessor
had preferred living on another property
in a southern county — was a keen sportsman.


On the death of Mr. Yorke he had taken
over the hounds, and at the present time it
Alas the great object of his life to establish
their character on such a footing that a run
with the " Middleshire " might be looked upon
as an object of ambition for all men — aye,

and for all women — who love to ride straight ;
and it was with a flush of pleasure upon his
rubicund face, that, after a good day, he would
be heard to say :

Gad, sir, a few more runs like this,
and next year we shall have the Empress !"

There was a hunt breakfast at Dornton,
for the meet was at the village, not a mile off,
and many horses, perfect pictures of v/hat
horses should be, were being led up and
down before the house, so full of life and
eagerness, that it was difficult to hold them, as
they capered or plunged, or turned their heads,
with pointed ears and expectant eyes, in the
direction of their riders. For the hounds were
near, and they were anxious to be off.

They had not long to wait, for exactly as
the bell of the stable-clock sounded the first
stroke of the hour, the doors were thrown
open, and a crowd of men in red and green
and black coats streamed out upon the lawn.
Men of all ages and of various types ; united
by a common object, and looking as if, for
this day at least, this was a world in which
there was no such thing as care ; for the
master of Dornton had predicted a sure find.

and with such a wind and such a sky a good
run was certain.

A motley group, in which many of the
classes of English life where well represented :
the tall, wiry, weather-beaten country squire,
who never missed a day, and whose chief
occupation in winter, when not shooting, was
following the hounds ; the burly, jovial-looking
farmer, who was supposed to have
made a "pot" of money, though he was
always declaring that it was impossible to
farm excepting at a loss ; the sharp featured
lawyer from the neighbouring town on a useful
hack ; the country banker, on his weight-carrying
cob ; the young guardsman, so exquisitely
turned out that it seemed quite a
pity he should get splashed ; the soberly -
dressed rector, who did not profess to hunt,
but who liked horse exercise, and could not
be made to see that any particular sin was to
be associated with horses and hounds ; the
boy fresh from Eton, determined to be
stopped by nothing over which his pony
could carry him ; ladies, guests at Dornton,
of various ages, sizes, and weights, but
unanimous in giving a practical demonstration

of the principle that no woman should
mount a horse who is not prepared to show
her shape ; ladies who rode with such grace
that it was a pleasure to look at them, a
pleasure which in some cases was somewhat
marred by the feeling of insecurity awakened
by the smallness of their waists, and the
painful ideas connected with the anatomical
derangements connected with them.

But this is a mere man's idea, and men
cannot be supposed to know anything about
such matters.

There was mounting in hot haste. The
young ladies somewhat embarrassed by the
number of aspirants for the honour of helping
them into their saddles ; the older ones
quietly availing themselves of the assistance
of their husbands or their rooms.

Most of the party had mounted and moved
off when two or three laggards lounged
slowly from the house. One of them was the
Marquis of Runnymede. He was unchanged.
The same easy, self-satisfied manner, the
same well-bred way of doing small things,
the same good taste in the choice of a
tailor which had been commented on by

Geraldine. An air of deliberation in all he
did, not even departed from when he
mounted the splendid, high-spirited chestnut,
whose anxiety to be off would have made it a
matter of no small difficulty for a less practised
horseman.

There could be no doubt that my lord was
a fine-looking fellow with an aristocratic
bearing, and that he sat a horse as none but
the best of English riders can ; his easy insouciance
became him, and as he now appeared;
it was almost impossible to believe
that during the short space of time he had
been a husband he had succeeded in making
his wife utterly wretched.

Lord Runnymede was in '^ pink," but a
piece of black cloth round his left arm told the
world that he was in mourning ; without this
it is doubtful whether the world would have
discovered it, for there was very little about
my lord's manner to show that a short time
had elapsed since he had lost a child.

A mere baby, you know ; but of course
Lady Runnymede feels it very much."

In speaking of the child's death to his
friends he always seemed to make it an affair

in which he could not be expected to have
more than a very remote interest. He had
too many other important things to think
of.

Now he was in his element. No man sat
a horse better, not even the Hon. Pierre-point
Phipps or Major Fitz Jones — also
guests at Dornton — who rode by his side.

Three men who had made horses and dogs
the study of their lives. Who knew how
best to use them, so that with the sagacity
of the one and the speed of the other they
might end a gallop across country with a
whoop of victory, and return home in
triumph with a fox's brush.

Three men who considered that the fox's
place in nature was to afford them sport, and
who, though still in the prime of life, had no
other means of refreshing their jaded lives
than varying their amusements.

To a thinking fox man must be a perplexing
puzzle. A. thinking man would probably
find a marvellous revolution in his ideas could
he but find himself for a short time in the
fox's place. But perhaps foxes don't think.
It is quite certain that a great many men

don't ; they only make use of other people's
ideas, and fancy they are their own. With
more thinking it is possible there would be
fewer foxes. Would the world be benefited
by this or not ? It is evident the race of fox-hunters
might become extinct ; but who can
say what the consequences of that might
be?

But Lord Runnymede thinks not of all
this. Happy Lord Runnymede ! A black
band round his arm, but no sorrow. A beautiful
young wife, sick and sad, seeking
health in a strange land — but no care.
Debts, and difficulties, and strange entanglements
looming in the distance — but a light
heart.

To have heard his cheerful laugh, as they
rode along, at the ponderous unfinished jokes
of FitzJones, or the poor bits of gossip retailed
with poorer attempts at sarcasm by
the Hon. P. P., it might have been thought
that he who laughed so gaily, rode so easily,
and looked out upon the world with such a
pleasant countenance, was a man to be envied.
And he was evidently popular, for on joining
the main body of the hunt — assembled on the

village green — next to the owner of Dornton
no nan was more warmly greeted.

Many families from the neighbourhood had
driven over to see the meet, and mothers
pointed him out to their daughters, and felt
proud when they saw their sons speaking to
him. Of course, now, he no longer excited
any interest as the best match in England.
But he was still the heir to a dukedom ;
and as the husband of Geraldine Yorke he
was an evidence of what a commoner's
daughter might aspire to, provided she were
rich, though that was a proviso fond mothers
often overlooked.

What a splendid day !"

We are to commence with the Dingle,
and Tom Smith, who knows every fox in the
country, says we are sure to find."

'* By George ! if my lord's horse is as good
as he looks, it will take a rasper to stop
him."

'^ Too long in the back to please me !"

^* Yes, but he has not to carry the weight
you put on your cob."

'* I'll back the cob against my lord's chestnut
for a pony."

"Come ! they are moving off, and it won't
take honor to draw the Dingle."

Tom Smith was right ; a fox, and a fox of
the right sort, was soon viewed in the open.

'' There he goes ! There he goes 1"

Then the dogs were to be seen running, so
that, according to the same authority, they
might have been covered with a sheet, followed
by a tolerably compact mass of horsemen ;
whilst a pater families and his boys make for
some well-known gap, and some veteran
** cranmer," on a hack that objects to fencing
even more than his master, rides off at right
angles by some lane, which will probably, in
the end, give him a good place.

Men and women, and horses and hounds,
are in great spirits. They seem actuated by
a common feeling. There is nothing like a
community of interests for producing harmony
out of the most opposite elements.

What a glorious day !"

'* What splendid exercise !"

'' What capital fun !"

Yes, my good boy! capital fun for everybody
but the fox."

He, poor fellow, does not appear to appreciate

it, and falls dreadfully in the estimation
of his pursuers when he doubles round, and
leaving the Dingle behind him, takes refuge
in the broad covers of the Hangman's Wood.

'' What a shame !"

'' What a brute !"

And such a day for scent."

But the dogs are on his track, and run him
three times round the cover before he breaks
bursting out just at the very point where
no one expected him, so that he is away and
the dogs after him with no one but the whips
and old Jack Podgers, who is always to the
fore, and it takes much hard riding for the
master and the favoured few who have good
horses and know how to ride them to recover
their lost ground. The rest of the field gallop
along in a desultory kind of way, and
resolve themselves at last in a scattering of
coloured spots about the landscape, moving at
various rates in different directions.

From the top of Bruton Bridge the hounds
can still be seen, reduced to a moving patch ;
so small that a pocket-handkerchief could
now cover it ; followed by a little — a very
little — cluster of red and black dots. Some

of the knowing ones pretend to be able to
see the fox ; but the majority of the spectators
are disposed to accept the fact of his
presence on faith.

Forward I Forward !"

The scent gets stronger, and the dogs move
at a pace which on the down-sloping grassland
they are now passing over, requires from
the few horsemen who are following them an
almost racing speed.

Besides the whips but six men and a young
lady who is a first-rate rider, and is known
throughout the county as " Jos," are now with
the hounds. The young lady, thanks to her
light weight, is first, then a stranger in a black
coat ; next comes Jack Podgers, whose horse
has been saved by numerous short cuts and his
rider's knowledge of the country, and close after
him, neck and neck, Major Fitz Jones and Lord
Runnymede, with the chestnut beginning to
show signs of distress ; then comes the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps, cursing his horse, and at
some little distance the owner of Dornton,
cursing his weight, for this is to be the run
of the season, and there is a heavy bit of
country before them.

VOL. III. 43

'' Forward ! Forward I"

A broad belt of plantation lies in the
bottom right ahead ; the hounds have
swarmed over the broad ditch and fence
which skirts it, and their joyous cry, as, after
a few moments' hesitation, they followed one
of the drives by which it was intersected,
showed that the fox had either lost his head
or considered it did not afford suitable cover
for his concealment.

As they neared the plantation, the horsemen
formed into two diverging lines. On the
left, the whips, Jos, the black-coated stranger,
FitzJones, and Lord Runnymede made for a
gap in the fence. On the right, the Hon.
P. P. and the Master followed Jack Podgers
to a somewhat more distant gate, which that
experienced gentleman declared to be open.
For those who knew Jack Podgers and
wanted to save their horses, always followed
him if they could.

The whips scramble rather than jump over
the ditch and disappear through the gap; Jos,
FitzJones, and the stranger follow ; the chestnut,
fuUof impatience, makes a laboured rush
so close to the horse before him, that he

swerves in the jump, and a projecting branch
sweeps his rider from the saddle — Lord Runnymede
has had a heavy fall, but the ground
is soft and he rises unhurt, but the chestnut
has galloped on and is already out of sight.

All but Lord Runnymede were now galloping
through the plantation, the black-coated
stranger being last, for he had mistaken his
way and turned up a wrong drive. He had not
got far, when the riderless chestnut came up,
and thinking to do its owner a good turn, he
caught it by the bridle, and hooked the reins
in the branch of a tree. When he had gained
the opposite side of the plantation the hounds
were far ahead ; so after riding over a couple
of fields and coming to a road which led him
to the nearest railway station where he
could hope to get a horse-box, he too tailed
off:

Lord Runny mede, in anything but a pleasant
mood, toiled through the wood by the drive
which had been followed by the rest of the
riders; on emerging from it he could see
nothing of his horse, and there was not a
living soul in sight. During the excitement
of the run he had not observed that dark,

43—2

threatening clouds had been for some time
rising in the west; now it was evident the
day was about to change to wet, and there
was no cover near. He knew he must be a
long way from Dornton, and he had no
notion in what direction he ought to turn his
steps.

The first thing to be done was to find a
road, and this he knew he should do by
making his way towards the different gates ;
but walking over ploughed fields is slow
work, and by the time he had found a path,
which brought him out upon a muddy country
lane, the afternoon was well advanced, and
the rain had come down in torrents.

Trudge, trudge — tramp, tramp — splash,
splash.

He threw away the end of his cigar and
lighted another. He threw it away angrily,
threw it away as if it had had something to do
with his misfortune.

He should not have cared if Phipps and
Fitz Jones had not been there. How they
would laugh over it at the club — " Runnymede
came to grief at a ditch a child could
have leaped over." Nobody would believe

the story of the projecting branch. It was
enough to make a suit swear.

That cursed chestnut I Then from the
chestnut he thought over all the horses
he had ever hunted : their names, their
colours, their prices, their paces, their
qualities. From his own horses, his thoughts
Carried him to those of his friends — to the
horse ridden by the man in the black coat —
the horse which had made his swerve. Curse
the brute !

But the wet was penetrating his boots — •
they were new — the ones he had had last
from Stinton ; he should never be able to
wear them again ; he must send for others ;
he must write to Stinton — the best maker of
boots in town, Stinton — of men's boots ; and
from men's boots his thoughts turned to
ladies' boots — to a little foot, and from a
little foot, to a fair girl from whom he had
received a note that morning, beginning "My
deer runnie," written in a bad, bold hand.

He had no place in his thoughts for his
suffering young wife or his dead child.

The heavy rain had driven the labourers
from the fields, and he must have walked

nearly an hour without having seen a house,
or met anyone from whom he could inquire
his way, when the lane suddenly opened out
upon a wide common, on the further side of
"which he could just see a few scattered houses,
and right before him, on the main road leading
from them, the figure of a man. He had
scarcely reduced the distance between them
a few paces, when he felt sure he recognised,
in the drenched, shabby, wild-looking wretch
who staggered towards him, some one whom
he had seen before. In another moment his
doubts were at an end ; it was his old acquaintance,
the owner of Fortunate defaulter
on the Turf— Mr. Marsh.

There was no mistaking the tall, strongly-knit
figure, the bloated — but once handsome
face. It was John Marsh. John Marsh,
made even more repulsive by his long neglected
hair and beard, and the ragged
squalor which had taken the place of his
former dressy swagger. He would have
passed him by if he could, but he could not ;
for John Marsh, with outstretched arms and
a brandished stick in his right hand, placed
himself in his path close before him.

Stop, devil !" he said, *' I have you now,
one of the devils I have so often seen before,
but never could catch, a painted devil — a
red devil. Ha, ha !"

He burst into a long hoarse laugh ; he was
either very drunk, or mad.

'* My good fellow, let me pass," said Lord
Runnymede. ^' It is not pleasant in the rain,
you know, and I am in a hurry."

Not pleasant in the rain !" echoed the
other. *^ I love the rain, it cools the blood.
It is good for you, devil, to be out in the
rain. You shall not go, devil ; we will sit
here and talk it over — here on that stone, till
midnight ; then we will curse the world together,
devil, and I will kill you !"

He must be mad — dangerously mad. Lord
Runnymede made a step forward and tried
to pass him ; but he was seized in a grasp
which made him feel powerless.

Feel my arm, devil," he said ; '' with that
arm I could destroy ten thousand with a blow.
How can a poor weak thing like you escape ?"

Then he rambled off to horses and the odds,
and as he talked he became even more excited
than before.

"Red devil' he exclaimed, "you are a
welsher and a cheat ! Why do you grin out
at me like that scoundrel Runnymede, who,
because he was a lord, must needs win ?
Devil, devil, devil, devil ! pay me back my
money !" he was foaming with passion and
his voice had become a scream.

I have no money with me," said Lord
Runnymede, vainly endeavouring to pacify
him, for such was the strength and fury of
the madman that he had become seriously
alarmed.

*' You lie, red devil — you lie !" he answered.


Lord Runnymede struggled to get free,
but in vain ; his antagonist, with a strength
which seemed superhuman, swung him from
his feet and cast him to the ground. Then,
striking fiercely at him with his stick, fled
from him.

*' Ha, ha, ha I" he laughed. '^ He is dead ;
the devil is dead ! Ha, ha, ha !"

His laugh might have been heard less and
less, and rapidly less, as he ran swiftly off and
was lost to sight in the gloaming.

On the road an inert red mass.

Hours passed away, still it was there.
Day turned into dusk, and dusk to night ;
but the mass remained, looming out through
the darkness, without colour now, a mere
shapeless shadowy something, lying in that
lonely spot.

But one blow with a stick from a madman's
hand — but one blow 1 But the muscles of a
strong arm, obeying the directing impulse of
a frenzied brain, and the swift current of life
is arrested in its course, and the spirit which
belongs to it flees and hides away as if in fear
of the approach of death.

Many hours had passed, and it must have
been eleven o'clock, when the silence was
broken by the sound of wheels, and lights
drew near the spot where that dark mass lay.

It was the dog-cart, with Sir Francis Hawthorn
and a groom in waterproof suits, which
reflected upon their wet shiny surfaces the
scattered light from the two side-lamps.

Suddenly the horse shied, and at the same
moment the light from one of the lamps
streamed full upon a dark object lying almost
in the centre of the road.

Jump down, Hawkins," said Sir Francis,

as he drew up by the roadside. '^ Jump down
and see what it is."

But before the man had time to do so —
whether he had recognised the prostrate
figure before him, or whether he simply
gave expression to his fears, it is hard to
say — Sir Francis exclaimed :

Good heavens, it must be Lord Runnymede
I Take the reins."

He jumped down as he spoke, and in
another moment was supporting the apparently
lifeless form of Lord Runnymede in his
arms.

Thank God, he is still alive !" he said, ashe
placed his hand upon his heart. *' Drive
to the village for help and a stretcher and
then to Dornton for Dr. Pringle."

CHAPTER YIIL

OH, THAT I COULD BUT SEE !"

Nature has garbed herself in snow. Everywhere,
as far as the eye can reach, nothing
but snow.

Thick in the valleys, deep upon the surface
of the frozen lake, glistening in the sunshine
on the mountain tops, sprinkled over steep
slopes, powdered on the pine-trees — everywhere,
as far as the eye can reach, nothing
but snow.

The air is so pure, there is such an all-pervading
stillness, the sun shines down from
out a sky of such deep and brilliant blue that
it seems as if it were a region in which cares
and vulgar mundane thoughts could have no
place. As if it were a region in which the
mind would become lifted up, steep by steep,

until it lost itself in the contemplation of those
everlasting and eternal heights which stand
too high for man's feeble vision, and of that
purity of which the snow spread out before
us in all its dazzling whiteness is but a poor
emblem.

Yet, even in such a region as this, cares
and vulgar mundane thoughts must be.

As if to prove it, amidst this snow, on the
beaten track on one side of the valley leading
to Davos, were three dark figures — two ladies
and a child, dressed in deep mourning.

The tallest of the two ladies, who, but for
her pale face and sunken eyes, would have
seemed the one to whom nature had given the
most strength — her figure was so erect, and
her step so firm — walked alone. Not many
steps from her came the child, leaning, almost
too heavily it seemed, in a clinging kind of
way, upon the arm of her slight and frail-looking
companion.

On coming nearer to them, it might have
been seen that the lady who walked alone
wore weeds, and that the child who clung to
her companion's arm was blind.

It was Lady Runnymede, with Eva and
Madge.

Lady Runnymede had been some months
at Davos — for Davos had suggested itself to
the doctors, when they found she resisted their
remedies, and that, apart from the effects of
grief for the loss of her sickly child, they
could discover no reason for her being ill —
when the intelligence reached her of her
husband's death.

The intelligence had been broken to her by
Victoria, to whom it had been communicated
by Sir Francis.

What strange irony of fate that it was he
who was to find the senseless form of the
man who had robbed him of the one who had
become the being most dear to him on earth —
that it was upon him that was to devolve all
the care of that poor unconscious form during
the few days that the flame of life burnt
slowly out, and flickered away into the dark
silence of death — and that it was from him,
through one so dear to both, that Geraldine
should learn that she was free — that she was
no longer the slave of a man she had despised,
but whom she now wept over with bitter tears;

for grief has but small memory for past injuries,
and he, who had died so sadly and so
mysteriously — for none could quite make out
how the injury had been received — had been
her husband and the father of her dead child.
Now that he was dead, she did more than
forgive him — she blamed herself Had she
been the right kind of wife for him ? If she
had acted differently towards him, might he
not have been better ?

Victoria made no attempt to combat these
feelings; she knew that time — time, the silent
and inscrutable — is the best and surest earthly
alleviator of sorrow. But she wrote to Eva,
and said :

Your place now is at Davos. You are
needed there ; and I am sure Lady Arabella
will spare you."

Ah me !" said Lady Arabella. 'rit is
just like Victoria. She never had any real
sympathy for me. Nobody has any sympathy
for me I But you had better go,
child."

And so Eva went.

But it struck Victoria that some outside
interest was wanted, to stand between

Geraldine and the morbid state of mind into
which she had fallen ; and so she bethought
herself of Madge.

She put it as an act of kindness towards
Madge. Madge wanted change. Madge
wanted bracing ; the possibility of restoring
her sight — and it was allowed to be possible
— depended on her constitution being
strengthened, upon her nervous energy being
raised to a strong and healthy tone. Would
Geraldine help her in this ? For until she
had taken her degree, she herself could not
leave Zurich. Davos was the very place for
the dear child, the very climate she required;
and she would be within reach.

Geraldine had said *' Yes ;" and so it was
that those three dark figures were to be seen
walking over the beaten snowy track between
Davos-Platz and Dorfli.

Madge looked bright and happy: the fresh
air and a brisk walk had flushed her cheek,
and as she hung on Eva's arm she talked
rapidly and earnestly :

Only think, here I am with the dear
little ' Somebody ' of whom I used to hear so

much. Oh, how I wish Mr. Pringle was
with us I Don't you, dear ' Somebody ?'"

Eva, quiet and gentle as ever, blushing at
the mention of Chub's name, can only reply
incoherently :

Oh yes, he would I am sure like Davos

very much ; and But, Madge, you must

really walk quietly, and not jump about
so !

Madge, too, was in mourning— deep mourning.
She had been told that her father was
dead. But there was no mourning in her
heart.

'* Is it true?" she had asked the next morning
of Victoria ; *' or did I dream it ?"

When told that it was true, and that she
had not dreamt it, she was silent for a few
seconds ; then she said, with a deep sigh :

Dead !"

The sigh seemed to have taken a great
load off her heart, for her face from that
moment became less sad. From that time,
too, she had never alluded to the subject.
But it was observed that henceforward she
scrupulously avoided, even when speaking of
others, the word " Father."

She had not been told the manner of his
death. Victoria had not thought it right to
enter into any particulars. She herself had
learned from Dr. Pringle that, within a week
of Lord Runnymede's death, he had, in the
absence of the parish doctor, been called in to
what turned out to be the death-bed of a
pauper, who had been admitted some days
before in a state of either insanity or delirium
tremens.

He had been unable to give any account
of himself, but remained under the impression
that he was being tormented by a
red devil, to the very last. The only clue to
his identity, was a partly obliterated name,
J. Ms . ." in the linings of a torn and
battered hat. Inquiries were made, but they
had led to no result.

'' I might have told them, had I chosen todo
so, which I did not, what I now tell you,
and wish no one else to know — do not forget
this wish — that the wretched man before me
was your cousin, the scapegrace son of your
poor aunt's letter, for I recognised in him the
man I had seen coming out of Mr. Yorke's
study ; and in the repose of death, the re-vol.

III. 44

semblance to the portrait in your aunt's room
was unmistakable."

Again, was it through that which men call
chance ? or was it in accordance with a providential
design, that this poor child, this cousin,
this sharer with herself in an inheritance of sin
and shame, had been brought into her arms ?

No, it could not be chance.

But ought she not to tell her ? She consulted
Dr. Pringle, and he repeated his wish
that the knowledge he had imparted to her —
and to her alone — should remain a secret between
them. " Madge could not love you
more than she does at present ; I cannot see
that anything would be gained by directing
her attention to the painful scenes connected
with the past. When her mind is developed
and her character formed, you may exercise
your discretion, but now I would most
strongly advise you — in the poor child's
best interests — not to do so."

So it was that Madge only knew that her
father was dead ; and she turned her face with
less sadness and increasing love towards the
only being who had ever acted towards her asa
mother, for she who was dead had but wept

over her, and her tears had brought neither
reverence nor love — nothing but a shuddering
pity.

*' Tell me about the snow," Madge said as
they walked along ; '' dear little * Somebody,'
do talk to me about the snow."

She was never tired of hearing about the
snow. Even Lady Eunnymede — for Madge
had never dared to call her anything else —
must talk to her about the snow.

She wished to know all about it. Why it
fell always, always, instead of rain, on the
upper mountains ? Why it would not turn
into ice when it was very, very high up?
Why they could not walk upon it now that
the winter was so cold, and would have to
wait until the weather was warmer before
they could do so ? All this, and much more
in endless questions she must know. Even
Geraldine was drawn from within herself,
and had often to come to Eva s aid when the
child's questions went beyond her knowledge.


"You must wait until Victoria comes,"
said Eva, fairly beaten at last ; " she will be
able to tell you."

44—2

** Oh yes ! dear auntie knows everything,"
said the child, as if it were quite natural she
should do so. *' And she is always learning.
I am sure if I only knew one half, or one
quarter, what she does, I would never learn
any more."

*' Oh you little dunce!" said Geraldine, who
had become amused, despite herself, with the
child's prattle. " What would Victoria say
if she heard you ?"

^' Do you know. Lady Runnymede," said
the child, putting on a solemn serious air,
that auntie is learning all about eyes ; why
some people can see, and other people, like
my poor self, can't?"

*^ How do you know she is learning about
eyes ?" asked Eva.

'^ Because she once talked to Dr. Pringle
about mine ; and just before I came here, a
gentleman came and looked at my eyes, and
made them open very wide, and used a great
many hard words that I could not understand;
and then auntie asked him if his opinion
agreed with hers, and he said, *It is just
possible, but we must wait.' Oh dear, dear
little * Somebody,' what did he mean by 'just

possible'? Tell me, tell me. I dare not ask
auntie, for she does not like me to ask about
what people talk about ; and you must not
tell her what I have said — please Lady
Runnymede don't say one single word about
what I have said. Oh, that I could but
see!

There was a touching pathos about the last
words which brought tears into the eyes of
the two sisters, but they did not speak,
and for a few minutes they walked on in
silence.

The child was the first to break it. She
spoke as if to herself:

'* How beautiful it must be ! But what
can it be like — this snow, this cold snow
that melts in my hands ; and the ice that is
colder still ? Are all cold things white ? and
what can white be like ? Oh ! sometimes my
poor head aches and swims when I think of
these colours, and try to make out what
people mean when they talk of things looking
pretty, and lovely, and beautiful. Yet I know
that flowers must be lovely, for they are
sweet and soft, and grow from little buds
into great big blossoms ; and I love soft

voices and kind words, and I know when the
dear lips which speak them meet mine, that
they, too, must be lovely. And most beautiful
of all, those I love. Oh, if I could but
see my dear Victoria, and Mr. Pringle, and
you, my dear little * Somebody,' and Lady
Runny mede ; but most of all, my own dear
auntie, my Victoria !"

Why was it that she whom Madge loved
best, and thought of as the ideal of all that
was beautiful, should have been the one who
had done most to prepare herself for the hardwork
and stern realities of life ; and who had
least accepted, the world's definition of a
woman's mission ?

Why was it ?

Is the answer so difficult to find ?

Was it not that whilst Geraldine pondered
over the poor blind child's questions, and
Eva answered them out of the shallow depths
of her own sweet consciousness, Victoria
spoke with all the force and authority which
belongs to deep convictions based on knowledge
; for let fools scoff if they will, knowledge
is a power, and it is he who unites a
strong mind to a soft heart who is best able

to lend a helping hand to the feeble and the
frail. For the weak love those best who can
give them that which they want most —
strength.

It was this power that caused equally the
disappointed lover, the bereaved wife and
mother, and the saddened and afflicted child,
to seek for consolation and comfort from Victoria.


Yet it would have seemed more natural, at
least in Geraldine's case, that the companionship
of that sister for whom she had such a
deep love would have been her chief solace ;
but to be with Eva, sweet as it was to her,
brought weakness instead of strength : it was
as the perfume of flowers in the sick-chamber,
bringing for the moment a flush of pleasure
to some poor sufferer's cheek, to be followed
by a deeper pallor than before.

Then, too, Geraldine had not been pleased
with Eva for having bestowed her love on
Chub. She was very fond of Chub ; still
some of the old leaven remained, just enough
to make her feel angry with herself for
possessing it ; but the lessons of a life cannot

be unlearnt in a moment. She overlooked
Chub's many good qualities, whilst lamenting
his want of what she would have once called
good form ;" now she would have been
ashamed of such a phrase, but some such
idea, clothed in somewhat different words,
had remained to torment her, and Victoria
was the only person whose influence had
overcome it.

But the necessity of being reconciled to an
idea which had once been distasteful to her,
had produced the effect of casting a shade,
an almost imperceptible shade, over the great
love which she still felt for Eva.

As for her mother, Geraldine might disguise
it to herself, but the fact still remained,
she was a nonentity. As far as she was
concerned, she might as well have been
without a mother. She could not recall a
single instance of her mother's having exerted
the smallest useful influence over her. She
sometimes doubted whether her mother had
any feelings of affection — indeed, she would
not have doubted at all on the subject, had it
not been that she seemed to cling to Duke,
despite his miserable conduct, and divided

her attention between her own real and imaginary
trials and his.

Perhaps the great bond of union between
Lady Arabella and Duke was that, of all her
children, he was the one who most resembled
her. He had her refined tastes ; her intense
selfishness. She had sought her chief pleasure
in a round of frivolous excitements, and he
had done the same ; for what is gambling but
frivolity in its most exciting form ?

He, too, was in a state of perpetual apprehension
about his health, and this was one of
the reasons v/hy he found it necessary that
he should remain in the only climate which
appeared to suit him — that part of the
Riviera which is within easy reach of Monte
Carlo. It was on his account that his mother
had been persuaded to take up her residence
during the greater part of the year at Nice,
and it was out of the funds with which she
supplied him that he was enabled to seek
those distractions which, according to Lady
Arabella, " in the poor dear fellow's present
state of health, are absolutely essential to
him."

It can easily be imagined how delighted

Eva was to find herself once more with
Geraldine, and the presence of Madge was an
additional source of pleasure, for when they
were alone together, Madge would talk to
her of Chub, and it was so nice to hear the
poor child say how deeply she loved him.
Yes ! she liked to hear Madge say that she
loved Chub, for *rit was only little Madge."

But Eva had a secret cause of great anxiety
to her — that secret, that knowledge, so
scrupulously kept to herself, of the parentage
of Victoria. It weighed heavily upon her.
Why should it be kept from Geraldine ? At
last, weary of her importunity, Victoria had
to give way ; Geraldine should know it,
when she had quite recovered from all she
had gone through, and with this promise Eva
was obliged to be content.

And during all this time, she who had
become the centre of so much individual
action worked on persistently and steadily.
Her personality had become so secondary to
the great questions with which her mind was
occupied ; her own interests now seemed so
small in comparison with the ends she had in
view, that she was almost inclined to smile

when she thought upon the time when her
misery or her happiness was made to depend
upon the state of her feelings. Emotions
which were thoroughly under control could not
produce morbid thoughts, and the calmness
which she had sought and obtained gave a
fourfold force to a strong and well-directed
will. She had been astonished to find how
rapidly her power of acquiring knowledge
had increased, and how easy much had
become that she had once found so difficult.
Her interest, too, in her studies became, as
they approached their term, deeper and
deeper. Her love for Madge had become
intense : she had long suspected their relationship,
and now that her suspicions had been
confirmed, she could not help asking herself
whether it might not be in the designs of the
great Inscrutable Regulator of human actions
to select her as the humble instrument through
which the heavy affliction placed on the poor
child might be removed ? Oh, if she could
but restore her to sio^ht !

The greatest authority on the diseases of
the eye in the university, a man with a
European reputation, had pronounced an

opinion that a successful operation was just
possible, provided that Madge's health at the
time was in the best condition, and that all
the details of after-treatment were watched
with the most minute attention.

'' In such a case," he said, " the operation
is simply one of the factors of cure ; the
slightest subsequent imprudence, before the
eye has obtained sufficient power to perform
its new functions, would render her again
blind — and hopelessly blind, for ever. Were
I to undertake it, I should probably fail, for it
would be a case requiring my whole care and
attention for some uncertain period ; and
situated as T am, it would be impossible forme
to give it. But with you, my dear young
lady, it would be different; and I see no
reason, considering the great, very great
progress you have made, why you may not
look forward, at no very far-distant date, to
succeed where I should probably fail, and I
shall be proud of my pupil."

Was it possible for any man or woman to
have a higher aim ?

Could it be true that she was on the point
of obtaining the power which would enable

her to give sight to the poor blind Madge —
the child upon whom she had concentrated
all her love ?

She dared not think of it ; but as she
worked steadily on and on, it was ever before
her.

'' To restore sight to the blind ! God !
let me pray Thee to strengthen my weak
efforts to obtain this great power. To restore
sight to my darling ! God ! I
thank Thee for having put it into my
heart."

And so she works, works on. Is workings
at this very time when Madge, arm-in-arm
with the two sisters — for she has insisted
upon walking between them — talks, and
almost skips as she does so, of her dear
Victoria, or mourns with drooping head and
lagging pace her sad fate in not being able to
see the snow.

*' Oh, why did not God give me eyes like
other people ?"

What could Geraldine or Eva say to comfort
her ? They could but turn her attention
to some other subject, and soothe her with
kind words.

But the dark, dark cloud remained. They
saw not what Victoria saw, the bright blue
sky behind it. They knew not, as Victoria
was learning to know, how to roll back that
cloud of darkness and say, ** Let there be
light."

CHAPTER IX.

"AND THERE WAS LIGHT."

'^ Will it hurt me very much, dear auntie ?"

Nearly two years have elapsed since the
walk described in the last chapter and this
question.

Two years in which nothing very startling
had happened in the lives of those in whom
we have been interesting ourselves but yet
in which much had been done, and in which
much silent preparation had been made,
unobserved and may be often unheeded, for
events that were about to form fresh starting-points
in those seemingly uneventful lives.

Lady Arabella and Marmaduke Yorke had
remained true to the Riviera, with a trip to
the German baths during the summer months.
Lady Runnymede and Eva had taken up their

home in Switzerland. Chub had passed his
examinations, and was now going through a
sort of intermediate process as medical officer
of an emigrant ship bound to New Zealand.
On his return he was to enter into partnership
with his father, and to marry Eva ; and
then, and not before, was the Rev. Aloysius
to be blessed with the hand of Sis. The
Rev. Aloysius and Sis would have wished
an earlier union, but it was a whim of the
doctor s ; he would have it that his children
should be married on the same day. Of
course his wife thought as he did, so the
young people had to give in.

Sir Francis was at Hawthornedene, and
Mr. Mortimer, much exercised by romantic
feelings towards Mary, had taken service with
him.

Sir Francis had wanted a butler, and Mr.
Mortimer, as he was never tired of telling his
friends, had felt bound to help him out of his
'embarrassment." He did not tell them
that he was starving at the time, and that
Sir Francis had rescued him from the most
abject misery.

Sir Francis himself was now frequently

from home, for when not attending to his
parliamentary duties, he spent much of his
time in Switzerland, for he had become an
enthusiastic mountain-climber and an energetic
member of the Alpine Club. •

Madge had remained in the loving care of
Geraldine and Eva, a source of the deepest
interest to both.

Her improvement had been extraordinary.

"Now I know, she would say, 'what it
is to live. I can scarcely believe it is still
the same poor little me. Oh that I could but
see those whom I so dearly love ! Will the
time never come when dear auntie will have
learned how to give me sight ?"

She said this because she knew — for the
child, in accordance with Victoria's expressed
wish, was kept fully informed of all that was
going on around her — that Victoria had
finished her studies and had become a doctor,
and was now devoting herself to obtaining a
more practical knowledge of the diseases of
the eye in the Ophthalmic Hospital at
Berne.

It was now indeed some months since
Victoria had taken her diploma and received

VOL. III. 45

the highest encomiums which could be paid a
student, from the heads of the University.
The paper she had read on the occasion, upon
the eye and its diseases, had excited universal
attention ; and she had been warmly congratulated
on her success by many of the professors;
and more than all by the generous
and warm-hearted man, who had gained th
reputation of being the greatest authority
on the treatment of the eye, in Europe.

Victoria had again consulted him on
Madge's case, and pressed him to undertake
it ; but he had repeated that though he had
still no doubt a cure could be effected, it
would probably require a series of operations
and a degree of after attention utterly beyond
the power of anyone unable to give up a very
large amount of his tim-e to her particular
case.

*' For me to attempt it," he had added,
'would be therefore quite out of the question ;
but with your knowledge and extraordinary
aptitude for operations requiring delicate
manipulation, I see no reason why you should
not undertake it. Your chance of success
would be much greater than mine ; and restoring

sight to the poor child would be a reward
far in excess of anything the University
can offer, even to its most deserving
student."

Day by day her confidence in herself was
increasing. She felt that the time was fast
approaching when she might make the
attempt, and so she had prepared Madge for
it by, from time to time, explaining to her
what she had in view ; and it was on one of
these occasions that the child had asked her :

*' Will it hurt me very much, dear
auntie 1"

She pursed her little mouth up as she said
so — for Madge, like all children of a delicate
organisation, was very sensitive to pain — and
there was a little quiver in her voice which
did not escape Victoria's notice.

Hurt you ? Of course it will hurt you,
and that is the one disagreeable thing that
we doctors have to put up with ; we are often
obliged to give people pain in order to cure
them."

"Yes, but then you cure them. Oh,
auntie dear, what a pleasure that must be !
You must not mind hurting me, I shall not care

45—2

for it one bit; and do you know, auntie,"
she said as she nestled closer to her, " I love
you so much that I don't think you could
hurt me. I should know it was your
dear self doing it, and then I should feel no
pain, but think only of the time when I
should have eyes like other people, and see.
Oh, auntie, dear auntie, why can you not doit
at once ? I will be so good ; I will not
even say ' Oh I' "

But Victoria had to explain to her that
she must wait a little longer, and that what
she would require from her most was patience,
for that her sight might not be regained
all at once, but gradually ; and then it was
even possible there might be failure, so that
it was necessary that one eye only should be
operated on at a time ; and that even if all
went well, it would take many months of
watchfulness and care to effect the cure she
hoped for.

** Oh, darling auntie, what are a few months
to years of darkness !"

*' Darkness," the child repeated, as if to
herself; '^ I wonder if people who can see
know what it is to be always in the dark, or

to know, as I do, just enough of what light
is, to make darkness so hateful. Oh, auntie,
I cannot tell you how hateful darkness is tome
; sometimes it is as if my eyes must have
something before them which shuts out this
beautiful light, and I could tear them out I
am so angry. Oh, dear auntie, give me
light — light 1 I feel as if I shall die unless
you can give me light. Sometimes when I
am alone, I cannot breathe for want of light ;
it is as if I were walled up in a hole : and
were it not that I have you, and Chub, and
Lady Runnymede, and dear little ' Somebody,'
and all you have taught me to think of, and
the great hope that is always before me, it
would kill me ; and without eyes I would
rather die than live. Oh, dear auntie, if
I could see you but once, only once, I should
die happy !"

And she threw her arms round Victoria s
neck and covered her with kisses.

As time passed on, these outbursts became
more frequent, but they were like storms
which clear the atmosphere ; she was
always calmer when they were over : and so

many means were taken to divert her attention
from herself that she was prevented from
sinking into the state of morbid melancholy
to which she had at times exhibited a tendency.


To Lady Runnymede and Eva Madge was
a great comfort ; the most so, perhaps, to the
first, for Eva had a gleam of brightness ever
shining in upon her life in the love of that
good, honest fellow Chub.

For some time past Geraldine had ceased
to be idle. Acting upon Victoria's advice,
she had devoted a certain portion of each day
to study, and she was perfectly astonished at
the progress she had made. She had learnt
German, gained a fair knowledge of botany
and geology, and could now sketch with
accuracy and ease.

Besides all this, she taught Madge. Eva
taught her too ; but Madge declared that
it was Geraldine who taught her best.

If the truth must be told — and why should
we seek to conceal it? — a gleam of light
like the first harbinger of dawn had broken
through the . gloom which had threatened to

enshroud the future, as well as the present, of
Geraldine's life.

Yes, it must be told : that imp Love was at
his tricks ap-ain.

o

No one is safe from his shafts. They
pierce alike the heart that has been steeled
against attack in the laboratory of age, or
made callous to their smart through the
deadness which proceeds from sorrow.

Victoria's influence was doing much, but
behind it there was

Was what ?

Simply what is behind half the motives
by which mankind is actuated ; an impulse
which impels, bat hides itself.

Even to herself Geraldine would have
blushed to have owned that her heart had
again been touched. But so it was ; and how
could it have been otherwise ?

Sir Francis had joined the Alpine Club.
Was it likely that he would come to Switzerland,
and not see the greatest friend he had
upon earth — Victoria ?

Aud was it right that he should avoid
Geraldine, when it happened, as it sometimes
did happen, that she was staying with her

old friends? Would it not have been unmanly
and unkind to have turned away from
Lady Eunnymede in her sorrow 1 No, he
would not be so selfish ; it might be painful
at first, but he would meet her as an old
friend — as if nothing had ever passed between
them.

But how would she receive him ? He had
written to Victoria :

''I am again in Switzerland, and want
much to see you, but find you are taking a
holiday in the mountains. I hope Lady
Runnymede is better, and that Miss Yorke is
well. If I did not fear that my presence
might be unwelcome, I should some fine
morning, descend from out of the clouds upon
you, and say all I want to say viva voce,
instead of by letter. Give my love to my
little friend Madge, and tell her that I have
been thinking very much of her lately."

It was true — for Victoria had written to
tell him that Madge was with Geraldine,
and of course he did not know that he had
thought of anyone but Madge.

Another of those secrets which we keep
even from ourselves.

Victoria had written but two words in
reply:

Pray come."

And then it was that the imp Love had
once more pled his shafts.

Not roughly — not rudely — not such shafts
as he had shot before : but gently — so gently
that at first the smart was hardly felt ; and
when it was, it seemed as if it came from
some old wound. But shaft came after shaft,
until Geraldine never looked up at a mountain
without thinking of Sir Francis, and Sir
Francis never looked down from one without
thinking of Geraldine.

She felt so very sorry for him — and he felt
so very sorry for her.

Nothing more. No ! of course not.

All this time, Victoria working away at eyes
using her own, as if they had very little use
beyond that which would make them useful to
others : the bright streak across her future
becoming brighter and brighter.

The goal she had set before her was at
last reached : he was ready. But before
Madge's eyes could be operated on there was
much to be thought of.

She set to work to organise everything.
She obtained the concurrence of Geraldine
and Eva ; for she set great store upon their
help during the long, weary period which
must elapse between the several operations
and the completion of the cure.

If all should go well, how long do you
think it will be before the poor child's sight
is restored ?" asked Geraldine.

'from first to last, I should not like to
say less than a year," said Victoria ; ^^ for
but one eye can be operated on at a time,
and a sufficient interval must be allowed between
the operations."

'^ But will she be confined to her bed, or
her room, all that time ?"

'' Oh dear, no ! Only for a short time after
each operation ; but the light will have to be
carefully regulated, and it will be necessary,
in order to preserve her health, that her mind
should be occupied and amused, and that
everything should be done to keep her from
undue excitement."

At last all was ready, and the day fixed
for the operation.

Victoria was calm and confident ; Madge
impatient for the moment to arrive; Geraldine
and Eva nervous and full of anxiety. They
would have been more so had it not been for
Sir Francis.

He could not be absent at a moment
which was so fall of interest to them all.
It seemed only natural that he should come.
Victoria was pleased at his having done so ;
but it was Geraldine who said :

It is so kind of him ; it is so like Sir
Francis !"

-/;• •}» ■?» %x '/' 't'

The operation was over.

Little Madge, with bandaged eyes, lay ina
darkened room.

'' Was I not good, dear auntie?" she asked,
as Victoria bent down and kissed her
tenderly.

*' As good as gold, dear child," said
Victoria ; *' but now you must be quite
quiet."

All went well ; there were no unfavourable
symptoms : and the moment came when Victoria
could venture upon ascertaining whether

she had been successful — whether Madge
would see.

It was one of those decisive moments, the
memory of which cling to us throughout our
lives.

Much as she had hoped for success — and all
the indications were on its side — the dread of
failure lay heavily upon her ; and Sir Francis
and the two sisters, as they greeted her that
morning, could not help observing her extreme
pallor.

But though they were struck by it, and
divined the cause, they thought it better not
to allude to it.

So when Victoria went into Madge's room
alone — for neither during the operation nor
afterwards, when she visited the child professionally,
had she allowed anyone but the
trained nurse, who was attending her, to be
present ; the three continued to sit together
in deep silence awaiting the verdict, which
they knew would be as momentous in its
results to her who gave it as upon the poor
blind child herself.

Instinctively, Geraldine had risen and
taken the seat vacated by Victoria ; it was

near Sir Francis, and it was as if sbe had
gained courage as she placed herself by his
side.

He, too, must have gained something by
her change of place, or why should he have
looked towards her with an expression of
such deep gratitude — such deep gratitude
that his eyes were almost overflowing with
it. What had she done ? — surely it could
not have been a mere change of position, over
a distance at the very outside of three feet
two inches, that should have made him feel
so desperately grateful.

Eva had not observed it ; she was looking
into space or through space, and her thoughts
were in the Indian Ocean, where she was
holding converse with the gallant young
surgeon of a ship under full sail, careering
homewards :

She was telling him all 'about Madge, and
how she had wished that Victoria had put
off the operation till his return — which indeed
she had, for Eva had an immense idea
of the professional skill of Chub.

Not that she had the slightest conception

of what it was he had learnt or knew ;
but she took it all on trust, and so was
very happy, as indeed all people are who can
only persuade themselves to trust in another,
as she did.

She was still thinking of the ship, or rather
of its surgeon — and being so employed the
time had seemed very short to her, when the
door opened and Victoria reappeared.

She was even more pallid than before.
She staggered rather than walked to a chair,
threw herself in it, and covering her face with
her hands, burst into a flood of tears. She
who had not wept for years !

Geraldine and Sir Francis, who had both
risen at her entrance, looked from her, to
each other. Could it be that she had been
deceived — that the child was hopelessly
blind ? They did not know what to think.

But in the same instant Eva had flown to
Victoria, had cast herself on her knees beside
her, had thrown her arms lovingly
round her, mingled her tears with hers, and
said :

'' Oh, Vic ! you will kill me if you cry.

Tell me what it is — tell me how can we comfort
you, my dear, my darling sister ?"

Whether it was the loving words, or
whether it was that Victoria had had time
to conquer her emotion, she uncovered her
face as Eva finished speaking, and, though
the tears still ran down her cheeks, her voice
became calm as she said :

*' Thank God with me for having enabled
me to help the dear child — she will see !"

Then before either Geraldine or Sir Francis
had time to speak, Eva had risen. Could
it be Eva, the quiet, timid, shrinking Eva,
who now stood up before them ?

'' And she who has done this great thing
is my sister — your sister, Geraldine — our
father's child !" and when Victoria would
have stopped her, she placed her hand upon
her lips, and continued : *' No, I will not be
silent. I take shame unto myself for having
known this so long and kept it to myself."


Remember your promise," said Victoria,
reproachfully.

There are promises which should never
be made and ought not to be kept," was the

answer. '' I have never been an hour with
Geraldine without beincj made to feel that I
was deceiving her. And now the only thing
I can do is to ask for forgiveness, and tell her
all." — And in a flood of hurried words she
poured forth all she knew.

Victoria sat silent with her face again
concealed in her hands — she did not weep
now, but her short quick breathing and the
convulsive heaving of her bosom showed the
intensity of her emotion. Geraldine and
Sir Francis stood before her side by side.
When Eva had commenced speaking, Sir
Francis had made a movement towards the
door; but Geraldine had motioned him to
stay.

Stop !" said Geraldine suddenly, almost
authoritatively, to Eva ; '' why should you
say more? I see it all. And now," she said,
as she went up to Victoria and caressed her
lovingly, " I have the key to much that has
so often puzzled me. Oh, my dear sister, how
much you must have suffered, how much you
have borne, and oh, so bravely !"

^' Thank you for that word," said Victoria,
uncovering her face, 'sit has recalled me to

myself. Have I been brave, when I have
been so weak as to shed tears, because my
heart was full of joy, and have not dared to
face that which has become a part and parcel
of my life ? and yet it was from no feeling
of selfishness or of false pride, but because
I would have spared much pain — for the sake
^f the dead, that I would have kept this secret.
Yet perhaps it is better as it is. Dear Eva,
forgive me ; I ought not to have cast a load
upon you which was too heavy for you to
bear. The only favour, the only kindness I
have to beg of you all now — and T know you
love me too much not to grant it — is, that this
subject may in the future, be alluded to as
little as possible ; and indeed why should it
be spoken of to others ? It would pain me
to think it had become a subject for gossip,
and I should wish the knowledge of it to be
confined to ourselves, Chub, and his good
father. I am sure you will agree with me,
tny dear sisters, as will, I am certain, Sir
Francis."

Sir Francis had no time for reply, for
Geraldine with blushing cheeks had gone

VOL. III. 4to

him, and, placing her arm in his, had
said :

^' Ah, Victoria ! this is indeed a day of
marvels. The poor child sees. I have gained

a sister, and " her voice faltered, and she

could only look appealingly to Sir Francis.

"And this very day," he said, '* Geraldine
has made me the happiest of men — she has
consented to be my wife. Will you accept
me as sour brother ?"

Victoria started from her seat.
Is it really so, Geraldine 1 Oh, you do
not know how happy you have made me.
It has been my greatest wish, for I know
better than anyone how well you are suited
to each other."

*' But you have not answered my question,"
said Sir Francis.
** What question ?"

Will you look upon me as a brother T
Indeed I will," said Victoria, " from this
very moment ; and to show you that I do

so

She went up to him and kissed him on his
forehead ; and Sir Francis, as in duty bound,
kissed her in return, and kissed Eva, and

kissed Geraldine ; but to Geraldine's kiss he
added some whispered words.

** Ah !" she said, *' I am so happy."

Happy ! and who was not happy ? The
passing cloud was gone. Victoria was once
more herself; she was made happy through
the happiness of others. Eva was happy
because she had been released from what she
had felt to be a kind of bondage ; the confidence
between her and Geraldine had been
restored, and she no longer felt bound — oh,
crime of crimes ! — to keep anything secret
from the beloved Chub. As for Geraldine
and Sir Francis, the present seemed to atone
for the past ; for their state, happiness is too
mild a word.

And the way in which their happiness had
been brought about on this particular day
was such a very simple one.

Sir Francis was one of those commendable
people who always get up early.

Geraldine, perhaps because Sir Francis had
said so much of the beauty of the early
morning, had of late followed his example ;
and so they had met, and it is not difficult
to imagine the inevitable result, knowing as

46—2

we do, that both their hearts were bleeding
from old and new wounds.

*' Now," said Victoria, ** that we are all
once more in our right senses, and I have put
off the weak woman and become again the
staid doctor, let us cease for a time to
think of ourselves, or of each other," she
said, playfully looking at Geraldine and Sir
Francis, and think of the poor child — of dear
Madge.

*does she know that she will regain her
sight ?" asked Sir Francis.

*^ Yes. But I have concealed from her to
what extent. She only knows at present
that she can distinguish moving forms, for
her room has still to be kept darkened. But
I have now no doubt of the result, and there
is no reason why the operation on the second
eye should not be equally successful I
cannot imagine why I should have been so
overcome. I feel quite ashamed of myself."


"Dear Vic," said Geraldine, "it has
always been your strength, and not your
weakness, which has astonished me."

"I will go to Madge," said Eva. "The

dear child has been too long alone, and will
wonder what has become of us."

She went into the room where Madge was.
A curtain was drawn across the window, but
sufficient light came through it to permit of
the outline of large objects being visible.

Madge was dressed, sitting in an easy-chair
in which the nurse had just placed her. The
bandage had been taken off her eyes.

As Eva entered the room and passed the
window, the child cried out :

What is that ? Something has passed
across the light. Is it you, nurse V

No, dear ; it is me," said Eva. " I have
come to sit with you."

*soh dear little * Somebody 1'" said the
child. *' I am so glad. The first moving thing
else I have seen was dear auntie. Now it is
you. Come here I I want to tell you something.
Closer, closer — it must be whispered
in your ear."

•' I want you to help me to thank God He
has been so kind to me."

CHAPTER X.

GROUPED ON THE LAWN.

It was the afternoon of one of those beautiful
summer days which are unfortunately so rare
in England, and the lawn at Hawthornedene
was shimmering in the bright sunlight ; one
of those days on which Nature seems to
beckon to loungers within doors, and say,
'' Come !"

"Come! I have arrayed me in my best.
I am in my most happy mood. I have perfumed
the air with the scent of flowers, and
made it melodious with the song of birds. I
have spread a carpet of verdure beneath your
feet, and enamelled it with living gems. Allis
so fair, that Heaven looks down and smiles.
To-day I keep high festival. Come, add your
joy to mine. Come I"

And, seemingly in answer to her appeal, a
number of people had assembled on the lawn,
and were sitting in a picturesque group, in the
shade of the fragrant limes which formed one
of its boundaries.

The group had been made all the more
picturesque by the addition of three small
children — for youth is to age what light is
to shade, and in Nature, as in Art, there can
be no beauty without contrast.

The three young children are new to us.
The rest of the group is composed of old
friends — friends who are five years older than
when we saw them last, so that some of them
are a little changed ; but there is only one of
them who is grown out of our knowledge.
It is a fair bright girl, who wears spectacles ;
her face beams with pleasure, and her silvery
laugh rings out above the buzz of conversation
; for the party is by no means a silent
one.

She is seated on the ground, and is busily
employed endeavouring to make the eldest of
the children, a sturdy, rosy little rogue of
some four years old, pronounce the name of
his little sister, who, all unconscious of the

difficulty she is the cause of, is rolling about
on a shawl which has been spread for her
special benefit. The third of the children is
a baby, stretching out its little pink toes, and
blinking in the sunlight, from the depths of a
perambulator.

Come, Frank, don't be naughty ; you
know you can say it very well. Come now,
say ^ Victoria.' "

*- Sick— lor— lia."

"No, no, that will not do; you can say
it much better than that. Try again :
vic '"

Orly— lowly— lia."

Oh, you laugh "

The end of the word was smothered ere it
could be spoken ; for Frank had thrown his
arms round the speaker's neck, and was
sealing her mouth with his soft red pouting
lips, so that it was with difficulty she could
release herself and say :

*' Oh, you tiresome boy I you really must
be whipped. You have nearly choked
me.

The word '^ whipped " seemed to jar on

Frank's feelings, and cause a revulsion in his
sentiments towards the speaker.

You're a nasty cross thing — I don't love
you at all. I 'ill beat you."

Oh, Margaret, Margaret ! I fear it is you
who spoil Frank, after all ; and when he is
utterly intractable everyone will say that he
is just like his father. I really must look
after my character. Come here, sir I" said a
gentleman, stepping forward.

But Frank only drew all the closer to
Madge, and said :

Rank 'ill be good — he 'ill stay with dear
Market."

And she whom he calls Maret seems to have
given up all ideas of whipping, for she opens
her arms, and the child takes shelter within
them.

So it was only a lover's quarrel, after all,"
said the gentleman. And there was a general
laugh.

But Margaret and Frank seemed to care
very little about it ; so busy were they whispering
loving words to each other. They were
evidently making it up.

It was difficult to recognise in that fair,

bright, happy-looking girl, who was called
Margaret, the poor, pale, sorrow-stricken, blind
Madge, as we first knew her.

It is the same, yet not the same. Four
years of sight — the continued influence of
one for whom her affection has no bounds —
the gradual withdrawal of her thoughts from
the sad memories of the past — the softening
effects of the society of loving friends — have
combined to produce a change in her which
is nothing short of transformation. And she
who has been the prime mover in this great
work is — Victoria.

Victoria, who at this moment stands the
centre of a group, of whom there is scarcely
one to whose happiness she has not largely
contributed.

Victoria, the first bloom of youth past ;
five years older it is true, but those five years
have not destroyed her beauty — they have
but matured it.

And 80 it is with that graceful and
elegant woman who ^wq years ago was
Lady Runnymede, but now, as Lady Hawthorne,
leans upon her husband's arm, happy
in the possession of his heart, and in being

the mother of his children. Her eyes suffuse
with tears as she looks from Madge, or Margaret
as we must now call her, holding
her child in her arms, to Victoria — to her
sister Victoria — to the one being to whom
she owes all that has made life so bright to
her.

Sir Francis must have divined what was
in her thoughts, for he took her hand, and
passing her arm through his, pressed it
tenderly, whilst he, too, looked towards Victoria.


And the old doctor, for he is there, is
cheered in his solitude — for shortly after his
children's marriage his wife had died — by his
new child, his Eva. Her devotion to the old
man is touching to behold; perhaps it is
because, as yet, she has remained childless,
and so has had nothing to divert her attention
from him.

** She takes too much care of me," the
doctor would say. " She has made me like
a spoiled child. I shall begin to cry soon
after something I cannot get. It seems to
be my fate; my poor dear wife was never tired
of spoiling me."

It is true he had never been out of that
kind-hearted, simple-minded woman's thoughts.
With her last breath she had commended him
to Eva's care :

Be sure, my dear, that you make his
coffee yourself, and take care that it is
hot."

And then she died.

Chub, metamorphosed into Dr. Charles
Pringle — for no one presumes to call him
Chub " now — is in the full-swing of country
practice. He is as much idolised by his wife
£*s ever, and the only complaint she is ever
heard to utter, is, that he is so much away
from home.

It is very tiresome that people cannot
do without him ; but then, he is so clever."

This was a matter upon which Dr. Charles
Pringle had himself always entertained very
grave doubts ; but when a man's wife says
that her husband is clever, surely there must
be something in it. It gave him confidence,
and made him work with a will, for he felt
he had a character to keep up.

In point of fact, he was quite clever enough
for the ordinary work of this world, a ad that

is more than half of us can pretend to.
He was too thorough in his honesty for self-assertion,
and it was this straightforwardness
of character which had first attracted
Eva ; and now, the more she knew him, and
the longer she loved him, the more honest
she found him.

He did not love her —-he simply worshipped
her. Now, more than ever, for she had confided
to him what was supposed to be a great
secret, so that just now his cup of happiness
was very full indeed.

Dr. Pringle did not do much work now,
though he thought he did ; but he continued
to make a round of gossiping visits to his
old friends, and to those who had for many
years constituted themselves his patients,
though he had never been able to make
out their ailments, and understand why they
should insist upon his paying them a daily
visit.

They said it was such a comfort to them ;
though, perhaps, he did little more than
say :

Not better, my dear madam ? Well,
well ! be thankful you are no worse. For

uiy part, I see no reason — if you go on as
you are doing now — why you should not outlive
Methuselah."

He, too, is very proud of Chub.

There is one visit which he pays daily —
the one which gives him the greatest pleasure
the one to Sis. " Sis" to him alone, for to
the rest of the world, outside her own family,
she is spoken of — and that iu subdued tones
as " the rector's wife," and in her own
family as " Mrs. Aloysius," or less frequently
as " Elizabeth."

Sis has changed her name, she has cast,
as it were, her outer skin, but she has not
changed her nature. Look at her now, as
she forms one of the group on the lawn,
only separated by the perambulator and
baby from the Rev. Aloysius ; the Ev.
Aloysius whom she has made her disciple
and slave, and rendered obedient in all things;
that model man, made up of negations and
prejudices, who seeks to do good in his
generation by opposing the changes which
belong to time. Opposing, did we say ? it
is a wrong word — he opposes nothing — he
advances no opinions — he but smiles in pity

on those he differs from, and then moves on
his own way, rejoicing.

Can that imposing person really be dear
little Sis ? And in that almost conventual
dress ? Why, she is almost as much like a
nun as her husband is like a priest !

And the baby, too, in that quaint, old-fashioned
cap and coat ! for the baby in the
perambulator is her baby — the 
Ursula.

Ah, now there can be no mistake; it is
indeed Sis, for she is posing — she is captivating
the public — for unless Sis is captivating,
she is nothing — and exhibiting her husband
and child. All this not in her old way,
but in a new way, befitting the responsibilities
of her position, for, as she often
says :

'* I have always to remember that I am a
priest's wife."

At the present moment, she and her
husband and the baby form a picture — a
mediaeval picture ! For everything about
them is mediaeval ; she knows that everybody
is looking at them and thinking so ; and
she is satisfied.

It IS probably that old serpent Vanity, bois
at the bottom of it all ; but for his wiles
the rector and his wife would be very ordinary
humdrum people.

But humdrum, Sis never can or will be.
*' Heaven forefend it !"

The doctor, who is as fond of her as ever,
finds amusement in her vagaries. He declares
he cannot find a single chair in the rectory fit
to sit upon, and that their straight backs
hurt his spine ; and then he laughs, and says
that she and her husband are suffering from a
terrible disease, ** the mediaeval," and that
he fears they cannot be cured.

He is never so happy as when he makes
his little grandchild laugh and crow, to the
great scandal of all the household ; for it
would seem that there is a certain dignity
belonging to the name of Ursula, which has
to be kept up.

With Sir Francis and Lady Hawthorne the
rector and his wife are on the best of terms,
for Sir Francis has each year become more
and more convinced that we cannot all think
alike ; and Geraldine's trials have taught her
to be indulgent to the foibles of others, and

she has long ceased to say bitter, biting
things. Her time and thoughts are now
taken up with her children and her husband.
Although she does not always agree with his
ideas, she thoroughly sympathises with the
objects he has in view, and she has learnt to
put forward her views in a way which has made
her a valuable counsellor. She is as graceful,
and beautiful, and dignified as ever ; but
her dignity is that of a refined English matron
who only does not despise, because she has
ceased to regard, the frivolities of fashion.
Her name never now appears in the Court
calendar, but it is registered in many, very
many, grateful hearts ; for devoted as she is
to her husband and her home, she has kind
words, and kind thoughts, and kind acts for
all who need them.

She sometimes laughs at her husband, and
tells him, ** Do you know why you love me ?
It is because I have tried to make myself
like Victoria."

*you have succeeded in one thing," he
says in reply.

'what is it r

'' In making me very, very happy ;" and
VOL. III. 47

then he is so demonstrative, that did we not
know they had been married some years, we
might fancy we were in presence of a newly-married
couple, whose honeymoon had not yet
waned.

Really, Sir Francis, we did not expect
this of you. We had no idea you would
continue to be so effusive. What ! a member
of Parliament; whose words have such weight;
a chairman of quarter sessions, and the
author of that valuable work, " The best
Government — Self-government " — to kiss
your wife as if you were still a boy, and she
sweet sixteen !

Well, well, the temptation was very great,
and we will forgive you. But you positively
must not do it again. This book has a
reputation which must not be trifled with.

It is not intended to be ^' realistic " in the
modern sense of the word ; if it were, we
should request our reader to put it in the fire
at once.

But to return to our group on the lawn.

Only fancy, Eva," said Sir Francis,
** when I was passing through the Park the
day before yesterday, I came upon those

inseparable, Pierrepoint Phipps and Fits


I suppose looking the same as ever' said
Eva, indifferently.

'not quite ; Fitzjones has take to
dying his hair, and affects a frightful ginger
colour ; and poor P. P. walks with a stick, and
tells nie he has become a martyr to the
gout."

Poor creature !" said Geraldine.

What a sad end," said the doctor, " for
the Adonis of the Park to live to be
pitied !"

*' I don't know any class of men who seem
to me more worthy of compassion," said
Victoria, 'than these idle men about town.
I never look at them without being struck
with the utter sadness of their faces."

'' Come, come," said Chub, '' you must
remember, Victoria, every man can't become
a doctor."

Happily," said the rector's wife. One of
her whims was to pretend that she hated
doctors, and she took a special pleasure in
expressing this dislike before Victoria.

Victoria only smiled ; a bright smile,

47—2

which has not the slightest' tinge of sadness.
She did not take the trouble to reply, but
threw herself down upon the shawl and
began to romp with her little namesake.

Whilst she is doing so, and the Reverend
Aloysius, who is not good at conversation, is
from time to time droning: out bits from a
controversial magazine which he is skimming
over, let us take the opportunity of explaining
how it is she is now in England, and
what she is doing, and, indeed, all about her ;
but we must lose no time for Mr. Mortimer
has already put in an appearance upon the
lawn, and in a short time he will be down
upon us with the tea ; and the nurses will
come for the children ; and we shall have
to hand round the cream, and the cake, and
the bread and butter ; and shall not have
another quiet moment.

The restoration of Madge's sight, followed
by the marriages of Geraldine and Eva, and
their settlement in the same neighbourhood,
had decided Victoria upon returning to
England. Indeed, had she wished to have remained
abroad she would have found it difficult
to have resisted her sister's urgent entreaties

that lie would come and live near them.
Formerly, the many painful memories connected
with her old home might have made
it difficult for her to have done so ; but now
her love for her sisters, for their husbands,
for Dr. Pringle, and it must be confessed, in a
somewhat smaller degree, for Sis, outweighed
every other consideration.

Besides, she felt it would be selfish to exclude
Madge, whom she looked upon as her
child, and who in her hours of leisure was her
inseparable companion, from the advantages
of being within reach of those whose affection
for her was only second to her own.

But she could not be idle. Idleness had
become hateful to her. She must have work.
She could only accede to their wishes if this
could be found.

Of course country practice is out of the
question," she had said. '* I know how
ridiculous it would seem if Dr. Charles
Pringle and Dr. Victoria Marsh were to be
seen driving about the country together as
partners ; and to set up in opposition to dear
old Chub would be more than absurd. Besides,
my forte, if I have any, is in specialities.

I should make a very indifferent
general practitioner."

So, after many sittings in conclave with the
Drs. Pringle, father and son, and Sir Francis,
it had been decided that she should settle in
the neighbouring town, which was within an
easy drive of them all, where there was an eye
infirmary and a hospital for children ; and
that she should confine her practice as much
as possible to diseases of the eye, and only extend
it, in cases where she might be required
to act in consultation.

She had been able to get one of those comfortable,
country-town, double-faced houses ;
the one face red, ugly, and professional, towards
the street ; the other, pretty and
coquettish, looking out upon a large and
shady lawn ; and in a short time had made
herself thoroughly at home.

The prejudice against her had very quickly
worn off, for it was soon discovered by
those who were interested in the local
charities, that she was prepared to give a
degree of time and attention to them which
was beyond the power of the ordinary
medical staff; and her skill had soon become

so apparent, that even those who had been
most prepared to oppose her, were obliged to
give way before the irresistible evidence of
facts.

In two years, her reputation had become
thoroughly established ; and even the secretary
of the hospital for children, who had always
been known for his untiring denunciation of
women doctors, had become so far converted,
that, at the last annual dinner, when some one
had alluded to Dr. Victoria in euloofistic
terms, he had remained silent.

Indeed through her influence the eye infirmary
had, as it were, been awakened into
new life ; former patients, who had been discharged
from it as incurable, had returned toit
to receive their sight ; and in the children's
hospital the change was equally remarkable,
for Dr. Victoria Marsh not only knew how to
treat the little sufferers, but she loved them.

So her fame had spread throughout the
county, until in all doubtful or difficult cases,
in which a second opinion might seem necessary,
the first idea which suggested itself, was
to call in Dr. Victoria.

There had been great excitement in the

town, when it became known that the new
tenant of West Street House was a lady
doctor, and no little disappointment, when it
was discovered that she did not look different
from other people.

The young mercer s-assistant, on the opposite
side of the street, could not help expressing
his incredulity to the young lady in the
shop who shared his duties.

Don't tell me, Eliza Ann, that she's the
doctor. If that's the doctor I'll eat her !
Wait a little .; you'll see the doctor's a guy,
and wears spectacles. That must be her
sister, and the young one's her niece."

Some of the families living in the town had
known Victoria as a girl, and many of them
had heard all about her ; but there were few
of them who were prepared to find her so
utterly unlike what they had imagined
her to be.

The Miss Molseleys, the maiden daughters
of a former rector, made a house-toulouse
visitation shortly after her arrival, in order to
retail their experiences, and gain further information
about her.

Will you believe it, my dear, when we

called yesterday we found her sitting in an
arm-chair by the fire, embroidering a table-cover.
Was she not, Jane ?"

'' Yes, Matilda ; and the table was covered
with knickknacks."

And she sings duets with her niece, for
she told us so. The first thing Jane said
when we came out was, ' I don't believe in
here''

*' No, Matilda ; no, that was you. I only
said I had not much opinion of her as a
doctor ; she had all the airs and graces of a
young lady, and was too well dressed."

"And in such a dress as that, to poke
about amongst broken bones and skulls, it is
quite dreadful to think of. I would not be a
doctor for the world."

There is an old lady present who is deaf,
and only hears the few stray words which
fall into her ear-trumpet ; skulls and bones
would seem to have done so, for she cannot
conceal her horror, and declares that such
things should not be allowed. It was not soin
her time. Skulls and bones indeed ! It
is all very well for men, but

Do what they w^iU, the Miss Molseleys

cannot stop her. She talks so loud no one
else can be heard. So they take their leave,
and with the voice of the deaf old lady still
ringing in their ears, they continue their
peregrinations.

Wherever they go, first one and then the
other repeats the same thing : " I would not
be a doctor for the world." And having said
so, proceed, in a covert insinuating sort of
way, to draw a comparison between themselves
and Victoria, greatly to their own
advantage.

'they, are not peculiar." "They, do not
pretend to know more than other people."
*' They, keep within their proper sphere."

The moral, being, that it would be much
better for Victoria, if she were to follow their
example, and pass their time as they do, in
daily house-toulouse visitations.

Meantime the deaf old lady is busy, on her
beat, informing her friends "that Victoria
sits in a room full of skulls and bones," and
gradually works herself up into such a state
of indignation, that it becomes a question
with her, whether she ought not to inform
the police.

But all this soon wears off. The nine
days' wonder dies a natural death, and joins
the shades of other departed nine days'
wonders. The Miss Molseleys are sometimes
induced to think, whether it might not have
been better for them if they too had been
doctors ; and even the deaf old lady has given
up her craze about skulls and bones, and
speaks of Victoria as " that dear good
creature."

Dr. Victoria ! That which had seemed so
ridiculous but a short time since, was now
quite natural. Mothers who had always
declared they had no faith in women, and
would rather call in a cow-doctor, gratefully
accepted her aid ; and in many cases felt
thankful that it was to a woman, and not to
a man, they had to enter upon the details of
their own or their children's ailments.

Never perhaps were two people so thoroughly
happy as Victoria and Madge.

Victoria, happy in her work, in her leisure,
in the companionship of Madge, parcelling
out her time so that not a moment of it is
lost, preparing herself for the labours of the
day whilst others are yet asleep, growing

richer without wishing to do so, lying down
at night with a grateful heart and a clear
conscience, thinking of those she loves, as
she falls asleep, and of Madge.

And Madge ?

Madge is as bright as a bird and as busy
as a bee. She, too, is up betimes, for she
has to study, and to practise, for music has
become her passion, and in the evening
nothing Victoria likes so much as to hear her
sing ; and the garden is under her care, and
she has to arrange the flowers — " auntie is so
fond of flowers;" and she has the housekeeping
to attend to, and she has the infirmary
to visit, and her blind friends at the
institution, so that she has not an idle
moment ; and were it not that she carols as
she goes about the house, and that her face
is beaming with happiness, she might appear
an object for pity, she has so much to do.

Victoria is her idol — dear auntie, as she
calls her ; and when she lies down at night,
it is with a thanksgiving and a prayer for
dear auntie upon her lips, that her once
sightless eyes are closed in sleep.

But sometimes she wakes up sorrowful

and sad — it is when she has dreamt of
"Pops."

And Dr. Victoria keeps her carriage —
a pony-carriage with a pair of bay ponies,
and Madge is not a little proud of being
allowed to drive them ; and it is in this
carriage that they have driven over to
Hawthornedene.

But the tea has come, the children have
been kissed with more or less fervour all
round and taken away ; let us hand the
cream and the cake, and the bread-and-butter,
and take our leave.

Let us say good-bye to them, as they forma
happy group in the shade of the lime-trees,
on that glorious summer afternoon, whilst
they are still full of happiness in themselves
and in each other ; for who knows what a
morrow may bring forth, or what clouds maybe
gathering on the horizon ? and even now
we have to remember that fond and foolish
mother, and her selfish miserable son, wasting
their lives in what is worse than folly, on the
distant Riviera.

Good-bye, my friends, good-bye ! Goodbye,
Victoria !"

Who is it who has caught up the last
word ?

It is Mr. Mortimer, who, from a little
distance, had been surveying the scene with
a thoughtful air.

'victoria?" he said, in a voice that was
just audible. " Victoria ? Yes ! if ever there
were two angels upon earth" — it would be
impossible to do justice to his aspirates — " it
is my Mary and Dr. Victoria."

From this it will be seen that Mr. Mortimer
was yet unmarried, and that Mary had preferred
to remain — an angel.

POSTSCRIPT.

There is one individual amongst our characters
whose present position in society
entitles him to some further notice.

Major — we beg his pardon — now, by her
Majesty's favour and his honorary rank in
the reserve forces, Colonel Thomas Trenton,
has been borne onward, not by one, but by
many, waves of prosperity ; and in proportion
as Fortune had smiled on him, so had Society
opened her arms wider and wider to receive
him.

The large amount of money he had gained
from Marmaduke Yorke had never been a
matter of notoriety ; it was only known that
he had been successful on the Turf. But
since then his name had been associated
with other successes ; and when it was whispered

that the ruin of the Earl of Southron
was chiefly to be attributed to the gallant
officer's combinations, and that almost every
penny belonging to that unfortunate nobleman
had been transferred to his pocket, the
enthusiasm of his many admirers, and of
those who are always ready to worship success,
had no bounds.

Had the gallant colonel been a professional
beauty," he could not have been more sought
after : he obtained at once the entree to what
he speaks of as the '' highest " circles, and it
is a pleasure to see him driving in the Park
with that frank, self-satisfied, soldierlike air
which seems so natural to him, and to observe
the affable, condescending way with which he
returns the salutes of young griffins from the
camp, who are under the impression that
they are taking off their hats to some distinguished
general.

The Bo wood races are as popular and select
as ever. The Lawn on the last Cup day was
however, on account of the wet weather, less
brilliant than usual. And Mrs. Kurr Crawley
was not there ; for she has had to undergo
the mortification of being eclipsed by a new

beauty, who is said by connoisseurs, to possess
superior points.

The number of the guests from the great
house was somewhat affected by the rain ; but
nevertheless, in the reserved portion of the
grand stand, that stout old soldier Von
Schwerin was to be seen, looking out upon
the course, and the world at large, with the
serene satisfaction of a man whose lines have
been cast in pleasant places.

Mr. and Mrs. Fulford have been placed in
charge of the ** Institute and Coffee Rooms "
lately built by Sir Francis.

At first Mrs. Fulford had been greatly
scandalised by the practices and doctrines of
the Rev. Aloysius ; but on that gentleman
having expressed a wish to avail himself of
Mr. Fulford's valuable services as sexton and
bellringer, she began to understand him
better, and it need not be a matter for surprise
that after she had received a certain
amount of attention from the rector's wife,
she had been enabled to add to her former
experiences, that one which proceeds from
being privileged to wear a lozenge-shaped
medallion, and to attach to her signature

VOL. III. 48

those mysterious letters, which had led, some
years before, to those facetious remarks from
Chub, which had been characterised by his
sister as, 'profane.

Under the pressure of business, Souseman
and Soppit have been obliged to increase their
capital, and ** the Trade" is about to obtain
a Royal Commission to inquire into the legality
of coffee-houses.

They have taken counsel's opinion, and it
seems tolerably certain, that the rights of
property will be upheld, and the coffee-houses
suppressed.

If it were not so, it is unlikely we should
see so many new houses decorated in the
latest style of modern art, upon which painters
are busily employed in painting, in letters six
times the ordinary size, the time-honoured
names of r

Souseman and Soppit.

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTTPERS, GUILDFORD.

^

r



^ X>J!ry

^

Saa

"ep^son charging this material is r^
sensible for its return to the library from
S it was borrowed on or before the
latest Date stamped below.

lor dlKlpllnory ottlon ont m»y "fun ■"

APR 2 199;

When renewing by phone, write new due^date below
previous due date.

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

OCT 7 I98II

A PICTURE FROM THE PERIOD,

BY

Major-general G. G. ALEXANDER, Cab.

section is a fabric woven by Fancy with threads of Tithe''

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL III.

SAMUEL TINSLEY & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.
1881.

\^All Rights Reserved.]

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. MR. MONTJOY MORTIMORE MAKES AN ASS

OF HIMSELF - 1

n. THE CUP DAY AT BOWOOD - - - 28

III. SUNSHINE AND GLOOM - - - - 66

IV. LOST AND FOUND 77

V. A LOAD OFF A LOVING HEART - - - 109

VL REVELATIONS 119

Vn. A DAY WITH THE HOUNDS - ' - - 135

Vm. "OH, THAT I COULD BUT SEE!" - - 155

IX. "AND THERE WAS LIGHT" - - - 175

X. GROUPED ON THE LAWN - - - - 198

POSTSCRIPT - - - - --223

-ooJ»{C

CHAPTER I.

MR. MONTJOY MORTIMORE MAKES AN ASS OF
Himself.

Honest Tom Trenton has become radiant.
As he stands on the steps of his club, and lights
his cigar, he looks out upon the world so benevolently,
that the one-armed commissioners
with six medals cannot keep his eyes off
him, and only wonders how it was that during
the fifteen years he had the honour of serving
under the colours, he never had the good
fortune to be commanded by such an officer.
From his officers he had generally received
either hard words, or no words at all ; and
here stood this gentleman — the major — who,
VOL. III. 34

even when a man carrying a short ladder
was within an ace of running against him
and putting his eye out had no severer
reproach than '* Bless you, my good fellow I
bless you !"

But whilst the gallant major stood upon
the steps of his club, smiling upon his
friends — and who was there not his friend ?— -
and scattering blessings amongst his enemies
if such a man could have enemies — a
spectacle for gods and men to rejoice at — a
very different scene was being enacted outside
the door of a suite of rooms in the
*' Eying and E-ail " Club Chambers, upon
which a card had been attached to inform
those who might have any curiosity in the
matter, that they stood outside the domicile
of that now well-known individual, amongst
all who felt any interest in the Turf,

Me, Mont joy Mortimore,

Her Majesty's Reserve Forces.

A gentleman stood near it, who, when he
turned, after a prolonged rap with his stick
in such close proximity to the card that one
of the tacks by which it was fastened fell out,

as if in abject terror, revealed himself as Mr.
John Marsh. It seemed as if the act of
knocking against a door with a stick had
something irritating in it, for he was evidently
in anything but an amiable mood ;
and when he renewed his attack upon the
door — this time with kicks instead of knocks
the language with which he accompanied
it was anything but Parliamentary.

** Come now, no more of this infernal humbug
! I know you are there. There is n-)
use your sporting your oak against me — so
don't go on making a fool of yourself, but
open the door at once, or I'll be — something
— if I don't kick it in I"

o

The threat appeared to produce some effect,
or perhaps it may have been that the voice of
the speaker had been recognised, for a sound
of some one moving was heard from within,
and then a voice in languid tones requesting
the door might not be kicked again.

*for really," said Mr. Mortimore, as he
opened it, " the noise you made was most
excruciating."

Mr. Marsh's rejoinder was more forcible
than polite ; but, by the time he had seated

34—2

himself in an arm-chair, he was sufficiently
mollified to inquire how the world was usinor
Mr. Mortimore, which he did by reducing the
question to the simple terms of

** Well, how goes it V

Mr. Mortimore — whose general appearance
had greatly changed since we saw him last,
chiefly through his having acquired a dejected
limp look, which gave him a remarkable
resemblance to a linen shirt-collar before it
has been starched and ironed — stopped for a
moment in certain preparations which seemed
to have brandy and soda for their object, and
leaning towards his visitor, as if he were
going to impart some tremendous state secretin
a deep, hollow voice, answered :

Lawful ! All but smashed up !"

'^ And yet you look confoundedly snug and
comfortable," said Mr. Marsh, looking round.

"And that's the worst of it," said Mr.
Mortimore, letting the cork fly from a soda-water
bottle with a loud pop ; '* that's the
worst of it. 'Tis a gentlemanly place " — he
looked round with a complacent air — '^ a
deuced gentlemanly place ; but how am I
to go on living in it without money or credit.

and the first gone, and the second nearly
ditto ? I can't see it — no, hang me if I can I
I would if I could."

But you gained a pot of money. Why,
that scoundrel Trenton told me so. What
have you done with it ?"

Just what you've done : put it in his
pockets and in the pockets of his friends ;
because I was idiot enough to think because

o

I had made it so easily it would be just as
easy to make more — But, good gracious,
Marsh ! what are you going to do ? No, no,
not here — not here. Since I have had these
rooms there have been nothing smoked in
them under sixpence. My olfactory organs
are that delicate they will not tolerate anything
but the best tobacco."

Saying this, Mr. Mortimore interrupted his
friend in the operation of filing an extremely
high-flavoured-looking pipe from a sealskin
pouch, by drawing his attention to a very
elaborately ornamented cigar-case on the
table near him.

Let me recommend you one of these. I
keep them for my friends. For my part, I
smoke nothing but cigarettes, though they

do tell me that they are damaging to the
intellect."

'* Then you may smoke away like a chimney
on fire," said Mr. Marsh ; " you, are safe, at
any rate. But tell me," he added, in a
different tone, for he could see that Mr.
Mortimore was nettled, as well he might befor
if there were one thing more than another
upon which he prided himself it was his
*"liintellects," — '^ tell me, have you seen Tom
Trenton lately ?"

Not lately," said Mr. Mortimore, somewhat
fiercely. *' Not lately. No, indeed,
not since I booked up after the Derby. The
major is a rat. Rats don't like falling houses.
Thea he has become aristocratic. Lawfully
aristocratic ! He is a regular swell now,
and no mistake. H officers in her Majesty's
reserve forces are not good enough for a man
of his kidney ; by no means. The major has
gone in for lords. For lords, Marsh ; nothing
else will satisfy his insatiable ambition.
Lords and marquises ! as true as I sit here.
Marsh. I passed him in the Park last Sunday
a- walking arm in arm with that 
swell Eunnymede ; they are lawfully

on together: and when I passed them, confound
him for his impertinence I the major had
the audacity to look at me and touch his
hat with just the same smile he puts on when
he gives a copper to a crossing-sweeper. I
don't know how it may be with you, but he
has treated me with indignity and insult,
and I will let him know that John — no —
Montjoy Mortimore is not to be so treated,
and that he is as great an officer and a
gentleman as he is."

"The major is a confounded knowing dog''
said his companion — '^ a confounded knowing
dog ; and he has given me some bites
lately that have brought the ends of his
teeth nearer the bone than the skin, but " — •
biting the end off a cigar savagely as he
spoke — ^^ we will be even with him yet,
Mortimore, my boy, take my word for it. I
think I have got him — I think we have got
him — this time !"

*' I tell you what it is. Marsh," said Mr.
Mortimore, bending towards him and speaking
in a confidential whisper, *' I begin to
think he is one too many for us."

'* You be hanged !" rejoined Mr. Marsh.

'* Yes, one too many for us," said Mr.
Mortimore. " It may be exasperating, but
that don't make it the less true. Look back
a little, Marsh, when we three first started
on the Turf together ; as far as money goes,
there wasn't a pin to choose between you and
him, and my paltry hundred can't be counted
as much. But we were to share and share
alike — and what has come of it ? Nothing.
Only this. Look at the major; why, we two
innocents have been and put all the money
that was dropped by that young booby Yorke
into his pocket, and lots besides, all of which
he keeps as tight as if he had made it himself,
and had had no friends to help him. Whilst
look at us : why, of all the thousands
and tens of thousands that have passed
through these hands " — he held them out,
palms upwards, as if to give weight to his
assertion — '^ not a stiver has stuck to them.
And if you want further evidence, why,
look round this room : of all these pictures
and articles of vertoo, how many do you
think have been paid for ? Why, not one. I
had to sell my last lot, and these are simple
replaces, but ' articles der looks ' have become

Dece8Sciry to my existence, for without
elegance, what is life ? Why, it is its hall
in hall. A pig may be happy in a palace,
but confound me if a king could make it
out in a sty !"

*' Mortimore, you're a fool !" said Mr.
Marsh, after he had smoked in silence for a
few minutes.

*' No greater fool than you are," retorted
the gentleman so addressed; *rand I would
trouble you, Mr. Marsh, speaking as one
gentleman would speak to another, to be a
little more guarded in your expressions.
Fool, indeed I and pray, sir, may I ask in
what respect has Mr. John Marsh done
better ?"

He has the horses' said Mr. Marsh
coolly, as if he did not care to resent his
companion's anger. " The horses, Mortimore
and that's something."

They ruined some one we know of," said
Mr. Mortimore.

'' They were intended to do so," was the
reply ; *' but I'll be hanged if they ruin me !"

But is that all ? " said Mr. Mortimore,
putting on a contemptuous air.

I would not take fifty thousand for my
Wood book — and both horses are entered
for the cup."

*' The Crack won't get placed, and Fortuna
will be nowhere," said Mr. Mortimore, maliciously.


'the Crack will win!" said Mr. Marsh,
decidedly.

'I'll eat my hat if he does!" said Mr.
Mortimore.

"Then you'll die of indigestion," said Mr.
Marsh, in a marvellously bland manner for
one who was usually so brusque and rough.
Come now, I'll tell you what it is— you
did me a good turn once, and I'll repay
it. Do you want to know of a good
thing ?"

Of course I do," said Mr. Mortimore,
becoming interested.

Then I can give you the straight tip."

*' What is it ?"

*' Don't back the favourite."

But I have been backing him," said Mr.
Mortimore, ruefully.

Then you must hedge."

But it will play the devil with my book."

"' Han and burn and blister your book !"
said Mr. Marsh, losing patience. "It is a
question of winning or losing, of life or death,
of these snug bachelor's quarters or a garret.
T tell you as a friend — don't back the favourite."


'* How do you know he won't win ?"

How do I know ? Come, swear not to
tell."

Mr. Mortiraore took up a book — as he
might have done when about to take an
affidavit in a court of justice — but on perceiving
it was only an army list, which
opened of itself at "Her Majesty's Reserved
Forces," he put it down again, and contented
himself with a sepulchral

I swear !"

Before divulging the momentous secret,
which required such a solemn action on the
part of Mr. Mortimore, Mr. Marsh rose, and,
opening the door leading into the bedroom,
convinced himself by a careful scrutiny that
no one was concealed there ; he then walked
back on tip-toe — though why he walked on
tip-toe he probably could not for the life
of him have explained — to his seat; then,

putting his fingers to his lips, which somehow
or other had the effect of making his
nose look redder than usual :

Titmouse is to ride the favourite, and I
have squared Titmouse."

That was conclusive. Titmouse had been
squared. What could Mr. Mortimore say in
the face of such a masterly operation as that ?
He was fairly vanquished, and fell prostrate
at once.

And are you sure that the Crack will
wm {

Not one particle of bounce left in his voice
now. He seemed as if you could have
knocked him down with a feather, from the
moment he had heard that *' Titmouse had
been squared."

As sure as I sit here now."

*' But " — in a feeble voice — 'don't the Crack
bolt sometimes 1 Didn't he bolt at Hepsom?"

"Bolt! Bolt, indeed I I should like to
see him. What, with Whipcord on his back ?"

'' Oh ! Whipcord is to ride ? Ah ! that
alters the case." His limpness had become
pitiable.

'* So tar, so good' said Mr. Marsh, lighting

a fresh cigar. " Now, if you don't mind
letting me have another S. and B., I'll clear
off the cobwebs, and then we'll put our two
wise heads together and proceed to business.
1 think, as I said before, that I see my way
to a devilish good thing ; and if we can fire
an infernal hot broadside into that cunning
old snob Trenton, en passant, why, so much
the better. But, tell me, first — does anyone
know that you are hard-up ? Is our credit at
the club as good as ever ? You are not
economising, I hope ; that would be fatal —
anything rather than that. No man can be
ruined so long as he is spending money.
You must launch out, Mortimore ! You must
launch out. And if a couple of hundreds
will help you to tide over the time till
Wood sets us on our legs again — well, I
think I can manage that."

Mr. Mortimore's eyes brightened ; nothing
takes the limpness out of a man like money.
Who ever saw a rich man exhibiting any
signs of limpness ? And so low had Mr.
Mortimore fallen, that even the idea of
pocketing a miserable two hundred pounds
made him sit up in his chair as if he had

only past discovered that a backbone wag
part of his anatomy.

'but you have not, I hope, been such u
cursed fool as to let anyone know that you
are hard up V asked again Mr. Marsh. '* That
is the chief point. If you have, you may as
well cut and run at once."

'* Of course I have not," said Mr. Mortimer.
" If I have not been at the club for
my rubber as much as usual, no one knows
that want of money is at the bottom of it ;
they attribute it to indisposition, and a-
staying in country houses."

*' You must pluck up. Mortimore, and
launch out. If the Derby has been too much
for you — as it has been for me — keep it dark,
and Wood will set us on our legs again.
Come, now to business. Let me look at
your book. You must set to work at once —
and remember that Titmouse has been
squared, and the Crack wins."

Mr. Mortimore felt restored to life. When
Mr. Marsh had entered the room he was in
the depths of despair ; now he felt — as in
truth he had felt several times before — as if
he held fortune in his grasp.

'marsh," he said, *' you're a man of
action, and have been endowed with what I
most want — audacity. I certainly bungled
with my Hepsom book, for I had no longer
the young un to deal with: and it seemed as
if the few thousands he had put in my
pocket had been scented out by every infernal
hawk with two legs, and that they
had made up their minds to pluck me to the
last feather. But you have given me fresh
hope and courage. ' Nile dressperandum '
was the motto of our great admiral, and
Montjoy Mortimore will show that he knows
how to act when adversity threatens him
with her devilish frowns. Come on !" — he
placed himself in an attitude of defence, as if
against some invisible foe. " Come on ! The
die is cast. Like Caesar, he has crossed the
Hesperus, and is ready to march on to fresh
victories. Marsh, he is ready, lead on !
Where John Marsh leads, Montjoy Mortimer
will follow."

To all of which Mr. Marsh contented himself
by taking a longer whiff at his cigar
than usual, and simply ejaculating : '* Bosh ! '

He was less concise when, after an hour

devoted to a careful consideration of Mr.
Mortimore's book, and the odds to be offered
and taken under every conceivable circuit
stance connected with the running at Wood
of which the two leading points were the
facts that Titmouse had been squared, and
that the Crack must win — he pointed out to
Mr. Marsh the absolute necessity of his assuming"
a cheerful countenance, and above all, of
his deceiving that arch-dissembler, honest
Tom Trenton.

Confound the fellow f said Mr. Marsh,
'' he is already beginning to hug himself over
his own good fortune ; and he would snigger
over our break-down, as if we had been his
enemies instead of his greatest friends.
When you have known as much of the world
as I do, Mortimore, you will find out that
next to the pleasure of success, there is
nothing so agreeable to the feelings as being
able to kick away the ladder by which you
have climbed to it. But only follow my
advice, and we will be even with him yet ;
but don't forget to book him whenever you
get a chance — then, however high he may hold
his nose now, I have no doubt but that we

shall be able to bring it to the grindstone."


Mr. Mortimore had no time to lose, and he
set to work most manfully ; wherever bets
were being made, he was to be seen, book in
hand, and there was a quiet confidence about
him which made even honest Tom Trenton
doubt whether after all he had been right in
his surmises as to the Derby ; and he began
to have more respect for a man who knew
how to keep things dark, and to win largely
without being elated.

So thoroughly occupied was Mr. Mortimore
in making his book, that he had no time for
anything else ; and the gentle reproofs of the
adjutant of the Pimlico Pioneers were insufficient
to bring him to a proper sense of his
duty to that distinguished corps.

"Every man cannot be expected to become
an effective all at once," said Mr. Mortimore.
It is no doubt very interesting for you
to amuse yourself by standing men in rows
like skittles. You have nothing else to do,
and it is your occupation ; but, as one of the
skittles, it is an employment you must excuse
me for not appreciating. I'll allow that

VOL. III. 35

the uniform, and all that sort of thing, is very
gentlemanly ; but when you are told to turnout
your toes by word of command, why it's
all very well for the ignorant, and for young
men of the lower orders, but it don't suit
me, nor any other man who has been born
with a spirit for command."

'' But to command, we must have been
taught to obey," mildly suggested the adjutant.


*^ There I differ from you entirely," retorted
the lieutenant. " My experience has convinced
me to the contrary. I have known
those whose whole lives were spent in doing
what they were told, and a pretty mess they
would have made of command. No, sir, it
must be inherent — inherent 1 Though I'll
allow it may be cultivated ; but your system
of teaching everybody to move like an
automaton at the word of command of
some one else, won't do it — you may be convinced
of that. But in my case, it is inherent
!"

Mr. Mortimore had subscribed largely to the
funds of the Pimlico Pioneers, his liberality
and his reputation on the Tars had made him

very popular with his brother officers ; when
he walked through the streets in uniform, on
the occasion of some great review, his appearance
was a credit to the corps. So that,
although he still continued amongst the *'hin-
efficients' he managed to preserve a certain
reputation ; and it was even rumoured that,
in the event of a vacancy, he would be promoted
to a captaincy.

The adjutant, too, had held this bait out to
him, in the hope that it would induce him to
attend his drills a little more regularly, but
Mr. Mortimore did not take it with the readiness
he had expected.

*' I am not sure I should like the rank," he
said ; "it is all very well to be a lieutenant,
there is nothing serious in it, and you can
keep it, as it were, in your coat-pocket ; but
to walk about ticketed as captain, or major,
or colonel — no, my dear sir ! — please don't
take offence at my frankness — I doubt if I
could stand it, for I should always feel like a
Christmas hamper with a label on it."

Day by day Mr. Mortimore's book increased
in its proportions ; it was beginning to represent
a very large sum, and if the Crack

35—2

won — and who, knowing all he did, could
doubt of the Crack's success ? — he would once
more be the possessor of a fortune ; it was
therefore becoming a very serious consideration
with Mr. Mortimore how that fortune
should be spent.

He was constantly thinking of this when
he was alone ; and not unfrequently, when
he did so, interrupted his meditations by
thumping himself violently on his chest, or
slapping his forehead, and exclaiming at the
same time :

*' Montjoy Mortimore ! Montjoy Mortimore
how could you have been such an infernal
lass I"

To explain this, it should be known, that
only the evening before he had received the
visit from his friend Mr. Marsh, he had sat
down and poured out, from the depths of his
despair, all his woes, in a letter bearing the
simple signature "J. M.," to the young Lady,
once in Lady Arabella's service, but now
transferred to Deepdale, of whom in former
days the then groom of the chambers had
condescended to take some little notice, and
from whom he had parted with the disparaging

remark that she had not ** an hatch in her
alphabet."

He had thought very little of her in his
prosperity, but when his prospects had become
clouded, and he saw little but ruin before
him, he began to feel the want of some
sympathising bosom into which he could pour
out all his misery. He began to realise the
fact that, although Montjoy Mortimore might
have associates and acquaintances, he could
not have friends ; and in the state of terrible
isolation in which he found himself, what more
natural than that his thoughts would turn
to the honest and admiring Mary ! For there
was this in Mary : that whilst John Mortimer,
the groom of the chambers, had equally
excited admiration in others, they had always
thought themselves good enough for him,
whilst she never did; and it was this humility
in her tenderness which had so deeply touched
one who was inclined to characterise anything
like an idea of equality amongst those
with whom he associated, whether in the
housekeeper's-room or servants'-hall, as *share


No, Mary was not " arrogant ;" she knew

how to '' appreciate " superior merit when
she came in contact with it ; she worshipped
the very soles of Mr. John Mortimer's shoes.
And so it was that in the anguish of his heart
Montjoy Mortimore could think of nothing
but Mary, and could find no greater consolation
than sitting down and writing that letter
signed ''J. M."

How could I have been such an infernal
lass !"

My dear Mary," it had said, '' my dear
good girl, you will no doubt be agreeably
surprised at receiving a letter from me, for,
moving as we do in different spheres, it
cannot be expected that we can continue to
have much in common ; but there are times
when even those who have been exalted to
high stations look back with a feeling of
pleasure on the scenes of their simpler joys,
and their companions in them, though lost to
sight, may still be to memory dear, as the
poet says. But I forget, my dear girl, that
you never have read the poets ; 'a a pity,
but then pity's akin to love — that's from
another poet — and as I write the word, oh !

Mary, I will not say whose image it is springs
up before my eyes. How odd it is L O V E
has four letters, and so has MARY! I never
thought of it before. Oh, my dear girl, you
do not know what I have gone through since
we parted. I have rose greatly, but I hope
I am not arrogant, though I know what is
due to my position ; but after all, I do sometimes
think if I could but abdicate from it
all and retire to some pretty spot in the
country, with a pony-chaise and what not,
and a wife — yes, my dear girl, a wife such as
I have once or twice dreamed of Oh ! Mary,
Mary, I shall never quite forget that day
when you thanked me for letting you say you
loved me, but that you knew I was too
superior. Ah ! sometimes how I wish it was
not so ; but our paths in this world are all
cut out and dried for us, as Shakespeare says,
and we must bear our honours meekly. But
don't think it is all pleasure for us men of
fashion. No; indeed, Mary, 1 have sometimes
to work that hard that I have known days,
or rather nights, when I have scarce a leg to
stand on — and you know, my dear girl, that if
J. M. has a strong point it is his legs. No ;

we men about town have very hard work of
it ; we wear our boots out in going from one
dissipation to another. Oh, Mary ! what
with attending of races, and — but what's the
odds as long as you're happy ? — I have heard
it said scores and scores of times before T
knew what the odds were ; and now I do
know, I say they are a device and a snare,
and I do hate the very name. And sometimes
I think I will leave it all, and when I do
settle, go to some place where there are no
horses, not even a horse-hair sofa for that
dear creature, who I will call Mary, to rest
her dear limbs on. And I will drink nothing
but brisk table-beer with a head on, and she
and me shall share and share alike out of the
same pewter ; and we will keep a pig and
have a garden, and eat our own beans and
bacon. I declare it makes my mouth water
when I think of it, for I am tired of kickshaws,
and the smell of the dining-room at
the club — they call it a Sally Money — is that
strong, from all the dinners of the years gone
by, that I can't abide it.

*' But on second thoughts we won't have
beans and bacon. No, Mary, we will kill it

yonnpr, for I do declare that a nice bit of
tender spare-rib with the crackling, Mary —
and whatever yoa do, Mary, don't go and
forget the crackling — and sage and onions,
with gravy and apple-sauce, is that nice that
I have often wondered why those blessed
alderman will go on and on eating of their
kallypash and kallypee, when pork is in the
market and apples on the tree ; excuse the
rhine — I know it's vulgar, except when 'tis
made by poets for money, for, as the song
says, men must live. No, Mary, Ave will not
eat beans and bacon ; we will kill it young,
for I do dote on spare-rib ; and remember,
Mary, that the crackling must be crisp, and
go off between the teeth like a volley of —
but that's shop, for you must know I am an
officer, Mary, and you would be proud to
see me a-drawing of my sword and deporting
of myself ahead of my men in an easy, dignified
way, and a-shouting out the words the
sergeant whispers in my ear until I am that
horse — no, I have not spelt it right, there
ought to be an a somewhere — but do now so
hate the word 1 will pass on. Oh, Mary,
don't you be led away by foolish admiration

for those soldiers — be they regulars or volunteers
— they are all alike. I have found out
the secret, it's all the uniform ; strip them
of that, and what is left ? Why, nothing.
No, Mary, without the uniform no gentleman
could stand being obliged to go here and go
there whether he likes it or not, perhaps upto
the very canon's mouth — Shakespeare again
to please some ignorant fellow who rides
about on horse — well, I must put it — back,
and bellows at you like a bull. No, Mary ;
catch me being an officer, if it were not that
the girls — not you, Mary ; I shouldn't wish
to think it was you — liked the uniform.
And it sounds well at the club to be able to
talk about the service, and say it is going to
the devil, as we all do. As if the devil wanted
to have anything to say to it. He is not
such a fool ; but that's profane, so I won't
say it. Oh, Mary, what a world of vanity
this is I to think that we should pass the
flower of our days in attending races, where
men do shout at each 'ther frost awful, and
in a-calculating odds, xnd in playing at cards,
and a- betting on this event and a-betting on
that, and the time passing and eternity a-

corning, and debtors — no, creditors — at the
door, clambering for that which you have
not got. Oh, Mary, I do so think, when I
feel low and down-hearted, as I do sometimes,
of past days, and of one — I won't say
who — but this I do know, that she hangs
about my heart a sweet burden that I
would not part from ; no ! and her name is
M A E Y. Oh, Mary, think of him sometimes,
and when the sad time comes and he
is no more — for I feel I shan't be able to
stand it much longer — let a tear of pity — and
shall I still say affection 1 — fall from those
lovely eyes, and water with those pearly
drops the lowly grave of one who has gone
through many vicissitudes of fortune, but
had a true heart and a manly fortitude to
the last.

Your ever sincere well-wisher (whilst
good, faithful and true — I mean you, ney dear

girl),

"J. M."

Well might Montjoy Mortimore, Esq., of
Her Majesty's Reserve Forces, ask how he
could have been such an " infernal bass."

CHAPTER 11.

THE CUP DAY AT BOWOOD.

Of all dull country towns, Ditchwater is
certainly the dullest — indeed, " as dull as
Ditchwater" has become a proverb — and that
in spite of its being a cathedral town, and
possessing the enlivening presence of a bishop
and a dean. Its cathedral is its chief beauty,
and its tall spire stands up high above all
neighbouring buildings, as if it were protesting
against, and struggling to get away from,
the dulness by which it was surrounded:
perhaps, too, smarting somewhat under the
treatment it has received at the hands of
modern restorers ; for when, some years before,
it had obstinately refused to continue an
existence which had become insupportable
to it, and fell, one fine morning, all of a heap,

to the great astonishment of the Ditchwater
people and the detriment of the neighbouring
landscape — of which it had always formed
the central point — it was built up again,
shorn of its just proportions, by some one
who had evidently said to it, " Fall again,
now, if you dare I I should like to see you
try it."

Yes, Ditchwater is indeed dull ; so dull,
that as soon as the American invention by
which grass can be heard growing becomes
general, it is probable that grass will be
sown in the public thoroughfares, in order to
get rid of their present depressing stillness.

But, although this is the normal state of
Ditchwater, there is one period of the year
when Ditchwater asserts itself, when its
inhabitants put off their usual lethargy, and
when its streets swarm with busy life. Then
it is that the White Lion becomes so excited
that, as you look up at it, you expect every
moment to see it wag its tail ; and the Rising
Sun shines so fiercely out of its newly-cleaned
windows, that the Blue Posts on the opposite
side of the way become green with envy.
This change always takes place at the same

season of the year, and if a stranger were to
ask the cause of this unwonted stir and
bustle, he would be told — and there would
be a shade of pity for his ignorance in the
answer — that it was all through Wood —
the Wood races.

Now this enlivening fact — that is to say,
the races — is due to the circumstance that
not far from Ditchwater is the great mansion
of a great man, the Duke of Beaurivage,
under whose protecting shadow Ditchwater
may be said to live and move and have its
being, so far as living and moving can be
applied in such a case of habitual torpidity.
For some of the earlier owners of Wood
had, perhaps in common with most great
men of their period, sporting proclivities ;
and it is to one of them — the third duke,
known in the domestic history of those days
as the " beau duke," from his having had the
reputation of being the handsomest man at
court — that the races owe their existence.
Some of his successors would have given
them up if they could ; but Wood — the
races, not the house — had somehow or other
so identified itself with every interest connected

with the ducal position, that no one
Lad possessed sufficient courage to undertake
so revolutionary a procedure. For, Wood
abolished, who could tell what might happen ?
The idea was too awful — shooting Niagara
seemed nothing to it.

Then again, the Wood races are in themselves,
as races, something unique. The distance
from London prevents their being assailed
— even in these days of cheap special
trains — by the unwashed hordes whose great
hoHday in the year is Epsom ; or by the
fashionable seldom which congregates in
such large numbers at Ascot.

The situation of the race-course is delightful
; the view from it splendid ; the five miles
drive to it, past the great house — when there
is not too much dust, and we all have to eat
a peck of that before we die — charming ; and
the rank and beauty and fashion forming the
galaxy which revolve round the central stars
of the great house, give it a distinctive
character, which is recognised by the fact
that many faces are to be seen at Wood
which are not to be seen elsewhere, and that
many very straitlaced mammas have been

heard to say : " Oh no ! I never let the girls
go to races ; but you know, my dear, Wood
is quite a different kind of thing. We only
go to Wood."

Indeed, so good is the reputation of
Wood, that it is not unusual to see white
cravats and unmistakable clerical hats in the
grand stand ; as a matter of course not belonging
to wearers who pride themselves on being
very high or very low, but to good average
mortals, sound in wind and limb, with rather
a fondness for a horse, and a secret feelings that
what is not wrong for their sisters, or for
those sweet young creatures to whom they
are ever turning their faces as assiduously as
the fire worshippers to the rising sun, cannot
be very wrong or verj^ wicked for strong
muscular Christians such as they feel themselves
to be.

Leaving out the sporting element and the
riff-raff common to all race-courses, the frequenters
of Wood may be classified in three
great divisions ; and to-day being cup-day,
and the weather all it ought to be, each of
these three divisions has mustered in great
force.

In the first division naturally falls the
family from the great house, and the distinguished
guests to whom the Wood week is
a pleasant distraction from the fatiguing dissipations
which are supposed to form the relaxations
of society, together with a sprinkling
of families and guests from other large
country seats.

The second division includes all the smaller
gentry, the families of professional men from
the neighbouring towns, and of well-to-do
farmers and tradesmen of the higher-class.

The third is principally composed of the
contingent from the great Naval Arsenal of
Docktown, in which, although the naval
element is well represented, the military
predominates. The sailors, with a firm conviction
that the world is a huge kind of ship,
and that they are walking its quarter-deck,
enjoy themselves greatly in their peculiar
fashion. They take a quiet interest in all
that is going on around them, and look
fixedly at the horses and the preparations
for the several races, in much the same grim
way as they might have watched the hippopotami
at play in the Zambesi, or the sport of

VOL. III. 36

dolphins in the Atlantic. Very few of them
seem to have any real taste for racing ; and
though they may try to put it on, and even
reach the point of offering and accepting the
odds, in a blundering, doubtful sort of way,
they cannot keep it up ; and after a time they
are sure to be found with their eyes fixed in
some direction in which some very pretty girl
is certain to be the central point, as if by dint
of looking out to windward they had found a
squall — a white squall — at last, to which they
would have to lower their topsails.

The soldiers from the garrison are in great
force. They are generally young men, all
shaven and shorn alike, with clothes cut in the
same pattern. Many of them, through constant
athletic exercises, models of muscular
development ; but hiding the consciousness
of their strength under an air of calm and
dignified repose. At other times they might
appear listless, but listlessness is quite out
of the question now, for had they not been
discussing these races for weeks and months,
before mess and at mess and after mess, making
their bets on this horse and on that horse;
or, if not betting themselves, showing others,

in the most disinterested manner, how money
could be made by simply following their
advice ?

Had they not, too, studied the Sporting Intelligencer
with as much care, and far more
interest, than they had the contents of that
admirable work, the "Pocket Soldier," in
which the whole art of war is to be acquired
for eighteen pence ? There were some exceptions
amongst the older officers, whose
interests seemed to be somewhat divided
between the horses and the ladies ; but this
was a disloyalty to the turf which their
younger comrades would have been ashamed
of, and besides, being principally infantry,
with a sprinkling of gunners, who might be
known by their walking as if in all the
throes of difficulty which is produced by the
perpetual dangling of a sabretache between
the legs, it was necessary to show Dasher
and Slasher, and the other cavalry fellows,
that they knew quite as much about horses
as they did, indeed more, as they hoped this
year to be able to show ; for Sharpe of the
117 th Trincomalee Rangers was known to
Lave made a very heavy book — and not only

36—2

the dashing 117th, but the whole garrison of
Docktown, especially the infantry, were proud
of Sharpe and his book.

There was only one drawback to this feeling
: Sharpe was the surgeon of the regiment
the brother, probably, of the celebrated
professor ; and what with his book and his
billiards and his whist, for he was good at
everything, was supposed to have a very
pretty — being a medical man, we will call it
practice of some two thousand a year ;
sometimes more, sometimes less ; but, taking
one year with another, that was generally
supposed to be the average.

This is the third day — the day of the
great event — the Wood Cup. The racing
on the previous days had presented nothing
of peculiar interest ; everyone's attention
seemed concentrated on what was comines.
Odds were being freely offered, and as freely
taken, on the favourite ; so freely taken that
some knowing ones began to think that there
must be some foundation for the extraordinary
confidence which led Mr. Marsh's friends to
back his horse — the Crack — with a persistency
which seemed bordering on temerity.

Still Exquisite — the favourite — held his
own ; and some of the old wiseacres of the
turf shook their sapient heads when the
Crack was mentioned — though it was
universally allowed that the race lay between
the two, and the owners of the horses, Lord
Muddlehead and Mr. Marsh, were for the
time the two men whose names were most
frequently in people's mouths.

Judging from the assiduity with which
Mr. Marsh had been working, his book must
have assumed colossal proportions ; and Mr.
Mortimore, who was full of gratitude to Mr.
Marsh, and constantly blessing him in his
heart for having informed him that '^ Titmouse
had been squared," endeavoured to
make as much as possible out of so valuable
a piece of information. Already he had
booked the Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps and his
inseparable shadow Fitzjones ; honest Tom
Trenton, too, had even ventured a bet upon
the favourite ; but the crowning point of Mr.
Montjoy Mortimore's later operations was a
heavy stake upon the Crack, accepted by no
less a personage than my Lord Runnymede.
This was soraethinix to have lived for. He

was elevated to a vinci of seventh heaven ;
but — a few hours more, and — a shudder
passed over Mr. Montjoy Mortimore's frame,
such a shudder as is said to be produced by
some one walking over your grave ; but Mr.
Montjoy Mortimore shook himself, and
as he did so thought only of his good fortune,
of ** Titmouse having been squared," and of
the thousands which, on the settling-day,
would be transferred to his pocket.

Happy Montjoy Mortimore !

The day was perfect. Never had finer
weather been known at Wood. The grand
stand pulsated with happiness. That portion
of it which was set apart for the guests of
the great house was so brilliant, that few
eyes could look towards it without being
dazzled.

Never had finer weather been known at
Wood," was repeated over and over again ;
never had there been such a brilliant party
at the great house ; never had there been so
many exalted personages. What is to be
done with people who are not happy under
such conditions ? Nothing. They are simply
not fit to live !

x\nd when luncheon was over, and the
popping of champagne corks had ceased, and
all the world, under the stimulating process
of digestion, seemed to have renewed any of
the powers of enjoyment they might previously
have lost, came the period when a
strange flutter and excitement became evident
amongst the fairer portion of the assemblage ;
for, taking advantage of one or two minor
races before the great race of the day, the
struggle for the Cup, the whole of the party
from the great house — with the exception of
the gallant veteran von Schwerin, who was
as usual suffering from the gout — issued from
the grand stand and promenaded on the lawn.

Nowhere else is there to be found such a
background of noble trees. From no other
racecourse is there such a varied view ; but,
above all, near no other grand stand is thereto
be found such an artistic frame for an animated
picture as this Bo wood " lawn."

And are not animated pictures, after all,
the most beautiful ? Beautiful, when, as this
one is, it is composed of all that is most
lovely, most graceful, and most refined,
grouped in a harmonious whole produced out

of every diversity of colour, with, underneath,
the great throb of life ; harmonious, too, despite
all the diversity of feeling, the passions,
the instincts, the grand aspirations, the petty
weaknesses, and the worldly littleness which
are comprised in it.

The grand stand had discharged the great
people from the great house upon the lawn.
The smaller people had also descended from
their posts of vantage ; and some of them —
for the first time in their lives — found themselves
not only breathing the same air, but
treading in the very footsteps, of exalted personages
and leaders of fashion, whose names
alone had exercised a strange fascination over
them from the time they had first devoted a
portion of the day to the perusal of that
column of the daily paper which treats of
high life, and of that charmed circle of which
exalted personages form the centre.

No, they were not myths ; there they all
moved before them in the flesh, and oh ! in
such toilettes !

Of exalted personages it would be impertinent
to speak ; but is not that magnificent
person in yellow, with that sweet

embroidery in dead leaf and moss-greens,
the Dowager Duchess of Amalekite ? And
that tall, handsome girl near her — who can
she be ? Is not her dress lovely ? And there,
there ! — in a line with her — oh, it is, I know
it by her portrait — that is Mrs. Kurr Crawley;
and the man — not walking with her, of course
by the side of the fat, made-up woman in
the green dress, is her husband, poor Kurr
Crawley, who flaunts about in the grand
world under the aegis of his wife's beauty,
and when the grand world shuts its eyes
and pretends to be blinded by its blaze, thinks
that it is from himself and not from her that
the effulgence comes. Peachblossom, too, is
there, with a detachment of the frail sisterhood.
Peachblossom, who looks round with
scorn upon her rivals, for she knows that she
is more beautiful and better dressed than they
are, and that she holds many of the men
they love entangled in her toils. And that
heavy, fat man — who is he ? What, Lumpus!
amongst the swells ? Yes, Lumpus as large
as life. Lumpus, who has reduced sandals
to a system, and who sucks slanders
from society as greedily as a bee sucks sweets

from flowers. And for a moment, racing
being slack, the Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps
and Major Fitzjones appear upon the scene ;
and then, walking side by side — they had
been arm in arm — the Marquis of Runnymede
and Tom Trenton — Honest Tom, the
personification of all that is respectable in a
retired officer — upright, brisk, well-brushed,
with that bland, pleasant expression which
shows the heart of him who wears it to be
in the right place. He takes off his hat
with a deferential air, as he passes a stout,
squat, red-faced man, whose appearance is certainly
anything but aristocratic, though he
is greeted by everyone he meets in a manner
which shows most plainly that he is someone
worth knowing. Indeed, were he an exalted
personage, he could not receive a greater
amount of homage. But if he be not an
exalted personage, he is, at least, a power in
the State, for Sir Midas Money has an
advantage over other potentates, in that
his rule is despotic, and that his vast
financial operations are so extensive, that
they may be said to have had no frontiers.
Ashe walked or rather rolled along, it seemed

a3 if a ^s^olden emanation issued from every
pore, and dazzled the spectators with its
brilliant rays. Geraldine had once said —
in her days of freedom, before the sirocco-like
breath of the London season had withered
the freshness of her young life — that she
never could look at him without thinking of
the golden calf

It was before the gold of which the calf
was made that the Israelites prostrated themselves,
and most assuredly, but for his wealth,
Sir Midas would not have been a centre of
fashionable circles ; as it was, the man had
a calf-like complacency about him which was
almost touching.

Sir Midas had got tired of being roared
at by the book-makers, and had returned to
the lawn. And it would have been wonderful
had he not done so, for upon whom did
fashionable beauty smile more sweetly than
upon portly, calf-like Sir Midas ? Other men
had to win smiles, he had simply to receive
them.

But although Sir Midas was on the lawn,
and a few other men whose books were made,
or who had no books, or who preferred being

with the ladies, the majority of the men
were absent ; and the ladies, for once, indifferent
to their presence, were devoting themselves,
with all the thoroughness which
belongs to their sex, to carrying on a fierce
war of rivalry against each other ; a costly
war, as many of their husbands — for it was
the married women who fought most fiercely
in it — knew but too well.

Beautiful women of high rank paced the
lawn with an assumed unconscious air, and a
kind of parade step, in toilettes upon which
they had concentrated all their powers of
thought, and upon which so much time
and money had been lavished, that they
might be said to represent, in those toilettes
alone, as much mind and matter as would goto
make up a dozen ordinary lives.

Some of them paced along in dresses so
long that they swept the ground with undulating
trains of silk or satin, which seemed to
writhe under the vulgar contact with the dirt
and dust through which they were trailed
by their fashionable mistresses. Toilettes
out of the great Vautrien's brain, tight where
they ought to have been loose, and loose

where they ought to have been tight ; so
designed as to show that the human form
was a miserable mistake and a wretched
blunder from beginning to end, and that
had Vautrien been its originator, he would
have made something very different.

Then the colours ! Pink flaunts itself
against yellow ; green against blue ; browns
assert themselves in every variety of shade.
A dowager duchess, fat, fair, and (at least)
forty, disports herself in a light-grey, trimmed
with rose-colour, with boots, parasol, and
gloves to match, and she is much admired.
Mrs. Kurr Crawley, being dark, has arrayed
herself in yellow, with dashes of brown and
green; there is no other dress like hers in cut
or colour, and she is enchanted.

Lady Mounty Bankes, who has invented a
marvellous costume of brilliant green and
black, is spiteful with respect to Mrs. Kurr
Crawley; she cannot see how people can
admire her — in that hideous yellow dress she
reminds her of a sunflower. Mrs. Crawley, a
short time before, had made an exalted
personage laugh by saying that, with her
peculiar figure, poor Lady Mounty Bankes

looked exactly like a cabbage. All wbo
wore these grand toilettes seemed to have
much pity for each other's want of taste ;
and the only people who thoroughly admired
them were those whose means did not allow
of their competing in this great exhibition of
high millinery art. They felt it a privilege
to be allowed to feast their eyes on what
they always spoke of as *' so charming !"
The Miss Crumbles of Crumble Court, just
ten miles off across the Downs, declared they
had never seen anything half so beautiful in
the whole course of their lives, and it is
questionable whether either of them went
to bed for at least a month after the
great Wood day, without being tortured
by visions of green, blue, yellow, or pink
toilettes prancing about on that Wood
lawn.

There was one person, however, who
affected displeasure — old Lady Wyse, who
in her youth had had the reputation of being
a blue-stocking, and who was in the habit of
driving over to Wood on the Cup-day, for
the purpose, as she said, of studying human
nature, and of seeing with her own eyes

something of this progress of which it was
the fashion to talk so much. Whether it
was that each year, as we grow older, makes
us less pleased with the present and more
inclined to take a favourable view of the past,
Lady Wyse became each year less and less
satisfied with what she saw. On this day
she was absolutely irate.

*' My dear," she said to that patient
enduring creature, her niece. Miss Biggs ;
*' my dear, we were great fools in my youth
great fools ; but at least we had preserved
some little simplicity, if we possessed nothing
else. Now, I am positively disgusted ; the
female mind is so highly educated in folly
that I no longer see amiable simpletons, but
clever, artificial creatures, whose chief aim
seems to me to emulate the dress and bearing
of bad women — yes, positively, bad women.
If it were not so, how could they strut about
and display their figures in these marvellous
dresses, in order that they may be looked at ?
Why, in my young days, when a man stared
at a girl she looked down and blushed ; now
she stares again, and if she wants blushes on
her cheeks she has to paint them."

It is possible that Lady Wyse had overheard
Mrs. Kurr Crawley ask an exalted personage,
when he had politely acknowledged the
old lady's loyal curtsey, who the old " quiz "
in curls and a dust suit might be.

But the ladies' hour is broken in upon, and
for a time their triumph ends. The time is
approaching when the great event of the day
has to be decided. The grand stand rapidly
fills, and in the reserved section Field-marshal
von Schwerin is seen standing on
his least gouty leg. The young ladies cease
to look at the young gentlemen, and are full
of admiration for the jackets of the jockeys,
and make little bets on the colours, not on
the horses. It seems cruel to them that the
jockey who rides the favourite should wear
black, and that the charming mauve and
white should be only an outsider ; but they
back mauve and white, or any other colour
which strikes their fancy, all the same. Then
there is a canter past, and the military contingent
from Docktown put on an air of
ferocious gravity and desperate resolve, whilst
the naval brigade survey the scene through

huge circulars which might have done good
service in the Zulu War.

In the ring the betting waxes fast and
furious, and the roar of hoarse voices is so
wild-deathlike, that it is difficult not to think
that Darwin paid humanity a compliment
when he traced its descent from a monkey,
for all the monkeys in the world could not
have roared like that.

But what can it be which has produced at
this moment a degree of excitement in the
betting-ring, which rapidly extends to the
grand stand, and even stirs the party belonging
to the great house into visible emotion ?
At the last moment it has become known
that Titmouse, the jockey of jockeys, who
was to have ridden the favourite, has suddenly
been taken ill, and that the fortunes of his
backers are to be entrusted to Scrubs.
Scrubs ? who knows anything of Scrubs ?
There is consternation down the whole line ;
odds fly about in a wild incoherent way ;
the strategy of the military contingent is
nowhere ; the tactics of the naval brigade
have become obsolete ; an exalted personage
is seen in excited conversation with my Lord

VOL. III. 37

Runnymede, and the whole ground is much
in the same state as a swarm of bees when
they have lost their queen. And all because
Titmouse has been taken ill, and Scrubs is to
take his place.

It was at this crisis that Montjoy Mortimer,
Esq., of H.M.S. Reserve Forces, then at
the height of his hopes, came across Mr. John
Marsh. Mr. Montjoy Mortimore was more
blooming than ever, feeling more confident
than ever that the great Titmouse was ill,
simply because the great Titmouse had been
squared.

*' Marsh, old fellow'' he said, " I'm ready ;
the die is cast ; it is all right ; my book is
enormous." Then, struck by the appearance
of Mr. Marsh, he added : " But it's all right,

I hope r

Mr, Marsh's answer was a volley of imprecations.
Horror of horrors ! taking Mr, Mortimore
aside, he informed him in a hoarse
whisper, that there had been foul play.
Some one else had been squaring Titmouse.

But can Scrubs do it ?" asked Mr. Mortimer,
pale with apprehension.

*' Of course he will, if he can. He has a

name to make — for until he has made a name,
it don't matter how he rides — he won't be
squared'

"But still, the Crack has a good chance,"
said Mr. Mortimore.

"Yes," said Mr. Marsh. "Now 'tis a
chance ; but before 'twas a certainty. I don't
care two buttons for the Crack. My backing
him has been all moonshine. I have been
backing the field through Slopes."

The devil I" said Mr. Mortimore. " Then
what made you lead me on to put all my
money on the Crack?"

Mr. Marsh made no reply, for at that moment
the bell rang for the start.

To the uninitiated it would have been
difficult to have decided which of the ten
horses which came up to the post would have
the best chance of winning ; for though the
favourite and the Crack might be faultless,
there were others which seemed to possess
every qualification Likely to ensure success.
But those who were thoroughly conversant
with the points of a horse, could see that this
one was a little too heavy in the shoulder ;
that one too weak in the hind-quarters ; that

w^^^%6R^R^■

there was a sly, wicked look about the Crack's
eye ; and so on. So that there always seemed
a reason why each individual horse should
lose ; and the only wonder was, how any horse
could win.

Three false starts — and expectation is at
its highest. At the fourth they go off — as
one ; and from that moment they are followed
by every eye on the ground, and not a thought
but what is concentrated on that varying
mass of colour which circles round the great
sweep of the course. At first, each spectator
imagines that his favourite is winning, and
there is a strange confusion in the cries which
arise on every side ; then three horses are
seen to issue as it were from the tangled mass
their backers become frantic — the howling
in the ring is something diabolic — and in it,
prominent through his fierce gesticulations,
is Mr. Mortimore, hatless and breathless, and
foaming with exultation — for of those three
horses the Crack gallops first ! — " The Crack
the Crack !" he shouts ; and as he shouts,
he makes a jerking movement forward, as if
it were he who was riding the Crack, and not
Whipcord. *^ The Crick ! — the Crack!—

fifty to one on the Crack I Seventy to one
on the Crack ! — a hundred to one on the
Crack !"

Nothing is heard but '' Crack ! — Crack !"
When suddenly, above it all, in that sharp,
penetrating tone which belongs to those who
have to make their voices heard amid the
deafening roar of storms, some one shouts out :
By Jove ! she has bolted ! The Crack
has bolted !"

The voice came from one of the naval
brigade, who, with his huge double-glasses
bracketed on the horses, had followed every
incident of the race, and had been the first
to detect that the Crack, true to her instincts,
had taken the bit between her teeth, and,
despite the efforts of Whipcord, was carrying
him away from victory, and driving all
his backers to despair. Then the cry of " The
Crack" ceased, and public favour veering towards
the favourite — now some lengths ahead
clamour took another form.

Montjoy Mortimore, pale and panting, slunk
silently away.

'' To be ruined when so near Fortune !
Oh ! it is inexplicable ! — inexplicable !"

That same evening two figures strangely
muffled up, considering the weather, might
have been seen taking their seats in a third-class
carriage for London. The slighter of
the two was so weak and limp in his movements,
that no one would have recognised in
him the swaggering, self-asserting Montjoy
Mortimore, of Her Majesty's Reserve Forces,
of but a few hours before. His companion
had a defiant air, and rolled so much as he
walked along the platform, that without the
strong flavour of brandy which accompanied
him, it would have been evident that if he
had not succeeded in drowning care, he had at
least made locomotion somewhat difficult in
the attempt.

On the same platform, and at the same time,
a gentleman might have been seen assisting
an unmistakably overdressed young lady,
with a profusion of golden hair, into a first-class
carriage. As he did so, he attracted
the attention of two well-dressed men, who
were standing in the shadow of a pile of
luggage.

I did not know that Runnymede was
such a fool," said the taller of the two.

It is bad taste, to say the least of it''
said his companion. " When a man is married,
he ought to have some regard for the convenances."


'* And with such a wife !" said the other,
with a sigh ; he turned his face to the light
as he spoke, and disclosed the features of the
Hon. Pierrepoint Phipps. " He is a beast !"
he said ; " a confounded beast ! I only wish
I had had his luck ; but we poor younger
sons ought not to be allowed to live. Nowe
should all be drowned 1"

CHAPTER TIL

SUNSHINE AND GLOOM.

Oh, Pops ! I am so happy !"

Madge was sitting in the arbour with Pops,
no longer in his cage, but on a swing perch
by her side.

'* Oh, Pops ! I am so happy !"

Pops was too busily employed at the time,
in investigating the interior economy of a
rosebud, to do more than make a kind of
clucking noise with his tongue in reply,
whilst he brought the bud more closely to his
eye in order to examine the surface revealed
by the last bite ; and there was something in
the way in which he accentuated his clucks,
which seemed to say : " Oh yes, I know all
about it — all about it; but I am tired of
hearing it. Do speak of something else."

It is astonishing how much meaning there
may be in a '^ cluck."

Oh, you dear, stupid old thing ! I know
you are jealous, and you don't like it ; for
with all your eyes, you can't read, or play
on the accordion, or do half what I can ;
can you, Pops ?"

A contemptuous '^ Whew " showed that
Pops was not inclined to accept such a very
low estimate of his powers.

Yes, within the short space of time which
had elapsed since Victoria's visit, a great
change had taken place in Madge.

She was not only happier, but she looked
happier ; her face was flushed with happiness.
Happiness had driven away her old
listlessness, and her voice had no longer a
querulous complaining tone, but was vibrating
with happiness. The now nearly imbecile
mother was still there to throw a shade of
sorrowing" shame over her child's life. The
dissipated, brutal father still came, from time
to time, to remind his child of her abhorrence.
And yet Madge could say :

Oh, Pops ! I am so happy 1"

All was as dark as ever. No light, no

shade ; no sun, no stars. The bright petals
which speak to us with their varied beauty —
the changing clouds which make us turn our
eyes upwards, and raise our thoughts to
something higher than ourselves — were not
for her. The look of affection — the sweet
smile — the responsive glance with which
love answers words with a tenderness no
words can express — were still denied to her.
Apart from its being summer, and not winter,
her surroundings were just the same, and
yet she could say :

** Oh, Pops I I am so happy !"

It was Victoria's visit which had produced
the change. Victoria, from the first moment
she had seen Madge, was attracted towards
her in even a greater degree than she was
always attracted to those who required sympathy
and help. Each day she remained in
England, she had spent an hour or two with
Madge, and each day found Madge brighter
and happier.

*' Oh, dear auntie I" — she had decided that
Victoria must be a relation, and had asked
permission to call her auntie — " Oh, dear
auntie!" she said, "I wonder if there are

many more people in the world like you !
I love Mr. Pringle, and I love Miss Yorke,
but though they are very nice, they are not
like my dear auntie."

Before three days were over, it was as if
Victoria had given her a new life. In those
few days, Victoria had taught her so much.
She had told her of the flowers, how they
grow ; of the trees beginning as little seeds ;
of the bees which she heard buzzing around
her; of the butterflies, who love bright sunshine
; of the worms, whose home is in the
cold, dark ground.

Whilst teaching Mado^e, she had taught
Chub how to teach. Isle had brought an
alphabet and some books in the raised
character for the blind, and she and Chub and
Madge sat learning to read by it together ;
and Madge was filled with glee when,
sitting by Chub's side, she could make out
the pointed letters before he could.

Are you quite sure that Mr. Pringle
keeps his eyes quite — quite shut?" she would
ask.

And there sat Chub with his face screwed
up in a comical expression of bewilderment

and intense earnestness, such as never probably
had been seen on that face before,
trying to make out the little pointed dots
with his big fingers.

Madge learned to distinguish the letters
much sooner than either he or Victoria did,
but she had to be taught to spell, and to
learn the meaning of many words ; and this
had become, since that time, part of Chub's
daily work. Mr. Fulford, too, had been enlisted
by Victoria. She had made him
promise, when the spring was far enough
advanced, that he would give her a little
garden and show her how to sow seeds in
it ; and the promise had been religiously
kept, and Madge's delight, when she felt
the young sprouts pushing their way upwards
through the moist, warm earth, was unbounded.


Ob, Mr. Fulford, come and look ! my
seeds are growing! Mrs. Fulford, do come !
I shall be able to give you some mustard-address.
And the lupin has put up a great
big head. Oh, how good it is of God to let
my seeds grow !"

And as Mr. Fulford looked at the little kneeling

form as she turned her face towards him,
radiant with excitement and happiness, he
whispered to his wife :

*' Tibs — if she ain't more like an anofel
than a child, my name's not John Ful-ford."


Then Victoria had talked about music,
and Chub had bethought him that once, ina
musical fit — such as all boys have once in
their lives ; perhaps it was inspired by Eva —
he had bought an accordion and learnt the
notes ; he believed that he had even been
able to play a few tunes — and that accordion
was at home now. So he sent for it, and
taught Madge all he knew ; and he gave her
the accordion. And when the weather was
wet or cold, and she could not go out, from
the parlour-back was sure to be heard the
sound of that accordion, and sometimes a
little silvery voice singing softly — singing as
children sing, not that others may listen and
applaud, but out of the overflowing fulness
of their own pure hearts — songs often full of
meaning, though without words, such as
grown-up men and women would sing if they

could, would sing if their voices were not too
rough and their hearts too hard.

But Pops hated the accordion ; indeed, he
did not much like any of the occupations
which withdrew Madge's attention from himself.
The accordion, however, was something
which seemed beyond his powers of endurance;
the very sight of it was enough to make him
sulk ; but when Madge sounded its high notes
he became perfectly furious, and expressed his
feeling in a series of discordant screams.
Then Madge would scold him, and call him
a naughty, jealous old bird, and sing a little
song to him, which she had made about
him :

Oh, you naughty, jealous bird !

Jealous Popsy, jealous Popsy,
Oh, you nasty, jealous bird !

Dear old Popsy, dear old Popsy,
Go to bed and hide your head,

You naughty, jealous Popsy Topsy !"

Then sometimes, in the midst of her singing,
she would become silent, and her eyes
would fill with tears — for across her bright
vision, would flit that shade of the poor, weak,
suffering mother, who kissed and sobbed over

her night and morning ; whose caresses were
so distasteful to her ; and who drove even her
child from the darkened room in which the
poor remains of a life which had not reached
its prime were flickering away.

Of her uncle she saw less than ever. He
had but one thought ; he had nearly found
it.

*^ I cannot talk to you to-day," he would
say; "wait until tomorrow. Do not tell
anyone, my dear Madge. I have all but
found it. Come tomorrow."

It was always " tomorrow." But then
her thoughts would revert to Victoria.
Every word that Victoria had said to her
was treasured in her memory ; and now once
a week a letter came from her, which Chub
read, full of kind encouraging words, which
Madge added to the other words, until it
seemed as if her head were full of them, and
her heart had no room for more.

Oh, how she loved to talk to Chub of
Victoria ! whilst he, poor fellow I was ever
thinking of Eva, and would ingeniously turn
the conversation upon her. Then Madge, with
her child's cunning, seeing through the many

subterfuges by which he managed to make
Era, and not Victoria, the subject of their
talk, would tease him, by pretending to think
it was Victoria of whom he was speaking ;
and when he said, as he often did — though
not always in the same words —

*' The dearest girl in the world, is "

"Victoria," would Madge, interrupting him,
say archly; and then would soothe him by
saying she knew Eva was very sweet and
nice, but that she loved Victoria better, and
that it would not do for them both to be in
love with the same person, for then they might
be jealous, like old Pops, and quail. . 'besides,
I don't intend Victoria to marry anyone
; and I know you want to marry Miss
Yorke."

And poor Chub, blushing dreadfully, would
say:

*' Don't talk nonsense, Madge !" and goon
talking of Eva more than ever.

So time had passed very happily with little
Madge ; and never had a day been happier
than the day on which the events that have
been described were taking place at Wood.
For on that day she had received a long letter

from Victoria, full of kind counsel and loving(
thoughts ; and she had gone to sleep with a
smile, and *' Victoria " on her lips.

Before she had known Victoria, all had been
dark to her — with little flickers of light here
and there, just enough to make the gloom
deeper and more horrible. Since she had
known her, it was as if a great flood of light
had illumined her being — a light growing
brighter and brighter with increasing knowledge
and awakened consciousness — a light
which had given her a mental vision, which
had enabled her to fill her heart with the
beautiful and the lovable, which had sent
her smiling to sleep, with a half-uttered name
upon her lips.

Well for those for whom, when so sleeping,
there is no awakening.

The next day was wet and gloomy. Chub
had gone out early — earlier than usual — for
he had some commissions to execute for his
father on his way to the hospital ; and, what
was unusual with him, had done so without
seeing Madge, and being cheered with her
calling after him, in her clear, silvery voice as

VOL. III. 38

he walked through the passage to the front-door
:

Good-bye, Mr. Pringle. Mind and come
back very early — very!" with immense emphasis
on the word " very."

Perhaps it was that he had not seen
her — for to shut the door without carrying
away the last notes of that pretty, childlike
farewell made him feel as if he had forgotten
something ; or perhaps it was the dull drizzle
out of doors ; but a strange sensation came
over him — a feeling of apprehension he could
not define. Nothing that he did could get rid
of it. He could not help wondering what
could be the cause of it. Surely it was
not because he had not said good-bye to little
Madge. The idea was too absurd ; and yet,
do what he would, it was as if little Madge
was ever before him, looking as she had done
the evening before, when she had said :

'* Good-night, Mr. Pringle. You are so
kind, and I am so happy I — so happy that I
know now a little — a very little, but still I
know — what Mrs. Fulford means when she
tells me of heaven. It is not wicked to say

so, is it ? Tell me when I am wicked, and I
will try to be good."

And it was as she had looked when saying
this, that she was always presenting herself
to his imagination ; looking up at him
with her sightless eyes and deep earnest
face, throwing back her golden curls as she
spoke.

•' Poor dear little Madge I"

As soon as his day's work was over he hurried
home. He had started on foot, but before
he had walked very far, impelled by an irresistible
feeling of anxiety, he called a cab. It
was a hansom, and the horse was a fast one ;
but to Chub it seemed that no four-wheeler
had ever crawled along so slowly. So impatient
was he, that he paid the fare before he
had reached the end of his journey; and the
instant the cab stopped he jumped out and
ran quickly through the garden and up the
steps. The door flew open as he approached
it ; and Mrs. Fulford stood ready to receive
him, with her husband a few paces in the
background.

A glance at their faces was sufficient to
show him that something had happened.

38—2

What is it V cried Chub, before they had
time to speak. '^ Tell me what is the matter.
Is Mrs. Marsh dead ?"

*' Oh ! worse than that, sir — may the Lord
forgive me for saying it ! They are gone."
Gone ?" echoed Chub. " When ? where V
They went two hours agone," said Mr.
Fulford, " and the Lord knows where."

"And Madge — why did you let her go ?'^
asked Chub, fiercely.

*law!" said Mrs. Fulford; 'law, Mr.
Pringle, how you do talk ! Fulford may be
strong, but he's not strong enough to infant
the law."

All this had been said in the passage. In
the back parlour Chub learned from Mrs.
Fulford — Mr. Fulford standing by — all that
had occurred.

'' You see, sir," she said, " these trials don't
come down upon us all of a sudden-like
without warning, and I said to Fulford only
this morning, * I have that feeling come over
me, I shouldn't wonder as if something were
to be brought down upon us.' * Bear up,
Tibs,' said Fulford — like a man as he is —
don't meet troubles half way; there's no use

striking at the iron till 'tis hot.' So I said
no more, but went about my work as usual ;
but do what I would, I could not get it out
of my head — no, that I couldn't — it seemed
as if 'twere sent down a purpose. And when
I saw you going out, I thought it might so
be that you might meet with an accident in
the streets, or fall from a 'bus, or swallow
poison by mistake in the spenser, or catch
one of those bad fevers and bring it back,
and it made me feel quite cold down the back
when I thought of it ; but I knew in whose
hands we were, and that He would not desert
us. But I little thought, as I heard dear
little Miss Madge a-singing like a bird, and
talking to that odious parrot, who screams
enough at times to wake the very dead — may
I be forgiven for so speaking ! — that the poor
dear child was to be taken from us, come
that very day; and it was just as the clock
was striking "

No, it had struck, Tibs," interposed Mr.
Fulford.

"Do hold your tongue, John," said his
wife; "don't you see Mr. Pringle wants to
know what happened, and not hear you talk

about time. And what is time — or clocks,
or watches, or chronometers, or such-like —
to eternity, John ? Think of that, John ;
think of your — no, John, no ! don't ever
make light of time."

"Please go on," said Chub mildly, suppressing
his impatience, for he knew by
experience that any attempt to make Mrs.
Fulford come to the point was sure to lead
to the opposite result. ^' Please go on, Mrs.
Fulford."

** Well, as I was saying, Mr. Pringle, whilst
I was listening to Miss Madge singing like a
bird, for I never did hear a voice like hers,
and T often thought when the blessed angels
sing they must sing — not the words, no, not
the words, of course — but in such sweet silver
notes ; and as she sang and I was a-listening
Fulford had just come in with a hammer
in his hand — all of a sudden came a ring at
the front-door bell which made me all of a
tremble, though I said nothing ; but before I
could reach the door, it was pulled again.
Lord have mercy upon me, I thought, you
are in a hurry, whoever you may be ; and
when I opened the door, without saying with

your leave, or by your leave, in stalked that
horrid, dissipated, broken down, horse-keeping
for I once lived near stables — looking man,
Mr. Marsh. * Shut the door,' says he, as
gruff as can be ; ' shut the door. How long
will it take to pack up ? We are going to
leave ' — we, forsooth ! 'We are going to leave,
and shall be off in an hour.' And there was
dear little Miss Madge all the time a-singing
in the garden, as bathe as a bird."

But we must tell it in our way, or we shall
never get to the end.

The apparition of Mr. Marsh was never
the source of pleasure to the members of his
family. Now, when his errand had become
known it filled them with consternation.
For the moment it had the effect of rousing
his wife from her state of hopeless lethargy,
and she declared firmly that she would not
go ; but the spirit of resistance soon died out,
and returning to her usual state of apathetic
listlessness, she allowed herself to be dressed
by Mrs. Fulford, much as if she had been a
kind of overgrown doll, or a lay figure.

Old Mr. Marsh was as ready as ever to do
his nephew's bidding, for he had long ceased

to have a will of his own ; and the idea of
change seemed to amuse him. He had,
however, expressed a wish that the move
might have been put off for a day — " only till
tomorrow, for by tomorrow I shall have
found it, I am so near." But when he was
told in rough, brutal tones that they must
go at once, he resigned himself to his fate,
and devoted himself to arranging and packing
up his papers.

Madge, when she heard that they were to
leave the only home where she had met with
those she really loved, and where she had
spent so many happy days, was plunged into
a paroxysm of grief. She would do nothing ;
she seemed as if dead to all around her, as
she sat by the side of Pops on the floor in
the corner of Chub's back parlour, with her
head bent forward and her face hidden by
her disordered hair. She had ceased to sob,
but silent tears were streaming over her
cheeks from those sightless eyes, and her
hands hung down helplessly by her side.

Even Pops was silent, and moved noiselessly
on his perch, as if afraid to break in
upon her sorrow.

'' Dear Miss Madge, you must not take on
so," said Mrs. Fulford, looking in upon her.
** The Lord will not let you out of His hands."

"Oh, Mrs. Fulford, how I wish I could
die!"

What could Mrs. Fulford do but take her
in her arms, and in her kind, blundering, but
tender way, do her best to console her ?

It is only a change," she said ; " and
Fulford and I will come and see you on
Sundays ; and Mr. Pringle and me will bring
you a nosegay out of the garden. And
why shan't you come and see us ? for perhaps
it won't be far, and Fulford can fetch
you by underground or 'bus — or maybe a
cab."

'rand my garden, and my rose-tree,"
sobbed Madge. " I love them so ! — and oh,
Mrs. Fulford, now I am going away, I love
you and Mr. Fulford more than I ever did
before ; and I know sometimes I have been
ungrateful and naughty."

Then Mrs. Fulford kissed her, and tears
might have been seen rolling down her
cheeks as she tried to speak cheerfully ; and
Madge gave her messages for Chub, and was

able once more to talk so much more like her
old self that Pops expressed his satisfaction
by a series of taps against the bars of his
cage ; and Madge, reminded of him, said :

Dear old Pops, we shall have no nice
garden now, but you will be happy, for there
will be no Mr. Pringle to be jealous of, you
naughty, jealous old creature I"

But Pops repeated in sad, melancholy
tones, " Pops has his doubts ;" and whether
it was the way in which he said it, or the
thought of going away without seeing Chub,
Madge had burst again into an agony of
tears.

Poor Madge I she was not alone in her
anguish. At that very moment, myriads of
other young lives were being warped and
made miserable by irresistible influences
against which there is no other power of
protest than the silent agony of tears.

Poor Madge I with her natural sense of
refinement, her sensitive nature and her
loving heart, to have no better guides, companions,
and controllers than that dissipated
worthless father, that wretched, weak, and

worse than helpless mother, and that poor
crazed uncle. What can she do ? She is as
powerless as the clay in the potter's hands ;
she has but to submit, to weep, and to ask God,
if He be a kind and good and loving God, tolet
her die.

'' Oh, let me die ! let me die !" was again
the cry.

For young, as well as old, there are times
when Death has no terrors — he is no longer a
destroyer, but a benefactor.

In little more than an hour a cab was at
the door. Its roof was piled with luggage,
and on the seat near the driver was a parrot
in a cage.

Mr. Marsh was the last to get in.

"Please, sir, what address, in case of
letters ?" asked Mr. Fulford, as he closed
the door.

D— n the letters !" said Mr. Marsh. '' I
don't want any letters. Burn them."

"And don't you know where they have
gone V asked Chub, when Mrs. Fulford had
finished her story.

'' Not in the least, sir," she answered ruefully.


Chub was struck with a happy thought.

*' Mr. Fulford, did you take the number of
the cab r

No, Mr. Fulford had not. How could he
have been such a fool as not to have done so !
His anger against himself was so strong for
his neglect, that it was with a word which
sounded very like a naughty one that he confessed
to it.

Dang it, no ! What a great, big, blundering
fool I am ! — I never thought of that."

*' What is to be done T asked Chub.

*what, indeed r echoed Mr. and Mrs.
Fulford, in the same breath.

Then there was a pause.

*^ We must ask for direction," said Mrs.
Fulford.

'* How could I have been such an oaf as
not to have taken the number !" said her
husband.

'' What will Eve say V muttered Chub.

I will sit down and write to Victoria."

CHAPTER IV.

LOST AND FOUND.

Chub's letter filled victoria with dismay.
Since the day on which she had first seen
Madge, her interest in her had increased,
until she had begun to regard herself as her
natural protector. It was delightful for her
to think that she was gradually developing
the latent powers of the poor neglected child ;
and now to find that she was withdrawn from
her influence, and that the loving care of
such friends as Chub and Mr. and Mrs.
Fulford was no longer hers. What could
have become of her ?

Each letter she received from Chub was
more hopeless than the preceding one ; yet
he had done all in his power to find her ; but
London is a large place, and for those who

wish to hide themselves in it, hiding is made
very easy.

She began to think that Chub's inexperience
might be the cause of his want of
success. She thought of asking Dr. Pringle,
but she hesitated, for she knew how difficult
it was for him to leave his patients. But
there was Sir Francis — he was in London,
and she knew she could rely upon him to do
all he could, not only for the poor child's sake,
but for hers. What more natural than that
she should write to him ?

I feel," she said, " that before long, the
dear child will be alone with that most
miserable father, for it is impossible that the
life of the poor wretched mother can be prolonged
; and what a sad, sad fate for her to
have no other protector than that horrible
man, and no other companion than her
imbecile old uncle ! It makes my heart bleed
when I think of her. If her whereabouts
could be found, it is possible the father would
be glad to get rid of her ; and I am quite
ready — more than ready, most anxious — to
assume all the responsibilities connected with
her care, and if any money difficulties stand

in the way, to meet them so far as T possibly
can. I know that you will do your best to
help me to find her; but there is no time to
be lost — it is indeed a matter of life and
death."

Sir Francis was in London at the time,
attending strictly to his parliamentary duties,
for with him being in Parliament meant
something more than the privilege of having
two letters attached to his name. And so
successful had he been, on the one or two
occasions on which he had addressed the
House, that he was already spoken of with
respect as one of the coming men.

On receiving Victoria's letter, he wrote to
say he would not " leave a stone unturned,"
and set to work in earnest to discover Mr.
Marsh's whereabouts. But all his efforts
were vain. He was not one whit more successful
than Chub had been. One night,
however, on leaving the Lyceum, where he
had been to see Irving in "Charles the First,"
heavy rain having come suddenly on, and
there being a great dearth of cabs, a shabbily
dressed man offered to fetch one. As Sir
Francis was about to give him something for

his trouble, it struck him the man's face was
familiar to him.

*' Surely, my good fellow, I have seen you
before ?"

The man hesitated for a moment, then
touching his hat respectfully :

'* To tell you the truth, Sir Francis — for
now I see it is you — I would rather have
preserved my incognito ; for life has many
ups and downs, and when we are down — as
I am unfortunately now, and very low down
too — experience teaches us that the world
does not regard indigence as a virtue."

What, Mortimer I Surely you have not
come to this V

'' Indeed I have, sir. I was ambitious —
and "

"Jump in," said Sir Francis, interrupting.
" You are the very man I want to
see."

From Mr. Mortimer, with whose career on
the turf and as a man about town Sir Francis
had become acquainted, he had hoped to have
obtained some information about Mr. Marsh ;
but Mr. Mortimer could tell him very little ;
he had only seen him once— and that by

accident, late one evening in the Strand — since
that dreadful Wood.

He was hardly to be called sober when I
saw him," said Mr. Mortimer. 'indeed,
intoxication is his habit ; he was swaggering
with drink, and accosted me with such
epithets that I did not care to remain in his
company ; but he told me that his wife was
dead, and that he was going to take the old
fool and the brat, as he called them, to
America."

How long was this ago ?" asked Sir
Francis.

*' About three months," said Mr. Mortimer
; " and he did swear most lawful."

And he gave you no clue to where he
was living ?" asked Sir Francis.

*' None, sir ; and I did not care to ask,
feeling that, in his haltered circumstances, he
was beneath my notice."

Finding he could get no further information
from Mr. Mortimer, Sir Francis dismissed
him with a handsome present. He had
asked if he were going into service again, and
if he could help him.

'thank you kindly, sir," said Mr. Mor-vol.

III. 39

timer, '' not just yet ; I am not yet reconciled
to the change in my condition, and to tell
you honestly the truth, sir, do not at present
dare to emerge from my obscurity. But
the time will come, sir, when Montjoy Mortimore,
of Her Majesty's Reserve Forces, will
be forgotten ; and then John Mortimer will
venture to obtrude himself upon you in his
old character as an honest man, and ask you
to assist him to realise his humble aspirations."


Sir Francis lost no time in causing inquiries
to be made at all the ports from which it was
likely Mr. Marsh might have sailed, but he
could gain no tidings of anyone answering to
his description.

The only intelligence he was able to give
Victoria was that which he had heard from
Mr. Mortimer, and his anxiety on the poor
child's account became very great.

And so the autumn had passed away, and
it was again winter — mid-winter. Winter,
with his wind and wet, and snow and storm ;
Winter, with his gloomy frown and chilly
breath ; Winter, with icy hands binding up
Nature's bosom in his iron bonds ; Winter,

scattering suffering broadcast o'er the land,
amongst the poor, the old, the weak.

It was a cold, cruel winter. For many
who lived by labour there was no work, and
without work there was no bread. Strong
men and women broke down under his hard
hand ; poverty yielded to temptation under
the pressure of cold and hunger ; the workhouses
were filled, the hospitals could take
no more, gaunt starving forms stalked about
the streets ; but the hidden misery, the
misery which shuts itself close from the sight
of others, was the deepest misery, the misery
most difficult to bear.

It was a cold, cruel winter. People were
known to drop down dead in the streets ;
children were found frozen to death on doorsteps
; no one claimed the poor stiffened
bodies, no one was found to tell from whence
they came. A few lines in the police report ;
a notice in the paragraph before which the
word "inquest" stands in large letters, and the
miserable deaths of some dozen people is half
detailed in smaller ones ; a pauper's grave —
another life has glided down and been engulphed
in the stream of time. Not even a

CO— 2

bubble upon its surface, but for a moment's
space, to show where it had been.

A cold, cruel winter. Thousands and tens
of thousands shivering, and cowering, and
starving, in the neighbourhood of the great
theatre for which Fashion, clad in warm furs,
relinquishes her luxurious home ; within a
stone's throw of the comfortable church in
which Faith, sheltered from draughts, raises
her eyes to heaven ; not a dozen yards from
the hospital built by Charity, and pointed
to by the pride which walks hand in hand
with benevolence. Faith typified by the
Church, Charity by the hospital — but
Hope ?

Alas for many of these thousands and
tens of thousands, too young to be guilty, too
weak to be criminal, too old to be capable of
change ! with all our Faith, with all our
Charity, there is no Hope.

Mr. Marsh had not left England. He had
made no less than four changes of residence
since he had removed his family from Woodbine
Terrace, and each move had been a
downward one. The sudden shock of the first
change had been too much for his wife, and

she only outlived it a few days. The expenses
connected with her death had necessitated
a move to cheaper quarters, and Mr.
Marsh, having no resources of his own, was
constrained — it must be confessed much
against his will — to return to live as he had
done before, with his old uncle, for his old
uncle had the advantage of still enjoying his
weekly pension. He would have preferred
the money without the uncle, but as that
could not be, he had to put up with him ; and
as he knew that he would probably starve
without him, the preservation of such a life
became a matter of some importance. He took,
therefore, just sufficient care of the poor, imbecile
old man, as might give him a fair
chance of being enabled to spend his pension
for him for some few years longer. But to
his child he was more than indifferent ; he
hated her, and she had no pension. In his
present house — the fifth — situated in a squalid
neighbourhood in the outskirts of London,
he had furnished three rooms in the most
meagre manner. " It does not matter about
its beinor comfortable, I shan't be much at
home," he hod said.

Anything was good enough for his child —
his blind brat, as he called her. " Take care
of the old man, and see that he gets something
warm for his dinner," he would say to
the dirty, miserable woman he had hired fora
servant. '' The old man's life is valuable,
but the sooner the blind brat dies the better."
He had no other feeling than that of bitter
hatred towards his poor afflicted child. He
hated her because, weak and blind as she
was, he feared her ; hated her because in her
presence he felt his own degradation, and was
humiliated into a sense of shame.

The season of Christmas had passed. The
shops had exhibited their abundance, and the
lounger through the streets, as he saw those
countless carcases of fat bullocks and fat
sheep — those myriads of fat turkeys, and fat
geese and plump fowls — those piles of fresh
turbot, and huge cod, and soles, and barrelled
oysters — those long rows of pheasants, and
hares, and wild-fowl, competing with each
other, and against hams, and sausages, and
loins of pork, and dainty little pigs, might
well ask, *^ Is there not food for all ? Is it
possible, whatever may take place at other

times, that there can be one case of starvation
now ?"

Christina ! the season when Plenty feasts,
and Abundance displays itself to hungry eyes ;
when Poverty fasts, and Want hides its
death-stamped face.

Christmas had passed, but it had brought
nothing but gloom to little Madge. To
her, now, all seasons would have been alike,
were it not that winter was cold. And as
she sat shivering and cowering in a corner of
the wretched room which answered the double
purpose of a sitting-room by day and her
bedroom by night, she thought of the little
back parlour, and of Mr. Pringle, and of
Victoria, and of all she had lost ; and then tears
would roll silently down her cheeks, for now
hers was a life of sighs and tears — of nought
but sighs and tears.

There, in a corner of that wretched room,
she remained huddled together, hour after
hour ; not the bright, well-cared-for child of
a few months since, but with pale, sunken,
sallow cheeks, with eyes made more dull
through their hollowness, with neglected
hair, and torn and shabby clothes.

It was early in the afternoon of one of these
mid-winter days — though it was almost dark,
so dense was the cold, thick fog — that Madge
sat crouching in her usual corner, silent, listless,
and helpless. She might have been
asleep, she was so motionless, but that from
time to time she turned towards the cage upon
the floor within her reach, and guiding her
hand by its bars, placed it caressingly upon
Pops, who, with drooping head and ruffled
feathers, was perched upon it. And sometimes
when she did so, she would say, in a
soft, silvery whisper : *' Dear, dear Pops !"
and then the bird, as if in answer, would rub
his head gently against her hand and piece at
it lovingly ; and had there been light enough
in that dark, fog-filled room, it might have
been seen that his feathers had become smooth,
and that his eyes had contracted with pleasure,
and that he kissed her finger again and again
with his smooth, black tongue. Then too
a tear might have been seen rolling down her
cheek, as she repeated : " Dear, dear Pops 1
you are my only friend now ;" and then correcting
herself, and as if angry with herself
for her forgetfulness : " and my poor, dear

old uncle." For not far from her sat. the
bent, wistful-looking old man, with his eyes
fixed on vacancy, from time to time holding
out his trembling hands towards the expiring
embers in the broken and rusty grate,
or folding and unfolding a paper which he
took out of his pocket furtively, and as furtively
returned.

The fire was going out, and he was shivering,
but he did not attempt to stir it — he
only drew bis chair nearer and nearer to it ;
and he did this so noiselessly, looking
anxiously at the child the while, as if he
thought she might be asleep and was afraid
of awakening her. When she moved and
caressed the parrot, his face assumed a timid,
conscious expression, as if he had disturbed
her ; but when he heard her speak to the bird,
his poor, worn face lightened up, and he looked
at her affectionately, and nodded many times,
as if he would have said : " And your poor
old uncle loves his little Madge too, but he
is too busy now to talk ; only wait until he
has found it."

He is now so near — so very near — he does
not even speak of '^ tomorrow."

He was thus nodding, screwing up his poor
old wrinkled face into an expression of mingled
shyness and tenderness as he did so, when a
heavy step was heard upon the stairs. In an instant
the whole manner of the old man changed;
he pushed his chair rapidly back to the side
of the fire farthest from the corner in which
Madge was sitting, and in his nervous desire
to appear to be at ease, and to be occupied
with anything else but the poor blind child,
began to button and unbutton his coat with
the most praiseworthy assiduity.

But he was not the only one who was
startled by that step, for no sooner had Madge
heard it, than, with a movement which was
so sudden that it was almost convulsive, she
held out her hand to the cage, and in an
instant Pops was upon it, and in another
nestling in her bosom ; he, too, was under
the influence of that step, for he had fluttered
his wings and stretched out his head
towards her the instant it had sounded on
the stairs.

The step was that of Mr. Marsh. He had
gone out only a short time before, but it
seems that he had forgotten something, and

he had returned more out of temper and
more brutal than usual.

The first object upon which he turned his
wrath was his child.

'^ What are you moping in that corner for,
with that beast of a bird ? It gives me the
blue devils to look at you."

It seemed as if Pops had understood what
he had said, for though Madge could feel him
trembling in every limb, he put his head forward
and opened his beak with a threatening
gesture in the direction where Mr. Marsh
was standing. It may be that Mr. Marsh
had observed it, and it had added to his
irritation, for he came at once towards
Madge.

Come," he said, " I am not going to have
any more of this nonsense ! When I am
away, you may sit whimpering in that corner
as long as you like, but when I am at home,
I will have nothing of the kind. You could
be merry enough when you were with that
unlicked cub of a Sawbones ; and I'll teach
you better manners now, or know the reason
why." And as Madge neither moved nor
answered : '' Oh, you are in the sulks, miss.

are you ? Come, I'll have no more of this
humbug : get up at once !"

As he spoke, he stooped down and seized
her roughly by the arm, but he had no sooner
done so than he released her, and stepped
backwards with a volley of oaths — for his
hand had scarcely touched her when Pops
had rushed at him with a shrill scream, and
bitten one of his fingers to the bone.

His retreat was but momentary.

*' Curse you and your grey devil !" he
said, in a voice hoarse with passion, as he
again came towards her. " I wish I could
wring both your necks at once ; but one, at
all events, shall go to kingdom come."

The child had shrunk instinctively from
him, and folded the still screaming Pops
closely in her arms, but her father, shaking
her roughly with his left hand, struck
the bird fiercely to the ground with his
right.

A stifled cry ; a dull crashing thud ;
and Pops was dead. He had been crushed
under the brutal father's heel the moment he
had touched the floor.

There !" he said, lifting up the mangled

body of the bird and flinging it in Madge's
face, " take your pet !"

The child uttered no cry — no sound — but
pressing the poor bird's body to her lips,
turned round on her face and lay prostrate
on the floor. She could not see that the
old man had risen, and stood erect before
her father. She did not hear that he had
said :

*' Shame upon you ! Is it not enough for
you to have lamed your mother, that you
must now needs kill your child ? Monster,
go!"

His eyes flashed with indignation as he
spoke, and it was difficult to recognise in
the tell, erect man, whose voice had lost all
its weakness, the poor, bowed-down, timid
creature who had been trembling but a few
minutes before with fear and the infirmity
of age.

The wretched bully was cowed for an
instant, and slunk towards the door ; but
before he had passed through it he had recovered
his blustering and defiant air.

You chattering old fool !" he said ; ^' who
told you to speak? You are only fit for

Bedlam; and you would have been there long
ago, had it not been for your money."

He went out of the room as he said this,
and the violent slamming of the front-door
showed that he had left the house.

The old man had remained standing. As
his nephew spoke the last words he shrunk
together and became once more a feeble,
tottering, helpless creature — so shaken and
agitated that he had to support himself
against the chimney-piece near which he
stood.

'' Oh, if I had but found it !" he murmured.
'' If I had but found it ! But it is
so near — so near !"

There was silence for a space. Not a
sound — not even a sob from Madge ! She
might have been dead, she lay so still.
Then the old man, under the fear, perhaps,
that she was so, moved across the room to
the corner where she lay, and stooping down
and stroking her soft, dishevelled hair, said
gently :

*^ Madge, my darling, speak ! Speak to
your poor old uncle ! Do not be angry with
him, because he — he is weak, and old, and

silly, and could not help you. Your poor
old uncle, who loves you better than all the
world."

A low moan from Madge was the only
answer; but the old man's words seemed to
have restored her to herself, for she turned
round and, placing the dead Pops in her
lap, sat up against the wall.

Sit down, uncle dear," she said. " Sit
down by me close — quite close — I want to
talk to you." And when the old man had
placed himself on the ground by her side, she
threw her arms round his neck, and laid her
head on his shoulder, and then, and not before,
burst into a flood of tears. 'but I will
not cry, uncle dear," she said, suddenly restraining
herself. " What good is crying '?
it will not punish that wicked, bad man !
And I shall never hear dear Pops again —
never ! — never ! I do not want to live
without Pops ! And I cannot die, for God
will not let me ! Oh, it is very unkind of
God not to let me die, though I asked Him
and prayed to Him when I knew Pops was
dead. Why did not that wicked man kill
me too V

'^ Oh ! Madge, he is your father," said the
old man, gently.

"He is not," said Madge; "I will not
have him. I hate him ! hate him ! hate him !"
she said, raising her voice. Then, suddenly
changing her tone, " Come, uncle dear, put
your things on, quick! — we must go."

*agro ?" asked the old man, ruefully.

Yes," said Madge, " we must go. I will
not stay. We ought to have gone before ;
and then that wicked man would not have
killed my darling."

But where are we to go ?"

Why, to Mr. Fulford's, to be sure ; and
there we shall see Mr. Pringle, and I shall
have letters from Victoria, and I will bury
my darling in my garden under the ,
and I will sit by him when the
sun shines, and talk to him just as I used to
talk to him ; but I shall never hear my darling's
voice again — no, never ! Come, uncle
dear — be quick I — we must go."

"But I do not know the way," said the
old man, as if he felt powerless to resist her.

Then we must find it, uncle dear," said
the child.

The words seemed to strike upon the chord
which was ever vibrating in the old man's
mind:

"Ah! if we shall find it — if we shall find it !"

It was as if no further objection could be
made. He was impatient to set out at once.

They were soon ready. Madge in a scanty
cloak, with poor Pops wrapped up in the only
silk handkerchief she had, pressed against
her heart ; the old man buttoned up in his
threadbare coat, with a comforter round his
neck. They met the slatternly servant on the
stairs.

'' What, going out I" she cried, in astonishment.
'' Why, Mr. Marsh, you will catch
your death of cold, and the fog is that thick
you might cut it with a knife."

She would have persuaded him to return,
but he pushed her aside ; he seemed to have
regained all his strength now that he was
going to 'find it."

Holding Madge by the hand he walked on,
now turning to the right, now turning to the
left. The fog was thick, but he did not heed
it. There was no hesitation in his movements.
No one observing him would have

VOL. III. 40

suspected that he did not know where he was
going.

Madge, too, had regained all her old confidence
in him. For the time, he was no
longer her poor foolish old uncle. She never
asked herself how they were to find the way.
She only knew they were going to Mrs.
Fulford's, and that if they walked on and on
she would see Mr. Pringle. But from time
to time she would ask :

'' And is it very far, uncle V

But her uncle did not know ; he only
knew that if they walked on and on they
must get there at last.

Strange that he, who of late had been so
taciturn and silent, talked as he strode along
incessantly — now to his little niece, now to
himself; now as if some one, whom Madge
did not know, was walking by his side.
When they passed through the larger
thoroughfares, Madge could only hear his
voice without catching the words ; but whenas
was often the case, they where in quiet
back streets, and only heard the roar of the
great city in the distance, she listened to him
with wonder. She had never heard him talk

like that before. But yet it made her think
of what he had once told her — of the curse.
That terrible curse.

^* Madge," he said, suddenly, "do you
know this is my birthday ? Your old uncle's
birthday ;" and before she could answer, and
say how glad she was :

*eyes, Madge, so old, so poor, so weak
now ; fifty years ago I was young and rich
and strong, and I had a young wife, Madge
a beautiful young wife and a child — oh, my
God ! a child !"

And when he paused for a moment, Madge
clinging to him, and forgetting for awhile
her own grief:

Oh, uncle dear ! is it all true ?"

Madge," he said, as he stooped down towards
her, " I will tell you. 1 can tell you
now, for the fog is thick and dark, and no
one can see us, and there is no one to hear it.
I broke her heart — broke my beautiful young
wife's loving heart — for she loved me. Yes,
and 1 loved her more than she knew, more
than I can tell — and yet I broke her heart."

** Oh, uncle dear ! I do not believe it," said
Madge. "You are too kind."

40—2

"I tell you I did' said the old man
angrily, as if impatient of contradiction. *' I
tell you I did — I was under the curse — the
curse that is in our blood — and I became a
gambler, and drank and swore and went on
from bad to worse ; and she died, and I shall
never see her more. And the curse was in the
blood of my child — my Violet — and she left
me, and I heard that she too had died ; and I
became more wild and reckless, and I lost my
fortune. What cared I ? I had lost all I loved.
What cared I ? Then you came, Madge, and
for your sake I would have been rich again ;
and one night the devil stood by my bed and
promised that I should find it — find the way
to become rich again ; and day and night I
have sought for it, for your sake, Madge — for
your sake — and now it is so near — so near."

Before Madge could speak they had reached
a busy street, and his voice was drowned in
the sound of wheels ; when next she could
distinguish what he was saying he was no
longer speaking to her — he was talking to
some one else — to some one whom he called
Margaret, and to whom he spoke as if she
too were walking by his side.

Margaret' he said, " I will not have it.
It was not I who made your son what he is.
It was the curse in his blood — in our blood —
in your blood. What else was it that drove
your husband from you ? what else made
your son hate you from his birth ? You maybe
as gentle as you please now, it will not
recall the past. You sowed hate, and wanted
to reap love. You were hard and cold and
cruel then — what matter if your heart be
softened now ? What matter if I did teach
your boy to swear and to drink and to
gamble — did I give him the temper of a
tient ? I tell you I will not have it ! And
for twenty years have I not sheltered him,
when you have cast him off? Have I not
drunk water that he might drink wine ? and
starved and stinted — and for what ? in order
that the selfish wretch miofht continue in his
wickedness — to nourish the monster that you
should have stranded in his birth."

He had said this with fierce energy. It
was in soft, tremulous tones — speaking as if
he were breaking the silence for the first time
that he asked :

Madge, my darling, are you tired ?"

*' A little, uncle dear," she said ; *' a very
little'

** Are your feet wet V

Madge was obliged to confess that her
feet were wet — for her shoes were thin and
worn, and the water oozed into them at
every step.

A little," she aofain murmured. " Shall
we soon be there ?"

'' Of course we shall," he said ; '' we have
only to walk on till we find it — walk on till
we find it I"

And then again he began to talk in low
tones to himself She could only hear :

^* Yes, she shall have it all — she shall be
rich — little Madge — like the lilies of the field
clothed in glory — a little longer — but a
little longer — wait until it is found — then
death oh, most welcome death !"

Madge was becoming very tired ; they had
walked for more than an hour ; her feet were
cold and sore, and she felt hungry and faint.
They were passing a baker s shop.

Uncle," she asked, " have you any
money ? I should so like a piece of bread."

He bought her a small loaf, and they

walked on ; but it was at a slower pace than
before, and the old man had become silent.
Suddenly he stopped.

*'I want strength, child," he said, 'strength.
I am old and weak. I must have strength,
or I shall never find it. Stay here for a
moment."

He left her standing helpless and alone,
but it was pleasant to stop : her feet were
sore, and her legs ached so dreadfully ; besides,
she was still hungry, for as they had
walked along she had only been able to eat a
few mouthfuls ; now she would have finished
the little loaf, but the thought of the poor
dead Pops made her feel as if she could not
swallow. No, she could eat no more.

She was beofinninor to be anxious, standing:
alone in that dreary street. It was getting
quite dark, but she did not know it; she only
knew that she was alone. And now, for the
first time, she began to feel afraid. She
suddenly remembered what Mrs. Fulford had
said about her poor old uncle's silliness.

Could it be that he could not find the
way, and that they would never get there ?
What would become of them ? They could

not stay oat all night in the cold — she must
sit down soon, she could not walk much
farther. Oh, if dear Pops were still alive !
Though dead, it was a comfort to have him
with her. Poor Pops ! she thought of how
gentle and loving he had been only just before
her cruel father had killed him. She
thought no more of being footsore and cold
and tired. She was not thinking of herself,
but of Pops, when she burst into tears.

Eut she heard steps. Could they be her
uncle's ? No, they were too firm and quick.
But she was mistaken. He once more took
her by the hand.

'^ Madge," he said, and as he spoke she
detected the horrible smell of spirits which
had been one of the tortures of her young
life, " we must walk on quickly — I am quite
strong now — and we shall soon find it." Then
he muttered to himself, " The first time for
twenty years — the first time for twenty
years."

He walked on so quickly she could hardly
keep up with him, and yet he urged her to
walk faster. It seemed to Madge that the
air had become purer, and that they must

Lave left the streets and entered some open
space, and she thought as they hurried along
that she heard at times the distant plash of
water. And this greatly puzzled Madge, for
when she had walked out with Mr. and Mrs.
Fulford she had never heard this sound.
Where could they be ?

'* Oh, uncle — dear uncle I" she cried ; *ris it
far ? I am so tired."

Only a little farther, Madge," he said ;
we shall soon be there, my darling ; I see it
before me."

See what T asked Madge.

The great palace with its tall tower, and
the great clock-face on fire, looking down
upon us. Mercy upon us, Madge, did you
hear nothing 1"

What, uncle — what T asked Madge, now
thoroughly frightened.

*' Hush ! don't speak," said the old man,
pulling her along. " The devil is at work —
we are followed."

A vague terror seized upon the child.
Was it her infuriated father who was following
them, and would he kill them as he had
killed Pops ? Her fear gave her strength.

Let us run, uncle," she said, urging the
old man forward in her terror.

They had for some little time been walking
along the Thames Embankment in the
direction of Westminster, and as they hurried
onward they came to the bridge. The old
man stopped when they had reached it.

^' Madge," he said, " they are gone ; I
knew they would not catch us, the cowards !
and here we are at last, close — close !"

He turned upon the bridge as he spoke.

*' Madge," he said, ** something tells me
that this very night, this very hour, I am to
find it; who knows how soon ?"

But, uncle dear," she cried, ^' this is not
Mr. Fulford's. Oh, do pray take me to Mr.
Belford's !"

There was an agony of apprehension in her
appeal.

He did not answer her. He was again
talking to himself.

'* Oh, do pray take me to Mr. Fulford's !"
she repeated.

Many people were crossing over the bridge.
But it so happened that one side of it was
comparatively clear.

Come, Madge, there is no time to be
lost," said the old man, crossing over to it.

The child's courage had left her ; all her
weariness had returned ; and it was with
difficulty that he could drag her on.

*' Oh, uncle, we shall never find it," she
cried.

** It is a lie — a base lie, child !" he shouted ;
*' it is there ! 1 see it now ; it is floating on
the water ; it shall not escape me ; I have
won at last !"

He released her hand, she heard a sound
as of some one clambering over a wall ; then,
as if in the distance, a faint cry — it was her
uncle's voice — of " Found !"

There was a confused murmur of many
voices, the )rush of many feet.

"What is the matter?" "What is it?"
What's up ?"

Only an old bloke been and throned
himself into the river."

'* 'Ope he likes it."

Madge, with outstretched arms, had staggered
forward towards the roadway, and missing
her step as she reached the lower level,
had fallen heavily to the ground. When she

was picked up, it was seen that lie was
bleeding from a cut across the forehead, for
her head had struck the curb, and that she
was senseless.

A policeman had come upon the scene.
** Does anyone know the girl T he asked.

Don't say if you knows. Bill," said the
owner of the voice which had spoken before,
to his neighbour.

** Not I. I'm not so jolly green ; I don't
want to be inquest."

*' What's to be done 1" asked the policeman
of his sergeant, as he came up.

"Take her to the hospital. Take her to
St. Tobias's."

CHAPTER V.

A LOAD OFF A LOVING HEART.

Victoria was alone in her room at Zurich.
A bright, cheerful room, with windows overlooking
the peaceful dove coloured lake.

On the table a vase, with a nosegay of
tastefully arranged wild flowers ; on the walls
a few well-selected prints and photographs,
the largest of which was a good copy of that
marvellous picture, which is well worth a
journey to the Hague to see, the ** Lecture on
Anatomy," by Rembrandt. Many books were
scattered about, some in German, some in
English, some in French, principally in prose,
though there was a sprinkling of poetry. On
one side of the room a console, with a few
nicknames ; by the window a work-table, on
which lay a piece of unfinished embroidery ;

and near it, placed in a carefully chosen light,
an easel, with a landscape in water-colours,
the last touches of which were not yet
dry.

The only sign that this was a student's
room was to be found in the large book-case,
occupying nearly the whole of the wall-space
between the door and the windows, filled
with books which required to be studied
rather than read — books on the Natural
Sciences, Natural History, Anatomy, Medicine
and Surgery — ranged on the shelves in the
most perfect order. Amongst the books on
Surgery there was a vacant space, one volume
was absent'; but it lay on a chair by the side
of the easel, and a glance at the illustrations
on its open pages showed that it was a treatise
on diseases of the eye.

It was quite clear that Victoria had not
forgotten Madge.

Just now she was standing by the window,
with an open letter in her hand. It was
from Sis, for of late Sis had taken to writing
to Victoria. At first in a most mournful
strain, for the curate with the 'dreamy"
eyes had suddenly taken it into his wise head

that It was his duty to join a mission for the
tui version of the heathen in the interior of
Africa, and so had departed one fine morning
with a beard of three weeks growth, and a
portmanteau labelled "Timbuctoo." Thrown
once more upon her own resources, what
could Sis do better in her desolation but seek
for comfort from Victoria ?

It must be confessed that Victoria was just
then too much occupied with her work and
her anxiety about Madge to give her much ;
and happily, in a short time, consolation had
ceased to be needed, for there was suddenly a
rift in the cloud caused by the curate's cruel
conduct. The incumbent of ,
the Reverend St. John Softridge,
was made a dean, and his successor, the
Reverend Aloysius Kempster, was, although
verging on middle age, still unmarried.
What a chance for Sis ! She opened the
trenches at once ; in a short time the line of
circumvallation was complete, her guns in
position, and nothing remained but to pour an
overwhelming fire of shot and shell into the
citadel. And all this time she must needs
keep boring — it is the only word — Victoria,

who had other things to think of, with her
letters.

She had first tried Chub, but a single letter
from him had put a stop to the correspondence.
And no wonder, for Sis, not content
with having, under the influence of the
Reverend Aloysius, forsaken her own parish
church for his, and joined some kind of sisterhood
which gave her the privilege of wearing
suspended round her neck a lozenge-shaped
medallion with mystic characters, and of
attaching certain letters of the alphabet to
her signature, must forsooth make use of this
latter privilege when writing to Chub, to
practical, unsentimental — always putting
Eva on one side — matter-of-fact Chub. She
ought to have known what it would have led
to, and she need not have been so very angry
when he wrote back to ask for an explanation,
saying " that although the first three letters
were perfectly familiar to him, and perhaps
appropriate to her, the others were beyond
bis comprehension."

But she was very angry, and it is not to be
wondered at that the correspondence closed
with a letter from her in which his conduct

was characterised as unkind, ungentlemanly,
vulgar, and profane with three dashes under
the last word.

Now, Sis was in earnest — at least she
thought she was — and so was never weary
of lamenting over the frivolity of her former
life. But then she had not had the advantage
of the Reverend Aloysius Dempster
ministrations ; now she was for ever trudging
through the mud to Slocum for matins, for
vespers, for primes, or for some other of the
many services which it had been the heart's
delight of the Eeverend Aloysius to institute.


Oh, Victoria," she wrote, " what a comfort
it is, that if we cannot have daily services
in our own parish church, Slocum is within
walking distance ! and though it takes up the
greater part of the morning, I don't think I
have missed it more than twice, and then
through having a cold, during the last month.
The only thing which makes me feel unhappy
about it is that papa does not quite like it —
though, good, dear, kind old creature that he
is, he does not say much, but I know he

VOL. III. 41

dues not like it —and were it not that Mr.
Kempster has pointed out to me what my
duty is, in such a clear and unmistakable
manner that I should be grievously wrong
were I not to do it, I fear I should never
have had the courage to have persevered. I
wish you could have heard Mr. Kempster's
last sermon : it was upon faith ; and he
pointed out how little faith there was at the
present time, and what a falling off there had
been since those days when such numbers of
men and women gave up the world, and,
separating themselves from their families and
friends, devoted themselves to pious meditation
under the guidance of the holy Church ;
when prayer was looked upon as the first
and chief duty of life, and science was made
subservient to a higher teaching, which kept
it in its proper place, so that it was from the
pulpit and not from the professor's chair that
the world was taught. He said all this so
simply that my heart was deeply touched,
and 1 have felt better ever since."

Poor little Sis," said Victoria, as she put

down the letter. " What would Mr.
Kempster say to such a teaching as this T
She took up a book from the table and read
aloud : " * Work is the great end of man's
existence, and faith shows itself in work
better than in words. But the work must be
based upon the cultivation and employment
of every divine gift, so that man may be
enabled to move on towards a higher state by
endeavouring to find out those unchangeable
laws which best teach him the Will of that
Great Being to whom obedience is the most
acceptable worship. That faith, when so
working, is blessed, there can be no room for
doubt ; for, though man may not be able to
move mountains, knowledge working with
faith has enabled him to pierce them — nay
more, it has enabled him to give sight to the
bUnd, to make the deaf hear, the dumb to
speak, and even to raise those who, without
its aid, were dead to life.'

I like this theology best," she said, as she
replaced the book on the table ; *' but now to
work."

She seated herself at the work-table, and

41—2

in a short time was completely absorbed in her
embroidery, and the contents of the treatise
on the eye. There was no room for thoughts
of Sis.

Now it always had been one of Dr. Ringlets
jokes, that Sis must marry a fool.

"Indeed you must," he would say; '^ if you
were to marry a sensible man he would beat
you."

And yet he loved her as the apple of his eye;
and perhaps, so inscrutable is human nature,
loved her all the better for her weakness. And
soon, though he called him a "simpleton'
the new rector of Slocum-cum-magnus became
endurable to him ; for he could not deny that
he was an amiable, well-intentioned fellow ;
and he had it not in his heart to think unkindly
of a man who began to give unmistakable
signs of being in love with Sis. For
almost before the batteries had opened fire,
the citadel had capitulated. And from that
time forward the Eev. Aloysius Kempster
stood before the world as the future husband
of the happy Sis. And it is remarkable that
henceforward Dr. Pringle was no more beard

expressing his wonder that Nature could have
been so eccentric as to create brains incapable
of producing higher thoughts than belong to
ceremonies and vestments.

There was one point connected with the
Eev. Alojsius Kempsfcer's engagement which
had somewhat exercised many of the members
of his congregation : he had always
given out that priests ought not to marry ;
and Sis had professed to think so too.

No one knew by what arguments they had
been induced to change their opinions ; for
it was a subject on which, as it were with
a tacit understanding, they both held their
tongues.

A letter announcing the engagement to
Victoria was being penned by Sis, at the
very time that the former had seated herself
at her work-table and become absorbed in her
embroidery and in the contents of the treatise
on the eye.

But when it came she had very little time
to give to thoughts of Sis; for whilst she was
still working and reading, a telegram had been
brought her. It was from Chub :

*' Have found her ! She is safe. Will
write."

Thank God !" said Victoria.
She felt as if a load had been taken off her
heart.

CHAPTER VI.

REVELATIONS.

Time has rolled on. The year has again
grown old.

The cold, cruel Winter had shrunk away
before the warm breath of Spring. Spring
had lost her youth, and ripened into Summer
under Sol's fierce wooing ; and when he had
turned from her, and was once more travelling
to the distant south, Summer, arraying herself
as Autumn, had sought to hold him by a richer
beauty ; but he fleeing from her with greater
swiftness, Autumn, desolate and forsaken, had
cast off her variegated vestments, and robing
herself in russet weeds, had again fallen,
shivering and shuddering, into hoar Winter's
outstretched arms.

A bright fire burnt in the snug, rosy
dining-room of Deepdale.

On opposite sides of it sat Dr. Pringle and
Sir Francis Hawthorne. It was evident that
the ladies had only that moment left the room,
for the worthy doctor was just settling himself
in his chair, after having drawn the table
nearer the fire, so as to bring the decanters
within his reach.

'^ This is what I like," said the doctor, rubbing
his hands : "a cheerful fire, when one hears
the wind, as we do now, roaring without ; a
good glass of wine after a good dinner ; and
above all, a companion like you. Sir Francis,
to whom I can talk freely, and in whom I
know I possess a friend who takes a sufficient
interest in my affairs not to be bored when I
talk a little too much about them. I suppose
all men at my age like talking — but talking
at any age is only agreeable when you have a
sympathetic listener."

Am I a good listener ?" asked Sir Francis,
smiling. ** I thought talking was rather my
forte."

Not at all," said the doctor ; " by a good
listener I do not mean a silent, but a responsive

one. Tn this you are not like my
good friend — I suppose I must call him so,
now that he is about to become my son-in-law
— who has forsaken our society for that of
the ladies. He is a most patient, I might indeed
say, a most deferential, listener ; but to
talk to him, is about as pleasant as striking a
chord upon a piano of which half the notes
are dumb — the more you thump, the less music
you get out of it."

He is a good, well-meaning fellow," said
Sir Francis.

I really believe there is good in him — if
it were not so, he should not have Sis ; but as
to his being well-meaning, half the evil that
is to be found in this world is to be laid at the
door of well-meaning people. Between ourselves,
the man is an ass ; but dear little Sis
has set her mind upon having him for her
husband ; and she is now old enough, if not
wise enough, to choose for herself. And if the
Eev. Aloysius had been a Solomon, he might
not perhaps have fallen over head and ears in
love with Sis. She is my child, and I love
her dearly, but I am not blind to her faults
and failings. I wish it had been different."

The doctor poured out a glass of wine, and
passed the bottle. He was silent for a
moment ; had his thoughts been revealed,
it would have been seen that his companion
had ha I some place in them, and that of
all men, Sir Francis was the husband he
would have chosen for Sis.

** Yes, he is a good fellow," he resumed,
with a sigh, as if only now answering Sir
Francis's remark ; " and his mission is evidently
to minister to those whose intellects
are too weak to make the ministrations of
stronger minds acceptable ; and we must not
forget that the thousand millions who inhabit
this earth have been truly said to be mostly
fools. What a contrast between Sis and
Victoria !" he added, as if speaking to himself.

*' I sometimes think, ' said Sir Francis,
** that the capacity possessed by different
people is rather of kind than of degree. A
mere concentration of power in those we
consider strong, a distribution of it in those
we look upon as weak. Victoria seems tome
to have arrived at a power of concentrating
herself upon whatever she undertakes,
and that is the great secret of her success."

I predict a great career for her' said the
doctor ; " her progress kas been remarkable.
She seems already to have gained an exhaustive
knowledge of everything connected with
the diseases of the eye, and is said to possess
a dexterity of hand which leads one to hope
she may be able to turn her knowledge to
good account. No doubt but that little
Madoje's blindness has made her direct her
attention especially to this subject."

Do you think there is any possibility of
the poor child regaining her sight?" asked
Sir Francis.

"It is just possible," said the doctor. " I
imagine, from what little knowledge I could
gain from the state of her eyes when she was
here, that she could not have been born blind,
but that she must have become so in infancy.
There have been one or two instances
in which eyes in the state hers are have been
operated on with the most extraordinary results.
But success in such cases depends
not only on the skill of the operator, which
must be of the highest order, but upon the
most watchful care and attention after the
operation. A great deal depends, too, upon

the health of the patient. In the state of
health caused by all the mental and physical
suffering the poor child has undergone, success
would be very questionable; but Victoria
writes that Madge has very much improved
of late, and that she is growing stronger
daily. She could not be in better hands.
I have quite made up my mind, if she ever
gets her sight, it will be through Victoria."

'* I saw the poor child when I was last at
Zurich, and she was looking very happy,"
said Sir Francis ; " and the power Victoria
exercises over her is extraordinary."

I wonder what relation the child is to
her ?" said the doctor, thoughtfully.

Do you think that their names being
alike is anything more than a coincidence ?"
asked Sir Francis.

'* I cannot help doing so," said the doctor ;
** for, though in the letter which has had
such a remarkable influence upon Victoria's
life, her aunt confined herself to a relation
of the sad aberrations of mind and conduct
which seemed to have been for generations
the fatal inheritance of so many members of
her family, she most scrupulously avoided

every detail as to name or place which would
have given the slightest clue to their identity.
I have no reason to believe that the name
she went by was not her real one, but twice
I have been struck by a remarkable, though
distorted, resemblance between a portrait
which hung up in her room, but which at her
express desire was destroyed shortly after her
death, and the man whom I subsequently discovered
to be little Madge's father."

*shave you ever mentioned this to Victoria
r

'* No. There is a sort of tacit understanding
between us that all subjects should be
avoided which only produce painful feelings
without any useful object. I know, too, that
she would not love little Madge more, or take
a greater interest in her, because she was a
cousin. It is very possible, however, that
she may have some suspicion with regard
to it."

Does anyone know what has become
of Madge's wretched father ?" asked Sir
Francis.

Nothing has been heard of him," said
the doctor. " From his appearance and

character, I should think he would either
drink himself to death, or, money failing
him, die from want of the stimulants which
have become a necessity of existence. Chub
caused inquiries to be made, but could learn
nothing."

*' And how is Chub getting onT asked Sir
Francis.

'' He will do well," said the doctor. " Chub
may never set the Thames on fire, but he is
a sensible, well-conducted young fellow ; and
his engagement to Eva, which is no longer a
secret, has given him an object to work for,
without which I fear his easy-going nature
would soon have subsided into indolence.
Chub is a dear good fellow, and will do very
well by-and-by. Fill your glass, Sir Francis
the wine is good and sound, and not of
the Hugh Forrester brand — here's a health
to Chub !"

The mention of Eva's name had turned Sir
Francis's thoughts in a new direction.

Have you heard whether Davos has
benefited Lady E-unnymedeT' he asked, with
a simulated air of indifference.

Victoria speaks very hopefully," said the

doctor; '' she had only just returned from a
short visit to her when she last wrote. The
death of the child appears to have been a
great blow to her. Then there are other
circumstances. I fear she is unhappy, and of
all diseases unhappiness is the most difficult
to cure."

Lord Runnymede is hunting at Dornton,"
said Sir Francis, drily.

** He is a brute !" said the doctor, who
prided himself on being plain spoken, or, ashe
expressed it, on calling a spade a spade.
Chub has told me things of him which
prove that he is unworthy of such a wife as
Geraldine. At the very time she was so ill,
he was constantly at the theatre, screening
himself from observation behind one of the
most notorious members of the demi-monde
in London. He ought to be ashamed of
himself!"

Sir Francis was silent. His indignation
was far greater than the doctor's, but he
did not dare trust himself to express it.

Come, doctor," he said, 'Met us join the
ladies."

In the drawing-room Mrs. Pringle sat, as

usual, in a state of silent satisfaction over her
everlasting wool-work. She was more than
usually happy, for the dinner had been well-cooked,
and the gentlemen had shown that
they had appreciated it. Indeed, the only time
when Mrs. Pringle's usually placid temper
could be said to be perturbed was on those
days of the week when Sis, following the
example and precept of the Rev. Aloysius,
refused to eat anything but bread and butter,
or eggs and vegetables.

It is quite tiresome," Mrs. Pringle would
say, *'to be obliged to remember those horrid
omelettes ; and I am sick of seeing Sis
and Aloysius " — with great difficulty she
had arrived at calling her intended son-in-law
Aloysius — *' eating them. I am sure they
cannot be wholesome, taken in such large
quantities, and must injure their stomachs ;
indeed, I always observe that people who fast
are inclined to pimples."

She had even thought it necessary to
speak to her husband very seriously on the
subject, but she was not at all satisfied with
his reply.

Pish ! my dear, pish I If the poor

child thinks she will get to heaven the easier,
through eating eggs, why, let her eat them."

*' But they give pimples," objected Mrs.
Pringle.

"Pish!" said the doctor; "they do
nothing of the kind. Perhaps it would be
better for us all if we eat less ; but you have
spoiled us with your good dinners."

Mrs. Pringle was mollified ; her pride as a
housekeeper was satisfied. If you wanted to
win her heart, you had — as we know — only
to praise her dinners.

It was, then, under the influence of an appreciated
dinner, that, as the gentlemen
entered the room, Mrs. Pringle sat placidly
at her wool-work.

Sis and the Pev. Aloysius were sitting in a
somewhat remote part of the room, rather
closer together than ordinary mortals would
have found convenient — Sis hard at work on
some ecclesiastical pattern ; she does nothing
but what she calls " Church work " now — the
Eev. Aloysius with hands clasped, head a little
turned on one side, and an expression of the
deepest, very deepest, interest, listening to her.
For Sis loved to talk when she worked, and

VOL. III. 42

loved more than all, to talk to her dear Aloy-
sins, for he hung upon every word as if real
pearls of wisdom were dropping from her lips.
Poor dear Sis ! she little knew that the
apparently entranced listener was thinking
more of those lips than of the words.

Don't you think I am right T she asked
suddenly.

Of course I do," said the Eeverend
Aloysius.

He declared he was perfectly of her
opinion ; though, truth to tell, he had not
for the last five minutes heard a single
syllable of what she had said. The hypocrite
! he was thinking of those lips.

But Sis wanted something more than his
assent — she wanted his views ; and it was
just as the position of the Rev. Aloysius was
becoming very embarrassing, that the door
opened, and Dr. Pringle and Sir Francis
walked in.

Then it was that the Rev. Aloysius and
Sis had simultaneously drawn back their
chairs, and assumed a more distant manner
towards each other.

Mrs. Pringle presided at the tea-table ;

and in a short time the doctor and Sir Francis
sat down to chess, and the silence was only
broken by the low murmur of the conversation
between the two lovers. From the few stray
words which were occasionally audible, it
was evident they had returned to the one
topic which seemed to exclude all others, and
that they were talking '' Church."

Poor little Sis ! it was astonishing how
glibly she spoke about chasubles, reredoses,
and birettas ; and what a depth of interest
she showed when the Rev. Aloysius dwelt
upon the marvels of what he had seen at
Ober-Ammergau, and on the intensity of the
emotion they had produced in him ; then
they became critical, and after skirmishing
a little with Church-music, proceeded to a
fierce onslaught on heartless services and
Calvinistic preachers; descending step by
step from generalities to personalities ; and
then Sis was in her element, for though she
hated being ridiculed herself, she had a keen
sense of the ridiculous in others, and always
had some little phrase ready with which to
point her satire.

She was describing an old gentleman who
had preached the Sunday before in the parish
church :

*^ It really was quite dreadful to be obliged
to listen to him," she said, "he had such an
absurd voice. He did not speak — he quacked
like a duck !"

She was so pleased with the idea that she
spoke a little louder than usual, and her
father heard her remark.

Sis, Sis !" he said, '' better far to quack
out sense like a duck, than talk nonsense
like a goose !"

Sis made no answer ; but she and the Rev.
Aloysius exchanged glances full of pity for
the speaker — at least the glances began with
pity — but being continued a little too long,
ended in such an evident expression of love
on the part of the impressionable Aloysius,
that Sis, unable to sustain it, looked down
and blushed.

The game between the doctor and Sir
Francis was a very close one. The doctor
had just said " Check to the king," and was
rubbing his hands — a habit of his when he
was pleased — at the prospect of victory, when

the sound of wheels was heard, and a carriage
drove rapidly up to the house.

** Confound it !" said the doctor — it was
the worst language he was ever known to
use. " Confound it ! How true it is, that
there is no peace for the wicked."

Under ordinary circumstances Sis would
have said : '' But you are not wicked,
papa ;" now, however, she sat silent, for she
had not yet digested having been called a
goose."

'^ A carriage, sir, from Dornton," said the
servant, entering the room. " You are
wanted there immediately."

Who is ill V asked the doctor.

I do not quite know, sir," said the
servant; "but they had a good run, and the
marquis has not returned. It is thought
there must have been an accident. They
are getting anxious at the house, and have
sent out in all directions."

'* What was the line of country ?" asked
Sir Francis of the groom who had come with
the carriage.

They found in the dingle, and ran the
fox through Hangman's Wood, past Bruton

hill, and killed him in the open, on Stratton
Downs."

"When was Lord Runnymede last seen ?"

He was well up to nearly the last ; but
no one seems to know what became of him."

And his horse ?"

Has not been seen."

Tell Hawkins to bring up the dogcart,"
said Sir Francis. ''I will make a circuit in
the direction he must have taken, and call in
at Dornton on my way back. His horse must
have met with an accident, and he may have
been obliged to take shelter from the rain in
one of the houses on Springs Common. I
will drive there and see."

Do so," said the doctor. " I will, at all
events, wait for you at Dornton ; I dare say
it is a false alarm. Oh, who would be a
doctor ? My old luck ! I am always called
out in bad weather."

To the ladies' expressions of anxiety he
had no other answer than :

'' Pish I It is nothing."

CHAPTER Il

A DAY WITH THE HOUNDS.

The earlier part of the day, which had closed
at Deepdale as described in the last chapter,
had been fine, with that southerly wind and
cloudy sky which is said to " proclaim a
hunting morning."

The new owner of Dornton, who had only
lately come to reside there — for his predecessor
had preferred living on another property
in a southern county — was a keen sportsman.


On the death of Mr. Yorke he had taken
over the hounds, and at the present time it
Alas the great object of his life to establish
their character on such a footing that a run
with the ** Middleshire " might be looked upon
as an object of ambition for all men — aye,

and for all women — who love to ride straight ;
and it was with a flush of pleasure upon his
rubicund face, that, after a good day, he would
be heard to say :

Gad, sir a few more runs like this,
and next year we shall have the Empress !"

There was a hunt breakfast at Dornton,
for the meet was at the village, not a mile off,
and many horses, perfect pictures of what
horses should be, were being led up and
down before the house, so full of life and
eagerness, that it was difficult to hold them, as
they capered or plunged, or turned their heads,
with pointed ears and expectant eyes, in the
direction of their riders. For the hounds were
near, and they were anxious to be off.

They had not long to wait, for exactly as
the bell of the stable-clock sounded the first
stroke of the hour, the doors were thrown
open, and a crowd of men in red and green
and black coats streamed out upon the lawn.
Men of all ages and of various types ; united
by a common object, and looking as if, for
this day at least, this was a world in which
there was no such thing as care ; for the
master of Dornton had predicted a sure find,

and with such a wind and such a skj a good
run was certain.

A motley group, in which many of the
classes of English life where well represented :
the tall, wiry, weather-beaten country squire,
who never missed a day, and whose chief
occupation in winter, when not shooting, was
following the hounds ; the burly, jovial-looking
farmer, who was supposed to have
made a *spot" of money, though he was
always declaring that it was impossible to
farm excepting at a loss ; the sharp featured
lawyer from the neighbouring town on a useful
hack ; the country banker, on his weight-carrying
cob ; the young guardsman, so exquisitely
turned out that it seemed quite a
pity he should get splashed ; the soberly-dressed
rector, who did not profess to hunt,
but who liked horse exercise, and could not
be made to see that any particular sin was to
be associated with horses and hounds ; the
boy fresh from Eton, determined to be
stopped by nothing over which his pony
could carry him ; ladies, guests at Dornton,
of various ages, sizes, and weights, but
unanimous in giving a practical demonstration

of the principle that no woman should
mount a horse who is not prepared to show
her shape ; ladies who rode with such grace
that it was a pleasure to look at them, a
pleasure which in some cases was somewhat
marred by the feeling of insecurity awakened
by the smallness of their waists, and the
painful ideas connected with the anatomical
derangements connected with them.

But this is a mere man's idea, and men
cannot be supposed to know anything about
such matters.

There was mounting in hot haste. The
young ladies somewhat embarrassed by the
number of aspirants for the honour of helping
them into their saddles ; the older ones
quietly availing themselves of the assistance
of their husbands or their rooms.

o

Most of the party had mounted and moved
off when two or three laggards lounged
slowly from the house. One of them was the
Marquis of Runnymede. He was unchanged.
The same easy, self-satisfied manner, the
same well-bred way of doing small things,
the same good taste in the choice of a
tailor which had been commented on by

Geraldine. An air of deliberation in all he
did, not even departed from when he
mounted the splendid, high-spirited chestnut,
whose anxiety to be off would have made it a
matter of no small difficulty for a less practised
horseman.

There could be no doubt that my lord was
a fine-looking fellow with an aristocratic
bearing, and that he sat a horse as none but
the best of English riders can ; his easy insouciance
became him, and as he now appeared,
it was almost impossible to believe
that during the short space of time he had
been a husband he had succeeded in making
his wife utterly wretched.

Lord Runnymede was in *' pink," but a
piece of black cloth round his left arm told the
world that he was in mourning ; without this
it is doubtful whether the world would have
discovered it, for there was very little about
my lord's manner to show that a short time
had elapsed since he had lost a child.

A mere baby, you know ; but of course
Lady Runnymede feels it very much."

In speaking of the child's death to his
friends he always seemed to make it an affair

in which he could not be expected to have
more than a very remote interest. He had
too many other important things to think
of.

Now he was in his element. No man sat
a horse better, not even the Hon. Pierre-point
Phipps or Major Fitz Jones — also
guests at Dornton — who rode by his side.

Three men who had made horses and dogs
the study of their lives. Who knew how
best to use them, so that with the sagacity
of the one and the speed of the other they
might end a gallop across country with a
whoop of victory, and return home in
triumph with a fox's brush.

Three men who considered that the fox's
place in nature was to afford them sport, and
who, though still in the prime of life, had no
other means of refreshing their jaded lives
than varying their amusements.

To a thinking fox man must be a perplexing
puzzle. A thinking man would probably
find a marvellous revolution in his ideas could
he but find himself for a short time in the
fox's place. But perhaps foxes don't think.
It is quite certain that a great many men

don't ; they only make use of other people's
ideas, and fancy they are their own. With
more thinking it is possible there would be
fewer foxes. Would the world be benefited
by this or not ? It is evident the race of fox-hunters
might become extinct ; but who can
say what the consequences of that might
be?

But Lord Runnymede thinks not of all
this. Happy Lord Runnymede ! A black
band round his arm, but no sorrow. A beautiful
young wife, sick and sad, seeking
health in a strange land — but no care.
Debts, and difficulties, and strange entanglements
looming in the distance — but a light
heart.

To have heard his cheerful laugh, as they
rode along, at the ponderous unfinished jokes
of FitzJones, or the poor bits of gossip retailed
with poorer attempts at sarcasm by
the Hon. P. P., it might have been thought
that he who laughed so gaily, rode so easily,
and looked out upon the world w^itli such a
pleasant countenance, was a man to be envied.
And he was evidently popular, for on joining
the main body of the hunt — assembled on the

village green — next to the owner of Dornton
no man was more warmly greeted.

Many families from the neighbourhood had
driven over to see the meet, and mothers
pointed him out to their daughters, and felt
proud when they saw their sons speaking to
him. Of course, now, he no longer excited
any interest as the best match in England.
But he was still the heir to a dukedom ;
and as the husband of Geraldine Yorke he
was an evidence of what a commoner's
daughter might aspire to, provided she were
rich, though that was a proviso fond mothers
often overlooked.

What a splendid day !"

We are to commence with the Dingle,
and Tom Smith, who knows every fox in the
country, says we are sure to find."

'* By George ! if my lords horse is as good
as he looks, it will take a rasper to stop
him."

"Too long in the back to please me !"

*' Yes, but he has not to carry the weight
you put on your cob."

I'll back the cob against my lord's chestnut
for a pony."

"Come ! they are moving off, and it won't
take honor to draw the Divorce."

Tom Smith was right ; a fox, and a fox of
the right sort, was soon viewed in the open.

'* There he goes ! There he goes !"

Then the dogs were to be seen running, so
that, according to the same authority, they
might have been covered with a sheet, followed
by a tolerably compact mass of horsemen ;
whilst a pater families and his boys make for
some well-known gap, and some veteran
'' cranmer," on a hack that objects to fencing
even more than his master, rides off at right
angles by some lane, which will probably, in
the end, give him a good place.

Men and women, and horses and hounds,
are in great spirits. They seem actuated by
a common feeling. There is nothing like a
community of interests for producing harmony
out of the most opposite elements.

What a glorious day !'*

'* What splendid exercise !"

'^ What capital fun !"

Yes, my good boy! capital fun for everybody
but the fox."

He, poor fellow, does not appear to appreciate

it, and falls dreadfully in the estimation
of his pursuers when he doubles round, and
leaving the Dingle behind him, takes refuge
in the broad covers of the Hangman's Wood.

'' What a shame !"

'' What a brute !"

And such a day for scent."

But the dogs are on his track, and run him
three times round the cover before he breaks
bursting out just at the very point where
no one expected him, so that he is away and
the dogs after him with no one but the whips
and old Jack Podgers, who is always to the
fore, and it takes much hard riding for the
master and the favoured few who have good
horses and know how to ride them to recover
their lost ground. The rest of the field gallop
along in a desultory kind of way, and
resolve themselves at last in a scattering of
coloured spots about the landscape, moving at
various rates in different directions.

From the top of Bruton Bridge the hounds
can still be seen, reduced to a moving patch ;
so small that a pocket-handkerchief could
now cover it ; followed by a little — a very
little — cluster of red and black dots. Some

of the knowing ones pretend to be able to
see the fox ; but the majority of the spectators
are disposed to accept the fact of his
presence on faith.

Forward I Forward !"

The scent gets stronger, and the dogs move
at a pace which on the down-sloping grassland
they are now passing over, requires from
the few horsemen who are following them an
almost racing speed.

Besides the whips but six men and a young
lady who is a first-rate rider, and is known
throughout the county as " Jos," are now with
the hounds. The young lady, thanks to her
light weight, is first, then a stranger in a black
coat ; next comes Jack Podgers, whose horse
has been saved by numerous short cuts and his
rider's knowledge of the country, and close after
him, neck and neck. Major Fitz Jones and Lord
Runnymede, with the chestnut beginning to
show signs of distress ; then comes the Hon.
Pierrepoint Phipps, cursing his horse, and at
some little distance the owner of Dornton,
cursing his weight, for this is to be the run
of the season, and there is a heavy bit of
country before them.

VOL. III. 43

Forward ! Forward I"

A broad belt of plantation lies in the
bottom right ahead ; the hounds have
swarmed over the broad ditch and fence
which skirts it, and their joyous cry, as, after
a few moments' hesitation, they followed one
of the drives by which it was intersected,
showed that the fox had either lost his head
or considered it did not afford suitable cover
for his concealment.

As they neared the plantation, the horsemen
formed into two diverging lines. On the
left, the whips, Jos, the black-coated stranger,
FitzJones, and Lord Runnymede made for a
gap in the fence. On the right, the Hon.
P. P. and the Master followed Jack Podgers
to a somewhat more distant gate, which that
experienced gentleman declared to be open.
For those who knew Jack Podgers and
wanted to save their horses, always followed
him if they could.

The whips scramble rather than jump over
the ditch and disappear through the gap ; Jos,
FitzJones, and the stranger follow ; the chestnut,
fullof impatience, makes a laboured rush
so close to the horse before him, that he

swerves in the jump, and a projecting branch
sweeps his rider from the saddle — Lord Runnymede
has had a heavy fall, but the ground
is soft and he rises unhurt, but the chestnut
has galloped on and is already out of sight.

All but Lord Runnymede were now galloping
through the plantation, the black-coated
stranger being last, for he had mistaken his
way and turned up a wrong drive. He had not
got far, when the riderless chestnut came up,
and thinking to do its owner a good turn, he
caught it by the bridle, and hooked the reins
in the branch of a tree. When he had gained
the opposite side of the plantation the hounds
were far ahead ; so after riding over a couple
of fields and coming to a road which led him
to the nearest railway station where he
could hope to get a horse-box, he too tailed
off:

Lord Runny mede, in anything but a pleasant
mood, toiled through the wood by the drive
which had been followed by the rest of the
riders: on emerofinor from it he could see
nothing of his horse, and there was not a
living soul in siofht. During the excitement

O O D

of the run he had not observed that dark,

43—2

threatening clouds had been for some time
rising in the west; now it was evident the
day was about to change to wet, and there
was no cover near. He knew he must be a
long way from Dornton, and he had no
notion in what direction he ought to turn his
steps.

The first thing to be done was to find a
road, and this he knew he should do by
making his way towards the different gates ;
but walking over ploughed fields is slow
work, and by the time he had found a path,
which brought him out upon a muddy country
lane, the afternoon was well advanced, and
the rain had come down in torrents.

Trudge, trudge — tramp, tramp — splash,
splash.

He threw away the end of his cigar and
lighted another. He threw it away angrily,
threw it away as if it had had something to do
with his misfortune.

He should not have cared if Phipps and
Fitz Jones had not been there. How they
would laugh over it at the club — " Runnymede
came to grief at a ditch a child could
have leaped over." Nobody would believe

the story of the projecting branch. It was
enough to make a sant swear.

That cursed chestnut ! Then from the
chestnut he thought over all the horses
he had ever hunted : their names, their
colours, their prices, their paces, their
qualities. From his own horses, his thoughts
Carried him to those of his friends — to the
horse ridden by the man in the black coat —
the horse which had made his swerve. Curse
the brute !

But the wet was penetrating his boots —
they were new — the ones he had had last
from Stinton ; he should never be able to
wear them again ; he must send for others ;
he must write to Stinton — the best maker of
boots in town, Stinton — of men's boots ; and
from men's boots his thoughts turned to
ladies' boots — to a little foot, and from a
little foot, to a fair girl from whom he had
received a note that morning, beginning *'My
deer runnie," written in a bad, bold hand.

He had no place in his thoughts for his
suffering young wife or his dead child.

The heavy rain had driven the labourers
from the fields, and he must have walked

nearly an hour without having seen a house,
or met anyone from whom he could inquire
his way, when the lane suddenly opened out
upon a wide common, on the further side of
which he could just see a few scattered houses,
and right before him, on the main road leading
from them, the figure of a man. He had
scarcely reduced the distance between them
a few paces, when he felt sure he recognised,
in the drenched, shabby, wild-looking wretch
who staggered towards him, some one whom
he had seen before. In another moment his
doubts were at an end ; it was his old acquaintance,
the owner of Fortuna, the defaulter
on the Turf— Mr. Marsh.

There was no mistaking the tall, strongly-knit
figure, the bloated — but once handsome
face. It was John Marsh. John Marsh,
made even more repulsive by his long neglected
hair and beard, and the ragged
squalor which had taken the place of his
former dressy swagger. He would have
passed him by if he could, but he could not ;
for John Marsh, with outstretched arms and
a brandished stick in his right hand, placed
himself in his path close before him.

Stop, devil !" he said, " I have you now,
one of the devils I have so often seen before,
but never could catch, a painted devil — a
red devil. Ha, ha !"

He burst into a long hoarse laugh ; he was
either very drunk, or mad.

My good fellow, let me pass," said Lord
Runnymede. *' It is not pleasant in the rain,
you know, and I am in a hurry."

Not pleasant in the rain !" echoed the
other. '^ I love the rain, it cools the blood.
It is good for you, devil, to be out in the
rain. You shall not go, devil ; we will sit
here and talk it over — here on that stone, till
midnight ; then we will curse the world together,
devil, and I will kill you !"

He must be mad — dangerously mad. Lord
Runnymede made a step forward and tried
to pass him ; but he was seized in a grasp
which made him feel powerless.

Feel my arm, devil," he said ; '* with that
arm I could destroy ten thousand with a blow.
How can a poor weak thing like you escape ?"

Then he rambled off to horses and the odds,
and as he talked he became even more excited
than before.

"Need devil' he exclaimed, "you are a
welsher and a cheat ! Why do you grin out
at me like that scoundrel Runnymede, who,
because he was a lord, must needs win ?
Devil, devil, devil, devil ! pay me back my
money !" he was foaming with passion and
his voice had become a scream.

*' I have no money with me," said Lord
Runnymede, vainly endeavouring to pacify
him, for such was the strength and fury of
the madman that he had become seriously
alarmed.

*' You lie, red devil — you lie !" he answered.


Lord Runnymede struggled to get free,
but in vain ; his antagonist, with a strength
which seemed superhuman, swung him from
his feet and cast him to the ground. Then,
striking fiercely at him with his stick, fled
from him.

*' Ha, ha, ha !'' he laughed. " He is dead ;
the devil is dead ! Ha, ha, ha !"

His laugh might have been heard less and
less, and rapidly less, as he ran swiftly off and
was lost to sight in the gloaming.
On the road an inert red mass.

Hours passed away, still it was there.
Day turned into dusk, and dusk to night ;
but the mass remained, looming out through
the darkness, without colour now, a mere
shapeless shadowy something, lying in that
lonely spot.

But one blow with a stick from a madman's
hand — but one blow ! But the muscles of a
strong arm, obeying the directing impulse of
a frenzied brain, and the swift current of life
is arrested in its course, and the spirit which
belongs to it flees and hides away as if in fear
of the approach of death.

Many hours had passed, and it must have
been eleven o'clock, when the silence was
broken by the sound of wheels, and lights
drew near the spot where that dark mass lay.

It was the dog-cart, with Sir Francis Hawthorn
and a groom in waterproof suits, which
reflected upon their wet shiny surfaces the
scattered light from the two side-lamps.

Suddenly the horse shied, and at the same
moment the light from one of the lamps
streamed full upon a dark object lying almost
in the centre of the road.

Jump down, Hawkins," said Sir Francis,

as he drew up by the roadside. '' Jump down
and see what it is."

But before the man had time to do so —
whether he had recognised the prostrate
figure before him, or whether he simply
gave expression to his fears, it is hard to
say — Sir Francis exclaimed :

Good heavens, it must be Lord Runnymede
I Take the reins."

He jumped down as he spoke, and in
another moment was supporting the apparently
lifeless form of Lord Runnymede in his
arms.

Thank God, he is still alive !" he said, ashe
placed his hand upon his heart. *^ Drive
to the village for help and a stretcher, and
then to Dornton for Dr. Pringle."

CHAPTER YIIL

OH, THAT I COULD BUT SEE !"

Nature has garbed herself in snow. Everywhere,
as far as the eye can reach, nothing
but snow.

Thick in the valleys, deep upon the surface
of the frozen lake, glistening in the sunshine
on the mountain tops, sprinkled over steep
slopes, powdered on the pine-trees — everywhere,
as far as the eye can reach, nothing
but snow.

The air is so pure, there is such an all-pervading
stillness, the sun shines down from
out a sky of such deep and brilliant blue that
it seems as if it were a region in which cares
and vulgar mundane thoughts could have no
place. As if it were a region in which the
mind would become lifted up, steep by steep,

until it lost itself in the contemplation of those
everlasting and eternal heights which stand
too high for man's feeble vision, and of that
purity of which the snow spread out before
us in all its dazzling whiteness is but a poor
emblem.

Yet, even in such a region as this, cares
and vulgar mundane thoughts must be.

As if to prove it, amidst this snow, on the
beaten track on one side of the valley leading
to Davos, were three dark figures — two ladies
and a child, dressed in deep mourning.

The tallest of the two ladies, who, but for
her pale face and sunken eyes, would have
seemed the one to whom nature had given the
most strength — her figure was so erect, and
her step so firm — walked alone. Not many
steps from her came the child, leaning, almost
too heavily it seemed, in a clinging kind of
way, upon the arm of her slight and frail-looking
companion.

On coming nearer to them, it might have
been seen that the lady who walked alone
wore weeds, and that the child who clung to
her companion's arm was blind.

It was Lady Runnymede, with Eva and
Madge.

Lady Runnymede had been some months
at Davos — for Davos had suggested itself to
the doctors, when they found she resisted their
remedies, and that, apart from the effects of
grief for the loss of her sickly child, they
could discover no reason for her being ill —
when the intelligence reached her of her
husband's death.

The intelligence had been broken to her by
Victoria, to whom it had been communicated
by Sir Francis.

What strange irony of fate that it was he
who was to find the senseless form of the
man who had robbed him of the one who had
become the being most dear to him on earth —
that it was upon him that was to devolve all
the care of that poor unconscious form during
the few days that the flame of life burnt
slowly out, and flickered away into the dark
silence of death — and that it was from him,
through one so dear to both, that Geraldine
should learn that she was free — that she was
no longer the slave of a man she had despised,
but whom she now wept over with bitter tears;

for grief has but small memory for past injuries,
and he, who had died so sadly and so
mysteriously — for none could quite make out
how the injury had been received — had been
her husband and the father of her dead child.
Now that he was dead, she did more than
forgive him — she blamed herself Had she
been the right kind of wife for him ? If she
had acted differently towards him, might he
not have been better ?

Victoria made no attempt to combat these
feelings; she knew that time — time, the silent
and inscrutable — is the best and surest earthly
alleviator of sorrow. But she wrote to Eva,
and said :

Your place now is at Davos. You are
needed there ; and I am sure Lady Arabella
will spare you."

Ah me !" said Lady Arabella. "It is
just like Victoria. She never had any real
sympathy for me. Nobody has any sympathy
for me ! But you had better go,
child."

And so Eva went.

But it struck Victoria that some outside
interest was wanted, to stand between

Geraldine and the morbid state of mind into
which she had fallen ; and so she bethought
herself of Madge.

She put it as an act of kindness towards
Madge. Madge wanted change. Madge
wanted bracing ; the possibility of restoring
her sight — and it was allowed to be possible
— depended on her constitution being
strengthened, upon her nervous energy being
raised to a strong and healthy tone. Would
Geraldine help her in this ? For until she
had taken her degree, she herself could not
leave Zurich. Davos was the very place for
the dear child, the very climate she required;
and she would be within reach.

Geraldine had said '' Yes ;" and so it was
that those three dark figures were to be seen
walking over the beaten snowy track between
Davos-Platz and Dorfli.

Madge looked bright and happy: the fresh
air and a brisk walk had flushed her cheek,
and as she hung on Eva's arm she talked
rapidly and earnestly :

Only think, here I am with the dear
little * Somebody ' of whom I used to hear so

much. Oh, how I wish Mr. Pringle was
with us ! Don't you, dear ^ Somebody ?'"

Eva, quiet aud gentle as ever, blushing at
the mention of Chub's name, can only reply
incoherently :

Oh yes, he would I am sure like Davos

very much ; and But, Madge, you must

really walk quietly, and not jump about
so !

Madge, too, was in mourning — deep mourning.
She had been told that her father was
dead. But there was no mourning in her
heart.

** Is it true?" she had asked the next morning
of Victoria ; *^ or did I dream it ?"

When told that it was true, and that she
had not dreamt it, she was silent for a few
seconds ; then she said, with a deep sigh :

Dead !"

The sigh seemed to have taken a great
load off her heart, for her face from that
moment became less sad. From that time,
too, she had never alluded to the subject.
But it was observed that henceforward she
scrupulously avoided, even when speaking of
others, the word " Father."

She had not been told the manner of his
death. Victoria had not thought it right to
enter into any particulars. She herself had
learned from Dr. Pringle that, within a week
of Lord Runnymede's death, he had, in the
absence of the parish doctor, been called in to
what turned out to be the death-bed of a
pauper, who had been admitted some days
before in a state of either insanity or delirium
tremens.

He had been unable to give any account
of himself, but remained under the impression
that he was being tormented by a
red devil, to the very last. The only clue to
his identity, was a partly obliterated name,
J. Ms . ." in the linings of a torn and
battered hat. Inquiries were made, but they
had led to no result.

'^ I might have told them, had I chosen todo
so, which I did not, what I now tell you,
and wish no one else to know — do not forget
this wish — that the wretched man before me
was your cousin, the scapegrace son of your
poor aunt's letter, for I recognised in him the
man I had seen coming out of Mr. Yorke's
study ; and in the repose of death, the re-vol.

III. 44

semblance to the portrait in your aunt's room
was unmistakable."

Again, was it through that which men call
chance ? or was it in accordance with a providential
design, that this poor child, this cousin,
this sharer with herself in an inheritance of sin
and shame, had been brought into her arms ?

No, it could not be chance.

But ought she not to tell her ? She consulted
Dr. Pringle, and he repeated his wish
that the knowledge he had imparted to her —
and to her alone — should remain a secret between
them. " Madge could not love you
more than she does at present ; I cannot see
that anything would be gained by directing
her attention to the painful scenes connected
with the past. When her mind is developed
and her character formed, you may exercise
your discretion, but now I would most
strongly advise you — in the poor child's
best interests — not to do so."

So it was that Madge only knew that her
father was dead ; and she turned her face with
less sadness and increasing love towards the
only being who had ever acted towards her asa
mother, for she who was dead had but wept

over her, and her tears had brought neither
reverence nor love — nothing but a shuddering
pity.

** Tell me about the snow," Madge said as
they walked along ; ** dear little * Somebody
do talk to me about the snow."

She was never tired of hearing about the
snow. Even Lady Runnymede — for Madge
had never dared to call her anything else —
must talk to her about the snow.

She wished to know all about it. Why it
fell always, always, instead of rain, on the
upper mountains ? Why it would not turn
into ice when it was very, very high up?
Why they could not walk upon it now that
the winter was so cold, and would have to
wait until the weather was warmer before
they could do so ? All this, and much more
in endless questions she must know. Even
Geraldine was drawn from within herself,
and had often to come to Eva's aid when the
child's questions went beyond her knowledge.


"You must wait until Victoria comes,"
said Eva, fairly beaten at last ; " she will be
able to tell you."

44—2

Oh yes ! dear auntie knows everything,"
said the child, as if it were quite natural she
should do so. '^ And she is always learning.
I am sure if I only knew one half, or one
quarter, what she does, I would never learn
any more."

"Oh you little dunce!" said Geraldine, who
had become amused, despite herself, with the
child's prattle. *' What would Victoria say
if she heard you ?"

'' Do you know, Lady Runny mede," said
the child, putting on a solemn serious air,
that auntie is learning all about eyes ; why
some people can see, and other people, like
my poor self, can't?"

*^ How do you know she is learning about
eyes ?" asked Eva.

*^ Because she once talked to Dr. Pringle
about mine ; and just before I came here, a
gentleman came and looked at my eyes, and
made them open very wide, and used a great
many hard words that I could not understand;
and then auntie asked him if his opinion
agreed with hers, and he said, 'It is just
possible, but we must wait.' Oh dear, dear
little 'Somebody,' what did he mean by Must

possible'? Tell me, tell me. I dare not ask
auntie, for she does not like me to ask about
what people talk about ; and you must not
tell her what I have said — please Lady
Runnymede don't say one single word about
what I have said. Oh, that I could but
see!"

There was a touching pathos about the last
words which brought tears into the eyes of
the two sisters, but they did not speak,
and for a few minutes they walked on in
silence.

The child was the first to break it. She
spoke as if to herself:

How beautiful it must be ! But what
can it be like — this snow, this cold snow
that melts in my hands ; and the ice that is
colder still ? Are all cold things white ? and
what can white be like ? Oh ! sometimes my
poor head aches and swims when I think of
these colours, and try to make out what
people mean when they talk of things looking
pretty, and lovely, and beautiful. Yet I know
that flowers must be lovely, for they are
sweet and soft, and grow from little buds
into threat bier blossoms : and I love soft

voices and kind words, and I know when the
dear lips which speak them meet mine, that
they, too, must be lovely. And most beautiful
of all, those I love. Oh, if I could but
see my dear Victoria, and Mr. Pringle, and
you, my dear little * Somebody,' and Lady
!Runnymede ; but most of all, my own dear
auntie, my Victoria 1"

Why was it that she whom Madge loved
best, and thought of as the ideal of all that
was beautiful, should have been the one who
had done most to prepare herself for the hardwork
and stern realities of life ; and who had
least accepted, the world's definition of a
woman's mission ?

Why was it ?

Is the answer so difficult to find ?

Was it not that whilst Geraldine pondered
over the poor blind child's questions, and
Eva answered them out of the shallow depths
of her own sweet consciousness, Victoria
spoke with all the force and authority which
belongs to deep convictions based on knowledge
; for let fools scoff if they will, knowledge
is a power, and it is he who unites a
strong mind to a soft heart who is best able

to lend a helping hand to the feeble and the
frail. For the Aveak love those best who can
give them that which they want most —
strength.

It was this power that caused equally the
disappointed lover, the bereaved wife and
mother, and the saddened and afflicted child,
to seek for consolation and comfort from Victoria.


Yet it would have seemed more natural, at
least in Geraldine's case, that the companionship
of that sister for whom she had such a
deep love would have been her chief solace ;
but to be with Eva, sweet as it was to her,
brought weakness instead of strength ; it was
as the perfume of flowers in the sick-chamber,
bringing for the moment a flush of pleasure
to some poor sufferer's cheek, to be followed
by a deeper pallor than before.

Then, too, Geraldine had not been pleased
with Eva for having bestowed her love on
Chub. She was very fond of Chub ; still
some of the old leaven remained, just enough
to make her feel angry with herself for
possessing it ; but the lessons of a life cannot

be unlearnt in a moment. She overlooked
Chub's many good qualities, whilst lamenting
his want of what she would have once called
'' good form ;" now she would have been
ashamed of such a phrase, but some such
idea, clothed in somewhat different words,
had remained to torment her, and Victoria
was the only person whose influence had
overcome it.

But the necessity of being reconciled to an
idea which had once been distasteful to her,
had produced the effect of casting a shade,
an almost imperceptible shade, over the great
love which she still felt for Eva.

As for her mother, Geraldine might disguise
it to herself, but the fact still remained,
she was a nonentity. As far as she was
concerned, she might as well have been
without a mother. She could not recall a
single instance of her mother's having exerted
the smallest useful influence over her. She
sometimes doubted whether her mother had
any feelings of affection — indeed, she would
not have doubted at all on the subject, had it
not been that she seemed to cling to Duke,
despite his miserable conduct, and divided

ber attention between her own real and imaginary
trials and his.

Perhaps the great bond of union between
Lady Arabella and Duke was that, of all her
children, he was the one who most resembled
her. He had her refined tastes ; her intense
selfishness. She had sought her chief pleasure
in a round of frivolous excitements, and he
had done the same ; for what is gambling but
frivolity in its most exciting form ?

He, too, was in a state of perpetual apprehension
about his health, and this was one of
the reasons v/hy he found it necessary that
he should remain in the only climate which
appeared to suit him — that part of the
Riviera Which is within easy reach of Monte
Carlo. It was on his account that his mother
had been persuaded to take up her residence
during the greater part of the year at Nice,
and it was out of the funds with which she
supplied him that he was enabled to seek
those distractions which, according to Lady
Arabella, " in the poor dear fellow's present
state of health, are absolutely essential to
him."

It can easily be imagined how delighted

Eva was to find herself once more with
Geraldine, and the presence of Madge was an
additional source of pleasure, for when they
were alone together, Madge would talk to
her of Chub, and it was so nice to hear the
poor child say how deeply she loved him.
Yes ! she liked to hear Madge say that she
loved Chub, for *sit was only little Madge."

But Eva had a secret cause of great anxiety
to her — that secret, that knowledge, so
scrupulously kept to herself, of the parentage
of Victoria. It weighed heavily upon her.
Why should it be kept from Geraldine ? At
last, weary of her importunity, Victoria had
to give way ; Geraldine should know it,
when she had quite recovered from all she
had gone through, and with this promise Eva
was obliged to be content.

And during all this time, she who had
become the centre of so much individual
action worked on persistently and steadily.
Her personality had become so secondary to
the great questions with which her mind was
occupied ; her own interests now seemed so
small in comparison with the ends she had in
view, that she was almost inclined to smile

when she thought upon the time when her
misery or her happiness was made to depend
upon the state of her feelings. Emotions
which were thoroughly under control could not
produce morbid thoughts, and the calmness
which she had sought and obtained gave a
fourfold force to a strong and well-directed
will. She had been astonished to find how
rapidly her power of acquiring knowledge
had increased, and how easy much had
become that she had once found so difficult.
Her interest, too, in her studies became, as
they approached their term, deeper and
deeper. Her love for Madge had become
intense : she had long suspected their relationship,
and now that her suspicions had been
confirmed, she could not help asking herself
whether it might not be in the designs of the
great Inscrutable Regulator of human actions
to select her as the humble instrument through
which the heavy affliction placed on the poor
child might be removed? Oh, if she could
but restore her to sight !

The greatest authority on the diseases of
the eye in the university, a man with a
European reputation, had pronounced an

la.

opinion that a successful operation was just
possible, provided that Madge's health at the
time was in the best condition, and that all
the details of after-treatment were watched
with the most minute attention.

'' In such a case," he said, '' the operation
is simply one of the factors of cure; the
slightest subsequent imprudence, before the
eye has obtained sufficient power to perform
its new functions, would render her again
blind — and hopelessly blind, for ever. Were
I to undertake it, I should probably fail, for it
would be a case requiring my whole care and
attention for some uncertain period ; and
situated as T am, it would be impossible forme
to give it. But with you, my dear young
lady, it would be different; and I see no
reason, considering the great, very great
progress you have made, why you may not
look forward, at no very far-distant date, to
succeed where I should probably fail, and I
shall be proud of my pupil."

Was it possible for any man or woman to
have a higher aim ?

Could it be true that she was on the point
of obtaining the power which would enable

her to give sight to the poor blind Madge —
the child ujoon whom she had concentrated
all her love ?

She dared not think of it; but as she
worked steadily on and on, it was ever before
her.

To restore sight to the blind ! O God !
let me pray Thee to strengthen my weak
efforts to obtain this great power. To restore
sight to my darling ! God ! I
thank Thee for having put it into my
heart."

And so she works, works on. Is working
w% at this very time when Madge, arm-in-arm
with the two sisters — for she has insisted
upon walking between them — talks, and
almost skips as she does so, of her dear
Victoria, or mourns with drooping head and
lagging pace her sad fate in not being able to
see the snow.

^' Oh, why did not God give me eyes like
other people '?"

What could Geraldine or Eva say to comfort
her ? They could but turn her attention
to some other subject, and soothe her with
kind words.

But the dark, dark cloud remained. They
saw not what Victoria saw, the bright blue
sky behind it. They knew not, as Victoria
was learning to know, how to roll back that
cloud of darkness and say, "Let there be
light."

((

CHAPTER IX.

AND THERE WAS LIGHT.

Will it hurt me very much, dear auntie V

Nearly two years have elapsed since the
walk described in the last chapter and this
question.

Two years in which nothing very startling
had happened in the lives of those in whom
we have been interesting ourselves, but yet
in which much had been done, and in which
much silent preparation had been made,
unobserved and may be often unheeded, for
events that were about to form fresh starting



points in those seemingly uneventful lives.

Lady Arabella and Marmaduke Yorke had
remained true to the Riviera, with a trip to
the German baths during the summer months.
Lady Runnymede and Eva had taken up their

home in Switzerland. Chub had passed his
examinations, and was now going through a
sort of intermediate process as medical officer
of an emigrant ship bound to New Zealand.
On his return he was to enter into partnership
with his father, and to marry Eva ; and
then, and not before, was the Rev. Aloysius
to be blessed with the hand of Sis. The
Bev. Aloysius and Sis would have wished
an earlier union, but it was a whim of the
doctor's ; he would have it that his children
should be married on the same day. Of
course his wife thought as he did, so the
young people had to give in.

Sir Francis was at Hawthornedene, and
Mr. Mortimer, much exercised by romantic
feelings towards Mary, had taken service with
him.

Sir Francis had wanted a butler, and Mr.
Mortimer, as he was never tired of telling his
friends, had felt bound to help him out of his
'embarrassment." He did not tell them
that he was star vino* at the time, and that
Sir Francis had rescued him from the most
abject misery.

Sir Francis himself was now frequently

from home, for when not attending to his
parliamentary duties, he spent much of his
time in Switzerland, for he had become an
enthusiastic mountain-cumber and an energetic
member of the Alpine Club.

Madge had remained in the loving care of
Geraldine and Eva, a source of the deepest
interest to both.

Her improvement had been extraordinary.

Now I know, she would say, '' what it
is to live. I can scarcely believe it is still
the same poor little me. Oh tha£ I could but
see those whom I so dearly love ! Will the
time never come when dear auntie will have
learned how to give me sight ?"

She said this because she knew — for the
child, in accordance with Victoria's expressed
wish, was kept fully informed of all that was
going on around her — that Victoria had
finished her studies and had become a doctor,
and was now devoting herself to obtaining a
more practical knowledge of the diseases of
the eye in the Ophthalmic Hospital at
Berne.

It was now indeed some months since
Victoria had taken her diploma and received

VOL. III. 45

the highest encomiums which could be paid a
student, from the heads of the University.
The paper she had read on the occasion, upon
the eye and its diseases, had excited universal
attention ; and she had been warmly congratulated
on her success by many of the professors;
and more than all by the generous
and warm-hearted man, who had gained th
reputation of being the greatest authority
on the treatment of the eye, in Europe.

Victoria had again consulted him on
Madge's case, and pressed him to undertake
it ; but he had repeated that though he had
still no doubt a cure could be effected, it
would probably require a series of operations,
and a degree of after attention utterly beyond
the power of anyone unable to give up a very
large amount of his time to her particular
case.

*^ For me to attempt it," he had added,
"would be therefore quite out of the question ;
but with your knowledge and extraordinary
aptitude for operations requiring delicate
manipulation, I see no reason why you should
not undertake it. Your chance of success
would be much greater than mine ; and restoring

sight to the poor child would be a reward
far in excess of anything the University
can offer, even to its most deserving
student."

Day by day her confidence in herself was
increasing. She felt that the time was fast
approaching when she might make the
attempt, and so she had prepared Madge for
it by, from time to time, explaining to her
what she had in view ; and it was on one of
these occasions that the child had asked her :

Will it hurt me very much, dear
auntie V

She pursed her little mouth up as she said
so — for Madge, like all children of a delicate
organisation, was very sensitive to pain — and
there was a little quiver in her voice which
did not escape Victoria's notice.

Hurt you ? Of course it will hurt you,
and that is the one disagreeable thing that
we doctors have to put up with ; we are often
obliged to give people pain in order to cure
them."

"Yes, but then you cure them. Oh,
auntie dear, what a pleasure that must be !
You must not mind hurting me, I shall not care

45—2

for it one bit ; and do you know, auntie,"
she said as she nestled closer to her, ^' I love
you so much that I don't think you could
hurt me. I should know it was your
dear self doing it, and then I should feel no
pain, but think only of the time when I
should have eyes like other people, and see.
Oh, auntie, dear auntie, why can you not doit
at once ? I will be so good ; I will not
even say ' Oh T "

But Victoria had to explain to her that
she must wait a little longer, and that what
she would require from her most was patience,
for that her sight might not be regained
all at once, but gradually ; and then it was
even possible there might be failure, so that
it was necessary that one eye only should be
operated on at a time ; and that even if all
went well, it would take many months of
watchfulness and care to effect the cure she
hoped for.

** Oh, darling auntie, what are a few months
to years of darkness !"

*^ Darkness," the child repeated, as if to
herself; '' I wonder if people who can see
know what it is to be always in the dark, or

to know, as I do, just enough of what light
is, to make darkness so hateful. Oh, auntie,
I cannot tell you how hateful darkness is tome
; sometimes it is as if my eyes must have
something before them which shuts out this
beautiful light, and I could tear them out I
am so angry. Oh, dear auntie, give me
light — light ! I feel as if I shall die unless
you can give me light. Sometimes when I
am alone, I cannot breathe for want of light ;
it is as if I were walled up in a hole : and
were it not that I have you, and Chub, and
Lady Eunnymede, and dear little ' Somebody,'
and all you have taught me to think of, and
the great hope that is always before me, it
would kill me ; and without eyes I would
rather die than live. Oh, dear auntie, if
I could see you but once, only once, I should
die happy !"

And she threw her arms round Victoria s
neck and covered her with kisses.

As time passed on, these outbursts became
more frequent, but they were like storms
which clear the atmosphere ; she was
always calmer when they were over : and so

many means were taken to divert her attention
from herself that she was prevented from
sinking into the state of morbid melancholy
to which she had at times exhibited a tendency.


To Lady Runnymede and Eva Madge was
a great comfort ; the most so, perhaps, to the
first, for Eva had a gleam of brightness ever
shining in upon her life in the love of that
good, honest fellow Chub.

For some time past Geraldine had ceased
to be idle. Acting upon Victorias advice,
she had devoted a certain portion of each day
to study, and she was perfectly astonished at
the progress she had made. She had learnt
German, gained a fair knowledge of botany
and geology, and could now sketch with
accuracy and ease.

Besides all this, she taught Madge. Eva
taught her too ; but Madge declared that
it was Geraldine who taught her best.

If the truth must be told — and why should
we seek to conceal it? — a gleam of light
like the first harbinger of dawn had broken
through the . gloom which had threatened to

enshroud the iutuie, as well as the present, of
Geraldine s life.

Yes, it must be told : that imp Love was at
his tricks again.

No one is safe from his shafts. They
pierce alike the heart that has been steeled
against attack in the laboratory of age, or
made callous to their smart through the
deadness which proceeds from sorrow.

Victoria's influence was doing much, but
behind it there was

Was what ?

Simply what is behind half the motives
by which mankind is actuated ; an impulse
which impels, but hides itself.

Even to herself Geraldine would have
blushed to have owned that her heart had
again been touched. But so it was ; and how
could it have been otherwise ?

Sir Francis had joined the Alpine Club.
Was it likely that he would come to Switzerland,
and not see the greatest friend he had
upon earth — Victoria ?

A.nd was it right that he should avoid
Geraldine, when it happened, as it sometimes
did happen, that she was staying with her

old friends? Would it not have been unmanly
and unkind to have turned av^ay from
Lady Runnymede in her sorrow ? No, he
would not be so selfish ; it might be painful
at first, but he would meet her as an old
friend — as if nothing had ever passed between
them.

But how would she receive him ? He had
written to Victoria :

I am again hi Switzerland, and want
much to see you, but find you are taking a
holiday in the mountains. I hope Lady
Runnymede is better, and that Miss Yorke is
well. If I did not fear that my presence
might be unwelcome, I should some fine
morning, descend from out of the clouds upon
you, and say all I want to say vivid voce,
instead of by letter. Give my love to my
little friend Madge, and tell her that I have
been thinking very much of her lately."

It was true — for Victoria had written to
tell him that Madge was with Geraldine,
and of course he did not know that he had
thought of anyone but Madge.

Another of those secrets which we keep
even from ourselves.

Victoria had written but two words in
reply:

Pray come."

And then it was that the imp Love had
once more pled his shafts.

Not roughly — not rudely — not such shafts
as he had shot before : but gently — so gently
that at first the smart was hardly felt ; and
when it was, it seemed as if it came from
some old wound. But shaft came after shaft,
until Geraldine never looked up at a mountain
without thinking of Sir Francis, and Sir
Francis never looked down from one without
thinking of Geraldine.

She felt so very sorry for him — and he felt
so very sorry for her.

Nothing more. No ! of course not.

All this time, Victoria working away at eyes
using her own, as if they had very little use
beyond that which would make them useful to
others : the bright streak across her future
becoming brighter and brighter.

The goal she had set before her was at
last reached : he was ready. But before
Madge's eyes could be operated on there was
much to be thought of.

She set to work to organise everything.
She obtained the concurrence of Geraldine
and Eva ; for she set great store upon their
help during the long, weary period which
must elapse between the several operations
and the completion of the cure.

'* If all should go well, how long do you
think it will be before the poor child's sight
is restored ?" aslced Geraldine.

"From first to last, I should not like to
say less than a year," said Victoria ; ^' for
but one eye can be operated on at a time,
and a sufficient interval must be allowed between
the operations."

'^ But will she be confined to her bed or
her room, all that time V

'* Oh dear, no ! Only for a short time after
each operation ; but the light will have to be
carefully regulated, and it will be necessary,
in order to preserve her health, that her mind
should be occupied and amused, and that
everything should be done to keep her from
undue excitement."

At last all was ready, and the day fixed
for the operation.

Victoria was calm and confident ; Madge
impatient for the moment to arrive ; Geraldine
and Eva nervous and full of anxiety. They
would have been more so had it not been for
Sir Francis.

He could not be absent at a moment
which was so fall of interest to them all.
It seemed only natural that he should come.
Victoria was pleased at his having done so ;
but it was Geraldine who said :

It is so kind of him ; it is so like Sir
Francis !"

The operation was over.

Little Madge, with bandaged eyes, lay ina
darkened room.

** Was I not good, dear auntie?" she asked,
as Victoria bent down and kissed her
tenderly.

As good as gold, dear child," said
Victoria ; *' but now you must be quite
quiet."

All went well ; there were no unfavourable
symptoms : and the moment came when Victoria
could venture upon ascertaining whether

she had been successful — whether Madge
would see.

It was one of those decisive moments, the
memory of which cling to us throughout our
lives.

Much as she had hoped for success — and all
the indications were on its side — the dread of
failure lay heavily upon her ; and Sir Francis
and the two sisters, as they greeted her that
morning, could not help observing her extreme
pallor.

But though they were struck by it, and
divined the cause, they thought it better not
to allude to it.

So when Victoria went into Madge's room
alone — for neither during the operation nor
afterwards, when she visited the child professionally,
had she allowed anyone but the
trained nurse, who was attending her, to be
present ; the three continued to sit together
in deep silence awaiting the verdict, which
they knew would be as momentous in its
results to her who gave it as upon the poor
blind child herself.

Instinctively, Geraldine had risen and
taken the seat vacated by Victoria ; it was

near Sir Francis, and it was as if sbe had
gained courage as she placed herself by his
side.

He, too, must have gained something by
her change of place, or why should he have
looked towards her with an expression of
such deep gratitude — such deep gratitude
that his eyes were almost overflowing with
it. What had she done ? — surely it could
not have been a mere change of position, over
a distance at the very outside of three feet
two inches, that should have made him feel
so desperately grateful.

Eva had not observed it ; she was looking
into space or through space, and her thoughts
were in the Indian Ocean, where she was
holding converse with the gallant young
surgeon of a ship under full sail, careering
homewards :

She was telling him all about Madge, and
how she had wished that Victoria had put
off the operation till his return — which indeed
she had, for Eva had an immense idea
of the professional skill of Chub.

Not that she had the slightest conception

of what it was he had learnt or knew ;
but she took it all on trust, and so was
very happy, as indeed all people are who can
only persuade themselves to trust in another,
as she did.

She was still thinking of the ship, or rather
of its surgeon — and being so employed the
time had seemed very short to her, when the
door opened and Victoria reappeared.

She was even more pallid than before.
She staggered rather than walked to a chair,
threw herself in it, and covering her face with
her hands, burst into a flood of tears. She
who had not wept for years !

Geraldine and Sir Francis, who had both
risen at her entrance, looked from her, to
each other. Could it be that she had been
deceived — that the child was hopelessly
blind ? They did not know what to think.

But in the same instant Eva had flown to
Victoria, had cast herself on her knees beside
her, had thrown her arms lovingly
round her, mingled her tears with hers, and
said :

'' Oh, Vic ! you will kill me if you cry.

Tell me what it is — tell me how can we comfort
you, my dear, my darling sister ?"

Whether it was the loving words, or
whether it was that Victoria had had time
to conquer her emotion, she uncovered her
face as Eva finished speaking, and, though
the tears still ran down her cheeks, her voice
became calm as she said :

*' Thank God with me for having enabled
me to help the dear child — she will see !"

Then before either Geraldine or Sir Francis
had time to speak, Eva had risen. Could
it be Eva, the quiet, timid, shrinking Eva,
who now stood up before them ?

And she w4io has done this great thing
is my sister — yow sister, Geraldine — our
father's child !" and when Victoria would
have stopped her, she placed her hand upon
her lips, and continued : ** No, I will not be
silent. I take shame unto myself for having
known this so long and kept it to myself"


Remember your promise," said Victoria,
reproachfully.

There are promises which should never
be made and ought not to be kept," was the

answer. '^ I have never been an hour with
Geraldine without being made to feel that I
was deceiving her. And now the only thing
I can do is to ask for forgiveness, and tell her
all." — And in a flood of hurried words she
poured forth all she knew.

Victoria sat silent with her face again
concealed in her hands — she did not weep
now, but her short quick breathing and the
convulsive heaving of her bosom showed the
intensity of her emotion. Geraldine and
Sir Francis stood before her side by side.
When Eva had commenced speaking, Sir
Francis had made a movement towards the
door; but Geraldine had motioned him to
stay.

Stop !" said Geraldine suddenly, almost
authoritatively, to Eva ; ^' why should you
say more? I see it all. And now," she said,
as she went up to Victoria and caressed her
lovingly, " I have the key to much that has
so often puzzled me. Oh, my dear sister, how
much you must have suffered, how much you
have borne, and oh, so bravely !"

'^ Thank you for that word," said Victoria,
uncovering her face, "it has recalled me to

myself. Have I been brave, when I have
been so weak as to shed tears, because my
heart was full of joy, and have not dared to
face that which has become a part and parcel
of my life 1 and yet it was from no feeling
of selfishness or of false pride, but because
I would have spared much pain — for the sake
^f the dead, that I would have kept this secret.
Yet perhaps it is better as it is. Dear Eva,
forgive me ; I ought not to have cast a load
upon you which was too heavy for you to
bear. The only favour, the only kindness I
have to beg of you all now — and I know you
love me too much not to grant it — is, that this
subject may in the future, be alluded to as
little as possible ; and indeed why should it
be spoken of to others I It would pain me
to think it had become a subject for gossip,
and I should wish the knowledge of it to be
confined to ourselves, Chub, and his good
father. I am sure you will agree with me,
my dear sisters, as will, I am certain. Sir
Francis."

Sir Francis had no time for reply, for
Geraldine with blushing cheeks had gone

VOL. III. 4to

him, and, placing her arm in his, had
said :

** Ah, Victoria ! this is indeed a day of
marvels. The poor child sees. I have gained

a sister, and " her voice faltered, and she

could only look appealingly to Sir Francis.

'rand this very day," he said, '' Geraldine
has made me the happiest of men — she has
consented to be my wife. Will you accept
me as your brother ?"

Victoria started from her seat.
Is it really so, Geraldine ? Oh, you do
not know how happy you have made me.
It has been my greatest wish, for I know
better than anyone how well you are suited
to each other."

But you have not answered my question,"
said Sir Francis.
** What question ?"

Will you look upon me as a brother T
Indeed I will," said Victoria, " from this
very moment ; and to show you that I do

so

She went up to him and kissed him on his
forehead ; and Sir Francis, as in duty bound,
kissed her in return, and kissed Eva, and

kissed Geraldine ; but to Geraldine's kiss he
added some whispered words.

Ah !" she said, " I am so happy."

Happy ! and who was not happy ? The
passing cloud was gone. Victoria was once
more herself; she was made happy through
the happiness of others. Eva was happy
because she had been released from what she
had felt to be a kind of bondage ; the confidence
between her and Geraldine had been
restored, and she no looser felt bound — oh,
crime of crimes ! — to keep anything secret
from the beloved Chub. As for Geraldine
and Sir Francis, the present seemed to atone
for the pjist ; for their state, happiness is too
mild a word.

And the way in which their happiness had
been brought about on this particular day
was such a very simple one.

Sir Francis was one of those commendable
people who always get up early.

Geraldine, perhaps because Sir Francis had
said so much of the beauty of the early
morning, had of late followed his example ;
and so they had met, and it is not dithcult
to imagine the inevitable result, knowing as

46—2

we do, that both their hearts were bleeding
from old and new wounds.

Now' said Victoria, ** that we are all
once more in our right senses, and I have put
off the weak woman and become again the
staid doctor, let us cease for a time to
think of ourselves, or of each other' she
said, playfully looking at Geraldine and Sir
Francis, and think of the poor child — of dear
Madge.

*' Does she know that she will regain her
sight V asked Sir Francis.

*' Yes. But I have concealed from her to
what extent. She only knows at present
that she can distinguish moving forms, for
her room has still to be kept darkened. But
I have now no doubt of the result, and there
is no reason why the operation on the second
eye should not be equally successful, I
cannot imagine why I should have been so
overcome. I feel quite ashamed of myself."


'dear Vic' said Geraldine, ''*it has
always been your strength, and not your
weakness, which has astonished me."

I will go to Madge," said Eva. " The

dear child has been too long alone, and will
wonder what has become of us."

She went into the room where Madge was.
A curtain was drawn across the window, but
sufficient light came through it to permit of
the outline of large objects being visible.

Madge was dressed, sitting in an easy-chair
in which the nurse had just placed her. The
bandage had been taken off her eyes.

As Eva entered the room and passed the
window, the child cried out :

*' What is that ? Something has passed
across the light. Is it you, nurse ?"

No, dear ; it is me," said Eva. ** I have
come to sit with you."

Oh dear little * Somebody !' " said the
child. ** I am so glad. The first moving thing
else I have seen was dear auntie. Now it is
you. Come here I I want to tell you something.
Closer, closer — it must be whispered
in your ear."

•* I want you to help me to thank God He
has been so kind to me."

CHAPTER X.

GROUPED ON THE LAWN.

It was the afternoon of one of those beautiful
summer days which are unfortunately so rare
in England, and the lawn at Hawthornedene
was shimmering in the bright sunlight ; one
of those days on which Nature seems to
beckon to loungers within doors, and say,
'' Come !"

Come ! I have arrayed me in my best.
I am in my most happy mood. I have perfumed
the air with the scent of flowers, and
made it melodious with the song of birds. I
have spread a carpet of verdure beneath your
feet, and enamelled it with living gems. Allis
so fair, that Heaven looks down and smiles.
To-day I keep high festival. Come, add your
joy to mine. Come I"

And, seemingly in answer to her appeal, a
number of people had assembled on the lawn,
and were sitting in a picturesque group, in the
shade of the fragrant limes which formed one
of its boundaries.

The group had been made all the more
picturesque by the addition of three small
children — for youth is to age what light is
to shade, and in Nature, as in Art, there can
be no beauty without contrast.

The three young children are new to us.
The rest of the group is composed of old
friends — friends who are five years older than
when we saw them last, so that some of them
are a little changed ; but there is only one of
them who is grown out of our knowledge.
It is a fair bright girl, who wears spectacles ;
her face beams with pleasure, and her silvery
laugh rings out above the buzz of conversation
; for the party is by no means a silent
one.

She is seated on the ground, and is busily
employed endeavouring to make the eldest of
the children, a sturdy, rosy little rogue of
some four years old, pronounce the name of
his little sister, who, all unconscious of the

difficulty she is the cause of, is rolling about
on a shawl which has been spread for her
special benefit. The third of the children is
a baby, stretching out its little pink toes, and
blinking in the sunlight, from the depths of a
perambulator.

Come, Frank, don't be naughty ; you
know you can say it very well. Come now,
say * Victoria.' "

Sick— lor— lia."

** No, no, that will not do ; you can say
it much better than that. Try again :
'Vic '"

'' Orly— lowly— lia."

*' Oh, you laugh "

The end of the word was smothered ere it
could be spoken ; for Frank had thrown his
arms round the speaker's neck, and was
sealing her mouth with his soft red pouting
lips, so that it was with difficulty she could
release herself and say :

Oh, you tiresome boy ! you really must
be whipped. You have nearly choked
me.

The word '^ whipped " seemed to jar on

Frank's feelings, and cause a revulsion in his
sentiments towards the speaker.

You're a nasty cross thing — I don't love
you at all. I 'ill beat you."

Oh, Margaret, Margaret ! I fear it is you
who spoil Frank, after all ; and when he is
utterly intractable everyone will say that he
is just like his father. I really must look
after my character. Come here, sir I" said a
gentleman, stepping forward.

But Frank only drew all the closer to
Madge, and said :

Rank 'ill be good— he 'ill stay with dear
Maret."

And she whom he calls Maret seems to have
given up all ideas of whipping, for she opens
her arms, and the child takes shelter within
them.

So it was only a lover's quarrel, after all,"
said the gentleman. And there was a general
laugh.

But Margaret and Frank seemed to care
very little about it ; so busy were they whispering
loving words to each other. They were
evidently making it up.

It was difficult to recognise in that fair,

bright, happy-looking girl, who was called
Margaret, the poor, pale, sorrow-stricken, blind
Madge, as we first knew her.

It is the same, yet not the same. Four
years of sight — the continued influence of
one for whom her affection has no bounds —
the gradual withdrawal of her thoughts from
the sad memories of the past — the softening
effects of the society of loving friends — have
combined to produce a change in her which
is nothing short of transformation. And she
who has been the prime mover in this great
work is — Victoria.

Victoria, who at this moment stands the
centre of a group, of whom there is scarcely
one to whose happiness she has not largely
contributed.

Victoria, the first bloom of youth past ;
five years older it is true, but those ewe years
have not destroyed her beauty — they have
but matured it.

And so it is with that graceful and
elegant woman who ^wq years ago was
Lady Runnymede, but now, as Lady Hawthorne,
leans upon her husband's arm, happy
in the possession of his heart, and in being

the mother of his children. Her eyes suffuse
with tears as she looks from Madge, or Margaret
as we must now call her, holding
her child in her arms, to Victoria — to her
sister Victoria — to the one being to whom
she owes all that has made life so bright to
her.

Sir Francis must have divined what was
in her thoughts, for he took her hand, and
passing her arm through his, pressed it
tenderly, whilst he, too, looked towards Victoria.


And the old doctor, for he is there, is
cheered in his solitude — for shortly after his
children's marriage his wife had died — by his
new child, his Eva. Her devotion to the old
man is touching to behold; perhaps it is
because, as yet, she has remained childless,
and so has had nothing to divert her attention
from him.

'* She takes too much care of me," the
doctor would say. " She has made me like
a spoiled child. I shall begin to cry soon
after something I cannot get. It seems to
be my fate; my poor dear wife was never tired
of spoiling me."

It is true he had never been out of that
kind-hearted, simple-minded woman's thoughts.
With her last breath she had commended him
to Eva's care :

Be sure, my dear, that you make his
coffee yourself, and take care that it is
hot."

And then she died.

Chub, metamorphosed into Dr. Charles
Pringle — for no one presumes to call him
*' Chub " now — is in the full-swing of country
practice. He is as much idolised by his wife
as ever, and the only complaint she is ever
heard to utter, is, that he is so much away
from home.

It is very tiresome that people cannot
do without him ; but then, he is so clever."

This was a matter upon which Dr. Charles
Pringle had himself always entertained very
grave doubts ; but when a man's wife says
that her husband is clever, surely there must
be something in it. It gave him confidence,
and made him work with a will, for he felt
he had a character to keep up.

In point of fact, he was quite clever enough
for the ordinary work of this world, a ad that

is more than half of us can pretend to.
He was too thorough in his honesty for self-assertion,
and it was this straiofhtforvvard-
ness of character which had first attracted
Eva ; and now, the more she knew him, and
the longer she loved him, the more honest
she found him.

He did not love her — he simply worshipped
her. Now, more than ever, for she had confided
to him what was supposed to be a great
secret, so that just now his cup of happiness
was very full indeed.

Dr. Pringle did not do much work now,
though he thought he did ; but he continued
to make a round of gossiping visits to his
old friends, and to those who had for many
years constituted themselves his patients,
though he had never been able to make
out their ailments, and understand why they
should insist upon his paying them a daily
visit.

They said it was such a comfort to them ;
though, perhaps, he did little more than
say :

*' Not better, my dear madam ? Well,
well 1 be thankful you are no worse. For

my part, I see no reason — if you go on as
you are doing now — why you should not outlive
Methuselah."

He, too, is very proud of Chub.

There is one visit which he pays daily —
the one which gives him the greatest pleasure
the one to Sis. *' Sis" to him alone, for to
the rest of the world, outside her own family,
she is spoken of — and that in subdued tones
as " the rector's wife," and in her own
family as " Mrs. Aloysius," or less frequently
as " Elizabeth."

Sis has changed her name, she has cast,
as it were, her outer skin, but she has not
changed her nature. Look at her now, as
she forms one of the group on the lawn,
only separated by the perambulator and
baby from the E-ev. Aloysius ; the Rev.
Aloysius whom she has made her disciple
and slave, and rendered obedient in all things ;
that model man, made up of negations and
prejudices, who seeks to do good in his
generation by opposing the changes which
belong to time. Opposing, did we say ? it
is a wrong word — he opposes nothing — he
advances no opinions — he but smiles in pity

on those he differs from, and then moves on
his own way, rejoicing.

Can that iiu posing person really be dear
little Sis ? And in that almost conventual
dress ? Why, she is almost as much like a
nun as her husband is like a priest !

And the baby, too, in that quaint, old-fashioned
cap and coat ! for the baby in the
perambulator is her baby — the 
Ursula.

Ah, now there can be no mistake; it is
indeed Sis, for she is posing — she is captivating
the public — for unless Sis is captivating,
she is nothing — and exhibiting her husband
and child. All this not in her old way,
but in a new way, befitting the responsibilities
of her position, for, as she often
says :

*' I have always to remember that I am a
priest's wife."

At the present moment, she and her
husband and the baby form a picture — a
mediaeval picture ! For everything about
them is mediaeval ; she knows that everybody
is looking at them and thinking so ; and
she is satisfied.

It ]s probably that old serpent Vanity, who
is at the bottom of it all ; but for his wiles
the rector and his wife would be very ordinary
humdrum people.

But humdrum, Sis never can or will be.
Heaven forefend it !"

The doctor, who is as fond of her as ever,
finds amusement in her vagaries. He declares
he cannot find a single chair in the rectory fit
to sit upon, and that their straight backs
hurt his spine ; and then he laughs, and says
that she and her husband are suffering from a
terrible disease, '^ the mediaeval'' and that
he fears they cannot be cured.

He is never so happy as when he makes
his little grandchild laugh and crow, to the
great scandal of all the household ; for it
would seem that there is a certain dignity
belonging to the name of Ursula, which has
to be kept up.

With Sir Francis and Lady Hawthorne the
rector and his wife are on the best of terms,
for Sir Francis has each year become more
and more convinced that we cannot all think
alike ; and Geraldine's trials have taught her
to be indulgent to the foibles of others, and

she has long ceased to say bitter, biting
things. Her time and thoughts are now
taken up with her children and her husband.
Although she does not always agree with his
ideas, she thoroughly sympathises with the
objects he has in view, and she has learnt to
put forward her views in a way which has made
her a valuable counsellor. She is as graceful,
and beautiful, and dignified as ever ; but
her dignity is that of a refined English matron
who only does not despise, because she has
ceased to regard, the frivolities of fashion.
Her name never now appears in the Court
calendar, but it is registered in many, very
many, grateful hearts ; for devoted as she is
to her husband and her home, she has kind
words, and kind thoughts, and kind acts for
all who need them.

She sometimes laughs at her husband, and
tells him, ** Do you know why you love me ?
It is because I have tried to make myself
like Victoria."

"You have succeeded in one thing," he
says in reply.

'' What is it r

'' In making me very, very happy ;" and

VOL. III. 47

then he is so demonstrative, that did we not
know they had been married some years, we
might fancy we were in presence of a newly-married
couple, whose honeymoon had not yet
waned.

"Really, Sir Francis, we did not expect
this of you. We had no idea you would
continue to be so effusive. What ! a member
of Parliament, whose words have such weight;
a chairman of quarter sessions, and the
author of that valuable work, '' The best
Government — Self-government " — to kiss
your wife as if you were still a boy, and she
sweet sixteen !

Well, well, the temptation was very great,
and we will forgive you. But you positively
must not do it again. This book has a
reputation which must not be trifled with.

It is not intended to be ^' realistic " in the
modern sense of the word ; if it were, we
should request our reader to put it in the fire
at once.

But to return to our group on the lawn.

Only fancy, Eva," said Sir Francis,
^' when I was passing through the Park the
day before yesterday, I came upon those

inseparable, Pierrepoint Phipps and Fits


I suppose looking the same as ever," said
Eva, indifferently.

^' Not quite ; Fitzjones has taken to
dying his hair, and affects a frightful ginger
colour; and poor P. P. walks with a stick, and
tells me he has become a martyr to the
gout."

Poor creature !" said Geraldine.

What a sad end," said the doctor, " for
the Adonis of the Park to live to be
pitied !"

I don't know any class of men who seem
to me more worthy of compassion," said
Victoria, 'than these idle men about town.
I never look at them without being struck
with the utter sadness of their faces."

*' Come, come," said Chub, " you must
remember, Victoria, every man can't become
a doctor."

Happily," said the rector's wife. One of
her whims was to pretend that she hated
doctors, and she took a special pleasure in
expressing this dislike before Victoria.

Victoria only smiled ; a bright smile,

47—2

which has not the slightest" tinge of sadness.
She did not take the trouble to reply, but
threw herself down upon the shawl and
began to romp with her little namesake.

Whilst she is doing so, and the Reverend
Aloysius, who is not good at conversation, is
from time to time droning: out bits from a
controversial magazine which he is skimming
over, let us take the opportunity of explaining
how it is she is now in England, and
what she is doing, and, indeed, all about her ;
but we must lose no time for Mr. Mortimer
has already put in an appearance upon the
lawn, and in a short time he will be down
upon us with the tea ; and the nurses will
come for the children ; and we shall have
to hand round the cream, and the cake, and
the bread and butter; and shall not have
another quiet moment.

The restoration of Madge's sight, followed
by the marriages of Geraldine and Eva, and
their settlement in the same neighbourhood,
had decided Victoria upon returning to
England. Indeed, had she wished to have remained
abroad she would have found it difficult
to have resisted her sister's urgent entreaties

that she would come and live near them.
Formerly, the many painful memories connected
with her old home might have made
it difficult for her to have done so ; but now
her love for her sisters, for their husbands,
for Dr. Pringle, and it must be confessed, in a
somewhat smaller degree, for Sis, outweighed
every other consideration.

Besides, she felt it would be selfish to exclude
Madge, whom she looked upon as her
child, and who in her hours of leisure was her
inseparable companion, from the advantages
of being within reach of those whose affection
for her was only second to her own.

But she could not be idle. Idleness had
become hateful to her. She must have work.
She could only accede to their wishes if this
could be found.

Of course country practice is out of the
question," she had said. '^ I know how
ridiculous it would seem if Dr. Charles
Pringle and Dr. Victoria Marsh were to be
seen driving about the country together as
partners ; and to set up in opposition to dear
old Chub would be more than absurd. Besides,
my forte, it" I have any, is in specialities.

I should make a very indifferent
general practitioner."

So, after many sittings in conclave with the
Drs. Pringle, father and son, and Sir Francis,
it had been decided that she should settle in
the neighbouring town, which was within an
easy drive of them ah, where there was an eye
infirmary and a hospital for children ; and
that she should confine her practice as much
as possible to diseases of the eye, and only extend
it, in cases where she might be required
to act in consultation.

She had been able to get one of those comfortable,
country-town, double-faced houses ;
the one face red, ugly, and professional, towards
the street ; the other, pretty and
coquettish, looking out upon a large and
shady lawn ; and in a short time had made
herself thoroughly at home.

The prejudice against her had very quickly
worn off, for it was soon discovered by
those who were interested in the local
charities, that she was prepared to give a
degree of time and attention to them which
was beyond the power of the ordinary
medical staff; and her skill had soon become

so apparent, that even those ^vho had Ijeen
most prepared to oppose her, were obliged to
give way before the irresistible evidence of
facts.

In two years, her reputation had become
thoroughly established ; and even the secretary
of the hospital for children, who had always
been known for his untiring denunciation of
women doctors, had become so far converted,
that, at the last annual dinner, when some one
had alluded to Dr. Victoria in euloofistic
terms, he had remained silent.

Indeed through her influence the eye infirmary
had, as it were, been awakened into
new life ; former patients, who had been discharged
from it as incurable, had returned toit
to receive their sight ; and in the children's
hospital the change was equally remarkable,
for Dr. Victoria Marsh not only knew how to
treat the little sufferers, but she loved them.

So her fame had spread throughout the
county, until in all doubtful or difficult cases,
in which a second opinion might seem necessary,
the first idea which suggested itself, was
to call in Dr. Victoria.

There had been great excitement in the

town, when it became known that the new
tenant of West Street House was a lady
doctor, and no little disappointment, when it
was discovered that she did not look different
from other people.

The young mercers-assistant, on the opposite
side of the street, could not help expressing
his incredulity to the young lady in the
shop who shared his duties.

Don't tell me, Eliza Ann, that she's the
doctor. If that's the doctor 1*11 eat her !
Wait a little .; you'll see the doctor's a guy,
and wears spectacles. That must be her
sister, and the young one's her niece."

Some of the families living in the town had
known Victoria as a girl, and many of them
had heard all about her ; but there were few
of them who were prepared to find her so
utterly unlike what they had imagined
her to be.

The Miss Molseleys, the maiden daughters
of a former rector, made a house-toulouse
visitation shortly after her arrival, in order to
retail their experiences, and gain further information
about her.

'' Will you believe it, my dear, when we

called yesterday we found her sitting in an
arm-chair by the fire, embroidering a table-cover.
Was she not, Jane T

Yes, Matilda ; and the table was covered
with knickknacks."

And she sings duets with her niece, for
she told us so. The first thing Jane said
when we came out was, ' I don't believe in
her'"

'' No, Matilda ; no, that was you. I only
said I had not much opinion of her as a
doctor ; she had all the airs and graces of a
young lady, and was too well dressed."

And in such a dress as that, to poke
about amongst broken bones and skulls, it is
quite dreadful to think of I would not be a
doctor for the world."

There is an old lady present who is deaf,
and only hears the few stray words which
fall into her ear-trumpet ; skulls and bones
would seem to have done so, for she cannot
conceal her horror, and declares that such
things should not be allowed. It was not soin
her time. Skulls and bones indeed ! It
is all very well for men, but

Do what they will, the Miss Molseleys

cannot stop her. She talks so loud no one
else can be heard. So the take their leave,
and with the voice of the deaf old lady still
rino^inof in their ears, they continue their
peregrinations.

Wherever they go, first one and then the
other repeats the same thing : " I would not
be a doctor for the world." And having said
so, proceed, in a covert insinuating sort of
way, to draw a comparison between themselves
and Victoria, greatly to their own
advantage.

'they, are not peculiar." "They, do not
pretend to know more than other people."
They, keep within their proper sphere."

The moral, being, that it would be much
better for Victoria, if she were to follow their
example, and pass their time as they do, in
daily house-toulouse visitations.

Meantime the deaf old lady is busy, on her
beat, informing her friends 'that Victoria
sits in a room full of skulls and bones," and
gradually works herself up into such a state
of indignation, that it becomes a question
with her, whether she ought not to inform
the police.

But all this soon wears off. The nine
days' wonder dies a natural death, and joins
the shades of other departed nine days'
wonders. The Miss Molseleys are sometimes
induced to think, whether it might not have
been better for them if they too had been
doctors ; and even the deaf old lady has given
up her craze about skulls and bones, and
speaks of Victoria as ** that dear good
creature."

Dr. Victoria ' That which had seemed so
ridiculous but a short time since, was now
quite natural. Mothers who had always
declared they had no faith in women, and
would rather call in a cow-doctor, gratefully
accepted her aid ; and in many cases felt
thankful that it was to a woman, and not to
a man, they had to enter upon the details of
their own or their children's ailments.

Never perhaps were two people so thoroughly
happy as Victoria and Madge.

Victoria, happy in her work, in her leisure,
in the companionship of Madge, parcelling
out her time so that not a moment of it is
lost, preparing herself for the labours of the
day whilst others are yet asleep, growing

richer without wishing to do so, lying down
at night with a grateful heart and a clear
conscience, thinking of those she loves, as
she falls asleep, and of Madge.

And Madge ?

Madge is as bright as a bird and as busy
as a bee. She, too, is up betimes, for she
has to study, and to practise, for music has
become her passion, and in the evening
nothing Victoria likes so much as to hear her
sing ; and the garden is under her care, and
she has to arrange the flowers — " auntie is so
fond of flowers ;" and she has the housekeeping
to attend to, and she has the infirmary
to visit, and her blind friends at the
institution, so that she has not an idle
moment ; and were it not that she carols as
she goes about the house, and that her face
is beaming with happiness, she might appear
an object for pity, she has so much to do.

Victoria is her idol — dear auntie, as she
calls her ; and when she lies down at night,
it is with a thanksgiving and a prayer for
dear auntie upon her lips, that her once
sightless eyes are closed in sleep.

But sometimes she wakes up sorrowful

and sad — it is when she has dreamt of
*pops."

And Dr. Victoria keeps her carriage —
a pony-carriage with a pair of bay ponies,
and Madge is not a little proud of being
allowed to drive them ; and it is in this
carriage that they have driven over to
Hawthornedene.

But the tea has come, the children have
been kissed with more or less fervour all
round and taken away ; let us hand the
cream and the cake, and the bread-and-butter,
and take our leave.

Let us say good-bye to them, as they forma
happy group in the shade of the lime-trees,
on that glorious summer after noon, whilst
they are still full of happiness in themselves
and in each other ; for who knows what a
morrow may bring forth, or what clouds maybe
gathering on the horizon ? and even now
we have to remember that fond and foolish
mother, and her selfish miserable son, wasting
their lives in what is worse than folly, on the
distant Biviera.

*' Good-bye, my friends, good-bye ! Goodbye,
Victoria 1"

Who is it who has caught up the last
word ?

It is Mr. Mortimer, who, from a little
distance, had been surveying the scene with
a thoughtful air.

Victoria 1" he said, in a voice that was
just audible. " Victoria ? Yes ! if ever there
were two angels upon earth" — it would be
impossible to do justice to his aspirates — " it
is my Mary and Dr. Victoria."

From this it will be seen that Mr. Mortimer
was yet unmarried, and that Mary had preferred
to remain — an angel.

POSTSCRIPT.

There is one individual amongst our characters
whose present position in society
entitles him to some further notice.

Major — we beg his pardon — now, by her
Majesty's favour and his honorary rank in
the reserve forces, Colonel Thomas Trenton,
has been borne onward, not by one, but by
many, waves of prosperity ; and in proportion
as Fortune had smiled on him, so had Society
opened her arms wider and wider to receive
him.

The large amount of money he had gained
from Marmaduke Yorke had never been a
matter of notoriety ; it was only known that
he had been successful on the Turf But
since then his name had been associated
with other successes ; and when it was whispered

that the ruin of the Earl of Southron
was chiefly to be attributed to the gallant
officer 3 combinations, and that almost e very-penny
belonging to that unfortunate nobleman
had been transferred to his pocket, the
enthusiasm of his many admirers, and of
those who are always ready to worship success,
had no bounds.

Had the gallant colonel been a 'professional
beauty," he could not have been more sought
after : he obtained at once the entree to what
he speaks of as the '' highest " circles, and it
is a pleasure to see him driving in the Park
with that frank, self-satisfied, soldierlike air
which seems so natural to him, and to observe
the affable, condescending way with which he
returns the salutes of young griffins from the
camp, who are under the impression that
they are taking off their hats to some distinguished
general.

The Bo wood races are as popular and select
as ever. The Lawn on the last Cup day was
however, on account of the wet weather, less
brilliant than usual. And Mrs. Kurr Crawley
was not there ; for she has had to undergo
the mortification of being eclipsed by a new

beauty, who is said by connoisseurs, to possess
superior points.

The number of the guests from the great
house was somewhat affected by the rain ; but
nevertheless, in the reserved portion of the
grand stand, that stout old soldier Von
Schwerin was to be seen, looking out upon
the course, and the world at large, with the
serene satisfaction of a man whose lines have
been cast in pleasant places.

Mr. and Mrs. Fulford have been placed in
charge of the ^' Institute and Coffee Rooms "
lately built by Sir Francis.

At first Mrs. Fulford had been greatly
scandalised by the practices and doctrines of
the Kev. Aloysius ; but on that gentleman
having expressed a wish to avail himself of
Mr. Fulford's valuable services as sexton and
bellringer, she began to understand him
better, and it need not be a matter for surprise
that after she had received a certain
amount of attention from the rector's wife,
she had been enabled to add to her former
experiences, that one which proceeds from
being privileged to wear a lozenge-shaped
medallion, and to attach to her signature

VOL. III. 48

those mysterious letters, which had led, some
years before, to those facetious remarks from
Chub, which had been characterised by his
sister as, profane.

Under the pressure of business, Souseman
and Soppit have been obliged to increase their
capital, and " the Trade " is about to obtain
a Royal Commission to inquire into the legality
of coffee-houses.

They have taken counsel's opinion, and it
seems tolerably certain, that the rights of
property will be upheld, and the coffee-houses
suppressed.

If it were not so, it is unlikely we should
see so many new houses decorated in the
latest style of modern art, upon which painters
are busily employed in painting, in letters six
times the ordinary size, the time-honoured
names of r

Souseman and Soppit.

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

-<stw

■l^<^&f

^«3W»-

^«-^'
