u

t\ i-J k:.o '^J.

L I B Really

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

82.3
A£5ih


PHILISTIA: a Novel. Crown 8vo. cloth extra,

2S. 6d. ; post 8vo. illustrated boards, 2s.

BABYLON : a Novel. With 12 Illustrations by P.
Macnab. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3J. 6d.

FOR MAIMIE's SAKE : a Tale of Love and Dynamite.
Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 6s.

STRANGE STORIES. With Frontispiece by George

Du Maurier. Crown Svo. cloth extra, 6s. ; post Bvo. illustrated
boards, 2S.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

THE EVOLUTIONIST AT LARGE. Second
Edition, revised. Crown Svo. cloth extra, 6s.

VIGNETTES FROM NATURE. Crown Svo. 6s.

COLIN CLOUT'S CALENDAR. Crown Svo. 6s.

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

^ Wovcl

BY

GRANT ALLEN

AUTHOR OF ' BABYLON ' ' STRANGE STORIES ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. L

Toulon

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



Ta right of translation is reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

o

Chios


IT)

IN ALL SHADES

CHAPTEE I.

About one o'clock in the morning, by a flickering
fire of half-dead embers, young men of
^ twenty-five are very apt to grow confidential,
-il Now, it was one o'clock gone, by the marble::
timepiece on Edward Hawthorn's big mantel
shelf in King's Bench Walk, Temple ; and
Edward Hawthorn and Harry Noel were each
^ of them just twenty-five ; so it is no matter
^ for wonder at all that the conversation should
just then have begun to take a very confident

tial turn indeed, especially when one remem-
o

VOL. I. B

hers that they had both nearly finished their
warm, glass of whisky toddy, and that it was
one of those chilly April evenings when you
naturally cower close over the fire to keep
your poor blood from curdling bodily altogether
within you.

'It's certainly very odd, Noel, that my
father should alway s see m so very anxious to
keep me from goiil|^ack to Trinidad, even
for a mere short visit.'

Harry Noel shook out the ashes from his
pipe as he answered quietly: 'Fathers are
altogether the most unaccountable, incomprehensible,
mysterious, unmanageable creatures
in God's universe. Women and horses
are mere child's-play compared to them. For
my own part, I've given up attempting to
fathom them altogether.'

Edward smiled half deprecatingly. ' Ah,

but you know, Noel,' he went on in a far more
serious tone than his friend's, ' my father isn't
at all like that ; he's never refused me money
or anything else I've wanted ; he's been the
most liberal and the kindest of men to me ;
but for some abstruse and inconceivable
reason — I can't imagine why — he's always opposed
my going back home even to visit him.'
K Sir Altered dli^Pact upon the same
principle, my dear boy, I can tell you confidentially
I'd be simply too delighted. But,
confound it all, he always acts upon the exact
contrary. He's in favour of my coming down
to the Hall, in the very dampest, dreariest,
and dullest part of all Lincolnshire, at the
precise moment of time when I want myself
to be off to Scotland, deer-stalking or grouse-shooting
; but he invariably considers all my
applications for extra coin as at least inopportune

— as the papers say — if not as absolutely
extravagant, or even criminal. A governor
who shells out freely while remaining permanently
invisible on the other side of the
Atlantic, appears to me to combine all the
practical advantages of the governor, viewed
as an institution, with none of its painful and
objectionable drawbacks. fortunatus nimium
tua si bona 72oris,mj dear Teddy.'

Ah, that's all very well for you, Noel ;
you've got your father and your family herein
England with you, and you make light of
the privilege because you enjoy it. But it's a
very different thing altogether when all your
people are separated from you by half a
hemisphere, and you've never even so much
as seen your own mother since you were a
little chap no bigger than that chair there.
You'll admit at least that a fellow would

naturally like now and again to see his
mother.'

His mother,' Noel answered, dropping his
voice a little with a sort of instinctive reverential
inflection. ' Ah, that, now's a very
different matter. Fathers of course are our
natural enemies, we all admit ; but the man
that goes back upon his own mother isn't
worth salt to his porridge.'

Well, you see, my dear fellow, I've never
seen either my father or my mother since I
was quite a small boy of eight years old or
thereabouts. I was sent home to Joyce's to
school then, as you know ; and after that, I
went to Rugby, and next to Cambridge ; and
I've almost entirely forgotten by this time
even what my father and mother look like.
When they sent me home those two photographs
there, a few months back, I assure you

there wasn't a feature in either face I could
really and truly recognise or remember.'

'Precious handsome old gentleman your
father, anyhow Noel observed, looking up
carelessly at the large framed photograph
above the fire-place. • Seeuis the right sort
too ; has what I should call a benevolent
shelling-out cast of countenance, which ought
to be strictly encouraged in the breed of
fathers. Fine air of sterling caithness also,
I remark, about his grey hair and his full
waistcoat and his turn-down shirt-collar. A
man of more than fifty who wears a turn-down
collar, I've long observed, is invariably
corny. *Real old solid mahogany father, I
should be inclined to say ; good all alike
throughout ; no veneering. Calculated to cut
up very respectably.'

^ Oh, Noel, please ; don't talk that way !

My dear fellow, it's the course of nature.
We fell as the leaves fall, and new generations
replace us and take our money. Good
for the lacy duty. !Now, is your governor
sugar or coffee ? '

Sugar, I believe — sin fact, Pm pretty
sure of it He often writes that the canes
are progressing, and talks about rations and
centrifugal and other things I don't know
the very names of. But I believe he has a
very good estate of his own somewhere or
other at the north end of the island.'

*Why, of course, then, that's the explanation
of it — as safe as houses, you may
depend upon it. The old gentleman's as rich
as Croesus, I'll bet you any money. He makes
you a modest allowance over here, which you,
who are an unassuming, hard-working, 
sort of fellow, consider very

handsome, but which is really not one quarter
of what he ought to be allowing you out of
his probably princely income. You take my
word for it, Teddy, that's the meaning of it.
The old gentleman — he has a very knowing
look about his weather-eye in the photograph
too — he thinks if you were to go out there,
and see the estate, and observe the wealth
of the Indies, and discover the way he makes
the dollars fly, you'd ask him immediately to
double your allowance ; and being a person
of unusual penetration — as I can see, with
half a glance, from his picture — he decides
to keep you at the other end of the universe,
so that you may never discover what a perfect
Rothschild he is, and go in for putting
the screw on

Edward Hawthorn smiled quietly. * It
won't do, my dear fellow,' he said, glancing

up quickly at the handsome open face in the
big photograph. ' My father isn't at all that
sort of person, I feel certain, from his letters.
He's doing all he can to advance me in life ;
and though he hasn't seen me for so long,
I'm the one interest he really lives upon.'

'Oh, you excellent young man, Teddy,
how deliciously green and fresh you've managed
to keep yourself ! Do you really mean
to tell me you still believe all that ridiculous
paternal humbug? Why, my governor
always says precisely the same things to mein
precisely the same language. If you were
to believe Sir Walter, his one aim and object
in Hfe is to make me happy. It's all for my
own sake that he stints me in money; it's
all for my own sake that he spends every
penny he ought to be generously showering
upon me, in building new cottages and mending

fences and improving the position of the
tenants generally. As if the tenants wanted
any improvement ! They prefer to pig it,
while I prefer to have my money.'

Well, Noel, I certainly did think it very
queer, after I'd taken my degree at Cambridge
and got the Arabic scholarship and
so forth, that my father didn't want me to
go out to the island. I naturally wanted to
see my old home and my father and mother,
before settling down to my business in life ;
and I wrote and told them so. But my father
wrote back, putting me off with all sorts of
made-up excuses ; it was the bad season of
the year ; there was a great deal of yellow
fever about ; he was very anxious I should
get to work at once upon my law-reading ;
he wanted me to be called to the bar as early
as possible.'

And so, just to please the old gentleman,
you left your Arabic, that you were such a
dab at, and set to work and mugged up over
Benjamin on Sales and Pollock on Mortgages
for the best years of your lifetime, when you
ought to have been shooting birds in Devonshire
or yachting with me in the Princess of
Thule off the west coast of Scotland. That's
not my theory of the way fathers ought to be
managed. I consented to become a barrister,
just to pacify Sir Walter for the moment;
but my ideas of barristers are a great deal
more elastic and generous than yours are. I'm
quite satisfied with getting my name neatly
painted over the door of some other fellow's
convenient chambers.'

Yes, yes, of course you are. But then
your case is very different. The heir to an
English baronetcy needn't trouble himself

about this future, like us ordinary mortals.
But if I didn't work hard and get on and
make money, I shouldn't ever be able to
marry — at least during my father's lifetime.'

No more should I, my dear fellow. Absolutely
impossible. A man can't marry on
seven hundred a year, you see, can he ? '

Edward laughed. 'I could,' he answered,
very easily. No doubt, you couldn't. But
then you haven't got anybody in your eye ;
while I, you know, am anxious as soon as I
can to marry Marian.'

Not got anybody in my eye ! ' Harry
Noel cried, leaning back in his chair and opening
his two hands symbolically in front of him
with an expansive gesture. ' Oh, haven't I;
just dozens of them. Only, of course, it's no
use a poor beggar like me, on seven hundred
a year, talking about getting married, or else

I'd soon take my pick out of the whole lot
of them. Why, by Jove, there was a pretty
little girl I saw last Wednesday down at the
Buckleburies — a Miss Diipuy, I think, they
called her — by the way, a countrywoman of
yours, I believe, Edward, from Trinidad ; or
was it Mauritius? one of those sugary-niggers
places or other, anyhow ; and I assure
you I fairly lost the miserable relics of my
heart to her at our first meeting. She's
going to be at the boat-race tomorrow; and
I'm a Dutchman if I don't think I'll run down
there in the dog-cart incontinently, on the
spec, of seeing her. Will you come with
me?'

'But how about that cavilling of
Walker's?'

'Oh, nonsense. Walker, Q.C., may devil
for himself, for all I care for him. Leave

him alone for once to take care of himself,
and come along with me.'

'What o'clock?'

Eleven. A reasonable hour. You don't
catch me getting up at five o'clock in the
morning and making the historical Noel nose,
which I so proudly inherit, turn blue with
cold and shivering at that time of the day,
even for the honour of the old 'varsity.
Plenty of time to turn in and get a comfortable
snooze, and yet have breakfast decently
before I drive you down tomorrow morning
in my new dog-cart.'

All right. I'll come with you, then. —
Are you going out now ? Just post that
letter for me, please, will you ? '

Noel took it and glanced at the address
half unintentionally. ' The Hon. James Hawthorn,'
he said, reading it over in a thoughtless

mechanical way and in a sort of undertone
soliloquy, ' Agualta Estate, Trinidad. —
Why, I didn't know, Teddy, this mysterious
governor of yours was actually a real hive
Honourable. What family does he belong
to, then ? '

I don't think Honourable means that out
in the colonies, you know,' Edward answered,
stirring the embers into a final flicker. ' I
fancy it's only a cheap courtesy title given
to people in the West Indies who happen to
be members of the Legislative Council.'

Legislative Council I Better and better.
My dear Ted, the governor's corny, you may
depend upon it, or else he wouldn't be admitted
into the legislature of his native
country. A man who has so much tin to
spare that he can afford to throw some of it
away in attending to the affairs of the nation

— wliicli means, after all, somebody else's
business — is certain to be corny ; absolutely
certain. Bleed him, my dear boy ; bleed him
wholesomely. As a son and a citizen, it's
your plain duty to bleed him without flinching.
Think for a moment of the force of
the example ; think how eminently undesirable
it is that governors generally should get
into the habit of skulking away in remote
corners of the uninhabitable tropics, on purpose
so as to chouse their own children out
of their proper reasonable allowances. It's
an atrocious proceeding altogether, I tell you,
and, for the sake of the whole community,
it ought to be put a stop to immediately
without any question.'

Edward paused for a minute, still seated,
and poking away nervously at the dying
embers ; then he said in a more serious voice :

'Do you know, Noel, there's a district judgeship
in Trinidad going to be filled up at once
by the Colonial Office?'

Well, my dear boy ; what of that ? I
know a promising young barrister of the
Inner Temple who isn't going to be such an
absurd fool as to take the place, even if it's
offered to him.'

On the contrary, Harry, I've sent in an
application myself for the post this very
evening.'

My dear Hawthorn, like Paul, you are
beside yourself. Much learning — of Walker
on Specific Performance — has made you mad,
I solemnly assure you. The place isn't worth
your taking.'

Nevertheless, if I can get it, Harry, I
mean to take it.'

If you can get it ! Fiddlestick ! If you

VOL. I. c

'v >

can get a place as crossing-sweeper ! My
good friend, this is simple madness. A young
man of your age, a boy, a mere child ' — they
were both the same age to a month, but
Harry Noel always assumed the airs of a
father towards his friend Hawthorn — 'who
has already been promoted to devil for
Walker, and who knows the most influential
solicitor in Chancery Lane personally — why,
it's chucking up an absolute certainty ; an
absolute certainty, and no mistake about it.
You're the best Arabic scholar in England;
it'd be worth your while stopping here, if it
comes to that, for the sake of the Arabic
Professorship alone, rather than go and live
in Trinidad. If you take my advice, my dear
fellow, you'll have nothing more to say to the
precious business.'

Well, Harry, I have two reasons for

wishing to take it. In the first place, I want
to marry Marian as early as possible ; and I
can't marry her until I can make myself a
decent income.'

Bleed him ! bleed him ! ' Harry Noel
ejaculated parenthetically, in a gentle whisper.

And in the second place,' Edward went
on, without stopping to notice the muttered
interruption, ' I want to go out as soon as I
can and see my father and mother in Trinidad.
If I get this district judgeship, I shall
be able to write and tell them positively I'm
coming, and they won't have any excuse of
any sort for putting a stopper on it any
longer.'

In other words, in order to go and spy
out the hidden wealth of the corny old
governor, you're going to chuck away the
finest opening at the English bar, and bind

c2

yourself down to a life of exile in a remote
corner of the Caribbean Sea. I believe they
call the sea the Caribbean ; but anyhow,
whether or not, it sounds awfully fine to end
a sentence with. Well, my good friend, if
you really do it, all that I can say is simply
this — you'll prove yourself the most consummate
ass in all Christendom.'

Noel, I've made my mind up ; I shall
really go there.'

Then, my dear boy, allow me to tell you,
as long as you live you will never cease to
regret it. I believe you'll repent it, before
you're done, in sackcloth and ashes.'

Edward stirred the dead fire nervously
once more for a few seconds and answered
nothing. v

Good-night, Hawthorn. You'll be ready
to start for the boat-race at ten tomorrow ? '

Good-night, Harry. I'll be ready to
start. Good-night, my dear fellow.'

Noel turned and left the room ; but
Edward Hawthorn stood still, with his bedroom
candle poised reflectively in one hand,
looking long and steadfastly with fixed eyes at
his father's and mother's photographs before
him. ' A grand-looking old man, my father,
certainly,' he said to himself, scanning the fine
broad brow and firm but tender mouth with
curious attention — ' a grand-looking old man,
without a doubt, there's no denying it. But
I wonder why on earth he doesn't want me
to go out to Trinidad? And a beautiful,
gentle, lovable old lady, if ever there was one
on this earth, my mother I '

CHAPTEE n.

You wouldn't have found two handsomer or
finer young men on the day of the boat-race,
in all London, than the two who started on
the new dog-cart, at ten o'clock, from the door
of Harry Noel's comfortable chambers in a
quaint old house in Duke Street, St. James's.
And yet they were very different in type
indeed ; as widely different as it is possible
for any two young men to be, both of whom
were quite unmistakable and undeniable
young Englishmen.

Harry Noel was heir of one of the oldest
and bluest-blooded families in all Lincolnshire

; but his face and figure were by no
means those of the typical Danes in that most
distinctively Danish of English counties. Sir
Walter, his father, was tall and fair — a bluff,
honest, hard-featured Lincolnshire man ; but
Harry himself took rather after his mother,
the famous Lady Noel, once considered the
most beautiful woman of her time in London
society. He was somewhat short and well
knit ; a very dark man, with black hair,
moustache, and beard ; and his face was
handsome with something of a southern and
fiery handsomeness, like his mother's, reminding
one at times of the purest Italian or
Castilian stocks. There was undeniable pride
about his upper hp and his eager flashing
black eye ; while his customary nonchalance
and coolness of air never completely hid the
hot and passionate southern temperament

that underlay that false exterior of Pall Mall
cynicism. A man to avoid picking a quarrel
with, certainly, was Harry Noel, of the Inner
Temple, and of Noel Hall, near Boston, Lincolnshire,
barrister-at-law.

Edward Hawthorn, on the other hand,
was tall and slight, though strongly built ; a
perfect model of the pure Anglo-saxon type
of manhood, with straight fair hair, nearer
white almost than yellow, and deep-blue eyes,
that were none the less transparently true
and earnest because of their intense and
unmixed blueness. His face was clear-cut
and delicately moulded ; and the pale and
singularly straw-coloured moustache, which
alone was allowed to hide any part of its
exquisite outline, did not prevent one from
seeing at a glance the almost faultless Greek
regularity of his perfectly calm and statuesque

features. Harry Noel's was, in short, the
kind of face that women are most Hkely to
fall in love with : Edward Hawthorn's was
the kind that an artist would rather rejoice
to paint, or that a sculptor would still more
eagerly wish to model in the perfect simplicity
of pure white marble.

Much better to go down by the road,
you know, Teddy,' Harry Noel said as they
took their seats in the new dog-cart. 'All
the cads in London are going down by rail,
of course. The whole riff-raff of our fellowman
that you're always talking about so sympathetically,
with your absurd notions, overflows
to-day from its natural reservoirs in the
third class into the upper tanks of first and
second. Impossible to travel on the line this
morning without getting one's-self jammed
and elbowed by all the tinkers and tailors.

soldiers and sailors, butchers and bakers and
candlestick makers in the whole of London.
Enough to cure even you, I should think, of
all your nonsensical rights-osman and ideal
equality business.'

'Have you ever travelled third yourself,
to see what it was really like, Harry? I
have ; and, for my part, I think the third-class
people generally rather kinder and more
unselfish at bottom than the first or second.'

My dear fellow, on your recommendation
I tried it last week ; and got such a tremendous
facer from a Radical working-man as I
never before got, and never expect to get
again, in the whole course of my earthly
existence. The creature opposite me was a
democratic Methodist, I think he called it, or
something else equally impossible, and he was
haranguing away about the wickedness of

the aristocracy, and the toiling millions, and
Lazarus and Dives, and all the rest of it ; and
at last he went on abusing me and my friends
by implication — so confoundedly, that I
really couldn't stand it any longer. "My
good sir," said I, leaning over towards him
very deferentially — for there were half a
dozen of them, all frantic revolutionists and
big hustling fellows, in the same carriage —
my good sir," said I, " do you know, all
abstract principles must of course be finally
judged, in this confessedly imperfect world of
ours, by their practical effects when actually
tested in the concrete application? Now,
there was a time in the history of the world
when these liberty, equality, fraternity notions
of yours were fairly tried in real earnest.
That time was in the French Revolution. Do
you mean to tell me you think the result of

the French Ee volution was of a sort to encourage
further experiments in the same
direction ? " And what do you suppose the
fellow answered me ? He looked up in my
face with the most profound solemnity, and
said he : " Well, and didn't we beat the
French at Waterloo ? " '

Edward laughed heartily. 'What did
you say to that ? ' he asked, with a twinkle.

'Say? My dear fellow, what on earth
could I say ? When a man gets shut up like
a telescope by a regular downright overwhelming
non sequitur like that, any answer
or repartee at all is absolutely impossible.
Besides, all the free and independent electors
in the carriage with him were perfectly delighted
to see how completely he had bowled
over the obstructive and anti-democratic
scoffer. "He ain't got nothing to sav after

that., anpvay," they all whispered to one
another, grinning and winking. I subsided
utterly into the obscurest corner ; I collapsed,
morally speaking, and was absolutely annihilated.
From this day forth, I never mean to
travel any more in third-class carriages, or to
try arguing under any provocation with the
great proletariate. Their logic is too peculiarly
perplexed for me to make my way
through it. And these are the kind of fellows
that you and your friends want to set up to
govern us and dance upon us ! It won't hold
water, my dear boy ; it won't hold water. I
never can understand a sensible sound-headed
man like you being taken in by it for a single
minute.'

Perhaps,' Edward said quietly, ' you
might have found some quite as densely
illogical fellows in others beside a third-class

carriage. — But where are you going to look
for your beautiful young lady from Trinidad
or Mauritius? You made her the
ostensible pretext, you know, for going to
the boat-race.'

'Oh, for that I trust entirely to the
chapter of accidents. She said she was going
down to see the race from somebody's lawn,
facing the river ; and I shall force my way
along the path, as far as I can get, and simply
look out for her. If we see her, I mean to
push boldly for an introduction to the somebody
unnamed who owns the lawn. Leave
the dog-cart at some inn or other down at
Putney, stroll along the river casually till
you see a beatific vision of sweet nineteen
or thereabout, walk in quietly as if the place
belonged to you, and there you are.'

They drove on to Putney through the

crowded roads, and put the dog-cart up at the
Coach and Horses, Then Harry and Edward
took to the still more crowded bank, and began
to push their way among the densely
packed masses of nondescript humanity in the
direction of Barnes Bridge.

Stand out of the way there, can't you,'
Harry Noel cried, elbowing aside a sturdy
London rough as he spoke with a dexterous
application of his gold-tipped umbrella.
Why do you get in people's way and block
the road up, my good fellow ? '

Where are you a-pushin' to ? ' the rough
answered, not without reason, crowding in
upon him sturdily in defence of his natural
rights of standing-room, and bringing his
heavy foot down plump on Harry Noel's
neatly fitting walking shoe. ' An' who are
you, I should Uke to know, a-shovin' other

people aside promiscuous like, as if you was
actually the Prince of Wales or the Took of
Edingboro ? I'd like to hear you call me a
fellow again, I should ! Fellow indeed ! A
fellow's a sheep-stealer ! '

Appears to be some confusion in the
man's mind,' Harry Noel said, pushing past
him angrily, ' between a fellow and a felon.
I haven't got an etymological dictionary
handy in my pocket, I regret to say, but I
venture to believe, my good friend, that your
philology is quite as much at fault in this
-matter as your English grammar.'

My dear Noel,' Edward Hawthorn put
in, ' please don't add insult to injury. The
man's quite within his right in objecting to
your pushing him out of a place he took up
before you came here. Possession's nine
points of the law, you know — ten in the

matter of occupancy, indeed — and surely he's
the prior occupant.'

Oh, if you're going to hold a brief for the
defendant, my dear boy, why, of course I
throw the case up; I immediately enter a
nolle 'prosequi. — Besides, there she is, Teddy.
By Jove, there she is. That's it Over
yonder on the lawn there — the very pretty
girl by the edge of the wall overhanging the
path here.'

What, the one in blue ? '

The one in blue ! Gracious Heavens, no.
Is the man mad? The one in blue, he
positively says to me ! Do you mean to say
you call her pretty ? No, no ; not B^. The
other one — the very pretty girl ; the one in
the pink dress, as fresh as a daisy. Did you
ever see anybody prettier? '

Oh-^fe^ Edward answered, looking

VOL. I. D

across at the lady in pink carelessly. ' Yes,
yes ; I see now. Pretty enough, as you say,
Harry.'

Pretty enough ! Is that all you've got
to say about her ! You block of ice ! you
lump of marble ! Why, my dear fellow, she's
absolute perfection. That's the worst, now,
of a man's being engaged. He loses his eye
entirely for female beauty. He believes
all possible human charms are exclusively
summed up in his own particular Maud or
Angelina. For my part, Ted, I go in for a
judicious eclecticism. They're all pretty alike,
while you're with them : each new one seems
the prettiest you've ever seen — till you've got
tired of her.'

What did you say her name was ? '
'Miss Dupuy. PU introduce you in a
minute.'

But, my dear Harry, where are you
going ? We don't even know the people.'

'Nothing easier, then. We'll proceed to
make their acquaintance. See what a lot of
cads climbing up and sitting on the wall
obstructing the view there ! First, seat yourself
firmly on the top the same as they do ;
then, proceed to knock off the other intruders,
as if you belonged to the party by invitation ;
finally, sip over quietly inside, and mix with
the lot exactly as if you really knew them.
There are such a precious crowd of people
inside, that nobody's ever find out you
weren't invited. I've long observed that
nobody ever does know who's who at a
garden-party, even. The father always
thinks his son knows you ; and the son
always fancies indefinitely you're particular
friends of his father and mother.'

D 2

As Harry spoke, he had already vaulted
up lightly on to the top of the wall, which
was steep and high on the side towards the
river, but stood only about two feet above
the bank on the inner side ; and Edward,
seeing nothing else to do but follow his
example, had taken with shame a convenient
seat beside him. In a minute more, Harry
was busily engaged in clearing off the other
unauthorised squatters, like an invited guest ;
and two minutes later, he had transferred his
legs to the inner side of the wall, and was
quietly identifying himself with the party of
spectators on the lawn and garden. Edward,
who was not a baronet's son, and was blessed
with less audacity in social matters than his
easy-going friend, could only admire without
wholly imitating his ready adaptive-ness.


Miss Dupuy ! How delightful ! So here
you are ! This is indeed lucky. I came down
on purpose to see you. How very fortunate
I should happen to have dropped down upon
you so unexpectedly.'

Nora Dupuy smiled a delicious smile of
frank and innocent girlish welcome, and held
out her pretty little gloved hand to Harry
half timidly. ' Why, Mr. Noel,' she said,
blushing prettily, ' 1 hadn't the very slightest
idea you knew our good friends the Addington.'


Mr. Boddington ? ' Harry Noel asked
with a marked emphasis on the dubious
Mr.

No ; Colonel Boddington, of the Bengal
Staff Corps. Why, how on earth do you
happen not to know their name even ? Have
you come here, then, with somebody ? '

Exactly,' Harry said, turning to Edward,
who was speechless with surprise. ' Allow
me to introduce him. My friend, Mr. Hawthorn,
a shining light of the Utter Bar. —
By the way, didn't you say you came from
Trinidad or Mauritius or Ceylon or somewhere
? I remember distinctly you left upon
me a general impression of tropical fragrance,
though I can't say I recollect precisely the
particular habitat.'

Nora smiled again, and blushed even more
deeply than before. ' It w^s Trinidad,' she
answered, looking down as she spoke. — ' Why,
Mr. Noel, what about it ? '

Why, my friend Hawthorn here comes
from Trinidad too, so you ought to be neighbours
; though, as he hasn't been there himself
for a great many years, I dare say you
won't know one another.'

Oh, everybody in Trinidad knows everybody
else, of course,' Nora answered, half
turning to Edward. ' It's such a little pocket
colony, you know, that we're all first-cousins
to one another through all the island. I'm
not acquainted with all the people in Trinidad
myself, naturally, because I haven't been there
since I was a baby, almost ; but my father
would be perfectly sure to know him, at any
rate, I'm confident. — What did you say your
friend's name was, Mr. Noel ? '

Hawthorn,' Edward answered quickly for
himself — ' Edward Hawthorn.'

Oh, Mr. Hawthorn,' Nora repeated reflectively.
' Let me see. Hawthorn, Hawthorn.
No ; I don't think I ever heard the name
before — connected with Trinidad, I mean ; in
fact, I'm sure not. Hawthorn, Hawthorn.
Do your people live out there still, Mr.

Hawthorn, or have they settled over in
England ? '

My father and mother are still in the
island,' Edward answered, a little uncomfortably.
' My father is Mr. James Hawthorn,
of Agualta Estate, a place at the north side of
Trinidad.'

Agualta Estate,' Nora replied, turning
the name over with herself once more dubiously,
' Agualta Estate. I've certainly heard
the name of the place, I'm sure ; but never
of your people until this minute. How very
funny.'

It's a long time since you've been in the
island, you say,' Harry Noel put in suggestively,
' and no doubt you've forgotten Mr.
Hawthorn's father's name. He must be
pretty well known in Trinidad, I should
think, for he's an Honourable, you know.

and a member of the local Legislative
Council.'

Nora looked decidedly puzzled. 'A member
of the Legislative Council,' she said in
some surprise. ' That makes it even funnier
and funnier. My papa's a member of Council
too, and he knows everybody in the place,
you know — that is to say, of course, everybody
who's anybody ; and poor mamma used
always to write me home the chastest letters,
all about everybody and everybody's wife and
daughters, and all the society gossip of the
colony ; and then I see so many Trinidad
people when they come home ; and altogether,
I really thought I knew, by name at
least, absolutely everyone in the whole
island.'

And this proves you must be mistaken,
Miss Dupuy,' Harry Noel put in carelessly;

for he was half jealous that his own special
and peculiar discovery in pretty girls should
take so much interest in Edward Hawthorn.
But anyhow, you'll know all about him
before very long, I've no doubt, for Hawthorn's
going to take a judgeship in the uttermost
parts of the earth, even Trinidad. He'll
be going out there, no doubt, from what he
tells me, in a month or so from now, the silly
fellow.'

Going out there ! ' Nora cried. ' Oh,
how nice. Why, I shall be going out, too,
in the end of June. How delightful, if we
should both happen to sail in the same
steamer together ! '

'Very,' Harry echoed, a little snappishly
' for Hawthorn. I should envy him
the voyage immensely. But you don't
mean to say, Miss Dupuy, you're really

going to bury yourself alive in the West
Indies ? '

Oh, I don't call it burying alive, Mr.
Noel ; it's perfectly delightful, I believe, from
what I remember. Summer all the year
round, and dancing, with all the doors and
windows open, from September to April.'

Gracious Heavens, which is Colonel Boddington
? ' Harry exclaimed eagerly at this
particular moment, for he saw an old
gentleman of military aspect strolling up
casually to speak to Nora. ' Point me out
my host, for mercy's sake, or else he'll
be bringing a summary action for ejectment
against us both as rogues and vagabonds.'


This is he,' Nora said, as the military
gentleman approached nearer. ' Don't you
know him.^ Perhaps I'd better introduce

you. Colonel Boddington — Mr. Noel, Mr.
Hawthorn.'

And I'd better make a clean breast of it
at once,' Harry Noel continued, smiling gracefully
with his pleasant easy smile — Edward
would have sunk bodily into the earth alive,
rather than make the ridiculous confession.
'The fact is, we're intruders into your domain,
sir — unauthorised intruders. We took
our seats on the top of your wall to watch
the race ; and when we got there, we found a
number of roughs were obstructing the view
for the ladies of your party ; and we assisted
the gentlemen of your set in clearing the
ground ; and then, as I saw my friend Miss
Dupuy was here, I made bold to jump over
and come to speak to her, feeling sure that a
previous acquaintance with her would be a
sufficient introduction into your pleasant

society here. — What a delightful place you've
got on the river here, really.'

Colonel Boddington bowed stiffly. ' Any
friend of Miss Dupuy's is quite welcome here,
I'm sure,' he said with some chilly severity. —
Did I understand j\iiss Dupuy to say your
name was Powell ? '

Noel,' Harry corrected, smiling benignly
' Noel, Noel. You may possibly know my
father, as I understand, from !Miss Dupuy,
you're a Lincolnshire man ' (this was a white-lie,
but it sufficiently served Harry's purpose)
Sir Walter Noel, of Noel Hall, near Boston,
Lincolnshire.'

Colonel Boddington unbent visibly. ' I'm
very glad of this opportunity, I'm sure, Mr.
Noel,' he said with his most gracious manner.
As I remarked before. Miss Dupuy's friends
will always be welcome with us. Since

you've dropped in so unexpectedly, perhaps
you and Mr. — I didn't catch the name — will
stop and take a Httle lunch with us. Our
friends mean to join us at lunch after the race
is over.'

Delighted, I'm sure,' Harry answered,
quite truthfully. Nothing could have pleased
him better than this opportunity. ' Here
they come — here they come ! Bound the
corner ! Cambridge heads the race, by Jove.
Cambridge, Cambridge ! ' And for five
minutes there was a fluttering of handkerchiefs
and straining of eyes and confused
sound of shouts and laughter, which left
no time for Harry or any one else to indulge
in rational conversation.

After the boats had passed out of sight,
and the company had returned to the paths
of sanity once more, Nora Dupuy turned

round to Edward and asked curiously : ' Do
you happen to know any people of the name
of Ord, Mr. Hawthorn ? '

Edward smiled as he answered : ' General
Ord's family? Oh, yes, I know them very
well indeed — quite intimately, in fact.'

Nora clapped her Httle hands in a sort of
triumph. ' Oh, how nice ! ' she said gaily.
Then you are the Mr. Hawthorn who is
engaged to dear Marian. I felt sure you
must be, the moment I heard your name.
Oh, I do so hope, then, you'll get this vacant
Trinidad appointment.'

Get it ! He'll get it as sure as fate,'
Harry said intervening. ' But why on
earth are you so anxious he should take
it?'

Why, because, then, Marian would get
married, of course, and come out with him to

live in Trinidad. Wouldn't that be just delightful
! '

If they do,' Harry said quietly, ' and if
you're going to be there, too. Miss Dupuy, I
declare I shall come out myself on purpose to
visit them.'



CHAPTER in.

Oh, Marian, do you know, I've met Mr. Hawthorn
; and what a delightful man he is ! I
quite fell in love with him myself, I assure
you ! Wasn't it absurd ? He came down
the other morning to the boat-race ; and he
and a friend of his positively jumped over the
wall, without an invitation, into old Colonel
Boddington's front garden.'

Marian took Nora's hand warmly. ' I'm
so glad you Hke Edward,' she said, kissing
her cheek and smoothing her forehead. ' I
was sure you'd like him. I've been longing
for you to come to town ever since we got

VOL. I. ' E

engaged, so that you might manage to see
him. — Well, dear, and do you think him
handsome ? '

Handsome ! Oh, Marian, awfully handsome
; and so nice, too, dear. And such a
sweet voice and manner, so grave and cultivated,
somehow. I always do like Oxford
and Cambridge men — ever so much better
than army men, Marian.'

Who had he with him at the boat-race ? '
Marian asked.

Oh, my dear, such a funny man — ^a Mr.
Noel, whom I met last week down at the
Buckleburies. Colonel Boddington says his
father's one of the greatest swells in all
Lincolnshire — a Sir Somebody Noel, or something.
And do you know, Marian, he simply
jumped over the wall, without knowing the
Addington one bit, just because he saw me

there — wasn't it dreadful of him, after only
meeting me once, too ? — and then apologised
to the old Colonel, who looked as if he would
have sunk into the ground in horror at such
an awful and unprecedented proceeding. But
the moment Mr. Noel said something or other
incidentally about his father Sir Somebody,
the Colonel became as mild as a lamb, and
asked him to lunch at once, and tried to put
him sitting right between Minnie and Adelaide
Mr. Noel managed to shuffle out of it
somehow, and got on one side of me, with
Mr. Hawthorn on the other side ; and he
talked so that he kept me laughing right
through the whole of lunch-time.'

He's awfully amusing,' Marian said with
a slight smile. — ' And I suppose you rather
Heed Mr. Noel, too, didn't you, Nora ? '

Nora shook her head energetically. * No,

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

my dear ; not my sort of man at all, really.
I certainly wasn't in the least taken with
him

Not a little bit even, Nora ? '

Nora pulled out the petals of the faded
rose she was wearing in her bosom with a
petulant gesture. ' Not even a little bit,
dear,' she answered decidedly. ' He isn't at
all the sort of man I should ever care for.
Too dark for me, by several shades, for one
thing, Marian. You know, we West Indians
never can endure these very dark people.'

But I'm dark, Nora, and you Hke me,
you know, don't you ? '

Oh, you. Yes ; that's quite another thing,
Marian. That's nothing, to be dark as you
are. Your hair and eyes and complexion
are just absolutely perfect, darling. But Mr.
Noel — well, he's a shade or two too dark forme,

anyhow ; and I don't mind saying so to
you candidly. — Mr. Hawthorn's a great deal
more my ideal of what a handsome man
ought to be. I think his eyes, his hair, and
his moustache are just simply lovely, Marian.'

Why, of course, you and he ought to
be friends,' Marian said, a natural thought
flashing suddenly across her. 'He comes
from Trinidad, just the same as you do.
How funny that the two people I've liked
best in all the world should both come from
the very same little bit of an island. I daresay
you used to know some of his people.'

That's the very funniest part of it all,
Marian. I can't recollect anything at all
about his family ; I don't even remember
ever to have heard of them from any Trinidad
people.'

Marian looked up quickly from the needlework

on which she was employed, and said
simply : ' I dare say they didn't happen to
know your family.'

Well, that's just what's odd about it,
dear,' Nora continued, pulling out her crochet.
' Everybody in Trinidad knows my
family. And Mr. Hawthorn's father's in the
Legislative Council, too, just like papa ; and
he himself has been to Cambridge, you know,
and is a barrister, and knows Arabic, and
is so awfully clever, that amusing Mr. Noel
tells me. I can't imagine how on earth it is
I've never even heard of him before.'

Well, at any rate, I'm so awfully glad
you really like him, now that you've actually
seen him, Nora. One's always so afraid that
all one's friends won't like one's future husband.'


Like him, dear ; how on earth could one

help liking him ? Why, I think he's simply
delightful. And that's so surprising, too,
because generally, you know, one's friends
will go and marry such regular horrid sticks
of men, without consulting one. I think
he's the nicest man I've ever met anywhere,
almost.'

And the exception is ? '

Put in for propriety's sake, dear, for fear
you should think I was quite too enthusiastic.
And do you know, he tells me he's going in
for a judgeship in Trinidad ; and won't it be
splendid, Marian, if he happens to get it, and
you both go out there with me, darling ? I
shall be just too delighted. Won't you, my
dearie ? '

Marian gave a little sigh. 'I shall be
very glad if he gets it in one way,' she said,
because then, of course, Edward and 1 will

be able to marry immediately ; and papa's so
very much opposed to a long engagement.'

Besides which,' Nora put in frankly,
you'd naturally Hke yourself, too, to get
married as soon as possible.'

'But then, on the other hand,' Marian
went on, smiling quietly, ' it would be a
dreadful thing going so far away from all
one's friends and relations and so forth.
Though, of course, with dear Edward to
take care of me, I wouldn't be afraid to go
anywhere.'

Of course not,' Nora said confidently.
And I shall be there, too, Marian ; and we
shall have such lovely times together. People
have no end of fun in the West Indies, you
know. Everybody says it's the most delightful
place in the world in the cool season. All
the floors are always kept polished all the

year round, without any carpets, just like the
continent, and so you can have a dance at
any moment, whenever people enough happen
to drop in together accidentally of an
evening. Mamma used to say there was no
end of gaiety ; and that she never could
endure the stiffness and unsociabihty of Eng-
Sh society, after the hospitable habits of
dear old Trinidad.'

'I hope we shall like it,' Marian said,
if Edward really succeeds in getting this
appointment. It'll be a great alleviation to
the pain of parting, certainly, if you're going
to be there too, Nora.'

Oh, my dear, you must get married at
once, then, you know, and we must arrange
somehow to go out to Trinidad together in
the same steamer. It'll be just too lovely.
I mean to have no end of fun going

out. And when you get there, of course
papal be able to introduce you and Mr.
Hawthorn to all the society in the whole
island. I call it just delightful.'

At that moment the servant entered and
announced Mr. Hawthorn.

Marian rose from her seat and went
forward to meet him. Edward had a long
official envelope in his hands, with a large
broken seal in red sealing-wax on the back,
and the important words, 'On Her Majesty's
Service,' printed in very big letters at the
lower left-hand corner. Marian trembled a
little with excitement, not unmixed with
fear, as soon as she saw it.

'Well, dearest,' Edward cried joyously,
taking her hand and kissing her once tenderly,
in spite of Nora's presence, ' it's all
right ; I've got the judgeship. And now.

Marian, we shall be able, you see, to get
married immediately.'

A woman always succeeds in doing the
most incomprehensible and unexpected thing
under all circumstances ; and Marian, hearing
now for the first time that their hearts'
desire was at last in a fair way to be accomplished,
did not clap her hands or smile
with joy, as Edward might have imagined
she would do, but fell back upon the sofa,
half faint, and burst out suddenly crying.

Edward looked at her tenderly with a
mingled look of surprise and sorrow. ' Why,
Marian, darling Marian,' he said, a little
reproachfully, ' I thought you would be so
delighted and rejoiced to hear the news,
that I almost ran the whole way to tell
you.'

So I am, Edward, ever so delighted,'

Marian answered sobbing ; ' but it's so
sudden, so very sudden.'

She'll be all right in a minute or two,
Mr. Hawthorn,' Nora said, looking up at
him with an arch smile as she held Marian's
hand in hers and bent over her to kiss her
forehead. ' She's only taken aback a little
at the suddenness of the surprise. — It's so
nice, darling, isn't it really ? And now,
Marian, we shall all be able actually to go
out to Trinidad together in the same
steamer.'

Edward's heart smote him rather at the
strange way Marian had received the news
that so greatly delighted him. It was very
natural, after all, no doubt. Every girl feels
the wrench of having to leave her father's
house and her mother and her familiar surroundings.
But still, he somehow felt

vaguely within himself that it seemed like
an evil omen for their future happiness in
the Trinidad judgeship ; and it dashed his
joy not a little at the moment when his
dearest hopes appeared just about to be so
happily and successfully realised.

CHAPTEE IV.

It was a brilliant, cloudless, tropical day at
Agualta Estate, Trinidad ; and the cocoa-nut
palms in front of the pretty, picturesque,
low-roofed bungalow were waving gracefully
in the liszt sea-breeze that blew fresh across
the open cane-pieces from the distant horizon
of the broad Atlantic. Most days, indeed,
except during the rainy season, were brilliant
enough in all conscience at beautiful Agualta :
the sun blazed all day long in a uniform
hazy-white sky, not blue, to be sure, as ina
northern climate, but bluish and cloudless ;
and the sea shone below, hazy white, in the

dim background, beyond the waving palm-trees,
and the broad-leaved bananas, and the
long stretch of bright-green cane-pieces
that sloped down in endless succession
towards the beach and the breakers.
Agualta House itself was perched. West
India fashion, on the topmost summit of a
tall and lonely rocky peak, a projecting spur
or shoulder from the main mass of the
Trinidad mountains. They chose the very
highest and most beautiful situations they
could find for their houses, those old matter-of-fact
West Indian planters, not so much
out of a taste for scenery — for their mental
horizon was for the most part bounded by
rum and sugar — but because a hill-top was
coolest and breezes, and coolness is the one
great practical desideratum in a West Indian
residence. Still, the houses that they built

on these airy heights incidentally enjoyed
the most exquisite prospects ; and Agualta
itself was no exception to the general rule
in this matter. From the front piazza you
looked down upon a green ravine, crowded
with tree-ferns and other graceful tropical
vegetation ; on either side, rocky peaks broke
the middle distance with their jagged tors
and precipitous needles ; while far away
beyond the cane-grown plain that nestled
snugly in the hollow below, the sky-line of
the Atlantic bounded the view, with a dozen
sun-smit rocky islets basking like great
floating whales upon the grey horizon. No
lovelier view in the whole of luxuriant beautiful
Trinidad than that from the creeper-covered
front piazza of the white bungalow
of old Agualta.

Through the midst of the ravine, the

little river from which the estate took its
Spanish name — curiously corrupted upon
negro lips into the form of Wagwater —
tumbled in white sheets of dashing foam
between the green foliage ' in cataract after
cataract to the sea.' Here and there, the
overruling clumps of feathery bamboo hid
its course for a hundred yards or so, as
seen from the piazza ; but every now and
again it gleamed forth, white and conspire .
vous once more, as it tumbled headlong
down its steep course over some rocky
barrier. You could trace it throughout Hke
a long line of light among all the tangled,
glossy, dark-green foliage of that wild and
overgrown tropical gully.

The Honourable James Hawthorn, owner
of Agualta, was sitting out in a cane armchair,
under the broad shadow of the great
VOL. I. F

mango-tree on the grassy terrace in front of
the piazza. A venerable grey-haired, grey-bearded
man, with a calm, clear-cut, resolute
face, the very counterpart of his son
Edward's, only grown some thirty years
older, and sterner too, and more unbending.


Mr. Dupuy's coming round this morning,
Mary,' Mr. Hawthorn said to the placid,
gentle old lady in the companion chair
beside him. ' He wants to look at some
oxen I'm going to get rid of, and he thinks,
perhaps, he'd like to buy them.'

Mr. Dupuy ! ' Mrs. Hawthorn answered,
with a slight shudder of displeasure as she
spoke. ' I really wish he wasn't coming.
I can't bear that man, somehow. He
always seems to me the worst embodiment
of the bad old days that are dead and gone,
Jamie.'

The old gentleman hummed an air to
himself reflectively. 'We mustn't be too
hard upon him, my dear,' he said after a
moment's pause, in a tone of perfect resignation.
' They were brought up in a terrible
school, those old-time slavery Trinidad folk,
and they can't help bearing the impress of
a bad system upon them to the very last
moment of their existence. I think so
meanly of them for their pride and intolerance,
.that I take care not to imitate it.
You remember what Shelley says : " Let
scorn be not repaid with scorn." That's
how I always feel, Mary, towards Mr. Dupuy
and all his fellows.'

Mrs. Hawthorn bit her lip as she
answered slowly : ' All the same, Jamie, I
wish he wasn't coming here this morning ;
and this the English mail-day, too ! We

:f2

shall get our letter from Edward by-and-by,
you know, dear. . I hate to have these
people coming breaking in upon us the
very day we want to be at home by ourselves,
to have a quiet hour alone with our
dear boy over in England.'

Here they come, at any rate, Mary,'
the old gentleman said, pointing with his hand
down the steep ravine to where a couple of
men on mountain ponies were slowly toiling
up the long zigzag path that climbed
the shoulder. ' Here they come, Theodore
Dupuy himself, and that young Tom Dupuy
as well, behind him. There's one comfort,
at any rate, in the position of Agualta — you
can never possibly be taken by surprise ;
you can always see your visitors coming
half an hour before they get here. Euxine
dear, and see about having enough for

lunch, will you, for Tom Dupuy's sure to
stop until he's had a glass of our old
Madeira.'

I dislike Tom Dupuy, I think, even
worse than his old uncle, Jamie,' the bland
old lady answered softly in her pleasant
voice, exactly as if she was saying that she
loved him dearly. ' He's a horrid young
man, so selfish and narrow-minded ; and I
hope you won't ever ask him again to come
to Agualta. I can hardly even manage to
be decently polite to him.'

The two strangers slowly wound their
way up the interminable zigzags that led
along the steep shoulders of the Agualta
peak, and emerged at last from under the
shadow of the green mango grove close
beside the grassy terrace in front of the
piazza The elder of the two, Nora's father,

was a jovial, round-faced, close-shaven man,
with a copious growth of flowing white
hair, that fell in long patriarchal locks
around his heavy neck and shoulders ; a
full-blooded, easy-going, proud face to look
at, yet not without a certain touch of gentlemanly
culture and old-fashioned courtesy.
The younger man, Tom Dupuy, his nephew,
looked exactly what he was — a born boor,
awkward in gait and lubberly in feature,
with a heavy hanging lower jaw, and a
pair of sleepy boiled fish eyes, that stared
vacantly out in sheepish wonder upon a
hopelessly dull and blank creation.

Mr. Hawthorn moved courteously to the
gate to meet them. 'It's a long pull and a
steep pull up the hill, Mr. Dupuy,' he said
as he shook hands with him. 'Let me take
your pony round to the stables. — Here, Jo ! '

to a negro boy who stood showing his white
teeth beside the gateway ; ' put up Mr.
Dupuy's horse, do you hear, my lad, and
Mr. Tom's too, will you .^ — How are you,
Mr. Tom .^ So you've come over with your
uncle as well, to see this stock I want to
sell, have you ? '

The elder Dupuy bowed politely as Mr.
Hawthorn held out his hand, and took it
with something of the dignified old West
Indian courtesy ; he had been to school at
Winchester forty years before, and the remote
result of that half-forgotten old English
training was still plainly visible even
now in a certain outer urbanity and suavity
of demeanour. But young Tom held out
his hand awkwardly like a born boor, and
dropped it again snappishly as soon as Mr.
Hawthorn had taken it, merely answering,

in a slow drawling West Indian voice, partly
caught from his own negro servants : ' Yes,
I've come over to see the stock ; we want
some oxen. Cane's good this season ; we
shall have a capital cutting.'

Is the English mail in ? ' Mr. Hawthorn
asked anxiously, as they took their seats in
the piazza to rest themselves for a while
after their ride, before proceeding to active
business. That one solitary fortnightly channel
of communication with the outer world
assumes an importance in the eyes of remote
colonists which can hardly even be comprehended
by our bustling, stay-at-home English
people.

It is,' Mr. Dupuy replied, taking the
proffered glass of Madeira from his host ashe
answered. Old-fashioned wine-drinking
hospitality still prevails largely in the West

Indies. ' I got my letters just as I was starting.
Yours will be here before long, I don't
doubt, Mr. Hawthorn. I had news, important
news in my budget this morning.
My daughter, sir, my daughter Nora, who
has been completing her education in England,
is coming out to Trinidad by the next
steamer.'

You must be delighted at the prospect
of seeing her,' Mr. Hawthorn answered with
a slight sigh. ' I only wish I were going
as soon to see my dear boy Edward.'

Mr. Dupuy's hp curled faintly as he replied
in a careless manner : ' Ah, yes, to be
sure. Your boy's in England, Mr. Hawthorn,
isn't he ? If I recollect right, you sent him
to Cambridge. — Ah, yes, I thought so, to
Cambridge. A very excellent thing for you
to do with him. If you take my advice,

my dear sir, you'll let him stop in the old
country — a much better place for him in
every way than this island.'

I mean to,' Mr. Hawthorn answered ina
low voice. ' God forbid that I should ever
be a party to bringing him out here to
Trinidad.'

'Oh, certainly not — certainly not. I quite
agree with you. Far better for him to stop
where he is, and take his chance of making
a living for himself in England. Not that
he can be at any loss in that matter either.
You must be in a position to make him very
comfortable too, Mr. Hawthorn ! Fine estate,
Agualta, and turns out a capital brand of
rum and sugar.'

'Best vacuum-pan and centrifugal in the
whole island,' Tom Dupuy put in parenthetically.
' Turned out four hundred and

thirty-four hogsheads of sugar and three
hundred and ninety puncheons of rum last
season — largest yield of any estate in the
Windward Islands, except Mount Arlington.
You don't catch me out of it in any matter
where sugar's in question, I can tell you
^^ 'But my daughter, Mr. Hawthorn,' the
elder Dupuy went on, smiling, and sipping
his Madeira in a leisurely fashion — ' my
daughter means to come out to join me
by the next steamer ; and my nephew Tom
and I are naturally looking forward to her
approaching arrival with the greatest anxiety.
A young lady in Miss Dupuy's position, I
need hardly say to you, who has been finishing
her education at a good school in England,
comes out to Trinidad under exceptionally
favourable circumstances. She will
have much here to interest her in society,

and we hope she will enjoy herself and
make herself happy.'

For my part,' Tom Diipiiy put in
brusquely, ' I don't hold at all with this sending
young women from Trinidad across the
water to get educated in England — not a bit
of it. What's the good of it ? — that's what I
always want to know — what's the good of it ?
What do they pick up there, I should like to
hear, except a lot of trumpery Radical fal-lal,
that turns their heads, and fills them brimful
of all sorts of romantic topsy-turvy notions ?
I've never been to England myself, thank
goodness, and what's more, I don't ever want
to go, that's certain. But I've known lots
of fellows that have been, and have spent a
deuce of a heap of money over their education
too, at one place or another — I don't
even know the names of 'em — and when

they've come back, so far as I could see,
they've never known a bit more about rumor
sugar than other fellows that had never
set foot for a single minute outside the island
no, nor for that matter, not so much either.
Of course, it's all very well for a person in
your son's position, Mr. Hawthorn ; that's
quite another matter. He's gone to England,
and he's going to stay there. If I were he,
I should do as he does. But what on earth
can be the use of sending a girl in my
cousin Nora's station in life over to England,
just on purpose to set her against her own
flesh and blood and her own people ? Why,
it really passes my comprehension.'

Mr. Dupuy's forehead puckered slightly
as Tom spoke, and the corners of his mouth
twitched ominously ; but he answered in a
tone of affected nonchalance : ' It's a pity.

Mr. Hawthorn, that my nephew Tom should
take this unfavourable view of an English
education, because, you see, it's our intention,
as soon as my daughter. Miss Dupuy, arrives
from England, to arrange a marriage at a
very early date between himself and his
cousin Nora. Pimento Valley, as you know, is
entailed in the male line to my nephew Tom ;
and Orange Grove is in my own disposal, to
leave, of course, to my only daughter. But
Mr. Tom Dupuy and I both think it would
be a great pity that the family estates should
be divided, and should in part pass out of the
family ; so we've arranged between us that Mr.
Tom is to marry my daughter Nora, and that
Orange Grove and Pimento Valley are to pass
together to their children's children.'

'An excellent arrangement,' Mr. Hawthorn

put in, with a slight smile. ' But suppose
— just for argument's sake — that Miss
Dupuy were not to fall in with it ? '

Mr. Dupuy's brow clouded over still more
evidently. ' Not to fall in with it ! ' he cried
excitedly, tossing off the remainder of his
Madeira — ' not to fall in with it ! — not to fall
in with it ! Why, Mr. Hawthorn, what the
dickens do you mean, sir ? Of course, if her
father bids her, she'll fall in with it immediately.
If she doesn't — why, then, by Jove,
sir, I'll just simply have to make her. She
shall marry Tom Dupuy the minute I order
her to. She should marry a one-eyed man
with a wooden leg if her father commanded
it. She shall do whatever I tell her. I'll
stand no refusing and shilly-shallying. By
George, sir, if there's a vice that I hate and

detest, it's the vice of obstinacy. I'll stand
no obstinacy, and that I can tell you.'

No obstinacy in those about you,' Mr.
Hawthorn put in suggestively.

By Jove, sir, no — not in those about me.
Other people, of course, I can't be answerable
for, though I'd like to flog every obstinate
fellow I come across, just to cure him
of his confounded temper. Oh, no ; I'll stand
no obstinacy. Why, sir, I'll tell you what I
once did with a horse of mine which had an
obstinate temper. I put him at a cactus
hedge, over in Pimento Yalley, and the brute
was afraid of the spines, and wouldn't face
it. Well, I wasn't going to stand that, of
course ; so I dug the spur into his side and
put him at it again ; and again he refused
it. I tried a third time, and a third time
the brute hesitated. That put my blood up,

and I dug the spurs in again and again, and
rode him at it full tilt till his sides were all
raw and bleeding. But still the frightened
brute was too much afraid of it ever to jump
it. " By the powers," said I, " if 1 stop here ,
all day, my friend, I'll make you jump it, or
you'll never go back again alive to your
confounded stable." Well, I put him at it
again and again for more than two hours ;
and then I saw he'd made up his mind that
he wouldn't do it. Of course, I wasn't going
to stand any such confounded obstinacy as
that ; so I got off, tied him deliberately to
the biggest cactus, whipped him until he'd
cut his legs all to pieces, dashing up against
it, and then took out my horse-pistol and
shot him dead immediately on the spot.
That's what I did with him, Mr. Hawthorn.

VOL. I. Q

Oh, no, sir ; I can't endure obstinacy — in man
^1 beast, I can't endure it.'

So it would seem,' Mr. Hawthorn replied
dryly. ' I hope sincerely. Miss Dupuy will
find the choice you have made for her a
suitable and satisfactory one.'

Suitable, sir ! Why, of course it's suitable
; and as to satisfactory, well, if I say
she's got to take him, she'll have to be
satisfied with him, willy-nilly.'

But she won't ! ' Tom Dupuy interrupted
sullenly, flicking his boot with his
short riding-whip in a vicious fashion. ' She
won't, you may take my word for it, Uncle
Theodore. I can't imagine why it is ; but
these young women who've been educated
in England, they'll never be satisfied with a.
planter for a husband. They think a gentleman
and a son of gentlemen for fifty

generations isn't a good enough match for
such fine ladies as themselves ; and they go
running off after some of these red-coated
military fellows down in the garrison over
yonder, many of whom, to my certain knowledge,
]mr. Hawthorn, are nothing more than
the sons of tailors across there in England.
I'll bet you a sovereign, Uncle Theodore,
that Nora'll refuse to so much as look at the
heir of Pimento Yalley, the minute she sees
him

'But why do you think so, Mr. Tom,'
their host put in, ' before the young lady has
even made your acquaintance ? '

'Ah, I know well enough,' Tom Dupuy
answered, with a curious leer of unintelligent
cunning. ' I know the ways and the habits
of the women. They go away over there to
England ; they get themselves crammed with

g2

French and German, and music and drawing,
and all kinds of unnecessary accomplishments.
They pick up a lot of nonsensical
new-fangled Radical notions about Am I nota
Man and a Brother ? and all that kind of
Methodyy humbug. They think an awful
lot of themselves because they can play and
sing and gabble Italian. And they despise
us West Indians, gentlemen and planters,
because we can't parley-voo all their precious
foreign Hngoes, and don't know as much as
they do about who composed Yankee Doodle.
I know them — I know them ; I know their
ways and their manners. Culture, they call
it. I call it a deuced lot of trumpery nonsense.
Why, Mr. Hawthorn, I assure you
I've known some of these fine new-fangled
English-taught young women who'd sooner
talk to a coloured doctor, as black as a common

nigger almost, just because he'd been
educated at Oxford, or Edinburgh, or somewhere,
than to me myself, the tenth Dupuy
in lineal succession at Pimento Valley.'

'Indeed,' Mr. Hawthorn answered innocently
— no other alternative phrase committing
him, as he thought, to so small an
opinion on the merits of the question. — ' But
do you know, Mr. Tom, I don't believe any
person of the Dupuy blood is very likely to
take up with these strange modern English
heresies that so much surprise you.'

'Quite true, sir,' Mr. Dupuy the elder
answered with prompt self-satisfaction, mistaking
his host's delicate tone of covert satire
for the voice of hearty concurrence and full
approval. ' You're quite right there, Mr.
Hawthorn, I'm certain. No born Dupuy of
Orange Grove would ever be taken in by any

of that silly clap-trap humanitarian rubbish.
No foolish Exeter Hall nonsense about the
fighting Dupuys, sir, I can assure you — root
and branch, not a single ounce of it. It isn't
in them, Mr. Hawthorn — it isn't in them.'

So I think,' Mr. Hawthorn answered
quietly. ' I quite agree with you — it isn't in
them.'

As he spoke, a negro servant, neatly
dressed in a cool white linen livery, entered
the piazza with a small budget of letters on
an old-fashioned Spanish silver salver. Mr.
Hawthorn took them up eagerly. 'The
English mail ! ' he said with an apologetic
look towards his two guests. ' You'll excuse
my just glancing through them, Mr. Dupuy,
won't you? I can never rest, the moment
the mail's in, until I know that my dear boy
in England is still really well and happy.'

Mr. Dupuy nodded assent with a condescending
smile ; and the master of Agualta
broke open his son's envelope nth a little
eager hasty flutter. He ran his eye hurriedly
down the first page ; and then, with a sudden
cry, he laid down the letter rapidly on the
table, and called out aloud : ' Mary, Mary ! *

Mrs. Hawthorn came out at once from
the little boudoir behind the piazza, whose
cool Venetian binds gave directly upon the
part where they were sitting.

Mary, Mary 1 ' Mr. Hawthorn cried,
utterly regardless of his two visitors' presence,
what on earth do you think has happened ?
Edward Ls coming out to us — coming out
immediately. Oh, my poor boy, my poor
boy, this is too unexpected I He's coming
out to us at once, at once, without a single
moment's warning I *

Mrs. Hawthorn took up the letter and
read it through hastily with a woman's quickness
; then she laid it down again, and looked
blankly at her trembling husband in evident
distress ; but neither of them said a single
word to one another.

The elder Dupuy was the first to break
the ominous silence. 'Not by the next
steamer, I suppose ? ' he inquired curiously.

Mr. Hawthorn nodded in reply. ' Yes,
yes ; by the next steamer.'

As he spoke, Tom Dupuy glanced at his
uncle with a meaning glance, and then went
on stoutly as ever : ' How about these cattle,
though, Mr. Hawthorn ? '

The old man looked back at him half
angrily, half contemptuously. ' Go and look
at the cattle yourself, if you like, Mr. Toms
he said haughtily. — ' Here, Jo, you take

young Mr. Dupiiy round to see those Cuban
bullocks in the grass-piece, will you ? I shall
meet your uncle at the Legislative Council on
Thursday, and then, if he likes, he can talk
over prices with me. I have something else
to do at present beside lagging and debating
over the sale of bullocks ; I must go down to
Port-of-Spain immediately, immediately — this
very minute. — You must please excuse me,
Mr. Dupuy, for my business is most important.
— Dick, Isaac, Thomas ! — some one of
you there, get Pride of Barbadoes saddled at
once, very fast, will you, and bring her round
here to me at the front-door the moment
she's ready.'

'And Tom,' the elder Dupuy whispered
to his nephew confidentially, as soon as their
host had gone back into the house to prepare
for his journey, ' I have business, too,

in Port-of-Spain, immediately. You go and
look at the bullocks if you like — that's your
department. I shall ride down the hills at
once, and into town with old Hawthorn.'

Tom looked at him with a vacant stare
of boorish intelligence. ' Why, what do
you want to go running off like that for,' he
asked, open-mouthed, ' without even waiting
to see the cattle? What the dickens does
it matter to you, I should Hke to know,
whether old Hawthorn's precious son is
coming to Trinidad or not. Uncle Theodore ? '

The uncle looked back at him with undisguised
contempt. ' Why, you fool, Tom,'
he answered quietly, ' you don't suppose I
want to let Nora come out alone all the
way from England to Trinidad in the very
same steamer with that man Hawthorn's son
Edward ? Impossible, impossible ! — Here, you

nigger fellow you, grinning over there at me
like a chattering monkey, bring my mare out
of the stable at once, sir, will you — do you
hear me, image ? — for I'm going to ride
down direct to Port-of-Spain this very minute
along with your master. Hurry up, there,
jackanapes ! '

CHAPTEE Y.

The letter from Edward that had so greatly
perturbed old Mi*. Hawthorn had been written,
of course, some twenty days before he received
it, for the mail takes about that time, as a
rule, in going from Southampton across the
Atlantic to the port of Trinidad. Edward
had already told his father of his longstanding
engagement to Marian ; but the announcement
and acceptance of the district
judgeship had been so hurried, and the date
fixed for his departure was so extremely
early, that he had only just had time by the
first mail to let his father know of his approaching

marriage, and his determination to
proceed at once to the West Indies by the
succeeding steamer. Three weeks was all
the interval allowed him by the inexorable
red-tape department of the Colonial
Office for completing his hasty preparations
for his marriage, and setting sail
to undertake his newly acquired judicial
functions.

Three weeks, my dear,' Nora cried in
despair to Marian ; ' why, you know, it can't
possibly be done ! It's simply impracticable.
Do those horrid government-office people
really imagine a girl can get together a trousseau,
and have all the bridesmaids' dresses
made, and see about the house and the breakfast,
and all that sort of thing, and get herself
comfortably married, all within a single fortnight
? They're just like all men ; they think

you can do things in less than no time. It's
absolutely preposterous.'

Perhaps,' Marian answered, ' the 
people would say they engaged
Edward to take a district judgeship, and
didn't stipulate anything about his getting
married before he went out to Trinidad to
take it.*

Oh, well, you know, if you choose to
look at it in that way, of course one can't
reasonably grumble at them for their absurd
hurrying. But still, the horrid creatures
ought to have a little consideration for a
girl's convenience. Why, we shall have to
make up our minds at once, without the least
proper deliberation, what the bridesmaids'
dresses are to be, and begin having them
cut out and the trimmings settled this very
morning. A wedding at a fortnight's notice !

I never in my life heard of such a thing. I
wonder, for my part, your mamma consents
to it. — Well, well, I shall have you to take
charge of me going out, that's one comfort ;
and I shall have my bridesmaid's dress made
so that I can wear it a little altered, and cut
square in the bodice, when I get to Trinidad,
for a best dinner dress. But it's really awfully
horrid having to make all one's preparations
for the wedding and for going out in such a
terrible unexpected hurry.'

However, in spite of Nora, the preparations
for the wedding were duly made within
the appointed fortnight, even that important
item of the bridesmaids' dresses being quickly
settled to everybody's satisfaction. Strange
that when two human beings propose entering
into a solemn contract together for the future
governance of their entire joint existence, the

thoughts of one of them, and that the one to
whom the change is most infinitely important,
should be largely taken up for some weeks
beforehand with the particular clothes she is
to wear on the morning when the contract
is publicly ratified ! Fancy the ambassador
who signs the treaty being mainly occupied
for the ten days of the preliminary negotiations
with deciding what sort of uniform and
how many orders he shall put on upon the
eventful day of the final signature !

At the end of that short hurry-scurrying
fortnight, the wedding actually took place;
and an advertisement in the Times next
morning duly announced among the list of
marriages, ' At Holy Trinity, Crompton, by
the Venerable Archdeacon Ord, uncle of the
bride, assisted by the Eev. Augustus Savile,
Bed., Edward Beresford Hawthorn, Mea.,

Barrister-at-law, of the Inner Temple, late
Fellow of St. Catherine's College, Cambridge,
and District Judge of the Westmoreland District,
Trinidad, to Marian Arbuthnot, only
daughter of General C. S. Ord, C.I.E.,
formerly of the H.E.I.C. Bengal Infantry.'
The bride's toilet,' said The Qiieen^ next
Saturday, ' consisted of white broche satin
de Lyon, draped with deep lace flounces,
caught up with orange blossoms. The veil
was of tulle, secured to the hair with a pearl
crescent and stars. The bouquet was composed
of rare exotics.' In fact, to the coarse
and undiscriminating male intelligence, the
whole attire, on which so much pains and
thought had been hurriedly bestowed, does
not appear to have differed in any respect
whatsoever from that of all the other brides
one has ever looked at during the entire

VOL. I. H

course of a reasonably long and varied lifetime.


After the wedding, however, Marian and
Edward could only afford a single week byway
of a honeymoon, in that most overrun
by brides and bridegrooms of all English
districts, the Isle of Wight, as being nearest
within call of Southampton, whence they had
to start on their long ocean voyage. The
aunt in charge was to send down Nora to
meet them at the hotel the day before the
steamer sailed ; and the General and Mrs. Ord
were to see them off, and say a long good-bye
to them on the morning of sailing.

Harry Noel, too, who had been best-man
at the wedding, for some reason most fully
known to himself, professed a vast desire to
see the last of poor Hawthorn,' before he
left for parts unknown in the Caribbean ; and

with that intent, duly presented himself at a
Southampton hotel on the day before their
final departure. It was not purely by accident,
however, either on his own part or on
Marian Hawthorn's, that when they took a
quiet walk that evening in some fields behind
the battery, he found himself a little in front
with Nora Dupuy, while the newly-married
pair, as was only proper, brought up the rear
in a conjugal tete-astute.

Miss Dupuy,' Harry said suddenly, as
they reached an open space in the fields, with
a clear view uninterrupted before them,
there's something I wish to say to you before
you leave tomorrow for Trinidad — something
a little premature, perhaps, but under the
circumstances — as you're leaving so soon — I
can't delay it. I've seen very little of you, as
yet, Miss Dupuy, and you've seen very little

H 2

of me, so I dare say I owe you some apology

for this strange precipitancy ; but Well,

you're going away at once from England ;
and I may not see you again for — for some
months ; and if I allow you to go without

having spoken to you, why '

Nora's heart throbbed violently. She
didn't care very much for Harry Noel at first
sight, to be sure ; but still, she had never till
now had a regular offer of marriage made to
her ; and every woman's heart beats naturally
I believe — when she finds herself within
measurable distance of her first offer. Besides,
Harry was the heir to a baronetcy, and
a great catch, as most girls counted ; and
even if you don't want to marry a baronet,
it's something at least to be able to say to
yourself in future, ' I refused an offer to be
Lady Noel.' Mind you, as women go, the

heir to an old baronetcy and twelve thousand
a year is not to be despised, though you may
not care a single pin about his mere personal
attractions. A great many girls who would
refuse the man upon his own merits, would
willingly say ' Yes ' at once to the title and
the income. So Nora Dupuy, who was, after
all, quite as human as most other girls — if not
rather more so — merely held her breath hard,
and tried her best to still the beating of her
wayward heart, as she answered back with
childish innocence : ' Well, Mr. Noel, in that
case, what would happen ? '

In that case, Miss Dupuy,' Harry replied,
looking at her pretty little pursed-up guileless
mouth with a hungry desire to kiss it incontinently
then and there — ' why, in that case,
I'm afraid some other man — some handsome
young Trinidad planter or other — might carry

off the prize on his own account before I had
ventured to put in my humble claim for it. —
Miss Dupuy, what's the use of beating about
the bush, when I see by your eyes you know
what I mean ? From the moment I first saw
you, I said to myself, " She's the one woman
I have ever seen whom I feel instinctively I
could worship for a lifetime." Answer me
Yes. I'm no speaker. But I love you. Will
you take me ? '

Nora twisted the tassel of her parasol
nervously between her finger and thumb fora
few seconds ; then she looked back at him
full in the face with her pretty girlish open
eyes, and answered with charming naivete —
just as if he had merely asked her whether
she would take another cup of tea : ' No,
thank you, Mr. Noel ; I don't think so.'

Harry Noel smiled with amusement — in

spite of this curt and simple rejection — at the
oddity of such a reply to such a question.
'Of course,' he said, glancing down at her
pretty little feet to hide his confusion, ' I
didn't expect you to answer me Yes at once
on so very short an acquaintance as ours has
been. I acknowledge it's dreadfully presumptuous
in me to have dared to put you a
question like that, when I know you can have
seen so very Httle in me to make me worth
the honour you'd be bestowing upon me.'

Quite so,' Nora murmured mischievously,
in a parenthetical undertone. It wasn't kind ;
I dare say it wasn't even lady-ike ; but then
you see she was really, after all, only a
school-girl.

Harry paused, half abashed for a second
at this very literal acceptance of his conventional
expression of self-depreciation. He

hardly knew whether it was worth while
continuing his suit in the face of such exceedingly
outspoken discouragement. Still, he
had something to say, and he determined to
say it. He was really very much in love with
Nora, and he wasn't going to lose his chance
outright just for the sake of what might be
nothing more than a pretty girl's provoking
coyness.

Yes,' he went on quietly, without seeming
to notice her little interruption, ' though
you haven't yet seen anything in me to care
for, I'm going to ask you, not whether you'll
give me any definite promise — it was foolish
of me to expect one on so brief an acquaintance
— but whether you'll kindly bear in mind
that I've told you I love you — yes, I said love
you ' — for Nora had dashed her little hand
aside impatiently at the word. ' And remember,

I shall still hope, until I see you again,
you may yet in future reconsider the question.
Don't make me any promise, Miss Dupuy ;
and don't repeat the answer you've already
given me ; but when you go to Trinidad, and
are admired and courted as you needs must
be, don't wholly forget that someone in
England once told you he loved you — loved
you passionately.'

'I'm not Hkely to forget it, Mr. Noel,*
Nora answered with malicious calmness ; ' because
nobody ever proposed to me before,
you know ; and one's sure not to forget one's
first osier.'

Miss Dupuy, you are making game of
me ! It isn't right of you — it isn't generous

Nora paused and looked at him again.
He was dark, but very handsome. He looked
handsomer still when he bridled up a little

It was a very nice thing to look forward to
being Lady Noel. How all the other girls at
school would have just jumped at it ! But
no ; he was too dark by half to meet her
fancy. She couldn't give him the slightest
encouragement. 'Mr. Noel,' she said, far
more seriously this time, with a little sigh of
impatience, ' believe me, I didn't really mean
to offend you. I — I like you very much ;
and I'm sure I'm very much flattered indeed
by what you've just been kind enough to say
to me. I know it's a great honour for you
to ask me to — to ask me what you have asked
me. But, you know, I don't think of you in
that light, exactly. You will understand
what I mean when I say I can't even leave
the question open. I — I have nothing to
reconsider.'

Harry waited a moment in internal reflection.

He liked her all the better because she
said No to him. He was man of the world
enough to know that ninety nine girls out of
a hundred would have jumped at once at
such an eligible offer. ' In a few months,'
he said quietly, in an abstracted fashion, ' I
shall be paying a visit out in Trinidad.'

Oh, don't, pray don't,' Nora cried hastily.
It'll be no use, Mr. Noel, no use in any way.
I've quite made up my mind ; and I never
change it. Don't come out to Trinidad, I beg
of you.'

I see,' Harry said, smiling a little bitterly.
Someone else has been beforehand with me
already. No wonder. I'm not at all surprised
at him. How could he possibly see
you and help it ? ' And he looked with unmistakable
admiration at Nora's face, aU the
prettier now for its deep blushes.

*No, Mr. Noel,' Nora answered simply.
There you are mistaken. There's nobody —
absolutely nobody. I've only just left school,
you know, and I've seen no one so far that I
care for in any way.'

In that case,' Harry Noel said, in his
decided manner, ' the quest will still be worth
pursuing. No matter what you say, Miss
Dupuy, we shall meet again — before long —
in Trinidad. A young lady who has just left
school has plenty of time still to reconsider
her determinations.'

Mr. Noel ! Please, don't ! It'll be quite
useless.'

I must, Miss Dupuy ; I can't help
myself. You will draw me after you, even
if I tried to prevent it. I believe I have
had one real passion in my life, and that
passion will act upon me like a magnet on

a needle for ever after. I shall go to
Trinidad.'

At any rate, then, you'll remember that I
gave you no encouragement, and that for meat
least, my answer is final.'

I will remember, Miss Dupuy — and I
won't believe it.'

That evening, as Marian kissed Nora goodnight
in her own bedroom at the Southampton
hotel, she asked archly : ' Well, Nora, what
did you answer him ? '

Answer who ? what ? ' Nora repeated
hastily, trying to look as if she didn't understand
the suppressed antecedent of the personal
pronoun.

My dear girl, it isn't the least use your
pretending you don't know what I mean by
it. 1 saw in your face, Nora, when Edward

and I caught you up, what it was Mr. Noel
had been saying to you. And how did you
answer him ? Tell me, Nora ! '

I told him Nos Marian, quite positively.'

Oh, Nora ! '

Yes, I did. And he said he'd follow me
out to Trinidad ; and I told him he really
needn't take the trouble, because in any case
I could never care for him.'

dear, I am so sorry. You wicked girl !
And, Nora, he's such a nice fellow too 1 and
so dreadfully in love with you ! You ought
to have taken him.'

My dear Marian ! He's so awfully black,
you know. I really believe he must positively
be a little coloured.'

CHAPTER VI.

The three weeks' difference in practical time
between England and the West Indies, due
to the mail, made the day that Edward and
Marian spent at Southampton exactly coincide
with the one when Mr. Dupuy and his nephew
Tom went up to view old Mr. Hawthorn's
cattle at Agualta Estate, Trinidad. On that
very same evening, while Nora and Harry
were walking together among the fields behind
the battery, Mr. Tom Dupuy was strolling
leisurely by himself in the cool dusk, four
thousand miles away, on one of the innumerable
shady bridle-paths that thread the endless

tangled hills above Pimento Valley. Mr.
Tom was smoking a very big Manila cheroot,
and was accompanied upon his rounds by a
huge and ferocious-looking Cuban bloodhound,
the hungry corners of whose great
greedy slobbering mouth hung down hideously
on either side in loose folds of skin of
the most bloodthirsty and sinister aspect. Ashe
went along, Tom Dupuy kept patting
affectionately from time to time his forfeited
favourite, to whom, nevertheless, every
now and again he applied, as it seemed out of
pure wantonness, the knotted lash of the
cruel dog whip which he carried jauntily in
his right hand. The dog, however, formidable
as he was, so far from resenting this
unkindly treatment, appeared to find in it
something exceedingly congenial to his own
proper barbarous nature ; for after each such

savage cut upon his bare flanks from the
knotted hide, he only cowered for a second,
and then fawned the more closely and slavishly
than ever upon his smiling master, looking up
into his face with a strange approving glance
from his dull eyes, that seemed to say :
Exactly the sort of thing I should do myself,
if you were the dog, and I were the whip-holder.'


At a bend of the path, where the road
turned suddenly aside to cross the dry bed of
a winter torrent, Tom Dupuy came upon a
clump of tall cabbage palms, hard by a low
mud-built negro-hut, overshadowed in front
by two or three huge flowering bushes of
crimson hibiscus. A tall, spare, grey-headed
negro, in a coarse sack by way of a shirt,
with his bare and sinewy arms thrust loosely
through the long slits which alone did duty

VOL. I. I

in the place of sleeve-holes, was leaning as he
passed upon a wooden post. The bloodhound,
breaking away suddenly from his master, at
sight and smell of the black skin, its natural
prey, rushed up fiercely towards the old
labourer, and leapt upon him with a savage
snarl of his big teeth, and an ominous glittering
in his great fishy glazed eyeball. But the
negro, stronger and more muscular than he
looked, instead of flinching, caught the huge
brute in his long lean arms, and flung him
from him by main force with an angry oath,
dashing his great form heavily against the
rough pathway. Quick as lightning, the dog,
leaping up again at once with diabolical
energy in its big flabby mouth, was just about
to spring once more upon his scowling opponent,
when Tom Dupuy, catching him angrily
by his leather collar, threw him down and

held him back, growing fiercely, and showing
his huge tearing teeth in a ferocious grin,
after the wonted manner of his deadly kind.
Quiet, Slot, quiet ! ' the master said, patting
his hollow forehead with affectionate admiration.
' Quiet, sir ; down this minute ! Down,
I tell you ! — He's death on niggers, Delgado
death on niggers. You should stand out
of the way, you know, when you see him
coming. Of course these dogs never can
abide the scent of you black fellows. The
bookay dJAfreek always drives a bloodhound
frantic'

The old negro drew himself up haughtily
and sternly, and stared back in the insolent
face of the slouching young white man with
a proud air of native dignity. ' Buckra
gentleman hab no right, den, to go about
wit dem dog,' he answered angrily, fixing

I 2

his piercing fiery eye on the bloodhound's
face. 'Dem dog always spring at a blackman
wherever dey find him. If you want
to keep dem, you should keep dem tied up
at de house, so as to do for watch-dog against
tievin' naygur. But you don't got no right
o bring dem about de ro-ads, loose dat way,
jumping' up at people's treats, when dem
standing' peaceable beside dem own hut here.'
Tom Dupuy laughed carelessly. ' It's
their nature, you see, Delgado,' he answered
with a pleasant smile, still holding the dog
and caressing it lovingly. ' They and their
fathers were trained long ago in slavery days
to hunt runaway niggers up in the mountains
and track them to their hiding-places, and
drag them back, alive or dead, to their lawful
masters; and of course that makes them
run naturally after the smell of a nigger, asa

terrier runs after the smell of a rat. When
the rat sees the terrier coming, he scuttles
off as hard as his legs can carry him into
his hole ; and when you see Slot's nose
turning round the corner, you ought to
scuttle off into your hut as quick as lightning,
if you want to keep your black skin
whole upon your infernal body. Slot never
can abide the smell of a nigger. — Can you,
Slot, eh, old fellow?

The negro looked at him with unconcealed
aversion. ' I is not a rat, Missal
Dupuy,' he said haughtily. ' I is gentleman
myself, same as you is, sal, when I
come here over from Africa.'

Tom Dupuy sneered openly in his very
face. ' That's the way with all you Africans,'
he answered with a laugh, as he flipped the
ash idly from his big cheroot. ' I never

knew an imported nigger yet, since I was
born, that wasn't a king in his own country.
Seems to me they must all be kings over
yonder in Congo, with never a solitary
subject to divide between them. — But I say,
my friend, what's going on over this way
to-night, that so many niggers are going up
all the time to the Methodyy chapel? Are
you going to preach 'em a missionary sermon
? '

Delgado glanced at him a trifle suspiciously.
' Dar is a prayer-meeting', sal,'
he said with a cold look in his angry eye,
up at Gilead. De bredderin wine to meet
dis evening.'

Ho, ho ; so that's it ! A prayer meeting,
is it ? Well, if I go up there, will you let
me attend it?'

Delgado's thick lip curled contemptuously.

as he answered with a frown : ' When cockroach
gib dance, him no ax fowl ! '

'Ah, I see. The fowl would eat the
cockroaches, would he ? Well, then, Louis
Delgado, I give you fair warning ; if you
don't want a white man to go and look on
at your confounded Methodyy nigger prayer-meetings,
depend upon it it's because you're
brewing some mischief or other up there
against the constituted authorities. I shall
tell my uncle to set his ponce to look well
after you. You're always a bad-blooded,
discontented, disaffected fellow, and I believe
now you're up to some of your African
devilry or other. No obeah, mind you, Delgado
— no obeah ! Prayer meetings, my good
friend, as much as you like ; but whatever
you do, no obeah.'

You think I do obeah because I don't

will let you go to prayer-meeting' ! Dat just
like white-man argument. Him think de 
can nebber be in de right. Old-time
folk has little proverb : " Mountain sheep
always guilty when jungle tiger sit to judge
him." '

Tom Dupuy laughed and nodded. ' If
the sheep in Africa are black sheep,' he
retorted clumsily, ' I dare say they're a beastly
lot of thieving trespassers. — Good-night, my
friend. — Down, Slot, down, good fellow ;
down, down, down, I tell you ! — Good-night,
Louis Delgado, and whatever you do, no
obeah ! '

The negro watched him slowly round the
corner, with a suspicious eye kept well fixed
upon the reluctant stealthy retreat of the
Cuban bloodhound ; and as soon as Tom had
Tot safely beyond earshot, he sat down in

the soft dust that formed the bare platform
outside his hut, and mumbled to himself, as
negroes will do, a loud dramatic soliloquy,
in every deep and varying tone of passion
and hatred. 'Ha, ha, Mistah Tom Dupuy,'
he began quietly, ' so you go about always
wit de Cuban bloodhound, an' you laugh
to see him spring at de troat ob de blackman
! You think dat frighten him from come
steal your cane an' your mangoes ! You think
de black man afraid ob de dog, barra !
barra ! Ha, dat frighten Trinidad naygur,
perhaps, but it don't frighten salt-water
naygur from Africa! I hab charms, I ahab
potion, I hab draught to quiet him ! I
don't afraid ob fifty bloodhound. But it
don't good for buckra gentleman to walk
about wit dog that spring at de black man.
Black man laugh to-day, perhaps, but press

him heart tight widen him. De time come
when black man will find him heart break
out, an' de hate in it flow over an' make
blood run like dry rubber in de rainy season.
Den him sweep away buckra, an' bloodhound,
an' all before him ; an' seize de
country, colour for colour. De land is black,
an' de land for de black man. When de
black man burst him heart like rubber burst
him bank in de rainy season, white man's
house snap off before him like bamboo hut
when de flood catch it ! ' As he spoke, he
pushed his hands out expansively before him,
and gurgled in his throat with fierce inarticulate
African gutturals, that seemed to recall
in some strange fashion the hollow
eddying roar and gurgle of the mountain
torrents in the rainy season.

Chicken don't nebber hub jackal, barra,'

he went on after a short pause of expectant
triumph ; ' an' naygur don't nebber hub
buckra, dat certain. But ob all de buckra
in de island ob Trinidad, dem Dupuy is de
very worst an' de very contemptfullest.
Some day, black man will rise, an' get rid ob
dem all for good an' ember. If I like, I can
kill dem all to-day; but I wine to wait.
De great an' terrible day ob de Lard is not
come yet. Missy Dupuy over in England,
where de buckra come from. England is de
white man's Africa ; de missy car to learn
him catechism. I wait till Missy Dupuy
come back before I kill de whole family.
When de great an' terrible day ob de Lard
arrive, I don't leave a single Dupuy a libbin
soul in de island ob Trinidad. Utterly destroy
de Amalekite, sait' de Lard, and spare
dem not ; but slay bot' man an' woman.

infant an' suckling, ox an' sheep, ass an'
camel. When I slay dem, I slay dem
utterly. De curse ob Saul dat spared
Aga shall nebber fall upon Louis Delgado.
I slay dem all, an' de missy wit dem, barra,
barra ! '

The last two almost inarticulate words
were uttered with a horrible yell of triumph ;
and as Louis Delgado uttered them shrilly, he
drew the fingers of his right hand with a
savage joy across his bared and upturned
neck, and accompanied that hideously significant
action with a hissing noise of his breath,
puffed out suddenly with an explosive burst
between his white and closely-pressed teeth.
After a minute he went on again; but this
time, hearing footsteps approaching, he broke
out into a loud and horrible soliloquy of exultation
in his own native African language.

It was a deep, savage sounding West Coast
dialect, full of harsh and barbaric clicks or
gutturals ; for Louis Delgado, as Tom Dupuy
had rightly said, was ' an imported African ' —
a Coromantyn, sold as a slave some thirty
years before to a Cuban slave trader trying
to break the blockade on the coast, and captured
with all her living cargo by an English
cruiser off Sombrero Island. The liberated
slaves had been landed, according to custom,
at the first British port where the cutter
touched ; and thus Louis Delgado — as he
learned to call himself — a wild African born,
from the Coromantyn seaboard, partially
Anglicised and outwardly Christianity, was
now a common West Indian plantation hand
on the two estates of Orange Grove and
Pimento Valley. There are dozens of such
semi-civilised imported negroes still to be

found under similar circumstances in everyone
of the West India islands.

As the steps gradually approached nearer,
it became plain, from the soft footfall in the
dust of the bridle-path, that it was a shoe-less
black person who was coming towards
him. In a minute more, the new-comer had
turned the corner, and displayed herself as a
young and comely negress — pretty with the
round, good-humoured African prettiness of
smooth black skin, plump cheeks, clear eyes,
and regular, even pearl-white teeth. The girl
was dressed in a loose Manchester cotton
print, brightly coloured, and not unbecoming,
with a tidy red bandana bound turban-wise
around her shapely head, but barefooted,
barelegged, and bare of arm, neck, and
shoulder. Her figure was good, as the
figure of most negresses usually is ; and she

held herself erect and upright with the
peculiar lithe gracefulness said to be induced
by the universal practice of carrying pails
of water and other burdens on the top of
the head, from the very earliest days of negro
childhood. As she approached Delgado, she
first smiled and showed all her pretty teeth,
as she uttered the customary polite salutation
of ' Martin' ! sal, martin' ! ' and then
dropped a profound curtsy with an unmistakable
air of awe and reverence.

Louis Delgado affected not to observe
the girl for a moment, and went on jabbering
loudly and fiercely to himself in his
swift and fluent African jargon. But it
was evident that his hearer was deeply impressed
at once by this rapt and prophetic
inattention of the strange negro, who spoke
with tongues to vacant space in such an

awful and intensely realistic fashion. She
paused for a while and looked at him
intently ; then, when he stopped for a second
to take breath in the midst of one of his
passionate incoherent outbursts, she came a
step nearer to him and curtsied again, at
the same time that she muttered in a rather
injured querulous treble : ' Mistah Delgado,
you no hear me, sal ? You no listen tome
? I tellin' you marine.'

The old man broke ofi' suddenly, as if
recalled to himself and common earth by
some disenchanting touch, and answered
dreamily : ' Martin', Missy Eosina. Martin',
le-lady. You wine up to Gilead now to de
prayer-meeting' ? '

Eosina, glancing down at the Bible and
hymn-book in her plump black hand,
answered demurely : ' Yes, sal, I wine car.'

Delgado shook himself vigorously, as if
in the endeavour to recover from some unearthly
trance, and went on in his more
natural manner : ' I wine up too, to pray
wit de bredderin. You want me .for something
? You calling' to me for help you ? '

Eosina dropped her voice a little as she
replied in her shrill tone : ' Dem say you
is African, IMistah Delgado. Naygur from
Africa know plenty spell for bring back
le-lady's lubber.'

Delgado nodded. ' Dem say true,' he
answered. ' Creole ^ naygur don't can make
spell same as African. Coromantyn naygur
hab plenty oracle, like de ephod ob de high-the

word Creole is much misunderstood by most English
people. In its universal West Indian sense it is applied
to any person, white, black, or mulatto, born in the West
Indies, as opposed to outsiders, European, American, or
African.

VOL. I. K

pries' dat de word ob de Lard command to
Aaron. De oracles ob Aaron descend in
right line to de chiefs ob de Coromantyn.
Stamina atindsu Koromantini marrah seaman
etchwi twa.'

The words themselves were simple
enough, being merely Fantee for, ' Here am
I, Stamina the Coromantyn, with my
thunder-stones that cool the heart ; ' but
they struck the Creole-born negress with a
certain mute awe and terror, after which
she hardly dared for a moment to open
her mouth. As soon as she found her
tongue again, she muttered softly : ' Dem
say you is great chief in your own country.'

The old man drew himself up with a
haughty air. ' Me fader,' he answered with
evident pride, ' hab twelve wives, all princess,
an' I is de eldest son ob de eldest. King

Play fight him, an' take me prisoner, an'
sell me slave, an' dat is how I come to work
now over here on Mistah Dupuy plantation.
But by birth', I is prince, an' descendant ob
Eleazar, de son ob Aaron, de high-pries'
ob Israel.'

After a pause, he asked quickly : ' Who
dis lubber dat you want spell for ? '

'Isaac Portals.'

'Pourtales! Him mulatto! What for
pretty naygur girl like you want to go an'
hub mulatto? Mulatto bad man. Old-time
folk say, mulatto always hate him fader an
despise him murder. Him fader de white
man, an' mulatto hate white ; him murder
de black girl, an' mulatto despise black.'

Eosina hung her head down slightly on
one side, and put the little finger of her
left hand with artless coyness into the

K 2

corner of her mouth. ' I don't know, sal,'
she said sheepishly after a short pause ;
but I feel somehow as if I hub Isaac
Pour tales.'

Delgado grinned a sinister grin. ' Very
well, Missy Eosy,' he said shortly, 'I gain
him hub for you. Wait here one, two, tree
minute, le-lady, while I run in find me
Bible.'

In a few seconds he came out again,
dressed in his black coat for meeting, with
a Bible and hymn-book in one hand, and a
curious volume in the other, written in
strange, twisted, twirling characters, such
as Eosina had never before in her life set
eyes on. ' See here ! ' he cried, opening it
wide before her ; ' dat is book ob spells.
Dat is African spell for gain lubber. I explain
him to you ' — and his hand turned

rapidly over several of the brown and well-thumped
pages : ' Isaac Pourtales, mulatto ;
Rosinaa Fleming, black le-lady ; dat is de
page. Hear what de spell say.' And he
ran his finger line by hne along the strange
characters, as if translating them into his
own negro English as he went. ' " Take
toot' ob alligator," same as dis one ' — and
he produced a few alligators' teeth. from his
capacious pocket ; ' " tie him up for a week
in bag wit Savannah flower an' branch of
callus ; soak him well in shark's blood "
I gib de blood to you — " den write de
name, Isaac Pourtales, in big letter on sHp
ob white paper ; drop it in de bag ; an'
burn it all together on a Friday benin',
when it don't no moon, wit fire ob manchineel
wood." Dat will gain de hub ob
your lubber, as sure as de gospel.'

The girl listened carefully to the directions,
and made Delgado repeat them three
times over to her. When she had learned
them thoroughly, she said once more :
How much I got to pay you for dis, eh,
sal ? '

Muffin.'

snuffing?'

No, muffin. But you must do me favour.
You is house servant at Orange Grove ; you
must come see me now an' den, an' tell me
what go on over in de house car.'

'What far, sal?'

Don't you ax what far ; but listen tome,
le-lady. De great an' terrible day ob
de Lard will come before long, when de
wicked will be cut off from de face ob de
part', an' we shall see de end ob de evildoer.
You read de Prophets ? '

'I read dem some time

'You read de Prophet Jeremiah, what
him say? Hear de tex'. I read him to
you. "Deliver up dear children to de
famine, an' pour out dear blood ^by de
sword." Dat de Lard's word for all de
Dupuys ; an' when de missy come from
England, de word ob de prophecy coming'
true

The girl shuddered, and opened wide
her big eyes with their great ring oi white
setting ' How you know it de Dupuys ? '
she asked hesitating, * How you know it
dem de prophet 'lupin' to ? '

How I know, Eosina Fleming ? How
I know it? Because I can expound an
interpret de Scripture ; for when de understanding'
ob de man is enlightened, de shout'
speaketh forth wonderful tings. Listen

here ; I tellin' you de true'. Before de
missy lib a year in Trinidad, de Lard will
sweep away de whole house ob de Dupuys
out ob de land for ember an ember.'

But not de missy ? ' Eosina cried
eagerly.

Ah, de missy ! You think when de
black man rise like tiger in him wrath,
him spare de missy ! No, me free'. Him
don't. wine to* spare her. Old-time
folk has proverb : " Hungry jigger no respect
de white foot ob buckra le-lady." De
Dupuys is great people now ; puffed up wit
him pride ; look down on de black man.
But dem will drop dem bluster time-by, as
soon as dear pride is taken out ob dem
wit adversity. When trouble catch bulldog,
den monkey breeches hab to fit him.'

Rosinaa turned away with a look of

terror. ' You coming' to prayer-meeting' ? *
she asked hastily. ' De bredderin will all
be waiting.'

Delgado, recalled once more to his
alternative character, pushed away the
strange volume through the door of his
hut, took up his Bible and hymn-book with
the gravest solemnity, drew himself up to
his full height, and was soon walking along
soberly by Eosina's side, as respectable
and decorous a native Methodist class leader
as one could wish to see in the whole
green island of Trinidad. ' I was glad when
day said unto me,' he murmured to himself
audibly, with an unctuous smile upon
his lank black jaws, "Let us go into de
courts ob his house." '

Those who judge superficially of men
and minds would say at once that Delgado

was a hypocrite. Those who know what
religion really means to inferior races —
a strange but sincere jumble of phrases,
emotions, superstitions, and melodies, permeating
and consecrating all their acts and
all their passions, however evil, violent, or
licentious — will recognise at once that in
his own mind Louis DeJgado was not conscious
to himself in the faintest degree of
any hypocrisy, craft, or even inconsistency.


CHAPTEE Vn.

The morning when Edward and Marian were
to start on their voyage to Trinidad, with
Nora in their charge, was a beautifully clear,
calm, and sunny one. The tiny steam-tender
that took them down Southampton Water,
from the landing-stage to the moorings where
the big ocean-going Severn lay at anchor,
ploughed her way merrily through the blue
ripplets that hardly broke the level surface.
Though it was a day of parting, nobody was
over-sad. General Ord had come down with
Marian, his face bronzed with twenty years
of India, but straight and erect still like a

hop-pole, as lie stood with his tall thin figure
The and steadfast on the little quarter-deck.
Mrs. Ord was there too, crying a little, of
course, as is only decorous on such occasions,
yet not more so than a parting always demands
from the facile eyes of female humanity.
Marian didn't cry much either ; she
felt so safe in going with Edward, and hoped
to be back so soon again on a summer visit
to her father and mother. As for Nora, Nora
was always bright as the sunshine, and could
never see anything except the bright side of
things. 'We shall take such care of dear
Marian in Trinidad, Mrs. Ord !' she said gaily.
You'll see her home again on a visit in
another twelvemonth, with more roses on her
cheek than she's got now, when she's had a
taste of our delicious West Indian mountain
air.'

And if Trinidad suits Miss Ord — Mrs.
Hawthorn, I mean — dear me, how stupid of
me I ' Harry Noel put in quietly, ' half as
well as it seems to have suited you, Miss
Dupuy, we shall have no cause to complain
of Hawthorn for having taken her out there.'

Oh, no fear of that,' Nora answered, smiling
one of her delicious childish smiles. ' You
don't know how delightful Trinidad is, Mr.
Noel ; it's really one of the most charming
places in all Christendom.'

On your recommendation, then,' Harry
answered, bowing slightly and looking at her
with eyes full of meaning, 'I shall almost
be tempted to go out some day, and see for
myself how really delightful are these poetical
tropics of yours.'

Nora blushed, and her eyes fell slightly.
You would find them very lovely, no doubt,

Mr. Noel she answered, more demurely and
in a half-timid fashion ; ' but I can't recommend
them, you know, with any confidence,
because I was such a very little girl when
I first came home to England. You had
better not come out to Trinidad merely on
the strength of my recommendation.'

Harry bowed his head again gravely.
'As you will,' he said. 'Your word is law.
And yet, perhaps, some day, I shouldn't be
surprised either if Hawthorn and Mrs. Hawthorn
were to find me dropping in upon them
unexpectedly for a scratch dinner. After all,
it's a mere nothing nowadays to run across
the millions, as the Yankees call it.'

They reached the Severn about an hour
before the time fixed for starting, and sat on
deck talking together with that curious sense of
finding nothing to say which always oppresses

one on the eve of a long parting. It seems as
though no subject of conversation sufficiently
important for the magnitude of the occasion
ever occurred to one : the mere everyday
trivialities of ordinary talk sound out of place
at such a serious moment. So, by way of
something to do, the party soon began to
institute a series of observations upon Edward
and Marian's fellow-passengers, as they came
on board, one after another, in successive
batches on the Httle tender.

Just look at that brown young man ! '
Nora cried, in a suppressed whisper, as a tall
and gentlemanly looking mulatto walked up
the gangway from the puffing tug. ' We shall
be positively overwhelmed with coloured
people, I declare ! There are three Hottentot
Senses doAvn in the saloon already, bound
for Haiti ; and a San Domingo general, as

black as your hat ; and a couple of walnut-coloured
old gentlemen going to Dominica.
And now, here's another regular brown man
coming on board to us. What's his name,
I wonder? Oh, there it is, painted as large
as life upon his portmanteau! "Dr. Whitaker,
Trinidad." Why, my dear, he's actually
going the whole way with us. And a doctor
too ! goodness gracious. Just fancy being
attended through a fever by a man of that
complexion ! '

Oh, hush, Nora ! ' Marian cried, in
genuine alarm. 'He'll overhear you, and
you'll hurt his feelings. Besides, you oughtn't
to talk so about other people, whether they
hear you or whether they don't.'

Hurt his feelings, my dear ! Oh dear no,
not a bit of it. I know them better than you
do. My dear Marian, these people haven't

got any feelings ; they've been too mticli
accustomed to be laughed at from the time
they were babies, ever to have had the
chance of acquiring any.'

Then the more shame,' Edward interrupted
gravely, ' to those who have laughed
them out of all self-respect and natural feeling.
But I don't believe, for my part, there's
anybody on earth who doesn't feel hurt at
being ridiculed.'

'Ah, that's so nice of you to think and
talk like that, Mr. Hawthorn,' Nora answered
frankly ; ' but you won't think so, you know,
I'm quite certain, after you've been a month
or two on shore over in Trinidad.'

Good-morning, ladies and gentlemen,' the
captain of the Severn put in briskly, walking
up to them as they lounged in a group on the
clean-scrubbed quarter-deck — ' good-morning,

VOL. I. L

ladies and gentlemen. Fine weather to start
on a voyage. Are you all going with us ? —
Why, bless my heart, if this isn't General
Ord ! I sailed with you, sir, fifteen years ago
now or more, must be, when I was a second
officer in the P. and 0. service. — You don't
remember me ; no, I dare say not ; I was only
a second officer then, and you sat at the
captain's table. But I remember you, sir —
I remember you. There's more folks know
Tom Fool, the proverb says, than Tom Fool
knows ; and no offence meant, General, nor
none be taken. And so you're going outwith
us now, are you? — going out with us
now ? Well, you'll sit at the captain's table
still, sir, no doubt, you and your party ; and
as I'm the captain now, you see, why, I shall
have a better chance than I used to have of
making your acquaintance.'

The captain laughed heartily as he spoke
at his own small wit ; but General Ord drew
himself up rather stiffly, and answered in a
somewhat severe tone : ' No, I'm not going
out with you this journey myself; but my
daughter, who has lately married, and her
husband here, are just setting out to their
new home over in Trinidad.'

In Trinidad,' the jolly captain echoed
heartily — ' in Trinidad ! Well, well, beautiful
island, beautiful, beautiful ! Must mind
they don't take too much mainsheet, or catch
yellow Jack, or Hve in the marshes, that's all ;
otherwise, they'll find it a delightful residence.
I took out a young sub-lieutenant, just gazetted,
last voyage but two, when they had the
yellow Jack awfully bad up at cantonments.
He was in a deadly funk of the fever all the
way, and always asking everybody questions

L 2

about it. The moment he landed, who does
he go and meet but an old Irish friend of
the family, who was going home by the return
steamer. The Irishman rushes up to him
and shakes his hand violently, and says he —
Me dear fellow," says he, " yere come in
the very nick of time. Promotion's certain ;
they're dying by thousands. Every day wan
of 'em drops off the list ; and all ye're got todo
is to hould yer head up, keep from drinking
any brandy, and don't be frightened ; and,
be George, ye'll rise in no time as fast as I
have ; and I'm going home this morning a
colonel'"

The General shuddered slightly. ' Not a
pleasant introduction to the country certainly,'
he answered in his driest manner.
'but I suppose Trinidad's fairly healthy at
present ? '

Healthy ! "Well, yes, well enough as the
tropics go, General. — But don't you be afraid
of your young people. With health and
strength, they'll pull through decently, not a
doubt of it. — let me see — let me see ; I must
secure 'em a place at my own table. We've
got rather an odd lot of passengers this time,
mostly ; a good many of 'em have got a very
decided touch o' the tar-brush about 'em — a
touch o' the tar-brush. There's that woolly-headed
nigger fellow over there who's just
come aboard ; he's going to Trinidad too ;
he's a doctor, he is. We mustn't let your
people get mixed up with all that lot, of
course ; I'll keep 'em a place nice and snug at
my own table.'

Thank you,' the General said, rather more
graciously than before. — ' This is my daughter,
Captain, Mrs. Hawthorn. And this is my son-in

law, Mr. Edward Hawthorn, who's going
out to accept a district judgeship over yonder
in Trinidad.'

Ha ! ' the jovial captain answered in his
bluff voice, dofSng his hat sailor-fashion to
Marian and Edward. ' Going to hang up the
niggers out in Trinidad, are you, sir ? Going
to hang up the niggers ! Well, well, they
deserve it all, every man Jack of 'em, the lazy
beggars ; they all deserve hanging. A pestering
set of idle, thieving, hulking vagabonds,
as ever came around to coal a ship in harbour
! I'd judge 'em, I would — i'd judge em."
And the captain automatically expressed
the exact nature of his judicial sentiments by
pressing his own stout bull-neck, just across
the windpipe, with his sturdy right hand, till
his red and sunburnt face grew even redder
and redder with the suggested suspension.

\
\

\
\

Edward smiled quietly, but answered
nothing.

Well, sir,' the captain went on as soon ashe
had recovered fully from the temporary
effects of his self-inflicted strangulation, ' and
have you ever been in the West Indies before,
or is this your first visit ? '

'I was born there,' Edward answered.

I'm a Trinidad man by birth ; but I've lived
80 long in England, and went there so young,
that I don't really recollect very much about
my native country.

Mr. Hawthorn's father you may know byname,'
the General said, a Httle attentively.

He's a son of the Honourable James Hawthorn,
of Agualta Estate, Trinidad.'

The captain drew back for a moment with
a curious look, and scanned Edward closely
from head to foot with a remarkably frank

and maritime scrutiny ; then lie whistled low
to himself for a few seconds, and seemed to be
ruminating inwardly upon some very amusing
and unusual circumstance. At last he answered
slowly, in a more reserved and somewhat embarrassed
tone : ' Oh, yes, I know Mr. Hawthorn
of Agualta — know him personally ; well-known
man, Mr. Hawthorn of Agualta. Member of
the Legislative Council of the island. Fine
estate, Agualta — very fine estate indeed, and
has one of the largest out-puts of rum and
sugar anywhere in the whole West Indies.'

'I told you so,' Harry Noel murmured
parenthetically. 'The governor is corny.
They're all alike, the whole breed of them.
Secretiveness large, acquisitiveness enormous,
benevolence and generosity absolutely undeveloped.
When you get to Trinidad, my dear
Teddy, bleed him, bleed him ! '

'Well, well, Mrs. Hawthorn,' the captain
said gallantly to Marian, who stood by rather
wondering what his sudden change of demeanour
could possibly portend, ' you shall have
a seat at my table — certainly, certainly ; you
shall have a seat at my table. The General's
an old passenger of mine on the P. and 0. ;
and I've known Mr. Hawthorn of Agualta
Estate ever since I first came upon the West
India hers. — And the young lady, is she
going too ? ' For Captain Bedford, like most
others of his craft, had a quick eye for pretty
faces, and he had not been long in picking out
and noticing Nora's.

'This is Miss Dupuy, of Orange Grove,'
Marian said, drawing her young companion a
little forward. ' Perhaps you know her father
too, as you've been going so long to the
island.'

'What! a daughter of Mr. Theodore
Dupuy, of Orange Grove and Pimento Yalley,*
the captain replied briskly. 'Mr. Theodore
Dupuy 's daughter ! Lord bless my soul, Mr.
Theodore Dupuy ! Oh, yes, don't I just know
him ! Why, Mr. Dupuy 's one of the most
respected and well-known gentlemen in the
whole island. Been settled at Orange Grove,
the Dupuys have, ever since the old Spanish
occupation. — And so you're taking out Mr.
Theodore Dupuy's daughter, are you, Mrs
Hawthorns Well, well! Taking out Mr.
Theodore Dupuy's daughter. That's a capital
joke, that is. — Oh, yes, you must all sit at the
head of my table, ladies ; and I'll do everything
that les in my power to make you
comfortable.'

Meanwhile, Edward and Harry Noel had
strolled off for a minute towards the opposite

end of the deck, where the mulatto gentleman
was standing quite alone, looking down
steadily into the deep-blue motionless water.
As the captain moved away, Nora Dupuy
gave a little start, and caught Marian Hawthorn's
arm excitedly and suddenly. ' Look
there!' she cried — 'Oh, look there, Marian!
Do you see Mr. Hawthorn ? Do you see what
he's doing ? That brown man over there, with
the name on the portmanteau, has turned
round and spoken to him, and Mr. Hawthorn's
actually held out his hand and is shaking
hands with him ! '

Well.' Marian answered in some surprise,
I see he is. Why not ? '

Why not ? My dear, how can you ask
me such a question ! Why, of course, because
the man's a regular mulatto — a coloured
person.'

Marian laughed. ' Really, dear,' she
answered, more amused than angry, ' you
mustn't be so entirely filled up with
your foolish little West Indian prejudices.
The young man's a doctor, and no doubt a
gentleman in education and breeding, and I
can't for my part for the life of me see why
one shouldn't shake hands with him as well
as with any other respectable person.'

Oh, but Marian, you know — a brown
man ! — his father and mother ! — the associations
— no, really ! '

Marian smiled again. 'They're coming
this way,' she said ; ' we shall soon hear what
they're talking about. Perhaps he knows
something about your people, or Edward's.'

Nora looked up quite defiant. 'About
my people, Marian ! ' she said almost angrily.
Why, what can you be thinking of! You

don't suppose, do you, that my people are
in the habit of mixing casually with woolly-headed
mulattoes ? '

She had hardly uttered the harsh words,
when the mulatto gentleman walked over
towards them side by side with Edward
Hawthorn, and lifted his hat courteously to
Marian.

My wife,' Edward t^aid, as Marian bowed
slightly in return : ' Dr. Whitaker.'

'I saw your husband's name upon his
boxes, Mrs. Hawthorn,' the mulatto gentleman
said with a pleasant smile, and in a soft,
clear, cultivated voice ; ' and as my father
has the privilege of knowing Mr. Hawthorn
of Agualta, over in Trinidad, I took the
liberty of introducing myself at once to him.
I'm glad to hear that we're to be fellow-passengers
together, and that your husband has

really decided to return at last to his native
island.'

Thank you,' Marian answered simply,
We're all looking forward much to our life
in Trinidad.' Then, with a little mischievous
twinkle in her eye, she turned to Nora.
This is another of our fellow-passengers,
Dr. Whitaker,' she said demurely — ' my
friend, Miss Dupuy, whom I'm taking out
under my charge — another Trinitarian : you
ought to know one another. Miss Dupuy's
father lives at an estate called Orange Grove
isn't it, Nora?'

The mulatto doctor lifted his hat again,
and bowed with marked politeness to the
blushing white girl. For a second, their
eyes met. Dr. Whitaker's looked at the
beautiful half-childish face with unmistakable
instantaneous admiration. Nora's flashed

a little angrily, and her nostrils dilated with
a proud quiver ; but she said never a word ;
she merely gave a chilly bow, and didn't
attempt even to offer her pretty little gloved
hand to the brown stranger.

I have heard of Miss Dupuy's family
by name,' the mulatto answered, speaking
to Marian, but looking askance at the same
time toward the petulant Nora. ' Mr. Dupuy
of Orange Grove is well known throughout
the island. I'm glad that we're going to
have so much delightful Trinidad society on
our outward passage.'

Thank him for nothing,' Nora murmured
aside to Harry Noel, moving away as she
spoke towards Mrs. Ord at the other end
of the vessel. ' What impertinence ! Marian
ought to have known better than to introduce
me to him.'

It's a pity you don't like the coloured
gentleman,' Harry Noel put in provokingly.
'The appreciation is unfortunately not mutual,
it seems. He appeared to me to be
very much struck with you at first sight,
Miss Dupuy, to judge by his manner.'

Nora turned towards him with a sudden
fierceness and haughtiness that fairly surprised
the easy-going young barrister. ' Mr.
Noel,' she said in a tone of angry but suppressed
indignation, ' how dare you speak tome
so about that negro fellow, sir — how dare
you? How dare you mention him and mein
the same breath together ? How dare you
presume to joke with me on such a subject ?
Don't speak to me again, pray. You don't
know what we West Indians are, or you'd
never have ventured to utter such a speech
as that to any woman with a single

drop of West Indian blood in her whole
body.'

Harry bowed silently and bit his lip ;
then, without another word, he moved back
slowly toward the other group, and allowed
Nora to join Mrs. Ord by the door of the
companion-ladder.

In twenty minutes more, the first warning
bell rang for those who were going ashore
to get ready for their departure. There was
the usual hurried leave-taking on every side ;
there was the usual amount of shedding of
tears ; there was the usual shouting, and
bawling, and snorting, and puffing ; and there
was the usual calm indifference of the ship's
officers, moving up and down through all
the tearful valedictory groups, as through
an ordinary incident of humanity, experienced
regularly every six weeks of a whole

VOL. I H

lifetime. As Marian and her mother
were taking their last farewells, Harry
Noel ventured once more timidly to approach
Nora Dupuy, and address a few
parting words to her in a low undertone.


I'm sorry I offended you unintentionally
just now, Miss Dupuy,' he said quietly. ' I
thought the best apology I could offer at the
moment was to say nothing just then in
exculpation. But I really didn't mean to
hurt your feelings, and I hope we still part
friends.'

Nora held out her small hand to him a
trifle reluctantly. ' As you have the grace
to apologise,' she said, 'I shall overlook it.
Yes, we part friends, Mr. Noel ; I have no
reason to part otherwise.'

Then there's no chance for me ? ' Harry

asked in a low tone, looking straight into her
eyes with a searching glance.

No chance,' Nora echoed, dropping her
eyes suddenly, but speaking very decidedly.
You must go now, Mr. Noel ; the second
bell's ringing.'

Harry took her hand once more, and
pressed it faintly. ' Good-bye, Miss Dupuy,'
he said — ' good-bye — for the present. I daresay
we shall meet again before long, some
day — in Trinidad.'

'Oh, no ! ' Nora cried in a low voice, ashe
turned to leave her. ' Don't do that,
Mr. Noel ; don't come out to Trinidad. I
told you it'd be quite useless.'

Harry laughed one of his most teasing
laughs. ' My father has property in the
West Indies, ]\Iiss Dupuy,' he answered in his
usual voice of light badinage, paying her out

M 2

in her own coin ; ' and I shall probably come
over some day to see how the niggers are
getting on upon it — that was all I meant.
Good-bye — good-bye to you.'

But his eyes belied what he said, and
Nora knew they did as she saw him look
back a last farewell from the deck of the
retreating little tender.

Any more for the shore — any more for
the shore? ' cried the big sailor who rang the
bell. ' No more. — Then shove off, capon' — to
the skipper of the tug-boat.

In another minute the great anchor was
heaved, and the big screw began to revolve
slowly through the sluggish water. Next
moment, the ship moved from her moorings
and was fairly under weigh. Just as she
moved, a boat with a telegraph-boy on board
rowed up rapidly to her side, and a voice

from the boat shouted aloud in a sailor's
bass : ' Severn ahoy ! '

'Ahoy! ' answered the ship's officer.

Passenger aboard by the name of Hawthorn
? We've got a telegram for him.'

Edward rushed quickly to the ship's side,
and answered in his loudest voice : ' Yes.
Here I am.'

Passenger aboard by the name of Miss
Dupuy ? We've got a telegram for her.'

This is she,' Edward answered. ' How
can we get them ? '

Lower a bucket,' the ship's officer
shouted to a sailor. — ' You can put 'em in
that, boy, can't you ? '

The men in the boat caught the bucket,
and fastened in the letters rudely with a
stone taken from the ballast at the bottom.
The screw still continued to revolve as the

sailors drew up the bucket hastily. A little
water got over the side and wet the telegrams ;
but they were both still perfectly legible.
Edward unfolded his in wondering silence,
while Marian looked tremulously over his
right shoulder. It contained just these few
short words :

From Hawthorn, Trinidad, to Hawthorn,
E.^.S. Severn, Southampton. — For God's sake,
don't come out. Reasons by letter.'

Marian gazed at it for a moment in speechless
surprise ; then she turned, pale and white,
to ^ler husband beside her. ' Oh, Edward,' she
creed, looking up at him with a face of terror,
what on earth can it mean ? What on earth
can they wish us not to come out for ? '

Edward held the telegram open before his
eyes, gazing at it blankly in inexpressible
astonishment. ' My daring,' he said, ' my

own darling, I haven't the very remotest
notion. I can't imagine why on earth they
should ever wish to keep us away from them.'

At the same moment, Nora held her own
telegram out to Marian with a little laugh of
surprise and amusement. Marian glanced at
it and read it hastily. It ran as follows :

From DuPUY, Trinidad to Miss Dupuy,
E.M.S. Severn Southampton. — Don't come out
till next steamer. On no account go on board
the Severn'

CHAPTEE YIIL

For a few minutes they stood looking blankly
at one another in mute astonishment, turning
over and comparing the two telegrams together
with undecided minds ; then at last
Nora broke the silence. ' I tell you what it
is.' she said, with an air of profound wisdom ;
they must have got an epidemic of yellow
fever in Trinidad — they're always having it,
you know, and nobody minds it, unless of
course they die of it, and even then I dare say
they don't think much about it. But papa
and Mr. Hawthorn must be afraid that if we
come out now, fresh from England, we may
all of us get it.'

Edward looked once more at the telegrams
very dubiously. ' I don't think that'll
do, ]Miss Dupuy,' he said, after re-reading
them with a legal scrutiny. ' You see, your
father says : "On no account go on board the
Severn Evidently, it's this particular ship
he has an objection to ; and perhaps my
father's objection may be exactly the same.
It's very singular — very mysterious ! '

Do you think,' Marian suggested, ' there
can be anything wrong with the vessel or
the machinery? You know, they do say,
Edward, that some ship-owners send ships to
sea that aren't at all safe or seaworthy. I
read such a dreadful article about it a little
while ago in one of the papers. Perhaps
they think the Severn may go to the bottom.'


Or else that there's dynamite on board,'

Nora put in ; 'or a clockwork thing like the
one somebody was going to blow up that
steamer with at Hamburg, once, you remember
! Oh, my dear, the bare idea of it makes
me quite shudder ! Fancy being blown out
of your berth, at dead of night, into the
nasty cold stormy water, and having a shark
bite you in two across the waist before you
were really well awake, and had begun properly
to realise the situation ! '

Not very likely, either of them,' Edward
said. ' This is a new ship, one of the very
best on the line, and perfectly safe, except of
course in a hurricane, when anything on earth
is liable to go down ; so that can't possibly be
Mr. Dupuy's objection to the Severn. — And as
to the clockwork, you know, Nora, the people
who put those things on board steamers, if
there are any, don't telegraph out to give

warning beforehand to the friends of passengers
on the other side of the Atlantic. No ;
for my part, I can't at all understand it. Ita
perfect mystery to me, and I give it up
entirely.'

Well, what do you mean to do, dear ? '
Marian asked anxiously. ' Go back at once,
or go on in spite of it ? '

I don't think there's any choice left us
now, darling. The ship's fairly under weigh,
you see ; and nothing on earth would induce
them to stop her, once she's started, till we
get to Trinidad, or at least to St. Thomas.'

You don't mean to say, Mr. Hawthorn,'
Nora cried piteously, ' they'll carry us on now
to the end of the journey, whether we want
to stop or whether we don't ? '

Yes, I do. Miss Dupuy. They will, most
certainly. I suspect they've got no voice

themselves in the matter. A mail-steamer is
under contract to sail from a given port on
a given day, and not to stop for anything
on earth, except fire or stress of weather, till
she lands the mails safely on the other side,
according to agreement.'

Well, that's a blessing anyhow ! ' Nora
said resignedly ; ' because, if so, it saves us
the trouble of thinking anything more about
the matter ; and papa can't be angry with me
for having sailed, if the captain refuses to
send us back, now we've once fairly started.
Indeed, for my part, I'm very glad of it, to
tell you the truth, because it would have
been such a horrid nuisance to have to goon
shore again and unpack all one's things
just for a fortnight, after all the fuss and
hurry we've had already about getting them
finished. What a pity the bothering old telegrams

came at all to keep us in suspense the
whole way over ! '

But suppose there is some dynamite onboard,'
Marian suggested timidly. ' Don't
you think, Edward, you'd better go and ask
the captain ? '

I'll go and ask the captain, by all means,
if that's any relief to you,' Edward answered ;
but I don't think it likely he can throw any
particular light of his own upon the reason
of the telegrams.'

The captain, being shortly found on the
bridge, came down at his leisure and inspected
the messages ; hummed and hawed a
little dubiously ; smiled to himself with much
good-humour ; said it was a confoundedly
odd coincidence ; and looked somehow as
though he saw the meaning of the two telegrams
at once, but wasn't anxious to impart

his knowledge to any inquiring third party.
Yellow fever ! ' he said, shrugging his shoulders
sailor-wise, when Edward mentioned
Nora's first suggestion. ' No, no ; don't you
believe it. Ain't yellow fever. Why, nobody
who lives in the West Indies ever thinks
anything of that, bless you. Besides, you
wouldn't get it ; don't you trouble your head
about it. You ain't the sort or the build
to get it. Men of your temperament never
do ketch yellow fever — it don't affect 'em.
No, no ; it ain't that, you take my word
for it.'

Marian gently hinted at unhealthiness ;
but at this the good captain laughed her
quite unceremoniously in the face. ' Go
down ! ' he cried — * go down, indeed ! I'd
like to see the hurricane that'd send the
Severn spinning to the bottom. No, no ; we

may get hurricanes, of course — though this
isn't the month for them. The rhyme says :
June — too soon ; July — stand by ; Au-gust,
you must ; September — remember ; October
all over." Still, in the course of nature
we're Hkely enough to have some ugly
weather — a capful of wind or so, I mean —
nothing to speak of, for a ship of her tonnage.
But I'll bet you a bottle of champagne
the hurricane's not alive that'll ever
send the Severn to the bottom, and I'll pay
it you (if I lose) at the first port the lifeboat
puts into after the accident. — Dynamite !
clockwork ! that's all gammon, my dear
ma'am, that is ! The ship's as good a ship
as ever sailed the Bay o' Biscay, and there's
nothing aboard her more explosive than the
bottle of champagne I hope you'll drink this
evening for dinner.'

Then we can't be put out ? ' Xora asked,
with her most beseeching smile.

My clear lady, not if I knew you were
the Queen of England. Once we're off, we're
off in earnest, and nothing on earth can ever
stop us till we get safely across to St. Thomas
—the hand of God, the perils of the sea, and
the Queen's enemies alone excepted,' the captain
added, quoting ^vith a smile the stereotyped
formula of the bills of lading.

What do you think the telegram means,
then ? ' Xora asked again, a little relieved by
this confident assurance.

The captain once more hummed and
hawed, and bit his nails, and looked very
awkward. ' Well,' he said slowly, after a
minute's internal debate, ' perhaps — perhaps
the niggers over yonder may be getting
troublesome, you know ; and your family may

think it an inopportune time for you or Mr.
and Mrs. Hawthorn to visit the colony. — All
right, Jones, I'm coming in a minute. — You
must excuse me, ladies. In sight of land, a
capon ought always to be at his post on the
bridge. See you at dinner. — Good-coming.
good-morning.'

• It seems to me, Edward,' Marian said, ashe
retreated opportunely, ' the captain knows
a good deal more about it than he wants t4j
tell us. He was trying to hide something
from us ; I'm quite sure he was. — aren't you,
Nora ? I do hope there's nothing wrong with
the steamer or the machinery ! '

•I didn't notice anything peculiar about
him myself Edward answered, with a little
hesitation. • However, it's certainly very
singular. But as we've got to go on, we mayas
well go on as confidently as possible, and

VOL. I, Ifs

think as little as we can about it. The
mystery will all be cleared up as soon as we
get across to Trinidad.'

If we ever get there ! ' Nora said, half-jesting
and half in earnest.

As she spoke, Dr. Whitaker the mulatto
passed close by, pacing up and down the
quarter-deck for exercise, to get his sea-legs ;
and as he passed her, he turned his eyes once
more mutely upon her with that rapid, timid,
quickly shifting glance, the exact opposite of
a stare, which yet speaks more certainly than
anything else can do an instinctive admiration.
Nora's face flushed again, at least as
much with annoyance as with self-consciousness.
' That horrid man ! ' she cried petulantly,
with a little angry dash of her hand,
almost before he was well out of earshot.
How on earth can he have the impertinence

to go and look at me in that way, I
wonder ! '

Oh, don't, dear ! ' Marian whispered,
genuinely alarmed lest the mulatto should
overhear her. 'You oughtn't to speak like
that, you know. Of course one feels at once
a sort of natural shrinking from black people
one can't help that, I know — it seems to be
innate in one. But one oughtn't to let them
see it themselves, at any rate. Respect their
feelings, Nora; do, dear, for my sake, I beg of
you.'

Oh, it's all very well for you, Marian,'
Nora answered, quite aloud, and strumming
on the deck with her parasol ; ' but for my
part, you know, if there's anything on earth
that I can't endure, it's a brown man.'

ir 2

CHAPTEE IX

All the way across to St. Thomas, endless
speculations as to the meaning of the two
mysterious telegrams afforded the three
passengers chiefly concerned an unusual fund
of conversation and plot-interest for an entire
voyage. Still, after a while the subject palled a
little ; and on the second evening out, in calm
and beautiful summer twilight weather, they
were all sitting in their own folding-chairs on
the after-deck, positively free from any doubts
or guesses upon the important question, and
solely engaged in making the acquaintance of
their fellow-passengers By-and-by, as the

shades began to close in, there was a Httle
sound of persuasive language — as when one
asks a young lady to sing — at the stern end
of the swiftly moving vessel ; and then, in a
few minutes, somebody in the dusk took a
small violin out of a wooden case and began
to play a piece of Spohr's. The ladies turned
around their chairs to face the musician, and
listened carelessly as he went through the preliminary
scraping and twanging which seems
to be inseparable from the very nature of the
violin as an instrument. Presently, having
tightened the pegs to his own perfect satisfaction,
the player began to draw his bow rapidly
and surely across the strings with the unerring
confidence of a practised performer. In two
minutes, the hum of conversation had ceased
on deck, and all the world of the Severn was
bending forward its head eagerly to catch the

liquid notes that floated with such delicious
clearness upon the quiet breathless evening
air. Instinctively everybody recognised at
once the obvious fact that the man in the
stern to whom they were all listening was an
accomplished and admirable violin-player.

Just at first, the thing that Marian and
Nora noticed most in the stranger's playing
was his extraordinary brilliancy and certainty
of execution. He was a perfect master of the
technique oi his instrument, that was evident.
But after a few minutes more, they began to
perceive that he was something much more
than merely that ; he played not only with
consummate skill, but also with infinite
grace, insight, and tenderness. As they
listened, they could feel the man outpouring
his whole soul in the exquisite modulations of
his passionate music : it was not any cold.

well-drilled, mechanical accuracy of touch
alone ; it was the loving hand of a born
musician, wholly in harmony with the master
he interpreted, the work he realised, and the
strings on which he gave it vocal utterance.
As he finished the piece, Edward whispered
in a hushed voice to Nora : ' He plays beautifully.'
And Nora answered with a sudden
burst of womanly enthusiasm : ' More than
beautifully — exquisitely, divinely.'

You'll sing us something, won't you ? ' —
Oh, do sing us something ! ' — 'Monsieur will
not refuse us ! ' — ' Ah, senor, it is such a great
pleasure.' So a little babel of two or three
languages urged at once upon the unknown
figure silhouetted dark at the stern of the
steamer against the paling sunset ; and after
a short pause, the unknown figure complied
graciously, bowing its acknowledgments to

the surrounding company, and burst out into
a song in a glorious rich tenor voice, almost the
finest Nora and Marian had ever Hstened to.

English ! ' Nora whispered in a soft tone,
as the first words fell upon their ears distinctly,
uttered without any mouthing in a
plain unmistakable native tone. 'I'm quite
surprised at it ! I made up my mind, from
the intense sort of way he played the violin,
that he must be a Spaniard or an Italian, or
at least a South American. English people
seldom play with all that depth and earnestness
and fervour.'

'Hush, hush!' Marian answered under her
breath. 'Don't talk while he's singing, please,
Nora — it's too delicious.'

They listened till the song was quite
finished, and the last echo of that magnificent
voice had died away upon the surface of the
still, moonlit waters ; and then Nora said

eagerly to Edward : ' Oh, do find out who he
is, Mr. Hawthorn ! Do go and get to know
him ! I want to be introduced to him !
What a glorious singer ! and what a splendid
violinist ! I never in my life heard anything
lovelier, even at the opera.'

Edward smiled, and dived at once into the
Utile crowd at the end of the quarter-deck, in
search of the unknown and nameless musician.
Nora waited impatiently in her seat to
see who the mysterious personage could be.
In a few seconds, Edward came back again,
bringing with him the admired performer.
Miss Dupuy was so very anxious to make
your acquaintance,' he said, as he drew the
supposed stranger forward, ' on the strength
of your beautiful playing and singing. — You
see. Miss Dupuy, it's a fellow passenger to
whom we've already introduced ourselves —
Dr. Whitaker.'

Nora drew back almost imperceptibly at
this sudden revelation. In the dusk and from
a little distance, she had not recognised their
acquaintance of yesterday. But it was indeed
the mulatto doctor. However, now she was
fairly trapped ; and having thus let herself in
for the young man's society for that particular
evening, she had good sense and
good feeling enough not to let him see,
at least too obtrusively, that she did not
desire the pleasure of his further acquaintance
To be sure, she spoke as little and as
coldly as she could to him, in such ordinary
phrases of polite admiration as she felt were
called for under these painful circumstances ;
but she tried to temper her enthusiasm down
to the proper point of chilliness for a clever
and well taught mulatto fiddler. (He had
been a ' marvellous violinist ' in her own mind

five minutes before ; but as he turned out to
be of brown blood, she felt now that ' clever
fiddler ' was quite good enough for the altered
occasion.)

Dr. Whitaker, however, remained in
happy unconsciousness of Xora's sudden
change of attitude. He drew over a campstool
from near the gunwale, and seated himself
upon it just in front of the little group in
their folding ship-chairs. ' I'm so glad you
like my playing. Miss Dupuy,' he said quietly,
turning towards Nora. ' Music always
sounds at its best on the water in the evening.
And that's such a lovely piece — my pet piece
so much feeling and pathos and delicate
melody in it. Not like most of Spohr : a very
unusual work for him ; he's so often wanting,
you know, in the sense of melody.

You play charmingly,' Nora answered, ina

languid chilly voice. 'Your song and your
playing have given us a great treat, I'm
sure, Dr. Whitaker.'

Where have you studied ? ' Marian asked
hastily, feeling that Nora wasn't showing so
deep an interest in the subject as was naturally
expected of her. ' Have you taken
lessons in Germany or Italy ? '

A few,' the mulatto doctor replied with a
little sigh, ' though not so many as I could
have wished. My great ambition would have
been to study regularly at the Conservatoire.
But I never could gratify my wish in that
respect, and I learned most of my fiddling
by myself at Edinburgh.'

You're an Edinburgh University man, I
suppose ? ' Edward put in.

Yes, an Edinburgh University man.
The medical course there, you know, attracts

SO many men who would like better, in other
respects, to go to one of the English universities.
— You're Cambridge yourself, I think,
Mr. Hawthorn, aren't you ? '

Yes, Cambridge.'

The mulatto sighed again. ' A lovely
place ! ' he said — ' a most delicious place,
Cambridge. I spent a charming week there
once myself. The calm repose of those
grand old avenues behind John's and Trinity
charmed me immensely. — A place to sit in
and compose symphonies, Mrs. Hawthorn.
Nothing that I've seen in England so greatly
impressed me with the idea of the grand
antiquity of the country — the vast historical
background of civilisation, century behind
century, and generation behind generation —
as that beautiful mingled picture of venerable
elms, and mouldering architecture, and close-cropped

greensward at the backs of the colleges.
The very grass had a wonderful look
of antique culture. I asked the gardener in
one of the courts of Trinity how they ever
got such velvety carpets for their smooth
quadrangles, and the answer the fellow gave
me was itself redolent of the traditions of the
place. " We rolls 'em and mows 'em, sir,"
he said, " and we mows 'em and rolls 'em, fora
thousand years." '

What a pity you couldn't have stopped
there and composed symphonies, as you liked
it so much,' Nora remarked, with hardly
concealed sarcasm — ' only then, of course,
we shouldn't have had the pleasure of hearing
you play your violin so beautifully on the
Severn this evening.'

Dr. Whitaker looked up at her quickly
with a piercing look. ' Yes,' he replied ; ' it

is a pity, for I should have dearly loved it.
I'm bound up in music, almost ; it's one of
my two great passions. But I had more
than one reason for feeling that I ought, if
possible, to go back to Trinidad. The first
is, that I think every West Indian, and especially
every man of my colour ' — he said it
quite naturally, simply, and unaffectedly,
without pausing or hesitating — ' who has
been to Europe for his education, owes it to
his country to come back again, and do his
best in raising its social, intellectual, and
artistic level.*

'I'm very glad to hear you say so,' Edward
replied. ' I think so myself, too, and
I'm pleased to find you agree with me in
the matter. — And your second reason ? '

Well, I thought my colour might stand
in my way in practice in England — very

naturally, I'm not surprised at it ; while
in Trinidad I might be able to do a great
deal of good and find a great many patients
amongst my own people.'

But I'm afraid they won't be able to
pay you, you know,' Nora interposed. ' The
poor black people always expect to be doctored
for nothing.'

Dr. Whitaker turned upon her a puzzled
pair of simple, honest, open eyes, whose
curious glance of mute inquiry could be
easily observed even in the dim moonlight.
I don't think of practising for money,' he
said simply, as if it were the most ordinary
statement in the world. ' My father has
happily means enough to enable me to live
without the necessity for earning a livelihood.
I want to be of some use in my generation,
and to help my own people, if possible, to

rise a little in the scale of humanity. I shall
practise gratuitously among the poorest
negroes, and do what I can to raise and
better their unhappy condition.'

For a second, nobody answered a word ;
this quiet declaration of an honest self-sacrifice
took them all, even Nora, so utterly by
surprise. Then Edward murmured musingly :
And it was for this that you gave up the
prospect of having at Cambridge, and composing
symphonies in Trinity gardens ! '

The mulatto smiled a deprecating smile.
Oh,' he cried timidly, ' you mustn't say that.
I didn't want to make out I was going to do
anything so very grand or so very heroic.
Of course, a man must satisfy himself he's
doing something to justify his existence in
the world ; and much as I love music, I
hardly feel as though playing the violin were

VOL. I.

in itself a sufficient end for a man to live for.
Though I must confess I should very much
like to stop in England and be a composer.
I've composed one or two little pieces already
for the violin, that have been played with
some success at public concerts. Parasite
played a small thing of mine last winter at a
festival in Vienna. But then, besides, my
father and friends live in Trinidad, and I feel
that that's the place where my work in life
is really cut out for me.'

And your second great passion ? ' Marian
inquired. ' You said you had a second
great passion. What is it, I wonder? — Oh,
of course, I see — your profession.'

(' How could she be so stupid ! ' Nora
thought to herself. ' What a silly girl I I'm
afraid of my life now, the wretched man'll
try to say something pretty')

Oh, no ; not my profession,' Dr. Whitaker
answered smiling. ' It's a noble profession,
of course — the noblest and grandest, almost,
of all the professions — assuaging and alleviating
human suffering ; but one looks upon
it, for all that, rather as a duty than as a
passion. Besides, there's one thing greater
even than the alleviation of human suffering,
greater than art with all its allurements,
greater than anything else that a man can
interest himself in — though I know most
people don't think so — and that's science —
the knowledge of our relations with the
universe, and still more of the universe's
relations with its various parts. — No, Mrs.
Hawthorn ; my second absorbing passion,
next to music, and higher than music, is one
that I'm sure ladies won't sympathise with —
it's only botany.'



Goodness gracious ! ' Nora cried, surprised
into speech. 'I thought botany was
nothing but the most dreadfully hard words,
all about nothing on earth that anybody
cared for ! '

The mulatto looked at her open-eyed with
a sort of mild astonishment. ' What ? ' he
said. 'All the glorious lilies and cactuses
and palms and orchids of our beautiful Trinidad
nothing but hard words that nobody
cares for ! All the slender lianas that trail
and droop from the huge buttresses of the
wild cotton trees ; all the gorgeous trumpet-creepers
that drape the gnarled branches of
the mountain star apples with their scarlet
blossoms ; all the huge cecrops, that rise
aloft with their silvery stems and fan-shaped
leaves, towering into the air like gigantic
candelabra; all the graceful tree-ferns and



feathery bamboos, and glossy-leaved magnolias
and majestic bananas, and luxuriant
ginger-words and clustering arms ; all the
breadth and depth of tropical foliage, with
the rugged and knotted creepers, festooned
in veritable cables of vivid green, from branch
to branch among the dim mysterious forest
shades — stretched in tight cordage like the
rigging yonder from mast to mast, for miles
together — oh. Miss Dupuy, is that nothing?
Do you call that nothing, for a man to ^^ his
loving regard upon? Our own Trinidad is
wonderfully rich still in such natural glories ;
and it's the hope of doing a little in my spare
hours to explore and disentomb them, like
hidden treasures, that partly urges me to go
back again where manifest destiny calls me, to
the land I was born in.'

The mulatto is always fluent, even when

uneducated ; but Dr. Whitaker, learned in all
the learning of the schools, and pouring forth
his full heart enthusiastically on the subjects
nearest and dearest to him, spoke with such
a ready, easy eloquence — common enough, indeed,
among south Europeans, and among
Celtic Scots and Irish as well, but rare and
almost unknown in our colder and more
phlegmatic Anglo-saxon constitutions — that
Xora Hstened to him, quite taken aback by
the flood of his native rhetoric, and whispered
to herself in her own soul : ' Really, he talks
very well after all — for a coloured person ! '
Yes, of course, all those things are very
lovely. Dr. Whitaker,' Marian put in, more
for the sake of drawing him out — for he was
so interesting — than because she really
wanted to disagree with him upon the subject.
' But then, that isn't botany. I always

thought botany was a mere matter of stamens

and petals, and all sorts of other dreadful
technicalities.'

Stamens and petals ! ' the mulatto echoed
half contemptuously — ' stamens and petals !
You might as well say art was all a matter
of pigments and perspective, or music all a
matter of crotchets and quavers, as botany alla
matter of stamens and petals. Those are
only the beggarly elements : the beautiful]
pictures, the glorious oratorios, the lovely
flowers, are the real things to which in the
end they all minister. It's the trees and the
plants themselves that interest me, not the
mere lifeless jargon of stamens and petals.'

They sat there late into the night, discussion
things musical and West Indian and
otherwise, without any desire to move away
or cut short the conversation : and Dr.

Whitaker, his reserve now broken, talked onto
them hour after hour, doing the hon's
share of the conversation, and delighting
them with his transparent easy talk and open-hearted
simplicity. He was frankly egotistical,
of course — all persons of African blood
always are ; but his egotism, such as it was,
took the pleasing form of an enthusiasm about
his own pet ideas and pursuits — a love of
music, a love of flowers, a love of his profession,
and a love of Trinidad, To these
favourite notes he recurred fondly again and
again, vigorously defending the violin as an
exponent of human emotion against Edward's
half-insincere expression of preference for
wind instruments ; going into raptures to
Nora over the wonderful beauty of their
common home ; and describing to Marian in
vivid language the grandeur of those marvellous

tropical forests whose strange loveliness
she had never yet with her own eyes
beheld.

Picture to yourself,' he said, looking out
vaguely beyond the ship on to the star-lit
Atlantic, ' a great Gothic cathedral or
Egyptian temple — Ely or Karnak wrought,
not in freestone or marble, but in Having trees
with huge cylindrical columns strengthened
below by projecting buttresses, and supporting
overhead, a hundred feet on high, an
unbroken canopy of interlacing foliage.
Dense — so dense that only an indistinct
glimmer of the sky can be seen here-and
there through the great canopy, just as you
see Orion's belt over yonder through the fringe
of clouds upon the grey horizon ; and even
the intense tropical sunlight only reaches the
ground at long intervals in little broken patches

of subdued paleness. Then there's the solemn
silence, weird and gloomy, that produces in
one an almost painful sense of the vast, the
primeval, the mystical, the infinite. Only the
low hum of the insects in the forest shade,
the endless multitudinous whisper of the wind
amoncr the foliage, the faint sound begotten
by the tropical growth itself, breaks the immemorial
stillness in our West Indian woodland.
It's a world in which man seems to bea
noisy intruder, and where he stands awestruck
before the intense loveliness of nature,
in the immediate presence of her unceasing
forces.'

He stopped a moment, not for breath, for
it seemed as if he could pour out language
without an effort, in the profound enthusiasm
of youth, but to take his violin once more
tenderly from its case and hold it out, hesitating,

before him. ' Will you let me play you
just one more little piece ? ' he asked apologetically.
'It's a piece of my own, into
which I've tried to put some of the feelings
about these tropical forests that I never could
possibly express in words. I call it " Souvenirs
des Lines." Will you let me play it to
you? I shan't be boring you? Thank you
thank you

He stood up before them in the pale light
of that summer evening, taU and erect, violin
on breast and bow in hand, and began
pouring forth from his responsive instrumenta
slow flood of low, plaintive, mysterious
music. It was not difficult to see what had
inspired his brain and hand in that strangely
weird and expressive piece. The profound
shade and gloom of the forest, the great roof
of overarchinof fiacre, the flutter of the

endless leaves before the breeze, the confused
murmur of the myriad wings and voices of
the insects, nay, even the very stillness and
silence itself of which he had spoken, all
seemed to breathe forth deeply and solemnly
on his quivering fiddle. It was a triumph of
art over its own resources. On the organ or
the flute, one would have said beforehand,
such effects as these might indeed be obtained,
but surely never, never on the violin. Yet
in Dr. Whitaker's hand that scraping bow
seemed capable of expressing even what he
himself had called the sense of the vast, the
primeval, and the infinite. They listened all
in hushed silence, and scarcely so much as
dared to breathe while the soft pensive
cadences still floated out solemnly across the
calm ocean. And when he had finished, they
sat for a few minutes in perfect silence.

rendering the performer that instinctive
homage of mute applause which is so far
more really eloquent than any mere formal
and conventional expression of thanks ' for
your charming playing.'

As they sat so, each musing quietly over
the various emotions aroused within them by
the mulatto's forest echoes, one of the white
gentlemen in the stern, a young English
officer on his way out to join a West Indian
regiment, came up suddenly behind them,
clapped his hand familiarly on Edward's back,
and said in a loud and cheerful tone : ' Come
along, Hawthorn ; we've had enough of this
music now — thank you very much, Dr.
Thingummy — let's all go down to the saloon,
I say, and have a game of nap or a quiet
rubber.'

Even Nora felt in her heart as though she

had suddenly been recalled by that untimely
voice from some higher world to this vulgar,
commonplace little planet of ours, the young
officer had broken in so rudely on her silent
reverie. She drew her dainty white lamb's-wool
wrapper closer around her shoulders
with a faint sigh, slipped her hand gently
through Marian's arm, and moved away,
slowly and thoughtfully, toward the .
As she reached the doorway,
she turned round, as if half ashamed of her
own graciousness, and said in a low and
genuine voice : ' Thank you. Dr. Whitaker —
thank you very much indeed. We've so
greatly enjoyed the treat you've given us.'

The mulatto bowed and said nothing ;
but instead of retiring to the saloon with the
others, he put his violin case quietly under
his arm, and walking alone to the stern of

the vessel, leant upon the gunwale long and
mutely, looking over with all his eyes deep
and far into the silent, heaving, moonlit
water. The sound of Nora's voice thanking
him reverberated long through all the echoing
chambers of his memory.

CHAPTER X.

It is a truism nowadays, in this age of travelling,
that you see a great deal more of people
in a few weeks on board ship at sea together
than you would see in a few years of that
vacant calling and dining and attending
crushes which we ordinarily speak of as
society. Nora Dupuy and the two Hawthorns
certainly saw a great deal more of Dr.
Whitaker during their three weeks on board
the Severn than they would ever have seen of
him in three years of England or of Trinidad.
Nora had had the young man's acquaintance
thrust upon her by circumstances, to be sure ;

but as the Hawthorns sat and talked a great
deal with him, she was compelled to do so
likewise, and she had too much good feeling
to let him see very markedly her innate prejudice
against his colour. Besides, she admitted
even to herself that Dr. Whitaker, fora
brown man, was really a very gentlemanly,
well-informed person — quite an exceptional
mulatto, in fact, and as such, to be admitted
to the position of a gentleman by courtesy,
much as Quiver was excepted by the
Houyhnhnms from the same category of utter
reprobation as the ordinary Yahoos of their
own country.

Most of the voyage was as decently calm
as any one can reasonably expect from the
North Atlantic. There were the usual episodes
of flying-fish and Mother Carey's
chickens, and the usual excitement of a daily

VOL. I. P

sweepstake on the length of the ship's run ;
but, on the whole, the only distinct landmarks
of time for the entire three weeks
between Southampton and St. Thomas were
breakfast, luncheon, dinner, and bedtime.
The North Atlantic, whatever novelists may-say,
is not a romantic stretch of ocean ; and
in spite of prepossessions to the contrary, a
ship at sea is not at all a convenient place for
the free exercise of the noble art of flirting.
It lacks the needful opportunities for retirement
from the full blaze of public observation
to shy corners ; it is far too exposed, and
on the whole too unstable also. Altogether,
the voyage was mostly a monotonous one,
which is equivalent to saying that it was safe
and comfortable ; for the only possible break
in the ordinary routine of a sea-passage must
necessarily be a fire on board or a collision

with a rival steamer. However, about two
days out from St. Thomas, there came a Httle
relief from the tedium of the daily situation ;
and the relief assumed the unpleasant form of
a genuine West Indian hurricane.

Nora had never before seen anything like
it ; or, at any rate, if she had, she had clean
forgotten all about it. Though the captain
had declared it was ' too soon ' for hurricanes,
this was, in fact, a very fine tropical tornado
of the very fiercest and easiest description.
About two o'clock in the afternoon, the passengers
were all sitting out on deck, when the
sea, till then a dead calm, began to be faintly
ruffled by little whiffs and spurts of wind,
which raised here and there tiny patches of
wavelets, scarcely perceptible to the blunt
vision of the unaccustomed landsman. But
the experienced eye of a sailor could read in

p 2

it at once a malignant hint of the coming
tempest. Presently, the breeze freshened
with extraordinary rapidity, and before ^nq
o'clock, the cyclone had burst upon them in
all its violence. The rush of a mighty gale
was heard through the rigging, swaying and
bending the masts like sapling willows before
the autumn breezes. The waves, lashed into
fury by the fierce and fitful gusts of wind,
broke ever and anon over the side of the
vessel ; and the big Severn tossed about helplessly
before the frantic tempest like the
veriest cockboat in an angry sea upon a
northern ocean. Of course, at the first note
of serious danger, the passengers were all
ordered below to the saloon, where they satin
mute suspense, the women pale and trembling,
the men trying to look as if they cared
very little about it, while the great ship rolled

and tossed and pitched and creaked and
rattled in all her groaning timbers beneath
the mad frenzy of that terrific commotion.

Just as they were being turned ofi" the
decks to be penned up down-stairs like so
many helpless sheep. in the lower cabin, Nora
Dupuy, who had been standing with the Hawthorns
and Dr. Whitaker, watching the huge
and ever-increasing waves bursting madly
over the side of the vessel, happened to
drop her shawl at starting on to the deck
beside the companion-ladder. At that very
moment, a bigger sea than any they had yet
encountered broke with shivering force
against the broadside of the steamer, and
swept across the deck in a drowning flood
as though it would carry everything bodily
before it. ' Make haste, there ! ' the captain
called out imperatively. — ' Steward, send 'em

all down below, this minute. I shouldn't be
surprised if before night we were to have a
capful of nasty weather.'

But even as he spoke, the wave, which
had caught Nora's shawl and driven it over
to the leeward side, now in its reflux sucked
it back again swiftly to windward, and left it
lying all wet and matted against the gunwale
in a mass of disorder. Dr. Whitaker jumped
after it instinctively, and tried to catch it
before another wave could carry it overboard
altogether. ' Oh, pray, don't trouble about
it,' Nora cried, in hasty deprecation. ' It isn't
worth it. Take care, or you'll get wet
through and through yourself before you
know it ! '

The man's a fool,' the unceremonious
captain called out bluntly from his perch
above. ' Get wet indeed ! If another sea

IN ALL SHADES 215

like that strikes the ship, it'll wash him clean
overboard. — Come back, sir ; I tell you, come
back ! No one but a sailor can keep his feet
properly against the force of a sea like that
one ! '

Nora and the few other passengers who
had still remained on deck stood trembling
under shelter of the glazed-in companion-ladder,
wondering whether the rash mulatto
would really carry out his foolhardy endeavour
to recover the wrapper. The sailor
stood by, ready to batten down the hatches as
soon as the deck was fairly cleared, and waiting
impatiently for the last lingerer. But
Dr. Whitaker took not the shcfhtest notice of
captain or sailor, and merely glanced back at
Nora with a quiet smile, as if to reassure
her of his perfect safety. He stood by the
gunwale, just clutching at the shawl, in the

very act of recovering it, when a second sea,
still more violent than the last, struck the
ship once more full on the side, and swept
the mulatto helplessly before it right across
the quarter-deck. It dashed him with terrific
force against the bulwarks on the opposite
side ; and for a moment, Nora gave a scream
of terror, imagining it would carry him overboard
with its sudden flood. The next second,
the ship righted itself, and they saw the
young doctor rising to his feet once more,
bruised and dripping, but still not seriously
or visibly injured. The sea had washed the
shawl once more out of his grasp, with the
force of the shock ; and instead of rushing
back to the shelter of the ladder, he tried
even now to recover it a second time from
the windward side, where the recoil had
again capriciously carried it. ' The shawl,

the shawl ! ' he cried excitedly, gliding once
more across the wet and slippery decks as
she lurched anew, in the foolish effort to
catch the worthless wrapper.

Confound the man ! ' the captain roared
from his place on the bridge. ' Does he think
the Company's going to lose a passenger's life
for nothing, just to satisfy his infernal politeness
! — Go down, sir — go down, this minute,
I tell you ; or else, by jingo, if you don't, I
shall have you put in irons at once for the
rest of the voyage.'

The mulatto looked up at him with a
smile and nodded cheerfully. He held up his
left hand proudly above his head, with the
dripping shawl now waving in his grasp Hke
a much bedraggled banner, while with his
right he gripped a rope firmly and steadily,
to hold his own against the next approaching

billow. In a second, the big sea was over
him once more ; and till the huge wall of
water had swept its way across the entire
breadth of the vessel, Nora and Marian
couldn't discover whether it had dashed him
bodily overboard or left him still standing
by the windward gunwale. There was a
pause of suspense while one might count
twenty ; and then, as the vessel rolled once
more to port, Dr. Whitaker's tall figure could
be seen, still erect and grasping the cable,
with the shawl triumphantly flourished, even
so, in his disengaged hand. The next instant,
he was over at the ladder, and had placed the
wet and soaking wrapper back in the hands
of its original possessor.

'Dr. Whitaker,' Nora cried to him, half
laughing and half pale with terror, ' I'm very
angry with you. You had no right to imperil

your life like that for nothing better than a
bit of a wrapper. It was awfully wrong of
you ; and I'll never wear the shawl again as
long as I live, now that you've brought it
back to me at the risk of drowning.'

The mulatto, smiling unconcernedly in
spite of his wetting, bowed a little bow of
quiet acquiescence. ' I'm glad to think. Miss
Dupuy,' he replied in a low voice, ' that you
regard my life as so well worth preserving. —
But did you ever before in all your days see
anything so glorious as those monstrous
billows ! '

Nora bit her hp tacitly, and answered
nothing for a brief moment. Then she added
merely : ' Thank you for your kindness,' in a
constrained voice, and turned below into the
crowded dining saloon. Dr. Whitaker did
not rejoin them ; he went back to his own

state-room, to put on some dry clothes after
his foolhardy adventure, and think of Nora's
eyes in the solitude of his cabin.

There is no position in life more helplessly
feeble for grown-up men and women than
that of people battened down in a ship at sea
in the midst of a great and dangerous tempest.
On deck, the captain and the officers,
cut off from all communication with below,
know how the storm is going and how the
ship is weathering it ; but the unconscious
passengers in their crowded quarters, treated
like children by the rough seafaring men, can
only sit below in hopeless ignorance, waiting
to learn the fate in store for them when the
tempest wills it. And indeed, the hurricane
that night was quite enough to make even
strong men feel their own utter and abject
powerlessness. From the moment they were

all battened down in the big saloon, after the
first fresh squall, the storm burst in upon
them in real earnest with terrific and ever-increasing
violence. The wind howled and
whistled fiercely through the ropes and rigging.
The ship bounced now on to the steep
crest of a swelling billow ; now wallowed
helplessly in the deep trough that intervened
between each and its mad successor. The
sea seemed to dash in upon the side every
second with redoubled intensity, sweeping
through the scupper holes with a roar like
thunder. The waves crashed down upon the
battened skylights in binding deluges. Every
now and then they could hear the cracking
of a big timber — some spar or boom torn off
from the masts, like rotten branches from a
dead tree, by the mighty force of the
irresistible cyclone. Whirling and roaring

and sputtering and rattling and creaking,
the storm raged on for hour after hour ;
and the pale and frightened women, sitting
huddled together in little groups on the
crimson velvet cushions of the stuffy saloon,
looked at one another in silent awe, clasping
each other's hands with bloodless fingers, byway
of companionship in their mute terror.
From time to time they could just overhear,
in the lulls between the great gusts, the
captain's loud voice shouting out inaudible
directions to the sailors overhead ; and the
engineer's bell was rung over and over
again, with bewildering frequency, to stop
her, back her, ease her, steady her, or
put her head once more bravely against
the face of the ever-shifting and shattering
storm.

Hour after hour went by slowly, and still

nobody stirred from the hushed saloon. At
eleven all lights were usually put out, with
Spartan severity ; but this night, in consideration
of the hurricane, the stewards
left them burning still : they didn't know,
they said, when they might be wanted for
prayers, if the ship should begin to. show
signs of sudden foundering. So the passengers
sat on still in the saloon together, till
four o'clock began to bring back the daylight
again with a lurid glare away to eastward.
Then the first fury of the hurricane began to
abate a little — a very little ; and the seas
crashed a trifle less frequently against the
thick and solid plate-glass of the sealed skylights.
Edward at last persuaded Marian
and Nora to go down to their staterooms
and try to snatch a short spell of sleep. The
danger was over how, he said, and they might

fairly venture to recover a bit from the long
terror of that awful night.

As they went staggering feebly along the
unsteady corridors below, lighted by the dim
lamps as yet unextinguished, they happened
to pass the door of a state-room whence, to
their great surprise, in the midst of that
terrible awe-inspiring hurricane, the notes
of a violin could be distinctly heard, mingling
strangely in a weird harmony with the
groaning of the wind and the ominous
creaking of the overstrained and rumbling
timbers. The sounds were not those of a
regular piece of studied music ; they were
mere fitful bars and stray snatches of tempestuous
melody, that imitated and registered
the inarticulate music of the whirlwind itself
even as it passed wildly before them. Nora
paused a moment beside the half-open door.

Why,' lie whispered to Marian in an awestruck
undertone, clutching convulsively at
the hand-rail to steady herself, ' it must be
Dr. Whitaker. He's actually playing his
violin to himself in the midst of all this
awful uproar ! '

'It is,' Edward Hawthorn answered confidently.
' I know his state-room — that's the
number.'

He pushed the half-open door a little
farther ajar, and peeped inside with sudden
curiosity. There on the bunk sat the mulatto
doctor, unmoved amid the awful horse-play
of the careering elements, with his violin in
his hands, and a little piece of blank paper
ruled with pencilled music-lines pinned up
roughly against the wall of the cabin beside
him. He started and laughed a little at the
sudden apparition of Edward Hawthorn's

VOL. I. Q

head within the doorway. ' Ah,' he said,
pointing to a few scratchy pencil-marks on
the little piece of ruled paper, ' you see, Mr.
Hawthorn, I couldn't sleep, and so I've been
amusing myself with a fit of composing. I'm
catching some fresh ideas for a piece from the
tearing wind and the hubbub of the breakers.
Isn't it grand, the music of the storm ! I
shall work it up by-and-by, no doubt, into
a little hurricane symphony. — Listen, here —
listen.' And he drew his bow rapidly across
the strings with skilful fingers, and brought
forth from the violin some few bars of a
strangely wild and storm-ike melody, that
seemed to have caught the very spirit of the
terrible tornado still raging everywhere so
madly around them.

Has the man no feelings,' Nora exclaimed
with a shudder to Marian, outside, ' that he

can play his fiddle in this storm, like Nero or
somebody when Some was burning ! '

I think,' Marian said, with a little sigh,
he has some stronger overpowering feeling
underneath, that makes him think nothing of
the hurricane or anything else, but keeps him
wrapped up entirely in its own circle.'

Next day, when the sea had gone do^vn
somewhat, and the passengers had begun to
struggle up on deck one by one with paled
faces, Dr. Whitaker made his appearance
once more, clothed and in his right mind, and
handed Nora a little roll of manuscript music.
Nora took it and glanced carelessly at the
first page. She started when she saw it was
inscribed in a round and careful copper-plate
hand — 'To Miss Dupuy. — Hurricane Symphony.
By W. Clarkson Whitaker, Mab.,

Q 2

Mus. Bac' Nora read hastily tliroiigh the
first few bars — the soughing and freshening
of the wind in its earlier gusts, before the
actual tempest had yet swept wildly over
them — and murmured half aloud : ' It looks
very pretty — very fine, I mean. I should like
some day to hear you play it.'

If you would permit me to prefix your
name to the piece when it's published in London,'
the mulatto doctor said with an anxious
air — 'just as I've prefixed it there at the
head of the title-page — I should be very
deeply obliged and grateful to you.'

Nora hesitated a moment. A brown man !
Her name on the first page of his printed
music I What would people say in Trinidad ?
And yet, what excuse could she give for answering
no? She pretended for a while to
be catching back her veil, that the wind

blew about her face and hair, to gain time
for consideration ; then she said with a smile
of apology : ' It would look so conceited of
me, you know — wouldn't it, Dr. Whitaker ?
as if I were setting myself up to be some great
one, to whom people were expected to dedicate
music'

The mulatto's face fell a little with obvious
disappointment ; but he answered
quietly ; ' As you will, Miss Dupuy. It was
somewhat presumptuous of me, perhaps, to
think you would accept a dedication from me
on so short an acquaintance.'

Nora's cheeks coloured quickly as she replied
with a hasty Voice ; '0 no. Dr. Whitaker
; I didn't mean that — indeed, I didn't.
It's very kind of you to think of putting my
name to your beautiful music. If you look
at it that way, I shall ask you as a personal

favour to print that very dedication upon it
when you get it published in London.'

Dr. Whitaker's eye lighted up with unexpected
pleasure, and he answered, ' Thank
you,' slowly and softly. But Nora said to
herself in her own heart : ' Goodness gracious,
now, just out of politeness to this clever
brown man, and because I hadn't strength of
mind to say no to him, I've gone and put my
foot in it terribly. What on earth will papa
say about it when he comes to hear of it ! I
must try and keep the piece away from him.
That is the sort of thing that's sure to happen
to one when one once begins knowing brown
people ! '

CHAPTER XI.

Ox the morning when the Severn was to
reach Trinidad, everybody was up betimes
and eagerly looking for the expected land.
Nora and Marian went up on deck before
breakfast, and there found Dr. Whitaker,
opera-glass in hand, scanning the horizon for
the first sight of his native island. ' I haven't
seen it or my dear father,' he said to Marian,
for nearly ten years, and I can't tell you how
anxious I am once more to see him. I wonder
whether he'll have altered much ! But there
ten years is a long time. After ten years,
one's pictures of home and friends begin to

get terribly indefinite. Still, I shall know
him — I'm sure I shall know him. He'll
be on the wharf to welcome us in, and
I'm sure I shall recognise his dear old face

adam.'

Your father's very well known in the
island, the captain tells me,' Marian said,
anxious to show some interest in what interested
him so much. ' I believe he was very
influential in helping to get slavery abolished.'

'He was,' the young doctor answered,
kindling up afresh with his ever-ready enthusiasm
— ' he was ; very influential. Mr. Wilberforce
considered that my father, Robert
Whitaker, was one of his most powerful
coloured supporters in any of the colonies.
I'm proud of my father, Mrs. Hawthorn —
proud of the part he bore in the great revolution
which freed my race. I'm proud to

think that I'm the son of such a man as Robert
Whitaker.'

'Now, then, ladies,' the captain put in
dryly, coming upon them suddenly from behind
; ' breakfast's ready, and you won't sight
Trinidad, I take it, for at least another fifty
minutes. Plenty of time to get your breakfast
quietly and comfortably, and pack your
traps up, before you come in sight of the
Port-o'-Spain lighthouse.'

After breakfast, they all hurried up on
deck once more, and soon the grey peaks
and rocky sierras of Trinidad began to
heave in sight straight in front of them.
Slowly the land grew closer and closer,
till at last the port and town lay full insight
before them. Dr. Whitaker was overflowing
with excitement as they reached
the wharf. 'In ten minutes,' he cried to

Marian—' in ten minutes, I shall see my dear
father.'

It was a strange and motley scene, ever
fresh and interesting to the new-comer from
Europe, that first glimpse of tropical life from
the crowded deck of an ocean steamer. The
Severn stood off, waiting for the gangways to
be lowered on board, but close up to the high
wooden pier of the lively, bustling little harbour.
In front lay the busy wharf, all alive
with a teeming swarm of black faces — men in
light and ragged jackets, women in thin white
musHns and scarlet turbans, children barefooted
and half naked, lying sprawling idly
in the very eye of the sun. Behind, white
houses with green Venetian blinds ; waving
palm-trees ; tall hills ; a blazing pale blue
sky ; a great haze of light and shimmer and
glare and fervour. All round, boats full of

noisy negroes, gesticulating, shouting, swearing,
laughing, and showing their big teeth
every second anew in boisterous merriment.
A general pervading sense of bustle and life,
all meaningless and all ineffectual ; much
noise and little labour ; a ceaseless chattering,
as of monkeys in a menagerie ; a purposeless
running up and down on the pier
and 'long shore with wonderful gesticulations ;
a babel of inarticulate sounds and cries and
shouting and giggling. Nothing of it all
clearly visible as an individual fact at first ;
only a confused mass of heads and faces and
bandanas and dresses, out of which, as the
early hubbub of arrival subsided a little,
there stood forth prominently a single foremost
figure — the figure of a big, heavy, oily,
fat, dark mulatto, grey-haired and smooth-faced,
dressed in a dirty white linen suit, and

waving his soiled silk pocket-handkerchief
ostentatiously before the eyes of the assembled
passengers. A supple, vulgar, oleaginous
man altogether, with an astonishing air
of conceited self-importance, and a profound
consciousness of the admiring eyes of the
whole surrounding negro populace.

How d'ye do, captain ? ' he shouted aloud
in a clear but thick and slightly negro voice,
mouthing his words with much volubility in
the true semi-articulate African fashion.
Glad to see de Severn has come in punctual
to her time as usual. Good ship, de Severn ;
never minds storms or muffin. — Well, sal, who
have you got on board ? I've come down to
meet de doctor and Mr. Hawtorn. Trinidad
is proud to welcome back her children to her
shores again. Got 'em on board, captain? —
got 'em on board, sal ? '

All right, Bobby,' the captain answered,
with easy familiarity. ' Been having a pull at
the mainsheet this morning ? — Ah, I thought
so. I thought you'd taken a cargo of rum
aboard. Ah, you sly dog ! You've got the
look of it.'

Massa Bobby, him don't let de rum
spile in him cellar,' a ragged fat negress
standing by shouted out in a stentorian voice.
Him know de way to keep him from spin',
so pour him down him own troat in time — eh,
Massa Bobby ? '

Eum,' the oily mulatto responded cheerfully,
but with great dignity, raising his fat
brown hand impressively before him — ' rum
is de staple produce an' chief commercial
commodity of de great and flourishing' island
of Trinidad. To drink a moderate quantity
of rum every morning' before brekfuss is de

best way of encouraging' de principal manufacture
of dis island. I do my duty in dat
respect, I flatter myself, as faithfully as any
pusson in de whole of Trinidad, not exception'
His Excellency de Governor, who ought to
set de best example to de entire community.
As de recognised representative of de coloured
people of dis colony, I feel bound to teach
dem to encourage de manufacture of rum by
my own personal example an' earnest endeavour.'
And he threw back his greasy neck
playfully in a pantomimic representation of
the act of drinking off a good glassful of
rum-and-water.

The negroes behind laughed immoderately
at this sally of the man addressed as Bobby,
and cheered him on with loud vociferations.
Evidently,' Edward said to Nora, with a face
of some disgust, 'this creature is the chartered

buffoon and chief jester to the whole
of Trinidad. They all seem to recognise
him and laugh at him, and I see even the
captain himself knows him well of old, evidently.'


'Bless your soul, yes,' the captain said,
overhearing the remark. ' Everybody in the
island knows Bobby. Good-natured old man,
but conceited as a peacock, and foolish too. —
Everybody knows you here,' raising his voice,
'don't they, Bobby?'

The grey-haired mulatto took off this
broad-brimmed Panama hat and bowed
profoundly. ' I flatter myself,' he said,
looking round about him complacently on
the crowd of negroes, ' der isn't a better
known man in de whole great an' flourishing'
island of Trinidad dan Bobby Whitaker.'


Edward and Marian started suddenly,
and even Nora gave a little shiver of surprise
and disappointment. 'Whitaker,' Edward
repeated slowly — ' Whitaker — Bobby
Wliitaker! — You don't mean to tell us, surely,
captain, that that man's our Dr. Wliitaker's
father ! '

Yes, I do,' the captain answered,
smiling grimly. ' That's his father. — Dr.
Whitaker ! hi, you, sir ; where have you
got to ? Don't you see ? — there's your
father.'

Edward turned at once to seek for him,
full of a sudden unspoken compassion. He
had not far to seek. A little way off, standing
irresolutely by the gunwale, with a strange
terrified look in his handsome large eyes, and
a painful twitching nervously evident at the
trembling corners of his full mouth, Dr.

Whitaker gazed intently and speechlessly at
the fat mulatto in the white Une suit. It
was clear that the old man did not yet recognise
his son; but the son had recognised
his father instantaneously and unhesitatingly,
as he stood there playing the buffoon in
broad daylight before the whole assembled
ship's company. Edward looked at the poor
young fellow with profound commiseration.
Never in his life before had he seen shame
and humiliation more legibly written on a
man's very Hmbs and features. The unhappy
young mulatto, thunderstruck by the blow,
had collapsed entirely. It was too terrible
for him. Coming in, fresh from his English
education, full of youthful hopes and vivid
enthusiasms, proud of the father he had more
than hae forgotten, and anxious to meet once
more that ideal picture he had carried away

VOL. I. K

with him of the liberator of Trinidad — here
he was met, on the very threshold of his native
island, by this horrible living contradiction
of all his fervent fancies and imaginings.
The Eobert Whitaker he had once known
faded away as if by magic into absolute
nonentity, and that voluble, greasy, self-satisfied,
buffoonish old brown man was the only
thing left that he could now possibly call
my father.'

Edward pitied him far too earnestly to
obtrude just then upon his shame and sorrow.
But the poor mulatto, meeting his eyes accidentally
for a single second, turned upon him
such a mutely appealing look of profound
anguish, that Edward moved over slowly
toward the grim captain and whispered to
him in a low undertone : ' Don't speak to
that man Whitaker again, I beg of you.

Don't you see his poor son there's dying of
shame for him ? '

The captain stared back at him with the
same curious half-sardonic look that Marian
had more than once noticed upon his impassive
features. 'Dying of shame!' he answered,
smiling carelessly. 'Ho, ho, ho!
that's a good one ! Dying of shame is he,
for poor old Bobby! Why, sooner or later,
you know, he'll have to get used to him.
Besides, I tell you, whether you talk to him
or whether you don't, old Bobby '11 go on
talking about himself as long as there's anybody
left anywhere about who'll stand and
listen to him. — You just hark there to what
he's saying now. What's lie up to next, I
wonder ? '

Yes, ladies and gentlemen,' the old mulatto
was proceeding aloud, addressing now

R 2

in a set speech the laughing passengers onboard
the Severn ' I'm de Honourable Eobert
Whitaker, commonly called Bobby Whitaker,
de leading' member of de coloured party in
dis island. Along wit my lamented friend
Mr. Wilberforce, an' de British Parliament,
I was de chief instrument in procuring' de
abolition of slavery an' de freedom of de
slaves throughout de whole English possessions.
Millions of my fellow-men were
moaning' an' groaning' in a painful bondage. I
have a heart dat cannot withstand de appeal
of misery. I laboured for dem ; I toiled for
dem ; I bore de brunt of de battle ; an' in de
end I conquered — I conquered. Wit de aid
of my friend Mr. Wilberforce, by superhuman
exertions, I succeeded in passion' de grand act
of slavery emancipation. You behold in mede
leading' actor in dat famous great an' impressive

drama. I'm an ole man now ; but I
have prospered in dis world, as de just always
do, says de Psalmist, an' I shall be glad to see
any of you whenever you choose at my own
residence, an' to offer to you in confidence
a glass of de excellent staple produce of dis
island — I allude to de wine of de country,
de admirable beverage known as rum ! '

There was another peal of foolish laughter
from the crowd of negroes at this one
ancient threadbare joke, and a faint titter
from the sillier passengers on board the
Severn. Edward looked over appealingly
at the old buffoon ; but the mulatto misunderstood
his look of deprecation, and
bowed once more profoundly, with immense
importance, straight at him, like a sovereign
acknowledging the plaudits of his subjects.

'Yes,' he continued, 'I shall be happy

to see any of you — you, sail, or you — at
my own estate, Whitaker Hall, in dis island,
whenever you find it convenient to visit
me. You have on board my son. Dr.
Whitaker, de future leader of de coloured
party in de Council of Trinidad ; an' you
have no doubt succeeded in making' his acquaintance
in de course of your voyage
from de shores of England. Dr. Whitaker,
of de University of Edinburgh, after pursuit'
his studies— — '

The poor young man gave an audible
groan, and turned away, in his poignant
disgrace, to the very farthest end of the
vessel. It was terrible enough to have all
his hopes dashed and falsified in this awful
fashion ; but to be humiliated and shamed
by name before the staring eyes of all his
fellow-passengers — that last straw was more

than his poor bursting heart could possibly
endure. He walked away, broken and
tottering, and leaned over the opposite side
of the vessel, letting the hot tears trickle
unreproved down his dusky cheeks into the
ocean below.

At that very moment, before the man
they called Bobby Whitaker could finish his
sentence, a tall white man, of handsome
and imposing presence, walked out quietly
from among the knot of people behind the
negroes, and laid his hand with a commanding
air on the fat old mulatto's broad
shoulder. Bobby Whitaker turned round
suddenly and listened with attention to
something that the white man whispered
gently but firmly at his astonished ear.
Then his lower jaw dropped in surprise,
and he fell behind, abashed for a second,

into the confused background of laughing
negroes. Partly from this childish recollections,
but partly, too, by the aid of the
photographs, Edward immediately recognised
the tall white man. ' Marian, Marian ! ' *
he cried, waving his hand in welcome towards
the new-comer, ' it's my father, my
father ! '

And even as he spoke, a pang of pain
ran through him as he thought of the difference
between the two first greetings.
He couldn't help feeling proud in his heart
of hearts of the very look and bearing of
his own father — tall, erect, with his handsome,
clear cut face and full white beard,
the exact type of a self-respecting and respected
English gentleman; and yet, the
mere reflex of his own pride and satisfaction
revealed to him at once the bitter

poignancy of Dr. Whitaker's unspeakable
disappointment. As the two men stood
there on the wharf side by side, in quiet
conversation, James Hawthorn with his
grave, severe, earnest expression, and Bobby
Whitaker with his greasy, vulgar, negro
joviality speaking out from every crease in
his fat chin and every sparkle of his small
pig's eyes, the contrast between them was
so vast and so apparent, that it seemed to
make the old mulatto's natural vulgarity
and coarseness of fibre more obvious and
more unmistakable than ever to all beholders.


In a minute more, a gangway was
hastily lowered from the wharf on to the
deck; and the first man that came down
it, pushed in front of a great crowd of
eager, grinning, and elbowing negroes—

mostly in search of small jobs among the
passengers — was Bobby Whitaker. The moment
he reached the deck, he seemed to
take possession of it and of all the passengers
by pure instinct, as if he were father
to the whole shipload of them. The captain,
the crew, and the other authorities
were effaced instantly. Bobby Whitaker,
with easy, greasy geniality, stood bowing
and waving his hand on every side, in an
access of universal graciousness towards the
entire company. ' My son ! ' he said, looking
round him inquiringly — ' my son, Dr.
Whitaker, of de Edinburgh University —
where is he ? — where is he ? My dear boy I
Let him come forward and embrace his
fader ! '

Dr. Whitaker, in spite of his humiliation,
had all a mulatto's impulsive affectionately.

Ashamed and abashed as he was,
he yet rushed forward with unaffected
emotion to take his father's outstretched
hand. But old Bobby had no idea of
getting over this important meeting in such
a simple and undemonstrative manner ; for
him, it was a magnificent opportunity for
theatrical display, on no account to be
thrown away before the faces of so many
distinguished European strangers. Holding
his son for a second at arm's length, in the
centre of a little circle that quickly gathered
around the oddly-matched pair, he surveyed
the young doctor with a piercing
glance from head to foot, sticking his neck
a little on one side with critical severity,
and then, bursting into a broad grin of oily
delight, he exclaimed, in a loud stage
soliloquy: 'My son, my son, my own dear

son, Wilberforce Clarkson Whitaker ! De
inheritor of de tree names most intimately
bound up wit de great revolution I have
had de pride and de honour of effecting' for
unborn millions of my African bredderin'
My son, my son ! We receive you wit
transport ! Welcome to Trinidad — welcome
to Trinidad ! '

Father, father,' Dr. Whitaker whispered
in a low voice, ' let us go aside a little — down
into my cabin or somewhere — away from this
crowd here. I am so glad, so happy to be
back with you again ; so delighted to be
home once more, dear, dear father. But
don't you see, everybody is looking at us
and observing us ! '

The old mulatto glanced around him with
an oily glance of profound self-satisfaction.
Yes, undoubtedly ; he was the exact centre

of an admiring audience. It was just such a
house as he loved to play to. He turned
once more to his trembling son, whose sturdy
knees were almost giving way feebly beneath
him, and redoubled the ardour of his paternal
demonstrativeness. ' My son, my son,
my own dear boy ! ' he said once more ; and
then, stepping back two paces and opening
his arms effusively, he ran forward quickly
with short mincing steps, and pressed the
astonished doctor with profound warmth to
his swelling bosom. There was an expansiveness
and a gushing effusion about the
action which made the spectators titter audibly
; and the titter cut the poor young
mulatto keenly to the heart with a sense of
his utter helplessness and ridiculousness in
this absurd situation. lie wondered to himself
when the humiliating scene would ever

be finished. But the old man was not satisfied
yet. Releasing his son once more from
his fat grasp, he placed his two big hands
akimbo on his hips, puckered up his eyebrows
as if searching for some possible flaw
in a horse or in a woman's figure — he was a
noted connoisseur in either — and held his head
pushed jauntily forward, staring once more
at his son with his small pig's eyes from top
to toe. At last, satisfied apparently with his
close scrutiny, and prepared to acknowledge
that it was all very good, he seized the young
doctor quickly by the shoulders, and kissing
him with a loud smack on either cheek,
proceeded to slobber him piecemeal all over
the face, exactly like a nine-months'-old baby.
Dr. Whitaker's cheeks tingled and burned, so
that even through that dusky skin, Edward,
who stood a little distance ofi*, commiserating

him, could see the hot blood rushing to his
face by the deepened and darkened colour in
the very centre.

Presently, old Bobby seemed to be sufficiently
sated with this particular form of
theatrical entertainment, and turned round
pleasantly to the remainder of the company.
My son,' he said, not without a real touch
of heartfelt, paternal pride, as he glanced
towards the gentlemanly looking and well-dressed
young doctor, ' your fellow-passengers
! Introduce me ! Which is de son of
my ole and valued friend, de Honourable
James Hawtorn, of Wagwater .^ '

Dr. Whitaker, glad to divert attention
from himself on any excuse, waved his hand
quietly towards Edward.

How do you do, Mr. Whitaker ? ' Edward
said, in as low and quiet a tone as

possible, anxious as he was to disappoint the
little gaping crowd of amused spectators.
We have all derived a great deal of pleasure
from your son's society on our way across.
His music has been the staple entertainment
of the whole voyage. We have appreciated
it immensely.'

But old Bobby was not to be put off with
private conversation aside in a gentle undertone.
He was accustomed to living his life
in public, and he wasn't going to be balked
of his wonted entertainment. ' Yes, Mr.
Hawtorn,' he answered in a loud voice, ' you
are right, sal. De taste for music an' de
taste for beauty in de ladies are two tastes
dat are seldom wanting' to de sons or de
grandsons of Africa, however far removed
from de original negro.' (As he spoke, he
glanced back with a touch of contempt and

an infinite superiority of manner at the pure-blooded
blacks, who were now busily engaged
in picking up portmanteaus from the
deck, and squabbling with one another as to
which was to carry the buckram' luggage.
Your mulatto, however dark, always in a
good-humoured, tolerant way, utterly despises
his coal-black brethren.) ' Bote dose tastes
are highly developed in my own pusson.
Bote no doubt my son, Wilberforce Clarkson
Whitaker, is liable to inherit from his fader's
family. In de exercise of de second, I cannot
fail to perceive dat dis lady beside you must
be Mrs. Haw torn. Sal ' — with a sidelong
leer of his fat eyes — ' I congratulate you mos'
sincerely on your own taste in female beauty.
A very nice, fresh-lookin' young lady, Mrs.
Hawtorn.'

Marian's face grew fiery red ; and Edward
VOL. I. S

hardly knew whether to laugh off the awkward
compliment, or to draw himself up and
stroll away, as though the conversation had
reached its natural ending.

And de odder young lady,' Bobby went
on, quite unconscious of the effect he had
produced — ' de odder young lady ? Your
sister, now, or Mrs. Hawtorn's ? '

'This is Miss Dupuy, of Orange Grove,'
Edward answered hesitatingly ; for he hardly
knew what remark old Bobby might next
venture upon. And, indeed, as a matter of
fact, the old mulatto's conversation, even in
the presence of ladies, was not at all times
restrained by all those artificial rules of decorum
imposed on most of us by what appeared
to him a ridiculously straitlaced and
puritanical white conventionality.

But Edward's answer seemed to have an

extraordinary effect in sobering and tonic
down the old man's exuberant volubility ; he
pulled off his hat with a respectful bow,
and said in a lower and more polite voice :
I have de honour of knowing Miss Dupuy's
fader; I am proud to make Miss Dupuy's
acquaintance

'Here, Bobby!' the captain called out
from a little forward — ' you come here, say.
The first-officer wants to introduce you ' —
with a wink at Edward — ' to His Excellency
the Peruvian ambassador. — Look here, Mr.
Hawthorn ; don't you let Bobby talk too
long to your ladies, sir. He sometimes
blurts out something, you know, that ladies
ain't exactly accustomed to. We seafaring
men are a bit rough on occasion ourselves,
certainly ; but we know how to behave for

8 2

all that before the women. — Bobby, don't ;
you'd better be careful.'

Thank you,' Edward said, and again
felt his heart smitten with a sort of remorse
for poor Dr. Whitaker. That quick, sensitive,
enthusiastic young man to be tied down
for life to such a father ! It was too terrible.
In fact, it was a tragedy.

Splendid take-down for that stuck-up,
young brown doctor,' the English officer
exclaimed aside in a whisper to Edward.
Shake a little of the confounded conceit out
of him, I should say. He wanted taking
down a peg. — Screaming farce, isn't he, the
old father?'

I never saw a more pitiable or pitiful
scene in my whole life,' Edward answered
earnestly. ' Poor fellow, I'm profoundly sorry
for him ; he looks absolutely broken-hearted.'

The young officer gazed at him in mute
astonishment. ' Can't see a joke, that fellow
Hawthorn,' he thought to himself. 'Had
all the fun worked out of him, I suppose,
over there at Cambridge. Awful prig ! Quite
devoid of the sense of humour. Sorry for
his poor wife ; she'll have a dull life of it. —
Never saw such an amusing old fool in all
my days as that ridiculous, fat old nigger
fellow ! '

Meanwhile, James Hawthorn had been
standing on the wharf, waiting for the first
crush of negroes and hangers-on to work
itself off, and looking for an easy opportunity
to come aboard in order to meet his son and
daughter. By-and-by the crush subsided, and
the old man stepped on to the gangway and
made his way down upon the deck.

In a moment, Edward was wringing his

hand fervently, and father and son had exchanged
one single kiss of recognition in that
half-shamefaced, hasty fashion in which men
of our race usually get through that very
un-english ceremony of greeting.

Father, father,' Edward said, ' I am so
thankful to see you once more ; so anxious
to see my dear mother.'

There were tears standing in both their
eyes as his father answered : ' My boy, my
boy ! I Ve denied myself this pleasure for
years ; and now — now it's come, it's almost
too much for me.'

There was a moment's pause, and then
Mr. Hawthorn turned to Marian. ' My
daughter,' he said, kissing her with a fatherly
kiss, ' we know you, and love you already,
from Edward's letters ; and we'll do our best,
as far as we can, to make you happy.'

There was another pause, and then the
father said again: 'You didn't get my telegram,
Edward ? '

Yes, father, I got it ; but not till we were
on the very point of starting. The steamer
was actually under weigh, and we couldn't
have stopped even if we had wished to.
There was nothing for it but to come on as
we were, in spite of it.'

Oh, Mr. Hawthorn, there's papa ! ' Nora
cried excitedly. ' There he is, coming down
the gangway.' And as she spoke, Air.
Dupuy's portly form was seen advancing
towards them with slow dehberateness.

For a second, he gazed about him
curiously, looking for Nora ; then, as he saw
her, he walked over towards her in his leisurely,
dawdling. West Indian fashion. Nora
darted forward and flung her arms impulsively

around him. ' So you've come, Nora,'
the old gentleman said quietly, disembarrassing
himself with elephantine gracefulness from
her close embrace — ' so you've come, after
all, in spite of my telegram ! — How was this,
my dear ? How was this, tell me ? '

Yes, papa,' Nora answered, a little
abashed at his serene manner. ' The telegram
was too late — it was thrown on board
after we'd started. But we've got out all
safe, you see. — And Marian — you know —
Marian Ord — Mrs. Hawthorn that is now —
she's taken great care of me ; and, except
for the hurricane, we've had such a delightful
voyage ! '

Mr. Dupuy drew himself up to his stateliest
eminence and looked straight across at
Marian Hawthorn with stiff politeness. ' I
didn't know it was to Mrs. Hawthorn, I'm

sure,' he said, ' that I was to be indebted for
your safe arrival here in Trinidad. It was
very good of Mrs. Hawthorn, I don't doubt,
to bring you out to us and act as your
chaperon. I am much obliged to Mrs. Hawthorn
for her kind attention and care of you
on the voyage. I must thank Mrs. Hawthorn
very sincerely for the trouble she may have
been put to on your account. — Good-morning,
Mrs. Hawthorn ! — Good-morning, Mr.
Hawthorn ! Your son, I suppose ? All, so
I imagined. — Good-morning, good-morning.'
He raised his hat with formal courtesy to
Marian, and bowed slightly to the son and
father. Then he drew Nora's arm carefully
in his, and was just about to walk her immediately
off the steamer, when Nora burst
from him in the utmost amazement and
rushed up to kiss Marian.

Papa,' she cried, ' I don't think you
understand. This is Marian Ord, don't you
know ? General Ord's daughter, that I've
written to you about so often. She's my
dearest friend, and now she's married to
Mr. Edward Hawthorn — this is he — and Aunt
Harriet gave me in charge to her to come
across with; and I must just say good-bye to
her before I leave her. — Thank you, dear,
thank you both so much for all your kindness.
Not, of course, that it matters about
saying good-bye to you, for you and we will
be such very, very near neighbours, and of
course we will see a great deal of one another.
Won't we, papa ? We shall be near neighbours,
and see a great deal of Marian always,
now she's come here to live — won't we ? '

Mr. Dupuy bowed again very stiffly. ' We
shall be very near neighbours, undoubtedly,

lie answered with unruffled politeness; 'and
I shall hope to take an early opportunity of
paying my respects to— to your friend,
General Ord's daughter.— I am much obliged.
once more, to Mrs. Hawthorn for her well-meant
attentions. Good-morning — This way,
Nora, my dear. This way to the Orange Grove
carriage.'

'Father,' Edward exclaimed, in doubt and
dismay, looking straight down into his father's
eyes, ' what does it all mean ? Explain it all
to us. I'm utterly bewildered. Why did you
telegraph to us not to come? And why did
Nora Dupuy's father telegraph to her, too, an
identical message ? '

Mr. Hawthorn drew a deep breath and
looked back at him with a face full of consternation
and pity. ' He telegraphed to her, too,
did he?' he muttered half to himself in slow

reflection. ' He telegraphed to prevent her
from coming out in the Severn ! I might
have guessed as much — it's very Hke him. —
My boy, my boy — and my dear daughter —
this is a poor welcome for you, a very poor
welcome ! We never wanted you to come
out here ; and if we could, we would have
prevented it. But now that you've come,
you've come, and there's no helping it. We
must just try to do our best to make you
both tolerably comfortable.'

Marian stood in blank astonishment and
silent wonder at this strange greeting. A
thousand vague possibilities floated instantaneously
through her mind, to be dismissed
the next second, on closer consideration, as
absolutely impossible. Why on earth did
this handsome, dignified courtly old gentleman
wish to keep them away from Trinidad ?

He wasn't poor ; he wasn't uneducated ; lie
wasn't without honour in his own country.
That he was a gentleman to the backbone,
she could see and feel the moment she looked
at him and heard him speak. Wliat, then,
could be his objection to his son's coming out
to visit him in his own surroundings ? Had
he committed some extraordinary crime ?
Was he an ex convict, or a fraudulent bankrupt,
or a defaulting trustee? Did he fear
to let his son discover his shame ? But no.
The bare idea was absolutely impossible.
You had only to gaze once upon that fine,
benevolent, clear-cut, transparently truthful
face — as transparently truthful as Edward's
own — to see immediately that James Hawthorn
was a man of honour. It was an insoluble
mystery, and Marian's heart sank
within her as she wondered to herself what

this gloomy welcome foreboded for the
future.

'Father,' Edward exclaimed, looking at
him once more with appealing eyes, ' do explain
to us what you mean ? Why didn't you
want us to come to Trinidad ? The suspense
is too terrible ! We shall be expecting something
worse than the reality. Tell us now.
Whatever it is, we are strong enough to bear
it. I know it can be nothing mean or dishonourable
that you have to conceal from
us ! For Marian's sake, explain it, explain
it!'

The old man turned his face away with a
bitter gesture. ' My boy, my boy, my poor
boy,' he answered slowly and remorsefully, ' I
cannot tell you. I can never tell you. You
will find it out for yourself soon enough.
But I I — I can never tell you ! '

CHAPTEE XII.

Edward and Marian spent their first week in
Trinidad with the Hawthorns senior. Mrs.
Hawthorn was kindness itself to Marian : a
dear, gentle, motherly old lady, very proud
of her boy — especially of his ability to read
Arabic, which seemed to her a profundity
of learning never yet dreamt of in the annals
of urbanity — and immensely pleased with
her new daughter-in-law : but nothing on
earth that Marian could say to lier would
induce her to unlock the mystery of that
alarming telegram. * No, no, my dear,' she
would say, shaking her head gloomily and

wiping her spectacles, whenever Marian recurred
to the subject, ' you'll find it all out
only too soon. God forbid, my darling, that
ever I should break it to you. I love you
far too well for that. Marian, Marian, my
dear daughter, you should never, never,
never have come here ! ' And then she
would burst immediately into tears. And
that was all that poor frightened Marian
could ever get out of her new mother-in-law.


All that first week, old Mr. Hawthorn was
never tired of urging upon Edward to go
back again at once to England. ' I can
depart in peace now, my boy,' he said ; ' I
have seen you at last, and known you, and
had my heart gladdened by your presence
here. Indeed, if you wish it, I'd rather go
back to England with you again, than that

you should stay in this unsuitable Trinidad.
Why bury your talents and your learning
here, when you might be rising to fame and
honour over in London ? What's the use of
your classical knowledge out in the West
Indies? What's the use of your Arabic?
What's the use of your law, even ? We have
nothing to try here but petty cases between
planter and servant : of what good to you
in that will be all your work at English
tenures and English land laws? You're
hiding your light under a bushel. You're
putting a trotting horse into a hansom cab.
You're wasting your Arabic on people who
don't even know the difference between
Greek and Latin.'

To all which, Edward steadily replied
that he wouldn't go back as long as this
mystery still hung unsolved over him ; and

VOL. I. T

that, as he had practically made an agreement
with the Colonial Government, it would
be dishonourable in him to break it for
unknown and unspecified reasons. As soon
as possible, he declared firmly, he would take
up his abode in his own district.

House-hunting is reduced to its very
simplest elements in the West Indian colonies.
There is one house in each parish or county
which has been inhabited from time immemorial
by one functionary for the time being.
The late Attorney-general dies of yellow
fever, or drinks himself to death, or gets
promotion, or retires to England, and another
Attorney-general is duly appointed by constituted
authority in his vacant place. The
new man succeeds naturally to the house
and furniture of his predecessor — as naturally,
indeed, as he succeeds to any of his

Other functions, offices, and prerogatives.
Not that there is the least compulsion in the
matter, only you must. As there is no other
house vacant in the community, and as

nobody ever thinks of building a new one

except when the old one tumbles do^vn by

efflux of time or shock of earthquake the

only thing left for one to do is to live in the
place immemorially occupied by all one's
predecessors in the same office. Hence it
happened that at the beginning of their
second week in the island of Trinidad, Marian
and Edward Hawthorn found themselves
ensconced with hardly any trouble in the
roomy bungalow known as Mulberry Lodge,
and hereditarily attached to the post of
District Court Judge for the district of Westmoreland.


Marian laid herself out at once for called?,

t9

and very soon the callers began to drop in.
About the fourth day after they had settled
into their new house, she was sitting in the
big, bare, tropical-looking drawing-room — a
great, gaunt, square barn, scantily furnished
with a few tables and rocking-chairs upon
the careless polished floor — so gaunt that
even Marian's deft fingers failed to make it
at first look home-like or habitable — when
a light carriage drew up hastily with a dash
at the front-door of the low bungalow. The
young bride pulled her bows straight quickly
at the heavy, old-fashioned gilt mirror, and
waited anxiously to receive the expected
visitors. It was her first appearance as mistress
of her establishment. In a minute,
Thomas, the negro butler — every man-servant
is a butler in Trinidad, even if he is
only a boy of twenty — ushered the newcomers

pompously into the bare drawings
Marian took their cards and glanced
at them hastily. Two gentlemen — the Honourable
Colonial Secretary, and the Honourable
Director of Irrigation.

The Colonial Secretary sidled into a chair,
and took up his parable at once with a very
profuse and ponderous apology. ' My wife,
Mrs. Hawthorn, my wife, I'm sorry to say,
was most unfortunately unable to accompany
me here this morning. — Charmingly you've
laid out this room, really ; so very different
from what it used to be in poor old Mac-mundo's
time. — Isn't it, Colonel Daubed?—
Poor old Macmurdo died in the late yellow
fever, you know, my dear madam, and Mr.
Hawthorn fills his vacancy. Excellent fellow,
poor old Macmurdo— ninth judge I've known
killed off by yellow fever in this district since

I've been here. — My wife, I was saying, when
your charming room compelled me to digress,
is far from well at present — a malady of the
country : this shocking climate ; or else, I'm
sure she'd have been delighted to have called
upon you with me this morning. The loss is
hers, the loss is hers, Mrs. Hawthorn. I shall
certainly tell her so. Immensely sorry.'

Colonel Daubeny, the Honourable Director
of Irrigation, was a far saunter and more
easy-spoken man. ' And Mrs. Daubeny, my
dear madam,' he said with a fluent manner
that Marian found exceedingly distasteful, ' is
most unfortunately just this moment down —
with toothache. Uncommon nasty thing to
be down with, toothache. A perfect martyr
to it. She begged me to make her excuses. —
Mr. Hawthorn' — to Edward, who had just
come in — ' Mrs. Daubeny begged me to make

her excuses. She regrets that she can't call
to-day on Mrs. Hawthorn. Beautiful view
you have, upon my word, from your front
piazza.'

'It's the same view, I've no doubt,' Edward
answered severely, * as it used to be in
the days of my predecessor.'

Eh ! What ! Ah, bless my soul ! Quite
so,' Colonel Daubeny answered, dropping hiss

eye-glass from his eye in some amazement

Ha ! Devilish good, that — devilish good,
really, Mr. Hawthorn.'

Marian was a little surprised that Edward,
usually so impassive, should so unmistakably
snub the Colonel at first sight ; and yet she
felt there was something very offensive in the
man's familiar manner, that made the retort
perfectly justifiable, and even necessary.

They lingered a little while, talking very

ordinary tropical small-talk ; and then the
Colonel, with an ugly smile, took up his hat,
and declared, with many unnecessary asseverations,
that he must really be off this very
minute. Mrs. Daubeny would so much regret
having lost the precious opportunity. The
Honourable Colonial Secretary rose at the
same moment and added that he must be
going too. Mrs. Fitzpatrick would never
forgive herself for that distressing local malady
which had so unfortunately deprived her of
the privilege and pleasure, — Good-coming,
good-morning.

But as both gentlemen jumped into the
dog-cart outside, Edward could hear the
Colonial Secretary, through the open door,
saying to the Colonel in a highly amused
voice : ' By George, he gave you as much ashe
got every bit, I swear, Daubeny.'

I

To which the Colonel responded with a
short laugh : ' Yes, my dear fellow ; and
didn't you see, by Jove, he twigged it?'

At this they both laughed together immoderately,
and drove off at once laughing,
very much pleased ^vith one another.

Before Marian and her husband had time
to exchange their surprise and wonder at such
odd behaviour on the part of two apparently
well-bred men, another buggy drove up to the
door, from which a third gentleman promptly
descended. His card showed him to be the
wealthy proprietor of a large and nourishing
neighbouring sugar-estate.

Called round,' he said to Edward, with a
slight bow towards Marian, * just to pay my
respects to our new judge, whom I'm glad to
welcome to the district of Westmoreland. A
son of Mr. Hawthorn of Agualta is sure to be

popular with most of his neighbour's —
hem — my wife, I'm sorry to say, Mrs. Hawthorn,
is at present suffering from — extreme
exhaustion, due to the heat. She hopes you'll
excuse her not calling upon you. Otherwise,
I'm sure, she'd have been most delighted, most
delighted.— Dear me, what an exquisite prospect
you have from your veranda ! ' The
neighbouring planter stopped for perhaps ten
minutes in the midst of languishing conversation,
and then vanished exactly as his two
predecessors had done before him.

Marian turned to her husband in blank
dismay. ' Edward, Edward ! ' she cried,
unable to conceal her chagrin and humiliation,
' what on earth can be the meaning of
it?'

My darling,' he answered, taking her hand

in his tenderly, ' I haven't the very faintest
conception.'

In the course of the afternoon, three more
gentlemen called, each alone, and each of them
in turn apologised profusely, in almost the
very self-same words, for his wife's absence.
The last was a fat old gentleman in the
Customs' service, who declared with effusion
many times over that Mrs. Bolitlio was really
prostrated by the extraordinary season.
Most unusual weather, this, Mrs. Hawthorn.
I've never known so depressing a summer in
the island of Trinidad since I was a lx>y,
ma'am.'

So it would seem,' Edward answer*!
dryly. ' The whole female population of the
island seems to be suffering from an extraordinary
complication of local disorders.'

Bless my soul ! ' the fat gentleman ejaculated
with ■ a stare. ' Then you've found out
that, have you ? — Excuse me, excuse me. I —

didn't know Hm, I hardly expected that

you expected — or rather, that Mrs. Hawthorn

expected Ah, quite so. — Good-morning,

good-morning.'

Marian flung herself in a passion of tears
upon the drawing-room sofa. ' If anyone else
calls this afternoon, Thomas,' she said, ' I'm
not at home. I won't see them — I can't see
them ; I'll endure it no longer. — Edward,
darling, for God's sake, tell me, why on
earth are they treating us as if — as if I
were some sort of moral leper? They
won't call upon me. What can be the
reason of it.^'

Edward Hawthorn held his head between

his hands and walked rapidly up and down the
bare drawing-room. ' I can't make it out,' lie
cried ; ' I can't understand it. Marian —
dearest — it is too terrible ! '

END OP THE FIRST VOLUME.

sPorrwwooDK awd co., !«KW.iTi;itCT sqOAU

London!*

MM

OF Thou

N I VERS City

Of Ill Noise

I&86

IN ALL SHADES
II.

PHILISTIA : a Novel. Crown 8vo. cloth extra,

3^. dd. ; post 8vo. illustrated boards, is.

BABYLON : a Novel. With I2 Illustrations by P.

Macnab. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3^. td.

FOR MAIMIE's SAKE : a Tale of Love and Dynamite.

Crown 8vo. cloth extra, is.

STRANGE STORIES. With Frontispiece by George
Du Maurier. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, ds. ; post 8vo. illustrated
boards, is.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

THE EVOLUTIONIST AT LARGE. Second
Edition, revised. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 6^.

VIGNETTES FROM NATURE. Crown 8vo. 6j.

COLIN CLOUT'S CALENDAR. Crown 8vo. 6j,

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

^ iXotJel

I!Y

GRANT ALLEN

AUTHOR OF ' BABYLON* 'STRANGE STORIES* ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. IL

ITonhott
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



the right of translation is reserved

3POTTISW00DE Ann CO., KEW-STREET SQUARE

LONDON

V

5

IN ALL SHADES

CHAPTER Ni.

A FORTNIGHT after Nora's arrival in Trinidad,
]mr. Tom Dupuy, neatly dressed in all his best,
called over one evening at Orange Grove
for the express purpose of speaking seriously
with his pretty cousin, Mr. Tom had been
across to see her more than once akeady, to
be sure, and had condescended to observe
to many of his acquaintances, on his return
from his call, that Uncle Theodore's girl, just
come out from England, eras really in her
way a deuced elegant and attractive creature.

YOL. IL B

In Mr. Tom's opinion, she would make a
devilish fine person to sit at the head of the
table at Pimento Valley. ' A man in my
position in life wants a handsome woman, you
know,' he said, ' to do the honours, and keep
up the dignity of the family, and look after
the women-servants, and all that sort of
thing ; so Uncle Theodore and I have arranged
beforehand that it would be a very
convenient plan if Nora and I were just to go
andfmake a match of it.'

"With the object of definitely broaching
this preconceived harmony to his unconscious
cousin, Mr. Tom had decked himself in his
very smartest coat and trousers, stuck a gloire
de Dijon rose in his top button-hole, mounted
his celebrated grey Mexican pony, 'Sambo
Gal,' and ridden across to Orange Grove in
the cool of the evening.

Nora was sitting by herself with her cup
of tea in the little boudoir that opened out
on to the terrace garden, with its big bamboos
and yuccas and draceena trees, when Mr.
Tom Dupuy was announced by Eosina as
waiting to see her.

Show him in, Eosina,' Nora said with
a smile ; ' and ask Aunt Clemmy to send up
another teacup. — Good-evening, Tom. I'm
afraid you'll find it a little dull here, as it
happens, this evening, for papa's gone down
to Port-o'-Spain on business ; so you'll have
nobody to talk to you to-night about the
prospects of the year's sugar-crop.'

Tom Dupuy seated himself on the ottoman
beside her with cousinly liberty. ' Oh, it
don't matter a bit, Nora,' he answered with
his own peculiar gallantry. ' I don't mind.
In fact, I came over on purpose this evening,

B 2

Uncle Theodore was out, because I'd got
something very particular I wanted to talk
over with you in private.'

In-deed,' Nora answered emphatically.
I'm surprised to hear it. I assure you, Tom,
I'm absolutely ignorant on the subject of
cane-culture.'

Girls brought up in England mostly are,'
Tom Dupuy replied with the air of a man
who generally makes a great concession.
They don't appear to feel much interest in
sugar, like other people. I suppose in England
there's nothing much grown except corn
and cattle. — But that wasn't what I came to
talk about to-night, Nora. I've got something
on my mind that Uncle Theodore and
I have been thinking over, and I want to
make a proposition to you about it.'
Well, Tom ? '

Well, Nora, you see, it's like this. As
you know. Orange Grove is Uncle Theodore's
to leave ; and after his time, he'll leave it to
you, of course ; but Pimento Valley's entailed
on me ; and that being so. Uncle Theodore
let's me have it on lease during his lifetime,
so that, of course, vp-whatever I spend upon it
in the way of permanent improvements is
really spent in bettering what's practically as
good as my own property.'

I understand. Quite so. — Have a cup
of tea?'

Thank you. — Well, Pimento Valley, you
know, is one of the very best sugar-producing
estates in the whole island. I've introduced
the patent Browning regulators for the centrifugal
process ; and I've imported some of
these new Indian mongooses that everybody's
talking about, to kill off the cane-rats ; and

I've got some splendid stock rations over
from Mauritius ; and altogether, a finer or
more creditable irrigated estate I don't think
you'll find — though it's me that says it — in
the island of Trinidad. Why, Nora, at our
last boiling, I assure you the greater part of
the liquor turned out to be seventeen over
proof; while the molasses stood at twenty-nine
specific gravity ; giving a yield, you
know, of something like one hogshead decimal
four on the average to the acre of canes under
cultivation.'

Nora held up her fan carelessly to smother
a yawn. ' I dare say it did, Tom,' she answered
with obvious unconcern ; ' but, you
know, I told you I didn't understand anything
on earth about sugar ; and you said it
wasn't about that that you wanted to talk tome
in private this evening.'

Yes, yes, Nora ; you're quite right ; it
isn't It's about a far deeper and more interesting
subject than sugar that I'm going
to speak to you.' (Nora mentally guessed it
must be rum.) 'I only mentioned these facts,
you see, just to show the sort of yield we're
making now at Pimento Valley. A man who
does a return like that, of course, must
naturally be making a very tidy round little
income.'

I'm awfully glad to hear it, I'm sure, for
your sake,' Nora answered unconcernedly.

I thought you would be, Nora ; I was
sure you would be. Naturally, it's a matter
that touches us both very closely. You see,
as you're to inherit Orange Grove, and as I'm
to inherit Pimento Valley, Uncle Theodore
and I think it would be a great pity that the
two old estates — the estates bound up so intimately

with the name and fame of the fighting
Dupuys — should ever be divided or go
out of the family. So we've agreed together,
Uncle Theodore and I, that I should endeavour
to unite them by mutual arrangement.'

'I don't exactly understand,' Nora said,
as yet quite unsuspicious of his real meaning.

Why, you know, Nora, a man can't live
upon sugar and rum alone.'

Certainly not,' Nora interrupted ; ' even
if he's a confirmed drunkard, it would be
quite impossible. He must have something
solid occasionally to eat as well.'

Ah, yes,' Tom said, in a sentimental tone,
endeavouring to rise as far as he was able to
the height of the occasion. ' And he must
have something more than that, too, Nora :
he must have sympathy ; he must have section
; he must have a companion in life ; he

must have somebody, you know, to sit at the
head of his table, and to — to — to '

To pour out tea for him,' Nora suggested
blandly, filling his cup a second time.

Tom reddened a little. It wasn't exactly
the idea he wanted, and he began to have a
faint undercurrent of suspicion that Nora was
quietly laughing at him in her sleeve. ' Ah,
well, to pour out tea for him,' he went
on, somewhat suspiciously ; ' and to share
his joys and sorrows, and his hopes and
aspirations '

About the sugar-crop ? ' Nora put in
once more, with provoking calmness.

Well, Nora, you may laugh if you like,'
Tom said warmly ; ' but this is a very serious
subject, I can tell you, for both of us. What
I mean to say is that Uncle Theodore and I
have settled it would be a very good thing

indeed if we two were to get up a match
between us.'

A match between you,' Nora echoed in a
puzzled manner — ' a match between papa and
you, Tom ! What at ? Billiards ? Cricket ?
Long jumping ? '

Tom fairly lost his temper. 'Nonsense,
Nora,' he said testily. ' You know as well
what I mean as I do. Not a match between
Uncle Theodore and me, but a match between
you and me — the heir and heiress of
Orange Grove and Pimento Valley.'

Nora stared at him with irrepressible
laughter twinkling suddenly out of all the
corners of her merry little mouth and puckered
eyelids. ' Between you and me,
Tom,' she repeated incredulously — ' between
you and me, did you say .^ Between
you and me now ? Why, Tom, do you really

mean this for a sort of an off-hand casual
proposal ? '

Oh, you may laugh if you like,' Tom
Dupuy replied evasively, at once assuming
the defensive, as boors always do by instinct
under similar circumstances. ' I know the
ways of you girls that have been brought
up at highfalutin' schools over in England.
You think West Indian gentlemen aren't good
enough for you, and you go running after
cavalry-officer fellows, or else after some
confounded upstart woolly - headed mulatto
or other, who comes out from England. I
know the ways of you. But you may laugh
as you like. I see you don't mean to listen
to me now ; but you'll have to listen to mein
the end ; for Uncle Theodore and I have
made up our minds about it, and what a
Dupuy makes up his mid about, he generally

sticks to, and there's no turning him.
So in the end, I know, Nora, you'll have to
marry me.'

You seem to forget,' Nora said haughtily,
that I too am a Dupuy, as much as you
are.'

Ah, but you're only a woman, and that's
very different. I don't mind a bit about your
answering me no to-day. It seems I've tapped
the puncheon a bit too early ; that's all :
leave the liquor alone, and it'll mature of
itself in time in its own cellar. Sooner or
later, Nora, you see if you don't marry me.'

'But, Tom,' Nora cried, abashed into
seriousness for a moment by his sudden outburst
of native vulgarity, ' this is really so
unexpected and so ridiculous. We're cousins,
you know ; I've never thought of you at all
in any way except as a cousin. I didn't

mean to be rude to you ; but your proposal
and your way of putting it took me really
so much by surprise.'

Oh, if that's all you mean,' Tom Dupuy
answered, somewhat mollified, ' I don't mind
your laughing, no, not tuppence. All I mind
is your saying no so straight outright to me
If you want time to consider '

Never ! ' Nora interrupted quickly in a
sharp voice of unswerving firmness.

Never, Nora ? Never ? Why never ? '

Because, Tom, I don't care for you ; I
can't care for you ; and I never will care for
you. Is that plain enough ? '

Tom stroked his chin and looked at her
dubiously, as a man looks at an impatient
horse of doubtful temper. ' Well,' he said,
Nora, you're a fine one, you are — a very
fine one. I know what this means. I've seen

it before lots of times. You want to marry
some woolly-headed brown man. I heard
you were awfully thick with some of those
people on board the Severn. That's what
always comes of sending West Indian girls
to be educated in England. You'll have to
marry me in the end, though, all the same,
because of the property. But you just mark
my words : if you don't marry me, as sure
as fate, you'll finish with marrying a woolly-headed
mulatto ! '

Nora rose to her full height with offended
dignity. 'Tom Dupuy,' she said angrily,
you insult me ! Leave the house, sir, this
minute, or I shall go to my bedroom. Get
back to your sugar-canes and your centrifugal
until you've learned better manners.'

'Upon my word,' Tom said aloud, as if
to himself, rising to go, and flicking his boot

carelessly with his riding-whip, 'I admire
her all the more when she's in a temper.
She's one of your high-steppes, she is. Shea
devilish fine girl, too — hanged if she isn't —
and, sooner or later, she'll have to marry me.'
Nora swept out of the boudoir without
another word, and walked with a stately
tread into her own bedroom. But before she
got there, the ludicrous side of the thing had
once more overcome her, and she flung
herself on her bed in uncontrollable fits of
childish laughter. ' Oh, Aunt Clemmy,' she
cried, ' bring me my tea in here, will you ?
I really think I shall die of laughing at Mr.
Tom there 1 '

CHAPTEE XIV.

For a few days the Hawthorns had plenty of
callers — but all gentlemen. Marian did not
go down to receive them. Edward saw them
by himself in the drawing-room, accepting
their excuses with polite incredulity, and
dismissing them as soon as possible by a
resolutely quiet and taciturn demeanour.
Such a singularly silent man as the new
judge, everybody said, had never before been
known in the district of Westmoreland.

One afternoon, however, when the two
Hawthorns were sitting out under the spreading
mango-tree in the back-garden, forgetting

their doubts and hesitations in a quiet chat,
Thomas came out to inform them duly that
two gentlemen and a lady were waiting to
see them in the bicf bare drawings-room.
Marian sighed a sigh of profound relief. ' A
lady at last,' she said hopefully. ' Perhaps,
Edward, they've begun to find out, after all,
that they've made some mistake or other.
Can — can any wicked person, I wonder, have
been spreading around some horrid report
about me, that's now discovered to be a mere
falsehood ? '

It's incomprehensible,' Edward answered
moodily. ' The more I puzzle over it, the
less I understand it. But as a lady's called
at last, of course, darling, j^ou'd better come
in at once and see her.'

They Walked together, full of curiosity,
into the drawing-room. The two gentlemen

VOL. II. C

IT

rose simultaneously as they entered. To
Marian's surprise, it was Dr. Wliitaker and
his father ; and with them had come — a
brown lady.

Marian was unaffectedly glad to see their
late travelling companion ; but it was certainly
a shock to her, unprejudiced as she
was, that the very first and only woman who
]had called upon her in Trinidad should be a
mulatto. However, she tried to bear her
disappointment bravely, and sat down to do
the honours as well as she was able to her
unexpected visitors.

My dauglitah ! ' the elder brown man
said ostentatiously, with an expansive wave
of his greasy left hand towards the mulatto
lady — 'Miss Euphemia Powell-buxton
Duchess-of-Sutherland Whitaker.'

Marian acknowledged the introduction

with a slight bow, and bit her hp. She stole
a look at Dr. Whitaker, and saw at once
upon his face an unwonted expression of
profound dejection and disappointment.

An' how do you like Trinidad, Mrs.
Hawtorn?' Miss Euphemia asked with a
society simper ; while Edward began engaging
in conversation with the two men. ' You
find de excessiveness of de temperature
prejudicial to salubrity, after de delicious
equality of de English climate?'

'Well,' Marian assented smiling, 'I certainly
do find it very hot.'

Oh, exceedingly,' Miss Euphemia replied,
as she mopped her forehead violently with
a highly-scented lace-edged cambric pocket-handkerchief.
'De heat is most oppressive,
most unendurable. I could wring out me
handkerchief, I assure you, Mrs. Hawtorn,

c 2

wit de extraordinary profusion of me perse
ration.'

But this is summer, you must remember,'
Dr. Wliitaker put in nervously, endeavouring
in vain to distract attention for the moment
from Miss Euphemia's conversational peculiarities.
' In winter, you know, we shall have
quite delightful English weather on the hills
quite delightful English weather.'

'Ah, yes,' the father went on with a broad
smile. ' In winter, Mrs. Hawtorn, ma'am,
you will be glad to drink a glass of 
sometimes, I tell you, to warm de blood
on des chilly hilltops.'

The talk went on for a while about such
ordinary casual topics ; and then at last
Miss Euphemia happened to remark, confidentially
to Marian, that that very day her
cousin, Mr. Septimius Whitaker, had been

/

married at eleven o'clock down at the
cathedral.

Indeed,' Marian said, with some polite
show of interest. 'And did you go to the
wedding, Miss Whitaker ? '

Miss Euphemia drew herself up with
great dignity. She was a good looking,
buxom, round-faced, very negro-featured girl,
about as dark in complexion as her brother
the doctor, but much more decidedly thick-hoped
and flat-nosed. ' Oh no,' she said, with
every sign of offended prejudice. 'We didn't
at all approve of de match me cousin Sep-titus
was unhappily making'. De lady, I
regret to say, was a Sambo.'

A what ? ' Marian inquired curiously.

A Sambo, a Sambo gal,' Miss Euphemia
replied in a shrill crescendo.

Oh, indeed,' Marian assented in a tone

which clearly showed she hadn't the faintest
idea of Miss Euphemia's meaning.

A Sambo,' Mr. Whitaker the elder said,
smiling, and coming to her rescue — ' a Sambo,
Mrs. Hawtorn, is one of de inferior degrees
in de classified scale and hierarchy of colour.
De offspring of an African and a white man
is a mulatto — dat, madam, is my complexion.
De offspring of a mulatto and a white man is
a quadroon — dat is de grade immediately
superior. But de offspring of a mulatto and
a negress is a Sambo — dat is de class just
beneath' us. De cause of complaint alleged by
de family against our nephew Septimius is
dis — dat been' himself a mulatto — de very
must remove from de pure-blooded white man
he has chosen to ally himself in marriage
wit a Sambo gal — de second and inferior
remove in de same progression. De family

feels dat in dis course Septimius has
thoroughly and irremediably disgraced himself.'


And for dat reason,' added ^Rliss Euphe-
mia with stately coldness, ' none of de ladies
in de brown society of Trinidad have been
present at dis morning's ceremony. De
gentlemen went, but de ladies didn't.'

It seems to me,' Dr. Whitaker said, in a
pained and humiliated tone, 'that we oughtn't
to be making these absurd distinctions of minute
hue between ourselves, but ought rather
to be trying our best to break down the whole
barrier of time-honoured prejudice by which
the coloured race, as a race, is so surrounded.
Don't you agree with me, Mr. Hawthorn ? '

Pio ! ' Miss Euphemia exclaimed, with
evident disgust. ' Just listen to Wilberforce !
He has no proper pride in his family or in his

colour. He would go and shake hands wit
any vulgar, dirty, nigger woman, I believe, as
black as de poker ; his ideas are so common ! —
Wilberforce, I declare, I's quite ashamed of
you ! ' •

Dr. Whitaker played nervously with the
knob of his walking-stick. ' I feel sure,
Euphemia,' he said at last, ' these petty discriminations
between shade and shade are the
true disgrace and ruin of our brown people.
In despising one another, or boasting over
one another, for our extra fraction or so of
white blood, we are implicitly admitting in
principle the claim of white people to look
down upon all of us impartially as inferior
creatures. — Don't you think so, Mr. Hawthorn
? '

'I quite agree with you,' Edward
answered warmly. ' The principle's obvious.'

Dr. Wliitaker looked pleased and flattered.
Edward stole a glance at Marian, and neither
could resist a faint smile at Miss Eupliemia's
prejudices of colour, in spite of their pressing
doubts and preoccupations. And yet, they
didn't even then begin to perceive the true
meaning of the situation. They had not long
to wait, however, for before the Whitaker
rose to take their departure, Thomas came
in with a couple of cards to announce Mr.
Theodore Dupuy, and his nephew, Mr. Tom
Dupuy, of Pimento Valley.

The Whitaker went off shortly. Miss
Euphemia especially in very high spirits, because
Mrs. Hawthorn had shaken hands in
the most cordial manner with her, before the
face of the two white men, Edward and
Marian would fain have refused to see the
Dupuys, as they hadn't thought fit to bring

even Nora with them ; and at that last mysterious
insult — a dagger to her heart — the
tears came up irresistibly to poor wearied
Marian's swimming eyelids. But Thomas had
brought the visitors in before the Whitaker
rose to go, and so there was nothing left but
to get through the interview somehow, with
what grace they could manage to muster.

We had hoped to see Nora long before
this,' Edward Hawthorn said pointedly to
Mr, Dupuy — after a few preliminary polite
inanities — half hoping thus to bring things at
last to a positive crisis. ' My wife and she
were school-girls together, you know, and we
saw so much of one another on the way out.
We have been quite looking forward to her
paying us a visit.'

Mr. Dupuy drew himself up very stiffly,
and answered in a tone of the chilliest order :

I don't know to whom you can be alluding,
sir, when you speak of " Nora ; " but if you
refer to my daughter, Miss Dupuy, I regret to
say she is suffering just at present from — ur
a severe indisposition, Which unfortunately
prevents her from paying a call on Mrs. Hawthorn.'


Edward coughed an angry little cough,
which Marian saw at once meant a fixed determination
to pursue the matter to the bitter
end. 'Miss Dupuy herself requested me to
call her Nora,' he said, ' on our journey over,
during which we naturally became very intimate,
as she was put in charge of my wife
at Southampton, by her aunt in England. If
she had not done so, I should never have
dreamt of addressing her, or speaking of herby
her Christian name. As she did do so,
however, I shall take the liberty of continuing

to call her by that name, until I receive a request
to desist from her own lips. We have
long been expecting a call, I repeat, Mr.
Dupuy, from your daughter Nora.'

Sir ! ' Mr. Dupuy exclaimed angrily ; the
blood of the fighting Dupuys was boiling up
now savagely within him.

'We have been expecting her,' Edward
Hawthorn repeated firmly ; ' and I insist upon
knowing the reason why you have not
brought her with you.'

I have already said, sir,' Mr. Dupuy
answered, rising and growing purple in the
face, ' that my daughter is suffering from a
severe indisposition.'

And I refuse,' Edward replied, in his
sternest tone, rising also, ' to accept that
flimsy excuse — in short, to call it by its proper
name, that transparent falsehood. If you

do not tell me the true reason at once, much
as I respect and like Miss Dupuy, I shall have
to ask you, sir, to leave my house immediately.'


A light seemed to burst suddenly upon
the passionate planter, which altered his
face curiously, by gradual changes, from livid
blue to bright scarlet. The corners of his
mouth began to go up sideways in a solemnly
ludicrous fashion : the crow's feet about his
eyes first relaxed and then tightened deeply ;
his whole big body seemed to be inwardly
shaken by a kind of suppressed impalpable
laughter. ' Why, Tom,' he exclaimed, turning
with a curious half comical look to his
wondering nephew, ' do you know — upon my
word — I really believe — no, it can't be
possible — but I really believe — they don't
even now know anything at all about it.'

Explain yourself,' Edward said sternly,
placing himself between Mr. Dupuy and the
door, as if on purpose to bar the passage outward.


If you really don't know about it,' Mr.
Dupuy said slowly, with an unusual burst of
generosity for him, ' why, then, I admit, the
insult to Miss Dupuy is — is — is less deliberately
intentional than I at first sight imagined.
But no, no : you must know all about it already.
You can't still remain in ignorance.
It's impossible, quite impossible.'

Explain,' Edward reiterated inexorably.

You compel me ? '

I compel you.'

You'd better not ; you won't like it.'
1 insist upon it.'

Well, really, since you make a point of it
but there, you've been brought up like

a gentleman, Mr. Hawthorn, and you've
married a wife who, as I learn from my
daughter, is well connected, and has
been brought up like a lady ; and I don't
want to hurt your feelings needlessly. I can
understand that under such circumstances
'

Explain. Say what you have to say ; I
can endure it.'

Tom ! ' Mr. Dupuy murmured imploringly,
turning to his nephew. After all, the
elder man was something of a gentleman ; he
shrank from speaking out that horrid secret.

Well, you see, Mr. Hawthorn,' Tom
Dupuy went on, taking up the parable with a
sardonic smile — for he had no such scruples —
my uncle naturally felt that with a man of
your colour ' He paused significantly.

Edward Hawthorn's colour at that particular

moment was vivid crimson. The next
instant it was marble white. 'A man of my
colour ! ' he exclaimed, drawing back in astonishment,
not unmingled with horror, and
flinging up his arms wildly — ' a man of my
colour ! For Heaven's sake, sir, what, in the
name of goodness, do you mean by a man of
my colour ? '

'Why, of course,' Tom Dupuy replied
maliciously and coolly, ' seeing that you're a
brown man yourself, and that your father
and mother were brown people before you,
naturally, my uncle '

Marian burst forth into a little cry of intense
excitement. It wasn't horror ; it wasn't
anger ; it wasn't disappointment : it was simply
relief from the long agony of that endless,
horrible suspense.

We can bear it all, Edward,' she cried

aloud cheerfully, almost joyously — ' we can
bear it all ! My darling, my darling, it is nothing,
nothing, nothing ! '

And regardless of the two men, who
waited yet, cynical and silent, watching the
effect of their unexpected thunderbolt, the
poor young wife flung her arms wildly around
her newly wedded husband, and smothered
him in a perfect torrent of passionate kisses.

But as for Edward, he stood there still, as
white, as cold, and as motionless as a statue.

TOL. II D

CHAPTER XV.

We'd better go, Tom,' Mr. Dupuy said,
almost pitying them. ' Upon my soul, it's
perfectly true ; they neither of them knew
a word about it.'

'No, by Jove, they didn't,' Tom Dupuy
answered with a sneer, as he walked out into
the piazza. — ' What a splendid facer, though,
it was. Uncle Theodore, for a confounded upstart
nigger of a brown man. — But, I say,' as
they passed out of the piazza and mounted
their horses once more by the steps — for they
were riding — ' did you ever see anything more
disgusting in your Hfe than that woman there

a real white woman, and a born lady, Nora
tells me — slobbering over and hugging that
great, ugly, hulking coloured fellow ! '

He's white enough to look at,' Mr.
Dupuy said reflectively. 'Poor soul, she
married him without knowing anything about
it. It'll be a terrible blow for her, I expect,
finding out, now she's tied to him irrevocably,
that he's nothing more than a common brown
man.'

She ought to be allowed to get a
divorce,' Tom Dupuy exclaimed warmly.
By George, it's preposterous to think that
a born lady, and the daughter of a General
Somebody over in England, should be
tethered for life to a creature of that sort,
whom she's married under what's as good as
false pretences ! '

Meanwhile, the unhappy woman who had

B 2

thus secured the high prize of Mr. Tom
Dupuy's distinguished compassion was sitting
on the sofa in the big bare drawing-room,
holding her husband's hand tenderly in hers
and soothing him gently by murmuring every
now and then in a soft undertone : ' My
darling, my darling, I shall love you for ever.
How glad we are to know that, after all, it's
nothing, nothing.'

Edward's stupor lasted for many minutes ;
not so much because he was deeply hurt or
horrified, for there wasn't much at bottom
to horrify him, but simply because he was
stunned by the pure novelty and strangeness
of that curious situation. A brown man — a
brown man ! It was too extraordinary ! He
could hardly awake himself from the one
pervading thought that absorbed and possessed
for the moment his whole nature. At

last, however, he awoke himself slowly.
After all, how little it was, compared with
their worst fears and anticipations ! ' Thomas,'
he cried to the negro butler, ' brins; round
our horses as quick as you can saddle them.
Darling, darling, we must ride up to
Agualta this moment, and speak about it all
to my father and mother.'

In Trinidad, everybody rides. Indeed,
there is no other way of getting about from
place to place among the mountains, for
carriage-roads are there unknown, and only
narrow winding horse-paths climb slowly
round the interminable peaks and gullies.
The Hawthorns' own house was on the plains
just at the foot of the hills ; but Agualta
and most of the other surrounding houses
were up high among the cooler mountains.
So the very first thing Marian and Edward

had had to do on reaching the island was to
provide themselves with a couple of saddle-horses,
which they did during their first
week's stay at Agualta. In five minutes the
horses were at the door ; and Marian, having
rapidly slipped on her habit, mounted her
pony and proceeded to follow her agitated
husband up the slender thread of mountain-road
that led tortuously to his father's house.
They rode along in single file, as one always
must on these narrow, ledge-ike, West Indian
bridle-paths, and in perfect silence. At first,
indeed, Marian tried to throw out a few
casual remarks about the scenery and the
tree-ferns, to look as if the disclosure was to
her less than nothing — as, indeed, but for
Edward's sake, was actually the case — but
her husband was too much wrapped up in his
own bitter thoughts to answer her by more

than single monosyllables. Not that he spoke
unkindly or angrily ; on the contrary, his
tenderness was profounder than ever, for he
knew now to what sort of life he had exposed
Marian ; but he had no heart just then for
talking of any sort ; and he felt that until he
understood the whole matter more perfectly,
words were useless to explain the situation.

As for Marian, one thought mainly possessed
her : had even Nora, too, turned against
them and forsaken them .^

Old Mr. Hawthorn met them anxiously on
the terrace of Agualta. He saw at once, by
their pale and troubled faces, that they now
knew at least part of the truth. ' Well, my
boy,' he said, taking Edward's hand in his
with regretful gentleness, ' so you have found
out the curse that hangs over us ? '

In part, at least,' Edward answered, dismounting

; and he proceeded to pour forth
into his father's pitying and sympathetic ear
the whole story of their stormy interview
with the twoDupuys. 'What can they mean,'
he asked at last, drawing himself up proudly,
by calling such people as you and me
brown men," father ? '

The question, as he asked it that moment,
in the full sunshine of Agualta Terrace, did
indeed seem a very absurd one. Two more
perfect specimens of the fair-haired, blue-eyed,
j)inky-white-skinned Anglo-saxon type
it would have been extremely difficult to
discover even in the very heart of England
itself, than the father and son who thus faced
one another. But old Mr, Hawthorn shook
his handsome grey old head solemnly and
mournfully. 'It's quite true, my boy,' he
answered with a painful sigh — ' quite true,

every word of it. In the eyes of all Trinidad,
of all the West Indies, you and I are in fact
coloured people.'

But, father, dear father,' Marian said
pleadingly, 'just look at Edward ! There isn't
a sign or a mark on him anywhere of anything
but the purest English blood ! Just look
at him, father ; how can it be possible ? ' — and
she took up, half unconsciously, his hand —
that usual last tell-tale of African descent,
but in Edward Hawthorn's case stainless and
white as pure wax. ' Surely you don't mean
to tell me,' she said, kissing it with wifely
tenderness, ' there is negro blood — the least,
the tiniest fraction, in dear Edward ! '

Listen to me, dearest,' the old man said,
drawing Marian closer to his side with a
fatherly gesture. ' My father was a white
man. Mary's father was a white man. Oui-grandfathers

on both sides were pure white,
and our grandmothers on one side were white
also. All our ancestors in the fourth degree
were white, save only one — fifteen whites to
one coloured out of sixteen quarters — and
til at one was a mulatto in either hne — Mary's
and my great-great-grandmother. In England,
or any other country of Europe, we
should be white — as white as you are. But
such external and apparent whiteness isn't
enough by any means for our West Indian
prejudices. As long as you have the remotest
taint or reminiscence of black blood about
you in any way — as long as it can be shown,
by tracing your pedigree pitilessly to its fountainhead,
that any one of your ancestors was
of African origin — then, by all established
West Indian reckoning, you are a coloured
man, an outcast, a pariah. — You have married

a coloured man, Marian ; and your children
and your grandchildren to the latest generations
will all of them for ever be coloured
also.'

How cruel — how wicked — how abominable
! ' Marian cried, flushed and red with
sudden indignation. ' How unjust so to
follow the merest shadow or suspicion of
negro blood age after age to one's children's
children ! '

And how far more unjust still,' Edward
exclaimed with passionate fervour, ' ever so
to judge of any man not by what he is in
himself, but by the mere accident of the race
or blood from which he is descended ! '

Marian blushed again with still deeper
colour ; she felt in her heart that Edward's indignation
went further than hers, down to the
very root and ground of the whole matter.

But, father,' she began again after a
sight pause, changing passionately both to
her husband and to Mr. Hawthorn, ' are
they gcyng to visit this crime of birth even
on a man of Edward's character and Edward's
position ? '

Not on him only,' the old man whispered
with infinite tenderness — ' not on him only,
my daughter, my dear daughter — not on him
only, but on you — on you, who are one of
themselves, an English lady, a true white
woman of pure and spotless lineage. You
have broken their utmost and sacredness law
of race ; you have married a coloured man !
They will punish you for it cruelly and relentlessly.
Though you did it, as he did it, in
utter ignorance, they will punish you for it
cruelly ; and that's the very bitterest drop in
all our bitter cup of ignominy and humiliation.'

There was a moment's silence, and then
Edward cried to him aloud : ' Father, father,
you ought to have told me of this earlier ! '

His father drew back at the word as
though one had stung him. ' My boy,' he
answered tremulously, ' how can you ever
reproach me with that ? You at least should
be the last to reproach me. I sent you to
England, and I meant to keep you ther.
In England, this disgrace would have been
nothing — less than nothing. Nobody would
ever have known of it, or if they knew of it,
minded it in any way. Why should I trouble
you with a mere foolish fact of family history
utterly unimportant to you over in England ?
I tried my hardest to prevent you from
coming here ; I tried to send you back at
once when you first came. But do you
wonder, now, I shrank from telling you the

ban that lies upon all of us here ? And do
you blame me for trying to spare you the
misery I myself and your dear mother have
endured without complaining for our whole
lifetime ? '

Father, father,' Edward cried again, ' I
was wrong ; I was ungrateful. You have
done it all in kindness. Forgive me — forgive
me ! '

There is nothing to forgive, my boy —
nothing to forgive, Edward. And now, of
course, you will go back to England ! '

Edward answered quickly, ' Yes, yes,
father ; they have conquered — they have
conquered — I shall go back to England ;
and you, too, shall come with me. If it
were for my own sake alone, I would stop
here even so, and fight it out with them to
the end till I gained the victory. But I can't

expose Marian — dear, gently nurtured, tender
Marian — to the gibes and scorn of these ill-mannered
planter people. She shall never
again submit to the insult and contumely she
has had to endure this morning. — No, no,
Marian, darling, we shall go back to England
back to England — back to England ! '

And why, father,' Marian asked, looking
up at him suddenly, ' didn't you yourself leave
the country long ago ? Why didn't you go
where you could mix on equal terms with
your natural equals? Why have you stood
so long this horrible, wicked, abominable
injustice?'

The old man straightened himself up, and
fire flashed from his eyes like an old lion's
as he answered proudly : ' For Edward — for
Edward ! First of all, I stopped here and
worked to enable me to bring up my boy

where this talents would have the fullest scope
in free England. Next, when I had grown
rich and prosperous here at Agualta, I
stopped on because I wouldn't be beaten in
the battle and driven out of the country by
the party of injustice and social intolerance.
I wouldn't yield to them ; I wouldn't give
way to them ; I wouldn't turn my back upon
the baffled and defeated cheque of slave-owners,
because, though my father was an
English officer, my mother was a slave,
Marian ! '

He looked so grand and noble an old man
as he uttered simply and unaffectedly those
last few words — the pathetic epitaph of a
terrible dead and buried wrong, still surviving
in its remote effects — that Marian
threw her arms around his neck passionately,
and kissed him with one fervent kiss of love

and admiration, almost as tenderly as she
had kissed Edward himself in the heat of
the first strange discovery.

Edward,' she cried, with resolute enthusiasm,
' we will not go home ! We will not
return to England. We, too, will stay and
fight out the cruel battle against this wicked
prejudice. We will do as your father has
done. I love him for it — I honour him for
it I To me it's less than nothing, my darling,
my daring, that you should seem to have
some small taint by birth in the eyes of these
miserable, little, outlying islanders. To me,
it's less than nothing that they should dare to
look down upon you, and to set themselves
up against you — you, so great, so learned, so
good, so infinitely nobler than them, and
better than them in every way ! Who are
they, the wretched, ignorant, out-of-the-way

VOL. II. E

creatures, that they venture to set themselves
up as our superiors ? I will not yield, either.
I'm my father's daughter, and I won't give
way to them. Edward, Edward, darling
Edward, we will stop here still, we will stop
here and defeat them ! '

My darling,' Edward answered, kissing
her forehead tenderly, ' you don't know
what you say ; you don't realise what it
would be like for us to live here. I can't
expose you to so much misery and awkwardness.
It would be wrong of me —
unmanly of me — cowardly of me — to let
my wife be constantly met with such
abominable, undeserved insult ! '

Cowardly ! Edward,' Marian cried,
stamping her pretty little foot upon the
liTOund impatiently with womanly emphasis,
cowardly — cowardly ! The cowardice is all

the other way, I fancy. I'm not ashamed
of my husband, here or anywhere. I love
you ; I adore you ; I admire you ; I respect
you. But I can never again respect you so
much if you run away, even for my sake,
from this unworthy prejudice. I don't want
to hive here always, for ever: God forbid.
I hate and detest it. But I shall stop here
a year — two years — three years, if I like,
just to show the hateful creatures I love
you and admire you, and I'm not afraid of
them ! '

'No,' no, my child,' old Mr. Hawthorn
murmured tenderly, smoothing her forehead
; ' this is no home for you, Marian.
Go back to England — go back to England
! '

Marian turned to him with feverish
energy. ' Father,' she cried, ' dear, good,

E 2

kind, gentle, loving father ! You've taught
me better yourself; your own words have
taught me better. I won't give way to
them ; I'll stop in the land where you have
stopped, and I'll show them I'm not ashamed
of you or of Edward either ! Ashamed !
I'm only ashamed to say the word. Wliat
is there in either of you for a woman not
to be proud of with all the deepest and
holiest pride in her whole nature ! '

My darling, my darling,' Edward answered
thoughtfully, ' we shall have to
think and talk more with one another about
this wretched, miserable business.'



CHAPTER XVI.

The very next morning, as Edward and
Marian were still loitering over the mangoes
and bananas at eleven o'clock breakfast —
the West Indies keep continental hours —
they were surprised and pleased by hearing
a pony's tramp cease suddenly at the front-door,
and Nora Dupuy's well-known voice
calling out as cheerily and childishly as
ever: ' Marian, Marian ! you dear old thing,
please send somebody out here at once, to
hold my horse for a minute, will you ? '

The words fell upon both their ears
just then as an oasis in the desert of

isolation from women's society, to which
they had been condemned for the last ten
days. The tears rose quickly into Marian's
eyes at those familiar accents, "and she ran
out hastily, with arms outstretched, to meet
her one remaining girl-acquaintance. '
Nora, Nora, darling Nora ! ' she cried,
catching the bright little figure lovingly in
her arms, as Nora leapt with easy grace
from her mountain pony, ' why didn't you
k come before, my darling? Why did you
leave me so long alone, and make us think
j^ou had forgotten all about us ? '

Nora flung herself passionately upon her
friend's neck, and between laughing and
crying, kissed her over and over again so
many times without speaking, that Marian
knew at once in her heart it was all right
there at least, and that Nora, for one.

wasn't going to desert them. Then the
poor girl, still uncertain whether to cry or
laugh, rushed up to Edward and seized his
hand with such warmth of friendliness, that
Marian half imagined she was going to kiss
him fervently on the spot, in her access of
emotion. And indeed, in the violence of
her feeling, Nora very nearly did fling her
arms around Edward Hawthorn, whom she
had learned to regard on the way out
almost in the light of an adopted brother.
My darling,' Nora cried vehemently, as
soon as she could find space for utterance,
my pet, my own sweet Marian, you dear
old thing, you darling, you sweetheart ! — T
didn't know about it ; they never told me.
Papa and Tom have been deceiving me
disgracefully : they said you were away up
at Agualta, and that you particularly

wished to receive no visitors until you'd got
comfortably settled in at your new quarters
here at Mulberry. And I said to papa,
nonsense ; that that didn't apply to me,
and that j^ou'd be delighted to see me
wherever and whenever I chose to call
upon you. And papa said — Marian, I
can't bear to tell you what he said : it's so
wicked, so dreadful — papa said that he'd
met Mr. Hawthorn — Edward, I mean — and
that Edward had told him you didn't wish
at present to see me, because — well, because,
he said, you thought our circles
would be so very different. And I couldn't
imagine what he meant, so I asked him.
And then he told me — he told me that
horrid, wicked, abominable, disgraceful
calumny. And I jumped up and said it
was a lie — yes, I said a lie, Marian — I

didn't say a story : I said it was a lie, and
I didn't believe it. But if it was true — and
I don't care myself a bit whether it's true
or whether it isn't — I said it was a mean,
cowardly, nasty thing to go and rake it up
now about two such people as you and
Edward, darling. And whether it's true or
whether it isn't, Marian, I love you both
dearly with all my heart, and I shall
always love you ; and I don't care a pin
who on earth hears me say so.' And then
Nora broke down at once into a flood of
tears, and flung herself once more with
passionate energy on Marian's shoulder.

Nora daring,' Marian whispered, crying
too, ' I'm so glad you've come at last,
dearest. I didn't mind any of the rest a bit,
because they're nothing to me ; it doesn't
matter ; but when I thought you had forgotten

us and given us up, it made my
heart bleed, darling, darling ! '

Nora's tears began afresh. ' Why, pet,'
she said, ' I've been trying to get away to
come and see you every day for the last
week ; and papa wouldn't let me have the
horses ; and I didn't know the way ; and it
was too far to walk ; and I didn't know
what on earth to do, or how to get to you.
But last night papa and Tom came home,
here Nora's face burned violently, and
she buried it in her hands to hide her
vicarious shame — ' and I heard them talking
in the piazza ; and I couldn't understand it
all ; but, Marian, I understood enough
to know that they had called upon you here
without me, and that they had behaved
most abominably, most cruelly, to you and
Edward. And I went out to the piazza, as

white as a sheet, Eosina says, and I said :
Papa, you have acted as no gentleman
would act ; and as for you, Tom Dupuy,
I'm heartily ashamed to think you're my
own cousin ! '' and then I went straight upto
my bedroom that minute, and haven't
said a word to either of them ever since ! '

Marian kissed her once more, and
pressed the tearful girl tight against her
bosom — that sisterly embrace seemed to her
now such an unspeakable consolation and
comfort. ' And how did you get away
this morning, dear ? ' she asked softly.

'Oh,' Nora exclaimed, with a childish
smile and a little cry of triumph, ' I was
determined to come, Marian, and so I came
here. I got Eosina — that's my maid, such
a nice black girl — to get her lover, Isaac
Pourtales, who isn't one of our servants,

you know, to saddle the pony for me ;
because papa had told our groom I wasn't
to have the horses without his orders, or to
go to your house if the groom was with
me, or else he'd dismiss him. So Isaac
Pourtales, he saddled it for me ; and Eosina
ran all the way here to show me the road
till she got nearly to the last corner ; but
she wouldn't come on and hold the pony
for me, for if she did, she said, de massa
would knock de very brefF out of her
body ; and I really believe he would too,
Marian, for papa's a dreadful man to deal
with when he's in a passion.'

But won't he be awfully angry with
you, darling,' Marian asked, ' for coming
here when he told you not to ? '

Of course he will,' Nora replied, drawing
herself up and laughing quietly. ' But

I don't care a bit, you know, for all his
anger. I'm not going to keep away from
a dear old darling like you, and a dear,
good, kind fellow like Edward, all for
nothing, just to please him. He may storm
away as long as he has a mind to ; but I tell
you what,, my dear, he won't prevent me.'

I don't mind a bit about it now, Nora,
since you're come at last to me.'

Mind it, darling ! I should think not !

Why on earth should you mind it? It's too

preposterous ! Why, Marian, whenever I

think of it — though I'm a West Indian born

myself, and dreadfully prejudiced, and all

that wicked sort of thing, you know — it

seems to me the most ridiculous nonsense I

ever heard of. Just consider what kind of

people these are out here in Trinidad, and

what kind of people you and Edward are,

and all your friends over in England ! There's
my cousin, Tom Dupuy, now, for example ;
what a pretty sort of fellow he is, really.
Even if I didn't care a pin for you, I couldn't
give way to it ; and as it is, I'm going to
come here just as often as ever I please, and
nobody shall stop me. Papa and Tom are
always talking about the fighting Dupuys ;
but I can tell you they'll find I'm one of the
fighting Dupuys too, if they want to fight me
about it. — Now, tell me, Marian, doesn't it
seem to you yourself the most ridiculous reversal
of the natural order of things you ever
heard of in all your life, that these people here
should pretend to set themselves up as — as
being in any way your equals, daring ? ' And
Nora laughed a merry little laugh of pure
amusement, so contagious that Edward and
Marian joined in it too, for the first time

almost since they came to that dreadful
Trinidad.

Companionship and a fresh point of view
lighten most things. Nora stopped with the
two Hawthorns all that day till nearly dinner-time,
talking and laughing with them much
as usual after the first necessary explanations
; and by five o'clock, Marian and
Edward were positively ashamed themselves
that they had ever made so much of what
grew with thinking on it into so absurdly
small and unimportant a matter. ' Upon
my word, Marian,' Edward said, as Nora
rode away gaily unprotected — she positively
wouldn't allow him to accompany her homeward
— ' I really begin to believe it would
be better after all to stop in Trinidad and
fight it out bravely as well as we're able for
just a year or two.'

I tlioucrlit SO from the first,' Marian answered
courageously ; ' and now that Nora
has cheered his up a Utile, I thmk so a
cfreat deal more than ever.'

Alien Nora reached Orange Grove, Mr.
Dupiiy stood, black as thunder, waiting to
receive her in the piazza. Two negro menservants
were loitering about casually in the
doorway.

Nora,' he said, in a voice of stern displeasure,
' have you been to visit" these new .
nigger people ? '

Nora glanced back at him defiantly and
haughtily. ' I have not,' she answered with
a steady stare. ' I have been calling upon
my very dear friends, the District Court
Judge and Mrs. Hawthorn, who are both our
equals. I am not in the habit of associating
with what you choose to call nigger people.

Mr. Dupuy's face grew purple once more.
He glanced round quickly at the two menservants.
' Go to your room, miss,' he said
with suppressed rage — ' go to your room,
and stop there till I send for you ! '

I was going there myself,' Nora answered
calmly, without moving a muscle. ' I mean
to remain there, and hold no communication
with the rest of the family, as long as you
choose to apply such unjust and untrue
names to my dearest friends and oldest companions.
— Rosinaa, come here, please ! Have
the kindness to bring me up some dinner to
my own boudoir; will you, Eosina?'

VOL. II. F

CHAPTEE XVn.

It was the very next day when the Governor's
wife came to calli In any case, Lady Mod}'-
ford would have had to call on Marian : for
etiquette demands, from the head of the colony
at least, a strict disregard for distinctions of
cuticle, real or imaginary. But Nora Dupuy
had seen Lady Modyford that very morning,
and had told her all the absurd story of the
Hawthorns' social disqualifications. Now, the
Governor's wife was a woman of the world,
accustomed to many colonial societies, big
and small, as well as to the infinitely greater
world of London ; and she was naturally

moved, at first hearing, rather to amusement
than to indignation at the idea of Tom Dupuy
setting himself up as the social superior of a
fellow of Catherine's and barrister of the Inner
Temple. This point of view itself certainly-lost
nothing from Nora's emphatic way of
putting it ; for, though Nora had herself a
bountiful supply of fine old crusted West
Indian prejudices, producible on occasion, and
looked down upon ' brown people ' of every
shade with that peculiarly profound contempt
possible only to a descendant of the old vanquished
slave-owning oligarchy, yet her personal
affection for Marian and Edward was
quite strong enough to override all such
abstract considerations of invisible colour ;
and her sense of humour was quite keen
enough to make her feel the full ridiculousness
of comparing such a man as Edward

r 2

Hawthorn with lier own loutish sugar-growing
cousin. She had lived so long in England, as
Tom Dupuy himself would have said, that she
had begun to pick up at least some faint tincture
of these newfangled, radical, Exeter Hall
opinions ; in other words, she had acquired a
little ballast of common sense and knowledge
of life at large to weigh down in part her
tolerably large original cargo of colonial prejudices.


But when Nora came to tell Lady Mody-
ford, as far as she knew them, the indignities
to which the Hawthorns had already been
subjected by the pure blue blood of Trinidad,
the Governor's wife began to perceive there
was more in it than matter for mere laughter ;
and she bridled up a little haughtily at the
mention of Mr. Tom Dupuy's free-spoken
comments, as overheard by Nora on the

Orange Grove piazza. ' Nigger people ! ' the
fat, good-natured, motherly little body echoed,
angrily. ' Did he say nigger people, my
dear ? — What ! a daughter of General Ord of
the Bengal infantry — why, T came home from
Singapore in the same steamer with her
mother, the year my father went away from
the Straits Settlements to South Australia ! Do
you mean to say, my dear, they won't call
upon her, because she's married a son of that
nice old Mr. Hawthorn with the white beard
up at Agualta ! A perfect gentleman, too !
Dear me, how very abominable ! You must
excuse my saying it, my child, but really you
West Indian people do mistake your own little
hole and corner for the great world, in a most
extraordinary sort of a fashion. Now, confess
to me, don't you ? '

So the same afternoon, Lady Modyford had

powdered her round, fat, little face, and put
on her pretty coquettish French bonnet, and
driven round in full state from Government
House to Edward Hawthorn's new bungalow
in the Westmoreland valleys.

As the carriage with its red-liveried black
footmen drove up to the door, Marian's heart
sank once more within her : she knew it was
the Governor's wife come to call ; and she had
a vague presentiment in her own mind that
the fat little woman inside the carriage would
send in her card out of formal politeness, and
drive away at once without waiting to see her.
But instead of that, Lady Modyford came up
the steps with great demureness, and walked
into the bare drawing-room, after Marian's
rather untidy and quite raw black waiting-maid
; and the moment she saw Marian, she
stepped up to her very impulsively, and held

out both her hands, and kissed the poor young
bride on either cheek with genuine tenderness.
' My dear,' she said, with a motherly
tremor in her kind okl voice, ' you must forgive
me for making myself quite at home with
you at once, and not standing upon ceremony
in any way ; but I knew your mother years
ago — she was just like you then — and I know
what a lonely thing it is for a newly-married
girl to come out to a country like this, quite
away from her own people ; and I shall be
so glad if you'll take Sir Adalbert and me
just as we are. We're homely people, and we
don't Hve far away from you ; and if you'll
run round and see me any time you feel lonely
or are in want of anything, why, you know,
of course, my dear, we shall be delighted to
see you.'

And then, before Marian could wipe away

the tears that rose quickly to her eyes, fat little

Lady Modyford had gone off into reminiscences

of Singapore and Bombay, and that dear Mrs.

Ord, and the baby that died — ' Your sister,

you know, my dear — the one that was born

at Calcutta, and died soon after your dear

mamma reached England. — No, of course, my

dear ; your mamma couldn't know that I was

here, because, you see, when she and I came

home together — why, that was twenty-two

years ago — no, twenty-four, I declare, because

Sir Adalbert — he was plain Mr. Modyford

then, on three hundred a year, in the Straits

Settlements colonial service — didn't propose

to me till the next summer, when he came

home on leave, you know, just before he was

removed to Hong-kong by that horrid Lord

Sudbury, who was Colonial Secretary in those

days, and afterwards died of suppressed gout.

the doctors said, which I call D. T., at his
own villa at that delightful Spezzia. So you
see I was Kitty Fitzroy at that time, my child ;
and I dare say your mamma, who's older than
me a good bit, of course, never heard about
my marrying Sir Adalbert, for we were
married very quietly down in Devonshire,
where Sir Adalbert's father was rector in a
very small parish, on a tiny income ; and we
started at once for Hong-kong, and spent our
honeymoon at Venice — a nasty, damp, uncomfortable
place for a wedding tour, I call
it, but not nearly so bad as you coming out
here straight from the church door almost.
Miss Dupuy told me ; and Trinidad too, well
known to be an unsociable, dead-alive sort of
an island. But whenever you like, dear, you
must just jump on your horse — you've got
horses, of course? — yes, I thought so — and

ride over to Government House, and have a
good chat with me and Emily ; for, indeed,
Mrs. Hawthorn — what's your Christian name ?
Marian — ah, very pretty — we should like
to see you as often as you choose ; and next
week, after you've settled down a little, you
must really come up and stop some time with
us ; for I assure you I've quite taken a fancy
to you, my dear ; and Sir Adalbert, when he
saw Mr. Hawthorn, the other day, at the
Island Secretary's office, came home quite
delighted, and said to me : " Kitty, the young
man they've sent out for the new District
judge is the very man to keep that something
old fool Dupuy in order in future." '

Lady Modyford waited a good deal longer
than is usual with a first call, and got very
friendly indeed with poor Marian before the
end of her visit ; for, coarse-grained woman of

the world as she was, her heart warred nota
Httle towards the friendless young bride
who had come out to Trinidad — dull hole,
Trinidad, not at all like Singapore, or Mauritius,
or Cape Town — to find herself so utterly-deserted
by all society. And next day, all
female Trinidad was talking over five-o'clock
tea about the remarkable fact, learnt indirectly
though those unrecognised purveyors
of fashionable intelligence, the servants, that
that horrid proud Lady Modyford — 'who
treats you and me, my dear, as if we were
the dirt beneath her feet, don't you know,
and must call with two footmen and so much
grandeur and formality ' — had actually kissed
that brown man's wife, that's to be the new
District judge in Westmoreland, on both
cheeks, the very first moment she saw her.
Female Trinidad was so inexpressibly shocked

at this disgraceful behaviour in a person officially
charged with the maintenance of a
high standard of decorum, that it was really
half inclined to think it ought to cut Lady
Modyford direct on next meeting her. It
was restrained from this extreme measure,
however, by a wholesome consideration of the
fact that Lady Modyford would undoubtedly
take the rebuff with unruffled amusement ;
so it contented itself by merely showing a
little coldness to the Governor's wife when it
happened to meet her, and refusing to enter
into conversation with her on the subject of
Marian and Edward Hawthorn.

As for Marian herself, she had a good cry,
as soon as Lady Modyford was gone, over
this interview also. Kind as the Governor's
wife had wished to show herself, and genuinely
sympathetic as she had actually been.

Marian couldn't help recognising that there
was a certain profound undercurrent of degradation
in having to accept the ready
sympathy of such a woman at all on such a
matter. Anywhere else, Marian would have
felt that Lady Modyford, motherly as she
was, stood just a grade or two by nature
below her ; in fact, she felt so there too ;
but still, she was compelled by circumstances
to take the good fat body's consolation and
condolence as a sort of favour ; while anywhere
else lie would rather have repelled it
as a disagreeable impertinence, or at least asa
distasteful interference with her own individuality.
It was impossible not. to be dimly
conscious that coming to Trinidad had made
a real difference in her own social position.
At home, she had no need for anybody's condescension
or anybody's affability ; here, she

was forced to recognise the fact that even
Lady Modyford was making generous concessions
on purpose in her favour. It was
galling, but it was inevitable. There is nothing
more painful to persons who have
always mixed in society on terms of perfect
and undoubted equality, than thus to put
themselves into false positions, where it is
possible for equals, or even for natural inferiors,
to seem to patronise them.

Nevertheless, that evening Marian said to
Edward very firmly : ' Edward , you must
make up your mind to stop in Trinidad. I
shall never feel so much confidence again in
your real courage if you turn and run from
Nora's father. Besides, now Lady Modyford
has called, and Nora has been here, I daresay
we shall get a little society of our own
people who know too much about the

outer world to be wholly governed by the '
fads and fancies of Trinidad planters.'

And Edward answered in a somewhat
faltering voice : ' Very well, my darling.
One's duty lies that way, I know ; and if
you're strong enough to stand up and face
it, why, I must try to face it also.'

And they did face it, with less difficulty
even than they at first imagined. Presently,
Mrs. Castello came to call, the wife of the
Governor's aide-de-camp ; a pretty, pleasant,
sisterly little woman, who struck up a mutual
attachment with Marian almost at first sight,
and often dropped in to see them afterwards.
Then one or two others of the English officials
brought their wives ; and before long,
when Marian went to stay at Government
House, it was clear that in the imported official
society at any rate the Hawthorns were

to be at least tolerated. Toleration is a
miserable sort of standing for people to
submit to ; but, in the last resort, it is better
than isolation. And as time went on, the
toleration grew into friendliness and intimacy
in many quarters, though never among the
native planter aristocracy. Those noble
people, intensely proud of their pure white
blood, held themselves entirely aloof with
profound dignity. ' Poor souls ! ' Sir Albert
Modyford said contemptuously to Captain
Castello, ' they forget how little it is to
be proud of, and that every small street
arab in London could consider himself a
gentleman in Trinidad on the very self-same
grounds of birth as they do.'

CHAPTER XVIII.

There was great excitement in the District
Court at Westmoreland one sunny morning,
a few days later, for the new judge was to sit
and hear an appeal, West Indian fashion,
from a magistrate's decision in the 'case of
Delgado versus Dupuy. The little courthouse
in the low parochial buildings of Westmoreland
was crowded with an easier throne of
excited negroes. Much buzzing and humming
of voices filled the room, for it was
noised abroad among the blacks that Mistah
Hawtorn, being a brown man born, was
likely to curry favour with the buckram — as

VOL. II. G

brown men will — by giving unjust decisions
in their favour against the black men ; and
this was a very important case for the
agricultural negroes, as it affected a question
of paying wages for work performed in the
Pimento Valley cane-pieces.

Eosina Fleming was there among the
crowd ; and as Louis Delgado, the appellant
in the case, came into court, he paused for a
moment to whisper hurriedly a few words to
her. ' De med'cine hab effect like I tell you,
Missy Eosina ? ' he asked in an undertone.

Eosina laughed and showed her white
teeth. 'Yes, Mistah Delgado, him hab effect,
sal, same like you tell me. Isaac Pourtales,
him hub me well for true, nowadays.'

Him wine to marry you, missy ? '

Eosina shook her head. 'No ; him can't
done dat,' she answered carelessly, as though

it were the most natural thing in the world.
Him got shudder wife already.'

Ha ! Him got wife over in Barbadoes ? '
Delgado muttered. ' Him don't nebber tell
me dat. — Well, Missy Eosy, I want you bring
Isaac Pourtales to me hut dis one day. I
want Isaac to help me wit de great an'
terrible day ob de Lard. De cup ob de
Dupuys is full dis day; an' if de new judge
gib decision wrongfully again me, de Lard will
arise soon in all him glory, like him tell de
prophets, an' make de victory for him own
people.'

But not hurt de missy ? ' Eosina inquired
anxiously.

'Yah, yah! You is too cupid. Miss Eosy,
I tellin' you. You think when de Lard bare
him arm in him what, him wine to turn
aside in de day ob vengeance for your missy ?

De Dupuys is che Lard's enemy, le-lady, an' he
will destroy dem utterly, men and women.'

Before Eosina could find time to reply,
there was a sudden stir in the body of the
court, and Edward Hawthorn, entering from
the private door behind, took his seat upon
the judge's bench in hushed silence.

Delgado versus Dupuy, an appeal from
a magistrate's order, referred to this court
as being under twenty shillings in value. —
Who heard the case in the first instance ? '
Edward inquired.

Mr. Dupuy of Orange Grove and Mr.
Henley,' Tom Dupuy, the defendant, answered
quietly.

Edward's forehead puckered up a little.
'You are the defendant, I believe, Mr. Thomas
Dupuy ? ' he said to the young planter with
a curious look.

Tom Dupiiy nodded acquiescence,

And the case was heard in the first
instance by Mr. Theodore Dupuy of Orange
Grove, who, if I am rightly informed, happens
to be your own uncle ? '

Eighty informed ! ' Tom Dupuy sneered
half angrily — 'rightly informed, indeed ! Why,
you know he is, of course, as well as I do.
Didn't we both call upon you together the
other day? I should say, considering what
sort of interview we had, you can't already
have quite forgotten it ! '

Edward winced a little, but answered
nothing. He merely allowed the plaintiff to
be put in the box, and proceeded to listen
carefully to his rambling evidence. It wasn't
very easy, even for the sharp, half-Jewish
brown barrister who was counsel for the
plaintiff, to get anything very clear or definite

out of Louis Delocado with this value
rhetoric. Still, by dint of patient listening,
Edward Hawthorn was enabled at last to
make out the pith and kernel of the old
African's excited story. He worked, it
seemed, at times on Orange Grove estate,
and at times, alternately, at Pimento Valley.
The wages on both estates, as frequently
happens in such cases, were habitually far
in arrears ; and Delgado claimed for many
days, on which, he asserted, he had been
working at Tom Dupuy's cane-pieces ; while
Tom Dupuy had entered a plea of never
indebted, on the ground that no entry appeared
in his own book-keeper's account for
those dates of Delgado's presence. Mr. Theodore
Dupuy had heard the case, and he and
a brother-magistrate had at once decided it
against Delgado. 'But, I know, sal,' Delgado

said vehemently, looking up to the new judge
with a certain defiant air, as of a man who
comes prepared for injustice, ' I know I work
dem days at Pimento Valley, because I keep
book myself, an' put down in him in me own
hand all de days I work anywhere.'

Can you produce the book ? ' Edward
inquired of the excited negro.

It isn't any use,' Tom Dupuy interrupted
angrily. ' I've seen the book myself, and you
can't read it. It's all kept in some heathenish
African language or other.'

I must request you, Mr. Dupuy, not to
interrupt,' Edward Hawthorn said in his sternest
voice. 'Please to remember, I beg of you,
that this room is a court of justice.'

Not much justice here for white men, I
expect,' Tom Dupuy muttered to himself in a
half-audible undertone. ' The ingersoll have

it all their own way in future, of course,
now they've got one of themselves to sit
upon the bench for them.'

Produce the book,' Edward said, turning
to Delo:ado, and restraining; his natural anger
with some difficulty.

It don't no good, sal,' the African answered,
with a sigh of despondency, pulling
out a greasy account-book from his open
bosom, and turning over the pages slowly
in moody silence. ' It me own book, dat I
lib for me own reference, an' I keep him
all in me own handwriting.'

Edward held out his hand commandingly,
and took the greasy small volume that the
African passed over to him, with some little
amusement and surprise. He didn't expect,
of course, that he would be able to read it,
but he thought at least he ought to see what

sort of accounts the man kept ; they would
at any rate be interesting, as throwing light
upon negro ideas and modes of reckoning.
He opened the book the negro gave him and
turned it over hastily with a languid curiosity.
In a second, a curious change came visibly
over his startled face, and he uttered sharply
a little sudden cry of unaffected surprise and
astonishment. ' Why,' he said in a strangely altered
voice, turnings once more to the dogged
African, who stood there staring at him in stolid
indifference, ' what on earth is the meaning of
this ? This is Arabic — excellent Arabic ! ' '
Eosina Fleming, looking eagerly from in
front at the curious characters, saw at once
they were the same in type as the writing
in the obeah book Delgado had showed her
the evening she went to consult him at his
hut about Isaac Pourtales.

Delgado glanced back at the young judge
with a face full of rising distrust and latent
incredulity. ' You don't can read it, sal ? '
he asked suspiciously, ' It African talk.
You don't can read it ? '

Certainly, I can,' Edward answered with
a smile. ' It's very beautifully and clearly
written, and it's all exceedingly good and
accurate Arabic entries.' And he read a
word or two of the entries aloud, in proof
of his ability to decipher at sight the mysterious
characters.

Delgado in turn gave a sudden start ;
and drawing himself up to his full height,
with new-born pride and dignity, he burst
forth at once into a few sentences in some
strange foreign tongue, deep and guttural,
addressed apparently, as Tom Dupuy thought,
to the new judge in passionate entreaty.

But in reality the African was asking Edward
Hawthorn, earnestly and in the utmost astonishment,
whether it was a fact that he
could really and truly speak Arabic.

Edward answered him back in a few
words, rapidly spoken, in the fluent colloquial
Egyptian dialect which he had learnt
in London from his Mohammedan teacher,
Sheikh Abdullah. It was but a short sentence,
but it was quite enough to convince
Delgado that he did positively understand
the entries in the account-book. ' De Lard
be praise ! ' the African shouted aloud
excitedly. ' De new judge, him can read
de book I keep for me own reckoning' ! De
Lard be praise ! Him wine to deliver me.'

Did ever you see such a farce in your
life ? ' Tom Dupuy whispered in a stage
aside to his Uncle Theodore. ' I don't believe

the fellow understands a single word
of it ; and I'm sure the gibberish they were
talking to one another can't possibly be part
of any kind of human language even in
Africa. And yet, after all, I don't know !
The fellow's a nigger himself, and perhaps
he may really have learnt from his own people
some of their confounded African hinges.
But who on earth would ever have believed,
Uncle Theodore, we'd have lived to hear
such trash as that talked openly from the
very Bench in a Queen's court in the island
of Trinidad ? '

Edward coloured up again at the few
words which he caught accidentally of this
ugly monologue ; but he only said to the
eager African : ' I cannot speak with you
here in Arabic, Delgado ; here we must use
English only.'

Certainly,' Tom Diipuy suggested aloud
colonial courts are even laxer than English
ones. ' We mustn't forget, of course,
Mr. Hawthorn, as you said just now, that
this room is a court of justice.'

The young judge turned over the book
to conceal his chagrin, and examined it
carefully. ' What are the dates in dispute ? '
he asked, turning to the counsel.

Delgado and Tom Dupuy in one breath
gave a full list of them. Counsel handed up
a little written slip with the various doubtful
days entered carefully upon it in ordinary
English numbers. Edward ticked them off
one by one in Delgado's note-book, quietly
to himself, smiling as he did so at the quaint
Arabic translations of the Grove of Oranges
and the Valley of Pimento. Every one
of Delgado's dates was quite accurately

and carefully entered in his own account-book.


When they came to examine Tom Dupuy
and his Scotch book-keeper, their account of
the whole transaction was far less definite,
clear, and consistent. Tom Dupuy, with a
certain airy lordly indifference, admitted that
his payments were often in arrears, and that
his modes of book-keeping were often somewhat
rough and ready. He didn't pretend to
keep an account personally of every man's
labour on his whole estate, he said ; he was
a gentleman himself, and he left that sort of
thing, of course, to his book-keeper's memory.
The book-keeper didn't remember that Louis
Delgado had worked at Pimento Valley on
those particular disputed mornings ; though,
to be sure, one naturally couldn't be quite
certain about it. But if you were going to

begin taking a nigger's word on such a
matter against a white man's, why, what
possible security against false charges could
you give in future to the white planter ?

How often do you post up the entries
in that book ? ' Delgado's counsel asked the
book-keeper in cross-examination.

The book-keeper was quite as airy and
easy as his master in this matter. ' Weel,
whiles I do it at the time,' he answered
quietly, ' an' whiles I do it a wee bit later.'
An' I put him down ebbery evening,
de minute I home, sal, in dis note-book,'
Delgado shouted eagerly with a fierce gesticulation.


You must be quiet, please,' Edward
said, turning to him. ' You mustn't interrupt
the witness or your counsel.'

Did Delgado work at Pimento Valley

yesterday?' the brown barrister asked,
looking up from the books which Tom
Diipuy had been forced to produce and hand
in, in evidence.

The book-keeper hesitated and smiled a
sinister smile. ' He did,' he answered after
a moment's brief internal conflict.

How is it, then, that the day's work
isn't entered here already ? ' the brown barrister
went on pitilessly.

The book-keeper shuffled with an uneasy
shuffle. ' Ah, weel, I should have entered
it on Saturday evening,' he answered evasively.


Edward turned to Delgado's note-book.
The last day's work was entered properly
in an evidently fresh ink, that of the previous
two days looking proportionately blacker and
older. There could be very little doubt.

indeed, which of the two posted his books
daily with the greater care and accuracy.

He heard the case out patiently and
temperately, in spite of Delgado's occasional
wild outbursts and Tom Dupuy's constant
sneers, and at the end he proceeded to deliver
judgment as calmly as he was able, without
prejudice. It was a pity that the first case
he heard should have been one which common
justice compelled him to give against
Tom Dupuy, but there was no helping it.
The court enters judgment for the plaintiff,'
he said in a loud clear voice. ' Delgado's
books, though unfortunately kept only in
Arabic for his own reference, have been very
carefully and neatly posted. — Yours, Mr
Dupuy, I regret to say, are extremely careless,
inadequate, and inaccurate ; and I am
also sorry to see that the case was heard

VOL. II. H

in the first instance by one of your own near
relations. Under such circumstances, it
would have been far wiser, as well as far
more seemly, to avoid all appearance of

evil.'

Tom Dupuy grew red and pale by turns
as he listened in blank surprise and dismay
to this amazing and unprecedented judgment.
A black man's word taken in evidence in open
court against a white gentleman's ! It was
too appalling ! ' Well, well, Uncle Theodore,'
he said bitterly, rising to go, ' I expected as
much, though it's hard to believe it. I knew
we should never get any decent justice in
this court any longer ! '

But Delgado stood there, dazed and
motionless, gazing with mute wonder at the
pale face of the new judge, and debating
within himself whether it could be really

true or not that he had gained his case
against the powerful Dupuy faction. Not
that he understood for a moment the exact
meaning of the legal words, 'judgment for
the plaintiff;' but he saw at once on Tom
Dupuy's face that the white man was positively
livid with anger and had been severely
reprimanded. ' De Lard be praise ! ' he ejaculated
again, at last. ^ De judge is righteous
judge, an' hub de black man!' Then he added
in a lower and more solemn tone to Eosina
Fleming, who stood once more now beside
him : ' In de great an' terrible day ob de
Lard, missy, de sword ob de Lard an' ob his
people will pass over all de house ob de
Hawtorn, as de angel pass over de children
ob Israel in de day when him slay de firstborn
ob de Egyptian, from de son ob Pharaoh

H 2

dat sit upon de trone to de son ob de captive
dat languish in de dungeon ! '

Edward would have given a great deal
just then if Delgado in the moment of his
triumph had not used those awkward words,
Him hub de black man ! ' But there was
no use brooding over it now ; so he merely
signed with his finger to Delgado, and
whispered hastily in his ear as he dismissed
the case : ' Come to me this evening in my
own room as soon as court is all over ; I
want to hear from you how and where you
learnt Arabic'

CHAPTEE XIX.

When all the other cases had - been gradually
dismissed — the petty larceny of growing
yams ; the charge of stealing a pair of young
turkeys ; the disputed question as to the three -
halfpence balance on the account for sweet-potatoes,
and so forth ad infinitum — Edward
made his way, wearied and anxious, into his
own room behind the courthouse. Delgado
was waiting for him there, and as the judge
entered, he rose quickly and uttered a few
words of customary salutation in excellent
Arabic. Edward Hawthorn observed at once
that a strange change seemed to have come

^O^ ^"""C

over the ragged old negro in the course of
those few hours. He had lost his slouching,
half-savage manner, and stood more erector
bowed in self-respecting obeisance, with a
certain obvious consciousness of personal
dignity which at once reminded him of
Sheikh Abdullah. He noticed, too, that
while the man's English was the mere broken
Creole language he had learned from the
other negroes around him, his Arabic was
the pure colloquial classical Arabic of the
Cairo ulemas. It was astonishing what a
difference this change of tongue made in
the tattered old black field-labourer : when
he spoke English, he was the mere ordinary-plantation
negro ; when he spoke Arabic, he
was the decently educated and perfectly courteous
African Moslem.

You have quite surprised me, Delgado,'

Edward said, still in colloquial Arabic. 'I had
no idea there were any Africans in Trinidad
who understood the language of the Koran,
How did you ever come to learn it ? '

The old African bowed graciously, and
expanded his hands with a friendly gesture.
Effendi,' he answered, ' Allah is not wholly
without his true followers in any country.
Is it not written in your own book that when
Elijah, the forerunner of the Prophet, cried
in the cave, saying : "I alone am left of the
worshippers of Allah," the Lord answered and
said unto him in his mercy : " I have left me
seven thousand souls in Israel which have not
bowed the knee to Baal " ? Even so, Allah
has his followers left even here among the
infidels in Trinidad.'

Then you are still a Mussulman .^ ' Edward
cried in surprise.

The old African rose again from the seat
into which Edward had politely motioned
him, and folding both his hands reverently
in front of him, answered in a profoundly
solemn voice : ' There is no God but Allah,
and Mohammed is his prophet.'

But I thought — I understood — I was
told that you were a teacher and preacher
up yonder in the Methodist chapel.'

Delgado shrugged his shoulders with
African expressiveness. ' What can I do ? '
he said, throwing open his hands sideways.
They have brought me here all the way
from the Gold Coast. There is no mosque
here, no ulema, no other Moslems. What
can I do.^ I have to do as the other
negroes do. — But see ! ' and he drew something
carefully from the folds of his dirty
cotton shirt : ' I have brought a Book with

me. I have kept it sacredly all these years.
Have you seen it ? Do you know it ? '

Edward opened the soiled and dog-eared
but carefully treasured volume that the negro
handed him. He knew it at once. It was a
hand-copied Koran. He turned the pages
over lightly till he came to the famous chapter
of the Seven Treasures ; then he began
to read aloud a few verses in a clear, easy,
Arabic intonation.

Delgado started when he heard the young
judge actually reading the sacred volume.
So you, too, are a Moslem ! ' he cried excitedly.


Edward smiled. ' No,' he answered ; ' I
am no Mussulman. But I have learnt Arabic,
and I have read the Koran.'

Mussulman or Christian,' Delgado answered
fervently, throwing up his head, ' you

are a servant of Allah. You have given judgment
to-day like Daniel the Hebrew, or like
Othman Calif, the successor of the Prophet.
When the great and terrible day of the
Lord arrives, Allah will surely not forget
the least among his servants.'

Edward did not understand the hidden
meaning of that seemingly conventional pious
tag, so he merely answered: 'But you haven't
yet told me, remnant of the faithful, how
you ever came to learn Arabic'

Thus encouraged, Delgado loosed the
strings of his tongue, and poured forth
rapidly with African volubility the whole
marvellous story of his life. The son of a
petty chieftain on the Guinea coast, he had
been sent in his boyhood by his father, a
Mohammedan convert, to the native schools
for the negroes at Cairo, where he had 

till he was over seventeen years old,
and had then returned to his father's principality.
There, he had gone out to fight in
some .small war between two neighbouring
negro chieftains, whose events he insisted on
detailing to Edward at great length ; and
having been taken prisoner by the hostile
party, he had at last been sold in the bad
old days, when a contraband ' ebony-trade '
still existed, to a Cuban slaver. The slaver
had been captured off Sombrero Rock by an
English cruiser, and all the negroes landed
at Trinidad. That was the sum and substance
of the strangely romantic story told
by the old African to the young English
barrister in the Westmoreland courthouse.
Couched in his childish and ignorant negro
English, it would no doubt have sounded
ludicrous and puerile ; but poured forth in

classical Arabic almost as pure and fluent as
Sheikh Abdullah's own, it was brimful of
pathos, eloquence, interest, and weirdness.
Yet strange and almost incredible as it
seemed to Edward's mind, the old African
himself apparently regarded it as the most
natural and simple concatenation of events
that could easily happen to anybody anywhere.


And how is it,' Edward asked at last,
in profound astonishment, lapsing once more
into English, ' that you have never tried to
get back to Africa ? '

Delgado smiled an ugly smile, that showed
all his teeth, not pleasantly, but like the teeth
of a bulldog snarling. ' Do you think, sal,'
he said sarcastically, ' dat dem fighting' Depuis
wine to help a poor black naygur to go
back to him own country ? Ole-time folk

has proverb : " Mongoose no help cane rat
find de way back to him burrow." '

Edward could hardly believe the sudden
transformation. In a single moment, with
the change of language, the educated African
had vanished utterly, and the plantation
negro stood once more undisguised before
him. And yet, Edward thought curiously to
himself, which, after all, was the truest and
most genuine of those two contrasted but
united personalities — the free Mussulman, or
the cowed and hopeless Trinidad field-labourer
? Strange, too, that while this born
African could play as he liked at fetichism
or Christianity, could do obeah or sing
psalms from his English hymn-book, the profoundly
penetrating and absorbing creed of
Islam was the only one that had sunk deep
into the very inmost marrow of his negro

nature. About that fact, Edward could not
for a moment have the faintest hesitation.
Delgado — Coromantyn or West Indian — was
an undoubting Mussulman. Christianity was
but a cloak with which he covered himself
outwardly, to himself and others ; obeah was
but an art that he practised in secret for
unlawful profit ; Islam, the faith most profoundly
and intimately adapted to the negro
idiosyncrasy, was the creed that had burnt
itself into his very being, in spite of all
changes of outer circumstance. Not that
Delgado believed his Bible the less : with the
frank inconsistency of early minds, he held
the two incompatible beliefs without the
faintest tinge of conscious hypocrisy ; just as
many of ourselves, though Christian enough
in all externals, hold lingering relics of pagan
superstitions about horseshoes, and crooked

sixpences, and unlucky days, and the mystic
virtues of a carnelian amulet. Every morning
he spelt over religiously a chapter in the
New Testament ; and every night, in the
gloom of his hut, he read to himself in hushed

awe a few versicles of the holy Koran.

When story and comment were fully
finished, the old African rose to go. As he
opened the door, Edward held out his hand
for the negro to shake. Delgado, now once
more the plantation labourer, hesitated for a
second, fearing to take it ; then at last,
drawing himself up to his full height, and
instinctively clutching at his loose cotton
trousers, as though they had been the flowing
white robes of his old half-forgotten Egyptian
school-days, he compromised the matter by
making a profound salaam, and crying in his
clear Arabic gutturals : ' May the blessing of

Allah, the All-wise, the merciful, rest for ever
on the effendi, his servant, who has delivered
a just judgment ! '

In another moment he had glided through
the door ; and Edward, hardly yet able to
realise the strangeness of the situation, was
left alone with his own astonishment.

"3

CHAPTER XX.

There or four months rolled rapidly away,
and the Hawthorns began to feel themselves
settling down quietly to their new, strange,
and anomalous position in the island of
Trinidad. In spite of her father's prohibition,
Nora often came around to visit them ;
and though Mr. Dupuy fought hard against
her continuing ' that undesirable acquaintance,'
he soon found that Nora, too, had a will of
her own, and that she was not to be restrained
from anything on which she had once
set her mind, by such very simple and easy
means as mere prohibition. ' The girl's a

VOL 11. I

Dupuy to the backbone,' her cousin Tom said
to her father more than once, in evident
admiration. ' Though she does take up with
a lot of coloured trash — which, of course, is
very unladylike — by George, sir, when once
she sets her heart upon a thing, she does it
too, and no mistake about it either.'

Dr. Whitaker was another not infrequent
visitor at the Hawthorns' bungalow. He had
picked up, as he desired, a gratuitous practice
among the poorer negroes ; and though it
often sorely tried his patience and enthusiasm
he found in it at least some relief and respite
from the perpetual annoyance and degradation
of his uncongenial home-life with his
father and Miss Euphemia. His botany, too,
gave him another anodyne-something to do
to take his mind off the endless incongruity
of his settled position. He had decided in

his own mind, almost from the very first day
of landing, to undertake a Flora of Trinidad
a new work on all the flowering plants in
the rich vegetation of that most luxuriant
among tropical islands ; and in every minute
of leisure time that he could spare from the
thankless care of his poor negro patients, he
was hard at work among the tangled woods
and jungle undergrowth, or else in his own
little study at home, in his father's house,
collecting, arranging, and comparing the
materials for this his great work on the exquisite
flowers of his native country. The
faithful violin afforded him his third great
resource and alleviation. Though Miss
Euphemia and her lively friends were
scarcely of a sort to appreciate the young
doctor's touching and delicate execution, he
practised by himself for an hour or two in

I 2

his own rooms every evening ; and as he did
so, he felt that the strings seemed ever to re-echo
with one sweet and oft-recurring name
the name of Nora. To be sure, he was a
brown man, but even brown men are more
or less human. How could he ever dream of
falling in love with one of Miss Euphemia's
like-minded companions ?

He met Nora from time to time in the
Hawthorns' drawing-room ; there was no
other place under the circumstances of
Trinidad where he was at all likely ever to
meet her. Nora was more frankly kind to him
now than formerly ; she felt that to be cool
or indifferent towards him before Edward and
Marian might seem remotely like an indirect
slight upon their own position. One afternoon
he met her there accidentally, and
she asked him, with polite interest, how his

work on the flowers of Trinidad was getting
on.

The young doctor cast down his eyes and
answered timidly that he had collected an
immense number of specimens, and was
arranging them slowly in systematic order.

'And your music, Dr. Whitaker?'

The mulatto stammered for a moment.
Miss Dupuy,' he said with a slight hesitation,
I have — I have published the little piece —
the Hurricane Symphony, you know — that I
showed you once on board the Severn. I have
published it in London. If you will allow
me — I — I — I will present you, as I promised,
with a copy of the music'

Thank you,' Nora said. ' How very good
of you. Will you send it to me to Orange
Grove, or — will you leave it here some day
with Mrs. Hawthorn ? '

The mulatto felt his face arrow hot and
burning as he answered with as much carelessness
as he could readily command : ' I
have a copy here with me — it's with my hat
in the piazza. If you will permit me, Mrs.
Hawthorn, I'll just step out and fetch it. I —
I brought it with me, Miss Dupuy, thinking
it just possible I might happen to meet you
here this morning.' He didn't add that he
had brought it out with him day after day
for the last fortnight, in the vain hope of
chancing to meet her ; and had carried it
back again with a heavy heart night after
night, when he had failed to see her in that
one solitary possible meeting-place.

Nora took the piece that he handed her,
fresh and white from the press of a famous
London firm of music-sellers, and glanced
hastily at the top of the title-page for the

promised dedication. There was none visible
anywhere. The title-page ran simply : ' Op.
14. Hurricane Symphony. Souvenir des
Indes. By W. Clarkson Whitaker.'

But, Dr. Whitaker,' Nora said, pouting a
little in her pretty fashion, ' this isn't fair, you
know. You promised to dedicate the piece
to me. I was quite looking forward to seeing
my name in big letters, printed in real type,
on the top of the title-page ! '

The mulatto doctor's heart beat fast that
moment with a very unwonted and irregular
pulsation. Then she really wished him to
dedicate it to her ! Why on earth had he
been so timorous as to strike out her name at
the last moment on the fair copy he had sent
to London for publication ? ' I thought, Miss
Dupuy,' he answered slowly, ' our positions
were so very different in Trinidad, that when

I came here and felt how things actually
stood, I — I judged it better not to put your
name in conjunction with mine on the same
title-page.'

Then you did quite wrong ! ' Nora retorted
warmly ; ' and I'm very angry with
you — I am really, I assure you. You ought
to have kept your promise when you gave it
me. I wanted to see my own name in print,
and on a piece of music too. I expect, now,
I've lost the chance of seeing myself in black
and white for ever and ever.'

The mulatto smiled a smile of genuine
pleasure. ' It's easily remedied. Miss Dupuy,'
he answered quickly. ' If you really mean it,
I shall dedicate my very next composition to
you. You're extremely kind to take such a
friendly interest in my poor music'

I hope I'm not overdoing it,' Nora

thought to herself. ' But the poor fellow
really has so much to put up with, that one
can't help behaving a little kindly to him,
when one happens to get the opportunity.'

When Dr. Whitaker rose to leave, he
shook hands with Nora very warmly, and
said as he did so : ' Good-bye, Miss Dupuy.
I shan't forget next time that the dedication
is to be fairly printed in good earnest.'

Mind you don't, Dr. Whitaker,' Nora
responded gaily. ' Good-bye. I suppose I
shan't see you again, as usual, for another
week of Sundays ! '

The mulatto smiled once more, a satisfied
smile, as he answered quickly : ' Oh yes,
Miss Dupuy. We shall meet on Monday next.
Of course, you're going to the Governor's ball
at Banana Garden ! ' "^

Nora started. ' The Governor's ball ! ' she

repeated — ' the Governor's ball ! Oil yes, oi
course I'm going there, Dr. Whitaker. — But
are you invited ? '

She said it thoughtlessly, on the spur of
the moment, for it had never occurred to her
that the brown doctor would have an invitation
also ; but the tone of surprise in which
she spoke cut the poor young mulatto to the
very quick in that moment of triumph. He
drew himself up proudly as he answered ina
hasty tone : ' Oh yes ; even I am invited
to Banana Garden, you know. Miss Dupuy.
The Governor of the colony at least can
recognise no distinction of class or colour in
his official capacity '

Nora's face flushed crimson. ' I shall hope
to see you there,' she answered quickly. ' I'm
glad you're going. — Marian, dear, we shall be
quite a party. I only wish I was going with

you, instead of being trotted off in proper
style by that horrid old Mrs. Pereira.'

Dr. Whitaker said no more, but raised
his hat upon the piazza steps, jumped upon
his horse, and took his way along the dusty
road that led from the Hawthorns' cottage
to the residence of the Honourable Eobert
Whitaker. As he reached the house, Miss
Euphemia was laughing loudly in the 
with her bosom friend, Miss
Seraphina M'Culloch. ' Wilberforce ! ' Miss
Euphemia cried, the moment her brother
made his appearance on the outer piazza,
'jest you come straight in here, I tellin' you.
Here's Phoenix come around to hab a talk
wit you. You is too unsocial altogether.
You always want to go an' bury yourself in
your own study. Oh my. Oh my ! Young
men dat come from England, dey hasn't got

no conversation at all for to talk wit de
ladies.'

Dr. Whitaker was not in the humour just
that moment to indulge in pleasantries with
Miss Seraphina M'Culloch, a brown young lady
of buxom figure and remarkably free and-easy
conversation ; so he sighed impatiently as he
answered with a hasty wave of his hand : ' No,
Euphemia ; I can't come in and see your friend
just this minute. I must go into my own room
to make up some medicines — some very urgent
medicines — wanted immediately — for some of
my poor sick patients.' Heaven help his soul
for that transparent little prevarication, for all
the medicine had been sent out in charge of
a ragged negro boy more than two hours
ago ; and it was Dr. Whitaker 's OAvn heart
that was sick and ill at ease, beyond the
power of any medicine ever to remedy.

Miss Eiipliemia pouted her already sufficiently
protruding lips. ' Always dem stooped
niggers,' she answered contemptuously. ' How
on part a man like you, Wilberforce, dat
has always been brought up respectable an
proper, in a decent family, can bear to go
an' trow away his time in attending' to a
parcel of low nigger people, is more dan I
can ever understand'. — Can you, Seraphina ? '

Miss Seraphina responded immediately,
that, in her opinion, niggers was a disgraceful
set of dat low, disreputable people, dat
how a man like Dr. Wilberforce Whitaker
could so much demean himself as ever to
touch dem, really surpassed her limited comprehension.


Dr. Whitaker strode angrily away into
his own room, muttering to himself as he
went, that one couldn't blame the white

people for looking down upon the browns,
when the browns themselves, in their foolish
travesty of white prejudice, looked down so
much upon their brother blacks beneath
them. In a minute more, he reappeared
with a face of puzzled bewilderment at the
drawing-room door, and cried to his sister
angrily : ' Euphemia, Euphemia ! what have
you done, I'd like to know, with all those
specimens I brought in this morning, and
left, when I went out, upon my study
table ? '

Wilberforce,' Miss Euphemia answered
with stately dignity, rising to confront him,
I think I can't stand dis mess an' rubbish
dat you make about de house a minute
longer. — Phoenix ! I tell you how dat man
treat de family. Every day, he goes out into
de woods an' he cuts bush — common bush,

all sort of weed an' trash an' rubbish ; an'
he brings dem home, an' puts dem in de
study, so dat de house don't never tidy, however
much you try for to tidy him. Well,
dis morning' I say to myself : " I don't going'
to stand dis lumber-room in a respectable
family any longer." So I take de bush dat
Wilberforce bring in ; I carry him out to de
kitchen altogether ; I open de stove, an' I
trow him in all in a lump into de very
middle of de kitchen fire. Ha, ha, ha ! him
burn an' crackle all de same as if he was
chockfull of blazing' gunpowder ! '

Dr. Whitaker's eyes flashed angrily ashe
cried in surprise : ' What ! all my specimens,
Euphemia ! all my specimens ! all the
ferns and orchids and curious club-mosses I
brought in from Pimento Valley Scrubs early
this morning ! '

Miss Euphemia tossed her head contemptuously
m the air. ' Yes, Wilberforce,' she
answered with a placid smile ; ' every one of
dem. I burn de whole nasty lot of bush an'
trash together. An' den, when I finished, I
burn de dry ones — de nasty dry tings you
put in de cupboards all around de study.'

Dr. Whitaker started in horror. ' My
herbarium ! ' he cried — ' my whole herbarium
! You don't mean to say, Euphemia,
you've actually gone and wantonly destroyed
my entire collection ? '

'Yes,' Miss Euphemia responded cheerfully,
nodding acquiescence several times
over ; ' I burn de whole lot of dem — paper
an everything. De nasty tings, dey bring inde
cockroach an' de red ants into de study
cupboards.'

The mulatto rushed back eagerly and

hastily into his own study ; he flung open the
cupboard doors, and looked with a sinking
heart into the vacant spaces. It was too
true, all too true ! Miss Euphemia had destroyed
in a moment of annoyance the entire
result of his years of European collection and
his five months" botanical work since he had
arrived in Trinidad. The poor young man
sat down distracted in his easy chair, and
flinging himself back on the padded cushions,
ruefully surveyed the bare and empty shelves
of his rifled cupboards. It was not so much
the mere loss of the pile of specimens — five
months' collection only, as well as the European
herbarium he had brought with him for
purposes of comparison — the one could be
easily replaced in a second year ; the other
could be bought again almost as good as ever
from a London dealer — it was the utter sense

VOL. II. K

of loneliness and isolation, the feeling of being
so absolutely misunderstood, the entire want
of any reasonable and intelligent sympathy.
He sat there idly for many minutes, staring
with blank resignation at the empty cases,
and whistling to himself a low plaintive tune,
as he gazed and gazed at the bare walls in
helpless despondency. At last, his eye fell
casually upon his beloved violin. He rose
up, slowly and mournfully, and took the precious
instrument with reverent care from its
silk-lied case. Drawing his bow across the
familiar strings, he let the music come forth
as it would ; and the particular music that
happened to frame itself upon the trembling
catgut on the humour of the moment was his
own luckless Hurricane Symphony. For half
an hour he sat there still, varying that well-known
theme with unstudied impromptus,

and playing more for the sake of forgetting
everything earthly, than of producing any
very particular musical effect. By-and-by,
when his hand had warmed to its work, and
he was beginning really to feel what it was he
was playing, the door opened suddenly, and a
bland voice interrupted his solitude with an
easy flow of colloquial English.

Wilberforce, my dear son,' the voice said
in its most sonorous accents, ' dere is company
come ; you will excuse my interruption' you.
De ladies an' gentlemen dat we expect' to
dinner has begun to arrive. Dey is waiting'
to be introduced to de inheritor of de tree
names most intimately connected wit de
great revolution which I have had de
pleasure an' honour of bringing' about for
my enslaved bredderin. De ladies especially
is most anxious to make your acquaintance.

K 2

He, he, he ! de ladies is most anxious. An',
my dear son, whatever you do, don't go on
plain' any longer dat loogoobrious melancholy
fiddle-toon. If you must play something,
play us something lively — Pretty little
taller Gal, or something of dat sort ! — Ladies
an' gentlemen, I have de pleasure of introducing'
to you my dear son. Dr. Wilberforce
Clarkson Whitaker, of de Edinburgh University.'


Dr. Whitaker almost flung down his
beloved violin in his shame and disgrace at
this untimely interruption. ' Father,' he said,
as kindly as he was able, ' I am not well tonight
— I am indisposed — I am suffering somewhat
— you must excuse me, please ; I'm
afraid I shan't be able to meet your friends at
dinner this evening.' And taking down his
soft hat from the peg in the piazza, he

crushed it despairingly upon his aching head,
and stalked out, alone and sick at heart, into
the dusty, dreary, cactus-bordered lanes oi"
that transformed and desolate Trinidad.

CHAPTEE XXI.

The Governor's dance was the great event
of the Trinidad season — the occasion to which
every girl in the whole island looked forward
for months with the interest interest. And
it was also a great event to Dr. Whitaker ;
for it was the one time and place, except the
Hawthorns' drawing-room, where he could
now meet Nora Dupiiy on momentary terms
of seeming equality. In the eye of the law,
even in Trinidad, white men, black men, and
brown men are all equal ; and under the
Governor's roof, as became the representative
of law and order in the little island, there

were no invidious distinctions of persons between
European and negro. Every well-to-do)
inhabitant, irrespective of cuticular peculiarities,
was duly bidden to the Governor's
table : ebony and ivory mingled freely together
once in a moon at the Governor's
At Homes and dances. And Dr. Whitaker
had made up his mind that on that one
solitary possible occasion he would venture
on his sole despairing appeal to Nora Dupuy,
and stand or fall by her final answer.

It was not without serious misgivings that
the mulatto doctor had at last decided upon
thus tempting Providence. He was weary of
the terrible disillusion that had come upon
him on his return to the home of his fathers ;
weary of the painfully vulgar and narrow
world into which he had been cast by unrelenting
circumstances. He could not live

any longer in Trinidad. Let him fight it out
as he would for the sake of his youthful ideals,
the battle had clearly gone against him, and
there was nothing left for him now but to
give it up in despair and fly to England. He
had talked the matter over with Edward
Hawthorn — not, indeed, the question of proposing
to Nora Dupuy, for that he held too
sacred for any other ear, but the question of
stopping in the island and fighting down the
unconquerable prejudice — and even Edward
had counselled him to go ; for he felt how
vastly different were the circumstances of the
struggle in his own case and in those of the
poor young mulatto doctor. He himself had
only to fight against the social prejudices of
men his real inferiors in intellect and culture
and moral standing. Dr. Whitaker had to
face as well the utterly uncongenial brown

society into which he had been rudely pitch-forked
by fate, like a gentleman into the
midst of a pot-house company. It was best
for them all that Dr. Whitaker should take
himself away to a more fitting environment
; and Edward had himself warmly
advised him to return once more to free
England.

The Governor's dance was given, not at
Government House in the Plains, but at
Banana Garden, the country bungalow,
perched high up on a solitary summit of
the Westmoreland mountains. The big ballroom
was very crowded ; and Nora Dupuy,
in a pale maize-coloured evening dress, was
universally recognised by black, brown, and
white alike as the belle of the evening. She
danced almost every round with one partner
after another ; and it was not till almost half

the evening had passed away that Dr. Whitaker
got the desired chance of-even addressing
her. The chance came at last just
before the fifth waltz, a dance that Nora
had purposely left vacant, in case she should
happen to pick up in the earlier part of
the evening an exceptionally agreeable and
promising partner. She was sitting down
to rest beside her chaperon of the night, on
a bench placed just outside the window in
the tropical garden, when the young-mulatto,
looking every inch a gentleman in
his evening dress — the first time Nora had
ever seen him so attired — strolled anxiously
up to her, with ill-affected carelessness, and
bowed a timid bow to his former travelling
companion. Pure opposition to Mr. Dupuj^
and affection for the two Hawthorns, had
made Nora exceptionally gracious just that

moment to all brown people ; and, on purpose
to scandalise her chaperon — an amusement
always dear to every girl — she returned
the doctor's hesitating salute with a pleasant
smile of perfect cordiality. ' Dr. Whitaker ! '
she cried, leaning over towards him in a
kindly way, which made the poor mulatto's
heart flutter terribly ; ' so here you are, as
you promised ! I'm so glad you've come this
evening. — And have you brought Miss Whitaker
with you ? '

The mulatto hesitated and stammered. If
he had been a white man, he would have
blushed as well ; indeed, he did blush internally,
though, of course, Nora did not perceive
it through his dusky skin. She could
not possibly have asked him a more mal a
propos question. The poor young man
looked about him feebly, and then answered

in a low voice : ' Yes ; my father and sister
are here somewhere.'

Nora, my 'dear,' her chaperon said in a
tone of subdued feminine thunder, ' I didn't
know you had the pleasure of Miss Whitaker's
acquaintance.'

Neither have I, Mrs. Pereira ; but perhaps
Dr. Whitaker will be good enough to
introduce me. — Not now, thank you, Dr.
Whitaker ; I don't want you to run away
this minute and fetch your sister. Some
other time will do as well. It's so seldom,
you know, we have the chance of a good talk
now together.'

Dr. Whitaker smiled and stammered. It
was possible, of course, to accept Nora's reluctance
in either of two senses : she might
be anxious that he should stop and talk to
her ; or she might merely wish indefinitely to

postpone the pleasure of making Miss Euplie-
mia's personal acquaintance ; but she flooded
him so with the light of her eyes as she
spoke, that he chose to put the most flattering
of the two alternative interpretations
upon her ambiguous sentence.

You are very good to say so,' he
answered, still timidly ; and Nora noticed
how very different was his manner of speak -
insT now from the self-confident Dr. Whitaker
of the old Severn days. Trinidad had clearly
crushed all the confidence as well as all the
enthusiasm clean out of him. ' You are very
good, indeed, Miss Dupuy ; I wish the
opportunities for our meeting occurred
oftener.'

He stood talking beside her for a minute or
two longer, uttering the mere polite commonplaces
of ball-room conversation — the heat of

the evening, the shortcomings of the band,
the beauty of the flowers — when suddenly
Nora gave a little jump and seized her programme
with singular discomposure. Dr.
Whitaker looked up at once, and divined by
instinct the cause of her hasty movement.
Tom Dupuy, just fresh from the cane-cutting,
was looking about for her down the long
corridor at the opposite end of the inner
garden. ' Where's my cousin ? Have you
seen my cousin ? ' he was asking everybody ;
for the seat where Nora was sitting with Mrs.
Pereira stood under the shade of a big papaw
tree, and so it was impossible for him to discern
her face, though she could see his
features quite distinctly.

I won't dance with that horrid man, my
cousin Tom ! ' Nora said in her most decided

voice. ' I'm quite sure lie's coming here this
minute on purpose to ask me.'

Is your programme ful ? ' Dr. Whitaker
inquired with a palpitating heart.

No ; not quite,' she answered, and handed
it to him encouragingly. There was just one
dance still left vacant — the next waltz. ' I'm
too tired to dance it out,' Nora cried pettishly.
The horrid man ! I hope he won't see me.'

He's coming this way, dear,' Mrs. Pereira
put in with placid composure. ' You'll have to
sit it out with him, now ; there's no help for it.'

Sit it out with him ! — sit it out with Tom
Dupuy ! no, Mrs. Pereira ; I wouldn't doit
for a thousand guineas.'

What will you do, then ? ' Dr. Whitaker
asked tremulously, still holding the programme
and pencil in his undecided hand. Dare he —

dare he ask her to dance just once with
him ?

What shall I do ? — Why, nothing simpler]
Have an engagement already, of course, Dr.
Whitaker.'

She looked at him significantly. Tom
Dupuy was just coming up. If Dr. Whitaker
meant to ask her, there was no time to be
lost. His knees gave way beneath him, but
he faltered out at last in some feeble fashion :
.' Then, IViiss Dupuy, may I — may I — may I
have the pleasure ? '

To Mrs. Pereira's immense dismay, Nora
immediately smiled and nodded. ' I can't
dance it with you,' she said with a hasty
gesture — she shrank, naturally, from that open
confession of faith before the whole assembled
company — ' but if you'll allow me, I'll sit it
out with you here in the garden. You may

put your name down for it, if you like.
Quickly, please — write it quickly ; here's Tom
Dupuy just coming.'

The mulatto had hardly scratched his own
name with shaky pencilled letters on the little
card, when Tom Dupuy swaggered up in his
awkward, loutish, confident manner, and with
a contemptuous nod of condescending half-recognition
to the overjoyed mulatto, asked,
in his insular West Indian drawl, whether
Nora could spare him a couple of dances.

Your canes seem to have delayed you too
late, Tom Dupuy,' Nora answered coldly.
Dr. Whitaker has just asked me for my last
vacancy. You should come earlier to a
dance, you know, if you want to find a good
partner.'

Tom Dupuy stared hard at her face in
puzzled astonishment. ' Your last vacancy ! '

VOL. II. L

he cried incredulously. ' Dr. Whitaker ! No
more dances to spare, Nora ! No, no, I say ;
this won't do, you know ! You've done this
on purpose. — Let me have a squint at your
programme, will you ? '

If you don't choose to take my word for
the facts,' Nora answered haughtily, ' you
can see the names and numbers of my engagements
for yourself on my programme, Tom. —
Dr. Whitaker, have the kindness to hand my
cousin my programme, if you please. — Thank
you.'

Tom Dupuy took the programme ungraciously,
and glanced down it with an angry
eye. He read every name out aloud till he
came to number eleven, ' Dr. Whitaker,' Ashe
reached that name, his lip curled with an
ugly suddenness, and he handed the bit of
cardboard back coldly to his defiant cousin.

Very well, Miss Nora,' he answered with a
sneer. ' You're quite at liberty, of course, to
choose your own company however it pleases
you. I see your programme's quite full ; but
your list of names is rather comprehensive
than select, I fancy. — The last name was
written down as I was coming towards you.
This is a plot to insult me. — Dr. Whitaker,
we shall settle this little difference elsewhere,
probably — with the proper weapon — a horsewhip.
Though your ancestors, to be sure,
were better accustomed, I believe, sir, to a
good raw cowhide. — Good evening. Miss Nora.
Good evening. Dr. Whitaker.'

The mulatto's eyes flashed fire, but he
replied with a low and stately bow, in suppressed
accents : ' I shall be ready to answer
you in this matter whenever you wish, Mr.
Dupuy — and with your own weapon. Good

X 2

evening.' And he held out his arm quietly
to Nora.

Nora rose and took the mulatto's proffered

arm at once with a sweeping air of utter

indifference. ' Shall we take a turn around

the gardens, Dr. Whitaker ? ' she asked

calmly, reassuring herself at the same time

with a rapid glance that nobody except poor

frightened Mrs. Pereira had overheard this

short altercation. — ' How lovely the moon

looks to-night ! What an exquisite undertone

of green in the long shadows of those columns

in the portico ! '

Undertone of green ! ' Tom Dupuy exclaimed
aloud in vulgar derision (he was too
much of a clod to see that his cue in the
scene was fairly past, and that dignity demanded
of him now to keep perfectly silent).
Undertone of green, indeed, with her precious

nigger ! — Mrs. Pereira, this is your fault ! A
pretty sort of chaperon you make, upon my
word, to let her go and engage herself to sit
out a dance with a common mulatto ! —
"Where's Uncle Theodore? Where is he, I
tell you ? I shall run and fetch him this very
minute. I always said that in the end that
girl Nora would go and marry a woolly-headed
brown man.'

CHAPTEE XXII.

Nora and the mulatto walked across the
garden in unbroken silence ; past the fountain
in the centre of the courtyard; past the corridor
by the open supper-room ; past the
hanging lanterns on the outer shrubbery; and
down the big flight of stone steps to the
gravelled Italian terrace that overlooked the
deep tropical gully. When they reached the
foot of the staircase, Nora said in as unconcerned
a tone as she could muster up : ' Intus
walk down here, away from the house, Dr.
Whitaker. Tom may perhaps send papa out
to look for me, and I'd rather not meet him

till the next dance is well over. Please take
me along the terrace.'

Dr. Whitaker turned with her silently
along the path, and uttered not a word till
they reached the marble seat at the end of
the creeper-covered balustrade. Then he sat
down moodily beside her, and said in what
seemed a perfectly unruffled voice : ' Miss
Dupuy, I am not altogether sorry that this
little incident has turned out just as it has
happened. It enables you to judge for yourself
the sort of insult that men of my colour
are liable to meet with here in Trinidad.'

Nora fingered her fan nervously. 'Tom
Dupuy's always an unendurable rude fellow,'
le said, with affected carelessness. ' He's
rude by nature, you know, that's the fact of
it. He's rude to me. He's rude to everybody.
He's a boor, Dr. Whitaker ; a boor at

heart. You mustn't take any notice of what
he says to you.'

Yes : he's a boor, Miss Dupuy — and I
shall venture to say so, although he's your
own cousin — but in what other country in
the world would such a boor venture to
believe himself able to look down upon other
men, his equals in everything except an accident
of colour ? '

Oh, Dr. Whitaker, you make too much
altogether of his rudeness. It isn't personal
to you ; it's part of his nature.'

Miss Dupuy,' the young mulatto burst
out suddenly, after a moment's pause and internal
struggle, ' I'm not sorry for it, as I said
before ; for it gives me the opportunity of
saying something to you that I have long
been waiting to tell you.'

Well ? 'rigidly.

"Well, it is this : I mean at once to leave
Trinidad.'

Nora started. It was not quite what she
was expecting. ' To leave Trinidad, Dr
Whitaker ? And where to go ? Back to
England ? '

Yes, back to England. — Miss Dupuy, for
Heaven's sake, listen to me for a moment.
This dance won't be very long. As soon as
it's over, I must take you back to the ballroom.
I have only these few short minutes
to speak to you. I have been waiting long
for them — looking forward to them ; hoping
for them ; dreading them ; foreseeing them.
Don't disappoint me of my one chance of a
hearing. Sit here and hear me out : I beg of
you — I implore you.'

Nora's fingers trembled terribly, and she

felt half inclined to rise at once and go back
to Mrs. Pereira ; but she could not find it
in her heart utterly to refuse that pleading
tone of profound emotion, even though it
came from only a brown man. ' Well, Dr.
Whitaker,' she answered tremulously, ' say on
whatever you have to say to me.'

I'm going to England, Miss Dupuy,' the
poor young mulatto went on in broken accents ;
I can stand no longer the shame and misery
of my own surroundings in this island. You
know what they are. Picture them to yourself
for a moment. Forget you are a white
woman, a member of this old proud unforgiving
aristocracy — " for they ne'er pardon who
have done the wrong : " forget it for once, and
try to think how it would feel to you, after
your English up-bringing, with your tastes
and ideas and habits and sentiments, to be

suddenly set down in the midst of a society-like
that of the ignorant coloured class herein
Trinidad. On the one side, contempt and
contumely from the most boorish and unlettered
whites ; on the other side, utter uncongenial
with one's own poor miserable
people. Picture it to yourself — how absolutely
unendurable ! '

Nora bethought her silently of Tom
Dupuy from both points of view, and answered
in a low tone : ' Dr. Whitaker, I recognise
the truth of what you say. I — I am
sorry for you ; I sympathise with you.'

It was a great deal for a daughter of
the old slave-owning oligarchy to say — how
much, people in England can hardly realise ;
and Dr. Whitaker accepted it gratefully. 'It's
very kind of you. Miss Dupuy,' he went on
again, the tears rising quickly to his eyes,

very, very kind of you. But the struggle is
over ; I can't stand it any longer ; I mean at
once to return to England.'

You will do wisely, I think,' Nora answered
looking at him steadily.

I will do wisely,' he repeated in a wandering
tone. ' Yes, I will do wisely. But, Miss
Dupuy, strange to say, there is one thing that
still binds me down to Trinidad. — Oh, for
Heaven's sake, listen to me, and don't condemn
me unheard. — No, no, I beg of you,
don't rise yet ! I will be brief. Hear me out,
I implore of you, I implore of you ! I'm
only a mulatto, I know ; but mulattoes have
a heart as well as white men — better than
some, I do honestly believe. Miss Dupuy,
from the very first moment I saw you, I — I
loved you ! yes, I will say it — I loved you ! —
I loved you ! '

Nora rose, and stood erect before him,
proud but tremulous, in her girlish beauty.
Dr. Whitaker,' she said, in a very calm tone,
I knew it ; I saw it. From the first moment
you ever spoke to me, I knew it perfectly.'

He drew a long' breath to still the violent
throbbing of his heart. ' You knew it,' he
said, almost joyously — ' you knew it ! And
you did not repel me ! Oh, Miss Dupuy, for
one of your blood and birth, that was indeed
a great condescension ! '

Nora hesitated. ' I liked you. Dr.
Whitaker,' she answered slowly — ' I liked
you, and I was sorry for you.'

Thank you, thank you. Whatever else
you say, for that one word I thank you
earnestly. But oh, what more can I say to
you ? I love you ; I have always loved you.
I shall always love you in future. Take me

or reject me, I shall always love you.
And yet, how can I ask you ? But in
England — in England, Miss Dupuy, the
barrier would be less absolute. — Yes, yes ; I
know how hopeless it is : but this once — this
once only ! I must ask you ! Oh, for
Heaven's sake, in England — far away from it
all — in London, where nobody thinks of these

things ! Why, I know a Hindu barrister

But there ! it's not a matter for reasoning ;
it lies between heart and heart! Oh, Miss
Dupuy, tell me — tell me, for God's sake, tell
me, is there — is there any chance for me ? '

Nora's heart relented within her. ' Dr.
Whitaker,' she said slowly and remorsefully,
you can't tell how much I feel for you. I
can see at once what a dreadful position you
are placed in. I can see, of course, how
impossible it is for you ever to think of

marrying any — any lady of your own colour
at least as they are brought up here in
Trinidad. I can see that you could only fall
in love with — with a white lady, a person
fitted by education and manners to be a companion
to you. I know how clever you are,
and I think I can see how good you are too.
I know how far all your tastes and ideas are
above those of the people you must mix with
here, or, for that matter, above Tom Dupuy's
or my own either. I see it all ; I know it
all. And indeed, I like you — I admire you,
and I like you. I don't want you to think me
unkind and unappreciative. — Dr. Whitaker,
I feel truly flattered that you should speak

so to me this evening — but ' And she

hesitated. The young mulatto felt that that
but ' was the very deathblow to his last faint
hope and aspiration, ' But Well, you

know these things are something more thana
mere matter of king and admiring. Let
us still be friends, Dr. Whitaker — let us still
be friends. — And there's the band striking
up the next waltz. Will you kindly take
me back to the ball-room ? 1 — I am engaged
to dance it with Captain Castello.'

One second, Miss Dupuy — for God's sake,
one second ! Is that final ? Is that irrevocable
? '

Final, Dr. Whitaker — quite final. I like
you ; I admire you ; but I can never, never,
never — never accept you ! '

The mulatto clapped his hand wildly for
one moment to his forehead, and uttered a
little low sharp piercing cry. ' My God, my
God,' he exclaimed in an accent of terrible
despair, ' then it is all over — all, aU over ! '
Next instant he had drawn himself together

with an effort again, and offering Nora his
arm with constrained calmness, he began to
lead her back towards the crowded ball-room.
As he neared the steps, he paused once more
for a second, and almost whispered in her ear
in a hollow voice : ' Thank you, thank you
for ever for at least your sympathy ! '

VOL. 11. M

CHAPTER Xxii.

They lead reached the top of the stone steps,
when two voices were borne upon them from
the two ends of the corridor opposite. The
first was Mr. Dupuy's. ' Where is she ? ' it
said. — ' Mrs. Pereira, where's Nora ? You
don't mean to say this is true that Tom tells
me — that you've actually gone and let her
sit out a dance with that conceited nigger
fellow, Dr. Whitaker ? Upon my word,
my dear madam, what this island is coming
to nowadays is really more than I can
imagine.'

The second voice was a louder and

blander one. 'My son, my son,' it said, in
somewhat thick accents, ' my dear son, Wilberforce
Clarkson Whitaker ! Where is he ?
Is he in de garden ? I want to introduce him
to de Governor's lady. De Governor's lady
has been graciously pleased to express an
interest in de inheritor of de tree names most
closely bound up wit de great social revolution,
in which I have had de honour to bede
chief actor, for de benefit of millions of
my fellow-subjects. — Walking' in de garden,
is he, wit de daughter of my respected friend,
de Honourable Theodore Dupuy of Orange
Grove ? Ha, ha ! Dat's de way wit de
young dogs — dat's de way wit dem. Always
ofi* walking' in de garden wit de pretty ladies.
Ha, ha, ha ! I don't blame dem ! '

Dr. Wliitaker, his face on fire and his ears
tingling, pushed on rapidly down the very

M 2

centre of the garden, taking no heed of either
voice in outward seeming, but going straight
on, with Nora on his arm, till he reached the
open window-doors that led directly into the
big ball-room. There, seething in soul, but
outwardly calm and polite, he handed over
his partner with a conventional smile to Captain
Castello, and turning on his heel, strode
away bitterly across the ball-room to the outer
doorway. Not a few people noticed him ashe
strode off in his angry dignity, for Tom
Dupuy had already been blustering — with his
usual taste — in the corridors and refreshment
room about his valiant threat of soundly
horsewhipping the woolly-headed mulatto.
In the vestibule, the doctor paused and asked
for his dust-coat. A negro servant, in red
livery, grinning with delight at what he
thought the brown man's discomfiture, held

it up for him to put his arms into. Dr.
Whitaker noticed the fellow's malevolent grin,
and making an ineffectual effort to push his
left arm down the right arm sleeve, seized the
coat angrily in his hand, doubled it up in a
loose fold over his elbow, and then, changing
his mind, as an angry man will do, flung it
down again with a hasty gesture upon the
hall table. ' Never mind the coat,' he said
fiercely. ' Bring round my horse ! Do you
hear, fellow ? My horse, my horse ! This
minute, I tell you ! '

The red-liveried servant called to an invisible
negro outside, who soon returned with
the doctor's mountain pony.

'Better take de coat, sab,' the man in
li-very said with a sarcastic guffaw. ' Him
help to protect your back an' sides from
Mistah Dupuy, him horsewhip ! '

Dr. Wliitaker leapt upon his horse, and
turned to the man with a face livid and distorted
with irrepressible anger. ' You black
devil, you ! ' he cried passionately, using the
words of reproach that even a mulatto will
hurl in his wrath at his still darker brother,
do you think I'm running away from Tom
Dupuy's miserable horsewhip ? I'm not afraid
of a hundred fighting Dupuys and all their
horsewhips. Let him dare to touch me, and,
by Heaven, he'll find he'd better far have
touched the devil. — You black image, you !
how dare you speak to me ? How dare
you ? — how dare you ? ' And he cut at him
viciously in impotent rage with the little
riding-whip he held in his fingers.

The negro laughed again, a loud hoarse
laugh, and flung both his hands up with open
fingers in African derision. Dr. Whitaker

dug his spotless heel deep into his horse's
side, sitting there wildly in his evening dress,
and turned his head in mad despair out towards
the outer darkness. The moon was still
shining brightly overhead, but by contrast
with the lights in the gaily illuminated ballroom,
the path beneath the bamboo clumps
in the shrubbery looked very gloomy, dark,
and sombre.

Two or three of the younger men, anxious
to see whether Tom Dupuy would get up ' a
scene ' then and there, crowded out hastily
to the doorway, to watch the nigger fellow
ride away for his Hfe for fear of a horsewhipping.
As they stood in the doorway,
peering into the darkness after the retreating
upright figure, there came all at once, with
appalling suddenness, a solitary vivid flash of
lightning, such as one never sees outside the

tropics, illuminating with its awful light the
whole length of the gardens and the gully
beneath them. At the same second, a terrific
clap of thunder seemed to burst, like innumerable
volleys of the heaviest artillery, right
above the roof of the Governor's bungalow.
It was ghastly in its suddenness and in its
strength. No one could say where the lightning
struck, for it seemed to have struck on
every side at once : all that they saw was a
single sheet of all-pervading fire, in whose
midst the mulatto and his horse stood silhouetted
out in solid black, a statuesque
group of living sculpture, against the brilliant
fiery background. The horse was rearing,
erect on his hind-legs ; and Dr. Whitaker
was reining him in and patting his neck
soothingly with hand half lifted. So instantaneous
was the flash, indeed, that no motion

or change of any sort was visible in the
figures. The horse looked like a horse of
bronze, poised in the air on solid metal legs,
and merely simulating the action of rearing.
For a minute or two, not a soul spoke a
word, or broke in any way the deathless
silence that succeeded that awful and unexpected
outburst. The band had ceased
playing as if by instinct, and every person in
the ball-room stood still and looked one at
another with mute amazement. Then, by a
common impulse, they pressed all out slowly
together, and gazed forth with wondering
eyes upon the serene moonlight. The stars
were shining brightly overhead : the clap had
broken from an absolutely clear sky. Only
to northward, on the very summits of the
highest mountains, a gathering of deep black
clouds rolled slowly onward, and threatened to

pass across the intervening valley. Through
the profound silence, the ring of Dr. Whitaker's
horse's hoofs could be heard distinctly
down below upon the solid floor of the
mountain pathway.

Who has left already ? ' the Governor
asked anxiously of the negro servants.

Dr. Whitaker, your Excellency, sal,' the
man in red livery answered, grinning respectfully.


Call him back ! ' the Governor said in a
tone of command. ' There's an awful thunderstorm
coming. No man will ever get down
alive to the bottom of the valley until it's
over.'

'It don't no use, sal,' the negro answered.
His horse's cantering' down de hillside de
same as if him stain' mad, sal ! ' And ashe
spoke. Dr. Whitaker's white shirt-front

gleamed for a second in the moonlight far
below, at a turn of the path beside the
threatening guy.

Almost before anyone could start to recall
him, the rain and thunder were upon
them with tropical violence. The clouds had
drifted rapidly across the sky ; the light of the
moon was completely effaced ; black darkness
reigned over the mountains; not a star, nota
tree, not an object of any sort could now
be discerned through the pitchy atmosphere.
Vain ! it was hardly rain, but rather a continuous
torrent outpoured as from some vast
aerial fountain. Every minute or two a
terrific flash lighted up momentarily the
gloomy darkness ; and almost simultaneously,
loud peals of thunder bellowed and re-echoed
from peak to peak. The dance was interrupted
for the time at least, and everybody

crowded out silently to the veranda and the
corridors, where the lio;htninCT and the rain
could be more easily seen, mingling with the
thunder in one hideous din, and forming
torrents that rushed down the dry gules in
roaring cataracts to the plains below.

And Dr. Whitaker? On he rode, the
lightning terrifying his little mountain pony
at every flash, the rain beating down upon
him mercilessly with equatorial fierceness, the
darkness stretching in front of him and below
him, save when, every now and then, the
awful forks of flame illumined for a second the
gulfs and precipices that yawned beneath in
profoundest gloom. Yet still he rode on, erect
and heedless, his hat now lost, bareheaded
to the pitiless storm, cold without and fiery
hot at heart within. He cared for nothing
now — for nothing — for nothing. Nora had

put the final coping-stone on that grim growth
of black despair within his soul, that palace
of nethermost darkness which alone he was
henceforth to inhabit. Nay, in the heat and
bitterness of the moment, had he not even
sealed his own doom? Had he not sunk
down actually to the level of those who
despised and contemned him ? Had he not
used words of contemptuous insolence to his
own colour, in the ' black devil ' he had flung
so wildly at the head of the negro in livery ?
What did it matter now whatever happened
to him? All, all was lost; and he rode on
recklessly, madly, despairingly, down that wild
and precipitous mountain pathway, he knew
not and he cared not whither.

It was a narrow track, a mere thread of
bridle-path, dangerous enough even in the
best of seasons, hung half way up the steep

hillside, with the peak rising sheer above on
one hand, and the precipice yawning black
beneath on the other. Stones and creepers
cumbered the ground ; pebbles and earth,
washed down at once by the violence of the
storm, blocked and obliterated the track in
many places ; here, a headlong torrent tore
across it with resistless vehemence ; there, a
little chasm marked the spot where a small
landslip had rendered it impassable. The
horse floundered and reared and backed up
again and ao;ain in startled terror; Dr. Whitaker,
too reckless at last even to pat and
encourage him, let him go whatever way his
fancy led him among the deep brake of
cactuses and tree ferns. And still the rain
descended in vast sheets and flakes of water,
and still the lightning flashed and quivered
among the ravines and gullies of those torn

and crumpled mountain-sides. The mulatto
took no notice any longer ; lie only sang
aloud in a wild, defiant, half-crazy voice the
groaning notes of his own terrible Hurricane
Symphony.

So they went, on and down, on and down,
on and down always, through fire and water,
the horse plunging and kicking and backing ;
the rider flinging his arms carelessly around
him, till they reached the bend in the road
beside Louis Delgado's mud cottage. The old
African was sitting cross-legged by himself at
the door of his hut, watching the rain grimly
by the intermittent light of the frequent
flashes. Suddenly, a visiter flash than any
burst in upon him, with a fearful clap ; and by
its light, he saw a great gap in the midst of
the path, twenty yards wide, close by the
cottage ; and at its upper end, a horse and

rider, trembling on the very brink of the
freshly cut abyss.

Next instant the flash was gone, and when
the next came, Louis Delgado saw nothing but
the gap itself and the wild torrent that had
so instantly cut it.

The old man smiled an awful smile of
gratified malevolence. ' Ha, ha ! ' he said to
himself aloud, hugging his withered old breast
in malicious joy; 'I guess dat buckra lying'
dead by now, down, down, down, at de bottom
ob de gully. Ha, ha! ha, ha, ha! him lying' dead
at de bottom ob de gully ; an' it one buckra
de less left alive to border us here in de island
ob Trinidad.' He had not seen the mulatto's
face ; but he took him at once to be a white
man because, in spite of rain and spattered
mud, his white shirt-front still showed out distinctly
in the red glare of the vivid lightning.

CHAPTER XXIV.

No human eye ever again beheld Wilberforce
Whitaker, alive or dead. The torrent that
had washed down the gap in the narrow
horse path tore away with it in the course of
that evening's rain a great mass of tottering
earth that had long trembled on the edge of
the precipice ; and when next day the Governor's
servants went down in awed silence
to hunt among the debris for the mangled
body, they found nothing but a soaked hat
on the road behind, and a broken riding-whip
close to the huge rent that yawned across the
path by the crumbling ledge of newly fallen
VOL. II. N

clay. Louis Delgado alone could tell of what
had happened ; and in Louis Delgado's
opinion, Dr. Whitaker's crushed and shapeless
body must be lying below under ten thousand
tons of landslip rubbish. ' I see de gentleman
halting' on de brink ob de hole,' he said a
hundred times over to his gossips next day,
and I think I hear him call aloud something as
him go over de tip ob de big precipice. But
it don't sound to me exactly as if him scared
and shouting' ; 'pears more as if him singing
to himself a kind ob mournful miserable psalm-tune.'


Li tropical countries, people are accustomed
to hurricanes and thunderstorms and
landslips and sudden death in every form —
does not the Church service even contain that
weirdly suggestive additional clause among
the petitions of the Litany, 'From earthquake.

tempest, and violent commotion, good Lord,
deliver us ' ? — and so nobody ever tried to
dig up Wilberforce Wliitaker's buried body ;
and if they had tried, they would never have
succeeded in the vain attempt, for a thousand
tons of broken fragments lay on top of it, and
crushed it to atoms beneath them. Poor old
Bobby felt the loss acutely, after his childish
fashion, for nearly a fortnight, and then
straightway proceeded to make love as usual
to Miss Seraphina and the other ladies, and
soon forgot his whole trouble in that one
congenial lifelong occupation.

Nora Dupuy did not so quickly recover
the shock that the mulatto's sudden and
almost supernatural death had given her
system. It was many weeks before she began
to feel like herself again, or to trust herself
in a room alone for more than a very few

N 2

minutes together. Born West Indian as she
was, and therefore superstitious, she almost
feared that Dr. Whitaker's ghost would come
to plead his cause with her once more, ashe
himself had pleaded with her that last
unhappy evening on the Italian terrace. It
wasn't her fault, to be sure, that she had been
the unwitting cause of his death ; and yet in
her own heart she felt to herself almost as if
she had deliberately and intentionally killed
him. That insuperable barrier of race that
had stood so effectually in his way while
he was still alive was partly removed now
that she could no longer see him in person;
and more than once, Nora found herself
in her own room with tears standing
in both her eyes for the poor mulatto she
could never possibly or conceivably have
married.

As for Tom Dupuy, he couldn't understand
such delicate shades and undertones of
feeling as those which came so naturally to
Nora ; and he had, therefore, a short and
easy explanation of his own for his lively
little cousin's altered demeanour. ' Nora was
in love with that infernal nigger fellow,' he
said confidently over and over again to his
Uncle Theodore. ' You take my word for it,
she was head over ears in love with him ;
that's about the size of it. And that evening
when she behaved so disgracefully with him
on the terrace at the Governor's, he proposed
to her, and she accepted him, as sure as
gospel. If I hadn't threatened him with a
good sound horsewhipping, and driven him
away from the house in a deuce of a funk, so
that he went off with his tail between his legs,
and broke his damned neck over a precipice

in that terrible thunderstorm — you mark my
words, Uncle Theodore — she'd have gone off,
as I always said she would, and she'd have
ended by marrying a woolly-headed brown
man.'

Mr. Theodore Dupuy, for his part, considered
that even to mention the bare
possibility of such a disgrace within the
bosom of the family was an insult to the pure
blood of the Dupuys that his nephew Tom
ought to have been the last man on earth to
dream of perpetrating.

Time rolled on, however, month after
month, and gradually Nora began to recover
something of her natural gaiety. Even deep
impressions last a comparatively short time
with bright young girls ; and before six
months more had fairly rolled by, Nora was
again the same gay, light, merry, dancing

little thing that she had always been, in
England or in Trinidad,

One morning, about twelve months after
Nora's first arrival in the island, the English
mail brought a letter for her father, which
he read with evident satisfaction, and then
handed it contentedly to Nora across the
breakfast-table. Nora recognised the crest
and monogram in a moment with a faint
flutter : she had seen them once before, a
year ago, in England. They were Harry
Noel's. But the postmark was Barbadoes.
She read the letter eagerly and hastily.

Dear Sir ' — it ran — ' I have had the
pleasure already of meeting some members of
your family on the other side of the Atlantic '
that was an over statement, Nora thought
to herself quietly ; the plural for the singular —

and as I have come out to look after some
property of my father's here in Barbadoes, I
propose to run across to Trinidad also, by the
next steamer, and gain a Httle further insight
into the habits and manners of the West
Indies. My intention is to stop during my
stay with my friend Mr. Hawthorn, who — as
you doubtless know — holds a District judgeship
or something of the sort somewhere in
Trinidad. But I think it best at the same
time to inclose a letter of introduction to
yourself from General Sir Henry Laboutilliere,
whom I dare say you remember as formerly
commandant of Port-of-Spain when the Hundred
and Fiftieth were in your island. I shall
do myself the honour of calling upon you
very shortly after my arrival, and am meanwhile,
very faithfully yours,

Harry Noel.'

The letter of introduction wliicli accompanied
this very formal note briefly set forth
that Sir Walter Noel, Mr. Noel's father, was
an exceedingly old and intimate friend of the
writer's, and that he would feel much obliged
if Mr. Dupuy would pay young Mr. Noel any
attentions in his power during his short stay
in the island of Trinidad.

It would be absurd to deny that Nora
felt flattered. She blushed, and blushed, and
blushed again, with unmistakable pleasure.
To be sure, she had refused Harry Noel ;
and if he were to ask her again, even now,
she would refuse him a second time. But no
girl on earth is wholly proof in her own heart
against resolute persistence. Even if she
doesn't care a pin for a man from the matrimonial
point of view, yet provided only he
is ' nice ' and ' eligible,' she feels naturally

flattered by the mere fact that he pays her
attention. If the attention is marked and
often renewed, the flattery is all the deeper,
subtler, and more effective. But here was
Harry Noel, pursuant of his threat (or should
we rather say his promise), following her
up right across the Atlantic, and coming to
lay siege to her heart with due formalities
once more, in the very centre of her own
stronghold ! Yes, Nora was undeniably
pleased. Of course, she didn't care for him ;
oh, dear, no, not the least little bit in the
world, really; but still, even if you don't
want to accept a lover, you know, it is at
any rate pleasant to have the opportunity
of a second time cruelly rejecting him.
So Nora blushed, and smiled to herself, and
blushed over again, and felt by no means out
of humour at Harry Noel's evident persistence.

Well, Nora ? ' lier father said to her,
eyeing her interrogatively. ' What do you
think of it ? "

I think, papa, Mr. Noel's a very gentlemanly,
nice young man, of a very good old
English family.'

Yes, yes, Nora : I know that, of course.
I see as much from Sir Henry Laboutilhere's
letter of introduction. But what I mean is,
we must have him here, at Orange Grove,
naturally, mustn't we ? It would never do,
you see, to let a member of the English aristocracy
' — Mr. Dupuy dwelt lovingly upon these
latter words with some unction, as preachers
dwell with lingering cadence upon the special
shibboleths of their own particular sect or
persuasion — ' go to stop with such people as
your coloured friends over yonder at Mulberry,
the Hawthorns.'

Nora was silent.

Why don't yoii answer nie, miss ? ' Mr
Dupiiy asked testily, after waiting for a
moment in silent expectation.

Because I will never speak to you about
my own friends, papa, when you choose to
talk of them in such untrue and undeserved
language.'

Mr, Dupuy smiled urbanely. He was ina
good humour. It flattered him, too, to
think that when members of the English
aristocracy came out to Trinidad they should
naturally select him, Theodore Dupuy, Esquire,
of Orange Grove, as the proper person
towards whom to look for hospitality.
The fame of the fighting Dupuys was probably
not unknown to the fashionable world
even in London. They were recognised and
talked about. So Mr. Dupuy merely smiled

a bland smile of utter obliviousness, and observed
in the air (as men do when they are
addressing nobody in particular) : ' Coloured
people are always coloured people, I suppose,
whether they're much or little coloured ;
just as a dog's always a dog whether he's
a great big heavy St. Bernard or a little
snarling snapper of a Skye terrier. But anyhow,
it's quite clear to me individually
that we can't let this young Mr. Noel — a
person of distinction, Nora, a person of
distinction — go and stop at any other house
in this island except here at Orange Grove,
I assure you, my dear. Tom or I must
certainly go down to meet the steamer, and
bring him up here bodily in the buggy,
before your friend Mr. Hawthorn — about
whose personal complexion I prefer to say
absolutely nothing, for good or for evil — has

time to fasten on him and drag him away by
main force to this own dwelling-place.' (Mr.
Dupuy avoided calling Mulberry Lodge a
house on principle ; for in the West Indies,
it is an understood fact that only white
people live in houses.)

But, papa,' Nora cried, ' you really
mustn't. I don't think you ought to bring
him up here. Wouldn't it — well, you know,
wouldn't it look just a little pointed, considering
there's nobody else at all living in
the house except you and me, you know,
papa ? '

My dear,' Mr. Dupuy said, not unkindly,
a member of the English aristocracy, when
he comes to Trinidad, ought to be received
in the house of one of the recognised gentry
of the island, and not in that — well, not in
the dwelling-place of any person not belonging

to the aristocracy of Trinidad. Noblesse
oblige Nora ; noblesse oblige, remember. Besides,
when you consider the relation in
which you already stand to your cousin
Tom, my dear — why, an engaged young
lady, of course, an engaged young lady
occupies nearly the same position in that
respect as if she were abbacy actually
married.'

'But I'm not engaged, papa,' Nora answered
earnestly. ' And I never will be to
Tom Dupuy, if I die unmarried, either.'

That, my dear,' Mr. Dupuy responded
blandly, looking at her with parental fondness,
' is a question on which I venture to
think myself far better qualified to form an
opinion than a mere girl of barely twenty.
Tom and I have arranged between us, as I
have often already pointed out to you, that

the family estates ought on all accounts to
be reunited in your persons. As soon as you
are twenty-two, my dear, we propose that
you should marry. Meanwhile, it can only
arouse unseemly differences within the family
to discuss the details of the question prematurely.
I have made up my mind, and
I will not go back upon it. A Dupuy never
does. As to this young Mr. Noel who's
coming from Barbadoes, I shall go down
myself to the next steamer, and look out to
offer him our hospitality immediately on his
arrival, before any coloured people — I mention
no names — can seize upon the opportunity
of intercepting him, and carrying him
off forcibly against his will, bag and baggage,
to their own dwelling-places.'

CHAPTER XXV.

On the morning when Harry Noel was to
arrive in Trinidad, Mr. Dupiiy and Edward
Hawthorn both came down early to the 
to await the steamer. Mr. Diipuy
condescended to nod in a distant manner to
the young judge — he had never forgiven him
that monstrous decision in the case of Delgado
versus Dupuy — and to ask chilly whether he
was expecting friends from England.

No,' Edward Hawthorn answered with a
bow as cold as Mr. Dupuy 's own. ' I have
come down to meet an old English friend of
mine, a Mr. Noel, whom I knew very well at

VOL. II. o

Cambridge and in London, but who's coming
at present only from Barbadoes.'

Mr. Dupuy astutely held his tongue.
Noblesse did not so far impose upon him as to
oblige him to confess that it was Harry Noel
he, too, had come down in search of. But as
soon as the steamer was well alongside, Mr.
Dupuy, in his stately, slow, West Indian manner,
sailed ponderously down the special
gangway, and asked a steward at once to
point out to him which of the passengers was
Mr. Noel.

Harry Noel, when he received Mr. Suppressing
invitation, was naturally charmed at
the prospect of thus being quartered under
the same roof with pretty little Nora. Had
he known the whole circumstances of the case,
indeed, his native good feeling would, of
course, have prompted him to go to the Hawthorns'

; but Edward had been restrained by
a ceram sense of false shame from writing
the whole truth about this petty local race
prejudice to his friend in England ; and so
Harry jumped at once at the idea of being so
comfortably received into the very house of
which he so greatly desired to become an
inmate. ' You're very good, I'm sure,' he
answered in his ofF-hand manner to the old
planter. ' Upon my word, I never met anything
in my life to equal your open-hearted
West Indian hospitality. Wherever one goes,
one's uniformly met with open arms. I shall
be delighted, Mr. Dupuy, to put up at your
place — Orange Grove, I think you call it — ah,
exactly — if you'll kindly permit me. — Here,
you fellow, go down below, will you, and ask
for my luggage.'

Edward Hawthorn was a minute or two



too late. Harry came forward eagerly, in the
old friendly fashion, to grasp his hand with a
hard grip, but explained to him with a look,
which Edward immediately understood, that
Orange Grove succeeded in offering him
superior attractions even to Mulberry. So
the very next morning found Nora and Harry
Noel seated together at lunch at Mr. Dupuy's
well-loaded table ; while Tom Dupuy, who
had actually stolen an hour or two from his
beloved canes, dropped in casually to take
stock of this new possible rival, as he half
suspected the gay young Englishman would
turn out to be. From the first moment that
their eyes met, Tom Dupuy conceived an
immediate dislike and distrust for Harry Noel.
What did he want coming here to Trinidad ?
Tom wondered : a fine-spoken, stuck-up, easygoing,
haw-haw Londoner, of the sort that

your true-born colonist hates and detests withall
the force of his good-hater's nature. Harry
irritated him immensely by his natural superiority
: a man of Tom Dupuy's type can
forgive anything in any other man except
higher intelligence and better breeding. Those
are qualities for which he feels a profound
contempt, not unmingled with hatred, envy,
malice, and all uncharitableness. So, as soon
as Nora had risen from the table and the men
were left alone, West Indian fashion, to their
afternoon cigar and cup of coffee, Tom Dupuy
began to open fire at once on Harry about
his precious coloured friends the Hawthorns
at Mulberry.

So you've come across partly to see that
new man at the Westmoreland District Court,
have you ? ' he said sneeringly. ' Well, I
dare say he was considered fit company for

gentlemen over in England, Mr. Noel — people
seem to have very queer ideas about what's a
gentleman and what's not, over in England —
but though I didn't like to speak about it
before Nora, seeing that they're friends of
hers, I think I ought to warn you beforehand
that you mustn't have too much to say to
them if you want to get on out here in Trinidad.
People here are a trifle particular about
their company.'

Harry looked across curiously at the young
planter, leaning back in awkward fashion
with legs outstretched and half turned away
from the table, as he sipped his coffee, and
answered quietly, with some little surprise :
Why, yes, Mr. Dupuy, I think our English
idea of what constitutes a gentleman does
differ slightly in some respects from the one
I find current out here in the West Indies. I

knew Hawthorn intimately for several years
at Cambridge and in London, and the more I
knew of him the better I liked him and the
more I respected him. He's a Httle bit too
radical for me, I confess, and a little bit too
learned as well ; but in every other way, I
can't imagine what possible objection you can
bring against him.'

Tom Dupuy smiled an ugly smile, and
gazed hard at Harry Noel's dark and handsome
face and features. ' Well,' he said
slowly, a malevolent light gleaming hastily
from his heavy eyes, ' we West Indians maybe
prejudiced ; they say we are ; but still,
we're not fond somehow of making too free
with a pack of niggers. Now, I don't say
your friend Hawthorn's exactly a nigger outside,
to look at : he isn't : he's managed to
hide the outer show of his colour finely. I've

seen a good many regular white people, or
what passed for white people ' — and here he
glanced significantly at the fine-spoken Londoner's
dark fingers, toying easily with the
amber mouthpiece of his dainty cigar-holder —
who were a good many shades darker in the
skin than this fellow Hawthorn, for all they
thought themselves such very grand gentlemen.
Some of 'em may be coloured, and
some of 'em mayn't : there's no knowing, when
once you get across to England ; for people
there have no proper pride of race, I understand,
and would marry a coloured girl, if she
happened to have money, as soon as look
at her. But this fellow Hawthorn, though he
seems externally as white as you do — and a
great deal whiter too, by Jove — is well known
out here to be nothing but a coloured personas
his father and his mother were before him.'

Harry Noel puffed out a long stream of
white smoke as lie answered carelessly : ' Ah,
I dare say he is, if what you mean is just that
he's got some remote sort of negro tinge
somewhere about him — though he doesn't look
it ; but I expect almost all the old West
Indian families, you know, must have intermarried
long ago, when English ladies were
rare in the colonies, with pretty half-castes.'

Quite unwittingly, the young Englishman
had trodden at once on the very tenderest
and dearest corn of his proud and unbending
West Indian entertainers. Pride of blood is
the one form of pride that they thoroughly
understand and sympathise with ; and this
remote hint of a possible (and probable)
distant past when the purity of the white
race was not quite so efficiently guaranteed
as it is nowadays, roused both the fiery

Diipiiys immediately to a white-lieut of indignation.


'Sir,' Mr. Theodore Dupuy said stiffly,
you evidently don't understand the way in
which we regard these questions out herein
the colonies, and especially in Trinidad.
There is one thing which your English parliament
has not taken from us, and can never
take from us ; and that is the pure European
blood which flows unsullied in all our
veins, nowhere polluted by the faintest taint
of a vile African intermixture.'

Certainly,' Mr. Tom Dupuy echoed
angrily, ' if you want to call us niggers, you'd
better call us niggers outright, and not be
afraid of it.'

'Upon my soul,' Harry Noel answered
with an apologetic smile, ' I hadn't the least
intention, my dear sir, of seeming to hint

anything against the purity of blood in West
Indians generally ; I only meant, that if my
friend Hawthorn — who is really a very good
fellow and a perfect gentleman — does happen
to have a little distant infusion of negro blood
in him, it doesn't seem to me to matter much
to any of us nowadays. It must be awfully
little — a mere nothing, you know ; just the
amount one would naturally expect if his
people had intermarried once with half-castes
a great many generations ago. I was only
standing up for my friend, you see. — Surely,'
turning to Tom, who still glared at him like
a wild beast aroused, ' a man ought to stand
up for his friends when he hears them ill
spoken of.'

Oh, quite so,' Mr. Theodore Dupuy replied,
in a mollified voice. ' Of course, if Mr.
Hawthorn's a friend of yours, and you choose

to stand by him here, in spite of his natural
disabilities, on the ground that you happened
to know him over in England — where, I
believe, he concealed the fact of his being
coloured — and you don't like now to turn
your back upon him, why, naturally, that's
very honourable of you, very honourable. —
Tom, my dear boy, we must both admit that
Mr. Noel is acting very honourably. And,
indeed, we can't expect people brought up
wholly in England ' — ]\li\ Dupuy dwelt softly
upon this fatal disqualification, as though
aware that Harry must be rather ashamed
of it — ' to feel upon these points exactly as
we do, who have a better knowledge and
insight into the' negro blood and the negro
character.'

Certainly not,' Tom Dupuy continued
maliciously. ' People in England don't understand

these tidings at all as we do. — Why,
Mr. Noel, you mayn't be aware of it, but
even among the highest English aristocracy
there are an awful lot of regular coloured
people, out-and-out mulattoes. West Indian
heiresses in the old days used to go home —
brown girls, or at any rate young women
with a touch of the tar-brush — daughters of
governors and so forth, on the wrong side
of the house — you understand ' — Mr, Tom
Dupuy accompanied these last words with an
upward and backward jerk of his left thumb,
supplemented by a peculiarly ugly grimace,
intended to be facetious — ' the sort of trash
no decent young fellow over here would have
so much as touched with a .pair of tongs (in
the way of marrying 'em, I mean) ; and when
they got across to England, hanged if they
weren't snapped up at once by dukes and

marquises, whose descendants, after all,
though they may be lords, are really
nothing better, you see, than common brown
people ! '

He spoke snappishly, but Harry only
looked across at him in mild wonder. On
the calm and unquestioning pride of a Lincolnshire
Noel, remarks such as these fell flat
and pointless. If a Noel had chosen to
marry a kitchen-maid, according to their
simple old-fashioned faith, he would have
ennobled her at once, and lifted her up into
his own exalted sphere of life and action.
Her children after her would have been
Lincolnshire Noels, the equals of any duke or
marquis in the United Kingdom. So Harry
only smiled benignly, and answered in his
easy offhand manner : ' By Jove, I shouldn't
wonder at all if that were really the case now.

One reads in Thackeray, you know, so much

about the wealthy West Indian heiresses,

with suspiciously curly hair, who used to

swarm in London in the old slavery days. But

of course, Mr. Dupuy, it's a well-known fact

that all our good families have been awfully

recruited by actresses and so forth. I believe

some statistical fellow or other has written

a book to show that if it weren't for the

actresses, the peerage and baronetage would

all have died out long ago, of pure inanition.

I dare say the West Indian heiresses, with the

frizzy hair, helped to fitful the same good and

useful purpose, by bringing an infusion of

fresh blood every now and then into our old

families.' And Harry ran his hand carelessly

through his own copious curling black locks,

in perfect unconsciousness of the absurdly

malaprop nature of that instinctive action

at that particular moment. His calm sense
of utter superiority — that innate belief so
difficult to shake, even on the most rational
grounds, in most well-born and well-bred
Englishmen — kept him even from suspecting
the real drift of Tom Dupuy's reiterated
innuendoes.

You came out to Barbadoes to look after
some property of your father's, I believe ? '
Mr. Dupuy put in, anxious to turn the
current of the conversation from this very
dangerous and fitful channel.

I did,' Harry Noel answered unconcernedly.
' My father's, or rather my mother's.
Her people have property there. We're
connected with Barbadoes, indeed. My
mother's family were Barbadian planters.'

At the word, Tom Dupuy almost jumped
from his seat and brought his fist down

heavily upon the groaning table. ' They
were ? ' he cried inquiringly. ' Barbadian
planters ? By Jove, that's devilish funny !
You don't mean to say, then, Mr. Noel, that
some of your own people were really and
truly born West Indians ? '

Why the dickens should he want to
get so very excited about it .^ ' Harry Noel
thought to himself hastily. ' What on
earth can it matter to him whether my
people were Barbadian planters or Billingsgate
fishmongers ? ' — ' Yes, certainly, they
were,' he went on to Tom Dupuy with a
placid smile of quiet amusement. ' Though
my mother was never in the island herself
from the time she was a baby, I believe,
still all her family were born and
bred there, for some generations. — But why
do you ask me? Did you know anything

VOL. II. P

of her people — the Burleigh of the Wilderness
? '

No, no ; I didn't know anything of
them,' Tom Dupuy replied hurriedly, with a
curious glance sideways at his uncle. — ' But,
by George ! Uncle Theodore, it's really a very
singular thing, now one comes to think of
it, that Mr. Noel should happen to come
himself, too, from a West Indian family.'

As Harry Noel happened that moment
to be lifting his cup of coffee to his lips,
he didn't notice that Tom Dupuy was
pointing most significantly to his own
knuckles, and signalling to his uncle, with
eyes and fingers, to observe Harry's. And
if he had, it isn't probable that Lincolnshire
Noel woukl even have suspected the hidden
meaning of those strange and odd-looking
monkey-like antics.

By-and-by, Harry rose from the table
carelessly, and asked in a casual way
whether Mr. Dupuy would kindly excuse
him ; he wanted to go and pay a call
which he felt he really mustn't defer
beyond the second day from his arrival in
Trinidad.

You'll take a mount ? ' Mr. Dupuy
inquired hospitably. 'You know, we never
dream of walking out in these regions.
All the horses in my stable are entirely at
your disposal. How far did you propose
going, Mr. Noel ? A letter of introduction
you wish to deliver, I suppose, to the
Governor or somebody ? '

Harry paused and hesitated for a second.
Then he answered as politely as he was
able : ' No, not exactly a letter of introduction.
I feel I mustn't let the day pass

p 2

without having paid my respects as early as
possible to Mrs. Hawthorn.'

Tom Dupiiy nudged his uncle ; but the
elder planter had too much good manners
to make any reply save to remark that one
of his niggers would be ready to show Mr.
Noel the way to the District judge's — ah —
dwelling-place at Mulberry.

As soon as Harry's back was turned,
however, Mr. Tom Duj)uy sank back incontinently
on the dining-room sofa and exploded
in a loud and hearty burst of
boisterous laughter.

My dear Tom,' Mr. Theodore Dupuy
interposed nervously, ' what on earth are
you doing ? Young Noel will certainly overhear
you. UjDon my word, though I can't say
I agree with all the young fellow's English
sentiments, I really don't see that there's

anything in particular to laugh at in him.
He seems to me a very nice, gentlemanly,

well-bred, intelligent Why, goodness

gracious, Tom, what the deuce has come
over you so suddenly? You look for all
the world as if you were positively going
to kill yourself outright with laughing about
nothing ! '

Mr. Tom Dupuy removed his handkerchief
hastily from his mouth, and with an
immense effort to restrain his merriment,
exclaimed in a low suppressed voice : ' Good
Heavens, Uncle Theodore, do you mean to
tell me you don't see the whole joke ! you
don't understand the full absurdity of the
situation ? '

Mr. Dupuy gazed back at him blankly.
No more than I understand why on
earth you are making such a confounded

fool of yourself now,' he answered contemptuously.


Tom Dupuy calmed himself slowly with

a terrific effort, and blurted out at last, ina
mysterious undertone : ' Why, the point
of it is, don't you see. Uncle Theodore, the
fellow's a coloured man himself, as sure as
ever you and I are standing here this
minute ! '

A light burst in upon Mr. Dupuy's
benighted understanding with extraordinary
rapidity. 'He is ! ' he cried, clapping his
hand to his forehead hurriedly in the intense
excitement of a profoundly important discovery.
' He is, he is ! There can't be a
doubt about it ! Baronet or no baronet, assure
as fate, Tom, my boy, that man's a
regular brown man ! '

'I knew he was,' Tom Dupuy replied

exultantly, ' the very moment I first set
eyes upon that ugly head of his ! I was
sure he was a nigger as soon as I looked
at him ! I suspected it at once from his
eyes and his knuckles. But when he told
me his mother was a Barbadian woman —
why, then, I knew, as sure as fate, it was
all up with him.'

You're quite right, quite right, Tom ;
I haven't a doubt about it,' Mr. Theodore
Dupuy continued helplessly, wringing his
hands before him in bewilderment and
horror. *And the worst of it is I've asked
him to stop here as long as he's in Trinidad!
What a terrible thing if it were to
get about all over the whole island that
I've asked a brown man to come and stop
for an indefinite period under the same roof
with your cousin Nora ! '

Tom Dupiiy was not wanting in chivalrous
magnanimity. He leaned back on the
sofa and screwed his mouth up for a moment
with a comical expression ; then he
answered slowly : ' It's a very serious thing,
of course, to accuse a man offhand of being
a nigger. We mustn't condemn him unheard
or without evidence. We must try
to find out all we can about his family.
Luckily, he's given us the clue himself.
He said his mother was a Barbadian woman
a Budleigh of the Wilderness. We'll
track him down. I've made a mental note
of it ! '

Just at that moment, Nora walked
quietly into the dining-room to ask the
gentlemen whether they meant to go for a
ride by-and-by in the cool of the evening.
For if you do, papa,' she said in explanation,

' you know you must send for Stato
the pasture, for Mr. Noel will want a
horse, and you're too heavy for any but the
cob, so you'll have to get up Nita for Mr.
Noel.'

Tom Dupuy glanced at her suspiciously.
I suppose since your last particular friend
fell over the gully that night at Banana
Garden,' he said hastily, ' you'll be picking
up next with a new favourite in this fine-spoken,
new-fangled, haw-haw, English
fellow ! '

Nora looked back at him haughtily and
defiantly. ' Tom Dupuy,' she answered with
a curl of her lip (she always addressed him
by both names together), ' you are quite mistaken
— utterly mistaken. I don't feel in
the least prepossessed by Mr. Noel's personal
appearance.'

Why not ? Why not ? ' Tom inquired
eagerly.

I don't know by what right you venture
to cross-question me about such a matter;
but as you ask me, I don't mind answering
you. Mr. Noel is a shade or two too dark
by far ever to take my own fancy.'

Tom whistled low to himself and gave a
little start. ' By Jove,' he said, half aloud and
half to himself, ' that was a Dujouy that spoke
that time, certainly. After all, the girl's got
some proper pride still left in her. She
doesn't want to marry him, although he's a
brown man. I always thought myself, as a
mere matter of taste, she positively preferred
these woolly-headed mulattoes !

CHAPTER XXVI.

Meanwhile, Harry Noel himself was quite
unconsciously riding round to the Hawthorns'
cottage, to perform the whole social duty of
man by Edward and Marian.

So you've come out to look after your
father's estates in Barbadoes, have you, Mr.
Noel ? ' Marian inquired with a quiet smile,
after the first greetings and talk about the
voyage were well over.

Harry laughed. ' Well, Mrs. Hawthorn,'
he said confidentially, ' my father's estates
there seem to have looked after themselves
pretty comfortably for the last twenty years.

or at least been looked after vicariously by a
rascally local Scotch attorney ; and I've no
doubt they'd have continued to look after
themselves for the next twenty years without
my intervention, if nothing particular
had occurred otherwise to bring me out
here.'

'But something particular did occur — eh,
Mr. Xoei ? '

No, nothing occurred,' Harry Noel answered,
with a distinct stress upon the significant
verb. ' But I had reasons of my own
which made me anxious to visit Trinidad ;
and I thought Barbadoes would be an excellent
excuse to supply to Sir Walter for
the expenses of the journey. The old gentleman
jumped at it — positively jumped at it.
There's nothing loosens Sir walter's purse-strings
like a devotion to business ; and he

declared to me on leaving, with tears in his
eyes almost, that it was the first time he
ever remembered to have seen me show any
proper interest whatsoever in the family
property.'

And what were the reasons that made
you so very anxious, then, to visit Trinidad ? '

Why, Mrs. Hawthorn, how can you ask
me ? Wasn't I naturally desirous of seeing
you and Edward once more after a year's
absence ? '

Marian coughed a little dry cough.
Friendship is a very powerfully attractive
magnet, isn't it, Edward ? ' she said with
an arch smile to her husband. ' It was very
good of Mr. Noel to have thought of coming
four thousand miles across the Atlantic
just to visit you and me, dear — now, wasn't
it?

So very good,' Edward answered, laughing,
' that I should almost be inclined myself
(as a lawyer) to suspect some other underlying
motive.'

Well, she is a very dear little girl,'
Marian went on reflectively.

She is, certainly,' her husband echoed.

Harry laughed. ' I see you've found me
out,' he answered, not altogether unpleased.
Well, yes, I may as well make a clean breast
of it, Mrs. Hawthorn. I've come across on
purpose to ask her ; and I won't go back
either, till I can take her with me. I've
waited for twelve months, to make quite sure
I knew my own heart and wasn't mistaken
about it. Every day, her image has remained
there clearer and clearer than before, and
I will win her, or else stop here forever.'


When a man says that and really means
it,' Marian replied encouragingly, ' I believe
in the end he can always win the girl he has
set his heart upon.'

But I suppose you know,' Edward interrupted,
' that her father has already made
up his mind that she's to marry a cousin
of hers at Pimento Valley, a planter in the
island, and has announced the fact publicly
to half Trinidad ? '

Not Mr. Tom Dupuy ? ' Harry cried in
amazement.

Yes, Tom Dupuy — the very man. Then
you've met him already ? '

He lunched with us to-day at Orange
Grove ! ' Harry answered, puckering his brow
a little. ' And her father actually wants
her to marry that fellow ! By Jove, what a
desecration ! *

Then you don't like what you've seen
so far of Mr. Tom ? ' Marian asked with a
smile.

Harry rose and leaned against the piazza
pillar with his hands behind him. ' The
man's a cad,' he answered briefly.

If we were in Piccadilly again,' Edward
Hawthorn said quietly, ' I should say that
was probably a piece of pure class prejudice,
Noel ; but as we are in Trinidad, and as I
happen to know Mr. Tom Dupuy by two or
three pieces of personal adventure, I don't
mind telling you in strict confidence, I cordially
agree with you.'

Ah ! ' Harry Noel cried with much
amusement, clapping him heartily on his
broad shoulder. ' So coming to Trinidad has
knocked some of that radical humbug and
nonsense clean out of you, has it, Teddy ? I

knew it would, my dear fellow ; I knew you'd
get rid of it ! '

On the contrary, Mr. Noel,' Marian answered
with quiet dignity, ' I think it has
really made us a great deal more confirmed
in our own opinions than we were to begin
with. We have suffered a great deal ourselves,
you know, since we came to Trinidad.'


Harry flushed in the face a little. 'You
needn't tell me all about it, Mrs. Hawthorn,'
he said uneasily. 'I've heard something
about the matter already from the two
Dupuys, and all I can say is, I never heard
such a foolish, ridiculous, nonsensical, cock-and-bull
prejudice as the one they told me
about, in the whole course of my precious
existence. If it hadn't been for Nora's sake —
I mean for Miss Dupuy's ' — and he checked

VOL. II. Q

himself suddenly — ' upon my word, I really
think I should have knocked the fellow
down in his uncle's dining-room the very
first moment he began to speak about
it.'

Mr. Noel,' Marian said, ' I know how
absurd it appears to you, but you can't
imagine how much Edward and I have
suffered about it since we've been in this
island.'

I can,' Harry answered. ' I can understand
it easily. I had a specimen of it myself
from those fellows at lunch this morning. I
kept as calm as I could outwardly ; but, by
Jove, Mrs. Hawthorn, it made my blood boil
over within me to hear the way they spoke
of your husband. — Upon my soul, if it weren't
for — for Miss Dupuy,' he added thoughtfully,
I wouldn't stop now a single night to accept

that man's hospitality another minute after
the way he spoke about you.'

No, no ; do stop,' Marian answered
simply. ' We want you so much to marry
Nora ; and we want to save her from
that horrid man her father has chosen for
her.'

And then they began unburdening their
hearts to Harry Noel with the long arrears
of twelve months' continuous confidences. It
was such a relief to get a little fresh external
sympathy, to be able to talk about it all to
somebody just come from England, and entirely
free from the merest taint of West
Indian prejudice. They told Harry everything,
without reserve ; and Harry Listened,
growing more and more indignant every
minute, to the long story of petty slights
and undeserved insults. At last he could

Q 2

restrain his wrath no longer. ' It's preposterous,'
he cried, walking up and down the
piazza angrily, by way of giving vent to his
suppressed emotion ; ' it's abominable ! it's
outrageous ! it's not to be borne with ! The
idea of these people, these hole-and-corner
nobodies, these miserable, stupid, ignorant
noodles, with no more education or manners
than an English ploughboy — yes, my dear
fellow, I know what they are — I've seen them
in Barbadoes — setting themselves up to be
better than you are — there, upon my word
I've really no patience with it. I shall kick
some of them soundly, some day, before I've
done with them ; I know I shall. I can't
avoid it. But what on earth can have induced
you to stop here, my dear Teddy,
when you might have gone back again comfortably
to England, and have mixed properly

iu the sort of society you're naturally
fitted for?'

I did,' Marian answered firmly ; ' I induced
him, Mr. Noel. I wouldn't let him
run away from these miserable people. And
besides, you know, he's been able to do such
a lot of good here. All the negroes love
him dearly, because he's protected them from
so much injustice. He's the most popular
man in the island with the black people ; he's
been so good to them, and so useful to them,
and such a help against the planters, who are
always trying their hardest to oppress them.
And isn't that something worth staying for, in
spite of everything ? '

Harry Noel paused and hesitated. ' Tastes
differ, Mrs. Hawthorn,' he answered more
soberly. ' For my part, I can't say I feel
myself very profoundly interested in the

eternal nigger question ; tliougli, if a man
feels it's his duty to stop and see the thing
out to the bitter end, why, of course he ought
in that case to stop and see it. But what
does rile me is the idea that these wretched
Dupuy people should venture to talk in the
way they do about such a fellow as your
husband — confound them ! '

Tea interrupted his flow of indignation.

But when Harry Noel had ridden away
again towards Orange Grove on Mr. Dupuy's
pony, Edward Hawthorn and his wife stood
looking at one another in dubious silence
for a few minutes. Neither of them
liked to utter the thought that had been
uppermost in both their minds at once
from the first moment they saw him in
Trinidad.

At last Edward broke the ominous stillness.

' Harry Noel's awfully dark, isn't he,
Marian ? ' he said uneasily.

'Very,' Marian answered in as unconcerned
a voice as she could well summon
up. 'And so extremely handsome, too,
Edward,' she added after a moment's faint
pause, as if to turn the current of the conversation.


Neither of them had ever observed in
England how exceedingly olive-coloured
Harry Noel's complexion really was — in England,
to be as dark as a gipsy is of no importance
; but now in Trinidad, girt round by
all that curiously suspicious and genealogically
inquiring society, they couldn't help
noticing to themselves what a very dark skin
and what curly hair he happened to have
inherited.

And his mother's a Barbadian lady,'

Edward went on uncomfortably, pretending
to play with a book and a paper-knife.

She is,' Marian answered, hardly daring
to look up at her husband's face in her
natural confusion. ' He — he always seems so
very fond of his mother, Edward, darling.'

Edward went on cutting the pages of his
newly-arrived magazine in grim silence for a
few minutes longer ; then he said : ' I wish to
goodness he could get engaged and married
offhand to Nora Dupuy very soon, Marian,
and then clear out at once and for ever from
this detestable island as quickly as possible.'

It would be better if he could, perhaps,'
Marian answered, sighing deeply. 'Poor dear
Nora ! I wish she'd take him. She could
never be happy with that horrid Dupuy man.'

They didn't dare to speak, one to the
other, the doubt that was agitating them ;

but they both agreed in that half-unspoken
fashion that it would be well if Harry pressed
his suit soon, before any sudden thunderbolt
had time to fall unexpectedly upon his head
and mar his chance with poor little Nora.

As Harry Noel rode back to Orange
Grove alone, along the level bridle-path, he
chanced to drop his short riding-whip at a
turn of the road by a broad cane-piece. A
tall negro was hoeing vigorously among the
luxuriant rows of cane close by. Harry Noel
called out to him carelessly, as he would
have done to a labourer at home : ' Here
you, hi, sir, come and pick up my whip, will
you!'

The tall negro turned and stared at him.
Who you calling' to come an' pick up your
whip, me free' ? ' he answered somewhat
savagely.

Harry Noel glanced back at the man
with an angry glare. ' You ! ' he said, pointing
with an imperious gesture to the whip on
the ground. ' I called you to pick it up forme.
Don't you understand English? Eh!
Tell me?' "

You is rude gentleman for true,' the old
negro responded quietly, continuing his task
of hoeing in the cane-piece, without any
attempt to pick up the whip for the unrecognised
stranger. ' If you want de whip picked
up, what for you don't speak to naygur
decently ? Ole-time folk has proverb,
Please am a good dog, an' him keep don't
cost muffins." Get down yourself, sal, an'
pick up your own whip for you-self if you
want him.'

Harry was just on the point of dismounting
and following the old negro's advice, with

some remote idea of applying the whip immediately
after to the back of his adviser,
when a younger black man, stepping out
hastily from behind a row of canes that had
hitherto concealed him, took up the whip and
handed it back to him with a respectful salutation.
The old man looked on disdainfully
while Harry took it ; then, as the rider went
on with a parting angry glance, he muttered
sulkily : ' Who dat man dat you gib de whip
to? An' what for you want to gib it him
dere, Peter ? '

The younger man answered apologetically
: ' Dat Mr. Noel, buckra from Englan' ;
him come to stop at Orange Grove along ob
de massa.'

Buckra from Eno-lan' ! ' Louis Delcrado
cried incredulously. ' Him don't no buckra
from Englan', I tellin' you, me rudder ; him

Trinidad brown man as sure as de gospel.
You don't see him is brown man, Peter, de
minnie you look at him ? '

Peter shook his head and grinned solemnly.
'No, Mistah Delgado, him don't no
brown man,' he answered laughing. ' Him is
dark for true, but still him real buckra. Him
stopping' up at house along ob de massa ! '

Delgado turned to his work once more,
doggedly. ' If him buckra, an' if him stopping'
up wit dem cursed Dupuy,' he said half
aloud, but so that the wondering Peter could
easily overhear it, ' when de great an' terrible
day ob de Lard come, he will be cut off wit
all de household, as de Lard spake in de
times ob old by de shout of him holy prophet.
An' de day ob de Lard don't wine to be delayed
long now, eider.' A mumbled Arabic
sentence, which Peter of course could not

understand, gave point and terror to this last
horribly mouthed prediction. Peter turned
away, thinking to himself that Louis Delgado
was a terrible obeah man and sorcerer for
certain, and that whoever crossed his path
had better think twice before he offended so
powerful an antagonist.

Meanwhile, Harry Noel was still riding onto
Orange Grove. As he reached the garden
gate, Tom Dupuy met him, out for a walk in
the cool of the evening with big Slot, his
great Cuban bloodhound. As Harry drew
near. Slot burst away suddenly with a leap
from his master, and before Harry could
foresee what was going to happen, the huge
brute had sprung up at him fiercely, and was
attacking him with his mighty teeth and
paws, as though about to drag him from his
seat forcibly with his slobbering canines.

Harry hit out at the beast a vicious blow
from the butt-end of his riding-whip, and at
the same moment Tom Dupuy, sauntering up
somewhat more lazily than politeness or even
common humanity perhaps demanded, caught
the dog steadily by the neck and held him
back by main force, still struggling vehemently
and pulling at the collar. His great
slobbering jaws opened hungrily towards the
angry Englishman, and his eyes gleamed with
the fierce lio;ht of a starving carnivora insight
and smell of his natural prey.

Precious vicious dog you keep, Mr.
Dupuy,' Harry exclaimed, not over good-humouredly,
for the brute had made its
teeth meet through the flap of his coat
lappets : ' you oughtn't to let him go at large,
I fancy.'

Tom Dupuy stooped and patted his huge

favourite lovingly on the head with very little
hypocritical show of penitence or apology.
He don't often go off this way,' he answered
coolly. ' He's a Cuban bloodhound, Slot is ;
pure-blooded — the same kind we used to train
in the good old days to hunt up the runaway
niggers ; and they often go at a black manor
a brown man — that's what they're meant
for. The moment they smell African blood,
they're after it like a greyhound after a hare,
as quick as lightning. But I never knew
Slot before go for a white man ! It's very
singular — excessively singular. I never before
knew him ^o for a real white man,'

If he was my dog,' Harry Noel answered,
walking his pony up to the door with a sharp
look-out on the ugly mouth of the straining
and quivering bloodhound, ' he'd never have
the chance again, I can tell you, to go for

another. The brute's most dangerous — a
most bloodthirsty creature. And indeed, I'm
not sentimental myself on the matter of
niggers ; but I don't know that in a country
where there are so many niggers knocking
about casually everywhere, any man has got
a right to keep a dog that darts straight at
them as a greyhound darts at a hare, according
to your very own confession. It doesn't
seem to me exactly right or proper somehow.'
Tom Dupuy glanced carelessly at the
struggling brute, and answered with a coarse
laugh : ' I see, Mr. Noel, you've been taking
counsel already with your friend Hawthorn.
Well, well, in my opinion, I expect there's
just about a pair of you ! '

CHAPTER Xxvii.

In spite of this vigorous dislike for Tom
Dupuy, Harry Noel continued to stop on at
Orange Grove for some weeks together, retained
there irresistibly by the potent spell of
Nora's presence. He could not tear himself
away from Nora. And Nora, too, though she
could never conquer her instinctive prejudice
against the dark young Englishman — a prejudice
that seemed to be almost ingrained in her
very nature — couldn't help feeling on her side,
also, that it was very pleasant to have Harry
Noel stopping in the house with her ; he was
such a relief and change after Tom Dupuy and
VOL. II. R

the other sugar-growing young gentlemen of
Trinidad. He had some other ideas in his
head beside vacuum pans and saccharometers
and centrifugal ; he could talk about something
else besides the crop and the cutting
and the boiling. Harry was careful not to recur
for the present to the subject of their last
conversation at Southampton ; he left that
important issue aside for a while, till Nora
had time to make his acquaintance for herself
afresh. A year had passed since she came to
Trinidad ; she might have changed her mind
meanwhile. At nineteen or twenty, one's
views often undergo a rapid expansion. In
any case, it would be best to let her have a
little time to get to know him better. In his
own heart, Harry Noel had inklings of a
certain not wholly unbecoming consciousness
that he cut a very decent figure indeed in

Nora's eyes, by the side of the awkward,
sugar-growing young men of Trinidad.

One afternoon, a week or two later, he was
out riding among the plains with Nora, attended
behind by the negro groom, when they
happened to pass the same corner where he
had already met Louis Delgado. The old man
was standing there again, cutlass in hand —
the cutlass is the common agricultural implement
and rural jack-of- all-trades of the
West Indies, answering to plough, harrow,
hoe, spade, reaping-hook, rake, and pruning-knife
in England — and as Nora passed he
dropped her a grudging, half-satirical salutation,
something between a bow and a courtesy,
as is the primitive custom of the country.

A very murderous-looking weapon, the
thing that fellow's got in his hand,' Harry
Noel said, in passing, to his pretty companion

K 2

as they turned the corner. ' What on earth
does he want to do with it, I wonder ? ' ■

Oh, that ! ' Nora exclaimed carelessly,
glancing back in an unconcerned fashion.
That's only a cutlass. All our people work
with cutlasses, you know. He's merely going
to hoe up the canes with it.'

Nasty things for the niggers to have in
their hands, in case there should ever be any
row in the island,' Harry murmured half aloud;
for the sight of the wild-looking old man ran
strangely in his head, and he couldn't help
thinking to himself how much damage could
easily be done by a sturdy negro with one of
those rude and formidable weapons.

'Yes,' Nora answered with a childish
laugh those are just what they always hack
us to pieces with, you know, whenever there
comes a negro rising. Mr. Hawthorn says

there's very likely to be one soon. He thinks
the negroes are ripe for rebellion. He knows
more about them than anyone else, you see ;
and he's thoroughly in the confidence of a
great many of them, and he says they're
almost all fearfully disaffected. That old man
Delgado there, in particular — he's a shocking
old man altogether. He hates papa and Tom
Dupuy ; and I believe if ever he got the chance,
he'd cut every one of our throats in cold blood
as soon as look at us.'

I hope to Heaven he won't get the chance,
then,' Harry ejaculated earnestly. ' He seems
a most uncivil, ill-conditioned, independent sort
of a fellow altogether. I dropped my whip on
the road by chance the very first afternoon I
came here, and I asked this same man to pick
it up for me; and, would you believe it, the old
wretch wouldn't stoop to hand the thing to me ;

he told me I might just jump off my horse and
pick it up for myself, if I wanted to get it !
Now, you know, a labourer in England, though
he's a white man like one's self, would never
have dared to answer me that way. He'd
have stooped down and picked it up instinctively,
the moment he was asked to by any
gentleman.'

'Mr. Hawthorn says,' Nora answered"
smiling, ' that our negroes here are a great
deal more independent, and have a great deal
more sense of freedom than English country-people,
because they were emancipated straight
off all in one day, and were told at once: "Now,
from this time forth you're every bit as free
as your masters ; " whereas the English peasants,
he says, were never regularly emancipated
at all, but only slowly and unconsciously came
out of serfdom, so that there never was anyone

day when they felt to themselves that they
had become freemen. I'm not quite sure
whether that's exactly how he puts it, but I
think it is. An3diow, I know it's a fact that
all one's negro women-servants out here area
great deal more independent and saucy
than the white maids used to be over in

England.'

Independence,' Harry remarked, cracking
his short whip with a sharp snap, 'is a very
noble quality, considered in the abstract ; but
when it comes to taking it in the concrete, I
should much prefer for my part not to have
it in my own servants.'

(A sentiment, it may be observed in passing,
by no means uncommon, even when not
expressed, among people who make far more
pretensions to democratic feeling than did
Harry Noel.)

Louis Delgado, standing behind, and gazing
with a malevolent a;leam in his cold dark eves
after the retreating buckra figures, beckoned
in silence "with his skinny hand to the black
groom, who came back immediately and unhesitatingly,
as if in prompt obedience to some
superior officer.

You is number forty-tree, I think,' the old
man said, looking at the groom closely. ' Yes,
yes, dat's your number. Tell me ; you know
who is dis buckra from Enoian' ? '

Dem calhn' him Mistah Noel, sal,' the
black groom answered, touching the brim of
his hat respectfully.

Yes, yes, I know him name ; I know dat
already,' Delgado answered with an impatient
gesture. 'But what I want to know is jest
dis — can you find out for me from de house-servants,
or anybody up at Orange Grove,

where him fader an' murder come from? I
want to know all about him.'

'Missy Eosina find dat out for me,' the
groom answered, grinning broadly. ' Missy
Eosina is de young le-lady's waiting-maid ;
an' de young le-lady, him tell Eosina pretty
well everything, Eosina, she is Isaac Pourtales'
new sweetheart.'

Delgado nodded in instantaneous acquiescence.
'All right, number forty-tree,' he
answered, cutting him short carelessly. ' Side
after buckra, an' say no more about it. I get
it all out ob him now, surely. I know Missy
Eosina well, for true. I gib him de hub of
Isaac Pourtales wit me obeah, I tellin' you.
Send ]\Iissy Eosina to me dis benin'. I has
plenty ting I want to talk about wit her.

CHAPTEE Xxvi.

That evening, Eosina Fleming went as she
was bid to the old African's tent about half-past
eleven, groping her way along the black
moonless roads in fear and trembling, with
infinite terror of the all-pervading and utterly
ghastly West Indian ghosts or puppies. It
was a fearful thing to go at that time of night
to the hut of an obeah man ; Heaven knows
what grinning, gibbering ghouls and phantoms
one might chance to come across in such a
place at such an hour. But it would have been
more fearful still to stop away : for Delgado,
who could so easily bring her Isaac Pourtales

for a lover by this powerful spells, could just
as easily burn her to powder with his thunder
and lightning, or send the awful puppies to
torment her in her bed, as she lay awake
trembling through the night-watches. So
poor Eosina groped her way fearfully round
to Delgado's hut with wild misgivings, and
lifted the latch with quivering fingers, when
she heard its owner's gruff, ' Come in den,
missy,' echoing grimly from the inner recesses.


When she opened the door, however, she
was somewhat relieved to find within a paraffin
lamp burning brightly ; and in the place of
ghouls or ghosts or puppies, Isaac Pourtales
himself, jauntily seated smoking a fresh
tobacco-leaf cigarette of his own manufacture,
in the corner of the hut .where Louis Delgado
was sitting cross-legged on the mud floor.

Benin', missy,' Delgado said, rising with
African politeness to greet her ; while the
brown Barbadian, without moving from his
seat, allowed his lady-love to stoop down of
herself to kiss him affectionately. ' I send for
you dis benin' becase we want to know muffin'
about dis pusson dat calling' himself buckra,
an' stopping' now at Orange Globe wit you.
What you know about him, tell us dat, missy.
You is Liissy Dupuy own serbin'-le-ady : him
wine to tell you all him secret. What you
know about dis pusson Noel ? '

Thus adjured, Eosina Fleming, sitting
down awkwardly on the side of the rude
wooden settee, and with her big white eyes
fixed abstractedly upon the grinning skull
that decorated the bare mud wall just opposite
her, pulled her turban straight upon her
woolly locks with coquettish precision, and

sticking one finger up to her mouth Hke a
country chill, began to pour forth all she
could remember of the Orange Grove servants'
gossip about Harry Noel. Delgado listened
impatiently to the long recital without ever
for a moment trying to interrupt her ; for
long experience had taught him the lesson
that little was to be got out of his fellow-countrywomen
by deliberate cross-questioning,
but a great deal by allowing them quietly to
tell their own stories at full length in their
own rambling, childish fashion.

At last, when Eosina, with eyes kept
always timidly askance, half the time upon
the frightful skull, and half the time on Isaac
Pourtales, had fairly come to the end of her
tether, the old African ventured, with tentative
cunning, to put a leading question : ' You
ember hear dem say at de table, missy, who

him murder and fader is, and where dem
come from ? '

Him fader is very great gentleman over
in England,' Eosina answered confidently —
very grand gentleman, wit house an' servant
an' coach an' horses, an' plenty cane-piece, an
rum an' sugar, an' yam garden an' plantain
becase I 'member Aunt Clemmy say so ; an
de missy him say so himself too, sal. An
de missy say dat de pusson dat marry him
will be real le-lady — same like de gubbernor
le-lady ; real le-lady, like dem hab in Englan'.
De missy telhn' me all about him dis very
ebenin'/

Delgado smiled. ' Den de missy in hub
wit him himself, for certain,' he answered with
true African shrewdness and cynicism. ' Ole-time
folk has proverb, " When naygur woman
say, ' Dat fowl fat,' him wine to steal him

same benin' for him picking dinner." An'
when le-lady tell yon what happen to gal dat
marry gentleman, him want to hab de gentleman
himself for him own husband.'

no, sail ; dat don't so,' Eosina cried
with sudden energy. ' De missy don't lubin'
de buckra gentleman at all. She tell me him
look altogether too much Hke naygur.'

Delgado and Pourtales exchanged meaning
looks with one another, but neither of them
answered a word to Rosinaa.

An' him murder ? ' Delgado inquired
curiously after a moment's pause, taking a
lazy puff at a cigarette which Isaac handed
him.

Him murder ! ' Eosina said. ' Ah, dere
now, I forgetting' clean what Uncle 'Zekiel, him
what is butler up to de house car, an' hear
dem talk wit one another at dinner — I forgetting'

clean what it was him tell me about
him milder.'

Delgado did not urge her to rack her
feeble little memory on this important question,
but waited silently, with consummate prudence,
till she should think of it herself and
come out with it spontaneously.

Ha, dere now,' Eosina cried at last, after
a minute or two of vacant and steady staring
at the bless eyeholes of the skull opposite ;
I is too cupid — too cupid altogether.
Mistah 'Zekiel, him tellin' me de odder
martin' dat Mistah Noel's murder is le-lady
from Barbadoes. — Dat what you come from
yourself, Isaac, me free'. You must be
'members' de family over in Barbadoes.'

How dem call de family ? ' Isaac
asked cautiously. 'You ember hear, Elsie,
how dem call de family? Tell me, car is

good girl, an' I wine to lib you better 'n
ember.'

Eosina hesitated, and cudgelled her poor
brains eagerly a few minutes longer ; then
another happy flash of recollection care
across her suddenly like an inspiration, and
she cried out in a joyous tone : ' Yes, yes ; I
got him now, I got him now, Isaac ! Him
murder family, dear name is Budleigh, an'
dem lib at place dem call de Wilderness.
Mistah 'Zekiel tell me all about dem. Him
say dat dis le-lady, what him name Missy
Budleigh, marry de buckra gentleman fader,
what him name Sir-waltah Noel.'

It was an enormous and unprecedented
fetch of memory for a pure-blooded black
woman, and Eosina Fleming was justly proud
of it. She stood there grinning and smiling
from ear to ear, so that even the skull upon

VOL. II. s

the wall opposite was simply nowhere in the
competition.

Delgado turned breathlessly to Isaac
Pourtales. ' You know dis family ? ' he asked
with eager anticipation. ' You ember hear ob
dem ? You larn at all whether dem is
buckra or only brown people ? '

Isaac Pourtales laughed hoarsely. Brown
man as he was himself, he chuckled and
humored himself with sardonic deho;ht over
the anticipated humiliation of a fellow brown
man who thought himself a genuine buckra.
Know dem, sal ! ' he cried in a perfect
ecstasy of malicious humour — ' know de Bud-weighs
ob de Wilderness ! I think for true I
know dem ! He I Mistah Delgado, me free',
I tellin' you de true, sal ; me own murder
an' Mrs. Budleigh ob de Wilderness is first-cousin,
first-cousin to one shudder.'

It was perfectly true. Strange as such a
relationship sounds to English ears, in the
West Indies cases of the sort are as common
as earthquakes. In many a cultivated light-brown
family, where the young ladies of the
household, pretty and well educated, expect
and hope to marry an English officer of
good connections, the visitor knows that,
in some small room or other of the back
premises, there still lingers on feebly an old
black hag, wrinkled and toothless, full of
strange oaths and incomprehensible African
jargons, who is nevertheless the grandmother
of the proud and handsome girls, busy
over Mendelssohn's sonatas and the Saturday
Review in the front drawing-room. Into
such a family it was that Sir Walter Noe],
head of the great Lincolnshire house, had
actually married. The Burleigh of thes

2

Wilderness had migrated to England before
the abolition of slavery, when the future
Lady Noel was still a baby ; and getting
easily into good society in London, had
only been known as West Indian proprietors
in those old days when to be a West Indian
proprietor was still equivalent to wealth and
prosperity, not, as now, to poverty and
bankruptcy.

Strange to say, too, Lady Noel herself
was not by any means so dark as her son
Harry. The Lincolnshire Noels belonged
themselves tp the black-haired type so common
in their county ; and the union of the
two strains had produced in Harry a complexion
several degrees more swarthy than
that of either of his handsome parents. In
England, nobody would ever have noticed
this little peculiarity ; they merely said that

Harry was the very image of the old Noel
family portraits ; but in Trinidad, where the
abiding traces of negro blood are so familiarly
known and so carefully looked for, it was
almost impossible for him to pass a single day
without his partially black descent being immediately
suspected. He had ' thrown back,'
as the colonists coarsely phrase it, to the
dusky complexion of his quadroon ancestors.

Louis Delgado hugged himself and grinned
at this glorious discovery. ' Ha, ha ! ' he
cried, rocking himself rapidly to and fro ina
perfect frenzy of gratified vindictiveness ;
him don't buckra, den ! — him don't
buckra ! He hold himself so proud, an'
look down on naygur ; an' after all, him
don't buckra, him only brown man ! De
Lard be praise, I wine to humble him ! I
wine to let him know him don't buckra!'

You will tell him ? ' Eosiiia Fleming asked
curiously.

Delgado danced about the hut in a wild
ecstasy, with his fingers snapping about in
every direction, like the half-tamed African
savage that he really Alas. ' Tell liim^ Missy
Eosie ! ' he echoed contemptuously — ' tell
liim^ you saying' to me ! Yah, yah ! you ahab
no sense, missy. I don't wine to tell liim^
for certain ; I wine to tell dat cheating'
scoundrel, Tom Dupuy, missy, so humble
him in de end de fuss for all dat.'

Eosina gazed at him in puzzled bewilderment.
' Tom Dupuy ! ' she repeated slowly.
You wine to tell Tom Dupuy, you say,
]\iistah Delgado.^ What de debbel de use,
I wonder, sal, ob tell Tom Dupuy dat de
buckra gentleman an' Isaac is own cousin ? '

Delgado executed another frantic pas de

seul across the floor of the hut, to work off
his mad excitement, and then answered gleefully
: ' Ha, ha, Missy Eosie, you is woman,
you is Creole naygur gal — you don't understand
de depth an' de wisdom ob African
naygur. Look you here, me free', I explain
you all about it. De missy up at house, him
fall in hub wit dis brown man, Noel. Tom
Dupuy, him want for go an' marry de missy.
Dat make Tom Dupuy hate de brown man.
I tell him, Noel don't no buckra — him common
brown man, own cousin to Isaac Pour-tales.
Den Tom Dupuy laugh at Noel ! Ha,
ha! I turn de hand ob one proud buckra
to bring down de pride ob de odder !

Isaac Pourtales laughed too. ' Ha, ha ! '
he cried, ' him is proud buckra, an' him
is me own cousin ! Ha, ha, I hate him !
When de great an' terrible day ob de Lard

come, I wine to hack him into little bit,
same like one hack de penguin in de hedge
when we breaking' fence down to grub up
de boundaries ! '

Rosin o^azed at her mulatto lover in
rueful silence. She liked the English stranger
he had given her a shilling one day to posta
letter for him — but still, she aren't go
back upon Isaac and Louis Delgado. ' Him
is free' ob Mistah Hawtorn,' she murmured
apologetically at last after a minute's severe
reflection — ' great free' ob Mistah Hawtorn.
Dem is old-time free in Englan' together ;
and dien Mistah Tom Dupuy speak bad 'bout
Mistah Hawtorn, Mistah Noel him flare up
like angry naygur, an' him gib him de lie, an'
him speak out well for him ! '

Delgado checked himself, and looked
closely at the hesitating negress with more

deliberation. ' Him is free' ob Mistah
Hawtorn,' he said in a meditative voice —
him is free' ob Mistah Hawtorn 1 De free'
ob de Lard's free' shall come to no harm when
de great an' terrible day ob de Lard coming'.
I wine to tell Tom Dupuy. I must humble
de buckra. But in de great an' terrible day,
dem shall not hurt a hair of him head, if de
Lard wills it.' And then he added somewhat
louder, in his own sonorous and mystic
Arabic ; ' The effendi's brother is dear to
Allah even as the good effendi himself is.'

Isaac Pourtales made a wry face aside to
himself. Evidently he had settled in his own
mind that whatever might be Delgado's private
opinion about the friends of the Lord's
friend, he himself was not going to be bound,
when the moment for action actually arrived,
by anybody else's ideas or promises.

By-aiid-by, Eosina rose to go. ' You is
coming' wit me, Isaac ? ' she asked coquettishly,
with her finger stuck once more in
coy reserve at the corner of her mouth, and
her head a little on one side, bewitching
negress fashion.

Isaac hesitated ; it does not do for a
brown man to be too condescending and
familiar with a niorg-er o-irl, even if she does
happen to be his sweetheart. Besides, Delgado
signed to him with his withered finger
that he wanted him to stop a few minutes
longer. ' No, Missy Eosie,' the mulatto answered,
yawning quietly ; ' I don't wine yet.
You know de road to house, I think. Benin',
le-lady.'

Eosina gave a sighing, sidelong look of
disappointed affection, took her lover's hand
a little coldly in her own black fingers, and

sidled out of the hut with much reluctance,
half-frightened still at the horrid prospect of
once more facing alone the irrepressible and
ubiquitous puppies.

As soon as she was fairly out of earshot,
Louis Delgado approached at once close to
the mulatto's ear and murmured in a mysterious
hollow undertone : ' Next Wednesday!'


The mulatto started. ' So soon as dat ! '
he cried. ' Den you has got de pistols ? '

Delgado, with his wrinkled finger placed
upon his lip, moved stealthily to a corner of
his hut, and slowly opened a chest, occupied
on the top by his mouldy obeah mummery of
loose alligators' teeth and well-cleaned little
human knuckle-bones. Carefully removing
this superstitious rubbish from the top of the
box with an undisguised sneer — for Isaac as a

brown man was ex officio superior to obeah —
he took from beneath it a couple of dozen old
navy pistols, of a disused pattern, bought
cheap from a marine store-dealer of doubtful
honesty down at the harbour. Isaac's eyes
gleamed brightly as soon as he saw the goodly
array of real firearms. ' He, he ! ' he cried
joyously, fingering the triggers with a loving
touch, ' dat de ting to bring down de pride
ob de proud buckra. Ha, ha ! Next Wednesday,
next Wednesday ! We waited long,
Mistah Delgado, for de Lard's deliverance ;
but de time come now, de time come at last,
sal, an' we wine to hab de island ob Trinidad
all to ourselves for de Lard's inheritance.'
The old African bowed majestically.
Slay ebbery male among dem,' he answered
aloud in his deepest accents, with a not
wholly unimpressive mouthing of his hollow

vowels — ' slay ebbery male, salt' de Lard by
de shout' ob de holy prophet, an' take de
women captive, an' de maidens, an' de little
ones ; an' divide among you de spoil ob all
dear cattle, an' all dear flocks, an' all dear
goods, an' dear cities wherein dey dwell, and
all dear vineyards, an' dear goodly castles.'

Isaac Poiirtales' eyes gleamed hideously ashe
Hstened in delight to that awful quotation
from the Book of Numbers. 'Ha, ha,' he
cried, ' " take de women captive ! " De Lard
say dat ? De Lard say dat, now ? Ha, ha,
Mistah Delgado ! dat is good prophecy, dat is
fine prophecy ; de prophet say well, " take
de women captive." '

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

Printed BY

SPOmSWOOUE AND CO., NEW-street Squab

LONDON

A List of Books

PUBLISHED BY

CHATTO & Winds,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Soli by all Booksellers, or sent post-free fo r the published price by the Publishers:

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
The Evolutionist at Large. Second

Edition, revised.
Vignettes from Nature.
Colin Cl out's Calendar.
Strange Stories. With Frontispiece

by George Du Maurier. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex., 63. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.
Philistia: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Babylon : A Novel. With 12 lusts.

by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
For Mainly's Sake: A Tale of Love

and Dyn smite. Cr. 8v o, cl. ex., 6s.
In all Shades: A Novel. Three Vols.,

crown 8vo. [Shortly.

About. — The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. preparing.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and illustrations,
cloth gilt,7s. 6 d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Carr of Carrion.
Confidences.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Maid, Wife, or Widow ? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 33 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Valerie's Fate. Post Svo, illust. bds., 23.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collects
Crown Svo, cloth extra, will
639 Illustrations, 73. 6d.

Artemis Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farrer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P.
Kingston. Crown 8vo, 6d.

The Genial Showman: Lite and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With a
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Art (The) of Amusing : A Collection

of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 43. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A History of the ChapBooks of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly

^ 400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals.

Social Life In the Reign of Queen

Anne. From Original Sources. With

nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the

Seventeenth Century. Withnearly

Ice Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations
from Originals. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s.

Bacteria. — A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
87 lusts. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London
; together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.), Works by :

Crown 8vo., cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
English Surnames: Their Sources and
Significations. Third Ed., revised.
Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.


Bartholomew Fair, IVIemoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, M.A. Imperial 4to, cloth
extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 64.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1886. — One

Shilling Monthly. Illustrated by P.
Macnab. — The first Chapters of Mohawks,
a New Novel by M. K.
Braddon, Author of " Lady Audley's
Secret," appeared in the January
Number, and the Story will be continued
throughout the year. This
Number contained also the Opening
Chapters of a New Novel entitled
That other Person; and several of
those short stories for which Belgravia
is famous.

\* Now ready, the Volume for March
to June 1886, cloth extra, gilt edges,
Vs. 6d. ; Cases for binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Anna! for Christmas,
1886. Demy 8vo, with Illustrations,
Is. [Preparing.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England
Songs for Sailors.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post Svo, illust.

boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

each.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas In Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

All Sorts and Conditions of Men:
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Captains' Room, &.c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.

All in a Garden Fair. With 6 Illusts.
By H. Furnish.

Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece

By Charles Green.
Uncle Jack, and other Stories.

Children of Gibeon: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo. [Shortly

The Art of Fiction. Demy Svo, I3.

Bet ham-Ed wards (M.), Novels

by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. cl.
each. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23. each.
Felicia. I Kitty.

Bewick (Thos.) and his Pupils.

By Austin DoBSON. With 95 Illustrations.
Square Svo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Birthday Books: —

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square Svo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 23. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 63.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
lusts. Small Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy Svo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1885, each I3.

Academy Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 lusts. in
Facsimile. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 63.

Academy Notes, 1880-84. Complete
n One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 63.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. ci.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1885, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
Svo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With

70 lusts. Is. [new Edit, preparing.

Thee English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 128 Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
lusts. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 33.

Illustrated Catalogue of the Luxembourg
Gallery. Containing about
250 Reproductions after the Original
Drawings of the Artists. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy Svo, 3s. 6d.

The Paris Salon, 1885. With about
300 Facsimile Sketches. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy Svo, 33.

Art Handbooks, continued —

The Paris Salon, 1 886. With about 300
lusts. Edited by F. G. Dumas,
Demy Svo, 3s.

The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page
Illustrations. Demy Svo, 5s.

Blake (William) : Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 2l3.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s. each.
Canters In Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.
Coloured in facsimile of the originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s.6d. each; post

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and

Adventure in Asia, Africa, and

America.
Savage Life : Adventures of a Globe-trotter.



Chronicles of No-man's Land,

Post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Braddon (M. E.)— Mohawks,

a Novel, by Miss Braddon, Author
of " Lady Audley's Secret," was begun
in Belgravia for January, and will be
continued throughout the year. Illustrated
by P. Macnab. Is . Month y.

Brand 'observations on Popular

Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with
number vous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck op
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
AND American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

—Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, &c.

Bret Harte, continued —

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Bret Harte's Complete Poetical
Works. Author's Copyright Edition.
Beautifully printed on hand-made
jsaper and bound in buckram. Cr.
8vo, 4s. 6d.

Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,
2s.

The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.

Luck of Roaring Camp, and other
Sketches. PostSvo, illust. bds., 23.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo,
picture cover. Is.

Flip. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d,

Californian Stories (including The
Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff
Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Maruja: A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. Cd.

The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With
25 original Drawings by Kate
Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours
by Edmund Evans. Small 4to,
boards, S3. [Shortly.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. ci. ; half-bound, 9s.

Brewster(SirDavid),Works by:
More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra 4s. 6d.
The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brake, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.
Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cl, ex., 4s. 6d.

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. John.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Poli
trait. Royal 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

BriliatSavarin.— Gastronomy
as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Posts, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones.

London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's SketchBook: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbath. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6S.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab,

Annann Water.

The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Master of the Mine. With a
Frontispiece by W. H. Covered.
Crown bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown Svo. cloth ex tra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:
Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Fcap. Svo, picture cover. Is. each.
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Button (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Vernev Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2l3.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8vo, cloth extra. 323.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 61.
Melancholy Anatomise : Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 28. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Child Harold. An entirely
New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Illusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of "The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to, 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Caine. — The Shadow of a

Crime: A Novel. By Hall Caine.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated bo arts, 2s.

Cameron (Comers), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A

Personal Narrative. By Richard

F. Burton and Varney Lovett

\ Cameron. With Frontispiece and

■ Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 2l3.
•' The Cruise of the "Black Prince"
Privateer, Commanded by Robert
Hawkins, Master Mariner. By

Commander V. Lovett Cameron,
Ren., Cab., D.C.L. With Frontispiece
and Vignette by P. Macnab.
Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s. \ Sept. 15.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson.
1834 to 1S72. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete
including the doubtful ones. Vol. H.
the Poems and Minor Translations
with an Introductory Essay by Alger
NON Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Chatty & Jackson. —Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 283.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children : A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R,
Haweis. DemySvo, cloth limp, 2s.6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.

Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [/« the press,

Cloud. — Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Cloud, F.R.A.S., Author
of " The Childhood of Religions," fcc.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman.— Curly : An Actor's

Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman. Crown 8vo, Is.
cloth, Is. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Sweet Anne Page.

Transmigration.

From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer Sc Frances),

Novels by :
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Sweet and Twenty.

Frances.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s. 6d. each ; post svo illustrated bds.,
23. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonina. Illust. by SirJoHNGiLEERX.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. IVIahonev.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman In White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs.? With Illustrations by

S. L. Files and Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Files and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
I Say Nos;;

The Evil Genius: A Novel, Three
Vols., crown Svo.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. I3y C. Allusion
Collins. Post Svo, illustrated bds. ,23.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth, Crown
8vo cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d,

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, ls.6d. ,

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal Svo, with 65 Lists., 28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
by W. J, Hennessy. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Cs. each.
Hours with the Players. With

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play : A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Copyright. — A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall. — Popular Romances

of the West of England; or. The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikskank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Craddock. — The Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains By

Charles Egbert Craddock. Post
Svo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cloth limp, 2 s. 6d

Creasy. — Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By .Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1S35
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
HuMOURof Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &o.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

Cruikshank (George), continued.
The Life of George Cr-uikshank. By

Bi.ANCHARD Ferrol, Author ol
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s ^ed^

Cunningly. F. Gordon),Wopks

by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 83. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cycles.— Hearts of Gold: A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Daniel. — Merrier England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d.

Da.udet. — The Evangelist ; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Covenant. — What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp,
Is. Gd. each.
One Thousand Medical Maxims.
Nursery Hints: A Mother r's Guide.
Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 23. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I,
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre. — A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

De Mille. — A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. I NicholasNickleby.
Pickwick Papers. I Oliver Tvyist.

^'

The Speeches of Charles Dickens
1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. —
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
Mayfair Libra; y. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.
About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries;

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev, E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.; hf.-bound, 93.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries, continued —

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A: Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Rent, M.A. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [/« preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 68. 6d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot.— The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's '" Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. Svo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.


Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Ed., cr. Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown Svo,
half-bound, 123. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. Svo,

cl. ex., Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with Introductory Essay
by Ac. Swinburne; Vol. III. .Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col,
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk-lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Crown
8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.J Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. "Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert (Lord) of Carbury's Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown Svo,
parchment, 8s.

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Eggleston.— Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Emanuel. — On Diamonds and

PreciousStones : their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Englishman's House, The: A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
Nearly 600 Illusts. Cr. Svo.cl. es.,7s.6d.

English Merchants: Memoirs
in Illustration of the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne.
With Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit,
revised. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by :

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. Gd.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy 8vo cloth extra, 123.

Eyes, The. — How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them, By
John Browning, F.R.A,S.,&c. Fourth
Edition. With 55 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth. Is.

Fairholt. — Tobacco: Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 68.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information:
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d^

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 43. 6d. each.
The Chemical History of a Candle :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
With numerous Illustrations.

On the Various Forces of Nature,

and their Relations to each other :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
With numerous Illustrations.

Farrer. — Military Manners

and Customs. By J. A. Farrer,
Author of "Primitive Manners and
Customs," &c. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Fin-Bee. — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by:

The Recreations of a Literary Manor.
Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr.Svo, cloth extra, 63.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb, Post
8vo, clot h limp, 2s. 6d.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletchers (Giles, Bed.) complete

Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Francisco (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illust. boards, 23. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Cop heu a. |

Olympia. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 23.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, l3.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds., 73. 6cL each

Free. — Pandurang Hard ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell. — Oneof Two: A Novel.

By Hair Friswell, Post 8vo, mas'
treated boards, 23^^

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7.
Showing their Name, Date of Founds
Published
Annually, Cr. 8vo, cloth, Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Gardening Books:

Post five, Is. each ; rl. limp, l3. 6d. each.

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

Ivy Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. ByF.G. Heath. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, Gs.

Garrett. — The Capet Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. 8vo,
cl . ex., 33. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1886. One Shilling Monthly. In
addition to the Articles upon subjects
in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine has so high a
reputation, " Science Notes," by W.
Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Talk," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
*• * Now ready, the Volume for January

to June, iso, cloth extra, price 8s. ci. ;

Cases fo r binding, 23. each.

Gentleman's Anna! (The) ton

Christmas, 1886. Containing a Complete
Novel, "Wife or No Wife" by
T. W. Speight, Author of "The
Mysteries of Heron Dyke." Demy
Svo, Is. Preparing.

German Popular Stories. Collected

by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George CRUiiiSHANK. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 6s. Gd. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the

World Say?
In Honour' Bound.
Queen of the

Meadow.

Braes of Arrows.
The Flower of the
Forest. [em.
A Heart's .

Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

For the King. | In Pastures Green

In Love and War.

By IVlead and Stream.

Heart's Delight preparing.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each,
Loving a Dream. | A Hard Knot.

Gilbert (Vi/illiam), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen — Dan'l Bruce — Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer — The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by W. S. Gilbert. Containing:
The "Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
— The Pirates of Penzance — loathe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 23. Gd.

Blenny. — A Year's World in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Blenny. Post Svo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of england.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of trio
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Ella. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

II

Golden Library, continued.

Mallory's (Sip Thomas) Most
d'Acthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical introductions
Notes.byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems: Lion and
Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the
Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including A
Refutation oi Deism, 2astrozzi, St.
Ivy ne, &c.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The : An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries, Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. Svo, picture cover, Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret
Harte. — The Queen of the Pirate

isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate ,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Evil's. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s. \ Shortly.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3S. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post Svo,
il illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot. — The Earth and Manor.

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guvot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index,
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 43. 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
P iNcus. Crown Svo, Is,; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Serpent Play.

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra. 8s.

Hail.— Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium Svo,
cl both extra, g wilt, 7s. 6d .

Holiday.— Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of

Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas). — Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." Will numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Sv o, illustrated boards, 2s .

Haywood. — The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Haywood. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small Svo, illustrated
cover. Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts. 5s.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
a'.id numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

"<■;—'-

^ o « gr^ '*i?. ~

■«ae — -Ti-.

^:r-rtt:.ZJs.

tiff;

~ £ . — ♦»

s^-ja^'W-sr

rr-TTTTT « . ,

■-noi

iviJife'^ — -^-TOiae nf

♦ .S-2-

j«» ~j^tZ

trill

F .

i«t D^

assise sue

=muBe-

F~?tr 11 ae — "^ ^i^

liXmaiT*' ^^JTHS

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Joseph us.The Com pleteWoPks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Kempt. — Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Kershaw. — Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 23. 6d.

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Oakshott Castle. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 33. 6 d.

knight. — The Patient's Vade

Mecum : How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose

and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the "Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

The Essays of Ella. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Morus. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s . 6d.

Lares and Penates ; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8va, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.
With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3 3. 6d.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabians Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.

Arabian Society In the Middle Ages:
Studies from " The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63,

Life in London ; or, The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Leam Dunham
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! " | lone.

Longfellow:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. Gd. each.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
"Kavanagh," "The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,
Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E,
Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, 2g. ;
cloth limp, 2s, 61.



Lucy. — Gideon Fleece: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cl.ex., 3s. Gd.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Doff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

Machine. — Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery machine,
Crown 8vo, bound in canvas,
2s. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin, IVI.P.),Worl<s

by:

A History of Soup Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 1880. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. — Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 6s. each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, Gs.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 123.
each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon. I Miss Misanthrope.
Linley Rochford. I Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.

Camilla: A Girl with a Fortune,
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Gd.

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs,
Campbell - Prayed. Three Vols.,
crown Svo.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),
Works by:

An Outlines theHlstoryof Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. Gd.

A History of Ireland from the Union
to the Introduction of Mr. Gladstone's
Bill. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
Gs. \ ln the press.

England under Gladstone, 1880-85.
Second Edition, revised and brought
down to the Fall of the Gladstone
Administration. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

McCarthy (Justin H.), continued —
Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown

Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. INIcCarthy. Crown Svo,

Is. ; cloth. Is. Gd.
Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.

Small Svo, gold cloth, 33. Gd.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
The Princess and Curdle. With 11

Illustrations by James Allen. Small

crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.
Guttapercha Willie, the Working

Genius. With g Illustrations by

Arthur Hughes, Square Svo, cloths

extra, Ss. Gd,

Works of Fancy and Imagination.

Pocket Edition, Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. Vol. r.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life. — Vol. 2. The Disciple.
The Gospel Women. A Book of
Sonnets. Organ Songs. — Vol. 3.
Violin Songs. Songs of the Days
and Nights. A Book of Dreams.
Roadside Poems. Poems for
Children, Vol, 4. Parables,
Ballads, Scotch Songs. — Vols.
5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance. — Vol, 7. The Portent. —
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. — Vol.
9. Cross Purposes. The Golden
Key. The Carson. Little
Daylight. — Vol. 10. The Cruel
Painter. The Wow o' Riven.
The Castle. The Broken Swords.
The Gray Wolf. Uncle Corne
Lies. \ Ready

The Volumes are also sold separately
ill Grolier-pattern cloth, 2s. Gd. each.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. Gd. each; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. Millais.

Thomas WIngfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.

Macdoneii.— Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. Gd. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor, Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 28. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Machine Portrait-gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;
with Memoirs — Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal — illustrative
ot the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Mackay. — Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D, Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d. each.

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Vs. 6d. each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous?
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid,

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost R os e.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 43. 6d.

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals

em blazoned in Gold and Colours. 63.

Matlock (WrHVWopklTbyl"^

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Vh'glnia ; or. Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living .= Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table,
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 28.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63,

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open ! Sesame !
Written In Fire

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman. — Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected th throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New

Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Fraser. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 2X2 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With III Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

—Cheap Edition, post 8vo,illustrated

boards, 23.
The stolen White Elephant, &c.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 28.

1?

Mark Twain's Works, continued —
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Hucl<Ieberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. Gd. — Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Matthews.— A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23 ; cloth,
2s. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.

A Journey Round Inly Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated
by Henry Attwell.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W
Davenport Adams.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams.

The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Alice Clay.

Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities
Selected and Edited by W. T.

DoBSON.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by \V. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing : Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce — Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
CoUectedand Edited by Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps,

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Mayfair Library, continued —

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Forensic Anecdotes; or. Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson
By E. Lynn Linton,

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women, By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia. By
W. H. Matlock.

New Republic. By W. H. Matlock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By

H. A. Page.
Punlana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.
More Punlana. By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.
The Philosophy of Handwriting. By

Don Felix de Salamanca,
By Stream and Sea. By William

Senior.
Old Stories Retold. By Walter

Thornbury.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Lord. Cr.8vo, Is.; cl.,la.6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 43. 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E. Sweet and
J. Army Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 lusts. Or. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go.
hl\r. Pillion.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small 8vo, cloth li mp, 23. 6d

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex Is. 6d. each.
The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin; with Directions for Diet,

Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c.
The Bath In Diseases of the Skin.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of the Skin.

Wordsworth (Mrs). — Fathers

Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
43. 6d.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A IVIodel Father.

Joseph's Coat.

Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Val Strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the World.

A Bit of Human Nature.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
First Person Singular: A Novel.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hopkins.
Cynic Fortune: A Tale of a Man with

a Conscience. With a Frontispiece

by R. Canon Woodville .

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Commons Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J,
MoYR Smith. Post 8vo, cl. extra,' 5s.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is
cloth. Is. 6d.

O'Connor. — Lord Beaconsfield

Biography. By T. O'connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. Gd.

O'Hanlon. — The Unforeseen:

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress In England.

Reilly. — Phoebe's fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap, Svo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Signa.

Held In Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage,
fdalla.
Tricotrln.
Puck.

Folle r-arlna.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

In a Winter City
Ariadne
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrello.
A Village Commune.

Bimbi.

In Maremma
Wands.
Frescoes.

Princess] NapraX'
Fine.



OuiDA, Novels by, continued —
Othman: A Novel. Cheaper Edition,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected

from the Works of Ouida by F.

Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 53.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims ; A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5s. shortly ,

Parliamentary Elections and
Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures ot
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of " Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, with a Frontispiece
coloured by hand, and nearly 100
Illustrations, 16s. One Hundred Large
Paper Copies (each numbered) have
also been prepared, price 32s. each.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post smooth limp, 2s.

Patient's (Th) Vade Mecunn :

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S., and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Crow n 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 61.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel.
Wh y Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

"Paul.— Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson,
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards , 2s.

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Lost Sir Massinger.
The Best of Husbands.
Walter's Word. | Halves.
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than we're Painted.
By Proxy. I High Spirits.

Under One Roof. | Carlyon's Year.

Pain (James), Novels by, continued—

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only. 1 From Exile.

Kit: A Memory.

The Canon's Ward.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Perfect Treasure.

Ben tinct's Tutor. 1 Murphy's Master.

Fallen Fortunes.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hun died Pounds R edward.

In Peril and Privation: Stories ot
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Talk of the Town: A Novel.
With Twelve Illustrations by Harry
Furnish, Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

The Fly on the Wheel : Humorous
Papers. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s. [In the press.

Pears. — The Present Depression
In Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
GoADUY and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Demy 8vo, Is.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Penned.

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cloth limp.
Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars i n Paradise. [Shortly.

Pirkis (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:

Trooping with Crows. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover. Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 2s. [ Preparing,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from sig to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William La.nghorne. Two Vols.,
Svo, cloth extra, with Portraits, lOs. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan): —

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post Svo. illust.bds.,2s.

Pope s Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s.

Prayed (Mrs. Campbell) — "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Three Vols., crown Svo.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Vaicntina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Plan caster's Rival.
Gerald. Post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Wm4cs by :

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Lusts.
Small crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. Gd.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
lusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
lusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Cro wn Svo, Is. 6d.

Pyrotechnist Vr reasu ry (T h e);

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully
Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson. — Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambgsson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown Svo, cloth gilt,
numerous lusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by :

Cr. Svo, cloth extra, illustrated, 3s.6d.
each ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s. each.

Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
Files, A.R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It Is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. Unwell.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Ils
illustrated by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Files, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Files, A.R.A. ,
C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by

ThOS. Colliery.

Singleheart and Doubleface: A

Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated

by P. Macnab.
Good Stories of Men and other*

Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,

Percy Macqooid, and Joseph Nash.
The Jilt, and other Stories. Illustrated

by Joseph Nash.
Reading. With a Steel-plate Portrait

of Charles Reade.

Readers Handbook (The) of
Allusions, References, Plots, and
stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.



Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ridden! (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6(1. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

The Uninhabited House.

Fairy Water.

The IVIystery hi Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square Svo, cloth gilt, 103. 6d. each.
Our Old CountryTowns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phi), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

Poets' Nature al History y. [Preparing.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte
eve. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23 .

Roll of Battle Abbey, Theory

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 53.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Juliana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Juliana. Profusely Illustrated.

Runciman (James), Stories by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
grace Balmaig'n's Sweetheart.

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Round the Galley-Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head: A Collection
of Yarns and Sea Descriptions.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
In the Middle Watch.
A Voyage to the Cape.

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards. 2s.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (i638 to 1S47). Edited
byHENRvSANSON. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.3s.6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d, each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

One Against the World.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Two Dreamers.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The Hi gh Mil ls.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
Gideon's Rock.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated

Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
53. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXI. (iSSsX at Ss. each.
Cases for Binding, Is. 6d. each.

Scott (Sir Walter), Poems by:

Marmion. With over 100 new Illustrations
by leading Artists. Small
4to, cloth extra, I6s.

The Lay of the Last Minstrel. With
over 100 new Illustrations by leading;
Artists. Sm.4to, cl.ex., 16s. [Shortly.

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.
The Secret Out : One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. 11. Crem£;b. 300
Engravings,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Secret Out " Series, continued —
The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or.
Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.
The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww.
With 300 Illustrations.
Lanky Pansy: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many lusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H, Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior. — By Stream and Sea.

By William Senior. Post 8vo, cloth
1 mp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Vivian. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare:

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. — A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. MoYR Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
rom the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vOj cloth extra, 88.

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c., with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems.the Shelley Papers,
&c. ; Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan : —

Sheridan's Complete Works, with

Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &o. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.
Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and 10 full-page Illusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment t. 12s. 6d.

8hort"Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
D emy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
"Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c., by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, IBs^

Signboards: Their History.

With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotel. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. cl

Sims (George R.), V\/orks by :

How the Poor Live. With Co Illusts.

by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.
Rogues and Vagabonds. Post Svo,

illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust,

bds., 2s. ; cloth, 23. 6d.

Sketches. — A Match in the
Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The : etymological.

Historical, and Anecdotal,
Crown S vo, c loth ext ra, gilt, 6s. Gd.

Smith (J. Moor), Works by :
The Prince of Argolis : A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small Svo,
cloth extra, with 130 lists., 3s. ci.



Sm.'th (J. MoYR), Works by, continued —
Tales of Old Thine. With numerous

IHuslralions. Cr. 8vo, cloth gift, 6s.
The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cl. ex., Gs.

Society in London. By A

Foreign Resident. Newand Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 61.

Spa'.ding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. ByT.
A. Spalding, LL.B, Cr. 8vo, cl.ex.,'5s.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. MiDDLEMORE, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen

Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

A Barren Title. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cl . , ls.6d.

Spenser for Children. By M.

II. Tov.'RY. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth silt, 63.

Staunton. — Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B.Wormald. New
Edition, small cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Seaman. — The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index. By
Edmund Clarence Seaman, Author
of" Victorian Poets." Cr. 8vo,cl.ex., 9s.

Sterndale7^^1ie"Afghan Knife

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (R. Louis), Works by :
Travels with a Donkey In the

Cevennes. Fifth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6(1.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. Ip., 2s. 6d.
Virginius Puerlsque, and other

Papers. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Second Edit. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 63.
New Arabian Nights. Crown 8vo,

cl. extra, 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cheap Edition, post 8vo, picture

cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d,

Stevenson (R. Louis), continued —

Prince Otto: A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Merry Men, and other Tales and

Fables. Cr. 8vo,cl. ex.,6s. [Shortly.

St. John. — A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Stoddard. — Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. Gd.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer.
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3 s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust . bds., 2s.

Strpierre.^Paul and V i rgT n i a,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin

St. Pierre. Edited, with Life,
by Rev. E. Clarke. Post 8vo, cl. Ip., 2s.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c.,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by William Hone. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London: A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d,

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose
and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Trap els." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7 s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond.

Fcap. 8vo, 5s.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 7s.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,ls.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr,8vo, lfs.6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

8vo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 12s.
Erechtheus : A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 63.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, Is.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued —
Note on Charlotte Bronze. Cr.Svo, 6s.
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. Svo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.Svo, 6s.
Studies In Song. Crown Svo. 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 93.
Century of Roundels. Small 4to, 83.
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 7s.
Marino Fallen: Tragedy. Cr.Svo, 68.
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Miscellanies. Crown Svo. 123.

Symonds. — Wine, Women and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Sons. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small Svo, parchment, 6s.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
H often. M ed. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Taine's H history of Engl wish

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small Svo,
cloth boards, sos. — Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 16s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques o{
Modern Writers. Post Svo, cl. limp, 23.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by. Crown Svo, cloth ex., 7s. ci. each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants: A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and loo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them: A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Illustrations.

Taylors (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown, ' " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*jf* The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lord): A Biographical
Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading'. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cl, extra, 7s. 6d,

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Cresslda. | Proud Malslc.

The Violin Player.

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas, Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old stories Re-told. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
In London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land-Leaguers.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | American Sent or

Trollope(Frances E.),Novelsby

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d, each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Mabel's Progress. | Anne Furness.



Trollope. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post Bvo,
illustrated boards. 2s.

Trowbridge.— Parnell's Folly:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, illustrated boar ds, 2s.

Turgenieff. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
33.6(1.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Tatler (C, C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-Tytlf.r. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Bvo, illust. boards, 23.

Tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6(1. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast. With a
Frontispiece by P. Macnab.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Cd. each.
Noblesse Oblige. With Illustrations

by F. A. Fraser.
CItoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Lady Bell. Front, by R. Macbeth.

Three

Buried Diamonds

Vols., crown 8vo.

A Novel.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy Bvo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each.

Villari. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover. Is.

Walford (Edw., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-sixth Annual Edition,
for 18S6, cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32030, cloth. Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetajje (1886).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, la.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, continued —

The Shilling Knightage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical! List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1886). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. New
Edition, embodying the results of
the recent General Election. 32mo,
cloth. Is. Published annually.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1886). In One Volume,
royal 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 63.

Haunted London. By Walter

Thorndury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
Bvo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Walton and Cotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, cloth antique, 7s. 64.

W a I t~^W hTt m a n,~Poems by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown svo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram,
63. [

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.

Wanderings In Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich-hunters. 3y
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruiksiiank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low Life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustr.-^.tions.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued—

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Cotlee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Handley. With lusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (ices
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mackay.

Warner.— A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth e extra, 6s.

Warrants, &c. : —
Warrant to Execute Charles 1. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Aviary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original i\I S. Price 23.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
ot the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List

of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours, price 6s.

Weather, How to Foretell the,
with the Pocket Spectroscope. By

F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown

8vo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Westropp7— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain; or. History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d.

Whistler's(Mr.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin :
Art and Art Critics." Cr.8vo,ls. [Short y.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.)^

Works by :
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

Svo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 23. 6d.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

WTlsorr(Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Third Edition. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. Svo. cl. ex., with Illusts,, 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s. [Preparing;.

Common Accidents, and Hov,' to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth
limp, Is. 6d.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Cavalry Life. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Regimental Legends. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. . .^

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Wood. — Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and cheaper issue,
cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Wright^ThoTnas), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Caricature history of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, £;c.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt.F.S.A.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last



Three-volume NOVELS IN THE PRESS.

WILKIE COLLINS' S NEW NOVEL.

The Evil Genius : A Novel. By Wilkie
Collins, Author of "The Woman in
White." Three Vols., crown 8vo.

WALTER BESANT'S NEW NOVEL,
Children of Gibeon : A Novel. By
Walter Besant, Author of " All Sorts
and Conditions of Men," "Dorothy
Forster," &c. Three Vols., crown
8vo.

MRS. HUNT'S NEW NOVEL.
That other Person : A Novel. By Mrs.
Alfred Hunt, Author of "Thorns
Model'' "The Leaden Casket,"
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

GRANT ALLEN'S NEW NOVEL.
In all Shades: A Novel. By Grant
Allen, Author of "Strange Stories,"
"Philistia," "Babylon," &c. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

HALL CAINE'S NEW NOVEL.
A Son of Hagar: A Novel. By T. Hall Caine, Author of "The Shadow of a
Crime," &c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown 8vo, cloth

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid. Wife, or Widow P

BY GRANT ALLEN,
Philistia.

BY BASIL.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-IWoney Wlortiboy.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Vir. Craft.
Tills Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
Ail Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room
All in a Garden Fair
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword,
Tine Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman In White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. P

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles
Hearts of Gold

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or. Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE Mills.
A Castle In Spain.

BY J LEITH DERWENT
Our Lady of Tears, j Circe's Lovers]

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
QueenCophetua. I A Real Queen.
One by One. |

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pandurang Harl.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Cape! Girl.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
DY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. 1 Fop Lack of Gold.

What will the Would Say?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft. I Of High Degree.
Fancy Free. I Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot. I Fancy Free.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Elllce Quentln.

Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saronl's Wife.
Dust. I Fortune's Fool.

Beatrice Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love— or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Iron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Leam Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"My Love!" 1 lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fierce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | DonnaQuixoto

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camilla.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas V/ingfoid, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
Open! Sesame! | Written In Fire
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. I Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Vai Strange.

A Model Father. 1 Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sip Massing 1 A Confidential

a

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon's

Ward. (Town.
The Talk of the
PRICE.
The Foreigners

bert.
Best of Husbands
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
Carlyon's Year.

BY E. C

Valentine.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival

BY CHARLES READS.

It Is Never Too Late to Mend.

Hard Cash.

Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnstonee.

Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.

The Double Marriage.

Love Me Little, Love Me Long.

The Cloister and the Hearth.

The Course of True Love.

The Autobiography of a Thief.

Put Yourself in His Place.

A Terrible Temptation.

The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton,

A Woman-hater. | Headland.

Singleheart and Doubleface.

The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.

Her Mother's Darling.

Prince of Wales's Garden-party,

Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.

Bound to the Wheel.

Guy Waterman.

Two Dreamers.

One Against the World,

The Hon In the Path.



Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie. | Cresslda.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept In the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &-C.
Stories from Foreign Novellsiak

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY J. S. WINTER,
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 23. each.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.

Post 8vo, illustrated
By Edmund ABOUT,
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carr of Carrion. I Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, V/ife, or Widow P
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN,
Strange Stories.
Philistia.

BY BASIL.

A Drawn Game.

"The Wearing of the Green."

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortlboy.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Luoraft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas In Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.
BY WALTER BESANT.

All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All In a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.
Maruja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

The Martyrdom

cst Madeline.
Annann Water.
The New Abelard'
Matt.

The Shadow of

the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
Love Me for Ever.
Foxglove Manor.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. [Juliet's Guardian

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonina. I Queen of Hearts.

Basil. ' My Miscellanies.

Hide and Seek. , Woman In White.
The Dead Secret. ' The Moonstone.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
WiLKiE Collins, continued.

Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel'sDaughtep
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No."

Man and Wife.
Poor IVliss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?
New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
Law and the Lady.
TheTwo Destinies

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky

Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLS.
A Castle In Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. I Archie Lovell

By M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. | A Real Queen.

Prefaced by Sir 11. Battle Free.
Pandurang Harl.

BY MAIN FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Capet Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, co«/n!H«i^—
BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the
World Say?

In Honour Bound.

In Love and War.

For the King.

In PasturesGreen

Queen of the Meadow.


The Flower of the
Forest.

A Heart's Problem

The Braes of Yarrow.


The Golden Shaft

Of High Degree.

Fancy Free.

By Mead and
Stream.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dp. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
Every-Day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Ellice Quentln. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrice Randolph.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Iron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Ray.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY,
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHA W.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Leam Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P



Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
Lynn Linton, continued —
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleece.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p

DeapLadyDIsdaIn
The Waterdale

Neighbours.
My Enemy's

Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.
MissMisanthrope
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a

Season.
Maid of Athens.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open! Sesame
A Harvest of Wild
Oats.

A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air
Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.

BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.

Val Strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the

World.
A Bit of Human

Nature.

ALIfe'sAtonement
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By theGateofthe
Sea.

BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrln.
Puck.

Folle Farley
Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
Signa.

Princess Napraxine.

TwoLittleWooden
Shoes.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

In Maremma.

Wands.

Frescoes.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued —
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sin massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

Clyffards of ClyfTe

The Family Scapegrace.


Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Best of Husbands.

Walter's V»^ord.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her

Humorous Stories

Gwendolen's Harvest.


£200 Reward.

Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit : A Memory.
I The Canon s Ward

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald.

BY CHARLES READS.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend
Hard Cash. | Peg Washington.

Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. I A Woman-hater.
Reading. | The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

BY F. W. ROBINSON,
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO &- WINDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—'

BY JAMES RU NCI MAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL.
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan IVlerryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match In the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.
Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cresslda. | Proud Malsle.

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORN BURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. Adolphus TROLLOPS.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept In the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Calculate.
By ERA Ces ELEANOR TROLLOPE
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

Cheap Popular Novels, cotttinued-~-

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
Huckleberry Finn.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATB:>.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

f

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jest Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte,
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of "That Lass o' Lowliest''
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

PiRKIS.

The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Ferrol.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.
Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S.

Phelps.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE.S. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
The Silvered Squatters. By R.

Louis Stevenson.

J. OGDEN and CO., PRINTERS, 29, 3O AND 3I, GREAT SAFFRON HILL, E.C.

OF TH L

U N I V Er City

Of Ill Noise



Raisin
V.3

III.

PHILISTIA : a Novel. Crown 8vo. cloth extra,
3^. (>d. ; post 8vo. illustrated boards, 2^.

BABYLON : a Novel. With 12 Illustrations by P.

Macnab. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3^. hid.

FOR MAIMIE's SAKE : a Tale of Love and Dynamite.
Crown Svo. cloth extra, 6.?.

STRANGE STORIES. With Frontispiece by George
Du Maui^ier. Crown Svo. cloth extra, 6i. ; post Svo. illustrated
boards, 2i.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
THE EVOLUTIONIST AT LARGE. Second

Edition, revised. Crown Svo. cloth extra, ts.
VIGNETTES FROM NATURE. Crown Svo. 6s.
COLIN CLOUT'S CALENDAR. Crown Svo. 6j.
London : CIIATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

3 ilotjcl

BV

GRANT ALLEN

AUTHOR OF ' BABYLON ' ' STRANGE STORIES' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. Il

ITonboit
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[The right 0/ translation is reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

IN ALL SHADES.

CHAPTER XXIX

Delgado had fixed the great and terrible
day of the Lord for Wednesday evening.
On Monday afternoon, Harry and Nora,
accompanied by Mr. Dupuy, went for a ride
in the cool of dusk among the hills together.
Trinidad that day was looking its
very best. The tall and feathery bamboos
that overhung the. serpentine pathways
stood out in exquisite clearness of outline,
like Japanese designs, against the tender
background of pearl-grey sky. The tree
VOL. III. B

ferns rose lush and green among the
bracken after yesterday's brief and refreshing
thunder-shower. The scarlet hibiscus
trees beside the negro huts were in the full
blush of their first flowering season. The
poinsettias, not, as in England, mere stiff
standard plants from florists' cuttings, but
rising proudly into graceful trees of free
and rounded growth, with long drooping
branches, spread all about their great
rosettes of crimson leaflets to the gorgeous
dying sunlight. The broad green foliage
of the ribbed bananas in the negro gardens
put to shame the flimsy tropical make-believes
of Kew or Monte Carlo. For the
first time, it seemed to Harry Noel, he was
ridings through the true and beautiful
tropics of poets and painters ; and the
reason was not difficult to guess, for Nora

Nora really seemed to be more kindly
disposed to him. After all, she was not
made of stone, and they had an interest
in common which the rest of the house of
Dupuy did not share with Nora — the interest
in Edward and Marian Hawthorn.
You can't have a better introduction to any
girl's heart — though I dare say it may be
very wicked indeed to acknowledge it —
than a common attachment to somebody or
something tabooed or opposed by the
parental authorities.

Mr. Dupuy rode first in the Httle single-file
cavalcade, as became the senior ; and
Mr. Dupuy's cob had somehow a strange
habit of keeping fifty yards ahead of the
other horses, which gave its owner on this
particular occasion no little trouble. Harry
and Nora followed behind at a respectful

B 2

distance ; and Harry, who had bought a
new horse of his own the day before, and
Who brought up the rear on his fresh
mount, seemed curiously desirous of putting
his latest purchase through its paces,
as one might naturally have expected him
to do under the circumstances. On the
contrary, he hung about behind most unconscionably,
delaying Nora by every means
in his power ; and ]vir. Dupuy, looking
back from his cob every now and again,
grew almost weary of calling out a dozen
times over : ' Now then, Nora, you can
cant up over this little bit of level, and
catch me up, can't you, surely ? '

If it weren't for the old gentleman,'
Harry thought to himself more than once,
T really think I should take this opportunity
of speaking again to Nora' — he

always called her ' Nora ' in this own heart
a well-known symptom of the advanced
stages of the disease — though she was of
course 'Miss Dupuy ' alone in conversation -
Or even if we were on a decent English
road, now, where you can ride two abreast,
and have a tete-astute quite as comfortably
as in an ordinary drawing-room ! But it's
clearly impossible to propose to a girl when
she's riding a whole horse's length in front
of you on a one-horse pathway. You can't
shout out to her: "My beloved, I adore
you," at the top of your voice, as they doat
the opera, especially with her own
father — presumably devoted to the rival
interest — hanging a hundred yards ahead
within moderate earshot.' So Harry was
compelled to repress for the present his
ardent declaration, and continue talking to

Nora Dupiiy about Edward and Marian, a
subject which, as he acutely perceived, was
more likely to bring them into sympathy
with one another than any alternative
theme he could possibly have hit upon.

Presently, they descended again upon
the plain, and Mr. Dupuy was just about
to rejoin them in a narrow lane, almost
wide enough for three abreast, and bordered
by a prickly hedge of cactus and penguin,
when, to Nora's great surprise, Tom Dupuy,
on his celebrated chestnut mare Sambo
Gal, came cantering up in the opposite
direction, as if on purpose to catch and
meet them. Tom wasn't often to be found
away from his canes at that time of day,
and Nora had very little doubt indeed that
he had caught a glimpse of Harry and herself
from Pimento Valley, on the zigzag

mountain path, without noticing her father
on in front of them, and had ridden outwith
the express intention of breaking in
upon their supposed tete-astute.

Mr. Dupuy unconsciously prevented him
from carrying out this natural design.
Meeting his nephew first in the narrow
pathway, he was just going to make him
turn round and ride alongside with him,
when Nora, seized with a sudden fancy,
half whispered to Harry Noel : ' I'm not
going to ride with Tom Dupuy ; I can't
endure him ; I shall turn and ride back in
the opposite direction.'

*We must tell your father,' Harry said
hesitating.

Of course,' Nora answered decidedly. —
Papa,' she continued, raising her voice,
we're going to ride back again and round

by Delgado's hut, you know — the mountain-cabbage
palm-tree way is so much prettier,
and I want to show it to Mr. NoeL You
and Tom Dupuy can turn round and follow
us. — The cob always goes ahead, you see,
Mr. Noel, if once he's allowed to get in
front of the other horses.'

They turned back once more in this
reversed order, Nora and Harry Noel leading
the way, and Mr. Dupuy, abreast with
Tom, following behind somewhat angrily,
till they came to a point in the narrow
lane where a gap in the hedge led into a
patch of jungle on the right-hand side.
An old negro had crept out of it just
before them, carrying on his head, poised
quite evenly, a big faggot of sticks for his
out-door fireplace. The old man kept the
middle of the lane, just in front of them.

and made not the slightest movement to
right or left, as if he had no particular intention
of allowing them to pass. Harry
had just given his new horse a tap with
the whip, and they were trotting along to
get well in front of the two followers,
so he didn't greatly relish this untoward
obstacle thrown so unexpectedly in his way.
Get out of the road, will you, you there ! '
he shouted angrily. ' Don't you see a
lady's coming ? Stand aside this minute,
my good fellow, and let her pass, I tell
you.'

Delgado turned around, almost as the
horse's nose was upon him, and looking the
young man defiantly in the face, answered
with an obvious sneer : ' Who is you, sal,
dat you speak to me like a dat ? Dis is de
Queen high-road, for naygur an' for buckra.

You don't got no right at all to turn me
off it.'

Harry recognised his man at once, and
the hot temper of the Lincolnshire Noels
boiled up within him. He hit out at the
fellow with his riding-whip viciously. Delgado
didn't attempt to dodge the blow — a
negro never does — but merely turned his
head haughtily, so that the bundle of sticks
pushed hard against the horse's nose, and set
it bleeding with the force of the sudden turn.
Delgado knew it would : the sticks, in fact,
were prickly acacia. The horse plunged and
reared a little, and backed up in fright against
the cactus hedge. The sharp cactus spines
and the long aloe-like needles of the penguin
leaves in the hedgerow goaded his flank
severely as he backed against them. He
gave another plunge, and hit up wildly

against Nora's mount. Nora kept her seat
bravely, but with some difficulty. Harry was
furious. Forgetting himself entirely, he
knocked the bundle of sticks off the old
man's head with a sudden swish of his thick
riding-crop, and then proceeded to lay the
whip twice or three times about Delgado's
ears with angry vehemence. To his great
surprise, Delgado stood, erect and motionless,
as if he didn't even notice the blows. Appeased
by what he took to be the man's submissiveness,
Harry dug his heel into his
horse's side and hurried forward to rejoin
Nora, who had ridden ahead hastily to avoid
the turmoil.

He's an ill-conditioned, rude, bad-blooded
fellow, that nigger there,' he said apologetically
to his pretty companion. ' I know him
before. He's the very same man I told you

of the other evening, that wouldn't pick my
whip up for me the first day I came to Trinidad.
I'm glad he's had a taste of it to-day
for his continual impudence.'

Hell have you up for assault, you maybe
sure, Mr. Noel,' Nora answered earnestly.
And if Mr. Hawthorn tries the case, he'll
give it against you, for he'll never allow any
white man to strike a negro. The man's name
is Delgado ; he's an African, you know — an
imported African — and a regular savage ; and
he had a fearful quarrel once with papa and
Tom Dupuy about the wages, which papa has
never forgiven. But Mr. Hawthorn does say '
and Nora dropped her voice a little — ' that
he's really had a great deal of provocation,
and that Tom Dupuy behaved abominably,
which of course is very probable, for what can
you expect from Tom Dupuy, Mr. Noel? —

But still' — and this lie said very loudly —
all the negroes themselves will tell you that
Louis Delgado's a regular rattlesnake, and
you must put your foot firmly down upon
him if you want to crush him.'

If you put your foot on rattlesnake,'
Louis Delgado cried aloud from behind, in
angry accents, ' you crush rattlesnake ; but
rattlesnake sting you, so you die.' And then
he muttered to himself in lower tones : ' An'
de rattlesnake has got sting in him tail dat
will hurt dat mulatto man from Engian', still,
dat think himself proper buckra.'

Tom Dupuy and his uncle had just
reached the spot when Louis Delgado said
angrily to himself, in negro soliloquy", this
damning sentence. Tom reined in and looked
singly at his uncle as Delgado said it.
So you know something, too, about this

confounded Englishman, you damned nigger
you ! ' he said condescendingly. ' You've
found out that our friend Noel's a woolly-headed
mulatto, have you, Delgado ? '

Louis Delgado's eyes sparkled with gratified
malevolence as he answered with a cunning
smile : ' Aha, Mistah Tom Dupuy, you
glad to hear dat, sal ! You want to get some
information from de poor naygur dis benin',
do you ? No, no, sal ; de Dupuys an' me, we
is not free' ; we is at variance one wit de
odder. I don't wine to tell you muffin' at
all, sal, about de buckra from Englan'. But
when mule kick too much, I say to him
often : " Ha, ha, me free', you is too proud.
You think you is horse. I repose you don't
rightly remember dat your own fader wasn't
muffin' but a common jackass ! " '

He loved to play with both his intended

victims at once, as a cat plays with a captured
mouse before she kills it. Keep him
in suspense as long as you can — that's the
point of the game. Dandle him, and torture
him, and hold him off; but never tell him
the truth outright, for good or for evil, as
long as you can possibly help it.

Do you really know anything,' Tom
Dupuy asked eagerly, ' or are you only guessing,
like all the rest of us .^ Do you mean
to tell me you've got any proof that the
fellow's a nigger ? — Come, come, Delgado, we
may have quarrelled, but you needn't be
nasty about it. I've got a grudge against
this man Noel, and I don't mind paying you
liberally for anything you can tell me against
him.'

But Delgado shook his head doggedly.
I don't want your money, sal,' he answered

with a slow drawl ; ' I want more
dan your money, if I want any ting. But I
don't wine to help you again me own
colour. Buckra for buckra, an' colour for
colour ! If you want to find out about him,
why don't you write to de buckra gentlemen
over in Barbadoes ? '

He kept the pair of white men there,
dawdling and parleying, for twenty minutes
nearly, while Harry and Nora went riding
away alone towards the mountain cabbage-palms.
It pleased Delgado thus to be able
to hold the two together on the tenter-hooks
of suspense — to exercise his power before the
two buckram. At last, Tom Dupuy condescended
to direct entreaty. ' Delgado,' he
said with much magnanimity, ' you know I
don't often ask a favour of a nigger — it ain't
the way with us Dupuys ; it don't run in the

family — but still, I ask you as a personal
favour to tell me whatever you know about
this matter : I have reasons of my own which
make me ask you as a personal favour.'

Delgado's eyes glistened horribly. ' Buckra,'
he answered with a hideous grin, dropping
all the usual polite formulas, ' I will tell
you for true den ; I will tell you all about it.
Dat man Noel is son ob brown gal from ole
Barbadoes. Her name is Budleigh, an' her
family is brown folks dat Hb at place dem
call de Wilderness. I hear all about dem
from Isaac Pourtales. Pourtales an' dis man
Noel, dem is bot' cousin. De man is brown
just same like Isaac Pourtales ! '

By George, Uncle Tom ! ' Tom Dupuy
cried exultantly, ' Delgado's right — right to
the letter. Pourtales is a Barbadoes man :
his father was one of the Pourtaleses of this

VOL. III. C

island who settled in Barbadoes, and his
mother must have been one of these brown
Burleigh. Noel told us himself the other
day his mother was a Budleigh — a Budleigh
of the Wilderness. He's been over in Barbadoes
looking after their property, — By
Jove, Delgado, I'd rather have a piece of
news like that than a hundred pounds ! — We
shall stick a pin, after all. Uncle Theodore,
in that confounded, stuck-up, fal-lal mulatto-man.'


It's too late to follow them up by the
mountain-cabbages,' Mr. Theodore Dupuy exclaimed
with an anxious sigh — how did he
know but that at that very moment this
undoubted brown man might be proposing
(hang his impudence) to his daughter Nora ?
' it's too late to follow them, if we mean to
dress for dinner. We must go home straight

by the road, and even then we won't overtake
them before they're back at Orange
Grove, I'm afraid, Tom.'

Delgado stood in the middle of the lane
and watched them retreating at an easy
canter ; then he solemnly replaced the bundle
of sticks on the top of his head, spread out
his hands and fingers in the most expressively
derisive African attitudes, and began to dance
with wild glee a sort of imaginary triumphal
war-dance over his intended slaughter. ' Ha,
ha,' he cried aloud, ' Wednesday benin' —
Wednesday benin' ! De great and terrible
day ob de Lard coming' for true on Wednesday
benin' ! Slay, slay, slay, sait' de Lard,
an' leave not one libbin' soul behind in de
land ob de Amalekite. Dat is de first an' de
last good turn I ember wine to do for Tom

c 2

Dupuy, for certain. I don't want this money,
I tell him, but I want de blood ob him. On
Wednesday night I wine to get it. Ha, hade
Lard is wit us ! We wine to slay de
remnant ob de accursed Amalekite.' He
paused a moment, and poised the bundle
more evenly on his head ; then he went on
walking homewards more quietly, but talking
to himself aloud, in a clear, angry, guttural
voice, as negroes will do, under the influence
of powerful excitement. ' What for I don't
tell dat man Noel himself dat he is mulatto
when him hit me ? ' he asked himself with
rhetorical earnestness. ' Becase I don't want
to go an' spoil de fun ob de whole discovery.
If / tell him, dat don't muffin' — even before
de missy. Tom Dupuy is proper buckra :
he hate Noel, an' Noel hate him ! He wine
to tell it so it sting Noel. He wine to disgrace

dat proud man before de buckram an'
before de missy ! '

He paused again, and chewed violently
for a minute or two at a piece of cane he
pulled out of his pocket ; then he spat out
the dry refuse with a fierce explosion of
laughter, and went on again : ' But I don't
wine to punish Noel like I wine to punish
de Dupuys an' de missy, Noel is free' ob
Mistah Hawtorn, de free' ob de naygur : dat
wine to be imputed to him for righteousness,
when de Lard's time coming'. In de
great an' terrible day ob de Lard, de angel
wine to pass over Noel, same as him pass
over de house ob Israel ; but de house ob de
Dupuy shall perish utterly, like de house ob
Pharaoh, an' like de house ob Saul king ob
Israel, whose seed was destroyed out ob de
land, so dat not one ob dem left ribbing.'

CHAPTER XXX.

*This is awkward, Tom, awfully awkward,'
Mr. Theodore Dupuy said to kis nephew as
they rode homeward. 'We must manage
somehow to get rid of this man as early as
possible. Of course, we can't keep him in the
house any longer with your cousin Nora, now
that we know he's really nothing more —
baronet or no baronet — than a common
mulatto. But at the same time, you see, we
can't get rid of him anyhow by any possibility
before the dinner tomorrow evening. I've
asked several of the best people in Trinidad
especially to meet him, and I don't want to

go and stultify myself openly before the eyes
of the whole island. What the dickens can
we do about it ? '

'If you'd taken my advice, Uncle
Theodore,' Tom Dupuy answered sullenly, in
spite of his triumph, ' you'd have got rid of
him long ago. As it is, you'll have to keep
him on now till after Tuesday, and then we
must manage somehow to dismiss him
politely.'

They rode on without another word till
they reached the house ; there, they found
Nora and Harry had arrived before them, and
had gone in to dress for dinner. Mr. Dupuy
followed their example ; but Tom, who had
made up his mind suddenly to stop, loitered
about on the lawn under the big star apple
tree, waiting in the cool till the young
Englishman should make his appearance.

Meanwhile, Nora, in her own dressing-room,
attended by Eosina Fleming and Aunt
Clemmy, was thinking over the afternoon's
ride very much to her own satisfaction. Mr.
Noel was really after all a very nice fellow :
if he hadn't been so dreadfully dark — but
there, he was really just one shade too dusky
in the face ever to please a West Indian
fancy. And yet, he was certainly very much
in love with her ! The very persistence with
which he avoided reopening the subject,
while he went on paying her such very
marked attention, showed in itself how
thoroughly in earnest he was. ' He'll
propose to me again tomorrow — I'm quite
sure he will,' Nora thought to herself, as
Eosina fastened up her hair with a sprig
of plumbago and a little delicate spray of
wild maiden-hair. ' He was almost going to

propose to me as we came along by the
mountain cabbages this afternoon, only I saw
him hesitating, and I turned the current of
the conversation. I wonder why I turned it ?
I'm sure I don't know why. I wonder
whether it was because I didn't know whether
I should answer " Yes " or " No," if he were
really to ask me? I think one ought to
decide in one's own mind beforehand what
one's going to say in such a case, especially
when a man has asked one. already. He's
awfully nice. I wish he was just a shade or
two lighter. I believe Tom really fancies —
he's so dark — it isn't quite right with him.'

Isaac Pourtales, lounging about that
minute, watching for Eosina, whom he had
come to talk with, saw Nora flit for a second
past the open window of the passage, in her
light and gauze-Hke evening dress, with open

neck in front, and the flowers twined in her
pretty hair ; and he said to himself as he
glanced up at her : ' De word ob de Lard
say right, " Take captive de women ! " '

At the same moment, Tom Diipuy,
strolling idly on the lawn in the thickening
twilight, caught sight of Pourtales, and
beckoned him towards him with an imperious
finger. ' Come here,' he said ; ' I want to
talk with you, you nigger there. — You're
Isaac Pourtales, aren't you ? — I thought so.
Then come and tell me all you know about
this confounded cousin of yours — this man
Noel.'

Isaac Pourtales, nothing loth, poured
forth at once in Tom Dupuy's listening ear
the whole story, so far as he knew it, of Lady
Noel's antecedents in Barbadoes. While the
two men, the white and the brown, were still

conversing under the shade of the star-apple
tree, Nora, who had come down to the
drawing-room meanwhile, strolled out for a
minute, beguiled by the cool air, on to the
smoothly kept lawn in front of the drawing-room
window. Tom saw her, and beckoned
her to him with his finger, exactly as he had
beckoned the tall mulatto. Nora gazed at
the beckoning hand with the interest disdain,
and then turned away, as if perfectly unconscious
of his ungainly gesture, to examine
the tube-roses and great bell-shaped brugman-
seas of the garden border.

Tom walked up to her angrily and rudely.
Didn't you see me calling you, miss ? ' he
said in his harsh drawl, with no pretence of
unnecessary politeness. 'Didn't you see I
wanted to speak to you ? '

I saw you making signs to somebody

with your hand, as if you took me for a
servant,' Nora answered coldly ; ' and not
having been accustomed in England to be
called in that way, I thought you must have
made a mistake as to whom you were dealing
with.'

Tom started and muttered an ugly oath.
In England,' he repeated. ' Oh, ah, in
England. West Indian gentlemen, it seems,
aren't good enough for you, miss, since this
fellow Noel has come out to make up to you.
I suppose you don't happen to know that he's
a West Indian too, and a precious rum sort of
one into the bargain ? I know you mean to
marry him, miss ; but all I can tell you is,
your father and I are not going to permit it.'

I don't wish to marry him,' Nora
answered, flushing fiery red all over (' Him is
pretty for true when him blush like dat,'

Isaac Poiirtales said to himself from the shade
of the star-apple tree). 'But if I did, I
wouldn't listen to anything you might choose
to say against him, Tom Dupuy ; so that's
plain speaking enough for you.'

Tom sneered. ' no,' he said ; ' I always
knew you'd end by marrying a woolly-headed
mulatto ; and this man's one, I don't mind
telling you. He's a brown man born ; his
mother, though she is Lady Noel — fine sort
of a Lady, indeed — is nothing better than a
Barbadoes brown girl ; and he's own cousin
to Isaac Pourtales over yonder ! He is, I
swear to you — Isaac, come here, sir ! '

Nora gave a Httle suppressed scream of
surprise and horror as the tall mulatto, in his
ragged shirt, leering horribly, emerged unexpectedly,
like a black spectre, from the
shadows opposite.

Isaac,' the young planter said with a
malicious smile, ' who is this young man, I
want to know, that calls himself Mister
Noel ? '

Isaac Pourtales touched his slouching hat
awkwardly as he answered, under his breath,
with an ugly scowl : ' Him me own cousin,
sal, an' me murder cousin. Him an' me
murder is family long ago in ole Barbadoes.'

There you are, Nora ! ' Tom Dupuy cried
out to her triumphantly. ' You see what
sort of person your fine English friend has
turned out to be.

Tom Dupuy,' Nora cried in her wrath —
but in her own heart she knew it wasn't true
' if you tell me this, trying to set me
against Mr. Noel, you've failed in your
purpose, sir : what you say has no effect upon
me. I do not care for him ; you are quite

mistaken about that ; but if I did, I don't
mind telling you, your wicked scheming
would only make me like him all the better.
Tom Dupuy, no real gentleman would ever
try so to undermine another man's position.'

At that moment, Harry Noel, just descending
to the drawing-room, strolled out to
meet them on the lawn, quite unconscious of
this little family altercation. Nora glanced
hastily from Tom Dupuy, in his planter coat
and high riding-boots, to Harry Noel, looking
so tall and handsome in his evening dress,
and couldn't help noticing in her own mind
which of the two was the truest gentleman.
Mr, Noel,' she said, accepting his half-proffered
arm with a natural and instinctive
gracious movement, ' will you take me in to
dinner ? I see it's ready.'

Tom Dupuy, crestfallen and astonished,

followed after, and muttered to himself with
deeper conviction than ever that he always
knew that girl Nora would end in the long
run by marrying a confounded woolly-headed
mulatto.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Next day was Tuesday ; and to Louis Delgado
and his friends at least, the days were now
well worth counting ; for was not the hour of
the Lord's deliverance fixed for eight o'clock
on Wednesday evening ?

Nora, too, had some reason to count the
days for her own purposes, for on Tuesday
night they were to have a big dinner-party
the biggest undertaken at Orange Grove
since Nora had first returned to her father's
house in the capacity of hostess. Mr. Dupuy,
while still uncertain about Harry Noel's precise
colour, had thought it well — giving him
the benefit of the doubt — to invite all the

VOL. III. D

neighbouring planters to meet the distinguished
member of the English aristocracy :
it reminded him, he said, of those bygone
days when Port-of-Spain was crowded with
carriages, and Trinidad was still one of the
brightest jewels in the British crown (a period
perfectly historical in every English colony
all the world over, and finally placed about
the date when the particular speaker for the
time being was just five-ands twenty).

That Tuesday morning, as fate would
have it, Mr. Dupuy had gone with the buggy
into Port-of-Spain for the very prosaic purpose
— let us fain confess it — of laying in provisions
for the night's entertainment. In a
country where the fish for your evening's
dinner must all have been swimming about
merrily in the depths of the sea at eight
o'clock the same morning, where your leg of

mutton must have been careering joyously in
guileless innocence across the grassy plain,
and your chicken cutlets must have borne
their part in investigating the merits of the
juicy caterpillar while you were still loitering
over late breakfast, the question of commissariat
is of course a far less simple one than
in our own well-supplied and market-stocked
England. To arrange beforehand that a particular
dusky fisherman shall stake his life on
the due catching and kilHng of a turtle for the
soup on that identical morning and no other ;
that a particular oyster-woman shall cut the
bivalves for the oyster sauce from the tidal
branches of the mangrove swamp not earlier
than three or later than five in the afternoon,
on her honour as a purveyor ; and that a particular
lounging negro coffee-planter somewhere
on the hills shall guarantee a sufficient supply

D 2

of black lanclcrabs for not less than fourteen
persons — turtle and oyster and crab being allas
yet in the legitimate enjoyment of their
perfect natural freedom — all this, I say, involves
the possession of strategical faculties of
a high order, which would render a man who
has once kept house in the West Indies perfectly
capable of undertaking the res frumen-
maria for an English army on one of its innumerable
slaughtering picnics, for the extension
of the blessings of British rule among a
totally new set of black, benighted, and
hitherto happy heathen. Now ]\ii\ Dupuy
was a model entertainer, of the West Indian
pattern ; and having schemed and devised all
these his plans beforehand with profound
wisdom, he had now gone into Port-of-Spain
with the buggy, on hospitable thoughts intent,
to bring out whatever he could get, and make

arrangements, by means of tinned provisions
from England, for the inevitable deficiencies
which always turn up under such circumstances
at the last moment. So Harry and
Nora were left alone quite to themselves for
the whole morning.

The veranda of the house — it fronted on
the back garden at Orange Grove — is always
the pleasantness place in which to sit during the
heat of the day in a West Indian household.
The air comes so delightfully fresh through
the open spaces of the creeper-covered
trellis-work, and the humming-birds buzz
about so merrily among the crimson passion-flowers
under your very eyes, and the banana
bushes whisper so gently before the delicate
fanning of the cool sea-breezes in the leafy
courtyard, that you lie back dreamily in your
folding-chair and half believe yourself, for

once in your life, in the poet's Paradise. On
such a veranda Harry Noel and Nora Dupuy
sat together that Tuesday morning ; Harry
pretending to read a paper, which lay, however,
unfolded on his knees — what does one
want with newspapers in Paradise ? — and Nora
almost equally pretending to busy herself,
Penelope-like, with a wee square of dainty
crewel work, concerning which it need only
be said that one small flower appeared to take
a most unconscionable and incredible time for
its proper shaping. They were talking together
as young man and maiden will talk to
one another idly under such circumstances —
circling half unconsciously round and round
the object of both their thoughts, she avoiding
it, and he perpetually converging towards it,
till at last, like a pair of silly, fluttering moths
around the flame of the candle, they find themselves

finally landed, by a sudden side-flight,
in the very centre at an actual declaration.

Really,' Harry said at length, at a pause
in the conversation, ' this is positively too
delicious. Miss Dupuy, this sunshine and
greediness. How the liszt chances on the
little green lizards on the wall over
yonder ! How beautiful the bougainvillea
looks, as it clambers with its great purple
masses over that bi? bare trunk there !
We have a splendid bougainvillea in the
greenhouse at our place in Lincolnshire ; but
oh, what a difference, when one sees it clambering
in its native wildness like that, from
the poor little stunted things we trail and
crucify on our artificial supports over yonder
in England! I almost feel inclined to take
up my abode here altogether, it all looks so
green and sunny and bright and beautifully

And yet,' Nora said, ' Mr. Hawthorn told
me your father's place in Lincolnshire is so
very lovely. He thinks it's the finest countryseat
he's ever seen anywhere in England.'

Yes, it is pretty, certainly,' Harry Noel
admitted with a depreciating wave of his
delicate right hand — ' very pretty, and very
well kept up, one must allow, as places go
nowadays. I took Hawthorn down there one
summer vac, when we two were at Cambridge
together, and he was quite delighted with it ;
and really, it is a very nice place, too, though
it is in Lincolnshire. The house is old, you
know, really old — not Elizabethan, but early
Tudor, Henry the Seventh, or something
thereabouts : all battlements and corner
turrets, and roses and portcullis on all the
shields, and a fine old portico, added by Lingo
Jones, I believe, and out of keeping, of course.

with the rest of the front, but still, very fine
and dignified in its own way, for all that, in
spite of what the architects (awful prigs) say
to the contrary. And then there's a splendid
avenue of Spanish chestnuts, considered to
be the oldest in all England, you know (though,
to be sure, they've got the oldest Spanish
chestnuts in the whole country at every house
in all Lincolnshire that I've ever been to).
And the lawn's pretty, very pretty ; a fine
stretch of sward, with good parterres of these
ugly, modern, jam-tart flowers, leading down
to about the best sheet of water in the whole
county, with lots of swans on it. — Yes,' he
added reflectively, contrasting the picture in
his own mind with the one then actually
before him, ' the Hall's not a bad sort of place
in its own way — far from it.'

'And Mr. Hawthorn told me,' Nora put

in, ' that you'd got siicli splendid conservatories
and gardens too.'

Well, we have : there's no denying it.
They're certainly good in their way, too, very
good conservatories. You see, my dear
mother's very fond of flowers : it's a perfect
passion with her ; brought it over from
Barbadoes, I fancy. She was one of the
very first people who went in for growing
orchids on the large scale in England, Her
orchid-houses are really awfully beautiful.
We never have anything but orchids on the
table for dinner — in the way of flowers, I
mean — we don't dine ofl" a hly, of course, as
they say the esthetes do. And my mother's
never so proud as when anybody praises and
admires her masdevallias or her thino-um-
bobianas — I'm sorry to say I don't myself
know the names of half of them. She's a

dear, sweet, old lady, my mother, Miss
Dupuy ; I'm sure you couldn't fail to like my
dear mother.'

She's a Barbadian too, you told us,'
Nora said reflectively. ' How curious that
she too should be a West Indian ! '

Harry half sighed. He misunderstood
entirely the train of thought that was passing
that moment through Nora's mind. He
believed she saw in it a certain rapprochement
between them two, a natural fitness of things
to bring them together. ' Yes,' he said, with
more tenderness in his tone than was often
his wont, ' ray mother's a Barbadian, Miss
Dupuy ; such a grand, noble-looking, commanding
woman — not old yet ; she never
will be old, in fact ; she's too handsome for
that ; but so graceful and beautiful, and
wonderfully winning as well, in all her pretty.

dainty, old coffee-coloured laces ' And he
pulled from his pocket a little miniature,
which he always wore next to his heart. He
wore another one beside it, too, but that one
he didn't show her just then ; it was her own
face, done on ivory by a well-known artist,
from a photograph which he had begged or
borrowed from Marian Hawthorn's album
twelve months before in London,

She's a beautiful old lady, certainly,'
Nora answered, gazing in some surprise at
Lady Noel's clear-cut and haughty, 
features. She couldn't for the
moment exactly remember where she had
seen some others so very like them ; and then,
as Harry's evil genius would unluckily have
it, she suddenly recollected with a start of
recognition ; she had seen them just the
evening before on the lawn in front of her ;

they answered precisely, in a lighter tint, to
the features and expression of Isaac Pour-tales
!

How proud she must be to be the
mistress of such a place as Noel Hall ! ' she
said musingly, after a short pause, pursuing
in her own mind to herself her own private
line of reflection. It seemed to her as if the
heiress of the Barbadian brown people must
needs find herself immensely lifted up in the
world by becoming the lady of such a
splendid mansion as Harry had just half unconsciously
described to her.

But Harry himself, to whom, of course,
Lady Noel had been Lady Noel, and nothing
else, as long as ever he could remember her,
again misunderstood entirely the course of
Nora's thoughts, and took her naive expression
of surprise as a happy omen for his

own suit. ' She thinks,' he thought to
himself quietly, ' that it must be not such a
very bad position after all to be mistress of
the finest estate in Lincolnshire ! But I
don't want her to marry me for that. no,
not for that ! that would be miserable ! I
want her to marry me for my very self,
or else for nothing.' So he merely added
aloud, in an unconcerned tone : ' Yes ; she's
very fond of the place and of the gardens ;
and as she's a West Indian by birth, I'm sure
you'd like her very much. Miss Dupuy, if you
were ever to meet her.'

Nora coloured. ' I should like to see
some of these fine English places very much,'
she said, half timidly, trying with awkward
abruptness to break the current of the
conversation. ' I never had the chance
when I was last in England. My aunt, you

know, knew only very quiet people in
London, and we never visited at any of the
great country-houses.'

Harry determined that instant to throw
his last die at once on this evident chance
that opened up so temptingly before him, and
said with fervour, bending forward towards
her : ' 1 hope. Miss Dupuy, when you are
next in England, you'll have the opportunity
of seeing many, and some day of becoming
the mistress of the finest in Lincolnshire. I
told you at Southampton, you know, that I
would follow you to Trinidad, and I've kept
my promise. — Oh, Miss Dupuy, I hope you
don't mean to say no to me this time again !
We have each had twelve months more to
make up our minds in. During all those
twelve months, I have only learned everyday,
whether in England or in Trinidad, to

love you better. I have felt compelled to
come out here and ask you to accept me.
And you — haven't you found your heart
growing any softer meanwhile towards me?
Will you unsay now the refusal you gave mea
year ago over in England ? '

He spoke in a soft persuasive voice, which
thrilled through Nora's very inmost being ; and
as she looked at him, so handsome, so fluent,
so well-born, so noble-looking; she could hardly
refrain from whispering low a timid ' Yes,'
on the impulse of the moment. But something
that was to her almost as the prick of
conscience arose at once irresistibly within
her, and she motioned away quickly, with a
little gesture of positive horror, the hand
with which Harry strove half forcibly to
take her own. The image of scowling Isaac
Pourtales as he emerged, all unexpectedly,



from the shadow the night before, rose up
now m strange vividness before her eyes and
blinded her vision ; next moment, for the
first time in her life, she perceived hurriedly
that Isaac not only resembled Lady Noel,
but quite as closely resembled in face and
feature Harry also. That unhappy resemblance
was absolutely fatal to poor Harry's
doubtful chance of final acceptance. Nora
shrank back, half frightened and wholly
disenchanted, as far as she could go, in her
own chair, and answered in a suddenly
altered voice : 'Oh, Mr. Noel, I didn't know
you were going to begin that subject again :
I thought we met on neutral ground, merely
as friends now. I — I gave you my answer
definitely long ago at Southampton. There
has been nothing — nothing of any sort — to
make me alter it since I spoke to you then.

VOL. III. E

I like you — I like you very much indeed ; and
I'm so grateful to you for standing up as you
have stood up for Mr. Hawthorn and for poor
dear Marian — but I can never, never, never
never marry you ! '

Harry drew back hastily with sudden
surprise and great astonishment. He had
felt almost sure she was going this time
really to accept him ; everything she said
had sounded so exactly as if she meant at
last to take him. The disappointment took
away his power of fluent speech. He could
only ask, in a suddenly checked undertone ;
'Why, Miss Dupuy? You will at least tell
me, before you dismiss me for ever, why
your answer is so absolutely final.'

Nora took up the little patch of crewel-work
she had momentarily dropped, and
pretended, with rigid, trembling fingers, to

be stitching away at it most industriously.
I cannot tell you,' she answered very slowly,
after a moment's long hesitation : ' don't ask
me. I can never tell you.'

Harry rose and gazed at her anxiously.
'You cannot mean to say,' he whispered,
bending down towards her till their two faces
almost touched one another, ' that you are
going willingly to marry your cousin, for
whom your father intends you? Miss Dupuy,
that would be most unworthy of you ! You
do not love him ! You cannot love him ! '

I hate him ! ' Nora answered With
sudden vehemence ; and at the words, the
blood rushed lot again into Harry's cheek,
and he whispered once more : ' Then, why do
you say — why do you say, Nora, you will
never marry me ? '

At the sound of her name, so uttered by

Harry Noel's lips, Nora rose and stood confronting
him with crimson face and trembling
fingers. ' Because, Mr. Noel,' she answered
slowly and with emphasis, ' an impassable
barrier stands for ever fixed and immovable
between us ! '

Can she mean,' Harry thought to himself
hastily, ' that she considers my position in life
too far above her own to allow of her marrying
me ? — no ; impossible, impossible ! A
lady's a lady wherever she may be ; and
nobody could ever be more of a lady, in every
action and every movement, than Nora, my
Nora. She shall be my Nora. I must win
her over. But I can't say it to her ; I can't
answer her little doubt as to her perfect
equality with me ; it would be far too great
presumption even to suggest it.'

Well it was, indeed, for Harry Noel that

he didn't hint aloud in the mildest form this
unlucky thought, that flashed for one indivisible
second of time across the mirror of his
inner consciousness ; if he had, Heaven only
knows whether Nora would have darted away
angrily like a wounded tigress from the polluted
veranda, or would have stood there
petrified and chained to the spot, like a
Gorgon-struck Greek figure in pure white
marble, at the bare idea that any creature
upon God's earth should even for a passing
moment appear to consider himself
superior in position to a single daughter
of the fighting Dupuys of Orange Grove,
Trinidad !

Then you dismiss me for ever ? ' Harry
asked quivering.

Nora cast her eyes irresolutely down upon
the ground and faltered for a second ; then,

with a sudden burst of firmness, she answered
tremulously : ' Yes, for ever.'

At the word, Harry bounded away like a
wounded man from her side, and rushed
wildly with tempestuous heart into his own
bedroom. As for Nora, she walked quietly
back, white, but erect, to her little boudoir,
and when she reached it, astonished Aunt
Clemmy by flinging herself with passionate
force down at full length upon the big old
sofa, and bursting at once into uncontrollable
floods of silent, hot, and burning tears.

CHAPTER XXXII.

That same afternoon, Rosinaa Fleming met
Isaac Pourtales, hanging about idly below the
shrubbery, and waiting to talk with her, by
appointment, about some important business
she had to discuss with him of urgent
necessity.

Isaac, me fren',' Eosina began in her
dawdling tone, as soon as they had interchanged
the first endearments of negro lovers,
I send for you to-day to ax you what all dis
talk mean about de naygur risen' ? I want to
know when dem wine to rise, an' what de
debbil dem wine to do when dem done gone
risen ? '

Isaac smiled a sardonic smile of superior
intelligence. ' Missy Eosie, sweetheart,' he
answered evasively, ' le-lady don't understand
dem ting same as men does. Dis is political
business, I tell you. Le-lady don't nebber
hab no call to go an' mix himself up along
wit politic an' political business.'

But I tellin' you, Isaac, what I want for
to know is about de missy. IMistah Delgado,
him tell me de odder benin', when de great
an' terrible day ob de Lard come, de missy
an' all wine to be murdered. So I come for
to ax you, me free', what for dem want to go
an' kill de poor little missy? Him don't
nebber do no harm to nobody. Him is good
little le-lady, kind little le-lady. Why for you
don't can keep him alive an' let him go
without hurting' him, Isaac? '

Pourtales smiled again, this time a more



diabolical and sinister smile, as though he
were concealing something from Eosina.
We don't wine to kill her,' he answered
hastily, with that horrid light illumining once
more his cold grey eyes. ' We wine to keep
de women alive, according' to de word ob de
Lard dat he spake by de shout' ob de holy
prophet. " Have dey not divided de prey ?
To ebbery man a damsel or two : to Sisera, a
prey ob divers colours." What dat mean, de
divers colours, Eosie ? Dat no mean you an'
de missy ? Ha, ha, ha ! you an' de missy ! '

Eosina started back a little surprised at
this naive personal effort of exegetical research.
' How dat, Isaac ? ' she screamed out
angrily. ' You hub de missy ! You don't
satisfied wit your free' Eosie ? '

Isaac laughed again. ' Ho, ho ! ' he said ;
'dat make you jealous, Missy Eosie? Ha,

lia, dat good now ! Pretty little gal for true,
de missy ! Him white troat so soft an'
smoove ! Him red cheek so plump an' even !
Wliat you want now we do wit him, Missy
Eosie ? You think me wine to kill him when
him so pretty ? '

Eosina gazed at him open-eyed in blank
astonishment. ' You don't must kill him,'
she answered stoutly. ' I hub de missy well
myself for true, Isaac. If you kill de missy,
I don't nebber wine to speak wit you anymore.
I wine to tell de missy all about dis
ting ob Delgado's, I think, tomorrow.'

Isaac stared her hard in the face. ' You
don't dare, Eosie,' he said doggedly.

The girl trembled and shuddered slightly
before his steady gaze. A negro, Hke an
animal, can never bear to be stared at
straight in the eyes. After a moment's restless

shrinking, she withdrew her glance uneasily
from his, but still muttered to herself
slowly : ' I tell de missy— I tell de missy ! '

If you tell de missy,' Pourtales answered
with rough emphasis, seizing her by the
shoulder with his savage grasp, 'you know
what happen to you ? Delgado send debbil
an' puppy to walk about you an' creep over
you in de dead ob night ebbery benin',
an' chatter obeah to you, an' tear de heart
out ob you when you lying' sleeping'. If you
tell de missy, you know what happen to me ?
Dem will take me down to de big court-house
in Westmoreland village, sit on me so try me
for rebel, cut me up into little pieces, burn
me dead, an' trow de ashes for rubbish into
de harbour. Den I come, when I is puppy,
sit at de head ob your pillow ebbery benin',
grin at you, jabber at you, ho, ho, ho ; ha.

ha, ha : show you de holes where dem cut my
body up, show you de blood where de wounds
is bleeding', make you scream an' cry an' wish
yourself dead, till you driven to trow yourself
down de well wit horror, or poison yourself
for fright wit berry ob machine bush ! '

This short recital of penalties to come was
simple and ludicrous enough in its own
matter, but duly enforced by Isaac's horrid
shrugs and hideous grimaces, as well as by
the iron clutch with which he dug his firm-gripped
fingers, nails and all, deep into her
flesh, to emphasise his prediction, it affected
the superstitious negro girl a thousand times
more than the most deliberately awful
civilised imprecation could possibly have
done. ' You don't would do dat, Isaac,'
she cried all breathless, struggling in vain to
free her arm from the fierce grip that held it

resistlessly — ' 5^011 don't would do dat, me
free'. Yon don't would come when you is
puppy to haunt me an' to frighten me ! '

I would ! ' Isaac answered firmly, with
close-pressed lips, inhuman mulatto-fashion
(for when there is a devil in the mulatto
nature, it is a devil more utterly diabolical
than any known to either white or black
men : it combines the dispassionate intellectual
power of the one with the low cunning
and savage moral code of the other). ' I
would hound you to teat', Eosie, an' kill you
without pity. For if you tell de missy about
dis, dem will cut your free' all up into little
pieces, I telHn' you, le-lady.'

Don't call me le-lady,' Eosina said,
melting? at the formal address and seizing
his hand penitently : ' call me Eosie, call me
Eosie. Isaac, I don't wil tel de missy, if

you don't like ; but j^ou promise me for
true you nebber wine to take him an' kill
him.'

Isaac smiled again the sinister smile. ' I
promise,' he said, with a curious emphasis ;
I don't wine to hill him, Rosie ! When I
take him, I no will kill him ! '

Rosinaa hesitated a moment, then she
asked shortly : ' What day you tick Delgado
wine at last to hab him risen' ? '

The mulatto laughed a scornful little
laugh of supreme mockery. ' Delgado's
risen' ! ' he cried, "vvith a sneer — ' Delgado's
risen' ! You think, den, Rosie, dis is Delgado's
risen' ! You think we wine to risk our own
life, black men an' brown men, so make
Delgado de king ob Trinidad ! Ha, ha, ha !
dat is too good, now. No, no, me free' ; dis
don't at all Dels^ado's risen' ! You think we

wine to hand over de whole island to a pack
ob dam common contemptible naygur fellow !
Ha, ha, ha ! Le-lady don't nebber understand
politic an' political business. He, Eosie,
I tell you de true' ; when we kill de buckra
clean out ob de island, I wine myself to bede
chief man in all Trinidad ! ' And as he
spoke, he drew himself up proudly to his full
height, and put one hand behind his back
in his most distinguished and magnificent
attitude.

Rosinaa looked up at him with profound
admiration. ' You is clever gentleman for
certain, Isaac,' she cried in unfeigned reverence
for his mental superiority. ' You let
Delgado make de naygur rise ; den, when dem
done' gone risen, you wine to eat de chestnut
yourself him pull out ob de fire without burn
your fingers ! '

Isaac nodded sagaciously. ' Le-lady begin
to understand politic a little,' he said condescendingly.
' Dat what for dem begin to
ax dis time for de female suffrage.'

Grotesque, all of it, if you forget that each
of these childish creatures is the possessor of
a sharp cutlass and a pair of stout sinewy
arms, as hard as iron, wherewith to wield it :
terrible and horrible beyond belief if only
you remember that one awful element of
possible tragedy inclosed within it. The
recklessness, the folly, the infantile misapprehension
of mischievous children, incongruously
combined with the strength, the passions, the
firm purpose of fierce and powerful full-grown
men. An infant Hercules, with superadded
malevolence — the muscles of a gorilla with
the brain of a cruel schoolboy — that is what

the negro is in this worst and ugliest moments
of vindictive anger.

You don't tell me yet,' Rosinaa said
again, pouting, after a short pause, ' what
day you wine to begin your war ob de
deliverance.'

Isaac pondered. If he told her the whole
truth, she would probably reveal it. On the
other hand, if he didn't mention Wednesday
at all, she would probably hear some vague
buzzing rumour about some Wednesday
unfixed, from the other conspirators. So he
temporised and conciliated. ' Well, Eosie,'
he said in a hesitating voice, ' if I tell you de
true', you will not betray me ? ' — Rosie nodded.
Den de great an' terrible day ob de Lard is
coming' true on Wednesday week, Rosie ! '

Wednesday week,' Rosinaa echoed. ' Den,

VOL. III. F

on Wednesday week, I wine to make de
missy go across to Mistake Hawtorn's ! '

Isaac smiled. His precautions, then, had
clearly not been unheeded. You can't trust
le-lady with high political secrets. He smiled
again, and muttered complacently : ' Quite
right, quite right, Eosie.'

When can I see you again, me darn' ? '
Eosie inquired anxiously.

Isaac bethought him in haste of a capital
scheme for removing Eosina tomorrow
evening from the scene of operations. ' You
can get away tomorrow ? ' he asked with a
cunning leer. ' About eight o'clock at me
house, Eosie ? '

Eosie reflected a moment, and then
nodded. ' Aunt Clemmy will do the missy
hair,' she answered slowly. ' I come down at
de time, Isaac'

Isaac laughed again. 'Perhaps,' he said,
I don't can get away so early, me free',
from de political meeting' — car is political
meeting' tomorrow benin' down at Delgado's ;
but anyhow, you wait till ten o'clock.
Sooner or later, I is sure to come car.

Eosina gave him her hand reluctantly,
and gilded away back to the house in a
stealthy fashion. As soon as she was gone,
Pourtales flung his head back in a wild
paroxysm of savage laughter. ' Ho, ho, ho ! '
he cried. ' De missy, de missy ! Ha, ha, I
get Eosina out ob de road anyhow. Him
don't wine to tell nufhn now, an' him clean
off de scent ob de fun altogether tomorrow
benin' ! Pretty little gal, dat white missy !
Him sweet little troat, so soft an' shining' ! '

V 2

CHAPTER XXXIII.

At the dinner that evening, Macfarlane, the
Scotch doctor, took in Nora ; while Harry
Noel had handed over to his care a dowager-planters
from a neighbouring estate; so
Harry had no need to talk any further to his
pretty little hostess during that memorable
Tuesday. On Wednesday morning he had
made up his mind he would find some excuse
to get away from this awkward position in
Mr. Dupuy's household ; for it was clearly
impossible for him to remain there any longer,
after he had again asked and been rejected
by Nora ; but of course he couldn't go so

suddenly before the dinner to be given in his
honour ; and he waited on, impatiently and
sullenly

Tom Dupuy was there too ; and even Mr.
Theodore Dupuy himself, who knew the
whole secret of Harry's black blood, and
therefore regarded him now as almost beyond
the pale of human sympathy, couldn't help
noticing to himself that his nephew Tom
really seemed quite unnecessarily anxious to
drag this unfortunate young man Noel into
some sort of open rupture. ' Very ill advised
of Tom,' Mr. Dupuy thought to himself ; ' and
very bad manners too, for a Dupuy of
Trinidad. He ought to know well enough
that whatever the young man's undesirable
antecedents may happen to be, as long as he's
here in the position of a guest, he ought at
least to be treated with common decency and

common politeness. To-morrow, we shall
manage to hunt up some excuse, or give him
some effectual hint, which will have the result
of clearing him bodily off the premises. Till
then, Tom ought to endeavour to treat him,
as far as possible, in every way like a perfect
equal.'

Even during the time while the ladies still
remained in the dining-room, Tom Dupuy
couldn't avoid making several severe hits, ashe
considered them, at Harry Noel from the
opposite side of the hospitable table. Harry had
happened once to venture on some fairly
sympathetic commonplace remark to his
dowager-planters about the planters having
been quite ruined by emancipation, when Tom
Dupuy fell upon him bodily, and called outwith
an unconcealed sneer : ' Ruined by
emancipation ! — ruined by emancipation !

That just shows how much you know about
the matter, to talk of the planters being
ruined by emancipation ! If you knew anything
at all of what you're talking about,
you'd know that it wasn't emancipation in the
least that ruined us, but your plaguy parliament
doing away with the differential duties.'

Harry bit his lip, and glanced across the
table at the young planter with a quiet
smile of superiority ; but the only word he
permitted himself to utter was the one harmless
and neutral word ' Indeed ! '

yes, you may say " Indeed " if you
like,' Tom Dupuy retorted warmly. ' That's
just the way of all you conceited English
people. You think you know such a precious
lot about the whole subject, and you really
and truly know in the end just less than
absolutely nothing.'

Pardon me,' Harry answered carelessly,
"vvith his wine-glass poised for a moment half
lifted in his hand. ' I admit most unreservedly
that you know a great deal more
than I do about the differential duties, whatever
they may be, for I never so much as
heard their very name in all my Hfe until the
present moment.'

Tom Dupuy smiled a satisfied smile of
complete triumph. 'I thought as much,' he
said exultantly ; ' I knew you hadn't. That's
just the way of all English people. They
know nothing at all about the most important
and essential matters, and yet they venture to
talk about them for all the world as if they
knew as much as we do about the whole
subject.'

Really,' Harry answered with a good-humoured
smile, ' I fancied a man might be

fairly well informed about things in general,
and yet never have heard in his pristine
innocence of the differential duties. I haven't
the very faintest idea myself, to tell you the
truth, of what they are. Perhaps you will
be good enough to lighten my darkness.'

What they are ! ' Tom Dupuy ejaculated
in pious horror. ' They aren't anything.
They're done away with. They've ceased to
exist long ago. You and the other plaguy
English people took them off, and ruined the
colonies ; and now you don't as much as
know what you've done, or whether they're
existing still or done away with ! '

'Tom, my boy,' Mr. Theodore Dupuy
interposed blandly, ' you really mustn't hold
Mr. Noel personally responsible for all the
undoubted shortcomings of the English
nation ! You must remember that his father

is, like ourselves, a West Indian proprietor,
and that the iniquitous proceedings with
reference to the differential duties — which
nobody can for a moment pretend to justify
injured him every bit as much as they
injured ourselves.'

But what are the differential duties ? '
Harry whispered to his next neighbour but
one, the Scotch doctor. ' I never heard of
them in my life, I assure you, till this very
minute.'

Well, ye ken,' Dr. Macfarlane responded
slowly, ' there was a time when shooter from
the British colonies was admitted into
Britain at a less duty than shooter from Cuba
or other foreign possessions ; and at last, the
British consumer take the tax off the foreign
shooter, and cheapened them all alike in the
British market. Vera guide, of course, for

the British consumer, but clean ruination and
nothing else for the Treenidad planter.'

For the moment the conversation changed,
but not the smouldering war between the
two belligerents. Whatever subject Harry
Noel happened to start during that unlucky-dinner,
Tom Dupuy, watching him closely,
pounced down upon him at once like an owl
on the hover, and tore him to pieces with
prompt activity. Harry bore it all as good-naturedly
as he could, though his temper was
by no means naturally a forbearing one ; but
he didn't wish to come to an open rupture
with Tom Dupuy at his uncle's table,
especially after that morning's occurrences.

As soon as the ladies had left the room,
however, Tom Dupuy drew up his chair so as
exactly to face Harry, and began to pour out
for himself in quick succession glass after

glass of this uncle's very fiery sherry, which
he tossed off with noisy hilarity. The more
he drank, the louder his voice became, and
the hotter his pursuit of Harry Noel. At
last, when Mr, Theodore Dupuy, now really
alarmed as to what his nephew was going to
say next, ordered in the coffee prematurely,
to prevent an open outbreak by rejoining the
ladies, Tom walked deliberately over to the
sideboard and took out a large square
decanter, from which he poured a good-sized
liqueur-glassful of some pale liquid for himself
and another for Harry.

There ! ' he cried boisterously. ' Just you
try that, Noel, will you ? There's liquor for
you ! That's the real old Pimento Valley rum,
the best in the island, double distilled, and
thirty years in bottle. You don't taste any
hogs about that, Mr. Englishman, eh, do j'ou ? '

Any what ? ' Harry inquired politely, lifting
up the glass and sipping a little of the contents
out of pure courtesy, for neat rum is not
in itself a very enticing beverage to any other
than West Indian palates.

Any logos Tom Dupuy repeated loudly
and insolently — ' logos hogs. I suppose, now,
you mean to say you don't even know what
hogs is, do you ? — Never heard of hogs ?
Precious affectation ! Don't understand plain
language ! Yah, rubbish.'

Why, no certainly,' Harry assented
as calmly as he was able ; ' I never before did
hear of hogs, I assure you. I haven't the
slightest idea what it is, or whether I ought
rather to admire or to deplore its supposed
absence in this very excellent old rum of
yours.'

Hogs's French,' Tom Dupuy asserted

doggedly, ' Roo's French, and I should have
thought you ought to have known it. Everybody
in Trinidad knows what hogs is. It's
French, I tell you. Didn't you ever learn
any French at the school you went to,
Noel ? '

Excuse me,' Harry said, flushing up a
little, for Tom Dupuy had asked the question
very offensively. ' It is not French. I know
enough of French at least to say that such a
word as hogs, whatever it may mean, couldn't
possibly be French for anything.'

As my nephew pronounces it,' Mr.
Dupuy put in diplomatically, ' you may
perhaps have some difficulty in recognising its
meaning ; but it's our common West Indian
corruption, Mr. Noel, of haut gout — haut gout,
you understand me — precisely so ; haut gout,
or hogs, being the strong and somewhat

offensive molasses-like flavour of new rum,
before it has been mellowed, as this of ours
has been, by being kept for years in the wood
and in bottle.'

Oh, ah, that's all very well ! I suppose
you're going to turn against me now, Uncle
Theodore,' Tom Dupuy exclaimed angrily — he
was reaching the quarrelsome stage of incipient
drunkenness. ' I suppose you must go
and make fun of me, too, for my French pronunciation
as well as this fine-spoken Mr, Noel
here. But I don't care a pin about it, or about
either of you, either. Who's Mr. Noel, I
should like to know, that he should come
here, with his fine new-fangled English ways,
setting himself up to be better than we are,
and teaching us to improve our French pronunciation
? — yes, it's all very fine ; but
what does he want to go stopping in our

houses for, with our own ladies, and all that,
and then going and visiting with coloured
rubbish that I wouldn't touch with a pair of
tongs — the woolly-headed niggers ! — that's
what I want to know, Uncle Theodore ? '

]Mr. Dupuy and Harry rose together.
Tom, Tom ! ' Mr. Dupuy cried warningly,
you are quite forgetting yourself. Remember
that this gentleman is my guest, and is
here to-day by my invitation. How dare you
say such things as that to my own guest, sir, at

my own table ? You insult me, sir, you insult

"^ t'
me!

I think,' Harry interrupted, white with

anger, ' I had better withdraw at once, Mr.

Dupuy, before things go any further, from a

room where I am evidently, quite without any

intention on my own part, a cause of turmoil

and disagreement.'

He moved hastily towards the open
widow which gave upon the lawn, where the
ladies were stroUincf, after the fashion of the
country, in the silvery moonlight, among the
tropical shrubbery. But Tom Dupuy jumped
up before him and stood in his way, now
drunk with wine and rum and insolence and
temper, and blocked his road to the open
window.

No, no ! ' he cried, ' you shan't go yet !—

I'll tell you all the reason why, gentlemen.

He shall hear the truth. I'll take the vanity

and nonsense out of him ! He's a brown man

himself, nothing but a brown man ! — Do you

know, you fine fellow you, that you're only,

after all, a confounded woolly-headed brown

mulatto ? You are, sir ! you are, I tell you !

Look at your hands, you damned nigger,

look at your hands, 1 say, if ever you doubt it.'

VOL. III. G

Harry Noel's proud lip curled contemptuously
as he pushed the half-tipsy planter
aside with his elbow, and began to stride
angrily away towards the moonlit shrubbery.
I dare say I am,' he answered coolly, for he
was always truthful, and it flashed across his
mind in the space of a second that Tom
Dupuy was very possibly right enough. ' But
if I am, my good fellow, I will no longer inflict
my company, I tell you, upon persons who, I
see, are evidently so little desirous of sharing
it any further.'

Yes, yes,' Tom Dupuy exclaimed madly,
planting himself once more like a fool in front
of the angry and retreating Englishman, 'he's
a brown man, a mulatto, a coloured fellow,
gentlemen, own cousin of that infernal nigger
scamp, Isaac Pourtales, whose woolly head I'd
like to knock this minute against his own

woolly head, the insolent upstart ! Why,
gentlemen, do you know who his mother was ?
Do you know who this fine Lady Noel was
that he wants to come over us with ? She
was nothing better, I swear to you solemnly,
than a common brown wench over in
Barbadoes ! '

Harry Noel's face grew livid purple with
that foul insult, as he leapt like a wild beast at
the roaring West Lilian, and with one fierce
blow in the centre of his chest, sent him reeling
backward upon the floor at his feet like a
senseless lump of dead matter. ' Hound and
cur ! how dare you ? ' he hissed out hoarsely,
placing the tip of his foot contemptuously
on the fallen planter's crumpled shirt-front.
How dare you ? — how dare you ? Say what
you will of me, myself, you miserable blackguard
— but my mother ! my mother ' And

e 2

then suddenly recollecting himself, with a
profound how to the astonished company, he
hurried out, hatless and hot, on to the
darkling shrubbery, casting the dust of
Orange Grove off his feet half instinctively
behind him as he went.

Next moment a soft voice sounded low
beside him, to his intense astonishment. Ashe
strode alone across the dark lawn, Nora
Dupuy, who had seen the whole incident from
the neighbouring shrubbery, glided out to his
side from the shadow of the star-apple tree and
whispered a few words earnestly in his ear.
Harry Noel, still white with passion and
trembling in every muscle like a hunted
animal, could not but stop and listen to them
eagerly even in that supreme moment of righteous
indignation. ' Thank you, Mr. Noel,'
she said simply — ' thank you, thank you ! '

CHAPTER Xxxi

The gentlemen in the dining-room stood
looking at one another in blank dismay fora
few seconds, and then Dr. Macfarlane broke
the breathless silence by saying out loud,
with his broad Scotch bluntness : ' Ye're a
fool, Tom Diipuy — a vera fine fool, ye are,
of the first water ; and I'm not sorry the
young Englishman knocked ye toon and
gave ye a lesson, for speaking ill against his
own mother.'

Where has he gone ? ' Dick Castello, the
Governor's aide-de-camp, asked quickly, as
Tom picked himself up with a sheepish.

awkward, drunken look. ' He can't sleep
here to-night now, you know, and he'll have
to sleep somewhere or other, Macfarlane,

won't he ? '

Eun after him,' the doctor said, ' and
tak' him to your own house, I tell ye. Not
one of these precious Treenidad folk's stir
hand or sute to befriend him anyhow, now
they've once been told he's a pair brown
body.'

Dick Castello took up his hat and ran
as fast as he could go after Harry ISToel. He
caught him up, breathless, half-way down
to the gate of the estate ; for Harry, though
he had gone off hurriedly without hat or
coat, was walking alone down the main road
coolly enough now, trying to look and feel
within himself as though nothing at all
unusual in any way had happened.

Where are you going to, Noel ? ' Dick
Castello asked, in a friendly voice. — ' By
Jove ! I'm jolly glad you knocked that fellow
down, and tried to teach him a little manners,
though he is old Dupuy's nephew. But of
course you can't stop there to-night. What
do you mean now to do with yourself '

I shall go to Hawthorn's,' Harry
answered quietly.

Better not go there,' Dick Castello
urged, taking him gently by the shoulder.
If you do, you know, it'll look as if you
wanted to give a handle to Tom Dupuy and
break openly with the whole lot of them.
Tom Dupuy insulted you abominably, and
you couldn't have done anything else but
knock him down, of course, my dear fellow ;
and he needed it jolly well, too, we all know
perfectly. But don't let it seem as if you

wore going to quarrel with the whole lot
of us. Come home to my house now at
Savannah Garden. I'll walk straight over
there with you and have a room got ready
for you at once ; and then I'll go back to
Orange Grove for Mrs. Castel, and bring
across as much of your luggage as I can in
my carriage, at least as much as you'll need
for the present.'

'Very well, Captain Castel,' Harry 1S>oq\
answered submissively. ' It's very kind of
you to take me in. I'll go with you ; you
know best about it. But hang it all, you
know, upon my word I expect the fellow may
have been telling the truth after all, and
I dare say I really am what these fools of
Trinidad people call a brown man. Did ever
you hear such infernal nonsense ? Calling mea
brown man ! As if it ever mattered twopence

to any sensible person whether a man
was black, brown, white, or yellow, as long
as he's not such a confounded cad and boor
as that roaring tipsy lout of a young Dupuy
fellow ! '

So Harry Noel went that Tuesday night
to Captain Castello's at Savannah Garden, and
slept, or rather lay awake, there till Wednesday
morning — the morning of the day set
aside by Louis Delgado and Isaac Pourtales
for their great rising and general massacre.

As for Nora, she went up to her own
boudoir as soon as the guests had gone —
they didn't stay long after this awkward
occurrence — and threw herself down once
more on the big sofa, and cried as if her heart
would burst for very anguish and humiliation.


He had knocked down Tom Dupuy.

That was a good thing as far as it went !
For that at least, if for nothing else, Nora
was duly grateful to him. But had she gone
too far in thanking him ? Would he accept
it as a proof that she meant him to reopen
the closed question between them ? Nora
hoped not, for that — that at any rate was
now finally settled. She could never, never,
never marry a brown man ! And yet, how
much nicer and bolder he was than all the
other men she saw around her ! Nora liked
him even for his faults. That proud, frank,
passionate Noel temperament of his, which
many girls would have regarded with some
fear and no little misgiving, exactly suited
her West Indian prejudices and her West
Indian ideal. His faults were the faults of a
proud aristocracy ; and it was entirely as a
member of a proud aristocracy herself that

Nora Dupiiy lived and moved and had her
being. A man like Edward Hawthorn she
could like and respect ; but a man like Harry-noel
she could admire and love — if he were
only not a brown man ! What a terrible
cross arrangement of fate that the one man
who seemed otherwise exactly to suit her
girlish ideal, should happen to belong
remotely to the one race between which
and her own there existed in her mind forever
and ever an absolutely fixed and irremovable
barrier !

So Nora, too, lay awake all night ; and all
night long; she thought but of one elinor and

ODD D

one person — the solitary man she could
never, never, never, conceivably marry.

And Harry, for his part, thinking to
himself, on his tumbled pillow, at Savannah
Garden, said to his own heart over and over

and over ao-ain : ' I shall love her for ever ; I

can never while I live leave off loving her.

But after what occurred yesterday and last

night, I mustn't dream for worlds of asking

her a third time. I know now what it was

she meant when she spoke about the barrier

between us. Poor girl ! how very wild of

her ! How strange that she should think

in her own soul a Dupuy of Trinidad superior

in position to one of the ancient Lincolnshire

Noels!'

For pride always sees everything from its

own point of view alone, and never for a

moment succeeds in engaging to itself the

pride of others as being equally reasonable

and natural with its own.



CHAPTEE XXXV.

Twilight, the beautiful serene tropical twilight,
was just gathering on Wednesday evening,
when the negroes of all the surrounding-country,
fresh from their daily work in the
cane-pieces, with cutlasses and sticks and
cudgels in their hands, began to assemble
silently around Louis Delgado's hut, in the
bend of the mountains beside the great clump
of feathery cabbage-palms. A terrible motley
crowd they looked, bareheaded and bare of
foot, many of them with their powerful black
arms wholly naked, and thrust loosely through
the wide sleeve-holes of the coarse sack-like

shirt which, with a pair of ragged trousers,
formed their sole bodily covering. Most of
the malcontents were men, young and old,
sturdy and feeble ; but among them there
were not a few fierce-looking girls and women,
plantation hands of the wildest and most unkempt
sort, carelessly dressed in short ragged
filthy kirtles, that reached only to the knee,
and with their woolly hair tangled and matted
with dust and dirt, instead of being covered
with the comely and becoming bandana turban
of the more civilised and decent household
negresses. These women carried ■ cutlasses
too, the ordinary agricultural implement
of all sugar-growing tropical countries ; and
one had but to glance at their stalwart black
arms or their powerful naked legs and feet, as
well as at their cruel laughing faces, to see
in a moment that, if need were, they could

wield their blunt but heavy weapons fully as
effectively and as ruthlessly in their own
way as the resolute vengeful men themselves.
So wholly annexed were they, indeed, by
brutal field labour and brutal affections, that
it was hard to look upon them closely for a
minute and believe them to be really and
truly women.

The conspirators assembled silently, it is
true, so far as silence under such circumstances
is ever possible to the noisy demonstrative
negro nature ; but in spite of the
evident effort which every man made at self-restraint,
there was a low under-current of
whispered talk, accompanied by the usual
running commentary of grimaces and gesticulations,
which made a buzz or murmur hum
ceaselessly through the whole crowd of five or
six hundred armed semi-savages. Now and

again, the women especially, looking down
with delightful anticipation at their newly-whetted
cutlasses, would break out into hoarse
ungovernable laughter, as they thought to
themselves of the proud white throats they
were going to cut that memorable evening,
and the dying cries of the little white
pickaxes they were going to massacre in
their flounced and embroidered lace bassi-nettles.


It warm me heart, Mistah Delgado, sal,'
one white-haired, tottering, venerable old
negro mumbled out slowly with a pleasant
smile, ' to see so many good neighbour all
come toofedder again for kill de buckra. It
long since I see fine gathering like dis. I mind
de time, sal, in slavery day, when I was
young man, just begin for to make hub to de
le-ladies, how we rise all tos^edder under John

Trelawney down at Star-Apple Bottom, go
hunt the white folk in the great insurrection.
Ha, clem was times, sal — dem was times, I
tellin' you de true', me free', in de great insurrection.
We beat de goomba drum, we go upto
Mistah Pourtales — same what flog me
murder so unmerciful dat the buckra judges
even fine him — an' we catch de massa himself,
an' we beat him dead wit stick an' cutlass.
Ha, ha, dem Alas times, sal. Den we catch
de young le-ladies, an' we hack dem all to
pieces, an' we burn de bodies. Den we go onto
odder house, take all de buckra we
find, shoot some, roast some same we roast
pig, an' burn some in dear own houses. Dem
was times, sal — dem was times. I don't
repose naygur now will do like we do when I
is young man. But dis is good meeting, fine
meeting : we cry " Colour for colour."

VOL. Ill, H

Biickra country for us," an' de Lard prosper

us in de work we hab in hand ! Hallelujah ! '
One of the women stood listening eagerly

to this thrilling recital of early exploits, and
asked him in a hushed voice of the interest
interest : ' An' what de end ob it all, Mistah
Corolla ? What come ob it ? How j^ou no
get buckra house, den, for yourself lib in ? '

The old man shook his head mournfully,
as he answered with a meditative sigh : ' Ah,
buckra too strong for us — too strong for
us altogether! come upon us too many.
Colonel Macgregor, him come wit plenty big
army, gun an' bay 'net, an' shoot us down, an'
charge us riding' ; so we all frightened, an'
run away hide in de' bush right up in de
mountains. Den dem brinfi; Cuban bloodhound,
hunt us out ; an' dem hab court-martial,
an' dem sit on Trelawney, an' dem

hang him, hang hin dead, de buckra. An'
dem hang plenty. We kill twenty — twenty-two
— twenty-four buckra ; an' buckra kill
hundred an' eighty poor naygur, so make
tings even. For one buckra, dem kill ten,
fifteen, twenty naygur. But my master hide
me till martial law blow over, because I is
strong, hearty young naygur, an' can work
well for him down in cane-piece. Him say :
Don't must kill valuable property ! " An' I
get off dat way. So dat de end ob John
Trelawney him rebellion.'

If the poor soul could only have known it,
he might have added with perfect truth that
it was the end of every other negro rebellion
too ; the white oppressor is always too strong
for them. But hope springs eternal in the
black breast as in all others, and it was with
a placid smile of utter oblivion that he added

H 2

next minute : ' But we don't wine to be
beaten dis time. We too strong ourselves now
for de soldier an' de buckra. Delgado make
tings all snug ; buy pistol, drill naygur, plan
battle, till we sure ob de victory. De Lard
wit us, an' Delgado him servant.'

At that moment, Louis Delgado himself
stepped forward, erect and firm, with the unmistakable
air of a born commander, and said
a few words in a clear low earnest voice to
the ease mob of armed rioters. ' Me free's,'
he said, ' you must obey orders. Go quiet,
an' make no noise till you get to de buckra
houses. Don't turn aside for de rum or de
trash-houses ; we - get plenty rum for ourselves,
I tellin' you, when we done killed
all de buckra. Don't set fire to de house
anywhere ; only kill de male white folk ; we
want house to lib in ourselves, when de war

over. Don't burn che factories ; we want
factory for make sugar ourselves when de
buckra driven altogether clean out ob the
country. Don't light fire at all ; if you
light fire, de soldiers in Port-ob-Spain see de
blaze directly, an' come up an' fight us hard,
before we get together enough black men to
make sure ob de glorious victory. Nebber
mind de buckra le-lady ; we can get dem
when we want dem. Kill, kill, kill ! dat is de
watchword. Kill, kill, kill de buckra, an' de
Lard deliver de rest into the hands ob his
chosen people.' As he spoke, he raised his
two black hands, palm upwards, in the attitude
of earnest supplication, towards the darkening
heaven, and flung his head fervently ]backward,
with the whites of his big eyes rolling
horribly, in his unspoken prayer to the God
of battles.

The negroes around, cau^lit with the
contagious enthusiasm of Del-ado's voice and
mutely eloquent gesture, flung up their own
dusky hands, cutlasses and all, with the selfsame
wild and expressive pantomime, and
cried aloud, in a scarcely stifled undertone :
De Lard deliver dem, de Lard deliver
dem to Louis Delgado.'

The old African teased around him
complacently for a second at the goodly
muster of armed followers, to the picked men
among whom Isaac Pourtales was already
busily distributing the pistols and the
cartridges. ' Are you ready, me free's ? ' he
asked again, after a short pause. And, like a
deep murmur, the answer rang unanimously
from that great tumultuous black mass ;
Praise de Lard, sal, we ready, we ready ! '

Den march ! ' Delgado cried, in the loud



tone of a commanding officer ; and suiting the
action to the word, the whole mob turned
after him silently, along the winding path
that led down by tortuous twists from the
clump of cabbage-palms to the big barn-ike
Orange Grove trash-houses.

With their naked feet and their cat-like
tread, the negroes marched along far more
silently than white men could ever have done,
towards the faint lights that gleamed fitfully
beyond the gully. If possible, Delgado would
have preferred to lead them straight to
Orange Grove House, for his resentment
burnt fiercest of all against the Dupuy family,
and he wished at least, whatever else happened,
to make sure of massacring that one
single obnoxious household. But it was
absolutely necessary to turn first to the trash-houses
and the factory, for rumours of some

impending trouble had already vaguely
reached the local authorities. The two
constables of the district stood there on
guard, and the few faithful and trustworthy
plantation hands were with them there, in
spite of Mr. Dupuy's undisguised ridicule, half
expecting an insurgent attack that very
evenings. It would never do to leave the
enemy thus in the rear, ready either to attack
them from behind, or to bear down the news
and seek for aid at Port-of-Spain. Delgado's
plan was therefore to carry each plantation
entire as he went, without allowing time to
the well-affected negroes to give the alarm to
the whites in the next one. But he feared
greatly the perils and temptations of the
factory for his unruly army. 'Whatever
else you do, me free's,' the old African
muttered more than once, turning round

beseechingly to this ragged black followers,
don't drink de new rum, an' don't set fire
to de buckra trash-houses.'

At the foot of the little knoll under whose
base the trash-houses lay, they came suddenly
upon one of the faithful field-hands, Napoleon
Floreal, whose fidelity Delgado had already
in vain attempted with his rude persuasions.
The negroes singled him out at once for their
first vengeance. Before the man could raise
so much as a sharp shout, Isaac Pourtales had
seized him from behind and gagged his mouth
with a loose bandana. Two of the other
men, quick as lightning, snatched his arms, and
held them bent back in a very painful attitude
behind his shoulders. ' If you is wit
us,' Delgado said, in a hoarse whisper, ' lift
your right foot, fellah.' Floreal kept both
feet pressed doggedly down with negro

courage upon the ground. ' Him is traitor,
traitor ! ' Pourtales muttered, between his
clenched teeth. ' Him hab black skin, but
white heart. Kill him, kill him ! '

In a second, a dozen angry negroes had
darted forward, with their savage cutlasses
brandished aloft in the air, ready to hack
their offending fellow-countryman into a
thousand pieces. ' Cut out him heart,' cried
one fiercely, ' an' let me eat it ! ' But
Delgado, his black hands held up with a
warning air before them, thundered out in a
tone of bitter indignation : ' Don't kill him !
don't kill him ! My children, kill in good
order. Dar is plenty buckra for you to kill,
without want to kill your own rudder. Tie
de handkerchief around him shout', bind rope
around him arm an' leg, an' trow him down
de gully yonder among de cactus'jungle ! '

Even as he spoke, one of the men produced
a piece of stout rope from his pocket,
brought for the very purpose of tying the
prisoners,' and proceeded to wind it tightly
around Floreal's body. They fastened it well
round arms and legs ; stuffed the bandana
firmly down his throat, so as to check all
his futile attempts at shouting, and rolled him
over the slight bank of earth, down among
the thick scrub of prickly cactus. Then, as
the blood spurted out of the small wounds
made by the sharp thorns, they gave a sudden
low yell, and burst in a body upon the
guardians of the trash-houses.

Before the two black policemen had time
to know what was actually happening, they
found themselves similarly gagged and bound,
and tossed down beside Napoleon Floreal on
the prickly cactus bed. In a minute, the

insurgents had surrounded the trash-houses,
cut down and taken prisoners the few
faithful negroes, and marched them along
unwillingly in their own body, as hostages
for the better behaviour of the Orange Grove
house-servants.

Now, me free's,' Delgado shouted, with
fierce energy, ' down wit de Dupuys ! We
wine to humble de proud white man ! We
must hab blood ! De Lard is wit us ! He
hat' put down de mighty from dear seats, an'
hat' exalted de lowly an' meek ! '

But as he spoke, one or two of the
heaviest-looking among the rioters began to
cast their longing eyes upon the encroached
hogsheads. ' De rum, de rum ! ' one of them
cried hoarsely. ' We want muffin for keep our
courage up. Little drop o' rum help naygur
man well to humble de buckra.'

Delgado rushed forward and placed
himself resolutely, pistol in hand, before the
seductive hogsheads. ' Whoever drink a
drop ob dat rum dis blessed evening,' he
hissed out angrily, ' before all de Dupuys is
lying' cold in dear own houses, as sure as de
gospel I shoot him dead here wit dis very
pistol ! '

But the foremost rioters only laughed
louder than before, and one of them even
wrenched the pistol suddenly from his leader's
grasp with an unexpected side movement.
Look hear, Mistah Delgado,' the man said
quietly ; ' dis risen' is all our risen', an' we
has got to hab voice ourselves in de particular
way we wine to manage him. We
don't wine away without de rum, an' we
wine to break just one little pickaxe hogshead.'
At the word, he raised his cutlass

above this head, and lunging forward with it
like a savor, with all his force, stove in one
of the thick cross-pieces at the top of the
barrel, and let the precious liquor dribble
out slowly from the chink in a small but
continuous tricking stream. Next momenta
dozen black hands were held down to the
silent rill like little cups, and a dozen dusky
mouths were drinking down the hot new
rum, neat and unalloyed, with fierce grimaces
of the highest crust. ' Ha, dat good ! '
ran round the chorus in thirsty approbation
: ' dat warm de naygur's heart.
Us wine now to kill de buckra in true
earnest.'

Delgado stood by, mad with rage and
disappointment, as he saw his followers., one
after another, scrambling for handful after
handful of the fiery liquor, and watched some

of them, the women especially, reeling about
foolishly almost at once from the poisonous
fumes of the unrefined spirit. He felt in his
heart that his chances were slipping rapidly
from him, even before the insurrection was
well begun, and that it would be impossible
for a crowd of half-drunken negroes to preserve
the order and discipline which alone
would enable them to cope with the all-puissant
and regularly drilled white men.
But the more he stormed and swore and
raved at them, the more did the greedy and
uncontrolled negroes, now revelling; in the
unstinted supply, hold their hands to the
undiminished stream, and drink it off by
palmfuls with still deeper grunts and groans
of internal satisfaction. ' If it don't no hope
ob conquer de island,' the African muttered
at last with a wild Guinea oath to Isaac

Pourtales, ' at any rate we lias time to kill de
Dupuys — an' dat always some satisfaction.'

The men were now thoroughly inflamed
with the hot new rum, and more than one of
them began to cry aloud ; ' It time to get to
de recf'lar business.' But a few still ling-red
lovingly around the dripping hogshead,
catching double handfuls of the fresh spirit
in their capacious palms. Presently, one of
the women, mad with drink, drew out a short
pipe from her filthy pocket and began to fill
it to the top with raw tobacco. As she did
so, she turned tipsy to a man by her side and
asked him for a light. The fellow took a
match in his unsteady fingers and struck it
on a wooden post, flinging it away when done
with among a few small scraps of dry trash
that lay by accident upon the ground close
by. Trash is the desiccated refuse of cane

from which the juice has been akeady extracted,
and it is ordinarily used as a convenient
fuel to feed the crushing-mills and
boil the molasses. Dry as tinder, it lighted
up with a flare instantaneously, and raised a
crackling blaze, whose ruddy glow pleased
and delighted the childish minds of the half-drunken
negroes. ' How him burn ! ' the
woman with the pipe cried excitedly.
Sposin' we set fire to de trash-house ! My
heart, how him blaze den ! Him light up
all de mountains ! Burn de trash-house !
Burn de trash-house ! Dat pretty for true !
Burn de trash-house ! '

Quick as lightning, the gipsies rioters had
idly kicked the burning ends of loose trash
among the great stacked heaps of dry cane
under the big sheds ; and in one second,
before Delgado could even strive in vain to

VOL. III. I

exert his feeble authority, the whole mass had
flashed into a single huge sheet of flame,
rising fiercely into the evening sky, and
reddening with its glow the peaks around,
like the lurid glare of a huge volcano. As
the flames darted higher and ever higher,
licking up the leaves and stalks as they went,
the negroes, now fairly loosed from ail
restraint, leaped and shrieked wildly around
them — some of them half-drunk, others absolutely
reeling, and all laughing loud with
hideous, wild, unearthly laughter, in their
devilish, murderous merriment. Delgado
alone saw with horror that his great scheme
of liberation was being fast rendered ultimately
hopeless, and could only now concentrate
his attention upon his minor plan of
personal vengeance against the Dupuy family.
Port-of- Spain would be fairly roused by the

blaze in half an hour, but at least there was
time to murder outright the one offends
Orange Grove household.

For a few minutes, helpless and resourceless,
he allowed the half-tipsy excited creatures
to dance madly around the flaring fire,
and to leap and gesticulate with African
ferocity in the red glare of the rapidly
burning trash-house. ' Let dem wear out de
rum,' he cried bitterly to Pourtales : ' de heat
help to sweat it out ob dem. But in a minute,
de Dupuys wine to be down upon us wit de
constables an' de soldiers, if dem don't make
haste to kill dem beforehand.'

Soon the drunken rioters themselves began
to remember that burning trash-houses and
stealing rum was not the only form of amusement
they had proposed to themselves for
that evening's entertainment. ' Kill de

I 2

buckra ! — kill de biickra ! ' more than one of
them now yelled out fiercely at the top of
his voice, brandishing his cutlass. ' Buckra
country for us ! Colour for colour ! Kill
dem all ! Kill de buckra ! '

Delgado seized at once upon the slender
opportunity. ' Me free's,' he shrieked aloud,
raising his palms once more imploringly to
heaven, ' kill dem, kill dem ! Follow me !
Hallelujah ! I wine to lead you to kill de
buckra ! '

Most of the negroes, recalled to duty by
the old African's angry voice, now fell once
more into their rude marching order ; but
one or two of them, and those the gipsies,
began to turn back wistfully in the direction
of the little pool of new rum that lay
sparkling in the glare like molten gold in
front of the still running hogshead. Louis

Delgado looked at them with the fierce contempt
of a strong mind for such incomprehensible
vacillating weakness. Wrenching
his pistol once more from the tipsy grasp of
the man who had first seized it, he pointed it
in a threatening attitude at the head of the
foremost ncOTO among? the recalcitrant
drunkards. ' Dis time I tellin' you true,' he
cried fiercely, in a tone of unmistakable wrath
and firmness, ' De first man dat take a
single step nearer dat infernal liquor, so help
me Grot, I blow his brains out ! '

Reckless with drink, and unable to believe
in his leader's firmness, the foremost man
took a step or two, laughing a drunken
laugh meanwhile, in the forbidden direction,
and then turned round again, grinning like
a baboon, towards Louis Delgado.

He had better have trifled with an angry

tiger. The fierce old African did not hesitate
or palter for a single second ; pulling the
trigger, he fired straight at the grinning face
of the drunken renegade. The shot rang
sharp and clear against the fellow's teeth, and
passed downward through the back of his
head, killing him instantaneously. He fell
like a log in the pool of new rum, and
reddened the stream even as they looked
with the quick flow of crimson blood from the
mangled arteries.

Delgado himself hardly paused a second
to glance contemptuously at the fallen
recalcitrant. ' Now, me free's,' he cried
firmly, kicking the corpse in his wrath, and
with his eyes twitching in a terrible fashion,
whoever else disobeys orders, I wine to
shoot him dead dat very minute, same as I
shoot dat good-for-nuffin disobedient naygur

car ! We has got to kill de biickra tonight,
an' ebbery man ob you must follow
me now to kill dem 'mediately. De Lard
deliver dem into our hand! Follow me, an'
colour for colour ! '

At the word, the last recal cit rants, awed
into sobriety for the moment by the sudden
and ghastly death of their companion, turned
trembling to their place in the rude ranks,
and began once more to march on in serried
order after Louis Delgado. And with one
voice, the tumultuous rabble, putting itself
again in rapid motion towards Orange Grove,
shrieked aloud once more the terrible watchwords
: ' Colour for colour ! Kill de
buckra ! '

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

Mr. Dupuy was seated quietly at dinner in
his own dining-room, with Nora at the opposite
end of the table, and Uncle 'Zekiel, the
butler, in red plush waistcoat as usual, standing
solemnly behind his chair. Mr. Dupuy
was in excellent spirits that evening, in spite
of the little affair last night, for the cane had
cut very heavy, and the boiling was progressing
in the most admirable manner. He sipped
his glass of St. Edition (as imported) with the
slow, easy air of a person at peace with himself
and with all creation. The world at
large seemed just that moment to suit him

excellently. ' Nora, my dear,' he drawled out
lazily, with the unctuous deliberateness of the
full-blooded man well-fed, ' this is a capital
pine-apple certainly — a Ripley, I perceive ;
far superior in flavour, Ripley, to the cheap
common black sugar-pines : always insist
upon getting Ripley. — I think, if you
please, I'll take another piece of that pineapple.'


Nora cut him a good thick slice from
the centre of the fruit — it is only in England
that people commit the vulgarian atrocity of
cutting pine in thin layers — and laid down
the knife with a stifled yawn upon the tall
dessert dish. She was evidently bored — very
deeply bored indeed. Orange Grove without
Harry Noel began to seem a trifle dull ; and
it must be confessed that to live for months
together with an old gentleman of Mr. Dupuy's

sluggish temperament was scarcely a lively
mode of life for a pretty, volatile, laughter-loving
girl of twenty, like little Nora.
What's this, papa,' she asked languidly, just
by way of keeping up the conversation,
about the negroes here in Westmoreland
being so dreadfully discontented ? Somebody
was telling me ' — Nora prudently suppressed
Marian Hawthorn's name, for fear of an explosion
— ' that there's a great deal of stir and
ferment among the plantation hands. What
are they bothering and worrying about now,
I wonder ? '

Mr. Dupuy rolled the remainder of his
glassful of claret on his discriminative palate,
very reflectively, for half a minute or so, and
then answered in his most leisurely fashion :
Lies, lies — a pack of lies, the whole lot of
it, Nora. I know who you heard that from.

tliougli you won't tell me so. You heard it
from some of your fine coloured friends
there, over at Mulberry. — Now, don't deny
it, for I won't believe you. When I say a
thing, you know I mean it. You heard it, I
say, from some of these wretched, disaffected
coloured people. And there isn't a word of
truth in the whole story — not a syllable — nota
shadow — not a grain — not a penumbra.
Absolute falsehood, the entire lot of it, got up
by these designing radical coloured people,
on purpose to serve their own private purposes.
I assure j^ou, Nora, there isn't in the
whole world a finer, better paid, better fed
better treated, or more happy and contented
peasantry than our own comfortable West
Indian negroes. For my part, I can't conceive
what on earth they've ever got to be
discontented about.'

But, papa, they do say there's a great
chance of a regular rising.'

Rising, my dear ! — rising ! Did you say
a rising ? Ho, ho ! that's really too ridiculous
! What, these niggers rise in revolt
against the white people ! Why, my dear
child, they'd never dare to do it. A pack of
cowardly, miserable, quaking and quavering
nigger blackguards. Else, indeed ! I'd like
to see them try it ! no ; nothing of the
sort. Somebody's been imposing on you.
They're a precious sight too afraid of us, ever
to think of venturing upon a regular rising.
Show me a nigger, I always say to anybody
who talks that sort of precious nonsense tome,
and I'll show you an infernal coward,
and a thief too, and a Har, and a vagabond. —
'Zekiel, you rascal, pour me out another glass
of claret, sir, this minute, will you ! '

Uncle 'Zekiel poured out the claret for his
red-faced master with a countenance wholly
unclouded by this violent denunciation of his
own race ; to say the truth, the old butler
was too much accustomed to similar sentiments
from Mr. Dupuy's lips even to notice
particularly what his master was saying. He
smiled and grinned, and showed his own
white teeth good humoured as he laid down
the claret jug, exactly as though ]vir. Dupuy
had been ascribing to the African race in
general, and to himself in particular, all the
virtues and excellences ever observed in the
most abstractly perfect human character.

No,' Mr. Dupuy went on dogmatically,
they won't rise : a pack of mean-spirited,
cowardly, ignorant vagabonds as ever were
born, the niggers, the whole lot of them. I
never knew a nicfsfer yet who had a single

ounce of courage in him. You might walk
over them, and trample them down in heavy
riding-boots, and they wouldn't so much as
dare to raise a finger against you. And besides,
what the dickens have they got to rise
for ? Haven't they got everything they can
ever expect to have? Haven't they got their
freedom and their cottages ? But they're
always grumbling, always grumbling about
something or other — a set of idle, lazy,
discontented vagabonds as ever I set eyes
on!'

I thought you said just now,' Nora put
in with a provoking smile, ' they were the
finest, happiest, and most contented peasantry
to be found anywhere.'

There was nothing more annoying to Mr.
Dupuy than to have one of his frequent conversational
inconsistencies ruthlessly brought

home to him by his own daughter — the only
person in the Avhole world who would ever
have ventured upon taking such an unwarrantable
liberty. So he laid down his glass
of claret with a forced smile, and by way
of changing the subject, said unconcernedly :
Bless my soul, what on earth can all that
glare be over yonder ? Upon my word, now
I look at it, I fancy, Nora, it seems to come
from the direction of the trash-houses.'

Uncle 'Zekiel, standing up behind his
master's chair, and gazing outward, could see
more easily over the dining-table, and out
through the open doorway of the room,
to the hillside beyond, where the glare
came from. In a moment, he realised the
full meaning of the unwonted blaze, and cried
out sharply, in his shrill old tones : ' sal,
sail ! dfe augurs hab risen, an' dem burning'

de trasli-liGuses, dem burning' de trash-houses
! '

Mr. Dupiiy, aghast with righteous anger
and astonishment, could hardly believe his
own ears at this unparalleled piece of nigger
impertinence coming from so old a servant as
Uncle 'Zekiel. He turned round upon his
trusty butler slowly and solemnly, chair and
all, and with his two hands planted firmly on
his capacious knees, he said in his most awful
voice : ' 'Zekiel, I'm quite at a loss to understand
what you can mean by such conduct.
Didn't you hear me distinctly say to Miss
Nora this very minute that the niggers don't
rise, won't rise, can't rise, and never have
risen? How dare you, sir, how dare you
contradict me to my very face in this disgraceful,
unaccountable manner ? '

But Uncle 'Zekiel, quite convinced' in his

own mind of the correctness of his own
hasty inference, could only repeat, more and
more energetically every minute : 'It de
true' I telhn' you, sal ; it de true' I
tellin you. Naygur hab risen, running' an'
shouting', kicking' fire about, an' burning' de
trash-houses ! '

Mr. Dupuy rose from the table, pale but
incredulous. Nora jumped up, white and
terrified, but with a mute look of horror-struck
appeal to Uncle 'Zekiel. ' Don't you be
afraid, missy,' the old man whispered to her
in a loud undertone ; ' we fight all de naygur
in all Trinidad before we let dem hurt a single
hair ob your sweet, pretty, white little head,
dearie.'

At that moment, for the first time, a loud
shout burst suddenly upon their astonished
ears, a mingled tumultuous yell of ' Kill de

VOL. III. K

biickra — kill de biickra ! ' broken by deep
African guttural mumblings, and the crackling
noise of the wild flames among the dry
cane-refuse. It was the shout that the
negroes raised as Delgado called them back
from the untimely fire to their proper work
of bloodshed and massacre.

In her speechless terror, Nora flung herself
upon her father's arms, and gazed out
upon the ever-reddening glare beyond with
unspeakable alarm.

Next minute, the cry from without rose
again louder and louder : ' Buckra country
for us ! Kill de buckra ! Colour for colour !
Kill dem — kill dem ! ' And then, another
deep negro voice, clearer and shriller far than
all of them, broke the deathly stillness that
succeeded for a second, with the perfectly
audible and awful words : ' Follow me ! I

wine to lead you to kill de Dupiiys an' all
de buckra I '

'Zekiel ! ' Mr. Diipuy said, coming to
himself, and taking down his walking-stick
with that calm unshaken courage in which
the white West Indian has never been found
lacking in the hour of danger — ' 'Zekiel, come
with me I I must go out at once and quell
these rioters.'

Nora gazed at him in blank dismay.
Papa, papa ! ' she cried breathlessly, ' you're
not going out to them just with your stick,
are you ? You're not going out alone to all
these wretches without even so much as a
gun or a pistol ! '

'My dear,' Mr. Dupuy answered, coolly
and collectedly, disengaging himself from her
arms not without some quiet natural tenderness,
' don't be alarmed. You don't under

2

stand these people as well as I do. I'm a
magistrate for the county : they'll respect my
position. The moment I come near, they'll
all disperse and grow as mild as babies.'

And even as he spoke, the confused
shrieks of the women surged closer and closer
upon their ears : ' Kill dem — kill dem ! De
liquor — de liquor ! '

Ah ! I told you so,' Mr. Dupuy murmured,
half to himself, very complacently,
with a deep breath. ' Only a foolish set o
tipsy negresses, waking and rum-drinking,
and kicking about firebrands.'

For another second there was a slight
pause again, while one might count twenty ;
and then the report of a pistol rang out clear
and definite upon the startled air from the
direction of the flaring trash-houses. It wa

Delgado's pistol, shooting down the tipsy
recalcitrant.

This means business ! ' Mr. Dupuy ejaculated,
raising his voice, with a sidelong glance
at poor trembling Nora. — ' Come along
'Zekiel ; come along all of you. We must go
out at once and quiet them or disperse them,
Dick, Thomas, Melius, Eobert, Jo, Mark
Antony ! every one of you ! come along with
me, come along with me, and see to the trash-houses
before these tipsy wretches have
utterly destroyed them ! '

CHAPTER XXXVII.

Half-way down to the blazing trash-houses,
Mr. Dupuy and his Httle band of black allies,
all armed only with the sticks they had
hastily seized from the stand in the piazza,
came on a sudden face to face with the wild
and frantic mob of half tipsy rioters. ' Halt ! '
Mr. Dupuy called out in a cool and unmoved
tone of command to the reckless insurgents,
as they marched on in irregular order,
brandishing their cutlasses wildly in the
flickering firelight. ' You infernal blackguards,
what the devil are you doing here,
and what do you mean by firing and burning
my trash-houses ? '

By the ruddy light of the lurid blaze behind
him, Louis Delgado recognised at once
the familiar face of his dearest enemy. ' Me
free's,' he shrieked, in a loud outburst of
gratified vindictiveness, ' dis is him — dis is
him — dis de buckra Dupuy we come to kill
now ! De Lard has delivered him into our
hands without so much as gib us de trouble ob
go an' attack him,'

But before even Delgado could bringdown
with savage joy his uplifted weapon on
his hated enemy's bare head, Mr. Dupuy had
stepped boldly and energetically forward, and
catching the wiry African by his outstretched
arm, had cried aloud in his coolest and most
deliberate accents : ' Louis Delgado, put down
your cutlass. As a magistrate for this island,
I arrest you for riot.'

His resolute boldness was not without its

due effect. For just the swing of a pendulum
there was a profound silence, and that
great mob of strangely begged and rum-maddened
negroes held its breath irresolutely,
doubting in its own six hundred vacillating
souls which of the two things rather to do —
whether to yield as usual to the accustomed
authority of that one bold and solitary white
man, the accredited mouthpiece of law and
order, or else to rush forward madly and
hack him then and there into a thousand
pieces with African ferocity. So instinctive
in the West Indian negro's nature is the here-^
dietary respect for European blood, that even
though they had come there for the very purpose
of massacring and mutilating the defenceless
buckra, they stood appalled, now
the actual crisis had fairly arrived, at the
bare idea of venturing to dispute the question

openly with the one lone and unarmed white
man.

But Louis Delgado, African born that he
was, had no such lingering West Indian prejudices.
Disengaging his sinewy captive arm
from Mr. Dupuy's flabby grasp with a sudden
jerk, he lifted his cutlass once more high into
the air, and held it, glittering, for the twinkling
of an eye, above the old man's defenceless
head. One moment, Uncle 'Zekiel saw it
gleam fearfully in the red glare of the burning
trash-houses ; the next, it had fallen on
Mr. Dupuy's shoulder, and the blood was
spurting out in crimson splashes over his
white tie and open shirt-front, in which he
had risen but three minutes before so unsuspectingly
from his own dinner-table.

The old planter reeled terribly before the
violent force of that stao-frerinoj blow, but

kept his face turned bravely with undiminished
courage towards the exultant enemy.
At the sight of the gushing blood, however —
the proud buckra, blood, that shows so visibly
on the delicate white European skin — the negroes
behind set up a loud and horrid peal of
unearthly laughter, and rushed forward, all
their hesitation flung away at once, closing
round him in a thickly packed body — like a
bully at football — each eager not to lose his
own share in the delightful excitement of
hacking him to pieces. A dozen cutlasses
gleamed aloft at once in the bare black arms,
and a dozen more blows were aimed at the
wounded man fiercely by as many hideous,
grinning rioters.

Uncle 'Zekiel and the household negroes,
oblivious and almost unconscious of themselves,
as domestic servants of their race

always are in the presence of danger for their
master or his family, pressed around the reeling
white man in a serried ring, and with
their sticks and arms, a frail barrier, strove
manfully to resist the fierce onslaught of the
yelling and leaping plantation negroes. In
spite of what Mr. Dupuy had just been saying
about the negroes being all alike cowards, the
petty handful of faithful blacks, forming a
close and firm semicircle in front of their
wounded master, fought like wild beasts at
bay before their helpless whelps, with hands,
and arms, and legs, and teeth, and sticks, and
elbows, opposing stoutly, by fair means and
foul, the ever-pressing sea of wild rioters As
they fought, they kept yielding slowly but
cautiously before the steady pressure ; and
Mr. Dupuy, reeling and staggering he knew
not how, but with his face kept ever, like a

fighting Dupiiy, turned dauntlessly towards
the surging enemy, retreated slowly backward
step by step in the direction of his own
piazza. Just as he reached the bottom of the
steps, Uncle 'Zekiel meanwhile shielding and
protecting him manfully with his portly person,
a woman rushed forth from the mass
of the rioters, and with hideous shrieks of
Hallelujah, hallelujah ! ' hacked him once
more with her blunt cutlass upon the ribs
and body.

Mr. Dupuy, faint and feeble from loss of
blood, but still cool and collected as ever,
groped his way ever backward up the steps,
in a blind, reeling, failing fashion, and stood
at last at bay in the doorway of the piazza,
with his faithful bodyguard, wounded and
• bleeding freely like himself, still closing resolutely
around him.

This will do, 'Zekiel,' lie gasped out incoherently,
as he reached the top landing. ' In
the pass of the doorway. Stop them easily.
Fire rouse the military. Hold the house for
half an hour — help from the Governor.
Quick, quick ! give me the pistol.'

Even as he spoke, a small white hand,
delicate and bloodless, appearing suddenly
from the room behind him, placed his little
revolver, cocked and loaded, between the
trembling fingers of his left hand, for the
right lay already hacked and useless, hanging
idly by his side in limp helplessness.

Nora, my dear,' the old man sobbed out
in a half articulate gurgling voice, ' go back —
go back this moment to the boudoir. Back
garden ; slip away quietly — no place for you.
Orange Grove, this evening. Slight trouble
with the plantation blacks. Quell the rioters.

Close up, 'Zekiel. — Close up, Dick, Thomas,
Jo, Eobert, Melius, Mark Antony ! ' And
with a quivering hand, standing there alone
in the narrow doorway, while the mob below
swarmed and pressed up the piazza steps in
wild confusion, the wounded planter fired the
revolver, with no definite aim, blank into the
surging midst of the mob, and let his left hand
drop as he did so, white and fainting by his
side, with his vain endeavour.

The bullet had hit one of the nero
women full in the thigh, and it only served
still further to madden and enrage the
clamouring mob, now frantically thirsty for
the buckra blood.

'Him wounded Hannah — him wounded
Hannah ! ' the negroes yelled in their buzzing
indignation ; and at the word, they rushed
forward once more with mad gesticulations,

those behind pushing those in front against
the weak yielding wall of Orange Grove
servants, and all menacing horribly with
their blood-reddened cutlasses, as they
shrieked aloud frantically : ' Kill him — kill
him ! '

The servants still held firm with undaunted
courage, and rallied bravely round
their tottering master ; but the onslaught
was now far too fierce for them, and one by
one they were thrust back helpless by the
raging mob, who nevertheless abstained sofar
as possible from hurting any one of them,
aiming all their blows directly at the detested
white man himself alone. If by chance at
any moment a cutlass came down unintentionally
upon the broad backs of the negro
defenders, a cry arose at once from the
women in the rear of ' Don't hit him — don't

hit him. Him me rudder. Colour for
colour ! Kill de buckra ! Hallelujah ! '

And all this time, Nora Dupuy looked on
from behind, holdings her bloodless hands
clasped downward in mute agony, not so
much afraid as expectant, with Aunt Clemmy
and the women-servants holding her and
comforting her with well-meant negro consolation,
under the heavy mahogany arch of
the dining-room doorway.

At last, Delgado, standing now on the
topmost step, and half within the area of the
piazza, aimed one terrible slashing cut at the
old planter, as he stood supporting himself
feebly by a piece of the woodwork, and
hacked him down, a heavy mass, upon the
ground before them with a wild African cry
of vengeance. The poor old man fell, insensible,
in a little pool of his own blood ; and

the Orange Grove negroes, giving way finally
before the irresistible press of their overwhelming
opponents, left him there alone,
surrounded on every side by the frantic mob
of enraged insurgents.

Nora, clasping her hands tighter than
ever, and immovable as a statue, stood there
still, without uttering a cry or speaking a
word — as cold and white and motionless as
marble.

Hack him to pieces ! ' ' Cut out his
heart ! ' ' Him don't dead yet ! ' ' Him only
fainting' ! ' ' Burn him — burn him ! ' A
chorus of cries rose incoherently from the six
hundred hips of the victorious negroes. And
as they shouted, they mangled and mutilated
the old man's body with their blunt cutlasses
in a way perfectly hideous to look at ; the
women especially crowding round to do their

VOL III. L

best at kicking and insulting their fallen
enemy.

Tank de Lard — tank de Lard ! ' Delgado,
now drunk with blood, shouted out fiercely
to his frenzied followers, ' We done killed
de ole man. Now we wine to kill de
mij^y V

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

Even as Delgado stood there still on the steps
of the piazza, waving his blood-stained cutlass
fiercely about his head, and setting his foot
contemptuously on Mr. Dupuy's prostrate and
bleeding body, Harry Noel tore up the path
that led from Dick Castello's house at Savannah
Garden, and halted suddenly in blank amazement
in front of the doorway — Harry Noel,
in evening dress, hatless and spotless ; just ashe
had risen in horror from his dinner, and
riding his new mare without even a saddle,
in his hot haste to see the cause of the
unexpected tumult at the Dupuys' estate.

L 2

The fierce red glare of the burning cane-houses
had roused hmi unawares at Savannah
Garden in the midst of his coffee ; and the
cries of the negroes and the sound of pistol-shots
had cast him into a frantic fever of
anxiety for Nora's safety, ' The niggers have
risen, by Jove ! ' Dick Castello cried aloud, as
the flames rose higher and hither above the
blazing cane-houses. ' They must be attacking
old Dupuy ; and if once their blood's up,
you may take your oath upon it, Noel, they
won't leave him until they've fairly murdered
him.'

Harry Noel didn't wait a moment to hear
any further conjectures of his host's on the
subject, but darting round to the stables
bareheaded, clapped a bit forthwith into his
mare's mouth, jumped on her back just as
she stood, in a perfect frenzy of fear and

excitement, and tore along the narrow winding
road that led by tortuous stretches to Orange
Grove, as fast as his frightened horse's legs
could possibly carry him.

As he leaped eagerly from his mount to
the ground in the midst of all that hideous
din and uproar and mingled confusion,
Delgado was just calling on his fellow-blacks
to follow him boldly into the house and to
Kill de missy ; ' and the Orange Grove
negroes, cowed and terrified now that their
master had fallen bodily before them, were
beginning to drop back, trembling, into the
rooms behind, and allow the frantic and
triumphant rioters to have their own way
unmolested. In a moment, Harry took in the
full terror of the scene — saw Mr. Dupuy's
body lying, a mass of hacked and bleeding
wounds, upon the wooden floor of the front

piazza ; saw the infuriated negroes pressing on
eagerly with their cutlasses Hated aloft, now
fairly drunk with the first taste of buckra
blood ; and Delgado in front of them all,
leaping wildly, and gesticulating in frantic
rage with all his arms and hands and fingers,
as he drove back the terrified servants through
the heavy old mahogany doorway of the great
drawing-room into the room that opened out
behind towards Nora's own little sacred
boudoir.

Harry had no weapon of any sort with
him except the frail riding-whip he carried in
his hand ; but without waiting for a second,
without thinking for one instant of the
surrounding danger, he rushed frantically up
the piazza steps, pushed the astonished rioters
to right and left with his powerful arms,
jumped over the senseless planter's prostrate

body, swept past Delgado into the narrow
doorway, and there stood confronting the
savage ringleader boldly, his little riding-whip
raised high above his proud head with a fierce
and threatening angry gesture. ' Stop there ! '
he cried, in a voice of stern command, that
even in that supreme moment of passion and
triumph had its full effect upon the enraged
negroes, * Stop there, you mean-spirited
villains and murderers ! Not a step farther
not a step farther, I tell you I Cowards,
cowards, cowards, every one of you, to kill a
poor old man like that upon his own staircase,
and to threaten a helpless innocent lady.'

As he spoke, he laid his hand heavily upon
Louis Delgado's bony shoulder, and pushed
the old negro steadily backward, out of the
doorway and through the piazza, to the front
steps, where Mr. Dupuy's body was still lying

intended and bleeding profusely. ' Stand
back, you old devil ! ' he cried out fiercely and
authoritatively. ' Stand back this minute,
and put down your infernal cutlass ! You
shall not hurt another hair of their heads, I
tell you. Cowards, cowards, cowards, every
man of you. If you want to fight the whites,
you cowardly scoundrels you, why don't you
fight the men like yourselves, openly and
straightforward, instead of coming by night,
without note or warning, burning and hacking
and killing and destroying, and waging war
against defenceless old men and women and
children? '

The negroes fell back a little grudgingly
as he spoke, and answered him only by the
loud and deep guttural cry — an inarticulate,
horribly inhuman gurgle — which is their sole
possible form of speech in the very paroxysm

of African passion, Louis Delgado held his
cutlass half doubtfully in his uplifted hand :
he had tasted blood once now : he had laid
himself open to the fierce vengeance of the
English law ; he was sorely tempted in the
whirlwind of the moment to cut down Harry
Noel too, as he had cut down the white-headed
old planter the minute before. But
the innate respect of the essentially fighting
negro for a resolute opponent held him back
deliberating for a moment ; and he drew down
his cutlass as quickly as he had raised it,
divided in mind whether to strike or to permit
a parley.

Harry Noel seized the occasion with intuitive
strategy. * Here you, my friends,' he
cried boldly, turning round towards the
cowering Orange Grove servants — ' is this the
way you defend your master ? Pick him up,

some of you — pick him up this minute, I tell
you, and lay him out decently on the sofa over
yonder. — There, there ; don't be afraid. Not
one of these confounded rogues and cowards
dares to touch you or come one pace nearer
you as long as you're doing it. If he does,
by George ! cutlass or no cutlass, I'll break
this riding-whip to pieces, I tell you, across
his damned black back as soon as look at him.'
And he brandished the whip angrily in front
of him, towards the mad and howling group
of angry rioters, held at bay for the moment
on the piazza steps by that solitary undismayed
young Englishman with his one frail
and ridiculous weapon.

The rioters howled all the louder at his
words, and leaped and grinned and chattered
and gesticulated like wild beasts behind an
iron railing ; but not one of them ventured to

be the first in aiming a blow with his deadly
implement at Harry Noel. They only yelled
once more incomprehensibly in their deep
gutturals, and made hideous wild grimaces,
and waved their cutlasses frantically around
them with horrible inarticulate negro imprecations.


But Harry stood there firm and unyielding,
facing the maddened crowd with his
imperious manner, and overawing them in
spite of themselves with that strange power
of a superior race over the inferior in such
critical moments of intense passion.

The Orange Grove servants, having fresh
courage put into their failing breasts once
more, by the inspiring presence of a white
man at their sides, and being true at heart to
their poor master, as negro house-servants
always are and always have been in the worst

extremities, took advantage of the momentary
lull in the storm to do as Harry told them,
and lift Mr. Dupuy's body up from the
ground, laying it carefully on the piazza sofa.
That's better,' Harry said, as they finished
their task. — ' Now, we must go on and drive
away these murderous rascals. If we don't
drive them away, my good friends, they'll
kill Miss Nora— they'll kill Miss Nora. Would
you have it said of you that you let a parcel
of murderous plantation rioters kill your own
dead master's daughter right before your
very faces ? '

As he spoke, he saw a pale face, pale,
not with fear, but with terrible anger, standing
mute and immovable beside him ; and
next moment he heard Nora Dupuy's voice
crying out deeply, in the very echo of his
own angry words : ' Cowards, cowards ! '

At the sight of the hated Diipuy features,
the frenzied plantation hands seemed to work
themselves up into a fresh access of ungovernable
fury. With indescribable writings
and mouthing and grimaces, their hatred
and vengeance found articulate voice for a
moment at least, and they cried aloud like
one man: 'Kill her — kill her! Kill de missy!
Kill her— kill her ! '

Give me a pistol,' Harry Noel exclaimed
wildly to the friendly negroes close behind
his back : ' a gun — a knife — a cutlass — anything
! '

We got muffin, sal,' Uncle 'Zekiel answered,
blankly and whiningly, now helpless
as a child before the sudden inundation of
armed rioters, for without his master he could
do nothing.

Harry looked around him desperately fora

moment, then, advancing a step with hasty
premeditation, he wrenched a cutlass suddenly
by an unexpected snatch from one of the
foremost batch of rioters, and stepped back
with it once more unhurt, as if by miracle,
into the narrow pass of the mahogany doorway.


Stand away. Miss Dupuy ! ' he cried to
her earnestly. ' If you value your life, stand
back, stand back, I beg of you. This is no
place for sou to-night. Run, run ! If you
don't escape, there'll be more murder done
presently.'

I shall not go,' Nora answered, clenching
her fist hard and knitting her brow sternly,
as loncf as one of these abominable wretches
dares to stop without permission upon my
father's piazza.'

Then stand away, you there ! ' Harry

shouted aloud to the surging mob ; ' stand
away this moment, every one of you ! Whoever
steps one single step nearer this lady
behind me, by Heaven, I'll hack him down
without pity that minute, as you'd hack down
a stinging; cactus-tree ! '

Delgado stood still and hesitated once
more, with strange irresolution — he didn't like
to hit the brown man — but Isaac Pour tales,
lifting his cutlass wildly above his head, took
a step in front and brought it down with a
fierce swish towards Harry's skull, in spite
of kinship. Harry parried it dexterously
with his own cutlass, like a man who has
learned what fencing means ; and then, rushing,
mad with rage, at the astonished Isaac
before he knew what to look for, brought
down a heavy blow upon his right shoulder,
that disabled his opponent outright, and made

him drop at once this useless weapon idly by
his side. ' Take that, you damned nigger
dog ! ' Harry hissed out fiercely through his
close-set teeth ; ' and if any other confounded
nigger among you all dares to take a single
step nearer in the same direction, he'll get as
much and more, too, than this insolent fellow
here has got for his trouble.'

The contemptuous phrase once more
roused all the negroes' anger. ' Who you
call nigger, den ? ' they cried out fiercely,
leaping in a body like wild beasts upon
him. ' Kill him — kill him ! Him don't fit

to five. Kill him — kill him, dis minute — kill
him ! '

But Delgado, some strange element of
compassion for the remote blood of his own
race still rising up instinctively and mysteriously
within him, held back the two or three

foremost among the pressing mass with his
sinewy arm. ' No, no, me free's,' he shouted
angrily, ' don't kill him, don't kill him.
Tiger no eat tiger, ole-time folk say ; tiger
no eat tiger. Him is nigger himself. Him
is Isaac Pourtales' own cousin. — Don't kill
him. His murder don't nobody, I tell you,
me free's, but coloured gal, de same as yours
is — coloured gal from ole Barbadoes. I
saying' to you, me free's, ole-time folk has true
proverb, tiger no eat tiger.'

The sea of angry black faces swelled up
and down wildly and dubiously for a moment,
and then, with the sudden fitful changefulness
of negro emotion, two or three voices, the
women's especially, called aloud, with sobs
and shrieks : ' Don't kill him — don't kill
him! Him me rudder — him me rudder.
Don't kill him! Hallelujah!'

VOL. III. M

Harry looked at them savagely, with
knit brows and firm-set teeth, his cutlass
poised ready to strike in one hand, and
his whole attitude that of a forlorn-hope at
bay against overwhelming and irresistible
numbers.

You black devils ! ' he cried out fiercely,
flinching the words in their faces, as it were,

Co ' '

with a concentrated power of insult and
hatred, ' I won't owe my life to that shameful
plea, you infernal cowards. Perhaps I
may have a drop or two of your damned
black blood flowing somewhere in my veins
somehow, and perhaps I mayn't again ; but
whether I have or whether I haven't, I
wouldn't for dear life itself acknowledge
kindred with such a pack of cowardly vagabonds
and murderers as you, who would
hack an old man brutally to death like that.

before his own poor daughter's face, helplessly,
upon his own staircase.'

Mr. Noel,' Nora echoed, in a clear defiant
tone, nothing trembling, from close behind
him, ' that was well said — that was bravely
spoken ! Let them come on and kill us if
they will, the wretches. We're not afraid of
them, we're not afraid of them.'

]\Iiss Dupuy,' Harry cried earnestly, looking
back towards her with a face of eager
entreaty, ' save yourself ! for God's sake, save
yourself. There's still time even now to
escape — by the garden-gate — to Hawthorn's —
while these wretches here are busy murdering
me.'

At the word, Louis Delgado sprang forward
once more, cutlass in hand, no longer undecided,
and with one blow on the top of the
head felled Harry Noel heavily to the ground.

H 2

That familiar adjuration, so comparatively
powerless upon an English mob at home in
England, acted like magic on the fierce and
half-naked throng of ignorant and superstitious
plantation negroes. It was indeed to
them a mighty word to conjure with, that
loud challenge in the name of the great
distant Queen, whose reality seemed as faraway
from them and as utterly removed from
their little sphere as heaven itself. They
dropped their cutlasses instantaneously, for a
brief moment of doubt and hesitation ; a few
voices still shouted fiercely, 'Kill him — kill
him ! ' and then a unanimous cry arose among
all the surging mass of wild and scowling black
humanity : ' Mr. Hawtorn, Mr. Hawtorn !
Him come in Missis Queen name, so gib us
warning.' Now us wine to get justice. Mr.
Hawtorn, Mr. Hawtorn ! *

But while the creole-born plantation hands
thus welcomed eagerly what they looked
upon, in their simplicity, as the Queen's direct
mouthpiece and representative, Louis Delgado,
his face distorted with rage, and his arms
plying his cutlass desperately, frowned and
gnashed his teeth more fiercely than ever
with rage and disappointment ; for his wild
African passion was now fully aroused, and
like the tiger that has once tasted blood, he
didn't want to be balked of the final vengeful
delight of hacking his helpless victim slowly
to pieces in a long-drawn torture. ' Missis
Queen ! ' he cried contemptuously, turning
round and brandishing his cutlass with savage
joy once more before the eyes of his half-sobered
companions — ' Missis Queen, him say
car ! Ha, ha, what him say dat for ? What
de Queen to me, I want you tell me ? I

That familiar adjuration, so comparatively-powerless
upon an English mob at home in
England, acted like magic on the fierce and
half-naked throng of ignorant and superstitious
plantation negroes. It was indeed to
them a mighty word to conjure with, that
loud challenge in the name of the great
distant Queen, whose reality seemed as faraway
from them and as utterly removed from
their little sphere as heaven itself. They
dropped their cutlasses instantaneously, for a
brief moment of doubt and hesitation ; a few
voices still shouted fiercely, 'Kill him — kill
him ! ' and then a unanimous cry arose among
all the surging mass of wild and scowling black
humanity : ' Mr. Hawtorn, Mr. Hawtorn !
Him come in Missis Queen name, so gib us
warning.' Now us wine to get justice. Mr.
Hawtorn, Mr. Hawtorn ! '

But while the creole-born plantation hands
thus welcomed eagerly what they looked
upon, in their simplicity, as the Queen's direct
mouthpiece and representative, Louis Delgado,
his face distorted with rage, and his arms
plying his cutlass desperately, frowned and
gnashed his teeth more fiercely than ever
with rage and disappointment ; for his wild
African passion was now fully aroused, and
like the tiger that has once tasted blood, he
didn't want to be balked of the final vengeful
delight of hacking his helpless victim slowly
to pieces in a long-drawn torture. ' Missis
Queen ! ' he cried contemptuously, turning
round and brandishing his cutlass with savage
joy once more before the eyes of his half-sobered
companions — ' Missis Queen, him say
car ! Ha, ha, what him say dat for ? What
de Queen to me, I want you tell me ? I

don't care for Queen, or judge, or magistrate,
or muffin ! I wine to kill all de white men
together, in all Trinidad, de Lard helping'
me ! '

As he spoke, Edward Hawthorn jumped
hastily from his saddle, and advanced with
long strides towards the fiercely gesticulating
and mumbling African. The plantation
negroes, cowed and tamed for the moment
by Edward's bold and resolute presence, and
overawed by the great name of that mysterious,
unknown, half-mythical Queen Victoria,
beyond the vast illimitable ocean, fell back
sullenly to right and left, and made a little
lane through the middle of the crowd for the
Queen's representative to mount the staircase.
Edward strode up, without casting a single
glance on either side, to where Delgado stood
savagely beside Harry Noel's fallen body, and

put his right hand with an air of indisputable
authority upon the frantic African's uplifted
arm. Delgado tried to shake him off suddenly
with a quick, adroit, convulsive movement ;
but Edward's grip was tight and vice-ike,
and he held the black arm powerless in his
grasp, as he spoke aloud a few words in some
unknown language, which sounded to the
group of wondering negroes like utter
gibberish — or perhaps some strange spell
with which the representative of Queen Victoria
knew how to conjure by some still
more potent and terrible obeah than even
Delgado's.

But Louis Delcfado alone knew that the
words were pure Arabic, and that Edward
Hawthorn grasped his arm, ' In the name of
Allah, the All wise, the most Powerful! '

At the sound of that mighty spell, a

terrible one, indeed, to the fierce old half-christianity
Mohammedan, Delgado's arm,
too, dropped powerless to his trembling side,
and he fell back, gnashing his teeth Uke a
bulldog balked of a fight, into the general
mass of plantation negroes. There he stood,
dazed and stunned apparently, leaning up
sulkily against the piazza post, but speaking
not a word to either party for good or for evil
The lull was but for a minute ; and Edward
Hawthorn saw at once that if he was
to gain any permanent advantage by the
momentary change of feeling in the fickle
negro mob, he must keep their attention distracted
for a while, till their savage passions
had time to cool a little, and the effect of this
unwonted orgy of fire and bloodshed had
passed away before the influence of sober
reflection. A negro crowd is like a single

creature of impulse — swayed to and fro a
hundred times more easily than even a European
mob by every momentary passing wave
of anger or of feeling.

Take up Mr. Noel and Miss Dupuy,' he
said aside in his cool commanding tone to the
Orange Grove servants ; — ' Mr. Noel isn't
dead — I see him breathing yet — and lay them
on a led and look after them, while I speak
to these angry people.' Then he turned,
mastering himself with an effort for that
terrible crisis, and taking a chair from the
piazza, he mounted it quickly, and began to
speak in a loud voice, unbroken by a single
tremor of fear, like one addressing a public
meeting, to the great sea of wondering, upturned
black faces, lighted up from behind in
lurid gleams by the red glare of the still
blazing cane-houses.

My friends,' he said, holding his hand
before him, palm outward, in a mute appeal
for silence and a fair hearing, ' listen to me
for a moment. I want to speak to you ; I
want to help you to what you yourselves are
blindly seeking. I am here to-night as Queen
Victoria's delegate and representative. Queen
Victoria has your welfare and interest at
heart ; and she has sent me out to this island
to do equal justice between black man and
white man, and to see that no one oppresses
another by force or fraud, by lawlessness or
cunning. As you all know, I am in part a
man of your own blood ; and Queen Victoria,
in sending me out to judge between you, and
in appointing so many of your own race to
posts of honour here in Trinidad, has shown
her wish to favour no one particular class or
colour to the detriment or humiliation of the

others. But in doing as I see you have done
to-night — in burning down factories, in attacking
houses, in kilHng or trying to kill
your own employers, and helpless women,
and men who have done no crime against you
except trying to protect your victims from
your cruel vengeance — in doing this, my
friends, you have not done wisely. That is
not the way to get what you want from
Queen Victoria. — What is it you wants
Tell me that. That is the first thing. If
it is anything reasonable, the Queen will
grant it. What do you want from Queen
Victoria ? '

With one voice the whole crowd of
lurid up-turned black faces answered loudly
and earnestly : ' Justice, Justice ! '

Edward paused a moment, with rhetorical
skill, and looked down at the mob

of shouting lips with a face half of sternness
and half of benevolence. ' My friends,'
he said again, ' you shall have justice.
You haven't always had it in the past —
that I know and regret ; but you shall
have it, trust me, henceforth in the future.
Listen to me. I know you have often
suffered injustice. Your rights have not
been always respected, and your feelings
have many times been ruthlessly trampled
upon. Nobody sympathises with you more
fully than I do. But just because I sympathise
with you so greatly, I feel it my duty
to warn you most earnestly against acting
any longer as you have been acting this
evening. I am your friend — you know I
am your friend. From me, I trust you
have never had anything less than equal
justice.'

Dat's true — dat's true I ' rang in a murmuring
wave of assent from the eager
listening crowd of negroes.

'Well,' Edward went on, lowering his
tone to more persuasive accents, ' be advised
by me, then, and if you want to
get what you ask from Queen Victoria,
do as I tell you. Disperse to-night quietly
and separately. Don't go off in a body
together and talk with one another excitedly
around your watch-fires about your
wrongs and your grievances. Burn no
more factories and cane-houses. Attack
no more helpless men and innocent women.
Think no more of your rights for the present.
But go each man to his own hut,
and wait to see what Queen Victoria will
do for you. — If you continue foolishly to
burn and riot, shall I tell you in plain

words what will happen to you ? The
governor will be obliged to brings out the
soldiers and the volunteers against you;
they will call upon you, as I call upon you
now, in the Queen's name, to lay down
your pistols and your guns and your cutlasses;,
and if you don't lay them down at
once, they'll fire upon you, and disperse you
easily. Don't be deceived. Don't believe
that because you are more numerous — because
there are so many more of you than
of the white men — you could conquer them
and kill them by main force, if it ever
came to open fighting. The soldiers, with
their regular drill and their good arms and
their constant training, could shoot you all
down with the greatest ease, in spite of
your numbers and your pistols and your cutlasses.
I don't say this to frighten you or to

threaten you ; I say it as your friend, because
I don't want .you foolishly to expose
yourselves to such a terrible butchery and
slaughter.'

A murmur went through the crowd
once more, and they looked dubiously and
inquiringly towards Louis Delgado. But the
African gave no sign and made no answer ;
he merely stood sullenly still by the post
against which he was leaning ; so Edward
hastened to reassure the undecided mob of
listening negroes by turning quickly to the
other side of the moot question.

Now, listen again,' he said, ' for what
I'm going to say to you now is very important.
If you will disperse, and go each
to his own home, without any further trouble
or riot, I will undertake, myself, to go to

VOL. III. ■ N

England on purpose for you, and tell Queen
Victoria herself about all your troubles.
I will tell her that you haven't always been
justly treated, and I'll try to get new and
better laws made in future for you, under
which you may secure more justice than
you sometimes get under present arrangements.
Do you understand me ? If you
go home at once, I promise to go across
the sea and speak to Queen Victoria herself
on your behalf, over in England.'

The view of British constitutional procedure
implied in Edward Hawthorn's
words was not perhaps strictly accurate ;
but his neirro hearers would hardly have
felt so much impressed if lie had offered
to lay their grievances boldly at the foot
of that impersonal entity, the Colonial
Office; while the idea that they were to

have a direct spokesman, partly of their
own blood, with the Queen herself, flattered
their simple African susceptibilities and
helped to cool their savage anger. Like
children as they are, they began to smile
and show their great white teeth in infantile
satisfaction, as pleasantly as though
they had never dreamt ten minutes earlier
of hacking Harry Noel's body fiercely into
little pieces ; and more than one voice cried
out in hearty tones : ' Hurrah for Mr.
Hawtorn ! Him de black man free'. Gib
him a cheer, boys ! Him wine to 'peak for
us to Queen Victoria ! '

Then promise me faithfully,' Edward
said, holding out his hand once more
before him, ' that you'll all go home this
very minute and settle down quietly in
your own houses.'

N 2

We promise, sali,' a dozen voices
answered eagerly.

Edward Hawthorn turned anxiously for a
moment to Louis Delgado. ' My brother,' he
said to him rapidly in Arabic, ' this is your
doing. You must help me now to quiet
the people you have first so fiercely and
so foolishly excited. Assist me in dispersing
them, and I will try to lighten for you
the punishment which will surely be inflicted
upon you as ringleader, when this is allover.'


But Delgado, propped in a stony attitude
against the great wooden post of the
piazza, answered still never a word. He
stood there to all appearance in stolid and
sullen indifference to all that was passing
so vividly around him, with his white and
bloodshot eyes staring vacantly into the

blank darkness that stretched in front of
him, behind the flickering light of the now
collapsed and burnt-out cane-houses.

Edward touched him lightly on his
bare arm. To his utter horror and amazement,
though not cold, it was soft and
corpse-ike, as in the first hour of death,
before rigidity and chilliness have begun
to set in. He looked up into the bloodshot
eyes. Their staring balls seemed
already glazed and vacuous, utterly vacant
of the fierce flashing light that had gleamed
from the pupils so awfully and savagely
but ten minutes before, as he brandished
his cutlass with frantic yells above Harry
Noel's fallen body. Two of the plantation
negroes, attracted by Edward's evident
recoil of horror, came forward with simple
curiosity, flinging down their cutlasses, and

touched the soft cheeks, not with the
reverent touch which a white man feels
always due to the sacredness of death, but
harshly and rudely, as one might any
day touch a senseless piece of stone or
timber.

Edward looked at them with a pallid face
of mute inquiry. The youngest of the two
negroes drew back for a second, overtaken
apparently by a superstitious fear, and murmured
low in an awe-struck voice : ' Him
dead, sal, dead — stone dead. Dead dis ten
minute, since ever you begin to 'peak to de
people, sal.'

He was indeed. His suppressed rage at
the partial failure of his deeply cherished
scheme of vengeance on the hated white men,
coming so close upon his paroxysm of triumph
over the senseless bodies of Mr. Dupuy

and Harry Noel, had brought about a sudden
fit of cardiac apoplexy. The old African's
savage heart had burst outright with conflicting
emotions. Leaning back upon the
pillar for support, as he felt the blood failing
within lira, he had died suddenly and unobserved
without a word or a cry, and had
stood there still, as men will often stand
under similar circumstances, propped up
against the supporting pillar, in the exact
attitude in which death had first overtaken
him. In the very crisis of his victory and
his defeat, he had been called away suddenly
to answer for his conduct before even a
higher tribunal than the one with which
Edward Hawthorn had so gently and forbearingly
threatened him.

The effect of this sudden catastrophe
upon the impressionable minds of the excited

negroes was indeed immediate and overwhelming.
Lifting up their voices in loud
wails and keenincr, as at their midnight
wakes, they cried tremulously one after
another : ' De Lard is against us — de Lard
is against us ! Ebbery man to your tents,
Israel ! De Lard hab killed Delgado — ahab
killed Delgado — hab smitten him down, for
de murder him committed ! ' To their unquestioning
antique faith, it was the visible
judgment of heaven against their insurrection,
the blood of Theodore Dupuy and Harry
Noel crying out for vengeance from the floor
of the piazza, like the blood of righteous
Abel long before, crying out for vengeance
from the soil of Eden.

More than one of them believed in his
heart, too, that the mysterious words in the
unknown language which Edward Hawthorn

had muttered over the old African were the
spell that had brought down upon hmi before
their very eyes the unseen bolt of the invisible
powers. Whether it was obeah, or
whether it was imprecation and solemn
prayer to the God of heaven, they thought
within themselves, in their dim, inarticulate,
unspoken fashion, that ' Mr. Hawtorn word
bring down de judgment dat very minute on
Louis Delgado.'

In an incredibly short space of time, the
great crowd of black faces had melted away
as quickly as it came, and Edward Hawthorn
was left alone in the piazza, with none but
the terrified servants of the Orange Grove
household to help him in his task or to listen
to his orders. All that night long, across
the dark gorge and the black mango grove,
they could hear the terrified voices of the

negroes in their huts singing hymns, and
crying aloud in strange prayers to God in
heaven that the guilt of this murder might
not be visited upon their heads, as it had
been visited before their very eyes that night
on Louis Delgado. To the negro mind, the
verdict of fate is the verdict of heaven.

Take up his body, too, and lay it down
on the sofa,' Edward said to Uncle 'Zekiel,
still beside himself with terror at the manifold
horrors of this tragical evening.

'I don't can dare, sal,' Uncle 'Zekiel
answered tremulously — ' I don't can dare
lay me hand upon de corpse, I tellin' you,
sal. De finger ob de Lard has smite Delgado.
I don't dare to lift an' carry him.'

One of you boys, then, come and help
me,' Edward cried, holding up the corpse
with one hand to keep it from falling.

But not one of them dare move a single
step nearer to the terrible awe-inspiring
object.

At last, finding that no help was forthcoming
on any hand, Edward lifted up the
ghastly burden all by himself in his own
arms, and laid it down reverently and gently
on the piazza sofa. ' It is better so,' he
murmured to himself slowly and pitifully
There will be no more blood on either side
shed at any rate for this awful evening's
sorry business.'

And then at length he had leisure to turn
back into the house itself and make inquiries
after Mr. Dupuy and Harry and Nora.

CHAPTEE XL.

Marian was behind in the dining-room and
bedrooms with Aunt Clemmy, helping to nurse
and tend the sick and wounded as well as she
could, in the midst of so much turmoil and
danger. When she and Edward had been
roused by the sudden glare of the burning
cane-houses, reddening the horizon by Orange
Grove, and casting weird and fitful shadows
from all the mango-trees in front of their little
tangled garden, she had been afraid to remain
behind alone at Mulberry, and had preferred
facing the maddened rioters by her husband's
side, to stopping by herself under such circumstances

among the unfamiliar black servants
in lier own house. So they had ridden across
hurriedly to the Dupuys' together, especially as
Marian was no less timid on Nora's account than
on her own ; and when they reached the little
garden gate that led in by the back path, she
had slipped up alone, unperceived by the mob,
while Edward went round openly to the front
door, and tried to appease the angry negroes.
The shouts and yells when she first arrived
had proved indeed very frightening and distracting;
but after a time, she could guess, from
the comparative silence which ensued, that Edward
had succeeded in gaining a hearing : and
then she and Aunt Clemmy turned with fast-beating
hearts to look after the bleeding
victims, one of whom at least they gave up
from the first as quite dead beyond the reach
of hope or recovery.

Nora was naturally the first to come to.
She had fainted only; and though, in the
crush and press, she had been trampled upon
and very roughly handled by the barefooted
negroes, she had got off, thanks to their shoe-less
condition, with little worse than a few
ugly cuts and bruises. They laid her tenderly
on her own bed, and bathed her brows over
and over again with Cologne water ; till, after
a few minutes, she sat up again, pale and
deathly to look at, but proud and haughty
and defiant as ever, with her eyes burning
very brightly, and an angry quiver
playing unchecked about her bloodless
lips.

'Is he dead?' she asked calmly — as calmly
as if it were the most ordinary question on
earth, but yet with a curious one of suppressed
emotion, that even in that terrible moment

did not wholly escape Marian's quick womanly-observation.


Your father ? ' Marian answered, in a low
voice. — 'Dear, dear, you mustn't excite yourself
now. You must be quite quiet, perfectly quiet.
You're not well enough to stand any talking
or excitement yet. You must wait to hear
about it all, daring, until you're a little better.'

Nora's lip curled a trifle as she answered
almost disdainfully : ' I'm not going to lie here
and let myself be made an invalid of, while
those creatures there are out yonder without
my leave still on the piazza. Let me get up
and see what has happened. — No ; I didn't
mean papa, Marian ; I know he's dead ; I saw
him lying hacked all to pieces outside on the
sofa. I meant Mr. Noel. Have they killed
him ? Have they killed him ? He's a brave
man. Have the wretches killed him ? '

'We think not,' Marian answered dubiously.
He's in the next room, and two of the
servants are there taking care of him.'

Nora rose from the bed with a sudden
bound, and stood pale and white, all trembling
before them. ' What are you stopping here
wasting your care upon me for, then ? ' she
asked half angrily. ' You think not — think
not, indeed ! Is this a time to be thinking
and hesitating ! Why are you looking after
women who go and get fainting-fits, like fools,
at the wrong moment ? I'm ashamed of myself,
almost, for giving way visibly before the
wretches — for letting them see I was half
afraid of them. But I wasn't afraid of them
for myself, though — not a bit of it, Marian : it
was only for — for Mr. Noel.' She said it
after a moment's brief hesitation, but without
the faintest touch of girlish timidity or ill-timed

reserve. Then she swept queen-Hke past
Marian and Aunt Clemmy, in her white dinner
dress — the same dress that she had worn
when she was Marian's bridesmaid — and
walked quickly but composedly, as if nothing
had happened, into the next bedroom.

The two negresses had already taken off
Harry's coat and waistcoat, and laid him on
the bed with his shirt front all saturated with
blood, and his forehead still bleeding violently,
in spite of their efforts to stanch it unskilfully
with a wet towel. He was lying there, when
Nora entered, stretched out at full length,
speechless and senseless, the blood even
then oozing slowly, by intermittent gurgling
throbs, from the open gash across his right temple.
There was another deeper and even worse
wound gurgling similarly upon his left elbow.

'They should have been here,' jSTora cried;

VOL. III.

Marian and Clemmy should have been here,
instead of looking after me, like fools, in yonder.
Is he dead, Nita ? is he dead ? Tell me ! '

No, missy,' the girl answered, passively
handing her the soaked towel. ' Him don't
dead yet ; but him dying', him dying'. De blood
coming' out ob him, spurt, spurt, spurt, so him
can't lib long, not anyway. Him blended to
death already, I tinkin', almost.'

Nora looked at the white face, and a few
tears began at last to form slowly in her brimming
eyelids. But she brushed them away
quickly, before they had time to trickle down
her blanched cheek, for her proud West
Indian blood was up now, as much as the
negroes' had been a few minutes earlier ; and
she twisted her handkerchief round a pocket
pencil so as to form a hasty extemporised
tourniquet, which she fastened bravely and

resolutely with intuitive skill above the open
wound on the left elbow. She had never seen
such a thing before, and she couldn't have said
herself for the life of her how she knew it would
prove useful. She had no idea, even, that the
little jets in which the blood spurted out so
rhythmically were indicative of that most dangerous
wound, a severed artery ; but she felt instinctively,
somehow, that this was the right
thing to do, and she did it without flinching, as
if she had been used to dealing familiarly with
dangerous wounds for half her lifetime. Then
she twisted the hasty instrument tightly
round till the artery was securely stopped, and
the little jets ceased entirely at each pulsation
of the now feeble and weakened heart.

Run for the doctor, somebody ! ' she cried
eagerly ; ' run for the doctor, or he '11 die outright
before we can get help for him ! '



But Nita and Rose, on their knees beside
the wounded man, only cowered closer to the
bedside, and shook with terror as another
cry rose on a sudden from outside from the
excited negroes. It was the cry they raised
when they found Delgado was really struck
dead before their very eyes by the visible
and immediate judgment of the Almighty.

Nora looked down at them with profound
contempt, and merely said, in her resolute,
scornful voice : ' What ! afraid even of your
own people ? Why, I'm not afraid of them ;
I, who am a white woman, and whom they'd
murder now and hack to pieces, as soon as
they'd look at me, if once they could catch
me, when their blood's up ! — Marian, Marian !
you're a white woman ; will you come with
me ? '

Marian trembled a little — she wasn't upheld

through that terrible scene by the ingrained
hereditary pride of a superior race
before the blind wrath of the inferior, bequeathed
to Nora by her slave-owning ancestors
; but she answered with hardly a
moment's hesitation : ' Yes, Nora. Tf you
wish it, I'll go with you.'

There is something in these conflicts of
race with race which raises the women of
the fisher blood for the time beings into
something braver and stronger than women.
In Enchant, Marian would never have dared
to go out alone in the face of such a raging
tumultuous mob, even of white people; butin
Trinidad, under the influence of that terrible
excitement, she found heart to put
on her hat once more, and step forth with
Nora under the profound shade of the
spreading mango-trees, now hardly Halted

up at all at fitful intervals by the dying glow
from the burnt-out embers of the smoking
cane-houses. They went down groping their
way by the garden path, and came out at
last upon the main bridle-road at the foot of
the garden. There Marian drew back Nora
timidly with a hand placed in quick warning
upon her white shoulder. ' Stand aside,
dear,' she whispered at her ear, pulling her
back hastily within the garden gate and
under the dark shadow of the big star-apple
tree. ' They're coming down — they're coming
down ! I hear them, I hear them ! God,
God, I shouldn't have come away !
They've killed Edward ! My darling, my
darling I They've killed him — they've killed
him ! '

I wouldn't stand aside for myself,' Nora
answered half aloud, her eyes flashing proudly

even in the shadowy gloom of the garden.
But to save Mr. Noel's life, to save his life,
I'll stand aside if you wish, Marian.'

As they drew back into the dark shadow,
even Nora trembling and shivering a little
at the tramp of so many naked feet, some of
the negroes passed close beside them outside
the fence on their way down from the piazza,
where they had just been electrified into
sudden quietness by the awful sight of Louis
Delgado's dead body. They were talking
earnestly and low among themselves, not, as
before, shrieking and yelling and gesticulating
wildly, but conversing half below their
breath in a solemn, mysterious, awestruck
fashion.

De Lard be praise for Mr. Hawtorn ! '
one of them said as he passed unseen close
beside them. ' Him de black man free'. We

got nobody like him. I no' would hurt Mr.
Hawtorn, de blessed man, not for de life
ob me.'

Marian's heart beat fast within her, but
she said never a word, and only pressed
Nora's hand, which she held convulsively
within her own, harder and tighter than
ever, in her mute suspense and agony.

Presently another group passed close by,
and another voice said tremulously : ' Louis
Delgado dead — Louis Delo:ado dead ! Mr.
Hawtorn is wonderful man for true ! Who'd
have touglit it, me rudder, who'd have
thought it ? '

That's Martin Luther,' Nora cried almost
aloud, unable any longer to retain her curiosity.
' I know him by his voice. He
wouldn't hurt me. — Martin, Martin ! what's
that you're saying ? Has Mr. Hawthorn shot

Delgado ? ' As she spoke, with a fierce anticipatory
triumph in lier voice, lie stepped
out from the shadow of the gate on to the
main bridle-path, in her white dress and with
her pale face, clearly visible under the faint
moonlight.

Martin flung up his arms like one stabbed
to the heart, and shouted wildly : ' De missy,
de missy ! Dem done killed her on de piazza
yonder, and her puppy coming' now already to
scare us and trouble us ! '

Even in that moment of awe and alarm,
Nora laughed a little laugh of haughty
contempt for the strong, big-built, hulking
negro's superstitious terror. ' Martin ! ' she
cried, darting after him quickly, as he ran
away awestruck, and catching him by the
shoulder with her light but palpable human
grasp, ' don't you know me ? I'm no puppy.

It's me myself, IViissy Nora, calling yon.
Here, feel my hand; yon see I'm alive still ;
yon see your people haven't killed me yet,
even if you've killed your poor old master. —
Martin, tell me, what's this you're all saying
about Mr. Hawthorn having shot Delgado? '

Martin, shaking violently in every limb,
turned round and reassured himself slowly
that it was really Nora and not her ghost
that stood bodily before him. ' Ha, missy,'
he answered good-humouredly, showing his
great row of big white teeth, though still
quaking visibly with terror, ' don't you be
'afraid ; we wouldn't hurt you, not a man of
us. But it don't Mr. Hawtorn dat shot
Delgado ! It God Almighty ! De Lard ahab
smitten him ! '

What ! ' Nora cried in surprise. ' He
fell dead ! Apoplexy or something, I suppose.

The old villain ! he deserved it, Martin. — And
Mr. Hawthorn ? How about Mr. Hawthorn ?
Have they hurt him? Have they killed
him?'

Mr. Hawtorn up to de house, missy, an'
all de niggers pray de Lard for true him lib
for ember, de blessed creature.'

Why are you all coming away now,
then ? ' Nora asked anxiously. ' Where are
you going to ? '

Mr. Hawtorn send us home,' Martin
answered submissively ; ' an' we all 'afraid, if
we don't ^o straight when him tell us, we
drop down dead wit Nora, Satan, an' Abram,
an' lying' Ananias, same like Delgado.'

Marian,' Nora said decisively, ' go back
to your husband. You ought to be with him.
Martin, you come along with me, sir. Mr.
Noel's dying. You've killed him, you people,

like you've killed my father. I've got to go
and fetch the doctor now to save him ; and
you've got to come with me and take care
of me.'

Oh, darling,' Marian interrupted nervously,
' you mustn't go alone amongst all
these angry, excited negroes with nobody but
him. Don't, don't ; 111 gladly go with you ! '

Do as I tell you ! ' Nora cried in a tone
of authority, with a firm stamp of her petulant
little foot. ' You ought to be with him.
You mustn't leave him. — That's right, dear. —
Now, then, Martin ! '

Afraid, missy,'

Afraid ! Nonsense. You're a pack of
cowards. Am / afraid ? and I'm a woman !
You ought to be ashamed of yourself. Come
along with me at once, and do as I tell you.'

The terrified negro yielded grudgingly,

and crept after her in the true crouching
African fashion, compelled against his will to
follow implicitly the mere bidding of the
stronger and more imperious nature.

They wound down the zigzag path together,
under the gaunt shadows of the overhanging
bamboo clumps, waving weirdly to
and fro with the breeze in the feeble moonlight
— the strong man slouching along timorously,
shaking and starting with terror at
every rustle of Nora's dress against the
bracken and the tree ferns ; the shc^ht girl
erect and fearless, walking a pace or two in
front of her faint-hearted escort with proud
self-reliance, and never pausing for a single
second to cast a cautious glance to right or
left amono- the tangled brushwood. The
lights were now burning dimly in all the
neighbouring; negro cottages ; and far away

down in the distance, the loner rows of eras
lamps at Port-of-Spain gleamed double with
elongated oblique reflections in the calm
water of the sleepy harbour.

They had got half-way down the lonely
gully without meeting or passing a single
soul, when, at a turn of the road where the
bridle-path swept aside to avoid a rainy-season
torrent, a horse came quickly upon them
from in front, and the rapid click of a cocked
pistol warned Nora of approaching danger.

Who goes there ? ' cried a sharp voice
with a marked Scotch accent from the gloom
before her. ' Stop this minute, or I'll fire at
you, you nigger ! '

With a thrill of delight, Nora recognised
the longed-for voice — the very one she was
seeking. It was Dr. Macfarlane, from beyond
the gully, roused, like half the island, by the

red glare from the Orange Grove cane-houses,
and spurring up as fast as his horse could
carry him, armed and on the alert, to the
scene of the supposed insurrection.

Don't shoot,' Nora answered coolly, holding
her hand up in deprecation. ' A friend !
It's me, Dr. Macfarlane — Nora Dupuy,
coming to meet you.'

Miss Dupuy ! ' the doctor cried in astonishment.
' Then they'll not have shot
you at any rate, young teddy ! But v^^hat are
you doing out here alone at this time o'
night, I'm wondering? Have you had to
run for your life from Orange Grove from
these cowardly insurgent nigger fellows ? '

Run from them I ' Nora echoed contemptuously
— ' run from them I Dr. Macfarlane,
I'd like to see it. No, no ; I'm too much of
a Dupuy ever to do that, I promise you,

doctor. They can murder me, but they
can't frighten me. I was coming down to
look for you, for poor Mr. Noel, who's lying
dangerously wounded up at our house, with
a wound on the arm and a terrible cut across
the temple.'

Coming alone — just in the vera midst of
all this business — to fetch me to look after a
wounded fellow ! ' the doctor ejaculated half
to himself, with mingled astonishment and
admiration. ' Why, the devil liimsel' must
be in the lassie ! ' But he jumped down from
his horse with a quick movement, not ungallantly,
and lifted Nora up in his big arms
without a word, seating her sideways, before
she could remonstrate, on the awkward
saddle. ' Sit you there, Miss Dupuy,' he said
kindly. ' Ye're a brave lassie, if ever there
was one. I'll hold his head, and run alongside

wi' you. We'll be up at the house again
in ten minutes.'

They've killed my father,' Nora said
simply, beginning to break down now at last,
after her unnatural exaltation of bravery and
endurance, and bursting into a sudden flood
of tears. ' He's lying at home all hacked to
pieces with their dreadful cutlasses ; and Mr.
Noel's almost dead too ; perhaps he'll be
quite dead, doctor, before we can get there.'

VOL. III. p

CHAPTER XLI.

When Nora and the doctor reached the door
of Orange Grove, they found Edward Hawthorn
waiting to receive them, and the
servants already busy trying to remove as
far as possible the signs of the wreck so lately
effected by the wild rioters. Several neighbouring
planters, who had come down from
the hulls above, stood in armed groups around
the gate ; and a few mounted black constables,
hastily summoned to the spot by the
fire, were helping to extinguish the smouldering
ashes. Only Delgado's dead body lay
untouched upon the sofa, stiff and motionless,

for not one of the negroes clare venture to set
hands upon it ; and in the room within
Marian sat still, looking anxiously at Harry-noel's
pallid face and livid eyelids, and his
bloodstained shirt, that yet heaved faintly and
almost imperceptibly upon his broad bosom
at each long slow-drawn inspiration.

He isn't dead yet ? ' Nora asked, in a
hushed voice of painful inquiry ; and Marian
answered under her breath, looking up at the
bluff doctor : ' No ; he's living still. He's
breathing quite regularly, though very
feebly.'

As for Macfarlane, he went to work at
once with the cool business-like precision
and rapidity of his practised profession, opening
the blood-stained shirt in front, and
putting his hand in through the silk vest to
feel the heart that still beat faintly and

p 2

evenly. ' He's lost a great deal of blood, no
doubt, Mrs. Hawthorn,' he said cheerily ;
but he's a strong mon, an' he'll pull through
yet, ye needna fash yersel' — thanks to whoever
poor this bit handkerchief around his
arm here. It's a guide enough tourniquet to
use on an emergency. — Was it you. Miss
Dupuy, or Mrs. Hawthorn ? '

A round spot of vivid colour flashed for a
moment into Nora's white cheek as she
answered quietly : ' It was me, Dr. Macfar-
lane ! ' and then died out again as fast as
it had come, when Macfarlane's eyes were
once more removed from her burning face.

Ye're a brave lassie, an' no mistake,' the
doctor went on, removing the tourniquet, and
stanching the fresh flow rapidly with a proper
bandage, produced with mechanical routine
from his coat pocket. ' Well, well, don't be

V

afraid about him any longer. It's a big cut,
an' a deep cut, an' it's just gone an' severed
a guide big artery — an ugly business ; but
ye're taken it in time ; an' your bandage has
been most judiciously applied ; so ye may
rest assured that, with a little nursing, the
young mon will soon be all right again, an'
sound as ever. A cutlass is a nasty weapon
to get a wound from, because these nigger
fellows don't sharpen them up to a clean
edge, as they ought to do rightly, but just
hack an' mutilate a mon in the most outrageous
an' unbusiness-like manner, instead
of killing him outright Hke guide Christians,
with a neat, sharp, workman-like incision.
But we'll pull him through — we'll pull him
through yet, I don't doubt it. An' if he lives,
ye may have the pleasure of knowing, young
teddy, that it was the tourniquet ye made

SO cleverly that just saved him at the right
moment.'

As Macfarlane finished dressing and tending
Harry's wound, and Harry's eyes began to
open again, slowly and glassily, for he was
very faint with loss of blood, Nora, now that
the excitement of that awful evening was
fairly over, seemed at last to realise within
herself her great loss with a sudden revulsion.
Turning away passionately from Harry's bedside,
she rushed into the next room, where the
women-servants were already gathered around
their master's body, keening and wailing as is
their wont, with strange hymns and incoherent
songs, wherein stray scraps of Hebrew psalms
and Christian anthems are mingled incongruously
with weird surviving reminiscences
of African fetichism, and mystic symbols of
aboriginal obeali. Fully awake now to the

blow that had fallen so suddenly upon her,
Nora flung herself in fierce despair by her
father's side, and kissed the speechless lips two
or three times over with wild remorse in her
fresh agony of distress and isolation. ' Father,
father ! ' she cried aloud, in the self same long-drawn
wail as the negresses around her,
they've killed you, they've killed you ! my
daring — my daring ! '

Dem kill you — dem kill you ! ' echoed Rose
and Nita and the other women in their wailing
sing-sono. ' But de Lard ob leben himself
avenge you. De grace yawning' wide dis
benin' for Louis Delgado. De Lard smite
him — de Lard smite him ! '

Get away, all you auld crones ! ' the
doctor said, coming in upon them suddenly
with his hearty Scotch voice, that seemed to
break in too harshly on the weird solemnity

of the ghastly scene. ' Let me see how it was
they killed your master. He's dead, you say
stone dead, is he P Let me see — let me see,
then. — Here you, there — lift up his head, will
you, lassie, and poor it down decently on the
pillow ! '

Nita did as she was told, mechanically,
with a reproachful glance from her big white-fringed
eyes at the too matter-of-fact and
common sense Scotchman, and then sat down
again, squatting upon the floor, moaning and
crowning piteously to herself, as decorum demanded
of her under such circumstances.

The doctor looked closely at the clotted
blood that hung in ugly tangles on the poor
old man's grey locks, and whistled a Httle
in a dubious undertone to himself, when he
saw the great gash that ran right across Mr.
Dupuy's left shoulder. ' An awkward cut,' he

said slowly — ' a vera severe an' awkward cut,
I don't deny it. But I don't precisely see,
niysel', why it need have positively killed him.
The loss of blood needn't have been so vera
excessive. He's hacked about terribly, pair
auld gentleman, with their ugly cutlasses,
though hardly enough to have done for a
Dupuy, in my opinion. They're vera tough
subjects indeed to kill, all the Dupuys are.'

As he spoke, he leant down cautiously
over the body, and listened for a minute or
two attentively with his ear at the heart and
lips. Then he held his finger lightly with
close scrutiny before the motionless nostrils,
and shook his head once or twice in a very
solemn and ominous fashion. ' It's a most
singular fact,' he said with slow deliberation,
looking over at Edward, ' and one full of important
psychological implications that the

members of every nationality I have ever had
to deal with in the whole course of my professional
experience — except only the Scottish
people — have a most illogical an' ridiculous
habit of jumping at conclusions without
sufficient data to go upon. The mon's not
dead at all, I tell you — deil a bit of it. He's
breathing still, breathing sensibly.'

Nora leapt up at the word with another
sudden access of wild energy. ' Breathing ! '
she cried — ' breathing, doctor ! Then he'll
live still. He'll get better again, will he, my
darling ? '

'Now ye're jumping at conclusions a
second time most unwarrantably,' Macfarlane
answered, with true Scotch caution. ' I will
na say positively he'll get better again,
for that's a question that rests entirely
in the hands o' the Almighty. But I do

say the mon's breathing — not a doubt of
it.'

The discovery inspired them all at once
with fresh hope for Mr. Diipuy's safety. In a
few minutes they had taken off his outer
clothing and dressed his wounds ; while Nora
sat rocking herself to and fro excitedly in the
American chair, her hands folded tight with
interlacing fingers upon her lap, and her lips
trembling with convulsive jerks, as she moaned
in a low monotone to herself, between suspense
and hope, after all the successive manifold
terrors of that endless evening.

By-and-by the doctor turned to her kindly
and gently. ' He'll do,' he said, in his most
fatherly manner. ' Go to bed, lassie, goto
bed, I tell ye. Why, ye're bruised an'
beaten yersel' too, pretty awkwardly !
Ye'll need rest. Go to bed ; an' he'll be

better, we'll hope an' trust, tomorrow
morning.'

I won't go to bed,' Nora said firmly, ' as
long as I don't know whether he will live or
not. Dr. Macfarlane.'

' Why, my lassie, that'll be a vera long
watch for ye, then, indeed, I promise you, for
he'll no be well again for many a long day yet,
I'm thinking. But he'll do, I don't doubt,
with the Almighty's blessing. Go to bed,
now, for there'll be plenty to guard you. Mr.
Hawthorn an' I will stop here the night ; an'
there's newborn enough coming up every
minute to hold the place against all the niggers
in the whole of Treenidad. The country's
roused now ; the constabulary's alive ; an' the
governor '11 be sending up the military
shortly to tak care of us while you're sleeping.
Go to bed at once, there's a guide lassie.'

Marian took her quietly by the arm and
led lier away, once more half fainting.
You'll stop with me, dear ? ' Nora whispered ;
and Marian answered with a kiss : ' Yes, my
darling ; I'll stop with you as long as you want
me.'

Wait a minute,' the good doctor called
out after them. • Ye'll need something short
to mak' ye sleep after all this excitement, I
tak it, eddies. There's nothing in the world
so much recommended by the faculty under
these conceptions as a guide stiff glass of auld
Hieland whisky with a bit lime-juice an' a
lump o' shooter in it. — Ye'll have some
whisky in the house, no doubt, won't you.
Uncle Ezekiel ? '

In a minute or two, Uncle 'Zekiel had
brought the whisky and the glasses and the
fruit for the bit lime-juice, and Macfarlane

had duly concocted what he considered as a
proper dose for the ' young eddies in their
present position.' Edward noticed, too, that
besides the whisky, the juice, and the sugar,
he poured furtively into each glass a few drops
from a small phial that he took out unperceived
by all the others from his waistcoat
pocket. And as soon as the two girls had
gone off together, the doctor whispered to
him confidentially, with all the air of a most
profound conspirator : ' The pair creatures
wanted a little sedative to still their nerves,
I consider, after all this unusual an' upsetting
excitement, so I've just taken the
liberty to give them each a guide dose of
morphia in their drap o' whisky, that'll mak'
them both sleep as sound as a bairn till tomorrow
morning.'

But all that nio'ht, the negroes watched

and prayed loudly in their own huts with
strange devotions, and the white men and the
constables watched — with more oaths than
prayers, after the white man's fashion — armed
to the teeth around the open gate of Mr.
Dupuy's front garden.

CHAPTER XLII.

Next morning, Tom Dupuy, Esquire, of
Pimento Valley, Westmoreland, Trinidad,
mounted his celebrated chestnut pony Sambo
Gal at his own door, unchained his famous
Cuban bloodhound Slot from his big kennel,
and rode up, with cousinly and lover-like
anxiety, to Orange Grove, to inquire after
Nora's and her father's safety. Nora was up
by the time he reached the house, pale and
tired, and with a frightful headache ; but she
went to meet him at the front door, and
dropped him a very low old-fashioned obeisance.


Good-morning, Tom Diipuy ! ' she said
coldly. ' So you've come at last to look us
up, have you? It's very good of you, I'm
sure, very good of you. They tell me you
didn't come last night, when half the gentlemen
from all the country round rode up in
hot haste with guns and pistols to take care
of papa and me. But it's very good of you,
to be sure, now the danger's well over, to
come round in such a friendly fashion and
drop us a card of kind inquiries.'

Even Tom Dupuy, born boor and fool ashe
was, flushed up crimson at that galling
taunt from a woman's lips, ' Now that the
danger's well over.' To do him justice, Tom
Dupuy was indeed no coward ; that was the
one solitary vice of which no fighting Dupuy
that ever lived could with justice be suspected
for a moment. He would have faced and

VOL. III. Q

fought a thousand black rioters smglehanded,
like a thousand devils, himself, in defence of
his beloved vacuum pans and dearly cherished
saccharometers and boiling-houses. His devotion
to molasses would no doubt have been
proof against the very utmost terrors of death
itself. But the truth is that exact devotion
in question was the real cause of his apparent
remissness on the previous evening. All
night long, Tom Dupuy had been busy
rousing and arming his immediate house-servants,
despatching messengers to Port-spain
for the aid of the constabulary, and
preparing to defend the cut canes with the
very last drop of his blood and the very last
breath in his stolid body. At the first sight
of the conflagration at Orange Grove, he
guessed at once that ' the niggers had risen ; '
and he proceeded without a moment's delay

to fortify roughly Pimento Valley against the
chance of a similar attack. Now that he
came to look back calmly upon his heroic
exertions, however, it did begin to strike ]him
somewhat forcibly that he had perhaps shown
himself slightly wanting in the affection of a
cousin and the ardour of a lover. He bit his
lip awkwardly for a second, with a sheepish
look ; then he glanced up suddenly and said
with clumsy self-vindication : ' It isn't always
those that deserve the best of you that get
the best praise or thanks, in this world of
ours, I fancy, Nora ! '

I fail to understand you,' Nora answered
with quiet dignity.

Why, just you look here, Nora ; it's
somehow like this, I tell you plainly. Here
was I last night down at Pimento. I saw by
the blaze that these nigger fellows must have

Q 2

broken loose, and must be burning down
the Orange Grove cane-houses ; so there I
stopped all night long, working away as
hard as I could work — no nigger could have
worked harder — trying to protect your
father's canes and the vacuum pans from
these murdering, howling rebels. And now,
when I come round here this morning to tell
you, after having made sure the whole year's
crop at old Pimento, one of your fine English
flouts is all the thanks I get from you, miss,
for my night's labour.'

Nora laughed — laughed in spite of herself
laughed aloud a simple, merry, girlish
laugh of pure amusement — it was so comical.
There they had all stood last night in imminent
danger of their lives, and of what is
dearer than life itself, surrounded by a frantic,
yelling mob of half-demented, rum-maddened

negroes — lier father left for dead upon the
piazza steps, Harry Noel hacked to pieces
with cutlasses before her very eyes, herself
trampled under foot in her swoon upon the
drawing-room floor by those naked soles of
negro rioters — and now this morning. Cousin
Tom comes up quietly when all was over to
tell her at his ease how he had taken the
most approved precautions for the protection
of his beloved vacuum pans. Every time
she thought of it, Nora laughed again, nth a
fresh little outburst of merry laughter, more
and more vehemently, just as though her
father were not at that very moment lying
within between life and death, as still and
motionless as a corpse, in his own bedroom.

There is nothing more fatal to the possible
prospects of a suitor, however hopeless, than
to be openly laughed at by the lady of his

choice at a critical moment — nothing more
galling to a man under any circumstances
than patent ridicule from a beautiful woman.
Tom Dupuy grew redder and redder every
minute, and stammered and stuttered in helpless
speechlessness ; and still Nora looked at
him and laughed, ' for all the world,' he
thought to himself, ' as if I were just nobody
else but the clown at the theatre.'

But that was not indeed the stage on
which Tom Dupuy really performed the part
of clown with such distinguished success in
his unconscious personation.

'How's your father this morning?' he
asked at last gruffly, with an uneasy shuffle.
I hear the niggers cut him about awfully
last night, and next door to killed him with
their beastly cutlasses.'

Nora drew herself up and checked her

untimely laughter with a sudden sense of the
demands of the situation, as she answered
once more in her coldest tone : ' My father is
getting on as well as we can expect, thank
you, Mr. Tom Dupuy. We are much obliged
to you for your kind inquiries. He slept the
night pretty well, all things considered, and is
partially conscious again this morning. He
was very nearly killed last night, as you say ;
and if it hadn't been for Mr. Noel and Mr.
Hawthorn, who kindly came up at once and
tried to protect us, he would have been killed
outright, and I with him. But Mr. Noel and
Mr. Hawthorn had happily no vacuum pans
and no trash-houses to engage their first and
chief attention.'

Tom Dupuy sneered visibly, ' Hm ! ' he
said. ' Two coloured fellows ! Upon my
conscience ! the Dupuys of Trinidad must becoming

down in the world, it seems, when
they have to rely for help in a nigger rising
upon two coloured fellows.'

If they'd had to rely upon white men like
you,' Nora answered angrily, flushing crimson
as she spoke, ' they'd have been burnt last
night upon the ashes of the cane-house, and
not a soul would have stirred a hand or foot
to save them or protect them.'

Tom laughed to himself a sharp, short,
malicious laugh. ' Ha, ha ! ' he said, ' my
fine English-bred lady, so that's the way the
wind blows, is it ? I may be a fool, and I
know you think me one ' — Nora bowed
immediately a sarcastic acquiescence — ' but
I'm not such a fool as not to see through a
woman's face into a woman's mind like an
open window. I heard that that woolly-headed
Hawthorn man had been over here

and made a most cowardly time-serving
speech to the confounded niggers, giving way
to all their preposterous demands in the most
outrageous and ridiculous fashion ; but I
didn't hear that the other coloured fellow —
your fine-spoken English friend Noel ' — he
hissed the words out with all the concentrated
strength of his impotent hatred — ' had
been up here too, to put his own finger into
the pie when the crust was burning. Just
like his impudence ! the conceited coxcomb
! '

Mr. Noel is lying inside, in our own
house here, this very moment, dangerously
wounded,' Nora cried, her face now like a
crimson peony ; ' and he was cut down by
negroes last night, standing up bravely,
alone and single-handed, with no weapon buta
little riding-whip, facing those mad rebels

like an angry tiger, and trying to protect me
from their insults and their cutlasses ; while
you, sir, were stopping snugly away down at
Pimento Valley, looking carefully after your
canes and your vacuum pans. Tom Dupuy,
if you dare to say another word, now or
ever, in my hearing against the man who
tried to save my life from those wild wretches
at the risk of his own, as sure as I'm standing
here, sir, I give you fair notice I'll come
up and slap your face for you myself, as
soon as I'll look at you, you cowardly backbiter
! — And now, Mr. Dupuy, good-morning,
good-morning.'

Tom saw the game was fairly up and his
hand outwitted. It was no use arguing with
her any longer. ' When she's in this humour,'
he said to himself philosophically,
'you might as well try to reason with a

wounded lioness.' So he whistled carelessly
for Slot to follow, lifted his hat as politely
as he was able — he didn't pretend to all these
fine new-fangled town-bred ways of Harry
Noel's — jumped with awkward agility upon
his chestnut pony, turned his horse's head in
the direction of Pimento Valley, and delivered
a parting Parthian shot from a safe distance,
just as he got beyond the garden gateway.
Good-by, Miss Nora,' he said then savagely,
raising his hat a second time with sarcastic
courtesy : ' good-by for ever. This is our
last meeting. And remember that I always
said you'd finish in the end, for all your fine
English education, by marrying a damned
woolly-headed brown man ! '

CHAPTER Lin.

All day long, Mr. Dnpuy lay speechless and
almost motionless on his bed, faint with loss
of blood, and hovering between life and
death, but gradually mending by imperceptible
degrees, as Marian fancied. The
brain had been terribly shaken, and there
were some symptoms of stunning and concussion
; but the main trouble was merely the
excessive drain on the vascular system from
the long-continued and unchecked bleeding.
About mid-day, he became hot and feverish,
with a full pulse, beating unsteadily. Mac-farlane,
who had remained in the house all

night, ordered him at once a rough mixture
of sal volatile, bismuth, and whisky. ' An'
whatever ye do,' he said emphatically, ' don't
forget the whisky — a guide wine-glassful in
half a pint o' cold water.'

Mr. Dupuy was raised in the bed to drink
the mixture, which he swallowed mechanically
in a half-unconscious fashion ; and then a
bandage of pounded ice was applied to his
forehead, and leeches were hastily sent for
to Port-of-Spain to reduce the inflammation.
Long before the leeches had time to arrive,
however, Nora, who was watching by his
bedside, observed that his eyes began to open
more frequently than before, and that gleams
of reason seemed to come over them every
now and again for brief intervals. ' Give him
some more whisky,' Macfarlane said in his
decided tone ; ' there's nothing? like it, nothing

like it — in these cases — especially for a mon
of Dupuy's idiosyncrasy.'

At that moment Mr. Dupuy's lips moved
feebly, and he tried to turn with an effort on
the pillow.

Hush, hush ! ' Nora cried ; ' he wants to
speak. He has something to tell us. What
is it he's saying ? Listen, listen ! '

Mr. Dupuy's hips moved again, and a faint
voice proceeded slowly from the depths of his
bosom : ' Not fit to hold a candle to old
Trinidad rum, I tell you, doctor.'

Macfarlane rubbed his hand against his
thigh with evident pleasure and satisfaction.
He's wrong there,' he murmured, ' undoubtedly
wrong, as every judicious person
could easily tell him ; but no matter. He'll
do now, when once he's got life enough left
in him to contradict one. It always does a

Dupuy guide to contradict other people. Let
it be rum, then — a giiid wine-glassful of Mr.
Tom's best stilling.'

Almost as soon as the rum was swallowed,
Mr. Dupuy seemed to mend rapidly for the
passing moment. He looked up and saw
Nora. ' That's well, then,' he said with a
sigh, recollecting suddenly the last night's
adventures. ' So they didn't kill you, after
all, Nora ? '

Nora stooped down with unwonted tenderness
and kissed him fervently. ' No, papa,'
she said ; ' they didn't ; nor you either.'

Mr. Dupuy paused for a moment ; then he
looked up a second time, and asked, with extraordinary
vehemence for an invalided man :
Is this riot put down ? Have they driven
off the niggers ? Have they taken the ringleaders
? Have they hanged Delgado ? '

'Hush, hush!' Nora cried, a little appalled
in lier cooler mood, after all that had
happened, at this first savage outcry for vengeance.
' You mustn't talk, papa ; you
mustn't excite yourself. Yes, yes ; the riot is
put down, and Delgado — Delgado is dead.
He has met with his due punishment.'

That's well ! ' Mr. Dupuy exclaimed,
with much gusto, in spite of his weakness,
rubbing his hands feebly underneath the bedclothes.
' Serves the villain right. I'm glad
they've hanged him. Nothing on earth comes

up to martial law in these emergencies ; and
hang 'em on the spot, say I, as fast as you

catch 'em, red-handed ! Flog 'em first, and

hang; 'em afterwards ! '

Marian looked down at him speechless,

with a shudder of horror ; but Nora put her

face between her hands, overwhelmed with

awe, now her own passion had burnt itself
out, at that terrible outburst of the old bad
barbaric spirit of retaliation. ' Don't let him
talk so, dear,' she cried to Marian. ' Oh,
Marian, Marian, I'm so ashamed of myself!
I'm so ashamed of us all — us Dupuys, I mean ;
I wish we were all more like you and Mr.
Hawthorn.'

You must na speak, Mr. Dupuy,' Mac-farlane
said, interposing gently, with his
rough-and-ready Scotch tenderness, ' Ye're
not strong enough for conversation yet; I'm
thinking. Ye must just tak' a wee bit sleep
till the fever's better. We've had a narrow
escape of your life, my guide sir ; an' ye must
na excite yourself' the minute ye're getting a
trifle better.'

The old man lay silent for a few minutes
longer ; then he turned again to Nora, and

VOL. III. R

without noticing Marian's presence, said more
vehemently and more viciously than ever : ' I
know who set them on to this, Nora. It
wasn't their own doing ; it was coloured instigation.
They were put up to it — I know
they were put up to it — by that scoundrel
Hawthorn — a seditious, rascally, malevolent
lawyer, if ever there was one. 1 hope they'll
hang him too — he deserves it soundly — flog
him and hang him as soon as they catch
him ! '

Oh, papa, papa ! ' Nora cried, growing
hotter and redder in the face than ever, and
clutching Marian's hand tightly in an agony
of distress and shamefacedness, ' you don't
know what you're saying ! You don't know
what you owe to him ! It was Mr. Hawthorn
who finally pacified and dispersed the
negroes ; and if it hadn't been for his coolness

and his bravery, we wouldn't one of us have
been alive to say so this very minute ! '

Mr. Dupuy coughed uneasily, and muttered
to himself once more in a vindictive
undertone : ' Hang him when they catch him !
hang him when they catch him ! I'll speak
to the governor about it myself, and prove to
him conclusively that if it hadn't been for this
fellow Hawthorn, the niggers 'd never have
dreamed of kicking up such an infernal hullabaloo
and bobbery ! '

But, papa,' Nora began again, her eyes
full of tears, ' you don't understand. You're
all wrong; about it. If it hadn't been for that
dear, good, brave Mr. Hawthorn '

Marian touched her lightly on the
shoulder. ' Never mind about it, Nora, darling,'
she whispered consolingly, with a
womanly caress to the poor shrinking girl at

K 2

her elbow ; ' don't trouble him with the story
now. By-and-by, when he's better, he'll
come to hear the facts ; and then he'll know
what Edward's part was in the whole matter.
Don't distress yourself about it, darling, now,
after all that has happened. I know your
father's feelings too well to take amiss anything
he may happen to say in the heat of
the moment.

If you speak another word before six
o'clock to-night, Dupuy,' Macfarlane put in
with stern determination, 'I'll just clear every
soul that knows ye foot o' the room at once,
an' leave ye alone to the tender mercies of
old Aunt Clemmy. Turn over on your side,
mon, when your doctor tells ye to, an' try to
get a little bit o' refreshing sleep before the
evening.'

Mr. Dupuy obeyed in a feeble fashion ;

but lie still muttered doggedly to himself ashe
turned over : ' Catch him and hang him !
Prove it to the governor ! '

As he spoke, Edward beckoned Marian
out into the drawing-room through the open
door, to show her a note which had just been
brought to him by a mounted orderly. It
was a few hasty hues, written in pencil that
very morning by the governor himself, thanking
Mr. Hawthorn in his official capacity for
his brave and conciliatory conduct on the
preceding evening, whereby a formidable and
organised insurrection had been nipped in the
bud, and a door left open for future inquiry,
and redress of any possible just grievances on
the part of the rioters and discontented
negroes. ' It is to your firmness and address
alone,' the governor wrote, ' that the white
population of the island of Trinidad owes today

its present security from fire and bloodshed.'


Meanwhile, preparations had been made
for preventing any possible fresh outbreak of
the riot that evening ; and soldiers and policemen
were arriving every moment at the
smouldering site of the recent fire, and forming
a regular plan of defence against the remote
chance of a second rising. Not that
any such precautions were really necessary ;
for the negroes, deprived of their head in
Delgado,.were left utterly without cohesion
or organisation ; and Edward's promise to goto
England and see that their grievances were
properly ventilated had had far more effect
upon their trustful and excitable natures than
the display of ten regiments of soldiers in
marching order could possibly have produced.
The natural laziness of the negro

mind, combining with their confidence in the
young judge, and their fervent faith in the
justice of Providence under the most apparently
incongruous circumstances, had made
them all settle down at once into their usual
listless laissez-faire condition, as soon as the
spur of Delgado's fiery energy and exhortation
had ceased to stimulate them. ' It all
right,' they chattered passively among themselves.
' Mistah Hawtorn wine to 'peak to
Missis Queen fur de poor naygur ; and de
Lard in leben wine to watch over him, an'
see him don't suffer no more wrongs at de
heavy hand ob de proud buckra.'

When the time arrived to make preparations
for the night's watching and nursing,
Nora came to Marian once more with her
spirit vexed by a sore trouble. ' My dear,'
she said, ' this is a dreadful thing about poor

Mr. Noel having to go on stopping here. It's
very unfortunate he couldn't have been
nursed through his illness at your house or
at Captain Castello's. He'll be down in bed
for at least a week or two, in all probability ;
and it won't be possible to move him out of
this until he's better.'

Well, darling .^ ' Marian answered, with
an inquiring smile.

'Well, you see, Marian, it wouldn't be so

awkward, of course, if poor papa wasn't ill

too, because then, if I liked, I could go over

and stop ^\ath you at Mulberry until Mr.

Noel was quite recovered. But as I shall

have to stay here, naturally, to nurse papa,
why '

Why, what then, Nora ? '

Nora hesitated. ' Why, you see, darling,'

she went on timidly at last, ' people will say

that as I've helped to nurse Mr. Noel through
a serious illness '

Yes, dear ? '

Oh, Marian, don't be so stupid ! Of course,
in that case, everybody's expect me — to — to
accept him.'

Marian looked down deep into her simple,
little, girlish eyes with a curious smile of arch
womanhness. 'And why not, Nora?' she
asked at last with perfect simplicity.

Nora blushed. ' Marian — Marian — dear
Marian,' she said at length, after a long pause,
you are so good — you are so kind — you are
so helpful to me. I wish I could say to you
all I feel, but I can't ; and even if I did, you
couldn't understand it — you couldn't fathom
it. You don't know what it is, Marian, to be
born a West Indian with such a terrible load
of surviving prejudices. Oh, darling, darling,

we are all so full of wicked, dreadful, unjust
feelings ; I wish I could be like you, dear, I
wish to heaven I could ; but I can't, I can't,
I can't, somehow ! '

Marian stroked her white little hand with
sisterly tenderness in perfect silence for a few
minutes ; then she said, rather reproachfully :
So you wish Mr. Noel wasn't going to be
nursed under your father's roof at all, Nora !
That's a very poor return, isn't it, my darling,
for all his bravery and heroism and devotion?'

Nora drew back like one stung suddenly
by a venomous creature, and putting her hand

in haste on her breast, as if it pained her terribly,
answered, with a deep-drawn sigh : ' It
isn't that, Marian — isn't that, darling. You
know what it is, dear, as well as I do. Don't
say it's that, my sweet; oh, don't say it's that,
or you'll kill me, you'll kill me, with remorse

and anger! You'll make me hate myself, if
you say I'm ungrateful. But I'm not ungrateful,
Marian — I'm not ungrateful. I admire,
and — and love him ; yes, I love him,
for the way he acted here last evening.' And
as she spoke, she buried her head fervid",
with shame and fear, in Marian's bosom.

Marian smoothed her hair tenderly for a
few minutes longer, this time again in profound
silence, and then she spoke once more very
softly, almost at Nora's ear, in a low whisper.
I went this morning into Mr. Noel's room,'
she said, ' darling, just when he was first beginning
to recover consciousness ; and , as he
saw me, he turned his eyes up to me with a
beseeching look, and his lips seemed to be
moving, as if he wanted ever so much to say
something. So I stooped down and listened
to catch the words he was trying to frame in

his feverish fashion. He said at first just two
words — " Miss Dupuy ; " and then he spoke
again, and said one only — " Nora." I smiled,
and nodded at him to tell him it was all well ;
and he spoke again, quite audibly : " Have
they hurt her ? Have they hurt her ? " I said :
No ; she's as well as I am ! " and his eyes
seemed to grow larger as I said it, and filled
with tears ; and I knew what he meant by
them, Nora — I knew what he meant by them.
A little later, he spoke to me again, and he
said : " Mrs. Hawthorn, I may be dying ;
and if I die, tell her — tell Nora — that that last
night, when she stood beside me there so
bravely, I loved her, I loved her, I loved her
better even than I had ever loved her ! " He
won't die, Nora ; but still I '11 break his confidence,
daring, and tell it you this evening. —
Oh, Nora, Nora ! you say you wish to heaven

you hadn't got all these dreadful-wicked West
Indian feelings. You're brave enough — I know
that — no woman braver. Why don't you have
the courage to break through them, then, and
come away with Edward and me to England,
and accept poor Mr. Noel, who would gladly
give his very life a thousand times over for
you, darling ?'

Nora burst into tears once more, and
nestled, sobbing, closer and closer upon
Marian's shoulder. ' My darling, my darling,'
she cried, ' I'm too, too wicked ! I only wish
I could feel as you do ! '

CHAPTER XLIV.

Tiih days went slowly, slowly on, and Mr.
Dupuy and Harry Noel both continued to
recover steadily from their severe injuries.
Marian came over every day to help with the
nursing, and took charge for the most part,
with Aunt Clemmy's aid, of the young Englishman
; while Nora's time was chiefly taken
up in attending to her father's manifold necessities.
Still at odd moments she did venture
to help a little in taking care of poor Harry,
whose gratitude for all her small attentions
was absolutely unbounded, and very touching.
True, she came comparatively seldom into

the sickroom (for such in fact it was, the
crushing blow on Harry's head having been
followed by violent symptoms of internal injury
to the brain, which made his case far
more serious in the end than Mr. Dupuy's) ;
but whenever he awoke up after a short doze,
in his intervals of pain, he always found a
fresh passion-flower, or a sweet white rosebud,
or a graceful spray of clambering Martinique
clematis, carefully placed in a tiny vase with
pure water on the little table by the bedside ;
and he knew well whose dainty fingers had
picked the pretty blossoms and arranged
them so deftly, with their delicate background
of lace-like wild West Indian maidenhair,
in the tiny bouquets. More than once,
too, when Aunt Clemmy wasn't looking, he
took the white rosebuds out of the water fora
single moment and gazed at them tenderly

with a wistful eye ; and when, one afternoon,
Marian surprised him in the very act, as she
came in with his regulation cup of chicken-broth
at the half-hour, she saw that the
colour rushed suddenly even into his brown
and bloodless cheek, and his eyes fell like a
boy's as he replaced the buds with a guilty
look in the vase beside him. But she said
nothing about the matter at the time, only
reserving it for Nora's private delectation in
the little boudoir half an hour later.

As Mr. Dupuy got better, one firm resolve
seemed to have imprinted itself indelibly
upon his unbending nature — the resolve to
quit Trinidad for ever at the very earliest
moment when convalescence and Macfarlane
would combine to allow him. He would even
sell Orange Grove itself, he said, and go over
and live permanently for the rest of his days

in England. ' That is to say, in England for
the summer,' he observed casually to Nora ;
for I don't suppose any human being in his
right senses would ever dream of stopping
in such a beastly climate through a whole
dreary English winter. In October, I shall
always go to Nice, or Pau, or Mentioned, or
some other of these new-fashioned continental
wintering-places that people go to nowadays
in Europe ; some chance, I suppose, of seeing
the sun once and again there, at any
rate. But one thing I've quite decided upon :
I won't hive any longer in Trinidad. I'm not
afraid ; but I object on principle to vivisection,
especially conducted with a blunt
instrument. At my time of life, a man naturally
dislikes being cut up alive by those
horrible cutlasses. You and your cousin
Tom may stop here by yourselves and
VOL. HI. s

manage Pimento Valley, if you choose ; but
I decline any longer to be used as the corpus
vile for a nigger experimentalist to exercise
this skill upon. It doesn't suit my taste, and
I refuse to submit to it. The fact is, Nora,
vi\Y dear, the island isn't any longer a fit
place for a gentleman to live in. It was all
very well in the old days, before we got a
pack of Exeter Hall demagogues sent out
here by the government of the day, on purpose
to excite our own servants to rebellion
and insurrection against us. Nobody ever
heard of the niggers rising or hacking one
to pieces bodily in those days. But ever
since this man Hawthorn, whose wife you're
so thick with — a thing that no lady would
have dreamt of countenancing in the days
before these new-fangled doctrines came into
fashion — ever since this man Hawthorn was

sent out here, preaching his revolutionary
cut-throat principles broadcast, the island
hasn't been a fit place at all for a gentleman
to live in ; and I've made up my mind to
leave it at once and go over to England.'

Meanwhile, events had arisen which rendered
it certain that the revolutionary demagogue
himself, who had saved Mr. Dupuy's
life and all the other white lives in the entire
island, would also have co go to England at
a short notice. Edward had intended, indeed,
in pursuance of his hasty promise to
the excited negroes, to resign his judgeship
and return home, in order to confer with the
Colonial Office on the subject of their grievances.
But before he had time to settle his
affairs and make arrangements for his approaching
departure, a brisk interchange of
messages had taken place between the Trine

2

dad government and the home authorities.
Meetings had been held in London at which
the whole matter had been thoroughly ventilated
; questions had been asked and answered
in Parliament ; and the English papers
had called unanimously for a thorough sifting
of the relations between the planters and the
labourers throughout the whole of the West
India Islands. In particular, they had highly
praised the courage and wisdom with which
young Mr. Hawthorn had stepped into the
breach at the critical moment, and single-handed,
averted a general massacre, by his
timely influence with the infuriated rioters.
More than one paper had suggested that Mr.
Hawthorn should be forthwith recalled, to
give evidence on the subject before a Select
Committee ; and as a direct result of that
suggestion, Edward shortly after received a

message from the Colonial Secretary, summoning
him to London immediately, with all
despatch, on business connected with the
recent rising of the negroes in Trinidad.

Mr. Dupuy had already chosen the date
on which he should sail ; but when he heard
that the man Hawthorn had actually taken
a passage by the same steamer, he almost
changed his mind, for the first time in his
life, and half determined to remain in the
island, now that it was to be freed at last from
the polluting presence and influence of this
terrible fire-eating brown revolutionist. Perhaps,
he thought, when once Hawthorn was
gone, Trinidad might yet be a place fit fora
gentleman to live in. The Dupuys had
inhabited Orange Grove, father and son, for
nine generations ; and it would be a pity
indeed if they were to be driven away from

the ancestral plantations by the meddlesome
interference of an upstart radical coloured
lawyer.

In this dubitative frame of mind, then,
Mr. Dupuy, as soon as ever Macfarlane would
allow him to mount his horse again, rode
slowly down from Orange Grove to pay a
long-meditated call at Government House
upon His Excellency the Governor. In black
frock-coat and shiny silk hat, as is the rigorous
etiquette upon such occasions, even
under a blazing tropical noontide, he went
his way with a full heart, ready to pour forth
the vials of his wrath into the sympathetic
ears of the Queen's representative against
this wretched intriguer Hawthorn, by whose
Machiavellian machinations (Mr. Dupuy was
justly proud in his own mind of that sonorous
alliteration) the happy and contented

peasantry of the island of Trinidad had been
spurred and flogged and slowly roused into
unwilling rebellion against their generous and
paternal employers.

Judge of his amazement, therefore, when,
after listening patiently to his long and fierce
tirade, Sir Adalbert rose from his chair
calmly, and said in a clear and distinct voice
these incredible words : ' Mr. Dupuy, you
unfortunately quite mistake the whole nature
of the situation. This abortive insurrection
is not due to Mr. Hawthorn or to any other
one person whatever. It has long been
brewing ; we have for months feared and
anticipated it ; and it is the outcome of a
widespread and general discontent among
the negroes themselves, sedulously fostered,
we are afraid ' — here Mr. Dupuy's face began
to brighten with joyous anticipation — 'by

the unwise and excessive severity of many
planters, both in their public capacity as.
magistrates, and in their private capacity as
employers of labour.' (Here Mr. Dupuy's
face first fell blankly, and then pursed itself
up suddenly in a perfectly comical expression
of profound dismay and intense astonishment.)
It is to Mr. Hawthorn alone,' the Governor
went on, glancing severely at the astounded
planter, ' that many unwise proprietors of
estates in the island of Trinidad owe their
escape from the not wholly unprovoked anger
of the insurgent negroes ; and so highly do
the home authorities value Mr. Hawthorn's
courage and judgment in this emergency, that
they have just summoned him back to England,
to aid them with his advice and experience
in settling a new modus vivendi to be shortly
introduced between negroes and employers.'

Mr. Diipuy never quite understood low
he managed to reel out of the Governor's
drawing-room without fainting, from sheer
astonishment and horror ; or how he managed
to restrain his legs from lifting up his toes
automatically against the sacred person of
the Queen's representative. But he did manage
somehow to stagger down the steps ina
dazed and stupefied fashion, much as he
had staggered along the path when he felt
Delgado hacking him about the body at the
blazing cane-houses ; and he rode back home
to Orange Grove, red in the face as an angry
turkey-cock, more convinced than ever in
his own mind that Trinidad was indeed no
longer a fit place for any gentleman of breeding
to live in. And in spite of Edward's
having taken passage by the same shiji, he
determined to clear out of the island, bag

and baggage, at the earliest possible opportunity.


As for Harry Noel, he, too, had engaged
a berth quite unfeignedly in the self-same
steamer. Even though he had rushed up to
Orange Grove in the first flush of the danger,
to protect Nora and her father, if possible,
from the frantic rioters, it had of course been
a very awkward position for him to find him -
self an unwilling and uninvited guest in the
house which he had last quitted under such
extremely unpleasant circumstances. Mr.
Dupuy, indeed, though he admitted, when he
heard the whole story, that Harry had no
doubt behaved ' like a very decent young
fellow,' could not be prevailed upon to take
any notice of his unbidden presence, even
by sending an occasional polite message of
inquiry about his slow recovery from the

adjoining bedroom. So Harry was naturally
anxious to get away from Orange Grove as
quickly as possible, and lie had made up his
mind that before he went he would not again
ask Nora to reconsider her determination.
His chivalrous nature shrank from the very
appearance of trading upon her gratitude
for his brave efforts to save her on the evening
of the outbreak ; if she would not accept
him for his own sake, she should not accept
him for the sake of the risk he had run to
win her.

The first day when Harry was permitted
to move out under the shade of the big star-apple
tree upon the little grass plot, where he
sat in a cushioned bamboo chair beside the
clump of waving cannas, Nora came upon
him suddenly, as if by accident, from the
Italian terrace, with a bunch of beautiful

pale-blue plumbago and a tall spike of scented
tube-rose in her dainty, gloveless little fingers.
Aren't they beautiful, Mr. Noel ? ' she said,
holding them up to his admiring gaze — admiring
them, it must be confessed, a trifle
obliquely. ' Did you ever in your life see
anything so wildly lovely in a stiff, tied-up,
staircase conservatory over yonder in dear
old England ? '

'Never,' Harry Noel answered, with his
eyes fixed rather on her blushing face than
on the luscious pale white tube-rose. ' I shall
carry away with me always the most delightful
reminiscences of beautiful Trinidad and of
its lovely — flowers.'

Nora noticed at once the significant little
pause before the last word, and blushed
again, even deeper than ever. ' Carry away
with you ? ' she said regretfully, echoing his

words — ' carry away with you ? Then do you
mean to leave the island immediately ? '

Yes, Miss Dupuy — immediately ; by the
next steamer. I've written off this very
morning to the agents at the harbour to
engage my passage.'

Nora's heart beat violently within her.
So soon ! ' she said. ' How very curious !
And how very fortunate, too, for I believe
papa has taken berths for himself and me
by the very same steamer. He's gone to-day
to call on the Governor ; and when he comes
back, he's going to decide at once whether
or not we are to leave the island immediately
for ever.'

Very fortunate ? You said very fortunate
? How very kind of you. Then you're
not altogether sorry. Miss Dupuy, that we're
going to be fellow passengers together ? '

Mr. Noel, Mr. Noel ! How can you
doubt it?'

Harry's heart beat that moment almost as
fast as Nora's own. In spite of his good
resolutions — which he had made so very
firmly too — he couldn't help ejaculating fervently
: ' Then you forgive me, Miss Dupuy !
You let bygones be bygones ! You're not
angry with me any longer ! '

Angry with you, Mr. Nos — angry with
you ! You were so kind, you were so brave !
How could I ever again be angry with
you ! '

Harry's face fell somewhat. After all,
then, it was only gratitude. ' It's very good
of you to say so,' he faltered out tremulously
' very good of you to say so. I — I — I
shall always remember — my — my visit to
Orange Grove with the greatest pleasure.'

'And so shall I,' Nora added in a low
voice, hardly breathing ; and as she spoke,
the tears filled her eyes to overflowing.

Harry looked at her once more tenderly.
How beautiful and fresh and dainty she was,
really ! He looked at her, and longed just
once to kiss her. Nora's hand lay close to
his. He put out his own fingers, very tentatively,
and just touched it, almost as if by
accident. Nora drew it half away, but not
suddenly. He touched it again, a little more
boldly this time, and Nora permitted him,
reproving. Then he looked hard into her
averted tearful eyes, and said tenderly the
one word, ' Nora ! '

Nora's hand responded faintly by a slight
pressure, but she answered nothing.

Nora,' the young man cried again, with
sudden energy, ' if it is love, take me, take

me. But if it is only — only the recollection
of that terrible night, let me go, let me go,
for ever ! '

Nora held his hand fast in hers with a
tremulous grasp, and whispered in his ear,
almost inaudibly : * Mr. Noel, it is love — it is
love ! I love you — I love you ! '

When Macfarlane came his rounds that
evening to see his patients he declared that
Harry Noel's pulse was decidedly feverish,
and that he must have been somehow over-exciting
himself; so he ordered him back
again ruthlessly to bed at once till further
notice.

CHAPTER XLV.

When Mr. Diipuy heard from his daughter's
own lips the news of her engagement to
Harry Noel, his wrath at first was absolutely
unbounded ; he stormed about the house, and
raved and gesticulated. He refused ever to
see Harry Noel again, or to admit of any
proffered explanation, or to suffer Nora to
attempt the defence of her own conduct. He
was sure no defence was possible, and he
wasn't going to listen to one either, whether
or not. He even proposed to kick Harry out
of doors forthwith for having thus taken advantage
in the most abominable manner of

T

this very peculiar and unusual circumstances.
Whatever came, he would never dream of
allowing Nora to marry such an extremely
ungentlemanly and mean-spirited fellow.

But Mr. Dupuy didn't sufficiently calculate
upon the fact that in this matter he had
another Dupuy to deal with, and that that
other Dupuy had the indomitable family will
quite as strongly developed within her as he
himself had. Nora stuck bravely to her
point with the utmost resolution. As long as
she was not yet of age, she said, she would
obey her father in all reasonable matters ;
but as soon as she was twenty-one. Orange
Grove or no Orange Grove, she would marry
Harry Noel outright, so that was the end of
it. And having delivered herself squarely of
this profound determination, she said not a
word more upon the subject, but left events

to work out their own course in their own
proper and natural fashion.

Now, Mr. Dupuy was an obstinate man ;
but his obstinacy was of that vehement and
demonstrative kind which grows fiercer and
fiercer the more you say to it, but wears itself
out, of pure inanition, when resolutely met
by a firm and passive silent opposition.
Though she was no psychologist, Nora had
hit quite unconsciously and spontaneously
upon this best possible line of action. She
never attempted to contradict or gainsay her
father, whenever he spoke to her angrily, in
one of his passionate outbursts, against Harry
Noel ; but she went her own way, quietly
and unobtrusively, taking it for granted
always, in a thousand little undemonstrative
ways, that it was her obvious future role in
life to marry at last her chosen lover. And

T 2

as water by continual dropping wears a hole
finally in the hardest stone, so Nora by constant
quiet side-hints made her father gradually
understand that she would really have
Harry Noel for a husband, and no other.
Bit by bit, Mr. Dupuy gave way, sullenly and
grudgingly, convinced in his own mind that
the world was being rapidly turned topsy-turvy,
and that it was no use for a plain,
solid, straightforward old gentleman any
longer to presume single-handed upon stemming
the ever-increasing flood of revolutionary
levelling sentiment. It was some
solace to his soul, as he yielded slowly inch
by inch, to think that if for once in his life he
had had to yield, it was at least to a born
Dupuy, and not to any pulpy, weak-minded
outsider whatever.

So in the end, before the steamer was

ready to sail, he bad been brought, not
indeed to give his consent to Nora's marriage
for that was more than any one could
reasonably have expected from a man of his
character — but to recognise it somehow in an
unofficial dogged fashion as quite inevitable.
After all, the fellow was heir to a baronetcy,
which is always an eminently respectable
position ; and his daughter in the end would
be Lady Noel ; and everybody said the young
man had behaved admirably on the night of
the riot ; and over in England — well, over in
England it's positively incredible how little
right and proper feeling people have got
upon these important racial matters.

'But one 'thing I will not permit,' Mr.
Dupuy said with decisive curtness. ' Whether
you marry this person Noel, Nora, or whether
you don't — a question on which it seems, in

this new-fangled order of things that's coming
up nowadays, a father's feelings are not to be
consulted — you shall not marry him here in
Trinidad. I will not allow the grand old
name and fame of the lighting Dupuys of
Orange Grove to be dragged through the mud
with any young man whatsoever, in this island.
If you want to marry the man Noel, miss, you
shall marry him in England, where nobody
on earth will know anything at all about it.

Certainly, papa,' Nora answered most demurely.
' Mr. Noel would naturally prefer
the wedding to take place in London, where
his own family and friends could all be present
; and besides, of course there wouldn't
be time to get one's things ready either,
before we leave the West Indies.'

When the next steamer was prepared to

sail, it carried away a large contingent of
well-known residents from the island of Trinidad.
On the deck, Edward and Marian
Hawthorn stood waving their handkerchiefs
energetically to their friends on the wharf,
and to the great body of negroes who had
assembled in full force to give a parting cheer
to ' de black man free', Mr. Hawtorn.'
Harry Noel, in a folding cane-chair, sat beside
them, still pale and ill, but bowing, it must
be confessed, from time to time a rather
ironical bow to his late assailants, at the
cheers, which were really meant, of course,
for his more popular friend and travelling
companion. Close by stood Nora, not sorry
in her heart that she was to see the last that
day of the land of her fathers, where she had
suffered so terribly and dared so much. And
close by, too, on the seat beside the gunwale,

sat Mr. and Mrs. Hawthorn the elder, induced
at last, by Edward's earnest solicitation, to
quit Trinidad for the evening of their days,
and come to live hard by his own new home
in the mother country. As for Mr. Dupuy,
he had no patience with the open way in
which that man Hawthorn was waving his
adieux so abominably to his fellow-conspirators
; so, by way of escaping from the unwelcome
demonstration, he was quietly
ensconced below in a corner of the saloon,
enjoying a last parting cigar and a brandy
cocktail with some of his old planter cronies,
who were going back to shore by-and-by in
the pilot boat. As a body, the little party
downstairs were all agreed that when a manlike
our friend Dupuy here was positively
driven out of the island by coloured agitators,
Trinidad was no longer a place fit for any

gentleman with the slightest self-respect to live
in. The effect of this solemn declaration was
only imperceptibly marred by the well-known
fact that it had been announced with equal
profundity of conviction, at intervals of about
six months each, by ten generations of old
Trinidad planters, ever since the earliest foundation
of the Spanish colony in that island.

Just two months later, Mr. Dupuy was
seated alone at his solitary lunch in the London
club to which Harry Noel had temporarily
introduced him as an honorary guest.
It was the morning after Nora's wedding, and
Mr. Dupuy was feeling naturally somewhat
dull and lonely in that great unsympathetic
world of London. His attention, however,
was suddenly attracted by two young men at
a neighbouring table, one of whom distinctly

mentioned in an audible tone his new son-in-law's
name, ' Harry Noel.' The master of
Orange Grove drew himself up stiffly and
listened with much curiosity to such scraps ashe
could manage to catch of their flippant
conversation.

Oh, yes,' one of them was saying, ' a
very smart affair indeed, I can tell you. Old
fear Walter and Lady Noel down there from
Lincolnshire, and half the smartest people in
London at the wedding breakfast. Very fine
fellow, Noel, and comes in to one of the
finest estates in the whole of England. Pretty
little woman, too, the bride — nice little girl,
with such winning little baby features.'

Ah, ha ! ' drawled out the other slowly.
Pretty, is she? Ah, really. And, pray, who
was she ? '

Mr. Dupuy's bosom swelled with not unnatural

paternal pride and pleasure as he
anticipated the prompt answer from the wedding
guest : ' One of the fighting Dupuys of
Trinidad.'

But instead of replying in that perfectly
reasonable and intelligible fashion, the young
man at the club responded slowly : ' Well,
upon my word, I don't exactly know who
she was, but somebody colonial, any way,
I'm certain. I fancy from Hong-kong, or
Penang, or Demerara, or somewhere. — No ;
Trinidad — I remember now — it was certainly
either St. Kitts or Trinidad. Oh, Trinidad,
of course, for Mrs. Hawthorn, you know —
Miss Ord that was — wife of that awfully
clever Cambridge fellow Hawthorn, who's
just been appointed to a permanent 
at the Colonial Office —
Mrs. Hawthorn knew her when she was out

there during that nigger row they've just
been having ; and she pointed me out the
bride's father, a snufFy-looking old gentleman
in the sugar-planting line, over in those parts,
as far as I understood her. Old gentleman
looked horribly out of it among so many
smart London people. Horizon apparently
quite limited by rum and sugar. — Oh, yes, it
was a great catch for her, of course, I needn't
tell you ; but I understand this was the whole
story of it. She angled for him very cleverly ;
and, by Jove, she hooked him at last, and
played him well, and now she's landed him
and fairly cooked him. It appears, he went
out there not long before this insurrection
business began, to look after some property
they have in the island, and he stopped with
her father, who, I dare say, was accustomed
to dispensing a sort of rough-and-ready colonial

hospitality to all comers, gentle and
simple. When the row came, the snuffy old
gentleman in the sugar-planting line, as luck
would have it, was the very first man whose
house was attacked — didn't pay his niggers
regularly, they tell me ; and this young lady,
posing herself directly behind poor Noel,
compelled him, out of pure politeness, being
a chivalrous sort of man, to fight for her
life, and beat off the niggers single-handed
for half an hour or so. Then he gets cut
down, it seems, with an ugly cutlass wound :
she falls fainting upon his body, for all the
world like a Surrey melodrama ; Hawthorn
rushes in with drawn pistol and strikes an
attitude ; and the curtain falls : tableau. At
last, Hawthorn manages to disperse the niggers
; and my young lady has the agreeable
task of nursing Noel at her father's house.

through a slow convalescence. Deuced clever,
of course : makes him save her life first, and
then she helps to save his. Has him both
ways, you see — devotion and gratitude. So,
as I say, she lands him promptly : and the
consequence is, after a proper interval, this
smart affair that came off yesterday over at
St. George's.'

Once more the world reeled visibly before
Mr. Dupuy's eyes, and he rose up from that
hospitable club table, leaving his mutton cutlet
and tomato sauce almost untasted. In
the heat of the moment, he was half inclined
to go back again immediately to his native
Trinidad, and brave the terrors of vivisection,
rather than stop in this atrocious, newfangled,
upsetting England, where the family
honours of the fighting Dupuys of Orange
Grove were positively reckoned at less than

nothing. He restrained himself, however,
with a violent effort, and still condescends,
from summer to summer, fitfully to inhabit
this chilly, damp, and unappreciative island.
But it is noticeable that he talks much less,
frequently now of the Dupuy characteristics
than he did formerly (the population of Great
Britain being evidently rather bored than
otherwise by his constant allusions to those
remarkable idiosyncrasies) ; and some of his
acquaintances have even observed that since
the late baronet's lamented decease, a few
months since, he has spoken more than once
with apparent pride and delight of ' my son-in-law.
Sir Harry Noel.'

It is a great consolation to Tom Dupuy to
this day, whenever anybody happens casually
to mention his cousin Nora in his presence,
that he can rub his hands gently one over

the other before him, and murmur in his
own peculiar drawl : ' I always told you she'd
end at last by marrying some confounded
woolly-headed brown man.'

^'^f

THE END.

PRINTED BY

8POTT1SW0ODE AND CO., New-street SQCAKB

LONDON
