LI B RAR.Y

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

Atste
I see a

V.I

nmmmmmmmKm

J»»(ri'5

^-^iJiiitrb.

^ ^ot)e(

GRANT ALLEN

AUTHOR OF
BABYLON,' 'the DEVIL's DIE,' ' THIS MORTAL COIL,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

Pontoon
CHATTO & WINDUS. PICCADILLY


^

V

^
^

'K

\J.\

TO

M. M. S.,

IN MEMORY OF MANY HAPPY DAYS
AT SIDI SALAH.

chapter PAGE

I. IN THE DARK CONTINENT - - 1

II. HONOURS - - - - 20

III. BY MOORISH Mountains - - 35

IV. ENTER A HEROINE - - - 54
V. PROBLEMS - - - - 68

VI, MISS KNYVETT EXPLAINS HERSELF - 85

Vn. ART AND NATURE - - - 105

Vii NO SOUL - - - - 124

IX. STRIKING A CLUE - - - 146

X. RIVAL CLAIMS - - - 163

XL GOOD NEWS FROM Ain - - - 181

xiL rejected! - - - - 193

Xii IRIS STRIKES - - - - 210

XIV. FOLLOWING UP THE CLUE - - 227

XV. AN OASIS OF CIVILIZATION - - 241

XVL THE WHITE Fathers - - 253

CHAPTER I.

IN THE Dark Continent.

Two young men of most Britannic aspect
sat lounging' together in honos wicker chairs
on the balcony of the English club at Algiers.
They had much reason. It was one of
those glorious days, by no means rare,
when the sky and climate of the city on
the Sahel reach absolute perfection. The
wistaria was draping the parapet of the
balcony with its profuse tresses of rich
amethyst blossom ; the long and sweeping
semicircle of the bay gleamed like a peacock's
neck in hue, or a brilliant opal with
its changeful iridescence ; and the snow-vol.
I. 1

clad peaks of the Djurjura in the background
rose high in the air, glistening
white and pink in the reflected glory of
the afternoon sun. But the two young
men of Britannic aspect, gazing grimly
in front of them, made no comment to
one another on the beauty and variety
of that basking scene. How could they,
indeed ? They had not been introduced
to one another ! To admire nature, however
obtrusive, in company with a man to
whom you have not been introduced is a
social solecism. So they sat and lounged,
and stroked their moustaches reflectively,
and looked at the palm-trees, and the
orange-groves, and the white Moorish villas
that stud the steep, smiling slopes of 
Superieur, in the solemn silence of
the true-born Englishman.

They might have sat there for ever and
said nothing (in which case the world must
certainly have lost the present narrative)
had not the felt presence of a Common Want

impelled them at last spasmodically to a
conversational effort.

I beg your pardon, but do you happen
to have a light about you ?' the elder of the
two said, in an apologetic voice, drawing a
cigar, as he spoke, from the neat little
morocco case in his pocket.

Curious, but I was just going to ask
you the very same thing,' his younger companion
answered, with a bashful smile.
'I've finished my last vesuvian. Suppose
we go into the smoking-room and look for a
match. Can you tell me where, in this abode
of luxury, the smoking-room finds itself ?'
Why, I haven't yet investigated the
question,' the other replied, rising from his
seat as he spoke; ' but I'm open to conviction.
Let's go and see. My trade's exploring.'


Then 1 take it for granted you're a newcomer,
like myself, as you don't know your
way about the club-rooms yet ?'

You put your finger plump on the very

1 — 2

point,' the elder answered, opening a door
on the left in search of the common need.
The fact is, I arrived in Algiers only
yesterday evening.'

Another coincidence ! Precisely my
case. I crossed by last night's boat from
Marseilles. Ah, here's the smoking-room!
May I offer you a light? P'f, pf, p'f.
Thanks, that'll do very well, I think. . . .
And how do you feel to-day, after that
terrible journey ?'

The elder Briton smiled a somewhat grim
and restrained smile. He was tall and fair,
but much bronzed with the sun.

Never had such a tossing in all my life
before,' he answered quietly. ' A horrid
voyage. Swaying to and fro from side
to side till I thought I should fall off, and
be lost to humanity. Talk of the good ship
plunging on the sea, indeed, as The
Marshals does in that rollicking song of
his ; any other ship I ever sailed on's the
merest trifle to it.'

And when did you leave England ?' his
companion went on, with a polite desire,
commendable in youth, to keep up the 
conversation. * You
weren't on the Ahd-el-Kader with us from
Marseilles, on Tuesday?*

'When did I leave England?' the new
acquaintance answered, with a faint twinkle
in his eye, amused at the chance of a
momentary mystification. ' I left England
last October, and I've been ever since getting
to Algiers. Per various casus, jeer tot
discriminate rerum!

Goodness gracious ! By what route ?'
the youth with the dark moustache inquired,
distrusting the Latin, and vaguely suspecting
some wily attempt to practise upon his
tender years and credulity.

By the land-route from Tunis, back of
the desert, via Biskra and Laghouat '

But I thought you said you'd had such
an awful tossing!'

So I did. Never felt such a tossing in

the world before. But it wasn't the sea ;
it was the ship of the desert. I came here
as far as Bridal, at least — true Arab-wise,
see-saw, on camel-back.'

The dark young man puffed away at his
weed for a moment vigorously, in deep contemplation.
He was a sh}^ person who
didn't like to be taken in ; and he strongly
suspected his new acquaintance of a desire
to humbug him.

What were you doing?' he asked, at
last, in a more constrained voice, after a
short pause.

Picking flowers,' was the curt and unexpected
answer.

Oh, come now, you know,' the dark
young man expostulated, with a more certain
tone, for he felt he was being hoaxed.
A fellow doesn't go all the way to the
desert, of all places in the world, just for
nothing else but to pick flowers.'

Excuse me, a fellow does, if he happens
to be a fellow in the flower and beetle

business, which is exactly my own humble
but useful avocation.'

*Why, surely, there aren't any flowers there.
Nothing but sand, and sunset, and skeletons.'

Pardon me. I've been there to see.
Allow me to show you. Til just go and
fetch that portfolio over there.' And he
opened it in the sunlight. ' Here are a few
little water-colour sketches of my desert
acquaintances.'

The dark young man glanced at them
with some languid curiosity. An artist by
trade himself, here at least he knew his
ground. He quaked and trembled before
no dawdling amateur. Turning over the
first two or three sheets attentively:

Well, you can draw,' he said at last,
after a brief scrutiny. ' I don't know
whether flowers like those grow in the
desert or not — I should rather bet on not
of the two — but I'm a painter myself, and
I know at any rate you can paint them excellently,
as amateurs go.'

My one accomplishment,' the explorer
answered, with a pleased expansion of the
corners of his mouth; it is human to receive
approbation gratefully from those who know.
I couldn't sketch a scene or draw a figure
with tolerable accuracy to save my life; but
I understand the birds, and creeping things,
and flowers ; and sympathy, I suppose, makes
me draw them, at least, sympathetically.'

Precisely so. That's the very word,'
the artist went on, examining each drawing;
he turned over with more and more care.
Though your techniques amateurish, of
course, I can see you knows the flowers, their
tricks and their manners, down to the very
ground. But tell me now: do these things
really grow in the desert?'

On the oases, yes. The flowers there
are quite brilliant and abundant. Like the
Alpine flora, they seem to grow loveliest
near their furthest limit. Butter fly fertilized.
But what brings you to Algeria so late in
the season? All the rest of the world is

turning its back now upon Africa, and
hurrying away to Aix-les-Bains,and Biarritz,
and Switzerland, and England. You and
I will be the only people, bar Arabs and
Frenchmen (who don't count), left here for
the summer.'

• What, are you going to stop the summer
here too?'

• Well, not in Algiers itself the explorer
answered, flicking his boot with his cane
for an imaginary dust-spot. ' I've been
baked enough in the desert for the last six
months to cook a turtle, and I'm ^omo- over
yonder now. where ices grow fi-ee, for coolness
and refreshment.'

And he waved his hand with a sweep
across the sapphire semicircle of the glassy
bay, to the great white block of rearing
mountains that rose with their sheet of
virgin snow against the profound azure of
an African sky in the far background.

• What, to Kabyliel' the artist exclaimed,
with a start of surprise.

• To Kabylie — yes. The very place.
You've learnt its name and its fame already,
then?'

Why, I see in this the finger of Fate,'
the artist answered, with more easy confidence.
' We have here, in fact, a third
coincidence. It's in Kabylie that I, too,
have decided on spending the summer.
Perhaps, as you seem to know the way,
we might manage to start on our tour
together.'

'But what are you going for?' the elder
man continued, with an amused air.

Oh, just to paint. Nothing more than
that. The country and the people ; new
ground for the exhibitions. Spain's used
up: so some fellows in England who know
the markets advised me to go to Kabylie on
an artistic exploring expedition. From our
point of view, you see, it's unbroken ground,
they say, or almost unbroken; and everything
civilized has been so painted up, and
painted down, and painted round about, of

late years, by everyone everywhere, that
one's glad to get a hint of the chance of
finding some unhackneyed subject in a
corner of Africa. Besides, they tell me it's
all extremely naive; and I like naivete.
That's my line in art. I'm in quest of the
unsophisticated. I paint simplicity.'

You'll find your sitter in Kabylie, then:
naivete rampant, and simplicity with a vengeance,'
the explorer answered. ' It's quite
untouched and un vulgarized as yet by any
taint or tinge of Parisian civilization. The
aboriginal Kabyle hasn't even learnt the
A B C of French culture — to sit at an
estaminet and play dominoes.'

So much the better. That's just what
I want. Unvarnished man. The antique
vase in real life. And I'm told the costumes
are almost Greek in their naturalness.'


Quite Greek, or even more so,' the explorer
replied; 'though, perhaps, considering
its extreme simplicity, we ought rather

to say, even less so. But where do you
mean to stop, and how to travel? Accommodation
in Ancient Greece, you know,
wasn't really luxurious.'

Oh, I'll just set out from Algiers by
diligence, I suppose, and put up for a
while at some little hotel in the country
villages.'

The explorer's face could not resist a
gentle smile of suppressed merriment.

'An hotel, my dear sir!' he said with
surprise. ' An hotel in Kabylie ! You'll
find it difficult, I'm afraid, to meet with the
article. Except at Fort National, which is
a purely French settlement, where you
could study only the common or French
Zouave eno-aored in his familiar avocation of
playing bowls and sipping absinthe, there's
not such a thing as a cabaret, a lodging, a
wayside inn, in the whole block of mountain
country. Strangers who want to explore
Kabylie may go if they like to the house of
the village headman, the annie, as they call

him, where you may sup off a nasty mess
of pounded kous-kous^ and sleep at night on
a sort of shelf or ledge among the goats and
the cattle. Government compels every
amine to provide one night's hoard and
entertainment for any European traveller
who cares to demand it. But the entertainment
provided is usually so very varied
and so very lively that those who have
tried it once report on it unfavourably.
Verbum sap. It's too entomological. When
you go to Kabylie, dont do as the Kabyles
do.'

But how do you mean to manage yourself
?' the artist asked, with the prudence
of youth. He was nettled at having made
so stupid a mistake at the very outset about
the resources of the mountains, and not
quite certain that he grasped the meaning
of verbum sap. (his Latin being strictly a
negative quantity), so he took refuge in the
safe device of a question that turned the
tables. • I came to Algiers hoping to pickup

some information as to ways and means
as soon as I got here; and since you seem
to know the ropes so well. perhaps you'll
give a raw hand the benefit of your riper
experience.'

Oh, / have my tent,' the traveller
answered, with the quiet air of a man
who has made his way alone about the
world. ' It's a first-rate tent for camping-out
in ; it's supplied with the electric light,
a hydraulic lift, hot water laid on, and all
the latest modern improvements — metaphorically
speaking,' he hastened to add by
an after thought, for he saw his companion's
large gray eyes opening wider and wider
with astonishment each moment. 'It's
awfully comfortable, you know, as deserts
go ; and I could easily rig up a spare bed ;
so if you really mean to paint in Kabylie,
and will bear a share in the expenses of
carriage, it might suit both our books,
perhaps, if you were to engage my furnished
apartments. For I'm not overburdened with

spare cash myself — no naturalist ever is — and
Tm by no means above taking in a lodger,
if any eligible person presents himself at
the tent with good references and an unblemished
character. Money not so much
an object as congenial society in a respectable
family.

It was a kind offer, playfully veiled under
the cloak of mutual accommodation, and the
painter took it at once as it was meant.
How very good of you !' he said. ^ I'm
immensely obliged. Nothing on earth
would suit my plans better, if it wouldn't
be trespassing too much on your kind
hospitality. '

Not at all,' the explorer answered with
a good-humoured nod. ' Don't mention
that. To say the truth, I shall be glad of a
companion. The Arab palls after a month
or two of his polite society. And I love
Art, too, though I don't pretend myself to
understand it. We'll talk the matter over a
little, as to business arrangements, over a

cup of coffee, and I dare say, Ashen we've
compared notes, we shall manage to hit
think's off comfortably too-ether.'

May we exchange cards V the artist
asked, pulling out a silver-bound case from
his breast-pocket, and handing one of its little
regulation pasteboard to his new friend.

The explorer glanced at it, and read
the name, ' Vernon Blake, Gresham Road,
Guildford;

I've no card of my own,' he made
answer, as he pocketed it ; ' in the desert,
you see, cards were of very little use ;
Bedouins don't drop them on one another.
But my name's Le Marchant — Eustace
Le Marchant, of Jersey, beetle-sticker.'

Oh, but I know jour name,' Blake
cried eao-erlv. delighted to show himself
not wholly ignorant of a distinguished
naturalist. ' You're an F.R.S., aren't you ?
Ah, yes, I thought so. I've seen notices of
you often in the paper, I'm sure, as having
gone somewhere and found out something.

Do you know, if I'd only known that
before, I think I should have been afraid to
accept your kind offer. I'm an awfully
ignorant sort of a fellow myself — far too
ignorant to go camping-out with an F.R.S.
in the wilds of Africa.*

If being an F;R.S. is the worst crime
you can bring to my charge,' Le Marchant
answered with a smile, ' I dare say we shall
pull together all very well. And if you
meet no worse society than F.R.S. 's in the
wilds of Africa, though it's me that says it,
as oughtn't to say it, your luck will have
been very exceptional indeed. But I don't
think you need be much afraid of me. I'm
an F.R.S. of the mildest type. I never call
anything by its longest and ugliest Latin
name : I never bore other people ^vith
interesting details of anatomical structure :
I never cut up anything alive (bar oysters),
and I never lecture, publicly or privately,
to anybody, anywhere, on any consideration.
There are two kinds of naturalists, you

VOL. I. 2

know : and I'm one of the wrongs kind.
The superior class live in London or Paris,
examine everything minutely with a great
big microscope, tack on inches of Greek
nomenclature to an insignificant mite or bit
of moss, and split hairs against anybody
With marvellous dexterity. That's science.
It dwells in a museum. For my part, I
detest it. The inferior class live in Europe,
Asia, Africa, or America, as fate or fancy
carries ; and, instead of looking at everything
in a dried specimen, go out into the
wild woods with rifle on shoulder, or box in
hand, and observe the birds, and beasts, and
green things of the earth, as God made
them, in their own natural and lovely
surroundings. That's natural history, old-fashioned,
simple, commonplace natural
history ; and I, for my part, am an old-fashioned
naturalist. I've been all winter
watching the sandy-gray creatures on the
sandy-gray desert, preparing for my great
work on " Structure and Function," and

now, through the summer, I want to correct
and correlate my results by observing the
plants and animals and insects of the
mountains in Kabylie. To tell you the
truth, I think 1 shall like you — for I, too,
have a taste for simplicity. If you come
with me, I can promise you sport and
healthy fare, and make you comfortable in
my furnished apartments. Let's descend to
details — for this is business — and we must
understand exactly what each of us wants
before either of us binds himself down
formally for hive months to the other.
Alphonse, a couple of coffees and two petits
verses at once, here, will you ?'

And by the clarifying aid of a cigar and
a chasse-cafes it was finally decided, before
the evening sun flushed the Djurjura purple,
and turned the white Arab walls to pink, that
Vernon Blake should accompany Eustace
Le Marchant, on almost nominal terra as
to the sharing of expenses, on his summer
trip to the mountains of Grande Kabylie.

2 — 2

HONOURS.

Somewhere about the same time, away over
in England, Iris Knyvett sat one morning
at lunch, drumming with her fingers on the
table before her that particular tattoo which
the wisdom of our ancestors ascribed to the
author of all evil.

Iris Knyvett herself would, no doubt,
have been very much astonished if only she
could have been told by some prescient
visitor that her own fate was in any way
bound up with the proposed expedition of
two unknown young men, from the English
Club at Algiers, into the wilds of Kabylie.
She had hardly heard (save in the catalogue
of the Institute) the name of Vernon

Blake ; while Eustace Le Marchant's
masterly papers before the Linnaean Society,
on the Longicorn Beetles of the Spice Islands,
had never roused her girlish enthusiasm, or
quickened her soul to a fiery thirst for the
study of entomology. And yet, if she had
but known it, Iris Knyvett's whole future in
life depended utterly, as so often happens
with everyone of us, on the casual encounter
of those two perfect strangers
among the green recesses of the j^orth
African mountains.

In absolute ignorance of which profound
truth, Iris Knyvett herself Avent on drumming
with her fingers impatiently on the
table, and leaving the filleted sole on her
plate to grow cold, unheeded, in the cool
shade of a fair lady's neglect.

Iris, my dear,' Mrs. Knyvett said sharply,
with a dry cough, ' why don't you eat your
lunch ? Your appetite's frightful. What
makes you go on hammering away at that
dreadful tattoo so ?'

Iris's eyes came back with a bound from
a point in sjoace lying apparently several
thousand miles behind the eminently conventional
Venetian scene that hangs above
the sideboard in every gentleman's diningroom.
' I can't eat anything, I really think,
mamma,' she said with a slight sie^h, ' till
I've had that telegram.'

Mrs. Knyvett hel2:>ed herself to a second
piece of filleted sole and its due proportion
of anchovy sauce with great deliberation,
before she answered slowly, * Oh, so
you're expecting a telegram !'

Yes, mamma,' Iris replied with scarcely
a shade of reasonable vexation on her pretty
face. ' Don't you remember, dear, I told
you my tutor promised to telegraph to me.'

Your tutor ! oh, did he?' Mrs. Knyvett
went on with polite acquiescence, letting
drop her pince-nez with a dexterous elevation
of her arched eyebrows. The principal
feature of Mrs. Knyvett's character, indeed,
was a Woman nose of finely-developed

proportions ; but it was one of those insipid
Roman noses which stand for birth alone —
which impart neither dignity, firmness, nor
strength to a fiice, bnt serve only to attest
their owner s aristocratic antecedents. Mrs,
Knyvett's was useful mainly to support her
pince-nez, but as her father had been the
Dean of a southern cathedral, it als
managed incidentally to support the credit
of her family. * Oh, did he,' Mrs. Knyvett
repeated after a pause, during which Iris
continued to tattoo uninterruptedly. " That
was very kind of hint.' Though why on
earth, or concerning what, he should wish
to telegraph, Mrs. Knyvett, who had never
been told more than five hundred times
before, had really not the slightest conception.


Mot he mamma. Vou must surely
remember I've reminded you over and over
again that my tutor s name is Emily Van-renew.'


Then why does she sign herself" E. Van-renew,

B.A. and Disc," I wonder?' Mrs.
Knyvett went on with dreamy uncertainty.
A Doctor of Science ought surely to be a
man? And Bachelor of Arts, too —
Bachelor of Arts ! Bachelors and spinsters
are getting too mixed, too mixed altogether.'

Iris was just going to answer something
gently, as was her wont, in defence of the
mixture, when a rap at the door made her
jump up hastily. 'That must be the
telegram !' she cried with a tremor, and
darted off to the door in a vigorous dash
that sufficiently showed her Girton training
had at least not quite succeeded in crushing
the life out of her.

Iris, Iris !' her mother called after her in
horror ; ' let Jane answer the door, my
dear. This unseemly procedure — and at
lunch-time, too — is really quite unpardonable.
In my time girls '

But Iris was well out of hearing long
since, and Mrs. Knyvett was forced to do
penance vicariously herself on her daughter's

account to the offended fetish of the British
drawing-room.

In another minute the bright young girl
had come back crestfallen, ushering in before
her a stout and rosy-faced middle-aged
gentleman, also distinguished by a Roman
nose to match, and dressed with the
scrupulous and respectable neatness of the
London barrister.

It's only Uncle Tom,' she cried, disappointed.


'It's only Uncle Tom?' the stout, red-faced
gentleman echoed good-humouredly.
Well, for taking the conceit out of a man,
I'll back the members of one's own family,
and more especially and particularly one's
prettiest and most favourite niece, against
all comers, for a hundred pounds a side,
even money. That's all the thanks I get, is
it. Iris ? for coming out of Court in the
midst of a most important case, and leaving
my junior, a thick-headed Scotchman as
ever was born, to cross-examine the leading

witness for the other side, on purpose to
ask you whether you've got a telegram :
and " Only Uncle Tom " are the very first
words my prettiest niece thinks fit to greet
me with after all my devotion

And he stooped down as Iris seated herself
at the table once more, and kissed her
affectionately on her smooth white forehead.

'Oh, uncle !' Iris cried, blushing up to
her pretty blue eyes with ingenuous distress
at having even for a moment appeared to
slight him — ' I didn't mean that. You
know I didn't mean it. I'm always pleased
and delighted to see you. But the fact is I
was expecting the telegram; and I ran to
the door when you rat-tat-tatted, thinking
it was the telegraph boy ; and when I saw it
was only you — I mean, when I saw it was
you, of course — why, I was naturally disappointed
not to have got the news about it
all. But did you really come up all the
way from Court on purpose to hear it, you
dear old uncle?'

All the way from Court, with Coleridge,
C.J., smiling cynically at my best
witnesses, I give you my word of honour,
Iris,' the red-faced old gentleman answered,
mollified; 'for nothing on earth except to
hear about a certain pretty little niece of
mine — because I knew the pretty little
niece was so very anxious on the subject.'

Oh, uncle, that incas kind of you,' Iris
cried aloud, flushing u}^ to her eyes once
more, this time With pleasure. A little
sympathy went a long way with her. ' It's
so good of you to take so much interest in
me.'

My unfortunate client won't say so,'
Uncle Tom muttered half aloud to himself
And, indeed, the misguided persons
who had retained and refreshed Thomas
Kynnersley Whitmarsh, Q.C., the eminent
authority on probate cases, would probably
not have learned with unmixed pleasure
this touching instance of his domestic affection.


But what's it all about, dear Tom V
Mrs. Knyvett exclaimed, in a querulous
tone and with a puzzled air. ' What do
Iris and you want to get a telegram from
this ambiguous tutor of hers for V

Uncle Tom was just about to enlighten
his sister's darkness (for the five hundred
and first time), when poor Iris, unable ro
control her feelings any longer, rose from
the table, with tears standing in her pretty
blue eyes, and remarked, in a slightly husky
voice, that she could eat nothing, and would
go and wait for the telegram in the drawing-room.


Mrs. Knyvett looked after her, bewildered
and amazed. ' This sort of thing makes
girls very strange,' she said sapiently.

This sort of things ' beings that idol of
our age, the Higher Education.

Well, well, it's done her no harm, anyhow,'
Uncle Tom answered, with stout
good-humour, for his niece was a great
favourite of his, in spite of her heresies. ' I

don't approve of all this fal-lal and nonsense
myself, either ; but Iris is a Knyvett,
you see, and the Knyvetts always struck
out a line for themselves; and each Knyvett
strikes out a different one. She's struck
out hers. She didn't get that from us. you
may be sure. Xobody could ever accuse
the Whitmarshes of eccentricity or originality.
AVe get on. but we get on steadily.
It's dogged that does it with our family,
Amelia. The Knyvetts are different. The
go their own way. and it's no good anybody
else trying to stop them.'

What would her poor dear whither say toit
all, I wonder ?* Mrs. Knyvett remarked
parenthetically, through a mist of sighs.

He would say, ** Let her go her own
way," ' the eminent Q.C. replied with cheerful
haste ; ' and if it comes to that, Whether
he said it or not wouldn't much matter, for
in her own quiet, peaceable, unobtrusive
manner, offending nobody, Iris would go
her own way, in spite of him. Yes, Amelia,

I say, in spite of him. After all, it's not
been at all a bad thing, in some respects,
that our dear girl should have taken up
with this higher education fad. We don't
approve of it ; but, if it's done nothing else,
it's kept her at least out of the way of the
fortune-hunters.'

Iris has great expectations,' Mrs. Kny-
vent remarked complacently. She remarked
it, not because her brother was not already
well aware of the fact, but because the
thought was in her own mind, and she
uttered it, as she uttered all other platitudes
that happened to occur to her, in the
full expectation that her hearer would tint
them as interesting as she did.

Iris has great expectations !' her brother
echoed. ' No doubt in the world, I think,
about that. B}^ the terms of the old Admiral's
will, ridiculous as they are, I hardly
imagine Sir Arthur would venture to leave
the property otherwise. To do so would
be risky, with me against him. And if Iris

had ozone into London Society, and been
thrown into the whirl of London life, instead
of reading her " Odyssey " and her
Lucretius," and tugging up amusing
works on conic sections, it's my belief some
penniless beggar — an Irish adventurer, perhaps,
if such a creature survives nowadays
would have fallen upon her and snapped
her up long ago ; especially before she came
into her fortune. Then it seems to be
almost disinterested. Now, this Cambridge
scheme has saved us from all the trouble
and bother of that sort of thing — it's ferried
us across the most dangerous time — it's
helped us to bridge oyer the thin ice, till
Iris is a woman, and quite lit to take care
of herself

There's something in that,' Mrs. Knyvett
responded, with a stately nod of the prominent
feature. It seemed somehow to
resolve independently on its own axis.

something in that!' her brother cried,
amazed, as though his own ' devil ' had

ventured to agree with him. * There's a
great deal in that, Amelia ! There's everything
in that! There's worlds in that!
It's the " Iliad" in a nutshell. The girl's
done the very best thing on earth for herself.
She's saved her expectations — her
great expectations — from the greedy maw
of every eavesdropping London fortune-hunter.'


At that moment another rat-tat at the
door made Uncle Tom start in his chair,
and Iris's voice was heard upon the stairs
as she rushed down from the drawings-room
to the front-door in sudden trepidation.
Endless terrors crowded upon her mind as
she went. She was quite safe about her
Latin prose, to be sure, but oh! that unspeakable,
that terrible mistake in the
unseen passage from Plato's ' Republic !'
It would spoil all, that false second aorist !
It was the telegram this time, sure enough,
without further delay. Iris tore it open in
an agony of suspense. Had the second

aorist betrayed her girlish trust ? Had
Plato repelled her platonic affections ?
Then her heart stopped beating for a
moment, as she read the words :

Cambridge University, Classical Tripos :
Women. First Class, Iris Knyvett, Girton,
bracketed equal. Third Classic. Sincerest
congratulations. We are all so proud.
Affectionately yours,

E. Yankee.'

Oh, cruel century that has put such a
strain upon a growing woman ! Uncle
Tom seized the half-fainting girl tenderly in
his arms, and, wringing her hand a dozen
times over, in spite of his disapproval of the
higher education for women (which his present
chronicler blushes to share), kissed her
and congratulated her turn about in one
unceasing tide for the next live minutes;
while poor Iris's head, giddy with her
triumph, swam round and round in a wild
delirium of delight and amazement. Third
Classic ! In her highest mood of hope she
VOL. I. 3

had never expected anything like this. She
cried to herself silently in her joy and satisfaction.


But what does it all mean ?' Mrs. Kny-
vent exclaimed, adjusting the pince-nez on
its pre-ordained stand once more with practised
skill, and gazing vacantly from the
telegram to Iris, and from Iris to the telegram.
' Is it — very much worse — much
lower than she expected ?'

What does it all mean, ma'am ?' Uncle
Tom exclaimed, flinging prudence to the
doors and his cherished convictions to the
four winds of heaven. ' AVhat does it all
mean ? I like your question, indeed ! Why
it means just this — God bless my soul, how
the girl trembles I — that your own daughter.
Iris Knyvett, has beaten all the men but
two in Cambridge University into a cocked
hat. That's what it means, ma'am. That's
what it means ! I don't approve of it ; but,
upon my soul. I'm proud of her ! Your
daughter Iris is Third Classic'

BY MOORISH MOUNTAINS.

A WEEK later, preparations were complete.
The tent had been arranged for mountain
travelling ; a folding-bed had been set up
for the lodger's accommodation ; stores had
been laid in from that universal provider of
Algerian necessities, Alexander Dunlop, in
the Rue d'Isly; a Mahonnais Spaniard from
the Balearic Isles had been secured a's servant
to guard the camp ; and Blake and
Le Marchant, on varying ends intent, had
fairly started off for their tour of inspection
through the peaks and passes of the Kaby-
tian Highlands. The artist's kit included
a large and select assortment of easels,

3 — 2

brushes, pigments, canvas, pencils, and
Whitman's paper ; the naturalist's embraced
a good modern fowling-piece, an
endless array of boxes for skins and specimens,
and a fine collection of butterfly-nets,
chloroform bottles, entomological pins, and
materials for preserving birds, animals, and
botanical treasures. Le Marchant, as the
older and more experienced traveller, had
charged himself with all the necessary arrangements
as to packing and provisions ;
and when Blake looked on at the masterly
way in which his new friend managed to
make a couple of packing-cases and a cork-mattress
do duty for a bedstead, at the
same time that they contained, in their deep
recesses, the needful creature comforts for a
three months' tour among untrodden ways,
he could not sufficiently congratulate himself
upon the lucky chance which had
thrown him, on the balcony of the Club at
Algiers that particular afternoon, in company
with so competent and so skilful an

explorer. He had fallen on his feet, indeed,
without knowing it.

A lovely morning of bright African sunshine
saw the two set forth in excellent
spirits from the hotel at Tizi-Ouzou, the
furthest French village in the direction of
Kabylie, Whither they had come the previous
day by diligence from Algiers, to
attack the mountains of the still barbaric
and half-conquered Kabyles.

Are the mules ready ?' Le Marchant
asked of the waiter at the little country inn
where they had passed the night, as he
swallowed down the last drop of his morning
coffee.

Monsieur,' the waiter answered, wiping
his mouth with his greasy apron as he
spoke, ' the Arabs say the mules will be at
the door in half an hour.'

• The Arabs say !' Le Marchant reseated,
with an impatient movement of his bronze;!
hand. ' In half an hour, indeed ! The
sloth of the Arab! I know these fellows.

That means ten o'clock, at the very earliest.
It's now seven, and unless we get underway
within twenty minutes, the sun '11 be so
hot before we reach a resting-place, that we
shall deliquesce like Miss Carolina Wilhelmina
Amelia Skeo^ors in '' The Vicar of
Wakefield." Ill go out and hurry them up,
Blake, with a little gentle moral suasion.'

Blake followed his host curiously to the
door, where half a dozen ragged Orientals,
picturesquely clad in a costume about
equally divided between burnoose and dirt,
were sprawling at their ease on a heap of
soft dust in the full front of the morning
sunshine.

Get up, my friends Le Marchant cried
aloud in excellent Arabic, for he Alas a born
linguist. ^ If the mules are not ready in
five minutes by the watch I hold in my
hand, by the beard of the Prophet, I
solemnly tell you, you may go every man
to his own home without a sou, and I will
hire other mules, with the blessing of Allah,

from better men than you are to take us on
our journey.'

Blake did not entirely understand colloquial
Arabic when rapidly spoken — in fact,
his own linguistic studies stopped short
suddenly at his mother tongue, and so
much French in the OUendorffian dialect as
enabled him to state fluently that the
gardener's son had given his apple to the
daughter of the carpenter — but he was
greatly amused to see the instantaneous
effect which this single sonorous sentence,
rolled quietly but very firmly out in distinct
tones, produced upon the nerves of
the sprawling Arabs. They rose from the
dust-heap as if by magic. In a moment all
was bustle, and turmoil, and confusion.
The tent and beds were hastily laden with
infinite shrieks on the patient mules : boxes
were strapped on — with many strange cords
and loud cries of *Ari!' — to the backs of
donkeys ; arms and legs were flung wildly
about in multitudinous gesticulations of

despair and inability: and before the five
minutes were fairly over by that inexorable
watch which Le Marchant held with stern
resolve before him, the little cavalcade
started off at a trot in the direction of the
still snow-clad summits of the nearer Djur-
jura.

It was a quaint small caravan, as it
mounted the hillside. The two Englishmen
rode unburdened mules ; the ragged Arabs,
barefoot and melting, ran after them with
shouts of guttural depth, and encouraged
the pack-beasts with loud jerky remonstrances
— ' Oh, father of fools, and son of a
jackass, will you not get up and hurry
yourself more quickly ?'

Where are we going ?' Blake asked at
last, as the highroad that had conducted
them for a mile from Tizi-Ouzou dwindled
down abruptly near a steep slope to a mere
aboriginal Kabyle mule-track, beset with
stones, and overhung by thickets of prickly
cactus.

How should I know ?' the naturalist
answered, wich a vague wave of the hand.
We're going to Kabylie. That's enough
for the moment. When we get there, we'll
look about for a suitable spot, and pitch our
tent wherever there's a patch of smooth
enough ground for a man to pitch on.
Sufficient unto the day " is the explorer's
motto. Your true traveller never decides
anything beforehand. He goes where fate
and fortune lead him. What we both
want is to explore the unknown. We'll
make our headquarters within its border,
wherever we find a convenient resting-place.'


Are the Kabyles black ?' Blake ventured
to ask, with a sidelong look, unburdening
his soul of a secret doubt that had long
possessed it.

Oh dear no, scarcely even brown,' Le
Marchant answered. ' They're most of them
every bit as white as you and I are. They're
the old aboriginal Romanist population —

the Berbers, in fact — driven up into the
hills by the Arab invasion in the seventh
century. Practically speaking, you know,
Jugurtha and Masinissa and Juba were
Kabyles

Blake had never heard oF these gentlemen's
names before ; but he veiled his
ignorance with an acquiescent ' Really 1'

They rode on, talking of many things
and various, for two or three hours, under
the brilliant sunshine. But all the way as
they rode they were mounting steadily, by
devious native tracks, steep and picturesque,
just broad enough for two mules to mount
abreast, and opening out at every step magnificent
views over the surrounding country.
To rio-ht and left stood several white villages
perched on spurs of the mountain-tops, with
their olive groves, and tombs, and tiny
domed mosques ; while below lay wooded
gorges of torrent streams, overhung and
draped by rich festoons of great African
clematis. Blake had never travelled in the

South before, and his artist eye was charmed
at each turn by such novel beauties of the
Southern scenery.

This is glorious !' he cried at last, halting
his mule at a sudden bend of the track. ' 1
shall do wonders here. I feel the surroundings
exactly suit me. What could be more
lovely than this luxuriant vegetation ? I
understand now those lines of Tennyson's
in the "Daisy." So rich! So luscious!
And look, up there on the mountain-side,
that beautiful little mosque with its round
white dome, embowered in its thicket of
orange-trees and fan-palms ! It's a dream
of delight. It almost makes a man drop
into poetry !'

Yes, it's beautiful, certainly — very, very
beautiful,' Le Marchant replied, in a soberer
voice, glancing up meditatively. ' You
never get mountain masses shaped like these
in the cold North ; those steep scarped
precipices and jagged pinnacles would be
quite impossible in countries ground flat and

worn into shape by the gigantic mangle of
the Great Ice Age.'

The great what ?' Blake asked, with a
faint tingling sense of doubt and shame.
He was afraid of his life Le Marchant was
going to be horribly scientific.

The Great Ice Age — the glacial epoch,
you know ; the period of universal glacier
development, which planed and shaved all
the mountain heights in Northern Europe
to a common dead-level.'

I never heard of it,' Blake answered,
shaking his head, with a blush, but thinking
it best at the same time to make a clean
breast of his ignorance at one fell swoop.
I . I don't think it was mentioned in
my history of England. I'm such a duffer
at books, you know. To tell you the truth,
I understand very little, except perspective.
I've read nothing but the English poets ;
and those I've got at my finger-ends ; but
I don't remember anything in Milton or
Shelley about the Great Ice Age. My father,

you see, was a painter before me ; and as 1
began to show a — well, a disposition for
painting very early, he took me away from
school when I was quite a little chap, and
put me into his own studio, and let me pickup
what I could by the way ; so I've never
had any general education at all to speak of
But I admire learning — in other fellows. I
always like to hear clever men talk
together

The best of all educations is the one you
pick up,' Le Marchant answered kindly.
Those of us who have been to schools and
universities generally look back upon our
wasted time there as the worst spent part of
all our lives. You're crammed there with
rubbish you have afterwards to discard in
favour of such realities as those you mention
perspective, for example, and English
literature.'

As he spoke, they turned sharply down
to a rushing brook by a Kabyle village,
where two or three tall and lissome native

girls, fair as Italians, or even as Englishwomen,
in their simple and picturesque
Oriental costume, were washing clothes at a
tiny ford, and laughing and talking merrily
With one another as they bent over their
work. The scene irresistibly attracted
Blake. The garb of the girls was, indeed,
most Greek and graceful ; and their supple
limbs and lithe natural attitudes might well
arouse a painter's or a sculptor's interest.

By Jove !' he cried. ' Le Marchant, I
should like to sketch them. Anything so
picturesque I never saw in my life before.
Sunburnt mirth," as Keats calls it in " The
Nightingale." Just watch that girl stooping
down to pound a cloth with a big round
stone there. Why Phidias never imagined
anything more graceful, more shapely, more
exquisite !'

She's splendid, certainly,' the naturalist
answered, surveying the girl's pose with
more measured commendation. ' A fine
figure, I admit, well propped and vigorous.

No tight-lacing there. No deformity of
fashion. The human form divine, in unspoiled
beauty, as it came straight from the
hands of its Creator.'

Upon my word, Le Marchant,' the painter
went on enthusiastically, ' I've half a mind
to stop the caravan this very moment, undo
the pack, unroll the papers, and get out my
machinery on the spot to sketch her.'

Maturer years yielded less to the passing
impulse of the moment.

I wouldn't if I were you,' the naturalist
answered more coolly. ' You'll see lots
more of the same sort, no doubt, all through
Kabylie. The species is probably well
diffused. You can paint them by the score
when we reach our resting-place.'

As Blake paused, irresolute, the girls
looked up and laughed good-humouredly at
the evident admiration of the two well-dressed
and Avell-equipped young infidels.
Thews were not veiled like Arab women :
their faces and arms and necks were bare.

and their feet and ankles naked to the knee ;
for the old Berber population of North
Africa, to whose race the Kabyles of Algeria
belong, retain unchanged to this day their
antique Roman freedom of manners and
intercourse. The girls' features were all of
them pretty, with a certain frank and barbaric
boldness of outline. Though shy of
strangers, they were clearly amused ; the
one who had attracted their special attention
looked almost coquettishly across at Le
Marchant, as he turned his beast with
sterner resolve up the slope of the mountain.
They're splendid creatures,' the naturalist
said, looking back a little regretfully, while
they rode up the opposite side, and left the
brook and the girls for ever behind them.
That sort of face certainly lives long in
one's memory. I immensely admire these
free children of nature. Just watch that
girl coming down the hillside yonder now
with her pitcher on her head — how gracefully
she poses it! how lightly she trips !

What freedom, what ease, what untrammelled
movement !'

By George, yes,' Blake answered, taking
in the scene with his quick artistic glance.
It's glorious ! It's splendid ! From the
purely aesthetic point of view, you know,
these women are far better and finer in every
way than the civilized product.'

And why from the purely esthetic point
of view alone T his companion asked
quickly, with a shade of surprise. ' Why
not also viewed as human beings in their
concrete totality ? Surely there's something
extremely attractive to a sympathetic
mind in the simplicity, the Jia'ivete, the
frank and unpretentious innate humanity
of the barbaric woman.'

Oh, hang it all, you know, Le Marchant !'
the artist expostulated in a half-amused
tone. * They're all very well as models to
sketch, but you can't expect a civilized man
to be satisfied permanently — on any high
ground — with such creatures as that, now.'

VOL. I. 4

I don't exactly see why not,' Le Mar chant
answered seriously, gazing down once more
from the zigzag path on the laughing group
of barefooted Kabyle girls, with their smooth
round arms and their well-turned ankles.
Humanity to me is always human. I've
lived a great deal among many queer people
Malays and Arabs and Japanese, and so
forth — and I've come in the end to the
modest conclusion that man, as man, is
everywhere man, and man only. Emotionally,
at least, we are all of one blood all the
world over.'

But you couldn't conceive yourself
marrying a Kabyle girl, could you ?'

As at present advised, I see no just cause
or impediment to the contrary.'

Blake turned up his eyes to heaven for a
moment in mute amazement.

Well, I'm not built that way, anyhow,'
he went on, after a pause, with a certain
subdued sense of inward self congratulation:


" I, to herd with narrow foreheads, vacant of our glorious
gains,
Like a beast with lower pleasures, like a beast with
lower pains !"

Xo, thank you. For my part, 1 agree
with the poet. I count the gray barbarian
lower than the Christian child. None of
your squalid savages for me. If ever I
marry, which I hope I shall be able to do
some of these fine days, the girl I marry
must be at least my equal in intellect and
attainments — and that, bar painting, she
might easily manage in all conscience ; but
for choice, I should prefer her to be highly -
educated — a Princess Ida sort of a woman.'

Then, I take it, you admire these newfashioned
over-educated epicene creatures V
Le Marchant interposed, smiling.

Well, not exactly over-educated, perhaps,'
Blake answered apologetically (he
was too much overawed to handle epicene) ;
'but, at any rate, I like them thorough
ladies, and well brought up, and as clever as
they make them.'

4 — 2

Clever. Ah, yes ! That's quite another
thing. Cleverness is an underlying natural
endowment ; but crammed ; no, thank you,
not for me, at any rate !'

They paused for a moment, each pursuing
his own line of thought unchecked ; then
the painter began again, in a musing voice :
*Did you happen to see in the English
papers, before we left Algiers, that a Girton
girl had just been made Third Classic at
Cambridge ?'

I did,' Le Marchant answered, with a
touch of pity in his tone ; ' and I was
heartily sorry for her.'

Ashy sorry for her ? It's a very great
honour !'

Because I think the strain of such a
preparation too great to put upon any woman.
Then that's the sort of girl you'd like to
marry, is it ?'

Well, yes ; other things equal, such as
beauty and position, I'm inclined to think
so. She must be pretty, of course, that goes

without saying — pretty, and graceful, and a
lady, and all that sort of thing — one takes
that for. granted; but, given so much, I
should like her also to be really well
educated. You see, I've never had any
education to speak of myself, so I should
prefer my wife to have enough of that commodity
on hand for both of us.'

Quite so,' Le Marchant answered, with
a faint smile. ' You'd consent to put up,
in fact, with a perfect paragon, who was
also a Girton girl and a Third Classic ! 1
admire your modesty, and I hope you may
get her.'

A fork in the road, with the practical
necessity for deciding which of the two
alternative tracks they should next take,
put a limit for the moment to their conversation.


printer a heroine.

Which way shall we go ?' Blake asked,
halting his mule for a second where the
paths divided.

I leave these questions always to the
divine arbitrament of my patron goddess,'
Le Marchant answered lightly, tossing a
sou, and little knowing how much his
future fate depended upon the final decision.
Let chance decide. Heads, right ! tails,
left ! The heads have it. Hi, you, Aimed
or Ali, or whatever your blessed name is,'
he went on in Arabic, to the men behind,
do you know where this path on the right
leads to ?'

To the mountain of the Beni-Merzoug,

Excellency,' the ragged Arab nearest his
mule made answer respectfully. ' It's a
good village for you to stop at, as Allah
decrees. The Beni-Merzoug are the most
famous makers of jewellery and pottery
among all the Kabyles.'

That'll just suit our book, I say,' Le
marchant went on in English, translating
the remark in the vernacular to Blake.
Chance, as usual, has decided right. A
wonderful goddess. To the Beni-Merzoug
let it be at once, then.' And he pocketed
the sou that had sealed his fortune. Oh,
fateful sou, to be gilt hereafter in purest
gold, and worn round fair lady's neck in a
jewelled locket !

They mounted still, past rocky ledges,
where hardly a goat could find a dubious
foothold, but where Kabyle industry had
nevertheless sown pathetic plots or strips
of corn or cabbages — for is there not pathos
in ineffective labour ? — till they came at
last, late in the afternoon, to a gray old

village, grimly perched on the summit of a
minor mountain. ' These are the 
the Arabs said, halting their
mules in a line at the entry of the street.
Here the track stops. We can go no
further.'

Let's look about for a soot to pitch our
tent upon, then,' Le March ant exclaimed, as
they unloaded their burden. ' No easy job
hereabouts, either, I should say. On the
desert, one had always the embarrassment
of riches in that respect ; here, on these
rugged rocky slopes, it would be hard to
find ten square yards of level ground anywhere.'


Nevertheless, after a quarter of an hour's
diligent search, not unembarrassed by the
curiosity of the Kabyles as to the newcomers,
a spot was found, close by the
village headman's house, in the shadow of
a pretty little white-domed tomb, overhung
by ash-trees, from whose spreading boughs
the wild vine drooped in graceful tresses.

It seemed to Blake the absolute ideal
summer camping - place. Around, great
masses of tumbled mountains swayed and
tossed like the waves of a boisterous sea ;
below, deep ravines hung in mid-air, with
their thick covering of Mediterranean pine
and evergreen oak and Spanish chestnut ;
while above, in the distance, the silent
white peaks of the snovvy Djurjura still
gleamed and shimmered, high over the hilltops,
in the evening sun. The painter
could have stood and gazed at it for hours,
but for the need for action ; it was with an
effort that he turned from that lovely prospect
to bear his part in the prosaic work
of tent - pegging and unpacking for the
evening's rest.

By this time a noisy crowd of Kabyles
from the village had gathered round the
spot selected by the visitors, and begun to
canvass in eager terms the motive of their
visit and the nature of their arrangements.
The natives were clearly ill-satisfied at their

choice. Le Marchant, though a tolerable
Arabic scholar, knew not one word as yet
of the Kabvle lano^uao^e ; so he was unable
to hold any communication with the men,
who themselves were equally guiltless for
the most part of either French or Arabic.
It was evident, however, that the Rabbles
as a whole regarded their proceedings with
extreme distaste, and that the headman of
the village, and a girl by his side, who
seemed to be either his wife or daughter,
had considerable trouble in restraining: this
feeling from breaking out into acts of
open hostility.

The girl, in particular, at once arrested
both the young Englishmen's passing attention.
It was no wonder if she did. So
glorious a figure they had seldom seen.
Tall and lithe, with strong and well-made
limbs, she seemed scarcely so dark as many
English ladies, but with a face of peculiar
strength and statuesque beauty. In type,
she was not unlike the merry Kabyle

maiden who had looked up at them and
laughed as they passed the washing-place
bv the torrent that morning ; but her style
was in every waj^ nobler and higher. The
features were bold and sculpturesque and
powerful; serene intelligence shone out
from her big eyes ; she looked, Le Marchant
thought, as a Spartan maiden might
have looked in the best days of Sparta — as
free as she was supple, and as strong as she
was beautiful. At first, while the earlier
preparations were being made, she hung
aloof from the new-comers as if in speechless
awe; but after a short time, as the
crowd around grew less unruly and
boisterous, and the attempts at intercommunication
began to succeed, she approached
somewhat nearer, and, equally removed from
coquetry or boldness, watched their proceedings
with the utmost interest.

At the outset, while the Spaniard and
the Arabs helped in the work of setting up
camp, conversation between the new-comers

was carried on almost entirely in pigeon
French. And of French, even in its pigeon
variety, the girl was clearly quite ignorant.

Vous ne paiiez pas Francis f Le Marchant
asked her tentatively.

But the Kabyle maiden shook her head
with a vigorous dissent, and put her finger
to her mouth in shot of silence. So he
turned away, and went on with his unpacking,
while the girl, poised in a most
picturesque attitude, with her arm on the
ledge of the little domed tomb, stood by
expectant, With a mutely attentive face, or
made some remark now and again, in a low
voice, to her fellow-countrymen, who stood
aloof in the distance. They seemed to treat
her with unusual respect, as a person of
some distinction. No doubt she must bethe
headman's wife, Le Marchant thought,
from the tone of command in which she
spoke to them.

Hand me that rope there, quick,' the
naturalist called out at last, in English, to

Blake. ' Look sharp, will you ? I want to
fasten it down at once to this peg here.'

The beautiful Kabyle girl started at the
words in the most profound surprise ; but,
to Le Marchant's astonishment, rose up at
once, and handed him the rope, as though
it was her he had asked for it, without a
moment's hesitation.

Curious how quick these half-barbaric
people are to understand whatever one says
to them in an unknown lano-uao'e,' Le Marchant
went on, in a satisfied tone, to his
English companion. ' This girl snapped
up what I meant at once by the inflexion
of my voice, you see, when I asked you for
the rope, though I never even pointed my
hand towards what I wanted.'

I can talk like that myself,' the girl
answered quietly, in English almost as
good as Le ]marchant's own, though with
a very faint flavour of liquid Oriental
accent. ' I heard you ask for the rope, and
I fancied, of course, you were speaking tome,

and so I gave it to you. But I
thought,' she added, with much natural
dignity, ' you might have asked me a little
more politely

If the girl was surprised to hear Le Marchant,
Le Marchant, in turn, was positively
thunderstruck to hear the girl. He could
hardly believe the direct evidence of his
own ears.

Do they speak with tongues in these
parts !' he cried, amazed ; ' or has much
wandering made me mad, I wonder ? Come
over here, Blake, and explain this mystery.
This lady positively answered me in
English.'

We speak with our tongues, of course,'
the girl went on, half angrily, misunderstanding
his old-fashioned Scriptural phrase,
'just the same as you and everybody else do.
We're human, I suppose; we're not monkeys.
But, perhaps, you think, like all other
Frenchmen, that Kabyles are no better
than dogs and jackals.'

She spoke with pride, and fire flashed
from her eyes. She was clearly angry.
Le Marchant thought her pride and anger
became her.

I beg your pardon,' he went on in haste,
very deferentially raising his hat by pure
instinct, for he saw that without any intention
of his own he had hurt her feelings.
I really don't think you quite understood
me. I was surprised to find anybody
speaking my own tongue here so far in
Kabylie.'

Then you aren't French at all ?' the o:irl
asked eagerly, with a flush of expectation.

Xo, not French — English ; and I'm sorry
I seemed, against my will, to annoy you.'

If you're English we're friends,' the girl
answered, looking up at him with a flushed
face, as naturally as if she had met with
stray Englishmen every day of her life.
It was my father who taught me to talk
like this. I loved my father, and he was
an Englishman.'

Le Marchant and Blake both opened their
eyes together in mute astonishment.

And what's your name ?' the painter
ventured to ask, half dumb with surprise,
after a moment's pause.

My name's Meriem,' the girl replied
simply.

Meriem I Ah, yes, I dare say ; that's
Kabyle. But your father's ?'

'My father's was Yusuf

'Yusuf?' Le Marchant cried. 'Why,
Yusuf's not English ! The English for
that, you know, is plain Joseph. Was
your father's name Joseph somebody ?'

Xo,' the girl answered, shaking her
head firmly. ' His name was Yusuf.
Only Yusuf His Kabyle name, I mean.
And mine's Meriem. In English, Yusuf
used always to tell me, it's Mary.'

• But your surname ?' Le Marchant suggested,
with a smile at her simplicity.

Meriem shook her head once more, with
a puzzled look.

I don't understand that, at all she said,
with a dubious air. ' I don't know all
English. You say some things I don't
make out. I never heard that word before
surname.'

Look here,' Le Marchant went on,
endeavouring to simplify matters to her
vague little mind. * Have you any other
name at all but Meriem ?'

Yes, I told you — Mary.'

Ah, of course. I know. But besides
that, again. Think ; any other ?'

The girl looked down with a bewildered
glance at her pretty bare feet.

I'm sure I can't sav,' she said, shaking
her head. ' I never heard an3\'

But your father had I Surely he must
have borne an English name ? You must
have heard him say it. He's dead, I suppose.
But can't you remember ?'

Yes, Yusuf's dead, and so's my mother,
and I live with my uncle. My uncle's the
Amine ^ you know, the head of the village.'

VOL. I. 5

And she waved her hand toward him with
native gracefulness.

Well, what was your father's English
name ?' Le Marchant persisted, piqued by
this strange and unexpected mystery, ' and
how did he" come to be living here in
Algeria ?'

He had an English name, a sort of a
double name,' Meriem answered dreamily,
after a moment's pause, during which it
was clear she had been fishing with small
success in the very depths of her memory.
It was Somebody Something, I remember
that. He told me that English name of
his, too, one day, and begged me never,
never to forget it. It was to be very useful
to me. But I was not to tell it to anybody
on any account. It was a great secret, and
I was to keep it strictly. You see, it was
so long ago, more than three years now.
and I was so little then. I've never spoken
this way, ever since Yusuf died, before.
And I've quite forgotten what the name

was that he told me. I only remember his
Kabyle name, Yusuf, and his French one,
of course — that was Joseph Leboutillier.'

• AVhat ! he had a French name, too ?'
Le Marchant cried, looking up in fresh
surprise.

Oh yes, he had a French one,' Meriem
answered quietly, as if everyone might be
expected to know such simple facts. ' And
that, of course, was what they wanted to
shoot him for.'

5—2

PROBLEMS.

At that very moment, before Le Marchant
could gratify his curiosity any further, a
voice from the crowd of Kabyle bystanders
called out sternly, in a commanding tone :
'Meriem! Ho agha!' and the girl, with
a start, hurried off at the sound into
the eager group of her fellow-tribesmen.
The crowd gathered round her in hot debate.
For awhile, Le Marchant and Blake
observed with dismay that their new friend
was being closely questioned as to what she
herself had said in the unknown tongue to
the infidel strangers, and what the infidel
strangers had said in return with so much
apparent kindliness to her. Angry glances

were cast from time to time in their direction,
and voices were raised, and fingers
and hands gesticulated fiercely. But after
awhile the beautiful girl's calm report
seemed somewhat to still the excitement of
the indignant Kabyles. She stood before
them with outstretched arms and open
palms, protesting, as Le Marchant gathered
from her eloquent attitude, that these were
indeed friends, and not enemies. Her protest
prevailed. After a few minutes' interval,
she returned once more, with a smiling
face, this time accompanied by her uncle,
the Headman, and two other Kabyles of
evident tribal importance, and the three
proceeded to hold an informal palaver with
the strangers from Europe, Meriem acting
the i^ole of interpreter between the two high
contracting parties.

The Headman spoke a few words first
to the girl, who endeavoured, to the best
of her ability, to impart their meaning in
English to the attentive new-comers.

'My uncle asks,' she said, 'what you
have come for, and why you have brought
all these strange things on the ground herewith
you ?'

My friend is an artist,' Le Marchant
answered simply; ^ and I am a naturalist, a
man of science. We've come to see the
mountains and the country, and all that
grows in them.'

Meriem shook her head with a gesture of
deprecation.

'I don't knows these words,' she said.
Yusuf never used them. I don't knows
what is an artist and what is a naturalist.
Why do you want to see the country?'
And she added a few sentences rapidly in
Kabyle to the three natives.

Le Marchant saw his mistake at once.
The English words he had used w-ere above
the girl's simple childish level. He must
come down to her platform. He tried over
again.

My friend paints pictures,' he said with

a smile, holding up a half-finished sketch of
Blake's ; ^ and I shoot birds, and pick up
plants and flowers and insects.'

^leriem nodded a satisfied nod of complete
comprehension, and reported his
speech in Kabyle to her uncle

My people say,' she went on again, after
a brief colloquy with her three compatriots,
why do you want so much pencils and
paper ? Have you come to do good or
harm to Kabylie ? Does not the pulling
out of pencils and paper mean much mischief
?'

Some of the paper is for my friend to
paint on,' Le Marchant answered, with the
calmness of a man well used to such dealings
with suspicious foreigners ; ' and part
of it is for myself to dry plants and flowers
in.'

My uncle says,' Meriem went on once
more after another short colloquy, ' are you
not come to plan out new roads and forts,
and will not the Kabyles be forced to work

on them, whether they will or whether they
will not ? Have not the French, who are
the enemies of my people, sent you to look
if the country is good, so that they may
send Frenchmen to take it, and plough it ?
Did they not make roads the same way to
Fort National, and give the land of the
Kabyles over there to be ploughed and used
by their own soldiers ?'

Explain to your people Le Marchant
said gently, in his cool way, ' that we are
English, like your father ; not French, like
the people who live at Fort National. Weare
Yusuf s countrymen. AVe have nothing
to do with the Government at all. We
plan no roads, and build no forts. We
have only come for our own amusement, to
paint the mountains, and to see what flowers
and birds live in them.'

And did you know Yusuf?' Meriem
cried excitedly.

No,' Le Marchant answered, and the
girl's face fell sadly at the answer. ' But

we are friends, as he was. We wish well to
the Kabyles, and all true believers.'

When Meriem had translated and dilated
upon these last remarks with her own comments,
the Kabyles seemed greatly mollified
and reassured. The Headman in particular,
with some effusion, seized Le marchant's
hand, and wrung it hard, murmuring many
times over fervently, as he did so :

Ingle good, French bad ; Yusuf ,'
with considerable enipressenient.

He has picked up a few words of
English, you see,' Meriem went on reflectively,
'from hearing me and my father, in
the old days, talk so much together.'

It was all so simple and natural to herself
that she seemed hardly to realize how
strange it sounded in the unaccustomed
ears of the two new-comers.

But they had no time just then to gratify
their curiosity by making any further investigations
or inquiries into the singular
mystery of Meriem's antecedents. Strange

as the problem was, they must lay it aside
unsolved for the present. Evening was
coming on, and the practical work of getting
things ship-shape in the tent for the night
inexorably demanded all their immediate
energies. There were the Arabs to be paid,
and the mules to be dismissed. Diego, the
Mahonnais servant, had still to light a fire
of green sticks, and prepare supper ; and
the two young Englishmen had to make
their own beds before they could lie on
them, and prepare their quarters generally
against the chance of rain or hail, or cold
wind, or thunderstorm. Meriem and the
three Kabyles, now passively friendly,
stopped and looked on with profound interest
at all these arrangements. The men,
for their part, were too proud to do more
than stand and gaze, with many expressions
of wonder and surprise — ' Allah is great !
His works are marvellous !' — at the lamps
and etna, and tin biscuit-boxes, that came
forth, one after another, in bewildering

.array, from the magical recesses of Le Marchant's
capacious leather travelling-case.
But Meriem, more accustomed to household
work, and even to a certain amount of
something very like what we in England
would call drudgery, lent a willing hand,
with womanly instinct, in picking up sticks,
and blowing the fire, and helping to lay out
the strange metal pans, and plates, and
pipkin.

• My people say they're not afraid now,'
she remarked, with a gracious smile to
Blake, as she looked up, all glowing, from
the fire she was puffing with her own pretty
mouth. ' If you're really English, they
know you're good, for Yusuf was good, and
he was an Englishman. Besides, I've told
them I'm sure by your talk you're really
EnHish : I know it, because it's just like
Yusuf's. The reason they were afraid at
first was partly because they thought you
were the wicked Frenchmen come to make
a road and plant vines, the same as happened

to our friends the Beni-Yenni, whom
they turned out to die on the mountains.
And then they yere displeased, too, because
you pitched your tent too near the tomb.
They thought that was wrong, because this
ground's sacred. Nobody comes here with
shoes on his feet. It's the tomb of a Marabout.'


What's a Marabout?' Blake asked, looking
up good-humouredly. He was a handsome
young fellow, and his teeth, when he
smiled, showed white ;ind even.

A holy man — I think you call it a priest
in English — who served Allah, and read
the Koran much ; and now that he's dead,
he's made into a saint, and our people come
to say prayers at his tomb here.'

But we can shift the tent if you like,'
Le Marchant put in eagerly, for he knew
how desirable it is in dealing with Mahometan
to avoid shocking, in any way, their
fierce and fanatical religious sentiments.
We thought it was only an ordinary tomb ;

we'd no idea we were trespassing on a
sacred enclosure.'

Oh no ; it doesn't matter now at all,'
Meriem answered, with a nod towards the
three observant Kabyles. ' Those two men
who are standing beside my uncle are Marabouts
too — very holy; and as soon as they
heard you were really English, they were
quite satisfied, for they loved my father and
protected him when the French wanted to
catch him and shoot him. They've looked
in the Koran, and tried the book ; and they
say the bones of the just will sleep none the
worse for two just men sleeping peaceably
beside them.'

Whoever her father was,' Le Marchant
remarked in a low tone to Blake, ' it's clear,
anyhow, that he's fortunately predisposed
these suspicious Kabyles in favour of his
own fellow-countrymen and successors.
We're lucky, indeed, to have lighted by
accident on probably the only Kabyle village
in Algeria where a single soul can

speak a word of English. We find an interpreter
ready to our hand. I'm glad I
trusted, as usual, to chance. My patron
goddess has not deserted me.'

And they say,' Meriem went on, after a
few more words interchanged in a low voice
with her own people, ' that they'll sell you
milk and eggs and flour, and as long as you
stop, I may come down here at times, and
. . and explain the things, you know, you
want to say to them.'

Act as interpreter,' Le Marchant suggested
quickly.

Meriem 's face lighted up with a flash of
recognition at the sound.

Yes, that's the word,' she said. ' I
couldn't remember it. Interpret what you
say to them. I'd forgotten "interpret." I
expect I've forgotten a great many words.
Translate's " another. I recollect it now.
You see, it's so long since I've spoken
English.'

The wonder is that you remember any

at all,' Le Marchant answered, with a polite
little wave. It was impossible to treat that
barefooted Kabyle girl otherwise than as a
lady. ' But it'll soon come back now, if you
often run down and talk with us at the tent
here. We shall want you to help us with
the buying and selling.'

Yusuf would have liked that,' Meriem
replied, with a faint sigh. ' He was anxious
I should talk often, and shouldn't on any
account forget my English.'

Le Marchant was silent. That naive
expression of her natural affection touched
him to the heart by its quaint simplicity.

M that moment Diego, looking up from
the pan he was holding over the fire with
the omelette for supper, called out sharply,
Vitus done, Mauresque ! Donne la main
hei! Viens viie^je te dis. Nous te voulons
pour nous aider !'

In a second Meriem drew herself up
proudly, for though she did not understand
the meaning of the words, or the habitual

insolence to the indigenes implied in the
tutoiement, she caught readily enough at the
imperiousness of the tone and the rude vulgarity
of the gesture that accompanied it.
The Kahyles, too, looked on angrily at this
interference of a mere European with one of
their own women — as who should presume
to use their beast of burden without the
preliminary politeness of asking them for
the loan of it ? But Le Marchant intervened
with a conciliatory and deferential wave of
his hand toward the offended Meriem.
Overlook it ' he said softly, ' and forgive
the fellow's rudeness. He knows no better;
he's only a boor ; I shall take care to teach
him politer manners. Diego,' he went on
in French to the Mahonnais. ' if you dare to
speak so to this young lady again, remember,
you go back that moment to Algiers
without your wages. AVe depend here
entirely on the goodwill of the indigested.
Treat her as you would treat a European
lady;

Diego could hardly believe his senses.
Cette demoiselle-ci, forsooth, of a mere
indigene! He turned back to the perusal
of his peninsular cookery, full of muttered
discontent.

Pigs of natives,' he murmured, half
aloud to himself shedding in some garlic.
Like a European lady ! Things have
come to a pretty pass in Algeria, indeed,
if we must say Ma'amzelle to a canaille of a
Mauresque I'

Bit the Kabyles nodded their hooded
heads with a comical air of sagacious
triumph.

They are English, indeed,' the Headman
exclaimed aloud in his own tongue to
his friends. * By the staff of the Prophet
they are indeed English ! Allah be praised
that we have seen this day! These are
good words I They take the part of a
Kabyle girl against a dog of an infidel.'

We go now,' Meriem said, moving back
to her tribesmen, and waving an adieu to

VOL. T. 6

the Englishmen with her delicate small
hand. ' We know you are friends. Fear
no disturbance; this place is yours. We
will send you a cous-cous'

A cous-cous ! What's that ?' Blake
asked, turning round to his more experienced
companion.

Oh, just the ordinary native dish, a sort
of porridge or macaroni Le Marchant
answered sotto voce. ' It's the customary
mark of politeness and recognition to a
stranger, like paying a first call, among
the Arabs and Kabyles. To send you a
coins-cous is to make a friend of you. We
needn't eat it, you know. It's a sloppy,
soppy, pappy mess, even when made by a
European, and the native cookery isn't
likely to improve it.'

^ From her hands,' Blake answered, with
unpremeditated enthusiasm, ' I could eat
anything, even a dog-biscuit. What luck
we're in, Le Marchant! She's a splendid
creature — a model of ten thousand ! I

could hardly take my eyes off her as long
as she stopped here.'

Le Marchant gazed round at him with a
sharp and hasty glance of inquiry.

So you've altered your opinion, have
you he asked wonderingly, ' about the
merits and potentialities of these natural
Kabyle women?'

Oh, viewed as a model only, I mean
Blake corrected in haste. ' I should love
to paint her, of course; she's so splendid as
an example of the pure unadulterated human
figure. I don't go back one word of what
I said otherwise. For wives, I prefer them
civilized and educated. But if it comes to
that, you must remember, Le Marchant,
the girl's at least one half an Englishwoman.'


As he spoke, Meriem, tripping lightly
and gracefully up the rocky path above
that led by zigzag gradients to her uncle's
hut — for it was hardly more — turned round
again and waved them a last farewell with

6—2

that faultless arm of hers. Both young
men raised their hats by some inner impulse,
as to an English lady. Then the
Kabyles turned round a sharp ledge of
rock, and left them undisturbed to their
supper and their conjectures. Le Marchant,
gazing after her, saw a vision of glory.
Blake saw but the picture of a Greek
goddess, waving her arm, as on some
antique vase, to Paris or Endymion.

MISS KNYVETT EXPLAINS HERSELF.

That same afternoon, in London town,
where the atmosphere was perhaps a trifle
less clear than on the mountains of Kabylie,
Thomas Kynnersley Whitmarsh, Q.C., the
eminent authority upon probate and divorce
cases, was somewhat surprised at receiving
an unexpected visit at his own chambers in
Old Square, Lincoln's Inn, from his pretty
little niece, Iris Knyvett. The Third
Classic had by this time got over the first
flush and whirl of congratulations and
flattery. Her fame had almost begun to
pall upon her. The Times had had a
leader in her honour, of course, and the
illustrated papers had engraved her portrait,

from which a captious world rejoiced to
learn she did not wear blue spectacles.
Fogeys, of whom the present writer is
one, had croaked in letters to the public
press about the danger of the precedent to
all her sex; and enthusiastic speakers on
ladies' platforms had hailed her success
with jubilant whoops as the first dawn of
a new era for emancipated womanhood. The
Third Classic, in short, had been the talk
of the town — a nine days' wonder. But
owing to the opportune intervention of a
small boy who could play the violin, and a
new design for blowing up the Czar in
the Summer Palace, the hubbub was beginning
to die away a little now, and Iris
Knyvett was able to face a trifle more
calmly the momentous question of her
own future career and place in the universe.


It is a characteristic of the present age
that even women have begun at last to
develop the rudiments of a social conscience.

No longer content to feed like drones at
the world's table, giving nothing in return
towards the making of the feast save the
ornamental effect of their own gracious
smiles and pretty faces, they have awoke
with a start in these latter days to the sense
of a felt need in life — to a consciousness of
the want of a definite mission. It was a
mission that Iris was now in search of, and
it was on the subject of the choice or nature
of that proposed mission that she came down
dutifully to Old Square that fine afternoon
to consult her uncle. This was nice of her;
for, believe me, the higher education has not
wholly succeeded in annexing a woman if
she still pretends, in the decorous old fashion,
to pay a certain amount of ostensible external
deference to the opinions and experience
of her male relations.

The eminent Q.C. looked up with surprise
from his devil's short notes on a fresh brief,
which he was just that moment engaged in
skimming. It was a slack afternoon in Old

Square, as it happened, and by a sort of
minor miracle or special providence Uncle
Tom had really half an hour to spare upon
his pretty and now distinguished niece ; but,
even had it been otherwise, some client's
case would surely have fared but scurvily
at his hands at such a moment; for Uncle
Tom Alas fond and proud of Iri.-^, in spite
of her heresies, and would have neglected
Coleridge, C.J., himself to attend to her
slightest whim or fancy.

God bless my soul, my dear,' he exclaimed,
in surprise, rising up from his
desk, and pushing his niece with a hearty
kiss and a vigorous shove into the one armchair
(so dusty in the back that Iris, being
still, though Third Classic, a woman for all
that, trembled inwardly in silence for her
nice new best afternoon frock) ; ' what on
earth brings a learned lady like you down
to Lincoln's Inn at this time of day, eh ?'

Well, uncle,' Iris answered, with modest
eyes, ' to tell you the truth, if I may venture

to bother you, I've come down to ask your
advice this afternoon about a private matter
that greatly concerns me.'

The old barrister rubbed his fat hands
together with a distinct glow of inward
satisfaction.

That's rio'ht, mv dear he answered
warmly. ' That's the right spirit. The
good old spirit. I'm glad to see it, Iris;
I'm very glad to see it. I was afraid you'd
be too puffed up now even to look at me in
the light of an adviser.'

Iris glanced down demurely and smiled.

Uncle dear,' she said, with womanly
softness, ' I hope I shall never be too puffed
up to consult you about anything and everything
on earth that concerns me. Since
dear papa died, I feel you've always been as
good as a father to me. You know that as
well as I do; only you like to make me tell
you again. But are you quite sure, you
dear, that I'm not interrupting you?'

The old man's eyes had a gentle glisten

in them as he took his pretty niece's hand
in his tenderly.

Iris he answered, raising it with old-fashioned
chivalry to his pursed-up lips (for,
short and fat as he was, the eminent Q.C.
was an old gentleman of much unsuspected
sentiment), ' you never interrupt me, and
you never shall. My most litigious client
must wait your pleasure. I'm always glad
at any time to see you here or elsewhere.
My dear, I, who never had a daughter of
my own, love you as dearly as if you were
my own daughter. I'm only too glad to be
of any help to you. I don't think I shall
come down here much longer, Iris. The
fact is, I'm getting tired of the Bar — its
dulness and its hollo ness. My boys are
well enough provided for now, and I shall
never be a judge — I've been far too honest
for that — done no dirty work for either
party. So there's nothing to keep me with
my nose at the grindstone here much longer.
I've feathered my nest in spite of 'em, and

I shall soon retire; and then I shall have
nothing to do in life but to pose as your
guardian, guide, philosopher, and friend,
Miss Third Classic'

And he eyed her admiringly. It was
very wrong, but he liked his pretty niece
all the better for having achieved those
academical honours he, nevertheless, felt
bound to deprecate.

Iris's eyes fell down once more.

You're too good, uncle — and you're a
darling!' she answered. 'Well, what I
wanted to consult you about to-day is
just this. Now that I've finished my
education '

Uncle Tom shook his head in vigorous
dissent.

Bad phrase, my dear,' he said, ' bad
phrase — very. Too youthful altogether.
Betrays inexperience. Xobody ever finished
his education yet. Mine goes on still. It's
in progress daily. Each new case teaches
me something. And the judges teach

me, if nothing else, contempt of Court
daily.'

Iris accepted the correction in good part.

Well, then she went on, with a pretty
smile, * now that I've completed my University
course '

Much better,' the old man muttered:
much better ; much better. Though not
feminine.'

I want to begin some work in life — something:
that will do e^ood in some wav to others
something that will make me feel I'm being
of use to the world in my generation.'

Uncle Tom sniffed high.

In short,' he said, with a pitying smile,
'a mission.'

Iris smiled in return, in spite of herself.

AVell, yes she good-hum surely murmured,
' if you choose to put it so, just
that — a mission.'

Uncle Tom rose and went over without a
word to a small tin box on a shelf opposite,
conspicuously labelled, in large white letters,

Estate of the late Rev. Reginald Knyvett.'
From the box he took out a few papers and
parchments, and from among them he soon
selected one, tied round with a neat little
tag of red tape, and marked on the back ina
round legal hand, 'Descendants of the late
Rear Admiral William Clarence Knyvett,
Cab.' He handed this formidable document
over with a little silent bow to Iris, and
seating himself then at his own desk, proceeded
with uplifted pen in hand to address
her, as jury, on the question at issue.

My dear,' he said, in so forensic a tone
that Iris half expected ' My Lud, I mean,'
to follow, ' you must remember that you
have already a mission cut out for you, and
a mission for which it is your bounden duty
as a citizen and a Christian most strenuously
to prepare yourself. I know, of course, the
sort of thing you had in your head. Come,
now,' and he assumed his cross-examining
tone, with a dig of his quill in the direction
of the unwilling witness ; ' confess you

were thinking of being a nurse in a
hospital.'

Iris blushed a guilty acquiescence.

Well, either that,' she answered grudgingly,
' or a tutorship, or lectureship at
some ladies' college.'

Precisely so,' Uncle Tom responded,
with a crushing triumph. ' I knew as
much. I was morally certain of it. It's
always so. Young women in search of a
mission nowadays have two ideas, and two
ideas only — nursing or teaching. They
want to turn the world into one vast
hospital, or one vast boarding - school.
They'd like us all to break our legs, or
go into the Fourth Form again, that they
might exercise their vocation by bandaging
us up with ambulance shreds and list, or
giving us lectures at great length on political
economy Now the fact is, Iris, that's
all very well for plain young women of
limited means, whom nobody's ever likely
to think of marrying. Let them exercise

their vocation by all means, if they like it,
provided always they don't expect me to
break my leg to please them, or listen to
their lectures on political economy. I draw
a line there; no Mill or Ricardo. . . . But
you, my dear, will have a great fortune.
Somebody worthy of you will some day
marry you — if anybody worthy of you
exists anywhere. Now, to dispense that
great fortune aright, to use it for the best
good of humanity, you ought to be otherwise
engaged than in bandaging, I think.
Your main work in life will be, not to
bandage, but to fulfil the part of a goodwife
and a good mother. I may be old-fashioned
in thinking thus, perhaps; I may
even be indelicate, since women nowadays
are too delicate to face the facts of life — but.
at any rate, I'm practical. These views are
not the views in vogue at Girton, I'm aware,
but they're common-sense — they're commonsense,
for all that. The species won't die
out because you've o't the whig-her education.

What then? You ought to be trying to
prepare yourself for your duties in life — the
duties in life that will naturally devolve
upon you as the mistress, dispenser, and
transmitter of a Great Property.'

The last two words Uncle Tom pronounced
with peculiar unction, for property
in his eyes was something almost sacred in
its profound importance.

'But how do I know?' Iris objected
faintly, ' that Uncle Arthur will leave his
money to me at all ? Let alone the odious
idea of waiting and watching till you come
into somebody else's fortune.'

How do you know ?' Uncle Tom
repeated, with a sudden explosion of
virtuous indignation. ' Just look at that
paper you hold in your hand, and I'll explain
the whole thing to you, as clear as mud, in
half a second. He'd hardly dare to leave it
otherwise, I tell you, with me against him.
I'd like to see him try, that's all, Iris.
Just cast your eye on the paper in your

hand, and recollect that jour grandfather,
the Admiral — like a green bay-tree — had
five sons — his quiver full of them. Five
sons. Alexander, the squire, never married ;
Clarence, the scapegrace — the less said
about Clarence the better ; Sir Arthur,
the general, whose wife pre-deceased him;
Reginald, the parson, your father, my dear,
and a better man never breathed, though he
married my sister ; and, lastly, Charles, that
rascally lawyer, who has issue your cousin
Harold. Well, your grandfather was ill-advised
enough, though not a lawyer, to
draw up his own will himself — a thing even
I would hardly venture to do, with all my
knowledge; "but fools rush in," etc., etc.
As always happens in such cases, he drew it
up badly, very badly — the Nemesis of the
amateur — used technical terms he didn't
understand, and omitted to explain his
intentions clearly. Now he left the property
in the first instance, for life only, to your
uncle Alexander, the eldest son, as you see

VOL. I. 7

by that paper — but you're not looking at it.
Alexander, you observe, is there set down
as d. 5. p. — decessit sie prole — which I need
hardly say to a Third Classic means that he
died without lawful issue.'

I see,' Iris answered, endeavouring to
assume an interested expression, for the
technicalities of the law failed to arouse in
her the same enthusiasm as in the eminent
authority on probate and divorce cases.

Well, by the terms of the will in that
case made and provided,' Uncle Tom went
on, with demonstrative forefinger, ' the
property was next to go for life to your
uncle Clarence, provided he outlived your
uncle Alexander. Clarence, who was to
have power of appointment if he died with
issue, was, as you will remember, an officer
of Hussars, and, not to jut too fine a point
upon it, he disappeared under a cloud,
getting killed abroad in the French service,
in which he had enlisted, before , mark you,
before the death of your uncle Alexander,

who deceased at Bath on April 4, 1883,
without lawful issue. So that, so far as
this present question is concerned, we may
safely leave Clarence out of consideration.
Mortuus est sine prole — he died without lawful
issue of his body begotten, killed in action
in foreign parts, on or about June 20, anno
domini 1868, and has no further interest in
this present inquiry.'

I see,' Iris once more made answer,
dutifully stifling a yawn.

Well, then, and in that case Uncle Tom
went on, with forensic quill pointed firmly
towards her, ' the property was to devolve
on the third brother, your uncle Arthur —
you see him down there, Major-general Sir
Arthur Wellesley Knyvett, K.C.B. — no
doubt, as your grandfather fondly expected,
on the same terms as his elder brothers.
And Sir Arthur, in fact, as you well know,
is now and at present the actual holder.
But then, and this is highly important, your
grandfather omitted, in Arthur's case, to

7—2

insert the limiting clause he had elsewhere
used for his other children, and left, by
implication, your uncle Arthur (purely by
accident, I don't for a moment doubt) full
power to bequeath it to whomever he chose,
whether he had issue living or otherwise.
And that power Uncle Tom continued, with
a vicious snap of his jaw, * your uncle
Arthur now and always lays claim to
exercise.'

Then how am I to know ?' Iris asked
with a shudder, scarcely overcoming her
natural objection to ask such a question,
that Uncle Arthur means to exercise it in
my favour ?'

Because,' Uncle Tom answered, With a
wise air of exclusive knowledge, ' I have
let him know privately, through a safe
medium, that he aren't do otherwise. The
terms of the will, in the latter part, are
so vague and contradictory that nobody but
I can understand them, and I can make
them mean anything I like, or everything,

or nothing. Your grandfather then goes
on to provide, after allowing your uncle
Arthur to do as he will — so far as I can
read his ungrammatical sentences — that incase
your uncle Arthur dies without issue,
the money shall go to the fourth son, the
Rev. Reginald Knyvett, deceased, who
married my sister, Amelia Whitmarsh ; orin
case of his pre-decease, to his lawful
issue, who, as you will see from the paper
before you, and are, indeed, perhaps already
aware, is Iris Knyvett, of Girton College,
Cambridge, spinster, here present.'

I suspected as much already,' Iris
answered, smiling.

Last of all on that paper, you will
observe,' Uncle Tom remarked, growing
suddenly severe and red in face, as was his
wont in dealing with a specially awkward
and damaging witness, ' comes the name of
the fifth and youngest son, that rascally
lawyer, Charles Wilberforce Knyvett. Now,
your late uncle, Charles Wilberforce Knyvett,

for some unknown reason, was never in
any way a favourite with his father. In
fact, the Admiral profoundly disliked him.
People say the old gentleman in his latter
days thought his youngest son a sneak and
a cur (which was unhappily true), and
harboured a peculiar grudge against him.
At any rate, he is conspicuously omitted
from any benefit under the will, or, rather,
it is provided in so many words that after
all these lives have run out, the property
shall not descend to Charles Wilberforce
Kny vent, his heirs, executors, or assigns, but
shall be diverted to another branch of the
family, to the total excision of your uncle
Charles and his sole issue, your cousin
Harold.'

Then Uncle Arthur couldn't leave the
property to Harold, even if he wanted to ?'
Iris asked, somewhat languidly, but with a
resolute desire, since her uncle wished it,
to master the intricacies of this difficult
problem in the law of inheritance.

Be says he can, but / say he can't.' Uncle
Tom answered, with a glow of righteous
triumph. ' I've tried the will by all the
precedents, and all I've got to say is this —
I'd just like to see him try it.' And Uncle
Tom unconsciously assumed the attitude of
defence familiar to the patrons of the British
prize-ring.

That's a pity,' Iris answered, looking
him straight in the face ; ' and it seems
somehow awfully unfair ; for Uncle Arthur's
so fond of Harold, you know; and he's
never seen me since I was a baby in
swaddling-clothes.'

Uncle Tom laid down his classes on his
desk with a bounce. ' God bless my soul !'
he cried, in a paroxysm of astonishment.
Is the girl cracked ? Has much learning
made her mad at Girton ? Going to play
into your enemy's hand, eh, and chuck up
a fortune of six thousand a year, all for
the sake of a piece of sentiment ! No, no :
thank heaven I know the law; and not a

single penny of the Admiral's property
shall that scoundrel Harold ever touch or
handle. Xot a doit, not a cent, not a sou,
not a stiver. He won't, and he shan't, so
that's all about it !'

ART AND NATURE.

Ix a very few days Eustace Le Marchant
and Vernon Blake had settled down comfortably
to their respective pursuits on
the ^N^ind-swept summit of the mountain of
the Beni-Merzoug. The simple-hearted
Kabyles, as soon as they were quite convinced
that the new-comers were neither
French spies nor agricultural pioneers sent
out to spread the concomitant blessings
of civilization and confiscation of land,
welcomed the young Englishmen with most
cordial hospitality to their lonely hill-tops.
Their courtesy, in fact, seemed likely at first
to prove, if anything, a trifle too pressing ;

for almost every family in the village
insisted on sending a cous-cous in turn,
in polite recognition of the new visitors.
Now, Meriem's cous-cous, much to the
Englishmen's ingenuous surprise, prepared
as it was by those dainty and dexterous
fingers, had turned out upon tasting a
triumphant success ; but the cous - houses
which succeeded it, and all of which politeness
compelled the inhabitants of the camp
to devour in public to the uttermost morsel
before their entertainers' eyes, were far from
attaining the same high level of primitive
cookery. Deft fingers count for much even in
the smallest matters. Meriem herself, indeed ,
was of infinite use to them in arranging
supplies; and her uncle the Headman, with
his friends the Marabouts, gave them every
facility for shooting and sketching, and
hunting specimens throughout the whole
country-side for miles in either direction.
On the first morning after their arrival in
the hills, Blake strolled out by himself, with

sketch-book in hand, for a walk through the
village, while Le Marchant was busy unpacking
and arranging his bird stuffing and
beetle-preserving apparatus. To Vernon
Blake, the villas was indeed a fresh world
of untold enjoyment. The rough-built
houses, with their big stone walls and tile-covered
roofs ; the broad eaves projecting
over the open courtyard, and supported by
rude wooden Ionic columns ; the tall lithe
men with their simple but picturesque and
effective garb, their bronzed features, and
their long oval faces ; the women at the
fountain with water-jars on their heads,
walking stately and erect, with exquisite
busts and rounded limbs, just peeping
through the graceful folds of their hangings
chiton — each and all of these sus^o'ested
to his soul endless subjects for innumerable
pictures, where girls of this exquisite Italian
type might form the figures in the foreground,
exactly suited to his sympathetic
pencil. He had come to the very right

place for his art. Models crowded upon
him spontaneously at every corner.

A turn of the road near the Headman's
cottage brought him suddenly, with a start,
face to face with Meriem herself, engaged
on a little flat platform, with a group of
Kabyle girls of her own age, in moulding
coarse vases of hand-made pottery. Blake,
with his soft-soled white-linen shoes, came
upon them so noiselessly and unexpectedly
that for half a minute the girls themselves,
intent upon their work, never so much as
perceived the presence of a stranger. The
artist, drawing back, for fear he might
disturb them, drank in the whole group
with unspoken delight. He paused on the
path a little above where they stood, and
looked down, all interest, upon that unstudied
picture. The graceful Kabyle
maidens in their simple loose dress, with
feet bare to the ankle, were stooping
picturesquely over the jars they were moulding,
in unconscious attitudes of grace and

beauty. Some of them were bareheaded,
others wore on their hair a sort of pointed
fez, or Phrygian kaftan, which half confined,
half let loose to the wind, their raven-black
locks. The jars, in shape like an old
Roman amphora, were poised upon the
ground by means of a little round mud
base ; the naive young potters, each full of
her own task, and unmindful of the others,
built up the big vessels stage after stage by
adding on loose handfuls of moist and
flattened clay to the half-finished outline.
They were evidently ignorant of the use of
the wheel — so remote and unsophisticated
are these wild mountain-people — yet the
shapes which grew slowly under their
moulding fingers vere each almost perfect
of their own simple kind, and bore each the
distinct and unmistakable impress of an
individual fancy. It was pretty to see them
stooping, thus unconscious, over the wet
vases of yellow clay, with one hand inside
supporting and modelling the freshly-added

portion, while the other without was
employed in smoothing it, and shaping the
whole, by dexterous side-pressure, to the
required roundness.

Blake would have pulled out his pencil
on the spot, and sketched them roughly in
their attitudes, all unwitting as they stood,
had not one little fair haired and blue-eyed
maiden, of that almost Scandinavian type
so common here and there in Kabyle
villages, looked laughingly up from her two-handled
jar, and caught his eye on a sudden
with a frightened little scream of shyness
and astonishment. An infidel was standing
there, gazing upon them unseen. ' A
strong-er! Stranger!' At the sound, all
the others started uj^ in concert, and in a
moment all was ofiofo^lino' and blushing' confusion.
So strange a visitor never before
had disturbed their peace. Some of the
girls held their hands to their faces like wayward
children to hide their blushes ; others
fell back a pace or two in startled haste

under the overhanging eaves of the Headman's
cottage. Who could say what designs
the infidel might harbour ? Meriem alone
raised herself erect, and gazed the painter
fairly in the face with the frank self-possession
of a European lady.

Blake lifted his hat as instinctively as
before, for he felt her presence ; and Meriem,
in reply, raised her hand, with a wave, to
the level of her lace, in an easy and graceful
natural salutation.

• Good-morning, mademoiselle,' the artist
said gaily, in high spirits at the scene and
its pictorial capabilities.

Good-morning, friend,* Meriem answered
quickly, a slight shade passing, as she spoke,
over her open countenance. ' But why do
you call me mademoiselle, if you please ?
I'm not a Frenchwoman, as you seem to
think me.'

Blake saw she was evidently annoyed at
the politely-meant title.

I called you mademoiselle,' he said

apologetically, ' because I wanted to call you
something, and, as I suppose you're a French
citizen, I didn't know what else on earth to
call you.'

Why not call me by my name, as everyone
else does ?' the beautiful barbarian
answered simply. ' I'm just Meriem to all
the village.'

Blake was a little taken aback at the
startling proposal. So much familiarity
fairly took his breath away. This was indeed
to rush in medias res with undue precipitancy.


Am I to say Meriem, then ?' he inquired
rather low, with natural bashfulness.

What else should you say ?' Meriem
answered naively. ' Don't people call one
another by their names everywhere ?'

Why, yes,' Blake answered, with some
little hesitation, ' but not b}^ their Christian
names, you know — at least, in England —
except as a mark of special favour and close
intimacy.'

Meriemis ?iot a Christian name,' the girl
answered hastily, almost indignantly, ' and
I'm not a Christian ; I'm a true believer.'

But your father was a Christian,' Blake
ventured to reply, astonished at the unwonted
tone of her disclaimer ; * and you told us
yesterday your English name at least was
Mary.'

My father was no Christian !' Meriem
cried aloud, with flashing eyes and fiery
indignation. ' People in the village accused
him of that sometimes, I know, but it was
never true ; I'm sure it was never true, for
Yusuf was kinder and better than anyone —
no infidel could ever be as kind as that.
He was a good Moslem, and he read the
Koran, and prayed at the tombs, and went
to mosque like the rest on Fridays regularly.
He was a true man, and everyone loved
him. ^o one shall say a word before me
against my father. As to my name, why,
Mary and Meriem 's all the same, of course ;
and I was called, so the women in the

VOL. I. 8

village say, after the name of the mother of
Aissa-ben-Meriem. But Moslems, too,
honour him as a very great prophet, you
know, though not so great, naturally, as our
own Prophet Mahomet.'

Blake hardly understood her meaning to
the full, for his acquaintance with her creed
was strictly confined to ' The Arabian
Xio^hts ' and ' The Revolt of Islam ;' but it
gave him a Little shock of surprise and horror
to hear anyone, and especially a woman, so
indignantly repel the imputation of Christianity.
Yet a moment's reflection served
to show him, though by no means a 
or cosmopolitan young-man,
that in such surroundings nothing else
would have been natural, or even possible.
Meriem, no doubt, had never heard Christians
spoken of before except with the
profoundest scorn and detestation of the
Faithful. It hardly even occurred to her
simple mind that her hearer himself, infidel
as he was, could think seriously well of

them, or regard them as the equals of true
believers.

He turned the conversation, accordingly,
of set purpose. ' You all looked so pretty
he said, ' as I came along the path, bending
over your jars and modelling your pottery,
that I was longing in my heart to stand still
and study you. I wanted to sketch you all
just as you stood there.'

'To ichatT Meriem cried, with a little
start of dismay ; an unknown word encloses
for a woman such infinite possibilities.

To sketch you, you know,' Blake repeated
reassuringly. ' To put you in my
book like this, you see. To make a little
picture of you.'

Meriem laughed, a sweet, frank laugh, as
she turned the pages of his book with
wondering eyes. ' That would be nice,' she
said. ' They're pretty things, these. But
would it be rifiht^ I wonder ? All good
Moslems are forbidden, yoa know, by the
Prophet's law, to make a picture or image

8—2

of anything in heaven or earth or the water
under them. There are no pictures anywhere
in any of the mosques. Would the
Marabouts think it was right for us to be
painted ?'

But I'm not a Moslem, you see Blake
replied, smiling, with ready professional
casuistry. ' And all that you've got to do
yourselves, you know, is just to stand leaning
as you were over your pottery, and allow
me to commit the sin of sketching you on
my own account. It won't hurt vie : I'm
a hardened offender. Ask the other girls,
there's a good soul, whether they'll come
back as they were and let me sketch them.*

And are the other girls to be put in the
picture, too ?' Meriem asked, looking up,
with a faint undertone of disapprobation.

Certainly,' Blake replied, without perceiving
the slight inflection of disappointment
in her voice. ' Now go, there's a good girl,
and make them come back and stand nicely
as I tell them.'

My father used to say that, '* Now go,
there's a good girl," ' Meriem answered, with
a faint rising flush of pleasure ; and, pleased
at the word, she went off at once to do as he
directed her. He had stirred an old chord
in her simple nature.

In half a dozen minutes Blake had got
two sitters, with a little coaxing and manual
posing, which they seemed to resent far less
than European girls would have done under
the circumstances, into tolerable order for
his proposed study. At first, to be sure, he
had no little difficulty in getting them to
keep for five seconds together to one posture
or attitude. They seemed to think it a
matter of supreme indifference whether a
face begun at one angle should be continued
at the same or a totally unlike one. But
with some small trouble, by Meriem's aid,
and with the magnificent promise of untold
wealth in the shape of a silver half-franc apiece
visibly dangled before their astonished
eyes, he succeeded at last in inducing each

girl to maintain something like a consistent
attitude ; at least, while he was engaged
upon his first rough sketch of her own
particular face and figure. The guileless
damsels, dazzled at the prospect of such unexpected
wealth, would have sat there all
dav as still as mice for so magnificent a payment
; but at the end of an hour or two
Blake dismissed them all with mutual satisfaction
to their various homes, and prepared
himself to return in excellent spirits
to the tent with his prize for luncheon.
That ouo^ht to fetch them,' he murmured
to himself, as he surveyed his own dainty
and unaffected sketch with parental partiality.

Xow, Meriem, you've done more for me
to-day than all the rest of them put together.
You must have a whole franc yourself for
your share in the proceedings.' And he
held that vast store of potential enjoyment,
proffered in a single shining coin, between his
delicate thumb and opposing fore-finger.

Meriem had never possessed so much

money in her life before ; but she drew her
hand back from him with a startled gesture,
and held it like a child behind her back with
an unsophisticated expression of offended
dignity. * Oh no,' she answered, blushing
crimson to the neck : * I could never take
that. Please don't ask me again. I'm salad
if 1 was able to help you with your picture.
Though, of course, it was wroncr of us to let
you draw us.'

Blake saw at a glance that she really
meant it, and with the innate courtesy of a
gentleman refrained at once from pressing
the obnoxious coin any further upon the
girl's unwilling notice. He replaced the
franc quietly in his waistcoat pocket, and
said as he did so, in an unconcerned voice,
to turn the current of both their thoughts,
I suppose the other girls will go off with
their money to get themselves something at
the shops in the village '

At the what ?' Meriem asked, with a
look of bewilderment.

At the shops,' Blake answered, in a
jaunty tone. ' I suppose you've got shops
of some sort or other in this benighted
country.'

I don't know what you mean Meriem
answered, shaking her head vigorously. ' I
never heard of them. Shops, did you say ?
I don't think we've got any — unless it's
cakes ; but if I only knew exactly what you
meant, and could sav it in Kabvle, I'd ask
my uncle.'

Blake laughed a laugh of unaffected
amusement. It seemed so odd to be talking
to somebody in his own tongue — and so
familiarly, too — who had never even so
much as heard what sort of thing a shop
was. ' Why, where do you buy things ?'
he asked curiously. 'Where do you get
the food and utensils, and so on, that you're
in want of?'

We make them, or grow them mostly,
of course,' Meriem answered quickly (everything,
it seemed, was ' of course ' to Meriem,

because her experience had all been so
limited, and so uncontradicted) ; 'but when
we want to buy things from other tribes,
we go down and get them with money at
the markets. Or sometimes we exchange a
goat or a chicken. There's a market one
day of the week, but I don't remember its
English name — the day after Friday — herewith
us at Beni-Merzoug ; and there are
others on other days at neighbouring villages,
sometimes one and sometimes another. And
that's where we always go to buy things.'

Blake smiled to himself a smile of amused
superiority. To think that Le Marchant
should have talked seriously, from a marrying
point of view, about a girl who had never
even heard of shopping ! And yet in more
civilized European climes many a good man
would be heartily glad to find himself a wife
on whose innocent mind — but on second
thoughts I refrain from making any nasty
reflections.

He shut up his sketch-book, and rose to

leave. Meriem looked after him with a look
of regret. How wonderful that a man should
be able to make pictures like that ! They
seemed to live and breathe, she fancied. She
had hardly ever seen a picture at all before,
except a few coarse French lithographs
bought by the villagers at Tizi-Ouzou. But
she had never been as far as Tizi-Ouzou
even, herself. Her narrow little experience
was bounded hard and fast by her own
mountain peak and its adjacent valleys.

And how beautiful he looked when he
turned and smiled at her !

But Blake went away and thought of
nothing'. He showed his sketch to Le
Marchant in high spirits when he reached
the tent. Le Marchant's face fell as he
looked at it.

So you've been drawing Meriem !' he
said. ' You've found her out already ! A
very pretty picture. You ought to work
it up into something very good ! It's lifelike,
and therefore of course it's beautiful.

. . . But you've been with Meriem all
the morning, while I've been unpacking my
goods and chattels. I wondered she hadn't
been up here before to visit us

NO SOUL.

For the next week or so the two young
Englishmen were busy enough hunting and
sketching all day long among the fresh
ground they had thus successfully broken
for themselves in the North African Highlands.
Le Marchant spent much of his
time up among the jagged peaks and bare
rocks of the mountains, happy enough if
he returned at night with a specimen of
that rare and local bird, the Algerian
titmouse,' or with a snail as big as a pin's
head, * a perfect treasure, you know, my
dear fellow, hitherto only known to science
in the mountains of Calabria and in the
Albanian Highlands.' Zeal for his great

work on ' Structure and Function ' had
swallowed him up, and gave zest and
importance to the minutest find in beetles
or gadflies.

Blake, on the other hand, loitered much
more around the precincts of the village
itself and the cultivated plots that hung
along the narrow ledges of the hillside ; for
his quarry was man, and he loved to drink
his fill of that idyllic life, so purely Arcadian
in its surviving simplicity, that displayed
itself with such charming frankness and
unconcern before his observant eyes each
sunny morning. It was the artist's Greece
revived for his behoof: the Italy of the
Georgicss in real life again. The labourer
leaning hard on his wooden plough, the
yoke of mountain oxen that tugged it
through the ground, the women at the
well with their coarse, hand-made jars, the
old men chatting under the shade of the
ash-trees beside the tiny mosque, all afforded
him subjects for innumerable studies. He

beheld before his face a Virgil ian eclogue
for ever renewing itself ; and the young
painter, who had never read his Eclogues
in the Latin at all, could appreciate whatever
was most vivid and picturesque in the
life of these simple idyllic .mountaineers
with an eye as keen in its way as Virgil's
own had been.

Meriem, too, often came up in the evenings
to the tent in her capacity as interpreter ;
and Le Marchant, who could see and admire
strong traits of character wherever he found
them, soon learnt to read in the Kabyle-bred
girl, with her open mind and serene
intelligence, many marks of fine and sterling
qualities. But he could gather little further
by all his inquiries about the mystery of her
origin. All that Meriem herself could tell
him of her parentage was simply this —
Yusuf had a French name as well as an
English and a Kabyle one ; and if his
French name had ever leaked out, the
people at Fort National would have taken

him and shot him. Le Marchant, indeed,
was just at first inclined to consider the
beautiful girl's father was a runaway
convict !

Inquiries directed through Meriem's
mouth to her uncle the Amine were met
in a distinctly reserved spirit. It seemed
as though the old Kabyle was afraid even
now of betraying the dead man's secret — if,
indeed, he had one, or if 'the Amine knew
it. Perhaps these English might be in
league with the infidel French, after all, and
might be plotting harm against himself
and his tribesmen — else why should they
thus minutely inquire about the girls antecedents
? A mere girl ; wh}^ bother their
heads with her? Yusuf Alas dead ; let him
sleep in peace where good Moslems had
laid him. All that the Amine could or
would tell them amounted in the end simply
to this — that Meriem's father had come to
them as a guest after a great battle in a
local insurrection (one of those petty risings,

no doubt, in which the tribes of Kabylie are
for ever striving to reassert their independence
of French authority) ; that he was a
good man, who loved the Kabyles ; that he
wore the native dress, and lived as the
tribe lived ; that he was a faithful Moslem
and a clever hunter — considerations apparently
of equal importance in the eyes of the
villagers ; that he had married the Amine' s
sister, Meriem's mother, long since dead,
according to the rites and ceremonies of the
Kabyle people ; and that he had died by
falling over a ledge of rock three years back,
while wandering by himself under unexplained
circumstances among the high
mountains. So much the Amine, bit by
bit, suspiciously admitted. With that
scanty information, no more being forthcoming,
Le Marchant for the present was
forced to content himself

Blake, on the other hand, with his more
easy - going and pleasure - loving artistic
temperament, troubled himself little about

all these things. Gallic that he was, it
sufficed him to sit in the shade of the
chestnuts and paint Meriem as the foreground
figure in almost all his pictures
rather than to indulge in otiose speculations
as to her possible ancestry and problematical
parentage. ' She's a first-rate
model,' he said, 'whoever her father maybe.
King Cophetua's beggar-maid could
never have been lovelier.' And that contented
him. He wanted only to find
physical beauty. So he got to work soon
on studies for a large canvas, with Meriem
in the centre, her water-jar poised with
queenly grace upon her stately head ; and
he was well satisfied to sketch in her
shapely chin and throat without any
remote genealogical inquiries to distract
his mind from the exquisite curve on her
neck and shoulders.

But if you're going to give me regular
sittings, Meriem,' he said to her seriously
one mornings under the chestnuts, venturing

VOL. I. 9

to broach once more the tabooed subject,
you must really let me pay you so mucha
day, because I shall want you, of course,
for so many hours every morning regularly,
and it'll take you away altogether at times
from your household duties.'

My aunt can do those,' Meriem answered
quietly, shaking her head. ' I like to sit
for you ; it gives me pleasure. I like to
see these beautiful pictures growing up so
curiously under your hands. It's almost
like magic'

Thank you,' the Englishman answered.
That's very kind of you. Praise from
your lips, Meriem, is worth a great deal
to me.'

He said it lightly, with a smile and a
bow, as a commonplace of politeness, for to
him the words meant very little. But to
Meriem, who had never heard women
treated with ordinary Western chivalry
before, they were full of profound and
delicious meaning; they struck some unknown

heart-string deep down in her being.
She blushed up to her eyes (a good moment
for a painter; Blake seized it gratefully),
and then relapsed for awhile into joyful
silence.

'Yes, yes! just sos Blake cried, stopping
her on a sudden, with both his hands
uplifted in warning, as she fell naturally
into one of her easy, graceful Hellenic
attitudes. ' That's just how I want you ;
don't move a muscle — you're beautiful that
way. It shows off your arm and head and
the pose of your neck to such absolute
perfection. You're prettier than ever like
that, I declare, Meriem.'

Meriem, all conscious of herself for the
first time in her life, stood as he directed
her, without moving a line. She could
have stood there for ever, indeed, with
Blake to paint her.

The artist went on without noticing her
emotion.

Don't let my uncle know,' she said, after

9—2

a short panse, with some slight embarrassment,
and hesitating as she spoke, 'that
you offered — that you wanted — to give me
money for sitting.'

'I won't,' Blake answered, laughing; 'I
can promise you that. With my present
knowledge of his language, indeed, I should
find it difficult.' He played with his brush
dab, dab, on the canvas. * But why not,
Meriem ?'

The girl blushed again.

Because — he would take it,' she answered
simply.

Blake smiled and nodded, but said
nothing.

They were standing outside the village
on the open space in front of the tiny
whitewashed mosque, and men and women
came past frequently, and paused to look,
with clicks of surprise or interest or approbation,
at the portrait on the easel, as Blake
sat and painted it. Presently, a young
Kabyle of handsome form and well-made

features came up in his turn, and looked,
like the others ; then he turned, round
sharply, and spoke for awhile, with a
somewhat earnest air, to Meriem ; and, as
Blake imagined, there was audible in his
tone some undercurrent of imperious and
angry expostulation.

Who's that ?' the Englishman asked,
looking up with a quick glance from his
seat on the rock as the Kabyle turned on
his heel and retired, half haughtily.

That's Ahmed,' Meriem answered, in the
same ' of course ' , style of conversation as
usual, as if everybody must needs knows all
her fellow villagers.

And who's Ahmed ?' the painter went
on, still working steadily at the flesh-tints
of the shoulder.

The man who's going to marry me,'
Meriem answered, in past as quiet and
matter-of-fact a voice as that in which she
would have told him the price of spring
chickens.

Blake started back in almost speechless
surprise.

That man marry you !' tie cried, with a
toPs of his handsome head. ^ Why, he's
nothing but a common Kabyle mule-driver.
What impudence ! What presumption !
And do you love him, Meriem ?'

No,' Meriem answered, in the same
calm and downright voice, without the
slightest attempt at concealing her feelings
in that particular.

Then why on earth are you going to
marry him ?' Blake asked, astonished.

Because my uncle has agreed to sell me
to him,' Meriem said simply. ' As soon as
Ahmed's earned money enough to buy me,
my uncle's going to let him have me cheap.
Perhaps Ahmed '11 have .saved enough by
the next olive harvest. He's offered mv
uncle a very fair price : he's going to give
him a patch of land and two hundred francs
for me.'

Blake was genuinely shocked and surprised

at this painful disclosure. In spite
of his contempt for barbaric women, he felt
instinctively already that Meriem vA^as far
too much of an English girl at heart to be
bought and sold like a sheep or a chattel.
He explained to her, briefly, in simple
words, that in England such means of
arranging marriages were not openly
countenanced by either law or custom ;
indeed, with a generous disregard of plain
facts — allowable, perhaps, under the peculiar
circumstances — he avoided all reference to
settlements or jointures, and boldly averred,
with pardonable poetic license, that Englishwomen
always bestowed their hearts and
hands on the man of their choice who
seemed to them most Worthy of their voune:
affections.

That's a ]beautiful way,' Meriem murmured
reflectively, after the handsome
painter had dilated with enthusiasm for a
hew minutes on the purity and nobility of
our English marriage system. ' That's a

lovely way. I should like that ever so
much. I wish for some things I had been
born in England. Although you're all
infidels, you have some good ways there.
But here, in Kabyhe, of course, I must
follow in all things the Kabyle custom.'

So you mean to obey, and to marry
Ahmed?' Blake asked, half shocked, but
continuing to work at the elbow and
forearm.

What else can I do ?' ]\Iei-iem asked,
looking up with a quiet sigh. ' I can't
refuse to go where my uncle bids me.'

But how can you find it in your soul ?'
Blake began, half indignantly.

I've got no soul,' Meriem interrupted, ina
perfectly serious voice. ' We Mussulman
women are born without any.'

Well, soul or no soul, wouldn't you
much prefer,' Blake went on with fire,
warming up to his subject, ' instead of
marrying that fellow with the mules, who'll
probably abuse you, and overwork you, and

beat YOU, and ill-treat you, to marry some
Englishman with a heart and a head, who'd
love you well, and be proud of your beauty,
and delight in decking you out in becoming
dress, and be to you a friend, and a shield,
and a lover, and a protector ?'

A bright lio^ht burned for a moment like
flame in Meriem's eyes ; then she cast them
down to the ground, and her bosom heaved,
as she answered slowly, in a very low voice,
No Kabyle ever spoke to a woman like
that. They don't know how. It's not in
their language. But Yusuf used to speak
to me often that way. And he loved my
mother, and was, oh ! so kind to her, till the
day she died. I think you English, infidels
as you are, must be in some ways a blessed
people; so different from the French — the
French are wicked. It's a pity the English
aren't true believers.'

Her heart was beating visibly through
her robe now. Blake felt he had said a
little too much, perhaps, for he meant

nothing more than the merest flirtation ; so
he turned the subject with a careless smile
to the get-up of the picture. ' I'm going
on to your hand and wrist next, Meriem/
he said, with a wave, rising up to pose her
fingers exactly as he wanted them. ' Look
here, this locket round your neck's in the
way. Couldn't you take it off ? It spoils
the natural folds of your drapery, and incommodes
the hand so.'

It was a small square charm, in shape
like a tiny box or book, made of coarse
silver work, inlaid with enamel, and relieved
by bosses of lapis-lazuli, and other
cheap stones, such as all Kabyle women
wear, as an amulet hung round their necks
to protect them from the evil eye, and other
misfortunes.

" With coral clasps and amber studs," '

Blake murmured to himself, as he looked at
it closely. He laid his hand upon it with a
gesture of apology, and a ' Will you permit
me, Meriem ?' — meaning to remove it by

passing the chain over her head and kaftan.
But the girl, ^vith a sudden convulsive
effort of both her hands, clasped it hard and
tight to her bosom.

Oh no,' she cried, ' not that ; not that,
please I You must never take that. I
couldn't possibly allow you. You mustn't
even touch it. It's very precious. You
must keep your hands off it.'

• Is it something, then, so absolutely
sacred ?' Blake asked, half laughingly,
and suspecting some curious Mahometan
superstition.

• Yes, more than sacred,' Meriem answered,
low. ' It was Yusuf who hung it there
when he was going away, and he told me
often, with tears in his eyes, never to let
anybody lay hands upon it anywhere. And
nobody ever shall, till I die with it on my
neck. For Yusuf s sake it shall always
hang there. When I've Dome a son ' — she
said it so simply that Blake hardly noticed
the unconventional phrase — ' the Kabyle

custom is to wear the charm, for an honour,
on the forehead. But I shall never move
mme from my neck at all, though the
women may laugh at me. I shall wear it
for ever where my father hung it

The painter, abashed, held his peace at
once, and asked her no more. He saw she
felt too deeply on the subject to make it
either wise or kind for him to interfere with
her feeling.

That evening at the tent, as he sat with
Le Marchant, stuffing birds and pinning
out butterflies, Meriem came up with a
message from the Amine about some domestic
trifle of milk-supply or goat-mutton.
Le Marchant was glad to see her, too, for
he wanted to ask her a favour for himself
Perhaps he was jealous that his handsome
lodger should monopolize so large a portion
of the beautiful Kabvle ofirl's time and attention
; perhaps, being by nature of a
studious turn, he was genuinely anxious to
make the best of his linguistic opportunities.

At any rate, he wanted to inquire of
Meriem whether she would give him lessons
in the evening in the Kabyle language.
Meriem laughed. She was perfectly ready
to do her best, she said, provided always
the lessons were given with all publicity
on the platform outside the Amine' s
cottage.

For our Kabyle men,' she added, with
her transparent simplicity, ' are very jealous,
you know — very, very jealous. They would
never allow me to come here to teach you.
If I came without leave, they would stick
knives into me.'

And may I learn, too ?' the painter
asked, with his sunny smile.

Yes, Blake, certainly,' Meriem answered
at once, with natural politeness.

Both the men laughed. From that
stately and beautiful girl's lips the mannish
colloquialism sounded irresistibly funny.

You mustn't say " Blake," ' the painter
exclaimed, in answer to Meriem's startled

look of mute inquiry at their unexpected
merriment.

But Le Marchant always calls you
Blake Meriem objected, much puzzled.
In England, don't people think it right for
women to call men by their own names,
then ?'

Well, not by their surnames alone ; it
doesn't sound nice. They generally put a
Mr. before them. But if you like,' Blake
went on with audacious ease, for he was far
from shy before the poor Kabyle girl, ' you
may call me Vernon. That's my Christian
name ; and that's how Englishwomen always
call a man they know well, and really
care for.'

1 really care for you, Vernon ; I like
you very much,' Meriem said straightforwardly.


In that case, I, too, shall claim the same
privilege of friendship, and ask you to call
me plain Eustace,' Le Marchant put in,
with gentle solicitude.

Very well, Plain Eustace,' Meriem answered,
in her innocence taking the name
in good faith as a single compound one.

The laughter that met this unintentional
sally was so very contagious, that Meriem
herself joined in it heartily, though it was
some minutes before she could be made fully
to understand the intricate mysteries of
European nomenclature.

When she had left the tent that night,
her errand finished, Le Marchant turned
round to his easy-going travelling companion
with much earnestness in his quiet
eye.

Blake,' he said seriously, ' I hope you're
not trying to make that poor girl fall in
love with you.'

I'm not doing anything to make her fall
in love,' Blake answered evasively; 'but
she's never met anybody who treated her
decently in her life before, and I suppose
she can't help perceiving the . . . well you
know, the difference between you or me,

for example, and these ignorant Kabyle
fellows.'

Blake, you must surely see for yourself
that in ferdinand in intellect the girl's
more than half an Englishwoman. If you
win her heart, and then go away and leave
her without a word to this man you say
her uncle sold her to, you'll murder her as
truly as if, like the Kabyles, you stuck a
knife into her.'

Blake shuffled about uneasily on his
campstool.

She can't be such a fool as to think I
should ever dream of marrying her,' he replied,
with a half-averted face.

Le Marchant looked across at him with
mild eyes of wonder.

At any rate, Blake,' he said, in a very
solemn, warning voice, ' don't engage her
affections and then desert her. She may bea
Kabyle in outward dress ; but to do that
would be as cruel a deed as ever you could
do to one of those educated English ladies

you think so much about. Of one blood —
all the nations of the earth. Hearts are
hearts the whole world over.'

Blake was silent, and threw back his
head carelessly to inspect the sketch he was
busily cooking.

VOL. I. 10

STRIKING A CLUE.

It was a glorious hot day in an Algerian
July. The mountains stood clear from
cloud in every direction, with their peaks
etched out distinctly against the gray background
of the hazy white sky; and Le
Marchant made up his mind early in the
morning to attempt the upper slopes of the
Lalla Khadidja dome, one of the highest
among the surging giants of the Djurjura,
covered thick with snow for nine months of
the year, but now just free at last, under
the influence of a burning hot spell of
sirocco, from the white cap it had worn
since the beginning of winter. Blake, ever
eager in the quest of the picturesque, was

ready enough to join him in his mountaineering
expedition ; while Meriem, who
had once or twice made her way on foot asa
pilgrim to the tiny Mahommedan shrine
of the Lady Khadidja, which lies nestled
amid snowdrifts just below the summit, had
after some hesitation agreed to accompany
them, with two other of the village girls, as
guide and interpreter. Nothing could have
been nicer or more satisfactory — to the
painter. Just at the last moment, however,
as the party was on the very point of starting,
that formidable Ahmed came lounging
up, with his full-fed air of Oriental insolence,
to interpose his prospective veto. It
made Blake's blood boil to see how the
fellow treated that beautiful model. For
some minutes he spoke in a hectoring voice
with Meriem ; and it was clear from the
gestures and tones of the pair that Meriem
for her part was by no means measured in
the terms of her answers.

'What does the man say?' Blake asked

10 — 2

at last, unable to restrain his disgust and
anger.

He says,' the girl answered, with a
flushed face, ' he'll never let me go mountain
- climbing with the infidels. But I
don't care a pin. He's a bad man. He's
jealous — jealous ; that's what he means by
it'

And what did you tell him ?'

I told him,' Meriem replied, with a little
stamp of her hopeless foot on the bare rock,
he might order me about when he'd bought
me and paid for me ; but at present I'm
free, and my own mistress. I shall go
where I choose — till I'm bought and paid
for.'

As she spoke, the young Kabyle's hand
played ominously on the hilt of the short
steel knife that every mountaineer of the
Algerian hills carries always in his girdle
as a weapon of offence. For a straw, he
would have drawn it and stabbed her to the
heart.

Le Marchant observed the gesture with
his quick eye, and suggested hastily :

Ask him if he'll go himself instead, and
guide us ? We'll pay him well — give him
two francs for conducting us to the summit.'


Your Kabyle never refuses money.

Ahmed assented with delight to the
modified proposal, and his fingers ceased
toying at once with the handle of his
dao^o'er. Le Marchant had done a double
stroke of business — appeased his jealousy
and gratified his innate love of gain — the
two universal mainsprings of action in the
poor and passionate Kabyle nature.

They started on their way, the three men
alone ; and Meriem gazed long and wistfully
after them with a surging sense of
unrest and disappointment. Something
within her stirred her deeply — something
she could never venture to confide to Mount
or to Lamina, her closest inmates. How
handsome he looked, in his rough tourist

suit, that delicate young painter with the
speaking eyes, beside Ahmed, her betrothed,
in his dirty bernouse and his ragged under-shirt
! How beautifully he talked, and how
beautiful he painted, and what strangely
divine things he knew how to say to her !
Echoes of some unknown world, those sweet
fresh words of his ! She gazed and gazed,
and tears filled her eyes. Her soul revolted
with a shock against Ahmed.

Could she really be falling in love — with
an infidel ?

And then a sudden terror began to seize
her heart when they were well on their way,
and past hope of overtaking. Should she
run after them and warn them of the ]possible
danger ? Lalla Khadidja is a steep
and precipitous mountain, full of rearing
crags and crevasses and gullies. Suppose
Ahmed, whom she knew to be jealous of
the two young Englishmen, were to push
them over on some dangerous ledge, and
pretend they had fallen by accident while

climbing ! To a Kabyle such treatment of
the infidel would seem positively meritorious.
The idea turned her sick with alarm
and anxiety. She could hardly hold the
threads at the upright frame where she sat
all day, in the Amine's hut, weaving a
many coloured native haik for herself, a
mighty labour of the loom, to wear — when
she was married to Ahmed. Married to
Ahmed! The thought of it sickened her.
Till lately it had seemed so natural — and
now ! She longed for the evening, and the
travellers' return. Allah in His goodness
protect the Englishmen !

But the two young men, meanwhile, all
ignorant of her fears, toiled up the craggy
slopes towards the bold summit of the great
shadowy mountain. As soon as Meriem
was fairly out of hearing, Blake turned
round to his companion, and asked in a
tone half angry, half disappointed :

What on earth made you bring this
fellow along with us at all? We could

have found our own way to the top very
well without him

Why, I was afraid to leave him behind
with Meriem,' Le Marchant answered, with
a quick glance at the sinister face of their
scowling guide. ' In the fellow's present
temper, with his blood up, it would take
very little to make him stick a knife into
her. I know these people; they're quick,
and they're revengeful. A word and a stab
is the rule with the tribes, especially with
women. They kill a woman with far less
compunction than you or I would show in
treading on a scorpion.'

He's a brute.' i31ake answered, striking
the rock with his stick, ' and I'm glad she
hates him.'

For some hours they continued their
toilsome march, ever up and up, with the
wide view opening wider each step before
them.

Towards the summit of the mountain,
where the rocks were hardest, they came

suddenly on a rearing crag of porphyry,
as red as blood, and as hard as granite. It
was a beautiful mass, and a beautiful prospect
spread out in front of it. Le Marchant
sat down at its base in the shade (for, high
as they stood, the sun's rays still scorched
fiercely), and refreshed himself with a pull
at his pocket-flask of whisky and water.
On its north side, a cave or rock-shelter ran
far into its face. Something on the precipitous
wall of the crag within this cave
caught Blake's quick eyes as he glanced up
at the ferns in the crannied rock with a
painter's interest.

Surely,' he cried, in immense surprise,
pointing up with his stick, ' that's an inscription
written or carved on the cliff' in
English letters!'

Le Marchant jumped up and looked at
the object hard. It was indeed an inscription,
covered thick with moss and lichen ^
which gather so rapidly in these southern
climates, and overgrown by masses of

maidenhair and cetera; but, by scrapings
with a knife, it soon became legible. The
letters were firm, and boldly incised, and
the legend ran thus, as Le Marchant read it
out aloud, in Roman capitals:

clarence K^'YYETT,

SUA IPSirS MANU FECIT :

ANNO HEJIK.E

MCCLXIV.'

What does it all mean?' Blake asked,
somewhat timidly, for he hated to display
Ms io-france of the learned lano'uao-es before
his scientific companion, who seemed to
know everything.

• It means,' Le Marchant answered,
" Clarence Knyvett wrote this with his
own hand, in the year of the Hejira
1264.' "

What the dickens is the Hejira?' Blake
asked again.

The year of Mahommed's flight to
Medina,' Le Marchant answered, with a
politely stifled smile at such ingenuous

ignorance. * It stands in the East for a.d.
with us. It's the date from which the
Mussulman reckon their era.'

'And how lone aofo was 1264 by this
precious date?' Blake asked once more, suspecting
it, vaguely, to be somewhere about
the days of the Crusaders.

I don't know exactly — Fm not up in
my calendar — but quite recently. I should
be inclined to say. Somewhere within the
last twenty' years or so, at most. The
Hejira. you know, was early in the seventh
century.'

Then I'll tell you what,' Blake cried,
with a start of surprise, ' Meriem's father
must have written that up there!'

Great wits jump. The very same
thought had just occurred to me at the
very same moment.'

I'll cop' it in my sketch-book, exactly
as it stands,' Blake cried, sitting down again,
and pulling out that faithful companion of
his wanderings.

And in ten minutes he had produced on
paper a rough facsimile of the inscription in
its own letters, with an outline of the mass
of rock on which it was cut, and the wallflowers
and stocks and maidenhair ferns that
sprang out of the crannies in the crag all
around it.

If Meriem's father really wrote it,' he
said, as he shut up the book again, 'it'll bea
pleasant souvenir to carry away with us
of the girl; and, in any case, it's interesting
as the record of a previous European visit
in such a spot. I thought we were the
first who ever burst into that silent cave.
Besides, it makes quite a pretty little
picture.'

As he spoke, Ahmed signified, with a
wave of his hand, that it was time for
them to go if they wished to rise and
descend again before sunset: and in a
few minutes they were fairly at the summit.


It was with a beatings heart that Meriem

waited for them to come back again that
evening, safe and sound, from the terrors of
the treacherous mountain. She watched for
them on the path some way out, whither she
had gone to meet them, ostensibly for the
purpose of driving the goats home to the
milking, but really to relieve her own inner
anxiety. As she saw them, her bosom gave
one great bound. Blake raised his hat with
jaunty gallantry', and, opening his book,
handed her over the sketch, on purpose
to see if the name on the rock roused any
latent chord in her uncertain memory. But
she looked at it blankly.

It's pretty,' she said, ' though not so
pretty as most of your sketches ' — for her
stock of English was rapidly increasing
under her new teachers. ' I don't see
much in it — only a piece of rock and a
few small scratches. Are those letters, I
wonder ? They look like letters ; yet
they're not the same as one reads in the
Koran.'

What ! Can't you read English ?' Blake
cried in surprise.

It seemed strange to him that one who
could speak so well, with the accent and
manner of an educated lady, should be
unable to spell out one word of our
lano^uao^e.

No,' Meriem answered, with a shake of
her head. ' I can't read it. Yusuf meant
I should learn to read it in time; but we
had no books, and he died so suddenly;
and then, of course, it was all forgotten.'

Well,' Le Marchant interposed, with a
fresh test — for he, too, was anxious to try
experiments — 'the first word — this one
here on the face of the rock, you see— is
Clarence. '

Meriem' s brow gathered suddenly. One
moment her memory seemed to strike at
last a long-forgotten track. Next instant
she cried with a brio-ht flash of recognition
:

Yes, yes ; that's it ! He wrote it ! He

wrote it ! I remember now. I remember
it well. ^Iy father's English name was
. . Clarence Knyvett !'

Right!' Le Marchant answered, with a
gleam of triumph. ' That's just what's
written there : Clarence Knyvett, with his
own hand, in the year 1264 of the
Hejira.'

The girl seized the book rapturously in
her hand, and kissed the picture three or
four times over.

'It's his!' she cried again, in an ecstasy
of joy. ' He wrote it! He wrote it! How-good
of you to bring it. It was Yusuf !
Yusuf !'

He was the only soul on earth she
had ever known — save one, perhaps —
who fulfilled to the utmost the yearnings
of her profound European emotional
nature.

As the two men sat alone in their tent
that night, while Diego was engaged in
pressing the Alpine flowers from Le Marchant's

collecting case, the artist looked up,
and said to his friend suddenly :

Wasn't Kny vent the name of that Girton
girl, you remember, who was made Third
Classic or something of the sort the other
day at Cambridge?'

Yes,' Le Marchant answered — ' a Miss
Iris Knyvett. She's a niece, I believe, of
Sir Arthur, the rich old General. I thought
of that myself, as soon as I saw it. The
name's an uncommon one. It's a curious
coincidence.'

How queer it would be,' Blake went on
reflectively, ' if this girl were to turn out a
member of the same family !'

It wouldn't at all surprise me his friend
replied, with profounder meaning. ' Whoever
her father was, he must at least have
been an educated man. Her English, as
far as it goes, you must surely have noticed,
is the pure English of ladies and gentlemen.'


But what a gulf between them !' Blake

exclaimed, with emphasis. * A girl who
can't even read or write — and a Third
Classic !'

She can read the Koran Le Marchant
answered quickly. ' One language is always
the key of another. And, indeed, I think I
can see in her something of the same earnest
and vigorous qualities that imply, to one
who looks below externals, the stuff for
making many Third Classics.'

My dear Le Marchant, you carry things
too far! Upon my word, I really believe
you're half in love with her!'

Le Marchant paused for a moment before
replying.

It's more to the point to remember,' he
said at last, a little constrainedly, ' that
she's very much better than half in love
with i/ou, Blake, and that you've got no
right, thinking as you do, to encourage the
feeling.'

Blake laughed gaily.

Oh, it's all right,' he answered, in an

VOL. I. 11

unconcerned tone. ' In the autumn, sou
know, she's to marry Ahmed.'

To say the truth, the implied imputation
of being a lady-killer, even in the case of a
mere Kabyle peasant-girl, rather flattered
his sensitive artist's soul than otherwise.

Rival CLAIMS.

Harold Kxyvett, Esquire, of the Board of
Trade, and late of Trinity College. Cambridge,
lounged lazily back in a leather-covered
arm - chair in the comfortable
smoking-room of the Cheyne Row Club,
Piccadilly.

Well, yes, my dear fellow,' he remarked
with a languid sigh to the sympathetic
friend (last left in town) who stood complacently,
cigarette in hand, with his back
to the empty carved marble fireplace, * I
ouo^ht to come in for it, there's no doubt at
all in the world about that; and I expect I
shall too, for I've laid my plans deep, and
I've played my cards warily. Sir Arthur's

11—2

a difficult person to deal with, I admit —
between you and me and the club clock, as
selfish an old pig as ever walked this earth,
and pig-headed to match, into the bargain.
But allowing for all that — and I've allowed
liberally — I've made things modestly certain
in the end, I flatter myself ; so that one way
or the other I'm tolerably sure to turn up
trumps, unless the cards miscarry.'

That's well,' the sympathetic friend
responded cheerfully. ' I believe the only
o ther person who has any claim to the
estate is your famous cousin, that unspeakable
Girton girl, who licked all the men
but two in the 'Varsity into a cocked hat
isn't she?'

Exactly so. The only other person ;
and to make things doubly sure, I've kept
my hand well in meanwhile with he?% too;
so that if the worst should ever come to the
worst, I shall simply marry her, you see,
and take the property that way — with an
encumbrance, unfortunately. For I confess,

being by nature a lover of freedom, I
should prefer it for my own part wholly
unburdened.'

And suppose she won't have you?' his
friend suo^orested, with a faint smile of
doubt.

Won't have me ? My dear sir, at the
present day any man on earth may have
any girl he chooses if he only takes the
trouble to set about the preliminaries
properly. Avoient at present are a drug in
the market. Girls without money you may
have for the asking; girls with money, or
with expectations of money, you may have
by approaching them in a proper spirit from
the side of the emotions, flfaut leur faire
la coui\ bien entendu — and that, I admit, is
a deofradinof mode of exercise — but when
the money can be had on no other condition,
the wise man will not disdain even
that last unpleasant one. He will stoop to
conquer; and then, having once secured
what are popularly known as the girl's

affections, he'll take care that the settlements,
which form the kernel of the whole
transaction, should not be drawn up too
stringently in the lady's favour. Those are
my sentiments on the matrimonial position
And Harold Knyvett, having thus delivered
himself of his social views, rose from his
chair with the resolute manner of a man
who knows his own mind to the bottom,
and buried his hands deep in his trousers-pockets.


However,' he Avent on, after a brief
pause, during part of which he had been
engaged in selecting a really good cigar
With deliberate care from the box a club-servant
had brought in to his order, ' I
don't anticipate any such misfortune as
that, I'm happy to say. I've very little
doubt Sir Arthur, selfish pig though he is,
will do the right thing in the end before he
kicks the bucket. I rejoice to saj^ he's a
man with a conscience. You see, when he
first came into the property, he made a willa

most disgusting will, which he left with
his solicitors, and the contents of which are
perfectly well known to me, through the
kind intervention of Sir Arthur's valet — asa
principle in life, always cultivate your rich
uncle's valet ; it can do you no harm, and
may be of infinite use to you ; a guinea or
two bestowed in judicious tips, in that
particular quarter, may be regarded in the
light of a lucrative long investment.'

A quid pro quo' his friend suggested
jocosely, emphasising the ' quid ' with a
facetious stress, after the manner of that
most objectionable animal, the common
punster.

Harold Knyvett winced, but he smiled
for all that, or pretended to smile. Always
smile when you see it's expected of you. Asa
man of taste, he detested puns, especially
old ones ; but native politeness, of which
he possessed a large stock — the servile
politeness of all mean natures — made him
careful to laugh at them, however outrageous

or however antiquated. * Precisely
so,' he made answer. * A quid pro quo,'
without the emphasis. * Well, by this
beastly will, he gives and bequeaths his
landed estate and his entire fortune, save
and except his own paltry savings from his
military pay, to my cousin, the root-grubber,
the Greek root-rubber, on no better oTound,
if you please, than just because my grandfather
the Admiral, out of the pure vindictiveness
of his nasty temper, desired him,
by implication, so to leave it. My grand -
lather, you know — a most unnatural person
had a grudge against my father, his owt
youngest son, and expressly excluded him,
by the terms of his will, from all reversionary
interest in the property.'

Bad blooded old gentleman !' the sympathetic
listener piously ejaculated.

• Extremely Harold went on, with a
smile that showed his even row of blue
transparent teeth. ' A worse-blooded old
gentleman, indeed, never lived, for, not

cnl J did lie cat off mj iiitiier with a
sailing; an ad wliidli I cxmld, peiiiap^,
have endured will eqnauiinii^, but be cut
me toocMit of all benefit; <]f snocesaan — mea
babe nnbom (at; the tome I am speaking
€^^ wbo bad ne'er done anjtbingr on earth,
good or bad to dSeaoH bim. Snob mean
'w m^/aM^M ^vmessi, pofiltlvcl.'V dfi^DStiS mftr But
the win DOS badly drawn iqi, it: appears,
and so lAm wicked old man, hf bis own
mistake, made ^Amr gnevoos nor its* leavings
^r Artbnr — alone, of all bis sons — Ibroi]^^
an omitted pbnse„ iikitR power of appoints
Know, Sir Aitbor, at the time bee
property, bad seen practically
L i r mj oon^n Lti&, the root-granter.
^ : ;—':" — been away in
half bis ' nd knew
good pmL - DfiBw Tbe
qoenoeiF <=^ '^:^ old manes
expense , i'll at one
the iL;.--■- inscribed
toyc":: — .:: .z " : . :- i-icbed

thousands of personal estate, but leaving the
bulk of the landed property absolutely to
Iris.'

And that will he means to stick to ?' the
sympathetic listener inquired politely.

I hope not,' Harold Knyvett replied,
with a glance at his ash. ' You see, the
other side played their cards badly. This
girl Iris has a meddling old busybody of
an uncle : you know him by name — Whit-marsh,
Q.C., the man dio muddles all the
famous probate cases. Well, this old fool of
a man Whitmarsh, ignorant of the fact that
Sir Arthur had made such a will already,
began to bully and badger my uncle in his
vulgar fashion, by insinuating to him
privately that he'd better not leave the
property to me, or else he'd find a good
case made out against him on the strength
of the Admiral's express disapprobation.
Naturally, that put Sir Arthur's back up.
Xobody, and especially not a peppery old
General who's served more than half his

life in India, likes to have il dictated to him
by rank outsiders what disposition he's to
make of his own money. I was wiser than
that. I didn't try bullying; I tried soft
sawder. I approached Sir Arthur, as I
approach the young woman, from the side
of the affections. Then Iris herself, again,
instead of assiduously captivating the old
gentleman, as any girl with a grain of
common sense would, of course, have tried
to do, positively neglected him for something
she calls the higher culture, and,
immersed in her Hellenic agricultural operations,
dug roots exclusively, when she might
rather have been sedulously watering and
nursing her relations with Sir Arthur.'

Thought more of her Odyssey than of
her uncle, I suppose. That was lucky for
you, Knyvett; for, by Jove! she's a pretty
girl, you know, and agreeable into the
bargain. If she'd chosen to make up to
him, I expect your chances would have
been shaky'

You say the truth, my dear boy. It
teas lucky for me. I admit it frankly.
But I, who always play my cards carefully,
have taken great pains to eliminate
luck. I've visited the old gentleman every
blessed year with recurrent regularity at his
summer quarters, at Aix-les-Bains, much
to my own personal discomfort, for he's a
selfish old epicure, and I hate selfishness ;
but the end, of course, justifies the means ;
and I think I've made it pretty safe by this
time that he either has drawn up, or is about
to draw up, a new and more sensible will in
my favour. As a matter of conscience, he's
sure to see to it. I shall snap my fingers
then at the man Whitmarsh. And, indeed,
it'd be a pity, when one comes to think of
it, that a Quixotic, impulsive girl like Iris
should have the sole management of all
that splendid property. She's like all the
learned ladies ; she's quite unpractical. I
met her last week at a garden - party at
Staines (where I was very attentive to

her, of course, just to keep my hand in) ;
and what do you think the girl actually
told me ? She's going to train as a
hospital nurse. Her uncle, old Whitmarsh
who, though a meddling old fool, is a
man of the world, one can't deny — did
his best to dissuade her from it ; but she
wouldn't be dissuaded. She wanted todo
some good in her generation ! Utopian,
quite! It'd never do for her to come into
the property !'

If I were you,' the sympathetic friend
responded suggestively, ' I'd make haste
all the same to assure myself as a fact
that Sir Arthur had really altered the
will. Testamentary dispositions are ticklish
things. Men put them off so, from day today,
especially at his time of life, you know.
He might die any morning, oat of pure
mischief, and leave you in the lurch and
your cousin in clover.'

That contingency, unfortunately,' Harold
replied, with a sigh, ' it's impossible for

the wisest of men to guard against. But
IVe hedged, even so ; I've made my book
cautiously. It occurred to me to pay
marked attention beforehand to my cousin
Iris, who's a pretty girl, after all, and not
insensible, I fancy, in spite of her Aristotle,
to a manes advances ; and I mean to get up
an informal engagement with her, of a non-committing
character ; so that if by accident
she should come into the money
(which heaven forbid), I can annex the
property that way, girl and all included ;
and if, on the other hand, all goes well,
I can shuffle out of it quietly by letting
the thing die a natural death, and come
into the estate wholly unencumbered.'

That's neat and cute of you,' his
hearer responded, a little dubiously; 'but
perhaps a trifle too sharp for most men's
fancy.'

Harold Knyvett's reply was suddenly cut
short by the entry of a boy in buttons with
a telegram. ' For you, sir he said, handing

him the flimsy pink paper on a tray. Harold
took it and tore open the envelope carelessly.
An invitation for a day on the
moors, no doubt; or an urgent request
from the editor of the Piccadilly Review
for a hasty notice of that forthcoming
work of Kekewich's on the ' Slavonic
Element in the Balkan Peninsula.'

As he read it, his face turned white with
mingled disappointment, rage, and impotence.


What's up?' his friend asked, scenting
failure on the breeze.

Why, this,' Harold answered, as he
handed him the trumpery little crumpled
scrap of Government economy. ' From
my uncle's valet. The fruit of my investment.'


The friend read it mechanically aloud :

Sir Arthur died at two this afternoon,
at his residence at Aix, quite suddenly,
of angina pectoris. I have searched his
papers up and down, but can find no

trace of any other Avill than the one now
in the hands of his solicitors.

Your obedient servant,

'Gilbert Montgomery.'

A crushing blow ! The cards had failed
him !

It was a minute or two before Harold
Knyvett recovered his usual presence of
mind after that deadly reverse. Dead, and
with no other will yet made ! Dead, with
no chance of influencing his decision ! Dead,
before he had even proposed to Iris ! To
ask her noah would be too open and unblushing;
a confession of fortune-hunting.
Procrastination had lost him both chances
at once — his uncle's procrastination in the
one case, his own in the other. If only he
had proposed a week since at that garden-party
at Staines ! Fool, fool that he was tolet
the opportunity slip idly by him !

It was only for a moment, however. Next
minute, strategy had resumed the command.
Vain regret was very little in

Harold Knyvett's line. Like a strongman,
he nerved himself after his defeat,
and proceeded to bring up his reserves
for action. He looked at his watch. The
hand was on the very nick of five. News
of Sir Arthur's death wouldn't get into
even the last edition of this evening's
papers. Iris would therefore not probably
hear of it till tomorrow morning. Xo
more procrastination ; no more delay. The
last moment for the forlorn hope had now
arrived. If he took his pretty cousin by
storm to-night, all might yet be well, and
the estate mio^ht be secured, even though
burdened with the undesirable encumbrance.

Harold Knyvett was not a marrying
man ; but if the worst came to the worst,
he reflected with a sigh, a man might marry
a plainer girl than his cousin Iris.

He had an engagement with his superior
in the office at seven, to dine at this club,
worse luck, and he dared not neglect it.
Cautious before all things, Harold Knyvett

VOL. I. 12

would never throw away the substance for
the shadow. The office was a certainty;
Iris was a chance. No gambler he ; he
would stick to his engagement. But he
could go away early, thank heaven — say
at 9.30, or thereabouts (pleading an At
Home) — and be up at his aunt's before
the clock struck ten. Filled with the
scheme, he rushed to the door and hailed
in all haste a passing hansom. It took
him to his chambers in less than ten
minutes. There he sat down at his old
oak desk and wrote at full speed two
hurried letters. The first was to the
heiress: 'A most judicious step,' he said
to himself, with a chuckle.

My dear Iris,

I am very particularly anxious to
see you this evening about ten o'clock on a
matter of some serious importance to both
of us alike. You are always kindness itself
to me, I know. May I ask you, if possible,
as the best and sweetest of cousins, not to
go out at all to-night, or, in case you have

any engagement for the evening, to come
home again early, so that I may manage to
have ten minutes' talk with you alone ? I
know you'll do this for me, like a dear good
girl. With much love, in breathless haste,
Your very affectionate cousin,

Harold.'

The second was a hasty note to his
solicitor.

Dear Hardy,

The old man has popped off the
hooks this afternoon at Aix, and, as far as I
can make out, has neglected to draw up any
other will than the one I told you of This
is beastly. We must resist all probate of
the existing document to the utmost of our
power. I'll see you upon the subject tomorrow
morning. Meanwhile, look over
my grandfather's will — you have a copy, I
believe — and take all necessary steps immediately,
to prevent a surprise by the other
party.

Yours, in hot haste,

Harold Knyvett.'
12—2

Then, being nothing if not a methodical
man, Mr. Harold Knyvett proceeded to put
both letters, out of pure force of habit, to
copy in his copying ]Dress — the solicitor's
first, and Iris's afterwards. A copy is
always a handy thing ; you can produce it
when necessary, and suppress it when inconvenient.
That done, he rang the bell for
his servant.

Send those at once to their addresses by
a commissionaire,' he said abruptly. ' Let
him take a cab. At Miss Kny vent's I should
like him to wait for an answer.'

GOOD NEWS FROM Ain.

About the same time, that identical afternoon,
Uncle Tom arrived by hansom, very
red-faced, at Mrs. Knyvett's house in West
Kensington. Great trepidation possessed
his soul, and an open telegram fluttered
ostentatiously in his left hand. 'Calm
yourself, my dear,' he remarked, with sundry
puffs and blows, to Iris, who, indeed, had
only just come in from tennis, and seemed
to the outward eye of a mere casual observer
as calm as any Third Classic ought always
to be ; * don't be too agitated, there's nothing
to alarm you. I've brought you news-most
important news. Your uncle, Sir

Arthur, died at Aix-les-Bains at two this
afternoon, of angina pectoris''

Well, really, Uncle Tom,' Iris answered,
with a smile, throwing her pretty little arms
caressingly around him, ' I suppose, of
course, I ought to be awfully sorry ; hers
papa's brother, and all that sort of thing ;
but, as a matter of fact, I hardly remember
seeing him when I was quite a baby, and
having always regarded him only as one of
the family portraits, I don't feel as if I could
screw up even a conventional tear now to
lament his demise with.'

Sorry !' Uncle Tom exclaimed, in a
fervour of astonishment. ' Why, you ought
to be delighted ! overjoyed ! irrepressible !
Sorry at coming into six thousand a year,
indeed ! Why, the girl's gone cracked ! Til
trouble you for her calmness ! Sorry, indeed !
Sorry !'

At the words, Mrs. Knyvett, who was
standing by, fell back in her chair, with her
main aquiline feature pointed straight

towards the rose in the centre of the ceilings,
and indulged parenthetically in a loud fit of
mingled hysterical sobs and laughter. If
Iris was insensible to her own good fortune,
Mrs. Knyvett, at least, as an irreproachable
British mother, felt bound to rise vicariously
on her account to the height of the situation.
But as soon as this little interruption had
been partially composed, according to due
precedent, by the application of sal volatile
and eau de Cologne, Uncle Tom was enabled
to proceed more systematically with his
exposition of the existing crisis.

Now calm yourself, my dear,' the fat
little old gentleman began again, with much
energy, being, in fact, very far from calm
himself, and therefore, like many other people
in the same circumstances, particularly
anxious to quiet the nerves of other people.
Here's the telegram I've just received from
Savoy :

" Sir Arthur died at two this afternoon,
a his residence at Aix, quite suddenly, of

angina pectoris. I have searched his papers
up and doAvn, but can find no trace of any
other will than the one now in the hands of
his solicitor.

" Your obedient servant,

'gilbert Montgomery"'

It was word for word the self same telegram
that Harold Knyvett had received at
the Cheyne Eow Club ; but of that little
peculiarity in its duplicate form Uncle Tom,
of course, was as yet unaware.

He's a treasure, that valet,' he murmured
to himself, with a hug of delight. ' Behaved
most admirably. Never expended ten pounds
in my life to better advantage !'

But why does he telegraph to you, uncle
dear?' Iris asked, much puzzled.

'Well, the fact is, my child,' the old
barrister answered, with a somewhat shamefaced
look, for he felt he must confess the
one sin of an otherwise blameless life openly,
in any other case I wouldn't have descended
to obtaining information from any other

man's servants, by fair means or foul ; butin
dealing with a scoundrel of the calibre and
metal of Harold Knyvett '

Uncle!' Iris cried, firing up, 'you've no
right to prejudge him ! You've no right to
speak so of any of my relations ! You've
no right to call my cousin a scoundrel.'

Exactly so, my dear,' the old man went
on, in a pleased tone. ^ I like you none the
worse for withstanding me to my face, as
Paul did somebody, and sticking up for your
relative, though he does happen to be a
sneak and a cur and a bully ; but, at any
rate, in dealing with a claim like his (if that
phrase will satisfy you), I thought it best to
ensure beforehand prior and exclusive information
of my own from your uncle's body-servant
; so that the moment Sir Arthur was
comfortably dead, and past the possibility of
meddling with his last will and testament,
we might secure ourselves at once against
Harold's machinations. That fellow's stick
at nothing, 1 can tell you, my child. He's

a bad lot. Why, he'd forge a will, I know,
if he saw no other way of getting what he
wanted, as soon as look at you.'

Uncle !' Iris exclaimed again severely ;
and the old gentleman immediately assumed
a penitent attitude.

Well, he's dead, anyhow,' Uncle Tom
went on, with professional glee ; ' and it's
pretty sure now he's made no will but the
one we know about. So, Iris, the position
amounts to this : you're the mistress of six
thousand a year — a great fortune, my dear!
A very great fortune!'

I hope I may be able to spend it wisely
for the good of the world,' Iris answered,
with a sigh.

She was a trifle pale, but otherwise seemed
about as calm as usual. Her calmness
irritated Mrs. Knyvett inexpressibly.

For goodness' sake, Iris!' she exclaimed,
getting up as though she'd like to shake her,
do laugh, or cry, or scream, or do something
just to show you understand the

importance of your position. I never in my
life knew such a girl as you are. When
that Cambridge local or something was
going to be announced the other day, you
were as white as death and as agitated as —
as a jelly ; and now that you've come into
six thousand a year you're as calm over your
good fortune as if six thousand a year were
a kind of accident that dropped in upon one
daily !'

But the examination was so much more
important to me' Iris answered gently,
stroking her mother's hair, to prevent
another sudden outburst of sobbing and
laughing. ' I did that myself, you see, by
my own exertions ; whereas this is a sort of
adventitious external circumstance. It's not
what one has so much as what one is. that
matters. . . . Besides, the questions's really
this : oughtn't Harold to have at least as
much as I have ?'

God bless my soul ! why ?' Uncle Tom
exclaimed, in extreme astonishment.

Because, you know, we were both equally
related to Sir Arthur by birth ; and I should
have felt it an injustice myself if Sir Arthur
had left everything he had to Harold, and
nothing to me. It would be a manifest
inequality ; and. as Aristotle says, in the"'
Nicomachean Ethics," equality is justice.'

But the law, my child!' Uncle Tom exclaimed
aghast — * the law of the land — the
law allows it. " Perfect freedom of testamentary
disposition," Blackstone remarks,
'ris the keystone of the English law of
bequest and inheritance." '

It may be the law,' Iris made answer
unabashed ; ' but is it right? is it justice ?'

Uncle Tom's hair stood on end with alarm
at the heretical question. A lawyer who
had spent the best part of his life in pleading
probate cases to be set such a problem !

They're the same thing, my dear,' he
made answer, gasping — ' the self same thing
under two different aspects. The law defines
and expresses clearly what is right and

proper for a man to do in each particular
instance ; it lays down the strict principles
of individual justice.'

Herbert Spencer thinks the Third Classic
went on, undismayed by his evident outburst
of horror, * that law is merely the
brute expression of the will of a real or
practical majority — generally a dead
majority : often an ignorant and prejudiced
mediaeval majority. He holds, in fact, that
law in its essence '

Heaven bless the girl !' Uncle Tom exclaimed,
stopping both his ears with his
hands vigorously. ' If she isn't going to
lecture me on Political Economy ! Why,
haven't I already explained to you, miss,
that you may do anything on earth with
me, except two things — bandage my legs,
and give me lectures on Political Economy ?
I desire to live and die a humble Christian,
in complete ignorance of that hard-hearted
science. Let's return to our muttons. Let
me see, where were we ?'

'I was saying,' Iris went on, in her quiet firm
way, 'that I thought I ought to share this fortune
with Harold, who seems to me to have
quite equal claims to it with myself, uncle.'

Uncle Tom's wrath seethed up rapidly to
boiling-point. ' With Harold !' he cried
out in an agony of disgust. ' With that
sneak ! with that cur ! with that incarnation
of selfishness! Upon my soul, my dear, if
you were to do such a quixotic thing as that,
as long as I lived I should never speak
another word to you.'

I should be very sorry for that,' Iris
answered with a smile — *at least, if I believed
it ; more sorry than for anything else I could
think of on earth ; for I love you dearly ;
but if I thought it right, whether you meant
it or not, I should have to do it.'

'Iris!' her mother exclaimed, with a
severe curve of the principal feature, ' how
on earth can you talk in such a way to your
uncle — and after his unremitting kindness
to you always i'

We must first of all obey our consciences,
mother,' Iris replied gravely. ' Fiat justitia,
you know, j^uat coelum.'

What end this discussion of first principles
might have reached between disputants
so utterly without common premisses it
would be hard to say, had not a diversion
been suddenly effected by the entrance of
the maid with a note for Miss Knyvett.
And the messenger's waiting in an 'anson
for the answer, miss.'

Iris read it through with some slight
miso^ivino^.

From Harold,' she said shortly, and
handed it to her uncle.

The barrister drew a long breath as he
glanced at it angrily.

Too affectionate by half !' he cried.

The best and sweetest of cousins !" '* In

u

breathless haste !" He's hedging, now.
He's got wind of this, too, and he's going
to propose to you. The scamp ! the skunk !
the disgusting vermin !'

Kris isis ~ :?dfasf<e it

we 1: I

«^ 'll.«r -L

1 5Tr3'

socbik^cdd!!
Air Ifn fiTdsdk, ae Inb iinBEnBi tile

nm-tfHf^ 'B— M-^iy-yj^ imam— flag mp ilbv

tdfasffin^ with Bit iBiBiwr t» hae
looaDoik A ioffl Itt tflmBL^

etmSS^ - amJ Iksse WT&f

As for Harold, he came up in evening
dress and in excellent spirits ; after all, it
was only a temporary check ; he would
marry the fortune, if he couldn't inherit it.
Any man nowadays can select his girl, and
make tolerably sure of her, with a little
attention ! It's only a matter of casting
your fly well. He wore a cream-coloured
rose, with a maidenhair, in his button-hole ;
his shirt front was faultless, and his white
tie of the most immaculate neatness. Women
attach some importance to these trifles, you
know, even though they happen to be Third
Classics ; and Harold Knyvett was well
aware that his teeth were pearly, and his
eyes cold bine, and his moustache the envy
of the entire Civil Service. He entered
with a look intended to be almost rapturous.


^ How good of you, Iris !' he cried, as he
kissed her, though his cousin shrank away
somewhat timidly from that doubtful kiss.
I see you understood me ! That was ever

SO nice of you. And alone, too ! This is
more than I could have asked ! What rare
good fortune ! I hardly expected to find
you alone here.'

Mamma had a headache,' Iris answered
with truth, for the shock and the hysteria
had proved too much for the possessor of
the aristocratic feature ; ' so she went to
bed early. What did you want to see me
about, Harold ? Has anything unusual
turned up since I saw you ?'

Nothing unusual, dearest,' Harold went
on, leaning forward, and looking profoundly
in the direction of her averted eyes ; ' but a
feeling I have long felt growing within me
has come to a head at last ; and this afternoon
it broke over me suddenly, like a flash
of inspiration, that I could no longer put
off opening my whole heart to you.'

Iris's hand trembled violently. She
hated herself, she was so horribly guilty ;
it was such a wicked duplicity to let him
go on — she, who knew all the facts already.

13 — 2

Yet she would play out the comedy to its
natural close, come what might of it, for the
sake of certainty. Harold noted her agitation,
and misread its meaning.

I've nobbled her,' he thought to himself,
with a triumphant smile. ' See how her
hand trembles ! But I'll play her gracefully
a little longer. It's unsportsmanlike
to gaff your fish too hastily.'

So he went on once more, in a soft, low
tone, taking her hand, half unresisted, in
his own, and playing with it tenderly, while
Iris still kept her face studiously averted.

Iris, one thing that made me think more
particularly of this to-day is my strong
desire there should be no shadow of mercenary
feeling on either side between you
and me, whose interests should be so identical
in all things. Uncle Arthur's still
alive. While he lives, neither of us knows
to which of the two, or in what proportion,
the dear old gentleman will leave his money.
Now, I felt it borne in upon me with a

sudden impulse this afternoon that it would
be better if, before either of us was thus
put in a position of superiority, so to speak,
in worldly goods over the other, we were
to let our hearts' secret out mutually. And
for that I've come to see you to-night. . . .
Iris, I love you — I've always loved you, of
course ; but of late I've learnt what my
love meant. Dare I hope, darling ?' and
he raised her hand tentatively, but with
ardour, towards his thin lips, and was
about to print upon it what seemed to
him the appropriate warm kiss of a devoted
lover.

Iris, however, could stand the strain of
this false position no longer. Withdrawing
her hand suddenly from his with a violent
start, she took slowly from her pocket a
note in his hand, and began to read some
pencilled words, interspersed with ink, on
the fly-leaf of the letter. She spoke them
out with a trembling voice, but with great
clearness, to this unexpected purport :

Dear Hardy,

The old man has popped off the
hooks this afternoon at Aix, and, as far as
I can make out '

She had got no further when Harold, red
as fire, with a sudden dart forward, tried to
seize the compromising document from her
hand ; but Iris was too quick for him, and
too relentless as well. She dashed the
letter with one hand behind her back, then
advancing to the gas, and facing him full,
she held it up before him, and read to the
very last line his note to his solicitor. She
would let him see she understood to the
full the whole depth and breadth of his
unmanly baseness.

Harold Knyvett, well-bred sneak as he
was, stood and listened shamefaced, now
white as a curd. What could all this
mean ? What error had he committed ?
He knew he hadn't blundered the elementary
blunder of putting the wrong letter by
mistake into Iris's envelope. His good

business habits and his clock-T^^ork accuracy
sufficed to save him from such a puerile
scholar's mate from a woman as that ; for
he always subscribed each letter to its recipient
at the bottom of the page with
antique punctiliousness, and always took
care to look, as he folded them, that subscription
and superscription tallied exactly.
All the more, therefore, was he nonplussed
to understand how Iris had got hold of his
note to Hardy. Could the fellow have
betrayed him ? Impossible ! Impossible !
But he stood there, with his face all livid
to behold, and his eyes fixed hard upon the
pattern of the carpet, till Iris had completed
to the very last word her righteous torture.

What does this mean, Iris ?' he asked
angrily, as she folded it up with a smile,
and replaced it in the envelope.

It means,' Iris answered, handing him
over the note, now she had quite finished it,
with ironical courtesy, ' . . . that you use
too thick and too black a copying ink. I

advise you in future, Harold, to employ
some thinner kind if you wish to prevent a
recurrence of this unfortunate exposure

She was white as a sheet herself, but
righteous indignation bore her through.
The man should know he was detected and
unmasked ; he should writhe for his meanness,
whatever it cost her.

Harold took the note from her hand and
gazed at it mechanically. He saw now at a
glance the source of all these woes. The
flyleaf of Iris's letter, laid downward in the
copying-book, had taken a faint and half-illegible
impression of his note to Hardy
from the wet page opposite. In any other
hands than Thomas Kynnersley Whit-marsh's,
those loose, sprawling daubs on
the blank sheet would no doubt have meant
rather less than nothing. But the distinguished
Q.C. and great authority on probate
cases had seen too many strange documents
and forgeries in his time not to have become
an adept in handwriting and all that appertained

to it. Xo expert was sharper on a
stroke or a dot than he ; the crossing of a
t ' was enough to convict a man of sin
before his scrutinizing spectacles. By holding
up the page to the light of the gas, he
had been able to supply with dexterous
pencil-strokes the missing portions of each
word or letter, and to reconstruct, entire,
the compromising epistle to Mr. Harold's
solicitor. So skilfully had he built it all
up, indeed, that even Iris herself could no
longer doubt her cousin's meanness, nor
could Harold, when confronted with his
own handiwork, thus unexpectedly reproduced,
venture to deny or explain away to
her face his authorship of the letter.

The baffled schemer looked at Iris with
cynical coldness. He had played his cards
altogether too well.

Then it's all up,' he said — for he knew
when he was beaten ; ' it's all up, I suppose,
between us ?'

^ Yes, it's all up,' Iris answered coldly;

and so tar as I am concerned. Harold
Knyvetr, I do not any further desire the
honour of your acquaintance. I tried to
believe in you as long as I could, though I
never liked you, and I never cared for you ;
I can believe in you no longer, and I wish
to see no more of you.'

Harold looked across at her with a curl
on his lip.

Your new-come fortune has made yoti
proud in a hurry." he sneered out angrily.
"• But don't be too sure about it yet, my
lady. Remember, Sir Arthur's title had a
flaw in it from the first. What he bequeathed
to you was. perhaps, fi'om the
very beginning, not his to bequeath
you.'

I'm not concerned at present about Sir
Arthur's title.' Iris answered, cold as ice,
and trembling violently, but still self-possessed
; ' I'm concerned only about your
own shameful and cynical duplicity.'

Ah, that's all very well for you to say

just now,' Harold went on, taunting her,
while you're angry at a sight to your
personal pretensions ; but you won't think
so by-and-by, you know, when you come
to look into it. There is a flaw, and,
whether you like it or not, you've got to
face it. Sir Arthur knew it, and you'd
better know it, too, if you're really and
truly Sir Arthur inheritor. The old
gentleman came into the property himself
on the strength of affidavits to the effect
that his second brother, Clarence, had predeceased
his eldest brother Alexander,
ha\dno: l^een killed in action in crushing: a
native insurrection in Algeria, in or about
the year 1868, if I remember rightly. The
Courts would have accepted the affidavits
perhaps, if the claim had been opposed, and
perhaps they wouldn't. But as no opposition
was raised, administration was granted,
and Sir Arthur was allowed to succeed
quietly. However, there was a flaw in the
evidence for all that. And ITl tell you the

flaw, to let you see how little I m afraid of
you. Clarence Knyvett's body was never
recovered, or never identified. He was only
missing, not certainly killed. And as he
had run away from England to avoid
serious unpleasantness in the matter of a
criminal charge preferred against him by
his own father, and as he was serving in
the French army, under an assumed name,
to avoid detection, the question of identification
was by no means an easy one. Sir
Arthur went over to Algiers to settle it, to
be sure, and satisfied himself (as, indeed, he
had every reason to be easily satisfied) that
Clarence Knyvett had died, in fact, at the
date assigned. But many soldiers of his
old regiment did not believe it. They
thought he'd sneaked off, and hidden among
the natives. And if Clarence Knyvett's
now alive, he's the owner of the property ;
and if he's dead, dying at a later date than
Alexander, his children, if any, and not you,
are the inheritors of his estate !'

As he spoke, Iris faced him with cold
contempt in every line of her face.

Is that all you have to tell me ?' she
asked severely, as soon as he had finished.

Xo,' Harold answered, losing his head
with rage, ' that's not all. I've something
more to tell you. You won't like to hear
it, but I'll tell you for all that. One bad
turn deserves another. Unless a later will
of Sir Arthur's turns up, leaving the
property in a more equitable manner — as
it may do any day — I shall never rest
satisfied till I've hunted up Clarence
Knyvett, his heirs and representatives, and
turned you out of the doubtful inheritance
to which you've probably no real title. So
now you know what you've got to reckon
with.'

And if another will does turn up,' Iris
rejoined quietly, though with ashy lips,
leaving the property entirely to you, you'll
accept Sir Arthur's claims without hesitation,
and let Uncle Clarence's heirs, if he

ever had any go without the inheritance to
which they have probably the best title !
Is that what you mean ? . . . .
Harold, you may go !' And, rising to her
full height, she pointed to the door. ' You
had only one friend in your own family
she said, ' and you've succeeded to-night in
turning her against you.'

Harold took up his hat, and went. On
the landing he paused.

Remember,' he called back, with a
parting shot, ' Til not rest till I've brought
the rightful heirs to light against you.'

Then he walked down the stairs, and
emerged, all on fire, into the gaslit streets
of fog-bound Kensington.

As soon as he felt the fresh air on his
brow, however, he recognised with a rush
how serious a mistake he had committed in
his after. Another will might turn up any
day — a sensible will in his own favour —
and then they would have this handle of
the flaw in the title to use ao^-ainst him. Or

if another will did not tarn up — well, it
was absurd to think that a man of education
and technical skill like himself — a man
of resource and energy and wit — a man,
above all, possessed of the j^i'ecious and
invaluable quality of unscrupulousness —
should let himself be diddled out of a
splendid estate by a pack of women, for
no better reason than just because a piece
of dirty paper with a few names scratched
upon it was not duly forthcoming from
Sir Arthur's davenport. It's easy enough,
of course, to copy a signature : any fool can
do that. Sir arthur ought to have altered
that will ; he meant to alter it ; he all but
did alter it. How perfectly simple to —
well, to alter it posthumously for the
dilatory old man, in accordance with his
own obvious and expressed intentions !

Forgery, they call it, in the coarse, blunt
dialect of the Probate and Divorce Division.

But in that case, as things stood, he had
put a weapon into Iris's hands which she

might possibly be inclined to use against
him. Well, now that the matter had gone
so far wrong, the best way in the end
would perhaps be to let them prove the
existing will, which would commit them
to acceptance of Sir Arthur's claim ; and
after that, whenever the — the new hypothetical
will turned up (and it should turnup
; on that he was decided), they would
find it less easy to fight the matter against
him. Meanwhile, to annoy them, he'd hunt
up his uncle Clarence's business, too. The
man very likely was still alive. Any
weapon's good enough to use against an
enemy.

An enemy ! And yet, what a splendid
creature that girl was, after all ! He had
never admired her so much in his life before
as when she confronted him like a wild-cat
in her anger to - night. That righteous
indignation became her magnificently. By
Jove, she was grand I What a fool he'd
been not to marry her long ago ! Why,

let alone the fortune, she was a girl any
man might be proud to marry for her own
sake any day — if he meant marrying. She
was so pretty, so clever, and had such
funds of character ! And he'd noticed the
other afternoon, as they drove back from
Staines in a friend's open carriage, she Alas
the only woman that ever lived who held
her parasol of deliberate purpose at such an
angle as not entirely to shut out the view
of all surrounding objects from her male
companion.

A splendid creature, and a most undoubted
heiress. But, as a woman alone,
well worth the sacrifice.

He wished to goodness, now, indeed, he'd
married her off-hand a couple of years since.
Nay, more, in his own cold, selfish way, he
awoke with a start to the solemn fact that
he wanted that woman. As far as was
possible to such a nature as his, he was
in love with Iris — and he had only just
that very evening discovered it.

VOL. I. 14

IRIS STRIKES.

Uncle,' Iris said, when she talked it over
with the old barrister in the dining-room
next morning, ' after all that happened last
night, do you know, I'm not perhaps quite
so anxious as I was to share Uncle Arthur's
fortune with Harold.'

^ God bless the girl !' Uncle Tom cried,
in mock horror. ' What on earth does she
mean now ? You were both equally related
to Sir Arthur by birth, weren't you ? and, as
Aristotle says, equality is justice.'

Iris blushed slightly. It was too cruel
of him thus to bring up her own words in
judgment against her.

But he behaved so disgracefully, so

abominably, last night she said apologetically.
' He doesn't deserve it.'

'It's a great comfort to me to see,' Uncle
Tom responded, with a cheerful blink, * that
going to Girton and coming out Third
Classic still leaves a girl essentially a
woman at heart for all that. No woman
that ever lived, whether she'd read Aristotle
or not, cares or ever cared one farthing yet
about abstract justice. What women care
about is the satisfaction of their own
personal emotions and feelings. I'm glad
to see, my dear, that in this respect you're
no better than the rest. " He ought by
rights to have half this property, of course,"
you say in effect ; " but as I see he's a sneak
and a mean-spirited cur, I don't think I'll
bother about giving him his fair share of
it." Very womanly and very right. That,
I take it, my child, is about the long and
the short of your argument.'

Iris laughed.

Perhaps so,' she replied. ' But anyhow,

14 — 2

Uncle Tom, after what he did and said last
night, I find my desire to do him strict
justice has considerably abated.'

So, Aristotle to the contrary notwithstanding,
Uncle Tom was permitted vicariously
to prove Sir Arthur's will in due
course — Iris herself being named sole
executrix — and to take all necessary steps
for her succession to the landed property.
As soon as all the legal arrangements were
finally completed, Iris once more had a
great consultation to make with her
guardian, guide, philosopher, and friend.
She had given up the hospital nurse fad,
of course, for the present, as inconsistent
with her existing position as a great heiress ;
but she had another mine to explode upon
poor Uncle Tom now, and once more a
mine due to an acute attack of that most
undesirable and inconvenient mental disease,
conscience.

ISfow I want to know, Uncle Tom,' the
heiress and Third Classic said persuasively,

cornering him at bay in an easy chair in
Mrs. Kny vent's little drawing - room at
Kensington (for they had not yet taken
possession of the projected mansion in
Lowness Square), 'is there any truth, oris
there not, in that story of Harold's about
Uncle Clarence's supposed disappearance ?'

The distinguished Q.C. shuffled awkwardly
in his seat. For the first time in
his life he began faintly to realize the
feelings of an unwilling witness under his
own searching cross-examination.

A cock-and-bull story !' he said at last
evasively. ' Just said to frighten you. If I
were you, Iris, I'd think no more about it.'

But is there any truth in it, uncle ?'
Iris persisted, with quiet emphasis, as the
distinguished Q.C. himself would have done
in the same case, if only he had got his
own double safely lodged in front of him in
that amateur witness-box.

Bless my soul !' Uncle Tom replied,
stroking her hair gently to create a diversion,

' what a persistent cross-examiner the
girl is, to be sure ! If I tell you no, you 11
not believe me, and if I tell you yes, you'll
want to go running over Europe, Asia,
Africa, and America, not to speak of the
islands of the Pacific Ocean, in search of
Clarence Knyvett, his heirs, or executors.'

Then there is some truth in it,' Iris went
on, with one hand laid persuasively on her
uncle's arm.

As much truth as a man like your
cousin Harold can speak, I suppose,' the
old man answered, with a gasp, as who
should at last resolve to have an aching
tooth drawn, for he felt sure she must get
it all out of him now. ' The fact is, my
dear, your uncle Clarence's death, like
James De la Pluche's birth, is " drop in
mystery." He left England under a cloud.
He was a gay young soldier, always getting
into scrapes, and always spending more
than he'd got, and skulking in disgrace,
and compounding with his creditors. It's

supposed, though I don't know anything
about it for certain, that he forged, or tried
to forge, your grandfather's name to sundry
acceptances. It's further supposed that this
came at last to your grandfather's knowledge,
and that your grandfather, being, like
Moses, an austere man, threatened to expose
the whole business. So Clarence, it is
believed, like the great Orion, went sloping
slowly to the West. Anyhow, one fine
morning the news got wind that your
uncle was missing ; and from that day to
this he has been consistently missed, and
never turned up again.'

But what was that about his enlisting
in the French army ?' Iris asked, with a
caress, as the old man paused.

Well, nothing was known about that,
my dear, during your uncle Alexander's
life,' Uncle Tom went on, like a man from
whom evidence is extorted by rack and
thumb-screw ; ' we thought, indeed, he'd
gone to America. But as soon as Sir

Arthur inherited the property, it became
necessary to find proof of Clarence's death,
whether Clarence was dead or living; so
Sir Arthur, tracking him gradually from
France, went over to Algiers in the end to
find it. It was through that, in fact, that
he settled down first at Sidi Aia. Well,
this was the result of Sir Arthur's investigation.'
xVnd here Uncle Tom refreshed his
memory by a pull at his note-book. ' He
found that Clarence, on leaving England,
had enlisted in the Third Chasseurs at
Toulon, under the assumed name of —
what was it ? let me see. Ah, yes !
Joseph Leboutillier ; that he had been sent
over to Algeria to join his regiment ; that
he took part for some time in operations in
the interior ; and that during the partial
insurrection of 1868 he was employed in a
column sent to reduce the mountaineers of
some outlandish place they call Grande
Kabylie. A certain battle took place in
this remote quarter against the insurgents

on the 20th of June in that year, and after
it, Mr. Joseph Leboutillier was reported
missing. His name was struck off the roll
of the regiment, and though his body
happened to be never identified, the French
authorities were perfectly convinced that he
died in the skirmish, and was lost on the
field — an accident which, as Beau Brummell
said about a rent, may happen to any
gentleman any day. Our own Courts
admitted the papers Sir Arthur produced
as proof of death, and were satisfied of
the identity of Joseph Leboutillier with
Clarence Knyvett. In short, the question's
really as good as settled ; a judge in camera
has decided p7'o fop-ma that Clarence Knyvett
died on the 20th of June, 1868 ; so die he
did, then, legally and officially, and there's
nothing more to be said about it.'

Iris smiled.

I wish, uncle dear,' she said good-humouredly,
' 1 could share your supreme
faith in the absolute wisdom and abstract

justice of the law of England. But John

Stuart Mill says Oh dear me ! I

forgot ' — for Uncle Tom was stopping up
his ears already, lest they should be profaned
by fresh assaults of that dangerous
and detestable political economy. ' To
return to the question now before the
House : what did Harold mean ? or did
he mean anything, by saying that many
soldiers of Uncle Clarence's regiment didn't
believe he was really dead, but thought he'd
sneaked off and hidden himself somewhere
among the natives?'

Uncle Tom started.

God bless my soul!' he exclaimed, with
a gesture of horror. ' So this is what
comes, then, of sending girls to Cambridge.
Who says women have no legal
instincts? Why, the girl ought to have
gone to the Old Bailey Bar ! With the
acumen of a judge — if judges have any,
which I very much doubt — she puts her
finger plump down at once on the one weak

point of the entire contention. Remarkable ;
re-markable ! Well, the fact's this : an
ancient French military in retreat — that's
just how he signed himself — anonymous,
practically — once wrote a letter . to Sir
Arthur at Sidi Aia (shortly after your
uncle Alexander's decease), telling him
he didn't believe this man Leboutillier
was dead at all ; but that he'd run away,
and gone off absurdly on his own account
to join the natives. The ancient French
military in retreat didn't give his name, of
course, so we couldn't cross-examine him;
but your uncle sent me a copy of the letter
from Aix-les-Bains, and also another to
your cousin Harold. The ancient French
soldier, in this precious communication,
declared he had been a chasseur with Mr.
Joseph Leboutillier, and had known him
well ; that Joseph Leboutillier was an eccentric
person, holding exaggerated notions
about justice to the indigenes ; that he specially
objected to this particular war, waged

against some people called Kabyles, if I
recollect aright, who inhabit the trackless
mountains of the interior; that he often expressed
the deepest regret at being employed
to crush out the liberty and independence
of "these unfortunate people;" and that
he almost refused on one occasion to obey
his superior officer, when that gentleman
ordered him to join in burning down the
huts and villages of the insurgent tribesmen.'

Very like a Knyvett,' Iris murmured
parenthetically.

Very. The Knyvetts were always
quixotic,' Uncle Tom continued, with a
faintly-compassionate inflexion of his forensic
voice. ' But, at any rate, the ancient French
military in retreat was firmly convinced
that Joseph Leboutillier had deserted in
the battle, to avoid bearing arms against
the Kabyles any longer; and he said that
many other ancient militates of the same
regiment entirely agreed with him in this
supposition.'

And then?'

Why, then Sir Arthur sent up a French
detective, who understood Arabic, into the
mountains to make full inquiries, just to
satisfy his conscience; for though he was a
selfish, pig-headed old man, Sir Arthur,
and as cross as two sticks, he, too, had a
conscience, like all the Knyvetts — bar that
singular exception, your uncle Charles,
with his son Harold. Your father and
you, to be sure, inherited the family conscience
in its most virulent form ; but it was
strongly-enough developed even in poor old
Sir Arthur. That's why he left his fortune
to you, my dear, instead of to Harold; he
thought it was his duty, and duty to a
Knyvett's a perfect will-o'-the-wisp, leading
you all into every Utopian quagmire you
happen to come across — though, in this case,
of course, he was perfectly right in obeying
its dictates.'

And what did Sir Arthur find out at
last?' Iris asked gently, stroking her uncle's

hand with her own, as if to deprecate his
wrath at her possession of anything so
inconvenient as a sense of right towards
others.

Most fortunately, my child, he found
out exactly nothing. The natives fought
shy of his detective to a man, and energetically
disclaimed knowledge of any sort about
Joseph Leboutillier. They'd never even
heard the name, they swore. So Sir Arthur
came back empty-handed from his quest,
and enjoyed his property in peace and
quietness. Quite right, too. People ought
never to pay any attention at all to
anonymous letters. Particularly not in
matters affecting the Probate and Divorce
Division.'

Iris was silent for a minute or two more.
Then she said slowly, much terrified lest
she should rouse the dormant lion of Uncle
Tom's wrath:

Sir Arthur may have been satisfied with
that, Uncle Tom, but I'm not. I suppose,

as you say, I've got the family conscience
in an aggravated form; but, whatever it
says, I must obey it. I must find out
exactly what became of Uncle Clarence.'

The distinguished Q.C. flared up like
petroleum.

You're a fool if you do, my dear,' he
answered, losing his temper.

" But, children, you should never let
your angry passions rise," ' Iris quoted
gently. ' That shows you think there's
still some chance Uncle Clarence is really
alive, or has children living. In Jevons's
Inductive Logic," I remember' — but Uncle
Tom's ears, stopped tight with either thumb,
turned once more as deaf as the adder's. He
listened not to Iris's Girtonian charms,
charmed she never so learnedly, that stonyhearted
barrister.

I might be using somebody else's money,
you see,' his niece went on quietly, as soon
as Uncle Tom gave signs of having recovered
the free use of his auditory nerve.

and that, you must admit, would be sheer
robbery.'

Uncle Tom had too much respect for the
law of England not to allow, with obvious
regret, the justice of that last patent
truism.

'Well, what do you propose to do?' he
responded sulkily.

For the present, advertise in the English,
French, and Algerian papers,' Iris answered,
with calm persistence, ' for any information
as to the whereabouts or death of Clarence
Knyvett or Joseph Leboutillier.'

And raise up for yourself a score or so
of imitation Tichborne Claimants,' Uncle
Tom cried, with concentrated scorn in his
voice.

What is a Tichborne Claimant?' Iris
asked, in all innocence, imagining the
animal to be some peculiar species of legal
technicality — a nolle prosequi for example,
or an oyer and terminer. The shadowy
forms of John Doe and Richard Roe

floated lambent on the air before her vague
mental vision.

Bless the child I' Uncle Tom exclaimed
fervently, raising his hands to heaven.
'What happy innocence! What golden
ignorance! You may thank your stars
you don't even know the creature by name.
Why, when I was young, my dear, some
twenty years ago or so, we all of us wasted
three good twelvemonths of our lives with
feverish anxiety in following the fortunes
and final exposure of a wretched impostor,
a claimant to the Tichborne estates in
Hampshire, who was inflicted upon a long-suffering'
world solely as the result of injudicious
advertising in colonial papers by
an ill-advised woman. And you're vouno'
enough and lucky enough never even to
have heard of him ! If you weren't, he'd
have taught you a severe lesson. Well, so
much for the present, you say — so far, bad ;
and how about the future?'

• In the second place,' Iris went on firmly,

VOL. I. 15

as soon as ever the weather's cool enough
to allow it, I'll go over to Algeria, and hunt
up all I can find out about Uncle Clarence
on the spot, in person.'

Well, that's not so bad,' the eminent
Q.C. responded, mollified, 'for it'll enable
you, at any rate, to take possession yourself
of the house and belongings at Sidi
Aia.'

FOLLOWING UP THE CLUE.

It was evening, and Le Marchant lay outside
the tent, in the shade of the old gnarled
olive tree that overhuDo^ the tomb, taking
his lessons in Kabyle on an outstretched
rng from his pretty teacher, Meriem. He
had made considerable progress in the
language by this time, having a natural
taste for picking up strange tongues, as
often happens with people of bilingual
origin, and Le Marchant, as a Jersey
man, had been born bilingual, if the expression
may pass muster in this age of
hereditary. The painter, like Pliable, had
turned back disheartened at that first Slough
of Despond, the irregular verbs, and given

15 — 2

up the vain attempt in despair; he sat idly
by now, drawing lazy sketches in his pocketbook
of Meriem in her didactic attitude,
with her forefinger uplifted, and her pupil
before her. Hard by, two young Kabyles,
just returned from their fields, stood gossiping
opposite them, with hoes in their hands.
One was Ahmed, Meriem's future purchaser;
the other was a taller and better-robed young
man of more unpleasing aspect, whom they
had often seen before hanging about the
village.

Suddenly, as Meriem was in the very act
of saying, ' Now, Eustace, remember, assisi
a dress,' and Le Marchant was obediently
repeating the word after her in due form,
one of the young men, for no apparent
reason, raised his voice loudly, and, rushing
forward with a yell, flew like a dog in blind
rage and wrath at the throat of the other.
Before they could clearly see what was
happening, the second flung him ofl*, but
with some little difficulty. In a moment,

the tussle had assumed a savage form; they
were fiofhtino^ tooth and nail in one confused
mass, and Ahmed's knife, drawn like lightning
from its scabbard, gleamed bright in
the air, just ready to descend on the bare
breast of his taller antagonist. With a
sharp cry Meriem and Le Marchant sprang
forward together with one accord, and
separated the two combatants by main
force, after a shore, sharp struggle. The
whole things was over in a second or two
at most, and the two angry men stood
glaring at one another across five yards
of distance, like bull-dogs whose masters
hold them apart forcibly by the collar. A
few angry words, a few hasty explanations,
a deprecating speech from poor trembling
Meriem, whose face was scarlet with shame
or excitement, and forthwith Ahmed's knife
was quietly sheathed once more, and the
men, smiling now with all their even white
teeth in perfect good-humour, embraced like
brothers, as if nothing at all had happened

between them. That is the way with these
simple children of Nature. One moment
they'll stick a knife into you without the
slightest compunction ; the next, for no
reason a European can fathom, they'll give
up their very hearts to please you.

'What was it all about?' Blake asked,
with interest, as Meriem returned, flushed
and panting, to the rug.

It was about me, Vernon,' Meriem
answered, unabashed, with perfect simplicity.
' This is how it happened. Ahmed
wanted to marry me, you know, and had
bargained with my uncle, and got a price
named for me ; but now, the other man,
Hussein, has offered my uncle a little more, and
so the Amine has made a new arrangement,
and I'm to be sold to Hussein, who's offered
the best price, and is so much the richer.'

She said it as she would have said the
day was fine. It was matter of course to
her that she should be thus passively and
unresisting disposed of.

Do you like him ?' Blake asked. ' Or,
at least, do you dislike him any less than
Ahmed ?'

Meriem raised her stately head with proud
unconcern.

• What does it matter to me ?' she
answered haughtily. ' I like none of them
either better or worse than another. They're
only Kabyles.'

You don't care for Kabyles, then ?' Blake
went on, with culpable carelessness.

Xot since I've seen Englishmen,' Meriem
replied, with the same perfectly pellucid
sincerity as ever.

It was to her a simple statement of
mental experience. She had no idea of
flirting, in the English sense. Her feelings
were so. She must marry, naturally, whoever
purchased her.

When she was gone away that evening,
and they sat alone in the tent, Le marchant
turned round after a long pause,

and said earnestly to Blake, ' It comes
home to me more and more every day I
stop here that we ought to hunt up something
about this poor girl's English relations.'


Why so !' the painter answered. ' You
think she oughtn't to be allowed to marry
Ahmed or Hussein ?'

Certainly not. It's terrible to me even
to contemplate such a thing as possible.
She must never marry anybody but a
European, her natural equal.'

Then why don't you marry her yourself,
my dear fellow ? You seem to be
awfully gone on her, always.'

Marchant hesitated. 'Because,' he said,
at last, in a very serious tone, ' she wouldn't
take me.'

Not take you ! Just you ask her !
What an absurd idea ! Why, my dear
fellow, she'd take Ahmed or Hussein, or
any other man her uncle chose for her.
Not take you, indeed! Not take an

Englishman! Why, she'd just jump at
you.'

I think not,' Le Marchant answered,
much more earnestly. ' She might take
Ahmed or Hussein, as you say, no doubt,
because she couldn't help herself; but not
me — of that I'm certain.'

And why not, Le Marchant ?'
Because, my dear fellow, if you ask me
the plain truth, her heart's already otherwise
engaged — and to a man who doesn't
really care twopence about her.'

There was a long pause; then Blake
remarked again, withdrawing his cigarette
in a pensive way, ' Do you really mean
to tell me, Le Marchant, you'd marry that
girl — that barbarian — that savage, if you
thought she'd take you ?'

It's a terrible thing to think of her
being made over, bound hand and foot, to
Ahmed or Hussein,' the naturalist answered
evasively. ' They'd treat her no better than
they treat their donkeys.'

And to prevent that, you'd throw yourself
away upon her, a mere Kabyle girl !
You, with all your cleverness and knowledge
and education ! A man like you, the
heir of all the ages, in the foremost files of
time — why, the thing's ridiculous ! Le
Marchant, I haven't half your brains or
your learning, I know; I'm nothing buta
landscape painter, the least among the
wielders of camel's hair, but sooner than
tie myself for life to such a creature as that,
I'd blow my brains out, such as they are,
and be done with it for ever. To toy with,
to flirt with, to amuse one for a day — very
well, if you will; but to marry — impossible.
Never, never, never!'

Tastes differ,' Le Marchant answered
drily ; 'especially in these matters. Some
people insist upon accomplishments and
high-heeled boots ; others care rather for
marked character and native energy. You
may judge men largely by what they admire.
Strong natures like strong natures ; and,

given strength, they despise externals.
Other rains think more of mere culture,
perhaps ; it's not the diamond they admire,
but its cutting'. Diamonds in the rouo^h
are to them mere pebbles. For my partit's
the stone itself that takes my fancy.
You don't care for her ; I don't ask you to
care for her ; but don't break her heart anymore
than's absolutely necessary. For I see
she can't help falling in love with you.'

Next morning, when Meriem came round
to the tent, as was her daily wont, with the
milk from the cows she tended herself for
the two vouno' Englishmen, Le marchant
met her with a sadder and more anxious
face than usual. ' Meriem,' he said, 'T want
to speak to you seriously about your own
future. Whatever comes, you must never
marry either Ahmed or Hussein.'

Does Vernon say not ?' Meriem asked,
all fluttering.

No,' Le Marchant answered, crushing

down her poor heart at once of deliberate
purpose, for he knew no possible good
would come to her of that painful illusion.
^ I say so myself, because I take a friendly
interest — a very friendly inter est — in your life
and happiness. Meriem, I want to look up
your English friends. If I found them out,
would you care to go and live in England?'
Not alone,' Meriem answered, with a
promptitude which clearly showed she had
already asked herself that leading question.
When Yusuf used to take me on his knee,
and tell me about England long ago, I
always thought I should like to go there, if
only he could go with me. And since I've
seen you and Vernon, Eustace, and heard
all about it, I've often fancied I should like
to go there if only — if only I had anyone
to take care of me and take me there. But
it's so far across the sea, and the people over
yonder are all infidels — not that I'm quite
so afraid of infidels now, either, since I've
seen so much more of you and Vernon.'

Why wouldn't your father take yoii
there, Meriem ?'

Meriem opened her large brown eyes
very wide with astonishment.

They would have put him in prison, of
course,' she said, with decision. 'It was
for fear of that that he ran away and
became a Kabyle. None of the infidels
seemed to like him. The French would
have shot him, and the English would have
imprisoned him. I think there must have
been feuds between the tribes in England,
and that his tribe must have been angry
with him, and cast him off, for he told me
his family would have nothing to say to
him. But I like the English very much
for those three things : that Yusuf was
English, and that the English were kinder
to my father than the French, and that —
that you and Yernon are Englishmen,
Eustace.'

Le Marchant looked at her with profound
pity. He couldn't bear to think this strong

and guileless nature should be cast away asa
beast of burden for some wretched Kabyle
like Ahmed or Hussein.

Is there nobody, Meriem,' he said at
last, ' who can tell me anything more
about your father ?'

Meriem reflected for a moment in silence.
Then she answered somewhat doubtfully :
If anybody could tell you, it's the Pere
Baba.'

And who's the Pere Baba ?' Le Marchant
went on eagerly.

He's a priest, a Christian, a missionary
they call him, down at St. Cloud, in the
valley there. St. Cloud, you know, is
where the colonists are. It's a wicked
place, all full of Frenchmen. Yusuf would
never go down to the village, for fear the
people who live there should learn his
French name, and then they'd have shot
him. But the Pere Baba and the Pere
Paternoster used sometimes to come upto
see Yusuf, and my father was fond of

the Pere Paternoster, and told him many
things. Our people were angry at this
often, and used to say to him : " Yusuf,
you're a Christian still at heart, and you
confess to the priest and say prayers with
him;" but Yusuf always answered: "No,
not so bad as that ; I only see the Pere
Paternoster as a friend, and on matters of
business." And once, before the Pere
Paternoster was dead, my father fastened
this charm round my neck, and told me
the Pere Paternoster had given it to him,
and to be very careful that I never lost it.'

What's in it ? May I see ?' Le Marchant
went on, laying hold of it eagerly.
But Meriem drew back and started almost
as if she'd been shot.

Oh no,' she cried ; ' not that, not that !
Anything but that ! Why, I wouldn't let
even Vernon open it.'

And what makes you like Vernon so
much better than me ?' Le Marchant asked,
half hurt by her innocent frankness.

Meriem made no attempt to parry the
charge. ' Who knows ?' she answered, with
both graceful arms and hands spread open
before her. ' Who can tell what makes
one's heart go so ? Who can give any
reason for all these things ? . . . He paints,
and he talks, and he's beautiful, and I like
him. . I like you, too, Eustace ; oh, ever
so much ; I never liked anybody else so much
before, except Yusuf; but I like Vernon
differently; quite, quite differently. . . .
You know how I mean. You must have
felt it yourself. . . . But I can't stop now.
I must go on with my milk. The other
people in the village will be waiting for
their cous-cous. Don't be angry, like the
Kabyles, because I like Vernon best. This
evening again we shall learn Kabyle
together.'

AN OASIS OF CIVILIZATION.

^ Vernon,' Le Alarchaat called out with a
sudden resolve, ' I'm off to St. Cloud. I've
a reason for going to-day. Will you come
along with me ?

All right, Eustace, if you'll just wait
till I've finished washing out my sky,' the
painter answered briskly. They had picked
up the trick of calling one another by their
Christian names from Meriem's example,
and it had now grown with them almost
habitual.

Hitherto, the two new-comers had intentionally
avoided the dissipations of St.
Cloud, not being anxious to study life in
its peculiar outlying Algerian development,

VOL. L 16

among the remote corners where a few
ardent pioneers of civilization diffuse the
blessings of European culture over a
benighted land by congregating together
to drink bad absinthe under the eye of
the sun before the bare mud platform of
a fourth-rate estaminet. But now that the
chance of finding out something definite
about Meriem's parentage drew Le Marchant
on, he was ready to face even the
wooden houses and malodorous streets of
the dirty new village in search of trustworthy
news as to their strange acquaintance.


It was a long weary tramp, over hill and
dale, among wooded ravines, and across
rocky ledges ; but before twelve o'clock the
two young men had reached the military
track from Fort National to St. Cloud, and
found themselves at once, to their great surprise,
in a tine and splendidly-engineered
French highway. They had scarcely struck
upon it, however, when, to their still greater

astonishment and no little amusement, they
came fall face upon a mincing little Frenchwoman,
attired after the very latest Paris
fashion, in a frivolous frock, a jaunty
jacket, and a volatile hat of wondrous
architecture. She was thirty - five and
skittish, with high - heeled boots and an
attenuated waist, utterly unadapted to the
practical necessities of a bare and dusty
Algerian highroad. On either side of her,
with clanking spurs, paced a military
gentleman of youthful years but portly
dimensions ; while madame, in the midst,
with her graceful parasol held coquettishly,
now on this side, now on that, chatted
affably to both in intermittent gurgles with
alternate flows of most Parisian liveliness.

C'est Madame V Administrative,' the
dirty-robed Kabyle, who had come with
them to show them the way, murmured
softly in their ears, with a low bend of
his body, as the lady approached them.
He had lived at St. Cloud, and knew

16 — 2

some words of French. Le Marchant and
Blake raised their hats as the lady passed,
after the French fashion in country places,
and would have gone on without stopping,
half abashed at their dusty and way-worn
condition, had not madame brought them
to with a lively broadside across their bows,
so to speak, of ' Bonjour^ messieurs''

Bonjou7%insidsime/ Le Marchant answered,
saluting again, and still anxious to pass on;
but still the lady stopped him.

You are the English artists, messieurs,
of whom our indigenes told us, who have
pitched a camp on the hills of the 
she asked condescendingly.


My friend is a painter,' Le Marchant
answered with a wave of his hand towards
his blushing companion ; ' I myself am a
naturalist ; and we are certainly camping
out — but with one tent only, madame — at
the Beni-Merzoug village.'

The lady pouted, or, rather, which is quite

another thing, elle faisait la moiie, an accomplishment
as indescribable as unknown in
English. ' Can you be unaware, messieurs
she said with a smile of mingled reproach
and gentle forgiveness, ' that it is the custom
in the colony for all new-comers in the
arrondissement of St. Cloud to pay their
respects the first to M. I'Administrateur and
to myself at the Fort ? We have long been
expecting you to do us the honour of
making us a formal visit. D''aiUeurs^ weare
not so well off for agreements in these
trackless wilds ' — she gazed straight ahead
along the bare and well-made French road
before her with a vacant air — ' that we can
afford to lose the agreeable society of an
English painter and an English savant'
She looked up and smiled. ' I adore art,
and I reverence science — at a distance.'

Not trackless, quite, madame, however
wild,' one of her escort murmured with
gentle reproof, looking in front, in his turn,
at the magnificent gradients of the sloping

road, with paternal pride. He was an
officer of the Genie ^ and he felt his department
unduly depreciated by madame's reflection.


Forgive us, madame,' Le Marchant
answered, somewhat abashed by this open
attack upon his character for politeness.
We are strangers in the land, and to say
the truth, we scarcely expected at St. Cloud
the charm of female society. Besides, you
do us far too much honour. We are simple
students, each in his own art, and we have
scarcely brought with us in our rough-and-ready
camp the necessary costume for appearing
in fitting dress at European functions.
We could hardly venture to present
ourselves thus before you.'

As for Blake, all awe-struck at the high-heeled
boots and the Parisian hat, he left
the conversation entirely in the competent
hands of the naturalist. His French, such
as it was, forsook him forthwith. Indeed,
the commonplaces of the Ollendorffian dialect

would here have stood him in very poor
stead. He felt he could not insult so grand
a lady as Madame administrative by addressing
to her casual and fortuitous remarks
about la femme du jardinier or le jilts die
menuisier.

Madame bowed a condescending little
bow.

In consideration of your contrition,' she
said, ' and your implied promise of future
amendment, monsieur, absolution is granted
joxx. You see my generosity. You were
coming to visit us, of course? Well, then,
M. le Lieutenant to the elder of her companions,
' we will turn round and accompany
these gentlemen back to the Fort.'

Le Marchant hesitated. He didn't wish
to be rude, but it went against the o^rain of
his honest nature to pretend a call was
meant where none had been intended. A
happy thought struck him, by way of a
compromise.

Not in this tenue, madame,' he said.

Even in Algeria, we must respect the
convenances ; we couldn't think of calling
upon any lady in such a costume. En effet,
we were going to visit the Pere Baba.'

The lady sighed.

Helps,' she answered, ' this is not Paris.
We are glad to get callers in any tenue.
But you will at least permit us to accompany
you on your way as far as the village?'

Thank you, madame. ' You are very
good. This is a charming situation. So
wild, so picturesque '

And so wholly unendurable !'

But surely, madame, the scenery is
lovely. It's a beautiful country.'

Beautiful ! Je vous Accord : * mais vu de
loin. For a painter, possibly ; but for a
woman, mon Dieu ! it's too far from Paris.'

Still,' Blake ventured to remark, inspired
to a sudden Ollendorffian outburst in defence
of the scenery, ' there are many worse
places than this in the world.'

Perhaps so,' the little woman replied,

with a crushing smile, ' but faute de pursy
I'm quite satisfied in that way with this
one.'

Blake retired in disorder from the unequal
contest. Even had he possessed the rudiments
of her language, the little Frenchwoman
was clearly too much for him at the
game of repartee. But Le Marchant, a
bolder spirit, tried once more.

You have lived here long, madame?' he
asked, with his perfect accent.

Long enough almost to have forgotten
the boulevards. Fifteen years, monsieur ;
figure that to yourself; etje regrette encore
la cuisine Farisienne! She spoke with
pathos.

That is indeed constancy !' Le Marchant
replied, with appropriate emotion.

Monsieur,' the lady retorted, with a
little mock curtsey and an ironical smile,
it is your sex, remember, that has the
monopoly of fickleness.'

They walked on towards the village, along

the dusty road, all five abreast, Madame
r Administrative chatting away gaily all the
time in the same flighty strain about the
discomforts of her situation, the distance
from a really good milliner, the difficulty of
getting endurable coffee, and, above all,
the vices and shortcomings of ces cocoons
dHndighies. Upon this last pet subject — a
colonial substitute for the great servant
question — madame, after the wont of
Algerian ladies, waxed very warm, and
nodded the volatile little hat most impressively,
till the stability of its feathers was
almost compromised.

Believe me, monsieur,' she said at last,
with much energy, stamping her neat small
foot on the dusty trottoir, ' we shall never
have peace and security in Algeria till the
French soldiers join hands across the country
in a long line, and, walking over hill and
dale together, sweep the indigenes before
them into the Mediterranean.'

Chest vrai the officer of the Genie

assented with a profoundly convinced
nod.

Strong measures, indeed,' Le Marchant
answered, laughing.

It is thus, monsieur, that France must
fulfil her civilizing mission,' the lady repeated
stoutly. ' Join hands in line, and march
across the country, and sweep every Arab
into the Mediterranean. Le bon Dieu never
made the world, you may be sure, for those
pigs of Arabs.'

'But the Kabyles?' Blake asked, with
another gasping effort.

Do I distinguish between them, monsieur
?' madame answered scornfully, turning
upon him with a suddenness that fairly
frightened the painter. ' Every cochon d' indigene
is an Arab for me. I make no fine
discriminations between Arab and Arab.
Un indigene best un indigene. Que voulez
monsieur V

At the entrance of the little colony,
madame paused and pointed.

Down that road, messieurs,' she said,
with her bland, small smile, ' in the large
house to the left, you will find the Pere
Baba. Du reste, I am charmed to have
made your acquaintance so happily. It is
pleasant to hear our beautiful language so
well spoken. We shall meet again. Au
revoir messieurs. I receive, recollect, on
Wednesdays and Saturdays. You can no
longer plead ignorance. We shall expect to
see you at my next reception.'

And with a coquettish inclination of the
volatile hat, and a curious side wriggle of
the frivolous frock, the spoiled child of the
boulevards, accompanied by her military
bowing escort, disappeared down the one
long white street of the timber-built village.

Le Marchant and Blake, left alone by
themselves, looked at one another in silence,
and smiled a broad smile at this unexpected
apparition among the wilds of Africa.

THE WHITE FATHERS.

You are the Pere Baba, monsieur ?' Le
Marchant asked, with some misgiving in his
tone, of the white-frocked old gentleman ina
plain Arab burnouse who opened the door
of the mission to receive them.

My name in religion is Brother Geronimo,
my son,' the old priest answered, with a
courteous bow ; ' but the indigenes among
whom I labour — to little avail, I fear, for
the Propagation of the Faith is slow in
Africa — know me better as the Pere Baba.
Will you step inside and refresh yourselves
awhile ? We are glad to receive you.'

In the bare white salon, with its little
bright-coloured religious chromo-lithographic,

into which he ushered them, Le
Marchant briefly explained to the good
father the object of their visit, and asked
with many apologies for such information as
the priest could give him with regard to a
person who seemed to be equally well known
either as Yusuf, a Kabyle, or as Joseph
Leboutillier.

The gray-bearded father sighed and tapped
his forehead. ' Ah, le nomme Yusuf,' he
said, with a compassionate face. * Yes, yes,
I knew him ; I knew him, of course, ce
pauvre miserable cC Yusuf. But you come
too late ; my brother Antoine was the man
to have asked — him whom the iiidigenes
called the Pere Paternoster. Unhappily,
Brother Antoine died last year, and much of
what Yusuf had told him died with him,
being given, of course, under the seal of
religion. For Yusuf, though he lived
among the Kabyles as a Kabyle, and bowed
the knee, iJour ainsi dire, in the temple of
Ripon, to save his life, remained at heart

a Christian to the end, and confided many
things to my poor brother, the Pere Paternoster.
He had a good heart, our brother
Antoine, and he was kind to Yusuf, and
went often to see him in his lonely hut on
the mountains of the Beni-Merzoug.'

But tell us at least as much as you know,
mon perCy Le Marchant insisted, ' whatever
was not said to you or your brother under
the seal of religion.'

You come as friends ?' the father asked
suspiciously, ' or for some ulterior object ?'

Le Marchant explained in a very few
words, with transparent frankness, that they
came in the interest of Yusuf s daughter.
They knew she had English blood in her
veins, and they wished, if possible, to restore
her to her relations, and to the bosom of
Christendom.

That last touch told with Pere Baba visibly.
It's a sad story, mon jilsy he went on,
closing his eyes, and turning his face towards
the bare white ceiling, as he stroked the

beard which all missionary priests are permitted
to wear in virtue of their calling ; ' a
sad story, and I'm afraid I hardly know
enough about it to tell you accurately anything
that will be of serious use to this girl
Meriem. She calls herself Meriem, I believe ;
ah yes, I thought so. I recollect the circumstances.
Well, Yusuf's story, so far as
I can recall what Pere Antoine told me, was
something like this. He was an Englishman
by birth, though I forget his name —
let us agree that your guttural English
names are impossible to remember. He
came of a family, a very good family ; but
he was spendthrift and foolish, though never,
I believe, wicked —-jamais jamais couple.
He told me so, and I always believed him.
Eh bien, according to his own account, which
you must remember is the only one I have
heard, his younger brother, sharing his
embarrassments, forged their father's name
to certain acceptances, which ce pauvre
Yusuf, in a weak moment, not knowing

their nature, agreed to o^et cashed for him.
Yusuf declared to his dying day he had
never the slightest idea that they were
forged, and that his brother deceived him.
For that, I know nothing ; but, monsieur '
and the old priest's voice had a womanly
note of compassion as he spoke — ' I verily
believe he was truthful, this unhappy exile.'
'To judge by his daughter, I believe he
must have been,' Le Marchant interposed,
with perfect sincerity.
The Father nodded.

Well, the fraud came to light,' he continued,
' and the brother shuffled out of it ;
he was un beauvais sujets this brother, Yusuf
always assured us. The evidence all pointed
to Yusuf alone; the law was in search of
him ; Yusuf lost courage, and fled the
country. He took passage to America as a
mere blind, but, as a matter of fact, he fled
to France, under an assumed name, and
never again dared to communicate with his
relations.'

VOL. I. 17

He might have done so at least before
he died,' Le Marchant cried warmly. ' The
danger would then have been all past. For
his daughter's sake, he ought surely, on his
dying bed, to have written.'

Monsieur,' the Father answered, with
his eyes still closed, recalling slowly the
half-forgotten facts, ' he never lay upon his
dying bed at all. Had he died thus, these
things might all have turned out differently.
But le bon Dieu willed it otherwise. You
shall hear in due time; for this was what
happened. Ce pauvre Yusuf enlisted in the
Third Chasseurs at Toulon, and was sent
across here, under the assumed name of
Joseph Leboutillier, to put down the insurrection
among the M'zabites and the
Kabyles. But as soon as he saw the sort
of warfare in which he was to be engaged,
his heart smote him ; for he was a just
man, Yusuf, though he had many failings ;
and let us admit, monsieur, that we other
French have not always made war very

honourably or very justifiably against these
poor indigenes. '

I fear as much from their disposition
towards you,' Le Marchant said shortly.

Well, when Yusuf came up to Grande
Kabylie, en ejjet, he found his work was to
be nothing less than exterminating the
natives and appropriating their territory.
That was what Yusuf, with his high ideas,
could never endure. He hated to be made
an instrument of what seemed to him
tyranny. So, in a skirmish one day with
the Beni-Yenni people, he found himself,
by chance, alone behind a cactus hedge,
with the body of a dead Kabyle in the
ditch beside him. This he told Brother
Antoine,' the old man said, looking round
with a dubious air, ' and I don't know
whether I ought to repeat it, for I am not
sure that he didn't tell it under the seal of
religion.'

Continue,' Le Marchant said, with evident
earnestness. ' It is for no bad purpose

17—2

that we ask you to confide in us. What
you say only interests me more profoundly
than ever in this poor girl, Meriem.'

So he took the dead Kabyle's burnouse,'
the priest went on, seizing his hearer s arm
for further emphasis, ' and stole away
slowly, all un perceived, into the Kabyle
camp as an honest deserter. He made
signs to the indigenes that he had come asa
friend. One of them, a former Spahis,
who had served in France, and understood
our language, interpreted for him ; and the
Kabyles, glad to avail themselves of his
superior skill and military knowledge, received
him with open arms and made him
as one of them. It was thus he came to
find himself proscribed by two nations at
once — by the English as a forger, and by the
French as a deserter.'

'It's a touching story !' Le Marchant
cried, with emotion.

Touching, indeed, for the poor man
himself,' the Father went on, ' for, hunted

down and terrified for his life as he was,
Yusuf dared not return to civilization on
any side ; he had no money even to go to
Italy or America, where, perhaps, he might
have been free ; and, a gentleman born and
bred as he was, he became as a Kabyle,
earning his bread by gathering olives or
cuttings corn with his own hands, and seeing
no Christian face anywhere save my own
and the Pere Paternoster's, who alone had
the keeping of his terrible secrets. The
Amine of the Beni-Merzouo- o^ave him his
sister Halima, this ^leriem's mother, as a
Kabyle wife ; and that one girl Alas their
only child.'

They were married ?' Le Marchant
asked.

After the Kabjde fashion, yes. So far
as I know, there was no other rite. But
Yusuf lived with her faithfully as a husband,
and loved her truly — in this, as in all
things, accepting to the full his altered
situation. He was a lovable soul, and in

spite of everything, one couldn't help loving
him ; there was a silent heroism about the
man's endurance that extorted at last one's
highest admiration.'

And what became of him at last ?' Le
Marchant asked, as the Father paused.

He died suddenly,' Pere Baba answered,
without being able to give Pere Paternoster
his dying directions, or perhaps I
might be able to tell you something more
about his family in England. His death
was brought about by most unhappy circumstances.
A few years since, a French
detective came up into the mountains, and
began to make inquiries about Joseph
Leboutillier. The Kabyles heard of it, and
warned Yusuf ; they felt sure the authorities
had somehow learned a deserter in
open war on active service was skulking
among their mountains, and had determined
to make a stern example of him.
So poor Yusuf fled to a cave on the
Djurjura.'

*Just below the summit of Lalla Khan
?' Le Marchant asked eagerly.

The Father nodded.

You know it, then ?' he said. ' Yes, it
was there, the place. He remained in that
cave in hiding for more than a week, while
the French detective, an inquisitive fellow,
went everywhere about, peering and prying,
and asking for news of him, under the pretence
that he wanted it for a friendly purpose.
But the Kabyles were too cunning
to be taken in like that ; they denied having
ever heard of any such deserter. So in the
end the detective went back again to Algiers
empty-handed, and poor Yu^uf, who had
been supplied with food meanwhile by the
Kabyles, ventured to come down again one
dark nio-ht to visit his dead wife's vile.'

And then ?' Le Marchant inquired.

Why, then, the weather being very
stormy; and the rocks wet, the ^^oor fellow,
weak with exposure, slipped and fell on a
precipice of the Djurjura, and was taken up

Stone-dead by his friends, and buried in the
cemetery on the side of the mountain. So
that was how he never came to give final
directions about his daughter to anybody;
and as Pere Paternoster knew all these
particulars under the seal of religion, he
could not divulge them or claim the girl
for a Christian, as he would have wished todo
; so she has been brought up ever since
by the Amine, her uncle.'

The simple story touched Le Marchant
profoundly. There was something so
pathetic in this roughly-drawn picture of
that double outcast flying from the offended
laws of two great countries, one after the
other, and taking refuge at last in a miserable
rock-shelter on the summit of a wild
and snow clad mountain, that his imagination
was deeply stirred by the plaintive
incidents. He tried to find out more from
the old priest by questioning ; but he soon
discovered that the substance of his tale
had all been told, and that the Father had

little more than comment and conjecture to
add to this, his first hasty summary. Pere
Paternoster could have told more, he was
sure ; but Pere Paternoster was dead and
buried, and nobody else knew much, if anything,
about the whole matter.

They would have risen to leave when the
intervicAv^ was finished, but the Father, with
old-fashioned religious hospitality, begged
them to stop and share his dejeuner.

It is not much,' he said, with an apologetic
shrug and a depreciatory gesture of
his open palms — ' an omelette — for it's
Friday — and a morsel of dried fish, washed
down with a little blue wine of the country ;
but such as it is, messieurs, I trust you will
do me the honour to partake of it.'

We shall be only too charmed, men
pere,' Le Marchant replied truthfully, ' We
haven't sat down at a civilized table, or
eaten bread, or tasted wine, since we came
to Kabylie. It will be a welcome relief tous
from that eternal cous-cous.^

In five minutes the breakfast duly
appeared on the table — an omelette which
might have made even Madame I'Adminis-
beatrice herself less poignantly regret the
Parisian cuisine, some croquettes of dry cod,
most daintily flavoured, and a bottle of
good red wuie from the White Fathers'
own rich vineyards at the Mai son Carrie —
to all which the two young Englishmen,
honos strangers to such luxury. and inured
to Diego's rough - and - ready methods of
out-door cookery, did ample justice. The
bread, in particular, was highly commended
nice white little petit pains that would
have done honour to the Viennese bakeries
in Paris. Vernon Blake praised it so
loudly, to the disparagement of cous-cous,
that when they left the mission-house the
good Father must needs press upon them
the entire remainder of that day's batch to
take back with them to the village.

ril roll the loaves up in paper,' he said,
and your Kabyle can carry them. Let me

see ; what have I got in the way of a newspaper?
Ah. here's yesterday's Depeclies
Algerine'

Better still Le Marchant said, ' for to
tell you the truth, though we get letters
occasionally when the villagers are going
down to market at Tizi-Ouzou. we haven't
seen a newspaper of an' sort for the last
six weeks.'

So they returned to Beni-Merzoug with
their bread and their paper, Le Marchant
at least not a little saddened by the painful
history of Meriem's father.

Meriem herself was waiting at the tent to
meet them as they returned.

• I want you to see what I can do,
Eustace she cried to Le Marchant, with
almost childish delight. * Yernon has lent
me one of his books to try on, and I think
now I can read English.'

Le Marchant took the book from her
hand incredulously ; it was a paper covered
edition of a popular novel. The girl

glanced over his shoulder, and, to his
great surprise, spelt out several lines, one
after the other, with tolerable correctness.
She made a hash of the proper names, to
be sure, and of the long words that did
not yet enter into her now daily widening
English vocabulary; but as to words that
she knew, she read them at sight with an
ease and rapidity that fairly took Le Marchant's
breath away.

How on earth did you learn to do
this, Meriem ?' he cried, astonished. ' It's
wonderful ! wonderful !'

Meriem looked up at him with not unbecoming
conscious pride.

I was so ashamed of myself,' she said,
that day when I couldn't read my father's
English name in Vernon's picture, that I
made up my mind I wouldn't wait another
day or another minute without beginning
to learn the letters of my father's language.
So I borrowed one of Vernon's books,
without telling you about it, and found a

girl of our people who could teach me the
names of all the letters, because, you see,
she'd been taught by the priests at the
school of St. Cloud, and they're the same
as the French ones, though they sound a
little different. I could read Kabyle already,
of course, in Arabic letters, that I learnt for
the Koran, and I think when you know how
to read one language it must always be
easy to read any other one. Besides, I
thought I should be ashamed not to know
if ever — well, if ever I should happen to goto
England.'

Le Marchant smiled a pitying smile, nd
answered nothing.

Besides, the book itself is so interesting,'
Meriem went on, in an ecstasy. * It tells
you about how people live in England.
And now that I've read it, do you know,
Eustace, I think I should like to live in
England; the people seem all so peaceable
and good there.'

Why didn't you tell Vernon first V Le

Marchant asked, with a sidelong: balance at
the beautiful girl.

Meriem hesitated.

Because . I don't know why . . .
I can't explain it . . . but somehow I was
shy of telling Vernon.'

There was a long pause, during which
neither of them said anything to one another.
Then Le Marchant, raising his eyes unsteadily
from the ground with a stifled sigh,
said suddenly :

Was your father a good man, Meriem V

Meriem started. ' He was the very best
man that ever lived she answered earnestly,
with the full fervour of confirmed conviction.


And yet,' Le Marchant mused, half to
himself, ' the English wanted to imprison
him for forgery, and the French would have
liked to shoot him for desertion.'

Perhaps that was because he was so
very good,' Meriem answered simply. ' Don't
you think, Eustace, good people are always

least understood and the most persecuted ?
Why, even the blessed Prophet himself had
to fly fi'om Mecca to avoid being killed by
the wickedness of the people.'

Le Marchant could not resist an amused
smile. The incongruity of the words on
such English lips seemed so grotesque as to
be almost ridiculous.

END OF VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

*!^0C^

mmmmmmmrmmmimmmmmmmmmmm

3 0112 037331532

^mmsmimi^gjimL^

mmmmm^

^ 'glOPCl

GRANT ALLEN

AUTHOR OF
BABYLON,' ' THE DEVIL'S DIE,' ' THIS MORTAL COIL,' ETC

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. n.

Union

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



CONTENTS OF VOL. II

CHAPTER '''*<^'*^

XVII. THE STRANDS CONVERGE - - 1

Xvi. FRIENDS IN COUNCIL - - 16

XIX. SOUTHWARD HO ! - - - 31

XX. AWAY TO KABYLIE - - 49

XXI. A STRANGE MEETING - - - 63

XXII. A THUNDERBOLT - - - 78

XXIII. A DIFFICULT CLIENT - - - 99

XXIV. Hellenic - - - HI
XXV. THE CLAIMANT'S CASE COLLAPSES - 130

XXVI. TWO MAIDENS - - - 141

Xxvi A HARD WRENCH - - - 163

Xxviii COUNTERPLOT - - - 183

XXIX. LE MARCH ANT BREAKS SILENCE - 197

XXX. SYMPTOMS - - - - 214

Xxxi STRICTLY PROFESSIONAL - - 232

Xxxi 'AUX ARMES, CITOYENS !' - - 245

XXXIII. AMONG THE SNOWS - - - 262

CHAPTER XVII.

THE STRANDS CONVERGE.

On the platform outside the village, where
the Beni-Merzoug held their weekly market,
Vernon Blake stood sketching the buzzing
group of white-robed natives who clustered
beneath the shade of a great oak opposite,
deep in eager conclave, as it appeared, on
some important question of tribal business.
A finer subject he had seldom found. Every
gesture and attitude of the men was indeed
eloquent ; and the pose of the Amine, in
particular, as he listened to and weighed
each conflicting argument, presented to the
eye a perfect model of natural and unstudied
VOL. II. 18

deliberative dignity. Le Marchant, stretched
carelessly at the painter's feet, had brought
out with him the copy of the Beeches
Algeriennes which the Pere Baba had yesterday
lent them. He was reading it aloud,
translating as he went, with but a languid
interest in the diplomatic rumours and
Court news which its telegrams detailed
with their usual tedious conciseness, when,
turning a page to the advertisement columns,
his eye was attracted suddenly by the appearance,
in large Roman type, of that unknown
name which had imprinted itself so deeply
on their minds of late, the English name of
Meriem's father ! ' On demande des 
the advertisement ran, ' sur le
homme Cj^ahei^ge Knyvett, Anglais.'

Le Marchant could hardly believe his eyes.

Look here, Blake,' he exclaimed, with a
little cry of surprise ; 'just see what on
earth this means, will you ?'

Blake took the paper from his hand, and
stared at it hard.

What does it mean ?' he said, with a
7i'hew. ' 1 can't quite make it out. Two of
them at once, too ! It's really very singular.

Le Marchant snatched back the little
sheet from his friend in fresh astonishment.

Two of them ?' he cried. ' Why, so
there are, actually. And both want to
know the very same things — about Meriem's
father.'

Translate them,' Blake said.

And Le Marchant translated:

Information wanted about one Clarence
Knyvett, an Englishman, who is believed to
have enlisted in the Third Chasseurs under
the assumed name of Joseph Leboutillier,
and to have hidden for some time as a
deserter among theKabyles of the Djurjura.
If he or his representatives will address
themselves to Iris Knyvett, 15, North
Grove, Kensington, London, or to T. K.
Whitmarsh, Esq., Old Square, Lincoln's
Inn, equally in London, they may hear of
something to their advantage.'

18 — 2

A whole romance !' Blake exclaimed,
with surprise, still going on with his sketching,
but much interested.

And here's the second,' Le Marchant
continued, translating once more : ' " Any
person who can supply certain information
as to the death, with or without heirs, of
Clarence Knyvetr, otherwise Joseph ,
formerly a soldier of the Third
Chasseurs, and supposed to have died in a
skirmish in Kabylie, shall receive a reward
of five hundred francs on addressing himself
to the undersigned, Harold Knyvett, Cheyne
Row Club, Piccadilly, London, AV., England'"


What the dickens does it mean ?' Blake
asked, laying down his pencil for a moment,
with a puzzled air.

It means,' the naturalist answered
slowly, ' that Meriem is the missing heir to
a great fortune, and that she and Iris
Knyvett, the Third Classic, must be somehow
related to one another. When we left

Algiers, Sir Arthur Knyvett was still alive,
for I saw his name in Galigjiani, at the
English Club, among the list of visitors
then lately arrived at Aix-les-Bains. It
happened to attract me in connection with
Miss Knyvett's success cambridge. Since
that time Sir Arthur must have died, and
Meriem must be wanted as his heiress and
representative.'

Lucky for you !' the artist cried, with a
short little laugh. ' You didn't know
you'd fallen in love with a young woman of
property !'

Lucky for you, rather,' Le Mar chant
retorted, by no means so gaily. ' You
didn't know it was a young woman of property
who'd fallen in love with you.'

What shall you do about it ?' Blake
asked, after a brief pause, when the first
shock of surprise had begun to pass away.

Write to England at once,' the naturalist
answered, with great promptitude.

To which ? To the fellow who offers

twenty pounds reward, I suppose ? If
there's money going begging, you may as
well come in for your share of it as any
other fellow

'Into,' Le Marchant replied, shaking his
head with decision. ' To the lady, by all
means.'

Why so V

For many reasons. In the first place,
because she's a woman, and will therefore
be more kindly disposed to Meriem. In
the second place, because she offers no reward,
and I shall therefore not so probably
be suspected of mercenary motives. And
in the third place, because, I don't know
why, I feel instinctively the one advertisement
means friendliness to Meriem, and the
other advertisement means an enemy.'

Qui tient a son interest, the Third Classic
says,' Blake remarked musingly, turning
the paper over again, and spelling it out for
himself ; * while the other man says only des
renseignements indubitable sur la moi avec

ou sans heritiers, du nomme Clarence
Knyvett. It somehow sounds as if the girl
wanted to find somebody somewhere to represent
this man Clarence, deceased, and as
if the other fellow, on the contrary, was
anxious, if possible, to cut him off root and
branch, without further to do about it.'

That's exactly how I read it,' Le Marchant
answered, with a satisfied nod. ' So
we'll throw ourselves without reserve on
Miss Knyvett's mercy.'

Which Miss Knyvett V Blake asked provokingly.
' Meriem, or the other one ?'

The other one, you know quite well,
Vernon. Xot a moment shall be lost. I'll
write this very day direct to London.'

You think she'll come in for Sir Arthur's
money, then ?'

Xo, I don't. It's impossible. She has
no legal title. That's why I propose to
write to the lady rather than to the man.
Mr. Harold Knyvett, whoever he may be,
is certain to take a man's point of view

about it. If the fortune's his, he'll do
nothing for Meriem. We won't be able to
work upon his feelings. But if it's the
girl's — the Third Classic's, I mean — she's
pretty sure to recognise the tie of blood, in
spite of everything, and to make some handsome
recognition of Meriem' s moral claims
upon her generosity.'

Why moral claims only V the painter
asked, puzzled. ' Why shouldn't Meriem
succeed to the property in due course if it's
really hers ? You see, they say they want to
Und the heirs of Clarence Kny vent or Joseph
LeboutilUer, who will hear of something that
goes to their advantage. Surely a man's
own daughter's his heir — or rather his
heiress. And that's just what the other
fellow seems most afraid of ; for the thing
he clearly wants to pay twenty pounds for
is proof that this man, Clarence Knyvett,
died without heirs, leaving him, Mr. Harold,
to succeed to the property.'

Exactly so,' Le Marchant answered,

taking in the situation at a glance, with his
clear logical mind. ' A man's daughter's
his heiress, of course ; at least, for personalty,
provided she's his daughter by the law of
England. But the law of England, with
its usual mediaeval absurdity, takes no
account of anything so unimportant as mere
paternity or hereditary relationship ; according
to its theory, Meriem here is in no way
related to her own father. It's grotesque, of
course, but I'm afraid it's the fact. From
the point of view of the law of England,
she's a mere waif and stray, no more connected
with her own family and her own
friends than anybody else in England or in
Kabylie.'

How so ? the painter asked, in wondering
surprise.

Because,' Le Marchant answered, ' as
Were Baba told us, her father and mother
were only married by the Kabyle rite — that
is to say, as Mahometan marry. Xow,
Mohammedanism permits the institution of

polygamy; and though the Kabyles themselves
are not practical polygamists, having
retained in that, as in so many other respects,
in spite of Islam, their old Roman and
European habits, yet, theoretically at least,
and by Mahommedan law, a Kabyle has the
right to marry four Vives if he pleases.
Hence, according to the law of England, a
marriage with a Kabyle woman by the
Mahommedan rite is a polygamous marriage.
Such a marriage isn't recognised by our
Courts — I've seen the case tried, and I know
it to be so ; and in the eye of our law,
accordingly, Meriem herself is illegitimate,
and has no sort of relationship with her own
father.'

But it's absurd ; it's unjust !' Blake
cried, in astonishment.

What else do you expect,' his companion
asked bitterly, 'from the law of
England ?'

Why, look here !' Blake exclaimed again,
with the ordinary impotent youthful indignation

against the manifest ^Yronrfulness of
established custom, ' that's such rot, you
know. There's no sort of question of polygamy
in it at all. Doesn't Shakespeare say,
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
admit impediments" ?'

But Shakespeare would hardly be admitted
as an authority of collateral value
with Blackstone in an English Court,' Le
Marchant answered, with a bitter smile.

Well, take it by common-sense, then,'
Vernon Blake went on excitedly. ' This
man Knyvett, Meriem's father, took for his
wedded wife a Kabyle woman, Halima, or
whatever else they choose to call her, by the
law of the country in which they lived, and
was faithful to her only all the days of his
lifetime. If that's not marriage, I don't
know what is. He never married any other
wife that I can hear of ; and by the Kabyle
custom he couldn't, or wouldn't, ever have
done so. If he had, Mrs. Halima would
have brought the house down about his ears,

I'll bet you any money. These Kabyle
women are unaccustomed to such proceedings.
It was a monogamous marriage, if
that's the proper word — and a jolly good
word, too, supposing only it's in the right
place — as much as any marriage any day in
England. Hang it all, if that's English law,
you know, I don't think very much of the
wisdom of our ancestors.'

Nevertheless,' Le Marchant replied, with
a serious face, ' I'm quite sure I represent
it correctly. The marriage, being contracted
under Mahommedan law, is, ipso
facto, a polygamous marriage, whether a
second wife be taken or not, and, as such,
it's not recognised for a marriage at all, in
the Christian sense, by the law of England.
Meriem is therefore not legitimate, and not
Clarence Knyvett's heiress at all. So what
we've got to do on her behalf is merely to
interest Miss Iris Knyvett in her as far as
practicable, and to make the best terms we
can possibly make for her. For my part, I

shall be satisfied if the result of the incident
is merely to establish communications between
Meriem and her English relatives,
and so, perhaps, in the end, to save the
poor girl from the hateful fate of being
handed over, bound hand and foot, to either
Ahmed or Hussein; to prevent that, I would
do almost anything.'

Even to marrying her !' cried Blake
lightly.

Even to marrying her !' Le Marchant
repeated, with a sigh.

As if it were so easy a things to marry
Meriem.

^ And will you tell Miss Knyvett all this?'
Blake asked, after a moment. ' I mean
about the marriage being polygamous, and
so forth ?'

Certainly not 1' Le Marchant said, with
much firmness. * Let them find out all that
for themselves, if they will. Mr. T. K.
Whitmarsh, of Old Square, Lincoln's Inn,
whoever he may be, may be safely trusted

to arrive at that conclusion fast enough for
himself. I, for my part, hold a brief for
Meriem, and what I want is merely to enlist
your Third Classic's sympathy as much as
I can on her behalf. I shall dwell only
upon the blood-relation ship, and on her
goodness and beauty, and on the hunted -
down life of that poor man, her father. I
shall try to make Miss Knyvett feel that
the girl (as I suppose) is, after all, at least
her cousin.'

Work upon her feelings, in short,' the
painter suggested, smiling.

Work upon her feelings, if she's got
any,' Le Marchant responded, with a
hurried glance towards the Amine's cottage;
'let her know that though she maybe
a Third Classic at Cambridge, there's
one of her own blood and kith and kin over
here in Grande Kabylie who's as fine and
as grand and as noble-minded a woman as
she can be any day. That's why I mean
to write to the girl herself, and not to the

lawyer, who, of course, as a man of business,
would have no bowels of compassion to
speak of.'

^ My dear Le Marchant, your infatuation
about that girl's becoming really ridiculous.'
Vernon Blake said, laughing. ' It's a good
thing for her that it's you, not me' — yes,
dear mr. Critic, he said me instead of /, and
I won't take it upon me to correct his
grammar — ' who have to write to Miss
Knyvett about her. / couldn't say so
much in her favour.'

Perhaps not,' Le Marchant answered, a
little contemptuously.

And he remembered those pregnant words
of a great thinker : ' Each man sees in the
universe around him what each man brinij:s
the faculty of seeing.'

FRIENDS IN COUNCIL.

Yernon Blake's sketch of the white-robed
natives under the tree opposite was a lively
and vigorous one ; as well it might be,
indeed : for could the two vouno- Englishmen
only have heard and understood the
conversation that was passing in lowKabyle
whispers between those idyllic-looking men
under the shady oak-boughs, their hearts
might have stood still within them for
horror. The South plays with death and
blood. The Kabyle village council, in open-air
moot under the sacred oak assembled,
was debating in full form no less high and
important a question of policy than the

total extinction of French rule in Eastern
Algeria.

Then all we have to do ourselves,' the
Amine was remarking, in soft earnest tones,
as Blake jotted him down with upstretched
arm so vividly in his sketch-book, ' is to
kill every man, Avoman, and child of the
infidels down yonder at St. Cloud, with
Allah's blessing. The rest we may leave
to the tribes to accomplish.'

That is all we have to do, son of the
Faithful,' the eldest marabout answered,
With a wave of his hand towards the high
mountains. ' The Beni-Yenni and the
Aith-Menguellath will take care for their
part to crush out the garrison up above at
Fort National.'

• You are fools to try,' a strong and
stalwart middle-aged Kabyle in a red hood,
standing a little apart from the group by
himself, remarked quietly, with a sneer on
his face. * The French can crush you as a
camel's foot crushes ants in the desert.

VOL. II. 19

They crushed you so in the disgrace of
1251 ' — for by that name the great but
abortive insurrection of 1870 is universally
known to the Moslems of Algeria.
* Hark at Amzian!' the Amine cried contemptuously.
' He's half an unbeliever
himself, I know, because he was a Spahis,
and served in France. The women of the
infidels made great eyes at him. They
have shaken his faith. He puts no trust
in Allah. He is always discouraging the
true believers from any attempt to recover
their freedom.'

I am no infidel,' Amzian answered
angrily, with a toss of his head, folding
his bernouse around him with pride as he
spoke. ' I am no infidel ; I am a true
Moslem; the Prophet has no more faithful
follower than me; but I have been to
France, and I know the French, how many
they are. Their swarms are as locusts
when plague - time comes. They would,
crush you as the camel crushes ants in

the sand. Why, the people of Paris alone,
I tell you, Amine, are like flies on the
carcase, more numerous than all the tribes
in Kabylie.'

Allah is great,' the Amine retorted
piously. ' The least among His people
are stronger, if it be His will, than thousands
of infidels.'

He didn't help us in 1251,' Amzian
suo^o^ested, with some reserve.

Ay, but the time has now come, so the
marabouts say,' the Amine responded, with
a rapid glance towards one of them, ' when
Islam is to rise all together in its mio-ht
against the hordes of the infidel. Has it
not come to your ears, unbeliever, how the
Christians have been driven by the Mahdi
out of the Soudan? How the enemies of
the Faith hardly hold Suakim? How
Khartoum has been taken by the hosts of
Allah? The day of the great deliverance is
at hand. Islam shall no longer obey the
dogs of Christians.'

19 — 2

We shall never drive the doss of Christians
out of Kabylie/ the sceptical Amzian
murmured once more, with secular hardheartedness,
' as long as the French are
drilled and armed and officered as they are,
while we are but a horde, and as honors
they hold the keys of Fort National.'

Let us ask Hadji Daood,' the Amine
ejaculated, much shocked at such rationalistic
latitudinarianism. ' He has been to
Mecca, and has seen the world. He knows
better than any of us, who stay at home
in Kabylie, whether these things are so or
not'

The meeting applauded with a silent
clicking of some fifty tongues. The intimate
knowledge of French internal aflP^nrs
to be acquired during a coasting voyage
from Bougie down the Tunis seaboard to
Alexandria and Jeddah, naturally gave the
Hadji's opinion no little weight upon this
abstruse question.

Hadji Daood ben Marabet,' the Amine

said solemnly, interrogating the old man asa
new Parliamentary hand might interrogate
a veteran of many Sessions, ' do you think,
or do you not think, the French are so very
strong that they could crush us as a camel
crushes a desert ant-hill?'

Hadji Daood ben Marabet wagged his
gray old head solemnly, in the sight of the
meeting, till the caftan nearly fell off his
bald shaved pate.

I have been to Mecca, Amine,' he
answered, with infinite dignity, ' and seen
the kingdoms of the world and all their
glory ; and this is the word I have to tell
you: the might of the infidel is as dust in
the balance to the might of the faithful and
the servants of Allah.'

The Amine glanced triumphantly at the
annihilated Amzian, who retired, abashed,
into the shade of his bernouse.

But the French are so strong,' he murmured
still, with the native irrepressibility
of the born heretic, ' that they will crush

US all out as they crushed out Moran,
who fought against them in the great insurrection.'


The Amine took no more notice of the
discomfited and discredited ex-European
soldier. Why should he give himself such
airs, indeed, and pose as an authority,
merely because he had been beaten at Sarre-brock
and at Gravelotte?

It is clear, then,' the Amine said, continuing
his discourse, ' that Allah is going
to deliver the infidels into the hands of His
people. Our part in the work is to attack
St. Cloud, and slay every man, woman,
and child — but, above all, to kill Madame
I'Administratrice.'

Why her in particular?' Ahmed asked,
with a smile. ' Is she so much worse, then,
than all other Christians?'

She is a Christian,' the Amine answered,
and that alone should suffice. When the
marabouts proclaim a Jehad, a holy war,
every Christian in Islam is alike our enemy.

But the woman of the hio'h heels is the
worst of them all. Was it not she who
called us " pigs of Kabyles "? Was it not
she who destroyed the shrine of the great
saint, Si Mahommed Said with the Two
Tombs, to erect in its place a dancing-pavilion
in her own garden? Was it not
she who forbade our women to come and
weep on Fridays at the spot Adhere the
blessed Sheikh El-Haddad, the blacksmith,
poured out his great life for Kabylie and
Islam, because their wailing interrupted her
peace when she read the vile books, full of
ormes and wickedness, she brings over from
Paris?'

And when our people would have taken
the stones of the shrine to erect them again
here at Beni-Merzoug,' Hadji Daood cried,
doddering, ' it was the woman of the high
heels who refused to give us them, because
she wanted the tiles from the holy place to
adorn her bed-chamber, and the carved
marble from the pillars and the coping-stone

to make the base of her wanton
summer-house.'

Therefore for this,' the Amine went on
piously, with a solemn ring, ' we will dash
out the brains of the woman with the high
heels against the marble parapet of her own
summer-house, and give her bones to the
jackals to eat on the shrine of Si Mahommed
Said.'

And every soul that lives in her house,'
the Hadji droned out, waxing stronger with
the excitement, * we will kill and destroy in
honour of Allah and of Mahommed His
Prophet.'

So he it,' the Amine assented, with a
grave nod.

The Kabyles around bent their heads to
the ground in token of approval.

Hush!' the Amine cried, in an authoritative
voice, looking round him suddenly,
and perceiving a diversion. ' The spirit of
prophecy has come over the marabout.'

As he spoke, a marabout stood out for

one moment from the busy throng, his eyes
wild and fierce, and his mouth foaming. He
turned himself round once or twice slowly
on one foot, as on a pivot; then waxing faster
and faster as the excitement increased, he
whirled round and round violently for several
minutes, with a rapid and angry swaying
movement. At last he paused, looked
round him in ecstasy, and drove a pin
through his outstretched tongue with a
face free from all signs of pain or emotion.
As they looked, he began to recite, deep
down in his throat, a sort of droning song
in a long, irregular, native metre :

The Frenchmen came ; they said, Honour ; in an evil
day they said Good day to us.

The Frenchmen came ; they said, Bonsoir; 'twas a sleepless
night when they said Good night to us.

The Frenchmen came ; they said, Merci ; we have little
to thank them for teaching us Than you.

The Frenchmen came ; they said to us, Free ; with
brotherly love have they kicked us and bullied us.

The Frenchmen came ; they called us Cochon ; dogs and
mules had more honour than we have.

The word of Allah came to His marabouts : Stir up My
people against the dogs of infidels.

Whom shall we stir up, oh, All Wise, oh, All Powerful ?

The sons of the Kabyles against the sons of the

Frenchmen.
The Beni-Yenni to the gates of Fort National ; the

Beni-Merzoug to Saint Cloud in the valley.
Slay every soul in Saint Cloud, ye Beni-Merzoug ; slay,

and obtain the blessing of Allah.
Slay, above all, her of the high heels ; bring down her

proud head in the dust of her highway.
Slay every soul that comes under her roof ; the desecrated

roof of Si Mahommed Said.
Let those who robbed my dead saint be requited ; let

those who dishonoured his holy bones be punished.
Slay, saith Allah, by the voice of His marabouts, slay —

slay with the sword ; kill all, and spare not.'

The marabout sat down, collapsing suddenly,
as if the fire of inspiration had all at
once been withdrawn from him. The pin
still held his tongue between his teeth. The
foam at his mouth was reddened with blood.
The Kabyles around looked on admiringly.

There was a short pause, during which
no one spoke aloud, though many whispered
; then Amzian the unbelieving asked,
somewhat incredulously :

And when will you begin this Jehad
against the infidel ?'

That is as Allah wills,' the Amine responded,

bowing his head. ' AVe will wait
and be governed by the event that arises.
Events crowd thickly in these latter days.
The house of the infidels is divided against
itself. Have you not heard that there will
soon be new wars again between the people
of Old' Old and the people of J a- J a T

It is true,' Amzian assented. ' that the
French and the Germans are likely to have
war when he who is now Sultan of Germany
bites the dust in the ground before
Allah.'

When that time comes,' the Amine said
solemnly, ' let every believer draw sword
for Islam.'

So be it,' the assembly assented once
more, with faces all turned of one accord
towards Mecca.

At that point the meeting was about to
break up informally, when Amzian, with a
backward jerk of his thumb, called attention
to the presence of strangers in the gallery.

How about them T he asked, with a

sniff, indicating by the contemptuous movement
of his hand the spot where Le Marchant
and Blake were sitting.

They are English the Amine replied ;

they are not French. The English are
good. I know their mind. My brother
Yusuf was himself an Englishman.'

In a Jehad,' Ahmed, Meriem's rejected
suitor, remarked, with the air of a man who
propounds an indifferent abstract principle,

all infidels alike are commanded to be
slain, without fear or favour, without lot or
exception.'

True,' the Amine retorted ; ' but the
English are good ; I have heard that they
are just to the Moslems in Egypt.'

When I was at Mecca,' the Hadji interposed,
leaning upon his staff with his trembling
hands, ' I met many Moslems from
Sind and Ind, who swore by the Prophet's
beard they would as soon live under the
Sultana of the English as under the Caliph
of the Faithful himself at Tambour.'

But if these infidels find out, they will
spoil all,' Hussein grumbled, from a corner.
They see far too much as it is of our
women.'

Meriem is their interpreter, and speaks
their tongue,' the Amine interposed, in a
deprecating voice. ' They pay me well for
the milk they buy, and for the grain, and
for the cous-cours, and for the rent due for
the site of their encampment. I have given
a fresh coverlet to the shrine of our Saint
out of part of the rent they have paid us for
encamping.'

If this thin Of gets about araonsf the
women,' Ahmed observed, with a sinister
scowl, ' there will be no keeping a word of
it from the girl Meriem.'

And if Meriem hears,' Hussein continued,
taking up the parable, * she will tell
it all to her friend, the painter of pictures.'

We are Moslems,' the Amine observed,
drawing his bernouse symbolically close
around him in a manner expressive of profound

secrecy. ' We do not blab to our
women like the Christians. We can keep
our own counsel. We are men, not children
; of Islam, not infidels.'

Let no man speak a word of all this to
his wedded wife,' the Hadji cried, raising
one skinny palsied forefinger. ' If it reaches
the French, we shall know it was the
English ; if it reaches the English, we shall
know it was Meriem ; if it reaches Meriem,
we shall find out what traitor's wife has
told her. And whoever it is, French,
English, or Moslem, they all shall die, by
the beard of the Prophet.'

What an impressive attitude !' Blake
cried, looking up. 'He's finer even than
the dervish fellow we saw at Algiers. I
think I'll just stop and sketch in the old
boy while you go and write that letter, Le
Marchant.'

SOUTHWARD HO !

It was with conscious pride, by no means
appropriate to a political economist of the
advanced school, that Iris Knyvett found
herself one bright November morning
driving up the slopes of Mustapha Superieur
in her own carriage to her own villa
of Sidi Aia, on the El Bear road, just above
Algiers.

Iris had had a hard tight for it, of course,
with Uncle Tom. When Eustace Le Marchant's
letter first arrived, Uncle Tom, wary
by long practice in the Probate and Divorce
Division, scented mischief on the breeze in
the very tone of its cautious wording.
You're going to raise up a Tichborne

claimant against your own estate, my child,
exactly as 1 told you,' Uncle Tom said,
with reproachful earnestness. ' The man's
an impostor, or else a fortune-hunter ; that's
what's the matter. Either he's running
this alleged daughter of your Uncle Clarence
as a claimant to the estate in order to blackmail
you — the Tichborne game ; or else
he's running her for his own purposes, meaning,
in the end, to hand her over your property
and then marry her. The proof of
it's clear, for I've taken the trouble to ascertain
the fact that he didn't answer your
cousin Harold's advertisement at all, which
appeared on the very same date with your
own, side by side, in the Algerian newspapers
; and why should the fellow refuse
the offer of twenty pounds reward, payable
on demand, unless he had some ulterior object
in view, I should like to know, Iris ?'

Perhaps he thought me the likeliest
person to do justice to the girl,' Iris suggested
timidly.

^ Tut, tut, tut Uncle Tom responded,
growing redder than ever. ' Justice to the
girl, indeed ! What's Hecuba to him, or he
to Hecuba ? He's casting a sprat to catch
a whale ; that's the long and short of it.
A cock-and-bull story as ever I heard in
my born days. If I were you, my child,
I'd take no more notice of it. If the young
woman of dusky complexion and doubtful
antecedents chooses to prosecute her shadowy
claim, let her come to England — the Courts
are open and there are Deputies — and let her
prosecute it reasonably by her attorney-at-law,
with all due formalities, in the ordinary
manner. Then we shall know exactly how
to deal with her. Deny everything, and insist
upon proof That's the way to meet it.
Make her explain her father's survival, his
change of name, his marriage, his decease,
his unaccountable intestacy. Make her produce
her mother's marriage lines, her certificate
of birth, her vaccination marks, her
papers generally. Till then, we don't need

VOL. II. 20

to trouble our heads one jot or tittle about
the matter. We don't want to get up a case
against ourselves for the benefit of a supposititious
young woman in Africa.'

But, unfortunately for Uncle Tom, he
had a client to deal with in this case who
was not to be put off with forensic generalizations
or legal quibbles of the most respectable
antiquity.

If the girl really exists, and if she's
really Uncle Clarence's daughter,' Iris stuck
to it firmly, ' then she, not I, am heiress to
the estate ; and I won't rob her, not even
for you, uncle dear, much as I love you.'

Daughter,' Uncle Tom remarked sententiously,
' is in English law a word of a precisely
definite and circumscribed meaning.
It means, connotes, implies, or designates
lawful female issue of his body begotten.
And when we say lawful, we mean, of
course, born in wedlock, in Christian wedlock,
of a kind recognised by Act of Parliament,
or (within certain limits) by the lex

loci of the country where the marriage was
actually solemnized. Now, supposing even
your Uncle Clarence did really desert, runaway
from his colours, and marry a young
woman of dusky complexion and doubtful
faith, in some out-of-the-way corner of the
North African mountains, that's nothing tous.
The offspring and representative of the
dusky young woman thus irregularly annexed
has got to prove, in the first place,
that her putative father, deceased, lived
long enough to survive your late Uncle
Alexander. If he didn't do that, be she
ten times over his lawful daughter, not a
penny does she get by the singular terms of
your grandfather's will — and a pretty mess
your grandfather made of it. But if he did
survive his elder brother, then and in that
case there still arises the further question —
Did your Uncle Clarence ever marry the
dusky young woman aforesaid, of North
African origin, in any sense recognised by
the Christian religion and the common and

20 — 2

statute law of this country ? That he did
so marry her is in the highest degree, I
think, improbable — to put it mildly, in the
highest degree improbable — and if he didn't,
why, then and in that case the dusky young
woman number two, his natural offspring,
has nothing more to do with you, by the
law of England, than any other dusky
young woman, assorted, of the same race,
place, and religion.'

But Iris, oddly enough, with true Kny-
vent obstinacy, held out to the last for her
own view of this ethical question. She
boldly maintained, against so great an
authority as Uncle Tom himself, that if
Meriem was Uncle Clarence's daughter, then,
the law of England to the contrary notwithstanding,
Meriem must be her own first
cousin. She further maintained that, as a
biological fact, a father and his children
were indubitably connected one with the
other by physical origin. She refused to
believe that the law of England itself could

possibly annul that primitive underlying
law of nature. And she insisted with incredible
and most annoying persistence that
as soon as the weather grew cool enough in
Africa she would herself proceed in person
to Algeria to see the girl whom she believed
to be her cousin, and to investigate the
passive claim set forth on her behalf to
Uncle Arthur's property. ' For if it's justly
hers,' Iris said most resolutely, ' nothing on
earth would induce me to keep her out of it.'
So the end of it all was that early in
November, Iris herself, with her mother and
uncle, crossed over to Algiers, as the eminent
Q.C. preferred to phrase it, ' on their fool's
errand.' It was hard to leave England at
such a moment, indeed ; but Uncle Tom
felt that if any tomfoolery, as he called it,
was likely to go on, it was best at least he
should be on the spot to prevent it from
taking the wildest flights of Quixotic extravagance.
So, with a very bad grace, he
consented to come over, consoling himself,

at any rate, with the thought that Iris would
thus take personal possession of Sidi Aia,
and that if the thing was to be investigated
:it all it was best it should be investigated
by a competent person familiar, by long
experience, with the practice of the Probate
and Divorce Division.

The fickle Mediterranean used them kindly ;
and it was at three in the morning of a clear
starlight night that the good ship Ville de
Naples of the Compagnie Transatlantic
brought them fairly in sight of the shores of
Africa. Mrs. Knyvett had retired early to
her cabin for the vovao^e, and would not
have risen from that safe retreat had Mont
Blanc, Niagara, and the Golden Horn
pressed themselves simultaneously at a single
burst upon her maturer vision. But Iris
was young, and youth is impetuous, even
when duly chastened and restrained by three
years' diligent pruning at Girton. So the
Third Classic rose up in haste at Uncle
Tom's muffled report of * Land in sight!'

and went up on deck in a thick ulster for
her first glimpse of Africa and golden joys.

And what a glimpse it was, that night
arrival, as the steamer ploughed her way
slowly round the corner of the mole into the
great dim harbour ! In front, a vast rising
mass of streets and gas-lamps, clambering
in endless steps and stages up the steep face
of a mysterious mountain. On either hand,
a small fleet of dancing boats, crowded with
strange Arabs in their Oriental dress, all
shouting and calling in loud guttural voices.
To right and left, dark ranges of hills,
silhouetted vaguely against the deep African
sky, and crowded with faint white specks of
villas. Everywhere lights that danced and
quivered on the rippling water ; everywhere
bustle and noise and confusion ; everywhere
the strange sense of a foreign land — not
foreign like France, or Germany, or Italy,
but Southern and African and vivid and
Moslem.

Iris waited on deck till the day dawned.

and saw that wonderful town of Algiers —
the ' pearl set in emeralds,' as the Arab
poets loved to call it — swim slowly into ken
in the gray light of morning. It was a
beautiful sight — a sight to be remembered
and treasured through a long life-time. First
of all, a white solid mass of marble detached
itself by degrees in clear relief from the
background of the dark mountain behind it.
Tier after tier, it rose to the sky as if hewn
in one block from the quarries of Carrara.
Streets or alleys there were none to behold ;
the flat-topped houses, each square as a die,
clustered close in one tangled continuous
block, as though not even a needle could
be thrust in between them. Dark alleys
threaded that labyrinth, no doubt, but so
tortuous as to be hidden by the overhanging
houses and projecting doorways. For twenty
minutes these solid white steps alone were
distinctly visible; then bit by bit, as the
light grew clearer, the picture began to
resolve itself piecemeal into its component

elements. In the foreground, a public
square, stately with tall date-palms ; a
snow-white mosque, with big round dome,
and tile-faced minaret ; a splendid French
boulevard, arcaded like Paris ; a range of
vast and costly quays, thronged with the
commerce of Marseilles and of Liverpool.
In the background, the congested Arab
town, rising up like a staircase to the
huge dismantled citadel of the Days that
crowned the summit of a spur of the Sahel.
To the right, the sea ; to the left, the smiling
slope of Mustapha, frequent with villas,
Moorish, French, or English, each lost in
the brilliant green of luxuriant gardens.
Toulon below, Beyrout above, Torquay, and
Cannes and Tambour beyond — that was
the strange cosmopolitan picture that Iris
Knyvett beheld before her.

Uncle Tom had telegraphed from Marseilles
to the people at Sidi Aia, so everything
was in waiting at the quay to receive
them. The invaluable Maltese who acts as

commissionaire arranged to see their luggage
through the Customs, and follow them
up with it in due course ; so the Kny vests and
Uncle Tom had nothing to do but to get into
their carriage and drive up quietly to their
own villa.

Iris was, in principle at least, a Socialist.
We are all Socialists now,' a big man has
said, so I suppose there's no great harm in
confessing the fact openly. But the female
heart is fickle on principles ; and when the
Third Classic beheld the gorgeous Arab
coachman, who sat on the box, with his
braided blue jacket, his maize-coloured
girdle, his full white trousers, and his
crimson fez, she felt in her heart it would
be hard indeed to give up all these for the
service of humanity. They rolled along
smoothly through the crowded streets, past
Arabs on donkeys and Arabs on foot, in
every variety of dirt and griminess ; past
Moorish women, muffled to the eyes, and
gliding silently by the wondering infidels ;

past the Kabyle market in the open square,
alive with Oriental bustle and commotion ;
through the Porte d'Islv, with its curious
collection of maimed and halt beggars ; and
up the long ramping gradients of the road
that leads by slow degrees to the suburb of
Mustapha. It seemed an endless drive, in
the cool morning air, with an interminable
succession of country Arabs coming in to
market on their mules and their donkeys.
Villas innumerable lined the road, embowered
in thickets of bamboo or date-palm,
and draped with great clustering
masses of Banksia roses or crimson Bougainvillea.
Some of them showed Moorish
architecture at its best, with their beautiful
arcades and their stately doorways. Iris
hoped in her heart Sidi Aia would turn out
like one of these, and not a great staring
square French chateau, like the house on the
hilltop, with no sense or tinge of local
colouring, so utterly out of place with all
its natural and artificial surroundings.

At the little Colonne Yoirol they reached
the summit, and swept sharply round into
the road to El-bear. In two minutes more,
Iris's heart beat high with delicious hope,
as the carriage turned into the courtyard
of the loveliest and most native-looking
Moorish house they had yet beheld upon
that delightful hillside.

What a court it was, that shady vestibule !
A marble fountain spurted in the midst, set
about with tall arms and graceful water-weeds.
Orange-trees and palms grew inside
in clumps ; an open arcade of horseshoe
arches, with twisted marble columns of
antique workmanship, ran entirely round
it in an Oriental quadrangle. The floor
was covered with dainty old tiles : a string-course
of the same, in still lovelier patterns,
set off the pediment of the arcade above with
their exquisite beauty. It was a dream of
delight, come true by accident: a glorious
dream, too good for solid earth: the sort of
home one sees in one's fancy in the Arabian

Nights, but never hopes or expects to come
across as a fact in this workaday world of
prosaic realities.

Iris mounted, awestruck, and too full for
speech, from the uncovered court into the
inner entrance-hall. It was a second courtyard,
somewhat smaller than the first, but
covered over above with a glass roof, so as
to form an anteroom or central focus to
the villa. A double arcade ran round it,
above and below, both of delicate Saracenic
arches, but the lower one open through all
its length, while a balustrade of richly-carved
woodwork formed a fitting parapet
for the upper gallery, stretching in a line
from pillar to pillar, and just high enough
for a person to lean upon comfortably. The
floor was of marble, covered with rich old
Oriental rugs : tiles still more priceless than
those of the outer court accentuated the
structural lines of the building. From the
etayeres on the walls gleamed curious old
trays of wrought brass, inlaid with Arabic

inscriptions in graven silver ; the niches in
the wall, formed by marble slabs beneath
the graceful flat arch peculiar to Algiers,
were decorated with exquisite pieces of native
pottery, Kabyle and Algerine, or from the
Acres mountains.

Iris's heart swelled high at the sight, with
the pride of possession. At that moment,
if the truth must be told, her waning
Socialism had dwindled away by rapid
stages to what her Cambridge friends
would, no doubt, have described as a
negative quantity. It had reached .
The deceitfulness of riches was
too much for her principles.

On the short flight of steps that led from
the outer to the inner court, two old women
stood, with smiling slices, to welcome Iris
to her new home.

You are Zelie, I think,' she said to one
of them timidly, in her boarding-school
French, a broken dialect that sat not unbecomingly
on those pretty lips.

And Zelie, proud that her name should
be remembered by the grand young lady,
answered fervently:

I am Zelie, mademoiselle, and glad to
welcome ime dame si aimahle to the walls of
Sidi Aia.'

And you're Sarah, I suppose,' Iris went
on in English to the other old woman,
taking her hand in hers, and grasping it
cordially.

Yes, my lady,, I'm Sarah,' the Englishwoman
answered, returning the grasp with
sudden warmth. ' God bless your pretty
face, and your sweet young eyes, my dear !
They told us you'd wear a pair of blue
spectacles, and be able to talk nothing but
Greek and Latin.'

Iris,' Mrs. Knyvett remarked severely,
shocked at such familiarity on the very
threshold of their Algerian experiences,
don't you think, my child, we'd better goon
and see the drawing-room?'

If you like, darling mother,' Iris answered,

with a bright smile, 'though I've
seen enough already to drive me frantic'

And in three minutes more she was
stretched at full length upon the big
window seat with the Tlemqen rug, looking
out through the beautiful little Moorish
arches, past the waving date-palms and
tall yuccas of the garden, to the blue bay
that shimmered with silver in the morning
sun, and the snow clad peaks of the Djurjura
in the distance. Nay, more ; to crown all,
for an Englishwoman's heart, old Sarah
had brought them up a cup of good strong
English tea, with cream complete, on an
antique tray with blue porcelain cups, set
out on an inlaid ebony and ivory Damascus
table. Bagdad and Cairo swam before her
eyes. Iris's heart was too full to speak.
Nil non laudable vicli^ she murmured to
herself. Socialism for the moment was at a
distinct discount. A house like this was too
beautiful, surely, for Dives to share with
that ignorant and tasteless fellow, Lazarus.

AWAY TO KABYLIE.

At Sidi Aia the Knyvetts and Uncle Tom
spent four or five days most enjoyably for
themselves — as indeed well they might, fora
more charming home exists not even on
the sunlit slopes of Mustapha Superieur.
Iris, for her part, was never tired of wandering
through the beautiful garden — her own
garden — oh, most socialistic but most
natural thought ! — admiring the lilies, and
the orchids, and the scarlet amaryllis, and
the rich profusion of her own namesake
irises. Though it was mid-November, the
beds still blossomed gay with endless
flowers ; the rich bloom of the loquat-
trees perfumed the heavy air, and the

VOL. II. 21

delicate bells of the great white African
clematis hung in long festoons from every
straggling bough on the hillside opposite.
Iris had never seen such wild luxuriance of
sub-tropical foliage before ; the walks in the
grounds of Sidi Aia itself, relieved by
glimpses of the other neighbouring white
Moorish villas, with their flat roofs and
their horseshoe arcades, scattered over the
green slopes on every side, transported her
mentally, on some enchanted carpet, to the
dreams of her childhood and the terraces of
the good Haroun-al-Rashid.

But, seductive as Sidi Aia proved to
the economic ideas of the Third Classic,
and subversive of all the good socialistic
opinions she had carried away with her
from the Cambridge lecture-rooms, it nevertheless
did not prevent her from realizing
the fact — the sad, sad fact — that her first
business, now she had got to Africa, was
to find out the truth about this girl Meriem.
The moment, to be sure, was unpropitious

for such thoughts. In the garden at Sidi
Aia, Iris confessed to herself, not without
sundry internal blushes, that it would be
hard to give up all these lovely things to
the rightful bear, if the rightful heir should
prove to be indeed this vague, shadowy, half-african
cousin in the recesses of Kabylie.
Till she came to Algiers, she had never
fully felt what wealth implied ; now that she
saw how much of the beautiful and graceful
it could buy or keep, she was loath at heart
to shuffle it off too easily.

Nevertheless, that uncomfortable Knyvett
conscience of hers drove her on, in spite of
her own unwillingness, to inquire into the
whole case as presented for Meriem. They
must stop at Mustapha for a few days only,
to rest after their long and hurried journey,
and must then go off on their expedition to
Kabylie.

So, on the third morning of their stay
at Sidi Aia, the imperious young heiress
bundled Uncle Tom unceremoniously into

21—2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

town by main force to make full inquiries
of Sir Arthur's agent as to the best way
of proceeding to the mountains, and the
nature of the accommodation a Christian
party might expect when it got there.

Try to find out a nice hotel, there's
a dear,' she said caressingly ; * and arrange
to go as list as we can to this place on the
hills to hunt up Miss Meriem.'

Thus exhorted, Uncle Tom set off with
sore misgivings, but as in duty bound ;
for he felt he was but clay in the hands
of the potter before that clever, self-willed,
coaxing little Iris. While he was gone,
his niece went out with old Sarah for a
stroll in the garden once more — she could
have passed a lifetime in that lovely garden
and being still a woman, though a
Grierson graduate, she there pursued her
sociological investigations at full leisure
into the manners and customs of the
adjacent proprietors.

And who lives in that great white

house on the left, Sarah ?' she asked with
unaffected feminine curiosity ; ' the house
where the three ladies in white morning-dresses
stand at the window so much
with their hair let down, and make
mysterious signs to the Arabs in the vineyard
?'

Good old Sarah laughed a quiet little
laugh. 'Why, that's Dr. Yate-Westbury's,'
she said with some reluctance, ' and those
ladies you see at the window's his
patients.'

• What ! Xot the great mad-doctor ?'
Iris cried With a start.

Mad - doctor ! Well, yes, that's just
about the truth of it. Mad he is, if you
give me the word. They're all of 'em as
mad as their patients, the mad-doctors.
Dr. Yate-Westbury — his particular form
of madness is Algiers. He thinks Algiers
is good for everything, from paralysis or
apoplexy to pain in the little finger. Have
you got consumption ? Then go to Algiers.

jSTo place on earth like Algiers for the lungs.
Air's tonic, bracing, and highly exhilarating.
Can't you sleep at nights ? Then
go to Algiers. No place on earth like
Algiers for sleep. Air's sedative, soothing,
and extremely unexciting. Are you sound
in your mind? Then go to Algiers. The
very place to give you rest and amusement
without undue over-stimulation. Are you
going off your head ? Then go to Algiers.
The very place to give you change and
variety, with a new type of life and
Oriental scenery. That's how he goes on.
He's a specialist, he is — a specialist with
a vengeance. He's got but one treatment
for all diseases. His diagnosis, poor dear
Sir Arthur used to say, is, '' You're wrong
in your chumps," and his therapeutics are,
and Algiers '11 cure you." '

A mild form of mania,' Iris answered,
smiling at the old woman's unexpected
command of the recondite resources of the
English language.

Yes, my dear, but there's method in his
madness, too,' old Sarah answered, with a
wise look in her eyes. * He makes his
living out of it, mad or sane. . . . He
takes in patients at three guineas a day,
and he has land to sell for eligible building-sites
on the road to El-bear.*

You know too much, Sarah,' Iris
answered with a laugh. ' You're quite a
cynic. Cynicism's a thing I always dread.
If you talk like that, I shall be afraid to say
another word to you.'

By second breakfast-time, Uncle Tom
returned, much fatigued, from town, very
red-faced, and mentally flustered.

Well, Iris he said, mopping his forehead
with his famous red silk handkerchief
that handkerchief dreaded by many a
nervous witness — 'this is a pretty wild-goose
chase, indeed, you've brought upon
us I Talk about an hotel I Says the girl :
'• A nice hotel, uncle !" Why, Watson
assures me there's not a European house,

good, bad, or indifferent, within five miles
of the place where Clarence Knyvett's
alleged daughter is said to live; and these
two young vagabonds who hunted the
Claimant out for your edification camp
out themselves, a la helle etoile, he tells mein
a canvas tent, on the top of a mountain.
There's a style of life, indeed, for an elderly
barrister! Pretty sort of mess this you've
gone and got us in !'

Now, don't flare up, there's a dear !' Iris
answered soothingly, stroking his arm. ' I
suppose we shall have to camp out, too;
that's all there is to be said about it. Ina
climate like this, and in fine weather,
camping out must be simply delicious;
and so romantic to tell the girls about,
you know, when one goes back again home
to England.*

Romantic ! — rheumatic, you mean I'
Uncle Tom cried angrily — for he hated
romance with all his heart; he had seen
too much of that sort of thing in the

annals of the Probate and Divorce Division.
Your mother's bronchitis would never
allow it. Besides, there are panthers and
jackals and heaven knows what, Watson
tells me ; centipedes and scorpions crawl
over you as you sleep, and tarantulas drop
on to your bald head as you recline at your
ease in your own quarters. Added to all
which, the Kabyles are in a very discontented
state — smouldering, smouldering,
and he thinks an insurrection might break
out any day.'

I don't mind panthers,' Iris murmured,
with a face somewhat damped by incipient
disappointment ; ' and I rather prefer scorpions
than otherwise, but I must confess
I should draw a line myself at a native
insurrection.'

Most insubordinate people, according to
Watson,' Uncle Tom continued, rubbing
his hands, and improving his opportunity
as soon as found. ' Might cut your throat
and your mamma's any evening. Perfect

savages, it seems, in their frightful ways
perfect savages

But couldn't we go and stop with
Meriem ?' Iris asked innocently.

Uncle Tom held up his hands in unutterable
dismay. 'Impossible! my child,' he
cried. ' Impossible ! impossible ! You'd
have to pig it with the goats and the cattle.
There's not a house in Kabylie fit for a
Christian to live in, everybody says, except
at two places, called St. Cloud and Fort
National. St. Cloud's the nearest post to
the village where the dusky young lady
of African origin has pitched her tent,
and Watson assures me, if we must go to
Kabylie, which he strongly deprecates, the
only practicable thing to do is to stop with
the wife of the Administrator of the settlement.'


But we can't invite ourselves !' Iris cried
aghast.

'Well, Watson thinks'. Uncle Tom continued,
much against the grain, but urged

by an inward sense of duty to disclose the
facts, ' that the lady in question would
be only too glad to get the chance of
having us, she's so badly off, in those
remote parts, for European society. Shea
gay little body, it seems, of Parisian
proclivities and much intelligence, who's
been buried alive in a hole among the
mountains for heaven knows how long;
and she's only too glad to get anybody
to stay with her who'll bring her up the
last Algerian gossip and the newest patterns
of Paris fashions.'

I'm afraid,' Iris said, glancing down at
her own neat and simple tailor - made
costume, ' I shall hardly satisfy her requirements
in that respect; but how can we
manage to get an introduction to her ?'

Oh, that's done already,' Uncle Tom
replied, with some conscious pride in the
successful carrying out of his unwilling
mission. ' Watson's given me a letter indue
form to the lady's husband. He

knows him well. Here it is, you see :
"J. M. r Administrator de la Commune
Mite de St. Cloud-ens Kahylie!^

AVhat's a Commune Mite ?' Iris asked,
examining it.

A mixed community, I suppose,' Uncle
Tom answered with a certain tartness. ' At
any rate, we won't get our throats cut there ;
for Watson says, even if there's a rising,
St. Cloud can hold its own against a
thousand Kabyles. It was entirely cut off
in the last insurrection, to be sure, by a
night surprise : almost every man, woman,
and child in the place exterminated. Our
proposed hostess herself only escaped with
her life by walking across the snow for miles
in her lightness and peignoir. The insurgents
killed all the inhabitants first, to make
quite sure of them, and afterwards hacked
them into very small pieces for their own
amusement. But that's a mere trifle ; since
then, I'm told, the fort has been strengthened,
and it's now partially brick-built, and capable

of standing some days' siege. So that at
St. Cloud we shall, doubtless, be comparatively
safe. Even if there's a rising, as
there's very likely' to be,' Uncle Tom
repeated, playing his trump card once more
for emphasis, ' it could hold its own against
a thousand Kabyles.'

This telling little speech Uncle Tom
delivered with considerable nonchalance,
directing it straight, with no small cleverness,
at his pretty niece's timid head ; and
for a moment, indeed, Iris wavered visibly.
Her face blanched and her lips quivered
faintly at the casual detail of the hacking in
pieces. Then that strong and obstinate
Knyvett idiosyncrasy of hers came to
her aid once more.

Very well, uncle dear,' she said quietly,
without pretending in any way to notice his
frequent hints of serious danger. ' I'll write
to this lady this very afternoon, and ask
her if she can tell us where to put up if we
go to St. Cloud : for that, I suppose, is the

only way I can broach the subject. But,
Uncle Tom, there's a dear, whatever you
do, don't mention the question of the
rising to mother.'

A STRANGE MEETING.

A FEW days later, by the tent door at 
village, Meriem sat conversing
eagerly on the ground with Eustace Le
Marchant.

Well, I've read all the novels now,
Eustace,' she said with a smile of profound
satisfaction, ' and I've learnt from them, oh !
ever such a lot about England. I do like
novels. I don't know how I ever got on
without them. They are so full of queer
facts ; they tell one about a life so different
from our own ; by talking so much with
Vernon and you, I think I'm beginning at
last a little to realize it. But I want more
books to read now: our Kabyle proverb says,

The kid only gives you an appetite for the
goat " — and Yernon's got no more to give
me.'

Why not try this?' Eustace suggested
with a smile, laying his hand on the painter's
Golden Treasury of Songs and Lyrics.'

No ; not that,' Meriem answered, without
the faintest embarrassment. ' I like
those better when Vernon reads them to me.
He makes them sound so much nicer than
I can.'

How about mine, then?' Eustace went
on, crestfallen.

I was looking over jonv^ in the tent
yesterday, but I don't think I could understand
them much. I took down this :
The Prodromus to the Entomology of
North Africa " ' — she'd got the long words
quite pat now — * but it's so full of queer
names I don't understand, and it's not very
easy, and it isn't so interesting as "A
Princess of Thule", I like "A Princess of
Thule " best of all, I think, and after that

** The Rise of Silas Clapham." But there's
one of your books I believe I could understand
— one all about the " Conversation of
Energy." '

Conservation, Meriem/ Le Marchant
corrected, laughing. ' My dear child, your
education's really going on a great deal too
fast if you think of tackling Balfour Stewart
already.'

But I want to learn all 1 can,' Meriem
answered earnestly, ' in case — in case I
should ever — be taken — to England.'

Meriem/ Le Marchant said, with a very
grave voice, ' Vernon Avill never, never take
you.'

Then why does he talk to me so beautifully,
and read me such verses, and paint
me so often ?' Meriem answered, with tears
rising quick to her big brown eyes. 'I
think, Eustace, he really likes me. And,
perhaps, if only 1 could make myself fit for
him '

Meriem !' the painter cried, at that critical

VOL. II. 22

moment, putting in his head at the flap of
the tent, ' I want you out here again, at
once. I've just got an idea for a most
charming picture.'

Meriem brushed away a tear with the
corner of her haik, unperceived, as she
thought (though Eustace marked it), and
went out, smiling, to the too-seductive
Vernon.

Look here,' the painter said, over-trustful
now of his own powers, ' I've been sketching
those girls laying out their clothes on the
bank to dry, and I want you to stand in the
foreground here and let me fill you in,
wringing out a haik, as my central figure.'

Meriem knew no law but Vernon Blake's
will. ' Very well, Vernon,' she answered
meekly, and posed herself as he wished her,
in a simple and natural attitude, like a
Greek statue.

Why do you always paint m£ so much,
and not the other girls ?' she asked, after a
pause, as he went on with his sketching.

Why, your cousin Iris will be coming
soon,' Blake answered in explanation, altering
slightly, with irreverent hands, the pose
of one shapely arm and shoulder. ' You re
by far the prettiest girl in the place, and I
want to make hay while the sun shines — to
make the best of my opportunities before the
great lady comes and takes my beautiful
model away for ever.'

I'd rather stop here,' Meriem murmured
slowly. She took his admiration, without
surprise and without false shame, as a
natural tribute.

^ But she won't let you,' Blake answered
with a laugh ; ' she'll carry you off bodily,
and send you to college, like herself, at
Cambridge.'

I should like that,' Meriem said, brightening
up ; ' for then I should be — wise — like
any Englishwoman.'

I wonder if you'll like her,' Blake
observed carelessly. ' She'll be an awful
swell, I expect ; six or seven thousand

22 — 2

a year, at least, so Le Marchant tells
me

Will she be dressed like Madame
TAdministratrice, do you think ?' Meriem
asked, with a sigh. ' High-heeled boots
and a tall hat ? For, if she is, I don't fancy
I shall care for her.'

She will, no doubt,' Blake answered,
going on with his sketch ; ' the mirror of
fashion and the cream of society. And she
won't say a sentence about anything on
earth that either you or I can understand a
word of.'

As he spoke, the silence of the mountain-side
was suddenly disturbed by a loud
British voice exclaiming in mingled French
and English : ' Well, ?ioiis voila at last,
madame ; best id Beni-Merzoug ; and a
jolly break-neck ride up these beastly hills
we've had for it, too, haven't we, Iris ?'

Meriem looked up, and beheld before her
eyes a strange and till that moment unheard-of
apparition. Two European ladies in

riding-habits and hats sat patting the
smooth necks of their weary horses ; while
behind them, on a short, stout mountain
pony, a short, stout gentleman, with a very
red face, mopped his hot, moist brow with a
large and still redder silk pocket-handkerchief
One of the ladies Meriem recognised
at once as Madame administrative ; the
other she had never seen before, but she
knew, of course, from the old gentleman's
words, it was her cousin Iris.

Xow, my child,' the stout gentleman
remarked, disembarking with some difficulty
from his precarious saddle — for he was no
cavalier — ' don't you come into the tent at
all. Madame and I will see this man Le
Marchant by ourselves at first, and find out
how much he wants to get out of us.'

Meriem would have answered, proudlyand
angrily, at once, so much did the unexpected
imputation sting her ; but Vernon Blake,
anxious to see this little comedy played out
in full to its natural close, and foreseeing

sport, held one warning finger up to his
lip, and Meriem forthwith stood mute as a
statue.

So Uncle Tom and madame disappeared
into the tent, and Iris, leaping lightly from
her graceful Arab, which half a dozen
Kabyle boys from the village, expectant of
sous, volunteered with many salaams to hold
for her, walked frankly up, with her habit
in one hand and her whip in the other, to
the embarrassed painter.

We must introduce ourselves, I suppose,'
she said, with a sunny and delicious smile.
My name, as I suppose you will already
have guessed, is Iris Kny vent ; and you, no
doubt, are one of Mr. Le Marchant's camping
companions ?'

Your name the painter answered, with
a half-frightened bow, ' all the world knows,
even here in Kabylie. The very last thing
I read in print, before leaving Algiers, was
the leader in the Times on your achievement
at Girton.'

Meriem, posed opposite them in her attitude
as model, could not fail to notice, with quick,
womanly instinct, how far more deferential
and courteous was his manner to the grand
English lady than it had ever been to her
poor Kabyle cousin.

I'm afraid you have still the advantage
of me,' Iris said, with a glance at his beautiful
sketch ; ' for you haven't yet given me
your half of the introduction.'

My name, I fear, won't convey so much
meaning to you,' Blake replied modestly,
'as yours to me. It's Vernon Blake — by
trade a painter.'

You mistake!' Iris cried, with pleased
surprise. ' I know your work well. I've
seen it at the galleries. You painted that
beautiful little study of an Italian child in
last year's Grosvenor.'

To Meriem, who knew nothing of all these
things, this talk was indeed gall and wormwood.
It was cruel of Vernon to put her
to such pain ; but he had held up his finger

to her, and, obedient to that sign, she still
kept silence.

The painter's cheek flushed with pleasure.
I'm glad you liked it,' he said, ' and flattered
that you remember it. This, too, will
make a pretty little sketch. It's natural,
isn't it ?'

'It is. And your model's beautiful,' Iris
cried enthusiastically. ' What a charming
figure ! She reminds one of Nautical.'

Eh . . . quite so,' the painter responded,
dropping his voice suddenly, with a dubious
tone.

There was a moment's pause, during
which curiosity and the natural desire to
conceal his ignorance fought hard for
mastery in Vernon Blake's mind : then he
ventured at last to inquire with caution,
^ Er . . . who did you say my model reminded
you of ?'

• Nausicaa,' Iris repeated in an ' of course
so ' sort of tone. ' You must know Nausicaa,
I'm sure ; in the " Odyssey" you remember.'

'I've never read the "Odyssey"' the
painter said shortly.

Ah, you took up the " Iliad " instead, I
suppose,' Iris went on with gentle persistence.
Blake allowed the rash conjecture
to pass in silence unquestioned. That anyone
should have read no Homer at all
seemed to her inconceivable. She knew
more than her companion : so much was
clear — and Meriem hated her for it.

How extremely fair she is !' Iris continued,
observing the trembling Kabyle girl with
critical eyes. * I'd no idea there were people
in Africa anything like as European-looking
and Greek as she is. Genseric and his
Vandals must have left a great deal of their
blood, no doubt, stamped deep on the soil
in Mauritania generally.'

Xo doubt,' Vernon Blake assented, with
caution above his years ; though who the
dickens Genseric might be, or what the
Vandals were doing in Mauritania, whatever

that was, he had no more notion than
Meriem herself had.

Her eyes are exquisite. You're lucky
to get such a model as that,' Iris went on,
unconcerned. ' But her feet are perhaps
just a trifle '

Meriem's honest nature could stand it no
longer. 'Vernon, ' she cried aloud, in an agony
of blushes, disregarding the beck of his commanding
finger, ' it isn't right, you know; it
isn't true to her ; you shouldn't let her go on
supposing in this way I don't understand
English. . . . She might say something she
didn't intend me to hear, you know, Vernon.'

Iris drew back, thunderstruck, in a vague
tumult of surprise. She recognised in a
moment, of course, who the Kabyle girl was
that could thus easily and dramatically
address the painter in his native English.
But the shock was none the less instantaneous
and electric. Never till that morning"
had it for one instant occurred to her
that Uncle Clarence's daughter would not be

dressed like an ordinary Christian — simply
and even coarsely or poorly indeed, but still
in the common and recognised garb of female
Christendom. That this barefooted Kabyle
girl, in haik and girdle, Tvith her flowing
hair and her Phrygian cap, was the cousin
she had come so far to find, fairly took her
breath away on the first blush of it.

For a minute they stood at gaze on one
another from a safe distance — Iris with the
curiosity of a stray visitor to the Zoo ;
Meriem with the terrified and startled look
of a beautiful wild animal brought suddenly
to bay. Then Iris slowly moved forward to
greet her.

You are mv cousin Meriem !' she cried,
with a flushed, hot face ; and, even as she
spoke, she took the beautiful girl's two hands
in her own. Next instant, yielding to a
sudden gracious impulse — for blood, after
all, is thicker than water — she folded poor
trembling Meriem to her bosom and kissed heron
both cheeks with impulsive affection.

In a second, Meriem's heart had burst
with delight at the grand English lady's
goodness and condescension. Those simply
chosen words, ' my cousin Meriem ' — that
one touch of nature that makes the whole
world kin, as she folded her to her bosom —
had conquered at once the proud Kabyle
reserve in Meriem's nature. With a fierce
flood of tears, the graceful wild thing cast
herself passionately at Iris's feet, and,
raising the hem of her riding-habit in her
hand, kissed it fervently with her lips a
dozen times over. f

Iris, Iris,' she cried, ' I love you ! I
love you ! You might kill me now. I
should love you for ever.'

Iris raised her from the ground, with a
startled face, half terrified at this unexpected
outburst of feminine emotion.

Meriem !' she exclaimed, ' my dear child,
dear Meriem; you mustn't throw yourself
at my feet like that, for worlds ! We're
cousins, you know. I've come all the way

from England to meet you and know you.'
And she clasped the poor girl once more —
with more genuine and unaffected tenderness
this time — to her own soft bosom.

You may go back again, then, if you'll
take me with you,' Meriem cried impulsively
; ' for now that I've seen you, and
know what you're like, I could never take
fi'om you one penny of your money. I
never wanted it at all myself All I want
is to be near you, and love you.'

At that moment, as they stood therewith
arms clasped tight round one another
silently, before the open heaven, Madame
I'Administratrice appeared unexpectedly at
the tent-door. The incredible sight made
her start with alarm.

Mon Dieu !' she screamed out volubly,
in her shrill little voice, to Uncle Tom
within. ' M. Vitmarsh, M. Vitmarsh, come
quick and see. C'est incroyahle^ mais best
vrai. Voila mademoiselle voice niece qui
embrasse une indigene f

A THUNDERBOLT.

Things had gone badly for poor Uncle
Tom. He had stepped unawares into the
lion's mouth. When the astute old lawyer
saw that disconcerting sight from the door
of Eustace Le Marchant's tent, he felt
that chance had indeed dealt roughly with
him.

He took it all in at a glance, of course :
so this was the young woman ! The
Claimant ! The Impostor ! While he had
been talking with the enemy, Le Marchant,
in the gate, the young woman herself,
losing no time in prosecuting her vigorous
assault, had surprised the citadel, and
carried it by storm. Nay, what was

worse, she had even enlisted that ill-regulated
and susceptible Knyvett heart
of Iris's on her own side. There he found
them, hugging like a pair of fools — plaintiff
and defendant in the self same cause, as
thick as thieves one with the other. The
foe had suborned a traitor in the camp.
This wily Kabyle girl — pretty, no doubt,
undeniably pretty ; as a man of taste,
Uncle Tom could not pretend, in his own
mind, to burke that patent fact; but a
savage for all that — a mere African savage
trusting to her pure cheek and her
physical charms, had made an easy prey
of his poor trustful Iris. Those Knyvetts,
you see, were always so unpractical. Xo
Whitmarsh on earth would ever have acted
like that, Uncle Tom felt certain. Xo,
indeed ! Quite the contrary. A Whit-marsh
would have held the alleged
daughter of the late Uncle Clarence at
arm's length securely, and refused to
acknowledge off-hand this shadowy claim

to an uncertain consanguinity. A Whit-marsh
would have fought the matter out,
inch by inch, to the bitter end, insisting
upon proof at every step, and refusing to
accept a single weak fact, a single shaky or
illogical inference. While these Knyvetts,
you know — bah ! it made the eminent Q.C.
sick to think of it : so Quixotic ; so sentimental
; so ignorant of the wiles that were
simple matters of everyday experience to
an old hand in the Probate and Divorce
Division.

If only she had been black, or even
dusky, now, as Uncle Tom had always
anticipated ! But a pucker white woman —
as white as himself — and handsome into
the bargain! Was ever Q.C. more disastrously
fitted with a susceptible client and
a dangerous opponent ?

It was with difficulty that the disheartened
old lawyer finished that evil
day's work ; but since chance had so
brought things about that the first investigation

meeting, so to speak, must
needs be held before a committee of the
whole house, he decided to make a virtue
of necessity, and invite Iris and the
Claimant herself — to Uncle Tom Meriem
was, henceforth, simply the Claimant — to
take part openly in their deliberations.

Iris, my dear,' he called out, in a somewhat
testy tone, ' come into the tent here,
and bring that — that young person with
you.'

Come along, Meriem,' Iris said, as one
speaks to an old friend, leading the timid
Kabyle girl by the hand, like a child, to
the tent-door. ' Uncle dear,' she whispered
gently into his ear, ' she speaks English,
and she's, a sensitive creature. Now, for
my sake, there's a daring, don't be hard
on her, or harsh to her.'

Pretty ; and sensitive ! Oh, Lord, what
luck ! He must hold his tongue, it seemed,
in presence of the impostor, for fear the
truth should hurt her delicate feelings !

VOL. II.



You've got an uncle, young woman
Uncle Tom observed, with a severe look,
fixing a jury-box eye sternly on Meriem.
I think it would be better that this uncle
should be represented, personally or by
counsel, if I may be allowed the expression,
at this preliminary investigation.'

What does he say, Iris ?' Meriem whispered,
awestruck.

Don't be afraid of him, dear,' Iris
whispered in return, clasping Meriem's
hand tight in her own. * He's a little
rough, you know, but he's awfully kind
and good, for all that. He only wants
you to send for your uncle.'

I didn't know Englishmen ever talked
like that,' Meriem answered simply. ' Vernon
and Eustace never speak to me that way.'

Meanwhile Uncle Tom had murmured
something in French to Madame I'Adminis-
beatrice, which Meriem didn't understand.
The flippant little Frenchwoman nodded
acquiescence.

Va chercher V Amine P she cried, in an
authoritative voice to Meriem.

The girl caught the meaning, though not
the words, and disengaging her hand gently
from her cousin's, rose up and glided at
once from the tent, ' like a Greek goddess,'
Iris thought to herself, as she followed her
with attentive eyes, admiringly.

Yes, a very line walk,' the painter put
in, interpreting her thoughts ; for he, too,
had joined the party in the tent. ' You
see, these girls are so free in their movements,
and accustomed to carry such heavy
weights on their head from early childhood,
that they grow at last to step evenly poised,
like Queen Mab or Titania.'

The English allusions sounded strange to
Iris ; she herself would have said, in a
similar case, ' Like Athens or an Oread.'

In two or three minutes, Meriem returned,
preceded by the Amine, quite endimanche^
in a better bernouse than Le Marchant or
Blake had yet seen him in.

23—2

Assiecls-toila' Madame administrative
exclaimed in an imperious voice, pointing
with her sharp forefinger to a low box-seat
in the farthest corner.

Iris was surprised at the haughty tutoiement,
especially as the Amine, in his best
Friday clothes, seemed altogether so much
more dignified and important a personage,
with his tall, supple body and his Oriental
gravity, than the skimpy and volatile little
high-heeled Frenchwoman.

The Amine's eves flashed fire anirrilv,
but he restrained his indignation after the
Oriental wont ; and with a polite bow and
a ' Bonjour^ mesdames ; honjow\ messieurs
took his seat in the corner where superior
authority had so cavalierly relegated him.
The melancholy and pathetic Kabyle expression
in his large sunken eyes made
Iris feel an instinctive respect and sympathy
towards the grave old man.

Ask him first, madame,* Uncle Tom
said officially, in such French as he could

command — it was perfectly fluent and profoundly
insular — ' if he can tell us the
precise date of death of this man Yusuf,
alias Leboutillier.'

The tears rose quickly into Meriem's eyes
at hearing those most sacred of all names to
her so roughly pronounced, but she, too,
bit her lips to still her emotion, and. for
Iris's sake, held her peace painfully.

The Frenchwoman repeated the question
to the Amine in French, with an inquisitorial
air of legal accuracy. But the
Kabyle only shook his head in the utmost
dismay.

'No comprend lingua Frmwa,' he answered
helplessly, in the one phrase of that old
barbarous jargon which still survived in his
native mountains.

Ask him in Kabyle, then, madame,'
Uncle Tom persisted.

Madame TAdministratrice started as if
she were stung.

Do I understand Kabvle, monsieur ?'

she exclaimed indignantly, as who should
repel a slight upon her personal gentility.

Uncle Tom beamed out at her from
his respectable spectacles in mild surprise.


^ Am I to gather, then,' he said, with
wide - open eyes, ' that you've lived for
fifteen years on end in Kabylie, and can't
yet speak one word of the Kabyle language ?*

'Not a syllable! not a letter! not a jot!
not a tittle!' madame disclaimed energetically,
with a profuse gesture. ' If these
pigs of indigenes desire the pleasure of my
spirited conversation, let them go and learn
French themselves at school, and then they
can talk to me.'

The loss is certainly theirs,' Uncle Tom
responded, with unwonted gallantry.

Meriem can interpret for you, uncle
dear,' Iris suggested coaxingly. ' Only,'
she whispered somewhat lower in his ear,
try to put your questions so as not unnecessarily
to hurt the poor child's feelings.'

This was really too much for Uncle
Tom's equanimity.

My dear,' he whispered back, with legal
firmness, ^ such a proceeding would be highly
irregular — highly irregular. To make the
Claimant herself our interpreter in the case
would be to turn ourselves over, bound
hand and foot, to any nonsense she may
choose to palm off upon us.'

I think,' Le Marchant interposed, with
a quiet smile, ' if you will allow me to try,
my slight knowledge of Kabyle will probably
suffice to put such a very elementary
question as the one you suggest to my
friend the Amine here.'

Uncle Tom glared at him with angry
eyes, but could not very well say him nay.
A conspiracy, of course ; a most patent
conspiracy ! but, after all, they were not
on their oaths. In a purely private and
informal investigation, irregularities of this
sort might perhaps be condoned in his
client's interest. They'd be sure to let

out some damning fact or admission between
them.

Le Marchant put the question to the
Amine in a few simple words. The Kabyle
shook his head in utter perplexity. A
date to an Oriental, an exact date within
a stray year or two, is an undreamt-of pitch
of historical accuracy.

It was about three years since,' Meriem
said, in English, with tears still standing
in her big brown eyes, ' for I remember it
was just about the time when we gather
the olives.'

Uncle Tom gave a comical look of despair.
Was this the kind of evidence as
to date, forsooth, to tender to a leader in
the Probate and Divorce Division of her
Majesty's High Court of Justice ?

It was Blake's turn now to interpose
with a suggestion.

I think.' he said, turning over the pages
of his sketch-book hastily, ' I have something
here that may cast light on the

matter.' And hitting on the particular
sketch he required as he spoke, he passed
the open page over to Uncle Tom with
polite carelessness.

Uncle Tom accepted the strange item of
proffered evidence under mute protest, and
without prejudice. As a matter of principle
he didn't believe in the documentary
value of an artist's sketches. They're never
sworn to before a Justice of the Peace, as
the Act directs. Still, he cast a hurried
glance, for form's sake, at the particular
drawing thus confidently pointed out to
him. It was a rough sketch of the mouth of
a cave, overgrown with lichens and maidenhair
ferns ; and it bore on its front a bold
inscription in plain Roman capitals :

clarence KNYVETT,

SUA IPSIUS MANU FECIT :

ANNO Legible

MCCLXIV.'

Uncle Tom started, but restrained his
surprise.

It's not without merit, viewed as a work
of art ; but what does it prove T he asked,
half angrily.

I don't know,' Blake answered, retiring
abashed. * I've really no idea. The same
question's been asked about " Paradise
Lost," I believe, and I could never answer
it. I suggest it merely on general grounds,
as tending to show Clarence Knyvett may
have been alive at least as late as the year
1264 of the Mahommedan era. It's an
inscription that Le Marchant and I found
on the face of a rock high up on the slopes
of Lalla Khadidja in the Djurjura Mountains.
It gave us our first clue, in fact, to
the curious problem of Meriem's parentage.'

Those words were the last thing Yusuf
ever wrote,' Meriem murmured, half aloud.
He must have written them just before he
fell from the rocks, when he was hiding
from the French, who wanted to shoot
him.'

'And when was the year 1264, I should

like to know ?' Uncle Tom sneered contemptuously.
The date had such a remote,
mediaeval sound about it.

It was an unfortunate observation, from
Uncle Tom's point of view, at least ; for
even as he spoke, Iris, pulling out her
purse, consulted a small pocket-almanac.
It began,' she said, after a short but abstruse
mental calculation, ' on April the
20th, 1883.'

Uncle Tom gave a short, sharp whistle
to himself — a whistle that he checked a
minute later with a distinct air of being (asa
Bencher of Lincoln's Inn) very much
ashamed of himself.

This is what comes of sending girls to
Cambridge,' he thought to himself inwardly,
in a very bad humour. ' They're so proud
of being able to calculate a date that they
supply arms and ammunition gratis to the
camp of the enemy. — Let me see that book,
Iris,' he went on aloud, in no happy tone.
*Year of the Hegira, 1268, commencing

April 20th, 1887. Hem, that'll do. Now,
don't be precipitate.'

But his warning look and uplifted finger
were thrown away upon poor eager Iris,
who, profoundly interested in the facts of
the case, and anxious only to arrive at the
truth, forgot to consider her own rule in
Uncle Tom's little extempore drama.

Why, uncle,' she cried, with a flash of
intuition, ' Uncle Alexander died at Bath —
I've got it down here among the memoranda
you gave me that day at your office — on
April the 4th, 1883 ; and Clarence Knyvett
wrote this inscription not earlier than April
the 20th in the same year. Therefore, he
must have survived Uncle Alexander, and
he, not Sir Arthur, was the real inheritor of
the Knyvett property.'

A thunderbolt could not have fallen more
heavily on poor Uncle Tom. No turkey-cock
that ever strutted a farmyard was half
so red in the face as he at that moment.
He would have given the world just then if

only he could have flung down his brief on
the table before him, and remarked sarcastically:
'After what my client has just admitted,
my lord, there's nothing nov left forme
to do but to retire at once from the case,
and leave him entirely in the hands of the
jury.' But here, unhappily, was a client
whose cause he could not throw up, come
what might — a client with an impossible
and incredible fancy for playing into the
hands of her own opponents.

My dear,' he whispered in her ear, in an
agony of shame, disgust, and terror. ' leave
it to them to say all that ; and don't concern
yourself at all with Clarence Knyvett.
What we have to do first is to solve the
question, When did the man Yusuf die?
After that, we have to ask ourselves next.
Was Yusuf identical with Joseph Lebou-
tiller? Only in the third place can we
come to the question. Were Yusuf and
Joseph Leboutillier in turn aliases of your
uncle, Clarence Knyvett ?'

YusLif died accidentally, by a fall from
a cliff,' Le Marchant put in, carrying on
the problem of the date at issue. ' Surely
there would be something like an inquest
or process verbal held on his body — some
statement of the cause of death in the actes
de D'etat civil at St. Cloud ' — and he turned
round with a question in French to Madame
1 ' A minis beatrice.

Est-ce que je sais, mois the little lady
answered, with a screwed-up face and a
shrug of her shoulders. ' Do I. take note of
the death of this, that, or the other indigene,
think you ? Qu est-ce que qa me fait ^ a moi,
monsieur? My husband can tell you, perhaps.
He keeps a register of these events,
possibly.'

My father fell over the cliff,' Meriem
put in suddenly, after a long and abstruse
effort of reason in the endeavour, by the aid
of Iris's almanac, to correlate the Christian
and Mahommedan calendars, ' some time in
November, 1883 : 1 know it now by the

date of the Moharram. A man came up
from Algiers to search for him '

A French detective,' Le Marchant interposed.
' So one of the Fathers at St.
Cloud told me

And Yusuf thought that if he remained
at Beni-Merzoug, the man would find out
his French name, and get them to shoot
him,' Meriem went on, with an evident and
painful struggle. ' So he went and lived
in the caves in the Djurjura, and there he
fell over a cliff and died ; and that's all I
can tell you about it.'

Why,' Iris exclaimed, with a flushed
face, ' that must have been the detective —
you remember, Uncle Tom — that Sir Arthur
sent up to make inquiries about him. And
Uncle Clarence must have mistaken who it
was that sent the man, and why they wanted
him. And so he must have fled from his
own property and his own people at the
very time they were trying hardest to discover
him.'

Uncle Tom's face was a study to behold.
It would have made the fortune of some
rising genie painter. Such a client as this
he had never had to deal with. She would
spoil the best case that ever was briefed.
She gave up everything at the mere nod of
her dangerous opponent.

My dear,' he said slowly, aloud this
time, * you're making a great many most
unwarrantable assumptions, ^f the inscription's
really genuine, which we don't know
I give no opinion ; it may or it may not
be — and if Yusuf was the man Leboutillier;
and if Leboutillier was your uncle Clarence ;
and if we can trust these people's evidence
'

He got no further, for, as he said those
words, Meriem rose up like a statue before
him.

Iris.' she cried earnestly, taking her
cousin's hand once more in hers, ' I love
you ! I love you ! I'll speak to you ; I
won't speak to him, because he distrusts

me and doesn't believe me. Nobody ever
distrusted me before, not even the Kabyles.
Don't let him come here any more to inquire.
I can't bear to hear him speak like
that about my dear dead father. I loved
Yusuf, and I love him still. I'm glad
you've come. I'm glad you're my cousin.
But whether the money you've come about
is yours or mine, let's say no more about
it. I hope you'll keep it. I want none
of it. What good is it to me ? All
I want is to know my father's friends.
And if you'll let me love you, I need no
money.'

Uncle Tom,' Iris said, flushing red in
return. ' let her off, there's a dear I She
means what she says. You're hurting her.
affections. If we want to set this matter
right at all, we must set it right without
bothering Meriem/

They rose t^ go, but Meriem clung to
her.

Iris,' she whispered, ' come again soon,

VOL. II. 24

and see me alone. I want to talk to you.
I want to be friends with you.'

I'll come again soon, dear,' Iris answered
with a kiss. ' I love you, too,
Meriem. I think I understand you.'

A DIFFICULT CLIENT.

They mounted their horses and rode back
towards St. Cloud in moody silence.
Madame I'Administratrice indeed, to do her
justice, chatted volubly and flippantly all
the way. But Uncle Tom and Iris, in no
mood for gossip, contented themselves with
an occasional nod or a smile of acquiescence.
Their minds, to say the truth, were otherwise
eno'ao^ed than with madame's regrets
for her Parisian luxuries. Uncle Tom was
in a distinctly bad humour ; and with Uncle
Tom that always meant that the case was
turning out very ill for his client. He
couldn't conceal from himself two obvious
facts : first, that it looked very much indeed

24: — 2

as though the man Yusuf and Clarence
Knyvett were really one and the same
person ; secondly, that it looked very much
indeed as if Clarence Knyvett had really
outlived his brother Alexander. If these
things were so, two points alone could save
his client's case. In the first place, it was
pretty certain that Clarence Knyvett could
never have married Meriem's mother in
any sense recognised by the Probate and
Divorce Division. In the second place, it
was also pretty certain that no good legal
proof was forthcoming of the identity of
Yusuf with Joseph Leboutillier. comforting*
his soul with which two specious legal
quibbles, Uncle Tom directed his mountain
pony cautiously homeward in no little internal
perturbation.

As for Iris, she rode on with equal regret
at many results of this strange interview.
At the very first blush of it, her heart had
gone forth to her unknown cousin. There
was something about Meriem's simple nature

that she felt civilization could never rival.
She was vexed in soul that Uncle Tom,
with his Lincoln's Inn suspiciousness and
his Old Bailey wit, should have gone against
the grain of that fine natural character.
But, furthermore, the practical outcome of
that morning's work had strangely discomposed
her own plans for the future. Let
Uncle Tom and the legal aspect of the case
quibble as they might, in simple equity Iris
felt sure that Sir Arthur's property belonged,
by right, to Meriem only. She didn't
doubt now that Meriem was Clarence Kny-
vent's only daughter, and that Clarence had
survived his brother Alexander. Thinking;
so, her soul, like her Homeric hero's, was
divided this way and that within her. For,
on the one hand, her strong sense of justice
and her clamorous, imperative Knyvett conscience
made her anxious to see abstract
right done to ^leriem, let what might
follow. She could not fight over legal
quibbles, where the truth was clear, or pretend

to hesitate about questions of identity
when Uncle Clarence's daughter stood visible
in the flesh, a true Knyvett, before her. If
Meriem was the heiress, provable or not, let
Meriem take the goods that belonged to her.

But, on the other hand. Iris felt with a
pang it would be hard indeed to give up
Sidi Aia. Six thousand a year had moved
her little ; mere money stated in pounds
sterling means not much to a very young
woman. But now that she had seen Sidi
Aia, and felt the pride of possession in that
exquisite home, it would be hard indeed to
give it up to the rightful owner. She
wished she had never seen it at all, so as
never to know the pain of parting with it.

I believe in Meriem, Uncle Tom,' she
ventured to observe timidly, at last. * I
don't think she wants to get Uncle Arthur's
property.'

Uncle Tom's ill-humour grew deeper ashe
went, the case looking blacker and blacker
on reflection. ' The girl's a mere tool,' he

answered sullenly. ' She's dupe, not knave.
She won't do much harm to us. It's that
man Le Marchant who's egging her on. It
was he who invented this cock-and-bull
story. He means to marry her, and prosecute
her claim. Exactly what I told you
has really happened. He read your advertisement,
and saw his chance of setting up a
new sort of Tichborne Claimant. Of course
it was he who carved that inscription.'

I never thought of that !' Iris cried with
surprise, half clutching at the straw, if only
it could save her that beautiful Sidi Aia.
But the painter said he saw it too, and I
somehow fancy the painter's a good young
fellow. With a face like that, he could
hardly be otherwise. I never saw anybody
handsomer or more transparent.'

Uncle Tom grunted. ' You'd learn to
distrust your own brother,' he said shortly
' supposing you had one — if you'd practised
half as long as I have at the Bar of the
Probate and Divorce Division.'

Iris was silent for a few minutes more.
Then she said again, ' There's something inexpressibly
weird to my mind in the coincidence
that one brother should be livings in
luxury in Algiers '

No coincidence in the world at all about
it !' her uncle answered testily, with a burst
of ill-humour. ' Your logic's bad. That's
always the case with you Cambridge graduates.
If you'd only been to Oxford, now,
like me, you'd see at a glance that the
thing's a matter of mere ordinary sequence.
Your uncle Clarence came to Algiers as
Joseph Leboutillier — so much's admitted on
all sides ; and it was his coming over here
first that entailed in the end all the rest of
our coming — Sir Arthur's, and yours, and
mine, and your mother's. Sir Arthur came,
like us, to assure himself his brother was
comfortably dead and buried ; and, not
being burdened with a young woman of
Cambridge education and fanciful proclivities,
he was lucky enough to satisfy himself

offhand of the fact, which is more than we
seem likely to do, confound it ! He found
the climate and the country suited him, so
he bought Sidi Aia out of the money of the
trust, in accordance with the terms of the
Admiral's will ; and small blame to him
either ; for a prettier or sweeter place I
never saw, though you do want to fling it
at the head of this claimant. Where's the
coincidence in all that, I'd like to know?
Now, where's your coincidence? A simple
ordinary matter of natural cause and effect —
that's just what a logical Oxford mind
calls it.'

Rut low painful to think,' Iris went on
reflectively, without heeding his interruption,
'that one brother was living in luxury
and splendour at Sidi Aia, while the other
brother, the real heir to the property, was
skulking for his life in fear and trembling
among these snowy mountains, and dependent
for his bread upon the charity of the
Kabyles !'

That's just it,' Uncle Tom went on with
dogged calmness, crashing down his own
doubts the better to crush down and annihilate
his niece's. ' That's just what I say.
Is it likely ? Is it credible ? Is it in accordance
with all we know of human nature?
If he was the heir to this fine estate — for it
is a fine estate, Iris, though you want to
shuffle it off on the bare-legged young
woman of doubtful antecedents — would he
go hiding and starving in a cave on the
mountains, instead of coming down, and
saying openly : " Here am I, Clarence
Knyvett, the rightful owner, come to claim
my own ; get out of my house and give me
up my money "? '

You forget,' Iris said, ' that the French
would have shot him, and the English sent
him into penal servitude.'

I don't forget it,' Uncle Tom repeated
with some asperity. * I don't forget it. I
never forget anything. It's a habit I've
acquired in the course of my practice. But

do you think anybody in his senses would
shoot or imprison the heir to a splendid
property like that? Xo, no, my girl ; I
know the law in its practical working in all
countries. Shoot a poor devil of a deserter,
if you like, with three sous in his pocket,
and nobody '11 bother about it ; but not a
man who can ask the General of Division to
dinner at Sidi Aia, with pate de foie gras and
a magnum of Veuve Aliquot.'

Iris was silent. Young as she was, she
knew the world well enough already to guess
there was probably a good deal of truth in
Uncle Tom's cynical contention.

Well, now, Iris,' Uncle Tom went on,
drawing rein for a second as they reached
the village, ' I've had enough of your cooperation
in this matter, I can tell you. I
mean to hunt up the rest of the question
myself, with the aid of an interpreter — I
suppose there's somebody here at St. Cloud
who understands this beastly Kabyle lingo
and sorrow another word shall you have

to say to it. You may fraternise with the
bare-legged young woman of doubtful antecedents
as much as you like in private — I've
nothing to say against her as far as she
goes : she's a well-meaning tool of that man
Le Marchant's ; but never again shall I let
so incompetent a junior as yourself be with
me in a case of such prime importance. I've
taken away the brief from you, so remember
in future I manage this business alone, in my
own fashion.'

As they passed out of the street at ,
Hussein and the marabout had
watched them depart from the sacred grove
by the little domed tomb of the village saint.
There goes she of the high heels,' Hussein
cried out mockingly, in his own tongue, at
the same time that he bowed his head
deferentially almost to the ground before her.

In Allah's good time,' the holy man
answered, ' her proud head shall roll in the
dust before the face of Allah.'

And these others who have come to her
from over the sea ; shall we slay them too ?'
Hussein asked with languid interest.

Is it not written, '" The Lord knows His
own " ?' the marabout replied, looking
vacantly before him. ' When the Faithful
unfurl the flag of a Jehad — a holy war —
they respect not persons ; they destroy
utterly the enemy of Allah himself, and his
house, and his slaves, and his servants, and
his friend, and the stranger that is within
his gates, leaving not one living soul behind
them.'

The biggest one — her with the fair hair,'
Hussein went on regretfully, with a side-glance
at Iris ; ' it's a pity to kill her. It
seems such a waste of good material. She
might serve well to draw water and to cook
cots-cous, and to prepare the house for the
sons of the Faithful. Her face is pretty. I
like her looks better even than Meriem's.*

Slay the men ; take the women alive,
says the word of Allah. All but the woman

with the high heels. Lay her low in the
dust, says the servant of the All-powerful.'
Hussein smiled — a horrible, wistful smile.
That's well,' he said, chuckling. ' I prefer
her to Meriem.' And he followed her with
a gloating look in his fierce black eyes till
she faded out of sight down the long and
narrow zigzag mule-path.

Hellenic.

Do you know, Eustace,' Blake said at
breakfast in the tent next morning, ' I've
been devoting myself too exclusively of late
to the mere figure. I must really go back
to a little more landscape. These studies
of mine of girls and young men — Meriem
in particular — will be awfully useful to me
when I get back to England. I mean to
work 'em up, and make really good things
of 'em for the Academy, some day. But
they require the local landscape for background
; they require the landscape. Such
essentially idyllic types of life are nothing
at all without their natural setting of olive
and pine, cactus and fan-palm. " The long

brook falling through the cloven ravines
and all that sort of thing's a necessary
adjunct. I must go further afield, and keep
up my details.'

Le Marchant smiled, for he knew in his
own soul, already, what was coming. ' And
where will you go?' he asked as innocently
as he could.

Why, over near St. Cloud, I think,'
Vernon Blake replied, perusing the canvas
ceiling ; ' there are some jolly bits there.
One dear little shrine in particular, on a tall
hillside, all hung about with rags and
pilgrims' offerings, took my fancy immensely
the last time we were over there. And that
skittish small Frenchwoman told me the
other day, when we went to call upon her '
for they had made their peace, in the
interval, with Madame TAdministratrice —
that if ever I happened to be painting over
their way, it would give her and monsieur
all the pleasure in the world if I'd drop in
at the Fort to have a mouthful of luncheon.

It's convenient having a place where one can
get a feed, you know.' And he fiddled with
his jack-knife, trying to look unconcerned
and unconscious.

• Poor Meriem !' Le Marchant murmured
with genuine regret, spreading some more
tinned lobster on a large round sea-biscuit.

Well, I never pretended I really cared
for her,' Blake answered in the oblique
oration. ' And this other girl, if it comes
to that, is a real English lady, and worth
ten thousand of her.'

That's a matter of opinion,' Le Marchant
said stoutly.

She's too learned for me, though,' Blake
went on, with some latent chagrin in his
tone. ' Do you know what she said about
Meriem, yesterday? She observed, quite
casual-like, that Genseric and his Vandals —
I think the gentleman's name was Genseric
must have left their mark deep on the soil
and the people throughout all Mauritania.
By Jove ! I didn't know which way to look.

VOL. II. 25

I never heard of Mr. Genseric in my life
before, and I couldn't tell you where Mauritania
was, or is, if my neck depended upon
it. That's the sort of girl I admire, now,
if you like. Genseric and his Vandals, she
said, as pat as A B C — Genseric and his
Vandals.'

But, my dear fellow, it's in Gibbon, you
know. There's nothing very wonderful in
her having read the old familiar " Decline
and Fall off the Rooshian Empire." '

/ never read Gibbon,' Blake responded
with a stolid face.

Well, it's in " Murray's Guide," then, if
it comes to that,' Le Marchant retorted,
without venturing to observe that a woman
might have read far more than Blake, and
yet by no means set up as a prodigy of
learning. ' It seems to me far more surprising,
as an intellectual feat, that Meriem,
brought up in this out-of-the-way village,
should have taught herself to read English,
all of her own accord, than that Miss

Knyvett, aided and abetted and egged on
from behind by ^ posse comitatus of Girton
tutors, should have crammed herself up to
be Third Classic'

Different men have different opinions
Blake quoted gaily ; * and, for my partitions
is not my taste. I willingly resign
you my share in Meriem. She's all very
well for a summer flirtation, I grant you —
a man must amuse himself— but to compare
her for one second to that heavenly apparition
sent to be a moment's ornament, in the
ridings-habit and hat ! AVhv, it makes me
positively angry to hear you. She's a phantom
of delight, that's what I call her. Tm
off', Eustace. I shan't be back till six in
the evening.'

He trudged across to St. Cloud on foot ;
and, being a prudent man, so he flattered
himself inwardly, he called before beginning
his work at the Fort, just to let Madame
TAdministratrice know beforehand that he
meant to specialist her general invitation,
"^ 2d— 2

and drop in to luncheon this particular
noonday.

Madame T A administrative looked pettishly
coquettish.

While we were all by ourselves, monsieur,'
she said, with a fetching little glance
towards Iris, ' you never did us the honour
of accepting our hospitality.'

Yernon Blake smiled a sheepish smile.
He could be bold as brass before poor barefooted
Meriem ; but the Third Classic, that
awesome English heiress, brought out at
once all the instinctive shyness of his underlying
nature.

Why, I'm going to paint over here
to-day,' he stammered out timidly, in his
best Ollendorff; ' and you said, you know,
whenever I came over, you'd do me the
honour of allowing me to lunch here.'

Oh. mayn't madame and I come out and
watch you ?' Iris asked with genuine interest
and pleasure. ' But perhaps you don't like
being watched. I've never seen a real

painter at work in my life, do you know;
and after that sweet thing of yours in
the Grosvenor last year, I should love to
find out exactly how you do it.'

I shall be only too flattered,' Blake
answered, smiling, that being, in fact, the
precise object with which he had come over
there. Love at first sio:ht was the name
of his malady.

And may I go too ?' Mrs. Knyvett
inquired, focussing the prominent feature
full upon the painter with a benign smile.

Oh, not for the world, dear,' Iris interposed
earnestly. ' It's so chilly this morning,
and the wind's from the mountains,
and I should be afraid of my life it'd
bring on your bronchitis.'

Blake heard this veto with lively satisfaction.
He fancied fi-om the tone it was not
perhaps entirely dictated by filial solicitude.
Besides, madame didn't know a single word
of English, and was, therefore, admirably
adapted (from the point of view of giddy

youth) for enacting with effect the part
of the common or garden gooseberry.

They strolled out together to the joint
on the hillside where Blake had decided
to select his background — a pretty little
dell by a Kabyle road ; and there the young
artist, with those big gray eyes, set up his
canvas on the easel, where Meriem, of
course, as central figure, stood already
painted-in with striking vigour. It was
a graceful form, and Iris admired it with
genuine admiration.

How beautifully you paint these people !'
she said, looking up at him. * You seem to
have caught their spirit to the very life.
Such naivete and simplicity ; the Kabyles
all over.'

I'm glad you like it,' Blake answered,
blushing. ' Praise from your lips is indeed
commendation.'

Iris glanced timidly aside at madame.
Half a dozen Kabyle boys had gathered,
as was their wont, already round the

canvas to see the infidel stranger paint ;
and the little Frenchwoman, having drawn
a semicircular line with her parasol in the
dust of the path round the base of the
easel, was congenially engaged in rapping
with the knobby top of the same weapon of
offence the bare toes of any luckless urchin
who ventured to transgress her prescribed
limit. ' Une occupation comme une autre f
she said, looking up with a good-humoured
and mischievous smile at Iris. ' II faut hen
amuse. Et puis ca leur apprend le respect
de VautoriteJ

Would you like to look at my sketchbook
?' Blake said in English, handing it to
the amiable chaperon as he spoke. Madame
took it, and glanced over it carelessly. It
was not in the least Parisian ; nothing
piquant at all in it; so she passed it on with
a yawn and a sigh to Iris. Ten minutes
later she was beginning to sennuyer^ to
prevent which misfortune she buried her
face in close communion with a paper-covered

copy of Daudet's ' Sappho,' imported
by post from Algiers yesterday.

So Iris and Blake, left to themselves,
talked on for an hour uninterrupted. By
that time madame, propped against a tree,
had fallen asleep quietly over her Parisian
story.

How do you like it now ?' Blake asked
at last, standing off a foot or two, and
surveying his own handicraft with not
ungraceful complacency.

It's just like a little idol from Theocritus,
Mr. Blake,' Iris cried admiringly.
Doesn't your work often remind you
while you're painting of Theocritus ? It
seems to me absolutely inspired in every
detail by the true old ?ive Dorian feeling.'

'I haven t read Theocritus,' Blake answered
modestly, feeling bound to disclaim the
honour thus thrust upon him. ' To tell
you the truth, I don't read Latin at all,
Miss Knyvett'

Oh, don't you ?' Iris cried with a faint little

blush of sympathetic shame at his simple
blunder. ' I'm sorry for that, for then
you've never had the pleasure of reading
the " Georgicssss ;" and the " Georgicssss" to you
would be like flowers to the bees — your
native field, your predestined pabulum.
You'd revel in the '' Georgicss," I'm quite
sure, Mr. Blake, if you read Latin. And
you don't read Greek, then, either, of
course ; for whoever reads Homer has first
read Virgil. That's a pity, too, for you'd
delight in Theocritus. The scent of these
thymy southern hillsides blows through
every line of his breezy idols, as whiff's of
the heather blow through Wordsworth's
*' Excursion," and the perfume of the may
through some of Tennyson's English
country pieces.'

So Theocritus wrote in Greeks did he ?'
Blake answered, ill at ease, ruthlessly exposing
his own hasty mistake, which Iris
had endeavoured so gracefully to gloss over
and yet prevent for the future. ' Then I

made a stupid ignorant blunder when I
thought he was a Latin. Miss Knyvett,'
and he paused with his brush upturned,
you're a sight too clever for me to talk to.'

• Not clever,' Iris corrected ; ' only well
read. I've mugged it up out of books,
that's all. Anybody can mug it all up
if he'll only take the pains. I had to at
Cambridge.'

But what was that you said yesterday
about Nausicaa ?' Blake went on, still
blushing. ' I wanted to ask you who
Nausicaa was ; and just then I was really
afraid and ashamed to.'

Oh, Nausicaa ?' Iris answered with a
little laugh. ' She's in the "Odyssey," you
know ; the daughter of Albinus, King of
Phaeacia, and she goes with her maidens
to wash linen by the seashore; and there
she finds Odysseus thrown upon the
coast ; and then ' — gliding gently over
the dangerous ground with a faint blush,
for even a Girton girl is still a woman —

she gives him dry things and takes him
home in her father s chariot to the Court
of Phseacia.'

'It sounds like good ballad poetry,' Blake
answered interested. ' Worked up in the
style of the " Earthly Paradise'' I should
think it ought to make very graceful verse.'

I wish I were going to stop here longer,'
Iris said quite seriously, amused at his
inverted way of looking at Homer, ' and
I'd teach you Greek. It's a grand language
. . . and I can't bear to think you've
never heard the bees hum in Theocritus.'

You'd find me a precious bad pupil,
I'm afraid,' Blake went on with a sigh,
as he added a still deeper tinge of orange
to the throat of the great Cretan mullein
he was daintily painting. ' I was always
bad at anything like a language.'

Iris paused, admiring the exquisite depth
of the colour in the gorge of the bell, and
the masterly painting of the whole imperial
blossom. Remembering the scraps of Oil en-dorian

French she had already heard him
stumble through with Madame Administrative,
she began to fear vaguely in her
own soul that her new hero had by no
means unduly underestimated his own very
slender linguistic capabilities. She gazed
at the canvas, and tried another tack.

After all,' she said, with pensive head on
one side appreciative, * why should I wish
you to read Theocritus at all, when I see
you are in all essentials a Theocritus
already ? What the Greek tried to say
with words and rhythm, that you say for
us here in visible images with form and
pigment. The same grace, the same studied
ease, the same southern rusticity, the same
simple naturalness. Nothing about your artis
anywhere affected.' Her own thoughts
hurried her on too far. ' You have no
need to go to school to the Greeks,' she
went on. ^ You, a poet-painter, have in
yourself, to start with, those very ideas
which we ordinary mortals strive to hammer

into our heads by hard .practice through
daily acquaintance with the masterpieces
of literature.'

Blake looked back at her with his big:
eyes fall of childish wonder. He hardly
knew how to contain himself with surprise.
Delicate flattery is dear to the
soul of every one of us ; sympathy, appreciation,
encouragement in our art —
though we don't often get them; but that
she, the one woman whom he most dreaded
and admired on earth, whom he had lain
awake to dream of all last night, should
thus condescend to put him, as it were,
upon her own level, and to balance his
gifts with hers, not wholly to his disadvantage
— this, indeed, was more than
he could have hoped or prayed for. And
the best of it was, in a shamefaced way,
in that back-corner of self-esteem which
even the most modest of us keeps somewhere
perdu at the far-end of his brain,
he recognised himself with an inward blush

that all she said had a great deal of truth
in it. He was a poetic painter by nature,
and he felt instinctively the underlying kinship
between work like his own and the best
pastoral poetry. But Le Marchant had
never told him that. Le Marchant had
never casually remarked upon his brotherhood
with the great idyllic poets. No one
but she, that incomparable she, in her
noble condescension, had ever yet beheld
the whole genius that was in him.

You're very kind,' he said, one blush
pervading him to the roots of his hair.
You somehow make me feel quite at
home at once with you. Shall I confess
now why I thought Theocritus wrote in
Latin ? I think I will. Because I know
him only through Andrew Lang's ballade,
'' Where breaks the blue Sicilian sea " —
you remember ? And Sicilians, I fancied,
must surely have spoken Latin, because
nowadays, I suppose, they speak Italian.'

' I never read that piece,' Iris answered
unabashed.

Oh, let me repeat it then,' Blake cried,
enchanted to find he knew something: she
didn't. Young love delights to drop into
poetry ; and he recited it all through with
a sonorous voice to his listening companion.


Iris followed the flow of those dainty
lines with deep attention. ' It's beautiful,'
she said as he finished ; ' simple and beautiful,
like your own painting.'

They paused awhile ; then Iris said once
more, to change the subject, 'How hot it is
here ! I'm quite thirsty. I should love some
lemonade. Mv kingdom for a lemon !'

Blake dropped into poetry once again.
The mood was on him :

Oh, for a draught of vintage that has been
Cooled a long age in the deep delved earth ;

Tasting of Flora and the country green.

Dance, and Provencal song and sun-burnt mirth

Oh, for a beaker full of the warm South,
Full of the true, the blushful Hippocrene !" '

That's pretty, too,' Iris said, admiring.
And is that Andrew Lang also ? Please
tell it all to me.'

Blake started in surprise. ' What, not
know that !' he cried. ' Why, it's Keats, of
course ; the Ode to the Nightingale. I
thought, of course, you'd have read that.
It's a lovely thing. You must let me
repeat it to you.'

Iris blushed again. ' You'll think me
dreadfully ignorant, Tm afraid,' she said
apologetically. ' I've had to work so hard
at Greek and Latin the last few years, that
I'm afraid I've rather neglected the English
poets ; while your mind seems to be just
saturated with them. I wish I'd read them
as much as you have.'

Young love is always frankly self-conscious.
* How quickly a woman finds
out all that's in one!' he cried, delighted;
so much faster than a man. I've lived
with Le Marchant six months in a tent, and
yet, except for a certain manual deftness in

painting pictures, I don't believe he's ever
found out there's anything in me.'

Iris dropped her pretty eyelashes with a
demure droop — for all the world like any
ordinary girl who has slot been to Cambridge.


Mr. Le Marchant's a mere man of science,'
she said slowly. ' Perhaps . . . you and
I . . . have more in common.'

Yernon Blake tramped back to the tent
that night, up the steep path, with that
painful malady strong upon him. It made
his heart go thump, thump, thump. And
as he tramped, he said to himself a hundred
times over in an ecstasy of delight, ' Hereby
God's grace, is the one maid for me,' as
Geraint said when he first saw Enid.

VOL. II. 26

THE claimant's CASE COLLAPSES.

For the next fortnight, Vernon Blake's
single-hearted devotion to landscape was
really nothing short of exemplary. The
figure, at least as a subject for artistic study,
seemed suddenly to have lost for him all
interest or attraction. He tramped it over to
St. Cloud every morning regularly, across
that weary pass, and painted away at the
background of his big picture with a steadiness
of aim and forgetfulness of fatigue that
would have deserved the highest commendation
— in an older man. Almost every morning,
too, by some strange coincidence, Iris
somehow happened to be passing casually,
and to look, for a few minutes at least as

she passed, at the progress of the handsome
young painter's work.

One would almost have fancied they both
did it on purpose, were such suspicions
possible about a Third Classic. But Girton
girls, of course, like Caesar's wife, are above
suspicion.

Don't you think, perhaps, he's a trifle
dangerous, Tom ?' Mrs. Knyvett asked more
than once of her astute brother.

And the eminent Q.C., who flattered himself
he had a keen nose for the trail of a
fortune-hunter, answered ofl'-hand, ' Xo, no,
Amelia ; not he. He's an innocent, ignorant
young man, the painter. Xot at all the sort
of person ever likely to fall in love with a
girl like Iris ; and certainly not at all the
sort of person a girl like Iris is ever the least
likely to fall in love with. He doesn't
know a quarter enough for hei bless you!
It's that clever Le Marchant fellow that
we've got to steer clear of

In which confident prediction Uncle Tom

2^—2

was SO fully justified by the facts of the case
that before the first fortnight was well over
Iris caught herself looking out with a beating
heart every morning from her windows
in the Fort, to see if the painter, with his
easel on his back, was trudging down the
hill ; and Vernon Blake on his side caught
himself, with a similar flutter under his
waistcoat watch-pocket, waiting for the
slightest rustle of a certain dainty morning-dress
against the lentisk bushes of the hedge,
as he stood and painted with trembling
fingers at that interminable background.

Iris saw a great deal all these days of
Meriem also ; for Uncle Tom had now procured
the philological services of a one-eyed
Maltese — official interpreter to the Commune
of St. Cloud — of whose aid in speaking the
Kabyle tongue he availed himself freely in
his legal inquiries ; and though Iris herself
was henceforth strictly excluded from these
severe interviews as a dangerous personage
to her own cause, she generally rode across

with her uncle to the Beni-Merzoug mountain,
and sat among the bare rocks outside,
chatting with Meriem, while the great Q.C.,
the Amine, and the Kabyles generally, were
endeavouring to arrive, by question and
answer, though the medium of the one-eyed
Maltese's English, at some possible mode of
understanding one another's respective ideas,
Oriental or Western.

On one such occasion Uncle Tom came
over in high glee, primed for the final inquiry
of all, to which his careful research
among the archives of St. Cloud had now
ultimately narrowed itself. He had no
doubt by this time in his own mind that a
good deal of the Claimant's story was true
that Clarence Knyvett, after enlisting at
Toulon as Joseph Leboutillier, had really
run away from the Third Chasseurs, out of
pique or Quixotism, and taken refuge among
the Kabyles under the name of Yusuf He
had discovered further, from the Acres d^
Peat Civil at St. Cloud, that the fugitive

several ::: -. and tii»«£»e, in accordance

eth Ting terms of the old

Admire s ^i^^ possessed the power of bes

: "-It properly to whomemar

?nlT he died in the

^ ■ - ■ T'Ti:rfal issue, by

^ - > - - ^ueh, and then

•:^ 7 hf7 i-t Uncle Tom had

^' ■ — : ^ r very simple one

~- - t: It Invert's marriage with

r: : .\ : tL^ l's was in the eyes

•::" : r :^ Division a true

■^ irons and naa-

'-— ^ it be could prove

tt'- - Ms own satis

indeed. The

k' :: ": "-iTr ~ old not satisfy Iris's

-^= :t~- - - Aristotelian equity;

- -: " ~ IT the scruples of

ST. ji-^ :- 1 ^ -^ : i that was quite

r - : 1. The great Blacks

: 1001 a malicious

one. Uncle Tom didn't for a moment
doubt that Iris herself could be persuaded
in the end to ao^ree with the o^reat Black -
stone on the legal issue, to compromise
Menem *s shadowy claims for some small
annuity, and to enjoy her own good and
undoubted title to the estate without further
dreams of a Quixotic and unpractical natural
justice.

On this particular morning, therefore,
Uncle Tom sat under the open corridor of
the Amine' s cottage, endeavouring for the
tenth time at least to cross-examine, in
his familiar Chancery Lane style, these
very unpromising and incomprehensible
witnesses.

It was hard, indeed, to drag anything out
of them ; their Oriental imagery clouded
from the eminent Q.C's Occidental mind
their underlying: meanings. But at last
Uncle Tom had begun to discover a right
mode of approach, and to pin the Amine
down, step by step, to something like a
consistent statement of plain history.

*Ask him,' Uncle Tom remarked to the
interpreter, with severe emphasis, ' whether
he was present himself on the particular
occasion when his sister Halima, or whatever
else her outlandish name may be, was
married to the man they called Yusuf.'

He says, of course he was,' the one-eyed
Maltese responded cheerfully, as the Amine,
with innumerable nods and gestures, expressed
his assent volubly in many guttural
notes to the question proposed to him.

Ask him once more,' Uncle Tom continued,
with an austere countenance, 'if
there was any written contract of marriages

He says, Allah is great, and it is not the
custom with the sons of the Kabyles,' the
interpreter replied, again translating, with
his one eye fixed firmly on the barrister's
face.

Then what was the ceremony performed
at the wedding ?' Uncle Tom went on, with
malicious joy.

He says, the All-merciful was pleased

to prosper him ; he got twenty francs and a
French Government rifle for her,' the interpreter
replied, Tvith his gravest expression.

Uncle Tom was delighted, though he
feigned surprise, and with difficulty repressed
a triumphant smile. Nothing
could be more beautifully barbaric than
this. Twenty francs and a Government
rifle ! If ever the case should come into an
English Court, which wasn't likely, the
learned judge. Uncle Tom felt certain,
would dismiss Miss Meriem at once, with
costs, on the mere strength of that one feeble
and fatuous admission.

But the ceremony !' Uncle Tom objected,
with a severe face, trying to look shocked.
The religious sanction ? The obligation
or bond ? The nevis matrimonii ? They
must surely have something among these
rude tribes in the nature of a wedding.
They don't manage the matter as the fowls
of the air would, do they, surely ?'

He says, a man who knows how to read

Arabic recites the first and fourth chapters
of the Koran the interpreter replied, ' and
then the husband pays the contract price,
and they eat a dish of cous-cous together,
and the parties thenceforth are considered
married.'

Uncle Tom rubbed his hands together
gaily. ' Confarreatio /' he murmured to
himself. ' Heathen confarreatio^ not Christian
marriage. — And that was all that took
place in this case?' he asked aloud, with
considerable unction.

Oh no,' the interpreter replied, after consulting
his principal ; ' there was more than
that, the Amine remarks ; much feasting and
dancing took place in the house, and
quantities of figs and of cous-cous were
eaten.'

But there was no sort of wedding or
marriage ceremony before the French authorities
?' Uncle Tom insisted ; ' no going
before the priest or the Maire, for example,
or anybody of that sort ?'

The Amine says, do you take him for a

dog?' the interpreter answered, with an
unmoved face. ' Was his sister a Christian,
that she should do these things ?
Have not all his people been reckoned
among the stanchest of the Faithful since
the beginning of time, and is not he himself
lineally descended from the Glory of Islam,
the Star of the Atlas, the holy saint Sidi
Mohammed of the Djurjura ?'

Uncle Tom was almost satisfied now, but
he thought it well to ask just one more
question before he considered the point as
finally settled.

Ask the man,' he said once more, with
his slaves voice, to make security doubly
sure, ' whether polygamy is lawful among
his countrymen, the Kabyles.'

The Amine replies, unhappily his people
are too poor to be able to afford more than
one wife apiece,' the interpreter answered.
The Arabs, who are richer, have often
more. Herds of camels and many wives are
theirs. But the law of the Prophet is alike

for all. There is but one Koran for Arab
or Kabyle. Let not the Faithful set themselves
up against the customs of Islam. In
common with all other true Moslems, the
Kabyles may have four wives apiece, if they
choose, after the example of the ever-blessed
Prophet Mohammed, and the glorious and
victorious Caliph Omar.'

Uncle Tom chuckled audibly to himself
at the naive reply. The learned judge
would know very well how to deal with a
so-called marriage of that sort. A polygamous
union, of no legal value ! The case
was practically closed now. The Claimant
was 720t Clarence Knyvett's lawful heir,
according to the requirements of English
law. Uncle Tom had vindicated the
sanctity of Christian wedlock. He had
confounded the wiles of that artful Le
Marchant. He felt his bosom swell with an
honest pride. Twenty francs and a Government
rifle, indeed ! The Claimant's cause
had collapsed utterly.

TWO MAIDENS.

Outside, meanwhile, upon the rocks under
the gnarled old olives on the slope, Meridian
Iris sat and talked hard by, like two
sisters who had lived with one another fora
whole lifetime. Bare-footed, one, and a
Girton girl, the other, that fortnight had
brought them very close together. It
seemed to Meriem as if for the first time in
all her life she had found a girl friend to
whom she could confide what was innermost
and most profoundly sacred within
her.

I suppose, Iris,' she said, in her simile,
childlike way, peeping out from her robe
with half-coquettish shyness, ' the English

part of me has only just begun quite lately
to awaken. Before Yernon and Eustace
came here to camp, I had never seen any
English people at all, you see, except only
Yusuf '

Uncle Clarence, you mean,' Iris suggested,
half starting.

He was Yusuf to me while he lived,'
Meriem answered, with a grave and serious
look, taking her new friend's hand in her
own, as was her wont; 'and he shall be
Yusuf to me always as long as I live, whatever
his English people may have called
him. Well, you see, dear, till Yernon and
Eustace came to camp here, I hardly
remembered or understood anything much
of what Yusuf had told me. My English
even was just a little girl's, I suppose; at
least, it was a great deal simpler and scantier
than what I speak now ; for when Yusuf
died I was only a child, and all I knew was
so vague and childish.'

But how old are you now, Meriem ?' her

cousin asked, looking hard at her strong
fair face, with no little wonderment. * It
isn't so long since Uncle Clarence's death.
You can't have been so very childish then,
you know.'

I'm sixteen now,' ^leriem answered, after
a short attempt to recollect exactly. ' So I
must have been a little over twelve when
Yusuf died, you see.'

Iris started.

Neo more than sixteen !' she cried. ' Why,
Meriem, you look as old as I, and I'm
twenty-three my next birthday.'

But in the south,' Meriem said, ' I've
always heard we girls grow to be women a
great deal earlier than in colder countries.
I suppose that's the Kabyle half of my
nature ; though I seem to feel, since Vernon
and you came, I'm a great deal more
English than Kabyle at bottom. I seem
to get so much nearer to Yernon and you
than I ever could o-et to Ahmed or to

CD

Ayesha.'

Then you've learnt to speak English
much better of late ?' Iris asked musingly.

Oh yes,' Meriem answered ; ' ever so
much better. I've learnt to express myself
so much more easily. Since Vernon came,
he and I have been talking together almost
all the time. And I've learned to read
English too, you see; that's taught me a
great many words and ideas I hadn't got in
my head before. It seems as if I learnt
more quickly than was possible. Not at
all like learning to read the Koran. More
like remembering, almost, than learning.'

Love is a most successful teacher of
languages.

I expect,' Iris suggested, after a moment's
thought, ' your English nature had been
growing up slowly, though never developing,
for want of opportunity ; and when
these two young men came, and you had
English companionship, it burst out at
once, like a dormant faculty, into full
activity.'

I think so Meriem answered, catching
at once at the kernel of her meaning, though
some of the words that enveloped it were
still unfamiliar to her. ' I think I must
have grown like a flower does, you know,
before it opens, and the moment the right
time for unfolding arrived, I must have
opened naturally when the sunshine fell
upon me.'

What sunshine ?' Iris asked, with a
quiet smirk.

^leriem had it in her heart to answer
simply and truthfully, ' Vernon's ;' but a
certain strange shyness she had never felt
before in her life restrained her somehow,
and she answered instead, quite prettily:

Yours, Iris.'

The Third Classic leant forward, pleased
at the compliment, and laid her white hand
on ^leriem's neck caressingly. As she did
so, she touched the little box locket that
Meriem wore round her throat always. The
srirl drew back with a half startled look.

o

VOL. II. 27

'Don't touch it!' she cried. 'You
mustn't take that off. It was Yusuf himself
who hung that charm there, and he told
me I must never, never let anyone except
myself handle it.'

Iris withdrew her caressing fingers, half
hurt at the rebuff.

I see all you Kabyle girls wear them
she said, less cordially. ' What is there in
them?'

Some of them have a little red hand for
luck,' Meriem answered, half blushing, with
ingenuous shame, ' and some have the bone
of a great saint, or a white rag of his blessed
clothing, and some have charms against the
evil-eye, and some have a verse from the
holy Koran.'

But what's in yours ?' Iris persisted once
more.

I don't know,' Meriem answered. ' I've
never looked. It was Yusuf who hung it
there. He told me to keep it very carefully.'


Bat you ought to look, I think,' Iris
went on. with insistence. * Do let me take
it off just once to see! Perhaps it may be
something very important.'

Meriem drew back with the same startled
and terrified look as before.

Oh, don't touch it. Iris ; don't touch it!'
she cried. ' Why. I wouldn't let even
Vernon himself touch it.'

It was Iris's turn to start back now.
Vernon, Vernon, always Vernon! A shade
of displeasure passed for a moment over her
bright face.

You seem very fond of Mr. Blake,' she
said chillily. ' And whv do you always
call him Vernon?'

He told me to,' Meriem answered,
looking up into her pretty English cousin's
eyes with vague wonder and hesitancy. ' He
said it was the right way to call him in
English.'

Xot for a girl,' Iris objected decidedly.
Girls don't call men by their names like

27—2

that. I call him " Mr. Blake," don't you
notice, Meriem?'

Well, I called him Blake, too, at first,'
Meriem went on, much puzzled at this
strange discrepancy between her teachers ;
'and Eustace and he laughed at me for
doing it. They told me only men did so in
England. A woman ought to call him by
the name he's got for being a Christian —
Vernon.'

By his Christian name !' Iris cried disapprovingly.
' Oh no, Meriem; not unless
unless they're awfully intimate and at
home together. Only, you know, when
they've known one another ever so long,
and like one another, oh — just immensely !'

Well, I like Vernon just immensely,'
Meriem answered, smiling.

Why?' Iris asked with sharp decision.

Who can tell ? Because he paints and
talks so beautifully, I suppose,' Meriem
replied evasively.

A strange doubt rose, vague and undefined,

in Iris's mind. Till that moment,
the terrible thought had never even occurred
to her. She knew that Yernon Blake had
constantly painted the beautiful Kabyle girl,
and had reproduced her faultless form in
every attitude of that simple idyllic mountain
life with brush and with pencil ; but it
had never struck her as possible, any more
than it had struck Yernon Blake himself,
that anything more serious than mere artistic
admiration could enter into his feelings
towards the fair barbarian. Iris was immensely
taken with Meriem in her own
way ; the novelty and freshness of the
situation interested and amused her. She
had greeted her half-wild Mahommedan
cousin sympathetically, with a cousinly
frankness, and had forgotten, as far as a
woman can forget, the great gulf fixed forever
between them. But the gulf was
vaguely there in the background all the
time, for all that. Meriem was to Iris a
charming and interesting and attractive

savage, but a savage still at bottom, in
spite of everything. She could never
believe that Vernon Blake, that poetic
soul, that exquisite artist, as she herself
had found him in their brief intercourse,
could dream of throwing himself away for
life upon a mere graceful and beautiful wild
creature like Meriem.

And more than that, far, Iris felt at that
moment. The human heart (at twenty-three)
is a most plastic object. She had
known Vernon Blake for a fortnight only,
but she woke up all at once at those stray
words of Meriem' s to a vivid consciousness
that henceforth he was indeed a part of her
life, a factor in her history she could never
again get rid of, for good or for evil. From
the very first time she ever saw him, it had
been Vernon Blake all day and all night
with her. Vernon Blake had echoed in her
brain and reverberated through her being.
If not love at first sight on her side, as on
his, it was at any rate interest — a profound

interest, an indefinable charm, an irresistible
attraction.

Do you love him, Meriem?' she asked
suddenly.

Meriem looked back at her with perfect
frankness. To the Kabyle girls of her
village she would never have said a single
word on that sacred subject. She could
never have confided to them her love fora
stranger, and that stranger an infidel.
But Iris, as she said, like Vernon himself,
had roused the half-awakened English side
of her nature. To Iris she felt she could
confide everything, as an English girl confides
in her bosom friend, freely and unreservedly.
She glanced, with a certain
amount of shyness, but with no pretence
at concealment, at her dainty little cousin,
as she answered simply:

I love him, Iris, as I never could have
loved one of our own people.'

And does he love you?' Iris asked, with
a spasm.

Meriem's brow puckered up a little.

I don't know,' she said, in a hesitating
voice, pulling grasses from the crannies of
the rock as she spoke. ' I can't make quite
sure. You see. Iris, I don't understand
your English ways ; and though I've been
reading English novels and trying to understand
them, I'm not so certain that I 've
really quite understood it all yet. Sometimes
I think he does love me, because he
talks so beautifully to me, and takes my
face between his hands — like this, you
know ; and sometimes, when he gets so
flippant and strange, and talks such nonsense,
I think he doesn't really care one bit
for me, but only just wants to amuse himself
a little — like what they call flirting in
the English novels. Kabyles don't flirt ;
we don't understand it. The last fortnight,
especially, he's been often so. He's hardly
taken any notice at all these days of me.
. . But then, you see, he says he's done
quite enough figures now, and he wants to

go on painting at what lie calls the background.'


Iris looked hard at her with a vague misgiving.


Meriem,' she said, gasping, ' has he . . .
has he ever said very much — you know how
to you ?'

Meriem thought deeply for a moment
how to express her ideas before she
spoke. Then she answered slowly, with
great difficulty:

1 think he's talked to me . . . well, it's
so awfully hard for me to say, of course,
because our Kabyle men don't make love,
you know, as you do in England ; they buy
us and pay for us ; it's a matter of bargaining,
like one does at market . . . but I
think, Iris, he's often talked to me . . . the
way they make love in the English novels.'

And taken your face in his hands —
so ?' Iris went on, trembling, and holding
Meriem' s beautiful, shapely head between
her palms as she spoke.

Yes, just so, Iris,' Meriem answered,
half whispering. Her face was like a red
rose now. ' Do you think . do you
think, dear, that means anything?'

The English girl's heart beat hard but
slow, with long leaps and throbs, as the
asked again faintly, ' And kissed you,
Meriem ?'

Yes,' Meriem answered, in the same soft
voice, getting frightened now. ' Was it
wrong of me, Iris ? . . . I was afraid it
was wrontr. I told him I thought so — that
he oughtn't to do it. But he only laughed
at me and said, " Oh no, people always
kissed like that in England." Out here, in
Kabylie, you know, men never kiss a girl,
of course — not a nice girl, I mean — till
they've bought her and paid for her, and
the Tale has read a chapter of the Koran
over them. But in England, Yernon said
it wasn't like that ; that you didn't think it
at all wrong ; and in the English novels —
for I looked on purpose — I saw that all the

young men and girls kissed one another
quite freely when . . . when they where
really and truly fond of one another. So I
thought Vernon must be really and truly
very fond of me, as he kissed me so often.
Was it awfully wrong of me, Iris ? I
couldn't ask Fatima or Ayesha, you see,
because they wouldn't know ; and if it was
wrong, I didn't really mean it.'

No, not wrong, dear,' Iris answered,
with a spasmodic gulp ; " but — but — oh,
Meriem !' And she broke down suddenly,
and burst at once into a flood of tears.

Her heart was full almost to bursting.
If for one short moment she thought
harshly of Meriem, who could blame her ?
It was surely natural. \Yas this barefooted
Kabyle girl, a mere waif of the mountains,
to take away from her at one fell swoop —
and of just right, too — everything on earth
she most prized and cherished ? A month
ago, she had never seen Sidi Aia. To-day,
she was willing to give up Sidi Aia to

Meriem — it was Meriem's own. Had she
not indeed come over to Algeria for that
very purpose ? A fortnight ago she had
never seen Vernon Blake. To-day she
could not give up her painter to Meriem
without tearing at the very roots and fibres
of her heart. Till then, she had never
known how deep he had struck. She felt
at that moment how profoundly she loved
him.

Meriem, gazing at her in blank surprise,
read at once the secret the Englishwoman
had never yet spoken.

Oh, Iris,' the mountain-bred girl exclaimed,
flinging herself on her unconscious
rival's neck, and bursting in her turn into
a flood of hot tears, ' I didn't know it ! I
didn't suspect it ! If I had, I would never
have spoken to you so. I thought he admired
you very much indeed — who could
help admiring you ? But I didn't think —
I didn't think — I didn't think you loved
him !'

Hush!' Iris cried, looking round her in
alarm. ' I never said so, Meriem. I never,
never, never said so. Even to myself, I
never once said so.'

^ Has he told you he loves you ?' Meriem
cried, in suspense.

No ; he has never told me,' Iris answered,
through her tears. ' But — you
know how it is ; he's let me feel, I suppose
you understand how — not by what he
said, or even looked or did, but by what he
didn't say, or look, or do, Meriem.'

The Kabyle girl rose, and gazed down
upon the graceful and delicate English lady
very compassionately. Her own soul was
all seething within her.

Iris,' she said slowly, with deep determination,
' you have nothing to cry for.
Don't break your heart as he's broken mine.
He never cared in the least for me. It was
all empty. I know it now. I see it at
last. He was only amusing himself !'

Then he had no right to break your

heart, dear,' the Englishwoman answered,
clinging hard to her hand. ' He had no
right to flirt with you ; he had no right to
kiss you. I can see how deep the wound
has gone. He must marry you. Meriem.
You're rich, and he must marry you.'

In her passion of self-abnegation, she
would give uj) all. Sidi Aia, and the property,
and Vernon Blake, were Meriem' s.

• I don't want the money,' Meriem answered
low, her eyes now dry, and her
bosom panting ; ' but I did want — I did
want Vernon.'

You shall have him,' Iris repeated.
He must marry you. I'll make him.'

Meriem flung herself at her cousin's feet
once more, and raising the hem of her dress
to her lips, as she had done on the very
first morning they met, she cried out
earnestly:

Oh, Iris, you must take him ! When I
look at you, and think that such a girl as
you are willing to marry him, I wonder I

was bold enough ever to dream lie could
look for a moment at a poor creature like
me. Iris — Iris, I see it all now as clear as
day. I tried for awhile to persuade myself
he might, perhaps, really love me. But I
know the truth now ; and the truth has
crushed me. He never, never, never cared
at all, in his heart, for me.'

Then why did he kiss you ?' Iris cried
out fiercely. ' Why did he hold your face
so in his hands ? Why did he make love
to you, and talk to you beautifully ? If he
didn't mean it, he was using you cruelly,
and he shall never marry me, though he
asked me on his knees, after acting like
that. I shall never take him away from
any other woman, who has so much better a
claim on him than ever I could have.'

Meriem looked down at her own bare feet
that patent symbol of her low estate — in
shame and mortification.

I was mad,' she said, glancing from her
own coarse haik to Iris's exquisitely-made

London dress, ' to dream that Yernon could
ever think of me, such a girl as I am ! I've
broken the dream for ever now. I shall
crush it down deep in my heart, Iris. For
his own sake, even, I'd never clog him with
myself. He shall marry you ; he shall
marry you ; I shall make him marry you.'

'It's a trial of strength between us, then,'
Iris cried, in her passion of self-denial.
He was yours first. He shall be yours forever.'


He was never mine,' Meriem answered
sadly. * He shall be yours for ever, as he
has been, I know now, in my heart of
hearts, from the very first moment he ever
saw you.'

When Uncle Tom emerged from the
Amine's cottage, two minutes later, he saw
those two girls, as he expressed it himself
to Mrs. Knyvett the same afternoon, kissing
and crying under a big olive-tree, and declaring
they loved each other dearer than

ever, and behaving for all the world before
the eye of the sun like a couple of babies

But as Uncle Tom and Iris rode away
towards St. Cloud once more, in varying
moods (for Uncle Tom was elated at the
pricking of this bubble) Hussein and Ahmed
leaned up against a wall, and puffing slowly
at their native cigarettes, watched the hated
infidels well out of the village.

She's pretty', the Christian girl,' Ahmed
said with a smile to his former foe and
rival, Hussein, still toying with his dagger,
and very like Meriem, though a great deal
more beautiful. It's a pity she should be
thrown away upon a mere infidel.'

Ay,' Hussein answered, with a generous
wave of the hand towards the bidder he had
displaced. ' Pretty she is, and fit for a
Moslem. You may take Meriem yourself
if you like, now, Ahmed. When Allah
wills, I shall have the Christian woman.'

VOL. II. 28

And that night, alone in her own room,
Meriem, sitting by the dim light of a very
Roman-looking earthenware lamp, filled
with olive-oil and a floating wick, laid her
hand dubiously on the charm round her
neck, and then, with a sudden uncontrollable
impulse, unfastening its clasp for the first
time in her life . . . opened the spring lid,
and looked gravely inside it.

What she saw there she told to no one ;
but it altered the whole tenor of her life
thenceforward.

A HARD WRENCH.

To Uncle Tom's Lincoln's Inn intelligence,
the settlement of the point that Clarence
Knyvett's so-called marriage with the late
lamented Halima, deceased, was no marriage
at all by English law, had closed the episode
of their visit to Algeria. So far as he
was concerned, that loyal son of the British
Bar, true lawyer to the core, was prepared
forthwith to return to the classic shades
of Old Square, leaving bare-legged Miss
Meriem and her Paynim friends to their
own devices thenceforth and for ever. To
be sure, he would have favourably entertained
any proposal from Iris to pension off
her Uncle Clarence's alleged daughter with

28—2

a modest pension of the most unassuming
character. That small moral claim he fully
admitted. A man's flesh and blood may be
said, in a certain sort of merely human way,
to be more or less related to him. But that
the girl had the slightest legal right to a
single stiver of Sir Arthur's property —
pooh, pooh ! the notion was too utterly ridiculous
to be seriously considered by a
judicial mind for half a minute. So he
straightway proposed an immediate return
to his native land before Iris could involve
herself any further in this foolish intimacy
with a half-savage, left-handed Mahommedan
cousin.

The Third Classic, however, to Uncle
Tom's supreme disgust, refused to see
matters in the same simple and legally-polarized
light. The law, she said, in her
irreverent fashion, as they conversed with
animation that evening at the Fort, might
declare Uncle Clarence was no relation at
all to his own daughter till all was blue.

She, for her part, defied the judges, and
insisted upon taking a more natural biological
view of the question. Coleridge. C.J.,
might talk himself black in the face to
prove the contrary, and she wouldn't believe
him. She maintained with obstinacy, in
spite of Blackstone, the perverse opinion
that father and child are more or less remotely
connected by nature with one
another, and that all the law and all the
lawyers in England could never make them
into strangers in blood, whatever they did
to them. Besides, she wanted to stop and
see more of Meriem. She wanted to decide
in her own mind what must be done about
the matter of the inheritance.

She did not add to Uncle Tom — perhaps
she did not add even to herself — that she
wanted also to consider what must be done
about Vernon Blake, and how she was to
tear away her own poor little heart from
that too attractive and cohesive painter.

Madame will be tired of us,' Uncle Tom

suggested, as a last resort. ' She can
hardly mean to take us all in as lodgers
at nothing a week for an indefinite
period.'

But madame, who just caught at the
meaning of his sentence as he let it drop,
interposed with something more than mere
French politeness to assure her dear friends
she would be delighted for her part to put
them up on those terms for ever and ever.
And so, in truth, she would no doubt have
been ; for the little woman loved society ;
and in this dull place, que voulez-vous,
monsieur f Must one die of emiui f

So Uncle Tom in the end retired, worsted,
as he always did from an encounter with
Iris. Those persistent Knyvetts, with their
sentiments and emotions, were invariably
too much for his common-sense legalism.
They could twist him round their little
fingers, as he himself could twist and turn
an unwilling witness. His very side-issues
broke down hopelessly. If Mrs. Knyvett's

bronchitis, as Iris averred, really made it
impossible to return at this time of year
from a warm climate to the fogs of England,
why couldn't they, at least, retire upon
their own snug and comfortable villa at
Algiers, till Amelia was well again ?

But Iris said no, with her pretty little
foot and the family emphasis, and Uncle
Tom, squashed flat under the weight of her
crushing negative, was forced to submit to
that imperative gesture. Iris would never
leave Grande Kabylie, she declared, till
she'd settled the two subjects that now
lived most of all in her mind — Meriem's
fortune and Meriem's love-affair. Meriem
must take it all — all — all from her.
Meriem must have Uncle Arthur's fortune
Meriem must marry that handsome
painter.

In those two firm resolves, Iris sobbed
herself wearily to sleep with self-righteous
pride that night in her own bedroom at
the Fort at St. Cloud. The fortune, indeed,

she could give up readily ; but not the
painter — no, not the painter.

Yet her pretty eyes were none the redder
for her tears, when she sallied forth from
the Fort next morning, with madame and
the faithful officer of the Genie, and turned
her steps in vague expectation towards the
spot where Blake was still so ardently displaying
his practical devotion to landscape
backgrounds.

The painter was there, as madame had
expected ; for madame, all French though
she was in her ideas of the proprieties, yet
entered with zest into this romantic little
episode of English love-making, the first
she had ever seen outside the yellow covers
of a translated novel.

I find that charming,' she said, in an
undertone, to her friend the officer ; ' we
have nothing like it, pour le boni motifs du
moins, on our side of the Channel. There
is in it the element of free choice, of
romance, of individual preference, and yet

it's all so innocent, oh, 7no7i Dieu, che
V innocence I Tandis que chez nous autres,'
and she broke off, sighing.

For she herself had been married at
eighteen, to an eligible person of the same
fortune, by mutual arrangement between
her own family and M. Administrator's.

Her poor little faded rags of romance
had all come afterwards ; and innocence
was not precisely the exact attribute that
delighted the soul of the officer of the
Genie.

They sat down and criticised Blake's
picture for awhile; then madame and her
slave wandered off discursive into gossip
of the Fort and the surrounding colony.
Had monsieur seen the new Commandant's
wife at the next post? What was her
probable age, allowing for paint ? And
was she really so very pretty ?

Pretty ! yes, je vous l*accorde, pretty.
But that was all. A most sad affair. She
hadn't the sou. Her husband had married

her par 'pure depravation ; je vous assure,
madame par pure depravation''

Madame laughed, and raised her pencilled
eyebrows. That was wrong, she said ;
extremely wrong — and at such a crisis.
A French official should be married in
these days — married, of course, because it
was necessary he should be doubly rich ;
he must sustain the dignity of France
among strangers ; but to marry sans le
sou, that, for example, in madame's opinion,
was sheer wickedness.

Vernon Blake lifted his eyes timidly from
his canvas as she spoke, and caught Iris's.
He couldn't forbear a meaning smile. The
whole point of view was so thoroughly un-english.
Iris dropped her own modest
eyelids in return. The mute little pantomime
was not thrown away on madame's
keen glance.

J^ai passe par la,^ she thought to herself
good - humoured ; for she, too, had
been in Arcadia. And besides, she was not

averse, in her present humour, to a quiet
tête-à-tête herself, with the officer of the
Genie.

Come on, mon ami,' she cried of a
sudden to her companion, in a very low
tone, seizing his arm spasmodically. * These
two have affairs of their own to settle. Let
us not derange them. Let us admire the
landscape.' And the admired the landscape
on their own account, a hundred
yards off, round the corner of the rock,
with that other element of individual preference
thrown in, which, though not so
guileless, is more peculiarly charming to
the French idiosyncrasy.

AVhat a funny way of looking at it!'
Iris said, with a smile, as they found themselves
alone, with her heart beating hard ;
so very different from our English ideas,
you knows I With us, of course, it seems
quite natural a man should marry a penniless
girl, and work hard for her, and try to
make her happy. We think it wrong to

marry for money. But they both seemed

to think, on the contrary, it was almost

wicked for a man to marry a girl who had

nothing.'

- Yernon Blake's breath came and went »

in gasps.

Yes,' he said slowly, pretending to
fiddle with his brush at a painted leaf in
the foreground as he spoke. ' I think,
myself, I should much prefer the girl I
wished to marry should have nothing of
her own. I should like to spend my life,
as you say, in working hard for her, and if
ever I attained to wealth and fame and
honour and dignity, to lay everything I'd
earned as an offering at her feet, if only
she'd accept it. . . . I think it's more
manly and more natural so. The man
should labour and slave for the woman.
But suppose. Miss Knyvett, a man
were by chance to light some day upon a
woman whom he could love, whom he could
admire, whom he could adore, whom he

could die for — a woman towards whom he
could look up with profound reverence — a
woman whom he felt at once immeasurably
his superior and yet, in other ways, his
helpmeet and his counterpart — a woman to
whom he could give, as Shelley says, the
worship the soul lifts above, and the heavens
reject not — suppose a man were to meet such
a woman as that, whom on all other grounds
he would wish, if he dared, to make his
wife, and, as fate would have it, he happened
to be poor, and she happened to be
rich,' he looked at her appealingly, ' do you
think do you think in such
a case . . . . it would be quite wrong of
him, taking into consideration how much
they might happen to have in common (as

you yourself suggested the other day) '

and he broke off suddenly. Iris's face
was crimson now. She looked down, and
answered nothing He honored in his heart
to stoop forward and kiss her.

But Iris felt a sudden storm convulse her

bosom. As the painter spoke, his words
thrilled her. She knew he loved her — she
knew she loved him. But he was Meriem's
first. She must give him up, against her
will, to Meriem.

Blake paused for a minute, and watched
her silently. Then he spoke once more.

Don't you think, too,' he said, longing
for some little word of encouragement before
he dared to go on, ' that in such a case a
man would often shrink sensitively from
asking the girl he loved, for fear his motives
might be cruelly misconstrued?'

With a terrible effort. Iris did what she
thought right.

I don't think my cousin Meriem would
misconstrue your motives,' she answered
slowly, pretending to misunderstand his
plain meaning. ' Of course she'll be rich
when she comes in to Uncle Arthur's
money, as I mean she shall do; but she
was not rich when when you first
paid attentions to her ; and she could hardly

think, under such circumstances, you meant
to ask her for anything except her own
sake. '

The painter drew back with a shock of
surprise.

Miss Kny vett/ he cried, in a pained
voice, 'you're playing with me! You're
teasing me! You're intentionally shutting
your eyes to what I mean. At such a
moment, it isn't right or kind of you.
You can't seriously think I'm in love with
Meriem.' And he seized her hand in his
own, and held it violently.

Iris struggled hard to release it, but in
vain.

Let go my hand !' she said at last in an
angry, authoritative tone ; and Blake, surprised,
let it go instantly, in answer to
that imperious Knyvett voice. Her lips
trembled, but she nerved herself uj) and
said her say, straight out, for all that.
I don't know why not,' she answered
evasively. ' Meriem's beautiful ; Friedrich

; Meriem's an heiress in her own right ;
Meriem's my uncle Clarence's daughter ; I
don't know why any man shouldn't be
proud and pleased to marry Meriem.'
And after I've seen you. Iris ?'
He said it boldly. He said it softly. He
called her by her name. He was not afraid
to do it. In spite of herself, in spite of her
conscience, in spite of her stern sense of
duty to Meriem, Iris felt a sadden thrill of
unwonted joy course down her spine as she
heard him call her so. It was sweet to
have won the heart of that beautiful creator
of beautiful images, come what might of it.
Sweet to have won it, if only for a day.
Though she must give him up to Meriem
for he was Meriem's first — she didn't
attempt to conceal from herself the delicious
fact that she loved to know she had gained
his love. As he stood there, appealing,
with his two hands clasped, their fingers
intertwining close in one another, he looked
as grand and as fair as a young Greek god.

She was glad in her soul to know he loved
her.

But she crushed it all down with unconquerable
force. She was a Knyvett
born ; no weakness for her, even where a
woman's heart was concerned. She looked
back at him coldly, though those quivering
lips belied her words.

Meriem told me all last night,' she
answered, with a pang. ' You made love
to her long before ever I came here. You
made love to her when she was still poor
and a nobody. You must marry her now
she's a rich lady, and Uncle Arthur's
heiress ; for it's I, after all, who am poor
and a nobody, you see, nowadays.'

Yernon Blake's heart gave a great bound.

I'm glad of that, Iris,' he cried, still
more boldly, with a burst of delight, 'for
then you'll know it's i/oii I ask and want ;
like Lord Ronald with Lady Clare, you,
and you only.'

It was hard on poor Iris, undeniably

VOL. II. 29

hard. She saw he meant it ; she saw how
the blood came quick into his cheek as she
said those words. It was for herself he
loved her, not for lands or money. Had
she followed the promptings of her own
soft heart, she would have flung herself at
once, in sweet abandonment, upon the
painter's bosom. But a sterner tyrant
ruled her actions. The Knyvett conscience,
aglow with indignation, rose in full revolt.

Mr. Blake,' she cried, starting back, and
assuming a virtuous anger she only felt
with half her nature, ' how dare you call
me by my Christian name, when you know
you've made love for months to Meriem ?
How dare you be so untrue, and unkind,
and unfaithful to her ? Don't try to conceal
the facts from me, please, or to gloss
them over, or to make light of them easily.
You won't succeed, for Meriem told me all
last night; and I see what it means; you
must marry Meriem !'

Steer,' Blake answered, hot in the face,

but disregarding her orders. ' I'll marry
you, or nobody, Iris.'

He needed no wizard now to tell him she
loved him. He could see so much plainly
for himself. Only this wretched phantom
of an imagined Meriem stood between them.
And, for Meriem's sake, she would wreck
all — wreck their joint lives that might he
made so beautiful !

Iris gazed back at him like a marble
Nemesis.

Meriem told me she answered, with
stern self-restraint, 'you've made love to
her the way they make love in English
novels. She told me you'd taken her face
in your hands and kissed her often. She
told me everything that passed between
you. Do you think after that, in your
own conscience, you've any right to marry
anyone else but Meriem ?'

Blake looked down at the ground with
awkward shyness.

It was the merest flirtation,' he answered,

29 — 2

on the defensive. ' I never meant anything
but just '

To amuse yourself! Yes, yes ; that's it,
I know. You meant to amuse yourself. It
was only that to you, perhaps, I dare say ;

but to Meriem Mr. Blake, how dare

you tell me so ? Don't you see she loves
you ! You'll break that girl's heart unless
you marry her.'

And you' heart ?' Blake cried, with a
sudden burst of audacity. Love gives the
most modest man a wonderful boldness.
How about yow heart — your own heart,
Iris ?'

The English girl winced. It was a home-thrust.


My heart must break, too, if need be,'
she answered, all taken aback, with a flush
of passion.

'Then you do love me!' Blake cried,
springing forward eagerly.

Iris bent her head, and blushed crimson.
She thought she was only abandoning the

merest outwork when she was really giving
up the entire citadel.

I do love you,' she answered slowly.
But 1 can never marry you. If / can give
it up, so can you. 1 will never rest till you
marry Meriem.'

The painter's heart leapt up once more
with a wild delight.

If you admit so much,' he said, ' I needn't
despair. When a woman says she loves
you, all has been said. I kissed her, I grant
you. I've kissed before. If a kiss is to
count for a contract of marriage — why,

then ' And he stepped forward boldly,

and, with an unexpected assault, printed his
lips on Iris's forehead.

The startled girl sprang back as if she
had been stung. That kiss thrilled her
through in every nerve. But she knew it
was wrong ; her conscience chilled her.

Mr. Blake !' she cried, one flush of scarlet,
never dare again to touch me as long as you
live I You had no right to take such an

advantage of my trust. I'll never forgive
you till you've married Meriem. And now,
if you please, I'll go back to madame.'

But in her own room at the Fort that
night she lay on her bed for hours, in her
evening dress, with the candle burning, and
sobbed her throat sore with love and
misery.

COUNTERPLOT.

In London, meanwhile, in the privacy of his
chambers, Harold Knyvett, Esquire, of the
Board of Trade, and of the Cheyne Row
Club, Piccadilly, had been silently working
out his own plans to confound that muddling
old fool, Whitmarsh, and to secure the hand
of his cousin Iris. For, oddly enough, it
was not so much now revenge as desire that
goaded on Harold Knyvett's soul to a policy
of reprisals. He had suddenly awaked that
evening at West Kensington to the previously
obscure fact that he was in love with Iris —
positively in love with her — and the knowledge
of that fact, brought home to him ina
flash at the moment when Iris had rejected

his suit with scorn and contumely, had
impelled him forward, ever since, in a
characteristic scheme for winning back, atone
stroke, both his cousin and the property.
So long as he believed, in his own cynical
words, that ' at the present day any man
may have any girl he likes for the asking,'
it had never occurred to him that he was in
love with Iris. The fruit was ripe to his
hand when he chose to pick it. Imagining,
in his own heart, he might ' marry the girl
whenever he liked,' money or no money, ' by
approaching her in a proper spirit from the
side of the emotions,' he cared but little
more for that particular girl than for any
other of the five hundred well-favoured
young women who, as he still firmly and
fondly held, would jump down his throat
any day if he opened his mouth at them.
But, as soon as he had learned, by actual
experiment, that this one particular maiden
did not ardently desire the honour of his
alliance, it suddenly struck him, with a burst

of surprise, that in his heart of hearts he
wanted Iris, and no girl but Iris could
possibly satisfy him.

It was not a very noble form of love, to
be sure. Harold Knyvett's very affections
were all purely selfish. What he thought
to himself every day, more and more, now
that Iris was gone over sea to Algeria, was
simply this — that nobody could ever please
him like Iris. With Iris, he could be happy,
comfortable, contented, at his ease ; a pleasant
companion secured him for ever ; no idle
gossip or silly chatter to disturb his tranquil
enjoyment of his after-dinner claret ; a
sensible girl, with a head on her shoulders,
ever ready to soothe him with her finer
fancies, to touch him with her lighter thought.
A man of culture should have a woman of
culture as a helpmeet for him. Harold
Knyvett recognised in his lofty soul that the
Third Classic was his pre-established harmony,
the very woman intended by Heaven
to keep such a man as himself company.

And the longer he stopped away from
Iris, the more profoundly each day did he
feel himself in love with her. How he could
ever have been such a fool as not to recognise
the fact earlier, he couldn't imagine ; and
that he, Harold Knyvett, of all men in the
world, should have been such a fool was
almost as remarkable a phenomenon in its
way as even that he should admit himself
for once to have been so. A fine girl, if
ever there was one ; and with character,
intellect, conversation, wit — everything he
prized — to back up the mere external charms
of a pretty face and a well-turned figure.
Her hand was the daintiest little hand in
London ; and the tiny feet that played
under the skirts of her evening dress — well,
Harold Knyvett was fain to confess in reflective
moments that those tiny feet were simply
ravishing.

The more he thought of them, then, the
more abundantly clear did it become to his
logical intelligence that, since he loved them,

he must bring their owner down on her
knees in the dust before him. She had sent
him off, to be sure, that evening at West
Kensington, with a most undignified and
unqualified dismissal. But what of that ?
Girls never know their own minds for ten
minutes together. Amantium ice amoris
inteciratio est (as a man of taste, Harold
Knyvett could even make metre out of a
Latin sentries), and when she found he had
come in, after all, to Sir Arthur's property,
she would descend gracefully, no doubt,
from her high horse, and, with some preliminary
pretence at coyness, consent to
marry the heir of Sidi Aia. What's worth
winning's worth playing for. And Harold
Knyvett, being a born gambler, was quite
prepared to play a high stake for his cousin
Iris.

Sir Arthur had never altered his will.
Harold Knyvett determined to alter it for
him.

It was a big piece of work, to be sure — a

risky job — and it required caution. One
must put judgment into this sort of thing,
of course. No precipitancy. Go to work
slowly, judiciously, carefully, Warily. That
old fool Whitmarsh, ass as he was, had
acquired an undoubted technical knack in
detecting and exposing — well, colourable
imitations of dead men's signatures ; for, in
polite society, we never call them to ourselves
even ' forgeries.' But what Harold Knyvett
meant to do was to find somewhere a will
of Sir Arthur's, leaving everything to himself
personally, and duly attested by two
good witnesses, both of whom must be conveniently
dead, both of whom must possess
at least a fair show of probability, and both
of whose signatures must survive the ordeal
of that old fool Whitmarsh's professional
scrutiny.

Now nobody has any idea how difficult a
matter it is to forge a really plausible will
expert crete) until he comes to try it himself
experimentally. First of all — but that

is the smallest problem of any — you have
to imitate the testator's signature by gradual
steps till you can write it ofF-hand with
freedom and ease like your own name ; for
the smallest appearance of stiffness or formality,
the faintest indication of doubt or
deliberation, the remotest hint of unfamiliarity
or weakness, becomes before the
prying gaze of the expert in handwriting
absolutely fatal. The Chabots and the
Palliser will force your hand. Every letter
must be turned out boldly at a dash ; every
stroke and line must be natural and seemingly
quite unpremeditated. Men write
their signatures so often, indeed, that the
fingers acquire an instinctive twist ; it's far
harder to copy successfully those few flowing
curves of a native twirl than to imitate a
page of ordinary manuscript.

When Harold Knyvett had managed by
assiduous practice, however (on scraps of
paper, all religiously burnt as soon as
written), to turn out an imitation of Sir

Arthur's hand that even Netherclift himself
would have hesitated to declare an undoubted
forgery, the hardest part of his task still
remained to him. He had letters enough .
of Sir Arthur s from which to work, in the
first instance, and he studied them all so
carefully and minutely that he could at last
produce an almost perfect facsimile of the
cramped and crabbed twists of the old
General's gouty signature. But the will
itself, with its manifold pitfalls, was a far
harder and more ticklish matter. In the
first place, you have to draw up something,
in a legal hand and with legal phraseology,
which will bear the suspicious gaze of
eminent Q.C.'s, and outlive the sniffing and
flaw-hunting criticism of spectacled juniors.
Then there are the outsiders, those two fearsome
outsiders, who, as the attestation clause
charmingly phrases it, with more legal precision
than literary beauty, ' being present
at the same time in testator's presence, at
his request, and in the presence of each other,

have hereto subscribed their names as witnesses.'
How much needless trouble they
gave poor Harold ! how nearly they drove
whim to the verge of despair, in the vain
attempt to make quite sure of their historical
existence, their date of death, and their
freedom from the disastrous taint of an
alibi.

For Sir Arthur's will, from the very
nature of the case, must necessarily have
been executed either at Algiers or Aix. At
no date subsequent to the execution of the
first will in Iris's favour had Sir Arthur
ever returned to England. Now, that
awkward circumstance made the witness
question a peculiarly delicate one for the
amateur to handle. Harold's problem, newly
put, amounted, in fact, to just this : how to
find two likely persons at Aix or Algiers,
both now defunct, both well known of late
years to Sir Arthur, and both of whom he
could be quite sure might possibly have
been at a certain lace on a certain date,

without fear of any meddlesome lawyer's
proving that one of them on that day was
actually elsewhere. For on one point Harold
had made up his mind ; he would run no
risk ; if he forged a will, nobody on earth
would ever be able to say it was a probable
forgery. They might think so, of course,
as much as they liked ; thought is free in a
free country — so long as you don't express
it in speaking or writing. But to say so —
no ; Harold Knyvett would so manage the
thing that whatever suspicions old Whit-marsh
might harbour they should be suspicions
only, incapable of proof before judge
and jury. As a man of culture he objected
to the crude contrasts of prison dress ; he
would not waste his valuable time in doing
fourteen years of enforced seclusion among
the uninteresting scenery of Portland or of
Prince's Town.

Labor omnia incite said the Knyvett
motto that surrounded the crest on Harold's
neat and dainty hand-laid notepaper; and

assiduous care did, indeed, at last conquer
all difficulties in the discovery of two defunct
possible witnesses, whose presence together
in Sir Arthur's rooms at Aix, on a given
day in the summer before last, was, to say
the least of it, not plainly disposable. With
infinite pains Harold hunted them up. He
had first to take into his service, indeed, in
the guise of a kinsman grateful for attention
bestowed, that double-faced scoundrel, Sir
Arthur s valet, Gilbert Montgomery, whose
deep-dyed treachery he abhorred and despised
with all the strength of his own manly and
simple nature. He had then, by dexterous
side-hints and careful leading questions, to
find out from this dangerous tool all aV)Out
Sir Arthur's habits and Sir Arthur's cronies,
without too obviously ex citing Montgomery's
suspicions. He had to fix upon two persons
both dead, both at Aix at the same time,
and both likely to be asked to act as witnesses.
He had to hunt up among Sir
Arthur's papers (which Montgomery sold
VOL. II. 30

him) letters from both these persons, to
imitate their handwriting, and to make sure
of a day on which both might reasonably
have called upon Sir Arthur without danger
of anybody urging the awkward fact that
on that particular afternoon one or both
were ill in bed, or absent at Geneva, or
engaged in some other incompatible pursuit,
place or occupation. In the end, however,
Harold's ceaseless pains provided against
every possible contingency, and triumphed
over every prospective assault of the leader
of the Probate and Divorce Division. The
wall, in fact, was a 'perfect gem of forgery,
calculated to deceive the very elect ; so
clever a fraud had never been perpetrated
since Thomas Kynnersley Whitmarsh first
ate his dinners at Lincoln's Inn in the callow
days of the newly-fledged half century.

So Harold Knyvett said to himself with
no small satisfaction as he surveyed the
document one autumn evening in the safe
solitude of his own bedroom. ¥0 detail

had been neglected that leads on to success.
The very paper was French, from Sir
Arthur's desk at Aix-les-Bains; the ink
was sand-powdered with French precision;
the tape to tie it was bought in Paris ; the
watermark was true to year and month ;
everything was en regie with consummate
forethought. As a matter of fact, Harold
Knyvett had forgotten nothing. He was
determined not to be caught out in a
scholar's mate ; and he surveyed his own
work, when complete, with parental pride, asa
specimen of what a man of intelligence can
do when he seriously devotes his mind to
forgery.

And now but one thing was left — to discover
it.

Discovering a forged will is in itself an
art. Foolish precipitancy in this respect
may spoil everything. You may make your
forgery itself as safe as houses, and yet,
if you produce it without a history, so to
speak, or let it drop from a clear sky, 



accounted for, you lay yourself open to the
most absurd suspicions by not being able
to show cause for its due preservation.
Harold Knyvett had thought of that
difficulty too, but as yet he hardly saw
his way well out of it. On one point
only he was quite clear ; he must find the
will in Sir Arthur's rooms at Aix or at
Mustapha. How to account for his presence
at either place at this critical juncture was
the sole remaining problem before him.
And to the plausible solution of that one
problem Harold now addressed himself.

He must get to Algeria, as it were, by
accident.

LE MARCHANT BREAKS SILENCE.

On the very same morning when Iris and
Vernon Blake were having their little love
passage together by the hillside at St. Cloud,
Meriem had come out to the tent at 
to ask assistance from her friend
Le Marchant. A new - born desire had
arisen in her soul, the desire to read English
handwriting.

1 want you to show me, Eustace,' she
said in her simple, straightforward way,
how they make the letters in England
when they write to one another.'

You want to learn to write English, in
fact,' Eustace answered, smiling.

Partly that,' the girl replied with half a

blush. ' But partly more, I want to learn
how to read a letter.'

In case Yernon should ever send you
one, I suppose,' Le Marchant said with a
subdued sadness in his eye and lips.

•No!' Meriem answered very decisively.
Yernon shall never, never write to me.
Yernon shall marry my cousin Iris. I've
made up my mind firmly to that. I wanted
to learn for another reason.'

She spoke decidedly, with concentrated
determination, though it was clear the
words cost her much ; and Le Marchant,
looking keenly through and through her,
read her too far to harrow her just then
with any further questioning. It would
cost her a wrench to give up her painter.
But the wrench must come, Le Marchant
knew well. He saw that Blake was in love
with Iris, and he was sure he would never
dream of marrying Meriem.

He brought out some paper and pen and
ink, and set Meriem a copy of a, b, c, in

the usual formal writings - master style.
Meriem sat down to it, by a flat rock,
with characteristic determination. She had
a reason for learning English manuscript-hand
now ; and, till she had learnt it, no
spare moment should be spent or wasted on
any other subject.

For the next few days, accordingly,
Meriem toiled hard at her new writing,
but especially at deciphering the strange
characters she herself had written. What
she wanted most to do, however, was to
read what was written in other people's
hands; and to this end she made Le Marchant
write down many simple words for
her, and then read them herself at sight
as well as she was able. By the end of
a week, her progress was remarkable ;
previous knowledge of the cursive Arab
had stood her in good stead ; and she found
to her surprise she could spell out a page of
English manuscript with decent certainty,
though by slow stages. And when once

she had reached that point, she spent many
hours shut up by herself in her own bedroom
in the Amine's cottage, poring hard
over something held close to her face, of
which she told naught to anyone anywhere.

Eustace,' she said suddenly, a morning
or two later, appearing with a flushed face
at the tent-door, 'you can speak French. I
want to know if you'll come with me sometime
over to St. Cloud, and find out something
from the people down there for me.'

Le Marchant rose with a pleased face.
Of late, Meriem had been very friendly with
him. She wasn't the least little bit in the
world in love with him, of course ; that he
knew well. He made himself no vain
illusions on that foolish score. Meriem
loved Vernon Blake, and her love for
Vernon Blake was far too profound to allow
of room in her heart for any possible rival.
Still, she was friendly, uncommonly friendly.
She had learned to trust him and rely upon
him as a friend, with a frank trustfulness

which no English girl in our conventional
world could easily have imitated. For that
measure of intimacy Le Marchant was
grateful ; he liked to see that Meriem
trusted him ; he was sorry her love was
so hopeless and so desperate.

What do you want to find out ?' he
asked, coming out to the door, and taking
her hand in his, with friendly sincerity.

Can I trust you ?' Meriem asked, looking
him hard in the face.

You can trust me, Meriem ; implicitly ;
for anything.'

So I think,' she answered, with her keen
glance fixed upon his truthful eyes. ' You
are always kind to me. I believe you. I'll
trust you. Well, then, I want to know . . .
whether they have any register books kept
at St. Cloud of people's marriages earlier
than the Christian year 1870.'

Le Marchant started. ' Why so?' he
asked, in no little surprise.

Eustace,' the girl said, very seriously,

laying her hand upon his arm with a sudden
pressure, ' if I tell you this, you promise on
your honour never to breathe a word of it
to anybody.'

I will never breathe a word of it to anybody,
Meriem, if you ask me not.'

Then this is why. I know you won't
betray me. I think the books must all have
been destroyed in the great insurrection of
1251— what the Christians call 1870. I
hope they were. I'm sure they must have
been. For the Kabyles attacked and burned
down the Fort, and killed almost every
living soul in the place, and even Madame
I'Administratrice herself only escaped by
walking across the snow in her light .'


And why do you wish the books to have
been burnt?' Le Marchant asked once more,
with some dim anticipation of Meriem 's
probable meaning.

Because,' Meriem answered, clutching
his arm hard, ' my father and mother were

married at St. Cloud — secretly married in
the Christian way, before a priest, and also
at the Mairie — early in the beginning of
1870/

How do you know that ?' Le Marchant
asked, astonished.

Meriem shook her head with a decisive
negation. ' Don't ask me how I know it,'
she cried, her fingers playing nervously
meanwhile with her amulet. ' I'm not
going to tell you. Nobody shall know.
But if the books at St. Cloud are really
destroyed, nobody on earth will ever be able
to prove it.'

And you don't want it proved ?' Le
Marchant exclaimed, with rising admiration.

I don't want improved,' the girl answered
eagerly. ' Why should I, indeed ?' It could
only distress me. I don't want to take all
this money from Iris. Iris shall keep it, for
Vernon loves her. She shall marry Vernon,
and break my heart. But Vernon will have
it, for he loves Iris.'

And you?' Eustace asked, looking back
at her with pity.

And me? I'll stop and marry Hussein
or Ahmed, or any other man my uncle may
sell me to.'

Le Marchant looked once more at her
with infinite tenderness. But he said nothing.
It must not be — it could not be ;
something must be done somehow to prevent
it. But the time to speak out was not yet
come. They started in silence, with heavy
hearts, to walk over to St. Cloud, alone —
together.

On the way they spoke to each other
but little. Both were full of their own
thoughts. It was only after they had reached
St. Cloud, and Eustace had satisfied himself,
by full inquiries, that the register of the
Eat Civil, previous to 1870, had indeed been
destroyed in the great rebellion, that they
began to talk at all freely. Meriem's mind
was relieved by the discovery.

That's well,' she said, with a sigh ;

that's well, Eustace. Now Iris and Vernon
can keep their money.'

Eustace made sure, in his own mind, she
had learnt the real or supposed fact from
some Kabyle woman in the village — some
confidante, perhaps, of her dead mother ;
and he agreed with her that even if true it
would now be all but impossible to prove it.
So he turned back once more, half relieved
like herself, since she would have it so, to
find that her vague claim to the Knyvett
estates grew ever more shadowy. If Meriem
was satisfied, what right on earth had he to
wish it otherwise ?

Half-way home, they sat down on a projecting
ledge of rock that overhung the
valley — a ledge under the shade of a gnarled
old olive-tree ; and while they rested, Eustace
murmured to himself, as if by accident almost,
Meriem's own words, ' I will stop and marry
Hussein or Ahmed, or any other man my
uncle may sell me to !'

Meriem gazed up in his face with a half-defiant

air. Those fearless nostrils of hers
quivered as she spoke ; but she said with no
faltering note in her voice, ' Yes, I mean it,
Eustace ; let Iris take Yernon, and I'll marry
Hussein.'

Le Marchant's face was very earnest. He
took the girl's Avhite hand in his own unresisted.
Meriem liked him, and let him
take it. ' Meriem,' he said, with his eyes
fixed full on hers, ' listen to me a moment.
I want to speak to you seriously. You
must never, never marry a Kabyle.'

I must,' Meriem answered, ' if my uncle
sells me to him.'

Le Marchant knew his hope was infinitesimal
; but for Meriem' s sake he ventured
to speak out.

Meriem,' he went on again, with a
lingering cadence on each syllable of her
name, ' the time is short, and I want to
save you. I know your uncle means to
marry you off shortly. I know you love
Yernon and not me. I know Yernon will

never marry you. But I can't endure to
think you should pass your life — you, whom
I've learnt to know and love and admire
a slave to one of your countrymen in the
village here. To me, this summer has been
a very happy one. IVe watched you and
talked with you till I know you and feel
towards you as towards an English lady.
I know how deep and profound is your
nature. Meriem, you must never marry
Hussein or Ahmed. I don't ask you to
love me, I don't expect you at hast to love
me ; but for your own sake I ask you at
least to wait and marry me — to save you
from Ahmed or Hussein, or their like ; do,
Meriem, marry me.'

Meriem gazed back at him with her frank,
fearless gaze.

I can never marry any man but Yernon,*
she answered quietly.

• But you're going to marry Ahmed or
Hussein !' Le Marchant cried in a pleading
voice. ' Why not me as well as either of

them? Surely, Meriem, you like me more
than you like Hussein !'

'But that's quite different,' Meriem answered
slowly, endeavouring to disentangle
her own mind to herself to her own satisfaction.
' I could marry a Kabyle, because
that's not marrying at all, you know, in the
way people marry in the English books — in
the way I might marry yoa or Vernon.
That's merely being Hussein or Ahmed's
slave — picking up sticks and making coU'<<-
cous for them. I've expected that all my
life louQ-, It's nothing new to me. I
ought to be prepared for it. . . . But to
marry you, Eustace, would be quite different.
I could never marry any Englishman
at all, except Vernon.'

Meriem,' Le Marchant urged once more,
holding her hand tight in his eager grip,
and pleading earnestly, ' I don't ask you
to marry me for my own sake in the least,
though I love you dearly, and have always
loved you. I ask you to marry me to get

you away from this place altogether ; I
want you to put yourself into freer and
more natural and congenial surroundings,
to save your own life from Hussein or
Ahmed. Oh, Meriem, don't throw your
life away! For your own sake, pause a
moment and think. I want to take you,
and save you from drudgery. Marry me
first ; you may learn to love me by degrees
afterwards.'

Meriem stroked the fingers that held her
own with her left hand tenderly.

Eustace,' she said, in a very soft voice,
not untinged with a certain profound regret,
I like you dearly. I know you and trust
you. I'm very fond of you. Except
Vernon, there's nobody else I like as I like
you. In a way, I love you. I love you
almost as I loved Yusuf. You've always
been kind to me. You've been more than
thoughtful. From the very first day when
you came to Beni-Merzoug, I've always seen
and noticed how kind you were. Kinder

VOL. II. 31

than Vernon. I've seen that, too, all along,
of coarse. You thought of me, while he
thought of himself and his own pleasure.
You never spoke one word of love ; you
loved me silently, and tried to help me. I
know all that ; I recognise all that ; don't
think me ungrateful ; 1 like you dearly ; I
love you as a sister might love a brother.
But see how strangely our hearts are built !
I know all that ; yet. I love Vernon, and I
could marry Vernon. I could never marry
you, and partly just because I like you so
dearly. I could marry Vernon because I
love him ; I could marry Hussein because I
hate him ; but you, never ! because I like
you, and love you as a brother !' And
with a simple, graceful womanly impulse
she raised his trembling hand to her lips
and kissed it affectionately. ^ Dear Eustace,'
she said, looking up at him, still with
brimming eyes, ' I wish I could say yes, if
it would give you pleasure. But I must say
no. I'm very, very, very sorry.'

Eustace clasped her hand yet harder in
his own.

Meriem,' he cried, with the calm but
deep emotion of middle life, ' if you won't
marry me, you shan't get rid of me. I'll
stop here still to watch over you and protect
you. I know what sort of life you'll
have to lead. But they shall never harm
you. Try at least to remain single for me.
It's intolerable to think such a woman as
you should be Hussein's slave. A womanlike
you, so grand and sweet ! And, perhaps,
in time you may forget Vernon and
learn to love me.'

I've learnt to love you long ago,
Eustace,' Meriem answered, with a smile
through her tearful eyes ; ' but I shall
never, never forget Vernon. Iris may
take him ; I want her to take him ; I
love Iris and I love Vernon, and I want
them both to be happy together ; but as
Ion or as I live I shall never foro-et him.
I shall never forget your goodness, either ;

31 — 2

but my heart — my heart — my heart is
Vernon's.'

And she held it tight to keep it from
bursting.

Le Marchant rose and kissed her forehead
chivalrously.

My child,' he said, leaning over her with
infinite regretful tenderness, 'I'm no boy
who mistakes his first calf-love for a grand
passion. I've seen many women; I've loved
some ; but I never loved any woman before
as I love you, Meriem. I loved you from
the first ; what you've said to-day has made
me love you better than ever. I admire
you because you have a strong nature. I
know I have a strong nature, too. Strong
natures go forth naturally to one another.
Some day, Meriem, I believe you will love
me. But, love me or not, I will never forsake
you. For your own sake, I'll stand
by you, and protect you, and watch over
you. You are to me a new interest in life.
I can never let you fall into Hussein's

clutches. Come on, my child ; it's growing
late now, and thank you from the bottom
of my heart for all you have said to-day in
mv favour.'

SYMPTOMS.

It was a distinct surprise to Harold Knyvett
to receive, a few days later, a note from his
Aunt Amelia, couched in comparatively
affectionate terms, and dated from * The
Fort, St. Cloud, Algeria.'

Communications with the rival branch of
the Knyvett family had of course been interrupted
for Harold of late ; he had heard
nothing from that high stepping girl. Iris,
herself, since the memorable evening when
he had proposed, to his shame, and been
promptly rejected. But he was glad to find
Aunt Amelia, at least — good, easy soul! —
didn't share her daughter's alienated feelings.
It was something to have the

maternal authority more or less on his side ;
and, thinking thus, Harold accepted the
note as a rapprochement an indirect reopening
of relations between the two high
contracting parties. If iVunt Amelia held
out the right hand of friendship to-day, it
might fairly be expected that that recalcitrant
daughter of hers, for all her fads and
fancies, would follow suit most amicably tomorrow.


My dear Harold,' Mrs. Knyvett wrote,
without the faintest show of resentment, or
even, for that matter, of Christian forgiveness
either, ' please excuse pencil. Here
we are, up in a heathenish place among the
snowy mountains, which they call Grande
Kabylie, stopping at a fort, where an outbreak
of the natives, it seems, may be any
moment expected, and indebted for our
daily (sour) bread to the hospitality of a
frivolous and ill-regulated young Frenchwoman,
whose manners, I fear, are hardly a
good example for such a high-spirited girl
as our dear Iris. We left Algiers for this

dreadful place almost immediately after our
arrival in the country ; and here Iris has kept
us ever since, much against my will, away
from her comfortable home at Sidi Aia
(which is really a delicious house), hunting
up some mythical claim to her estate, set
forward on behalf of a poor bare-footed
pagan girl of the name of Meriem. or something
of that sort. I won't write to you
about this, however, at any length, as I
understand dear Tom doesn't want the
matter discussed in London. My real
object in troubling you to-day is merely to
ask you if you will be kind enough to dome
a little favour. To add to my misfortune,
as ill-luck will have it, I've managed
in the last few days to get a bad attack of
my old enemy, bronchitis, which has come
on severely since the snow began to fall
thick on the upper mountains. I haven't
had such a bad turn of it for years and
years, and I'm writing this with a very
blunt pencil (as you see) in bed, for the
houses here are most ill-constructed, and
it's quite impossible, with all one's pains, to
keep the draught out through these horrible

windows. What I want to know, therefore,
is, whether you'll be so good, like a dear
boy, as to call at our house and ask martha
for my bronchitis kettle, and the inhaler,
and spray-machine, and all the prescriptions
and medical things in the lower right-hand
drawer of the spare bedroom dressing-table.
Please put them up in a neat parcel, and
take them all (addressed to me) to Dr.
Yate-Westbury's (I forget where he lives in
St. John's Wood, but you can look his place
up in the " Post Office Directory ''). He's
comines over to Algiers for the season next
week, as Iris learns from the Sidi Aia
people ; and if you ask him, Pve no doubt
in the world hell be glad to bring the
things over for me, as he owns the next
house to ours on the hill at Mustapha.
Thanking you, by anticipation, for your
kindness in this matter, and with best love,
in which Iris (who's out at present) would
no doubt join, believe me, ray dear Harold,
Ever your affectionate Aunt,

Amelia Mary Knyvett.'

The perusal of this fond and foolish letter,
as he loitered over the anchovy toast at

breakfast, afforded Harold Knyvett in his
own soul the keenest enjoyment. ' The
Whitmarshes are all donkeys,' he thought
internally, with the self-congratulatory smile
of the very superior person ; ' but Aunt
Amelia's really the biggest donkey of the
whole lot of them. The idea, now, of her
blurting: out like that the secret of what it
is that's taken them all over to Algeria !
And to me, too, of all people in the world !
How mad that old ass her brother's be if
only he knew what a precious mess his
affectionate sister's gone and made of it.
Doesn't want the matter discussed in
London," indeed ! The transparent idiot !
I suspected as much when I heard he'd gone
across with Iris to carry the war into Africa.
So they've found out some young woman
who claims to be Clarence Knyvett's heir
and representative ! Well, well, we may
try that tack in the end, if all other plans
fail, and my own little will miscarries
anyhow. But it won't miscarry ; it's as

safe as houses — and a great deal safer, too,
in these earthquake ages. For houses
nowadays are no better than Three per
Cents. I'd no idea my dear relations were
away from Algiers ! What a stroke of
luck ! The house vacant ! Long may the
draughts blow up Aunt Amelia's chronic
bronchitis ! It's a splendid chance for me
to get to Sidi Aia while they're all away
from it, and discover my will stowed neatly
away in the back drawer ot that convenient
davenport !'

For Harold Knyvett, who left nothing to
chance, had arranged beforehand the matter
of the davenport.

He finished his coffee and liii^hted a
cigarette; then he poised the letter contemplatively
in one hand before him. Dr.
Yate-Westbury ! Ha, ha! An idea! In
luck again! Aunt Amelia had unconsciously
suggested, by a single phrase, the
missing link in his grand scheme. One
point alone was doubtful, and Aunt Amelia

had cleared it up. He would bring that
proud Iris to her knees at last ! He would
make her marry him or give up her property.


He stroked his chin, and smiled to himself.
Dr. Yate - Westbury ! The great
authority upon nervous disease! He saw
his way clear now to a voyage to Algiers.
The man was an enthusiast for the Algerian
climate. It was notorious that, having land
to sell there, he regarded the place as an
absolute panacea for all the ills that flesh
is heir to, and especially for all forms of
nervous disorder. A nervous disorder, then,
was the one thing needful to secure a good
plea for visiting Sidi Aia.

Harold Knyvett, to be sure, was in
boisterous health. He had started in life
with those two famous allies in the struggle
for existence, ' a bad heart and a good digestion,'
and he had never done anything
yet to impair either of them. Leave from
the Board of Trade, therefore, would be

difficult to get on any other pretext ; buta
nervous disorder! there, the strongest
and seemingly healthiest man may
succumb any day to an unexpected malady.
Fired with the idea, he rang the bell and
ordered a hansom at once.

To the London Library,' lie cried aloud
to the cabby, ' 12, St. James's Square; and
look sharp, for I'm in a precious hurry.'

There was time before office-hours to
look up the question. He reached the
library, rushed upstairs, and took down
from the shelf * Yate-Westbury on Diseases
of the Nervous System.' He would hocus
the doctor out of his own treatise.

In ten minutes, he had chosen, digested,
and assimilated his disease; he knew the
symptoms of his particular malady as pat
as Yate-Westbury himself could have told
him them. A twitching: of the fino-hers —
yes, yes, just so ; a nervous trembling about
the corners of the mouth ; loss of memory,
decrease of appetite, frequent sleeplessness.

accompanied by a growing tendency to
dwell minutely upon long past events in
the night watches ; incapacity to write
down the exact word or phrase he wanted ;
forgetfulness of names, even with the nearest
and dearest friends or acquaintances. He
had swallowed the whole diagnosis entire
before he rushed off in hot haste to the
office ; he was the victim of a slow and insidious
decay ; he needed rest, change of air,
relaxation, variety.

At the door of his room at the Board of
Trade he met his chief, with a vacuous
smile on his carefully composed countenance.


Good-morning, Mr. — er ,' he said,

and paused irresolute. Then, with a sudden
air of frankness he drew his hand across his
forehead, and added quickly, * My dear sir,
you'll hardly credit it, but I've actually
managed to forget your name. I can't
think what's coming over my poor head
lately.'

I've noticed that before,' this chief answered,
with a food-natured lauo-h. ' Fora
long time past, in fact, IVe observed,
Knyvett, that your memory hasn't been
by any means so brisk and keen as it
used to be. You've seemed preoccupied
and absorbed and moony and distracted.
If I were you, do you know, my dear fellow,
I'd not lose a day ; I'd consult Y ate West -
bury.'

Harold had hard work to repress a smile.
Could anything on earth have happened
more opportunely? It came in the very
nick of time, as if he himself had carefully
angled for it. Xo doubt, indeed, he had
been preoccupied of late. When a man's
engaged in all his leisure moments with —
ahem ! — drawing up a a\^11 for a deceased
person, he may well have but little attention
left to spare for the dull and dry details of
exports and imports !

You think so ?' he murmured, with
well-assumed alarm. * I'm sorry lor that.

But I've felt it coming on, myself, for the
last two months or so. My mind seems to
have lost it freshness and elasticity. It
doesn't hook on to things as it used once
to do. I'll take your advice. I'll consult
Yate-Westbury this very evening.'

Do,' his chief went on, with kindly considerateness.
' The service '11 gain by it, in
the end, no doubt. A fortnight's holiday '11
be sure to set you right again. But I've
noticed all along you were getting awfully
fagged. Since the middle of the summer,
indeed, to tell you the truth, you've never
been half the sort of man you used to be.'

Harold bowed his head in affected
regret.

It's extremely kind of you to suggest
it,' he said, with grateful warmth. ' I do
want a change. I won't deny it. Those
differential duties have run me too hard.
But I'll see Yate-Westbmy at once, Mr. —
er — quite so — ah, Hamilton, thank you ;
and if he gives me a certificate to that effect,

ril run down South for a week or two's rest
and change immediately.'

Sensible fellow, Knyvett!' the chief reflected
as he turned to his desk. ' Some
fellows are too deuced proud to take your
advice, and resent the slightest attempt to
give them a hint for the good of their health.
Rut Knyvett's always so sound and reasonable.
I'm glad I persuaded him to go to
Yate-Westbury.'

As soon as the day's work was fairly
over, therefore, Harold, thus fortified by
extraneous advice, went round without
delay to the famous specialist's. He introduced
himself as his uncle's nephew, and
detailed his symptoms (straight out of the
book) with the greatest minuteness. The
famous specialist Hastened with deep attention,
not unmixed with paternal pride and
pleasure. A plainer case he had never
come across. Typical, typical ! And well
might it be so, for Harold's symptoms were
the picked result of years of experience and

VOL. II. 32

generalization, hired off point-blank in one
long list at the innocent head of their observer
or inventor.

And so you don't sleep at nights, eh ?'
Dr. Yate-Westbury said, gazing through
and through him, with an inquiring air.
*Well, well, that's bad. But usual, very.
And, tell me now, what do you mostly
think about when you're lying awake in
these fits of sleeplessness?'

Why,' Harold answered, playing nervously
and ostentatiously with his fingers
on a button of his coat while he endeavoured
at the same time to make the corners of his
mouth twitch and jerk as conspicuously as
possible, ^ nothing much, thank Heaven !
I'm not troubled that way. I don't think
of anything of the slightest importance.
Merely minute old childish reminiscences,
and all that sort of thing.'

The specialist smiled a grim smile of
recognition — as, to be sure, he might, for
the symptom confirmed his own diagnosis.

And why do you pull about your button
like that ?' he asked, darting down upon
him with sudden emphasis.

Harold glanced down, and pretended for
the first moment to notice the movement.

I — I don't know why he answered
meekly. ' I wasn't aware I was pulling
it about till you called my attention toit.
Indeed, Dr. — er — er ' and he forgot
the name with the most skilful innocence,
' I don't think I pull things about so
usually.'

Do you haggle over names much ?' the
specialist asked, with a knowing look. ' I
notice you forgot what mine was this
moment.'

Harold hugged himself inwardly on the
perfect way in which he was middling his
man with such a transparent fiction.

A good deal of late,' he answered, his
fingers rising up once more to the button,
as if unconsciously. ' But it'll soon passover,'
he added, with pretended nervousness.

32—2

It won't go on long. A mere passing ailment.
I'll be all right again in a week or
two, I fancy.'

Look here, Mr. Knyvett,' the doctor
said seriously. * I won't conceal from you
the painful fact that your case is a dangerous
one — a distinctly dangerous one. We must
be very careful. We must face these facts.
You know what this sort of thing generally
leads to ?' He lowered his voice and almost
whispered in his ear, ' Insanity, my dear sir
simple insanity.'

Harold assumed a profoundly-horrified air.
He was a good actor, and had the muscles
of his face well under control.

You don't mean to say sol' he cried, in
apparent alarm. ' Oh, don't say that, Dr.
er — er — Yate-Eastbury.'

Dr. Yate-Westbury closed his lips tight.

There's only one thing for you to do
he said, with emphatic severity. ^ You
must take a holiday — a complete holiday.
'No half-measures — a thorough change. I

see by your eyes you've been over-exciting
yourself too much about some business or
other lately. You have the air of a man
who has been profoundly absorbed by
private affairs. A bachelor, you say;
self-centred ! self-centred ! The root of
all evil, if people would but see it. You
need change of air, distraction, diversion,
amusement. You should go abroad ; Nice,
shall we say? or Men tone? or Monte Carlo?'
He paused for a second, and stroked his
chin. ' Or, stay,' he went on, as if struck
by an inspiration, ' wdiy not Algiers? It's
the very place for people who suffer from
your special symptoms. Air's sedative,
soothing, and extremely bland. As it
happens, in fact, I'm going there myself
for the winter on Monday. You'd better
come with me. In your present state of
health, you need constant medical advice
and attention. I've a villa on Mustapha,
just next door to your uncle Sir Arthur's.
Miss Knyvett's there now already, I believe,

SO you'll find yourself at once in the bosom
of sour family. A charming young lady ;
I met her out last season. We needn't say
anything to her or others about our fears

and suspicions for the future, of course '

here Dr. Yate-Westbury nodded and smiled
with an air of profound professional mystery.
Mum's the word there. I'll give you a
certificate of a non committing sort for the
Board of Trade people ; you know the line
of country — overwork; nervous exhaustion;
need of rest and change of scene; and you'll
be ready to start with me from Charing
Cross on Monday.'

Harold thanked his disinterested adviser
with gloomy gratitude, and completed his
arrangements with an internal chuckle. Ashe
left the room, he didn't himself observe
that his fingers were toying once more in a
nervous way with that unfortunate button.
If he had, indeed, he would only have reflected
with a mental smile that he was
simulating the symptoms even better than

he intended. But Dr. Yate - Westbury
noticed it with his keen glance, and remarked
to his assistant, as Harold disappeared
towards the front-door :

Remarkable case, Prendergast. We
must keep our eye upon him. Premonitory
signs of acute dementia; and what's
more odd, the worst among them are not
at all the ones he himself seems to think the
most important!'

STRICTLY PROFESSIONAL.

To Harold Knyvett the voyage to Algiers
came as a welcome amusement. He really
wanted rest ; he was glad to escape from
London fog and London mud, after the
intense strain of the last few months, to
the olives, and mulberry-trees, and evergreens
of the South. As the train de luxe
from Paris rolled along in the early morning
light down the wide Rhone Valley, past
gardens still gay with roses and anemones,
past cypress walls that guarded the tender
vineyards from the cold blast of the icy
mistral, past distant vistas of the snow-clad
Alps, past fields where bronzed Provencal
peasants toiled in the broad sunshine among

luscious flowers, he was gratified at the
success of his ruse, and delighted at the
freshness and perennial beauty of the ever-glorious
Mediterranean borderland. A
certain indefinite exaltation of success
filled all his heart. Things were going
well with him. Fortune favoured. For
he was on his way to Mustapha, to the very
next house to Sir Arthur's villa, with the
forged will buttoned safely up in his inner
breast-pocket, and all in the most natural
possible fashion. Even the suggestion to
Try Algiers ' had not come from within.
His chief had recommended him to consult
Yate-Westbury; and Yate-Westbury would
be able to relate hereafter to his acquaintances
the curious coincidence how this lucky
young man in the Board of Trade had come
to him for advice, quite by accident, about a
nervous complaint — overwork and loss of
memory ; how he had urged him to visit
the soothing climate of North Africa ; and
how the upshot of it all was the incidental

discovery of the long-lost will, unearthed in
some remote corner of Sir Arthur's villa —
that will which restored the property to the
rightful heir, and brought about at last the
happy reunion of the Kny vent family.

For he meant to marry Iris in the long-run.
The estate itself was now to some
extent a minor matter. He regarded it
merely as a means to an end. And the
end was to bring that proud girl to her
knees : to compel her to marry him, willynilly.


He loved Iris. He icoidd have Iris. Xo
power in the world should keep him from
Iris. The only girl on earth he had
ever cared twopence about ; the only girl
on earth who was really worthy of
him.

So he rolled along in high good-humour
down to Marseilles, seeing success now well
in view, and went with joy on board the
Vile de Naples which was to carry Harold
Knyvett and all his fortunes — forged will

included — to the golden shores of sunny
Africa.

The sole drawback to his pleasure, indeed,
was that intolerable old bore of a nervous
specialist, who insisted upon treating him
as a critical patient — half cracked, in short
and reading him sermons on the absolute
need for distracting his mind from his own
absorbing personality. Harold Knyvett
didn't want his mind distracted just then.
He was more than distracted enough already.
It was a nuisance, when you preferred to
admire the blue bay and the white Provencal
hills receding in the distance, to be compelled
to listen to that frantic old idiot's
professional drivel, and to bear in mind
spasmodically from time to time the necessity
for keeping up somehow the most
prominent symptoms. Not that the twitching
of the lingers gave him much trouble
by this time, practice makes perfect. He
was able to manage that part of the farce,
thank goodness, without the slightest

apparent effort. The state of nervous
tension into which he had been thrown
by the consciousness of holding the forged
will concealed about his person, and by
the momentous issues depending upon the
success of his well-laid scheme, made a
certain amount of uneasy fingering, indeed,
perfectly natural to him. You can simulate
nervousness readily enough, when you
really feel it ; the difficulty would have
been, in Harold's condition, to simulate
the calm of uneventful existence.

What you have most to guard against
Dr. Yate-Westbury remarked once in a
confidential undertone, as they paced the
deck together, cigar in mouth, ' is too
exclusive a concentration of mind and
thought upon your own personality and
your own interests. You live too much
in yourself, my dear sir ; that's what's the
matter with you. Your brain's wrapped
up in private schemes and designs and
ideas ; I can see them whirling and circling

in your head. You ought to be married,
and enlarge your sphere ; a wife and children
would drive all that sort of thinii:
promptly out of you.'

Harold laughed in his sleeve to think
how curiously the mad-doctor had put his
finger by accident upon the very point.
Bern acid tetigit. His mind was indeed
wrapped up in private schemes and designs
and ideas. He stroked his breast pocket
stealthily with his hand outside. It was
safe, quite safe, that precious document !
He could feel it rustle under the coat ashe
pressed. His private schemes and
designs and ideas, indeed I Ah, yes, but
they all led on bv a direct route to that
very marriage which the doctor counselled.
A wife and children I Ho, ho ! the humour
of it ! AVell — a wife, if you like ; a wife's
all right enough ; but as for the children,
why, Harold was strongly inclined to say
about them, ' Le Roy s'avisera.' He didn't
want a parcel of noisy brats running about

the place — the mansion of his fancy. All
he wanted was a peaceful interchange of
ideas in spacious grounds with such a girl
as Iris — a pleasant companion laid on, as
it were, like the gas, and the water, and the
electric bells, and ready at any moment to
amuse and divert him with her chatty
conversation and her tender playfulness.

The great error of the nervous constitution,'
the specialist went on, puffing away
reflectively at one of Harold's very best
Fortuna di Cubes, ' is, not to put too fine a
point upon it, selfishness. My system of
cure consists entirely in such a course of
rational treatment as will succeed in takins*
the patient fairly out of himself The
narrow circle of one's own interests leads
at last to nervous disintegration. People
should avoid being too self-centred. That
way, as Shakespeare says, madness lies.
One's got strenuously to fight against it,
or else to succumb to it. Have you read
my book on Mental Disease ? You know

the theory I there lay down on the origin
of insanity ?'

The subject was intensely distasteful just
then to Harold.

No, I haven't,' he answered, with some
asperity. * I avoid all books on the brain,
on principle.'

Well, my theory is,' Yate - AVestbury
went on with professional zeal, disregarding
his tone, ' that insanity's not a malady of
the intellect at all, as most people imagine :
it's a malady of the social and moral nature.
A man who lives a healthy, varied, natural
life — Who mixes freely With his fellow-men
who troubles himself much about their
welfare and their happiness — who reads
and thinks and works and plays — who
vividly represents to himself the feelings
and wishes and ideas of others — such a man
as that, now, never goes mad. He has no
temptation. His surroundings are too sane
and his interests too numerous. A family,
friends, public duties, society — all those

are safeguards against the insane tendency.
Literature, science, art, politics — the wider
your world, the less your chance of nervous
derangement. But the fellow who lives
a purely selfish, concentrated life — the
bachelor who takes his ease all day long
at his club — the man of means who finds
society and family ties a bore, whose social
instincts are inefficient awakened, whose
public spirit is dormant or non-existent —
those are the people, if you look around,
who go mad easily. They take to hobbies,
or else to monomania. Some pet design,
or some favourite scheme, most often purely
personal, absorbs their energies. If it succeeds,
they go mad with delight ; if it fails,
they go mad, per contra, with disappointment.'


Harold's fingers toyed unconsciously with
the top button of his tweed tourist suit.
The precious paper rustled melodiously
underneath. The sound was like mused
music in his ears.

You think so ?' he said, half stifling a
yawn. ' You think insanity depends upon
self concentration ?'

Think so !' Yate Westbury echoed, with
a touch of contempt in the intonation of
his voice. ' Think so ! My dear sir, I
don't think so ; I know it. I've studied
the question. The proof's just this. You
must have met madmen over and over again
in asylums '

I don't visit asylums,' Harold interposed
drily.

Still, you must have met madmen, anyhow
the doctor went on, warming up to
his subject, ' who thought they were rich,
who thought they were poor, who thought
they were Napoleon, who thought they
were the rightful heir to the Crown, who
thought they were the authors of " Paradise
Lost," who thought they were persecuted
by wicked relations, who thought they were
the Czar or the Prophet Mahommed. But
you never met a madman an}^ where who

VOL. II. 33

thought somebody else had come into a
fortune, somebody else was the Khan of
Tartary, somebody else was followed and
annoyed, somebody else was the ill-used
inheritor of the Throne of England. Self,
self, self, self. All insane people have but
one cry: / am this, / am that, / am the
other. It's /, /, /, whatever they say.
They forget their children, their wives,
their friends, their enemies ; but they never
for a single moment forget their own
delusion, or their own pet grievance.'

Harold moved away restlessly, with a
moody air, towards the side of the ship.
This talk annoyed him. He didn't want to
be bored by abstract discussions about the
habits and manners and natural history of
the insane, when he Alas going to Algiers
to prove his title to a splendid estate, and
to compel his cousin Iris to marry him!
He was full of himself, and resented boredom.
A man can't be worried with rubbish
like that while all his soul brims over,

seething with one great design, on whose
success or failure he has staked his whole
future fate and happiness. One picture
alone now usurped his brain and monopolized
consciousness — the picture of himself,
rummaging drawers at the villa at Sidi
Aia, and ens"ao[ed in discovering Sir
Arthur's will — the forged one, of course;
but that was a detail — in some hidden
corner of his uncle's escritoire.

And then to be obliged to listen respectfully
to that old image droning, droning,
droning on — ' The great thing to avoid is
intense preoccupation with one's own affairs ;
too profound an entanglement in any private
or personal piece of business. To people of
the selfish or self-centred type, such preoccupation
is frequently next door to fatal.
It drives them at last by slow degrees into
acute dementia.'

Good heavens ! Would the man never
cease his chatter ? Gabble, gabble, gabble,
the whole day long ! And Sir Arthur's

33—2

will nestling all the time in his safe
breast - pocket ! Preoccupation, indeed !
Who could help being preoccupied ? Sir
Arthur's fortune, and Iris Knyvett !

*AUX ARMES, CITOYENS!'

Up in the mountains, meanwhile, strange
things were taking place among those
idyllic Kabyles. But neither Le Marchant
nor Blake nor Meriem knew as yet anything
about them.

It was a chilly evening of Algerian
winter.

The naturalist was sitting at home, somewhat
shivering in the tent, trying on a
complete new suit of woollen Kabyle
costume which he had bought as a curiosity
at a neighbouring market to take home to
England. Vernon Blake was dining outby
special invitation at the Fort at

St. Cloud, where Iris and he were conversing
unreproved with much animation
under Uncle Tom's very nose — so unsuspicious
is age when once its views are
firmly hardened. And Meriem was seated
on the hard mud floor in her own room at
the Amine' s cottage, thinking in her poor
lonely soul how much better it would have
been for her if those two flaring meteors of
Englishmen had never darted with their
disturbing influence across her peaceful,
old-fashioned Kabyle horizon.

But on the hillside without a very
different scene might have presented itself
to her eyes, had she happened to look
forth towards the village platform from
her narrow mud window. For there, under
the open sky, and in the broad moonlight,
the men of the Beni-Merzoug were
assembled together in the ancient fashion
under all arms, and in their midst the
eldest of the marabouts stood erect, with
flashing eyes, and stretched his bare arms

heavenwards in awful prayer before the
eager eyes of the whole assembly.

Hush !' the Amine cried, with a commanding
voice, as the marabout beckoned
with one hand for silence. * The servant of
Allah will speak over the chosen youths —
the youths who go forth, like their fathers of
old, for the defence of their fatherland against
the infidel and the oppressor.'

A great stillness fell at his words upon the
entire meeting. The buzz and hum of voices
ceased at once to thrill, and the men dropped
down at the signal on their bended knees
before the glowing face of the inspired
marabout. Incense rose in fumes from a
brazier in the midst — the ]poisonous, intoxicating
incense of haschisch.

The marabout spread out both arms
slowly over their heads. ' The blessing of
Allah,' he cried aloud, ' of Allah, the All-wise,
the All-merciful, be with you.'

So be it,' the young men responded
solemnly.

^ Friends,' the marabout began, once more,
as they knelt and bent their heads, in a
serried body, ' you know well the crisis, and
the custom of the Kabyles. It was the way
of our fathers, when hordes like locusts invaded
their land, to call upon the chosen
young men of the tribes to band themselves
together by solemn oath into a sacred legion.
The more forlorn the hope, the greater their
courage; for the sons of the Kabyles shrink
not from self-sacrifice. It is your duty, too,
in like manner, to sacrifice your lives to-day
for your country. To that end we have
proclaimed a Sacred War, when Islam shall
rise in all its might against the power of the
Infidel. In such a war there is no going
back. It is as when the lion rushes upon
the spears. You will take the oath before
the face of Allah. The prayers for the dead
shall be read over you all, for you go to
your death, and you come not back, except
upon trestles, or else with victory. Those
who die in this conflict shall be buried

apart, in the cemetery of the saints, in the
field of glory ; and each man among them,
dying for the Faith, shall be reckoned as a
saint and counted a Sidi. Prayers shall be
offered for ever at his tomb, and the blessing
of Allah shall rest upon it always. But if
any of you escape with loss of honour from
the field, his corpse shall rot like a camel's
in the desert. He, and all his kindred, shall
be held for ever in utter contempt by all the
Faithful as dogs and outcasts.'

The young men bowed their foreheads to
the ground with one accord, and with
military precision. ' We accept they
answered, * we go, for Allah!' and with
their faces turned one way towards Mecca,
they prayed silently for a few minutes.

You swear,' the marabout said again, as
they rose from the ground, holding out in
his hand a roll of the Koran, ' you swear by
this sacred book, which came fi-om Mecca, and
by the holy tomb of our Lord of Kerouan,
the companion of the Prophet, to wage a

Jehad to the death against all infidels, and
never to return from the field of battle save
dead or victorious.'

We swear,' the young men answered
solemnly, with uplifted hands.

Let a Tale come forward the marabout
said, stretching his bare arms once more
heavenward.

Hadji Daood ben Marabet staggered slowly
forward, and took the roll from the marabout's
hands in his trembling fingers. Unfolding
it spasmodically, and with due
deliberation, the toothless old man came at
last in his search to the fourteenth chapter,
which enjoins on the Faithful the duty of
exterminating the infidels everywhere.
Bending over the book, he read those terrible
lines aloud in their sonorous Arabic,
with that peculiar droning, sing-song voice
which lends so much mystery and solemnity
of tone to Mahommedan ceremonial. His
words thrilled them. Every curse told
home separately. The men, it was clear,

were deeply stirred. They clasped their
short Kabyle knives with desperate resolution
in their trembling fingers, and waited
impatiently for the signal to march upon
their deadly errand.

The voice of the reader wavered at last
upon the awful closing sentence, * Neither
man nor woman, lord nor servant, old age
nor infancy : spare none, but slay ; spill
their blood on the ground ; let the infidels
perish utterly from the earth, saith Allah.'

A deep murmur of ' Amens ' ran like a
shudder through that heaving crowd. Hadji
Daood sank back, exhausted, into the ring.
Then the marabout stepped forth once more,
with his wild locks tossed shaggily over his
bronzed forehead, and in a loud voice, with
foaming mouth, began to recite in solemn
tones the prayers for the dead over the
chosen youths, pointing with his finger to
their bodies while he spoke, as though each
of them lay already on his bier in an open
grave spread out before him.

The effect was electric, overwhelming,
irresistible. The old men, standing round,
sobbed aloud over the heads of their doomed
sons. The young men, kneeling in front,
felt the tears trickle slowly down their hot
cheeks. The marabout himself faltered once
or twice with a choking voice, and then
went on again, sustained, as it seemed, in
his holy task by some direct inspiration of
his bloodthirsty deity. His features were
deadly pale and convulsed, and his limbs
were working as though drawn by wires.
At the close of the prayers, all rose once
more in their long white robes, and the
marabout cried aloud, in a more martial
tone, * You have heard your duty ! Go now
and perform it! The Beni-Yenni and the
With Menguellath are marching on St.
Cloud. March you, too, direct, and surprise
the infidels in their beds as they sleep.
Slay, slay, slay — men, women and children.
Let not one single Christian escape with his
life. French, English, or Spaniard, slay all

alike ; but above all, slay her, the enemy of
your race, the high-heeled woman ! Avenge
on her, and on all beneath her roof, the bones
of the blessed Sheikh el-Haddad the Blacksmith!
Avenge on her the bones of Si
Mohammed Said with the Two Tombs,
whose holy remains she cast out on the
field to oe defiled by dogs and vultures and
jackals !'

With a loud unearthly shout, the whole
vast body, seizing rifles and swords, put
itself tumultuously and fiercely under way.
Religious frenzy and the fumes from the
brazier had driven the men mad. Their
lips were blue ; their eyes started from their
sockets ; great drops of sweat poured down
their pale and haggard faces. ' Jehad !
Jehad!' they cried, in a mad shriek for
vengeance. ' Death to the infidel ! To St.
Cloud! To St. Cloud! Slay, slay, every
man, every woman, every child of them !'

The musicians in front beat upon their
drums, and twanged aloud their tortoiseshell

lyres. The wild discordant music of
the tomtoms and castanets seemed to intensify
and inflame their fury. ' To St.
Cloud !' the marabout shouted, at the top of
his voice, in fierce tones, his hair now flying
loose on the breeze behind, his eyes bloodshot,
and his mouth foaming. He waved
his bare arms wildly around him. ' Slay
the high-heeled woman,' he shouted, ' and
all her house, in honour of Allah and
Mahommed his Prophet ; and cast forth her
body for dogs to eat, as Jehu of Israel cast
forth the body of Jezebel, the idolatress,
before the gates of Jezreel, and as Omar the
Caliph cast forth the body of the accursed
Roumi before the gates of Sidon.'

At the word, he dragged a goat from
behind into their midst. ' Taste blood,' he
shrieked, and flung it towards them. With
hideous shouts, the fanatics rushed, with
hooked fingers, upon that symbolical victim,
tore it limb from limb alive and bleeding,
and fought with one another like wild beasts

for the quivering morsels, more after the
fashion of ravenous wolves than of human
beings. Their faces and hands reeked with
blood. 'Now, on to St. Cloud!' the marabout
yelled out, tearing a live snake and
devouring it before their eyes.

eTehad ! Jehad !^ the crowd shouted
aloud, in response, with savage tumult.
Slay, slay I the voice of Allah proclaims
it ! A Holy War ! Death, death to the infidels!'
And, drunk with blood and has-chisel,
they dashed madly onward.

Meriem in her own room, sitting still on
the floor, heard with surprise the tramp of
feet and the mingled noise of many voices,
and rushed to her window, breathless, to
learn the meaning of it. As she did so, she
just caught the last echoes of those shrill
cries, ' Jehad ! Jehad ! Slay the high-heeled
woman and all her house! A Holy War!
Death, death to the infidels !'

In a moment her reeling brain took it all

in. She guessed what it meant. She understood
instinctively. Her quick wit
realized the truth at once in all its hideous
implications. They were going to St.
Cloud to murder the Europeans! And
amongst them they would murder Iris and
Vernon !

At the sound, Islam died out within her.

For to Meriem a Jehad was no idle word.
She had heard awful tales on the village
platform, many a summer evening, of the
great uprising of 1870. She had heard
from the mouths of the actors themselves
how the religious fanatics of that troublous
time had massacred, in hot blood, the entire
population of Palaestro ; had carried off
into slavery the women and children of the
European villages scattered throughout
Kabylie ; had burnt to the ground every
farmhouse, church, and oil-mill in the
mountains ; had besieged Bougie and invested
Djidjelly ; had spread fire and
slaughter far and wide through the land,

from the valley at Tizi-Ouzou to the eagle's
nest of French soldiers perched on the precipitous
heights of Fort National. She knew
that when the fierce and fiery Kabyle blood
is up, neither chilling mother nor speechless
babe will be spared from the slaughter by
their indiscriminate fury. She knew that
her countrymen would fall upon St. Cloudlike
wolves upon a sheepfold, and rend Iris
and Vernon to pieces like vultures in their
fanatic madness.

A Holy War! A campaign against the
infidels! Vernon and Iris — her dearest on
earth ! In that decisive moment the faith of
her childhood went down like water before
her instinctive feelings. At all hazards, she
must save the lives of the Christians !

There was but one thing to do : to make
at once, with all speed, for the valley of
Tizi-Ouzou. It was too late now to warn
the garrison at St. Cloud. She saw her
countrymen were well on the road to the
Fort already, and she could never hope to

VOL. II. 34

pass them by undetected, even if her feet
were fleet enough and strong enough to
overtake them and outrun them. But the
garrison, though surprised, might hold out
till morning. She had heard of the iron
wires that carry news with lightning speed
for the infidel — of the iron-horse that drags
his carriages like clouds before the sirocco.
If she could but reach Tizi-Ouzou and warn
the French there to telegraph to Algiers,
help might yet arrive in time to save them.
To save Iris : to save Yernon ! The Kabyle
within her was forgotten altogether in her
burning desire to protect from death those
two she had learned to love so dearly.
Traitress as she might be to her own
people, she had but one thought — to save
Iris and Vernon !

She lifted the latch of the rude door, and
stole out unperceived to the entrance of the
tent, where Eustace stood within, in the
Kabyle dress he had just been trying on,
and which transformed him at once into

a perfect native. Meriem started to see
him, but had no time for comments.
Eustace she cried, in haste, snatching up
a flask that lay upon the box, ' they've
made a Jehad — a sacred war. My people
have risen. It's death to the infidels.
They're marching on St. Cloud to kill the
Christians. The whole village together has
turned out in arms. I saw them myself —
the marabout at their head ! They mean to
kill every soul in the Fort! What can we
do — to save Iris and Yernon ?'

In her startled face Eustace read the
whole truth instinctively at once. He knew
the impetuous Moslem nature too well
to doubt that Meriem was right in her
strange story. ' We must go on and warn
them !' he cried in answer hurriedly.

Too late !' Meriem sobbed out. ' No
chance for that ! They're on the road
already. Our people have started. I saw
them go. There's no other way down.
We could never get past them.'

34—2

Can they telegraph to Tibi - Ouzou ?'
Eustace asked in haste. * If reinforcements
could come, they might hold out for a day
or so.'

Meriem shook her head despondently.
My people would be sure to cut the wire,'
she answered, in agony. ' They know all
that. It crosses the path. Even I, who
am only a girl, had heard of it.'

Then there's nothing for it but to tramp
to Tizi-Ouzou,' Eustace answered at once,
with prompt decision. ' Our only hope lies
in rousing the authorities there; they might
telegraph on for help to Algiers and Fort
National. Come on, Meriem. There's not a
moment to lose. Come with me, and tell
them when you get there what you've seen.
We might ride, perhaps. There are mules
outside. Let's seize them, and run down at
once to Tizi-Ouzou.'

So, quick as thought, going forth from
the tent, in his Kabyle dress unchanged ashe
stood (it was safer so), he caught the

first two mules he could find in the field,
and slipping on a bridle in breathless haste,
mounted one of them himself to descend
the mountain. Meriem, without one word,
held and mounted the other. And in such
strange guise did those two set off through
the moonlight, alone, to rouse the unconscious
settlers of Tizi-Ouzou to a sense of
the danger that threatened the colony.

AMONG THE SNOWS.

They had gone but a few hundred yards
down the path, riding single file on the
narrow Kabyle road, which cactus and
aloe obstructed on either side, when suddenly
Meriem, who went first, was brought
to a halt by the sharp and short report of a
pistol, fired full in the face of her borrowed
mount. C'r'r'r, it whizzed past the mule's
very nose. The animal reared upright with
terror on its haunches for a moment, and
Meriem, looking ahead towards the darkling
bushes in front, called out in Kabyle
tremulously, but in very clear tones: 'Who's
there? Why fire at us?'

As she spoke, two men crept cautiously
out from the shadow of the lentisk scrub,
and one of them answered in a sulky voice,
and in the same tongue, which Eustace
could now just vaguely follow, * Who are
you, and where are you off to to-night, the
wrong way down, when the sons of the
Kabyles are marching in a mass against
the homes of the infidel ?'

The men were not of her own tribe,
Meriem knew at once, by their peculiar
dialect. They were Beni-Yenni, from the
village beyond the Fort, posted there, no
doubt by arrangement, to guard the pass
down to Tibi - Ouzou against retreating
Christians. There must be dozens more of
them picketed lower down the road. To
proceed that way would be clearly useless.
Retreat was impossible, so Meriem temporized.
'I'm a woman,' she said — 'a true
believer — and I was g^oinof to the chief of
the Beni-Yenni, with letters and messages
from the Amine of the Beni-Merzoug.'

The stranger, advancing, seized the bridle
of her mule with a suspicious glance.

And your husband V he cried, with a
scowl at Le Marchant. ' Why is he, a
man of military age, skulking from the
Holy War at such a moment ?'

My husband,' Meriem answered with
trembling lips, hoping in her heart Eustace
would have the sense not to break into
words and betray himself for a Christian,
is a deaf and dumb man. He's useless asa
soldier. So my uncle, the Amine, has
sent him to take care of me.'

It's a lie !' the Kabyle answered, wrenching
the mule aside suddenly, and gazing
straight into Eustace's eyes. *Fire, Mohammed,
fire ! These are traitors — infidels ! I
know the man's face. They're going down
to Tizi-Ouzou to warn the garrison.'

Meriem's heart leapt up into her mouth
at this unexpected emergency.

Leave your mule and run, Meriem/
Eustace cried, in English, jumping as he

spoke from his own beast, and seizing her
tremulous hand hard in his. Next momenta
bullet whizzed hissing past his ears, and a
short Kabyle knife gleamed white and bright
in the clear moonlight.

The Englishman seized his assailant in
his stout arms, and, grasping him round
the waist, with one violent effort flung him
from him heavily upon the path behind.
Then, unarmed as they were — for Eustace
hadn't even waited to hunt up his revolver
in the hurry of the moment — they turned
and fled headlong into the thick lentisk
scrub, and down the steep gully of broken
hillside towards the brook at the bottom.
Delay was dangerous with so many unseen
enemies about. The stones under foot
slipped as they went, for the slope was
rubble, and Eustace tore his hands more
than once in clutching at the bushes to
save Meriem from too hasty and abrupt
a descent; but Meriem, all barefooted as she
was, leaped lightly down unhurt, like some

mountain antelope, and planted her sole
firmly at last on the soft mould in the
centre of the gully.

What can we do now ?' she whispered
low, as shots were heard again whizzing
over their heads from the rocks above, the
Kabyles firing at random in the direction
they had taken. ' There's no getting down
to Tizi-Ouzou at this rate, and no other
road except back by the Fort to St. Cloud,
and so on to Fort National.'

Eustace made his mind up without a
moment's hesitation.

We've only one thing left to do,' he
answered boldly. ' The passes are held
on either side. We must go over the
mountains, right across the Col, and descend
upon the Constantine railway in the valley.
At Bouira, or the first other station we
reach, they could telegraph for aid to
Algiers and Philippeville.'

Meriem shuddered. It seemed impossible.

Upon the Constantine railway !' she

cried, in a low voice, half terrified. ' Over
the high mountains ! No other way left !
We must trudge through the snow, then I'

And she gazed down truthfully at her
poor bare feet, ill-fitted, indeed, for such a
walk as that was.

'There's nothing else possible,' Le Marchant
answered, following her eyes with his
own as they looked downward timidly —
for me, at least. I must go to Bouira.
But, Meriem, why need you accompany
me? Couldn't you steal back unperceived
to the village ? The walk's too long and
too hard by far for you, my child.'

*T*Tever,' Meriem answered, with profound
conviction. ' Never, while Iris and
Vernon are in danger. I'll walk my feet
bare to the bone before I desert them,
Eustace. We'll rouse all Algeria rather
than let them be murdered in cold blood
at St. Cloud, if we have to trudge through
miles of snow to do it.'

Le Marchant saw that she meant what

she said, and he made no attempt to turn
her from her purpose. He admired it too
much to wish to interfere with it.

Come on, then he said, looking her
full in the face. ' We must start at once.
Not a moment to lose. Up these first
heights here will lead us to a point where
we can see the Djurjura. Once we catch
sight of the snowy peaks in this bright
moonlight, we can find our way well. We
must walk all night ; but by early morning,
with good luck, we may reach Bouira.'

Not another word was spoken. They
turned at once to set out toilfuUy on that
difficult and dangerous mountain journey.
Between them and the main central valley
of the Atlas, down whose midst the grand
trunk-line of Algeria, from Oran to Constantine,
winds by long gradients its
tortuous way, lay the huge white snow-covered
mass of the Djurjura. Only two
passes threaded the lateral ranges on either
side from Beni-Merzoug : one of them led

back to Tizi-Ouzou, and was held in force
by the Beni-Yenni mountaineers: the other
led forward to the Fort at St. Cloud, and
was the one down which the Beni-Merzoug
themselves had marched to massacre the
isolated little garrison. How far the insurrection
might spread on either side, Le
Marchant had not the faintest conception ;
but he hoped by reaching civilization once
more on the line of the railway route he
might still be in time to avert the menaced
massacre at that doomed outpost. To do
so, however, no plan was possible save the
desperate one of crossing the snowy ridge
between the sister peaks of Ragout and
Lalla Khadidja. They had to make their
way alone, at dead of night, through trackless
wilds, and over untrodden snow, in a
country the greater part of which was absolutely
unknown to either one of them. But
it was the sole remaining chance for savings
the lives of their friends at St. Cloud; and
they faced it together, bravely and silently.

The hillside above the gorge was steep
and rocky, but they mounted it, step by
step, in dead silence, creeping up under the
shadows of the wild olive-bushes and the
low genista scrub, for fear of attracting the
attention of the Kabyles opposite, as long,
at least, as they remained within range of a
rifle-shot. As they toiled on and up, under
the moonlit sky, the air at each level they
attained grew colder and colder. Olives
slowly gave way to pine and cedar ; cedars
again ceased, in turn, in favour of low
clumps of wind-swept juniper. Meriem
drew her thin white robe closer and closer
around her. She was chilled by the freezing
wind, and her teeth chattered.

Here,' Le Marchant cried, pulling off
his own upper cloak — the outer Kabyle
garment — ' you must wrap this about your
shoulders, my child ; it's better than
nothing. '

No, no,' Meriem answered, holding her
haik tight in her numbed fingers, and

shaking her head ; ' keep it yourself ; you
need it more than I do. We Kabyles are
accustomed to winter-cold. We go about
barefoot, even when the snow lies deep and
thick on our own mountains.'

Le Marchant wrapped it round her, in
spite of her remonstrances, with an imperious
gesture.

You must take it,' he said. ' You're
the less warmly clad by far of the two.
Thank heaven, I've a thick English jersey,
unchanged, under my bernouse. Besides,
what we want is for both to pull through.
We mustn't let either fail on the summit.'

They walked on quickly over the intervening
ground, mile after mile, up, up — up
ever, till they reached the snow-line on the
high Col between the two rearing moonlit
mountains. At its edge, Le Marchant sat
down on a great ice worn boulder, and
began pulling off his boots very quietly.

'What are you doing?' Meriem asked,
repressing a shiver.

Taking my boots off,' Le Marchant
answered, as if for a gentleman to be so
employed were the most natural proceeding
in the world.

So I see,' Meriem replied. ' But what
for?'

She knew already j but until he told her,
natural politeness suggested it would be
rude to anticipate.

You must put them on,' Le Marchant
answered firmly, handing them over to her.
^ You can't go and tramp through the snow
barefoot. They'll be a deal too big for you,
but they're better than nothing. I have
my stockings. We shall both be protected
against the worst of the cold to some extent'


Meriem shook her head.

No, no,' she said eagerly ; * I can never
wear them. I'm accustomed to go barefoot
often in the snow. You're not. My
soles are hardened to it. Besides, they'd
slip off my poor little feet like anything.'

Le Marchant made no verbal reply, but
taking out the handkerchief concealed in his
bosom, he tore it in two, and bound each
half tight round Meriem's insteps. Meriem,
looking on in wonder, allowed him to do it.
Next, he gathered on the hillside a few
handfuls of the dry Algerian club-moss, as
soft as tow, and twining it close around the
two rags of handkerchief, thrust her feet,
thus bound, into his own boots, which he
proceeded to lace up in solemn silence, in
spite of Meriem's protests and exclamations.
I can fill up my socks with moss,' he went
on quietly, ' and that'll keep the warmth
of my feet from melting the snow. It's
freezing to-niofht. The surface 11 all be
hard and firm. If you can hold out, I can
hold out, Meriem.'

Meriem's eyes were dim with tears.

If you make me take them, I can go on
all night, Eustace,' she said simply. And
she took his hand in hers with a friendly
pressure.

VOL. II. 35

The Englishman's eyes moistened also,
but he said nothing. He stuffed his socks
with the soft moss, and, lifting her by the
hand, raised her gently from the ground, in
the unaccustomed foot-gear. They walked
on through the snow, thus equipped, for a
few hundred yards. Then Meriem sat down
on the crisp, hard snow.

Take them off, Eustace,' she said faintly.
I can walk better without them. They
seem to clog my feet so much. Tm not
accustomed to these great hard things. I'd
a thousand times rather you yourself wore
them.'

Le Marchant saw she really meant it ;
the unusual weight impeded her free and
graceful movements ; so he sat down by
her side and unlaced the clumsy things
without a word.

We can exchange,' he said, as soon ashe
had. finished. ^ I'll take the boots, and
}'ou the stockings.'

Oh no !' Meriem cried. ' Never mind

about me. I'm used to cold. It doesn't
matter. If we go on walking, it won't hurt
me. But you English are more delicately
brought up than we are.'

In a crisis,' Eustace answered, with
prompt decision, * one man must be dictator
and order about the others. Don't answer
me back. Do as you're bid, Meriem. The
lives of the people at St. Cloud depend upon
it.'

Meriem knew in her heart he spoke the
truth.

They made the exchange in silence, and
then marched on across the deep, soft snow.
The socks kept Meriem' s feet warm ; a nest
of club-moss sufficed for Eustace. The
snow lay flaky and powdery, as it often lies
on mountain-heights ; and the slight Col
between the peaks that they were endeavouring
to surmount rose still many hundred
feet above them. In places the drifts
covered with their deceptively even sheet
great hollows and bowls in the underlying

35—2

surface ; in places their feet struck sharp
rocks or jagged end of ledges an inch or so
below the treacherous and glistening level.
As long as the moon shone, however, all
still went well ; but in the very jaws of the
gap between the two twin mountains, thin
clouds began to drive up slowly from southwestward
— an ominous quarter — and flakes
to fall here and there in their faces as they
went, at long intervals. Gradually the
flakes followed faster and faster ; and just
as they reached the summit level of the Cl,
a perfect storm of snow, in blinding masses,
beat fiercely against them. Meriem was
weary now with much tramping through
the drifts, and ill-clad still in her light and
simple Kabyle garments. She drew her
haik tighter and tighter yet around her, and
battled bravely against the cutting blast
that drove wildly in her face ; but her
lips were blue and her teeth chattered,
and Eustace began to fear in his soul she
would never get through to descend upon

the warmer side of the valley towards
Bouira.

At last, as the storm drove fiercer in
their faces, she sat down exhausted in the
soft snow.

Leave me, Eustace,' she said, in a weary
voice, like a child that can hardly keep its
eyes open. ' I can go no further. For
Yernon's sake and Iris's, go on without
me.'

To sit down, wearied out, in the snow to
rest, is to freeze to death. Le Marchant's
heart almost failed him at the thought. If
Meriem was sinking, Meriem was doomed.
They could do nothing but sit down there
and die together.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

3 0112 037331540

Vitt^^fy^r.

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

l8Sda
V.3

^ ilot)cI

GRANT ALLEN

AUTHOR OF
BABYLON,' ' THE DEVIL'S DIE,' ' THIS MORTAL COIL,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. in.

Mention
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill

CHAPTER PAGE

XXXIV. CIVILIZED SOCIETY - - - 1

XXXV. THE HOLY WAR - - - 15

Xxxvi DESPAIR - - - - 31

XXXVII. PERIL - - - - 44

XXXVIII. WHY IT STOPPED - - - 54

XXXIX. THE BELEAGUERED FORT - 68

XL. OUT OF THE Hurly-burly - - 82

XLI. SINGULAR DISCOVERY AT SIDI Ia 96

Xlii PRETENCE OR REALITY? - - 112

XLIII. REVOLUTION - - - 127

XLIV. MISSING ! - - - - 141

XLV. ON THE TRACK - - 155

Xlvi 'ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH' - 168

Xlvi TO ALGIERS - - - 183

XLVIII. CHECK - - - - 198

XLIX. CONDITIONS OF PEACE - - 210

L. OPEN WAR - - - - 227

LL CHECK AGAIN - - - 240

LII. CHECKMATE - - - - 254

CHAPTER Xxxi.

CIVILIZED SOCIETY.

In the Fort at St. Cloud, Madame I'Ad-
ministration had gathered around her hospitable
board for the moment a party which
might almost have enabled her to forget
Paris. The little woman, indeed, was in
high spirits. And not without reason. On
her right hand sat an eminent dignitary of
her Church, on a pastoral tour through his
extensive diocese. On her left sat that distinguished
light of the British Bar, Mr.
Thomas Kynnersley Whitmarsh, Q.C., pouring
forth French small-talk, in his usual
glib fashion, with perfect fluency and most
VOL. in. 36

imperfect grammar. The officer of the
Genie, ablaze with medals, had taken in
the wife of the neighbouring Commandant
the lady whose husband had married her
out of pure depravity ; and the neighbouring
Commandant had returned the compliment
by offering his one remaining arm to
the plain and somewhat faded sister of the
officer of the Genie. Iris and Yernon Blake,
thus linked by malice prepense of madame's,
sat opposite the last couple at their good
friend's board ; and Mrs. Knyvett herself,
in the place of honour, forgetful for the
night of her bronchial troubles, consoled
that amiable cypher, M. I'Administrateur,
with congenial conversation in scrappy fragments,
jerked out at intervals with the purest
boarding-school Parisian accent.

The dinner itself was a monumental
triumph of Franco African cuisine. Nothing
like it had ever been attempted in
Kabylie. The soup would have done
honour to Yefour or Bignon; the fish

was fresh caught grayling from the snow-fed
mountain streams of the greater Djurjura;
no suspicion of garlic disgraced the sweetbreads
; no faint reminiscence of hircine
flavour raised doubts (too familiar to
the mind of the Algerian hon-vivant) as
to the possible substitution of kid for lambin
the succulent roti. The burgundy had
blushed on the sunny Cote door, no imitative
colonial brand from the slopes of Atlas;
the olives had ripened on Provencal hills,
and been bottled in oil and stuffed with
anchovy by the cunning hands of taille of
Paris. Madame I'Administratrice herself
beamed with joy and with ere me de Ninon.
Monseigneur had deigned to compliment
her on her heights a la reine ; and monseigneur
was well known to recoup himself
for his Lenten fast in due season by making
the best of the brood things of this world
when the Church permitted such occasional
relaxation.

And who would say we were lost among

36—2

the deepest recesses of the African mountains
?' mon seigneur observed reflectively
with a faint sigh, plunging his fork as he
spoke into his tenth olive fancies and stroking
with his left hand that long, flowing beard
which the rules of the Church permit to add
so much dignity to the dress and appearance
of the missionary clergy. ' With madame's
commissariat, and madame's flow of wit, a
man of the world would judge himself in
Paris.'

For my own part,' Uncle Tom remarked,
rolling a mouthful of burgundy on his
palate with obvious approbation, * I refuse
to believe this is Africa at all. Our friends
here have made us so perfectly comfortable,
and so perfectly at home, that I shall be
quite sorry, I declare, when the time comes
for us to go back to the shelter of my dingy
club in dear dirty old London.'

And yet, on y est t7'es hens a Londres
aussi! monseigneur went on, with an abstracted
eye, his mind reverting dreamily to

certain pleasant memories of English hothouse
grapes, Highland grouse, and giant
asparagus, ' it is only in England, apish tout,
that a connoisseur can taste the wine of
Oporto in its full perfection. But, nevertheless,
we are here in Africa — decidedly
in Africa. I am strong on that point. I
refuse to admit the contrary, monsieur. My
diocese is the most genuine Africa of all —
the original Africa of the original Ari. And
my flock — the Kabyles — for are not they,
too, my flock? — are the people of Masinissa
and Juba and Jugurtha.'

Don't you think, monseigneur,' Iris put
in from the bottom of the table, in her very
best French, though not without timidity,
^ there's a great deal of Vandal blood left to
this day among the Kabyles as well ? I
notice so many of them have blue eyes and
fiiir hair — some of the children have even
light blonde complexions. That must surely
be quite Teutonic. Belisarius can hardly
have exterminated the northern invaders,

even if he broke down the power of Oilier
and his fellow-countrymen.'

Yernon Blake opened his eyes wide in
speechless admiration at the intrepidity of
the young lady who could thus venture to
approach a bearded French prelate with historical
criticisms in his own language ; while
even monseigneur himself, who had never
before met an English learned lady of the
new school, raised his eyebrows by degrees
in mild surprise at such an unexpected interpellation
on such a matter. But the old
priest was too polished a gentleman to show
his astonishment overtly in words ; he
merely answered, with a deferential bow :
Mademoiselle is doubtless quite right in
principle; such fair hair and eyes may frequently
betray a Teutonic origin. Genseric
may, perhaps, have borne his share in the
total. But what I maintain, especially, is
that my flock as a whole — for I consider
them mine, though most of them, unfortunately,
still remain in error — are the genuine

old Romanized provincials of Africa, the
historical Christians of African antiquity,
the descendants of the race which gave to
the Church Tertullian, and Cyprian, and
Augustine of Hippo.'

They are certainly most European in
face and feature,' Iris answered, with that
effort which English people always feel in
speaking a foreign language. ' If one
dressed them differently, in European dress,
one CO aid hardly distinguish them, I think,
from Italians or Spaniards.'

And even their costume itself, which
seems to us so foreign,' Vernon Blake ventured
to remark, but in his own tongue (for
he had got here on ground that he really
knew); 'why, it's almost precisely the old
Greek dress, as one gets it in the torsos.
You can see in the sculptures from the
Parthenon at the British Museum exactly
the same arrangements of folds and drapery
as those of the Kabyle women. The peculiar
straight lines of the role as it falls to the

ground are absolutely identical. You get
them again, you know, in Flaxman's drawings.
The fact is, it's just the G-reek dress,
the old universal dress of simple nations,
surviving in Africa.'

Monseigneur bowed with an expression of
the interest interest and appreciation. Asa
matter of fact, like so many of his countrymen,
he understood not a single word of
any living language except his mother-tongue.


But to revert to what mademoiselle was
just observing,' he interposed placidly, with
a dexterous shift of his eyes from the painter
to Iris ; ' I should be inclined to say my
Kabyles here are merely a remnant of the
old common Mediterranean population, essentially
similar to that of Greece and Italy and
Spain and the Islands. They're Berbers
still, and still unaltered. Selon moi, mademoiselle,
invasions never very greatly
alter the underlying character of a population.
France is still Gaul, in spite of everything.

The espint Gaulois is with us yet.
It is the same in Africa. The Carthaginian,
the Romans, the Vandals, the Byzantines,
the Saracens, and the Arabs have all conquered
the old Berber coast in turn ; but
the Kabyles are to-day, in spite of that, as
Berber as ever. From their mountain eyries
they have looked down unhurt upon the
dwellers in the plain under a dozen dynasties.
Islam itself has made no real structural
change in their social relations. In their
savage Switzerland these free tribes are
monogamist still ; they are domestic still ;
their women wear no veils and are cooped
in no harems ; the open old Greek and
Woman life exists among these peaceful and
idyllic mountaineers as fully as ever. And
therefore,' monseigneur went on, W' arming
up with enthusiasm and forgetting his olive,
I look forward with confidence, I look forward
with hope, to the time when the Kabyles
shall once more be gathered as a body into
the fold of the Church ; when an African

cathedral of worthy architecture shall rise
anew above the ruins of Metropolitan Carthage
; when a new Augustine shall adorn
our Hippo ; when a new Monica shall grace
our re-risen Eugenia; when a new Synesius
will go forth from our Cyrene to evangelize
the black races of interior Africa. The
Arab, believe me, will retire abashed to his
native deserts ; the Kabyle will return a
walling convert to the fold of Christendom

Monseigneur paused for breath one second
in that oft-repeated peroration, delivered,
after his wont, with folded palms, and with
something of his noted ecclesiastical unction.
But the pause was fatal to his chance of the
house's attention. Madame I'Administra-
trice, leaning forward impatiently for an
opportunity to interrupt his even flow cut
in at the break with her flippant criticism.

Quant a moi, monseigneur' she said, with
a slight toss of her well-dressed coiffure * I
perceive none of these differences you so
eloquently point out between indigene and

indigene. After the monkey, the animal
that most nearly approaches man is no doubt
the Kabyle. But for ney a pig of a native
is always still a pig of a native. The
Kabyles may be as Greek and as Christian
as you make out, but why, in the name of a
saint, I ask you, do they come around at
night to steal my spring chickens, and then
offer them calmly, plucked and drawn, next
morning, for three francs a pair, at my own
door, to my own cuisiniere f <

Madame,' the dignitary of the Church
responded, in his blandest accents, with that
crushing politeness which most Frenchmen
know how to employ so effectively against
an obtrusive woman, ' we will admit that in
the solitary matter of spring chickens the
Kabyle morality has hardly emerged as yet
above the ordinary Christian gipsy level.
Even in France, our peasants, we know,
still confuse at times the meum and the
tuum as our great ladies occasionally confuse
their husband and his neighbour. But

the Kabyle, nevertheless, if madame will
permit me to differ from her on so abstruse
a subject, to which she has no doubt devoted
no small share of her distinguished consideration
— the Kabyle, mademoiselle,' and he
turned once more to Iris, ' has still his
virtues, distinctively European. He is no
nomad, like the Arab ; he is fixed, stationary,
and open therefore to the first lessons of our
higher civilization. Ei un mot, il tient a la
maison. He is industrious, sober, habituated
to labour. He is a weaver, a potter, a
jeweller, a metal-worker. Our Kabyle accepted,
but did not embrace, Islam. He is
clothed With it as with a cloak, under which
he keeps intact, to this day, his own higher
and nobler social habits. He has the idea
of the family, the respect for woman. Your
sex, mademoiselle, retains even now in his
hut its proper position. And he has, above
all, that noble sentiment of the soul, the
love of his country ; he is a patriot, a
warrior, a worthy son and defender of his

fatherland, ft was that elevated sentiment
alone which induced him, formerly, to make
common cause with an Arab chief like Abd-
el-fader against the arms of our severals :
it was that sentiment which drove him, with
ill-judged zeal, into the rebellion of El-moran,
in the vain endeavour to shake off
the yoke which our countrymen had all too
lightly imposed upon him. Our task at
present is to attach this high and beautiful
sentiment of the soul to France, rather than
to Algeria ; to give the Kabyle also a share
in the glories of the French arms and the
French civilization ; to teach him how to
merge his feelings as a mere provincial of
Africa in the wider consciousness '

Great heavens !' cried Iris, interrupting
his discourse, and clapping both her hands
suddenly to her ears, ' what was that, Mr.
Blake ? Just close outside ! It was ever
so near ! Did you hear it ? A pistol
shot!'

And even as she spoke a wild cry from

without burst all at once upon the startled
table. ^ Jehad / Jehad/ Dehahia Kahyli,
Ihahalal Islam!' And then once more in
French, ' A has les Francis /'

Mon seigneur bounded from his seat like
one struck.

^ A revolt !' he exclaimed aloud, walking
over with intrepid calmness to the window.
I spoke too hastily. The Kabyles have
risen ! They've proclaimed a Jehad ! They're
massacring the garrison !'

THE Hour WAR.

Iris stood speechless with horror and terror.
From the window of the dining-room, whence
they looked upon the outer court of the
Fort, she could see a turbulent mass of
angry Kabyles, the first in the field, drunk
by this time with fanaticism and blood,
surging wildly against the bailey gate of the
frail little fortress. The vanguard had
almost succeeded in surprising the place ;
and the postern, even now, was kept open
from within, strongly guarded, to give
refuge to the panic-stricken and flying
colonists from the outside homes. A few
Zouaves, hastily summoned from the guardroom,

were holding at bay for awhile with
fixed bayonets the tumultuous wave of
frantic insurgents. A hum as of a beehive
pervaded the place. Men, women, and
children, pressing their way between escort
through the savage crowd under a hot fire,
were running the gauntlet for the harbour
of refuge. Screams, yells, and bellowing,
like those of wild beasts, pursued them to
their lair. More and more Kabyles surged
up each minute. The Pere Baba, in his
white bernouse and with his long gray beard
all spattered with mud, came rushing for the
elate with two children in his arms. Monseigneur,
calm and courageous in the midst
of the din, recognised the good old man, and,
flinging the window open wide, cheered him
on with his voice to the place of safety. Ashe
neared the gate, a few of the foremost
Kabyles, recognising their friend, refrained
from striking him ; but others, shouting
aloud 'Jehad! Jehad I' raised their daggers
angrily in mid air ; and one shrieking

wretch brought down a rusty cutlass on the
good priest's shoulder, making the blood
spurt out over the brave old man's white
Kabyle bernouse.

At sight of the blood, Iris cried aloud in
terror, and all but fainted. Vernon Blake
supported her in his arms to a chair. There
she sat and cowered, with her face in her
hands, white as a sheet, and incapable for
awhile of speech or motion.

But Madame I'Administratrice, nothing
daunted bj the sight, leaning threateningly
out of the open window, cried aloud with the
interest scorn and indignation, ' Cowards I
cowards I would you strike a defenceless old
man and a pair of poor children ? Come on
and fight us, canaille cfiiidighies, and you'll
get your deserts, as you did in 1870.' And
she flung the dessert-knife she still held in
her hand insultingly in their faces, with a
whoop of challenge.

The hated face of the woman with high
heels seemed to rouse the excitement of

VOL. III. 37

the angry Kabyles to a perfect pitch of ungovernable
frenzy. With a rush they dashed
at the open gate once more ; and the Zouaves,
just hurrying the wounded Pere Baba
within the walls, were compelled next
moment to shut the postern in the face of
the last few flying villagers. As they did
so, the Kabyles hacked to pieces before
their eyes a terrified Frenchwoman, who had
fled in frantic alarm for the gate, and then
tossed her head contemptuously from a pike
in the direction of the window. A bullet
came whizzing past madame's ears ; madame
withdrew her face rapidly for half a second
from their sight, then put it out again like
a saucy street child that she was, with her
tongue in her cheek and her eyes rolling
wickedly.

Collins /' she cried again, imperturbable
still, but white with rage. ' Cochons !
Cochons ! Sacres cochons d indigenes! And
she stuck out her tongue at them in savage
exultation.

Monseigneur palled her gently but firmly
within.

Madame he said, in a very stern voice,
placing her at the furthest end of the disordered
room, ' it is not thus we shall teach
these misguided creatures to respect our
cause. Xot insult, but reason. M. I'Ad-
ministration, permit them to open the gate
for me one moment. I will go out as I am,
taking my life in my hand, and reason with
these poor fanatical people.'

M. I'Administrateur gazed back at him fora
second in mild surprise. He was too
practical a man not to see clearly that the
moment for argument had gone past long
since, and that an eminent dignitary of the
Church in a violet robe who should venture
forth to still their passions just then with
Christian advice and sweet reasonableness
would assume the unbecoming: form of
mincemeat in rather less than half a dozen
seconds. ' Monseigneur,' he answered,
politely but firmly, 'you cannot possibly

37—2

leave the Fort. Every man within it will
be sorely needed soon if we're to hold out
till reinforcements can arrive from Algiers.
Castella, look after the guns and the
magazine. Random, hurry up the reserve
from the barrack ! Sabaterie, see if they've
cat the telegraph wires, will you?'

The next ten minutes were a crowded
time of manifold sensation and noise and
motion, during which Iris was conscious
only of continuous firing and confused
uproar, and loud occasional reports from the
one big gun of the tiny battery. When she
next could recognise anything with distinct
perception, she saw that the window was
now closed tight with an iron casemate,
that all the men, Yernon Blake included,
had left the room, that a great glare pervaded
the Fort, and that her mother and
their hostess were holding her up between
them in their arms, and trying to comfort
her with tears and kisses.

I never knew I was such a coward

before,' Iris murmured, with some pallid
attempt at a smile. ^ I'm afraid I should
never make a good soldier.'

My dear,' madame answered, with a
sagacious little nod, ' we're all of us just
equal cowards in our hearts ; only we're a
great deal too much ashamed to confess it.
But this time the indigenes will do for us
finally. We're all dead women. They've
cut the wires, and no help can come. Nothing
on earth can possibly save us. We
must make up our minds to die where we
stand. For my part,' and the little woman
seized another dessert-knife viciously in her
fist, ' I'm not going to die without sticking
tlm, hilt-deep, into the breast of a dog of a
Kabyle.'

^ We must make up our minds to die !'
Iris repeated, all horror-struck.

Yes, my dear,' madame answered, with
infinite sang froid. ' They'll murder us all.
Just the same as they did at Palaestro in
1870.'

Iris, unaccustomed to thus dwelling upon
the fiery verge of an active volcano, hid her
face in her hands once more at the easy
answer ; but Madame TAdministratrice,
inured to danger, went on glibly in an
unconcerned voice :

I've looked out through the peephole
in the casemate of the window, and I can
see they're firing the houses and the hav-stacks.
Old Fourchault's haystack's blazing
like a bonfire I Ciel, what a blaze ! They're
putting torches now to the woodwork of the
school. There are women and children in
there, all huddled together, who came too
late to escape into the Fort. They'll be
roasted alive in the house pretty soon, unless
Hippolyte can get up a sortie to recover
them.'

But who are the men who are doing
these fearful things, madame?' Iris cried in
horror.

Your friends, the Beni-Merzoug, for the
most part,' madame answered coolly; ' they

and the Beni-Yenni and the Aith-Menguel-
lath;

The Beni-Merzoug!' Iris exclaimed, in
blank dismay. ' Why, surely those are
Meriem's people.'

Parfaitement ma chere,^ madame responded
cheerfully. ' And I've very little
doubt your good cousin herself s out there,
this moment, assisting them to set fire to
the little children and old women in the
school-house. It amuses them, that — to
burn alive little children and poor helpless
old women!'

A blank silence reigned for some minutes,
while Iris cowered and crouched half fainting
once more in the corner. She, the Third
Classic, the indomitable reason er, so resolute
and determined in every moral crisis, was a
physical coward of the feeblest in an emergency
like this. Even Mrs. Knyvett herself,
she observed to her surprise, was far
more composed ; while Madame I'Adminis
beatrice, that weak little creature, rising

with true Parisian buoyancy to the height
of the occasion, kept her eye fixed from
time to time on the peephole in the casemate,
undeterred by the rifle bullets that
rattled continually against its resounding
surface, and went on with a running comment,
undisturbed, on the history of the
insurrection.

They're making a sortie !' she cried at
last, with volatile animation, withdrawing
her face for a moment from the well-guarded
look-out. ' My husband has organized a
]party of Zouaves. Well done, Hippolyte !
Well done, Sabaterie ! They've opened the
gates and sallied out in good order. . . .
Monseigneur's with them, and Mr. Blake
too. . . . Monseigneur's holding up two
lingers to the rebels. . . . The staircase
is burnt down, and the women and children
are being fired at in a mass by the cochons
cV indigenes. . . . The fire grows heavier and
heavier each moment. The rescue party's
fought its way through to the door now.

Well done, again, Hippolyte ! I can see
it all plainly by the light of the haystacks.
. . They're putting up a ladder to the
window for the Avoient to escape. There's
Julie Auger on the ladder now, coming
down like a bundle. . . . She's safe ! she's
safe ! They've caught her and held her !
Monseigneur's caught her ; ce have monseigneur
! Pierre Horseman the Alsatian's
up there, too, with his rifle, picking off the
Kabyles coolly as they approach the ring ;
he's a splendid shot, Pierre ; he'll bowl
them over. . . . Mr. Blake's on the ladder
now, handing down the children. . . .
They're firing at him, I think ; I can see
a Kabyle dog just pointing his rifle. Ha !
yes. Quel dommage ! He's hit him on the
arm ! He's pinked his man. He's badly
hurt. The arm's bleeding !'

Hit whom?' Iris cried, in an agony of
suspense.

Mr. Blake,' madame answered, her blood
all afire with the excitement of the scene.

'But 7iir)iporte! Our men have covered
him well ; they're bringing him back.
These savages shan't have his body. The
women and children are all safe, too. Blake
was handing down a little girl — the very
last left — when a bullet struck him on the
left forearm. Well thrust, mon caporal
Well thrust, indeed ! They'll have him
under cover in the gateway shortly.'

Let me go!' Iris cried, rising white and
wan ; ' let me go and take care of him. Is
he dangerously wounded, do you think?
Oh, madame, madame, is he dangerously
wounded ?'

The roof's falling in now,' madame went
on, unmoved. ' The fire has caught it.
Ciel! what a grand sight! I can see the
flames bursting up like red tongues through
the broken crevices. What a magnificent
thing ! Red jets of fire shoot from the
interior! I wish I was a man! I wish I
was a soldier ! I should like to go out and
have a shot at these savages !'

• Have they got back Mr. Blake yet T
Iris asked in profound anxiety.

They're fighting their way back in a
hollow square madame answered, all agog.
Hand-to-hand fio'ht. Glorious ! magnificent
I The Zouaves outside, the women and
children and wounded in the centre of the
square. Man Dieu it's splendid ! but, oh !
what hot work I' She gave a little scream.
They've wounded the sons-lieutenant! But,
mon Dieu, how they fight ! I never saw
anything finer in my life. The Kabyles are
pouring in upon them on every side like
ants fi'om an anthill. The Zouaves are
pushing them back — thrust, thrust, thrust
with fixed bayonets, and firing from the
second rank inside upon those frightful
creatures. And the blood ! oh, the blood !
Ma chere, it's flowing ! Quel bndt, quel
carnage! One can see the blood red by
the glare of the haystacks. . . . They're
close by the gate now; Sabaterie's leading
them. Hippolyte's waving his sabre in the

air. . . . They've opened the gates to these
brave folk, ^ and they're taking in the
wounded. Lange is firing among the
savages with the great gun ! Morbleu !
what blood ! Fire flashes from every bush
and rock. Qjiie best affreux ! Que test
martinique /'

And Mr. Blake?' Iris asked, too terrified
now to make any pretence at cloaking her
special interest in that one non-combatant.

Mr. Blake's inside the wall all safe, and
Hippolyte's shaking his sabre in their faces,
insulting those wretches before he closes the
gate for ever upon them. Well done, Hippolyte
! Best bien fait, mon enfant. I
never admired my husband before ; but
to-night, noyes vobis — what a chance ! what
a change ! I could lay down my life for
him.'

In two minutes more that disordered
dining-room was filled afresh with pale
women and children, too terrified even to
cry, and men with bleeding arms to be

stanched and bandaged. Madame TAdministratrice,
well used to such work,
turned aside instantly to tear up linen
rag into long stripes, and to encourage
and tend these brave defenders. Finofer-
hisses supplied water to stanch open
wounds, and dinner-napkins were hastily
turned by deft hands into impromptu tourniquets.
Iris, now partially recovered from
her first wild scare, collected her thoughts
to put in practice on Vernon Blake's cut
and bleeding arm the lessons she had learned
at her Cambridge ambulance classes. And
without, the noise grew ever louder and
fiercer, and the glare broke stronger with a
more lurid light through the creaking cracks
of the iron casemate.

In half an hour a Zouave, all grimy with
smoke and blood and powder, came uj) from
below with an urgent message.

Monsieur desires me to tell madame,'
he said, not forgetting his military' salute
even at that moment of danger, ^ that we

have ammunition enough to resist for three
days, and that in any case we can hold out
till tomorrow morning. If a rescue arrives,
all will he well. He will send a messenger
out to Tizi-Ouzou.'

The messenger wall never get there,'
madame answered, with a shrill little laugh
of despair. * He'll be cut into a thousand
very small pieces before he can break through
the line of Beni-Merzoug. But never mind.
If we die, we'll have killed three times ourselves
in Kabyles !'

DESPAIR.

But alone, on the summit of the Col,
beneath the steep slopes of Lalla Khadidja,
Eustace Le Marchant knelt in agony on
the crisp smooth snow, beside half-lifeless
Meriem, giving up all for lost, both there
and at St. Cloud, in his utter helplessness.
A mile or two of snow still remained to be
traversed before they could reach the begin -
ing of bare ground once more on the downward
slope ; and Meriem, in her present state
of collapse, was wholly unfit to continue a
hundred yards further.

The cold was intense, and the wind blew
through him.

If only he could carry her ! But the

idea was impracticable. He had walked too
far. His strength was used up. They must
both sit down and die together.

And yet, how easy the slope looked ! A
smooth descent down a long and even snow-clad
valley. No glaciers here, as in the
High Alps ; no peaks or snow bridges ; no
probing with the axe, or cutting steps in
ice ; no moraines or precipices ; no boulders
or crevasses ; nothing but one long level
slope of snowball. It looked as easy as
those great drifts he had often slid down on
a toboggan at Quebec the year he was
working upon the cleopatra of Canada.

And then, with a flash of inspiration, the
idea seized him : Why not slide down, with
Meriem in his arms — if only he could find
something solid to slide upon ?

But what? The very hope seemed to
mock his despair. Not a stick or a stone
lay about anywhere. Nothing but snow,
snow, snow, all round. And the pitiless
flakes still fell over them as they sat, and

covered Meriem's dress with their cold white
crystals.

He was kneeling, but on what? Not on
the fresh-fallen snow. He sank into that
for a full inch, and then supported himself
on a hard crust beneath. He knew will
what that hard crust meant. A thin layer
of ice had frozen on top of the older snow.
A layer solid enough and hrm enough to
support him.

When snow falls and lies long in a cold
climate or on high mountains, the heat of
the sun often melts the surface on warm
days, and the melted top then freezes hard
at night, forming a sort of crust or semi-solid
layer, which caps the soft and powdery
under-strata. On such a crust Le Marchant
was kneeling. His heart gave a
bound as he seemed to feel its value to him
in this last extremity.

Lend me your knife, Meriem,' he said
suddenly.

What for ?' Meriem cried, roused to

VOL. III. 38

horror at the demand. ' You don't want
to do yourself anv barm, do viii. Eustace?'
'Xo/ Eustace answered, holding her
tight for warmth against his own breast.
'I only want to cut some ice. Til show
YOU why soon, Meriem.'

Menem took com her girdle the little
ornamental dagger, set with knobs of coral
and lapis lazuli, that all unmarried Kabyle
odrls wear bv their side, and handed it without
a word, in her numbed fingers, to her
eager companion. A sudden thought seemed
to strike her as she lay.

*If I die herCj Eustace,' she cried, with
energy, ' and you laye strength to go on
upon your way to Bouira. will you promise
me to take the charm from my neck and
throw it in a fire, without ever opening it?'
You will not die. Meriem.' Eustace
answered firmly. ' Or, if you do. I will
die here beside you.'

*But promise me. at any rate I' Meriem
gasped out, shivering.

I'll promise you anything, Meriem,' the
Englishman answered, pressing her hand
hard. ' And if I die with you here, I shall
die happy.'

Thank you,' Meriem said. ' You are
very good, Eustace. I told you before, I
love you as I love no one else on earth
but Vernon.'

Eustace took the knife and proceeded to
cut out with it a large square or oblong
cake of the under surface — the icy layer — ■
some seven or eio^ht feet lomond broad in
proportion. Then he shovelled away the
upper snow cautiously with his arms, and
drew it out with care on the freshly fallen
surface. If it broke, they were lost ; but
if only he could manage to seat Meriem
accurately in the very middle, and push it
before him with hands or feet, it would go
like a toboggan, he fondly fancied, doAvn
those smooth slopes.

It was a forlorn hope ; that last straw to
which the drowning man proverbially clings,

38—2

but, alas for Eustace I it was insane, impracticable.
As he lifted Meriem and placed
her on the frail seat, the ice shattered at
once into a thousand fragments. He
wondered at his own insensate folly in
hoping it would bear her. That ice go
down a whole mountain - side ! Why,
it splintered at a touch. Ridiculous !
Impossible I

He sat down on the snow once more in
despair.

If we had only some wine !' he said.
Some brandy ! Anything I'

Meriem opened her eyes at the sound,
and answered feebly, with a flash of remembrance,
" Your flask is at my girdle. I
forgot it till now. I snatched it up as
we were leaving the tent. There's something
in it. I thought you might want
it.'

With a wild cry of joy, Le marchant
seized the bottle eagerly fi^om her side, and
unscrewed the top with numbed white

fingers. It was whisky, neat, and happily
more than half full.

Thank God !' he cried, * we're saved,
Meriem ;' and he poured out a ^^4ne-glass-
ful into the cup beneath, tempering the raw
spirit with a handful of snow that melted in
it instantly. ' Here, drink this off,' he went
on, holding it to her blue lips; 'it'll give
us both strength to go on to Bouira.'

^ Is it wine ?' Meriem asked. ' I never
tasted any. You know we're not allowed
to drink wine, we Moslems.'

Xo, it's not vine !' Le marchant
answered firmly. ' And you're not a
Moslem ! And whether you like or not,
you must drink it instantly 1'

^leriem drank it off without further
parley.

Why, it warms one at once,' she cried
in surprise. ' I never in my life felt anything
like it.'

Le Marchant tossed down a good draught
-himself

Now, we'll wait five minutes for that to
take effect,' he said, with fresh hope ; * and
then, as soon as it's begun to strengthen
us, if I have to carry you down the whole
way in my arms, we'll go on, Meriem.'

But in a few minutes Meriem, summoning
up all her courage, and refreshed by the
stimulant, was ready once more to start off
walking again with a spasmodic effort.

The downward slope was far easier than
the upward one. Sometimes by sliding,
sometimes by a glissade^ and sometimes by
trudging through the soft snow, they made
their way toilsomely and slowly to the
point where the snow ceased on the mountain.
Already the exercise and the higher
temperature made Meriem warmer. As
they reached the last edge of the deep
snow, she said, with a fresh access of
feverish energy :

I can walk on now to the bottom,
Eustace.'

On, and ever on, they tramped accordingly,

in the early morning, the dawn just
beo^innino- to whiten the east in the direction
of the iron line they could now see
dimly below them in the gorge of the river.
Meriem had never set eyes on a railway
before, but she was the first to make it outwith
its rigid curve, and she guessed what
it meant.

The iron road,' she cried, for she had
forgotten the English name that Eustace
called it. ' We haven't so far to go now.
I can hold out still, if I drop when I get
there.'

It was five o'clock in the morning when
they reached the gorge itself, and stood by
the side of the single line of railway. Eastward,
the next station was not in sight;
but westward, beyond the river, they had
descried from the heights houses and a
steeple. That must be Beni - Manor
Station, Eustace thought, from the lie of
the country. They turned their weary

feet in that direction, walking along the
line, and treading on the ties ; if only they
could once reach a station, they could
telegraph on for aid in all directions.

A hundred yards further on they came
to a bridge. It was an iron-girder bridge,
thrown boldly across the river from bank
to bank of the wide gorge. But there
was no footway. The rails ran along
skeleton wise upon sleepers and ties ; the
work beneath was open trestle-work of the
American type. Meriem looked along at it
with doubt and hesitation.

It's hardly a kilometre to the station,'
she said, shrinking back. ' But, Eustace,
t aren't cross that thing now. If it were
up in our mountains, and I were fresh and
strong, perhaps I might venture ! but I'm
so very weak and giddy with fatigue and
hung-er ! Leave me here — leave me here
for awhile — and send people back to me
from the village with food. I shall be
quite safe where I am, you know. I

shall sit by the roadside, and nothing will
hurt me.'

Le March ant considered seriously for a
moment with himself. She was certainly
in a very weak and faint condition. It
required nerve and strength to cross that
bridge. He hardly cared even to face the
task himself Yet, on the other hand, lie
didn't like to leave Meriem alone and unprotected
by the open roadside. He reflected,
however, that Kabyle maidens are generally
very well able to take care of themselves ;
and also, which was perhaps a great deal
more to the point, that nobody was likely
to be passing at that early hour down an
uninhabited gorge, along a lonely railway
line. As the outcome of which deliberation,
he decided at last it would be best to leave
Meriem by herself for the time being, and
hurry on, for her sake as well as for the
sake of the besieged at St. Cloud, to the
nearest village. The sooner he could get
there, the sooner she would have food,

warmth, and shelter. Though it looked,
perhaps, a little cruel and unchivalrous to
leave her, it was the truest chivalry and
kindness in the end — the only way to
procure her all that she needed.

Very well, Meriem,' he said, with regretful
decision. ' Sit here by the side ; I
won't be long. I shall come back to you
soon with food and clothing.' Then a
sudden idea struck him as he turned to
go. ' You must take care of the engine
he said, in a warning voice ; ' you know
what that is — the great iron horse that
comes puffing and snorting along the rails.
If it passes by while you're here, don't goon
the line, or it'll run you down and crush
you to atoms. Better not stir at all from
the spot. Sit where you are by the side
till I return ; don't move hand or foot, for
fear of danger.'

Meriem nodded her weary head in assent,
and took his hand in her own, dreamily.
She raised it to her mouth, and printed a

kiss upon it. Eustace stooped down and
kissed her forehead in return.

Good - bye, Meriem/ he said, * I shall
soon be back. Good-bye, my child, and
take care of the engine.'

And he turned to make his way across
that dangerous bridge, with a wave of his
hand towards the half-fainting Kabyle girl.

PERIL.

The bridge proved harder by far to pass
than Eustace had at all at first anticipated.
It was one of those spider-like
trestle structures with which Transatlantic
engineers have made us so familiar; and
its lightness and airiness were in American
extremes. The ties stood open rather far
apart ; the gorge below yawned deep and
rock - bound ; and the distance bridged
seemed out of all proportion to the actual
size of the torrent stream, owing to the
immense width and abrupt descent of the
chasm-like valley. At every step along
those open sleepers the Englishman's knees
trembled under him. He dared not look

down at the abyss below ; he dared not
look back at poor weary Moriens, for fear
he should grow giddy and lose balance
entirely. He could only walk on — walk
on mechanically, planting one foot after
another on the uncertain ties, and steadying
himself as best he might, with his arms
spread out like an acrobat or a ropedancer.


It would have been a ticklish task even
at the best of times. With his numbed
and weary limbs, after that long tramps, it
was almost too much for him. He had got
half-way over, however, in safety, when a
strange, dull noise vibrating alone' the
metals underfoot made him start and listen
with vivid eagerness. Hark I what was
that ? The rails seemed to thrill with an
indefinite hum. A moment's suspense !
Then he heard a voice calling to him
aloud from the further bank.

Eustace, Eustace !' the voice cried in
agony. 'It's coming! It's coming!'

He knew what that meant. He recognised
his peril. It was Meriem crying
aloud to warn him of his danger. With a
thump of the heart he took it all in.

The morning train from Setif to Palaestro !

God ! — God ! it was rushing down
upon him resistlessly !

There was no time to think or to landscape
now. ^o place to turn aside, to
right or to left. Only the line itself, and
the river beneath. He could hear the wild
dash of the engine as it came rearing and
thundering down that steep incline to the
mountain river. He could hear the rattle
and ring of the rails as they grated under
the wheels. The brake was pressed hard.
It thrilled and resounded along the trestles
of the bridge. He realized the deadly peril
in which he stood. But for one thing he
was grateful. Thank Heaven, he hadn't
tried to take Meriem over with him !
Meriem, at least, was safe from peril.
His first thought was to make a wild

(lash for it, and try to get to the other end
of the Ion or bridge before that rushing
engine could reach and overtake him. But
one second sufficed to show him how mad
and hopeless was that wild plan ; how
impossible the chance of getting across
before the engine bore him down. Only
one bid for life yet remained — for Meriem's
sake, and the besieged in the mountains.
Like a flash, the solution occurred to this
quick mind. He must lower himself on
his hands in the gap between the ties, hang
on by his fingers as one hangs on to a
trapeze, and let the engine and train pass
bodily over him.

It was a bold idea, vet not wholly impracticable.
For as soon as it had passed,
he could raise himself up again on his
elbows, like a gymnast, and continue his
journey to the nearest station. Put for
the moment, dear life was all he thought
about.

Quick as thought, he lowered himself on

his hands as steadily as he could manage,
and placing one foot against an angle of
the iron trestle-work at the side — the rod
attachments were too thick and too whig to
climb by — clung with hooked fingers to the
sleeper above in speechless suspense and
quivering expectation. How long he might
have to wait there he had no conception.
But he waited for ages. Hours, days,
years, seemed to pass slowly before that
rushing engine, at full speed, rolled over
his head with its rattling burden. There
he hung, inert, between earth and sky, with
one foot just poised against the elbow of
the trestle-work, and the other dangling
loose in empty space, and heard the great
iron horse dash, puffing and panting, across
the long line of iron girders, in slow haste
to destroy him. Would he have nerve to
cling on when once it got fairly overhead,
he wondered ? He hardly dared to hope
it, his hands quivered and shook so much
already. The mere physical jar and concussion

as the train passed by would
perhaps suffice to loosen and shake off his
tremulous fingers. Fatigue and hunger
had unnerved him already: the ordeal was
a harder one than his exhausted frame was
then and there prepared to go through.

But Meriem at least was safe upon the
bank ! Thank Heaven for that. He had
not foolishly and thoughtlessly imperilled
Meriem.

Jar, jar, jar ; how the girders rocked !
The train was coming rolling and rattling
on. It approached, it approached ; nearer,
nearer, nearer. He saw the lumbering
engine pass slowly overhead. The boiler
went over him, grate, grate, grate. The
funnel puffed and steamed and snorted.
The fire glowed red above his face with a
fierce hot glow. But still he held on,
trembling:, trembling; violently. Great
heavens ! would the thing take all day to
go past ? Each instant seemed to lengthen
itself out into an eternity !

VOL. 111. 39

A second's breathing-space. The engine
had passed him I

Then the tender went next, jar, jar, jar,
jar. And after it the carriages, with their
unconscious living load of humanity, not
one soul of whom knew how an unhappy
fellow-creature was hanging on below therefor
dear life with straining hands to the
ties and sleepers. One, two, three, four of
them, each jarring separately, and each
almost shaking him from his insecure hold
with those numbed, dead fingers. A cattle-truck
next ; two, three, four, five, six goods-waggons.
And then a pause. Eustace
breathed again. Thank Heaven ! thank
Heaven ! the jar was over. The train had
passed. He might safely get up again.

But when he came to try, his cramped
hands refused to raise their heavy burden.
He hadn't purchase enough to pull himself
up. He must wait for a few minutes and
recover his strength. The nervous strain
had unmanned him for the moment.

So he waited, waited ; half fainted, but
waited.

Another quick change ! Great heavens !
what was this ? The jar ceased abruptly.
The orders left off vibration one moment.
The train had stopped before reaching the
end ! Something must have happened.
Then suddenly the jolting began once
more, but in the opposite direction. A
horrible doubt appalled his mind. Next
instant the doubt resolved itself into a
certainty. The engine was reversed ! The
train was coming back again I

Could he muster up strength to face it
out ? Could he ever hold on till it had
reached once more the other side, numbed
and cramped as he was already with his
superhuman effort ?

And even if it went back and passed him
over unhurt, it must still go on a second
time, and make its way finally to Bouira
and Palaestro. Twice more of that speechless,
indescribable suspense ! Twice more

39—2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

of that horrible grating and jarring ! He
could never endure it. It would kill him
with the uncertainty.

Back, back they came, all those same
cruel carriages, in reversed order.

One, two, three, four, five, six — those
were the goods waggons. He counted them
all, waggon ])y waggon, a long age each,
going slowly over again. Then the cattle-truck
; he could hear the oxen in it. Then
one, two, three, four — eastward they went
again, those four passenger carriages. Jar,
jar, jar, as they passed overhead ; the
grating this time far more deliberate and
worse than ever. The tender rolled next,
on slow, slow wheels ; and now for the
danger of dangers — the engine. That was
worst of all, because of the heat and glare
and blast of the furnace. If it halted over
his head (and it was going very slow) the
heat would torture him ; it would be all up
with him.

How instantaneous is thought ! how.

swift I how indivisible ! In that second of
time between the tender and the boiler he
caught himself speculating in his whirling
brain why the train had turned back on the
bridge at all, and how long it would wait
before it went on again.

Then the boiler came, and with it oblivion.


All he knew clearly was that a dart of
pain, presumably in the hand, was followed
fast by a faint sensation of rushing air
buoying him up all round — a sudden
plunge, a thud, a stoppage. The universe
seemed to reel and whirl around him. All
else was blank. He had fallen insensible.

One spurt of boiling water from the
engine as it passed had dropped accidentally
on the hooked hand that barely clutched
the rugged sleeper. That sudden throb of
scalding pain made him relax his tenacious
muscles instinctively. It was all up then.
His hands let go. He had Mien on to the
sandbank that bounded the river.

WHY IT STOPPED.

And Meriem ? Well, the train was putting
back to pick up Meriem.

When Eustace left her, she had sat for a
while listless on the bare bank, too weary
to think of anything but her own fatigue,
and longing for rest and food and release
from anxiety. For Vernon Blake's danger
was still an ever-present reality to her
mind, persisting through everything as a
vague background of consciousness. She
watched Eustace, as in a trance, making his
way slowly over those open ties. Would
he get across the bridge in safety, she
wondered, half dreamily — would he get

across and rouse Algiers in time to rescue
Iris and Vernon ?

So she sat there listless, with her eyes
partly closed. But, like all mountaineers,
she had keen hearing. An indefinite hum
soon attracted her attention. What was
that faint, low noise that buzzed along the
line ? A distant b'r'r, that seemed to shake
the bridge ? Though she had never beheld
a railway-line in her life before, she felt
sure it was the train coming up from eastward.


A train she knew only as a wonderful,
horrible, death-dealing machine. Strange
stories had reached her ears in her remote
mountains of the magic pace and dangerous
whirl of those inventions of Satan, which
run a man down before ever he can cross
the path in front of them. The infidels
knew how to make wild iron horses that
careered along the ground with dizzy speed,
like birds on the wing, or shooting stars in
heaven. If any living creature presented

itself in their way when they were in full
flight (may Allah preserve us !) they
crushed it in their wrath under their heavy
wheels, as an angry bull crushes a grasshopper
beneath his tread on his way to
dash fiercely at a bellowing rival. Those
who have never seen a locomotive have
always heard of it, indeed, chiefly as a fearful
engine of destruction. Meriem's terrors
were raised to the highest pitch of superstitious
awe, as she saw the great snorting
and puffing creature, breathing fire from
its nostrils, wheel rapidly round the corner
of the mountain, and bear down with a wild
swoop upon the bridge in front of her — the
bridge where Eustace was feeling his way
slowly, with tentative feet, above the yawning
abyss of the gorge of Asser.

And it was she who had sent him on his
awful errand ! She who had urged him to
cross the bridge ! She who had asked him
to try that dangerous path, for Vernon's
sake — for Vernon's and Iris's !

He was so good, so brave, so true, so
gentle ! And he loved her so truly ! How
could she ever have sacrificed that earnest
soul to her unkind lover ? Her heart smote
her with a terrible remorse. She flung
herself on the line in an agony of regret.

eustace!' she cried, in a wild cry of
despair, ' Eustace ! Eustace ! it's coming,
Eustace !'

But lie never heard her, or, if he heard,
he never turned his face aside to listen for
one moment. It would crush him Adhere
he stood before ever he was aware of it !

If only she had done as Eustace told her
waited patiently by the side, and never
stirred from her place, come what might,
all might yet have gone well with them.
The train would have passed over his head
in safety, and Eustace, when it had passed,
might have summoned up his strength,
by slow degrees, to raise himself on his
elbows to the level of the bridge again.
But what woman on earth could keep her

presence of mind enough to obey a man's
instructions at such a crisis ? She only
knew that Eustace was in danger — that she
had sent him to his death — that for her
sake he had gone — that at all hazards she
must try to save him.

The horrible thing was deaf, and blind,
and senseless, indeed, as it came roaring
and rushing with lightning speed down that
steep incline ; but it had a man on board,
no doubt ; an infidel at the helm, but still
a man who guided and directed it. She
would flint; herself in front of it and attract
his attention. She would throw up her
arms and beckon him to stop. He would
pull up, perhaps (if to pull up were possible),
when he saw a woman on the line
before him, waving her hands and shouting
to him frantically.

For though she had never seen a train in
her life before, she saw at a glance how it
ran upon its rails, and took in, instinctively,
the main manner of its external working.

Running backwards on the line before
the advancing engine, she flung up her
hands with all the energy of despair, and
waved her white haik wildly in the breeze,
to catch, if possible, the engine-driver's attention.


Nearer and ever nearer came that horrible
thing, snorting steam from its inicoutli
mouth, and glowing in its front, like some
living creature eager to swoop down upon
her of set purpose, to crush and destroy
her. But she had no thought for herself ;
she thought only of Eustace. It mio-ht
knock her doAvn and run over her lifeless
body at its own fierce will, if only she
could make it halt before it reached Eustace
Eustace, Eustace, Allah, Eustace!
She ran backward, ever backward, without
looking where she went, Having her hands
wildly, and shouting in Kabyle, ' Stop,
stop, in Allah's name stop, for mercy !' till
she almost reached the beginning; of the
bridge, where she would have fallen through

the open spaces, or been crushed between
the ties by the devouring engine.

But before she reached it, the unspeakable
thing, now slackening its pace somewhat,
as if in answer to her cries, was
fairly uj^on her. No matter for that. She
knew it was slackening ! Then they saw
her ! They saw her ! They meant to pull
up ! Perhaps the thing would stop before
it reached Eustace.

For Allah's sake, stop ; for mercy ! for
mercy !'

Next instant the buffer had struck her
full on the bosom. She stumbled and fell.
Lights danced before her sight. A terrible
sense of a stunning blow overcame and
sickened her. She closed her eyes wearily.
And all was silence.

The driver of the morning train from
Setif, looking ahead along the line as he
turned that sharp corner before reaching
the trestle bridge across the Asser, had been

surprised to see a woman — une indujene —
these natives are so foolish — running backward
on the line, with her face towards the
engine, and waving her hands frantically
before her face, to stop him.

Tiens' he remarked With philosophic
calm to his friend the stoker, ' voila encore
line che ces imbeciles qui desire se faire
chandler comme on chancre le linge cJiez
la hlanchisseuse ; and yet, if Ave run over
her, they'll start a proces-verhal against us,
par exemple, for causing the death of a
native by carelessness. Those idiots of
lawyers I'

But he did his best, none the less, in his
own interest, to avert a catastrophe. Those
idiots of lawyers must be pacified somehow.

The train Alas rushing; doAvn the incline
With all steam on, to mount the steep
gradient on the other side, as it Avent
towards Bouira ; but the brake had been
AA^ell in hand for the purpose of turning the
sharp corner of the gorge in safety, and the

engine-driver was therefore able to apply it
in hot haste the moment he saw that mad
Rabble figure careering and gesticulating
alone' the sino-le line rio^ht in front of him.

o o o

The man on the bridge he did not see ; that
dancing creature in the wild white robe distracted
his attention from all else beyond
for the first few seconds ; and before he
could recover his presence of mind sufficiently
to grasp the whole situation at once,
Eustace, letting himself down by his hands
between the girders, had disappeared beneath
the ties among the mazes of the trestle-work.
However, the woman alone was well
worth stopping for ; those idiots of lawyers
bold you guilty of contributory negligence,
worse luck !* if you don't pull up sharp
even for a suicide. The driver put on the
brake quick and hard ; the hiss of it grated
with jarring vibration all along the whole
length of the bridge and the riders.

But it isn't so easy to stop a train, either,
going full pelt, by steam and gravity, down

a Steep incline, with a bridge at the bottom.
Before he had time to bring the engine fairly
to a standstill, the buffers had hit that
frantic Kabyle woman full on the breast,
and the train had passed calmly and resistlessly
on across the level of the bridge in
front of her. It was only when they had
almost reached the opposite side that the
wheels with difficulty obeyed the brake, and
pulled up sharp midway with a jar that
grated hard through the long line of
carriages.

A dozen heads peeped forth at once, inquisitive,
from a dozen windows. ^ Que.^t-
ce quil-y-a done T a dozen querulous voices
exclaimed in concert in their highest key.
And the guard, from his little perched box
behind, responded cheerfully, * As far as I
can bee, messieurs tt mesdames, there's no
barm done I An incident of Algeria I
We've run over an indu/etie I*

Nothing w Tong with the train, ray dear,'
a reassuring papa, in a black skull-cai),

withdrawing his head, remarked to a tremulous
mamma huddled up in the corner.
Fas de derangement I The engine's all
right. We've only stopped because we've
had the misfortune to run over a stray
Kabyle woman.'

'Pas plus que ga !' madame answered,
consoled, and settled herself down comfortably
once more in her rugs in the corner.

But in the roadway behind, Meriem lay
stunned and bleeding on the line ; and
midway across the bridge, Eustace Le
Marchant still clung with hooked hands for
dear life to the sleepers beneath them.

What to do ?' the engine-driver murmured
in doubt to his friend the stoker.

Go back,' the stoker answered, with glib
suggestiveness, ' and pick up the body.
Strictly ei rkjle. That satisfies the Court.
It shows at least (sacred name of a dog !)
you've done the best you could to avert an
accident.'

You have reason, non vieux, the engine-driver

answered, slapping him on the back,
and reversing his locomotive. ' Allons clone ^
let us pick her up, as you say, for form's
sake, this mangled out Kabyle woman.'

So they turned and went back to pick up
Meriem.

And as they passed the spot where
Eustace still clunoj with all his mio^ht to
the hard angles of wood, three or four
boiling drops from the waste-pipe, turned
on by the reversal, happened to fall on his
left knuckles, and finished the task of
sending him to the bottom.

The little trao;edv worked itself out in its
own dim way, all unknown to the principal
but unconscious actors.

So they picked up Meriem, a bleeding-mass
of limbs and clothes, and laid her
with rouo^h, unfeeling hands on the floor of
an empty third-class carriage.

Tiens the passenger in the skull-cap
remarked with animation to the guard ashe
passed, looking down into the sand at

VOL. III. 40

the bottom of the ravine. ' Do you runover
many of them here in this gorge ?
There's another indigene lying stiff and
dead on the bank down yonder by the side
of the torrent there.' For Eustace's new
suit of Kabyle costume had, of course,
transformed him in outward appearance
into a complete and very unmistakable
Algerian native.

Best vrai the guard answered, shading
his eyes with his hand against the newly-risen
sun, and casting a curious glance
down the deep ravine. ' But, thank Heaven,
we've nothing to do with liim^ at any rate,
we others. We can tell the people at the
station to fetch him alone; and make all inquiries.
Her husband, no doubt I Tumbled
over and killed. It was him, you may be
sure, she was making such a fuss about.
They trespass like coves on the line, these
indigenes /'

And the incident being thus satisfactorily
closed, the train steamed on gaily upon its

way once more, with Meriem's body safely
aboard, and arrived, to the stoker's conscious
pride, only seven minutes behind the
advertised time at Beni-manor Station.

There's another of them lying dead in
the o'uUev down below,' the en ordines driver
observed to the chef che (fare, with a wave of
his hand towards where Eustace lay huddled.
A monsieur in a first-class carriage detected
him. You'd better tell the Sisters at the
Home over yonder to send out a stretcher
to bring him up, and get him laid out and
buried decently.'

For accidents will happen, even on the
best-regulated French railways.

40—:

THE BELEAGUERED FORT.

All nio'ht long, St. Cloud held out bravely ;
and all night long fresh hordes of insurgents
kept pouring in from outlying villages on
the inaccessible spurs of distant hills ; for
the Kabyles, like the eagles, perch their
eyries on the topmost ledges of the mountaineers,
where no other foot can easily
follow them. All night long, too, Iris
Knyvett sat, white and anxious, tending
Vernon Blake and the other wounded men,
while that hideous din continued to wax
fiercer and ever fiercer outside, and that
awful glare to glow redder and ever redder
through the cracks of the casemate. Even
Madame I'Administratrice herself felt her

martial ardour cool somewhat, as she saw
how the natives gathered thick in fresh
swarms around that doomed Fort — one
seething, surging mass of half - savage
humanity, now hanging by hundreds like
bees from a branch on the bare brick walls
of the frail fortress, and pressing on to
their death with Mahommedan ardour in
the cumbered line of the shallow green
fosses.

The more we mow down, the more seem
to grow up afresh,' madame exclaimed at
last, raising her hands in horror and
astonishment to heaven. ' They use each
other's bodies like rats or vermin, just to
make a bridge of dead for the survivors to
trample on. The hateful creatures ! I
wish I was a man ! I'd like to go out and
have a good shot at them myself before
they hacked me into little pieces.'

And even as she spoke, a loud yell of
triumph arose up anew from the Kabyle
ranks. They had succeeded in setting

alight the gateway of the Fort. Big bursts
of flame spurted forth from the loopholes.
The red tongues of hire were already mounting
high upon the stone lintels.

Unless reinforcements arrive by midday,'
Madame TAdministratrice remarked,
surveying the situation with critical coolness
through her tortoiseshell glasses, ' we
shall have to surrender, as they did at
Palaestro in 71 ; and then, my dear,' she
drew her hand suggestively, with a sudden
click, across her small white throat, ' the
savages will make mincemeat of us ; it'll be
all up with us.'

What happened at Palaestro in '71 ?'
Iris asked, with a shudder, as the shouts
once more rose loud and clear from the
gateway heavenward.

Ah, my dear,' the little Frenchwoman
answered, with a sagacious nod, ' you should
just have been here then ; that was something
like fighting. You'd have known
what an insurrection was like, I can tell

you. I was the only woman who escaped
alive from old St. Cloud ; and at Palaestro
pouf ! — with a boum ! boum ! boum !
they extinguished the garrison after it had
surrendered.'

'After it had surrendered ?' Iris repeated,
shrinking'.

Ah, after it had surrendered, je le crois
bie7i, mon enfant! Murdered them all in
cold blood. The settlers held out to the
very last moment in the mcmon cantonniere
and the Gendarmerie next door. But when
the Gendarmerie was almost tumbling in
ruins about then heads — riddled through
and through, as we shall be soon — Basset
and the rest came out on parole — that brave
Basset — with a promise that they might
retire with credit, their arms in their hands,
Men entendu, for the honour of France, to
the nearest civilized settlement in the district.
Nothing more military — they surrendered
on terms. They carried their
arms out with them, like true French

soldiers. He hens ma chere, as soon as
they'd got just outside the house — on terms,
remember — houp^sauve qui pent ^ the savages
were down upon them, knocking them over
with the butt-ends of their rifles, and massacring
them then and there in cold blood,
with true Kabyle treachery. Poor old men
and beardless boys, voyez-vous hienl Do
you wonder that I hate them, then, these
cochons d* indigence T
Iris shuddered.

It's terrible,' she cried, 'terrible, terrible !'
And to think. Iris dear,' Mrs. Knyvett
remarked, with superfluous reproachfulness
under these painful circumstances, *that if
it hadn't been for you, and your determined
opposition to your dear uncle, we might
have been sitting at our ease this very
minute in Sir Arthur's villa at Mustapha
Superieur, not knowing there were such
people as Kabyles anywhere ! Oh ! if I
only once get out of this horrible place, I'll
never, never, as long as I live, go among

such frightful creatures again — never, never,
never, never !'

But you won't get out of it, cheese dames
madame continued complacently, just grasping
her meaning through the mist of her
English ; ' I was coming to that. I was
just going to tell you ; they'll do with us
precisely as they did at Palaestro — they'll
murder us wholesale. T'chk, t chk. t'chk
at every one of our throats. It's a Jehad,
you know — a holy war ; and in a Jehad,
madame, there's no keeping troth or trust
with the infidels. Well, the women and
children were in the maison cantoimiere^ as
I was on the point of telling you (whew !
what a bullet ! it nearly made a hole through
the casemate). They held out there, with
just a handful of men, till the fire around
them actually scorched and burnt their
dresses ; and then, of course, they could
hold out no longer. So they surrendered
at last — surrendered on terms of sparing
their poor little lives alone. The savages

accepted them. But as soon as they came
down, r'r'r, the same as before — the men
were killed — just knocked on the head, so,
before the women's eyes ; and the women
were stripped of their very clothes, and
handed over, in I dare not tell you what
shameful condition, to the tender mercies of
those severe brutes there. That's what eve

o

may expect, if Hippolyte's fool enough to
listen to terms. But I hope he won't. For
my part, I'd sooner die first, with my
tongue in my cheek, flinging a curse with
my last good breath against those dogs of
savages.'

With such cheering conversation the
night wore through and the morning
dawned upon their weary eyelids. More
and more Kabyles seemed to burst upon
them for ever. Monseigneur and Blake,
and the other wounded who could still bear
arms, had gone out long since perforce to
join the shattered little band of tired defenders.
The ffuard-room and dwellings

alone held out now. The courtyard
of the fort was in the hands of the enemy.

Unless reinforcements arrive before noon
the commandant said, with a despondent
glance at the enemy, ' we must ask for
terms. We can't hold out much longer
now against such overwhelming numbers.'

Let us die where we stand first,'
Sabaterie answered with a shudder. ' For
the sake of the women, let us all die
fighting.'

Presently the front of the house became
quite untenable.

We must put you on the terrace ]\1.
Administrator said quietly, coming up to
the women. * You'll be out of reach of the
bullets there. Duck behind the parapet.
When that's no longer safe, we must take
such terms as they choose to offer us.'

Xo terms! No terms!' madame answered
firmly.

The women and children, huddling close
together, made their way out by the steps

at the back on to the flat top of the old
Moorish villa. A wall surrounded it on
each side, a foot or two high, and sufficiently
thick to be quite bullet-proof. Madame
TAdministratrice, irrepressible still, raised
her head for a moment above the summit of
this parapet to see how the fight now went
below. In a second, the sight of that hated
face drew a shower of tire once more from
the Kabyles in the courtyard, who, inspired
alike by bigotry and hate, thirsted for the
blood of the high-heeled woman. The indomitable
little soul, not daunted even now,
drew off one of her dainty Parisian evening
shoes — a strange reminder of last nio^ht's
suddenly-interrupted festivities — and held
it on a casual frae-ment of bamboo hio-h
above the parapet.

Let them waste their bullets on that,'
she cried derisively; and waste them they
did, indeed, in good earnest, for in another
minute not a shred was left of the insulting
token.

Madame knew as well as they did by
what nickname she was called among the
wild tribes, and she flaunted in their faces
in this last extremity that expressive symbol
of her hated presence.

All through the morning, the little garrison
still held out by superhuman efforts.
Noon came at last, and with it the glare of
an almost tropical sun. Icy cold as it had
been on the snow-clad tops of the Djurjura
last night, when Meriem crossed them, it
was broiling hot now in the full eye of
heaven on the whitewashed roof of that flat
open terrace. A burning sky hung hazy
blue overhead, and a hot sirocco swept on
with fierce force from the sweltering desert.
All round, the smoke and heat of a great
conflagration went up in blinking mist from
the ruddy ruins of the still smouldering
village. Nothing remained of St. Cloud to
behold, indeed, but charred and blackened
sites, and broken walls, and that one gaunt
Fort, now tumbling visibly to pieces b}- slow

degrees before the vigorous assault of the
victorious Kabyles.

Their only hope lay in the arrival of
succour. Had any rumour of the rising
yet reached Algiers? Had any messenger
descended on the rail at Beni-manor ?
would troops hurry up from Tizi-Ouzou
or Fort National?

Or were Tizi-Ouzou and Fort National
themselves, too, in flames ? Was this a
general rising of all the confederated Algerian
tribes, or a mere local and isolated Kabyle
insurrection?

They knew nothing. They could guess
nothing. They could only wait and hope
and wonder, and look with straining eyes
along those two white lines curling round
among the hills, that showed above the
parapet in either direction — the roads to the
two nearest European stations.

By noon, the situation was no longer
tenable. The Zouaves could hardly fight
another half - hour for sheer fatigue and

thirst and hunger. Muttered cries of
Surrender ' began to be heard here and
there from the men. The Fort, in fact,
was but a riddled shell ; it might foil
down bodily about their ears at any
moment.

Just then, M. Administrator made his
appearance suddenly at the door that led
upon the flat white terrace. He was grimed
with smoke, and covered with stains of
powder or blood.

I'm going to make terms,' he said
shortly

Jamais P madame cried, in her shrillest
and most authoritative accents, stamping
her little foot angrily upon the tiles of
the house-top. ' Jamais I jamais! mille fois
jamais f

We can no looser delay it,' monsieur responded
coldly, twirling his moustaches.

Surrender if you like, but I'll fight till
I die, if I hold the Fort myself alone,'
madame answered with spirit, seizing the

sword at a wrench from the scabbard by his
side. ' I shall not be massacred here in cold
blood as we were at Palaestro. I shall die
blade in hand. For the honour of France,
I refuse to surrender.'

I command this garrison,' monsieur said
with dignity.

And I command you,' madame retorted
briskly, with her irrepressible street Arab
readiness. ' Go back,' she went on, in a
coaxing tone, pouting her pretty little
Parisian lips at him coquettishly. ' Go
back, there's a good man, and fight it
out like a soldier to the bitter end. If in
twenty minutes, twenty minutes by my
watch — the little watch you gave me, you
remember, Hippolyte — we're not relieved
from Fort National or somewhere, parole
honneur, Fll jump down among them myself,
all alive, from the parapet. Not a
woman in the place shall be taken prisoner.
We will save our honour! Death, if you
will, but not — not these savages!'

You are right !' monsieur cried with
spirit, taking her hand in his. ' Such
women as you teach men how to die. I
admire you, Adele. You show me my
duty. We mil never surrender. We'll
fight them to the end. If they enter this
house, it shall be over our bodies.'

Madame, in a sudden burst of unwonted
tenderness, stepped forward with a bound,
and kissed him roundly.

But Iris held her hands to her ears in
horror. They must die where they stood !
They must die that day ! Die by the sword !
There was clearly no help for it !

Unless a relief-party arrived in twenty
minutes !

VOL. III. 41

OUT OF THE Hurly-burly.

When the Sisters at Beni-manor, after
carrying Meriem tenderly to the Rest
House, went down with a stretcher into
the gorge by the river in search of the
dead Kabyle whom they were told to
expect there, they found Eustace Le Marchant
breathing still, though shattered and
insensible from his terrible adventure. At
the point where he fell, the sand-bank, by
good luck, happened to be soft and very
yielding; it had broken his fall as nothing
else could have done, and received him
gently, as on a natural mattress.

As they laid him on the stretcher, he
opened his eyes, and recovering consciousness

for a second, remembered everything.
Then, the gravity of the crisis supplying
him with false strength for the unwonted
effort, he cried aloud in French, with a
sudden burst of feverish energy:

Danger in the hills ! Telegraph at once
to Tizi-Ouzou and Fort National for aid !
St. Cloud's surrounded. The wires are cut.
The Kabyles have risen, and are attacking
the Fort. They've proclaimed a Jehad.
They hold the roads to prevent an alarm.
I came down, disguised, over the Col of the
Djurjura, to bring word and warn you, and
ask for succour.'

Then his strength gave out ; he could
say no more ; he fell back insensible on the
pillow of the stretcher.

The startled Sisters carried him off to the
Rest House without delay, and laid him on
a bed, and tended him tenderly. But before
even his first rough needs had begun to be
satisfied, two of their number, all trembling
with excitement at so important a mission,

41—2

went off to the little mairie of the settlement
with news of the strange tidings
brought them in such a providential manner
by the unknown, disguised, and wounded
European.

Information so serious and so genuinely
vouched for could not be disregarded, even
by the most severe of French red-tape
officials ; and before six o'clock in the
early morning, therefore, a telegram had
reached the post of Tizi-Ouzou:

Reported rising of the Kabyles in the
Djurjura. St. Cloud surrounded. The
garrison in danger. A single European
straggled in this morning, having slipped
through the lines in native dress, and desperately
injured. Send assistance at once
to the Fort. Secure approaches.'

The news was not wholly unexpected.
Doubts had been raised at Tizi-Ouzou even
earlier, owing to the interruption of telegraphic
communications, as to the safety of
the outlying little garrison at St. Cloud.

The wires wouldn't work; and when the
wires won't work in an occupied country,
you may always suspect the possibility at
least that somebody' somewhere has deliberately
cut them.

Nevertheless, as the Commandant afterwards
remarked in his official despatch, ' no
serious apprehension was at first entertained,
as the Kabyles had exhibited few symptoms
of uneasiness during the period immediately
preceding the outbreak.'

These thunderbolts, indeed, always fall
in Algeria from a clear sky. The utter
isolation of native from European life makes
it possible for the Arabs or Berbers to plot
an insurrection in its minutest details, and
that not even with much show of secrecy or
concealment, yet without arousing for a
moment by word or deed the vigilance of
the authorities. The two streams of life
flow on together side by side, unrelated.
They touch, but they do not mix. Religion,
manners, speech, divide them. What the

Kabyle thinks or plans or hopes is a sealed
book to his next - door neighbour, the
European settler.

Hence it came about that at Tizi-Ouzou
that night nobody had felt very much alarm
at the temporary interruption of telegraphic
communication with the mountain posts.
Wires are always liable to get wrong anywhere.
Their getting wrong excited no
sinister suspicion. But as soon as the
message from Beni-manor arrived, everything
was, nevertheless, in readiness for immediate
action. Where thunderbolts from
a clear sky may be expected at any moment,
people live in the perpetual attitude for
receiving them like Ajax. In a very few
minutes the Zouaves were called out under
all arms, a hasty little column turned outwith
marvellous speed in good order; and
with bayonets set and faces on the alert, the
hurried relief party marched steadily up the
military road that leads by slow zigzags
towards St. Cloud in the mountains.

They marched all morning at a forced
pace, peeing more and more signs as they
went along their track of the havoc that the
Kabyles had wrought that night among the
outlying settlements. As they neared St.
Cloud, the blackened farms and smouldering
ruins on every side told their OAvn tale; they
had come, if not too late, not one moment
too soon. A massacre had clearly taken
place at the Fort, or was on the very eve
of taking place, unless they could arrive
just in time to relieve it. Here, a smoking
oil-mill lay burnt to the ground; there, a
settler's cottage stood out with charred walls,
and roofless, skeleton timbers ; yonder,
again, a mutilated corpse on the dusty
roadside told how the Kabyles had wreaked
their vengeance, with hideous disfigurements,
on some inoffensive colonist. One
night had sufficed to lay in ashes the result
of many years' active toil — the valley of
St. Cloud spread before their eyes one vast
scene of sudden and wretched desolation.

On their road, however, they met with
little or no opposition. Only on the pass
just below the village of the Beni-Merzoug,
where Meriem and Eustace had in vain endeavoured
to force their way, a strong body
of Kabyles held the gorge in force. But a
twenty minutes' skirmish with superior
arms of precision sufficed to dislodge these
ill-equipped foes, and the little column passed
on upon its way unmolested to the Col that
overhung the St. Cloud valley.

It was there that the full extent of the
mischief wrought by the insurgents broke
with a flash upon their horrified eyes. As
they gazed into the glen, where once the
Fort and village gleamed white in the centre,
no sion of the settlement seemed for a
moment to remain anywhere. All they
could make out was a confused mass of
living and moving creatures — the swarm of
Kabyles, like ants from an ant-hill, surrounding
all that remained of the tottering small
fortress.

Was St. Cloud itself demolished ? Did
anything yet remain ? Had they come too
late to relieve and save that gallant little
garrison ? Or was there still a remnant left
fighting hard to the death against tremendous
odds for life and honour and the fair fame
of the fatherland ?

From the Col they could hardly yet make
out for certain ; but the frequent shots that
echoed through the hills showed that fighting
of some sort was still going on. Unless,
indeed, the Kabyles were now engaged,
after their wont, in massacring the prisoners
after a surrender!

The relieving column charged at a double
down the slope of the hill, resolved at least
to avenge the memory of their slaughtered
fell o w - CO entry men .

In the Fort, meanwhile, affairs had come
to the last gasp. Ammunition, wasted like
water in that sharp fight, was beginning to
give out. It was a question of sabres and

bayonets now. Let the rebels come on !
They must sell their lives dearly, and then
all would soon be over.

The women, crouched and huddled together
in a mass on the hot terrace, were
silent at last in mute expectation. Even
Madame TAdministratrice found her false
courage fail ; she crouched with the rest
and uttered not a word, but gazed away to
the west with a yearning heart towards the
Col of the Beni-Merzoug.

Presently Iris looked up and spoke.

What's that cloud,' she cried, ' comines
over the Col — away yonder on the left? Do
you see it ? Do you see it ? More Kabyles,
I suppose. Oh, mother, they'll soon swarm
over us.'

Madame shaded her eyes with her hand
and looked. For a moment she hesitated.
They were hard to make out. She dared
not believe her own eyes. Then all at once,
in that hour of deliverance, her calmness
broke down and her nerve forsook her.

The woman within her, so long repressed,
and repressed artificially, by that theatrical
courage, burst forth With a rush in its
natural womanhood. She fell upon Iris's
neck, sobbing, with a wild and hysterical
flood of tears.

They're Zouaves I' she cried, flinging her
arms madly round her English friend,
they're Zouaves ! I can see them ; I can
tell the uniform. I can recognise the even
red line of march ! I can make out the flag !
Nous ponies .^aiwes, saves /' And she
kissed her again and again on both cheeks
in a frantic outburst of pent-up feeling.

At the very same instant, along the opposite
hill, a second column appeared above
the crest, in a cloud of dust, from the direction
of Fort National. A cry burst forthwith
eager energy from all those watching
women's lips.

Les Chasseurs les Chasseurs ! Mere de
Dieu ! Nous sommes saves.'

Madame I'Administratrice waved her

handkerchief wildly round her head in
triumph. With a burst of joy she rushed
to the trapdoor, and shouted aloud to her
husband below.

Hippolyte ! Hippolyte ! One minute
longer ! Hold out for your lives ! We shall
beat them yet! Two columns are comings
Zouaves and Chasseurs ! We have them between
two fires. One from Tizi-Ouzou!
The other from Fort National!'

A few moments later all was changed as
if by magic. On either side a body of
trained and drilled French soldiers was
charging with fixed bayonets the wearied
mob of irregular Kabyles. For a quarter of
an hour the din and smoke and turmoil were
indescribable. Hideous shrieks went up to
the noonday sky. Short swords were
brandished and rifles fired. A frightful
melee of slaughter ensued. Then the noise
slowly died out to a few stray shots,
and ceased at last. The women on the
roof breathed freely once more. The

Kabyles were surrounded — disarmed —
taken prisoners!

Under the charred remains of the burnt
irate, the two commanders of the little
relieving columns came up with smiles on
their scarred faces, and gave their hands to
M. I'Administrateur. M. I'Administrateur,
all blood and powder, grasped them warmly
with his own left. The right hung limp
and idle by his side. The women had
crowded down, now their terror was relieved,
to welcome their deliverers. Madame
Administrative, herself once more, bounded
up to kiss both her husband's cheeks openly,
coj^am popido.

Hippolyte,* she cried, with genuine
admiration, ' your wife is proud of you !
You fought them well. I didn't believe,
mon ami, you could fight like that ! I'm
glad were not licked by these dogs of
Kabyles.'

Iris gazed forth, in fear and trembling,
for the two among the party who most

fiataiedn: : r

a start tlu^-Ir i^: ^ -" t : ^ r.-r

liooes. Z : : :her

looked ! r T v^ I J

wen a^ 1

ID leonine on tkipoi; die

crude Tooi^caneiip
in wpilbt irf'eicrjfiliiii^

> M J dw; be cwd, kii»iii^ lion tSsoi^
all Ins Arit^ Time been pofecdj

I"d no GCBBBpMMk I^SSSBR Fl

fE^il; like dewOs^ as iSstey'T^
morning!! By 6eai^ge;,Inis^noBniiiii Aiatj
could base fiN^t mare p&ns&ilT I Bnt itt: s
boc woii, I can ttdll 7: i^. :^emb

bot unosk ; a long ^^^^t : : ~ 7 ; gf

mjwvi^blt^tbaneiai
AsiH-TcuHnK&k
admitted thai: be look
Ibe afeuliai. For, i
band mite bis 01m bairn
by Idttlt baid-oanttEsiH: .
so Idw Ibi; only sbe v
yon sdn innsS^ ti
Kabjbs^?^

SINGULAR DISCOVERY AT SIDI Ia.

At Algiers town, meanwhile, in Dr. 's
commodious villa on the 
slope, Harold Knyvett found himself
in the lap of luxury. With Sidi Aia conveniently
next door, for the full development
of his recondite plans, and old Sarah delighted
to show every attention to Sir
Arthur's nephew and Miss Iris's cousin
(' Grot bless her pretty face, the dear young
lady !'), the lines had indeed fallen to him in
pleasant places. He could endure with
equanimity even that old bore 's
infernal chatter about self-concentration
and the origin of insanity, when he

knew it all wafted him every day so much
the nearer to the accomplishment of his
grand scheme for acquiring the estate and
bringing Miss Iris down upon her bended
knees (metaphorically) before him.

For he loved that woman I He must have
that woman ! He would humble her in the
dust, and then make her marry him !

So he worked in the dark, underground,
like a mole, surely and silently.

But the worst of the mole is, it only sees
what takes place beneath the surface.

I want you to come over with me this
afternoon, Yate - AVestbury,' he said at
luncheon one day, discounting his triumph,
and have a good look round again at those
Moorish antiques in my uncle's villa, or,
rather, in Iris's. I can't quite make up my
mind wdiat I should do with that alcove in
the drawing-room — if the house were mine.
The point's unimportant, perhaps — unimportant,
I admit — considering the purely
hypothetical nature of the supposition ; but

VOL III. 42

still, as a simple matter of taste, I want to
settle it.'

The famous specialist looked him through
and through at a single glance with his keen,
quick vision. ' Got a remote eye on the
heiress, eh?' he said sharply. ^ Well, you
might do worse for yourself in the end than
marry your cousin. A fine girl with a fine
property; though I'm never in favour myself,
if it comes to that, of consanguineous
marriages.'

Harold laughed a short, self-complacent
little laugh. ' I'll admit the notion of reuniting
the family has sometimes, more or
less vaguely, crossed my mind,' he answered,
with a satisfied smirk. ' It has many advantages.
The girl would suit me, the villa
would suit me, and the money would suit
me down to the very ground. From
several points of view, in fact, a rational
man might take the match into his favourable
consideration.'

'And the girl?' Dr. Yate-Westbury

ventured to ask, with a sudden glance up at
him from those searching eyes. ' Might a
rational girl take the match into her favourable
consideration, too ? Would you suit
her as well as she and the willard suit you, I
wonder?'

Harold drew himself up to his full height,
with somewhat offended dignity. These
doctor fellows presume altogether too much
upon a mere professional and business acquaintance.
' I've no doubt,' he answered,
with stony politeness, ' if / where to ask my
cousin to become my wife, my cousin would
advise herself well under the circumstances
before she rejected me.'

Dr. Yate-Westbury changed the subject
at once with medical adroitness. His
patient was fumbling away quite too visibly
now at that unfortunate button. When a
patient gets oiF on his nervous hobby, the
wise physician avoids dangerous ground by
diverting his thoughts with a jump upon
dexterous side-issues.

42 2

No doubt,' he echoed. ' And the villa's
certainly very charming, too. These pretty
Moorish things would make any house
beautiful. Did you go in for many purchases
in the town this morning? It's a
quaint old place, and full of interest, isn't
it?'

Why, I hardly knew whether I was
standing upon my head or my heels,'
Harold answered with truth. ' One's first
visit to the East's a perfect revelation.
Everything Oriental's so delicious! y new. I
felt as if Algiers was one huge kaleidoscope,
and I was one of the little loose glass pieces
rattling about inside it. The colour, the
din, the change, the excitement, are all so
strange. And yet in a way, too, so curiously
familiar ! The people and things one
has read about from one's childhood ! Outside,
this is apparently to the naked eye the
Nineteenth Century ; in the narrow old
alleys of the native town, I found myself all
at once transported at a bound on some

enchanted carpet to the Bagdad of good
Haroun-al-Raschid.'

• Did you go into any of the shops ?' 
asked, still observing him closely.

Oh yes ; rather. Your man Ahmed
took me into one in the Rue de la Lyre ;
Abd-er-Rahman's, he called it ; the name
alone's worth all the money. I was quite
taken aback when I got inside — a dim old
Moorish house, you know, with a tiled
courtyard and Saracenic arcade, and piles
of rich Oriental stuffs lying about loose
everywhere, and pierced brass lamps hanging
down from the roof, and an abstruse air
of the " Arabian Nights " pervading mysteriously
all the quaint surroundings.'

And you bought largely?'

Bought largely ! my dear sir, its a place
to spend thousands in. My first idea, when
I turned over those great piles of Algerian
embroideries, and Persian saddle-cloths, and
Tunisian silks, with my fingers itching, was
to telegraph over at once to my lawyer in

London, '' Sell out everything instanter at
close market prices, and forward the proceeds
to this address for immediate investment in
Oriental needlework !" . . . Yes, I bought
a good deal — some Tlemcen rugs, and
several nice brass and silver inlaid trays,
which I mean to put up over the front arch

of the red room — when — when ' and

he broke off suddenly.

When you marry the heiress ?' 
suggested, with a meaning smile.

Harold hind checked himself with an
involuntary start. It was so hard not to
anticipate the discovery of the will — that
will he himself knew so well already.
When I marry the heiress,' he repeated
mechanically. ' Yes, yes, of course, when
I marry the heiress.' And that unlucky
button twisted round and round with infinite
twirls in his tremulous fingers, till it was in
imminent danger of breaking away from its
moorings bodily.

I like the way they do business here,' he

went on with an effort, trying to appear at
his ease once more, and to talk with his
usual glib Pall Mall readiness. ' I like the
quaint flavour of antique life about the flit
impassive old Moor in the embroidered
jacket who keeps the bazaar, and puffs his
cigarette in a dignified repose that seems to
imply customers and telegraphs and price-lists
are not. My friend Abd-er-Rahman,
in fact, conducts affairs even now in the
stately old style of the one-eyed calendar,
when time was not yet money, nor were
merchants shopkeepers ; when to buy a
brass tray was a commercial treaty between
two high contracting parties, and to chaffer
for a lamp or an embroidered portiere was a
diplomatic event to be duly solemnized by
prayer and festivities.'

xVnd you got what you wanted ?' 
asked again curiously.

Harold's mouth twitched with a more
nervous twitch than ever as he replied, in a
studied mock-careless tone, ' Oh, that key ;

yes — to the singular drawer in my uncle's
davenport, you mean. Ah, of course, I remember.
Well, I'm not quite sure. I
hunted up a bundle of skeleton keys at the
terriers in the town, and I dare say one
of them may happen to fit it. But it's not
of much consequence whether it does or not,
thank you. I've no right, indeed — except asa
cousin — to go poking about Iris's house
in her absence. Still, it's queer nobody
should ever have noticed that drawer in the
davenport. My uncle told me he always
kept his most important papers there.' And
as he spoke, the button at last came fairly
off in his irrepressible fingers.

After lunch, they lighted their cigars and
strolled out upon the lawn, and Harold drew
on his seemingly unsuspecting companion
by casual side-paths towards the garden-gate
of Sidi Aia. The doctor followed with
suspicious eyes. They walked up the drive
and into the central hall. There Harold
began pointing out the various places in the

house and grounds where he would effect
sundry alterations and improvements of his
own ^ if the property were his,' and to fiddle
in between whiles with his bunch of keys at
the rusty old locks of that recalcitrant davenport.
How he hugged himself on the cleverness
with which he had already concealed
within it the — well, the other will, and then
made Yate-Westbury, willy-nilly, an unconscious
accomplice in the act of finding it !

They'll none of them fit I' he cried at
last, flinging the bunch away from him in a
pretended ill-temper. • After all, it's no
business of mine to look. Iris can try, if
she cares to investigate, when she comes
down fi^om the mountains.'

He knew already that Yate-Westbury
prided himself not a little upon his mechanical
skill and delicacy of wrist. ' Let me
have a try,' the doctor said, taking the keys
quite unsuspiciously from the table where
Harold had flung them. ' A gentle twist
often succeeds in these cases where strength

and violence are thrown away to no purpose.'


You can try if you like, but they won't
fit,' Harold answered pettishly, suppressing
his anxiety, and feeling With vague fingers
for the abolished button.

Thus challenged to the trial, and put upon
his mettle, Yate-Westbury began with the
bunch systematically, and pushed each key
in, one after the other, till he came to the
original identical skeleton that Harold had
added to the ring in the solitude of his own
room just before luncheon.

It turned in the. lock without the slightest
difficulty, as well it might, seeing that the
wards and blanks of each had been fitted to
the other from the very beginning.

Yate-Westbury pulled out the slide entire.
It was a queer little drawer — a secret drawer
—stuck conspicuously at one side of the
davenport, and with its lock concealed by
an obtrusive piece of ornamental breastwork.
Nobody knew of its existence, indeed, save

only Harold, who had bought this very
davenport of set purpose a year or two
before at a shop in Ardour Street, and sentit
over to Algiers as a present to his uncle,
with the acute idea that such a receptacle
might happen some day, in case of an emergency,
to come in handy. He had locked
the drawer and kept the key himself as a
measure of precaution, lest anything alien
should ever get into it. So deep and long
beforehand had he provided against contingencies.
He prided himself not a little in
that moment of triumph on his extraordinary
prudence and his judicious forethought.

The specialist sat down in an easy chair
in the corner, and began to inspect at his
leisure the contents of the drawer.

What have you there, doctor?' Harold
asked banteringly, with assumed carelessness.
' Gold and silver and precious stones ?
The wealth of Ormuz and of Ind, I suppose.
Or is it only Sir Arthur s youthful love-letters
and other wastepaper?'

'Bills,' Yate-Westbury answered, turning
over the papers loosely with his
incautious hand, ' bills, bills — mostly
receipted.'

And so they were. For Harold had been
at the pains to acquire, by purchase, a large
number of those incidental accompaniments
from his uncle's valet, all dated Aix, to give
greater resemblance to the discovery of the
will.

Nothing more than that?' Harold asked,
with clever and well-assumed disappointment.
' I expected at least a great Hoggart}^
Diamond !'

^ Nothing more than that,' the doctor
responded cheerfully. ' Pour acquit on everyone
of them. . . . Stop. Here, what's this !
That looks rather more promising. " Will
of Major-general Sir Arthur Wellesley
Knyvett, K.C.B." Whew— I say! Here's
the old gentleman's last will and testament.
. . Why, this can't be the will they proved
in London. What was the date of that one,

I wonder? . . . This concerns you, Kny-
vent ! You'd better look into it.'

Harold came over with affected nonchalance,
his fingers twitching horribly none
the less all the while, and the corners of his
mouth quivering hard with excitement. He
looked over Yate-Westbury's shoulder as
the doctor read. The great specialist
whistled low and long to himself as he saw
the terms of the strangely-recovered document.
' By Jove !' he cried, looking up,
this is luck for you, Knyvett : " Revoke
all former wills absolutely, and leave my
entire estate, real and personal, without
remainder, to my dutiful nephew, Harold
Knyvett, of the Board of Trade, London,
Esquire." . . . Then, my dear fellow — there's
no mistake about it — you're the owner of
Sidi Aia yourself, after all. Upon my soul,
I congratulate you — I congratulate you.'

In the triumph of the moment, the room
swam round about Harold Knyvett's brain.
His plot had succeeded — succeeded to the

letter ! Everything had turned out exactly
as he intended ! Yate-Westbury, not he,
had found the missing will. No tinge of
suspicion would ever now attach to his
name. Not even that old fool, Tom Whit-marsh
himself, could find any flaw in the
wording or the attestation — all had been
done in strict accordance with the simplest
and most indisputable forms laid down in
Lord St. Leonard's excellent little handbook.
He felt himself already the monarch
of all he surveyed at Sidi Aia. . He had
Iris at his feet ! She must marry him or be
beggared !'

Poor a minute he could hardly gasp out in
jerks a few inarticulate words to the doctor,
^ You'd better keep it. . . . You found it,
not I. . It must be duly proved, and all
that sort of thing. . . . Till then, it should
remain in your own possession.'

A worse thing to have happened to him,
in his frame of mind,' Yate-Westbury said

to his assistant that night, as they sat alone
together in his little consulting-room, ' I can
hardly imagine. Whether he forged it or
Whether he found it doesn't much matter.
In either case, the episode's deplorable —
simply deplorable. He was on the very
verge of acute dementia, even before the will
turned up. This miserable excitement will
upset everything. And now, no doubt,
he'll come into the property a ravines


PRETENCE OR REALITY ?

In the dead of night — of that same awful
night — Harold Knyvett lay uj^on his bed
awake, and heard the clock on Yate West-bury
's stairs clang out the hours, one by
one, monotonously. A dreary old clock,
with a cracked voice. So long and terrible
a twenty-four hours he had never known ;
they dragged their slow length with relentless
deliberation. His accomplished crime
was beginning already its Nemesis ujoon
him.

One of Yate-Westbury's patients kept
him awake — a poor mad woman, chattering
and moaning.

Weary at last with much tossing and

turning, he rose up, and looked out of the
little Moorish arcaded window. The moonlight
was pouring, in full pale-green floods,
on the white walls and flat roofs of Sidi Aia
next door — his house, his own house,
which he had procured for himself by his
own wise forethought and his own clever
handicraft. That bad old man. Sir Arthur
(confound him for a coward), had never
had the courage to do the rio^ht things, and
to make a plain will, in accordance with
common honesty and friendliness and
justice. But never mind; he, Harold
Knyvett, had taken the matter boldly in
hand, like a man of mettle, and shrunk not
from the terrors of the law, or the commonplaces
of morality, in his determination that
substantial right should at last be done him.
With infinite skill and patience and boldness,
out of the nettle Danger had he
plucked for himself the flower Safety.

The moonlight played exquisitely upon
those high white walls of Sidi Aia. The

VOL. III. 43

shadows of the arches came out by contrast
in delicate tones of faint green ; the capitals
of the pillars gleamed bright and beautiful
with silvery radiance. Anything more
lovely in its way he had never seen. So
romantic, so poetical, so fit for himself and
Iris to live in : for the intoxication of love
(or what answered to it in Harold Knyvett's
nature) Alas mixed now in his brain with
the meaner intoxication of accomplished
villainy. And it was all his — his ; he had
secured it for himself; he had carved his
own fortune with his own bold hand; he
had made himself, at one blow, rich, unassailable,
much to be envied.

Happy, happy, happy Harold! Rich,
unassailable, much to be envied !

But sleep he could not, for all his wealth.
The excitement had driven away drowsiness
from his eyelids. He lay down once more
on his bed uneasily, and tried to escape
from the flood of thought that inundated
his consciousness with teeming images.

His brain whirled round and round in a
fever of thinking. He must repeat something
over and over again to calm and
appease that internal whirlwind. He must
say A B C a hundred times over, according
to the old formula, or picture to himself
sheep leaping over a gate, or count his
lingers till he was tired and drowsy ! All,
all, alas! of no avail! ABC became to
him a romantic tune, and set itself mentally
to an air of Mendelssohn's. The sheep that
leaped over the gate figured themselves,
vividly as individual pictures, in every conceivable
ovine variety of fleece and attitude.
The ends of his fingers as he counted them
to himself seemed instinct with extraordinary
and unnatural sensitiveness — too
much alive, he somehow imagined, like his
brain itself, which was working too hard for
the fibres that composed it.

And then, in a vague, dreamy, unrelated
way, he thought of those words Yate West-bury
was fond of repeating so often — Yates

— 2

Westbury, with his odious professional
habit of regarding all mankind as potential
lunatics. ' Madmen live a great deal too
fast ; their nervous system burns itself out
at the rate of three days in the twenty-four
hours.'

Not that he for one moment applied them
to himself He merely recollected them ina
dreamy way as an apt illustration of his
present state. He was so excited and overwrought
with this one absorbing plan of
action that his mind, too, like the madman's,
in spite of its clearness, was working
too fast and working too vividly. Images
and ideas crowded in upon him with wild
haste one after the other. He saw and
heard and felt and thought with abnormal
keenness and intensity of sensation.

Not, again, that he was insane, or anything
like it. Oh no, indeed! He had
never thought things out more logically or
consecutively in his life. He was, if anything,
saner than usual — perfectly collected,

sensible, clear-headed. Ideas came to him
now with a force and directness they had
never before in his life possessed. He could
see through a brick Avail, so piercing was
his vision. Xo clouds or mists obscured
his mental sight. And he was brilliant,
too — undeniably brilliant. He thought he
could write poetry in his present mood — he,
who had hitherto despised it as mere sentimentality.
At any rate, he talked all day
long yesterday, with that pompous old fool
for sole hearer, as he had never before
talked in the most sparkling drawing-rooms
of London society. As a rule, one requires
an audience to stimulate one. But not so
now. Such point, such repartee, such wit,
such scintillations I He had fairly astonished
himself throughout the day by his
own perfect fluency and flashes of inspiration.


Yet somehow he wished to goodness he
could only get Yate-Westbury's perpetual
small-talk out of his head this evenings.

That man's stock remarks seemed to dog
and haunt him.

You need never be afraid of going mad,'
the fellow said, ' if you think you're going
mad. It's when you feel yourself sanest
that you're most in danger. People in the
incipient stages of insanity always flatter
themselves that never in their lives were
they so lucid and coherent. They mistake
the perfect clearness and vividness of their
morbid impressions for exceptional soundness
and sobriety of thought. They
imagine themselves cleverest when they're
really maddest.'

Hang it all ! Would the man never get
off his horrid hobby-horse? What could
be more depressing to a sane person — such
as himself — than this incessant harping
upon the symptoms of insanity! Do we
all of us want to be always mad-hunting ?

But oh for a sleep I for a moment's
sleep ! How his eyelids burned and tingled
and smarted! So rich, so successful, and

yet no sleep The words roused a latent
chord in his memory.

Sleep, gentle sleep, nature's soft nurse,
how have I frighted thee?' How well
he remembered learning those lines lonir
ago at AVinohesterl It was on a half-remedy
afternoon, he recollected as distinctly
as if it were yesterday ; and he took
out the Ijook with him to ^loab to learn his
piece (they called it Moab because it was
the lavator}^ and ' Moab is my wash-pot') ;
and the Prefect of the Tab caught him
sneaking away' there, and sent him back with
the book whimpering to his scot. How near
it all seemed ! how vivid ! how life-like !

And then his imagination wandered off
once more by devious tracks to those old
Winchester days in all their freshness. So
many little things crowded back on his
memory. He remembered how he had
chiselled the Prefect of the Hall out of half
a crown one day, on a transaction in
stamps, by selling him an inferior woodcut

imitation, removed from a catalogue, for a
Hawaiian two-cent ; and how the Prefect,
when he found out the ingenious fraud, had
made him eat the catalogue entire, to the
distinct impediment of his previous digestion.
Paper is so very, very intuitions I
He remembered how the Posers came down
from Oxford on the Tuesday after St.
Thomas's Day ; and how they were greeted
ad ports with a Latin oration by the
senior scholars ; and how he himself had
sent in a first copy of verses to the Posers
which secured him the Exhibition ; and
how, being uncertain about the gender of
rests, he had written the adjective intended
to agree with its accusative in so doubtful a
way that you might make it either valid
or valid, according to the taste or fancy
of the reader. At viva voce, the Poser
handed him the paper across the table and
asked him severely in a stern voice for
which it was meant ; and Harold, having
settled the point artfully with the dictionary

meanwhile, answered in accordance with his
later knowledge — of course, in a surprised
tone, so winning the Exhibition by his
cuteness from that dull fellow, Parker, who
had fallen into exactly the self same trap,
but had written so plainly (like a fool as he
was) that the Posers never hesitated for a
moment to detect his error. Parker was
always a poor spiritless creature. He was
slaving now on a hundred a year as a
curate in Hampshire, while he, Harold, by
his energy and skill, was the master of
Sidi Aia and a splendid fortune !

Parker's scot was 270. ^Scob' was
box ' in Winchester slang. The paint was
worn on the left-hand side. It was gnawed
a bit on the cover within by a white mouse
that Parker tried to keep there for a pet
without the knowledge of the commoners.

And then, in a horrible burst of revelation,
those words of Yate-Westbury's, in
his ' Treatise on the Diseases of the Nervous
System,' came back to him with a rush :

The patient exhibits a remarkable tendency
in these sleepless periods to dwell
with minute and exaggerated detail upon
long-past events or childish reminiscences.
This symptom in particular I regard as
peculiarly indicative of approaching insanity:
when coupled with a twitching of
the fingers and involuntary movements of
the lips or facial muscles, it is almost diagnostic
of the incipient stages of acute
dementia.'

Acute dementia! Acute dementia!
Acute dementia! With a flash of recognition,
in an agony of terror, he saw it all.
He recognised the inevitable. For the first
time in his life he realized, at one blow, the
hideous fact that the symptoms he had been
simulating, or thought himself simulating,
were all at bottom really there. The
twitching of the mouth, the nervous movement
of the hands and fingers, the forgetfulness
of names, of words, of phrases, the
intense recollection of childish scenes !

Great heavens, it was horrible, incredible,
but true! It was no pretence, but a
solemn reality ! He was going mad with
success — with selfish triumph — with self-centred
complacency !

Yate - Westbury's mad people were
chattering up above there! The idea
flashed across him now with a horrible
vividness : he himself was only one of
Yate Westbury's mad people I

Then, for a single second, in a sudden'
outburst of inspired self-revelation, as by
an electric spark, the whole naked truth of
his own ingrained nature came home to him
all at once in all its vulgar and sordid
hideousness. He was, indeed, just such a
man as Yate-AVestbury pictured his ideal
type of the insane temperament — cold,
selfish, unfeeling, narrow; incapable of expansive
or sympathetic thought ; careless
of the good or ill of others ; pursuing to the
end with relentless calmness his owen personal
schemes for his own personal aggrandisement.

Not often is it given us in a
moment of truth to see ourselves for an indivisible
fraction of time in the vivid light
of an awakened inner sense ; but to Harold
Knyvett one of those rare moments occurred
just then among the paroxysms of
insanity in the night watches. For one
lucid second he knew himself mad; he
knew himself bad ; he knew himself mean ;
he knew himself worthless. He had
wrought his own illwill in his own vile
way, and now he would be opulent,
wealthy, a lord, a king — in a madhouse !

They could never take it away from him,
even in a madhouse. Come what might,
he had at least humbled that girl Iris's
pride, and checkmated that meddling old
fool Whit marsh. He had earned it all
with his own right hand ! The property
was his — were it only in a madhouse !

Was it worth going through so much to
win so little? ' What shall it profit a manif
he gain the whole world and lose his own

soul?' And Harold Knyvett had lost his
own soul, m the most literal sense — ruined
his intellect — destroyed his reason !

He knew it, he felt it, in a revulsion of
horror. If he could, he would have burnt
that vile forgery to ashes that one remorseful
moment. But he couldn't — he couldn't.
Yate-Westbury had found it — Yate West-bury
was keeping it ! Yate-Westbury was
the guardian of that damning paper !

For hours he lay there and tossed in
agony. Mad, mad! he knew it. How
horrible ! how ghastly !

The other mad people were chattering
upstairs. Sidi Aia would now be only his
asylum.

Slowly the morning dawned once more
that morning that dawned on Eustace
and Meriem among the Djurjura slopes, on
Vernon Blake and Iris in the beleaguered
fortress. The liszt broke pink over the

o

p^

snow-clad mountains in the dim distance.
Harold Knyvett fell asleep of pure fatigue.

In his dreams, he dreamt of Sidi Aia and
riches.

When he woke again the spell was broken.
Daylight brings far other thoughts in its
train. He laughed at his fears. Mad ! he
was never more sensible in his life. A little
nervous twitching in his fingers, no doubt ;
but who wouldn't be nervous at such a
crisis? Even if the symptoms were a trifle
uncanny — and he didn't deny he was somewhat
excited — he would tight against them
hard, and battle them down like a manif
necessary. It is not good for man to
live alone — Yate-Westbury always advised
marriage ; and when he was married to Iris
at last, why, Iris would keep him straight
and sane enough. A beautiful wife, and a
splendid fortune ! Mad, indeed, says 
! Fool, dolt, pig, idiot !

REVOLUTION.

In the Best House at Beni-Mansoiir the
good Grey Sisters did their best after the
accident for Eustace Le Marchant. His
wounds, indeed, were less severe than might
at first have been anticipated, for it was
rather the mere force of the concussion that
had rendered him insensible for the time
being than any distinct internal injury.
Thanks to the softness of the sand and the
position in which he fell, no bones were
broken. He was weak and shaken with his
terrible jolting, to be sure, but not in anyway
permanently disabled.

For an hour or two he lay unconscious
on the bed where the sisters placed him;

then, about midday, he opened his eyes,
with a start, once more, and asked feebly in
French :

Where's Meriem ?'

The sisters understood at once whom he
meant.

Hush,' one of them said, smoothing his
pillow gently ; ' you mustn't talk yet.
You're far too weak for that. Mademoiselle's
in the next room. She's seriously
hurt, but not, we hope, in any immediate
danger.'

They took it for granted that Meriem,
too, was a European, merely disguised in
Kabyle dress for purposes of safety.

Seriously hurt !' Eustace repeated with
a gasp, raising himself all at once on his
elbows in the bed. ' Seriously hurt ! Why,
what on earth has happened ? She didn't
get in the way of the train, then, did she ?'

^ She ran along the line, flinging up her
arms in vain to attract attention, for fear
the engine should run over you,' the sister

answered; *and the train knocked her
down, though it did not crush her. But
you must be quiet now. We can't allow
you to talk any more at present.'

Eustace threw himself back, and lay
quiet for awhile with the greatest difficulty.
He was burning to know how Meriem goton.
He wanted to see her, to assure
himself of her safety. But the sisters
put him off from time to time with the
formal report, * She's doing very well,
but not yet conscious. You must leave
these things to us who understand them.
The doctor expects her, with care, to
recover.'

Oh, but the hours seemed painfully long
to wait, with Meriem in danger so close at
hand ; and with no possibility of getting upto
go to her ! Yet it was some sad comfort
to Eustace even to think it was for his sake
she had braved that danger. For his sake?
Well, perhaps not entirely that I Nay, for
Vernon's, in the end, since upon Eustace's

VOL. III. 44

safety depended the chance of relieving St.
Cloud, and so saving Iris and Yernon.

Yet for the time being he would lay that
flattering unction to his soul, and believe it
was partly for his sake she threw herself so
bravely before the approaching engine. He
knew he would have braved far more himself
for her sake any day.

The hours moved on, wearily, wearily.

At last, towards nightfall, a sound of
talking ! He raised himself up in the bed
and listened. Through the open door
between the rooms, a faint voice came from
Meriem's bedside.

^ Can anyone speak English ?' it murmured
plaintively.

A great joy throbbed through Eustace
Le Marchant's soul. It was Meriem's
voice ; thin and weak, but Meriem's. His
heart leaped up into his mouth for delight !
Thank Heaven, she was safe ! she was once
more conscious !
'I can, just a beetles one sister replied,

with a pretty French twang. ' What is
it sat you want ? Some drink ? some
water ?'

The answer drove him wild with delight
and astonishment.

Is Eustace safe ?' Meriem cried out
eagerly. 'The man on the bridge. You
know who I mean. Did he get across all
right ? Did the train run over him ?'

Eustace's heart gave one wild bound.
Is Eustace safe ?' were the first words she
uttered ! He could hardly believe his ears
for joy. AVhat could be the meaning of so
much anxiety? It was he she first asked
for ; himself, not Yernon. His cup was
full. It was he who came nearest to her
heart that moment.

Xo, he is not dead,' the sister answered
gently, in a soothing voice. ' He has fallen
from ze bridge upon soft ground underneath.
He is shaken by ze fall, and much hunted.
But he has no limb broken, we find, and he
has not any danger.'

U—2

Thank God !' Meriem cried. ' Where is
he ? Where is he ?'

In ze next room, close by the sister
answered, with a warning inflexion. ' But
you must not go to him, my dear ; you are
much too sick. He is your brother, zen, is
he?'

'Oh no !' Meriem answered, with her
mountain frankness ; ' he's not my brother.
He's only a friend — a very dear friend. But
I want to see him — I want to see him, oh,
ever so badly!'

Her words sounded stranger and stranger
in his ears. Eustace could hardly take it
all in. So much thought for him, so little
for Vernon !

There was a second's pause, then Meriem
spoke once more.

Is there news from St. Cloud ?' she
asked anxiously. ' Have they relieved the
Fort there ?'

'We know nothing for certain yet,' the
sister answered, with patient gentleness.

We must wait and learn ; it is long to
hear. Ze Maire has telegraphed sis morning
to Tizi-Ouzou to send assistance, and
since sat time we heard nothing. . . . You
have friends at St. Cloud, perhaps ? You
have brothers sere ? — parents ?'

No,' Meriem answered once more, with
her direct simplicity, ' but very dear friends
a cousin . . . and a lover.'

Eustace's heart sank down again to zero.
Yet what else on earth could he possibly
have expected ? Her interest in him was
natural enough, of course ; he was the last
person' she had seen before her accident —
the one most recently left in direst danger.
But that was all. He was only a friend.
Yernon, her lover, was still first favourite.

The doors throughout the Rest House
were all kept open (hot-climate fashion), as
in almost all Algerian houses, and the conversation
in the next room was as distinctly
audible to him as if it had taken place at
his own bedside;

Meriem seemed to fling herself back on
her pillow.

Well she said aloud, but half musing
to herself, ' if Eustace is safe, I shall die
happy.'

Zen he is a lover, too, is he ?' the sister
asked quaintly, with that not-ungraceful
Curiosity into the affairs of the heart which
all her kind often display towards that side
of life they have deliberately abandoned.

Well, a very dear friend,' Meriem answered,
with emotion. ' I don't know how
to call it. A veri dear friend. I mit getup
and see him at once. I really must.
Oh, do, please, let me get up now to visit
him!'

No, no,' the sister answered; ' you must
lie where you are. I cannot let you get up
just now. It is against our rule. We do
not allow ze patients to move. You must
not see him.'

For a long, long time nothing more was
said. Only the sound of deep breathing

could be heard. At last Meriem broke the
silence once more.

I wish we could hear from St. Cloud,'
she said eagerly. ' I wonder whether Vernon's
safe, and Iris And mj uncle.

If I save one, I may lose the other.'

Zen you have an uncle at St. Cloud ?'
the sister asked, with interest.

No, not at St. Cloud,' Meriem answered
simply. ' That is to say, not in the Fort,
at least. Among the other party. He's
gone there to fight against the Christians,
you know. He's a Kabyle, of course. He's
the Amine of the Beni-Merzoug.'

Eustace fairly laughed in his bed with
amusement at the voice of horror in which
the good sister ejaculated:

To fio^ht against ze Christians ! Your
uncle a Kabyle ! Ze Amine of ze 
! Mori Dieu, quel horreur I Zen
you are not of our side — you are not an
Englishwoman !'

Xo,' Meriem replied 'or, at least, only

half one. I speak English, but I'm Algerian
born. My mother was a Kabyle,
and I've lived all my life up yonder on the
Djurjura.'

And him ? Ze gentleman sat fell on ze
bridge — ze one sat talk such perfect French
he is not Kabyle, he, too ? He is a true
European ?'

He's an Englishman,' Meriem said. ' A
real Englishman. And I must see him !
Oh, tell me how he is ! Let me get up
this minute. I must, must see him !'

Eustace could stand the restraint no
longer.

Meriem,' he cried out, in a voice that
trembled and quivered for joy, ' I'm alive !
I'm here I I shall be all right soon. Fin
not hurt. There's nothing much the matter
with me.'

At the sound of that voice, that tremulous
voice, Meriem rose from her bed,
uncontrollable now, and breaking into a
sudden torrent of tears, rushed wildly

towards the place whence the words came.
With one flood of emotion she burst into
the room, and flung herself, in a paroxysm
of joy and delight, upon Eustace's bosom.

Eustace,' she cried, in her uncontrolled
passion, before that wondering sister,
Eustace, I'm so glad ! I'm so pleased !
I'm so happy! Oh, Eustace, how could I
ever have thought as I did ? I see it, I see
it all clearly now. It's come home to me
with a burst. I know my own heart. . . .
Oh, Eustace, Eustace ! I love you ! I
love you !'

The Englishman's eyes were brimmed
with tears. He brushed them away hastily
with the Kabyle dress which he still wore.

Meriem,' he cried, pressing her close to
his breast, 'this is too much joy. Tell me
how it has all come about. Tell me all,
Meriem.'

The Kabyle girl signed with her hand to
the sister to go. The sister, wondering and
doubting, wiped her own bright eyes, just

dimmed by most unprofessional moisture,
and went regretfully, for she would fain
have lingered. Then Meriem gave free
vent to her happiness once more. She
knelt down on the floor by Eustace's bedside,
and cried silent tears of joy and gratitude
to see that he was alive and so little
injured.

Meriem,' Eustace said again, ' tell me
what this all means. How have
you so soon forgotten Vernon
?'

Meriem flung her arms desperately around
his neck in her transport.

Vernon !' she cried, ' Vernon ! who talks
so of Vernon ? What made me ever think
so much of that man, I wonder ? As I
stood there this morning, waiting to see
you cross the bridge, and that horrible,
roaring, devouring thing came rushing
headlong dowai the hill to destroy you, it
burst upon me all like a flash of lightning,
how mistaken I'd been, and how foolish.

and how wicked ! I said to myself, " Oh,
God! what have I done? Have I risked
his life, Eustace's life, that precious life, for
such a man as Vernon ? Why, he's worth
ten thousand like Vernon Blake, and he
loves me as Vernon could never love
anyone. And I love him, too, though I
never suspected it. Love him deep down
in the depths of my heart! I'd give my
life up this moment freely, if only I could
save my Eustace, my Eustace." And then,
before the hateful thing could come down
and crush me, I remembered everything —
all — all — like a flash; it seemed to come
across me in a rush, like fire, how good
you'd been to me, and how kind and
thoughtful, and how forgetful of yourself,
and how anxious for my happiness. And
I said to myself, ^' Oh, if only I can save
his life to-day, I'll tell him I shall be
his wife before this evening's over. . . ."
And I've told you now, Eustace, for I
love you! I love you!' And she flung

herself passionately once more upon his
shoulder.

And then ?' Eustace asked, in an ecstasy
of delight, but repressing himself firmly.

*And then the great thing came rolling
and roaring and hissing above me, and I
know nothing more, except that I loved
you and hoped I'd been in time to stop it
and save you.'

Eustace's eyes were too blind to see, but
he drew that beautiful girl's face down to
his lips with one hard embrace, and kissed
her full rich mouth, with eager fire, a
hundred times over. For that moment he
would have risked ten thousand bridges.
His heart was full ; he had found the desire
of many days ; Meriem was his, and he was
Meriem's.

And only a Kabyle girl !' said the
scandalized sisters, as they peeped, in
hushed awe, round the desecrated doorway.


MISSING !

They sat there long, hand clasped in hand,
silently. They needed no words to tell
their tale of love to one another. There
are moments when silence is the profoundest
eloquence. The English tongue is a very
line instrument of rational thought ; but a
pressure, a thrill, speak the soul's own
language far better than the English tongue
can speak it.

Meriem's heart was one vast sea of
wonder. Now that the truth had flashed
upon her so vividly, so intensely, she
couldn't herself understand how on earth
she had so long managed to go astray and
miss it. Eustace was a better man by far

than Yernon — nearer to herself, truer,
nobler, worthier of her. As she fled backward
before the face of that rushing engine
in the gray morning, she had seen it all, as
one often sees to the very centre and core of
things in a great crisis. That night of
despair in the mountain-snow, that morning
of peril and agony on the bridge of the railway,
had opened her eyes to his real tenderness
and her real devotion. The danger
she had braved for him made her love him.
She bent over his hand now and kissed it
fervently. She was ashamed of her blindness.
That vivid picture of Eustace in
deadly peril on the bridge had roused her
with a flash to the consciousness of his
worth. She knew she had chosen the
better man. Her heart was glad, but it
beat too high for one who has just escaped
so pressing a danger.

She put up her hand to her breast, instinctively,
to lull it. With a sudden
thrill, it struck her that a familiar touch

was wanting. Day and night, she had
known it there so long.

'My charm!' she cried, feeling about her
bare neck for that well - known trinket.
But she didn't find it. The chain and box
and pendants were gone. Her face grew
pale with a terrified pallor. ' Oh, Eustace !'
she burst out, in an agony of fear, ' I've
lost them! I've lost them! What on
earth's become of them?'

Eustace looked at her neck close, and
saw a deep red mark pressed into the throat
on the left side. It was the spot where
the fastening of the chain had evidently
been driven by main force against the
collar-bone.

I think, Meriem,' he said, ' the charm
must have been wrenched ofi^ by a wheel of
the locomotive, or caught in the engine
when the train passed over you. It's lucky,
indeed, it was only that, and that it gave
so readily. If it had been your dress that
caught, you'd have been hurled on the rails

and mangled terribly. You must have
fallen, with a very light fall, full in front
of the engine, flush between the rails, and
the locomotive must just have knocked you
down, or barely grazed you, and then passed
over you without hurting you any further.'

Meriem burst into tears once more.

^ Yusuf put it on,* she cried, in sore
distress ; ' it was Yusuf's last present. I
loved it for Yusuf . . . But that's not all.
If it's lost, Eustace, somebody else may
perhaps find it ; and if it were ever to get
into bad hands — for instance, those of that
wicked cousin of Iris's that Iris told me
about — I can't tell you what mischief might
come in the end of it.'

Eustace laughed a merry laugh at
her childish superstition, as he naturally
thought it.

My dear Meriem,' he answered, with a
smile of superior wisdom he could hardly
repress, ' you don't really believe your
charm's so potent that Iris's cousin could

make witchcraft against her with it, do
you ? What on earth has your locket got
to do with Iris's cousin ?'

Meriem looked back at him with a scared
face.

It's not witchcraft,' she answered, in all
seriousness ; ' it's the use he'd make of it —
the things he'd find in it. Oh, Eustace, I
won't tell you just now, 1 think, but
perhaps — perhaps some day I'll tell you.
AVe must find that charm, whatever happens.
I wouldn't for worlds have it lost or mislaid,
or let it get into that bad man's hands.
He could use it to do so much harm to
Iris.'

Eustace fancied he could guess her
meaning vaguely, but refrained fi'om asking
any questions for the present.

All the rest of that day Meriem remained
in a most uneasy Frame of mind about the
loss of the locket, and was eager to be
allowed to go out and hunt for it. That
course, however, the professional nursing

VOL. iiL 45

instinct of the sisters most emphatically
vetoed, and she was forced to obey them by
mere powerlessness. Early next morning,'
tidings arrived of the relief of St. Cloud ;
but the news that Iris and Yernon were
safe only seemed to increase Meriem's
anxiety as to her lost trinket.

The very first moment you're well
enough, Eustace,' she said many times
over, with great earnestness, ' we must go
out and hunt up and down the line for
Yusuf's locket.'

Still they were happy days for Meriem,
those days at the Rest House, in spite of
the terrible driblets of news which came into
them slowly from time to time of the
desperate fighting and repulse in the mountains.
Many of Meriem's childish friends
had been killed in the action, as she learnt
by degrees ; while the Amine himself, the
ringleader of the revolt, with Hussein,
Aimed and the Beni-Merzoug maraboutj
had fled to the South .to the free nomad

tribes on the border of the desert, where
they were practically safe from French
intervention. But the more Meriem heard
of that awful outbreak, the less and less
did the Kabyles seem to her mind like her
own people.

1 can go away with you ever so much
more easily now, Eustace she said one
day, as she listened with a face of horror
to the ghastly details of the massacre he
translated to her from the Depeclies Algeria
while he lay on his sofa by the open
window. ' I have no part with them left.
I would never live among those wicked
people. It would have killed me with
shame if my tribesmen had killed Vernon
and Iris.'

Then you won't be afraid to come with
me to England ?' Eustace asked, half
doubtful.

Meriem folded her hands meekly.

Wherever you like, Eustace,' she said,
with that perfect trustfulness a true woman

45 — 2

reposes in the man who has once succeeded
in winning her heart from her.

There was a little pause. Then Meriem
said again, leaning over him close, ' You
know you're marrying only a poor penniless
Kabyle girl, Eustace, don't you ? I've
renounced all claim to the property of that
great soldier who died. I promised that
much to Iris that day at Beni-Merzoug, and
I won't go back upon it now — not even for
your sake, Eustace.'

Eustace smiled a quiet smile of acquiescence.


I know that well, dearest,' he answered,
taking her hand in his. ' I shall love you
all the better if I can work for you always,
and feel you owe everything you have in
the world to me. Let Miss Knyvett keep
her money to herself She and Vernon
have more need of it than you and I will
have.'

Meriem pressed his hand tenderly with
7i(iive frankness. She had never learnt the

coquetry or the reserves of our civilized
wooing. Her heart spoke out its own
language freely.

Then some day she said, ' I shall tell
you why I must find the missing locket.
You can guess, perhaps ; but I don't understand
it all even myself I only know that
if that bad man were ever to get it, he
mio-ht do more harm than I can tell to Iris.'

As she spoke, Eustace took up the
Beeches he had been holding in his hand
loosely by his side with a cry of astonishment.
A name in its columns had riveted
his attention on a casual side-glance.

'Why, Meriem,' he exclaimed, in blank
wonder, 'the man's in Algiers ! He's stopping
this minute at a house at Mustapha — the
very place, you know, where Miss Knyvett
has her villa. See here, it just caught my
eve by pure accident as I happened to look
down. '' Visitors' List." That's it. "Villa
Rossini, Mustapha: Harold Knyvett, Es(|.,
Dr. F. Yate-Westbury." '

What does it mean?' Meriem asked, in
vague wonder.

It means mischief, I'm sure Eustace
answered slowly. ' It means he's at
Algiers. The man's come over here, you
may be perfectly certain, to juggle the
estate away from Miss Knyvett.'

Meriem rose up in a paroxysm of alarm.
Can you get up, Eustace ?' she asked
eagerly. ' We must go out. We must go
and find dear Yusuf's locket.'

How English she was, after all, in her
heart! She had never cared but for three
men in all her life, and all three were Englishmen.
The Kabj^le was but the outer
husk ; the heart and core were English of
the English.

Eustace rose from his sofa and hobbled
out to help her. With trembling steps they
walked down the ravine, and across a small
ford one of the sisters showed them to the
scene of the accident. Eustace went down
on his knees upon the line by that well-remembered

spot, and hunted long and
earnestly for the missing locket. Not a
trace could he find of it anywhere about.
At last, by the very sleeper where Meriem
had been knocked down, he discovered on
the ground, by diligent search, two wrenched
and broken links of a silver chain. The
locket itself, then, must have been carried on
further. Encouraged by this clue, they
descended the abrupt ravine once more, and
searched the dry space beneath the bridge
with all eagerness and care; but not a sign
of the charm could they discover anywhere.
If it had dropt in the centre and fallen into
the river, it must have been swept away
long since, no doubt, by the rushing torrent.
At last, Eustace sat down on the bank
wearied and despairing.

It's lost,' he said, in a very despondent
voice. ' Gone altogether and left no traces,
Meriem.'

A sudden thought flashed across Meriem's
brain.

Eustace she cried, seizing his arm
hurriedly, * the men on the engine went
back for me with their carriage, and brought
me across the bridge in the train, you
remember. I wonder if they could have
taken it off my neck on purpose ? Do you
think they'd have stolen it ? Do you think
they'd have kept it ?'

We might make inquiries,' Eustace answered,
with a sigh, not over-hopeful of
this new and forlorn clue. ' But I don't
suppose, if there was anything of any value
to anyone in the locket, they'd be particularly
likely to give it up. We might
offer a reward, of course : the thing in itself
—to anybody but you, I mean, Meriem —
would be worth a few francs at the outside
as a mere trinket. For half a napoleon
they'd probably be glad to give it back
again.*

That sum was untold wealth to Meriem,
but she didn't pause in her anxiety just
then to notice it.

*0h, do you think.' she said, in a tone of
deep distress, ' do you think, Eustace, they'd
be likely to take it to that man at Mustapha,
and sell it to him to make what use he liked
of it?'

I don't see how on earth they could find
him out,' Eustace answered dubiously ; ' or,
even if they did, how they could possibly
know the locket had anything in the world
to do with him ?'

Meriem set her lips hard.

We must hunt it down,' she said resolutely.
* We must hunt it down, however
honos it takes us. 1 could never look Iris or
Vernon in the face again unless I was quite
sure I hadn't broken my word to them. 1
said to Iris that day, on the hillside at
Beni-Merzoug — I said it quite solemnly —
*' I don't want the money, Iris," I said ; " it's
yours. You may keep it." And I wouldn't
for the world Iris should ever think I tried
to rob her either of that or of Vernon. Not
that I grudge her Vernon now, of course,

Eustace. My eyes are opened, and I knew
better than that. But I want not to rob
her of the money, either, for I love her
dearly. She's the only woman I ever met
in my life who could treat me as she treated
me. I love her for it, and it would break
my heart if she were ever to think I wanted
to rob her.'

I don't believe she could possibly think
so Eustace answered, with quiet confidence.
Nobody could ever look upon your face,
Meriem, and not see that you were truth
and honesty incarnate.'

Meriem's face flushed rosy red.

Yusuf was like that,' she said, in her
simple way. ' I shall always be proud to
be like Yusuf s daughter.'

ON THE TRACK.

The two broken links he had found on
the railway line irresistibly suggested to
Eustace's mind the probability that the
chain as a whole, and the locket with it,
must have been caught by the engine as it
passed lightly over Meriem's body, torn
from her at a wrench, and carried along for
an indefinite distance in the direction of
Bouira. It was quite possible, indeed, that
the entire ornament might still be clinging
to some projecting screw of the engine or
buffers ; and the first question for Eustace
to decide was, therefore, what particular
locomotive had ]been attached that day to

the early morning train from Setif. If he
could find out that point, he might intercept
the engine at the station, and examine
its bottom and sides carefully.

Next morning, accordingly, as soon ashe
was able to find his way on his own legs
out into the village, he made inquiries of
the officials as to the locomotive in question.
The chef de gave was all French politeness ;
it was the Avenir de I'Algerie that drew the
train on the day of monsieur's most deplorable
accident ; and if monsieur, who had
rendered such signal service to the colony
at the risk of his life (for a telegram from
the Governor-general had already conveyed
to Eustace the public thanks for saving the
beleaguered garrison of St. Cloud) would
have the goodness to call at the station tomorrow
evening at 4.20, the Aveiiir de
Algerine would be delayed for five or ten
minutes as it passed, so that monsieur
might make a thorough search for the
missing jewellery.

Mademoiselle wore diamonds, no doubt
the chef de gare suggested politely.

Eustace smiled. The notion of Mercers
possessing such gewgaws was too supremely
ridiculous. Yet he could hardly say he
was making all this fuss about a mere
Kabyle box in rough white metal, studded
loosely on the lid with coral and lapis lazuli.
It was not so much the locket itself, he
replied evasively, that mademoiselle so
highly valued, as the nature of the contents,
which he believed to be of singular and
unique value.

The chef de gare nodded. The train
should be delayed, then. The colony was
proud to manifest its gratitude to monsieur,
who had shown so much devotion in saving
the lives of our fellow-citizens.

But Meriem was little consoled to learn
that she must wait another thirty hours or
more before even a search could be made
for her missing trinket — Yusuf s last gift,
and all that depended upon it.

At 4.20 next day, Eustace presented himself
duly at the station, and with the help
of the porters overhauled the locomotive
and tender thoroughly. They found but
one trace there to reward their pains — three
or four more links of the broken chain,
wedged in between the gearing that supports
the buffers.

That discovery impressed more than ever
upon Eustace's mind the hopelessness and
vagueness of this wild-goose chase. Evidently'
the locket had been carried away by
the locomotive, and then dropped. They
might have to look for it, bit by bit, along
the whole line from Algiers to Constantine,
a distance which it took thirteen hours for
the fastest train in the day to traverse.

He went back to Meriem very ill satisfied
with the result of his search. But Meriem,
when she heard his report, clasped her hands
fervently, and answered with all the energy
of her simple nature :

^ We must search the whole line as soon

as Tm well enough, if we have to tramp from
here to Constantine to do it. Not for
worlds would I let that locket get into the
hands of anybody who might try to use it
against Vernon and Iris.'

It was a dismal look-out, but Eustace
tried to face it. His strength returned
much faster than Meriem's. In a day or
two, indeed, he was able to venture out fora
longer walk along the line, which he
followed for a mile or so in the direction
the locomotive had taken on the morning
of the accident. He thought it probable
the locket would have been dropped before
the train had gone many minutes on ; and
in effect, about the third kilometre from
Beni Man sour, he came to his delight upon
the broken lid, with its well-known decoration
of rough blue stones and red bosses of
jewellery. Where the lid was found, the
box itself and its contents could not be
very far distant. Following up the line a
few hundred yards further, he soon perceived

the remainder of Meriem's authorized
necklet, with the locket attached,
lying between the ties in the middle of the
rails. He caught it up, and examined the
contents eagerly. They were all safe — and
the secret was out. He found four or five
small squares of thin foreign notepaper,
folded and refolded with scrupulous care
just to fit the box, and apparently covered
on both sides with a close manuscript in
European letters.

He could guess now why Meriem wished
to read English handwriting.

Curiosity would naturally have led him
to examine the manuscript, but without
Meriem's consent he could not dream of
doing so. He only saw vaguely against
his own will, as he replaced the little
squares carefully in their receptacle, that
the outside roll bore on its face the distinct
words, ' I, Clarence Knyvett, formerly
cornet ' — and there the visible part of the
paper broke off, with the line unfinished.

Happily, in that dry climate, the papers
had lain out in the open air so many days
and nights unhurt, with the box covering
them. In England they would have been
reduced long before then to a spontaneous
amateur form o^ papier moche.

It was with great joy that he returned to
the Rest House with his spoils to Meriem.
She took them anxiously, and, turning them
over, looked at each paper separately, with
an eager eye, lest any should be missing.
Then she glanced up at Le Marchant, and
said, with a sigh :

So now you know my secret, Eustace.'

I do not,' Eustace answered ; ' or only
a little of it. I saw the papers were safe ;
but, without your leave, I would never
have dreamt of looking at one of them,
Meriem.'

Meriem gazed back at him with her large
soft eyes.

I knew you wouldn't, Eustace,' she said
confidently.

VOL. III. 46

Then why do you say I know your
secret ?'

Because, seeing these, you must surely
guess it.'

Not altogether,' Eustace answered, with
truth. * I've an idea, of course, but nothing
further.'

Meriem turned to him, and opened them
at full length before his eyes.

*We are one now, Eustace,' she said
simply. ' I can trust you with anything.
You may read them if you will. But you
took me penniless, and penniless you must
keep me.'

Eustace accepted the papers without any
false show of reluctance from her hands and
read them through. His eyes were full of
tears once or twice as he read. When he
had finished, he turned to Meriem, and said
quietly :

You meant never to show them to anyone,
Meriem ?'

I will never show them,' Meriem answered

firmly. ' But because I love you,
and because I can trust you, I show then
to you, and to you only. You will never
betray my secret, Eustace

Eustace rose, and kissed her tenderly on
the forehead.

Never,' he answered, with solemn emphasis.
* You're a brave girl, Meriem, and
I honour you for it. I can work for you
and keep you, in what to you and me will
be sufficient comfort, or even luxury. Let
Miss Knyvett hold to her money, if she
will. I, for one, will never enlighten
her.'

There was a short pause. Then Eustace
spoke again :

It's better as it is he said. * I've
always felt that. I never wished to marry
a rich wife. I prefer to work, so that the
woman I love may owe me everything.
It's manlier so. Yet it will be something
for us both to know through life, Meriem,
that money was as water to us, when we

46 — 2

had it to take, compared with our love for
one another.'

Meriem, nestling close to him with her
grand proud head, answered in a very low
voice.

^ One thing alone,' she said, ' in these last
few days, has made me falter. Do you
remember, Eustace, one morning in the
tent Mr. Whitmarsh was looking at that
lovely collection of yours — the butterflies
and beetles — and he said — that man who
could never understand you — " If you chose
to sell these things in London, Mr. Le
Marchant, I expect you could make a great
deal of money out of them." And you
looked up from the bird you were stuffing
and answered quietly: "I've no time to
waste on making money." Though I
wasn't in love with you then, I thought
that was grand. I'm only a woman — a
poor, ignorant Kabyle woman — and I
couldn't quite understand your work, of

course, or why it was so important for you
to learn all about the beasts and birds, and
the plants and flowers, though I fancy I
can dimly guess just a little how it is ; but
I thought what you answered was grand,
for all that. 1 said to myself : " If it were
not for Vernon, how a woman might love
and admire Eustace !" And now that it's
come home to me, all in a flash, how much
greater and better a man you are than
Yernon, I've said to myself again, more
than once or twice : '* Eustace has no time
to waste on making money ! I love him
for that j I admire him for that ; it's so
great and noble. But still, if he had money
all ready made, if I had money of my own
to give him, how much better work he
might do for the world in that high way I
can hardly understand, in finding out how
everything came to be so ! And sometimes,
these last few days, I've almost regretted.
I might have taken it, for your sake,

Eustace, if I hadn't said that day on the
hillside to Iris : " The money's yours. You
must always keep it." '

Eustace looked down at her with pride
and joy.

Meriem,' he said, pushing back the hair
from her high white forehead, ' if only you
knew how much pleasure it gives me to
hear you speak like that, you'd never want
me to be rich in anything else but in your
own dear love, my treasure, my darling !
That you, who have lived this simple
village life, without schools or books,
should so enter into one's thoughts and
comprehend one's aims as few educated
Englishwomen could ever do, is to me
wonderful — a triumph of nature. It makes
me feel, more than ever, what a jewel I have
found, and how unworthy I am of you.
With you to help me and to spur me on,
I shall need no wealth, I shall need no
money. We two will do great work together
yet, penniless as we are. Keep your

word to Iris, my child, whatever happens.
Let Iris have her fortune still, as you promised.
My Meriem, you're worth a thousand
Irises.'

ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH.'

Iris and her mother, meanwhile, with Uncle
Tom, Vernon Blake, and the St. Cloud
fugitives, were slowly recovering from their
fatigue and their hurts at Tizi-Ouzou —
which is, being interpreted, the gorge of the
broom-plant — a picturesque little Frenchified
village, perched on the summit of a
conical hill, and separated from the base
of the Kabylie Mountains by a broad but
shallow and brawling river. St. Cloud itself
having practically, for the moment,
ceased to exist — a mere shell and a single
shattered keep now alone represented the
ci-devant Fort, while nothing more than
blackened ruins remained of what was once

the flourishing village — the rescued survivors
had perforce retired at once upon the
nearest secure European station, where it
was necessary for them to rest for a few
days en route before proceeding to Algiers,
to refrain their wonted strength and coin-posture.


Vernon Blake's wound, too. ne2:lectecl by
dire necessity on the night of the outbreak,
had now to be more carefully dressed and
bandaged ; and the task of nursing him in
the little inn at Tizi-Ouzou, which proclaimed
itself aloud as Hotel de I'Univers,
naturally devolved, in the fitness of things,
upon Mrs. Knyvett, and more especially
upon Iris. They were the only two Avoient
in the place with whom the English painter
had any language in common ; and it must
be admitted parenthetically that Iris, for
her part, in spite of her profound ethical
studies, was by no means unwilling to
accept this very good excuse for continuing
to see somewhat more than was right

of the man whom she still persisted in regarding
as de jure her cousin Meriem's lover.
The female conscience, even though it belong
to the aggravated Kny vent variety, is readily
salved in such cases. It hoodwinks itself,
on easy terms, with the * tyrant's plea ' of
necessity. For how could Iris let a brave
defender (and handsome, too, at that) lack
fit attendance from his own fellow-countrywoman
in his hour of need on no better
ground than merely because Meriem happened
to have a vested interest in him?

Nay, it must even be admitted, with a
blush, by the candid chronicler, that both
Iris and Vernon intensely enjoyed these
necessary interviews thus thrust upon them,
against the will of one party at least, by the
inevitable decrees of manifest destiny. It's
wrong to flirt, of course, as we all know,
with somebody else's affianced lover ; but if
somebody else's affianced lover is seriously
wounded in the left shoulder, in somebody
else's unavoidable absence, and with nobody

else to tend and care for him — why, common
charity compels a girl of feeling to undertake,
in somebody else's own interest, the
vicarious task of nursing him ; and even if
that task should happen to prove in itself
agreeable, can there be anything wrong in
thus giving way (on compulsion, observe!)
to your natural instincts as a ministering
angel? Uncertain, coy, and hard to please
as Yernon Blake had found Iris Knyvett in
her hours of ease at St. Cloud in the mountains,
he was forced to acknowledge that
when pain and anguish (neither of them,
it must be admitted, very profound in
character) wrung his brow at Tizi-Ouzou,
she was the neatest and deftest and most
thoughtful of nurses. The stern moralist
himself could hardly object, indeed, to one's
putting fresh roses and violets every mornings
with tender care bv an invalid's bedside
; and all the rules of propriety are
silent in the lump as to the wrongfulness of
brincrinof brood beef-tea to a wounded man

(engaged or otherwise) on a pretty Moorish
tray rendered sweet with stephanotis, plumbago,
and lilac-blossom. To such double-dyed
crimes Iris pleaded guilty each evening
with shame to her own conscience in
the privacy of her bedchamber — and absolved
herself forthwith on further examination
upon the varied pleas of gratitude,
friendship, and medical direction.

Communications with their absent friends
had already been restored. A telegram
from Eustace had announced, shortly after
their arrival at Tizi-Ouzou, his own safety
and Meriem's, while gliding with a light
hand over the thrilling story of their
respective accidents. Iris knew, therefore,
it was to Meriem's devotion in part that
they owed their safety — the papers, indeed,
had told her so much — and she was pursued
day and night by an uncomfortable feeling
that this new claim on Meriem's part put
her all the more upon her honour in all her
difficult and very uncertain relations with



her cousin's lover. Yet in spite of everything
— for the human heart will have its
say within itself, repress it as we may in all
external manifestations — the Third Classic
couldn't deny to her own soul that she was
supremely happy with a momentary happiness
in taking care of her wounded painter.
It was a happiness, alas! that must soon
cease; the horrid shoulder would get all
right in time; but while it lasted, at any
rate, it was well worth enjoying. Mono-thrones
he done ^ her Greek epicurean guide
had told her; the one fleeting moment of
pure delight in a transient world is all we
can count upon. Might she not fairly
drink it in while it still endured ? for
Meriem would have him soon, too soon,
for ever.

On that fixed point she had made her
mind up fairly and squarely once for all.
Whether he would or whether he would not,
Vernon Blake must marry Mehemet

when once or twice, discreetly smiling,

she returned to the charge at her invalid
in this direction, with a dexterous
side-thrust, Vernon Burke had only answered
her with malicious audacity, ' Without
descending into quite such minute
particulars as that, you know, I propose
at any rate, with your kind permission,
to marry somewhere into the Knyvett
family.' And thereat Iris, discomfited,
could only laugh and blush — feeling all
the time that both blush and laugh were
distinct betrayals of her trust to Meriem.

If you go on talking so,' the Third
Classic exclaimed to him once, continuing,
nevertheless, to arrange the roses in the vase
by his side with trembling fingers as she
spoke, ' I shall go right away this very
minute and not come back any more at all,
but just leave my mother to do all the
nursing. It's very unkind of you to take
such an advantage of your helpless condition.
I've told you once for all quite plainly
what I think, that day at St. Cloud, and I

can't reopen the subject again with you
now.'

But none the less, her quivering lips
belied her angry words, and her downcast
eyes had a strange mist gathering almost
imperceptibly over their dimmed pupils.

Yes, I know ; I remember,' Yernon
Blake replied, with that false boldness
which love had taught his sensitive nature:
*you said that day at St. Cloud you did
love me ; and Ashen the woman he loves
once tells a man that, do you think he's
likely, Miss Knyvett, ever to forget it?'

Iris winced.

But I also said,' she murmured, in a
very low voice, ^ I could never marry you :
I could never rest till you'd married
Meriem.'

And / said, for my part,' Yernon Blake
retorted, pretending to move his wounded
arm painfully to attract her sympathy, ' /
said, " I'll marry you or nobody, Iris." And
I don't see why what I said on that particular

occasion shouldn't be stuck to just
as much as what you said, Iris. Oh yes,
I'll call you Iris, if I choose ; I shall ; and
if you don't like it, you may g'o away as
you threaten and send your mother.* But
he clung' for all that to her hand that he'd
seized among the roses by his side, and
pressed it tight. * You told me you loved
me, you know,' he murmured once more,
and when a woman once tells a man such
a thing as that, he has a right if he chooses
to call her Iris.'

The blushing Girton girl struggled hard
to set herself free, but all in vain. Man
remains the stronger animal of the two, in
spite even of the higher education.

Oh, how can I ever face Meriem again?'
she cried at last, bursting into sudden tears.
It's cruel of you, Mr. Blake, to bring up
such a casual phrase against me. What I
said that day, I slipped out by accident; by
the purest accident; I said it out of the fulness
of my heart at the moment, trusting to

your chivalry not to use it against me ; and
now you're using it against me and against
Meriem. Oh, how can I ever dare to face
• her again and tell her all this ? She'll think
I've betrayed her; she'll think I've been
false to her. And I — who'd break my own
heart to serve her ! — I said to her that
morning on the rocks at Beni-Merzoug:
He must marry you, Meriem ! He shall
marry you ! I'll make him marry you !"
And if I tell her this, she'll say I've betrayed
her.'

Vernon Blake released her hand with a
jerk, as if in anger.

And did it never occur to you he asked,
with mock sternness, ' that in making that
private disposition of somebody else's heart
and hand on your own account you were
arranging a bargain without asking the consent
of one of the most interested parties in
the arrangement?'

But you'd made her love you !' Iris
cried, pleading faintly. It's hard to have

VOL. III. 4to

plead your rival's cause against your
own inclination. ' You'd no right, you
know, to break poor Meriem's heart. You,
who were so much above her, and better
than her in every way ; you, who could
paint such beautiful pictures, and say such
lovely poetical things, and fill her poor
head with thoughts that could never otherwise
have got there, how could you fail to
win her heart when you tried — or even if
you did not try at all, for that matter?'

That's just my excuse,' the painter answered
contritely.

Iris blushed once more. She recognised
too late that she had inadvertently played
the enemy's best card, so she relapsed into
the safe refuge of silence.

Yernon Blake let her muse on for a
moment without following up his advantage.
It was better so. He knew it by
instinct. A woman can feel her own
heart beat hard against her breast in these
awkward pauses. Her emotion has time to

force itself on her consciousness. Then
he began again in a very low voice.

At St. Cloud the other night,' he said
softly, ' when you women were all huddled
in a group on the roof, and the Kabyles
were firing and stabbing and thrusting at
us like wild beasts, and the gate was one
living blaze of light, and all hope was over,
and the men were giving up, I said to myself:
" If it comes to the worst, I shall rush
upstairs and take her m my arms, m}'
wounded arms — that queen among women
and hold her tight there in one last
embrace, and press her just once to my
bosom like a lover, and wait for those
brutes to kill us two together — and then
no Kabyle girl on earth shall ever
divide us. She shall be mine, one moment,
if we die for it together!" And just as I
thought my dream was coming true — you
may pity me, Iris, if you can't love me —
the Zouaves came up, those horrid Zouaves,
and spoilt it all — and here you are telling

47—2

me to go and marry Meriem. . . . You may
tell me till you're hoarse, but, Iris, I swear
to you, if I wait a hundred years, I shall
make you marry me, now I know you love
me. I shall never, never marry the Kabyle
girl!'

Iris bent down her head in her hands and
sobbed.

You are cruel, Mr. Blake !' she cried.
You are too, too cruel !'

How inartistic in its brusque transitions
is real life! Just at that moment, that
critical moment, as luck would have it,
when the painter would fain have bent over
her and kissed her, who should appear
most inopportunely at the door but Francois,
the boots, who, thrusting in his head with
the comic confidential nod of the French
manservant, observed laconically, like one
that takes in the situation at a glance, * Ne
vous deranged pas, messieurs et dames — voila
le facteur qui vient carrier — une lettre pour

mademoiselle,' and vanished with a discreet
smile instantaneously. Iris took the envelope
from his hands and mechanically
opened it. It was a note in a large round
childish hand, the very first letter, in fact,
Meriem had ever tried to write to anybody
in English manuscript.

My dear Iris it said, in its big
straggling characters, 'I have something
very important to tell you when we meet —
something that I think will make you ever
so happy. Please don't say anything to
Vernon that will hurt him till you see me.
I will go to Algiers with Eustace whenever
you're ready to go yourself Eustace will
arrange with Vernon to meet us at the
place the train stops at, when he knovvs
what day you mean to start. It's all so
strange to me, I can't arrange about it.
Now I must leave off. This is all. Excuse
the blots, as this is the first English
letter I've ever written. I know you'll be
glad when you hear what I have to tell you.
Ever your very loving cousin,

Meriem Knyvett.'

The signature alone was full of novelty.
Iris folded the letter up, and slipped it into
her bosom with a throbbing* heart. What
thing it might forbode she hardly as yet
even dared to conjecture ; but she somehow
vaguely realized to herself the fact that it
was a way out for herself and Yernon.
She looked at the painter, as he lay pale
upon his bed, with one wistful look ; and
then, mindful of Meriem's charge, slipped
from the room without one other word to
him. Her heart was far too full, indeed,
for words ; they might mislead her. And
suppose she were mistaken, what going
back would then be possible?

Till she saw Meriem now, she could
never dare to face Vernon assail. It was
with no little relief, therefore, that she
learned to her joy that evening from the
Tizi-Ouzou doctor that her patient might
venture upon leaving tomorrow.

TO ALGIERS.

It was with a distinct shrinking that
Meriem Knyvett (as she had for the first
time signed her name in her letter to Iris)
allowed herself to be hurried into a first-class
compartment on the East Algerian
Railway at Beni-manor station. Her
only previous acquaintance with the locomotive,
indeed, had been far from a reassuring
one ; and it required no small
exercise of courage on the part of an untutored
mountain girl to trust herself now
to be whirled along through the country at
the tail of that snorting, roaring, careering
fire-breather, whose fierce assault she had

SO lately experienced in propria persona as
it swooped down the slope towards the
bridge in the gully. Eustace, however,
assured her there was no danger in the
railway ; and if Eustace said so, so it must
be ; for to Eustace she now trusted herself
wholly, with that sweet self - surrender
which a true woman can always display
towards her chosen counterpart. In fact,
the timid Kabyle-bred girl seated herself in
the train with as much outer composure as
if she had been accustomed all her life to
travelling on the line; for Meriem shared
with all other women of free democratic
mountain communities that perfect natural
breeding which prevents a person from ever
feeling gauche or restrained or awkward, in
whatever society, or under whatever circumstances.
Habituated only to free intercourse
with equals, it never even struck her
that the greatest lady could look down
upon her, wherever she might be, or that
she had need for any but her own natural

manner to put her at her ease, in Avhat company
she might come across.

Eustace had before this recovered his
European clothes by special messenger from
the tent at Beni-Merzoug. and sat by her
side, an Englishman once more, in his
wonted garb, smiling and contented. The
train moved off at last from the platform, to
Meriem's inward discomfiture, with a loud
shriek of the discordant whistle, and soon
the inexperienced mountain maiden found
herself rushing at what seemed to her a
wildly impossible pace (though Eustace declared
it was but the usual slow Algerian
travelling) down the long inclines that lead
from the Djurjura to the plains on whose
edge stands the town of Algiers, in gleaming
glory. Meriem was very, very happy.
It never occurred to her to think, in her
perfect innocence, how odd a sight it
seemed to her fellow-travellers to see an
English gentleman thus familiarly conversing
with a simple Kabyle girl in haik and

b^rTKHis*?. To h^ it was merely herself
^-s.^oe. The ooiiT^itioiiadities hud
begun to exist for her. So she
:• - :. Along the smooth line in strange content,
glad in her hit to think she was
going away wide Eustace, and leaving tluKe
tCExiUe sc»es of war for ever behind her.

On the platlbnn at Menerrille, the purer
from Tiai-Ooaoii was waiting to go on
wide Aem. As Aej steamed into the
Nation, Menem shed to die window to
catch 3 fc^ rHnqse of her TcooTcred Irish
^ - ::: ~bv — ^paiiaps it was because

Ji wat»-, perhaps because
Iris - girl the had ever met

own natural and

- : inure, the only one who

'rh the profounder

^ ~ ~g iiatape — bnt at

11^ ''^'^ she loved

'r ' r^ore loved

- "term die

^ : - .: : :: I:: ^ i: -t ice, still a

g<HhaA^ bfoiit IskeBazra^ mUa wiaH^nd. senile
act liIsraieaM^fi eiszidleErt tMldiKh awiwrirty 160

her facTs, albnaicjsft laefcire it3ie trsnn IraS quite
©oan»B to a etaaateaH (regardless of the re^o-
Jaddbnos tsQ the ecmtrarj in the tjanLpany's
liy^-laws}, aaad jfamg ter arms utTIT't- in
SDL ffl(ceess of .ferw(swjir, ronmd lier ^ s
neck. Then ste tnjETEffid wxtih a smile to
Vcemoni BOaftoe^ and fcraHiiSiiitg oaait hier wiiitte
Imsd wild perfect &aDl3iMS^ IkauBiit H)f**er nm
her imnocsiBlt swnwaip iHffiit v' to miss ti ri.

As tihEnr sierras imidt, Irish heart l^eat hard
iffli sDi^omse. Sims, Meriefoi, drawing her
Eln^lia^ kaicitsw^oaiiiaii a^ade, i^r ^^ Ende
Tool was Bamn^iin^ Mis. Kdvy : - \j her
pfatDe in iflbe train, Wlf wi-:«T:Ta in her
car mrilfli m simile <Qf taught, * We shall soon
be f*Htiffiififcf)^ ywn \3MSfvu^ Vision aid i ; lor
as floooL as jwn Hear ^dinat I have xo tell
sou, Fm siGDPe^ Ws, ycra ^phobA aisj^

Iris pressed her hand hard, in mute
reply, and kissed the beautiful Kabyle girl
on each cheek once more. There was no
time just then to ask anything further.
The inexorable train that waits for no man
was whistling in its eager anxiety to be off.

En voiture, mesdames /' sang out the
shrill - voiced chef de gave; and, with a
hurried return, they were soon on their
road again for Algiers — and Harold.

How they chatted and laughed, in spite
of all their past terrors, on that merry
journey : Meriem full of the double delight
of her own new-found love and of making
Iris happy ; Iris, notwithstanding her
wonderment and surprise, yet vaguely conscious
in her silent joy that for some mysterious
reason Meriem was cheerfully and
willingly yielding Yernon Blake up to her.
How they exchanged the terrible stories of
their respective perils in the minutest
detail ! How Iris described the horrors of
the night attack till Meriem was heartily

ashamed to herself of those creatures who
had once been her fellow - countrymen.
How Meriem, in turn, dwelt upon the wild
terrors of that appalling machine which
civilization had sent, with its fiery steed, to
startle and alarm her native mountains.
They tingled and thrilled with their mutual
confessions. But at last, when Iris had
finished her narrative of that ghastly
assault, and retailed with picturesque
horror the savage onslaught of those fanatic
insurgents, Meriem looked up at her and
asked, with a sigh :

Are there ever Jehads in your religion.
Iris?'

No,' Iris answered fervently ; ' thank
Heaven, no, Meriem ! Our religion's spread
by persuasion alone. It horrifies us to see
such deeds as those done.'

And it horrifies me, too, to hear of
them,' Meriem replied simply. ' But our
people think it right. They must be mistaken
. . . .' Then, with a sudden burst :

Oh, Iris, Iris, I'm ashamed to think I
ever belonged to them ! I almost wish . . .
it may be very wrong . . . but I somehow
almost wish I was like you — a Christian
!'

Iris could hardly forbear a smile at the
perfect naivete of this quaint confession ;
but Mrs. Knyvett, sitting bolt upright in
the corner, started back in her seat in the
utmost alarm, and gazed at Meriem with
the sort of horror and surprise with which
one regards a scorpion or other venomous
reptile.

Gracious heavens. Iris !' she cried,
astonished ; ' you don't mean to say this
poor misguided girl — your uncle Clarence's
daughter — has really and truly been
brought up a Mussulman — or whatever
else one ought to call it?'

Why, what else on earth could she
possibly be brought up, mother dear?' Iris
answered, with a gentle warning look. This
was surely not the best way conceivable to

lull poor Meriem's still surviving prejudices.


I never met any infidels at all before I
met Eustace and Vernon, you see, Iris
Meriem went on reflectively. ' Till then,
of course, I^d only heard harm and evil-speaking
about infidels. Some people said
Yusuf was an infidel at heart himself till the
day of his death, and that that was why he
Avent down sometimes to St. Cloud to see the
Pere Baba ; but I used to be very angry
with them when they told me that, naturally,
because I thought in those days that all
Christians must be very, very, very wicked.
And now, since I've seen how Christians
behave and how our people behave, I'm
beginning to think — I'm not quite sure
whether it's sinful or not — but I'm beginning
to think. . I wish I was a Christian
like you, Iris.'

Iris's eyes dropped timidly to the ground.
I'm afraid it's not often,' she answered
humbly, ' we Christians commend ourselves

among people who do not belong to our
religion in that way, Meriem. I wish we
did so a great deal better. But 1 suppose
you won't live among Kabyles any more,
now your uncle's gone. You'll come and
live with us over in England, of course ; and
then you'll soon learn to think and feel as
we do.'

I'd never live among people like those
again,' Meriem cried energetically — ' no, not
if I was to be killed for it. I'd never live
among people who believe in Jehads, and
try to shoot others — men, women, and
children — for no excuse or cause. Why, it's
horrible to think of! It's worse than the
French who fought against our people,
though Yusuf always said they were
wickeder than anybody. I'm glad you're
all English, and not French. I suppose
that's because I'm Yusuf s daughter. And
as to the infidels, why, I suppose, of course,

I shall be a Christian myself, too, when '

She checked herself suddenly, with a rich

red blush. She had nearly blurted out in
her haste and vehemence. * when I'm married
to Eustace.' But, frank as she was. she
couldn't quite tell her whole heart's secret
so openly as that before the face of Yernon
and Uncle Tom and Mrs. Knyvett.

When you get to England,' Iris
suggested, quietly finishing off the broken
sentence for her in a non-committing
fashion. For Iris. too. had observed how
her e3'es fell upon Eustace, half unconsciously,
as she spoke, and began now to
spell out for herself the solution of this
singular mystery.

• When I poet to Eno-land,' Meriem
answered, catching gladly at the proffered
means of escape. ' I don't know how it is,
Iris, but I somehow feel sure I shall like
England. I've felt more at home, more
sympathetic, I think you call it, with all
you English than I ever felt with anybody
at all at Beni-Merzoug. I used to think at
first, when Yernon and Eustace were newly

VOL. III. 48

come, it was only because you were Yusuf s
people, and I was prepared to like you for
Yusuf s sake, as Yusufs fellow-countrymen.
But the more I've seen and known of you
all, the more I've found out that that was a
mistake. I'm nearer to all of you than I
ever could be to anybody else ; I like you
and sympathize with you, not only because
you're Yusufs people, but because you're
my people — my own people — as well — my
neighbours, my kinsmen, my like in nature.
One day Vernon repeated me a bit of an
English song — about a bird, a skylark, you
know — and that day I remember it came
home to me suddenly that I felt all that
quite differently from the way I could ever
feel anything in the Kabyle verses. Ours
are all verses about such common things —
the olive-harvest, and the corn, and fighting,
and wife-buying. But this was a song
about how a bird went up singing and rejoicing
in the air — such a beautiful song —
and I remember a bit of it, a bit that said —

" We look before and after,
And pine for what is not ;
Our sincerest laughter

With some pain is fraught,
Our sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thought."

I thought that was lovely — as much as I
understood of it — and I thought, too, no
Kabyle that ever lived could possibly have
made a song like that ; so I thought at the
same time I must be a good deal English,
after all, myself, or it wouldn't seem so much
more beautiful than any of our silly little
Kabyle verses.'

Not even Uncle Tom could refrain from
joining in the hearty laugh that greeted this
candid outburst of native simplicity. The
idea that any Kabyle poetry could possibly
come into competition with Shelley's
Skylark ' was too utterly grotesque for
the most prosaic intelligence, the Probate
and Divorce Division itself included. They
all laughed, but they all laughed with very
different under-currents of inner emotion.

Iris, half piqued at the idea that her

48—2

painter should have repeated those exquisite
lines to any other woman, yet couldn't help
feeling at the same time how infinitely
Vernon must realize her own superiority to
poor barefooted Meriem. She, with her
cultivated European mind, to he jealous of
that ignorant, uncultured Kabyle girl! It
would he really and truly quite too ridiculous.


Yernon, half ashamed Meriem should thus
innocently rake up his past evil deeds
against him, yet couldn't hel^i feeling that
Iris must see how utterly he would be
thrown away upon such a girl as Merito
waste himself on her, with his poetical
nature, when a Third Classic had confessed
her love for him, would, indeed, be little
short of simple wickedness.

And Eustace, delighted with Meriem's
perfect candour, thought to himself with
admiration how profound was the nature of
that wild mountain girl, who could see for
herself on a first glance the wide gulf that

separated such a poet as Shelley from her
own fellow-countrymen, and could pick out
instinctively from his most exquisite poem
the deepest and most essentially central
stanza. Whither might not such a soul as
that attain, in fitting surroundings for its
free development, and with congenial companionship)
to guide and direct it !

What a wonderful passion is love to warp
and bias our calmer judgment I How clearly
it lets us see one side of a question, and how
perfectly contented it makes us, not only
with the person on whom it fixes its oblique
glance, but with ourselves into the bargain,
seen by the reflected light of that other
person's profound admiration !

So they journeyed on merrily together to
Algiers, each in a very good humour with
himself, and unheedful of the thunderbolt
that Harold Kny vent held in readiness to let
loose upon them as soon as they got there.

CHECK !

At Algiers station Uncle Tom recovered
such fragments of luggage as still remained
to them (for most of their wardrobe had
been destroyed at St. Cloud, so that they
were sorely in need of a rapid return to their
base of supplies at Sidi Aia), while Iris
seized the opportunity to charter a special
fiacre of her own (with a picturesque turbaned
Arab driver) to mount the Mustapha
Hill in quiet conference alone with Meriem.
The others could all go in the big carriage,
she said — her own carriage : Uncle Tom,
and mother, and Mr. Blake, and Mr. Le
Marchant ; but they two girls would drive
up in solitary grandeur in a hired cab ; for to

say the truth, the Third Classic, for all the
world like any common boarding-school
miss, was burning with the desire to have a
good tete-astute for half an hour with her
Kabyle cousin. Uncle Tom objected that
this course of action would look very odd ;
the young woman hadn't even got stockings
to her feet ! but Iris, of course, promptly
overruled this futile objection ; and as
Eustace Le Marchant put in a word, too,
on the same side, Uncle Tom, overjoyed, at
least, at the chance of separating the heiress
from that dangerous fortune-hunter for half
an hour, consented to connive at the improper
arrangement.

We must keep her well away from that
sneaking naturalist fellow, Amelia,' he
whispered in his sister's ear in strict confidence.
' It's a jolly lucky thing it was
the painter, poor creature ! who was up with
us at St. Cloud the night of the fight — he's
an innocent boy, that, and as shy as girls
used to be when you and I were young ;

but if it had been the other one, why, I'll
bet you a sovereign he'd have 2^i*oposed to
her outright on the strength of having got
a slight graze on his shoulder in the little
brush with those brutes of Rabbles.'

Uncle Tom was inordinately proud of his
own part in that little brush, and therefore,
of course, always gracefully spoke of it, after
the fashion of our kind, with becoming disparagement.


Now, you must tell me all about it,
Meriem,' Iris said at once, as soon as they
were seated side by side incongruously in
that convenient fiacre, and out of earshot,
on their way uj) to Mustapha. ' You know
you're to be my guest at Sidi Aia, of course ;
and before I get there I've a particular
reason for wanting to know exactly how
you stand with — with Mr. Blake and Mr.
Le Marchant.'

Meriem smiled a curiously contented and
suppressed smile at the patronizing way in
which Iris comported herself as the mistress

of Sidi Aia ; but she went on, nevertheless,
with all young love's first gushing readiness,
to pour out her story — her strange, strange
story — into the sympathetic ears of a female
confidante. She told the whole tale with
that unvarnished frankness Which in Meriem
resulted as a joint product of Kabyle simplicity
and the straightforward inherited
Knyvett nature. She suppressed nothing ;
she apologized for nothing ; she softened
down nothing ; not even how she said,
Whatever made me think so much of
Vernon ?' Iris smiled a little satisfied smile
of conscious superiority when Meriem said
in her simple way : * It burst upon me all
like a flash of lightning, you know, Iris ; I
thought to myself, with a sudden revulsion:
'• Great heavens! Avhat have I done? Have
I risked his life — Eustace's life — for such a
man as Vernon? He's worth a thousand
times as much as Vernon Blake ! And he
loves me as Vernon could never love
anyone." '

At that Iris's brow clouded over a little
lor half a second. She hardly knew if she
ought to sit still and listen to such sacrilege
as those words of Meriem's. Her Vernon!
her painter ! her poet ! her king of men !
This Kabyle girl dare so lightly to reckon
him up with her own small reckoning!
What presumption! What audacity! What
foolhardy self-confidence ! . . . But at any
rate she was free to marry Vernon now!
Free to marry the man she so loved! For
that, she could forgive a great deal to
Meriem !

And when Meriem ended at last, with her
transparent guilelessness : ' So then, Iris, he
just drew me down to his sofa and kissed
me, and I laid my head, so, on his shoulder
and cried, and was, oh! so happy, so unspeakably
happy!' — the mollified Girton
girl felt half inclined, there in the open
road, on the Mustapha Hill, to fling her
arms around her newly-found cousin's neck,
and kiss the barefooted Kabyle maiden then

and there before the eyes of ,
Arab or European. Love is so
very much alike at bottom, after all, in all
of us !

And now, Iris,' Meriem cried, in conclusion,
holding her cousin's gloved hand
tight in her own bare gloveless fingers, ' I
want you and Vernon to be married to one
another, and to be rich and happy, and to
live as you like at Sidi Aia.'

But you must have some of my money,
too !' Iris exclaimed with effusion, regardless
of Uncle Tom's oft-iterated advice.
You must let me share it with you — not,
half, perhaps, but as much as Uncle Tom
thinks right and proper.'

Meriem smiled a reticent smile — that
curious smile that Iris had noticed so often
this morning.

I'll take some of Sir Arthur's money, if
you wish it,' she answered sedately, not like
one who accepts a favour, but with a certain
grand reserve which struck Iris at once, as

did ako die altered pine, * Sir Ardor s
money: * But Enhance and your nude mil
^tde all lot between tli»n. I dare ^y. Of
oomse^ I don't understand such things as
tlie^e. Whatever you arrange, Eustace and
I wil be well sadslied.'"

They turned round the comer at the
Donne Tirol — Mem all aghast in-legally,
as she went ahng the road at the
grandeur and magnificence of the great white
Moodily Tides that studded die hilMde after
the arrow streets and rough stone huts of
her nature mountains — kept at hist

into the load drive : z:. :e villa,

mote stately and in z j

thananj of dion. 21 iv.sc up

in her mouth at on r : r - ^: tLi?

was Sci Aia! T V : r:::-

ance! TMs wi. : . ^ .,: : : :::.
have :e^- liars! But, like Caract: .:. -
Koi^T. - T .7 . it not She was . .:
had ^: :■: '^'t v . Iris

^^ r :: io with grand vias

like these ? With Eustace by her side, she
could be happy anywhere.

The carriage had passed them on tie
slope of the hill, and arrived at the door
half a moment easier. Demon Bldoe was
there already, waiting to give the heiress his
hand as she alighted from the fiacre at her
own proud porch. She took it tenderly,
with a fskvot pressure. He half-gii^sed
what that meant as he mounted the steps
gaily by her side into the first outer court,
with its marble fountain, its flock* of painted
tiles, its palms and (xange-tzees^ its loxoiiant
basin of waving water-weeds. His painters
eye looked round with delight on that
perfect specimen of old Moorish architecture.
Nothing more beautiful had he seen in
Ama. The exqoidte arcade, the kMDg line
of hilary, the glorious display <^ antique
tiles, the depth of shadow in the recess of
the doorway, all charmed and intoxicated
his artistic instincts It was a pare delight
to Iris thus to show off her own domain in

all its beauty to the man whom she now
looked upon as its unconscious but predestined
future possessor. ' It's lovely, Mr.
Blake she said, turning round to him with
a smile of quiet pride ; ' very lovely, isn't
it?'

And Vernon Blake, gazing about with a
sigh, ejaculated fervidly : ' It's more than
lovely. It's a painter's dream. Anything
so exquisite I hardly thought existed in
solid stone on this poor little planet of ours.
How proud you must be . . . MissKnyvett
. . to be its possessor!'

Iris's eye had an unwonted twinkle in it.

Do you remember the Lord of Burleigh?'
she said, looking up at him with an
audacious smile. The Girton boldness was
surely breaking out at last in the girl.
Well, what Meriem has told me on the
way up this morning has made me myself
into a sort of inverted topsy-turvy Lady
of Burleigh.' She took his hand once more,
before Uncle Tom's very eyes, and led him

with wondering feet into the broad white
court. ' " Proudly turned she round and
kindly," ' she quoted low, with a change in
the offender alone : ' " All of this is thine and

mine!

'You mean it, Iris?' he cried, with
blinded eyes.

I mean it she answered simply, in a
whispered voice. ' And I am yours, too; I,
too, am yours, for ever, Yernon.'

As she spoke. Uncle Tom, who was
following them close, drew back suddenly
with a startled cry of surprise and indignation.
* God bless my soul !' he exclaimed
eagerly. * What the devil is that fellow
doing here, I wonder?'

Iris lifted up her eyes at these unexpected
words, and looked in the direction where
Uncle Tom was indignantly waving his
heavy red hand. There, on the top step of
the short flight of stairs that led from the
outer to the inner court, stood Harold

Knyvett, bowing and smiling, with arms
outspread on either side of him, in an
attitude of profuse and generous hospitality.

His fingers didn't tremble or his mouth
twitch now. He had schooled himself by
violent efforts for some days before to bear
the shock of that supreme interview. Nota
feature but was under complete control.
His face was calm, with a sweet smile of
conscious triumph. But he was bland and
benignant too, with a rose in his buttonhole
; for he meant to win Iris as well as the
property. He stood there waving them in
like a great proprietor with a lordly sweep
of his delicate white hand ; come one, come
all, they should taste his fare in his newly -
acquired home With princely munificence.

Why, goodness gracious, there's Harold !'
Mrs. Knyvett exclaimed, with a benign nod
of the condescending feature. " How kind
of him, really! But he's always so nice.
He's run across to Algiers to bring me my
bronchitis kettle!'

As for Iris, she looked up at that complacent
figure in a vague dismay. Meriem,
too absorbed in other affairs, had foro-often
to tell her of the bad man's presence at a
villa at Mustapha. She hardly knew in her
confusion what to make of the scene ; when
suddenly Harold enlightened her at a bound
by coming down a step or two with a polite
bow, and exclaiming point-blank at her, in
his courtliest voice : ' Good-morning, Iris ;
how d'ye do, Aunt Amelia ? I'm delighted,
I'm sure, to welcome you both — and Mr.
Whitmarsh too — as my guests in my home
at Sidi Aia !'

Iris shrank back with a shudder of dismay.
His home at Sidi Aia ! Was the
earth going to fail beneath her feet ? What
a bombshell ! What a thunderbolt !

VOL. III. 49

CONDITIONS OF PEACE.

Well, but what does he mean, dear?'
Mrs. Knyvett was the first to ask, with a
gasp, breaking the ominous silence that fell
for a moment over the whole hushed little
group at the sound of Harold's strangely
significant words.

I . I don't know, mamma Iris
answered, undaunted still in heart, but taken
aback somewhat by Harold's resolute attitude.
* I think he must mean that . . .
that he has some claim or other we haven't
yet heard about to Sidi Aia.'

He means confounded impudence ; that's
just what he means,' Uncle Tom burst outwith
a burly bluster, walking up the step to

confront his opponent angrily. ' The fellow's
been juggling in your absence with Sir
Arthur's letters and papers, I suppose, and
thinks he's succeeded in mudding up a claim
against you. But it won't do. I'm not the
man to be put off with that sort of humbug.
He's got the wrong person by the ear this
time to deal with.'

Oh, Miss Knyvett, Miss Knyvett T old
Sarah cried out in dismay, rushing down
the steps and flinging her arms round Iris's
neck passionately ; ' it isn't my fault, my
dear. I couldn't help it. Mr. Knyvett, he
came over here three days ago, or thereabout,
with a paper in his hand ; and he said
how he'd found a new will, and how the house
and grounds was all his, and he was come
to stay, and I must look upon him, henceforth,
as a master, and that kind of thing.
And I said, had he any orders from you ?
And he said, no, he hadn't ; he needed
no orders ; he came entirely on his own
authority ; and Sidi Aia was his own, not

49— 1>

a bit of yours ; but he'd be glad, when you returned,
to welcome you back for a while,
as his guest, to it. And what could I do,
my dear, with him coming like that, and
threatening to call in the gendarmes if I
tried to resist him?'

As she spoke, Harold moved slowly down
the steps towards Iris. He cast an angry
glance at Uncle Tom as he passed — surely
those Kabyle fellows, if they were anything
of shots, might have managed to put a hole
through that broad mark, his waistcoat, and
rid him at once of a dangerous and experienced
opponent ! The least among the
marksmen of Wimbledon could not have
missed it. But no matter for that ; the
day was his, quand meme. He had fairly
conquered all along the line. He could
afford now to be gentlemanly and generous.
And to a man of taste, like Harold Knyvett,
the expansive and liberal gentlemanly policy
is always, in the end, the pleasantness and
most congenial one.

Iris,' be nurtured, coming up to her
close with a sickly smile, and holding out
an obtrusively cordial hand, which Iris, in
her righteous wrath, did not deign so much
as to notice, ' there's no necessity for any
scene just here. I desire this matter should
at first be talked out in a friendly way, as
between principals alone. An amicable
arrangement on family grounds would, I'm
sure, be easiest and most pleasing to all of
us. Such an arrangement I can readily
submit to you, if you'll allow me the pleasure
of twenty minutes' conversation with
you alone in my library. Perhaps you
could spare me so much just now of your
valuable time ? So glad to see you looking
so blooming, too, in spite of your shock.
It's best we should understand one another
distinctly, you know, from the very beginning.'


I shall decidedly object to any proposal
of the sort,' Uncle Tom burst out, with a
very red face, blocking the staircase with his

capacious frame. 'If Iris desires to hold
any business communication of any sort
with you, the regular thing will be for her
to conduct her case '

But Iris cut him short, before he could
get any further, with an imperious nod of
her self-willed little head. Though her
physical courage had failed her completely
before the cut-throat bands of the insurgent
Kabyles, she had moral courage enough left
still to face a hundred interviews with her
cousin Harold. She knew what the man
wanted as well as if he had told her, and
she preferred to say No to that degrading
proposal before the eyes of no living witness.
If Harold must again insult her by the
hateful offer of his hand — that lying,
scheming, mean wretch of a Harold— at
least she would take care he did not insult
her before the face even of her own nearest
and dearest relations.

I'll go with him, Uncle Tom dear,' she
put in boldly, soothing his arm with her

tiny hand. ' I'm not afraid to conduct my
own case in person in such a matter, thank
you. Harold has nothing to say to me, 1
know, that your presence could possibly in
any ways influence. I'll settle this question
With him alone. You and he can talk over
business arrangements together afterwards.'
Harold accepted the last sentence at once
as all but equivalent to a partial surrender,
and smiled benignly with his prospective
triumph. In the hour of success he would
not be hard upon the fallen foe. * Perhaps,'
he remarked, with his blandest West-end
politeness, * your mother and Mr. Whit-marsh
will step into my drawing-room and
take a chair while they wait for us for the
present, Iris. And the lady in the bare feet,
too — I haven't the pleasure of her personal
acquaintance, it's true — but still, as she
seems to be one of the party — I dare say,
Sarah, you can make her comfortable in the
kitchen somehow.'

He didn't suspect, of course, that Meriem

could understand him ; but the fiery flush
that mantled the Kabyle girl's sunburnt
face, from forehead to neck, was hardly so
intense as that which overspread Iris's sensitive
cheek at this unintentional rudeness
to her brave Algerian cousin. Even Uncle
Tom, who had never been predisposed in
favour of the Claimant, but whose personal
dislike to that Paynim maiden had been
naturally lessened by the story of her
gallant attempt to cross the mountains for
their safety's sake, till it now sank all at
once to zero, being metamorphosed into a
feeling of positive friendliness by the sudden
appearance on the scene of this new impostor
— even Uncle Tom himself turned
round to the blushing Kabyle girl kindly,
with a still deeper tint reddening his
already red and indignant face, and laying
his hand on her shoulder, said to her in his
most gently paternal voice :

Come along, Meriem, my child ; you
must be tired after your journey ; we'll go

and take a seat, till this business is finished,
in Iris's drawing-rooms

But Iris followed Harold blindly into the
library, and there fell, rather than seated
herself, in the big armchair, while the new
proprietor of Sidi Aia took a place at some
distance on the divan opposite.

AVell ?' she said coldly, as he wriggled
into his seat, looking up in his face with a
defiant expression.

Well,' Harold replied, keeping his eyes
directly fixed on hers, lest she should have
it to say that he didn't dare to look her in
the face ; ' I suppose you can guess what
this means, Iris ? The story's a short
one. Briefly, I was suffering from nervous
irritation at the office in London — overwork,
I suppose, entailing loss of memory
so I consulted Yate - Westbury, the
well-known specialist on such cases, who
advised me to try a trip to Algiers. And
that, you see, accounts for my coming
here.'

I see Iris answered, gazing back at
him stonily.

He quavered before the steady stare of
those beautiful blue eyes, but he kept on
nevertheless upon his straight path with
cynical fortitude.

Well, after I got here, stopping next
door as I did with Yate-Westbury, I naturally
took an early opportunity of calling
round, and looking over Uncle Arthur's
place, by good old Sarah's kind permission.'

I see,' Iris replied once more, with rigid
emphasis. ' In short, you took an early
opportunity, after your kind, of prowling
about my house, while I was away, by
deluding my servant with the practically
untrue excuse of cousinhood.'

Harold winced.

Not you' house. Iris,' he answered
abruptly, and with some asperity. ' That's
exactly what I'm coming to. You anticipate
too fast. But just at first, of course I
wasn't aware of that myself. However, as it

happens, I didn't come uninvited. I called
at Aunt Amelia's special request to bring
her bronchitis kettle, which I'd brought
all the way from London ; and Sarah,
learning I was Sir Arthur's nephew, naturally
asked me in to view the villa — a piece
of hospitality which you, apparently, would
not have extended to your own relations.'

Iris bowed courteously.

You interpret my sentiments with absolute
correctness,' she replied, in the same
cold and freezing tone as ever.

We shall see about that soon,' Harold
went on, with a faint attempt at something
like gallantry. ' Iris, let's be reasonable ;
I don't want to be hard upon you. I don't
want to quarrel. I want to be friends.
We were children together, you know, and
always friendly. Let's be friendly still ;
don't let a matter of money come between
us like a shadow. I'm prepared to make a
liberal arrangement, a most liberal arrangement,
if you'll only listen to reason. But

wait awhile for that ; facts first ; this is
what happened. I brought Yate-Westbury
to the house quite casually one afternoon,
and as he was trying a lot of keys on a
concealed drawer in Sir Arthur's davenport,
suddenly, to his surprise, one of them fitted
it. Well, he opened the drawer, of course,
and turned over the papers ; and among
them, to my immense astonishment, as well
as his own ' — Iris bit her lip to stifle a sarcastic
smile — ' came across a will of Sir
Arthur's, later in date than the one you
found in London, leaving everything absolutely
to me, and naming me also as sole
executor. So that Sidi Aia and all the
English property's really mine. And I
grieve to say you're not benefited a single
penny by the final disposition.'

Is that all ?' Iris asked, with an impatient
movement, gazing at him frigidly.

No, that's not all,' Harold answered,
rising from the divan, and drawing a chair
very tentatively a foot or two nearer to his

pretty cousin. ' Iris,' and he leant across
towards her with a persuasive air and a
killing smile, ' I know you don't want to
be friends — that's unfortunately obvious ;
but I can't bear to think this money should
sever us — this wretched money — a mere
matter of a few acres of land and a few
pounds at the banker's — we who were
always such good friends before — and I
who have always loved you as a cousin,
and have lately learned how much more
profoundly and intimately I loved you as a
friend and an admirer, not to say as a lover.
I couldn't bear, Iris, to deprive you of your
Wealth, or, rather, of the wealth you once
erroneously supposed to be yours ; and I'm
longing to make a proposition to you now
which will leave it yours just as fully as
ever. I don't want you to give me an
answer at once — in your present frame of
mind, I'm afraid I know what that answer
would be — I want delay, I want respite ; I
want you to turn the matter over and consider

it. . . . Iris, I asked you to marry
me once. You were then, you thought,
rich, and I was a beggar. To-day, you seethe
tables are, unhappily, turned. It is I
who am rich, and you who have practically
next to nothing. I regret the change, but
I Avon't let sou lose by it. For your sake,
for your dear sake, I'm willing that things
should remain almost the same as ever. If,
after due consideration, you can find it in
your heart to change your mind, and consent
to marry me, I'll make a settlement of
half the property upon you, so that you
will still be rich, and, as my wife, will practically
possess it all absolutely. . . . Now,
don't answer at once. Iris ; take time to
think. Remember, I adore you, I worship
you, I love you ; and what I care about in
this is not the money — the paltry, miserable,
wretched money — I'd fling that in the
sea if I could gain your approbation by
so doing — but you, my beloved, my
queen, my darling ! I love you, Iris,

and I must, I ivill, I .shall make you mai-ry
me !'

His hands were trembling now, but with
natural emotion, and he meant it as he
spoke — he meant every word of it. The
presence of that pure and beautiful girl had
raised him for a moment, roo^ue and for-er
as he was, out of his own vile self; and he
felt he could really fling the money into the
Mediterranean — that stolen money — if only
he could win Iris's love by so flinging it.
Her sweet face kept down for awhile the
mad impulse that struggled for mastery
within him. He was quivering with excitement,
but it was the honestest excitement
he had known for months — the sanest, the
purest, the least selfish and self-centred.
He longed for Iris to enjoy his wealth ; he
longed to share his wealth with Iris. That
idea for the second kept him tolerably sane.
He was almost as rational and collected as
ever.

But Iris rose as he finished his speech —

that vile speech of his — the wretch, who
judged her so much by his own base
standard that he thought he could buy Iris
Knyvett for money — and standing before
him sublime, in her full height (how imposing
a good woman looks in her five feet
six of righteous indignation !), she answered
him passionately, with a wild outburst of
speech :

'Never! Never! NEVER! NEVER!
, . Harold, I need no time to consider.
I don't want to pollute myself by hearing
what you say. I loathe and detest you for
your horrid deception that day at Kensington.
I loathe and detest you for your
horrid attempt to buy me to-day. I don't
know whether you've forged this will or
not ; I don't know whether Uncle Tom can
fight you over it or not ; I don't know
whether you can filch away my property or
not ; but, rich or poor, forger or liar, success
or failure, I'll never marry you— never,

For money, I care a

great deal less than nothing. You may do
your worst, but you won't alter me. And
lest you should still continue to hope, and
scheme, and plan, and annoy me with your
horrible attentions and your base proposals,
I'll tell you the truth at one fell blow : I've
already accepted a better man than you —
ten thousand times better ; and if we starve
together, through your machinations, him
ril marry, and no other.' And she moved
towards the door with that resolute air
which, as Harold Knyvett instinctively perceived,
implied that the question between
them was closed for ever.

Harold followed her through the stately
Saracenic archway, twirling the reinstated
button with a nervous twitching in his
tremulous fingers.

Very good,' he said coldly, the devil
with him reasserting its hateful sways once
more. ' It's open war, then, to the knife,
Miss Knyvett. You leave yourself no door
for escape or mercy. This will shall be

VOL. III. 50

proved — and you'll be beggared— beggared
!'

Iris didn't see him as she swept from the
room with her back turned to him. If she
had, she would have observe that his face
as he spoke, for all his calmness, was distorted
with rage, and hideous to gaze upon.
It looked like the face of a devil, or a
maniac.

OPEN WAR.

In the drawing-room opposite, Uncle Tom
was seated on an Oriental ottoman in the
pretty arched recess between the two deep
windows, while Meriem by his side, with
eyes cast round in wonder upon that
beautiful room, was conversing with the
red-faced old gentleman eagerly and unreservedly
as to what the bad man could
possibly want with dear Iris. This denouement
was worse, indeed, than her worst
anticipations. It was clear the bad man
had asserted his claim to ruin Iris. In the
centre of the room, Mrs. Knyvett occupied
her active mind in turning over the ornaments
on the occasional tables, unconscious

50—2

of the crisis, to see if they'd been properly
dusted in her daughter s absence : while on
one side Eustace and Vernon were conversing
in an undertone, exchanging ideas
on this sudden alteration in the aspect of
their joint matrimonial prospects. To
whom, thus engaged, enter Iris with a
sweep, her face showing all the air of a
tragedy queen ; closely followed by Harold
in the rear, composing his features with
great difficulty into a sufficiently calm and
quiet fi:ame to suit his expected interview
with that old fool Whitmarsh.

As they entered. Uncle Tom rose abruptly,
and motioned Iris to a seat by the window
with old-fashioned courtesy. The discomfited
heiress sat down with emphasis by
Meriem's side, holding her cousin's hand
tisrht in her own. Meriem dressed from
her hot, flushed face and her downcast eyes
what the bad man had been saying to discompose
her. But Harold drew up a chair
as if nothing out of the usual had lately

happened, and addressed his discourse at
once with ostentatious frankness to the
ruffled old barrister.

Mr. AVhitmarsh,' he said, fumbling with
one hand in his breast-pocket for a well-known
paper, ' a worldly-wise person, with
the fear of litigation before his eyes, would
not, perhaps, take the bold step I am about
to take. He would leave you to find out at
your leisure for your owen side the line of
action he proposed to adopt, and allow you
to govern yourself as best you might accordingly.
But this present business lies,
fortunately, all within the family. We're
all relations, and all, I trust, friends.'

*No!' Uncle Tom thundered out sullenly,
and then was silent.

All relations or connections, at least,*
Harold went on, less glibly, fumbling still
with his right hand in a nervous way in
that left breast-pocket ; ' and you're all now
staying as guests in my house, so that I'm
naturally anxious, as a mere matter of

hospitality, to do the straightforward and
honourable thing by everyone of you.'

The determination does you the highest
credit,' Uncle Tom interposed, eyeing him
closely and long through his forensic eyeglass.


And I think it right, therefore, to explain
to you here at full length what I've
just been explaining in hasty outline in the
library to Iris.'

He drew the paper — that precious paper
with a flourish from his left breast-pocket,
and deposited it, with much show
of internal reluctance, on the little Moorish
occasional table. Then, in slow and deliberate
words, he repeated once more at
greater length the official story, so to speak,
of its accidental discovery by Dr. 
in the secret drawer of Sir
Arthur's davenport. Uncle Tom listened
with a settled expression of profound
scepticism on his acute round face.

Ah, well, my fine fellow,' he thought to

himself, with an internal smile of malicious
triumph at Harold's approaching discomfiture,
* you've done for yourself this time,
anyhow, you may be certain. The thing's
a forgery, as sure as a gun : and if it's a
forgery. I'm cocksure to be able to detect
it.'

But Harold, never heeding that cynical
smile, went on with his story to the bitter
end, and then proceeded further to relate
the generous offer he had just made in the
library to Iris, ' which my cousin,' he said
coldly, ' has been ill-advised enough, I
regret to say, to decline with unnecessary
warmth of sentiment and language. Under
these painful circumstances, unpleasant as
such a course must be to me, nothing remains
for me but to prove the new will;
and lest you should ever say I'd taken you
by surprise, and not given you aU due
warning:, I've brought the document with
me here to-day, that you may judge for
yourself of its authenticity and validity.

This is it and he took it up from the table
affectionately, with a warm smile of parental
partiality — his bantling, his favourite, his
own pet handiwork. * If you'll take the
trouble to cast your eye down that,' he said,
with an air of profound conviction, ' I think
you'll agree with me that Iris would have
done far better for herself if she'd accepted
my equitable, and even generous, offer.'

Uncle Tom took up the paper from the
table with the same sceptical and supercilious
smile as ever. This tyro to suppose
he could forge a will that would baffle the
acutest and most experienced hand in the
whole Probate and Divorce Division ! The
thing was monstrous, absurd, incredible.
But as he read and read, both Eustace Le
Marchant and Harold Knyvett, who were
standing by and watching his features
closely, perceived a change come slowly
over his purple face. He was no longer
amused ; he was by rapid stages first
puzzled, then surprised and annoyed, then

vexed and baffled, then finally an^^iy and
very indignant. That he should show his
anger, Harold knew by a keen intuition fora
certain sign of the success of his strategy.
If the will were bad, if the signature were
doubtful, if a flaw had been suspected in the
law of the case or the wording of the document,
if a loophole had been left for
escape anywhere, that old fool Whitmarsh,
with his professional skill and his legal
acumen, would of course have spotted it ;
and if he had spotted it, he would have
pounced down then and there, with the
savage joy of battle in his keen old eyes,
upon the expectant culprit. But his silence
and his wrath, his internal fuming, were
auguries of good for Harold's success ; the
greatest authority on the subject of wills in
all England had no weapon left but impotent
rage with which to meet and face that
magnificent device of his.

Harold twisted the top button off its
thread once more in his transport of delight.

and then played, for a change, with the
empty button-hole.

You scoundrel!' Uncle Tom cried, finding
words at last, and rising up in his
wrath with an eager desire to strangle the
fellow then and there, as he sat smiling and
fidgeting inanely before him. ' Don't try
to come any of your nonsense over me!
You forged this will yourself, and you
know you forged it.'

Harold's thin lips curled graciously up,
and he lowered his head with polite
sarcasm.

That will be for a court of justice in
England to determine he answered coldly.

Did he forge it, Uncle Tom ?' Iris asked
from her corner, with perfect calmness,
turning round to her uncle. ' Are you
sure it's a forgery? Can you be quite
certain about it?'

^ Quite certain,' Uncle Tom answered,
gasping hard for breath. But he wrote
with a pencil on the back of an envelope.

which he handed across to her for greater
security, ' A forgery, beyond the shadow of
a doubt, my dear, but the cleverest scoundrel
I ever knew, for all that. There's
absolutely nothing tangible to go upon.
It's as clever as sin. He'll prove his will,
and we can never disprove it.'

At that outward and visible sign of the
old man's defeat, Harold sat and chuckled
inwardly to himself

*It's not too late even now, Mr. Whit-marsh,'
he observed, in a low and gracious
tone. ' I'm open still to negotiations. If
you'd like to use your influence with Iris
on the subject -'

But before he could finish that sentence
in his cowardly throat, Yernon Blake had
risen from his place in the corner, and come
forward all aglow with fierce, youthful indignation.


You may do as you like about the will,'
the painter said, half choking, and planting
himself full in front of the astonished

Harold, 'but if you dare to utter another
word to insult Miss Knyvett by your disgraceful
offers '

The rest was unspoken, but a significant
glance at the painter's fist efficiently replaced
the remainder of that suppressed
sentence.

That'll do, Blake Uncle Tom responded,
taken aback at this well-meant,
though unexpected, interposition. ' The
fellow's proposals will ?iot be entertained.
But we don't need your help in solving the
question, thank you. To forge a will first,
indeed, and then think he can force a girl
like Iris to marry him off-hand on the
strength of the forgery! I'm ashamed of
the fool for his ignorance of character!'

As he spoke, Harold Knyvett folded up
the forged document with trembling fingers,
and replaced it carefully in his breast-pocket.


every well, Mr. Whitmarsh,' he said,
with freezing frigidity, ' you reject my

olive-branch; you'll be sorry for it hereafter.
This is war now, open war, with all
of you ; and not by my fault. I shall
prove the will and resume my property
Meanwhile, under the present unpleasant
circumstances, it must be obvious at once
to the meanest understanding that you can
none of you accept my hospitality any
longer. I'll ring for the carriage to take
your luggage round at once to the Royal.'

Before he could reach the electric-bell at
the side, however, Eustace Le Marchant,
who had for some time been whispering
apart very seriously in a corner with
Meriem, gave a meaning glance and a look
of query towards his Kabyle fiancee. The
beautiful Algerian answered with a quiet
nod of assent. Then Eustace stepped out
into the middle of the room.

*Stop!' he cried, in a very stern and
determined voice. * Don't dare to touch
this lady's bell,' and he waved his hand
vaguely sideways towards Meriem. * The

mistress of Sidi Aia empowers me to forbid
you. I, too, have some important documents
here — of earlier date, but of greater
genuineness — that may serve to put a
somewhat different complexion upon this
person's action. It was not our intention
at first to produce them at all, as against
Miss Knyvett's original claim. We were
willing that she should inherit unopposed,
in a friendly fashion : but if you think this
person, sir and he turned to address himself
to Uncle Tom for a moment, ' is likely
to succeed in his attempted fraud, it maybe
worth while, at all hazards, to checkmate
him immediately by any means in our
power. These are the papers. I'll read
them over to you all first; you can then
examine them finally at your leisure, and
judge for yourself of their authenticity.'

Harold's face was livid with excitement
now. He clutched the buttonhole hard
nth all his mio^ht. He had neglected one
chance, and that chance had defeated him I

He saw the whole truth in the twinkling of
an eye. The barefooted native girl was
Clarence Knyvett's daughter and heiress.

But not legitimate! Oh no, not legitimate!
By the law of England, certainly
not legitimate ! It was all to no avail ! It
would profit them nothing ! In the eye of
the law, she was nobody's daughter. Thank
Heaven for that charming obliquity of the
law! Blackstone for ever ! Long live injustice!


CHECK AGAIN.

Slowly Eustace unfolded the little bundle
of documents he held in his hand, and laid
them one by one on the table before him.
They were worn and ragged to the last
degree ; mere rough memoranda jotted down
on thin sheets of foreign notepaper ; and
they were folded very small into numerous
squares, so much rubbed at the edges by
long wear that they hardly held together in
places where the strain was greatest.
Uncle Tom regarded these doubtful allies
with a suspicious glance. Remarkably
flimsy materials, indeed, he thought to himself
silently, to lay before the Probate and
Divorce Division !

Eustace, however, undeterred by his
scrutiny, proceeded next to produce from
his pocket a broken Kabyle charm — a tiny
metal box which Iris at once recognised
with a start as the one that Meriem had
worn habitually round her neck in the
mountains at Beni-Merzoug.

These documents,' he said demonstratively,
turning to Uncle Tom with a quiet
smile, ' were found enclosed in that little
box, which you see before you now on the
table. The box was given to Meriem by
her father, Clarence Knyvett, who strongly
urged her never on any account to lose it,
or part with it. It was unfortunately
broken by the accident with the train, and
picked up by me on the line, near Beni-manor,
in its present damaged and crushed
condition. I then for the first time became
aware of the nature of the papers it contained.
Meriem for her part had ascertained
their importance some weeks earlier,
but had been unwilling', for Miss Knvvett's

VOL. III. Ol

sake, to disclose their contents to me, or to
anyone. Nor did I in turn contemplate
disclosing them till this very morning.
We had made up our minds not to disturb
Miss Knyvett's title to Sir Arthur's estate.
Under existing circumstances, however, and
to defeat Mr. Harold Knyvett's designs —
upon which I, for my part, offer no opinion
we think ourselves fully justified to-day
in brinofino: them forward for your consideration.'


He looked at Meriem, who nodded a
silent approval once more. Then he took
u]} the first document and read it aloud.

It's a statement,' he said, ' by Meriem's
father, Clarence Knyvett, explaining the
circumstances under which he became, to
all intents and purposes, a Kabyle in
AVeria, and the reasons he had for so
disposing of the other documents found
with it.'

Everybody leant forward with hushed
attention. And this was the statement to

which Iris, Uncle Tom, and Harold Knyvett
listened with breathless interest :

I, Clarence Knyvett, formerly cornet of
the 8th Hussars in the British service, and
lately, under the name of Joseph Leboutillier,
a private in the 3rd Chasseurs d'Afrique,
write this last account of my life and misfortunes
for the benefit of my only daughter,
Meriem, to whose care I now confide it, in
explanation of my accompanying will and
annexed documents. The nature of the
space to which I must entrust them compels
brevity. I left England under strong
suspicion, which I could not refute, of
having forged my father. Admiral Knyvett' s,
name to sundry notes of hand, bills, and
acceptances. I solemnly swear before the
face of heaven that I did not forge one of
these papers ; that I received them all to be
cashed on his account from my brother,
Clarence Wilberforce Knyvett, whom I
solemnly believe to have forged them himself
; that I accepted them in good faith, on

51—2

his representation, as bearing my father's
genuine signature ; that I believed a detailed
story he palmed off upon me as to
why they had been uttered and why he did
not desire to cash them in person; that I
foolishly accepted part of the proceeds as a
loan from him to assist me in the payment
of debts I ought never to have contracted ;
and that by so doing I left myself without
any means of disproving the vile accusation
which my brother Charles at last permitted
to be brought by my father against me in
the matter.'

Uncle Tom looked up with a glance of
supreme contempt at his enemy, Harold.

Like father, like son he murmured
half-inaudibly. ' He was always a sneak,
Charles Wilberforce Knyvett.'

My brother Charles,' Eustace went on
reading, ' had laid his plans so deeply, and
woven his webs around me so cunningly,
that I found it impossible, when the exposure
came, to make my father believe the

truth, though I afterwards wrote him more
than one letter in the depth of my misery,
which I trust may have opened his eyes
before he died to the true state of the case
between us. For the time, however, he
believed Charles, and only allowed me to
escape prosecution, which I knew must
almost infallibly go against me — so incredible
would my true story have sounded
to any jury — by conniving at my escape
under disguise from England. It would
have been impossible, indeed, for me to setup
the true defence without making admissions
about a lady, a member of my family
not discreditable, but highly undesirable
which a sense of honour imperatively precluded
me fi-om ever making. Under these
unhappy circumstances, I had no course
open to me but to flee the country and take
refuge in France, where I enlisted for my
bread in the Third Chasseurs.'

A harum-scarum fellow,' Uncle Tom
murmured low; * but good hearted after all !

I never thought him criminal ; I never
thought him criminal.'

Meriem's eyes were dim with tears as
Eustace read ; but she held Iris's hand
tight in her own meanwhile, and Iris, in
return, stroked her soft arm tenderly. Tbe
story went on in brief language to describe
the circumstances under which Clarence
Knyvett had felt himself bound in turn to
desert from the French colours during what
seemed to him the essentially unjust Kabyle
war, and thus, of pure necessity, to cast in
his lot with that half-savage Mahommedan

o

mountain people.

^ By no fault of my own,' he wrote pathetically,
' I thus found myself at last proscribed
and an outlaw before the eyes of the
two most powerful and civilized nations in
all Christendom, and compelled for my own
safety outwardly to conform to the distasteful
rites and usages of Islam. Hunted to
earth, and banished for ever from home, I
accepted the inevitable. I became as a

Kabyle, and took to myself a wife among
my adopted countrymen. But not knowing
what disposition of his property my father
might make, and anxious to secure to my
children the benefit, if any, accruing to them
under his possible will, I induced my wife,
after going through the native Kabyle ceremony
with me in her own village, to be
secretly married to me at the Mairie at
St. Cloud, in accordance with the lex loci
then and there prevailing, in a manner that
would be recognised as undoubtedly valid
by any English court of law.'

Eustace paused, and looked at Uncle
Tom significantly. Uncle Tom arranged
his necktie with much studied care, and
glanced at his boots with a non committing
glance, much wondering what might next
be coming in this very unexpected and upsetting
document.

So Meriem's Uncle Clarence's daughter
after all, in law as in fact !' Iris exclaimed
fervently.

Stop a moment, stop a moment, my
dear !' Uncle Tom interposed, with a
frightened face. ' Not so fast, Iris, not
so fast, I beg of you. The register of the
Stat Civil at St. Cloud was completely destroyed
in the last insurrection — before our
own — and the marriage may, therefore, be
provable or not — provable or not, according
to circumstances.'

With a quiet smile, Eustace read the
paper to the very end, where Clarence
Knyvett, at length, declared how he went
forth with his life in his hand on his last
expedition, ignorant whether he would ever
return alive or not, and anxious for the
safety of his only daughter.

It's attested, you observe,' he said,
handing it over for examination to Uncle
Tom, ' by two priests of the Mission at
St. Cloud, as having been deposed to before
them by Joseph Leboutillier ; and it's also
sworn to as a true statement — unexamined
judicially, comme papier de antilles by le

nomme Yiisuf, Kabj/le, before the Ju^/c dr.
Paix at Palaestro, in Grande Kabylie.'

So I see,' Uncle Tom responded drily.
As yet, uncertain whither this thing might
lead, he was disinclined to commit himself
to anything definite.

But Harold Kny vent looked down at them
all with a fixed sneer. ' I should like immensely
to see the proof of this alleged
marriage,' he remarked scornfully.

You shall,' Eustace answered, with
great promptitude. ' Here it is, you observe,
a sworn copy, extracted from the Actes tie
VEtat Civil de St. Cloud-ens Ivahylie^ before
the insurrection, attesting both the civil
marriage of le nomme Yusuf before the
Maire of that commune, and, on a separate
form, the religious ceremony before the
mission priests of Our Lady of Africa.'

Uncle Tom took the two little documents
up and examined them critically.

It may possibly be a valid enough contract,'
he answered, with dubious and oracular

reticence. As a matter of fact lie saw at a
glance they were simply unassailable.

^ The third paper I have to produce here
is not a legal one Eustace continued,
smiling. ' It's a certificate of the baptism
of Meriem Mary, daughter of Clarence Kny-
vent, otherwise Yusuf, otherwise Joseph
Leboutillier, by Brother Antoine, called Pere
Paternoster, a mission priest of the same
Order.'

Am I a Christian then, after all?' Meriem
cried out, with a sudden burst of comprehension
as to the meaning of this hitherto
misunderstood document. ' Did Yusuf
make a Christian of me when I was a little
child without my ever knowing it?'

Yes, dearest,' Iris answered, examining
the certificate, and kissing her cousin's forehead
tenderly. ' And if Yusuf hadn't, you'd
have been one of yourself, for nobody could
ever have made a real Mahommedan of
you.'

'Thank Heaven for that!' Meriem cried

with a sigh, ' for ever since I heard of that
horrid business down there at St. Cloud
I've longed to be a Christian like you, Iris.'

The fourth document,' Eustace went on
with calm persistence, ' is the last will and
testament of Clarence Knyvett, duly signed
and attested with the English attestation
clause before two witnesses, according to
which paper the testator leaves and bequeaths
'

There was a dead pause, and all listened
eagerly. Uncle Tom in particular being
keen as a beagle on this last most important
point of all.

Everything he dies possessed of, real or
personal, in equal parts, as respects one
moiety to his daughter ]\Ieriem Mary, and
as respects the other moiety in proportional
shares to the children of his beloved brother,
the Rev. Reginald Knyvett, M.A., to the
total exclusion of his two other brothers,
Arthur and Charles, or their descendants.'

With an eager movement. Uncle Tom

took the will and glanced over it very carefully.
As he looked, his face grew brighter
and brighter. It was clear he accepted its
authenticity offhand. ' Half a loaf's better
than no bread, Iris, my dear,' he muttered
at last with a smile of relief. ' You're
entitled to a moiety. As far as it goes,
that's highly satisfactory. Mr. Le Marchant,
your hand. I beg your pardon. I think
these documents will hold Vater. Harold
Knyvett, you infernal scoundrel, I fancy
we've cooked your goose at last. Your
forgery was a confoundedly clever forgery,
but it hasn't profited you much after all.
Things are not as good as they might be,
quite. Iris ; but if the Claimant's really, as
these papers seem to show, the lawful issue
of your uncle Clarence Knyvett' s body —
and she may be, she may be — why, we can't
grudge her half — we really can't grudge it
to her. And they've come in most opportunely,
I must confess, to cut that desperate
forger's throat ; for I'll allow, my dear,' and

his voice dropped low, ' that hrs forgery
would have been the very hardest to tii^ht
against I've ever known in the whole of my
long and unique legal experience.'

Iris rose, and folded Meriem in her arms.
Then we each take half!' she murmured
joyfully.

I wanted you to have all, Iris Meriem
answered through her tears, pressing her
cousin tight to her bosom in return ; ' but
when this wicked man tried to get it all for
himself, Eustace said to me — and I quite
agreed with him — it was the only way
possible to defeat his wickedness!'

CHECKMATE.

Harold IvNrvETT looked on stealthily with
g, deadly stare in his cold blue eyes. The
corners of his set mouth were twitching
horribly now. ' It's all very well, this
hugging and embracing !' he exclaimed with
a sneer — all his native brutality breaking
out at last — ' but you've me to reckon with,
you must recollect — youN^e me to reckon
with ; and I'm not to be put off with
miraculous discoveries of hidden wills in a
Kabyle girl's necklace, I can tell you that.
Make up your minds for a good battle-royal.
I shall tight you every inch — every word —
every letter of it.'

Uncle Tom had chosen his side now, and

meant to stick to it like a man at l;isr.

You can't,' he said shortly. * You'll lind
it's no use. Those documents would carry
any case in England.'

Harold Knyvett glared back at him with
eyes like a tiger's on the point to spring.

They're forgeries !' he cried in an icy voice,
^ mean, disgraceful, inartistic forgeries !
That fellow got them up,' and he pointed
with his forefinger contemptuously at
Eustace. * I can see it in his face. He's a
miserable forger. And he's got them up
very badly too. He's copied the signature.
That's easy enough to do. Any fool can
copy a signature, you know. I could copy

'em myself I could copy Sir Arthur's '

his bloodshot eye was roving wildly round
the room now, ' as soon as look at it. I'll
do it before you, if you like, just to show
you how it's done. The difficulty's not
there ; it's to make your forgery reasonable
and vraisemhlahh ; and this fool hasn't
managed that at all ; he's invented an

absurd, cock-and-bull, melodramatic story
that no jury 'd believe ; whereas here's mi
will — Sir Arthur's own hand — at Aix, you
observe — all of them dead — two indubitable
witnesses. Ha, ha, ha! Not a shadow of
doubt about that. The veritable thing!
Just look at it yourself A beautiful will !
An irreproachable document I' He could
hardly control himself with excitement and
anger now. He was drunk with rage. He
drew the roll like a dagger, and brandished
it in their faces.

Suddenly, with a start, he grew cool
once more. A storm of conflicting emotions
seemed to be sweeping through him.

Why, you're taking it for granted,' he
cried, again scornful, ' that this fellow
Clarence, if ever he came to Algeria at
all — which we none of us know — outlived
Alexander — the original legatee, the first
inheritor. Unless he did, he never inherited,
and never could dispose. Don't
go too fast. Tt doesn't all lie between

this woman and Iris, as you seem to
think. You've me to reckon with. Mr,
ME, ME, to reckon with !' — striking his
breast hard, with insane intensity — ' and
you'll find me a devilish tough person, too,
for anyone to fio-ht against.'

Oh, that's all right,' Uncle Tom resumed,
turning over the papers critically once more,
with his experienced glance. ' We've satisfied
ourselves about all that long ago, you
may be sure. Do you think I took up
practice in the Probate and Divorce
Division yesterday ? Xo, no, Harold
Knyvett, don't bluster any longer; the
case is dead ; you may retire gracefully.
You're not in this cause any more, I assure
you. Your forged will is so much wastepaper.
Clever, I admit, but ineffectual,
ineffectual. Iris, my dear, will you do me
the favour to ring the bell, and order your
carriage to take mr. Harold Knyvett's
affairs round to the Royal ? . . . . But
before you go, Mr. Harold, let me just

VOL. III. 52

explain the case succinctly to you. Clarence
Knyrett, aliti.^ Joseph Leboiitillier, alicia
Yusuf the Kabyle, on indubitable evidence.
outlived his brother Alexander, as I at
first to my intense dissatisfaction discovered,
by several weeks — quite long
enough to inherit, and therefore quite
long enough to dispose legally of his own
property. Till to-day. I was under the
impression that he diei intestate, without
lawful issue, in which case, under your
grandfather s will — that most extraordinary
will — so insane not to employ a professional
hand ! — the estate would have descended indue
coarse to his brother Arthur. I now
lean fix>m these papers supplied by bliss
Meriem it was not so. The papers. I judge,
are undoubtedly genuine, and above suspicion.
They hare not been thrust upon
ns by their present possessors. They were
<mly produced under stress of necessity to
bdBe you. That guarantees and corroborates
their intrinsic credibility. I accept

them as valuable allies against you. Let
us use plain words. They nullify your
forgery. Sir Arthur never owned the
estate at all. He lead nothing to leave
but his savings, if any, fi'om his half-pay.
Sidi Aia he held as part of the trust.
Clarence Knyvett was all along the real
possessor. And Clarence Knyvett leaves
his fortune in equal shares, one half to his
daughter — my dear, your hand ; thank you
and one half to his niece and mine, your
cousin Iris, whom you tried to defraud by
your vile machinations. These papers prove
the entire case. I never saw a clearer set
of documents in my life. We can settle it
between us, ]\Ieriem, when we get back to
England, in a friendly suit. And you, sir,
you may go to Hath with your forgery !'

The word Bath, having been loudly
but somewhat inarticulately pronounced by
Mr. Whitmarsh, cannot be guaranteed as
textually correct by the present chronicler.
Indeed, it seems not improbable, from

52—2

internal evidence, that Uncle Tom, in his
warmth, really made use of a somewhat
hotter and stronger expression.

But Harold Knyvett's hand trembled
fiercely now. His face was a horrible
sight to behold. Disappointment, rage,
mean baffled ambition, all were pictured
upon his distorted features at that moment.
He saw at a glance that everything was
lost. He had played his trump card, and
been overtrumped outright by a barefooted
Kabyle girl. This wretched conspiracy of
the truth against a lie, of honour against
duplicity, of fact against forgery, had unaccountably
triumphed ! His cleverness
and his skill had all been set at naught
by a dead man's will and a good man's
forethought. He was mad, mad, mad with
wrath and indignation. Can months of
patient toil thus go for nothing? Can
hours of dishonest industry thus pass unrewarded
? 'Tis an unjust world, where an
able forger isn't even allowed to come by

his own that he has plotted for so cleverly.
If there had been a fire in the room Harold
Knjrett would have seized those disgusting,
discomposing, truth-telling documents, and
flung them into it with wild inconsequence.
As there wasn't, a savage thought surged

c o c

up fiercely in his mind. He would chew
them up small and swallow them wholesale !
He made a mad dart across the room to the
table where they lay, Sith all the wild
energy of rising insanity. Eustace and
Demon Blake anticipated in part his savage
design, and caught him by the shoulders
with stem resolve before he could lav his
trembling hands upon the precious papers.

Turn him out.' Uncle Tom said, in a
calm voice, as retributive justice. But
there was no need for that. Harold Kny-
vent, baulked even of that last revenge,
turned slowly of his own accord to the door
and went down the steps, crushed and
broken. As he left the room, quivering
from head to foot like a whipped cur. his

face was livid with strange distortions. Iris
saw with horror not unmixed with disgust,
that he, a Knyvett and a gentleman born,
looking back at his enemies who had fairly
conquered him in just hghfc, lolled out his
tongue, like a street boy or the clown at a
circus. It was not till long months after
Meriem and she were both happily married
that they learned the truth, the horrible
truth, which Uncle Tom and their husbands
knew before nightfall. Harold Knyvett went
forth from Sidi Aia that afternoon to 's
madhouse a raving maniac.

As he left the room, Uncle Tom came
forward, and gave his hand, with frank
apology, to Eustace. ' I've wronged you,
Mr. Le Marchant,' he said cordially. ' I
see you're a friend. I took you for an
enemy. But I'm not too old yet to acknowledge
a mistake. I regret my error. Now,
why didn't you produce those documents
earlier ?'

Because,' Meriem put in, with her transparent
simplicity, ' I didn't wish it. I told
him not to. I wanted Iris to have all the
money, as 1 promised, and I thought
Eustace and I would be happy without it.'

'Eustace and you !' I'ncle Tom exclaimed,
with a sudden merry twinkle in
the corner of his eye. ' Whew ! whew ! So
that's the way the wind blows, after all, is it?
Upon my soul, I never thought of that.
Remarkably blind of me — a man of my age.
I took you for a fortune-hunter, Le marchant.
I was wrong there, I own ; but,
after all, I wasn't so much out ; for even
now, it seems, you'll marry the heiress.'

Against his will, though, Uncle Tom,'
Iris cried enthusiastically. ' Here's ^leriem's
been telling me all about it. And, oh !
they've both behaved so beautifully I How
much you've misjudged them, you dear,
dreadful old uncle ! Why, if it hadn't been
for Harold producing this forged will,' and
she tossed aside that precious document.

carelessly, for Harold had actually left his
bantling behind him, in his blank despair,
Meriem was never going to show us those
papers at all, and Mr. Le Mar chant was
going to acquiesce in her never showing
them ! Now, uncle dear, don't you just call
that devotion?'

Uncle Tom seized both their hands in his
with fervour, and positively went so far, in
an access of penitence, as to stoop down
and kiss that distinctly good-looking girl,
the Claimant, on her smooth, high forehead.


My dear,' he remarked, in an apologetic
tone, patting her cheek with his hand, 'if
ever you practise as long as I've done —
which isn't likely — in the Probate and
Divorce Division in England, you may be
excused for taking, as a general rule, the
lowest possible view of human nature and
all its motives. That there's anything in
the way of the milk of human kindness left
un curdled in my mind at all, does high

credit, I assure you, to my original disposition.'


And,' Meriem began innocently, ' when
Iris and Vernon are married '

God bless my soul, what's that ?' Uncle
Tom exclaimed With a burst, turning
round upon her sharply ' Iris and who ?
What — him — the painter fellow ? Why, my
dear Miss Meriem, or whatever else your
heathenish name is, who on earth put such
a ridiculous notion as that into your pretty
bead now ?'

Meriem stood back, all covered with confusion.
But Iris, blushing somewhat, yet
with a certain not ungraceful pride on her
dainty little features, came forward with
Vernon Blake, looking perhaps a trifle awkward
and guilty about the eyes.

Uncle Tom,' she said shyly, ' Meriem's
quite right. Vernon and I have arranged that
part of our affairs privately between ourselves,
without an}^ assistance, and we think
we understand one another now altogether.

So Meriem suggests, as a first rough idea
for the division of the estate, that Vernon
and 1 should keep Sidi Aia, while she and
Mr. Le Marchant take the villa at Aix for
themselves to live in.'

Uncle Tom's hair stood on end with surprise
— partly because he ran his fat hand
through it once or twice abstractedly.

^ God bless my soul !' he exclaimed once
more in a puzzled way ; ' that innocent-faced
painter-fellow, who never looked as if he
could say '• Boh " to a goose — that he should
have gone and executed a flank movement
in this way ! Who the dickens would have
thought he had it in him ? Who the dickens
would have supposed it was he that was
after her? Who the dickens would have
imagined she'd ever take him ? And that
I should all along have been keeping
my weather-eye fixed firm on the other
one ! . . . Well, well, Iris, it's your own
affair. You take the law into your own
hands, as a rule; and all I can say is, if

your man turns out one half as decent a
chap as the fellow I didn't want you to
marry seems to have done, you'll never
have any cause to be ashamed of him.
Though you will admit it does upset a
man's calculations most confoundedly !'

And, Iris dear,' Mrs. Knyvett ejaculated
with a sigh, glancing round the cabinets and
tables uneasily, ' do you know I really do
believe Harold never, after all, brought over
my bronchitis kettle!'

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, Guildford.

A List of Books

r'JLI.ISIIED lii

CHATTO & Winds,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Sold by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers.

Abbe Constantine (The). By

LuDOvic Halkvy, of the French .
Academy. Translated into English. ,
With 36 Photogravure Illustrations by 1
GoLPiL & Co., after the Drawings of '
Madame Madeleine Lem.\ire. Only
250 copies of this choice book have
been printed (in large quarto) for the
English market, each one numbered.
The price may be learned from any
Bo bookseller.

About. — The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works
by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
123. 6d. preparing.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
VV. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. With Coloured Frontispiece
and Illustrations. Crown bvo,
cloth gilt, 73. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," Iron 1800 to 1670. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Pos 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23 each.
Carp of Carpjyon. | Conf licences.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Maid, Wife, or Widow .=»

Valerie's Fate

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
The Evolutionist at Large,
vignettes from Nature.
Colin Clout's Calendar.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards., 2s. each.

Strange Stories. With a Frontispiece
by George Df Maker.

The Beckoning Hand. With p
Frontispiece by Town ley Green.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 61. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Philistia.
For Maimie's Sake.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23 tzcli.
Babylon : A Romance.
In all Shades.

The Devils Die. Crown Svo, cloth

extra. 33. 6d.
This Mortal Coll. Three Vols., crown

8vo.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of Translated from the Gordian
of A, RosENGARTr:s. by W. Collects
Crown 6vo. cloth extra, wiliC
639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Arnold— Bird Life in England

By Edwin Lesser Arnold. Crows
Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Artemus Ward ;

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farmer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile, Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With a
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra. 3s. 6(1.

APi (The) of Amusing: A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
Sv n. cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown gvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A History of the Chap Books of the
Eighteenth Century. Withneaily
4C0 Illustrations, engraved in lac-simile
of the originals.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. With nearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
napoleon the First. With 115 Illustrations.


Modern Street Ballads. With 57
l||u-tiations. ^

Bacteria. — A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Spe lies. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
fc7 lusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

BanKers, A Handbook of^Lon-

don; together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

3'a^dsIey(Revrc.V\^rWorks by :

English Surnames: Their Sources
and Significations. Third Edition,
revised. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor. M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
8vo, cloth extra. 53.

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering? of Favourites
iroui our Picture Galleries. All engraved
on Steel in the highest style of
Art. Edited, with Notices ot the
Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A,
Imperial 410, cloth extra, gilt and gilt
edges 218.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;

gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohnn. — Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or. Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Ill uses, Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1889.— One

Shilling Monthly.— A New Serial Story,
entitled Passion's Slave, by Richard
Ashe King, Author of "The Wearing
of the Green," "A Drawn Game," &c.,
began in the January Number, and
will be continued through the year.
*^* Bound Volumes from the beginnings;

kept in stock, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

each: Cases for Binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number,

published Annually in July ; and Belgravia
Annual, published Annually in
November. Each Complete in itself.
Delay 8vo, with Illustrations, Is , each .

BenneU(W.C.,LL.D.),Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s each.
A Ballad History of England
Songs for Sailors.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illust.
bds., 2s. each; cl. limp, 2s, 6d. each,

Ready-money Mortlboy.

My Little Girl.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

The Golden Butterfly.

The Monks of Helena.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

The Seamy Side.

The Case of Mr. Lucraft, «&c.

'Twas hi Trafalgar's Bay, &c.

The Ten Years' Tenant, &c.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each ;

cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men:

An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.
The Captains' Room, &.c. With

Frontispiece by E, J. Wheeler?.
All In a Garden Fair. With 6 Illustrations

by Harry Furnish
Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece

by Charles Green.
Uncle ciacN, and other Stories.
Children of Gibeon.
The World Went Very Well Then.

With Illustrations by A. Forestier.

Besant (Walter), continued —

Her Paulus: His Rise, his Greatness,
and his Fall. With a New
Preface. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Fop Faith and Freedom. With
Illustrations by A. Forester and F.
Waddy. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Fifty Years Ago. With 137 fuU.page
Plates and Woodcuts. Demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 16s.

The Eulogy of Richard JefTepies.
With Photograph Portrait. Cr.Svo,
cloth extra, 63.

The Art of Fiction. Demy Svo, Is.

New Library Edition of

Besant and Rice's Novels.

The whole 12 Volumes, printed from
nero type on a large crown 810 page,
and handsomely bound in cloth, are now
ready , price Six Shillings each.

1. Ready IN/loney Mortiboy. With

Etched Portrait of James Rice.

2. Inly Little Girl.

3. V/ith Harp and Crown.
4- This Son of Vulcan,

5. The Golden Butterfly. With Etched

Portrait of Walter Besant.

6. The Monks of Theresa.

7. By Celia Arbour.

8. The Chaplain of the Fleet.

9. The Seamy Side.

10. The Case of Mr. Lucraft, &c.

11. 'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay, &c.

i::. The Ten Years' Tenant. &c^

Bethany Edwards (M.), Novels :

Felicia. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;

post Svo. illust. bds., 23.
Kitty. Post bvo, illust. bds., 2s.

Bewick (Thomas) and his

Pupils. By Austin DoBSON. With 95
Lusts. Square Svo, cloth extra, lOa. 6d.

Birthday Books:—

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square Svo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
lusts. Small Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's"(Henryj Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size lor binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1876 to 1888, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1889. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Academy Notes, 1880-84 Complete
in One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp. 6s.

Academy Notes, 1885-89. Complete
in One Vol., with about fio Illustrations.
Cloth limp, 7s. 6d. only a
few Copies for Sale.)

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, flora
1878 to 1888, each I3.

Blackburn (Henry), continued-demy
Svo, Illustrated, uniform in
size for binding.

Grosvenor Notes. 1889. With numerous
lusts. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, Vol. I., 1877-82.
With upwards of 300 Illustrations.
Demy Svo, cloth limp, Cs.

Grosvenor Notes, Vol. II., 1883-87.
Uiih upwards of 300 Illustrations.
Deuiy 8vo, cloth limp. 63.

The New Gallery 1888. With numerous
Illustration?. Is.

The New Gallery, 1889. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 12S Illustrations Is. 6d.

A Complete illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
lusts. De my Svo , cloth limp, 38.

The Paris Salon, 1889. With 300 Facsimile
Sketches. 3s.

Blake (William): Etchings from

his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21a.

Blind.— The Ascent of Vivian :

.\Pocm. By Matilda Blind. Crown
Svo, printed on hand-made paper,
cloth extra, 7s.

Bourne (H. R. Fox), Works by :

English Merchants; .Memoirs in Illustration
ot the Progress of British
Commerce. With numerous Illustrations.
Cr 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

English Newspapers: Chapters in
the History of Journalism. Two
Vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 253.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to. half-bound boards, 21s. each
Canters in Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal

Coloured in facsimile of tn e originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and

Adventure in Asia. Patricii, Aniprir i
Savage Life: Adventuress a Globe-trotter.



Chronicles of No-Man's Land

Post Svo, illust . bo arts, 2 8.

Brandt Observations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustr-itm^
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs.
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sr Henry Ellis.
Crown Svo, with Illustrations, 73. 6i

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Hate's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers — Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, kc.

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte's Complete Poetical
Works. Author's Copyright Edition.
Printed on hand-made paper and
bound in buckram. Cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Stories. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.
Svo, picture cover. Is.

Luck cf Roaring Camp, and other
Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Cap. 8vo,
picture cover, Is.

Flip. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.; cl. 2b. 6d.

Californian Stories (including The
Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff
Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Maruja A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With
28 original Drawings by Kate
GsEENAWAY, Reproduced in Colours
by Edmund Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 53.

A Phyllis of the Sierras, &c. Post Svo,
Illust. bds., 2s. cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Twelfth Thousand. With Appendix,
containing a Complete English
Bibliography. Cr. 8vo, cloth 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra 7s. 6d,

Brewster(SirDavid),Worksby:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
Svo, cloth extra, 4s, 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives oi
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post Svo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post Svo, cl, ex., 4s. 6d.

Bri I lat-Savarin.— Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post Svo, printed on laid-paper and
half-bound, 2s.

Bridges. — Uncle Sam at

Home. By Harold Bridges. Post
Svo, illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 61.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hughes.
Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.

With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.
The Earthquake; or, Six Days and

a Sabbath.
The City of Dream: AnEpicPoera.

With Two Illusts. by P. Macnac.

Second Edit ion.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece bv A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Eve'. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab.

Annann Water. | The New Abel ard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Master of the Mine.

The Heirs Linnet

(Mrs), Novels by;

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Cap. Svo, picture cover, Is. each.
Kathleen Mavcurneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain.— The Book

of the Sword : Being a History of the
Sword and its Use in all Countries,
from the Earliest Times. By Richard
F. Burton. With over 400 Illustra I
tions. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 323. I
\ ; I

Burton (Robert): 1

The Anatomy of Melancholy. A '

New Edition, complete, corrected

and enriched by Translations of the I

Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth !

extra, 78. 6d. j

Melancholy Anatomise: Being an ;

Abridgment, for popular use, of Bur j

ton's Anatomy of Melancholy. |

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 61. 1

Cameron (Commander). —

The Cruise of the "black Prince"
Privateer. By V. Loveth Cameron,
Ren., Cab. With Two Illustrations by
P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s. ;
postSvo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Loveth),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Letters and Journals. With

Notices of his Life. By Thomas i
MooRE, Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Prose and Verse, Humorous, Satirical,
and Sentimental, by Thomas [
Moore ; with Suppressed Passages I
from the Memoirs of Lord Byron. ,
Edited, with Notes and Introduction, ;
by R. Herne Shepherd. Crown ■
8vo, cloth extra, 78. 6d.

Caine (T. Hall), Novels by: \

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post '
8vo. illustrated boards, 28. each. ,

The Shadow of a Crime.
A Son of Hagar.

The Deemster: A Romance of the '
Isle of Man. I

Chapman 8 (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay bv Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations 01 the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 18s.; or separately, 63. each

Chatter Jackson. — A Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and loin Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
01 the last Revised Edition. Large
4to. half-bound, 283.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H R . Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 410, cloth extra, 68.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Ha weirs. D e mySvc . cloth limp. 28 64.

Chronicle (The) of the Coach :

Charing Cross to Ilfracoiiibe. By J. D.
Champlain. With 75 Illustrations by
Edward L. Chichester. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d .

C I odd. — Myths ancFDreamsy

By Edward Cloud, F.R.A.S., Author
of "The Story of Creation," inc.
grown Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls :

A Story, By J. Maclaren CoBtAN.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Coleman (John)7Works by:

Curly: An .actor's Story. Illustrated

by J. C. Dolman. Crown 8vo, Is.,

cloth. Is. 6d.
Players and Playwrights I have

Known. Two Vois , demy Svo, cloth

extra, 24s.

Collins ( Mortimer j,>fovels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. f d. enc'.i : post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. rich.
Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2a.

Collins (Mortimer 8c Frances),

Novels by:
Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 28. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The village Comedy.
You Play Me Fp.Isc.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 28. each
Sweet and Twenty, j France*.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown Svo. cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;
cloth limp, 23. 6d.each,

Antonina. Illust. by SirJoHNGiLBERT.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F, A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du Maurier and F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs.? With Illustrations by
^ S. L. FiLDES and Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. FiLDES and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story ol the

Present Time.
I Say No."
The Evil Genius.
Little Novels.

The Legacy of Cain. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story, by C. Allusion
COLLINS. Post Svo, illustrated bds.,2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
Svo cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Colquhoun. — Every Inch a Soldier
: A Novel. By M. J. Colquhoun.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, ls.6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonoiogy and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal Svo. with 65 Illusts., 28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated

by W. J. Hennessy. Square Svo,

cloth extra, 6s.
Pine and Palm: A Novel. Cheaper

Edition. Post Svo, illustrated boards,

2s^ [Shortly.

Cook (Dutton), Novels by:

Leo. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s^

Copyright. — A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
SidneyJerrold. Post Svo, cl., 2 s. 6d.

Cornwall. — Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Craddock.~— The Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains. By
Charles Egbert Craddock. Post
Svo illust. bds., 2s. cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series ; The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Jerrold, Author ot
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Cummmg(C. F. Gordon),Work8

by:

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illusts.

In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illusts.

Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees ana Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Cycles.— Hearts of Gold: A

Novel. By Wii.i-iamCyi'les, Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Daniel. — Merrier England In

the Olden Time. BvGkorgk Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
SHANK. Crown fcvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1.

Daudet.— The Evangelist ; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse

Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Bvo, illust. boards, 2s.

Covenant.— Hints for Parents
on the Choice of a Profession or
Trade for their Sons. By Francis
Covenant, M.A, Post Svo, Is. ; cloth
limp, Is. 6d.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown Svo, Is. each; cloth limp,

Is. 6d. each.

One Thousand Medical Maxims.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide.

Aids to Long Life. Crown Svo, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Groat, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown Svo, cloth board:, 123,

Daylight Land: The Adventures,
Humorous and Otherwise, of
Judge John Doe, Tourist; CephasPep-
PERELL, Capitalist ; Colonel Offend
others, in their Excursion over
Prairie and Mountain. By W. H.
Murray. With 140 Illus. in colours.
Small 4to, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

De Maistre — A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
Bvo, c loth limp. 23 . 6d.

De Mille. — A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3a, 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post

Svo, illustrated boards, 28. each.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Sketches by Boz. I NicholasNickleby
Pickwick Papers. | Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,
1841-1670. With a NewBiblioj^raphy,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 63. — Also
a Smaller Edition, in the Mayfair
Library. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 28. 6d.

About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. With an Appendix, containing
a Complete English Bibliography.
Eleventh Thousand. Crown Svo,
1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr
Brewer. Crown Svo, cloth limp, 23.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights. Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown Svo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Familiar Short Sayings of Great
Men. With Historical and Explanatory
Notes. By Samuel A. Hent,
M.A. Fifth Edition, revised and
enlarged. Cr. Svo, cloth extras 6d.

The Slang Dictionary: EtymoiotiiCdi,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s. 6i.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. ByFuANCES Have. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and Out
by-the-way Matters. By Ei.iF.zhR
Edwards. New and Cheaper Is«iie
Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 78. 6d. ; hl.-bd., 9s. .

Diderot.— The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with .\ci:rta:ic-s,
from Diderot's ^Le Andre sr le
Comedies, " by Waiter H-kkies
PcM,ix3CK. W*iili a Poetics bj Henfv
Iktisg. Ct. Sto, i apafchae«t.4&.6 d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post Svo, doth limp. 23. 6d- each.
Tutelary Frivolities, Fancies. Fogies,

Eccentricity



Donovan (Dick. Detective

S^-ries by:

Fes: ivo. x:::-?rr:i:e^ rciri?. 2S- each ;

c-azh 'd ^ Is. Si each-the

Man-hurter: S::-ici frc^i the

Ncte-bcck cf a rTizecuTe.
Caught at Last '

Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns : with .\recdotic gleanings
conceding their Wonhias and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Doa.*.N.
F.SJL With 55 lists. New and
Cheaper Edit. Cr. Sro, cL extra. 7s- 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a cctnrrehfr.gjve Guide to the
Rays. Fiaywfights- Players, and Playhouses
of' the L'n:ted Kin^dcn: and

sen: Tinges. Bt W. DAVE>p.^irT
.A-AMS. (Unicorn: with Bee-sees s
'readers Handbook) Crcwni-c
balt-bccnd. IIS- 61. [I* /'.'r-r^ua.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr Svc.

cL ex VLoiette Portraits. 65. er V : „
Ben Jonson Mortis. With Notes
Critical and ELipianaiory. and a biographical
Memoir by Wm. Girroaa.
Edit, by Coi. Cc»eighaj€. 3 This.

Vol IL,
TiaasfaifiJMStwMilMir ri w w jEasay
hjA-CSwcacwx'. VoLIU,'^
latins ol the Iliad and Odyssey,
harlowe's Worse. Indadiae kis
Tamsiaaoms. Edged, with Rates
ad lalrodactiia, by CoLCcxsisG-
OwVoL

VtamARTextd
WnoxAK GmvuL E^tedbyCoL
CuvwoGMJkM. OaeVoi.

Dyer. — The Folk-lore of

Plants. Ey Rev. T. F. Thisei-t:!*

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and .\nncta.t:cns,
by Rv. .\. B.GscsAST, D.D. Crown
Svc, c'-cth boards, caper Clime.

Fletchers giles. Bed.) Complete
Poems. Cne Vcl.

Dates' (Sir John'* Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vc'.s.

Herrick Robert Complete Collected
Poerrs. Three Vc'.s.

Sidney tip Philip Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Edgcumbe. — Zephyrus : A
Holiday in Brazil aid on the River
Plate. By E. R. Pearce Edcccmbe
With 41 Lists. Cr. Svo. cl. extra. 5s

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by
A Point of Honour. Post sto, illustrated

boards, iL
Archie LovelL Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d : post S\-o, illttst. bds., 1».

Eggleston.— Roxy: Novel By

E r WARS Egg LESTO.x. Post sto, illnst.

tttard5,2s.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and

Precious Stones: their History. Vine,
and Properties : with Simple Tests ior
ascertaining ; • ~ By Hagar

Master,. 1- th nmneroos

Illustration;. .lava. Crown

svo. doth eitri-:.- ts.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

Tne Life and Times of Prince
Canaries Stuart. Cotint of .albany,
ccmnicnlj LL'.ird the Young Pretender.
Free; the state Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edom. with a Portrait, crown Svo,
dodd extra, 7s. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
Wkk aa Antitype Facsimile. Crown

Re-studied : Historical

from Original Sources.
Demy Svo. ciath extra. 123.

Englishman's House, The: A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House ; with
fzH F^matfs of Cost, Quantities Ac
Bv C J. RicHAKosoK. Fowtb Edition.
W ii Coloured Fraatis{»ece and ncari y
600 lilo^ratioBS. Crown Sro, doth
extra. Ti. 6*.

Eyes, Our: How to Preserve

Them from Infancy to Old A^e. Ey
JomiB«owxi-'(G.F.R-A-S.,&c Seventh
Edition (Twelfth Thousand). With
70 ministrations. Crown Svo doth, Is

,P~

l^onblanque

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Garrett. — The Capel Girls: A

Moved. By Edward Garrett. Cr. 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman s Magazine (The)

for 1889.— Is. Monthly.— In addition
Ic the Articles upon subjects in Literature,
Science, and Art, foi which this
Magazine has so high a reputation,
"Table Talk" by Sylvanus Urban
appears monthly.
'^^'^ Bound Volumes for recent years are

kept in stocky cloth extra, price 8s. 6d.

each; Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

Published Annually in November. In
illuminated cover. Demy 8vo, Is.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 63. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s- 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Robin Gray. In Honour Bound.

What will the
WcTid Say?

Queen of the
Meadow.

The Flowefof the
Forest.

Braes of Yarrow.
A Heart's Problem

TheGoldenShaft.
Of High Degree.
Loving a Dream.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28. each.
For Lack of Gold.
For the King. 1 In PasturesGreen.
In Love and War.
By Mead and Stream.
Fancy Free. | A Hard Knot.
Heart's Delight.

Blood-money, and o her Stories. Two
vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 12s

Gilbert (William), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World— Pygmalion and Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce— Tom Cobb—
H.M.S. Pinafore— The Sorcerer— TJje
Piratf^of Peoraspg,

Gilbert (W. S.). continued —

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by Vv. S. Gilbert. Containing:
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
—The Pirates of Penzance — loathe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Blenny. — A Year's Work In

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice tc Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management ol the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Blenny. Post Svo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo, limp, 2s.

Golden Library, The:

I Square imo (Tauchnit? size), cloth

I limp, 2s. per Volume.

I Bayard Tayior'a Diversions of the

I Echo Club.

I Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History

of England
j Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.
I Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.
Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.
Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.
Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale lor a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.
Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.
Square imo, 2s. per Volume.
Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes,byT.M'CRiE,D.D.
Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.
Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The : An Encyclopaedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Cap, Svo, picture cover, l9.

Tt

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and VV.
KoNER. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. HuEFFER. 545 Lusts. New and
Cheaper Edition, large crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret

Harte. — The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Evans. Sm. 4to, bds 53.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dicl< Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards. 23.

Greville (Henri). — Nikanor: A

Novel. From the French of Henri
Greville, Author of " Doria," &c.
With 8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Habberton (John), Author of

Helen's Babies," Novels by:
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;

cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Burton's Bayou.
Country Luck.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of
Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extracts. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice : A Story. By Lady
Duffus Hardy. Fost8vo, last. bs., 2s.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, les. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the IVIoprow.
The Serpent Play.

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8s. ^

HalL— Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Halllday.— Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards , 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 61.

Hardy (Thomas). — Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hard,
Author of "Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Haywood.— The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Haywood. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small Svo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp. Is. Gd.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra.
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts. 03.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 61.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 410, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Delay Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).— American

Humorists: Washington Irving,
Oliver Wendell Holmes, James
Russell Lowell, Artemus Ward,
Mark Twain, and Bret Harte. By
Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A. Cr. 8vo. Rs

Hawthorne(Juiian), Novels by

Crown Svo. cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Ellice Question. Dust.
Fortune's Fool. I Beatrix Randolph.
David Poindexter's Disappearance.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
MissCadogna. | Love— or a Name.
Prince Saroni's Wife.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Cap. Svo, illustrdt.rci cover. is.

A Dream and a Forgetting. Dy
Julian Hawthorne. C'. Svo, picture
cover. Is. ; rlofi. Is. 6d

The Spectre of the Camera. Crown
Svo, cloth e.-ctia, 3.*. Gd.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hays.— Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
'* The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 63.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pressure.

Ivan de Biron: A Novel. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Henderson.— Agatha Page: A

Novel. By Isaac Henderson. With
a Photograph Frontispiece from a
Picture by F. Moscheles. 2 Vols.,
crown Svo.

Herman. — One Traveller Returns:
A Romance. By Henry Herman
and D. Christie Murray. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Groat, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illusts. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d,

The New SouthWest: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
14s. [/« preparation.

Hindley (Charles), Works by:

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns. Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Hoey.— The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Cashe-l Hoey. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by:

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp
2s. 6d. — Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
Svo, cloth him p, 2s.

Holmes. — The Science of
Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual lor the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown Sv o, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d .
Hood (Thomas) :
Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original illustrations.
Post Sv o, cloth limp, 23.

Hood (Tom), Works by:
From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous

Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures, Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Il lusts. Cr. Svo, cl. e extra, gilt, 73^. 6d.

H 00 pe r. — T h e hou se of R abby ":

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Horse'XTheyand his Rider: An

Anecdotic Medley. By " Thormanby."
Cro wn Svo , cloth extra, 6s.

Hopkins" 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

'Horne'.^^rion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra a, 7s.

Hunt (MrsTAlf red), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thornicroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

SeifCondemned.

That other Person,



Hunt. — Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Hydrophobia: an Account of M.

Pasteur's System. Containing a
Translation of all his Communications
on the Subject, the Technique of his
Method, and the latest Statistical
Results. By Renaud Suzor, Mab.,
CM. Eden., and M.D. Paris, Commissioned
by the Government of the
Colony of Mauritius to study M.
Pasteur's new Treatment in Paris.
Wi th 7 Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl both ex tra, 6s^

I n d 00 r~ Pau pe rs. By One"of

Them. Crown 8vo, Is. ; clot h, Is.^d^

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. .
Post 8vo,cl.limp, 2s. 6d.

James.— ^A Romance of the

Queen's Hounds. By Charles James.
Post 8vo, picture cover. Is. ; cl Is. 6d. I

Janvier. — Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Dark Colleen.
The Que en of Connaught.

Jefferies (Richard), Works byT

Nature near London. Crown 8vo,
cl. ex., 63. ; post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

The Life of the Fields. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Open Air. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s . ; post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

The Eulogy of Richard Referees.
By Walter Besant. With a photograph
ph Portrait. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s^

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch With a.Photograph-Por-
trait. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63 .

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth. Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants
we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

J esse — See n es aFd^Occupa-

tons of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Jeux esprit. Collected and

Edited by Henry S. Leigh. PostSvo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

"John Herrings Novels by

the Author of:
Red Spider. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.
Eve. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 61. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans.Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries
. On e Hundred Illustration s.

Jonson's (B^i) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown Svo,
clot h extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Joseph US, tTieCornpIeteWorks

of. Translated by VVhiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews" and "The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., Svo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt. 143.

Kempt. — Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kemp t. Pos t Svo, cl both limp. 2s. 6d .

Kershaw.— Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d,

King^R- Ashe), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each •,
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each. '
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green"

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Oakshott Castle. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Number Seventeen. Crown Svo, clot
extra, 33. 6d.

Knight.— The Patients Vade

Mecum: How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S.,and Edw. Knight,
L.R.C.P. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Knights (The) of the Lion; A

Romance of the Thirteenth Century.
Edited, with an Introduction, by the
Marquess of Borne, K.T. Ciovn
Svo, cloth extra, 63.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BV

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig'' Cr.8vo,cl. extra, 7s. 6(1.

The Essays of Elia. Both Series
complete. Post 8vo, laid paper, i
handsomely half-bound, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Little Essays: Sketches and Characters
by Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s^6d. j

Lane's Arabian Nights.— The

Thousand and One Nights: commonly
called, in England, "The
Arabian Nights* Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
vVm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.
With Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl ex., 33. 6d.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatre cal Anecdotes.

Leigh (Henry S,), Works by:

Carols of Cockayne. A New Edition,
printed on cap. Svo, hand-made |
paper, and bound in buckram, 5s.

Jeux esprit. Collected and Edited |
by Henry S. Leigh. Post Svo, cloth
limp. 2s. 6d.

Less. — The Lindsay : A Romance
of Scottish Life. By John K.
Less. Cheaper Edition. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Life in London ; or. The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Cr. Svo. cl. extra, 7s 6d.

Linskill.— In Exchange for a

Soul. Bv Mary Linskill, Author of
"The 11 I Under the Hill," &c,
Cheaper j-uit. Post Svo, illust. bds., 23.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P
My Love ! " | lone.
Paston Carew, Millionaire and

Miser.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

With a Silken Thread.

The Rebel of the Family.

Longfellow's Poetical Works.

Carefully Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous tine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,
Dietetic, and General Guide in Health
and Disease. By N. E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Cr. Svo, 23. ; cl. Iimp,23.6d.

Lucy.— Gideon Fleece: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown Svo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illust. bds., 23.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy Svo, with Fourteen lull-page
Plates , cloth boards, 183

iviacalpine (Avery), Novels by :

Teresa Itasca, and other Stories.
Crown Svo, bound in canvas, 2s. 6d.

Broken Wings. With Illustrations by
W. J. Hennessy. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 63^

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p);

Works by:
An Outline of the History of Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.
Ireland since the Union: Sketches

of Irish History from 1798 to iso.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.
England under Gladstone, 1880-85.

Second Edition, revised. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 63.
Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown

Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is 6d.
Cup Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy. Crown Svo,

Is.; cloth. Is. 6d.
Dolly: A Sketch. Crown Svo, picture

cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Hafiz In London. Choicely printed.

Small 8yo, gold cloth, Ss. 6d.



McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Wopk8

by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession ot Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 1880. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each.— Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 68. each.
—And a Jubilee Edition, with an
Appendix of Events to the end of
1SS6, complete in Two Vols., square
Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each,

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Vol., crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 128.
each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown 8vOj cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
A Fair Saxon.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.
Camiola: A Girl with a Fortune,

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

LInley Rochford.

My Enemy's Daughter.

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell-prayed. New and Cheaper
Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

MacColl. — Mr. Stranger's

Sealed Packet : A New Story of
Adventure. By Hugh MacColl.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

MacDonald.— Works of Fancy

and Imagination. By George Macdonald,
LL.D. Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. — Vol. i.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life.— Vol. 2. The Disciple, The
Gospel Women. A Book of Sonnets,
Organ Songs.— Vol. 3. Violin Songs.
Songs of the Days and Nights.
A Book of Dreams. Roadside Poems.
Poems for Children. Vol. 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs. —
Vols. 5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance. — Vol. 7. The Portent. —
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. — Vol, g.
Cross Purposes. The Golden Key.
The Carson. Little Daylight.—
Vol. 10. The Cruel Painter. The
Woo' Riven. The Castle. The
Broken Swords. The Gray Wolf,
Uncle Cornelius.

The Volumes are also sold separately
in Grolier-pattern cloth, 23. cl. each.

Macdonald. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s,

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Mackay.— Interludes and Undertones
; or. Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown Svo
cloth extra, 63,

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;
with Memoirs — Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal— illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A, With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid,

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illusts. by Thomas R. Macquoid

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R, Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

I Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5g.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mallock (W. H.), Works by :

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. Gd. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 83.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Melior's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur: The Stories of King Arthur
and ot the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23 .

M arT-nh unter (The) : Stories

from the Note-book of a Detective. By
Dick Donovan. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illust. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex,7s.6d.
The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress: Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's "- Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. — Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.
Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by F.
A. Eraser. Cr. 8vo, ci. ex., 7s. 6d.
The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer
With III Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illusts.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap
Edition, post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
The Stolen White Elephant, &c
Cr.8vo,cl.ex,6s.;post8vo,illust.bs.,23.
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d,— Cheap Edition, post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
•/lark Twain's Library of Humour.
With numerous Illustrations. Crown
8vo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown Svo, clot h extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d, each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open! Se same! | Written n in Fire.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
Fighting the Air.

Massinger's Plays! from the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown Svo,
clot h extra, 63.

Waterman.— Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Matthews.— A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cloth, 23. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.

A Journey Round My Room. By
Xavier de Maistre. Translated
by Henry Attwell.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams.

The Agony Column of "The Times,"
from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Alice Clay.

Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.

DoBSON.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess —
The Palace ot Truth— Trial by Jury

Original Plays by W. S Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce— Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
—The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour*
Collected a-nd Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.



Mayfair Library, continued —
Pencil and Palette. By R. Kempt.
Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from

his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and

Curiosities of the Law and Men of

Law. By Jacob Haywood.
Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood. [Leigh,

Jeux d'Esprlt. Edited by Henry S.
True History of Joshua Davidson.

By E. Lynn Linton.
Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.
Ourselves: Essays on Women. By

E. Lynn Linton, [Macgregor.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
The New Paul and Virginia. By

W. H. Mallock.
New Republic. By W. H. Mallock,
Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-

ley-penned.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-

mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by

George Du Maurier.
Muses of Mayfair Edited by H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By

H. A. Page.
Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.
More Puniana. By Hon. H. Rowley.
The Philosophy of Handwriting. By

Don Felix de Salamanca.
By Stream and Sea By William

Senior.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.

By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand

Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
Lar Cap. Lord. Or. 8vo, Is. ; cl., Is. 6d.

Menken.— Infelicity: Poems by

Adam Isaacs Menken. A New Edition,
with a Biographical Preface, numerous
Illustrations by F. E. Lummis
and F. O. C. Harley, and Facsimile
of a Letter from Charles Dickens.
Beautifully printed on small 4to ivory
paper, with red border to each page,
and handsomely bound. Price 7s. 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the Rio
Grande. ANewBookof American Humour.
By A. E. Sweet and J. Army.
Knox, Editors of " Texas Sittings."
With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo, ci.extra, 7s.6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards 2s. each.
Touch and Gq. | Mr.Dorillion.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young: or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation ot Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 25. 6d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. 8vo. Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin; with Directions for Diet,

Wines. Soaps, Baths, &c.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of tl>e Skin.

Into— WasSi.eGoodorBad i>

A Romance. By William .^•!INTo.
Cr. 8vo, picture cover. Is.; cloth, 1p. 6d

Metres wort h~( M rs. ) , N o ve i s by :

Hathercourt Rectory. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

That Girl in Black. Crown Svo,
picture cover, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Moncrieff. — The Abdication ;

or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Dra-na. By W, D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirter, A.R.A.,Colin Hunter,
A.R.A., R. Macbeth, A. R. A., and Tom
Graham, R.S.A. Large 4to, bound iu
buckram, 21s.

Moore (Thomas):

Byron's Letters and Journals; with

Notices of his Life. By Thomas
MooRE. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Prose and Verse, Humorous, Satirical,
and Sentimental, by Thomas
Moore; with Suppressed Passages
from the Memoirs of Lord Hyion.
Edited, with Notes and Introduction,
by R. Herne Shepherd. W^tli
I a Portrait. Cr. Svo, cloth extra. 7s. 6d.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra. 3s 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. e^rh.

A Life's Atonement. I A Model Father.

Joseph's Coat. | Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Val strange. I Hearts.

A Bit of Human Nature.

First Person Singular.

Cynic For tune.

The Way of the World. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Old Blazer's Hero. With Three Illustrations
by A. McCormick. Crown
Svo, cloth ex., 6s.— Cheaper Edition,
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

One Traveller Returns. By D.
Christie Murray and H. Herman.
Cr.Svo, cl, ex., 63.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Haddock-stories Weird and

Wonderful. By J. E. Haddock. Post
8vo illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Novelists. — Half-hours with
the Best Novelists of the Century :

ChoiceReadings from he finest Novels.
Edited, with Critical and Biographical
Notes, by H. T. Mckenzie Bell.
Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d. [Preparing.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies.L.R.C.P. Cr.Svo, Is. ;cl.,ls.6(i.

O'Connor.— Lord Beaconsfield:

A Biography. ByT. P. O'Connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

o'Hanlon (Alice), Novels by:

The Unforeseen. PostSvo, illust. bds.,2s.
Chances or Fate? 3 vols., cr. 8vo.

Ohnet. — Doctor Rameau : A

Novel. By Georges Ohnet, Author of
"The Ironmaster," &c. Translated
by Mrs. Castel Hoey. With 9 Illustrations
by E. Bayard. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.^

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by

Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d ;

post 8vo, illustrate ed bo arts, 2s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each. ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress in England.

Reilly.— Phoebe's Fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (A.), Poems by :

Songs of a Worker. Cap. bvo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Cap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
La ys of F rance. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex.,10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage,
strath more.
Chances

Under Two Flags.
Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage,
italia
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farlne.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of F lander*.

Pascal.

Signa. I Ariadne.
In a Winter City.
Friendship.
cloths. I Bimbl.
Pipistrello.
In iVlaremma.
A Village Commune.

Wanda.-

Frescoes. [Fine.
Princess Naprax-
0th mar,

Ouida — continued.
Guilders: A Novel. .3 vols., crown

8vo.

[tine.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works ot Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Sm.cr.8vo,cl.ex.,5s.
Cheaper Edition, illust. bds., 2 8.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau • His Life and Aims : A Study.
With Portrait. Post8vo,c].limp,2s.6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 5s.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures of
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of "Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. A New
Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, with
Coloured Frontispiece and 100 Illustra
tho ns, 7s. 6d. [Prepa ring,

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
P. P. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By W. Knight, M.R.C.S., and
E.K night .L.R.C.P. Cr.Svo. is.; cl. 1/ 6.

Paul Ferrol:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrol : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir IVIasslngberd.

Walter's Word.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy. j High Spirits.

Under One Roof.

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

From Exile. | The Canon's Ward.

The Talk of the Town.

Holiday Tasks 1 Glow-worm Tales.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Kit: A Memory. | Carlton's Year.
A Perfect Treasure.
Bentinck'sTutor.l Murphy's Master.
The Best of Husbands,



Pain (James), continued
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
For Cash Only.

What He Cost Her I Cecil's Tryst.
Fallen Fortunes. I Halves.
A County Family. | At Her Mercy
A Woman's Vengeance.
The ClyfTards of ClyfTe.
The Family Scapegrace.
The Foster Brothers.: Found Dead.
Gwendolen's Harvest.
Humorous Stories.
Like Father, Like Son.
A Marine Residence.
Married Beneath Him.
Mirk Abbey. | Not Wooed, but Won.
Two Hundred Po ends R edward.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1. each.
In Peril and Privation: Stories of

Marine Adventure Re-told. With 17

Illustrations.
The Mystery of Mirbridge. With a

Frontispiece by Arthur Hopkins

Paul.— Gentle and Simple.' By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. ci. ; post 8vo.
illustrated boards, 2 8.

Pears. — The Present Depression
In Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(ot One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
GoADBY and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Demy 8vo. Is

Penned (H. Cholmondeley).

Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

she Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Penned.

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post Svo, Is. each , cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars In Paradise.

Jack the Fisherman. With Twenty-two
Illustrations by C. W. Reed.
Cr. Svo. picture cover. Is . ; cl. Is. 6d.

PIrkIs (C. L.), Novels by:
Trooping with Crows. Cap. Svo,

picture cover, Is
Lady Lovelace. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

P plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Lanchorne. Two Vols.,
sto, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:
The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 78. 6d.
Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, Cs.

Poe (Edgar Allan): —

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown Svo, cl. extra, 73. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post Svo, illust.bds.,2s.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s.

Prayed (Mrs. Campbell) — "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance ot
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthv,
M.P. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

Gerald. Post Svo, illust. boards, 28.
Princess Olga— Rana ; or. The

Great Conspiracy of i83r. By the
Princess Olga. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by:

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown Svo. cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations. &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy Svo. cloth extra. 10s. 6d.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 63.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 63

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown Svo. l3. 6d.

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown Svo, cloth gilt
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra. 7s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Reade (Charles), Novels by:

Cr. Svo, cloth extra, illustrated, 3s. 6d.
each ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s. each.

Peg Washington. Illustrated by S. L.
FiLDES, A R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

\t is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. T. PiNWELL.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all Trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edv.'ards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A. , and C. Keene,

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. I'lust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Files, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Files, a. R.A. ,
C. Green, and H. Woods, A,R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford. [Coulter.

A Woman-hater. Illust. by Thos,

Singleheart and Doubleface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. Macnab.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals. Illustrated byE. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

Theist, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

Bible Characters: Studies of David,
Nehemiah, Jonah, Paul, &c. Cap.
Svo, leatherette, Is.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Filth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. Gd.

Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown S\'o, cloth extra, 6s.

Liddell (IVIrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square Svo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

The Poets and Nature: Reptiles,

Fishes, and Insects. Preparing.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 6s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Punlana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Runciman (Haines), Stories by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart
Schools and Scholars.



Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Round the Galley-Fire.
In the Middle Watch.
A Voyage to the Cape.
A Book for the Hammock.

On the Fo'k'sle Head. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Mystery of the "Ocean Star,"
&c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (i688 to 1847). Edited
byHENRvSANSON. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.3s Gd.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

Guy Waterman. I Lion In the Path,

The Two Dreamers.

One Against the World. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The High Mills.

Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.

Joan Merryweather. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Gideon's Rock. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Science-Gossip for 1889: An

Illustrated Medium of Interchange
for Students and Lovers of Nature
Edited by Dr. J. Taylor, F.L.S.,&c
Devoted to Geology, Botany, Physiology.
Chemistry, Zoology, Microscopy.
Telescope, Physiography, &c.
Price 4d. Monthly ; or 63. per year
post free. Vols. I . to XIX. may be
had at 7s. 6d. each ; and Vols. XX. to
date, at 58. each. Cases for Binding,
Is. 6d. each.

Seguin (L. G.), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.

The.Country of the Passion Play,
and the Highlands and Highlanders
of Bavaria. With Map and; lusts.

Walks In Algiers and its Surroundings.
With 2 Maps and i6 lusts,

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Cr. Svo, ol. ex., Illusts., 4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out : One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations;
with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or "White
Magic." By W. H.Cremer. aooIUusts.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades By Frank Belleww,
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic,
Sleight of Hand. Edited b^ W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior. — By Stream and Sea.

By Senior. Post 8vo,cl.limp, 2s.6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr,

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
accordingtothetrueOriginall Copies
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. — A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small Svo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshgut's
Portrait. Post Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

Sharp. — Children of tomorrow:
A Novel. By William Sharp.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Sheridan{General). — Personal

Memoirs of General P. H. Sheridan :

The Romantic Career of a Great
Soldier, told in his Own Words. With
22 Portraits and other Illustrations, 27
Maps and numerous Facsimiles of
Famous Letters. Two Vols, of 500
pages each, demy Svo, cloth extra, ZiB,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Shelley— The Completeness

In Verse and Prose of Percy Bessie
Shelley. Edited, Prefaced and Annotated
by R. Herne Shepherd. Five
Vols., cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 3s. 6(1. each.

Poetical Works, in Three Vols.
Volet. An Introduction by the Editor; The
Posthumous Fragments of Margaret Nicholson
; Shelley's Correspondence with Stockdale
; The Wandering Jew (the only complete
version) ; Queen Mab, with the Notes ;
Plaster, and other Poems ; Rosalind and
Helen: Prometheus Unbound ; Adonis, &c.
Vol. II. Lion and Cythna (as originally published,
instead of the emasculated " Revolt
of Islam") ; The Cenci ; Julian and Madda'o
(from Shelley's manuscript) ; Swellfoot the
Tyrant (from the copy in the Dice Library
at South Kensington) ; The AVitch of Atlas ;
lipipsychidion; Hellas.
Vol. III. Posthumous Poems, published by
Mrs. SHELLEY in 1824 and 1839; The Masque
of Anarchy from Shelley's manuscript) ; and
other Pieces not brought together in the ordinary
editions.

Prose Works, in Two Vols.

Vol. I. The Two Romances of Zastrozzi and St.
Irvine ; the Dublin and Marlow Pamphlets ; A
Refutation of Deism ; Letters to Leigh Hunt,
and some Minor Writings and Fragments.

Vol. II. The Essays; Letters from Abroad;
Translations and Fragments, Edited by Mrs.
Shelley, and first published in 1840. with
the addition of some Minor Pieces of great
interest and rarity, including one recently
discovered by Professor Bowden. With a
Bibliography of Shelley, and an exhaustive
Index of the Prose Works.

Sheridan: —

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and 10 full-page Illusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c., by the Rev.
A. B. Groat, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, I83.

Signboards : Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotel. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (George R.), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each;

cloth limp, 2s. 6(1. each.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.
Aviary Jane's Memoirs.
Mary Jane Married.
Tales of To-day. [ Shortly,

The Baronet Reciter and Reader;

Being Readings and Recitations in
Prose and Verse, selected trim his
own Works by G. R. Sims. Post
8vo, portr£iJtcover,ls.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Sister Dora: A Biography. By
Margaret Lonsdale. Popular Edition,
Revised, with additional Chapter,
a New Dedication and Preface,
and Four Illustrations. Sq. 8vo, picture
cover, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Sketches. — A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, ill straw ted boards, 2s.

slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8v o, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d^

Smith (J. Moor), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch.
With Illustrations. Small 8vo, 6s.

Society in London. By A

Foreign Resident, Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Society out of Town. By A

Foreign Resident, Author of " Society
in London." Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6S. [Pre pa rt 11 s;.

Society in Paris: The Upper

Ten Thousand. By Count PaulVasili.
Trans, by Raphael Ledos de Beaufort.
Cr. 8vo, ci. ex., 6s. [Preparing.

Somerset.— Songs of Adieu.

By Lord Henry Somerset. Small
4to, Japanese parchment, 6s.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:

The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated bds . 23.

Wife or No Wife? Cr. 8vo, picture
cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

A Barren Title. Crown 8vo, cl Is. 6d.

The Golden Hoop. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

By Devious Ways; and A Barren
Title. Post 8vo, illust. boards. 23.



Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. By T.
A. Spalding, LL.B. Cr. 8vo,c1. ex., 53 .

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Staunton.— Laws and Practice

of Chess. With an Analysis of the
Openings. By Howard bxAUNXON.
Edited by Robert B. World.
Small c own 8vo, clo th extra, 5s.

Seaman (E. C), Works by:

Victorian Poets. Thirteenth Edition.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 9s.
The Poets of America. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 93.

Sterndale.— The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2?.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :
Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Sixth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. Third Edition.

With Frontispiece by W, Crane.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

3rd Edit. Cr. bvo, buckram extra, 6s.
New Arabian Nights. Tenth Edition.

Crown Svo, buckram extra, 6s. ; post

Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Silvered Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Crown Svo, buckram

extra, 63. Cheap Edition, post Svo,

picture cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Prince Otto: A Romance. Sixth

Edition. Crown Svo, buckram extra,

6s. ; post Svo, illustrated boards. 2s.
The Merry Men. Second Edition.

Crown Svo, buckram extra, 6s.
Underwood: Poems. Fourth Edit.

Crown Svo, buckram extra, 6s.
Memories and Portraits. Second

Edition. Cr. Svo, buckram extra, 63.
Virginius Puisque, and other

Papers. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo,

bu ceram extra, 6s.

St.^ohn. — A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s^

StoddardT— Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Standard. Illust. by Wallis
M ac kay. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 38. 6 d.

Stories from Foreign Novel

its. With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Zim-
Men. Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 38. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 23.

Strange Manuscript (A) found

in a Copper Cylinder. With 19 full-age

Illustrations by Gilbert Gaul.
bird E edition. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 53.

Strange Secrets. Told by
Per. Fitzgerald, Florence marat,
James Grant, A. Conan Dove,
Dutton Cook, and others. With 8
Illustrations by Sir John Gilbert,
William Small, W. J. Hennessy,
&c. Crown Svo, cloth extra. 6s.

Struts s Sports and Pastimes

of the People cf England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c.,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by Wm.Hone. Cr. Svo. cl. ex tra, Tgjd.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London: A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
I House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo.cl. ex. , 7s od .

I Swift s Choice Works, in Prose
and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." C r. Svo, cloth ext£a^JS^6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
Selections from the Poetical Works

of Algerian Charles Swinburne.

Cap. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
AtalantainCalydon. Crown Svo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. Svo. 7s
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Cr. Svo, 9s. Cap. Svo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Cr. Svo, 9s. Cap. Svo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Third Series.

Crown Svo, 7s.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,lg.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. Svo, ICs 6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.Svo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. see

Vol. II. of Geo. Chapman's Works.)

Crown Svo, 6s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr.Svo, 63.
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.Svo, 63.
Studies in Song. Crown Svo, 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown-svo, 93.
Century of Roundels. Small 4to, 8g
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 7s.
Marino Falter: Tragedy. Cr.Svo,6s.
Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo,6s.
Miscellanies. Crown Svo, 128.
I Doctrine: Tragedy. Crown Svo, 5|.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Symonds.— Wine, Women, and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small 8vo, p a raiment, 6s.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C,
Hot EN. M ed. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos.— Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
M modern Wr items. PostSvo, cl. limp, 2s.

Taylor (Dr."J."E., F.L.S.)", Works

by. Crown 8vo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each.

The Sagacity and immorality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredProntispiece and loo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them: A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Illustrations.

The Playtime Naturalist. With 366
Illustrations Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*** The Plays may also be had separate
ely, at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lordyi Biographical
Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
8vo, c lot h^ext ra, 6s.

T h ac ke rayana: Notes an-d Anecdotes.

Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispi ce. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thane s.^ANew P J c t or [aTHl¥-

tory of the Thames, from its Source
Downwards. A Book for all Boating
Men and for all Lovers of the River.
With over 300 lusts. Post 8vo, picture
coverts. ; cloth, J s^6d. [Pr sparing.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud IVI^isie.

The Violin-Player.

Thomas (M.).—AFrght for Life:

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
8vo. illustrated boards. 2s.

Thomson'sSeasonsand Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Bvo.,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter),Works by ;

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairport, F.S.A.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous lusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings.

Post Bvo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Old Stories Re-told.
Tales for the Marines.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
In London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many lusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men ot
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 lusts

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d each
post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land Leaguers.
Post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate. | American Senator*

Trollope( Frances E.), Novels by

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Mabel's Progress. 'Anne Furness.

Trollope. A.).— Diamonds

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Trowbridge.— Parnell's Fbfly :

A Novel, By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 28.



Tupgenieff. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Tatler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, iUust^ boards, 2s.

tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass. ! Noblesse Oblige.
Saint Mungo's City. ! Lady Bell.
Beauty and the Beast.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.

Buried Di amends.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Disappeared.

The Huguen ot F family

The Blackball Ghosts: A Novel.
Crown Svo, cl. ex., 3s. 6d.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds^7s. 6d.^ach.

Vjilarj. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villars. Cap.
Svo, pi cure c over, Is.

Walford (Ed w., M.A.),Works by :
The County Families of the United

Kingdom (1889 1. Containing Notices
of the Descent, Birth, Marriage,
Education, &c., of more than 12, coo
distinguished Heads of Families,
their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have
held, their Town and Country Addresses,
Clubs, &c. Twenty-ninth
Annual Edition. Cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1889). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth, Is.

The Shilling Baronetage (1889).
Containing an Alphabetical List ot
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,d.,ls.

The Shilling Knightage (1889). Containing
an Alphabetical: List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls,

The Shilling House of Commons
(1889). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1889). In One Volume,
royal 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 53.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, continued —
Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W, Fairport, F.S.A. Crown
Svo, clo th extra a, 7s. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, bey Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown Svo, cloth antique, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whitman, Poems by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, printed on hand-made
paper and b ound in buckram, 6s.

Wanderers Library, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or. Life
among the Ostrich-Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Ro3T. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. B5
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jacl<. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings t
Including the Britain of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, Sic.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-mew,
illustrated.

Books pVBLisHnb by

Wanderer's Library. The, continued—
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. ci. each.
Seven Generations of Executioners:

Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688

to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.
Summer Cruising in tine South

Seas. By C. Warren Standard.

Illustrated by Wallis Ma clay

Warner. — A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 68.

Warrants, ^c. :—
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
ot the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
an d Colours. Price e 5s.

Wayfarer, The : Journal of the

Society of Cyclists. Published at intervals.
Prices. The Numbers for
Oct 1886, Jan., May, and Oct., 1887,
and Fkb., ism, are now ready.

Weather, How to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8v o. Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery

and Porcelain ; or. History ol
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Louder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List 01
M arks. Crown Svo. cloth limp, 4s . td.

Whist. — How to Play Solo

Whist: Its Method and Principles
Explained, and its Practice Demonstrated.
With Illustrative Specimen
Hands in red and black, and a Revised
and Augmented Code of Laws. By
Abraham S. Wiles and Charles F.
Pardon. Crow n Svo, c loth ex tra, 3s. 6d.

Whistrer'sXMr.) "Ten o'clock. "

Crown Svo, hand-made and brown
paper, Is.

Williams (W. Matthew, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :

Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

Svo, cloth limp, with lusts., 2s. 6d.

The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.Rrs.E.),'

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of Darwinian and Allied
Theories of Development. 3rd ed.
Cr. Svo, cl. ex.,with 259 Illusts,, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. Svo, cl. ex., with Illusts., 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illusts. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous .
Svo, I s. ; cl. limp, Is. 6d.

Winter (J. S.j, Stories by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
C cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends ,

Women of the Day : A Biographical
Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 5s^

Wood. — Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Poor. Post Svo, illust. b ds., 2s.

Wood (H.F.), Detective Stories:

The Passengerfrom Scotland Yard.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.; posts,
illustrated boards, 2s.
The Englishman of the Rue Cain.
Crow n Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Woolley. — Rachel Armstrong;

or. Love and Theology. By Celia
Parker Woolley. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; doth. 2s. 61.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and

Out-ol-the-Way Matters. By Believer

Edwards. New and cheaper issue,

cr. 8vo,cl. ex., 7s . 6d. ; half-b ound, 9s.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 40a
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c.

History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely

Illustrated b y F. W. Fairholt.F.S.A,

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Land at Last, j The Forlorn Hope,

NEW NOVELS.

Blood-money, and other Stories. By
Charles Gibbon. 2 Vols., crown
8vo, cloth, 12s.

A Strange Manuscript found-In a
Copper Cylinder, Illustrated byGiL-
BERT Gall. Third Edit. Or. 8vo, 58.

The Legacy of Cain. By Wilkie
Coi,Li.NS. 3 Vols., cr. Svo.

For Faith and Freedom. By Walter
Besant. 3 Vols., or. Svo.

The Englishman of the Rue Cain.
By H. F. Wood. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Romances of the Law. By R. E.
Francisco. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Strange Secrets. Told by Percy Fitzgerald,
inc. With 8 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Doctor Rameau. By Georges Ohnet.

Nine Illusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
This Mortal Coil. By Grant Allen.

3 Vols., crown Svo.
Agatha Page. By Isaac Henderson.

2 Vols., crown Svo.
Chance ? or Fate ? By Alice O'Han-

LO.\. 3 vols., crown Svo.
Children of Tomorrow. By William

Share'. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Nikanor. From the French ot Henri

Greville. With Eight Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Mr. Stranger's Sealed Packet. By

Hugh MacColl. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 58.
Guilders. By Ouida. 3 Vols., crown

Svo. [June.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors. Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN
Herring''

Red Spider. I Eve.

BY GRANT ALLEN.

Philistia.

For Maimie' Sake.

The Devil's Die.

BY WALTER BESANT & J. RICE.
Ready-money Mortiboy.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Lucraft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Theresa.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster. , Uncle Jack.
Children of Gibeon.
The World Went Very Well Then.
Herr Paulus.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. j The New Abelard
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.
The Heir of Line.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
A Son of Hagar, | The Deemster.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Juliet's Guardian | Deceivers Ever.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. ; Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

The Frozen Deeui.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughtep
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No."
Little Novels.
The Evil Genius.

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. P
New Magdalen.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY y. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Fatal Zero.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued —

BY R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua.
One by One.
A Real Queen.
King OP Knave ?

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pasturing Hai'i.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.

What will the World Say .=>
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.
Loving a Dream.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHUliNE.
Garth.

EllicG Question.
Sebastian Stroke.
Dust.

Fortune's Fool.
Beatrix Randolph.
David Poindexter's Disappearance
The Spectre of the Camera.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT
Thornicroft's ^oJel.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.
That other Person.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of tit Green."

BY HENRY Kingsley.
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Duncan.
The World Vv'ell Lost.
Under which Lord P
My Love I"
lone.
Paston Carew.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fierce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camiola.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins

FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame '■ \ Written in Fire

By D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. I Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father, i Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY OUIDA.

Held" in Bondage.

St hath more.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
Dog of Flanders
Pascal.

Signa. [fine. I

Princess Naprax- I

BY MARGARET A
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain

TwoLittleWoodcn
Shoes.

In a Winter Cit

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

Wands.

Frescoes.

In Maremma

Othman.

PAUL.

Lost Sin Massing

bert.
Walter's Word.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.

A Grape from a

Thorn.
Some Private

Views.
TheCanon'sWard
Talk of the Town,
Glow-worm Tales
In Peril and Privation.


Holiday Tasks.
The Mystery

Mirbridge
C. PRICE.
The Foreigners,

of

BY E.
Valentina.
Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. | Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation
The Wandering i-leir. [ A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Readiana.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.



Piccadilly Novels, continued—

BY MRS. J. H. RID DELL,
Hep Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman. 1 Two Dreamers.
The Lion in the Path.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.
BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Way we Live Now.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Kept in the Dark.

Mr. Scarborough Family.

The Land Leaguers.

BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Anne Furness. | Mabel's Progress.
BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, e,-r.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
BY SARAH Tatler.

What She Came Through.

TheBride'sPass. | Saint Mungo'sCity.

Beauty and the Beast.

Noblesse Oblige.

Citoyenne Jacqueline.

Lady Bell. | Buried Diamonds.

The Blackball Ghosts.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.

Mistress Judith.

CHEAP f nations of popular novels.

1 OS svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

BY THE A Author OF"MEHALAH."
Red Spider.

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AWE.
Carp of Carrion. | Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow .^
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
strange Stories.
Philistia.
Babylon.
In all Shades.
The Beckoning Hand.
For Maimie's Sake.

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY WALTER BESANT & J. RICE.
Ready-money Mortiboy.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. I My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Lucraft.
The Golden Butterfly.
3y Celia's Arbour
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.
Children of Gibeon.
The World Went Very Weil Then.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. i Flip.

Maruja- | A Phyllis of the Sierras.

BY HAROLD Bridges.
Uncle Sam at Home.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
The Shadow of I The Martyrdom

the Sword. of Madeline.

A Child of Nature. I Annann Vater.
God and the Man. j The New Abelard.
Love Me for Ever. Matt.
Foxglove Manor. ! The Heirs Line.
The Master of the Mine.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a C'imo.
A Son of Hagar. | Tno Deemster.
BY COMMANDER CAMERON.
The Cruise of the " Black Prince. '
BY MRS. Loveth C A. ME RON
Deceivers Ever. [Juliet's Guardian.

BY M ACL A REN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonina. | My Miscellanies.

Basil. ; Woman in White.

Hide and Seek. 'The Moonstone.
The Dead Secret. ' Man and Wife.
Queen of Hearts. Poor Miss Finch.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
WiLKiE Collins, continued.

Miss OP Mrs.?
New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.

The Fal ten Leaves.
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No."
The Evil Genius.
Little Novels.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. ! Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY M. J. COLQUHOUN.
Every Inch a Soldier.

BY Concur D. CONWAY.
Pine and Palm.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky
Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY A LP HON SE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH Driven.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. j Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers, i Nicholas Nickleby

BY DICK DONOVAN.
The Man-Hunter.
Caught at Last !

BY MRS. ANNIE edwards.
Point of Honour. 1 Archie Lovell.
BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. 1 Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.

°^%Y PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. ! Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tiilotson.
Polly. i Fatal zero.

Seventy five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. I A Real Queen.

BY HAROLD FREDERIC.
Seth's Brother's Wife.
Prefaced by Siv H. Battle Free.
Pasturing Hard.

BY MAIN FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Capel Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. i The Flower of th

For Lack of Gold. I Forest.

Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.
Mead and Stream.
Loving a Dream.
A Hard Knot.
Heart's Delight.

What will the

World Say?
In Honour Bound.
In Love and War.
For the King.
In PasturesGreen
Queen of the Meadow.

A Heart's Problem

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests. I James Duke
The Wizard of the Mountain.

BY yates GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY JOHN HABBERTON.
Breton's Bayou. | Country Luck.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY
Every-Day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY J BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroke

ElliceQuentln. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. I Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna. | Love— or a Name.
David Poindexter's Disappearance.

BYSIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Ray.

BY Tight HOPKINS.
'Twixt Love and Duty.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned. | That other Person

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.
BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle

BY JOHN Less.
The Lindsay.

BY MARY LIN SKILL.
In Exchange for a Soul.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundee

Si

Cheap Popular Novels, continued

E. Lynn Linton, continued —
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ? | Paston Carew.
With a SilKen Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love." I lone.

HY HENRY IV. LUCY.
Gideon Fleece.

lii JUSTIN McCarthy.

DearLadyDisdaln MissMisanthrope

Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a

Season.
Maid of Athens.
Camiola.

The Waterdale

Neighbours.
My Enemy's
Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Liniey Rochford. I

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY Katharine S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY iV. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
Open! Sesame. I Fighting the Air,
A Harvest of Wild Written in Fire.
Oats. I

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.

BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN MI DOLE \t ASS.
Touch and Go. I Mr. Dorillion.

BY MRS. MOLESIVORTH.
Hathercourt Rectory.

BY J. E. Haddock.
Stories Weird and Wonderful.

BY Christie MURRAY.
ALife'sAtonement Hearts,
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By theGateofthe
Val Strange [Sea.
Old Blazer's Hero.

BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteiadies. i The Primrose Path.
The Greatest Heiress in England.
BY Mis. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY QUID A.
Held in Bondage. TwoLittleWooden
j Shoes.
Ariadne.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost SiP Massing Marine Residence.

Way or the World.

A Bit of Human
Nature.

First Person Singular.


Cynic Fortune.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
TrIcotrIn | Puck.
Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
Siena [Fine.

Princess Naprax-
In a Winter City

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi. | Wands.

Frescoes.

In Maremma.

Othman.

Wisdom, Wit, and
Pathos.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Fainted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlton s Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon's Ward
Talk of the Town.
Holiday Tasks.
Glow-worm Tales.

bert.
Perfect Treasure
Bentinck's Tutor.
Murphy's Master.
A County Family.
At Her Mercy.
A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.
ClyfTards of ClyfTe
The Family Scapegrace.

Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Best of Husbands.
Walter's Word.
Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.
What He Cost Her
HumorousStories
Gwendolen's Harvest.

£200 Reward.
Like Father, Like
Son.

BY C. L. PIRKIS,

Lady Lovelace.

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina. | The Foreigners

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.

It is Never Too Late to Mend.

herd Cash. I Peg Wofflngton

Christie Johnstonee.

Griffith Gaunt.

Put Yourself in His Place.

The Double Marriage.

Love Me Little, Love Me Long.

Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.

The Course of True Love.

Autobiography of a Thief.

A Terrible Temptation.

The Wandering Heir.

A Simpleton. j A Woman Hater

Readiana. | The Jilt.

SIngleheart and Doubleface.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.

Hep Mother's Darling.

Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

Weird Stories. | Fairy Water.

The Uninhabited House.

The Mystery in Palace Gardens.
BY F W. ROBINSON.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY JAMES RU NCI MAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head,
In the Middle Watch.
A Voyage to the Cape.
A Book for the Hammock.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.

BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman. | Two Dreamers.
The Lion in the Path.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan IVlerryweather. | The High Mills.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Heart Salvage. I Sebastian.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring' Bells. | Mary Jane Married.
Mary Jane's Memoirs.
Tales of To-day.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke
TheGolden Hoop. 1 By Devious Ways.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights. | Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. 1 Proud Maisie.

The Violin Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
Old Stories Re-told.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann, | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
rill. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.l John Candidate
The Golden Lion of Grantee.

By F. ELEANOR TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness. I Mabel's Progress.

BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK Twas.
Tom Sawyer. ! A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued-^

Mark Twain, continued.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent
Huckleberry Finn. [of Europe

Life on the Mississippi.
The Prince and the Pauper.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Epode's Pass. I Buried Diamonds
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Lady Bell. | Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline | Disappeared
The Huguenot Family.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends

BY H. F. WOOD.
The Passenger from Scotland Yard.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY CELIA PARKER WOOLLEY.
Rachel Armstrong; or.Love&Theology.
BY EDMUND YATES.
The Forlorn Hope | Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrol.
Why Paul Fear o ll Ki lied his Wife.

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte. [Ditto.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By
A Day's Tour. By Percy Fitzgerald.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
A Dream and a Forgetting. By ditto.
A Romance of the Queen's Hounds.

By Charles James. [Burnet.

Kathleen Mavourneen. By Mrs.
Lindsay's Luck. By Mrs. Burnett.
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Ditto.
Trooping with Crows. ByC. L. Pirkis
The Professor's Wife. By Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.
The Garden that Paid the Rent

By Tom Jerrold.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.

Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps
Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S. Phelps.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE. Phelps.
Jack the Fisherman. ByE. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. McCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy, M.P.
Dolly. By ditto. [worth.

That Girl in Black. By Mrs. Moles-was
She Good or Bad ? ByW.MiNTo.
Bible Characters. By Chas. Reade.
TheDagcnet Reciter. By G.R.Sims.
Wife or No Wife ? By T. W. Speight.
The Silvered Squatters. By R,

Louis Stevenson.

I. OGDEN AND CO. LIMITED, PRINTERS, GREAT SAFFRON HILL, Eg.

'v^-m^^

uiMi^^^

3 0112 037331557

iiliiiv;??^^
