D

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

Legality
JOANNES Andrews DOYLE (§

Sociis MDCCCLXDC-MCMVII
B I BLl Apothecaries MDCCCLX XXI-MDCCCLXXXV

^^3^^^

m^

VOL. r.

% Ioi)cl

By " BLINKHOOLIE,"

Author OF
THE TALE OF A HORSE," " HIDDEN TALENT," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, Henrietta ST.,

COVENT Gander

1881.

[All Rights reserved

<UtP 193PlCCAI)ILLT.,

CLAY AND TAYLOR. Printers.

V. 1

V

SIXTH

VISCOUNT FALMOUTH,

THE ENGLISH THOROUGHBRED HORSES's BEST FRIEND,
IN WHOM IS PERSONIFIED

SPORT "

PURE AND DISTINCT

FROM "GAMBLING" ON THE TURF,

THIS BOOK

IS, WITH PERMISSION, DEDICATED,

IX TOKEN OF

^5 THE SINCERE ADMIRATION AND RESPECT OF

^ THE AUTHOR.

1^

A FEW words as to the object of this novel, for it
has a very definite object, although, of course, it
must depend for success upon such intrinsic merit
as it by chance possesses. Blair Athol is specially
chosen as the type of a horse that may raise better
feelings in men's minds than those of mere money
speculation.

Love of horses for their own sake, and of sport for
its own sake, is chiefly needed to keep the English
turf pure, and to make racing a national benefit.

The object — and no novel was ever worse fur
having a good object — is to show in these pages,
however feebly, that the love of a good horse, so far
from being hurtful, may even serve to keep a man
straight in life, and certainly in the racing world ;
while a gambling spirit, not elevated by the pure
ideal of sport, brings ruin on those who are swayed by
it, no matter in what phase of existence. The race
for wealth chokes all delicacy of sentiment, and
deadens the brightness of old-fashioned honour. But
much that seems fanciful, or even fantastic to those
who look on everything from a hard, business-like

point of view, still may be worthy of grave consideration,
if it is found that true aspirations in the question
of sport may elevate and ennoble human nature.
Much more could be said on this subject, but the
above will suffice.

It is well to state that none of the principal
characters in the book represent actual persons, nor
is the plot — such as it is — drawn from any sequence
of events in real life. But, on the other hand,
strange and varied experiences have grouped themselves
together so as to form incidents, none of which
can be called purely imaginary or impossible, although
they in no sense are given as chronicles of any facts
Whatever.

A sporting novel is a dangerous task to attempt ;
it is so easy to write a bad one, so difficult to accomplish
a good one. It would be presumptuous to
anticipate success, and would show want of heart to
expect a failure. Claiming nothing, then, and deprecating
nothing, I will just commit my book to the
tender mercies of my friends the public,
And rest.

Their obedient servant,

Bltnkhoolie.

CHAPTER I.

What glorious shape
Comes this way moving? " — Paradise Lost v. 308.

On Langton Wold, in the spring of 1864, we
have specially to notice a group of three
persons : one an elderly and disreputable looking
man, the next a youth of about eighteen,
rather small and slight, the other a tall, delicate
boy of twelve, who seemed preternaturally
grave for his years. The last-mentioned two
we are chiefly concerned with, and they must
at once be introduced. The elder is Tom
Blackburn, the eldest son of a well-known and

VOL. I. B

highly-respected clergyman who has the living
of Newton, in Yorkshire. The other is Henry
JoUifFe, whose father has been for many years
member for the town of Confers, also in
Yorkshire.

The old man speaks first. "Here they
come, sir ; now watch them closely."

The eyes of the two youngsters sparkle with
excitement at his words. '' Where, where ? "

Why there," replies the old man, pointing
to some objects advancing in the distance ;
"there's the old mare. Caller Ou, and there's
Borealis, and there's Blair Athol. Now then,
look out."

On they come, and the two bend their eyes
eagerly on them, as they approach and sweep
past at the distance of some sixty yards —
Caller Ou creeping along with that queer, old-fashioned
look about her that had made her so
well known on many a race-course throughout

England, from the time when she humbled

the pride of the Derby winner, the mighty
Kettledrum, which was but the outset of
her long and wonderfully victorious career.
Borealis, whose action is simply perfection,
the first child of the peerless Blink Bonny, a
mere pony, but a veritable multum in pavo
for all that. How she has distinguished
hei-self, and how gallantly she has run with
horses twice her size, is it not recorded in
the chronicles of Weather ?

Then last, but not least, comes one, skimming
over the ground like a swallow, with action
that can with truth be called the poetry of
motion. This is Blair Athol, the dark horse.
He has never yet seen a race-course, and yet
it is whispered that it will go hard with
Malton if he does not win the Derby. Many
there are who are destined to know well that
good blaze face in later days, but at this date
the general public have other gods, and rely
as usual on public form.

B 2

The three lookers-on burst forth in words of
admiration.

I never saw three such goers in my life'
said Tom.

''Ah ! but look at them now, sir," said the
old man ; " see from behind how true the
young 'un moves." And there is no doubt that
Blair Athol goes straight as a line, without
the slightest deviation, as steady as clock-work.

Henry Jolliffe remained wistfully gazing
after the quickly retreating forms of the three
horses, and seemed to be lost in thought,
almost appearing to look into the future,
though in fact he had no idea what an important
influence that bald - faced chestnut

was to have on his after life. At length he

< ■

spoke : " Well, that must be a good horse."

The old man laughed. " You've a promising
eye in your head, young sir," said he. " There's
not many that could have made a better
choice."

"Well' said Tom, "let's go and see John
Scott's horses." •

They walked on a short distance, and we
who are with them cannot but appreciate the
invigorating influence of the clear morning
air. To those who love our British thoroughbred
there is an indescribable charm about a
morning thus spent on a training-ground ;
and as we get older we ever recall with
pleasure such times, when we see mighty
steeds without the crush and turmoil of the
race-course, meet cheery friends, and gain
wondrous appetites for breakfast. Then the
days spent looking over the all - important
horses at home ; and the evenings made merry
by the reminiscence of bygone times, and discussion
of the present in some snug sanctum,
where the army of touts and newspaper reporters
would give the world to be.

But our three companions again take up
their station, and again a lot of horses go

striding past in full life and power, cracking
their nostrils in the superabundance of vigour.
These are they who are to do battle for the black
and gold of Mr. Bowes when their time comes.

Turning from them, Tom asks, " What
about General Peel ? He's won the Two Thousand
Guineas, and he's backed to beat Blair
Athol. Can he do it, think you ? "

I've never seen him," cried Henry, '' but I
shall back Blair Athol."

A thoughtful smile pervades the somewhat
ill-favoured visage of the old man.

You're about right, young gent. General
Peel isn't in the Hunt with him. You take it
from me, Blair Athol will win the Derby, and
be so good as to put me on a trifle*

The two friends thank him for his advice,
and promise to follow it. As they turn to go
away, he says to the younger, " Ax yer pardon,
sir, but was you ever on a training-ground
before?"

Henry, who thinks that the discrimination
he has displayed will look all the better when
he acknowledges that he has not been, replies
in the negative.

*' Then, sir, please, you must pay your footing
: all sportsmen does it, sir, and I know you
mean to be a sportsman."

There was something about this remark not
un pleasing to Henry, and after a consultation
with Tom, he gave the old one ten shillings.

"Thank you, sir; you can always hear of
me at the ' Horse and Jockey : ' ask for Jimmy' ^ ^^^v^

the tout, and you'll find me. Good-bye, sirfc ' ;:ji ;
and don't forget Blair Athol." %^M^ ^

Tom and Henry turned away, and, as they ^-^— ^-^
went towards the station, calculated how
much money they could raise in one way
or another to put on Blair Athol. After
mature deliberation they concluded they could
invest ten pounds for themselves, and one for
Jimmy the tout. Without more ado they

therefore obtained a post-office order, and sent
the amount to Mr. George Crook, with instructions
to back Blair Athol to win the
Derby. The commission being thus despatched,
they returned by the train to Newton,
where the good people at the Vicarage were
quite unconscious that the hopeful youths had.
not been occupied with their weekly dancing
lesson at Malton.

CHAPTER II.

Conrad seeks Medora's tower ;

ai

The Corsair', xix.

He looks in vain — 'tis strange — and all remark.'

It was a bright and genial establishment,
this same Newton Vicarage, for there was a
large family, including six daughters, and
two sons in addition to Tom. Mr. Blackburn
was a clergyman of the good old school,
now so rapidly becoming extinct : an excellent
sportsman, well known as a brilliant shot ;
not unfrequently to be seen mounted on his
cob at the cover side when the hounds met ;
and not without fame in the coursing world.
Few could throw a fly better, and few have
ever been more liked and respected in a
parish. He was a county magistrate of the

^

best class, and could always produce a bottle
of good port upon occasion. Yet withal he
had his faults, and one of them was an overweening
estimation of dinner ; that is to say,
his temper could never bear it to be late, or
that the cook should have made any, the most
trifling, mistake. Upon such occasions it
would please him to assume the character of a
martyr, and affect to be the most hardly used
man in the world.

His wife, who had been a famous beauty,
and who still far surpassed most younger
women in that respect, was at this period
chiefly at variance with the other members
of the household in the super-abundance of
love she felt for her last-born, a son of the
usual disagreeable habits so general among
little boys. But Mrs. Blackburn was in
reality one of the kindest - hearted women
in creation, and as a housekeeper quite unrivalled.


The eldest daughter was a pretty, English-looking
'girl that had already driven many
love-sick swains to the verge of distraction,
though she was but nineteen years old. Her
name was Jessie. The next sister, Edith,
promised to be rather taller and more striking-looking,
but certainly not so animated. The
third, Julia, was a dark beauty like her
mother ; and the next three, Fanny, Mabel,
and Laura, were mere children, with a young
ruffian of a brother some eight years old,
named Jack, thrown in somewhere among
them.

The family had some little while before this
acquired an addition in the shape of a Mr.
Jones, who was the curate and tutor for the
boys, Tom included. Henry JollifFe had been
intrusted by his parents to the discipline of
this gentleman, and was consequently also one
of the family, except when the holidays came
round.

Tom had always been one of those sort of
boys who, without being in the least stupid,
had from one cause or another — idleness partly,
carelessness partly, and dislike for study
chiefly — learned little or nothing at school,
and it had been decided to try him with a
private tutor at home ; but the plan did not
succeed, for Henry, who was somewhat of a
prodigy, used to prepare all the lessons, and
Tom would generally trust to him to be told
anything he wanted to know. Mr. Jones,
who was a Welshman, stormed in vain ; Tom
remained impenetrably dense or idle, no one
could tell which.

Strange sports used to be the order of the
day at Newton. There was on the premises
a certain deaf groom, whose temper was most
irascible and whose name was Thomas. This
man was possessed of prodigious strength, and
also great speed, so that he was a very formidable
opponent ; and yet the three boys,

including little Jack, were time after time
attracted irresistibly to the very dangerous
pastime of " teasing Thomas' as it was called.

It probably is within the experience of most
men that at school, college, or wherever they
have been, there has also been some one who
seemed by Nature formed to be a butt of this
kind. It is impossible to say what peculiarities
mark a man out as the sport of others.
But when such a man is met, his fellows
know him as it were by instinct. Such a
man was Thomas, and his speed and strength
added a spice of danger to the pursuit of him
that could not but allure the British mind.
Many were the hair-breadth escapes that
were run, but it will suffice to mention one of
the most amusing adventures.

A pea-shooter had been introduced upon
the scene, and one afternoon Henry, in a
spirit of devilry, took aim at Thomas, whose
back was turned, and struck him on the tip of

the ear. Instantly Thomas turned about, rage
depicted on every feature of his face, and
without a word rushed upon Henry and Tom,
who fled for their lives, but barely escaped up
the granary steps, and into a pigeon-house at
the side, where they had just time to bolt the
door.

Thomas, in hot pursuit, hurled himself
violently against the door, but it was a good
one, and the two inside were able to support
it against him. Then he became silent, though
they could hear him walking about outside,
and presently doing something to the door.
They cared little, however, for they felt sure
he couldn't get in, and when after a while
they heard him go down the steps, they felt
that he was defeated, and they might escape.
Anxiously they looked out through the holes
of the pigeon cote, and saw him go right away
towards the vinery. Now was the time to
make a rush for it. They withdraw the bolt,

seize the handle of the door, but it remains
immovable ; horror-stricken, they realize that
Thomas had secured it from the outside, and
means to keep them prisoners till they shall
have purged their contempt. Again they rush
to the pigeon-holes. Saints be praised ! there
is little Jack. " Jack, hi there, quick ; come
and let us out."

It is some while before Jack can make
out where the cries come from, but when he
does he hastens up the granary steps, and
they hear him busily engaged at the door.
Very soon he opens it, and they find that a
stake had been placed across from post to
post, and a rope securely fastened from the
door-handle to this, so that escape would have
been impossible without breaking the rope or
stake.

Just as they were going, an idea struck
Henry to fasten the door up again as if they
were still inside, and this being soon done, the

three made tracks to the school-room, which
overlooked the whole scene of the previous
action. Cautiously they stationed themselves
so as to watch the future movements of
Thomas without being seen.

It is not long before Thomas appears, bearing
with him the syringe that is used in the vinery.
His expression is foul and surly, and he is
heard to be muttering to himself. It is evident
he means mischief. He enters the stable,
and comes out again with a bucket, fills it at
the pump, and sets it and the syringe down by
the stable wall. Then he departs, his countenance
blackening every moment.

But the anxious watchers do not connect
the syringe and bucket in any way with themselves.
They think, rather, that, though still
harbouring evil designs, Thomas is in this
matter "only preparing to perform some ordinary
duty. But see, he is returning, bearing
with him a ladder, and now his plan begins

to dawn upon them, so that they can scarce
suppress their laughter.

With fixed and determined face he plants
the ladder against the wall where the pigeon-holes
are, and they hear him now, in murder ^
vous tones, declare, *' I'll syringe ye yer jackets,
ye young rails I "

These are his words, as, grasping syringe
and bucket, he ascends the ladder. And now
behold him, bucket on arm, the syringe with
difficulty drawn full, lay on the deadly weapon
through the pigeon-hole, and discharge a
death-dealing fire, hither and thither, dexterously
directing it towards every corner, lest
there should be chance of escape.

The exquisite humour of the thing, as time
after time the syringe is charged and discharged
amid the fiendish chuckles of Thomas,
surpasses all powers of self-restraint that our
friends can boast of. Feeling that they can
bear it no longer, Tom again directs the peas.



VOL. 1.

shooter, aims carefully, and despatches the
missile, which, hurtling through the air as
Thomas's profile is full in view, strikes him on
the nose smartly, and the three simultaneously
burst into roars of laughter.

A moment more, and as the bucket and
syringe fall from his palsied grasp, Thomas
has turned and seen the three derisive faces.
Green with rage he becomes, springs from the
ladder, and looks wildly round. To him, thus
rolling his frenzied gaze, there appears a cartload
of turnips just shot out on the ground.

Heedless of the result, he seizes one of
these, by fortunate chance a rotten one, and
poising it with rabid rage, hurls it whirring
through the air at the three faces in the open
window.

They \vitli one accord drop down, and above
their heads, harmless, the dread engine passes;
yet not harmless, for the good Mr. Jones by
evil chance steps into the room to stop the

noise, and full in his face the fearsome turnip
flies : providentially rotten, so as to burst and
fly into pieces ; yet leaving him, his dignity
all gone, injured, affrighted, and horribly
befouled.

Let us not dwell on this scene, except to say
that the boys succeeded in shielding Thomas
from any ill result, taking the blame on themselves,
and being, therefore, kept in to write
heavy impositions for the rest of the day.

C 2

CHAPTER III.

And all at fiery speed the two
Shocked — and either knight at once,
Hurled as a stone from out of a catapult,
Fell as if dead." — Garth and Annette.

Life at Newton was not without sentiment, for
Henry's sister Mary would occasionally come
over from Covers, a distance of about nine
miles, and Tom adored her with all the retiring
devotion that is to be found in a youth of his
age. He did not — in fact, durst not — tell his
love in those days, but it was manifested,
nevertheless, by his assiduous and awkward
politeness towards her, his utter silence when
in her company, and the settled melancholy
that overspread his features whenever she
made her departure.

Mary was a tall, handsome girl, with dark
hair and large blue eyes, not older in years
than Tom, but older infinitely in experience ;
and she took a species of pleasure in leading
him on, and watching his desperate and
uncouth endeavours to render himself pleasing
to her. It was whispered that she had ere
now been absolutely engaged to another, at
the very thought of which Tom gnashed his
teeth in jealous rage, but the parents had not
approved, and so it had been broken off.

Henry, with the fervid emotion of extreme
youth, looked on and loved the fair Jessie, who
was some seven years his senior. To him it
was bliss to bask in the sunshine of her smiles,
as he often did ; but the bliss was sadly
alloyed whenever there was a dance or anything
of that kind given at the house, for
then Jessie's looks were for other and older
individuals, and poor Henry moped silently
and sullenly in a corner, longing to acquire age.

It is ever the lot of youth to think itself
held in low esteem, and to yearn for the time
when advancing years shall have entitled it to
respect. But when the years have advanced,
how many are there that regret the happy,
careless bygone days, and look forward wearily
to the future, now looming darkly !

But Henry was in the halcyon state of
romantic love. To him it was sweet to read
of the chivalrous deeds of the knights of old,
and to wish that the present were like the past,
that he might wear a lock of Jessie's hair in
his helmet, and by his strong right arm overthrow
all who would not admit her claims to
be the Queen of Beauty.

Such were his dreams, and in such wise he
spoke often to his sweet lady, who half
encouraged him to go od, being amused
intensely, in reality, at his high-flown sentiments.


Tom had not the same romantic turn of

mind, and he was chiefly occupied. Lamenting
his own stupidity in not saying something or
other when he had an obvious opportunity, or
treading on Mary's dress and tearing it, or
spilling over her the tea that he was gracefully,
as he thought, handing ; whereat he
would blush to the roots of his hair, and
imagine that he had forfeited her esteem for ever.
Henry's desire for knightly deeds had led
him to manufacture spears and wooden shields,
emblazoned with heraldic devices, and he
would occasionally induce Tom to engage in
conflict with these weapons, only, as they had
no steeds, they were obliged to charge one
another on foot. The danger of the proceeding
was considerable, for the spears would
generally glance off the opposing shield, and
at last — when Henry had nearly had his eye
put out by an accident of this kind — Mrs.
Blackburn sternly forbade any more martial
encounters. The wounded knight became

reconciled to his fate very easily, for had he
not his hide love to tend his hurts, and
sweet discourse with her during the period of
his convalescence ?

But his heart panted still for the tilting-field,
and a bright idea struck him when his
eye fell one day on an old Bath-chair that was
stowed away in a corner of the coach-house.
Towards the orchard there was a lane about
one hundred yards long, on a considerable
slope all the way. What more easy than to
start in the Bath-chair down this declivity and
tilt at a ring as in the ancient days ? The
matter was easily arranged, except that a ring
was not forthcoming ; but a large apple hung
by a string did duty equally well. Thus did
the gay youths, guiding with left hand the
strange conveyance, charge repeatedly down
the slope ; triumphant, indeed, if they could
bear the apple away on the spear's point, and
lay it before the shrine of beauty.

But now other and more prosaic uses were
found for the Bath-chair. Tom had discovered
that it was desirable to ride in it whenever
there was occasion to go anywhere, and Jack
was impressed into the service, much against
his will, and compelled to push Tom and
Henry wheresoever they listed.

There was scarcely room for two in the
chair; but one could sit on the arm, and the
other in the seat, and thus they made shift to
be accommodated.

It happened on an evil day that Jack had
been made to push the pair as far as a house
some hundreds of yards higher up the road
than the Vicarage, and the journey was all
on the ascent. The return journey the two
idlers in the chair promised themselves would
be rapid and exhilarating.

The reader must know that the village of
Newton is built on a steep hill, on whose
summit is the Vicarage, beyond which our

friends had now been wheeled. Below the
Vicarage the principal street of the village
runs right down the hill in question, and
there is somewhat of a turn towards the
bottom before the level ground is reached.

So then Jack set off to push his two seniors
back again to their home, and they quite revelled
in the ride down the few hundred yards
of slope ; for it must be understood, that
although the Vicarage was at the top of the
steep hill, the road continued to rise gradually
for a considerable distance further.

And now they are nearing the entrance
gates, regretful that the pleasing journey is
past ; Henry at ease in the seat, Tom on the
arm of the chair, directing their way with well-skilled
hand.

Jack stayed not his pace in the least.

Now then, you little fool, pull up, will
you ! Don't you see you are taking us right
past the gates ? " Such are the words of Tom.

*' Stop, you idiot," lie now roars out ; for behold,
Jack, impelled by sudden frenzy and
recollection of his wrongs, with redoubled
efforts rushes the old rattle - trap chair on
towards the brink of the hill, so fast that it is
impossible to turn it off the road, even if the
affrighted Tom had sense to do so. It is too
late to stay now, even if he wished, for the
hill is already asserting its sway, and the
machine is rushing along beyond the speed of
Jack's little legs, so that he is fain to let go
his hold, and away go the ill - fated pair.
Faster, faster. — People rush from their cottages
to see them go by, but these seem a mere
hazy mist to Tom and Henry, so awful is the
speed at which they travel. Tom's wits are
all alive now, and he grasps the guiding
rod steadily, with difficulty maintaining his
precarious seat on the arm. On they rush,
sweeping as it were into an abyss of dreamland,
breathless and well-nif^h blind from the

ever-increasing pace. But they are nearing
the bottom of the hill. There may be safety yet.

Tom well knows the danger of that turn
in the road, and nerves himself accordingly.
They have reached it now. There is a lurch,
which Tom manages to counteract, another
lurch, on his side this time, and over they go
in horrible turmoil.

They fly through the air like bolts propelled
from catapults, and the chair turns a series of
countless somersaults, resting at length wheels
uppermost, and the said wheels spin round
furiously for many more minutes.

The inhabitants of the village view with
intense anxiety the prostrate forms, and there
is a general sigh of relief as they are seen to
rise. Jack has watched them open-mouthed
until now, but as they turn their countenances
up the hill towards him, and shake their fists
in deadly rage, he sees that the time has come
for him to fly, and behold he is gone.

Tom and Henry are seen to rub their knees
and elbows painfully, and on nearer inspection
they have various abrasions apparent on their
hands and foreheads ; but almost by a miracle
they are not seriously hurt, and with wrathful
minds they turn the old chair right way up
again, and ignominiously push it themselves
up the village.

Jack has taken refuse in one of the leafiest
of the trees in the avenue between the Vicarage
gates and the stables, and, quaking, he hears
the two pass by with muttered threats against
himself. He leaves not his hiding-place for
many hours, when the aggrieved ones, having
had their hurts attended to, and generally
been made much of, have recovered their
tempers, and are not likely to bother themselves
in the way of vengeance.

CHAPTER ly.

Trust me not at all, or all in all," — Tennyson.

Time passed, and the Derby day was now at
hand. Few who have not lived in Yorkshire
can have any idea of the interest taken by the
inhabitants of all classes in everything pertaining
to racing. It is not a dangerous interest,
such as leads many on to ruin themselves with
betting. It is no spirit of gambling that
makes racing so universal a favourite in Yorkshire.
It is simply the love of horses which
inspires every one, whether rich or poor ; and
if they do bet, it is only to back their fancy,
not with any restless, feverish idea of making
money by mere common-place speculation.
Even in a quiet village like Newton there

was quite a stir of excitement, and few indeed
of the inhabitants who coukl not argue at some
length on the merits of the various candidates
for the great event, though scarcely any had
ever seen the Derby run for.

All, however, remembered the glorious days
of Blink Bonny, and with universal consent
the vote went forth for her son. What
though Blair Athol had never yet seen a racecourse
; bred as he was, he must be backed, if
but for the sake of his dam.

Tom and Henry had been somewhat mysterious
of late ; no one could exactly say in
what way, but their conduct had an indescribable
something about it that was not
usual. They had heard from Mr. Crook that
he had taken £220 to £11 for them— Blair
Athol to win the Epsom Derby, and that
alone was a somewhat momentous incident.
Still they made no secret of this to the girls,
enjoining on them, however, with many promises

in case of a win, that the old people
must on no account be told.

But there always seemed something lurking
in the background, and the female mind
is intuitively quick at noticing such a phenomenon,
no matter how deftly the gross
intellect of man endeavours to conceal it.
And yet but one point was definitely noticeable,
and that was, that for some weeks Tom
and Henry had spent absolutely no money
on anything whatever, and, further than that,
by sundry sales of tame rabbits, and others of
their goods and chattels, had appeared to be
solely intent on amassing money.

And now the Derby week had arrived. It
was Monday night, and Torn and Henry were
due for their dancing lesson next day at
Malton. Behold them now in Henry's room,
intently occupied with something on the
dressing-table, while the candle sheds a fitful,
flickering light on their anxious countenances.

They are counting a sum of money nervously,
carefully.

At last Tom speaks. " Ten pounds five and
nine pence ! Will that be enough ? "

'' We must make it enough ; we can take
return third-class tickets, and then we can't
come to much harm." Thus says Henry, with
the confidence of youth.

Tom seems rather doubtful. " But after
all," he adds, " Blair Athol is sure to win, and
then we shall be all right."

Of course," cries Henry ; " there can be no
doubt about it."

And so they go to their beds, but I much
doubt whether sleep found either a ready
votary that night, and in the morning they
appear noticeably haggard and care-worn.
Mrs. Blackburn observes this, and in her kindness
of heart declares that the boys have been
working too hard, and that a day's holiday at
home will do them good ; but, to her astonish-vol.

I. D

ment, both declare that they feel quite welland
would not like to miss their dancing
lesson for anything. In fact they seem to get
quite excited at the idea of such a thing. Mr.
Blackburn praises their zeal in the matter,
and there is no more said about it ; but at the
usual hour they set off for Malton, and are lost
to sight, and even to thought, by the majority
of the household.

But we who follow them have observed
them get out of the train indeed at Malton,
and notice that each carries with him now
a small bag, which he had not when he
walked out of the Vicarage ; and, stranger
far than this, we see them enter the ,
and very shortly take their seats
in another train, which we are told is just
starting for York. York is reached, and now
we begin to fathom the mystery. Return tickets
for London are secured, and away the young
hopeful go, bound for the great metropolis.

The fact is, as will now be seen, these
wicked youths had determined to run up to
town to see the Derby, be the consequences
what they might, and they actually succeeded
in carrying out their plan in the way described.
Their great fear was lest their money
should run short, as they had no idea of what
it would cost them to stay at any hotel, and
they actually decided during their first night
in town not to put up anywhere at all, but
leave their luggage at the station, and walk
about, or otherwise disport themselves, till,
morning should appear.

Arrived at King's Cross, they proceeded
to walk aimlessly away, staring about them,
and standing a great chance of being runover
; and it so happened that in course of
time they reached the neighbourhood ol
Leicester Square. They had taken a scanty
refreshment at the cost of some eighteen
pence in a cook-shop, and were still wandering

on, beginning to feel rather miserable,
as it was now late, and there was a feelings
of desolation and solitude that weighed
down their hearts among the vast numbers of
strangers whom they saw.

Suddenly there came a voice from behind
them. " My boys, what are you doing here ? "

Chill fear struck to the vitals of the truant
youths at hearing themselves thus familiarly
addressed, but glancing timidly towards the
speaker, they saw to their great relief that he
was a stranger. He was, in fact, a somewhat
venerable-looking old man, of a slightly Hebrew
cast of countenance, which, however,
coupled as it w^xs with a fine white beard, did
not impress the eye unfavourably, as it might
have done had he been a younger man. He
seemed to be a member of the clerical profession
who was striving to do what good he
might in the streets of London.

o

''My boys," he repeated, "what are you

doing here ?— you so young, in this sink of
iniquity ! "

Sir," said Henry, in whom early maternal
lessons had not yet lost their effect, " be
sure we are not here to take part in any evil.
Indeed it is but chance that has brought us to
this place, for we are strangers to London, and
are walking to and fro for the reason that our
scanty means may not be trusted to procure
for us a resting-place this night. To-morrow
it is our purpose to visit the Epsom Derby,
in the fixed hope that we shall see Blair Athol
triumphant. If he is beaten wee shall never
put faith in living thing again."

Ah," said the old man, " racing and
wickedness, so runs the world ; but faith —
did you say you had faith ? Oh, tell me,"
turning to Tom, '' have you faith even as a
grain of mustard seed ? "

Tom became confused at the question, and
mumbled something about it's being time to

go, pulling out Lis watch to prove his
swords.

The stranger looked at the watch with him,
interested also in the time. The watch was a
good gold one.

Henry in his simple mind was revolving the
last question, and his conscience seemed to
urge him to answer, "I hope, sir, that the
lessons of faith have not been wholly 'thrown
away on us, but -"

"It is enough," interposed the old gentleman.
" Oh that I may have found in you
what I have so long sought ! * Come, come
from hence with me to my home, where you
shall rest for the night safe from all temptation.
Come, I feel it my heavenly duty to
see that you go not astray."

Without more he called a cab, and our
friends got into it with little demur, for the
idea of a night's lodging was • quite good
enoiio-h for them. Their new friend also took

his seat, and the three were soon rattling
along, two of them knew not whither. In
about ten minutes they stopped, and the old
gentleman called on them to alight.

I regret," said he, examining an ancient
purse, *' I have no small change ; would you,
young sir, pay the cabman eighteen pence *? "

Tom fumbles in his pockets, and draws
forth cords, which he proceeds to inspect
beneath the light of the gas.

Take care," said Mr. Barlow, for that
the old man had given them to understand
was his name, " take care you don't give the
man a sovereign for a shilling, for I observe
that you are by no means so destitute as you
led me to believe. There, that is right ; and
now, come in."

So saying he opened the door of a somewhat
ordinary looking house, one of a long
row, and on the ground floor there certainly
appeared to be a good deal of hilarity

and carousing, not unmixed with occasional
objurgations going on. An open door showed
a roomfull of tobacco-smoke, and a dishevelled-looking
reprobate, staggering forward from
among the company, cried out to Mr. Barlow,
Well, Moses, old boys home at last ! "

'' Cease, profane reveller, cease ; think of your

latter end." There was a loud guffaw at this,

which, however, stopped when he continued,

I have here two innocents whom I would not

have polluted by your blasphemies. I take them

upstairs, and do you, while there is yet time,

repent." Then, turning to the boys, " Come,

come with me to my rooms. I have them

here because it is in scenes such as this that I

feel my mission on earth to lie. And now,"

he continued, after he had led the wondering

youths into a somewhat sparely-furnished

room, " you look faint and weary ; a little of

the cup that cheers is not forbidden to such as

you. Polly""

A rough sort of handmaiden appeared to
his call. She did not seem to treat her
superior with superabundant respect, but she
nevertheless went off at once when told to
bring a bottle of champagne and glasses, and
presently returned, opened the bottle, and
departed.

Mr. Barlow considerately pressed the greater
part of . the bottle upon his guests, and
they, having eaten little or nothing during
the day, became rapidly elated by their
potations, and loud in the praises of themselves
and their own skill in backing Blair
Athol. Mr. Barlow listened and looked on
with half wistful melancholy.

"My first impulse," said he at last, "would
be to reproach you for your discourse on such
vanities as racing; but I can see the sweet
purity of your hearts, and almost I am fain
now to exclaim, 'Rejoice, oh young men, in
your youth.' Por me, who have seen the

wicked ways of all mankind, who have known
the bright hopes of early days to bring but
Dead Sea fruit, if fruit at all — for me it but
remains to struggle on in my calling. No
vain illusions to enliven me, no pulsations of
youth's fair dream to exhilarate ; nothing before
me but the impossibility of reforming my
fellow-men, which, none the less, I must and
ever will attempt."

Henry and Tom felt quite moved to
reverent awe by the divine grief of the holy
man. At last the former ventured a few
commonplaces as to men's works living after
them, and Tom broke in, " Forgive me, sir,
but I feel as confident as I do of my own
existence, that the task you speak of is not
impossible to such as you."

Mr. Barlow smiled, mournfully. " They
have no faith," he murmured. " No, high and
low, men have no faith. Oh that I had been
born in the childhood of this great world of

ours, when conventionalities, and forms, and
routine shams had not reduced the soul, the
divine imagination of man, to torpor and
miserable lethargy ; then should I have found
faith where the poor pagan saw in the earth,
the sky, the starry firmament, the trees, the
mountains, the rivers, the sea, the awful
thunder, in everything that was around him,
a mighty power which in all faith he could
admire and adore."

The two boys were now becoming greatly
impressed by the fervour of their host, and
they maintained a respectful silence.

But," he went on, " I am neglecting
your creature comforts ; you must have
more wine," and without waiting to hear what
they said, he summoned Polly again, and once
more the Moet and Chandon sparkled in the
glasses.

Tom and Henry were getting decidedly
elevated, but their condition served but to

render them more romantically disposed and
idealistic, while Mr. Barlow continued his
theme.

You in your trusting young hearts may
deem it scarce credible, but I have failed in
all my life to find faith such as once was
upon the earth. It was my father, rest his
soul ! who urged me to the quest, and left
a vast portion of his wealth with which he
bade me endow the first faithful man I could
find. Near half a century has gone since
then, and my quest has yet been vain, while
the money has accumulated I know not to
what sum. Never, never have I found the
man who merits the bequest. Slight indeed
is the material test ; but all are wrapped in
their own selfish suspicions, and faith, alas!
seems to be dead''

Mr. Barlow," broke in Tom, who was not
too far gone to catch at the idea of the bequest,
you asked me if I had faith. I believe I

have ; I believe we both have ; haven't we,
Henry ? "

Yes, yes ; we have been brought up away
from the busy haunts of men," said Henry,
somewhat incoherently, " and are, as it were,
pagans."

Mr. Barlow remained a few moments in
solemn thought. " Oh, if it should be so
he exclaimed at last, " I could die in peace.
I dare not hope ; still, I will put you to the
test."

*' We are ready," said Tom, half expecting
some terrible physical ordeal.

It is but this : to prove the existence of
the abstract quality faith in your hearts, you
must make an external show of it by putting
faith in me. I will take your watch and
chain, sir, and your breast-pin, and that ring,"
and I will depart for ten minutes. Suspicion
may whisper that I shall never return ; faith
will dispel suspicion. Faith or suspicion —
which is it ? "

Why faith, of course," cried both. " Take
the things, dear Mr. Barlow, we would never
dream of suspecting you ! "

*^ Bless you, bless you for that," said the old
man, visibly affected. '' Thank Heaven that I
have at length found the predestined recipients
of my father's gold ! " and bearing Tom's gold
watch and chain, and Henry's breast-pin and
ring along with him, he glided from the room,
still murmuring thanksgivings.

He had scarcely been gone a minute when
Polly came in, and said, on seeing that Mr.
Barlow was not there, " Please, sirs, would
you be as kind as pay for the champagne.
Missis is just shutting up, and she makes
me hand over the money to her." Then,
seeing the dubious faces of the boys, "111
tell the old gentleman you've paid me, as
soon as he gets back, and of course he'll give
it you."

Very well," replied Tom. " How much ? "

Twenty-four shillings, please, sir, and what
you like for myself"

It 'seemed a large sum, but as Mr. Barlow
was to recoup it, Tom paid without a murmur,
and bestowed half-a-crown on Polly for fear of
being thought mean. She took it and went.

Minutes passed by, and the' tenth was now
progressing. It elapsed, and he came not ;
still a doubt never entered into the minds of
the two faithful youths. But the clock ticked
on, and when half-an-hour had elapsed, blank
dismay began to overspread Tom's expressive
features.

I do believe," he whispered, " it's a sell."
"Wait awhile yet," said Henry ; " he maybe
ill."

An hour has now passed, and the grey morning
is beginning to dawn.

'' I sha net stand this any longer," cries Tom,
and starting up he rings the bell. After a
while Polly appears. " Adhere is Mr. Barlow ? "

How should I know ? "

*' Who should know but you ? We want to
see him at once."

Well," replies Polly, ^' you just won't,
that's' all : and it's about time you were turning
out of here, so as I can clean up the room.
You can pay me for your night's lodging,
young gents — £2 \^s. a piece."

The two swains were simply thunderstruck
at the audacity of this demand, and it was .
some time before Tom burst out, "You
insolent woman ! Where is Mr. Barlow, I say ?
I will find him and my watch," and, followed
by Henry, he approaches the door where Polly
stands.

She does not at the moment speak, but
quietly rings a hand-bell which is standing on
a small table.

Tom and Henry rush past her on to the
landing, doubtful which room to attack first,
when their attention is arrested by the sound

of a heavy footstep mounting the dimly-lighted
stairs. Glancing down they see a man of
villainous aspect with a bludgeon in his hand
quietly wending his way upwards, looking
back over his shoulder, apparently to see if
there is any one near in that direction. In
an instant it flashed across Tom's mind that
this man was summoned by Polly, and that
he was coming to assist in robbing them.

They might be murdered and never heard
of more. He had read of such things. But
luckily he has all his wits about him, and
perhaps the champagne has inspired him
with unusual courage. " For your life," he
hurriedly whispers to Henry, " follow me, and
look sharp." Then quickly though quietly
he makes for the top of the stairs, — the man
being by this time more than half way up
them, — and, rushing down nearly headlong,
almost before his opponent has time to look
round, or to hear the warning cry of Polly,

VOL. I.

Tom Las planted the sole of his right foot
clean on the man's head, and hurled him
backwards down the steep flight of stairs.
'^ Quick, quick," he cries to Henry, who is
close at his heels, and the pair dash at breakneck
speed down over the inanimate hulking
body of the foe, and, reaching the front door,
open the latch with wildly-agitated hands, fly
into the street, and taking to their heels, run
as fast and as far as they can, clean away
from the place.

Whether the man was seriously injured or
even killed they never knew.

CHAPTER V.

Afopo vov, r) rpiirodoc TrspiSioixtOov i) tXsf^rjrog
"Icrropa ^' Arpsidijv Ayafiifxvova 6ti6[jiiv dficpu)
'OTTTTOTepoi TrpocrQ' ittttoi, 'iva yvi^rjg dTroTivuJV.

Iliad, xxiii. 485.

Out of breath, exhausted, and distressed, the
two gay youths at length were fain to stop.
Whereabouts in London they were they knew
not, and nobody is ever likely to know, for
it all seemed alike to them — one confusion
of streets and buildings. Strangely enough,
however, they had ever since their arrival
been so bent on other and, for the time, more
important considerations that they had by no
means surveyed the vast town with that
astonishment which is so usual among country
cousins. They had, indeed, regarded it from

E 2

UKWESSITY Of iLUl»>^'-

the most matter-of-fact point of view, being
intent only on their ulterior aims and objects.

Their first idea when they ceased running
was to congratulate one another on their
escape, though in reality Henry had very
little notion what the danger had been ;
their second, was rage at the loss of their
jewellery, which they would have such difficulty
in explaining when they got home ; and
then they wondered whether the man was
killed, and they might not find themselves
charged with murder. Tom cast a shuddering
glance over his shoulder as he saw a policeman
on his beat, but was relieved to find that the
officer of justice did not take any notice of
him.

Henry, with the beautiful, trusting nature
of youth, stoutly maintained that he believed
the reverend man, their late friend, had been
treacherously dealt with by the servant Polly
and her confederate, robbed of the watch and

breast-pin, and perhaps murdered. Tom, who
was older than his companion, said he did not
think this was so. Which of them was right
must be left to the discrimination of the
reader.

They were well warmed by their run, but
as they wandered on drowsiness began to irresistibly
overcome them, and yet they could
not possibly sleep, for there was no place to
lie on. Presently it so happened that they
walked into St. James's Park, and there in the
early morning light they beheld not a few
sleepers, bestowed here and there on the
various seats, forgetful for the while of the
cares and troubles of their unhappy lives-but
our two friends were not disposed in anyway
to stand on ceremony. They must sleep,
they cared not how ; so, finding two empty
seats, they laid themselves down, and were
soon far away in dreamland.

They slept calmly and well, and woke when

it was broad daylight, nor knew what the
time was, for their watch was gone, and they
were terribly afraid they might have let the
time pass by so that they would fail to reach
Epsom.

But any one who has slept on a seat in the
open air weill know that it is at least conducive
to early rising, and so it proved in this
case, for it was really only about half-past
seven o'clock.

They arose, stretched themselves, and looked
around, feeling by no means the gay and
exuberant spirits that had pervaded them the
morning before. Each had a headache of
the worst description ; each felt stiff and
cold, and each was very dirty and generally
dishevelled.

They sat down moodily for awhile, and said
nothing. Presently Tom broke the silence.

'*I say, if ever we come to London again
we must manage it better somehow."

'' I don't think I ever shall come again,"
dolefully remarked Henry. " I wish we hadn't
come at all."

What ! not to see Blair Athol run ! "

Ah, yes ! that'll be worth everything ; but
hadn't we better be moving ? "

And so the two disconsolate ones set off
once more on their weary tramp, this time
towards the water, wherein they bathed their
heated brows for some time, until they actually
felt better.

They mentioned breakfast, but the bare idea
of it was repugnant to their feelings. Tom
said he should be sick at the sight of it; so
they decided not to attempt anything of the
kind at present, and went in the direction of
Westminster, to enquire by what means they
could best reach Epsom.

Now it so happened that they fell in with
a really well-disposed licensed victualler, who
was taking a morning's constitutional, and

who, when he heard their requirements, said
he could put them on to the very thing. A
friend of his was running a long "Breakdown
to the races, and would take them for
six shillings each. This was better than our
friends expected, and they readily agreed to
go. By degrees their companion got out of
them the whole history of their expedition,
whereat he laughed immoderately, and insisted
they should come and have breakfast with him ;
indeed, he would take no denial, and as they
were now feeling considerably less unhappy
the two consented, with little difficulty, to
accept his invitation.

He led them over Westminster Bridge, and
some distance on the Surrey side of the river,
till they reached his hostelry — a regular old-fashioned
one, with all the concomitants of a
buxom wife, pretty daughter, sporting pictures,
and general air of comfort.

Tom and Henry quite took heart of grace

beneath the smiles of their fair hostess and
the good-humoured chaff of the master, so
that they actually found themselves able todo
ample justice to the substantial breakfast
placed before them, and to finish it off with
tankards of good old ale.

There, my lads," said the landlord, " that'll
keep you on your legs. Blowed if I know
what would have become of you if I hadn't
met you."

His guests were profuse in their thanks to
him for his kindness, and said they would not
fail to come and see him when they returned,
and if Blair Athol won they would make him
a handsome recompense.

Don't talk about no recompenses," said the
jovial host. "I'll just go and get a bit on
Blair Athol myself, for it seems as if some
fortune had brought you in my way, and I
must back the horse for luck."

By this time the lengthy conveyance in

which they were to perform the journey was
ready, and standing some hundred yards off
down the road ; so they were fain to bid adieu
to their new friends, of whom the daughter
had already attracted the admiration of the
impressionable Tom, and, amid wishes for
their good luck, they took their seats, and
were presently driven off. It was not long
before the carriage was full, the occupants
being of a most motley kind, male and female,
the former chiefly noticeable for their gauze
veils, the latter for their flaming coloured
garments.

The Road to Epsom, — the crush, the dust,
the gay jests and repartees, the noise, the pea-shooters,
the flour-bags, — it is the old, old
story ; and is it not written year after year in
the columns of the Daily Telegraph and divers
other papers ? Far be it from us, then, to
inflict an account of the journey on our
readers, for others have done it so often

before that it would indeed be impossible to
introduce anything original into the theme.

Suffice it, that in due time Epsom was
reached, though not before our two heroes,
having been struck smartly with peas, succeeded
in purchasing weapons, and, thanks to
their home practice, were able to retaliate
with marked effect on their enemies.

No one can fail to be impressed when first
coming upon the Epsom Downs on a Derby
day. The vast multitude of every type of
humanity spread far and wide. The hill, with
its drags and carriages, and the assembly of
shows, swing-boats, and other paraphernalia
of a fair below; the crowded stands, and the
utterly holiday look on every one's countenance,
far different, at the same time, from
when excited Yorkshire assembles at Doncaster,
for then every man is deeply intent on
the result of the big race. At Epsom, the
majority in all probability never see the race

at all, and care little or nothing what wins ;
being greatly led away by the other attractions,
such as the pure delights of Aunt Sally,
or the sensuous joy of gazing at the fat woman,
one of whose capacious dresses is exposed to
the jDnblic view as an advertisement.

Tom and Henry gazed open-mouthed on
what they saw, being now for the first time
since leaving home really struck in a heap ; but
they soon recovered themselves, and proceeded
to make the best of their way towards the
race-course.

They had been told on the way down that
the best place for them to go to was the stand
opposite the winning-post, and finding that
they could go there by a moderate outlay,
they proceeded at once to take up their position,
determined in no case to be done out of a
sight of the Derby.

The time dragged wearily by while the
preliminary races were run, but it came at

last, and the course was cleared for the great
event.

One Derby is much like another to the

casual spectator, but no one sees the general

effect of it so badly as the man who has an

excessive interest in one particular horse. Soit

was with Tom and Henry. What though

others might be loud in their admiration of

Scottish Chief, or swear by General Peel, though

Ely the beautiful has many followers, and

Cambuscan inspires confidence in his trainer's

heart ; these horses might as well not have

existed for all the notice our boys took of

them. Their eyes were but for one — Blair

Athol ; and when he came sweeping down

the course with old Caller Ou to show him

the way, they burst forth into superlative

expressions of praise, and denounced as idiots

those who backed anything else. There was

no mistake about it, Blair Athol did look and

go well ; and when they saw him there were

many who, mindful of his breeding, put a bit
more on the splendid son of Stockwell and
Blink Bonny.

It was an anxious time while the lot were
beinor marshalled for the start : indeed Tom
declared he was afraid he must have got heart
disease ; but there came the cry *' They're ofi ! "
and eager eyes were strained across the course,
the two pair with which we are acquainted
being fixed but on the green and straw belt
which the good chestnut was bearing along
well in the front rank.

And now Tattenham corner is reached ;
wonderful indeed how it is passed, so confused
seem the mass of some thirty horses whirling
round it. Yonder they come. There is the
blaze face well up with them.

Hark to the shouts, " General Peel " wins —
"Scottish Chief." Now is the tug of war.
Listen to the voice of Tom suddenly bursting
forth, " Well, Blair Athol wins : he walks in.

lie absolutely walks in ! Hooray ! " and as
their idol passes the post an easy winner Tom
and Henry, losing all self-possession, hurl their
hats away into space, and shout at the top
of their voices, ever and anon turning round
to decry as " idiots and fools " the imaginary
enemies of the pride of Malton.

And now they rush down on to the course
to see him brought back, and as he passes
them in all his glory Henry absolutely bursts
into tears, for what reason he cannot tell.
From this, however, he is soon recovered by
the objurgations of Tom ; and then there comes
the welcome cry of " right," when it strikes
them for the first time that they have landed
a good stake of money, though indeed that
is a totally secondary consideration to their
minds.

But there was no more racing for them that
day. They would not deign to look on anything
common after what they had seen, and

so they walked away on to the hill without
any definite purpose, simply feeling it necessary
in their great excitement to keep moving
somewhere.

Resisting in vain the importunities of fortuneteller,
^'for," thought they, 'your fortune
is made already," they went blundering about
among the wheels of carriages, tumbling over
hampers, and generally getting in the way
without in any manner advantaging themselves.


Suddenly a voice was heard calling to
them, and they turned somewhat in dread.
There up on a drag was Fred Summerton, a
cousin of Tom's, a cornet in the 19th Smashers,
and loud were his expressions of astonishment.
Why, what on earth are you doing here ?
Wonders will never cease ; but come up and
have a drink." Knowing that with Fred they
were in no danger of being reported, the
two willingly climbed on to the drag, and

were soon in the enjoyment of an excellent
lunch, and becoming quite hilarious over the
champagne.

Of course they could talk of nothing but
Blair Athol, and the money they had won,
conversation which Summerton, who had
backed Scottish Chief, hardly cared about ;
but he was much amused by the story of their
flight from home and subsequent adventures,
and declared the two should drive home with
them, as there was plenty of room., and he
would show them a little life without any
danger.

About this time a diverting incident occurred
in the shape of a combat between a
negro minstrel and a photographer close by
their drag. What the subject of dispute was
no one knew or cared, but both were very
angry. The nigger, with a tiny silk hat about
one inch in diameter tied jauntily on one side
of his head, his body adorned with a calico

VOL. I. F

swallow-tailed coat, the tails reaching the
ground, and his nether man clad in large
striped inexpressible, rushed, banjo in hand,
upon the foe, who was got up entirely with
a view to an appearance of respectability.
Respectable or not, however, he too came on
hotly to the encounter, clubbing bis easel with
apparently murderous intention.

The banjo became hors de combat at the first
onset, and the nigger, defenceless, awaited his
enraged assailant.

On he came with his upraised weapon, and
the nigger's fate seemed sealed, when, dexterously
ducking in beneath the descending blow,
he smote the photographer one, two on the
mouth, and between the eyes, with such right
good will that he fell like a pole-axed bullock,
and rolled in horrible confusion some little
distance down the hill.

On arising, the man of easels refused to
renew the combat, and departed on his way ;

but the nigger received many shillings from
the on-lookers, to whom he had afforded a
merry sport.

The return journey was certainly performed
under more pleasant auspices than the morning's
one ; but, saving that the excesses in the
war of pea-shooters and other harmless amusements
were somewhat more rife, there was very
little difference in it.

Tom and Henry, whose story had now been
told, became quite the lions of the party on
their drag, especially among the ladies, and
the adventurous youths, now that their tongues
were loosed, certainly did not neglect to profit
by their position.

Arrived in town, Fred Summer ton took them
to his rooms, and succeeded in getting them
to look tolerably respectable, and they went
with him and dined at his club, by this time
being, in their own estimation, regular men
about town.

F 2

Somewhat to their disgust, however, after
dinner he said that he thought the best thing
they could do was to go to bed — in fact, he
felt responsible to their people for them, and
should just drive them to his place again,
where they could be put up for the night, and
have a good sleep.

They were inclined to remonstrate at first,
but Red was firm, and at last they agreed ;
nor was it long before they were sleeping the
sleep of the just, wearied out with the excitements
of their expedition, too wearied indeed
to dream even of Blair Athol.

CHAPTER YI.

Discountenanced both, and discomposed :
Love was not in their looks,

But apparent guilt,

And shame, and perturbation, and despair."

Paradise Lost, x. 110.

The next morning Summerton put them into
a hansom, and sent them off betimes to King's
Cross, homeward bound ; and it was not long
before they were proceeding swiftly on their
way to the North. For a while they said
nothing, and occasionally even slept, not
having yet shaken off the effects of their very
unusual exertions ; but as the train went on,
and they felt themselves drawing nearer and
nearer to Yorkshire, they began not unnaturally
to think of their impending fate, and to muse

on what they could possibly say at home in
excuse of their excessively heinous conduct.

'rit's no use telling lies," decided Tom;
'' we shall just have to say where we have
been, and let them do their worst. After all
it will be worth it, considering what we have
seen, and the money we have won."

But boldly though they affected to talk, their
hearts died within them when, after chano-inor
at York, they found themselves fairly en route
for Newton ; and it was with but a feeble
appearance of gaiety that they were at length
constrained to alight at the little station.
Even when there, they continued to hang
about, anxious to put off as long as possible
the evil moment when they would have to
approach and enter the Vicarage.

The station-master hailed them with surprise
in his countenance, and was good enough to
inform them that they had been the objects of
a regular hue-and-cry all the previous day and

the present ; that they head been traced up to
London, where detectives had been employed
at great expense to follow and find them, and
that the whole household at the Vicarage were
in the greatest trouble and tribulation.

It may well be judged that these remarks
did not serve to reassure the perturbed youths ;
but they felt that there was no help for it,
and so, in a decidedly sheepish manner, they
set off to walk up the village and into the
house.

Whether warning of their approach had
been conveyed in advance of them does not
appear, still it is certain that Mr. and Mrs.
Blackburn, Mr. Jones, and the greater part of
the family were found sitting quietly in the
drawing-room, and when the two adventurers
entered with shame-faced expressions they
were not greeted with any surprise, or in anyway
addressed as if they had not come in the
ordinary and usual manner. They felt inexpressibly

uncomfortable, and did not know
where on earth to bestow themselves. Henry
stumbled over and tore in a disastrous manner
Jessie's new dress, and Tom endeavoured to
assume an air of dogged nonchalance, while he
sat down in a clumsy, gawky manner on the
music-stool.

Mr. Blackburn asked Henry if it was raining,
but the humbled sportsman was far too
confused to give him an answer, and then the
party resumed the conversation which had
been interrupted by the entrance of the now
wretched youths. Not a smile was on anyone's
countenance, nor yet a frown ; everybody
seemed to be just as usual.

This sort of think; went on for more than an
hour, and the suspense to the two returned
prodigals was something which no words can
explain. They scarcely dared to stir as the
minutes dragged slowly on, for though the
terrible unreality of the calm was intolerable

to them, yet they weakly dreaded to open the
flood-gates of wrath by calling any attention
to themselves, all the while feeling, however,
that they would give worlds if some one would
set to and give them a thorough blowing-up.
Like the would-be suicide, who craves to die,
and yet dares not strike the fatal blow, they
longed to break the ice of reserve that surrounded
them, and yet their tongues clove to
the roofs of their mouths when they essayed to
broach the subject.

Tom at last blurted out, " Look here, I
know you think we're awful scoundrels, and
that we've been up to all manner of badness,
but do give a fellow a chance to explain."


Mr. Blackburn turned round. "What's
that you say, Tom ? I didn't catch it. Come
here and tell us over again."

The countenance of Tom was indeed a
study when he was thus drawn forth from his

corner and made to stand in full view of
everybody.

Well now, what is it you were telling
us ? " •

Poor Tom essayed once or twice to
speak without success, and then burst forth,
I can't talk with you all looking at me in
that way ; Henry, you tell them," and Tom fled
back to his corner.

Henry, who was blushing scarlet, and his
lip by this time quivering, would have made
but a poor show of it, only the kind-hearted
Jessie gave his hand a little squeeze,
and cast on him one encouraging glance
which thrilled him to the heart ; so he
began, —

We have been to Epsom to see the Derby
run for ; it was all for Blair Athol : we wanted
to see him win, and he did win ; and I am
sure we are very sorry, and won't do so anymore."
The eyes filled with tears despite his

efforts not to appear unmanly in the presence
of Jessie.

Punishments of all kinds lie could have
borne without a murmur, but this was
too much. Mr. Blackburn turned his head
and walked towards the window, gazing, apparently
wrapt in thought, upon the scenery.
Perhaps it was that he was ruminating in
what dread manner to punish the boys, perhaps
the simple narrative he had just heard
was carrying him back to his own young careless
days, when from St. Peter's school at
York he too had played the truant, and stolen
away for more than one delicious afternoon on
Knavesmire when the August Meeting came
round. Such recollections as these were bright
and sunny, nor had the subsequent and necessary
birch left one twinge to strike his thoughts,
and mar the general gladness of those times.

Yes, it was even so ; he could not find it
in his heart to deal with these boys as they

deserved, and he knew not what to do.
Suddenly he bethought him of Mr. Jones.
Of course, he is their tutor, he must look to
this ; and I'll gis^e them a lecture afterwards."
Then turning quietly to the boys, — " You had
better go into the school-room, where Mr.
Jones will presently come to you."

The two arose and did as they were bid,
while the rest of the family only waited
until they were out of hearing to burst
into fits of laughter.

The girls earnestly pleaded, however, in mitigation
of punishment ; but Mr. Jones, whose
addresses to Jessie had not been so favourably
received by that young lady as he could
have wished, seemed little affected by their
entreaties. Consequently the female minds
became irritated, not being in any way subservient
to the discipline of the worthy tutor,
and a free quarrel was commencing to break
forth when Mrs. Blackburn interposed, and

Mr. Jones, in no very amiable frame of mind,
proceeded into the school-room.

There he found his pupils sitting. " Well,
boys, I hope you're ashamed of yourselves for
your disgraceful conduct."

The boys muttered something unintelligibly.


"It is necessary for me," continued the
good man, "first to tell you the enormity
of the offence of which you have been guilty,
and to point out to you the dangers of
the course upon which you have entered.
You have deceived us all most cruelly,
you have alarmed those who care for you,
you have wasted money, and have acted
a lie. All this I should be disposed to forgive,
or at any rate treat lightly ; but, worst,
far worst of all, you have given way so far to
degrading passions as to visit a race-course.
This is especially distressing to me, and I am
sure must be to all concerned with you. I

will only hope that, as it is the beginning of
this vice in your careers, so it may be the
end. I trust that through ignorance you have
done it, — ignorance, I mean, that every one
connected with racing is a ruffian, a blackguard,
and a cheat."

This harangue seemed quite to restore the
fallen spirits of the boys, though it did not
apparently impress them in the way that their
worthy preceptor wished.

Henry at the juncture broke in, " Please,
sir, is George Crook a cheat, then ? "

How should I know, boy ? but why do
you ask ? "

Because, sir, he owes us £220 over Blair
Athol."

Oh ! monstrous iniquity ! " fairly shrieked
Mr. Jones. " Racing and betting ! May you
never, never receive the money is my earnest
prayer ! Write out for me, both of you, the
aeneid of Virgil, and stay in every holiday till

you have clone it." So saying, he stalked
from the room, leaving the two somewhat
aghast at the amount of the imposition, but
still quite relieved at having at length, so to
speak, settled the affair, and got a definite
punishment to grapple with.

They now went away upstairs, and were very
soon joined by the girls, who were dying with
curiosity to hear their adventures and what
they had really been doing. What seemed to
impress the fair audience chiefly was the win
of £220, and the presents which were lavishly
promised to them.

Mr. Jones was ''a horrid old thing," they
one and all declared, and they hated him.
Papa wouldn't have minded half so much if it
hadn't been for him. When were they to get
their £220 ?

The youths explained that they should send
the voucher for it tomorrow, but mentioned
with some apprehension that Mr. Jones had

declared all men connected with racing to be
cheats.

Oh, what can he know about it, an old
fright ? " cried Jessie, passing her hand lightly
over Henry's head, who was seated on a footstool
at her feet. *' You'll get the money all
right, Henry dear, I know."

"Oh 1 Jessie, I do love you so," whispered
the youth somewhat in consequently, to which
the young lady responded with a tender
little tap on her adorer's brow, and proceeded
to explain.

I know it's all right, because Frank
Heatherbloom told me the other day he always
bet with George Crook."

Poor Henry ! and was it for this that he
lavished all the affection of his fresh young
twelve-year-old heart ? To be dashed from
the seventh heaven, as it were, by the accursed
name of that man, who was inferior to him in
all respects, save that he was possessed of

moustaches, and about ten years older ! Well,
Jessie might kill him if she liked with
despair and a broken heart. He should love
her for ever.

It was about 9 '30 that evening when they
were summoned to the study of Mr. Blackburn,
who had established himself in the laro^cst
arm-chair, and assumed the aspect of judicial
dignity, which was his custom when on the
magistrate's bench.

Now, my boys," said he, making the two
sit down on the sofa, " I have sent for you to
tell you how grieved I have been that you
should have acted so unfairly towards us all,
and caused us such alarm. Your mother,
Tom, was seriously ill with it, and we had to
call in the doctor, who said that her heart was
in a very dangerous condition."

Tom drew his hand across his nose with an
audible sniff.

For you, Henry, I have more excuse, as

VOL. I. G

you are younger than Tom, who should have
known better than to lead you astray; but
you too knew that you were doing very
wrong."

"Yes, I did; I did know it was wrong,"
whimpered Henry ; '' but I shouldn't have done
it, indeed I shouldn't, if it hadn't been to see
Blair Athol."

Many people," continued Mr. Blackburn,
*' would call that a very poor excuse, but I
myself have heard worse. I have decided
not to inform your parents what you have
done this time, so as to give you another
chance."

Thank you, sir ; thank you," cried Henry
gratefully, feeling immeasurably relieved.

But I am in duty bound to tell you that
racing is a pernicious pastime, and betting, in
which 1 hear you have indulged, is a sure
pathway to ruin. All this Mr. Jones will have
told you, and I repeat it; but now I must

know what you have really done, so that all
the mischief you have been in may be
apparent."

Then the boys began, and told him from
beginning to end the whole story ; and the
worthy gentleman's eyes twinkled not a little
at the loss of the watch, though he affected
extreme displeasure.

Then as the story went on, and the boys
became more excited over the narrative of the
journey from London to Epsom, he stiffened
his features more than ever into rigid composure.
But when in the mind's eye they
had taken their position on the stand, and,
ever breaking in one upon the other, described
the preliminaries of the Derby, the clerical
countenance began to unbend.

'* Yes, Mr. Blackburn ; and there were Scottish
Chief and General Peel, favourites, and
Ely, and Cambuscan, and heaps of others,'
said Henry.

G 2

"And they all paraded in front of us, and
looked beautiful," added Tom.

No, they didn't ; it was Blair Athol that
looked beautiful, and he came past, led by
Caller Ou ; and oh ! you should just have seen
him go ; it was like ' oil on the ocean,' somebody
said. And then the race, it made you
feel as if your heart was coming right into
your throat ! "

So said Henry, and Tom took up the tale.

And a lot of idiots kept shouting all sorts
of things were winning ; but I saw the whiteface
coming "

Yes, boy, yes," broke in his father ; " goon."



'' Oh ! I can't describe it," cried Tom.
But he came stealing along like clockwork ;
and Scottish Chief and General Peel, and the
whole boiling of them — he squandered them
all just like a lot of old donkeys ; and I
shouted, and Henry here shouted, and as he

passed the post we threw our hats clean away,
and gave such a ' hooray ' as you never heard."

*' Then," interrupted Henry, " to see him
looking so grand as he was led back, and all
the people after him."

It must have been fine indeed, my boys ;
I wish I had been there with you. Good lads,
come on, we'll drink success to Blair Athol
and William Hanson." And the good divine
proceeded downstairs to bring up champagne ;
whispering to his wife, whom he met on the
stairs, " It's no use, my dear ; I knew I should
spoil it all."

But as this part of our story is but introductory
it behoves us to make it brief, and
we will therefore not dilate on the subsequent
events of that year — the astounding defeat of
Blair Athol at York by the Miner, and his
brilliant revenge at Doncaster, when through
the blinding storm of rain he bore his colours
once more gallantly to the fore, and fairly

established himself as the most popular horse
that ever trod the turf of horse-loving Yorkshire.


How the £220 was received by our boys,
and how it was spent, we shall not pause to
relate ; but, having fairly introduced them to
the reader, we shall only add that Henry the
next year was sent off to Rugby, while Tom
was located in a land agent's office at Malton,
and so there was for a time an uninteresting
severance. We shall therefore leave them for
the present, and pass over some four or five
years, hoping by that means to fairly launch
this history into a period of continuous
interest.

CHAPTER VII.

*' Oh, mirth and innocence ! oh, milk and water !
Ye happy mixture of more happy days !
In these sad centuries of sin and slaughter,

Abominable man no more allays
His thirst with such pure beverage. No matter,

I love you both, and both shall have my praise :
Oh, for old Saturn's reign of Sugar Candy !
Meantime I drink to your return in brandy."

Beppo, Lxxx.

It was the summer of 1868, and we find
ourselves and some in whom we are interested
at the somewhat secluded sea-side town of
Salton.

Henry and his sister Mary are there, the
latter in the charge of a highly acidulated old
maid, who has been imported into their family
since the deaths of Mr. and Mrs. JoUifi^e, which

occurred within a short time of one another
some two years previously. The old maid in
question was named Miss Bloomer, and her
duty was simply to play propriety, which she
did with really provoking assiduity.

Mr. JollifFe had left his children in very
comfortable circumstances, and so they were
able to live on at the old house much in
the same way as before his death ; but, unfortunately
for Henry's welfare, his trustees were
a somewhat useless body. Two of them lived
at a distance, and only met on very rare
occasions, while the third, who was more or
less on the spot, was an old gentleman who
was said to have once been clever and businesslike,
but who now had degenerated into a
decidedly inane old bachelor. He had a great
affection for his young ward, but no idea whatever
of in any way controlling or directing
him ; incapable even of detecting anything
wrong when Henry demanded his fixed

monthly allowance regularly every week, and
not only demanded, but also received it.

To such a pass had things gone that Master
Henry, from being the quiet, good, and studious
individual he at one time gave promise of, had
quickly developed into a regular hare-brained
youngster, recognizing no will but his own ;
and on the present occasion was staying away
from school and visiting Saltoun simply because
there was no one to send him back
when the holidays came to an end. His sister
Mary, it is true, expostulated with him, but
to her he said he was ill, and it was necessary
for his health that he should go to the seaside.
The family doctor being called in, Henry
soon succeeded in convincing that worthy
gentleman that he was in a very bad state
indeed, and thus a certificate had been obtained
and forwarded to the authorities at
Rugby some months before the story re-opens
and finds the wayward youth at Saltoun.

But those we have mentioned were by no
means the whole of the party. There too was
Lucy Fitz Eoy, an old school-friend of Mary's,
and the last, but not least, was Tom Blackburn.

Let no one suppose, however, that after the
lapse of four years since we have last seen
him, Tom, being of the same mind as then,
was allured to Saltoun by the charms of his
former goddess — Mary. No, he had changed
all that, and seemed to regard Mary with the
most brother-like affection, while she would
often make merry jests at the reminiscences of
what seemed to both to have been the height
of youthful folly. Tom had grown amazingly
since we last saw him, and was now a stalwart
young man of the most orthodox British
pattern. A fresh open countenance, good
teeth, crisp curling light brown hair, and a
general appearance of boldness, strength, and
activity about him, which was indeed no mere
appearance, but a striking reality, as will be

testified at some time in these pages. Tom
had plodded away for a considerable time with
the land-agent at Malton, and was said to be
very good at the business, but an accommodating
uncle had suddenly died, and enriched
the whole family of Blackburn, leaving Tom
himself no less a sum than £2000 a-year, so
that he was pretty independent.

It was long since his fickle fancy had
changed from Mary — so long, indeed, that he
had had time to love and cease to love others
also before the present date.

Among these was Lucy Fitz Roy, a very
pretty dark-eyed girl, with a wealth of auburn
hair, and a simply exquisite figure. She,
much of the same nature as Tom, had also
loved for a while ; and when she stayed with
Mary at Confers Tom used to be constantly
in attendance, while poor Henry, who had not
yet attained an age that young ladies appreciate,
and who, all oblivious of his early love,

Jessie, was now madly devoted to the fair
Lucy, felt himself cast into the depths of jealous
despondency, and would spend whole solitary
days out in the fields. Upon one occasion he
was even found to be sulking in a ditch, from
which he refused for long to be extracted.
Lucy, however, knew well how to manage
affairs when she once saw what was the
matter, and afterwards, by judicious glances
at the enamoured youth, and the slightest
apparent indications of preference, contrived
to keep him more or less happy, or at any rate
to prevent him from doing anything desperate.
But in no long time Tom ceased to love Lucy,
and she no more cared for him. Strangely
enough, Henry's attachment also came to an
end about the same period, and now they were
all saving: together at Saltoun under the
surveillance of Miss Bloomer, influenced by
nothing but the most platonic feelings towards
one another.

Henry, very different from Tom, seemed
hardly to have grown at all in height during
four years, and more than that, his figure had
assumed a set appearance, which augured
that he would never be a bier one. He was
now about seventeen years old, and had
changed in every way for the better, being
built in the very neatest mould, — a regular
model for a horseman, — with clear cut features,
black curly hair, bright expression, though at
times altered by a mysterious dreamy look
about his big blue eyes, which those who saw
generally remembered.

Despite the precepts of Mr. Jones, he had
never forgotten or given up racing, and indeed
his love for it increased with years, more
especially as the sons and daughters of Blair
Athol now began to appear upon the scene and
give a new zest to the sport, as far as he was
concerned. Blair Athol, it must be remembered,
was still his idol, and as time went on

the pleasing recollections of the day at Epsom
seemed to gather strength and sweetness, so
that the great hero of that day was continually
being placed on a still more lofty pinnacle of
estimation.

But Henry had not got rid of his old world
ideas, and was a shy, retiring sort of youth,
though Tom, who knew him best, said he had
a lot in him really.

Strictly speaking, Tom, who had passed
much of his time at home, was himself not
very forward, as the adventures of the two at
Saltoun presently proved.

They had not been long established before
they discovered one night at a concert a
young lady whom both declared to be
beautiful, and upon enquiry they found her
to be a Miss Hamilton. There was great
excitement to obtain a list of visitors, and to
make out her address. This done, stricken
with love at first sight, the two proceeded that

very night to patrol around the mansion, or
rather lodging-house, until such time as they
began to feel rather cold, and that the course
they were adopting was somewhat purposeless,
when they returned, downcast, to their homes,
confident, however, of being more successful
in some way or other on the morrow.

Saltoun is on the whole a most peculiar
place, having nothing to recommend it excepting
perhaps a very large area of sands,
which, we presume, make it attractive to
children. These same sands, however, inasmuch
as the town lies low, are an intolerable
nuisance to the adult visitor, who finds himself
choked and blinded at every turn of the street
on a windy day. The bathing would indeed
be good but for the fact, that the sea is almost
daily filled by an influx of trippers from
Puddlesbro, Stockton, and other decidedly
black places.

These, having occupied the sea, may frequently

be observed busily engaged with
pieces of soap, washing themselves therein to
the best of their ability ; and in good truth
they generally stand much in need of the
operation, for to the majority the old story
would be found applicable enough, in which a
tripper enjoying a bathe is reported to have
said to his fellow, "Jim, thou looks verra
mucky." To which the pregnant answer,
Why, yer know, / missed f trip last year,"

But the result of all this is, that it is impossible
to go in for saline ablutions at Saltoun
with any degree of satisfaction, excepting
before breakfast, and those whose books this
does not suit must perforce do without it. A
beautiful bathing-place, at the same time, it is,
especially at low water, when the rocks are
uncovered. These, branching from points of
the coast some three quarters of a mile apart,
extend out into the sea for about a mile,
gradually nearing one another until they leave

what seems a natural harbour, though in fact
accessible only to small boats.

Within these rocks the water is as smooth
as a lake, and affords a delightful and comparatively
safe swimming ground to those
who care for it, there being no danger from
under-currents or other frightful paraphernalia
of the sea.

At high water it is different, for then the
rocks are covered, and there is no longer
immunity from peril. Few who have been
there, however, will have failed to become
acquainted with Mr. Skinner, the bathing-machine
proprietor, who is always on the
spot in business hours. This gentleman is
the great life-preserver of the place ; being a
most accomplished swimmer, and possessed of
wonderful endurance, he has, time after time,
distinguished himself by daring rescues ; and
it is well to know this, for from his manner of
discoursing on his prowess, and his anxiety to

VOL. 1. H

have the hardness of his muscles felt, and
his strength generally observed, one is rather
inclined to put him down at first as somewhat
of a braggart, but in reality this is not so.

In those days, with the iron trade flourishing
at Puddlesbro, Saltoun was generally the rendezvous
of many exceedingly wealthy persons
who lived on the principle, " let us eat, drink,
and. be merry," without,' however, imagining
for a moment they would not be able to do
the like next day also. Making vast incomes,
they noue the less spent all, not seeing — as
how should they ? — that the end of their golden
eggs was at hand, the goose being about to flyaway,
perhaps never to return. Among others
there was one who, in spite of the excellence
of trade, never could make both ends meet.
His name was Maxwell Middleton, and his
opinion of himself was considerable. Girls
said he was good-looking , matrons said
nothing of the kind. Men scoffed at the idea.

The truth was, he had a very fair presence,
spoiled only by a singularly weak mouth.
This, however, he managed to completely hide
by the assistance of a fine moustache, and so
he passed muster in all respects. There were
many tales told of him, especially concerning
the reckless and almost mad manner in which
he had accumulated debts — a proceeding which
resulted in his being lodged for a while in
York castle, where he had been an object of
continued solicitude to various enamoured fair
ones ; and when he finally emerged, having
obtained for himself the soubriquet of " Spend
all," he had become so very notorious as to
inevitably attract the female mind at a British
watering-place.

It was not long before, through a mutual
friend, he was introduced to Mary Jolliffe and
her friend Miss Fitz Roy, and they were vastly
pleased with him ; so true is it that there is
nothing succeeds like notoriety, whether good

H 2

or bad ; — and, where ladies are concerned, it is
by no means certain that the latter is not
more attractive. The old Adam is certainly
clearly shown in his daughters, — or it may be,
of course, the old Eve, — for the good young
man never has been and never will be a favourite
among them, while the reprobate is always
hankered after.

This same Maxwell Middleton was not long
in making the best of his opportunities. He
was devoted to music, — Lucy Fitz Roy was a
great songstress, — and] this known, the step to
his coming in to tea, and the exercise of vocal
powers, was not difficult.

Tom and Henry of course did not like him,
partly from genuine motives, and partly from
a dog-in-the-manger kind of feeling that
caused them to resent the idea of Lucy and
Mary preferring any one else to them, although
they themselves were ready enough to fall in
love with countless others.

But with regard to Tom and Henry, it
behoves us to return to them and their doings.

On the morning of the day after they had
discovered the fair one we have akeady
mentioned, they were abroad early parading
on the sands, among the numbers of visitors,
trippers, nurses, children, and others there
assembled, lounging carelessly about, disturbed
only by the occasional rush of a tribe of
donkeys, which their respective boys were
urging on to the highest rate of speed for
the delectation of their motley assortment of
riders.

Our two youths were gazing anxiously on
all sides of them, to descry, if possible, Miss
Hamilton ; but for long they were unsuccessful.
At last, some distance from them, they
perceived a young damsel of neat figure and
attractive appearance. " There she is," cried
Tom, and off they set in pursuit of her. She
was accompanied by a friend, who also seemed

rather a good sort, but Tom and Henry had
eyes only for one. Presently they came near,
and, to their no small edification, the lady as
she passed shot towards them a wonderfully
meaning glance, while they had been much too
slow to in any way avail themselves of the opportunity
thus afforded. Henry next began
to express doubts, and say it wasn't Miss
Hamilton at all, and Tom didn't feel quite
certain ; however, they went on after the two
ladies, who presently turned back and repassed
them, with again the same look from the
wicked eyes. This kind of thing was repeated
many times, and yet the foolish swains were
much too shy, owing to the retired life they
had led, even to put on an appropriate expression
in return, until at last Tom, urged on
by Henry to do something or other, recollected
that among other accomplishments he could
squint in the most atrocious manner. If he
could not flash love-fires from his eyes, he

could at least do this ; and so he went close by
the objects of solicitude the next time with
optics well nigh turned round in their sockets.
This produced a marked effect, as the ladies
were heard and seen to laugh, and had their
admirers been more adventurous it would
have been quite possible to use the advantage
thus obtained in complete furtherance of their
interests. But the truth is, they were most
shy specimens, and durst do no more ; so that,
after Tom had repeatedly squinted in the
above manner, the ladies apparently got tired
of the proceedings, and went off homeward,
leaving their admirers cursing their own
cowardice on the beach. All the time they
were not convinced in their own minds
whether the one was Miss Hamilton or no.

After lunch they were out again, and again
found their charmers, but were still irresolute,
and after dinner it was the same. Not to
weary the reader, I may as well say, in short,

that for the space of about three weeks did
these wretched youths carry on the same game,
without getting any further, in spite of the
most obvious encouragement. It is true that
on one occasion they borrowed a pocket-handkerchief
from Mary, and Tom, having
nerved himself for the desperate effort, actually
took it up to the ladies and asked if either
of them had lost it. They said "No," and
smiled ; but Tom was powerless to say or do
more, and so they bowed and passed on,
leaving him speechless and hopelessly stupid.

Once even it was actually determined to go
and sit down on a seat where the dear ones
had located themselves. This was done ; but
the tongues of both Tom and Henry seemed
glued to the roofs of their mouths, and not a
word would come saving to one another. The
position indeed was one of torment, and they
were absolutely glad to get away.

These proceedings will, of course, appear

sufficiently idiotic to the reader ; but the
narration of them will serve to show the state
of advancement which has been arrived at in
the characters of the two who have to play a
prominent part in this book.

Later on we shall show them in very
different colours. At present the only place
where they seemed to be thoroughly at home
was on horseback, and both were conscious
of appearing to some advantage upon such
occasions. Mary Jolliffe and Lucy Fitz Roy
were also very fond of riding, and Maxwell
Middleton, to judge from his own account,
was a mighty horseman ; so it was not long
before that gay gentleman arranged to accompany
the party on one of their expeditions.
Henry said he would go and order horses,
being particularly anxious to get one, that he
had noticed as being inclined to buck-jumping,
a's a mount for Middleton, for whom he entertained
feelings the reverse of friendly. He

was successful in getting the horse he wanted,
and he and Tom exchanged glances of delight
when they observed the cavalier mount in the
most tailor-like fashion, and take up his reins
in a confused bundle.

The whole party being ready, they now
proceeded sedately enough down to the sands ;
but when they arrived there Middleton's horse
assumed an uneasy deportment, sticking up its
back, and moving along at a pace something
between a walk and a trot. Henry, who
was riding rather behind, thought that the
time was now come, and suddenly caused
his horse to spring forward, as if starting
for a gallop, pulling up again, however,
directly.

Middleton's horse was at once seized with
an emulous spirit to likewise disport itself, and,
as a preliminary, gave a great buck and a kick,
which shot its rider yards away into the soft
sand, whence he rose in time to see the ladies

laughing at him, and his horse galloping back
to the town.

Henry offered to ride and fetch the offending
o; animal back ag-ain, but Mr. Middleton
declined, saying, that the saddle was one on
which no one could possibly ride, so he would
wish them good afternoon, which he did,
looking somewhat crest-fallen. Tom and
Henry did nothing during the rest of the
ride but chaff Mary and Lucy about the horsemanship
of their friend, and therein somewhat
defeated their own objects ; for the spirit of
opposition was roused in the girls, and they
defended Middleton in a way they certainly
would never have done had they been left to
quietly ruminate over the ridiculous exhibition
he had made.

CHAPTER VIII.

There, ye wise saints, behold your Light, your Star —
Ye would be dupes and victims, and ye are ;
Is it enough ? or must I, while a thrill
Lives in your sapient bosoms, cheat you still ? "

Alla Rooks.

Time passed on, and our two youths still continued
their pursuit of the damsel they had
chosen. Henry had even written poetry to her,
and caused one of the donkey-boys to deliver
it to her on the sands, and still, despite the
evidently favourable reception of this missive,
no further move was ventured on. The lady
herself evidently saw that if anything was to
be done she must herself do it, and at length
she wrote upon the sands, with the end of her
umbrella, " an introduction seek." Eagerly
did her admirers when they came up peruse

the much - prized inscription ; but all they
could think of to write by way of reply was,
*' We have sought, but found not." As a
brilliant after-thought, however, one of them
delineated a heart with an arrow stuck through
beneath their reply.

So they passed on, and soon observed the
ladies come and examine what they had
written. It is difficult to imagine anything
further that the gay damsels could have said
by way of encouragement under the circumstances,
so they drew another similar heart and
passed on. To see this heart, and know therefrom
that their attachment was reciprocated,
was a matter of marvellous moment to Tom
and Henry, who became doubly enamoured
from that moment.

The same night, about half-past ten o'clock,
their unquiet spirits would give them no rest,
and leaving Middleton as usual, vocalizing
for the edification of the women-folk, they

wandered forth to view the dwelling to which
the lovely dame always betook herself, together
with her companion, who was probably her
sister. This house was not the one in which
they had been told Miss Hamilton lived, but
that was of no importance. Their informant
was surely mistaken, for they had almost
decided by this time that it was Miss Hamilton
indeed with whom they were engaged.

Passing and repassing the house, they at
length ventured to peep in where the light
shone out through the chinks in the Venetian
blinds. There they saw, to their great astonishment,
an old obese and rubicund gentleman
tete-d-ttte with a tall pale old lady ; bottles,
glasses, hot water, and lemons dispersed ad
libitum over the table, while the two aged
parties in question appeared to have arrived
at a state of speechless and well nigh helpless
intoxication.

As they watched the lady arose, supporting

herself by the table, yet swaying dangerously
to and fro. Lifting with difficulty one
hand, she pointed menacingly at her companion
; but, overpowered by the effort, she
lost her balance and fell forward among the
glasses on the table.

The old gentleman smiled inanely at this,
rubbed his nose, and then with a thoughtful
countenance emptied the contents of his glass
on the head of the lady, whereat the two
admiring watchers burst perforce into loud
laughter. "What then happened they could
not tell, but there was a great crashing of
glasses, and the light went out, after which
presently all was still.

So they left the place which their fancy had
surrounded with a halo of romance, somewhat
disabused of their ethereal ideas, and promising
themselves to investigate the matter more
fully the next night.

After an uneventful day they betook themselves,

according to their resolve, about eleven
o'clock at night to the mysterious mansion,
determined to penetrate more deeply into the
secret orgies of the bibulous old couple they
had seen. Indeed it was almost decided, incase
they found the same state of affairs again,
that they should demand admittance at the
door, and, boldly greeting the aged topers,
join their carouse, in hopes that they might
thereby be brought by lucky chance into communication
with the adorable daughter of the
house.

The moon was shining brightly, and the
town was very still, the steady-going inhabitants
having, as a rule, gone to their rest. No
policeman's footfall broke the serene silence ;
but hard by could be heard the quiet sighing
of the sea as the tide came slowly creeping in.

The house in question was one of the longstreet
which forms nearly the whole of Saltoun.
It was of good size, but there was no railing

or anything to protect the bay-windows of the
ground-floor from the street. Almost opposite
was a small hotel — the Need Bear.

Arrived on the spot, Tom and Henry immediately
proceeded to look once more into the
room which the previous night had rendered
so notable. To their disappointment, however,
the old man was not there, and the good lady,
though indeed present, and with a bottle on
the table, did not appear as yet, at any rate,
to have been imbibing too freely. As, with
lingering curiosity, they still watched her,
they were startled by the sudden advent of a
man, who, however, proved to be one Jack
Preston, a friend, and he was quite noisy in
his questions as to what was going on. Very
soon he too became silently interested in looking
through the Venetian blinds. The old
dame was evidently getting on good terms
with herself, and was vigorously attacking
the bottle.

VOL. I. I

Unfortunately, however, a gust of wind
coming unexpectedly blew off Tom's hat with
a good deal of violence against the window.

With the most extraordinary alacrity the
lady sprang to her feet, rushed from the room
to the front door, and dashed it open so quickly
that Tom, who was standing on the side of the
window nearest to it, had no time to pick up
his hat and escape. Henry and Preston, however,
succeeded in getting round to the other
side of the window, where they were effectually
hidden for the time being.

Tom, being thus caught, as it were, in
flagrante delicto, with admirable presence of
mind decided at once to feign drunkenness,
thinking, on the one hand, it would form an
excuse for his being there against the window,
apparently without aim or object ; on the other,
that the good house-wife might consider him a
kindred spirit, and invite him in.

Henry and Preston, listening intently from

their recess, heard Tom thus addressed : " Oh !
what is this I what is this ? What a sorrow
you are to your poor parents ! what shame and
grief you have brought upon them ! "

Tom, meanwhile, reeled to and fro before her,
purposely keeping his head down so that she
could not see his face. Thinking she was reading
him. a lecture on general principles, he replied,
"Don't care for my parents; say, old
girl, let's go in and have a drink."

Whereupon, to the unutterable astonishment
of the listeners, as well as that of Tom himself,
the " old girl " burst forth, '' Oh ! Fred, Fred,
my Fred ! you'll be the death of your poor
mother, you will ; indeed you will."

Tom, despite his surprise, was quite sharp
enough to see through the mistake, and kept
his face out of sight more diligently than ever,
and adopted a tone of whining contrition.

Henry and Preston could keep back no
longer, so anxious were they to see the sport ;

so, having quietly crept a little way up the
street, they turned and came walking back
like to ordinary passers-by. Of course when
they came to Tom and his supposed mother
they stopped, and enquired what was the
matter.

Oh, you must know, sir," said she,
addressing Henry, '' we had got him out to
Australia, into a nice business, and we believed
he was quite cured, and the last accounts were
that he was doing so well ; but you see after
all sie licks come hack like this,'^ pointing to Tom,
who had withdrawn into the shadow, and was
apparently propping himself against the wall.

The absurdity of the old lady's delusion in
taking Tom for her own son was too much for
Henry, who burst out laughing in her face.

Most unfeeling young man ! " cried she,
withering him with a glance, " if you lead had
to bear with him a hundredth part of what I
have you would not laugh thus."

Henry certainly felt that, as he was not
supposed to know the story was anything but
true, it certainly did appear a little rough on
the aggrieved mother to laugh at her in this
manner ; so he hastened to make some lame
excuse, saying that it was only the ridiculous
appearance of Fred at present that had moved
him, but that he sympathized with her
deeply.

Further parley was cut short by the adorable
one and her friend, who turned out to be her
sister, coming hastily out of the house arrayed
in the most pleasing of dressing-gowns, and ina
general state of charming deshabille. Our
friends never for an instant doubted but that
they would see through the matter at once,
but trusted that they would be alive to the
fun and carry it on. So when they rushed upto
Tom, and, seizing him by the hands, called
him '^ Fred," he thought it was all sham on
their part, and actually stole an arm round

one of their waists, causing apparently thereby
intense astonishment. But now they were
leading him, still staggering and reluctant,
to the door, where stood the mother in full
light of the gas.

'' Come in, Fred, come in," they cried ;
but Tom, dreading discovery from the old
one, drew back, broke away from them, and
rushed across the road into the public house,
followed by a wail of dismay from his much-pained
relatives.

The mother was the first to speak or act.
*^ I shall send Jane at once for your papa ; he
is at the Red Lion," and in she rushed to
despatch the message.

Preston slipped across the road after Tom ;
but Henry, who could not imagine that the
girls also were deceived, remained with them —
the three now standing nearly in the middle
of the road. To him the two young ladies
were most communicative, telling him all

about the evil propensities of their brother
that they had all so hoped were reformed.

But," said Henry, still incredulous, '* are
you quite sure it is your brother ? "

*' Oh, yes ! " cried they both ; '' and," added
the adored one, *' I could tell him anywhere
among a thousand."

This was a staggerer for Henry, who could
not, however, even yet conceive that the minds
of three people should have arrived at such a
pitch of methodical idiocy as to feel sure that
a person whose face they had not been able to
see was their brother, whom, up to that moment,
they considered safe at the Antipodes.
Just then, by a happy thought, Tom came
walking out of the hotel in his proper person —
upright and sober.

Why," said Henry, still anxious to test the
reality of the mistake, " here he is, is he not ? "

Oh, no ! " replied the elder sister, '* Fred
couldn't possibly walk like that."

Acting his part admirably, Tom walked upto
the group and said, " There is such a
drunken scoundrel in there, you never saw
anything like it."

Then indeed did the irony of the situation
become perfect, when the hitherto adorable
one turned fiercely on Tom, and drawing herself
up, exclaimed, "Whatever you may
think, sir, if you have any gentlemanly feeling
you will refrain from such observations in my
presence, when I tell you that that ' drunken
scoundrel ' is my brother !'

Of course there was nothing for Tom to do
but to humble himself to the earth, and implore
forgiveness for his inadvertent sin.

Just then, who should walk up but the
father of the family, who had been called from
his potations at the Red Lion, and coming
grumbling along, was not a little astonished
to see his daughters, sparsely clad, holding
converse in the highway.

What is this parliamentary assembly ? "
he enquired ; to which his daughters made
answer by dashing into the story of the outrageous
conduct of Fred.

The old man, though pretty well "on,"
was so evidently more sensible in his remarks
than the rest of his family that Tom and
Henry, making some excuse, thought it wise
to decamp, which they did once more into
the hotel, where they found Preston and the
landlord, with whom they had a good laugh
over the adventure.

Now at last Preston said he knew the people
well enough.

Their name's Hamilton, isn't it ? " asked
Tom.

Hamilton ! no ; it's Jones — Jones the
Coroner of Puddlesbro, you know."

And so it was not Miss Hamilton after
nil they had been so ardently pursuing, but
Miss Jones ! The shock was great, and the

revulsion of feeling violent ; but Tom and
Henry were not then in a state to be unduly
depressed. Reflection would come with
the morrow.

While the party were thus comfortably
sitting in the bar-parlour a knock came.
Would Mr. Preston be good enough to go
over to Mr. Jones's ? " This was alarming,
but there was nothing for it but to go.

The others waited expectant for his return,
which took place within about half-an-hour's
time.

Well, what happened ? "

*' Oh," said Preston, " when I went in there
were the family sitting round the table as
solemn as judges ; and old Jones asked me if
his son was still here, and what he was donor.
I thought it best to say he had been put to
bed, and seemed all right for the present. ' Is
he indeed ? ' cried the old man. ' I know him :
hell get up in the night and break all our

windows ; he always does. A fine bill 1 shall
have to pay for him at the hotel too, I'll be
bound *0h, poor fellow!' broke in the old
woman, '1 know he's got a bad cold, for I
shouldn't have recognized his voice at all.' Then,
after a little more conversation, I bade them
good night and escaped."

Capital ! " said Tom, " couldn't be better.
I say, landlord, I think after that we ought to
have some champagne, and put it down to
Fred Jones."

The landlord laughed, but was evidently
becoming puzzled as to how he should act
under the circumstances, not wishing to spoil
the joke, and yet unable to show that Fred
Jones really was in his house.

As he feared, Mr. Jones's servant again
came over, and this time asked to see him,
and demanded, point blank, whether Mr. Fred
Jones were in the house.

The landlord was obliged to say that the

gentleman was not there to his knowledge,
and the servant went, very shortly to return,
asking Mr. Preston once more to step across
the road.

Somewhat in fear he set off, and again,
after a short interval, returned.

The old gentleman had greeted him in high
and mighty style. " What is this cock-and-bull
story, sir ? My son has never been in the
hotel at all as you said ; mind, sir, I will not
be trifled with in this manner." To which
Preston had replied, that he hoped Mr. Jones
did not mean to cast any aspersion on himself
or his friends. All he could say was, that
a man who, if Mrs. Jones was to be believed,
was her son, for she had so declared him in
his presence, had gone and lodged himself in
an apparently very drunken condition at the
hotel opposite. Of course he didn't know who
the man was, but had naturally concluded Mrs.
Jones was a good authority on the subject.

He didn't know his (Mr. Jones's) son by sight,
and didn't wish to ; but had spoken on the
faith of Mrs. Jones's statement, and so on. In
the event Mr. Jones apologized to Preston,
and asked him to drink with them, which he
declined, being glad to get away.

The gay party then dispersed to their homes ;
and Mr. Jones was left in a state of pleasing
certainty that he and his family had been
made fools of, but, unfortunately, by some
person or persons unknown.

It was long before Tom and Henry could
bring themselves to regard this story as anything
but a brilliant dream, for the whole
thing seemed so incredible. In fact, the pig-beaded
obstinacy which should lead a mother
to claim as her son some one whose face she
cannot see, and whose voice she does not
recognize, — the son being up to that moment
supposed to be in Australia, — surpasses all
understanding ; and would never be written

here were it not strictly true that the event
did happen. The truth of the narrative is its
only excuse ; were it a fiction it would be a
clumsy one, being, as it is, so utterly on the
fiice of it improbable.

CHAPTER IX.

My love's a child, and thou canst say
How much his little age may be,
Por he was born the very day

When first I set my eyes on thee." — Moore.

We must now change the scene to another
house, no less a place than that wherein
abode the veritable Miss Hamilton, in mistake
for whom the susceptible youths had
engaged in their long pursuit of Miss Jones.

The house was one of the best of those
facing the sea in Slingsbyby, which, it may be
well to mention, adjoins the old town of Saltoun,
so as to be apparently one with it, though
in reality far otherwise, as the rivalry between
the respective inhabitants amply testifies.

The two places together do not form one

decent-sized town ; and yet to such lengths
of folly has their hostility carried them, that
they have, since the date of the events here
chronicled, set up opposition promenade piers
extending far into the sea, either one of which
would have been more than enough for the
requirements of both places.

One thing is obvious to those who look at
the two places, and that is, that the houses in
Slingsbyby are new and fairly attractive, while
those in Saltoun are ancient and savouring offish
; but our friends Tom and Henry were
completely conservative, and so went in for
the old place at the expense of comfort.

But let us look inside this Slingsbyby house,
to which in imagination we have been brought.
There are sitting at luncheon in gorgeous
state, and waited on by obsequious liveried
servants, the family of Hamilton.

Captain Hamilton comes of a good old
strain, and well known in the neighbourhood

a neat-looking little man of about fifty, and
withal an obvious gentleman. Somewhat
long in the nose he seems, but then so was
Cicero, if one may trust the pictures of him ;
and this gallant Captain is said to have done
her Majesty good service more than once in
past years.

But although a man may be bold, and amiable,
and a gentleman, it by no means follows
that he will shape himself a clever course in
life ; and Captain Hamilton in his days of
younger folly had taken to himself Middle.
St. Ange — nee, Jenny Hodgekinson — to wife,
and she was a ballet-girl, or what is euphemistically
spoken of as such.

Why the Captain had done this no one knew,
nor indeed is it ever known why any man
ever makes a fool of himself in this manner,
possibly because man is weak and woman's
wit is strong; but certain it is that he might
have done worse, for Jenny never gave him

VOL. I. K

an instant's anxiety after the knot was tied,
except indeed as to whether or not she would
be guilty of some breach of etiquette when
receiving or entertaining guests. On this
point indeed she always kept him on thorns ;
for her experience was absolutely nil, and her
mode of diction singularly devoid of aspirates
in moments of excitement.

As years went on, however, with the shrewd
instincts of her sex, she had learned much and
improved greatly ; but as Captain Hamilton
was then by no means so wealthy as the regular
lot of Iron Princes of the district, Mrs Hamilton
had not as yet quite gone down among
them, though goodness knows there were few
of them whose pedigrees would bear sifting.

She was very good-looking, and that was a
point that they, or rather their wives, could
not get over. She was above the middle
height, fair, with good complexion and beautiful
eyes, a rare figure, and a merry expression,

that always made her a favourite with the
male division of her friends, and in consequence
retarded her social progress.

Her daughter Kate, at the time now spoken
of, was only fourteen years old, but a complete
prodigy for her age, as no one would have
guessed her at less than seventeen. She was
a most promising beauty, with all the gay air
of her mother, and a touch of refinement,
leavening the whole thrown in by the father.
Her features were simply perfect, indeed the
eyes were terrible in their tremulous twinkle
lings of mirth, sentiment, fun, love, and mischief.
She was fair, like her mother, and her
figure promised to be equally good. No
wonder was it she had attracted the attention
of Tom and Henry.

There were also a young brother of some
eight summers, named Jack, and two small
sisters, Ethel and Beatrice ; and supreme over
the family, from Kate downwards, reigned Miss

K 2

Atkins the governess, who had perhaps hardly
come to years sufficiently productive of discretion
for her post. Indeed, it is by no means
certain that Miss Kate and she had not
arrived at a mutual understanding, by which
the good parents might be effectually hoodwinked
as to the proceedings of both or either
of them.

Kate was indeed a marvellously consummate
flirt, especially when her age is taken into
consideration, and it would have needed a
very strong hand indeed to keep her in check ;
but being, as she was, rather encouraged than
otherwise by Miss Atkins, it is small wonder
that she was ready for almost any outrageous
escapade.

It happened that on the occasion Tom and
Henry had first seen her she had also noticed
them ; and, whether struck by the obvious
admiration expressed in the shy glances Henry
kept casting on her, or liking the look of him,

or by mere chance, she took a fancy to him,
and acknowledged on their return to Miss
Atkins, that there was such a nice fellow there,
who kept looking at her, and she was quite in
love with him, and Miss Atkins must help her
to get an introduction to him, and a lot more
of that sort of thing.

The bliss of Henry would indeed have been
great could he have heard this conversation
going on inside the house, but he little dreamed
of it ; and the next morning, to Miss Kate's
great disgust, she found herself obliged to go
off on a long-promised visit to a rich uncle
who lived near Arlington.

She was indeed utterly at her wits' end, for
she didn't know Henry's name, so couldn't
write to him ; and Miss Atkins didn't know
him by sight, so couldn't find out.

"' Oh ! do you think he will be here when I
come back. Miss Atkins ? " asked she.

My dear Kate, how can I tell ? Never

mind, you are sure to find some one else where
you are going," replied the governess.

Oh, no, no ! I shall never find any one
like him. He is just a darling ! "

From this it will be seen that Henry had
been idealized by the young lady's vivid
imagination into all that could be desirable.
Certain it is in a case like this that " absence
makes the heart grow fonder " — at any rate
when there is any one like Miss Atkins to
make a confidante of, and to whom you may
*' talk up " the object of your attention into
the highest realms of sentiment, and from
slight beginnings weave a fancied web of love.

It is indeed probable that, but for being able
to have a chat with Miss Atkinson on the subject
of Henry, Kate would have gone away and
forgotten all about him very soon ; but as it
was, her interest was now fixed, and she went,
imagining herself the victim of love at first
sight, and in terrible tribulation at the unfortunate

duty visit which had thus crossed her
cherished hopes. Her unsuspecting parents
thought that her grief was due to parting
with them, and highly esteemed this display
of filial affection, so that she was able to exact
from them a promise to let her return sooner
than had originally been intended. With this
slight consolation she departed, and her three
weeks' absence will account for the ill success
that Tom and Henry had in their quest after
her during that time.

It is perhaps needless to say, that Kate
Hamilton was in no way whatever like Miss
Jones, and how any one could ever have made
a mistake concerning them it is difficult to
understand ; but then, people have not always
their wits about them in such matters.

On the day at which we have now arrived
Kate had returned in great anxiety to find
whether the beloved one was still at Saltoun, or
whether he had gone and left her no trace of

his whereabouts. Miss Atkins could not tell.
There was not much going on, she said : two
young fellows had been making fools of themselves
by following that Miss Jones about
wherever she went, and were supposed to have
made some row or other where she was living

o

with her parents a night or two back. She
couldn't understand how they could be so
idiotic as to think anything of the girl.

Who are they, Miss Atkins ? do tell me ;
what are they like ? " cried Kate, instinctively,
and half jealously guessing at the truth.

Oh, one is called Blackburn and the other
Jolliffe ; they are staying with sisters and an
old lady in Saltoun. Mr. Blackburn is a big,
good-looking fellow enough ; but the other is
young, and, besides, too small for my taste."

Has he black hair and big blue eyes ? " is
the breathless query.

'eyes,. I believe he has, dear; rather soft-looking
eyes I call them."

** Soft-looking ! How dare you talk of him
in that way, Miss Atkins ? It is he, I know
it is he ! "

'' Who, dear ? "

Don't pretend you don't know now.
Where is he ? Is his name JollifFe, do you
say ? I like the name. I must see him at
once. Oh, how I hate that Jones girl ! He
can't surely think much of her."

My dear Kate, how you do run away with
an idea ! Mr. JollifFe may not be the individual
you took such a fancy to at all, though
I mast confess, on second consideration, he is
attractive enough from some points of view ;
but I like men, you know, and this is only a boy."

I tell you I know it is he ; and I'll never
forgive you for saying he was soft-looking,
though you try to get out of it now. He's
quite old enough for me, I can tell you, though
any one of your age is likely enough to want
something older."

"Now, Kate dear, don't be angry ; I didn't
say he was soft-looking, I said his eyes were,
meaning dreamy-looking, sentimental, — you
understand," said Miss Atkins, soothingly, for
she could not afford to quarrel with Kate.

Why," cried Kate, " if that's what you
mean, it's just the very thing I love ! "

Of course, dear ; now there's the luncheon-bell
; we will go out, and very likely see him,
afterwards."

80 Kate and her governess went down-stairs
from their secret confabulation, and Captain
and Mrs. Hamilton were delighted to see their
daughter so apparently overjoyed, at having
returned to them.

While luncheon was thus proceeding Captain
Hamilton espied, walking past their house, a
well-known figure. " Why, there's Leroy ! "
cried he. " James, run out and tell Mr. Leroy
we are here, and shall be glad to see him.
Bless my soul, how people do turn up when

one least expects them ! " The obsequious
James did his bidding, and presently returned
with a middle-sized, rather stout gentleman,
with heavy moustache, and a cold, gray eye.

Halloo, Hamilton, this is a pleasure. I
beg your pardon, Mrs. Hamilton ; how are
you, and Kate too ? I've just come down here
for a week or two on business. Horrid hole,
isn't it ? "

Well, it's not very gay, certainly," 'said
Mrs. Hamilton ; *' but then it's so nice for the
children, and we have relations near here, you
know."

Sit down and have some lunch," interposed
the Captain, " and we can talk afterwards.
James, another chair."

Mr. Leroy, however, anticipated James, and
placed his chair by the side of Kate, and
immediately began to enter into conversation
with her. Kate, however, seemed very absent,
and often at a loss for an answer to the most

Hlaik AriioL.

coiiiiiuMi jihtt'c rciii;irks. till lie was fain lo.tnvo
lier up i(U- a w liilc in dcspaii-.

Mr. Lion . il is as well (o inciil ion licic, was
at this I iiiic altoiil I lint \'-l wo Ncai-s t)M, lo
was a solicitor l>\ profession, hus 1)\ no means
oontiiH'd Ills ciicr.'Mcs to Ills Ic'Mt iinatc luisinc^ss,
l)('in«jj rather iiuriiicil towards pi-oils nion^
rapi(ll>' arcriicil lilian lt the oriliiiar\' dull
routine. lie had lor some while been in
alliaiiee with various (herman-Jew I'lnaneiers,
who found his heal hnowledirc value, and
had li;;ured as the solicitor of many Joint,
stock eompaiiit's that had been \er\ protlt allot
all t'xeept the shareholders. Captain
hamilton he had lt some means rj){ an
slit rodiiel ion to duiiie;' (he London season
l)etoi\' last, and. heliiLi ;dale to make himself
Ver pleasant when he liked, lu' had Gradually
crept into the petition of the Captain's family
solicitor; his only season for not speedily
cnriehinL;- himself iVom that position heiiii;-, that

he had takfm a strange fancy to Kate, and
proposed to himself to marry her in a few
years' time, and thus come in for a good share
of money which he found was settled on herby
her grandmother, and also have the
advantage of allying himself with a well-known
family.

Kate was by no means averse from the
attentions of any male being, and so, for lack
of better amusement, had smiled graciously on
Mr. Leroy, — Frank, as she soon learned to call
him, — and felt quite important over the matter;
but now she had changed all that. She had
something much better on hand, and '' Frank "
turning up at this juncture became *' Mr.
Leroy" once more, and positively odious to her.

He was at present engaged on behalf of his
London friends in negotiating the purchase of
some land in the vicinity of Puddlesbro, where
ironstone was said to exist ; and the ultimate
(object was the floating of the National Ironworks

Company Limited, of which we shall
hear more anon. He was highly pleased,
however, to find the Hamiltons, for he had no
idea they had gone north ; and he promised
himself an excellent period in which to establish
his hold firmly on the impressionable Kate.
In this he did not show his customary astuteness
; for any judge of the sex could have told
him that a girl of fourteen, no matter how
much a woman she may be in appearance, is
not notably enduring in her attachments, and
he who makes play with her at first is sure to
be out of it in the long run.

It is quite probable Kate was already tired
of the artificial attentions of this admirer, and
would therefore in any case have avoided him ;
but with Henry in view the matter was quite
obvious. Leroy must be utterly left out in
the cold.

She took an early opportunity to escape
from the room with Miss Atkins ; and the

two, quickly putting on their things, slipped
out of the house in alarm lest the obnoxious
visitor should hear and wish to accompany
them.

It was a lovely afternoon as they strolled
down upon the sands. The tide was low, and
multitudes of bare-lodged children were disporting
themselves among the rocks, sailing
boats, collecting seaweed, catching crabs and
sea-anemones, or otherwise indulging in wooden
spade and tin-can enjoyments. Nurses sat
reading novels or working upon the soft sand
or ancient reversed boats, and all was peaceful,
save where a Punch and Judy was performing
for the edification of a motley crowd of all
ages, sexes, and conditions, that stood round it
on the beach.

But Kate and Miss Atkins cared for none
of these things. They walked rapidly along,
carefully gazing in all directions, but apparently
without result.

They probably are in their house yet,"
said Miss Atkins, and the two walked on
silently.

Now Miss Atkins had come to the conclusion
that, as Kate was bent on attacking Henry, it
would be convenient enough if she selected
Tom for her amusement. He would do very
well, she thought ; in fact, she did not know
there was any one better in Saltoun, and then
there would be the pleasure of cutting out
Miss Jones.

So, then, Tom and Henry were thus predestined
to be victims of the governess and
her charge ; and all this while they were not
very far off, quite unconscious of the honour
in store for them.

As far as the governess went, of course her
conduct was of hopelessly bad form ; but it is
to be feared there are many like her. Kate,
on the other hand, was excusable by her youth
and the bad example set her ; so that the

reader must not think too hardly of her as
yet. At her time of life we have most of
us played the fool one way or another, and
probably should have played it still more had
opportunity offered and occasion invited.

Suddenly Kate uttered a half-suppressed
exclamation, '' There he is ! " and looking
quickly in the direction indicated. Miss Atkins
beheld, seated on the sand against the side of
one of the old boats, the two Misses Jones,
for whom Tom appeared to be making prodigious
sport from his place between them,
while Henry was standing on the bottom of
the boat, evidently shy and ill-appease, pretending
to evince prodigious interest as to
whether or not he could walk along the keel
without falling. At that moment he saw Kate
looking steadfastly at him, and blushed scarlet ;
then, in his nervousness, slipped and rolled
down on the heads and backs of Tom and the
ladies, causing dire confusion and dismay ;

VOL. I. L

while the cause of it all was fain to pass
on, bitterly reviling those horrid girls, and
wondering if Henry had hurt himself, and why
he had looked so confused.

Henry was in despair. He had seen the
goddess whom he had taken upon himself to
adore, the very idea of whom had now made
him loathe Miss Jones and her sister, because
his heart had been false enough to make him
follow them in mistake. What a mistake !
'' Oh what idiots we must have been!" thought
he. But the terrible thing was to have thus
been seen by her with these counterfeit young
ladies, to have appeared to her as the companion
and admirer of these, and then to have capped
all by falling off the boat in that ludicrous and
ignominious fashion ! He had actually heard
her laugh ! Was ever any one seen for the
first time by the object of his affections under
more disadvantageous circumstances ?

Tom too, despite his present position, had

observed who it was that went past. He was
much more matter-of-fact than Henry, but
even he was surprised that he should ever
have taken the very ordinary Miss Jones for
such a beauty as Kate ; and even he felt he
would like to dispense with the society he had
just been revelling in, since something so very
superior appeared on the scene.

In fact, the pursuit of Miss Jones had proved
infinitely more diverting than association with
her. The climax had arrived in her capture,
and the natural consequence of rapid cooling
down ensued.

But to Miss Jones this was not so at all,
and she was by no means disposed to retire
from the position she now occupied ; nay,
rather, when she saw Tom looking restlessly
around — in reality anxious to escape — she
whispered to him to come for a walk, and
the wretched Tom was obliged to go whither
she listed, meeting Kate and Miss Atkins once

L 2

more as he was taken along at a rapid pace
towards Maltburn.

Henry, to ^ his disgust, was left alone with
the young Miss Jones, sitting by the boat,
and knew not what to do ; he was indeed
thoroughly out of his element, having not yet
reached the age when conversation suitable for
the female mind flows readily to the tongue.

But the younger Miss Jones proceeded to
draw him out, by showing him a photograph
she had just had taken ; and Henry felt bound
to ask for it, which the lady indignantly at
first refused, till he waxing bolder, and she
more yielding, he possessed himself of the
cherished picture just at the moment Kate
and her governess walked close past on their
return route from behind the boat, and saw
what he was doing.

Henry uttered an exclamation of astonishment,
then cast an appealing look at Kate, and
buried his face in his hands.

'nasty forward girl! How could he sit
there and take her photograph ? " cried Kate,
when they had passed on.

'* Perhaps he could t get away," said Miss
Atkins ; '' and he couldn't help taking her
photograph if she offered it, as I've no doubt
she did. I'm sure Mr. Blackburn looked
anxious to escape from the other ! "

Oh, I'm so glad you think so. I believe
you are really right. Did you see what a
look he gave me ? Oh, those eyes, those eyes !
I hate that girl."

And now Mr. Leroy and Captain Hamilton
arrived on the scene, so there was no more
good to be done that day.

CHAPTER X.

But since he crossed the rapid tide.
According to the doubtful story,
To woo, — and — Lord knows what beside,
And swam for love as I for glory.

'Twere hard to say who fared the best ;

Sad mortals ! Thus the gods still plague you !
He lost his labour, I my jest :

Por he was drowned, and I've the ague." — Byron.

The Misses Jones were now at a discount,
though with difficulty avoided ; and a fresh
and more exciting pursuit commenced after
Kate and Miss Atkins.

There is no need to go into the little
minutiae of this — how Kate smiled invitingly,
and Miss Atkins glanced wickedly, or how
Henry became distraught with love, — quite
different this time from the last, — and Tom

fell into a pleasing doubt as to whether the
budding charms of Kate or the matured
graces of Miss Atkins were the more worthy
of his regard.

Mr. Leroy would, so far as possible, inflict
his company on the ladies, or, when snubbed
beyond endurance and compelled to leave
them, would prowl around within view like an
evil spirit ; and already his sharp eye had
detected our youths, and the preference displayed
towards them. Henry, who dared not
attempt the feat of speaking to his goddess,
by way of consolation made friends with her
brother Jack, and highly entertained that
urchin by treating him to donkey and pony
rides on the sands, dilating to him during the
intervals upon the excellence of his sister. All
these things, you may be sure. Master Jack was
required to retail to that young lady afterwards,
and much satisfaction she derived
therefrom.

But matters were growing serious. Henry
had absolutely attained to a poetical frame of
mind, and with much travail ejected from his
brain a series of romantic verses brilliant in
imagination. This was done at dead of night, '
and when he had written them down he
showed them to Tom next morning, who had
pretty much the same ideas of poetry as the
elder Mr. Weller, yet was wise enough to know
that women, especially young or old ones,
liked that sort of thing ; consequently he
declared Henry had done well, and the
sooner they were delivered to the lady the
better.

This matter was soon arranged through the
medium of a dishevelled donkey-boy, one of
the tribe who had now become well acquainted
with the gentlemen who were always hiring
their donkeys and ponies for Jack.

It was a bright sunny morning, and Kate
with her governess were sitting as secluded as

they could make themselves on one of the
remotest seats near the sea wall. The frequent
tripper was already disporting himself in his
various ways — various, that is, in outward
show, yet with the same vein of drunkenness
running; throuo^h- all, the same desire to make
everyone else the victim of clownish gibes and
jests. The sea is black with bathing humanity,
indiscriminate of sexes.

Here you may see five women emerge with
shrieks and timorous foot-dipping all from one
machine, imagining, when barely ancle-deep
they dash the ends of their hair in the brine,
that they have taken a thorough dip, much
panting and clutching at machine steps being
necessary to recover from it. These invariably
have secured the bathing-robes least matching
their sizes, and before long get into hopeless
complications, when they venture out a little
further, with the rude waves and their surging
garments, whereat arise shrieks from them, and

unquenchable laughter from their chosen
swains, either on the beach or bathing near at
hand.

Here too you may see the stalwart John —
mindful mid his ablutions that he has forgotten
to order a repast — walk like a sea-god well-nigh
on to the shore, and cry aloud, '' Mary
Ann," and Mary Ann advance, simpering, from
the crowd to where the waters come lapping upto
her feet scarce five yards distant from him,
and, with a feeble effort at a blush, hearkens
to his behests, and hurries off to order the
beefsteak and onions that his soul loves.

Others take delight to tempt the dangers of
the deep otherwise, escorted by ancient fishermen
in the most secure of boats. These
perhaps recover from the effects of their day's
pleasure sooner than any of the rest, for the
excess they have already indulged in ere long
departs from them, and they have not, when
they land, an affection to any further unctuous

victuals or brain-firing drink, so that in the
morning they wake heartier than their fellows.

But it must not be thought these sights
were any source of attraction to Tom and
Henry. They but had eyes for that seat, some
hundred yards away, where they beheld the
ladies of their choice ; for, on mature reflection,
Tom had decided to arrange the matter conveniently
by leaving Kate to Henry, and himself
laying siege to the heart of Miss Atkins,
with whom his ripe experience told him he
could expect a much more wicked sport than
the other.

The Misses Jones had passed once or twice
and been unnoticed, so they turned and went
away in a rage, resolved to find other and
more worthy admirers.

And now with strict directions and injunctions
the poem, addressed to Miss Hamilton,
was entrusted to the donkey-boy and sent on
its way, while Tom and Henry lay on the

soft sand in feigned nonchalance, and scarce
dared to look towards that seat and the approaching
messenger for very fear and nervous
apprehension. Indeed, when they saw the boy
absolutely deliver his missive and depart
Henry turned away, dreading to behold it
scornfully torn and cast aside ; but Tom looked
on, and declared that they were both reading
it most earnestly ; so Henry gazed too, and
saw the sweet Kate bending over what he had
written, and this filled his heart with joy.
Presently the ladies arose and walked close
past where the two still lay ; and Kate, as she
drew Henry's very heart out of him towards
her, so ravishingly lovely did she appear, from
the sunny tresses of her shapely head to the
yellow sand - boots on her little feet, — this
fourteen years old woman, Kate, looked on him
with such love, such ill-suppressed invitation
from the wondrous darting glances of her eyes,
that the boy — for boy he was — stared paralysed

'A

until she was gone, and then cursed himself
for an oaf and a dullard in not having availed
himself of the occasion.

Miss Atkins had looked mischief at Tom,
and Tom had winked at her, such differences
are there in the human race !

But now when the plot was thickening,
Mr. Leroy, having spent his morning amid
draft agreements to purchase the land he had
come after, and many other intricate arrangements
of prospectuses, engineer's reports, and
computed profits, bore down upon the scene,
and, exercising his privilege of acquaintance,
walked off with the disappointed dames, who
could hit on no scheme to rid them of his
odious presence.

No more during that day was opportunity
favourable, and in the evening Tom and Henry
were condemned to do duty by accompanying
Mary and Lucy on the sea, so as to enable
that fool of a Middleton " to make one of

the party without the presence of Miss Bloomer.
The voyage was-uninteresting, as there was a
heavy ground swell on, and when fishing was
attempted, and the long oily rollers carried the
boat with slow rise and agonizing fall up and-down,
when this was done, I say — well, the
expedition became still more uninteresting to
all concerned except Henry, who was a good
sailor, and who took a fiendish pleasure in
seeing Middleton go through the various
stages of changing colour, till with green complexion
he seized an oar and rowed, violently
at times, and at times feebly, all the way to
shore safely ; but, though supper awaited him
and promised music, he made excuse to go
home and change his coat, and was seen no
more that night, except indeed that Tom
declared that he descried him from the topmost
window, a melancholy figure, walking
alone by the sad sea-shore.

In the morning Henry received a letter

written in a big, bold hand, and when he read
it the light of joy, not unmixed with mirth,
broke forth on his countenance, as well it
might do, for the letter ran thus : —

If you love me, and would like a good
introduction to my people, be on the beach tomorrow
with a white feather in your hat, and
if I see that, I shall, when I go to bathe,
pretend to be drowning, and you must come
and rescue me, and then they will all be so
grateful to you."

No more, — but was not this enough, in all
conscience 1 Henry was certain who had
written this letter, and the excellence of the
conceit fairly carried him away till he remembered
he was such an indifferent swimmer :
still, the sea would be quite calm, and she
probably would not go out far ; anyhow he
would do it, even if he drowned himself.
Should he tell Tom ? no, he thought not ; it
would be such a joke to deceive even Tom : so

he pulled a white feather out of his pillow and
stuck it in his hat before going out, and Tom
said he must be an idiot for doing such a
thing.

This was not a " trip " day, and so it was
possible for reasonable beings to bathe, though
it is seldom such an opportunity occurs at
Saltoun ; and down on to the beach ere long,
with various paraphernalia, came Kate and
Miss Atkins.

Soon they spied and were spied by our
heroes, and one glance showed Kate the white
feather conspicuous in Henry's hat. It was
enough, and without more she vanished into a
cumbrous bathing - machine, which anon was
drawn creaking out into the smooth lake-like
sea.

And Henry stood and gazed at that machine
as if his eyes would penetrate within it ; but
he was thinking not of that, only anxiety
and excitement were strangely tempering his

pleasure at the prospect, so that he even
trembled as he stood, and half fancied himself
afraid. " Ha ! there she is 1 " He had
drawn with Tom nearer to the shore than
perhaps he ought ; but then there was excuse
when such an event was impending. Kate,
in the daintiest costume, was speedily diving,
swimming, floating,, and going through all
manner of evolutions, while Miss Atkins paddled
about near to the machine.

And now Henry saw his beloved going
further and further out, and felt that the time
was coming, and looked at his boots, and
thought for the first time, how on earth was
he to swim all that distance with them and
his clothes on ! A moment's reflection, and
Mr. Skinner's method, so often narrated
by that hero, flashed into his mind. This
was to ride one of the bathing - machine
horses out to sea instead of swimming. He

VOL. I. M

looked around, and saw a life-belt with rope
attached close by. A shriek from the sea,
'' Save me ! "

"Good God!" cries Tom, 'there's Miss
Hamilton drowning ; help — a boat 1 — Where's
Skinner ? " and thronging people rush aimlessly
about, and women scream, and Mr.
Skinner is not at hand.

But Henry has seized the life-belt, knocked
the boy off the nearest horse, jumped on the
old animal's back, and urged him at a rapid
trot out to sea, amid the hushed and breathless
silence of the spectators. Kate is a
long ways out, and really acts the well-nigh
exhausted swimmer to perfection, and Henry
is glad to find the shallow water continues
for a considerable distance ; but at last the
old horse goes slower and slower, and then he
is afloat — a novel sensation to Henry, and
indeed to most people in this country. He
is now only fifty yards from his drowning

darling, and she calls to him, for they are far
out of earshot of the shore, " Oh, please take
care ; don't bring that horse too near me, or I
shall be kicked. What fun this is ! Now you
must throw me that belt, and hold on to the
rope — stay, I had better sink first ; " and down
she goes, causing a deep-drawn sighing groan
to arise from the gazing throng. But she has
risen once more, faintly struggling, and Henry,
now close by, throws her the belt, which she
feebly grasps and rests on half inanimate.
The excitement of the occasion is so great
that Henry scarce feels the water pressing
round him, nor hears the snorting of the
astonished steed, nor thinks of where he is, —
only that she is there ; and it is well indeed
for him that there are no waves, so that the
horse maintains his equilibrium gallantly, and,
nothing loth, at the slightest indication on his
mouth turns homeward, towing his lovely
burden.

M 2

How the people are cheering now I and
Henry looking back sees a merry twinkle in
the eye of the seeming lifeless one. That's
right, — the horse is aground once more, and
pulling in the line, while he stops for a while,
the gallant rescuer draws the poor damsel to
him, and leaning over takes her in his arms,
and lifts her across his saddle-bow, clasping
her all dripping to his heart. " Come up,
horse," somewhat sentimentally he shouts,
and drives the old beast, now breaking into a
trot, to the shore, amid loud acclamations and
heavenward-hurled hats. " Out of the way,"
he cries, unmindful of all this, and kicking
the horse into a canter, he rides off — like
Brian De Bois Gilbert with Rebecca — to
the house of the Hamiltons facing the beach
hard by.

And what a ride that was ! so short, so sweet !
To have got that soft, rounded form actually in
his arms ! To press her to him, and to whisper

words of impassioned love, while she, with a
mischievous light in her half - closed eyes,
seemed to cling to him and delight to be
there ! But it is over : the door is reached,
and she is handed over to her distracted
parents, who bear her in with the aid of
James, and, all forgetful of poor Henry, shut
the door and leave him there lamenting.

This was indeed unexpected, though after
all very natural, for all within the house
thought of nothing save the restoration to
life of the fair drowned one, subjecting her
confusedly to all manner of treatment prescribed
on such occasions. And Henry looked
at the uninviting door moodily for some while,
then turned and rode back upon the sands ina
rage, with the sea still dripping from his
garments, and the sun beating fiercely down
on his head, whose hat was now floating calmly
upon the glistening sea. He had not noticed
the loss of it.

Many now came round him, and said how
well and bravely it had been done ; and even
Mr. Skinner, too truly great for jealousy,
bestowed his offering of gracious praise. Old
Betty the bathing-woman declared that no
one would have gone out that way except for
their sweetheart — '*' And sure they'll make a
bonny pair some day."

But Henry's heart was full with the shutting
of that door in his face, and he quietly
dismounted and walked off, nor said ever a
word to any one, till Tom joined him and
cried, —

*'My word, you have done a rare bit
of business ; you're all right now for
certain."

Then Henry broke out, " All right, indeed !
Didn't you see how they left me with never a
word, and shut the door? They and their
daughter may drown twenty times over before
I'll go in after them again."

Why, you fool! " rejoined Tom, '' did you
expect them to think of you before her ? You
were all right ; and of course all they thought
of at the minute was restoring her. They'll
be after you before this day is out, you'll
see."

''Ah I" said Henry, 'perhaps I'm wrong,
and of course I would go in twenty times for
her, in any case ; but let's go home, my head
feels awfully bad somehow."

And Tom, looking at his companion, notes
that he looks very curious, and ere long has to
take his arm, and then to make for a seat.
Keep up, old man, you're all right ; never
go and faint." But it is no use, Henry droops
and droops, and Tom has to charter an opportune
pony carriage to carry him on to the
lodgings, where, when they arrive, he lifts
Henry out quite insensible.

Great was the consternation at this event,
and a doctor was quickly summoned, who in

no long time pronounced that it was a sunstroke,
the result of losing the hat on that
sweltering day; that Henry must be kept
strictly quiet in a dark room, and not be
excited in any way.

Miss Bloomer undertook the charge of him,
for she had a strange, half-romantic love for
the boy, and she was ably assisted by Tom ;
but it was more than a day before he came to
himself, with a heavy throbbing weight in his
head, and a pressure at the back of the skull
which he could not understand, till by degrees
it was all explained to him, and, by way of
consolation, that Captain Hamilton had called
and left the very kindest of messages, and Tom
had been introduced to Kate, who was wild
with grief, and desired to see her love. Henry's
pale cheek flushed at this, and a happy smile
played upon his features for a moment ; but
Miss Bloomer interposed, that it was positively
necessary he should see no one, nor have any

excitement, for at least a month ; and then his
much-wrought nerves gave way, he turned on
his pillow and burst into childish tears of
disappointment.

CHAPTER XI.

Accipe nunc Danaum Insides, et crime ab uno
Dice omnes." — Vir. ' j^n.^ ii. 65. .

We will pass away from the Saltoun scene,
leaving Henry in a precarious state, Kate
distracted by what had occurred, Tom morose
and barely susceptible to any charms when he
walked out alone, and Middleton hanging
about biding the event, and determined to go
in for Mary in earnest should Henry die.

In the back parlour of Mr. John Jameson,
trainer, Malton, that worthy and Mr. Leroy
were sitting. It was late in the evening, and
the room was redolent with steaming glasses
of whiskey. Mr. Jamieson and Mr. Leroy
were sitting opposite one another by the fire.

and talking on some evidently interesting
subject.

The trainer was a stout man, with a fat
open countenance, and straightforward expression,
but nevertheless strange stories were
told of him, for all of which he had some
specious defence ; and from training Derby
favourites, and being among the head of his
profession, he had descended to a small stable
at Malton, where he had a few horses of Mr.
Leroy's, and other notably sharp customers.

No one seemed to know precisely what harm
or wrong he had done to cause him to thus
come down in the world ; but then in those
days certain matters were not winked at in
the same fashion they are now, — such as
rushing the public, through the medium
of the Sporting Papers, on to brutes that
never can have a ghost of a chance for the
big races for which they are backed, — or stopping
a horse, as a matter of course, if the

particular event for which he is started does
not happen to be "his journey." This was no
doubt done in past time ; but there was then
a sin in being found out which does not now
appear to exist, unless the culprit be a small
man without noble patrons.

However it came about, Jamieson was on
the down line, and association with Mr. Leroy,
and need of money, had not improved his
morals ; so that many events had been pulled
off, to the great detriment of the public, or lost,
to the equal detriment of that highly respectable
body. The best horse in the stable was
Bartimseus, a six-year-old, with one eye, that
had done good service, winning always when
wanted, and being equally accommodating if a
defeat was required. The rest were miserable
selling plates, some of which the public,
however, persistently fastened on for every
handicap in which they were entered, and so
they served their turn, as the stable always

secured the public money upon such occasions,
and the horses seldom if ever ran. If they
did run they were invariably beaten, but
the wise public shook its sagacious head, and
said they were not " spinning."

The public indeed generally has some mysterious
favourites of this kind, which have no
doubt been sedulously put about as good
things by the stable, for causes that are obvious
enough ; but why people are so obstinate, and
always back a horse the more the longer it is
kept without winning, and are not to be
driven off, goodness knows. Probably they
think " this horse would never be kept in
training so long if there were not a good race in
him," nor dream how all this time the money
of themselves and brother idiots has been
flowing into the coffers of the stable.

Now Jamieson, as has been premised, had
seen better days than this, and at times his
soul even now rebelled at the insignificance of

the proceedings, the lack of credit, the want
of self-satisfaction, and the feeling that this
hawkish procedure was mean and despicable.
So, blowing a cloud of smoke into the air ashe
took his long clay pipe from his mouth,
he remarked, "Mr. Leroy, I'm thinking of
cutting this game ; it aunt good enough."

"Nonsense, Jamieson; surely you've made
a good lot in the last year ; what more do you
want ? "

"It's not that, sir. I feel I'm lost with
these horses ; any stable-lad is good enough to
train them, except old Bartimseus, and he's
about done. I want some good stuff to work
upon, sir, that's what it is."

sewell," said Leroy, replenishing his glass
and growing communicative, " you mustn't
think of going yet awhile. You see I've been
short of capital the last year or so, or you
should have had something good, and my
friends have been in the same boat as myself;

but I will say, no one could have made a lot
of worthless brutes pay better than you have
done : why, there are plenty of your modern
trainers, with first class horses, haven't made
half the money ! "

A gratified smile stole over the trainer's
features ; he loved to hear himself exalted at
the expense of younger men.

But," said he, " do you see your way to
anything better ? "

Yes, I'm glad to' say I do, as the matter
I have in hand is very likely to come offhand
then my friends and I will clear ninety
thousand pounds."

''My eye!" cried Jamieson, "we can do
some good then ; but how will you get this
money ? "

Well, let me see, how can I make you
understand ? You know what a Joint Stock
Company is, don't you ? "

'* Yes, of course."

'* Has it ever struck you that somebody
must get up joint stock companies, at soaie
trouble, else they wouldn't exist ? "

** Why, I never thought about it : but no
doubt some one has it to do."

*^ And you agree that those who put the
thing into shape have a right to be paid for
their work and trouble ? "

Certainly."

"Well, we are getting up, or what they
call ' floating,' the National Iron Works Company,
Limited, and we are to be paid £90,000
for doing it."

*' By George, Mr. Leroy ! but they're openhanded
people, whoever they are, in that Company.
How did you manage to get .them to
stand so much ? "

Oh ! I see you're very green in these
matters. My dear sir, the Company has no
say in the matter at all. I see you don't
understand, so I'll explain it to you.

"I find the land where ironstone is supposed
to be, near Middlesex, and I get it under
offer at a certain price — a hundred thousand.
I report to my friends that all is right, and
then I arrange with the proprietor that we
shall make a company to buy his land, and he
shall be one of the first directors.

'the price to be asked the Company is a
hundred and ninety thousand, and I make an
agreement with him, that ninety thousand of
that goes to me and my friends."

Yes, yes," said Jamieson ; " but how do
you get the Company to buy it at that price?"

*' Oh ! that's easy enough. I bring down a
surveyor and an engineer or two that I know,
and they make first-class reports of the property.
Seven of my friends, or their clerks,
sign for a share a-piece in the Company, and
so we get it registered. Before that, one of us
has agreed, as trustee for the Company, to buy
the property for the sum asked ; and then

VOL. I. N

when we are registered we have the seller, and
two or three others whom we put in as directors,
and they adopt the purchase : so it is settled.

After that we flash advertisements and
prospectuses about among all the clergymen,
old maiden ladies with limited incomes, and
other idiots, telling them how they will get
twenty per cent, for their money ; and they
tumble to it at once, and take all the shares.
I assure you the thing is as good as over.
I have arranged everything right."

"Well," said Jamieson, "that is a rum
game ; but it's much the same thing as you
and me quarrelled with Jack Barstow about
when we sent him to buy old Bartimaeus, and
Job Skelton offered the horse to him at six
hundred guineas, but Jack made him ask us
seven hundred, and give him the extra hundred
when we paid. You were terribly riled when
you found that out, Mr. Leroy."

Oh, yes, of course ; but a private transaction

like that is very different from dealing
with the public."

"Ay, I suppose that's it; but I wish you
could do something for me now, sir. Couldn't
you get hold of some young gentleman with
plenty of money who could send me some
horses ? "

I've been thinking of that," replied Leroy,
and I fancy I've spotted one, if not two, at
Saltoun now ; but I shall be able to tell you
more when I go back there. They've all the
necessary money between them, that's certain,
and I feel confident good may be made out of
them."

Well, Mr. Leroy, you're the strangest
gentleman I ever saw — always an eye open
for everything."

Of course ; how else can one live in these
days ? But it's getting late, and we've drunk
quite plenty, so I'm off to bed ; " and this
pleasing specimen of a lawyer departed placidly

N 2

to his hotel, leaving his trainer wrapped in
meditation.

It was perfectly true that he had arranged
to his own satisfaction the scheme which he
had explained to Jamieson.

Sir Irving Allixx, M.P., was in difficulties,
and happened to own a piece of land near
Puddlesbro, which might or might not contain
ironstone. He had no means of developing it,
at any rate, and there appeared a great chance
of his having to sell it at what miofht turn out
to be far below its value. It had so chanced
he was recommended to consult Leroy about
his financial affairs ; and that astute individual,
well knowing the rage of people for anything
connected with iron in those days, saw at
once how the matter might be turned to
account.

Sir Irving Allixx was a well-meaning, but
by no means sharp-witted, individual, and he
readily agreed that the promoter's profits

should form part of the purchase-money he
was to charge the Company for the property.


'' For," said Leroy, '^ it will cost us a lotto
float this Company to buy your land, and
we can only look to you to pay us for the
trouble and risk ; but then, of course, you must
get the money you pay us from the Company.

That's only fliir."

But," urged Sir Irving, "the Company
may not feel disposed to pay so large a sum
for ironstone."

You never fear that. There's no occasion
to tell them what they pay. If I get reports
from competent men that the property is well
bought at a hundred and ninety thousand,
that's all the Company want to know. The
Company have no business with you and me ;
and whether you have all the money for
yourself, or whether you hand over part of
it to me, is no concern of theirs."

No, of course not," said Sir Irving ; " I

o

understand you now."

Very good ; but as there are always a lot
of meddlesome busy-bodies about, trying to
put a spoke in the wheel of everything with
which they have nothing to do, you take care
and not talk about this. You have made this
agreement to hand over ninety thousand to
my friends and myself; well, let that be between
ourselves, there is no need to mention
it."

"That seems reasonable enough," replied
the baronet, now becoming bewildered ; " but I
really don't understand these things, so I am
sure I had better leave myself entirely in your
hands. I am quite willing to be chairman of
the Company, as you ask me."

*' That's right ; you'll have £500 a-year
for it, and little to do. The only necessary
thing now is for you to transfer the property
to my friend Mr. LazarefF, who will act as

trustee for the Company until it is formed.
He will agree to give £190,000, at certain
specified intervals, and then you and the
other directors, as soon as the Company is
registered, will adopt his contract. I'll take
care you have a board that won't make any
objection to it. We must have some working
capital, I suppose ; so we'll make the first issue
of shares for £250,000. That'll be about the
mark, I should think."

Sir Irving had some while back given up
all attempt to follow the intricacies of Mr.
Leroy's plan; but, having a child-like confidence
that it was all right, he did just as he was bid,
and the affair was settled.

Leroy set to work at once on the preliminaries,
and all seemed favourable to his pulling
off a big thing at last. He had calculated
that about £5000 was the limit of what the
promotion could cost, and his friends were
ready with that sum ; so that if the Company

only floated, as it was sure to do, they would
make £85,000 nett profit.

He was obliged to stay a considerable time
at Saltoun getting all matters of detail, such
as reports, &c., into order; and it was only asa
brief holiday that he had taken a journey
over to Malton to see the horses.

He had persuaded Captain Hamilton already
to take a seat at the board, knowing well
that his name would look well, and also that
he was much too idle to take any active
interest in the Company's proceedings. The
other directors he left for his friends in London
to select.

Such was the promising scheme which was
prepared for the benefit of the British public ;
and such the men that were to act in a
fiduciary capacity for the as yet unformed
Company.

• CHAPTER XII.

A horse ! a Horse ! my kingdom for a horse ! "

Richard III.

For four or five weeks Henry was not allowed
to stir out of the house ; and though Miss
Bloomer read Waverley Novels innumerable to
him, yet, inasmuch as she never permitted anyone
else to see him in the day time, he felt the
hours drag very heavily. Unfortunately, Tom
fell ill, followed shortly by Mary, and then
the maid Betsy became similarly afflicted.

What was the matter with them no one
ever knew ; but the Doctor said it was low
fever, and there must be a drain or something
wrong in the house, which latter remark is
more than probable.

Only Lucy and Miss Bloomer remained in
any way fit to get about. The household
consequently became a most melancholy one ;
but the time passed, and all the patients were
convalescent, Henry having gone through a
long course of leeches on the temples, blisters
on the back of the neck, hot bottles to the
feet, medicines styled "febrifuges" by the
doctor, ice on the head, food consisting of
oysters, and drink of champagne in sparing
doses.

All this was now over, and it remained only
to regain strength, which was rapidly done by
an increasing appetite, and the superior vital
powers of youth. There is nothing so delicious
as the return to strength, which is valued so
much the more by comparison with what we
have so lately been. We never know the
worth of anything till we lose, or run a chance
of losing, it. No child values its home until
it has been sent to school ; and the person

who has never known a day's illness has no
idea how great a blessing health really is.

But the time of convalescence has additional
charms. The languor left on us by the ordeal
through which we have gone is, in its way,
delightful ; then there is the enjoyment of
life-renovating food — enjoyment which is very
far apart from that of the merely sensual
glutton, but the true and honest outcome of
the demands of reviving nature ; and, above
all, there is the prospect opening once more so
brightly out of darkness, that all seems to be
happy, and sunshiny, and gay, in the dawning
future.

And Henry during this while dreamed a
wonderful dream, continuing it night by night
in proper sequence ; but it is too long to set
out here, only it may be mentioned, that
it thrilled with the wildest adventures, and
amused with the most ludicrous catastrophes
all who heard it.

Indeed, there was the greatest excitement
every morning to hear Henry's dream, and
the greatest care taken lest he should be
wakened while dreaming.

It may be stated, however, that he himself
and Kate Hamilton always figured conspicuously
in it, sometimes to his entire satisfaction,
sometimes in a way that he could not understand,
especially in the last chapter of it,
when he thought he stood by a beautiful
palace in the night time, whence came
dreamy delightful strains of music, and lights
shone, and all seemed alive with happiness
and mirth. He drew nearer, and folding
windows opened out upon the lawn where he
stood, and disclosed to him a scene of Eastern
magnificence, drawn no doubt from his imagination,
that had been strongly imbued with
Alla Kookh,' his then favourite poem. And
he could hear or observe that everywhere else
there was feasting and jollity ; but in this

room was Kate alone, saucily attired, reclining
on a couch of exquisite workmanship ; and ashe
stared she saw him, and stretched out her
lovely rounded arms, and whispered in a voice
that roused all the fires within his heart,
Come, darling, come'

Henry made a step forward, and paused.
He seemed to himself to know that he was
bound, so far as duty went, to cross a long
bleak moor, that stretched far, far away into
the darkness from near the palace walls. But
he thought, *' Why should I wander over there ?
How do I know that it is my duty ? Perhaps
it is all a mistake ; I know nothing definite
about it, only a sort of feeling."

Then from the palace the music came clearer,
wafted to him on the voluptuous air, and
Kate, to his fevered imagination, grew more
and more alluring and more divinely fair, and
he could hear sweet voices, whose words and
sounds stole upon him and drevv him on, still

half uneasily glancing at the barren waste to
which \\A felt that he ought rather to turn.

SONG.

Come, here is love and never-ending joy,

And here is sweet oblivion of care, —
No worldly woes thy gladness to alloy, —
All toil and misery thou leaves there.
Thy love before thee,
Behold, is waiting :
Let bliss steal o'er thee,
All else abating.

Come, here is rest, and freshly-blooming charms,

And fire that waxes and not wanes with age 3
Here peaceful stay, locked in thy loved one's arms,
Nor with the world thy weary conflict wage.
Turn then to pleasure,

List, — we invite thee, —
And, thy own treasure.
She shall requite thee."

Henry was giving way rapidly now, indeed
it is not too much to say he had given way,
and was moving forward into the romantic
palace of love, when the sound of a horse's
hoofs broke upon his ears, and he paused.

"What should come cantering up but Blair
Athol, proud and magnificent, ready saddled
and bridled ! He stopped quietly and stood
by Henry, into whose mind there now rushed
the conflicting desire to spring on to the back
of the horse he so much loved, and ride him
across that moor just for the sake of riding
him. That, thought he, will indeed be combining
duty with pleasure ; and with one
more look at Kate, now rapidly growing less
attractive in his eyes, he mounted the mighty
chestnut, and went sweeping away over the
dark and barren waste, fairly revelling in the
smooth elastic stride of the horse, and the
knowledge that he was mounted on Blair
Athol. .

All this seemed ridiculous and fantastic
enough when Henry narrated it next morning,
but subsequent events certainly imparted to it
an apparent meaning.

The time came at last when the invalids

went tottering forth, to find, alas! the whole
place changed. The faces they loved to look
on were gone, and the winds were beginning
to blow cold upon the depopulated beach.

They were very weakly as yet, and their
knees save beneath their attenuated frames
when they essayed to walk do^^^l the slope
from the sea-wall. They could but progressa
few hundred yards and then long-ed for a
seat, which they saw close by ; but it was
standing in the shade, and they were minded
to convey it into the lingering warmth of the
summer's sun. The seat was a light one, such
as a boy could easily have carried, but Tom
and Henry vainly strove, so weak were they,
and were giving it up in despair, when who
should come up but Leroy, who asked to be
allowed to help them ? They felt grateful for
his assistance, and he took the opportunity of
making their acquaintance, while they felt
drawn towards him now, as being a link

between them and the family of Hamilton.
He commiserated with them on their weak
condition, chatted pleasantly on racing and
other congenial topics, and by degrees so ingratiated
himself with them, that the intimacy
thus begun was continued and confirmed,
and Leroy was introduced to Miss Bloomer and
the girls, so that he was now on a footing to
commence his confidential proposals.

He very soon saw that Henry, at any rate,
was ripe for a speculation on the turf ; but he
somewhat mistook the natives that were at
work in his young friend. He himself could
not understand racing or race-horses in any
other light than as a means to an end — and
that end money. The idea of any one having
a sentimental love for a particular horse, or a
passion for the sport itself without any of its
adventitious allurements, was to him beyond
comprehension, though he had seen writing
to that effect.

VOL. I. o

He had spent much time in recommending
Jamieson as a trainer ; and as the youths
grew stronger, and able to sit up at night,
charmed them by anecdotes of that gentleman,
interspersed with bits of rare turf lore, such
as would have delighted even the *' Druid."
Tom was always a wary bird with money ;
but Henry was young, had an unlimited
supply, and was beginning to feel more and
more what a pleasure it would be to run
horses of his own.

But then, I will only have Blair Athos,"
said he, thinking aloud.

Why only Blair Athos ? " asked Leroy,
in whose rooms they were sitting late one
evening.

Because Blair Athol is the best horse weever
had, and I mean to stick to him and
his stock always."

Leroy smiled incredulously. " Would you
two like to go over to Malton with me tomorrow

and see the horses ? " The two fairly
jumped at the offer, and it was settled they
should start early, telegraphing to Jamieson
to keep the horses in till they arrived. " I'll
show you something worth looking at ; though
I'm sorry to say my business matters are now
so pressing, I shall have to sell them all before
long."

"Are there any Blair Alios among them?"
asked Henry.

No ; but they are good horses."

Oh ! but I shouldn't care to win with
anything that wasn't by Blair Athol."

What nonsense ! " broke in Leroy. " Blackburn,
you must teach him better than that, or
he'll never do any good."

I believe Blair Athol's stock will be
first rate," replied Tom ; " but that's no
reason of course why we should despise
others."

*' Of course not. Anyhow, we start tomorrow



morning at 7.30, and you shall see
some real good ones."

Tom ruminated. " I know' he continued,
you have a good horse called Bartimaeus, but
the others haven't done much."

*' No, my boy ; they are ' dark ' as yet. The
time will come — but I mustn't tell even you ;
only I don't mind letting you know I have a
three-year-old that can beat Bartimseus at
71bs. What think you of that ? "

Why, it's good enough to win the Leger ! "
cried Tom.

I know that : so I think we may conclude
the horse will win some day. However, it's
no use talking now. I, for one, can't get up
early if we stay up late ; so don't mind my
asking you to go."

Tom and Henry went home in high spirits
at the prospect of their next day, and pondering
wakefully during the night, Henry decided
that he would indeed have some horses, and

let Jamieson, the much-skilled, train them ; but
he felt it as a matter of superstitious duty
that the first he owned must be a Blair Athol ;
and suddenly he bethought him of a two-year-old
filly by that horse that belonged to a
farmer near Northallerton, and had run on
several occasions, home trained, and as fat as a
bull. The filly was a good-looking one, and
rarely bred, her dam being by Lanercost,
grandam by Touchstone, great-grandam by
Whisker. Here was a rare combination of the
Harley Arabian.

Now this filly had last run in a selling race,
and no one had claimed her at £50. She was
about last then, and her owner was now known
to be somewhat hard up. Henry came to the
conclusion he could secure the filly by sending
a cheque for £100 for her ; and also that, under
the superior treatment of Jamieson, she would
likely enough make a good one.

It is doubtful if he ever went to sleep at

all that night. Anyhow he was up preternaturally
early, and communicated his resolve
to Tom, who approved of it ; and so the cheque
was drawn, and the letter enclosing it, by way
of offer for the filly, was despatched before
they went off to the station.

At the station they found Leroy, who at
first looked slightly annoyed when he heard
Henry had commenced purchasing in extraneous
quarters ; but he soon saw that this would
in no way interfere with his game, so entered
with interest into all the details about the filly.
After a full account, he quite agreed that
Jamieson would probably be able to developed
something really good out of her ; " but," said
he, " of course you'll need something to gallop
her with, and as I am selling off, I don t know
what you'll do if Bartimseus and all the good
ones go out of the stable."

This remark gave Henry occasion to ponder
over it most of the way to Malton, so that

Tom and Leroy had the conversation pretty-much
to themselves.

In due time they arrived at the station, and
as they were waiting to have their, tickets
collected, Henry at length broke silence.
How much shall you be asking for Barth
Mr Leroy ? "

*' Oh ! well, he should be cheap enough to
any one at three thousand guineas. I shan't
take less than that for him."

Henry relapsed into silence at this, for
though he had well-nigh made up his mind to
purchase the horse, he had thought five
hundred guineas would be a sufficient sum to
enable him to do so. He expected he could
screw that amount out of his guardian with
little difficulty ; but three thousand was out of
the question.

Leroy, quick in reading expression, saw
what was passing in his mind, and added :
Of course, selling horses for prices like

that, one doesn't ask for money down, or
anything of that sort, with people one knows.
If you are thinking of buying a few you
mustn't go paying for them all at once,
for it is totally unnecessary, and they soon
win the money themselves. Not one man
in twenty of those that own race-horses can
afford to do without credit."

Henry began to like the appearance of
things much better, and took an opportunity
to speak aside in the station with Tom about
what he contemplated. Tom advised him to
wait yet awhile, at any rate ; and presently
they were driven up to Jamieson's house.

Jamieson came out with beaming, honest
countenance to meet them ; his wife clean and
tidy, smilingly respectable, in the rear, and the
air of comfort inside the dwelling impressed
our two youths most favourably. Not less
were they impressed by the goodly breakfast
that awaited them, replete with all the fresh

delicacies from the farm, to which they and
Leroy did ample justice ; while Jamieson
chatted pleasantly, yet deferentially, with
them, branching off into topics of entrancing
interest to any one who really cares for anecdotes
of ancient and worthy horses. Leroy
soon told him how Henry had bought the
Blair Athol filly to put under his charge, at
which he expressed himself much pleased.

'' See that picture there," said he, " of
Cormorant, winner of the Leger, trained by
me. Why that horse was bought just the
same way as you're getting this filly ! My
dear, just put us out the bottles and some
water, while the horses are being got ready.
Irish whiskey, Mr. Jolliffe ? Mr. Blackburn,
sir, what will you have ? Nay, nay, that's
only a thimbleful. Teetotal again, Mr.
Leroy ? I'm sorry to hear it. Well, gentlemen,
I bought Cormorant for Lord Dunning-ton,
and every one said I must be a fool,

for the horse hadn't shown any form at
all. But, bless you ! I could see how that
was — his feet had been allowed to get into a
shocking bad state, so that he went like an
old woman in patterns. But I soon got that
right, and brought him out for the Champagne
at Doncaster. We got a lot of money on
him, and he won anyhow. We laid him by
for the Derby, and I backed him myself to
win £20,000. Lord Bennington, he stood to
win £100,000 on him, and altogether he
was a very bad horse for the ring. Now
Tom Jones was to ride him, and before the
race I got three anonymous letters, warning
me not to put Jones up. I showed them to
his lordship, but her ladyship had a great
fancy for Jones, and wouldn't hear of any one
else having the mount ; so it had to be so.
Now, sir, I don't like to say anything against
any one, but the way the book-makers peppered
that horse before the day was a caution, and it

was plain something must be wrong. Well, I
told Tom not to hurry him at the start, but tolet
him have plenty of time to get into his
stride, as he was such a big one. The horse
was as quiet as a sheep, and a child could hold
him ; but that Bill Tomlinson — I believe he
was in the swim — went and made twenty false
starts with a brute he was riding, and what
should Jones do but jump my horse off first
every time, and let him go right away ever sofar
before he pulled him up.

"You can imagine what I felt like, sir,
watching this from where I was, just at the
back of Lord Bennington's box. I couldn't
bear it, and broke out to some extent against
Tom Jones, and Lady Bennington, she turned
and looked quite angry with me ; but they
were off at last, and there did Jones send
Cormorant away in front from the very start.

'That d d scoundrel is trying to burst

our horse,' I shouted ; and so he was, I have no

doubt ; but he didn't know how good the
horse was, for when he rode him in his trial I
made him believe he had seven pounds less up
than he really had.

Well, to make a long story short, he came
ramming along, expecting every moment to have
got to the bottom of Cormorant ; but he got
nearer and nearer home, and stdl the horse did
not stop, and Jones was no doubt in a regular
blue funk now, for the people would see if he
deliberately stopped him. Just past the bell
Leopold, the favourite, made his effort ; but it
seemed as if he couldn't possibly get up, till
Jones, who had kept still till fifty yards from
home, sat down and just pulled Cormorant
out of his stride with one jag at his head.
I never saw anything done more cleverly, for
he ran an awful risk of being seen, and it
must have been in desperation at the last he
attempted it. But nothing was ever said about
it, only that he had finished nervously. Even

then I thought we had won ; but the judge
said not. And now, gentlemen, the horses
have gone on, and if you please we'll drive
after them."

The party were very soon located in Jamie-son's
pony-carriage, and were carried away onto
Langton Wold, as fast as the lethargic old
cob could be induced to travel.

It was late in the day for horses to do their
work, and so they found they had it pretty
much to themselves, which was all the more
pleasant, and they were able to give their undivided
attention to Jamieson's horses, which
was just what Leroy wanted.

The string, mustering only nine, were walking
quietly about, and, at a signal from Jamie-son,
the boys rode up and paraded round him
and his visitors. Being set off with neat,
clean-looking clothing, the horses made a
very respectable show; and Tom, as well as
Henry, was much struck with the appearance

of Bartimseus — a powerful weight carrying
chestnut, with a queer old-fashioned look about
his Roman nose, and his tail cut short like a
hunter's. There were one or two other good-looking
horses enough, and the light middles
or bad shoulders of the rest were sufficiently
hid by the clothing.

There's a two-year-old filly there, Miriam,
by Westminster, that has never run yet : she's
always been unlucky in going amiss just as
she was fit, but she will do a rare good thing
some day," said Leroy. " I wouldn't change
her for any other at Mai ton."

Henry and Tom gazed with rapt interest,
and perpetual questions, which sometimes
Jamieson, sometimes Leroy, answered ; until
at last the latter said,

You're a nice light weight, JoUifi'e ; would
you like a ride on Bartima^us 1 "

Henry's eyes sparkled with delight at
the idea. '' Indeed I should, if you are

quite sure you don't mind trusting him
with me."

Oh, don't think anything of that ; he
can take care of himself, and I know you can
ride. Blackburn, you're sadly too big, but
you must be put up on something. Here, Joe,
get down off old Jezabel ; she'll carry you all
right, and you'll never have had such a mount
in your life."

Jamieson was looking very surly at this
extraordinary interference with his horses,
and was about to expostulate, when Leroy
stopped him with a frown and a wink, then
took an opportunity to whisper, " The young
one will buy Bartimseus to a certainty after
he has ridden him, perhaps all the others as
well. You'll stand in with me, of course."

The trainer remained silent thereupon, but
hardly looked satisfied.

Meanwhile, Tom and Henry, who were
already well primed with whiskey, had 

Blair Athol.

needed in getting the stirrups to their liking,
and mounting their respective steeds.

Bartimseus was as quiet as a sheep, but
Jezabel was much disposed to rid herself of
her new incumbrance. Tom, however, could
ride well enough, and so had no difficulty in
reducing her to reason.

Now then," said Jamieson, '* just walk
gently back up there, and then bring them
along for a mile three parts speed ; " — this to
the boy who was to lead them. " Mr. JoUilFe,
you'll follow him second ; Mr. Blackburn,
you had better go last, or that mare will very
likely bolt if she hears anything behind her."

Accordingly they walked off, and Henry
felt quite delighted with the whole thing ; it
was such a grand thing to be riding a horse
like Bartimseus. The boys appeared to be
grinning to one another at him and Tom ; but
what did that matter ? Tom certainly did
look very large and cumbrous on the weedy

old mare ; but Bartimseus seemed so powerful,
so muscular, and his movements so elastic and
springy, it was really worth anything to be on
his back. And now the time was come for
the gallop, and the leader went rattling away,
followed by Henry and the rest, whipped in
by Tom with Jezabel yawing and pulling to
get to the front. Three parts speed it might
be, thought Henry ; but he certainly had never
gone so fast, or anything like it. It was really
beautiful to feel the fresh air rustling past,
and the exquisite smoothness of the horse's
stride. Bartimaeus might be handled by an
infant, and Henry, who was a nice neat horseman,
fairly revelled in his gallop ; so that
when they pulled up, and with flushed cheeks
and a bit of fire now in his eyes he rode up to
Leroy and Jamieson, he had resolved to make
the horse his own.

Capital ! " shouted Leroy ; " you and the
horse seem made for one another."

VOL. I. p

And Henry, dismounting, said straight out,
Well, if you'll sell him to me on the terms
you said, I'll buy him."

Leroy was overjoyed at this success, bat
did not show a sign of it outwardly, and rather
expressed regret now it came to the point to
part with the horse.

"However," said he, " I suppose I must,
and I'm sure you'll appreciate him better than
any one I know."

So it was settled.

Now Leroy had purposed selling others of
his lot to Henry ; but Jamieson had some
little honest feeling left, and also wanted some
fresh ones into his stable ; so when he saw
what Leroy was after, he frankly told him
that he should not allow Henry to buy any
of them, except Bartimseus, without objecting.

This conversation had been carried on while
the gallop was proceeding ; and though Leroy
was angry at first, he dared not quarrel with

his trainer, so yielded with the best grace he
could.

Jamieson was determined Henry should
spend his money, if at all, on something that
would do him credit, and was not by any
means satisfied even with the sale of Bartimaeus.
For you know, Mr. Leroy," he argued, " the
horse is not worth five hundred guineas. He
is six years old, gets weighted out of all the
handicaps, and is not good enough for cups ;
however, he is a good honest horse, and I may
pick up another race or two with him for the
young gentleman before long."

Much more whiskey was drunk on the return
of the party to the trainer's house, and
long and earnest was the confabulation of
Tom and Henry with him on the subject of
the new purchase ; and at intervals between
his remarks on the prospects of Bartimseus he
contrived to edge in suggestions about cheap
yearlings to be picked up at Doncaster, and

P 2

the way future Derby winners had gone
begging there, until Henry and even Tom
became quite smitten with the desire to thus
coin money by the aid of Jamieson's experienced
judgment.

Leroy, being satisfied with his day, was very
amiable, and when it was train time the two
young ones declared they had never spent a
more pleasant morning.

They arrived at Saltoun in due course, and
Henry handed Leroy a cheque for £500, and
was thereafter initiated by that worthy into
the mysteries of accepting various bills for the
balance of £2500 — " merely as a matter of
form." Thus was Henry started on a turf
career.

CHAPTER VIII.

With a hi ho, Chivy !—
Hark forward ! " — Old Song.

** See ray brave pack : now to the head they press,
Jostling in close array, then, more diffuse,
Obliquely wheel, while from their opening mouths
The rolled thunder breaks." — Somerville.

Time has again passed on. The Blair Athol
filly has been some while in Jamieson's hands.
Saltoun has been deserted, and Henry with
his sister are now staying at the old Newton
vicarage, where several of Tom's sisters have
grown out into fair and comely maidens since
we last saw them.

Bartimseus has been well beaten, both in the
Ear Handicap and the York Cup, for both of
which events Henry insisted on backing him,

despite the entreaties of his trainer, and was
of course disappointed at the result ; but was
comforted by the reflection that the horse
would get better into the spring handicaps
now.

As for the filly, it was judged best not to
attempt to prepare her for any race at present,
but get her fit for the beginning of next season,
when, owing to the bad form she had shown,
she would be very leniently treated by the
handicappers.

Two yearlings bought at Doncaster had
been added to the string. They were selected
by Jamieson, with a proviso that he was to
buy Blair Athos, if possible, and it so happened

he was able to do so to his entire satisfaction.

They were both colts, and certainly seemed a

great bargain at three hundred guineas for the

two.

Kate Hamilton had been unable to endure

a complete absence from her love for very

long, and had devised the expedient of starting
a correspondence, nominally from her brother
Jack, to whom Henry replied, treating at great
length on that young gentleman's sister ; and
thus things were being carried on at the
present time — Jack's letters gradually resolving
themselves into nothings but messages
from Kate, and Henry's into messages to her.

It was now the hunting season, and great
sport was going on in the neighbourhood with
the various packs that came within easy distance
of the village of Newton.

Both Henry and Tom, it is perhaps unnecessary
to mention, were very keen after this
manner of sport, and they had a few real good
nags in the stables which had now been added
to the ancient tumble-down and cowhouse-
looking arrangements that for many years
had served the needs of the good Vicar. Mary
Jollifie also affected hunting, and was the
possessor of one of the cleverest little horses

ever seen, so that she was .able always to show
a bold front in the fastest runs, riding with
that recklessness which seems natural to
women.

A. very merry party they were at the
Vicarage. Henry and Mary had found life at
their old house with Miss Bloomer hopelessly
dull, and the result was, they made overtures
to Mr. Blackburn, who \\^as very happy to
arrange matters with them ; and so they came
to live in his house, which was a completely
successful settlement of the difficulty, especially
so far as Henry was concerned, for he had
been there before, as we have heard, under
Mr. Jones.

The deaf man Thomas was still in Mr.
Blackburn's service, though the sport of teasing
him had grown out of date. He had occasionally
an opportunity of paying out his old
tormentors, and never neglected to avail himself
of it. In this way he had especially

distinguished himself, when the girls had bribed
him a short while back to secretly release a
badger which Henry had become so nefarious
as to keep at the abode of a sporting old
woodcutter in the village. The said badger
was very large and fierce, and the few interviews
he had with the fox-terriers did not
incommode him greatly, so that he had not
been living a very bad sort of life. The girls,
however, said it was brutally cruel ; hence the
mission of Thomas, who at daybreak stole to
the badger's house, and after that the badger
was seen no more. It was said he had escaped.
Tom and Henry scoured the country with dogs
for several days ; the girls laughed to themselves
; Thomas pocketed his reward.

Nob for some years afterwards did it
transpire that Thomas, in pursuance of his
intention to turn the animal down in the open
fields, had caught it by the tail, and thus
proceeded to carry it at arm's length to the

place where he proposed to release it, some
hundred yards or so away. A badger is an
awkward brute to carry, even by the tail, as it
can curl up so as to very nearly bite your
hand; and whether this one had alarmed
Thomas into partially dropping it, or whether
its weight caused him to flag in his efforts to
keep it at arm's length, will never be known ;
certain it is, he suffered its head to come into
all too dangerous proximity, insomuch that
it was enabled to reach round and just snap
him in the thigh. A badger's bite is eminently
painful ; Thomas was uncommonly passionate,
and so he incontinently dashed that badger
against the trunk of a tree so that it died.
After that he buried it, put some oils on his
leg, told the fair bribers that his task was
done, and was paid accordingly.

But not to digress, we must go on to say
that it was now an evening near Christmas
time, and Henry had been very nearly a year

away from school. " Not that it matters," said
he, " for now I am in the sixth form, and we
never change places there, but just go up as
fellows leave who are above us ; so I shall be
nearly head of the school when I go back."

I've been thinking," said Tom, paying no
attention to Henry's remark, " as tomorrow
is Christmas Eve, we should have a day
something out of the common. How would
it be to go out with Jack Parker and the
Sinnington V

Isn't it a horrid, bad, hilly country ? "

** No, not about Bennington, where they
meet tomorrow. I really think we ought to
go ; it will be a change."

'' All right," said Henry ; " I'll ride Skittles
then. She's clever enough for anything
wherever we go. Mary, you had best stop
at home, I should think."

And why, pray ? " broke in Mary, who
had been looking abstractedly at an album

wherein was the photograph of the inane
Middleton.

''Oh, it'll be too rough for ladies, won't it,
Tom ? "

Tom agreed, and Mary was unceremoniously
relegated into the stay-at-home division for
the next day.

Up betimes in the morning, the two
sportsmen breakfasted, and set off by train
with their horses to Bennington. They arrived
safely in due course ; and amid the gaping
wonderment of various assembled yokels, who
were not much accustomed to the sight of
red coats coming by train, they superintended
the undoing of their steeds, and were
presently mounted, and jogging on to the
place where the meet was to be.

It is a strange country in the main, this
Sinnington, — at least to the modern generation,
— placed as it is rather outside the pale of
improved farming, and therefore abounding in

vast old ragged fences, such as used to tear the
coat-tails off our hard-riding fathers in days
gone by.

There is something truly alluring about one

of these old-world hedges, as distinguished

from the neat trimmed stake and bound of

the present time. There is a savour of sport

pervading it, perhaps from the feeling that

when the birds are wild, and the cover all

gone, a spot like this would surely attract

them, and the worthy spaniel would spring

them for you by degrees, so that you would

obtain a rare bag ; while in the new countrymen

would toil, and fire long shots in vain.

Even the bustling little terrier can make merry

with the rabbits here, and bolt them for you,

or run them to ground, when, if you choose,

you can call in the wily ferret to your aid.

Then as you go on you will surely encounter

the well-fatted hare, and indeed you will

spend n thoroughly enjoyable day — that is, if

you can appreciate such matters, and have not
been spoiled by " drives " and " battues."

But the Sinnington fences are not the only
peculiarity of the country, for wild though
they are, they yet do not prevent the portion
of it around Bennington from being very good
going, and flat withal ; but when you get into
the hills, then indeed, unless you are to the
manner born, you will be astonished and
perplexed, half desirous, if you are young, to
get off and proceed in safety on foot.

These hills get wilder and more difficult for
the ordinary horseman as you proceed — here
and there well-nigh precipitous over away
past Helmsley ; but the natives think nothing
of it, mounted on their rough horses or active
ponies, while you tremble for your neck, or
find that, having come out without a breastplate,
your saddle slips back on to the horsetail
as he is making his supreme effort to land
you up some dangerous ascent. It is positively

awful to see Jack Parker shove his horse along
down these terrible places, with the most utter
disregard of all chances of a fall ; not even
looking, to all appearance, where he is going,
but bent solely on his business, with his eye
on the irregular pack, who are ascending with
plentiful music the opposite side of the "gill'

But as to Jack Parker it is necessary to say
something. He is the facsimile of the immortal
James Pigg, both in appearance and manner.
The same hard, weather-beaten countenance,
the same sandy hair, the same eyes twinkling
with wonderful dry wit, somewhat tall and
heavy for a huntsman, but for all that one of
the sort that ^'nivver gits off."

In those days Jack had all his hounds
at walk " among the various farmers of the
district, as there were no regular kennels, and
it used to be most interesting to see them
all dispersing this way and that to their
respective homes when the day was over. A

sufficient subscription was maintained to pay
Jack, and enable him to keep two horses, — he
never had more, — and he had to make shift
as best he could to obtain volunteer " whips "
from among the young farmers.

At no time of the year was he idle. He
would even engage himself in August to go off
on to the moors, and play the keeper — a proceeding
that would, I should say, fairly horrify
most of our modern huntsmen. Jack did it,
notwithstanding, and was in great request,
being a clever man with dogs, and very entertaining
withal to any party with whom he was
out. At times his love of sport would break
out in badger-hunting ; and rare fun it used to
be, on a moonlight night, pursuing the rampant
"brock" with terriers, and running him into
the sack prepared for his reception at the
mouth of his earth.

Jack would occasionally deign to come down
into the York and Ainsty, or Lord Middleton's

country, and have a day on his own account ;
never being able, however, to rid himself of
the idea that men who were got up so neatly
could not be up to much. On one occasion,
which is well remembered, when the hounds
were at fault near Raskelf, and the worthy
master of the York and Ainsty was about
trying a small larch plantation to the left of
where Jack was stationed, he, Jack, pointing
to a bit of cover on the right of him, opened
his mouth and spoke : " Coom back, man I
f thing sat yoiire looking for 's gen toon there''
This was said with great disdain, and an
expression as if a York and Ainsty fox were
wholly unworthy of the name.

But to return to the day in question. Everything
seemed favourable for sport, though a
long delay was necessitated by Lord Never-sham,
who, though not even nominally the
master, was the principal subscriber to the
hounds, and had to be treated with deference,

VOL. I. Q

no matter how exasperating his late hours
made him to those who arrived in time.

There were some thirty mounted men at the
meet, including those who bestrode ponies and
donkeys, the majority being farmers with
rough unkempt young horses, that might
develop into something some day ; while there
were a few business-like old sportsmen, who
looked as though they meant to see the fun,
though they might not be able to go any great
pace.

Jack Parker helped the time to pass more
lightly by this rough quips and cranks, especially
on this occasion taking Tom and Henry for
his butts, and prophesying how he would show
them York chaps a think or two " before the
day was over.

At last, about twelve o'clock, there was a
relieved cry of " Here he comes ; " and sure
enough Lord Neversham came gaily cantering
up, attended by his hopeful heir. Lord Wellesley,

with two men who might have been second
horsemen, but were really destined for much
heavier work.

Every one tried to look as if they had not
been inwardly cursing his lordship for more
than an hour, and he, after a casual remark
that he feared he was rather late, seemed to
think no more about it.

A strange pack did the Sinnington appear
in those days to any one who scanned them as
we may be supposed to do, now trotting along
to cover ; very irregular were they, strange in
colour, running most, however, to the light
mealy shades, such as you see little of in
fashionable packs, though to my mind usually
associated with sterling qualifications. Some
there were throaty in the extreme, and " clapped
like Tressilian bulls," others clean cut
and light-timbered. One — a York and Ainsty
hound — ran mute, and withal ran to such
purpose that he always far outstripped the

Q 2

rest, and had been known to kill single-handed.
There had been many doubts as to how to deal
with this hound ; but his nose was so undeniably
good that he was of great service at
times, and in his case Mr. Jorrocks' advice
was taken, "Be to his faults a little blind,
and to his virtues ever kind."

Some one had at length happily suggested
that he should be weighted so as to reduce his
pace, and this was carried out at leugtli with
such nicety, that he was adjusted by sundry
bags of shot attached to his neck exactly to
required speed. It then became necessary
only to give him a voice, but no scheme had
been devised to perfect him in this particular.

Whatever the appearance of these hounds
was, however, they certainly were most undeniable
for their stoutness and perseverance ;
while long habits of self-reliance, gained on the
many occasions when they had to make out
their fox where no huntsman could get near

them, had taught them to cast themselves in a
manner that their more fashionable brethren
might do well to imitate, instead of throwing
up their heads and looking for assistance as
soon as ever there is a difficulty.

But behold them now just flashing into
cover, and see them, as it were, twinkling
among the trees, the busy sterns betokening
the keen desire for sport. Old Jack's face
beams as he watches and encourages them
with rather more than necessary clamour.
Lord Neversham has come to a small rail that
he mast needs surmount, and is pouring forth
curses to the empty air, because the two men
whom he has brought out for tlds very purpose
are not there to pull it down for him. They
arrive in due course, having lagged behind on
the supposition some one will stand treat at
the wayside hotel, and now, as they canter up
wiping their mouths, they encounter a torrent
of wordy wrath from his lordship ; but they

seem used to it, and quietly pull the rail
out with unperturbed countenances, while
their dread Lord passes on.

Presently Henry comes upon Lord Never-sham
behind a hedge applying himself diligently
to a large flask — a rather strange
performance, considering the day has but just
begun ; and that Henry thought so his face
must have showed, for Lord Neversham
remarked by way of explanation : " Ah ! when
you get to my age you'll find it necessary to
take some jumping-powder before starting."
Henry hardly knew what to say under the
circumstances, though he admired the frankness
with which the explanation was given,
especially as he knew that Lord Neversham
had been a really good man across country
once in his day. The result was he mumbled
some meaningless common - place, smiled as
though it was a good joke, and passed on, feeling
rather ashamed of himself than otherwise.

This little incident had somewhat diverted
his attention for a while, when suddenly a
whimper from the cover (it was Seamer
Wood), rapidly developing into a burst
of music, recalled him to himself, and he
was all alert, as was the good little mare
Skittles.

An instant's glance showed him the hounds
bustling along straight through the wood
directly away from him, while Tom and the
rest of the field were scuttling round the wood
on the left. Jack Parker alone having taken
the right side, and thus being widely separated
from them. The hounds were hanaino^ to the
left, and it certainly appeared that Jack must
be out of it for once in a way ; but Henry
decided in a moment to follow him, and
chance it.

This he did at best pace, and presently
came up with him. Jack was fairly rolling
about in his saddle with chuckling and

laughing, the hounds all the time seeming
to be clean away in an opposite direction.

Henry made some hasty enquiry as to
which way they should go.

You coom wi' me," said Jack, " Ah'll put
ye right ; mean o' them other chaps 11 get
boon half a mile." And thereat he chuckled
and laughed as before, evidently hugely
delighted at the impending discomfiture of the
field, who had thought their line better than
his.

There was nothing for it but blind confidence,
so Henry followed along a bridle-path
in a direction quite opposite to what seemed
the right one, until suddenly they came to
the railway, just where there was a level
crossing.

See that ? " said Jack, pointing out the
line extending far into the distance, and taking
the form of an embankment all the way with
high stiff rails at the bottom on either side.

"Them chaps '11 have to loup yon railroad,
Ah reckon, or else coom back here."

Henry of course saw the whole thing now,
and pushed on after Jack over the crossing,
never, however, thinking that they had not
gone far out of their way, no matter how
necessarily, and expecting they would now
probably have a long and fruitless ride of
discovery in search of the hounds.

Jack, however, set his horse going at best
pace along the road which turned up from the
crossing, and Henry followed at a judicious
interval to keep clear of the stones that the
great chestnut sent whizzing back.

They had not gone three quarters of a mile
when Jack pulled up, and to Henry's amazement,
admiration, and delight, beckoned him
on with one hand while he pointed forward
with the other, and yelled in boisterous joy,
Yonder they gan!' Yes, sure enough there
they were even now about to cross the road

some three hundred yards in advance, running
at best pace and all by themselves.

It then became apparent how valuable was
the knowledge of the country old Jack possessed,
which enabled him to nick in with the
pack in this excellent manner, and Henry felt
overjoyed at his own luck in having chosen the
better part, and avoided the line by which
all the rest had gone and become evidently
pounded.

Hoick forrard, forrard there," roared Jack.
Coom on, lad, coom on ; stick to me, and All
show ye what sport means," and away he went,
ramming his old horse across the ridge and
furrow, having left the road by a friendly
gate. The hounds were racing along a field
ahead at a pace which would have been good
for any country, and though it could hardly
be said a sheet would have covered them, still
they were very well together, all things considered.


Henry settled himself down to follow his
leader, judging this to be his best cause after
the experience he had had of those who
went their own way and suffered accordingly.
Skittles was a sweet little mare and a fast one
too, so that there was no difficulty on that
score in keeping within easy distance of Jack ;
the only question was, what wild feats it might
be necessary to perform on the route. Even
now Henry saw him sit down, and drive his
horse at best pace at a lowish stake and bound
fence in a way that showed he evidently
apprehended mischief on the other side. The
big chestnut made a mighty effort, and floundered
about with his hind legs a good deal on
landing before getting away. Jack actually
deigned to look round, and sang out cheerily,
'ifs nowt ; send her at it." Nor did he
cease to watch till Henry and Skittles were
safely over the obstacle, as big and ugly a looking
" still " as can be found in a day's march.

There was no time, however, to think of
such matters. The pace was, if anything,
improving, and the hounds began to show
a very considerable tail. Henry and Jack
pounded on after them, the country being
rare going and the fences very negotiable.

Forrard on there, ye slinking devils,"
shouted Jack, cutting at the laggards of the
pack, whom they had now caught up. '' My
eyes, sir, but this 11 show you what's what."

Henry was thoroughly enjoying himself.
To any one who has only hunted among
hundreds of his fellows, the sensation of being
away " with one companion only is very
novel, and I venture to think the man who
has experienced it will for ever look back toit
as a red-letter day in his annals of sport.

But Jack's chestnut was not absolutely
infallible, and he blundered over some stiff
rails that came in the way — rolling over andover,
and crumpling up his rider in most

formidable fashion. Henry pulled up in some
apprehension.

Gan on, lad, gan on wi' ye," roared Jack,
shaking himself free of his horse. " Never
mind me; stick to 'em, Acts all reef'' and so he
was, though it would have taken many men
weeks to get over such a fall.

Thus they slipped along for a good twenty
minutes, to a small larch plantation which
extended over an opposing hill or bank. Here
there was a not unacceptable delay as the
hounds went bustling among the undergrowth
up the ascent, followed by Jack and
Henry, the latter finding vast difficulty in
keeping his head clear of the trees ; but this
difficulty was enormously increased when,
having reached the top, the " wild huntsman "
urged his career in most break-neck fashion
down the 'other side, where the trees grew very
thick and the descent was very steep. But,
despite the hounds driving him hard and close,

the fox had had too much of the open to take
to it again in a hurry, and it was soon manifest
he was 'back," by some cunning wile or other.
Up the hill again perforce they went, Jack
calling out to Henry to put the hounds to
him, and when that gay youth could but ill
effect such an exploit, being almost wholly
occupied in keeping clear of the trees, he
heard the uncomplimentary remark muttered
in front, " Eot him, he's ne mair use than a
lass i' frocks." So then they clattered backwards
and forwards in this bit of cover, and
wasted time, and lost temper.

Jack's horse once more coming to grief, and
this time rolling right on to him and lying
there, while he, so far from being concerned in
the matter, continued calling to his hounds,
Yut in there, Ravager," &c., &c., as if nothing
had happened, Henry managed to get the
old horse pulled up, and Jack, after shaking
himself, calmly remounted.

Just then many of the field, having at
length found out the way, came up with much
noise and clattering, inclined of course to
underrate the whole performance. However,
as if he had but waited for them, the fox took
upon himself to slip away again. A loud
*' Tally-ho " from an enthusiastic yokel proclaimed
his departure, and his now augmented
pursuers settled themselves to the chase.

Henry saw a gate handy on to the road
close by, which led direct for the point where
the hounds were making towards, and he
hurried through it, closely followed by Lord
Neversham, and preceded by a trowsers man
on a white horse, who made frantic endeavours
to stimulate the somewhat obese animal to
excessive speed.

Suddenly, while they were thus rattling
along, the white horse, for some mysterious
reason, took upon itself to fall headlong to
the earth, hurling its unhappy rider violently

upon the hard macadamized road, and nearly
upsetting Lord Neversham, who was following
close in its wake. Henry and his lordship
pulled up, while the trowsers one slowly
arose, rubbing his knees, clasping his elbows,
and evidently in dire pain. Henry was about
to anxiously enquire whether he was hurt,
when Lord Neversham, who had been seriously
alarmed by the danger that had threatened
him, broke out, " D — n you, man ! you did
that on purpose ! You did it on purpose to
throw me down. / know your ways. Go

home at once, and be d d to you. Take

your beastly horse away, and if ever you dare
to throw him down before me again in that
way, I'll have you committed for trial ; I will,
so help me God ! "

The poor man was too bewildered to say
anything, and with a withering glance of rage
Lord Neversham cantered on.

Henry too made the best of his way

forward, on seeing the man was not materially
injured, not a little amazed at the idea of anyone
being supposed capable of selecting such a
very unselfish way to injure his lordship.

The hounds were making straight for Willing
Wood, and scarcely getting way enough on to
stop the bold Reynard before he reached that
point of security. Still, it was evidently
going to be a near touch. And when at last
they actually ran through the village, with all
the inhabitants yelling out, "He's only just
afore you ; gan on, Jack, and you'll sartainlie
kill him," the excitement became very intense.

This way," cries the village butcher, leading
them on through a fold-yard into a long
pasture-field some three-quarters of a mile
from the wood. " Shove 'em on. Jack ; he's
dead beat. Yonder he is," pointing to the fox
dragging wearily along just a field ahead.

Out comes Jack's horn, and the hounds fly
to him as he takes his horse short by the head

VOL. I. R

and crams him forward at his best remaining
speed down the long pasture. The rest follow;
but lo ! Jack pulls up short

What's the matter ? " cry several voices.

Dang me, if tht ain't over much of a
good thing," says he ; and indeed it appears
so, for they are fronted by an absolutely impervious
bullfinch, one solitary gap in which
is fenced to the height of six feet by the most
solid-looking rails.

Oh ! we'll never stop now," cries Lord
Wellesley, and without a moment's hesitation
he rides at the formidable rails.

Stop him, stop him ! he'll be killed ! " yells
his agonized parent. "Will nobody stop him?
Damn those men of mine ; where are they ? "
But of course nobody interposes, and the
youngster's horse clears the rails without
touching them.

Henry knows his mare is a wonder at
timber, so he must needs have it too, and just

lands after hitting it somewhat heavily
behind. He looks back, and sees, with perhaps
a justifiable feeling of triumph, that Jack
Parker has dismounted and is pulling down
the top rail. This is enough. Forward is the
word ; and as he enters the very last field
before the Willing Wood, together with Lord
Wellesley, the hounds are just running into
their fox, who dies with the haven of refuge
before his eyes. The rest very soon come
up, and the day is now at an end.

Perhaps not a wonderful run, but a rare
enjoyable one," thinks Henry, as he jogs
homeward. " I wonder where on earth Tom
is ; I've never seen him since the hounds first
went away."

R 2

CHAPTER IX.

The whiles they spake they heard a rueful shrieks
Of one loud crying, which they straightway ghost
That it was she the which for help did shrieks,
Tho, looking up unto the cry to lest,
They saw that carle from far with hand unblest
Hay ling the maiden by the yellow heare,
That all her garments from her snowy brest,
And from her head her locked he nigh did tears,
Ne would he spare for pitty nor refrain for feare."

Fairy Queen, vi. i. xvii.

Now as to Tom, after becoming hopelessly
pounded by the railway, in common with the
rest of field, he was not content like them to
gallop off to the crossing, but must needs find
out a way of his own, which resulted in his
losing himself altogether, and wandering aimlessly
for some long time about the country.
At last he came to a river, which a man

ploughing told him was fordable at a certain
place, and after crossing it he would be able to
get on to the high road ; so off he went to
the prescribed place, and found the banks
steep on both sides, with deep mud at the
bottom, the water somewhat higher than
usual, owing to recent rains, and altogether the
appearance of the ford, if ford it was, far from
inviting. Still it had to be done, and so with
some difficulty he induced his horse, a hard,
old-fashioned customer, to creep or slip down
into the water. The river was not at all wide,
but it was deeper than pleasant, and the
current running like a mill-race, the bottom
covered with sundry great boulders over which
the horse blundered and stumbled in a way
that threatened a probable immersion to his
rider. Nearing the other side, the water
deepened so as to just take the horse off his
legs in the last few yards ; but the land was
safely reached, and it remained but to climb the

opposing bank. This the horse made a gallant
attempt to do, but sank up to his hocks
in the mud through the effort, and consequently
came right back over on Tom into the
water, and was instantly carried away down
stream.

The girths had fortunately broken with the
strain, and Tom, who had his feet in the
stirrups, floated clear almost directly, together
with the saddle. He had fallen quite soft,
thanks to the depth of the water, and after
escaping a kick on the head almost by a
miracle, found himself bound to make shift to
swim, with the saddle attached to one leg, as
by some mysterious means he had got his foot
right through the stirrup.

Now Tom could swim, that is to say, he
could manage to do a few hundred yards
without his clothes ; but to have hunting-boots
on, and a saddle as well, was a complication he
certainly had never anticipated when educating

himself in the art of escaping drowning. And
now he felt himself in a very serious predicament,
as he was borne swiftly along by the
current, every movement he tried to make
with his legs seeming, if anything, to pull him
down.

But Tom was a cool hand enough, and never
lost his presence of mind ; so he concluded
that if he could keep himself afloat by mere
paddling with his hands he was bound to come
on shore sooner or later, and he betook himself
therefore to that method of salvation. It must
be remembered that Tom was but a completely
elementary swimmer, and what seems easy
to the initiated was a work of huge difficulty
to him. Still he was managing all right, and
was thankful to find the current rapidly taking
him to the shore whereon he wished to be,
when, lo ! there was a sudden check and pull
at his leg. The rushing stream came bubbling
over him as he sunk a short way beneath it,

his foot held fast by the accursed stirrup-iron.


It was obvious what had happened, and it
flashed across him in a moment — the other
stirrup had caught in something, and he was a
prisoner. In still water it would not have
been so hopeless, but as it was, the awful
power of the stream kept him at full tension
away from his fetter, and impatient of his body
thus lying as an obstacle in its way, caused
the water to surge up over him, at times
immersing him altogether ; indeed, it was
only by the most extreme efforts he could
keep his head occasionally above water.

I have said Tom had plenty of presence of
mind, but surely this was an occasion in which
any one might be pardoned for giving up hope.
For a moment he was inclined absolutely to
struggle in the wild and useless fashion of a
drowning man ; but it was only a moment.
Quick as thought he pulled himself together.

his wits rising to the occasion, and felt for his
knife, regardless of the water burying him in
its remorseless flow. Alas ! for once in a way
he had left his knife at home. An old useless
knife it was, to all intents and purposes ; he
had carried it from mere habit for more than a
year after it had become disreputable and
fractured, and now just when he wanted it he
had left it at home !

There was but one more chance : raising his
head with a great effort above the water — for
he was rapidly becoming exhausted now — he
took a long breath, and then deliberately curled
up so as to get hold of his foot ; from thence
seizing the stirrup - leather, and reaching
further on to the saddle, (all this of course
under water, and he had never even dived in
his life ! ) with the energy of despair bearing
up against the volume of surging flood,
he pulled the stirrup-leather away from the
saddle, — fortunately it was not very stiff, — and

in an instant was free and on the surface. The
current now doing him a good turn whirled
him swiftly into shallow water ; but had he not
come upon a friendly tree-trunk jutting into
the stream, which afforded him a support, it is
questionable whether he would not have been
drowned after all from sheer exhaustion.
However, he lay across this tree - trunk in
safety — he never knew how long ; but when
he recovered himself the evening was drawing
on, and he staggered in bewilderment up the
bank, for once in his life sincerely thanking
God for his preservation.

Looking around, what should he see but old
Caesar, his horse, quietly attempting to graze in
the next field ; and that was one satisfactory
point, at all events. Caesar was easily caught,
but being without a saddle Tom was too weak
to mount him until he had led him to a gate.
Having succeeded in getting up, he made for
the road, which was a short distance in front,

but very soon began to feel that he had had too
much taken out of him to enable him to exert
himself any more ; and fear lest he should roll
off the horse, or do some other foolish thing,
constrained him to pull up at a neat little
house standing all by itself, and slip down on
the ground while he was yet able. A face came
to one of the windows — it was that of a female,
long-visaged and somewhat undershot — apparently
about fifty years old, but evidently assuming
a much greater degree of juvenility. It
was not a wholly unpleasant face, though ugly
and of consequential expression. Tom feebly
beckoned, and tried to take off his hat. The
face looked mystified, but finally smiled, left
the window, and came to the door, which
being opened, disclosed the owner of the face
as being a tall and somewhat gaunt lady
decked out in most youthful garb. To her
Tom told in a few words what had befallen
him, mentioned his name, and asked her to

put him up for a while, as he was dead beat,
and couldn't get any further.

Blackburn ! " ruminated the lady. " Are
you the Blackburn Mary JoUiffe knows ? "

Yes."

*' Oh ! then T should know you well. My
name's Whitehead ; you'll have heard of meno
doubt ; but come in, come in. Mary, get
the brandy, and take the gentleman's horse
round to the cow-house. Stay, I'll get the
brandy myself ; it's very good, I'm told. There,
drink that — that'll evaporate you."

All this was said very rapidly, with a thick,
spluttering sort of utterance, the dialect being
much inclined to Yorkshire, and the last
sentence savouring so much of Mrs. Malaprop
as to actually draw forth a smile from Tom,
on whom the brandy produced a marvellous
effect.

He knew Miss Whytehead well, however,
by reputation, and was well aware of what he

had to expect. But what of his horse ? He
was sufficiently invigorated now to think of
that, and he asked Miss Whytehead if she
would excuse his going to look after the old
beast.

*'0h, the girl will tie him up all safely,"
said she ; " you needn't be afraid."

But Tom opined the faithful quadruped
would want something more than tying up,
and asked if she could give him a feed of corn.
Miss Whytehead was sorry to say they had no
such thing anywhere about. Was there a rug
he could put over the horse ? No, she hadn't
such a thing ; but on seeing Tom's distressed
expression, she added, " You can take one of
the old counterpanes if you like, and there's
some hay we have for the cow."

This sounded better, so Tom asked if he
could have a little oatmeal and a pint of beer.
This was forthcoming, and taking matters into
his own hands, he proceeded to boil water and

make gruel, pouring the beer into it, Miss
Whytehead the while discoursing volubly.

** I'm sure, now, to see you in these clothes,
fussing about your horse, reminds me of my
poor old father — such a man he used to befor
horses and hunting ! You'll have heard of
him no doubt ; everybody has. The Whyte-heads
have always been well known since the
Conquest, and now you see my brother
occupies the old place. I do like good breeding
; there is nothing like it, my father
always said, in either horse or man. Your
father, I believe, is a grandson of Lord Falkland,
is that not so ? Well, I like you all
the better for it. I don't care how poor I am,
1 always feel better than the people roundabout
here." And so on, harping on the one
topic of the excellent breeding of the Whyte-heads,
till Tom had his gruel ready for the
horse, and went out with it.

"I'm sure," said Tom afterwards, " there is

much need for her to drive this point into
one's head ; for no one would imagine her a
well-bred one, to judge by her looks and the
way she talks. Still, it must be true with
human beings as well as horses, that they ' run
in all shapes.' "

Old Caesar seemed very pleased with the
gruel, and disposed to make the best of his
present quarters. They were not palatial,
truly, but at least they were wind and weatherproof,
though withal most console and unclean
underfoot. That could not be helped,
however. Tom got a wisp of clean hay, and
rubbed the horse down as best he could. The
girl brought the counterpane, which they
adjusted with sundry pieces of tape, and one
long piece of tape tied right round the horse
in lieu of a roller.

Hay was found and plentifully administered,
Tom using some also to bed the horse down
and make him comfortable ; and then with the

girl he returned to the house and sat down,
dead-beat with his exertions, insomuch that
Miss Whytehead, who had been spring
herself up still more than heretofore, declared
he must not think of going home that night :
they would make him up a bed in the little
sitting-room. She would take no denial, and
Tom, who knew perfectly well that unless he
greatly improved he could not possibly ride,
consented with very little hesitation.

Now it must be known, that Miss Whyte-head
had by no means given up her hopes of
matrimony. She was reported to have been
once engaged, but to have suffered bitter
disappointment — the lover not turning up on
the appointed day. Some who told the tale
developed it into a romance, to the effect that,
on the evening before she was to become his
wife, she saw his face looking at her from out
of the water in a. half filled jug, and that at
that very time the youth met his end by

falling into the flooded river Swale and being
drowned.

Others, however, declared, that in reality no
such thing happened, but that the faithless
swain was still alive, and married to another.

After all, what did it matter ? In either
case there was cause for satisfaction : in the
one, deep, cherished sentiments of the tragic
past served to demonstrate to Miss Whytehead
how different she was from the common prosaic
herd, and to make her feel that she too had
been subject to that Divine commingling of
souls which is reserved only for the highborn
of the earth ; in the other, Avell, surely
there was some reason to rejoice if the man
had never been drowned at all. Whether,
however, Miss Whytehead would have rejoiced
had his survival been clearly shown to her
this deponent sayeth not.

But the gist of all this is, that Miss Whyte-head,
condemned by the death of her father

VOL. I. s

and the marriage of her sisters to a solitary
life, felt a yearning for a sympathetic soul, or
indeed a soul of any sort, if its owner was a
man, well-favoured, young, and possessed of
money. Such a one she now thought fate
had cast in her way, and she determined to
make Tom her own. Little did he think of
the honour thus destined for him, being more
intent on certain savoury odours wafted from
the kitchen, which portended that he was to be
fed anon. Miss Whytehead had seen a good
deal of mankind, from the old hard-headed sort
like her father to the more modern and fragile
youths, who, as she said, had to take Enoch's
Fruit Salt in the mornings to remove the
effects of any attempt at a drink the night
before. But old or young, she well knew that
man, until he has been fed, is at best a morose
and unimpressionable animal, so that her
whole desire now was to appease Tom's
appetite for food in the hopes of stealing her

way to his heart afterwards. The somewhat
scanty resources of the larder were sorely
tried ; but there was a brace of partridges
her brother had sent her, and there was some
ham and a few eggs, and there was beer.

These were soon placed before the hungering
Tom, to whom they appeared more delicious
than the most sumptuous meal could
have done on ordinary occasions.

He sat him down and fell to with a will,
Miss Whytehead modestly declining to assist
him, but busying herself in attending to his
wants, until, as he began to feel comfortable
and refreshed, he thought, " Really, this is a
very good sort of old dame ; I've certainly lit
on my legs coming here."

Having consumed much ham and eggs,
together with the best part of the brace of
partridges, and having imbibed about a quart
of the beer, which was really very good —
*' Strange to say," thought Tom, '' when there

S 2

are only women in the house 1 " — his tongue
became loosed, and yielding to his hostess's
solicitations, he drew his chair to the fire, while
she produced sundry black bottles from a
cupboard, — the slave brought glasses, lemons,
and the kettle, — and Miss Whytehead besought
Tom to let her mix for him a drink such asher
father loved.

Tom thought at first he would have
preferred just then a cup of coffee, or at any
rate tea ; but taking into consideration his
still wet condition, and the late hour, — nearly
eleven o'clock, — he concluded it would be just
as well to go in for something " hot within,"
and accepted the offer, thinking the while that
Miss Whytehead was a garish sort of damsel
to have all these paraphernalia of drink ready
at hand.

Now," said she, " if you'll watch me you'll
learn a recipe which I've never taught any one
else before. My father taught me how to

make it when he broke his arm hunting, and
could not do it for himself until the bones had
ignited again."

*' Indeed!" said Tom. ^^ Well, I feel
greatly honoured by your divulging it tome.


*' You do, do you ? Ah ! but you see you're
such a good-looking boy, I would tell you
anything."

This rather startled Tom, but, on the whole,
pleased him. All men are ridiculously vain,
and prone to take in perfect good faith a
compliment to their personal appearance ; and
then Tom was at that age when he rather
liked to be called a boy, so that he answered,
I am quite sure. Miss Whytehead, you must
have had many much better looking than I
am who would have given anything to hear
you speak to them in that way."

Not I," incautiously broke in the lady; 'eat
least, I mean they were all horrid, ugly men,

and I couldn't bear them ; so I've waited for
some one better."

Tom now thought it time to change the
subject to the drink, and watched anxiously
the famous brew.

Miss Whitehead was already fussing about
with the materials, and as the drink really
was good it may be well to give it in extenso.
First she stuck a lemon over with cloves
and hung it by a string before the fire, asking
Tom to keep turning it. This he did, getting
his eyes and face — already sore with exposure
well scorched in the process. Then did
Miss Whytehead take a bowl, and having
placed therein eight lumps of sugar, a tablespoonful
of syrup of ginger, a similar quantity
of apple-jelly, and a wine-glass of brandy, she
paused for a while to see how the lemon was
progressing. It was beginning to crackle and
spit, and had already shot a clove in Tom's
face with great violence, followed by a jet of

scalding juice. Miss Whytehead, however,
declared it was not nearly ready yet, and went
on to pour one tumbler-glass of rum and one
of Irish whiskey into the bowl, stirring it up
with thoughtful countenance, and ever and
anon looking at Tom in a way that made him
feel uncomfortable, he didn't quite know why.
He could not help noticing the while the
strange angularity of her figure as she stood
beside him, and he wondered to himself why
a beneficent providence ever could be so
careless as to turn woman out in such shapes
so utterly unfinished and rough in workmanship,
as it were.

Next he thought what on earth must her
drinking capacity be, or what must she deem
him capable of, that she was mixing such a
large '^ jorum " ; but the lemon now claimed all
his attention, it was rapidly getting brown,
and exhaling the most glorious aroma.

It will be ready directly," cried the hostess,

in a state of great excitement. She had now
placed the bowl down by the fire, and the
kettle was boiling lustily. " There," said she,
that will do ; put it in the bowl," and Tom
with some difficulty tumbled the lemon in,
Awhile she took up the kettle and appeared to
pour indiscriminately, but it seemed afterwards
she had a well-known mark in the
bowl, by which she knew when she had got
exactly as much water as spirit. " Now, my
boy," she exclaimed, in strange glee, " we let it
stand here and stir it gently for ten minutes
before the fire, and then you shall say what
you think of it."

This time having elapsed, the ladle was
called into requisition, and the two sat down
on either side of the fire, with their glasses
on small brackets specially placed for such a
purpose. The punch was first-rate. Tom was
now nearly dry, and beginning to feel decidedly
happy. He praised the drink immensely, and

swore Miss Whytehead was the cleverest lady
he had ever met, and he only wished there
were more like her. One thing he should like
to know — what was the theory which induced
her to put syrup of ginger into the
brew ?

Oh ! " said she, " that's the great point of
all. The syrup of ginger does away with all
chance of a headache after it ; it's a wonderful
thing ; I know its effect perfectly by practising
on my poor father."

Well," cried Tom, " you are an amazing
individual ; it's like conjuring to be able to
drink such grand stuff as this without fear
of next morning. Do you know, I'm awfully
glad I came here."

Are you really now ? But only think
what you have had to go through before you
did come."

"Don't care," said Tom; "this is worth it
all'*

Miss Whytehead coughed, half blushed, and
simperingly asked, " What do you mean ? "

"Why, \)i\^ drink''

Here was an anti-climax, since she quite
thought Tom had wound himself up to a
declaration of love. For a moment disappointment
and disgust silenced the lady; then on
second thoughts she reflected, " If he is so
pleased with the drink, it should not be difficult
for him to be pleased with the maker of it."

Then she entertained him with a long
discourse on people in general, and her own
family in particular, the point being as usual
that no one was bred right who did not inherit
the blood of the Whitehead ; condescended,
however, to say that she liked Mary Jolliff'e.
She was one of the few people she did like, for
her pride always forbade her to associate with
the general run of persons who wished for her
acquaintance. Her brother Mark, too, he was
equally proud ; by-the-bye, he was at Kirby

hunt ball that very night ; she would have
been there, but couldn't get a dress in time.

Tom, meanwhile, had replenished his glass,
and was thoroughly complacent. Presently
he broke in, "I only wish I always had someone
to make punch like this for me."

You'd better engage me," said she, with a
feeble titter.

Tom, who was far too much wrapt up in his
own enjoyment to give the slightest attention
now to the turn the conversation was taking,
went on without the smallest serious meaning:
All right, that's a bargain ; you shall be my
Hebe, my cup-bearer, punch-brewer, or what
you will ; I shall take you with me through
the world."

*' Oh, but that wouldn't be proper."

*then of course I must marry you ; do you
agree to that ? " laughed he, merely, as he
thought, filling up the time pleasantly with a
little inane fooling.

Judge then his surprise when she calmly
said, after a moment's pause, " Mr. Blackburn,
I do agree. It would be idle for me to deny that
with me, as with you, this is a case of love
at first sight," and rising up, she flung herself
upon him, and hung hysterically to his neck.

Tom glanced hurriedly around. There was
that confounded girl standing at the door.
How long had she been there ? He grasped
the difficulty of his position at once, and was
fairly overcome by it.

Good God ! " he cried, " isn't it time we
were going to bed ? "

'' I see," she answered, " the excitement
and the hard day have been too much for you.
Come, dear, come, I will show you to your
room," and Tom mechanically followed to the
apartment, where a shakedown had been prepared
for him, felt her kiss him, and actually
was not certain whether he did not kiss her.
She closed the door and was gone.

Tom stood some while in a bewildered
condition, then muttered to himself, " Well,
this is beyond everything ; I'll sleep on it
anyhow," and tired out, he betook him to rest,
donning a beautifully frilled night-gown that
was placed ready, and wondering what his
boots and breeches would be like in the morning.
He was asleep almost directly, nor did
he dream.

How long he had been asleep he knew not,
but he was aroused by a series of awful shrieks
proceeding from up-stairs — so awful that he did
not pause to put on any additional garments,
but ran, just as he was, out of his room to that
from which the noise was proceeding.

Bursting in, he saw the figure of a man
attempting to stifle the shrieks of some one
in bed, no doubt Miss Whytehead ; while
another was just entering through the window,
in fact, his body was half in. Tom's ready
presence of mind told him that his plan was

to go first at the man who was climbing in,
for if he once let him in he would have two
assailants together ; so in an instant he rushed
to the window, and gave the would-be burglar
one, two, fair from the shoulder into his ugly
countenance, and the man dropped back as if
shot.

Tom heard him fall with a great thud below,
and then turned to the other, who was coming
at him with something in his hand that looked
like a life-preserver.

But the man was, like most of his kind, an
utter cur when boldly tackled, and as Tom
rushed on him without a moment's hesitation,
the life-preserver fell from his grasp as he
made a feeble effort to use it. Tom closed
with him at once, overpowering him as easily
as he would a child, looked at the window,
with the intention of throwing him down from
it, but thought he would not ; so carried him
out on to the landing, and partly kicked and

partly threw him down-stairs ; then opened the
front door, turned the man towards him, gave
him one right-hander full in the face, which
knocked him backwards into the shrubs, byway
of a reminiscence, and walked up-stairs
again to see how Miss Whytehead was,
actually forgetting to shut the door behind him.

He went straight into her room, never
thinking of his deshabille, for it was no time todo
so. She was there, but not fainting or in
hysterics, simply wildly excited and rushing
about the room, the gauntness of her form
terribly expressed by the scanty garb that
could hardly be said to make a pretence of
concealing it.

The first thing she said was : '* Oh, have
you locked the front door ? "

No, by Jove ! I haven't," said Tom, and
was about to run down to do it when, quick
as thought. Miss Whytehead turned the key
in her own door, removed it, and said.

''No, no, dear Tom, you shall risk your life no
more for me. If they come back now we are
safe. I don't care what any one says, you shall
stay here till daylight ; self-preservation is the
first law of nature," and with that she would
have fallen fainting to the floor, but that Tom
caught her up, chiefly with a view to secure
the key ; but she had secreted it somewhere
about her, and he could hardly search
minutely.

She soon recovered and quietly went to bed,
offering Tom a rug to put over himself, which
he thankfully accepted, after vainly imploring
her to give him the key and let him out.
She declared he would be murdered if he left
the room, and so he was obliged to stay.

But the worst was to come. There was a
sound of a trap driving past. It stopped, and
somebody got out, walked into the house by
the open front door, and came presently upstairs.


"Oh!" shrieked Miss Whytehead, "they
are coming again. They have been away for
help, and have brought the whole gang of
burghers down. Tom, dear, darling Tom, I
have at least this consolation — you are with
me."

Hush," muttered Tom, hearing that the
steps had stopped outside the door ; and the
person, whoever he or she might be, knocked.
^' Give me the key," said Tom in a whisper.

Oh, no, my own dearest Tom. You shall
not open the door ; we shall be murdered."

"Susan," said a gruff voice outside, "open
the door. It's I — Mark, your brother."

The sudden reaction was too much for the
lady ; she screamed, threw down the key,
and Tom, without a moment's hesitation,
opened the door.

To them entered Mr. Mark Whytehead,
who was on his way driving back from the
Kirby Ball, and seeing the front door open had

VOL. I. T

stopped and come to investigate. He had
possessed himself of a candle, and surveyed
the couple in their sparse attire.

This time Tom's presence of mind deserted
him, and he only stared confusedly.

"Well, Susan," said Mark, "I little thought
you would do this, though I knew you were
bad enough. Below I find nothing but
bottles, glasses, and signs of drink; the very
front door left open, owing to the horrid
oblivious state you have been in ; but upstairs
here, — ' dear, darling Tom,' indeed !
Oh ! shameful, shameful ! D — n you, fellow,
who are you ? "

"Fellow yourself," replied Tom, who had
now reached a sullen state of sensibility.
I've had plenty of you and your sister," and
brushing past the outraged relative he went
down-stairs, immediately proceeded to put on
his clothes, finding huge difficulty with the
boots ; and with the clamorous voices still

holding forth up - stairs he left the house,
went to the cow-house, put the bridle on
Caesar, and getting on as best he could, rode
off, leaving the old counterpane to the tender
mercies of the cow, just as the sun was rising.
Caesar went very stiff at first, but soon was
all right, and Tom's spirits rose as he felt the
fresh air and freedom once more. Many-ejaculations,
however, did he mutter to himself,
until he rode into Norton just in time to
have a bath and dress for breakfast on Christmas
Day. It may well be conjectured that his
night's adventures were not revealed in full to
those who asked where he had been and what
he had been coins.

END OF VOL. I.

miiiiWHWMnMwwnmiVMwwn^^

nTr3Tt^n SPC^^SMDCCCLXlX-MCMVn ^o

BIBLIOTHECAHIUS MDCCCLXXXr-MDCCCLXXXVrliL *

i fob

By " BLINKHOOLIE,"

AUTHOR OF
THE TALE OF A HORSE," " HIDDEN TALENT," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA 'ST.

COVENT GARDEN.

1881.

[All Riijlds reserved.]
(Late iy3 Piccadilly.)

CLAY zVND TAYLOR. Painters

BLAIR ATHOL.

CHAPTER I.

Heap on more wood ! — the wind is chill ;
But let it whistle as it will,
We'll keep our Christmas merry still.
Each age has deemed the new-born year
The fittest time for festal cheer.
And well our Christian sires of old
Loved when the year its course had rolled,
And brought blithe Christmas back again
With all his hospitable train." — Scott.

Being out, wild bells, to the wild sky,
The flying cloud, the frosty night,
The year is dying in the night ;
Ring out, wild bells, and let him die.

'&

Ring out the old, ring in the new,

Ring, happy bells, across the snow :
The year is going, let him go ;
Ring out the false, ring in the true." — Tennyson.

VOL. II. B

Christmas day becomes more dismal and
unreal every year. Possibly it may be that
we are soured by time, and rendered more
matter-of-fact by age, so that we think the
day now is not what it used to be ; but there
surely is something more in it than that.
Who of us is there that cannot and does not
look back with regret to the Christmases of his
youth, when the day was really merry, and
there seemed nothing to darken the horizon ?
What man is there now who looks forward to
Christmas with pleasure — the impending bills,
the indigestible pudding, the compliments of
the season, and the feeling that you ought to
be happy whether you are or no ?

Where are now the joys of our earlier days,
when yule logs, yule cakes, yule candles,
frumenty, holly, mistletoe, Christina boxes,
Christmas Eve supper, and Christmas Day
f! inner, were looked forward to with eagerness
ior many weeks, and were wept for when they

had gone, and the salutary medicine made its
opportune appearance ? Nay, even the very
waits " were by us anxiously expected ;
while now, — but no more of this, only when
we think of those days wee wish that it may
indeed be ourselves and not the times that
have changed, so that the younger generation
may still experience the pleasures that have
gone from us at any rate for ever.

Let us pass by the melancholy theme, and
leave Christmas Day at Norton to the imagination
of readers. It was much the same as
elsewhere in the north of England, where many
rites and ceremonies still linger that have
been forgotten in the more advanced south.
One thing, however, had happened, — Tom,
whose constitution was of the very best, having
quite shaken off the effects of his adventures,
had become communicative as evening drew on,
and finally told his whole story to his wondering
parents and the girls. Every one laughed

B 2

immoderately at the recital, but Mr. Blackburn
presently began to look grave, and said
the position might turn out more awkward
than any one thought, and that far the best
thing to do was to write to Miss Whytehead
without delay, thanking her for her hospitality,
and disclosing delicately the mistake she had
made in thinking Tom proposed to her ; while
a letter should also be sent to her brother
Mark, explaining the whole circumstances.
This Tom at once said he would do, thanking
his father for the advice which all thought
was excellent, though Mary Jolliffe, who knew
Miss Whytehead, declared she would never let
him slip in that easy manner. Tom, however,
sat down and wrote as follows : —

"Dear Miss Whytehead, .

'' I write to offer you my thanks for
your kindness in putting me up at your house,

and my apologies for the unceremonious way

in which I left.

The fact is, I was so utterly taken aback
by one event following so quickly on another,
and your brother appearing on the top of it
sall, that I thought you would explain better
to him without me, and that it would be well
for me to go. I am, however, writing to him
to put him right as to the circumstances under
which he found me. Has anything been heard
of the men ?

"Before concluding I ought to say that I

am not quite clear whether you took my light

and* foolish remarks of the other evening in

earnest or not. If you did not it's all right ;

but if you did, as on reflection I think must

have been the case, I am indeed sorry to

have misled you. I can say no more on

that subject, only I hope in any case you

will forgive me.

Yours truly,

*' T. Blackburn."

By return of post arrived the following : —

"My dearest Tom,

*' I did feel hurt by your going away
as you did, and leaving me with Mark, who
said most dreadful things. The only way you
can show you are sort is to come and tell me
so yourself. Come at once, dear Tom, and I
will say no more about it. They have catched
the man you knocked out of the window ;
Mark found him with an arm broken. You
and I will have to go to bear witness against
him at York. Now do come, my own Tom ; I
so long to see you.

Believe me

'yours most affectionately,

"Susie."

P. S. — I should never think any remark of
yours ' light and foolish,' so let me hear no
more of that."

It is to be feared that Tom's language on

reading this peculiar epistle was not fit for
polite ears ; but even old Mr. Blackburn could
hardly help joining in the merriment that was
caused when it was read out at breakfast.

*' Whatever must I do?" anxiously asked
Tom, mindful of forced marriages or breach of
promise cases with heavy damages.

Why, you stupid thing," cried one of his
sisters, " write and tell her straight out you
don't mean to have anything to do with her.
She knew well enough what you meant last
time, else she wouldn't have put that in the
postscript."

So after a while Tom again put pen to
paper and wrote —

"Dear Miss Whytehead,

"You have not understood my last. I
meant to say that any expressions I may have
used which might be construed into a declaration
of affection were not intended to have

any such meaning. I must again thank you
for your kindness to me ; but beg you will
understand that I never had, and never shall
have, any intentions towards you more deep
than those of friendship.

Yours truly,

*^T. Blackburn."

"That ought to settle her," said Tom, as he
fastened up the letter.

'* Lucky for you if it does," laughed Mary.
I don't for a moment think you will get rid
of her so easily."

'' But, Tom'' put in Mrs. Blackburn, " you
must have said something to her, poor old
thing ! She would never write like this if you
had not."

Oh ! be sure there's more in it than we
know of," added some one else ; and among
them Tom was badgered into a thoroughly bad
temper, until he got out of the house with
Henry, who was still wrapped up in the

Christmas card he had received from Kate
Hamilton, and excogitating poetry to send to
her on New Year's Day.

They walked aimlessly as far as the kennels,
looked at the dogs without really taking notice
of them ; then back by the stables, where the
deaf Thomas as of old held sway, though no
longer subject to the sport of being " teased."

The ancient bath-chair, sadly dilapidated,
still occupied a corner of the coach-house,
and as they passed on into the street, and
looked down the hill which had been the scene
of their runaway ride in their earlier days,
both at once seemed to forget their respective
ladies, and commenced talking over for the
thousandth time their wonderful adventure
upon that memorable occasion. Tom's temper
was restored, and Henry was no longer abstracted
in poetic thought.

The years rolled back, and they were again
the careless happy beings of those very young

days, half inclined to go and try whether
Thomas was grown rusty with time, or could
still be " drawn" as of yore.

And so a day or two passed by, and it
was now New Year's Eve, nor had any missive
arrived from Miss Whytehead ; Tom began
to feel quite happy again in the assurance that
he had put a stop to her advances.

New Year's Eve at Newton was always well
kept. The family, as a matter of course, sat
up, no matter how sleepy some might be ; and
as the night went on, dancing generally would
be introduced, for that was a very favourite
pastime at the Vicarage, and a very profitable
one for our youths, who got an amount of
home practice that very few men have the
luck to fall in with.

It stands to reason if men are to dance they
must learn somewhere ; but, as they seldom if
ever go in for regular lessons, the result is,
they have either to learn at home or in the

ball-room. Hence it is we see so many miserable
exhibitions in public.

But in the last hour dancing would cease,
and all would sit down round the fire, and
talk awhile about the old year ; and then
Mabel — now some fifteen years old — would
produce a wonderful little book she had, in
which for years back was written, " Good-bye,
old year 18 — ," and " Welcome, new year
18 — ;" and the signatures were there of all
who had sat round that fire, or been in the
house on the respective occasions. The book
had to be signed twice by every one — once
before twelve and once after.

Mabel's book always caused some little
merriment, but it was interesting enough
for all that, and also productive of a certain
amount of solemn thought ; for it could not
fail to bring home to any one who looked on
the same names signed year after year the
reflection, " Will there be a break in this next

time, and if not, how long will it be before
there is one ? "

It is not well to look gloomily to the future,
and it may be the old Greek, who in fancy
stood with his back to it, and saw before him
only the picture of the past, was happier, or at
any rate more complacent, than we. Still,
without meeting troubles half-way, or anticipating
ills that may never come, it may be
just as well that at a time like New Year's
Eve we should call to mind the march of time,
and think that we shall not be always as
now.

What matter 1 " some will say. "It is
the old story of the Egyptian feast, and the
mummy taken round before the guests to
remind them they are but mortal. There is
no need for gloomy thought on that score ;
let us eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow
we die."

Whether any one ever was really actuated

by feelings of this kind it is difficult to say.
Certain it is, that many must have assumed
such a feeling when the heart was gloomy and
apprehensive. Joy and festivity quickly flag
before the shadow of impending fate, and
few indeed are they who can dismiss the
thoughts of the future so entirely as to think
only of the present ; more especially if the
future is brought forcibly home to them as by
the Egyptian custom.

But it is certainly not our intention to
moralize, or enter into philosophical discussions.
It is sufficient to say, that Mabel's
book produced a certain amount of reflection
in all who signed it ; but, it may be safely
said, not of that description which the Egyptians
are supposed to have experienced.

The signatures were duly made upon this
occasion, and then about 11.45 Tom, with
Henry and Jack, sallied forth, according to
custom, to ring the old year out and the new

one in. It was a bright, clear night, with the
snow crisply frozen on the ground, as they
crossed the road, lantern in hand, and stepped
into the ancient church - yard, where the
shadows of the grave-stones formed all sorts
of strange shapes in the moonlight, and the
old church stood out grey and quiet before
them.

Even Jack's chattering was hushed as they
walked along to the chancel door, and fitted
and turned the ponderous key ; and then the
three stepped inside with feelings half of awe,
while the single light of the lantern flickered
among the grim old monuments of the Falkland
family that stood there in remembrance
of departed worth, and the sound of the
three footsteps on the stones seemed quite
unnatural as it reverberated strangely within
the building.

Newton church was none of your ordinary
country village edifices, but as fine a building

of its size as could be found anywhere.
Of considerable dimensions and age, it was
especially distinguished by a beautiful octagonal
tower, which was almost unique in its design.
Inside it was embellished with splendid monuments,
to which we have referred ; and those
who have seen it at midnight, under such
circumstances as we are now relating, will
never forget it.

But the three went softly along to where
the three bell-ropes were hanging, and placing
the lantern in security they addressed themselves
to work.

Tom and Henry alone commenced the
performance, as the tolling did not require
Jack's aid, even if he had been skilful enough
to 'manage the bell with any certainty. So
then these two tolled slowly and solemnly
for the dying year, anxiously looking for the
moment when the buzzing above their heads
should tell them the clock was going to

strike. The year seemed to die very hard,
and the moments passed very slowly ; but at
length it came — that death-battle of departing
time — and the ringers ceased, all listening intently
while the clock began to strike; and what
were the thoughts of each as each stroke was
noted one can speculate upon, but cannot tell.
At the eleventh stroke they said, " Good-bye,
old year 1S6 — ," and then, as the twelfth
pronounced the end was come, " Welcome,
new year 1S6 — ," and springing again to the
bells, all three clashed and jangled them about
in the most inartistic fashion doubtless, yet
still indicative of hearty greeting to the newcomer.


For ten minutes or more this was continued,
till the village was quite aroused,
and the ringers were well - nigh exhausted ;
then glancing around the church as they
walked along the aisle once more, they finally
shut the door behind them, and turned to licht

and frivolous pursuits — the first of which was
a competition as to who could be first at any
house to demand admission with the well-known
cry of " Luck, luck, luck ; please will
you let the lucky bird in?"

It is considered in Yorkshire a most fortunate
omen for the individual who can in this
matter forestall all others ; and such a one is
held to be entitled to much good cheer in
recognition of his attention.

Tom and Henry rushed towards the Vicarage,
and Jack, seeing he should be outstripped,
diverged, and made for the butcher's house,
where a light proclaimed that the family had
not retired.

Henry heard a sharp female voice call out,
** Stop, Tom, this moment," but sped on, and
became the lucky bird at the Vicarage, where
Mr. Blackburn was pouring forth libations of
champagne, and sat wreathed in smiles and
good-humour.

VOL. II. C

*' Where are the others?" was at once
asked.

Henry didn't know; Tom was with him just
now, and some one stopped lira.

Gone to the butcher's, of course," said
Jessie, with a contemptuous sniff. " I'm sure
we ought to feel flattered that even one of you
comes here."

Henry was about to answer when the same
voice that had stopped Tom was heard on the
lawn outside in shrill tones —

"No, you shall not escape me. You have
roused my pride, and I will not be denuded
by you. I'll bring my brother Mark to you if
you won't give way to me. You don't know
what a man he is when the credit of his
family is at stake. Touch him upon his pride
and he'll let you see."

Then came the voice of Tom, in slightly
irritated tones — "But who wants to touch him
upon his pride ? I'm sure I don't. Pray now,

Miss Whytehead, be calm, and come into the
house."

There was a suppressed exclamation of
surprise among the listeners in the house on
hearing this name, and several whispers of
hush ! " in expectation of what next should
come.

Presently the voice broke forth again.
Listen to me, Tom. On my knees I swear
that I will not be trifled with. By those stars
above, and the moon which shines upon us,
you have promised, and you shall perform.
The girl heard your promise, and I will see
you dead before you break it."

The inmates of the house had now taken up
positions at windows or near the door, from
whence they could see what was going on, and
a strange sight it was that met their eyes.
The gaunt figure of Miss Whytehead, with a
shawl over her head, kneeling on the grass,
with one hand held appealingly to heaven, and

C 2

the other pointed menacingly at Tom, who
stood before her in evident perplexity.

Depend upon it," whispered Jessie to
Henry, " it's the moon ; no doubt she's mad."
Tom then broke silence. " Really, Miss
Whytehead, it is much better not to talk in
this way outside here at this time of night.
Do cotiie in ; I'm sure they'll be glad to see
you, and you'll only catch cold there."

Miss Whytehead arose and said, " Introduce
me as your appliances bride, and I will
come in, but not unless."
Tom began to lose temper.
What is the food of talking: such nonsense
? Why can't you be sensible, and come
in like an ordinary being ? "

Here Mr. Blackburn thought he had better
2fo out and bring: about some settlement.

Walking up to Miss Whytehead he said,
I think I should know you, Miss Whytehead,
at least I know your brother very well ; and

you were so kind to Too the other day that
1 am sure you will pardon my introducing
myself to you without ceremony. I hope you
will let us offer you a bed, as it is so late, and
you can't possibly get home."

At this Miss Whitehead turned round.
And you are his father ? Well, I know you
are a just and honourable man. Your son has
offered me marriage — my servant heard him
and then he writes to try and get off it. I
came straight away here to affront him about
it, and he is that shameless he won't admit his
promise now. Oh ! but he shan't escape in
this way."

Really, Miss Whytehead," said Mr. Blackburn,
" there seems to have been some unfortunate
mistake in this matter."

Oh ! you take his side, do you ? You'll
back him up, weill you ? you old mean-spirited
hypocrite ! you prenamgatiag smooth-tongue !
I'll let you see ! I'll let you see ! Enter your

house, indeed ! not I ! Tom, I will mar or
marry you. Take your choice, and let me hear
within a week, you snuffling pudding-baker ! "

With that she tossed her arms on high, and
sped out of the gate and down the village,
uttering loud threats and imprecations, of a
somewhat coarser nature than heretofore, till
she was lost to sight ; nor did she remain to
memory dear.

Tom and his father stood silent for a
moment. At last the former said, " Well, of
all the names I ever was called — a snuffling
pudding-baker ! It's too absurd to be angry
at. She must be stark mad."

"Indeed she must' said Mr. Blackburn;
and yet she may do much harm. I think
you shtAild go and see her brother ad explain
to him ; he is a sensible man enough, and will
put all right. But what about her servant
hearing something ? "

"Oh, I don't know," cried Tom. "She

may have heard some nonsense, but you maybe
sure, now you have seen Miss Whytehead,
it was nothing serious."

"True' replied the old man. "You can
have meant nothing in that quarter, I am
convinced ; but, after this unpleasant business,
the sooner we go in and to bed the better."

But though the old man was now inclined
for bed, this was by no means the fancy of
the household. First there came the laughter,
the chaffing of Tom on his love affair, and
the discussion concerning his beloved one.

Matters, however, had become so serious
that Tom could not endure to hear it talked
about, and some one considerately changed the
subject. Dancing was commenced once more,
and presently singing of songs with vociferated
choruses, such, for instance, as the world-famed
Glory, glory. Hallelujah ! " " John Peel,'
"Here's to the year that's wa' ! " &c., &c.,
ensued, and was continued till voices grew

hoarse or failed altogether ; aucl then came the
final performance of " Auld Lang Syne," for
which the good father was aroused from his
slumbers and his easy-chair in the next room,
so that, in spite of his protests, he might stand
with the rest around the table, restored to its
place for the purpose, one of his feet precariously
stationed on a fragile drawing - room
chair, the other rakishly poised upon the table,
hands crossed, and joining with those on each
side of him, the whole circle being posed, in
similar wise. Then how the last remnants of
departing voices sang out the old refrain !
The belt of hands rose and fell to the tune
more and more as the owners warmed to their
work. The exercise became severe as well as
the singing, and laughter at last breaking
through all restraint, the performance came to
an end. The worthy Vicar moped his brows,
the mother sank exhausted in a chair, and there
really was nothing left to do except go to bed.

CHAPTER 11.

I rise with pleasure I assure ye,
With transport to address a jury
Of your known conscientious feeling,
Candour, and honourable dealing." — Pleaders Guide.



Not long after the events last chronicled
Tom was called upon to depose before
magistrates to the events connected with his
knocking the man out of the window at Miss

o

Whytehead's. The prisoner, whose arm was
in splints, reserved his defence ; and after Miss
Whytehead, in an excited manner, had given
her evidence, he was committed for trial at
York.

The details now got into the papers, and
caused great amusement and excitement ; and
some gay spirits actually subscribed a sufficient

sum to have the prisoner well defended, just
for the sport of seeing Tom and Miss Whyte-head
subjected to cross-examination. Tom had
called on Mr. Mark Whytehead, with whom
he had a long interview. That gentleman had
sufficient common sense to see how the land
lay, and that his sister had made a fool of
herself ; so he promised Tom to do his best to
keep her quiet, " though". added he, "1 warn
you she is a most uncontrollable individual,
and is very likely to give you more trouble."

Tom departed, thanking him, and neither
heard nor saw any more of the enamoured
virgin until the eventful day when he repaired
to York Castle for the trial.

The judges were just arriving, and the gay-liveried
trumpeters, standing at a remote
corner of the enclosed space before the courts,
were hailing the majesty of the law with a
fanciful miracle of blasts. Open-mouthed the
people were gazing on the splendour of the

sheriff, the august dignity of the coachman, the
venerable solemnity of the judges. Solicitors
and barrister's clerks were bustling about,
mutually in pursuit of each other. Within,
barristers and others were in a stir, and all
was ready to begin.

Tom very soon encountered friends who had
come to see him put through the mill. They
informed him that Mr. Quidmore had been
retained for the defence ; and Tom shuddered
when he heard it, for he knew that gentleman
by repute, and felt assured that the cross-examination
would be of the most severe, and
to others laughable, description. He would
have given worlds to escape, but he was in for
it now.

Mr. Johnson, a very junior counsel, had by
some family influence got the brief for the
prosecution, and there was little hope that he
would in any way be able to check the vagaries
of the defence.

Meanwhile, the grand jury had been charged
a superfluous proceeding, by the way, for
they were too full already with their pride of
office to have any room left for digesting the
admonitions of the judge ; and Tom was
diligently occupied in keeping out of the way
of Miss Whytehead, whom he observed lurking
about, evidently in search of some one.

One fortunate thing at least happened — the
very first "true bill" that the grand jury found
was that against John Jones, and John Jones
was the man in whose case Tom was concerned.

The terrible period was at least not to belong
deferred ; but Tom's heart beat quick
when he heard the Clerk of Arraigns command
John Jones to be " put up." John Jones was
accordingly put up into the dock. The jury
were swortj, the prisoner was arraigned upon
the indictment for burglary, pleaded " not
guilty," and the case began. At least it should
have begun, but Mr. Johnson, who was holding

his first brief, lost nerve on rising, and was
for a while flushed and speechless. It was
almost painful to look at him ; and most of
his brethren buried their faces in their hands,
and laughed in ostrich-like solitude.

At length his voice broke forth : " May it
please your lordship — Gentlemen of the jury,
you have heard the charge, by which the
prisoner is charged with — (a long and agonizing
pause — Mr. Quidmore whispers " burglary ''
across the table) — burglary. The facts are
these :■ — The prisoner appears on the — that is to
say, Miss Whytehead will say that she, or
rather, I should say, that Mr. Blackburn will
tell you that he was hunting ; and indeed,
gentlemen, the facts are so simple that you
will have no doubt about convicting the
prisoner ; but I will call the witnesses before
you, and let you judge for yourselves." Mr.
Johnson sat down perspiring and confused, bewildered
in the pages of his much-studied brief.

Mr. QcriDMORE : " I submit, my lud, that my
learned friend has opened no case on which
the prisoner can be convicted."

His Lordship : " I think we should hear
the witnesses, Mr. Quidmore."

Mr. Quidmore : '' As your Lordship pleases."

Another pause.

His Lordship : " Now, Mr. Johnson."

Mr. Johnson, suddenly remembering he has
not called the first witness, and horrified at
his error, calls wildly for " Susan Whytehead."

There was an official cry of " silence,"
chiefly proceeding from the stentorian lungs of
a gentleman whose resemblance to the Duke
of Cambridge was then, and still is, notorious ;
and the examination-ins chief began.

Miss Whytehead was actually attired in a
closely-fitting riding-habit and tall hat. Why
she wore it no one ever knew for she had not
been on a horse for ten years ; and certainly it
would have been difficult to select a dress less

becoming to her gaunt figure and long lantern
jaws.

There was a suppressed titter as she stood
in the box and was sworn. Mr. Johnson succeeded
in starting her off on her story, and
then stood feebly looking on, while she reeled
off her remarks, checked, only from time to
time by the judge, who required time to take
his notes.

Her story was substantially what we already
know, and when it was finished she turned
to go.

Stay one moment, Miss Whytehead," said
Mr. Quid more, rising. " I have one or two
questions to ask you " (with a look at the jury).

Mr. Quidmore was a bland, yet crafty-looking
gentleman of great local repute in the
north of Yorkshire, where the average common
juror was wont to regard him with reverence
and open-mouthed delight. Unctuously he
began bis questions.

You have told us, Miss Whytehead, you
saw the prisoner s face at your window ; can
you swear it was the prisoner ? "

Yes, I can."

And at this time you were being strangled
or stifled in bed by another man ? "

Yes'

There was no light in the room ? "

'' None."

Was your window open at the time ? "

"Yes."
'* How do you know ? "

Because I could see, of course ; and
besides, I opened it myself before I went to
bed."

"Was the prisoner's head already in your
room, or was it just coming in ? "

It was just coming in, I think."

'^ And then the prisoner was knocked out of
the window ? "

"Yes."

I believe the man who was holding you
left you a moment before this ? "

"Yes."

Who was that man ? would you know him
again «

No ; I couldn't see him plainly."

Where did he come from ? "

How should T know."

But you surely have some idea. Did he
come down the chimney, from under the bed,
through the window, or how ? ''

I tell you I don't know ; I never knew he
had come until I felt his hand on my throat."

*snow, Miss Whytehead, will you swear
you were not dreaming, and imagined all
about this man ? "

Certainly I will ; and take care what
you're saying ; I won't be insulted by any
Bannister among you. (Laughter.) What's
there to laugh at, I'd like to know ? Why,
I heard Tom kick him out ! "

VOL. II. D

0— oh ! " (with a look at the jury). '' So
Tom kicked him out, did he 1 Pray who is
Tom'

"I mean Mr. Blackburn."

Ah ! I see. I expect we shall be arriving
at the meaning of all this presently. What
was Tom doing then in your room ? "

'^ He came to rescue me."

I am told Mr. Blackburn was in his night-attire
; of course, therefore, you looked at him
with interest ? "

^'No, indeed, 1 never looked at him at all."
(Laughter.)

Not when he came into the room ? " '

''No."

Nor when he knocked the prisoner out of
the window ? You must have looked then ? "

'' I did not, I tell you."

Do you mean to tell the jury, Miss
Whytehead, that for anything you saw of
Tom in his night-robes he might have been

the man who was holding you, and you none
the wiser ? "

*' I will swear 1 never saw him."

But your assailant left you just before
the prisoner was knocked down ? "

Yes, he did."

Would you be surprised then to hear, that
Tom himself was the man who, as you thought,
was attacking you — whereas he had only come
to apply a mustard-blister to your sore throat
and that seeing the prisoner looking into the
room, he left you and knocked him down ? "
(Great laughter.)

I shall not answer such a question."

Now pray don't be irritated, Miss Whyte-head
; but tell me, is it not a fact that long
after this time Tom was found in your room
by your brother ? "

*' The thieves might have — "

Will you answer me, yes or no, please ? "

A pause, and Mr. Johnson, urged on by his

D 2

companions, gets up and objects to the question

as irrelevant.

His Lordship : '' I cannot prevent such a

question being asked, inasmuch as it goes to

the credit: of the witness ; but it is for the

learned counsel to decide how far this line of

cross-examination is judicious."

Mr. Quidmore : " Then I must ask you to

answer me yes or no to that question."
Miss Whytehead, confusedly : *' Yes."
It is my duty also to ask you, whether

you had not drunk a quantity of punch on

that night?"

Certainly not — not a quantity."

Well, but wdiat do you call a quantity —

five glasses ? "

** I had not drunk five glasses."

"Will you swear you had not had

four ? "

Yes, I will ; I only had three."

*' Oh I you had three, had you ? Then

perhaps you don't remember Tom proposing
to you that night ? "

*' Yes, but I do though ; and I'll make him
remember it too." (Laughter.)

'' I've no doubt you will ; but tell me, is it
not also a fact that your front door was found
wide open in the early morning after these
events took place ? "

'' Mark said so."

Oh ! I see you weren't capable of perceiving
that of your own knowledge " (a glance
at the jury). " Well, I think that will do ; I
have no more questions to ask you."

On Mr. Johnson rising to re-examine,
Miss Whytehead declared she would not
answer another word to an impertinent
young " Jacky-napes " like him ; so he sat
mournfully and blush ingle down, amid the
derision of the audience, while the lady stalked
wrathfully out of the box.

Then came Tom's turn, and the screw was

put doubly strong on him. After admitting
that he had been terribly distraught by Miss
Whytehead's insisting on the fact that he
had upon that night offered her marriage, he
was asked whether he was not drunk at the
time.

Tom indignantly repudiated the impeachment.
" I never was less drunk in my life,"
cried he.

'* Pray, sir, were you ever more so ? "

Yes ; many a time."

'* I am sorry to hear it ; however, enough
of that. Is it not a fact that, being in this
maudlin state of intoxication, during which
you made this offer of marriage, which you
confessedly do not remember, so drunk were
you — is it not the fact that you found your
way to Miss Whytehead's room, and were
yourself the man who took her by the
throat?"

Most certainly not."

'' Did you not while thus engaged find
that the prisoner was observing you through
the window ? "

I tell you I never was thus engaged."

We shall see " (a look at the jury).
'' And you thereupon knocked the prisoner
down ? "

I knocked him down certainly, but not
thereupon

Well, we won't quibble over words, if you
please. You have told us you struggled with
another burglar, conveyed him down-stairs,
and turned him out of the house ? "

*' I did."

*' Do you not know, sir, that if this were
true it would have been your duty to handover
the offender to justice?"

Tom was silent.

*' Do you not know that you were doing
something very like compounding a felony in
releasing this man ? "

'' I did not think of it then."

*' I dare say not. I dare say you had not
quite time to make your story perfect just
then, had you ? "

I don't know what you mean ; it happened
as I say."

Well, that is for the jury to decide. I
must ask you, whether you were not found
in Miss Whytehead's room by her brother
Mark some time after this ? "

I believe I was."

'' Don't say you believe you were ; don't you
know you were ?"

"Yes."

'rand did you not fly away at once on
the wings of love, or something equally fast ? "
(Laughter.)

I rode away."

"Oh! like the man in the song, 'you
loved and you rode away ' ? " (Great laughter.)
"There, I have done with you."

Mr. Johnson : " You rode away on your
hunter, I suppose ? "

"Yes."

** Are you an habitual drunkard ? "

Certainly not."

'' Thank you, that will do."

Tom therefore retired in a high state of
indignation, which was much increased when
he saw the amused and derisive countenances
of many friends in the court. He hoped to
derive some benefit, however, from the evidence
of Mr. Mark Whytehead ; but that gentleman
was only permitted to state what came
under his own observation on that particular
night, and was promptly stopped when he tried
to enter upon the subsequent explanations he
had had with Tom. So with some slight
supplementary evidence the case came to an
end, and Mr. Johnson not venturing again
to address the jury, and having utterly failed
to set his witnesses right by re-examination,

Mr. Quidmore arose, and submitted to his
lordship that there was no ease against the
prisoner.

Thereupon the judge looked very profound
and dubious. " Well," said he, " there
certainly appears very little difficulty in this
case, but I am always loth to take anything
out of the hands of the jury ; still — "

Whereupon the foreman of the jury, fearful
of missing the expected treat, broke in, " We
should like to hear Mr. Quidmore, my
lord."

Then, gentleman, you shall do so ; and I
am glad to see you take such a proper interest

in the case."

The jury, in reality, would have been deeply
grieved had they missed Mr. Quidmore's
speech. They had long since made up their
minds as to their verdict ; but they had been
looking forward to the speech all the time,
as they would to an amusing entertainment.

There was loud proclamation of silence, and
he began —

May it please your Lordship — Gentlemen
of the jury. If ever there was a scandalous
case, if ever there was a groundless charge,
that case and that charge are now submitted
to your consideration. That your verdict will
be one of ' not guilty ' cannot admit of
doubt in any event, for I think his lordship
will tell you, that unless you are satisfied
the prisoner broke and entered the premises
the indictment for burglary cannot be sustained
; and in this case, gentlemen, there can
be little doubt that this unfortunate man
did neither one nor the other, for you have
heard from Miss Whytehead that she herself
had opened the window ; while it is also
clear that no portion of the man's body had
entered the room at the time when he was so
unmercifully and savagely struck to the earth.
But, gentlemen, it is not on these technical

grounds that I ask you to acquit this man ;
I ask you to do so on the broader principles
of natural justice — principles which I feel sure
are deeply implanted in your honest hearts. I
ask you not merely to say that this man did
not technically commit a burglary; but that
he was there with no felonious intention, that
he was there with an innocent mind, that
instead of being the wrong: - doer he is the

o o

grossly injured one.

Gentlemen, I shall ask you to believe
that the witness Blackburn has, for his own
purposes, been guilty of an utter fabrication
when he tells you that there was another man
who was assaulting Miss Whytehead, and
whom he turned from the house. You would
observe, gentlemen, that he had not prepared
his story with sufficient care. It might do for
poor weak women, but I venture to think will
not find credence for a moment with intelligent
men like yourselves. You will remember when

I asked him why it was he released the
supposed man after overcoming him he was
unable to answer me. No, gentlemen, that is
a question no man could answer ; and why ?
Because it is a thing no man would in reality
have done. Put it to yourselves, each one of
you : had you captured a miscreant in the act
of strangling one of your household, would
you have let him go ? Why, gentlemen, to
ask you such a question is to insult your
common sense.

And now to unravel before your eyes the
true facts of this case. — Miss Whytehead and
Blackburn had been carousing that night : as
for her, I prefer to treat her as a weak, foolish
woman, though you may have other theories
respecting her conduct. In the midst of this
revelry Blackburn, who appears all through
to have acted as an unprincipled scoundrel,
makes her an offer of marriage ; she accepts
him ; and then he, changeable and fickle, as

you might expect, repents him of his offer, and
tries to evade it. But the servant had heard
him make it, and Miss Whytehead holding
him to it, I submit to you that he went to
bed an angry, desperate man, resolved at all
hazards to make the lady release him from his
engagement.

They had drunk long and deep. We have
it from Mr. Mark Whytehead, that the glasses
and bottles lay strewn about the place, while
the front door was actually neglected and left
open.

Gentlemen, I do not wish to attribute to
Blackburn purposes more wicked than a lenient
view of the case makes manifest. It may be
his intentions were darker, his motives more
villainous, than I shall suggest to you ; that is
between him and his conscience. What I ask
you to believe is this — that when the household
were at length in repose, Blackburn sought
Miss Whytehead's room with the object of

terrifying her into formally releasing him from
his engagement. I shall ask you to believe
that the affrighted woman, starting from her
first sleep possibly, imagined — as she says —
that the intruder was a robber, whereat she
shrieked wildly in her alarm. Then it was
that Blackburn tried to stifle her cries, and
then it was that the unfortunate prisoner, who
was passing by, did what any right-spirited
man would have done : he heard a woman's
shrieks ; he seized a ladder from the stacks
hard by, ran with it to the house, and climbed
hurriedly to the rescue. Gentlemen, Blackburn
saw him at that moment when his face
came in view. Fearful of discovery and its
consequences, he rushed on the unhappy man
and smote him down, regardless whether he
lived or died ; then burst from the room in
haste and fear — panic-stricken for the moment
at this climax of his misdeeds — but quickly
devising in his iniquitous mind a plan to

delude the terrified Miss Whytehead. Yes,
gentlemen, it was then the idea of the other
man first struck him. Terror or modesty had
made Miss Whytehead blind. She has told
you she saw no one but the prisoner ; and
Blackburn doubtless felt confident she had not
recognized him as her assailant. He therefore
trumped up this story, which served to deceive
her, which served to make her think, poor
woman, that he had single-handed fought with
and saved her from two ruffians ; whereas in
very truth, gentlemen, the only ruffian she
had had to deal with was Blackburn himself,
and the man that saved her was the
prisoner at the Bar. I say, gentlemen,
and I say it with confidence, that if the
prisoner had not locked in at the window
we should never have heard anything of
this other robber — this evanescent creation
of Blackburn's ingenious brain. No, gentlemen,
he would have found means to stifle

the woman's cries, and — but why pursue the
subject %

It might have been necessary to dwell at
some length on the discreditable fact of the
discovery made by Mr. Whytehead, when, on
passing the house at early dawn, the open
door and strange confused aspect of affairs
caused him to enter ; and, by the way, gentlemen,
what better argument can there be than
this to prove that the attention of the prisoner
too might well have been arrested in a similar
manner, not to mention the shrieks that he
heard ? I say, gentlemen, it might, did I fear
your verdict, have been necessary to hold up
powerfully to your opprobrium this weak, silly
woman, this designing, wicked man, in the
infamous and shameless light which their own
confession and the brother's evidence casts on
them. But, gentlemen, I feel that I have
done enough ; and I wish, if possible, to save
Miss Whytehead, and draw a veil over her

VOL. n. E

follies. Certain it is that the events I have
suggested to you must have made it a politic
move for the crafty Blackburn to feign love,
where before he had been cherishing rancorous
hate, and therefore — but it is enough I will
not inflict on you a further record of his faults.
"I feel sure, therefore, that, apart from technical
grounds, you will at once conclude that the
prisoner at the Bar is not only ' not guilty,'
but" — At this moment the Duke of Cambridge-like
official awakes and bellows out, " Take
your hat off," to a forgetful gentleman in the
gallery. The learned counsel's peroration is
interrupted, every one laughs, and the judge
angrily admonishes the Duke to keep quiet.
The Duke, who is unable to comprehend that
any one so important as himself can be subject
to rebuke, blinks vacuously at his lordship and
collapses ; while Mr. Quidmore hurriedly concludes,
— 'eyes, gentlemen, I shall ask you to
say that the prisoner is a man who has tried*

to do what he conceives to be his duty, and
that he has suffered in consequence an unmerited
and dastardly outrage."

The learned counsel sat down, red with
apparent passion, and the applause in court
was with difficulty suppressed. Tom's friends
were half dead with laughing, while he was
pale with rage. Miss Whytehead had been
removed some while before in hysterics, and
even the judge had kept his hand before his
face to hide a frequent smile. The jury looked
delighted with the entertainment, and quite
sorry to hear the quiet, rational tones of the
summing up. This was very short. It did
little good to Tom, though his lordship did
remark that there was a possibility of his tale
being quite true, and yet that the prisoner, like
himself, was only coming to the rescue. On
the legal points of breaking and entering
there appeared no evidence whatever on which
to convict, &c., &c.

E 2

UbR^H^

i;^r;^s»«of.tuNo.

The result was, of course, a unanimous and
immediate verdict of " not guilty." The
prisoner left the dock without a stain on his
character ; and Tom left the court in a maze
of bewildered wrath.

CHAPTER III.

"Half the Dukes in the kingdom were at the Spring
Meeting. Most of the chief ministers o^ State swelled the
crowd, nor was the Opposition unrepresented. Montague
stole two or three days from the Treasury, and Oxford
from the Admiralty. Godolphin was there looking after
his horses and his bets, and probably went away a
richer man than he came. But racing was only one of
the many amusements of that festive season." — Macaulay,
iv. xxiii.

Once more we find Mr. Leroy and Jamieson
in the parlour of Malton, and they are in
earnest conversation. Jamieson seems restless
and dissatisfied.

Well, sir," says he, " I don't like deceiving
my employers in this v:ay."

Nonsense, Jamieson, it's nothing ; everyone
does the same ; besides, it is a matter of
necessity. You know you are hard up, and I

have not yet got the company matter I spoke
to you about settled ; so we must have money,
and that speedily."

Aye, that's certain, Mr. Leroy ; but
couldn't we let Mr. JoUiffe know as
well ? "

*' Most certainly not ; and you know as well
as I do what folly it would be. Why, do you
think he would keep it dark ? He would be
only too glad to tell all his friends of the good
think: ; and then where should we be when we
wanted to back it ? "

Yes, yes ; no doubt that's so'' says Jamie-son,
wearily. " Well, what is it you say has
to be done ? "

Oh, little enough : you have found that
this Blair Athol filly is a certainty for the City
and Suburban — like putting Bartimaeus in with
seven stone, whereas he has eight stone five
pounds to carry. Mr. JollifFe must be made
to believe that Bartimaeus is the better at the

weights; he will tell every one, and while
people are backing the horse we can get our
money quietly on the filly. We must get the
high-minded and upright owner, as the papers
call him, to come over and see a trial between
the two, which Bartimaeus must win ; and you
must borrow some known good horse for him
to beat, the filly finishing last, — that will do
the business."

This remarkable proposal Mr. Leroy enunciated
with the most calm and business-like air,
as if there were really nothing in it that would
in any way encounter a scruple from the most
fastidious stickler for morality ; and Jamieson,
smiling half in glee at the idea of a grand coup
agreed to do as he was bid, " Though," added
he, "I wish we could have had the young
gentleman with us in it. However, it seems
we can't ; and after all, it'll only be for this
time. When I'm once fairly on my legs, as I
shall be, I hope, after this race, I'll be straight

with my employers, at any rate, for the
future."

'eyes," moralized Leroy, "it's easy enough
to go straight when one doesn't want money."

In the case of a man like Leroy, it may be
doubted whether under any circumstances his
integrity would have been unquestionable ; but
with the trainer it was otherwise. He was
a man whose heart was good, and whose inclinations
were to the right side ; but he was
infirm of purpose, and apt to succumb to
temptation. How many men there are like
him in high places, who have never been
tempted, and for that reason only have
never sinned ! Why should a man cheat,
swindle, or steal if he has plenty of money ?
We even call a thief a kleptomaniac if he be
rich, so unnatural does his action appear, because
unnecessary ; and yet it may well be
that such a one is doubly guilty — that he is
a thief out of downright wickedness, that he

steals not to satisfy his wants, but because his
nature is innately bad.

In the same way the rich man gambles, and
loves to win other people's money, not because
he wants it, but because he likes to get it ;
while the poor man ventures, half hesitating,
his stake for no other reason than that he is
anxious beyond endurance to increase his little
alb

There are no doubt three classes of men.
First : those who will cheat or thieve in
whatever station they be placed. Secondly :
the weak-minded, but well-disposed, who only
err if pressed by necessity. These, if rich, are
good men ; if poor, become bad. Thirdly :
the honest men, who, no matter what hardships
they undergo, still remain true to their
principles. This class is smaller in point of
numbers than either of the other two.

Leroy was in class number one, Jamieson
was in class number two ; but in the eyes of

the law they would have been equally guilty
in any offence they might commit.

However, to say no more of that, between
the two the above-mentioned pleasant little
scheme for emolument was hatched ; and
Henry was to be, if not the victim, at any
rate the decoy duck, that was innocently to
victimize others.

Very shortly after this Henry received the
following letter.

Sir,

I write to inform you that Bartimaeus
and the Blair Athol filly are getting very fit.
If you would wish it, I could gallop them
together any time this week, only give me a
day's notice before you come over to see them.
Hanson will lend me Salamander, and with
him in we can hardly make any mistake.
The filly goes well, but I hardly think
she will stay the distance so well as Barth

The two-year-olds are coming on
nicely.

Your obedient servant,

"John Jamieson."

Henry and Tom were overjoyed at the
prospect of witnessing this trial, and a telegram
was at once despatched to say that they would
be over at Malton by the first train next
morning; and very sleepless was the night
they passed, as may be well imagined.

Henry spent his time in hoping that the
filly would prove the better of the two, and
that he would win his first race with her, just
because she was a Blair Athol ; however, the
morning would quickly make all things plain.

An early breakfast and a fabricated excuse
for their departure having been completed,
once more the train took the eager and
would-be clever youths to the old training
town, so dear to them from its connection with

the sport of past years. Leroy was at the
station to meet them. They had not expected
to see him, but were only too glad of his
company. Henry indeed would have been
proud to let all the world and his wife see Diis
horses tried. Tom was rather more discreet ;
but then, of course, Leroy was one of the
stable.

Very soon they arrived at Jamieson's, and
cheerily greeted him, while he seemed taciturn,
though respectful. At length, going straight
to business, he said to Henry, " I have been
calculating, sir, that Bartimseus should give
Salamander lbs., to win the race with his
weight, and that would make them — Bartimaeus
st. lbs., Salamander st., and the filly cst.
71bs. What do you think, sir, and you, Mr.
Blackburn ? "

Henry and Tom of course opined that it had
best be according to Jamieson's ideas.

Very well, sir ; now I should like you to

see the weighing, so that you may know it's
all right."

Oh, I'm sure there's no occasion for that,
Jamieson," cried Henry. '' Do you think I
wouldn't trust you ? "

Much obliged to you, sir ; but I'd rather
you were there, so that you may tell your
friends you saw it with your own eyes, and
then no one can blame me, whatever happens
afterwards."

Leroy glanced at Jamieson with a sharp
frown ; but Henry, who thought nothing of
what he said, expressed himself quite willing
to go at once to the scales. The weighing
was duly and scrupulously attended to. The
two jockeys who had been engaged to ride
Bartimseus and Salamander went with their
paraphernalia of saddle, cloths, &c., to their
respective mounts, and the small but promising
stable-boy who was to have the handling of
the Blair Athol filly was hustled along to

where she stood, so that all might be quickly
ready.

"Now, Joe," says the trainer, "you make
strong play with Salamander, — break their
hearts if you can ; and Tom, you had better lie
off a couple of lengths with the old horse to
the distance ; Jack, you keep that filly close at
Salamander's girths until the last fifty yards,
and then beat him if you can. If the filly is
beat, mind and notice when you first began
to feel her give way." Then to Henry, " Fm
afraid she won't get beyond six furlongs ; but
we shall see."

There is no more time for much talking,
now. The party take up an advantageous
position to witness the finish after the mile
and two furlongs had been traversed. The
horses canter smartly down to the starting-place
— Bartimaeus, business - like as of old ;
Salamander, the winner of the last year's Caesar-witch,
but now only about half fit to run,

kicking sind bucking hilariously as lie goes ;
and the filly, who is a sweet blood-like chestnut
with a blaze face, striding along in grand
style.

There was no secrecy about this trial, and
many others were there to watch it, for Henry
had no idea of doing anything but find out
which was his best horse, and then winning
the race with it. Such a thins: as beinor
forestalled in the market did not enter into
his head at all.

And now they are ofi". It is impossible for
the ordinary eye to tell which is leading, as
they rapidly approach. Eagerly the various
interested persons gaze at them ; half the
distance has been traversed, and it is apparent
that Salamander is doing his duty well, little
Jack, perched, monkey-like, on the filly,
sticking close to him, Bartimseus a little
behind.

By Jove," cries Leroy, " that filly is going

well ! " Then in an undertone to Jamieson,
Are you sure it's all right ? "

Of course it is," whispers the trainer ;
"but she's doing better than I expected."

The filly's beat ! " cries Tom.

And sure enough it is so : up go Jack's hands,
and after vainly driving her on for a moment
or two, he lets her drop back, and comes
cantering soberly on in the rear.

"Ah ! I feared it would be so," mutters the
trainer ; " can't get more than six furlongs
comfortably."

Attention is now directed to the others, for
they are little more than two hundred yards
away, both going well.

Salamander wins," exclaims Henry in a
disappointed tone.

Not he," cries the trainer ; " Tom's going
up to him now. Why Bartimseus wins easy."
And sure enough old Bartimseus, as soon ashe
gets his head, canters away from the

pumped out Salamander, and finishes first by-six
or eight lengths.

Well," says Leroy, " I congratulate you,
JollifFe ; the City and Suburban is as good as
over.

*' It certainly looks like it' says Henry in
great glee ; " but I wish it had been the filly."

The filly trots soberly past them now, and
no doubt would have told them, had she been
able to speak, how sorely she had been inconvenienced
in the race by the bucket of water
she had that morning drunk from the kind
Mr. Jamieson's own hand.

The time passed rapidly after this event.
Henry had at first thoroughly alarmed the
conspirators by wishing to strike the filly out
of the race, as she had no chance. They,
however, persuaded him to let her remain in,
as she would be able to assist Bartimseus.

The day of the race is now very near. All

Henry's friends, and his friends' friends, and
VOL. n. P

through them the public generally, are on the
old horse. The papers are. loud in their praise
of Henry's straightforward policy in telling
all he himself knew about his chance of winning;.
Indeed, some of them were so bent on
thrusting Bartimseus down the public throat
that they might almost have been suspected
of working for the ends of certain gentlemen
amoncr the book-makers, who were for ever
ready to quietly lay against him. It was
noticed that now and again 1000 to 10 had
been taken about the BLair Athol filly, '' an
instance," said the same papers, '' of the folly
which will induce people to bet on impossible
chances, just because the odds are long.
We have it on Mr. Jolliflfe's own authority,
that his filly was absolutely distanced in the
trial, and yet some deluded person has thrown
away £10 on her."

Now, it need scarcely be mentioned that
Mr. Leroy had not contented himself with

backing the filly, but was also at the bottom
of the movement against Bartimseus, so that
he stood to win an immense sum. He of
course remained utterly behind the scenes in
these transactions ; and when he did appear
before the public, it was to make a few flash
bets on Bartimseus with one of his confederate
book-makers. Bets like this were cancelled
as soon as written down, but the papers
always chronicled them, coupled with the
interesting news that the gentleman who
backed the horse was no other than Mr. Leroy,
who was well known to be connected with
the stable. Then the public, convinced that
to back Bartimaeus was the most genuine
business in the world, came in herds to pile
more still upon their favoured candidate, and
the same gentlemen who had laid against him
from the outset still accommodated them.

Leroy had played his game very well. It
is true that there is honour among thieves,

F 2

at least when they are united by mutual
interest ; and so, though he had several with
him in the swim, the secret was never suffered
to leak out.

Jamieson was inwardly grieved to find
that Henry had backed his horse for fully
£1000 ; but he succeeded in salving his conscience
by telling him he must have £1000
to £10 about the filly, just for form's sake ;
and, also added he, " if it's a slow-run race
she might do better than we think."

o

The weight of the public money still kept
Bartimseus in his place, for had not Henry
backed him, and also advised every one he met
to do so ? Moreover, had not the astute Mr.
Leroy got his money on ? As a matter of
fact he had not, all his bets on the horse being,
as we have seen, mere empty demonstrations ;
but the public did not know that, and felt no
doubt but that Bartimaeus would land the big
event for the Malton stable, unlucky though

those connected with it had been for some
while back.

It was now only a week before the race,
and nothing indicative of a revolution in the
betting had occurred. On Friday morning,
then, judge the surprise of Tom and Henry
to find in the newspaper Bartimaeus quoted
at 10 to 1, taken and offered, and the Blair
Athol filly at 100 to 9, taken freely. A great
combined movement had been made, so the
paper said, in all parts of England simultaneously,
and the filly had been backed to
win little short of £150,000.

What does this mean ? " gasped Henry.
Are the people mad ? "

Tom simply gazed at the paper. " Look
here," said he, "this is the sort of thing we
shall get for telling people what we knew."

Henry read, " While admitting the cleverness
with which this commission has been
worked, we cannot say that we admire the

deliberate fashion in which those who knew
best pooh-poohed the chance of the filly, and
assured us she was not in it with Bartimseus.
There can be little doubt that such a statement
is not in accordance with facts, and
the owner and his advisers have only themselves
to blame if a certain amount of ill-feeling
has been excited against them."

Henry felt fearfully indignant at first.
"But then," thought he, "it will be all right
after the race. I'll make " them apologize
then."

The Vicar, who was really a great authority
in all matters of sport, was next consulted
upon the situation. The worthy man had
seen much of the world in his youth, and heat
once declared the solution of the mystery
to be that the wily youths had been outwitted
by persons whom they thought they
could trust, and that the filly would win.

Oh, nonsense ! " cried Henry. " We saw

them fairly tried, and were present at the
scales. How can we have been deceived ?
The filly was dead beat half a mile from
home."

I don't think there could possibly be a
mistake," added Tom. " It must be some
lunatic that has dreamed she was going to
win, and so has backed her."

"Dreamers don't put so much money down
as this," replied his father. " Why, the paper
says, I see, that men were commissioned in
every place where any betting goes on to
back the filly at 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon,
for as much as ever they could get on apparently.
Many book-makers seem to have laid
more than they wished to do against her,
thinking that they could easily telegraph to
agents elsewhere to take part of the bets off
their hands ; but they found when they tried
this that the agents were also over full against
the filly, so that if she wins there will be an

immense sum required by some one. Have
you backed the filly, Henry ? "

"I've got 1000 to 10 about her."

That's better than nothing. You may take
my word for it, she'll beat your other horse, if
she doesn't win."

But if she does every one will believe
what the paper says, that I have been telling
them lies."

That sort of thing you must accept as a
necessary consequence of your going on the
turf ; you will probably be rather admired for
your supposed sharpness."

However, it's no use talking in that way,"
interposed Tom ; " the filly has not beaten the
old horse yet, and if she ever does it'll be time
to give up believing in anything again. Let's
go to Malton at once and see Jamieson."

Henry readily agreed ; and leaving the old
gentleman, whose face showed something between
amusement and pity, they shortly

committed themselves to the train, and in no
Ions: time were at Malton.

Walking straight on to Jamieson's, they
found that worthy by no means surprised to
see them. Indeed, he had felt sure they would
come after reading the paper.

Well, gentlemen," said he, " here are nice
doings when people take to backing our
horses in this way."

*' But what does it mean, Jamieson ? " asked
Henry, somewhat sharply.

Why, sir, upon my word I can't rightly
tell. All I know is, that I gave the horse and
the filly a smartish gallop yesterday morning,
and she seemed to go much stronger than
usual at the finish. John Scott was just
coming out, and he stopped by me a moment
as my horses came past, and says he to me, * I
tell you what it is, John, you've got a rare
good filly there.' There were one or two
people standing by, and some of them would

hear him. Beyond that, Mr. Jolliffe, I can't
think of anything that can have caused all
this business yesterday."
'* But are you sure the trial was right ? "

"Why there, Mr. Jolliffe, you are as well
able to judge as I am ; the filly has come on
since then, no doubt ; but then, you see, she
was a very long way behind at that time. She
must just take her chance. More unlikely
things have happened than her winning."

Oh ! she can't possibly win," cried Henry ;
at all events, to keep myself right with the
public, and for my own bets too, I shall declare
to win with Bartimseus, and she must not win
if he can."

Certainly, sir," rejoined the trainer, who
had not expected Henry to think of this.
Nothing can be fairer than that."

After an inspection of the horses the two
clever young gentlemen went home as wise as
they came ; and Jamieson wrote to Leroy as

to arranging with the filly's jockey, that, incase
of the race being left to her and Barth
he should win, in spite of Henry's
declaration, and allege that he was unable to
prevent it.

Henry, in the mean while, had telegraphed
a notice to the ' Sportsman,' repeating his
statement that Bartimseus beat the filly a
long distance in the trial ; and adding, that the
bets made about her on Thursday were in no
sort or kind of way attributable to him. He
had but £10 on her.

The effect of this letter was to make Mr.
Leroy chuckle joyfully as he read the paper
over his breakfast at Limmer's next morning,
for he well knew that the desponding backers
of the old horse would come up to the scratch
again on reading it, and also that he would
get a point or two better odds about the filly.
This, in fact, happened, though certain wary
ones shook . their heads at Henry's letter, and

said he was carrying the game a little too far,
laughing the while, and saying he must be a
cunning young dog.

Tom and Henry came up on the Monday.
How changed in their own estimation from
the miserable, inexperienced fledglings of their
first visit ! And yet for the practical purposes
of their journey they were relatively as incompetent
as before.

Compared with a man like Leroy, they were
still but children in all pertaining to craft and
wisdom. He received them most hospitably.
They were to be his guests at Limmer's, and
he had invited a select party to meet them,
deeming it a good move to let Henry say his
say about the horses to those who would not
fail to take action on the information.

A very pleasant evening was spent, and
great was the speculation as to who could
possibly have backed the filly for such a lot of
money. The dinner was of the best, and the

guests men whose tastes for horse racing
gave them always a fertile topic of conversation.
Before the party broke up Henry had
succeeded in convincing them all that Barth
was really the one to back ; and, meanwhile,
the latest betting had shown the old
horse still at the top of the tree, but it was five
to one on the field, and there was still heavy
metal in the market for the filly, who advanced
to 100 to 12. There were several others
freely backed — Maelstrom, the winner of last
year's Derby, was accounted to have a rare
chance with st. lOlbs. ; and there was
Chanticleer, a bottled-up old one from Wood-yates,
almost as good a favourite as anything.
Lothario, with cst. lOlbs., had been freely
backed for the Derby : he was the Duke of
Beaufort's horse, and John Day was said to be
very sanguine about him. Then there was
old Blue Skin, about whom the Newmarket
folks were confident, but est. lbs. seemed

almost too much for him, grand horse though
he was. And many others were there, but it
is needless to mention them. Indeed, as for
Henry, he never thought about any horses but
his own, not entertaining for an instant the
idea that he could be beaten.

The day is now come, and the journey
down is this time performed by rail. Very
different is the scene on the Downs from that
so well remembered when Blair Athol came
forth to victory. The . holiday throng is
absent, there is less of merriment, and those
who are present seem more wholly given to
the immediate purpose of the meeting.

What a contrast," said Henry, as they
strolled into the paddock, " should we now
present to what we were before ! Tien we
were unsophisticated, dishevelled with the
night's adventures, and not to say dirty, from
the lack of toilet requisites, anxiously reflection
or whether we could manage to eke out the

scant supply of coin we had to admit us to a
cheap stand. Novo we are here owning two
favourites for the most important race, and
pointed out as objects of interest as we pass
along."

Ah ! " rejoined Tom, " but you won't see a
Blair Athol win to-day, my boy."

Leroy now, in spite of the solicitude of the
youths, to thoroughly and at once inspect
every horse in the paddock, introduces them
to all manner of noble sportsmen, with whom
it is necessary to hold some little converse.
He himself goes quietly away to where he
sees Jamieson in the distance with his two
horses leisurely walking round. Henry, who
up to the present is little known, speedily
becomes a centre of attraction, and the courtesies
of sundry most distinguished personages
are positively overpowering. To have got
hold of the owner of two hot favourites, and
that owner a beardless youth, is indeed a

favourable turn in Fortune's wheel. Tom too
is somewhat sought after as soon as it becomes
known that he is Henry's friend, and the two
reiterate again and again, to all who please to
ask, that Bartimseus will not only beat the
filly a long way, but is sure to win.

Meanwhile, Leroy has had time to speak to
Jamieson. 'well, I have put Jones £1000
to nothing on the filly ; is that enough, do you
think ? "

'' Oh, yes, sir ; he's a good boy is Jones,
there's no fear about him. We tell him to
win, and he'll do it if he can. Then supposing
the old horse is second, he must declare he
couldn't hold the filly. You may rely on him
thoroughly, Mr. Leroy ; he considers me in the
matter, not Mr. Jolliffe."

'* All right, Jamieson ; but do you think it's
safe to let the old horse run on his merits ? If
anything happened to the filly he might win,
and then we should lose both ways."

"Oh, never fear, sir ; besides, it's too late
now, I've got Fordham to ride him, so lie will
have to go. The people will back him all
the more when they see Fordham up."

At this moment Henry and Tom came
strolling up with some of their new acquaintances,
and exchanged a few words with Jamie-son,
eyed the horses critically, found that all
was well, and went on to look at the others.
There was the ancient candidate from Wood-yates,
very weedy, and fired all round, but
nevertheless of varmint appearance, and
thoroughly fit. Lothario, a short - legged,
lengthy horse, full of muscle, but deficient in
bone.

Hardly the sort for the Derby," remarked
Lord Vavasour de Brooke, who lead become
particularly friendly with Henry.

This nobleman was only about twenty-seven
years old, but had already got himself into
most straitened circumstances. He was here,

VOL. II. Q

however, to-day with his drag, and sundry gay
youths and lively damsels, to make a final
flutter for the gloves.

In finding Henry he thought he had at
length turned the corner of luck, and was
determined to stick by him and make certain
of his views.

Henry himself would fain be with his own
horses, but fancies that it may display him asa
novice if he takes undue notice of them ; so,
much against the grain, he saunters on, passing
by Buskin and Maelstrom with scarce a
look, though on any other day these grand
animals would have excited his keenest interest.
One more walk past Jamieson, and a
casual question, " Well, Jamieson, am I to
have anything more on ? "

To which Jamieson whispers, so that the
anxious ear of Lord Vavasour de Brooke cannot
hear him, '' Put a bit more on the filly, sir,"
and then turns hurriedly away.

This sets Henry thinking, and lie is less
communicative than before ; but his lordship
sticks to him like a leech, and it being time
for the first race, they journey up the course
into the slug', there to invest an odd fiver on a
selling plater.

Henry's new friend asks him to come
across to his drag; and just as they are leaving
the ring Henry's eye catches sight of Tom
Robson, one of the leviathan book-makers of
the day. Jamieson's words ring in his head,
and he thinks, " Well, I must have £50 on
the filly."

*' What are you doing for the City and
Suburban ? "

"Three to one on the field, sir."

Why, what are you making favourite ? "

"Filly by Blair AthoL"

Goodness, how's that ? "

Oh ! there's lots has to back it at any
price, to save what they've laid."

G 2

^' What about Bartimseus ? "

'Tlllay you 7 to 1."

*' Indeed ; well, my money's on him, or else
I'd have troubled you."

You can put me down seven hundreds,
Bartimaeus, if you will, Robson," interposed
Lord Vavasour de Brooke.

"Very well, my lord. Now, sir, wdiat shall
I do for you '? "

Oh, I'll take three fifties about the filly,
if you can't lay me any better odds," said
Henry.

'' All right, sir ; wdiat name ? "

'^Jolliffe."

''Oh, I beg your pardon, sir, for not recognizing
you ; hope your mare will win."

'' Not she ; the horse is a lot better, but I
wanted to have a bit on her too."

"Yes, I see, sir." And then, as Henry turned
away, the book - maker whistled audible,
"Well, I do believe that young infant has

regularly planted every one ; and if lie hadn't
been too greedy, and wanted fifty more on at
the last, no one would ever have known that
he was going for the mare at all."

'' I say, Robson'' said the perplexed lord,
I must back this filly, I think."

'' Best thing you can do, my lord ; I
can lay three fifties once more, and then I
stop."

"Put it down then; wish ^Vou could do
more."

His lordship, accustomed to the wiles of
mankind, had jumped to the conclusion that
Henry had all the while been attempting to
delude him, and that it was but part of the
grand scheme by which the filly had been so
largely backed in secret. As a matter of
fact, it was ; but Henry was an innocent
agent.

Rejoicing then in the luck which had made
him stick to Henry to see what he did, while

others had gone away satisfied with the information
given them, he went all round, and
backed the filly for as much as ever he could
get on her ; for he reasoned, that Henry would
not have put his money on at 3 to 1 if he
were not very confident ; and then, as the first
race was over, he found Henry again and took
him across to the drag, as they had originally
intended.

There, as of old, amid nigger - minstrels,
gipsy fortuneteller, reedy tenors with guitars,
singing damsels and harp accompaniments,
the carriages were rauQ-ed, De Brooke's was
excellently placed. The ladies might be a
bit noisy, it is true, and somewhat over gaily
dressed ; their complexions might be conspicuous
with excessive carnation ; their conversation
might be hardly suggestive of the shy and
modest maidens that the world tries to make
itself believe it admires ; but Henry, who was
very young, as we know, thought such were

doubtless the manners of those who passed
through London seasons, and he favourably
contrasted them with the quiet ordinary girls
he had left in his country home.

Seated between Miss St. Henry and Miss
Lennox — at least those were the names De
Brooke gave them — plied with champagne,
chaff, food, and flirtation, Henry got on excessively
good terms with himself ; bet (Countless
gloves against both his horses, and was plunging
even in bonnets, when, to his surprise, he
found the time had slipped away, and the
horses for the City and Suburban were already
out on the course, and he not there. For a
moment he decided to rush and have a parting
word with Jamieson ; but the difficulty of
getting to him, and the retorts of the ladies
to keep him where he was, led him to submit
to circumstances and remain. There were his
colours — French grey - cerise belt and capon
Bartimaeus, and the same on the filly,

except the grey cap to indicate the second
string.

But why dwell over the race, and prolong
the anxiety of Henry's or any one else's mind ?
Let it suffice that there is the usual scene of
disturbance, the cleared course, and anon the
still expectation, broken only by the shouts of
"Two to one on the Field," " Bar tim sens I
want to bet against," &c., &c.

A false start or two, and the twenty-seven
runners are off. Hark to the shout proclaiming
it !

Chanticleer makes play, trying to cut them
down. The start has been but a straggling
one, and the filly gets the worst of it. Fordham
on Bartimseus is, however, all there.

There's one of mine out of it,'at any rate,"
cries Henry, and forthwith fixes eager eyes on
Bartimseus.

How they thunder round Tottenham corner !
This is worse than the Derby, for they reach

the corner sooner, and are therefore more
together. Something is clown — blue and red
sleeves. It's poor old Blue Skin; no worse,
we will hope. And now they are fairly in the
straight.

'' Chanticleer wins ! " is the cry, as the old
crock comes merrily along. Lothario, Maelstrom,
and Bartimaeus are well within hail of
him though, and going very strong. This
becomes exciting:. Nearing; the distance, Chanticleer
falters and gives way, and Lothario,
Maelstrom, something in yellow and black cap,
and Bartimseus draw to the front and commence
a neck-and-neck struggle home.

Yellow and black, Mr. Merry's Sundial, and
Lothario, first one and then the other, lead ;
Maelstrom and Bartimaeus, ridden by older and
more experienced men, are trying to keep just
one bit in hand for the last. The sight is
excruciating to Henry, who shouts and works
his hands as if riding, utterly regardless of the

comfort of his companions. Now Fordham is
at work in good earnest : the game old horse
answers gallantly to his call.

Bartimaeus wins ! " yells Henry. " My
God I what's that ? "

Yes, there is no doubt of it, it is the filly.
She has gradually made up her leeway, and
dropped down from the clouds, as it were, at
the last, coming with a wet sail, and beating
Bartimseus by a neck, Lothario third, half a
length off.

Henry is stupefied. " I declared to win
with the horse," he gasps. " People will say I
did it on purpose to deceive. What can it
mean ? — and Jamieson too told me to back
her."

Then scrambling from the drag, he hastens
away to the course in time to see his horses
led past to weigh, amid an ominous, and what
seems to him ansjry, silence. Leroy is there,
pale as death. He rushes across to him.

*' What does this mean, Leroy ? "
*' Most unfortunate, my dear fellow ; little
Jones couldn't hold her. I was certain Barth
was winning ; — but here, it's no use crying
over spilt milk ; there's nothing else to see,
let's be off to town," and he leads Henry
away, amazed and troubled greatly in mind,
Leroy himself not yet recovered from the
shock he had undergone when he saw the old
horse apparently about to win.

CHAPTER lY.

Go presently enquire, and so will T,
Where money is ; and I no question make
To have it." — Merchant of Venice, I. ii.

The closeness of the finish, too;etLer with the
oft-repeated fact that Jones had lost all control
over the filly, or would have permitted Barth
to win, saved Henry's reputation. It
was thought that the private trial had been
falsely run ; and though there was much heartburning;
over the vast sum taken from the rinoj
by the mysterious backers of the winner, it
could never be satisfactorily brought home to
Henry, or any of the stable, for had that been
so, reasoned the wiseacres, Bartimaeus would
never have gone to win as he obviously did.
Few took into account the bad start the filly

had got ; and it was concluded on the whole
that Jamieson was right when he said that she
had thickened and improved since her trial
more than he ever saw one, so that she had
fairly overtaken the horse, who of course did
not improve with time now.

Henry was far from satisfied ; still he had
won, and that too with a Blair Athol.

Serves me right," said he, " for neglecting
the old blood ; I ought to have had all the
money on her just for that ; perhaps that's
why other people backed her."

Tom, who was not given to betting, had also
got a hint from Jamieson, and put £25 on the
filly, not to mention his having actually secured
£50 to £25, Bartimseus for a place. This was
all he had done, and he was quite pleased with
it. Leroy and Henry found him quaffing
foaming beakers of horrible champagne at
the bar near the entrance of the paddock,
and quite hilarious, among companions to

whom he had imparted Jamieson's last
tip.

After a little while spent thus— Leroy silent
at first, but gradually rising to gaiety — they
adjourned to look the horses over once more,
directed Jamieson, whose countenance had
never changed, to have Bartimaeus ready for
the Metropolitan, and tenement their way to
scramble into a train and hasten off to town.

In due course the Metropolitan was run, and
won by Mr. Jolliffe's Bartimaeus, who started
at two to one, and had little difficulty this
time. '* A most unusual sequence of luck," said
the papers ; " and the more remarkable when
we consider that Mr. Jolliffe is probably the
youngest owner of race-horses to be found in
England. AYe hope he may go on as he has
begun, and, if we may judge from the popularity
he has already acquired, we may venture
to prophesy that his successes will be always
heartily received by the horse-loving public."

Truly *' nothing succeeds like success," and
lleniy had suddenly become famous. He had
also won a not inconsiderable sum of money in
stakes, and a little in bets, sufficient to pay all
the balance due for Bartimseus.

Leroy, on this being mentioned to him, felt
that he could afford now to have a conscience,
and refused to have the money. " No, no,"
said he ; " I've made a lot lately, and don't
want it. Well, if you insist, you shall put it
into this Company, and I can tell you you will
do me great good by doing so. Consider
that's settled : you are to take £2500 worth
of shares in the ' National Ironworks Company,
Limited.' "

Leroy now handed over the prospectus of
the Company to Henry, and it certainly was a
most remarkable production. Sir Irving Allixx,
Captain Hamilton, and several other good men
appeared as directors. Leroy himself was the
solicitor. The remunerative nature of the

business, and the exceedingly advantageous
arrangement by which the property had been
secured for £190,000, were dwelt on at some
length. One or two notable engineers had
given most satisfactory reports, which were
appended, and these gentlemen opined that a
large dividend would inevitably be reaped by
the shareholders. Indeed, a most dazzling
prospect was held out to all who went in for
the speculation. The little agreement between
Sir Irving Allixx and Leroy, by which the
former was to hand over £90,000 of the purchase
money to the latter and his friends for
their trouble in promoting the Company, was
nowhere referred to in the prospectus. In all
outward show Sir Irving Allixx was getting the
whole £190,000 for his property, which was
very cheap at the money, said the engineers,
and of course they were bound to know.

But as to Leroy's friends, it had so happened
that an unfortunate speculation had crippled

them, just when they thought to bring out this
Company. Leroy himself had been very short,
so that the matter had remained in abeyance
until now ; but he found himself able at last
not only to do what was needful, but to doit
without assistance. He therefore without
any scruple threw over his friends altogether,
and instead of giving way to relaxation after
having: won a fortune over the race, he set to
work at once to float the National Ironworks
Company, Limited, entirely on his own account.
He got Sir Irving AUix, Captain Hamilton,
three of his own clerks, his printer, and finally
himself, to sign the memorandum and articles
of association of the Company. The clerks and
the printer being set down to take one £5
share each, and of course being serviceable only
as a species of machinery for arranging the
preliminary matters. Leroy then registered
the Company.

It may be well to inform the uninitiated,

VOL. II. H

that the first parties who control and regulate
a Company are the seven who sign the
memorandum and "articles as above. In the
absence of express arrangement they are, in
fact, the directors of the Company until
they themselves choose other directors and
retire.

Tn theory this is all right. Seven men who
wish to work together in a business speculation,
and to be registered as a Joint Stock
Company, have of course on the face of it an
excellent riQ:ht to manatee the affairs of the
business they have undertaken ; but unfortunately
hand fides in these matters are rare. Very
seldom indeed are the seven founders of a
company the men really interested ; or rather,
very seldom are any such sevens to be found
without obvious dummies among them. It is
true that every subscriber to the memorandum
and articles must be a shareholder in the
company ; but then it is easy enough to give

your clerk £5 or £10 to pay for bis one share
with, and afterwards make him transfer it to
you.

Indeed, your printer, your advertising agent
or the future secretary of your company, will
readily undertake to procure for you gentlemen
who will subscribe their names among: the
first seven members of any company under
the sun.

"So then the next step for Leroy was to get
the contract, by which Sir Irving AUix had
transferred the property for £190,000 to Mr.
Lazareff as trustee for the Company, adopted
by the Company in proper form. To do this
he only needed to summon the seven gentlemen
above referred to, of whom Captain
Hamilton was the only independent party, and
he was much too easy-going to raise any
difficulties. Sir Irving Allixx, of course, had
nothing to say against it ; equally, of course,
Leroy was satisfied ; and as to the clerks and

H 2

the printer, they knew that they had nothing
to do but to express approval. Therefore the
contract was formally adopted by the Company,
and the solicitor was instructed to prepare
the conveyance in regular course.

The meeting then proceeded to elect the
future directors. The printer, having had the
list given him by Leroy, proposed that the
following gentlemen should be elected : — Sir
Irving Allixx, Bart., Captain Hamilton, John
Akenshaw, Esq., M.P., Lord Vavasour de
Brooke, and Admiral Somerset. One of the
clerks seconded this resolution, and it was carried
diem. con. The gentlemen then present at
the meetings, having thus decided on their own
supersession, retired into modest obscurity,
so far as the management of the " National
Ironworks Company, Limited," was for the
future concerned, Sir Irving Allixx and Captain
Hamilton emerging, Phoenix-like, from the
ashes of the self dissolved body, and bursting

forth as full-blown directors of the second and
genuine board.

The object of all this was to get the agreement
adopted by the Company and no
questions asked. The new directors might
wish now to look at it as a matter of form, but
finding it already adopted, would not bother
their unbusiness-like heads further about the
matter.

These new directors were, however, of course
the ones who appeared on the prospectus, and
the public fondly believed that they were
the men who had prepared and arranged
the details of the project which was now
offered by them as a remunerative investment.


Those were the halcyon days of promoters.
There was little need to advertise this Company.
But thirty thousand prospectuses had
been sent out, and the advertisement had only
appeared one day, when by letter and by hand

the applications came pouring in. Allotments
were to be made in the order in which applications
were received, and dire was the
struggling among obese old ladies, speculative
clergymen, and all others who were anxious to
derive vast incomes from a small capital, to
gain first the door of the office or the counter
of the Bank, and thrust their application and
cheque into the hands of the officials. There
was racing in four - wheelers and hansoms ;
broughams, dog-carts, and other private conveyances
clattered through the city, while
Leroy sat and rubbed his hands in glee, for
already the applications exceeded the capital,
and he knew his £90,000 was made. This
was a day or two after he had agreed with
Henry that the balance due for Bart im sens
should go into the Company, and Henry, being
one of the earliest applicants, would of course
set the shares.

Next day the rush still continued, and

notices were sent to all the papers that the
share list was closed.

The directors met the day after and proceeded
to allot the shares, after which in due
course it became necessary to return the money
to those for whom shares were not forthcoming.

o

The whole of the shares had been applied
for nearly five times over, and so the secretary
had a vast quantity of work to get through
in sending off " regret notes " to those who
had not been fortunate enough to be intime
to secure an allotment. Great was
the grief among these persons when they
found themselves debarred from investing in
this wondrous Company, and forced to keep
their money in their pockets.

They resolved, however, as soon as ever the
Company was quoted on the Stock Exchange
to go in and buy shares at any price.

And so the matter rested for the present —
Leroy got his £90,000 with very little outlay;

Sir Irving Allixx received his £100,000,
minus a considerable item for conveyancing
expenses, &c. ; but then he was also the chairman,
and entitled to £500 a-year.

And yet Leroy was not happy. " Hang it
all," said he, " if I had only known how this
was going I would have got all the shares
allotted to myself and my friends. I had
plenty of money to pay up the £l on application
and the £l on allotment, and I would
have held all the scrip in my own strong box.
Then when the Company was quoted on the
Stock Exchange, and all these idiots rushed in
and bought, and lookers agreed to sell the
shares, they would not be able to get any
shares to deliver on settling day, and I should
have 'rigged' the market in glorious style.
I could have made my own terms then. I
could certainly have had £200,000, or
£300,000."

'' Well, sir," said his confidential clerk.

*' you have done very well as it is, and have
made your money with little trouble."

True, Jackson, true ; but it has not been
done so artistically as I could have wished."

Artistically or not, Leroy had cleared, with
his bets and with his Company, fully £250,000
in a very short time. The settling over the
City and Suburban had been good, and he
had netted a huge stake from the victory
of the filly and the defeat of Bartimseus
combined.

Henry and Tom had gone northward, and
he was left to decide upon what course of
action now to pursue.

It may be a matter of surprise that Henry
had not sought out the Hamiltons when he
was in town ; but the reason was, that Leroy,
who still cherished his idea of marrying Kate
when she was old enough, thought it best
to keep Henry out of the way, and with that
view told him that she was away at school,

whereas Kate was in reality being put through
a course of masters at home, as the wary
though comparatively ancient admirer well
knew.

Indeed, with regard to Henry, it should
have been chronicled earlier that the correspondence
he had been carrying on with
the object of his affections had been put a
stop to some months previously. One of his
letters — purporting as usual to be to the
brother Jack — had been impounded by Captain
Hamilton, and the wary father at once
saw how the land lay. In addition to most
amorous and romantic prose writing which
pervaded the many messages to be given to
"your dear sister Kate," there was also a
poem, likewise to be delivered to her, written
in the style usual among young gentlemen of
Henry's age, if they are capable of constructing
a poem at all. This style may be easily
recognized by the inevitable appearance of

the familiar yet pathetic rhymes of " sever "
and "for ever," "treasure" and "pleasure,"
bliss " and " kiss," with many others which
the reader of this is bound to have noticed at
some period of his or her existence.

Now, Captain Hamilton, though by no
means particular, nor yet insensible to the
advantages of an eligible future son-in-law,
came nevertheless to the conclusion that this
kind of thing was not judicious, and so wrote
to Henry, —

Dear Sir,

It is evident from a letter I saw
this morning, that you have been making my
son the means for expressing your feelings
towards my daughter. She is still in the
school-room, and anything of the kind does
her a great deal of harm. I am quite sure
therefore that I have only to ask you to discontinue
these proceedings /6>r the present y and

you will consent to do so. I shall of course
never forget the great service you did us in
saving her life ; but I cannot permit you to
act as you have been doing.

I shall at all times be glad to see you,
and believe me to remain,

Yours truly,

Charles Hamilton."

To which Henry replied, —

'' Dear Sir,

I have received your letter, and
feel that you are quite right in what you say.
I have acted thoughtlessly, and should have
known better. I need not say that I shall
now fulfil your wishes ; but at a future time
I shall hope to speak to you again on the
matter.

Believe me,

'yours faithfully,

H. Jolliffe."

So then the affair had terminated for the
present, and as to Henry, after a week of
somewhat sore feelings and resolutions to be
constant ever, gentle oblivion began to efface
the treasured image from his heart ; and by
the time at which we have now arrived his
darling Kate scarcely ever called for a single
thought. .

Such is love's young dream, and such the
truth of the saying that " absence makes the
heart stow fonder ! "

Kate herself was by no means one to be
disconsolate for long. She had a yearning
for a kindred soul, but did not hold with
those who thought that there was only one
kindred soul in the world for each person.
Failing one, she was quite ready to put up
with another, and for the present was content
to accept Mr. Leroy's attentions with renewed
favour ; for, in fact, there was a difficulty in
securing any one else, as she was more strictly

tended in London than at the sea-side. Leroy,
as an old friend, was privileged, however, and
even entered the school-room at will. Miss
Atkins still presided there, and there was no
difficulty about getting her to be discreetly
absent, so that the cunning gentleman easily
re-established his position, and indeed improved
it, as Kate was now older, and given
to extravagance in love-making and writing.

It is not altogether clear that Mrs. Hamilton
did not see thrush these little matters : at
least it is certain Leroy never suffered any
interruption from her. He himself Alas really
incapable of a sincere attachment to any
woman ; but there was a certain freshness
about Kate which attracted him, for it afforded
so marked a contrast with the hackneyed
charms of his other town acquaintances.

Moreover, a man of his age and knowledge
can easily mould the feelings of a young
girl to his purpose, whatever that may be.

But with regard to future matrimony, Leroy
could not but see, when he calmly reflected on
the matter, that unless • he looked very carefully
after her she would be pretty sure to
change her mind in due course, especially
when she came out and encountered a host of
other admirers.

Partly he felt he must trust to chance,
partly to the position he was now establishing ;
and, lawyer-like, he had great faith in anything
that he could secure in writing. To this end
it was that, with the assistance of Miss Atkins,
who was very apt for his purpose, and by repeated
calls dien Captain Hamilton was not at
home and Mrs. Hamilton busy, he managed to
get free run of the school-room, and — what he
thought best of all — to make such way with
Kate that she commenced a correspondence
with him, and wrote a series of sufficiently
foolish letters, which he stored carefully away.
Of course she would not be bound by them ;

but he rightly argued that the possession of
them at a future date might give him some
hold over her.

"One could frighten any woman," thought
he, " bv threatening to show such letters as
these, supposing she had been fool enough to
write them."

Having gained his object so far, he let the
correspondence gradually come to an end, and,
lest too much familiarity should breed contempt
for him, ceased to frequent the schoolroom,
leaving Kate to grow up under Miss
Atkins' surveillance till the time came for
him to claim her as his bride. Let us too
leave her and pass over four years.

CHAPTER V.

Oi d iifia
'iTTTTOtQ ojxoKXiicrapTeQ r'jviag %fpoTj/
taeirrav.

Kovig ^' avu)
^opfiO ' ufiov Ci Travel d^fif^iyfiivot

(pt'l^OVTO KiVTpuJV Ovdev, U)Q f'TTfpjSaXoi

XVOQQ Tig avTujv Rai tppvay/jiaO' iTnriicd.

Sophocles, ' Electra ,'711.

Four years are past. Henry is of age ; not
that this is a matter of much moment, for he
has long been his own master. He is now a
member of Balliol College, Oxford, entered
there by some strange freak of his tutor at
Rugby ; and great scandal does it cause the
elect of that abode of learning to find an owner
of race-horses among them.

In the time which has elapsed Bartiniseus
has retired to the stud, and is located at Croft,

Moliere he has proved a source of increasing
profit. The filly, after a brilliant career, has
also taken leave of the turf, and may now be
seen — a sedate young matron — leisurely enjoying
a well-earned repose in the glebe pastures
at Newton, where she and her foal — a rollicking,
sturdy gentleman — are a constant object
of interest to Mr. Blackburn, who prophesies
orreat things for the youngster.

Henry's horses during all this while have
had a steady run of success, and have never
again performed in the inexplicable manner
which characterized their first essay. Jamieson
has grown fat and wealthy, and is thoroughly
trustworthy now as trainers go.

As for Henry himself, he has grown stronger
in his resolution to stick to Blair Athol, and to
back one of his stock, if ever he backs anything
at all. His interest in the horse has been declared
to be a species of hero-worship amounting
o- to infatuation ; but it has made his love of

racing a very different thing from what it otherwise
might have been ; indeed, his ideas on the
subject are altogether elevated and refined by
this one pervading theme, so that betting becomes
a very secondary matter, for it is more
pleasure to him to see a Blair Athol win a race
on which he has not staked a shilling, than it
would be to land a fortune over a scion of some
other stock.

Thus it is that, for the present, at any rate,
Blair Athol has actually steadied him and kept
him straight, when he might, so far as human
influence was concerned, have run all over the
course, so to speak, and, with his head loose,
have plunged into racing in its most dangerous
form.

Tom continues to live on at Newton, but
irons about a brood deal with the horses in
Henry's absence, which has at length given
him a correct insiiT^ht into men and things.
The world has dealt kindly with him, except

I 2

that Miss Whitehead still, when the fall moon
comes round, is apt to renew her claims on him
for marriage ; and, moreover, he has never
ceased to be a subject for chaff on the question
of the trial at York, and the idea of cross-examination,
and the name of Quid more, are
horrid to his mind.

One or two of Tom's sisters are married
now ; but Mary Jolliffe still lives at the vicarage,
where all Q:oes on as usual.

The scene at present, however, is Oxford :
thither, therefore, let us turn.

Who that has been at Oxford— if he be
capable of deeming life worth living — has not
experienced there happy days, perchance the
happiest in his life ? Then all is bright and
clear before us — our only troubles impending
examinations, which need be no trouble at all ;
our only anxiety the probable state of parental
feelings when an appeal becomes necessary to
the exchequer so as to avert a financial crisis.

Then there is the Clad freedom of shaking:
off the leading-strings of school, and striking
out into independent existence, chastened at
the same time, and, as it were, spiced by the
possibility of danger ever impending from
dons, proctors, and others on the look out to
punish statute-breakers.

At that time friendships are fresh and
hearty ; not exposed to the ungenial influences
of contact with the busy world or the world
of business ; pleasures are vigorously enjoyed,
and there is an amount of " 2:0 " about everything
which cannot be surpassed.

What sccDice of the most learned men was
ever so appreciable as a woe-party at Oxford,
and of course in all this we mean Cambridge
also ? Nay, what dinner-party, where the men
are experienced and the vintages hugely choice,
ever had such a true ring of enjoyment about
it as when fleeting youths assemble gaily in
the rooms of some one of their number after

the plain hall dinner, and sip with appearance
of wisdom and gratification such wine as maybe
forthcoming, while mirth and congenial conversation
reign utterly supreme ?

Even sport itself, though to its true lover it
never palls, still is brighter and more thorough
at this time of life than at any other. Does
the man who drives comfortably to the meet
in the shires, and finds everything ready to
his hand, with his second horse there when
wanted, enjoy himself more than, or as much
as, he did when he trained off from Oxford to a
meet at Thane or elsewhere, unmoved his horse
himself, rode it in its clothing up to the hotel,
and then at length breakfasted, getting back
after the day's sport as best he could ?

However, these reflections have probably
passed through many minds besides that of the
writer, and it is well to let them go swiftly by
lest we grow melancholy, and begin to think
on the beautiful words of the sono —

When all the world is old, lad,

And all the trees are brown,
And all the sport is stale, lad.

And all the wheels run down,
Creep home and take your rest then — "

No, we must shake off feelings like this ; for
true it is, that sport is not, and cannot be, stale.
So there is life in us yet.

Henry found plenty of friends even at
Balliol. Indeed, among those that came up
with him were several that were as little suitable
for the pursuit of " reading " as he himself
was ; and they inconsequence soon formed
an alliance utterly at variance with the traditions
of their sedate college. However, they
most of them possessed sufficient ability to
defeat the machinations of the examiners with
a certain amount of credit, and the college
authorities could hardly, therefore, lay hold of
them as they wished.

As to Henry, however, the evil day was
drawing near. It was Prince Charlie's year ;

and taking, as lie did, an intense interest in
that splendid son of Blair Athol, he felt it to
be a necessity that he should go to the Derby.
He therefore arranged with a friend, that, incase
he did not set back that nio^ht, his bed
and room generally were to be made to look
as if some one had slept there and gone out
early, so that when the " scout " came in
the morning: his absence might be thus accounted
for ; and without more ado he
took train and departed for the metropolis
early on the morning of yet another Derby
day.

It is by no means a difficult matter to go to
the Derby from Oxford ; less easy is it to get
back again on the same day ; and even if you
do, it is likely enough you will be dropped onto
by the wily proctors, who lie in wait for the
trains from Town on that evening ; so that on
the whole, if you can possibly make satisfactory
arrangements in college, it is perhaps safer

to stay away during the Digit and return in
peace next day.

Henry of course met Tom, Leroy, and all
others of his turf acquaintance when he
arrived on the scene of action. He had not
seen very much of Leroy during the past few
years, that gentleman being now so affluent
as to have no need to look to Henry or anyone
else to support his projects. He had even
helped Henry to sell his shares in the National
Ironworks Company, Limited, upon an occasion
when the tradesmen of Oxford, polypus-like in
their absorptive capacities, demanded a more
than usual supply of ready money. Henry
wrote ' to Leroy as the most likely person to
assist him in this emergency, and the result
was, he sold his shares at a handsome premium,
and was restored to a most satisfactory
financial condition in consequence.

This transaction had of course served to
keep alive Henry's feelings of friendship

towards Leroy, and indeed that gentleman
could be a very excellent and entertaining
friend wherever his own interests were not
otherwise concerned. He had now gained his
ends so far as money went, and was occupied
in making himself a social success. This latter
performance is by no means difficult for a rich
bachelor with nothing distinctly shady about
him, and Leroy got on so well, that he had
come to the conclusion that he would be able
to aim higher than Kate when he married ;
and that, at any rate, he had no occasion to
look to her as a ladder by which he was to
ascend the scale.

It may be guessed therefore, on the whole,
that Henry spent a very genial Derby Day
with his friends. He himself had no horses
at the meeting, but was intensely interested
in Prince Charlie ; only, however, to the
extent of having £25 on him, for, grand as he
was, — a perfect god among horses, — a roarer

could not win the Derby by anything short
of a miracle in the face of Creinorne.

Tom, in a more plain and matter-of-fact
fashion, had invested his modest stake on
Cremorne ; but Henry would never have been
guilty of backing anything else when the
great Blair Athol chestnut was in the field.

Nor were the public insensible to the
character and magnificence of the horse who
had never yet known defeat. They backed
him with a will, and reasoned with themselves
that, though the rule was that a roarer could
not win the Derby, yet here, if anywhere or
ever, was the exception to prove the rule.

There is a peculiar faculty in certain horses
to attract not only admiration, but positive
love from those interested in them. And
here we do not mean those directly interested
so much as the public, or such of them as can
appreciate a good animal. Blair Athol and
Prince Charlie have both been marked in this

way ; and none who saw it will ever forget
the scene at Newmarket when " Charlie " won
his last race, and lowered the pride of the
French champion.

But wee must not digress from the day in
question. We may look over Prince Charlie
in the paddock, and wonder at his colossal
proportions as he towers above all his kind.
There is the good genial face and the kind eye
of Blair Athol ; the same quiet and demure
gait, devoid entirely of emotion. On a larger
scale, and somewhat more massive than his
sire, the son perhaps does not show that
wondrous quality which any, even the most
inexperienced, eye must always note at first
sight as conspicuous in the old horse. Nor
does Prince Charlie present — at least to our
eye — the same perfection of lengthy sloping
shoulders with depth behind them ; — but there,
it is idle, nay, presumptuous on our part, to
criticize such gems as these : let us leave it to

such turf scribes as think they understand
the matter better than we.

But let us not be too much carried away
by the inspection of the Prince. There is
Cremorne, of a totally different stamp, yet
withal a rare specimen of his kind — all wire
and whipcord, muscle, and quality ; very
symmetrical too, save for the way his head
is set on to a somewhat plain-looking neck.
Take especial notice of this Cremorne, for now,
in these later days, as we write about him,
we can affirm that he is one of the very best
horses that ever was foaled.

The raking, blood-like Queen's Messenger
claims attention, about whom the genial-visaged
Mat Dawson is much busied. Queen's Messenger
is a son of the illustrious Queen Bertha
a mare destined to become still more illustrious
as years roll on, and her brilliant
daughters Spinaway and Wheel of Fortune
come upon the scene.

Let us pass on, however, casting a glance
on the sturdy Wedlock as we go, not because
on that day we should have thought much
of him, but because we are now guided
by the light of his subsequent deeds. He
carries as yet no record of races won, but he
comes of a noble tree — Lord Chidden and
Mineral to wit — both sire and dam still on the
ascending scale towards the zenith of fame.

Behold too the great outsider, brother to
Flurry, by no means so long in the back or
so unshapely as some would have us believe,
but a Melbourne all over, and full of those
strange characteristics that render this family
so totally distinct from all others. The horse
has without doubt won a great trial, but then
he has not been named as yet, and what nameless
one can succeed in the Derby ? Verily this
stable should have learned wisdom from the
head defeats of the Bribery colt— thereafter
named Savernake — in a past year.

We need not scrutinize the rest, lest we
become wearied.

It is Royal Oak day — a propitious circumstance,
think the backers of Prince Charlie ;
while, on the other hand, the opponents hint
that the Prince and his followers will anon
be " up a tree " : such is their construction of
the omen.

After all, however, the day certainly was
a fortunate one for Prince Charles, afterwards
the Merry Monarch, Charles II.; but
then we take it that Prince Charlie's name
was not derived from him, but from the unfortunate
Charles Edward of Culloden fame.
Still Charles Edward too was of the house of
Stuart, and therefore, even for his namesake,
Royal Oak day should be favourable.

Once more on the hill to look round the
paraphernalia of festivity, just before the
horses come out upon the course for the parade.
It is all much as usual ; but one thing strikes

the ear of Tom and Henry, who are together.
There, accompanied by the usual kind of stage
Highlander, whose bag-pipes fortunately are
at rest, are two somewhat pretty giiis, presumed
by the confiding public to be " Scotch
lassies." Nothing very remarkable about this ;
but then one of them is sinojino- and the other
accompanying her on the harp. It is a sweet
old song, and the girl can sing 'above a bit''
as Tom expresses it.

"Come nearer," said Henry; "I want to
hear the words." And so they went nearer
just as the song ended ; but as the last words
were " Prince Charlie," they eao;erlv demanded
an encore in order to make out what it was
all about. The girls very gladly commenced
again, and the Highlander looked as though
visions of unlimited whiskey were arising
before him. Here is the first verse of the

A wee bird cam' to our lia' door,
He warbled sweet and clearly ;
And aye the o'er-come o' his sang
Was ' TFaes me for Prince Charlie.'

Oh ! when I heard the bonnie, bonnie bird,
The tears came trapping' rarely ;
I took my bonnet aff ray head,
For weel I loved Prince Charlie."

'' Oh, stay, stay ! " cried Henry, " no more
of that, if you love me. Rather let me ask
you, as Macbeth did the witches, to —

Say from whence
You owe this strange intelligence ? or why
Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
With such prophetic greeting? — Speak, I charge you'"

The girls, who had stopped the charming
old Jacobite song, were much puzzled, not
knowing whether Henry's remarks were complimentary
or otherwise ; somewhat disposed,
however, to resent the expression " blasted
heath " being made use of in their presence.
However, having received half-a-crown, they

VOL. II. K

thought little more of the matter, but concluded
that Henry was drunk or mad.

But Henry, who was now hastening to
obtain a view of the horses and the race, felt
much depressed by the omen ; though of
course the song had been specially selected
simply because it brought in Prince Charlie's
name.

There is no need to dilate much over this
Derby. What with the up-and-down nature
of the course, the sharp turn at Tottenham
corner, and the extra distance, poor 'charlie"
goes all to pieces long before the finish.
Cremorne looks like winning in a canter, dien
brother to Flurry bears down on him with a
terrible raking stride, now fairly, as it seems,
opened out. The difficulty to get this great
raw animal round Tottenham corner has almost
passed the powers of even Tom Chaloner, and
the amount of ground the horse has lost by
yawing about all the way up the straight has

been, as one might think, fiital ; but now at
last he runs up to his bit, and comes looming
on, an awful danger even to Cremorne.

It is a dreadfully exciting finish ; but the
unnamed one just fails to get up, and is
defeated by a short head. Cremorne has
established himself as a Derby winner.

Blame Chaloner if you like for not keeping
the second better together, but it seems to us
there are few who could have got the horse
round the course at all. An utterly raw,
uncouth baby, whose merits were only discovered
very shortly before this race, he had
no experience of racing or nice handling, and
those who know what it is to ride such a horse
will readily admit that Chaloner showed consummate
skill to get him so near the winner
as he did. What might have happened had
the horse been named before the race deponent
sayeth not.

But what a difference is there between first

K 2

hind second in the Derby ! Cremorne blazes
still before the world in proud supremacy.
Pell Mell (to give the nameless one his subsequent
name) languishes in modest obscurity,
and all for a short head !

Queen's Messenger is an indifferent third,
and there is Prince Charlie somewhat about
sixth. It is a melancholy spectacle as we see
him coming: back to weigh in — no enthusiastic
followers with him now — demure and placid
as ever ; but the curse has come upon him at
last, and even he has proved unequal to the
task of combating his infirmity of wind so as
to win the Derby.

Well, well, we who live in these days
know that many triumphs were in store for
"Charlie" to make amends for this defeat, so
we do not mind so much ; but to Henry it
was inexpressibly sad, and he felt much inclined
to illustrate the words of the ominous
socii:, —

The tears came trapping' rarely ;
I took my bonnet aff my head,
For weel I loved Prince Charlie."

However, it was no use, the thing was done
and over.

'' Come," said he to Tom, " let's go back to
town, I'm sick of this ! "

Tom had won money, and was, in consequence,
by no means down in the mouth ; but
he agreed to go, and after meandering gloomily
once more over the hill, the two started, but
not without having heard the old honor rino^ins:
out as before where the mrs and the Highlander
were located, the final words now
striking on Henry's ears —

' Oh this is no a land for me ;
I'll tarry here nae langer.'
A Awhile he hovered on the wing,

Ere he departed fairly ;
But weel I mind the farewell strain — '^

'Twas * wae's me for Prince Charlie,' '

Henry had now to choose between a return

to Oxford and the orgies of a Derby night in
town. His mind was soon made up. He
required excitement to renovate him, and so
Leroy's invitation to dine at his club was
accepted ; garments which he had brought
with him, and left at the station in case of
need, were sent for, and a room taken. The
dinner was excellent, Leroy and his friends
most entertaining ; and Henry's spirits soon
reasserted themselves. We may pass by the
subsequent visit to the revels at Cremorne —
then especially blest in having given the
name to a Derby winner — the ever-increasing
hilarity, the competition at the various games
of chance and skill with which the gardens
abounded, the inevitable dispute with the
police, and the headache next morning.

Headache or not, Henry had to be off now,
at all events ; and so in due course he found
himself safely landed at Oxford, and conveyed
with his bag to college. Arrived there, he

found friends of serious aspect awaiting him,
and ascertained the pleasing fact that the
authorities had made special enquiry whether
he had slept in college the last night, and had
come to the conclusion he had not. They
had doubtless assumed — knowing his racing
proclivities — that he would go to the Derby;
and, as he had not been caught by the Proctors
coming home, that he must have stayed away
all night. Therefore they investigated; and
hence a " Common Room " was convened to
sit on him at 3 p.m. that day.

Well," said Henry, '' I suppose there's no
help for it : I shall be sent down. I shouldn't
have minded if I'd seen Prince Charlie
win ; but as it is it's rather hard lines,"
and he walked up-stairs resignedly to his
rooms.

Now it so happened that Henry was in
want of a kennelman to look after his dogs in
Yorkshire, and had advertised for one in the

previous ' Field.' When he took up the letters
he found awaiting him, he was somewhat
surprised to read the following : —

West Cottage, BlacJcheath. •

'dear Jolliffe,

"Yoa have probably forgotten the
small boy to whom you used to give pony
rides at Saltoun ; but seeing an advertisement
of yours in the ' Field ' respecting a kennelman
has reminded me of you. I think I know of a
man that might suit you, but weill enquire
further. I am here reading for the army.
My people are living at 4, Eaton Square, and I
am up Inhere every Sunday.

My sister asked me to remember her to
you. You would hardly know her, she has
improved so much. She was considered the
belle of last season. I wonder she hasn't got
married ; but somehow she doesn't take to
the idea, though she has had any number of

chances. Let me have a line from you when
you can spare time ; and believe me,
My dear JollifFe,

"Yours very truly,
"John Hamilton."

Henry mused considerably over this, especially
the last part, and it struck him that there
was considerable evidence of Miss Kate's own
handiwork therein. Just then he was summoned
to the " Common Room," where the
dons in solemn conclave sat.

The question was soon decided ; he told
them at once where he had been, and the
decree, admixed with platitudes on the enormity
of the crime of going to the Derby, was,
that he should be " sent down " for the rest of
the term — a comparatively mild sentence, as
Henry thought, and not altogether unacceptable,
for that letter of Jack Hamilton's had
made an impression on him, and he thought

sport might come of it if lie went up to town
for a few weeks ; besides, Ascot would soon beat
hand. Moreover, Henry had joined the
Honourable Society of the Inner Temple " a
term or two before, and was by way of reading
for the Bar ; so that he could now also take an
opportunity of eating the prescribed number
of dinners at the Temple, and so keeping
another term. Not but what leave is always
given to go up from the Universities to eat these
three dinners when required ; still in this case
Henry could show at least a semblance of going
to Town for necessity and not for pleasure.

He accordingly wrote to Jack Hamilton
how glad he was to have heard from him,
many messages to the sister, and that he,
Henry, was coming up to town ; would beat
Bedford Hotel previous to taking rooms.
Then Henry entertained his college friends at
a farewell carousal, and departed the next day
in excellent spirits.

CHAPTER VI.

Sick-thouglited Venus makes amain unto him,
And like a bold-faced suitor 'gins to woo him."

Venus and Adonis.

The first thing to do in town was to visit a
tailor. Youths like Henry, who have been
bred up in the country, and never spent anytime
in London, soon become aware of this,
and the eye quickly notes how inferior are
the garments made at Oxford or elsewhere,
and how utterly ill - shapen when compared
with those of the Metropolis.

Henry, though he had seen a lot of sport in
its various English forms, was in other respects
more or less of a child still, and the idea of
a London season was to him a complete
novelty.

He entrusted this destinies to Messrs. Hill,
Brothers, and was clad by them in a wonderfully
short time in gorgeous apparel, such ashe
had never possessed before. Beale and
Inman were extensively patronized, and boot-makers
in the Burlington Arcade were eagerly
looked up. The result, even in the course of a
day or two, was most encouraging, and as the
various orders had by no means as yet been
all executed, there could be no doubt that
externally he would look 100 per cent, better
before very long.

Of this he was perfectly conscious as he
satiated in the Park, not without a hope of
seeing Kate, but not altogether clear whether
or not he would recognize her if he did.

He had his name down for one or two clubs
but had not come up for election yet, so that
he was destitute in this respect ; but he soon
met a college friend, considerably senior to
himself, one Hugh Chambers, who undertook

to poet him made a member of the Arlington
(then in a state of decline) in a very short
time, and also recommended him to come and
take a set of rooms in Arlington Street, in the
same house where he (Chambers) was living
Henry had been made very comfortable by
"mine hostess," the good Mistress Ann Warner
of the Bedford Hotel ; but he had never
intended to stay there long, so he took the
rooms off-hand, and located himself in them
the next day.

Meanwhile, however, a letter had come
from Jack Hamilton, expressing pleasure both
on his part and that of his sister that Henry
was coming up to town, and saying that he
(Jack) generally came home for Sunday, and
hoped Henry would call then. If by any
chance he was not in, his mother and sister
would be glad to see him.

Henry began to feel quite nervous at the
idea of seeing Kate once more. In reality it

must be remembered that lie had never been
introduced to her or to any of her people ; but,
nevertheless, he felt that he now must screw
his courage to the sticking - place, and go
through with the adventure. He had quite
lost his old romantic adoration of the lady,
but the present business was attractive, as
being something out of the common.

The destined Sunday soon came, and with
extra elaboration of dress, and a trifle of Dutch
courage to inspire him, the gay youth is
borne swiftly in a hansom to Eaton Square.

Despite the Dutch courage, he feels a somewhat
sinking sensation the while, not unmixed
with an inclination of the hands to be tremulous.
However, there he is at the house.

Is Mr. John Hamilton at home ? "

*' No, sir'' says the serene servitor who has
opened the door.

'' Is Mrs. Hamilton in ? "

Yes, sir."

And up stairs goes one of the men, followed
by Henry, upon whose brow something like a
cold perspiration is breaking out.

The door is opened, " Mr. Jolliffe " is announced,
and in walks Henry.

Mrs. Hamilton is there, somewhat stouter
than of yore, and Kate — at least we conclude
with Henry that it is Kate — though we
should scarcely have recognized her. She
has indeed fulfilled all her early promise, and
grown into a beautiful girl — sl perfect figure,
eyes wonderful, complexion, if genuine,
magnificent.

Henry stares stupefied for a moment, but
seeing Mrs. Hamilton looking blankly at him
he rightly conjectures that she, who knows
nothing about the late correspondence, is at
a loss to understand who he is. Therefore he
walks up to her and says, '' You don't recognize
me I see, Mrs. Hamilton. Ah, well, no
doubt I've changed a good deal in five years.

whereas you have apparently not changed a
bit."

Then Kate breaks in, coming forward and
taking Henry's hand, " Why, mamma, it's
Mr. JollifFe, who saved me at Saltoun ! "

Mrs. Hamilton thereupon greets Henry
most cordially, and he is soon at home with
the two ladies. The conversation flows rapidly
enough, Kate all the time hanging back towards
the Saltoun days, so that our " young
man from the country" begins to feel as if he
had been first favourite without intermission
ever since that time. Mamma takes care,
however, to intersperse remarks as to the
success her daughter has proved, socially
speaking. This she does judiciously, not obtrusively,
and Henry gathers that many others
are, and have been, in the field besides himself,
whereof proof positive lies on the table in
the shape of a song dedicated to Miss Hamilton,
written and composed by an ancient Colonel

of Dragoons in a period of inspiration resulting
from love and brandies and soda. The
song is entitled " My Empress'' The words
only serve to amplify the meaning of the title
with reference to the adored Kate.

Presently other callers are announced, Prince
Piccolo and Count Caramba — the former a
dapper little Italian, who may or may not bea
great man in his own country ; the latter
attached to the Spanish Legation, a dark,
handsome individual enough, but getting on
in age. Henry has already been told about
these two : they are both desperately smitten
with Kate, and mutually jealous. They are
ever on the look out one for the other, which
results in their generally coming into her
presence together. They keep up a semblance
of friendship notwithstanding

The two now look very suspiciously at
Henry, and the Italian twirls his long moustache
fiercely. Evidently it occurs to both that

VOL. II. L

they may be like the men who quarrelled and
fought for the spoil, while the third quietly
walked off with it.

'^ Ah ! Miss Hamilton," cried the Count, as
soon as he and his fellowmen settled. " How

was it I did not see you at the Duchess 's

the other night ? "

Because we never got the cards you said
you would have sent to us."

Gracious ! is it possible ? I put them in
the post myself."

Far better acknowledge you forgot all
about it. Count Caramba," said Kate somewhat
sharply. '' Prince, where were you on
the Derby night ? I heard of you," continued
she.

Amid the efforts of the Count to exculpate
himself — for he really had sent the cards,
and only a bad cold had prevented Kate from
going — and amid the protestations of the -
Prince that he had spent the Derby night at

home, Henry was rising to go, when Kate
unmistakably signed to him to stay, which he
did, nothing loth. Mrs. Hamilton commenced
an assault of raillery on the Prince relative to
the Derby night, and Count Caramba, being
utterly at a loss what next to say to establish
his innocence, Kate, taking advantage of the
opportunity, said, "There is a peculiar flower
out on the verandah, Mr. Jolliffe, I want
to ask your opinion about," and forthwith
led the delighted Henley outside, away from
the sight and hearing of the distinguished
foreigners.

Arrived there Kate gave a sigh of relief,
and said, " Thank goodness, we are clear of
those bores ! I am so glad you have come.
How strange it is, isn't it ? What do you
think of me now, eh ? "

Think ! " said Henry, " why I don't know
what to think. I am Cjuite bewildered."

This was a very safe answer to give, and

L 2

may be recommended to others in similar
positions.

But tell me, do von think I have improved
since the Saltoun days ? "

Henry, now rapidly becoming self-possessed,
laughed lightly, "No, no, I shan't tell you
yet awhile. What fun there used to be at
Saltoun ! At least one thought it so then."

And I am sure I should think it so
now. I shall never enjoy anything so much
as being rescued » out of the sea. But then I
thought you were going to die afterwards — at
least, people said so — and that was very bad I "

It was bad enough to be ill at all : it prevented
me from being introduced to you and
your people just at the best time. I wept
copiously about it, I can assure you."

'* Oh, I dare say. Bother I there's mamma
beckoning for us to come in. Mind you don't
go yet though."

And so the pair re entered the drawing-room,

whither Mrs. Hamilton had summoned
them, as the other gentlemen were about
departing. They bowed stiffly to Henry as
they went, with the theatrical " we shall meet
again " sort of look, and presently they were
gone.

All this while tea had been going on
more or less, and now there came another
male being, in the shape of an inane and
hopelessly love-sick curate. He was followed
by a reasonable young Englishman named
Hilton, who to Henry's mind looked more like
business than any of the others ; but he
seemed a very old friend, and occupied himself
chiefly with Mrs. Hamilton.

The curate being regarded as a nonentity,
the fair damsel soon drew Henry outside again,
and there brought him along in a most rapid
fashion — he was to mind and come to their
reception on Tuesday. He must also be thereto
dinner. Cards would be sent him. He

must go with them to Mrs. Moncreif s theatricals,
and numerous other pLaces, all of which
she could arrange.

Henry began to see that, in addition to the
sport of being apparently supreme among the
admirers of this very pretty girl, he was also
going to secure great advantages in the way of
invitations all over the place.

He therefore came very resignedly into the
position, which Avould have been pleasing to
any man's self-conceit, and was going ahead
in first-rate style, when again they were called
in. Captain Hamilton had come back from
his walk.

'' Oh, papa, this is Mr. Jolliffe ; you remember
him at Saltoun."

Of course I do. Very glad to see you,
Mr. Jolliffe," said the Captain, speaking, in
fact, the truth, for reasons which will hereafter
appear.

The fortunes of Captain Hamilton had

evidently been favourable since the Saltoun
epoch ; at least so it seemed, from the fine
house in which he lived, and the style in
which he was doing things. He was soon in
deep conversation with Henry, whom he knew
of as expert in all matters connected with
horses and dogs. His chief difficulty at the
moment was to get a roan horse to match
three others that he had, and Henry knew of
one, which was well. Then there was a repaired
terrier to inspect and pass judgment
upon. The terrier was a very fair one, Henry
said, which was also well ; and he finally left
about half-past six o'clock, having made, he
was convinced, a very big mark.

Thinking over Kate afterwards, and it is
certain he thought of her a great deal, he
could not but feel that there was something
far too fast about her, or what old maiden
ladies would term "forward."

Such a wife as that," reflected he, " would

lead any one a fine life, Til be bound : and as
for money, she'd spend oceans. I can see that
very thinly by the look of things about the
place, and the way she appears to go on.
Xo, no, I must have something quieter than
that when I marry, if I ever do ; but,, nevertheless,
that's no reason why I should drawback
from all this sport. It isn't as if I had
sought her out, and deliberately won her
affections, as the novels say. She's done it all
herself, so I can't be chimed*'

Now of course this reasoning was not strictly
just ; but, nevertheless, it is what would have
prevailed in the minds of most of us had we
been in Henr\'''s place, unless, indeed, we had
weakly mistrusted our own powers of resistance,
feared to be married whether we would or no,
and therefore fled the temptation.

Leroy, meanwhile, was soaring higher than
Kate, had in fact given up all idea of her,
and was aspiring to marry into some titled

family. Henry saw little of him, for lie
rapidly became so involved in the vortex of
the season and this affair with Kate that he
had little time to think of anything else.

He went in due course on the Tuesday
to dinner, which was a very grand business.
Kate was kindly allotted to him to take in,
and this he regarded as a most marked distinction,
considering that there were one or two
titled personages, besides foreign Counts, who
evidently were hugely desirous of that honour.
The mild curate was there, and so was Hilton,
with whom Henry soon made friends. Jack
Hamilton had also at length appeared in the
flesh from Blockhead, a wild, good-looking
little youth, and a source of constant anxiety
to his father, inasmuch as he was reported to
be utterly incompetent to pass his examination
for the army.

The reception, like all such affairs, was
sufficiently slow. Singers engaged at large

expense performed, Kate also sang, so did
others. German - looking gentlemen gave
instrumental studies ; and every one was more
or less uncomfortable from not liking to talk
aloud. Henry met two or three Yorkshire
friends, and so got on pretty well ; and Kate
occasionally found time to come to him, and
say how she wished she could be more with
him, but she was obliged to keep moving about
from one person to another. Every one went,
however, pretty early, and. when the number •
became thin Henry and Kate again found
themselves on the verandah.

Said she to him, "Isn't that a pretty
bangle?"

"Yes," said he; "did you put it on your
arm yourself ? "

This was a random shot on his part. He
had heard of devoted swains putting bangles
on their loved ones arms, not to be taken off
while love remained.

No, I didn't put it on myself, Mr. Inquisitive."


'' Who did, then ? "

Wouldn't you like to know ? "

^^TakeitofF."

I shan't."

'' Let me take it off, then."

Why ? "

*' Because I want to."

Why do you want to ? "

I shan't tell you that : I. must have you
let me take it off just because I a.^k you ; and
I am sure you will do what I ask."

Ha, ha ! well, I'm sure ! You /mve a good
opinion of yourself. There it is, and there it
shall stay, unless you tell me why you want it
off ; " and the beautiful blue eyes turned
languishingly on Henry, while the moon shone
clearly down on them, and there was no one
near.

It was a moment to make a fool of any

man, but Henry was equal to the occasion ;
instead of committing himself to the wished-for
words he resorted to deeds, and grabbed
at the offending bangle, trying to remove it.
Kate was not at all displeased, but scuffled
away from him and retired into the room,
leaving him to himself, the whole scene, however,
being observed by Count Caramba, who
hardly knew what to make of it, as he glared
through a chink in one of the blinds.

Henry soon came into the house again, and
prepared to depart, and Kate absolutely went
down to the door with him, remaining obdurate,
however, to his requests to be allowed to
remove that bangle ; and finally laughing as
they reached the foot of the stairs, and taunting
him with his proved inability to get the
better of her.

'' Eh ! what's that ? " said the Captain, suddenly
emerging from a little smoke-room mori
the ground-floor.

Henry was somewhat taken aback, and the
more so when his fair companion cried, '' Oh,
papa, it is such a joke : I've fairly beaten Mr.
JollifFe. He has tried all he could to get me
to take off this bangle ; and he declared I
should do so because he asked; and I've kept
it on for all that, as you see'd

'' Ha, ha ! " laughed the Captain. " Goodnight,
JollifFe. The ladies are generally too
much for us, eh ? ''

And with that the abashed Henry went out
to his hansom, feeling that he had rather put
his foot in it with the old man.

The little circumstance last narrated showed
the necessity of extreme caution and greater
discretion in the future ; but the whole performance
was enough to turn the head of any
average youth who was not possessed of experience.
Henry, however, whether by some
innate quality, or, as is more probable, by
having mixed with the mammon of unrighteousness

on the turf, was, despite his inexperience
in these affairs, a very shrewd customer,
and felt as yet that he could trust himself.

The next night Mrs. Moncreif's theatricals
took place, and he was to go there and wait
down-stairs till Kate and her mother arrived,
so as to ascend in company with them.

Of course under the circumstances he was
punctual, and equally of course they were late.
However, he managed to pass the time regaling
himself on tea, which was in readiness in an
ante-room, where others, like himself apparently,
were hoping for friends who came not
yet.

Mrs. Moncreif herself presently came downstairs,
and encountering Henry welcomed him
most kindly, though she could have no possible
idea who he was. He, on his part, nothing
backward, entered into animated conversation
with her during the space of five or test
minutes, thinking at the time what a clear

proof this was that a presentable person, with
a sufficient amount of cheek, might go to large
entertainments without hoeing invited by anyone
at all. Of course Henry had had a card
for Mrs. Moncreif's, but it came through Kate,
so that he was in reality a total stranger.

The probability, however, is, that a man who
would go anywhere without an invitation
would not be one whose appearance, or at any
rate manners, would serve intuitively as his
pass.

Kate and Mrs. Hamilton at last arrived, and
with them Henry went up in due form to the
charming room, which might almost be termed
a model theatre.

The performances were of first-rate class ;
and by them, and by observation of the
numerous and distinguished audience, the
mind was pretty well diverted, even from
pleas of flirtation.

Still there was some sport afterwards when

refreshment was the order of the night ; and
gentlemen struggled to the front to secure
viands for ladies, who hovered in the rear; the
successful caterers proving a source of dire
peril to others, as they made their way back
again with plates of food or glasses of drink
held up on high.

The foreign princes, noblemen, and others
who especially affected Kate were wildly energetic
in their efforts to get things for her ; so
Henry let them do the work, and helped to
consume what they brought to the little table
which he had secured for the two ladies in a
corner. This, as may be imagined, was very
distasteful to the enamoured gentlemen, who
received little more thanks than if they had
been waiters ; and great was the fierce twirling
of moustaches, and indignant glances of
scorn at Henry, who steadily enjoyed himself
without taking any notice.

When the time for departure arrived, he

was getting on famously, and making Mrs.
Hamilton, who was a good-natured, easy-going
soul, die with laughing at anecdotes of Oxford
and elsewhere ; while Kate seemed to be
quite appropriating him as her own under her
mother's very eyes. On the whole he thought
it as well when they made a move to go.

Taking Mrs. Hamilton out to her carriage of
course left Kate without an escort. This was
observed in an instant by the lynx-like eyes of
Prince Piccolo and Count Caramba, who forthwith
pounced down on the damsel with proffered
arms, each trying to push the other away,
at first quietly, and with gradually increasing
and unseemly violence.

Miss hamilton will permit me to escort
her. I was the first," said the Italian, his
voice risings above the bounds of decorum.

No, I was here before you," retorted the
Count, passion beginning to flame in his
eyes.

VOL. II. M

You were not."

'you lie."

At that moment Henry returned from the
carriage and took Kate off, leaving the two
rivals to fight out their quarrel over the empty
air. So blind with rage were they that they
actually did not see what had occurred, but
fell to work, fighting tooth and nail just outside
the door, rolling in consequence down the
steps on to the pavement, and being with
difficulty separated by the policeman, so firma
grip had they on one another's hair. Then,
and not till then, did they find that the lady
was gone.

Henry had promised to call at Eaton Square
next day, and on going into the house it was
not without a chill creeping sensation of
dread that he saw and heard Captain Hamilton,
who met him at the foot of the stairs.
The reason for dread was that the Captain
requested him to come into the little smoke-room

for a short while before going up to
the ladies.

Arrived there, and the door being shut, the
two gentlemen took seats, and Henry awaited
the issue. This was it. The Captain commenced
as if repeating something he had
learned by heart.

I am sure, JollifFe, you will not mind
my speaking to you as I am going to, and — ■
you know — how pleased I have been to see
you and make your acquaintance ; but — I find
that my daughter and you are already being
talked about in Yorkshire — and as you know
that is to say, I feel sure you will agree — it
is my duty to make some further enquiries
from yourself as to your position."

Well," thought Henry, " this is quick
work, at all events : only four days since I first
came here, and now to be carpeted by the
old man in this way ! I must be monstrously
cautious." And so he remained silent, as if

M 2

waiting for Dire, in reality thinking what on
earth he had better say, so as on the one hand
not to commit himself, and on the other not
to have to quit the business altogether.

Seeing that he paused, Captain Hamilton,
being at a loss how to continue, remarked
somewhat uneasily,

Of course, perhaps I have no right to ask
you all this."

Henry seized on his cue now, for he at
once obtained an idea for mastering the

o

position.

Eight to ask me ? Why, of course you
have a right to ask me. Captain Hamilton. I
have never been formally introduced to you
or yours ; and as you have been kind enough,
notwithstanding, to receive me at your house,
you are obviously entitled to an explanation of
who I am and all about me."

Thereupon he gave a strictly correct account
of himself to the Captain, with references as

to the truth of it, but carefully abstained from
even mentioning Kate's name. Thus he based
the whole matter on the Captain's general
right to know his position, seeing that he had
not been regularly introduced ; and in this
fashion quite outflanked the wily officer, so far
as any discovery about Kate was concerned.
The old gentleman, however, concluded that
he had substantially succeeded in his enterprise,
by finding out that Henry was really
eligible ; and he never feared the capacity of
his daughter to bring a country youngster like
this to book.

Henry himself was quite prepared to find
that the tale of his resources, respectable as
it was, would, nevertheless, seem insignificant
by comparison with others of the admirers ;
but the Captain appeared quite satisfied,
and said, '* I will now send the footman
up to announce you, as if you had only
just come."

He must think me a fool," said Henry to
himself, " if he fancies I don't understand that
they know all what's going on."

Arrived up-stairs, he found the two ladies ;
and, after a decent interval, the mother left
the room for a few minutes, returning with
beaming countenance, having obviously been
to enquire the result of the interview. Henry
was now made more of than ever : he was
sung to, played to, and otherwise entertained ;
while the choicest of button-holes was made
for him on his departure, and put in by Kate's
own hands in the boudoir recess out of sight
of her discreet parent. The situation was
trying as her fingers lingered over their work,
and she looked up, with studiously bewitching
glances, into his eyes, — or perhaps we should
hardly say " looked up," for she was nearly as
tall as her supposed lover, he being of the
neat arid shapely mould rather than of conspicuous
size or stature.

On this occasion too lie behaved with the
most rigid propriety, principally because a fear
was on him that Mrs. Hamilton midst be
espying him all the time ; so he went away ashe
had come, except that his system seemed
to have suffered a shock from the dangers of
the afternoon. Even Chambers noticed it
when he got back to his rooms in Arlington
street, and extracted from him over dinner,
which they had together at the club, all that
had occurred.

The recital caused much laughter, and sl
prophecy that Henry would, with certainty,
be married ere long ; but he thought otherwise.


Somewhat he reflected with himself as to
whether he was acting as he ought, but always
solaced himself with the consideration that he
had done nothing to lead to all this ; and as
for Kate — though he was quite self-satisfied
enough to believe in her love for him — he

concluded that lie was not an Individual who
would suffer long in a case of unrequited
affection. 'besides," thought he, "if. people
jump down one's throat in this scandalous
manner, they don't deserve any pity, whatever
happens."

Therefore he suffered matters to go on, and
went through a most complete round of gaiety
during the next six or eight weeks, remaining
absolutely supreme at Eaton Square, and
taking much pleasure in the worsting of all
rivals. Dancing was a point in which he failed
at first, despite his country training ; at least
he could not dance with Kate, who affected
some step quite in advance of his attainments.
Still, even this mattered little, for she would
sit out with him any length of time ; and that
enraged Count Caramba & Co. more than anything
else, as they walked past time after time,
and still found the pair together.

The number of places Henry went to, the

number of people he got to know, all through
Kate's arrangement, was perfectly surprising.
The number of times he dined at Eaton
Square, and the number of afternoons he
spent there, shut up in the boudoir with her,
was equally remarkable ; and he began to
wonder how it would all end, and how he was
to get out of it without appearing to behave
badly.

He had never once, all the time, lost his
presence of mind, even when Kate sang to
him as he sat close to her, hidden by the piano
from Mrs. Hamilton who was to all appearances
intensely interested in a novel, — saner to
him, mark you, this song : —

Speak to me, speak !

Be my heart hard :
Or shall it melt

For one poor word ?
No vow to bind,

No pledge I seek :
Only be kind ;

Speak to me, speaJc.'"

This, delivered in the most impassioned
style, with occasional side-long looks at the
obdurately silent one, ought to have brought
him up to the mark if anything could ; but it
didn't.

One day there came in an old Yorkshire
clergyman well-known to the family, who, in
fact, had christened Kate, and whom she had
specially retained to perform the marriage
service also for her.

And when will it be ? " asked the old
gentleman, for Kate somewhat pointedly
reminded him of this obligation on his
part.

Oh, how should I know ? you must find
out for yourself. There, I know you want to
have some talk with mamma. Mr. Jolliffe,
come and sit out here with me on the
verandah."

Henry followed as he was bid, but did not
fail to catch an enquiring glance of the

clergyman directed towards him, and a significant
nod on the part of Mrs. Hamilton.

I wonder what they're talking about in
there," said Kate, as they sat outside in the
beautiful summer warmth.

*' Don't know, I'm sure," replied he, somewhat
un sen time fatally.

Poor old thing ! he always wants to know
when I am going to be married. I wonder if
I ever shall be ? "

Stay a moment," cried Henry, clutching
at an imaginary something just above her
head. *' There, I've caught it — a great spider
that was just descending on you," and he
made pretence to throw it down into the
street. This broke the illusion, and effectually
changed the subject, so that the young
lady returned into the room almost out of
patience.

Neither by little notes, of ever-increasing
warmth, could she bring him to book. He

wrote verses to her ever and anon, it is true ;
but then all her admirers did that, and in
sober prose his remarks were sufficiently
common-place.

Matters were orettinsf serious. Ascot, with
its attendant joys, was come and gone, and
the season was progressing, yet here was this
outrageous country youth Henry,

*' Whether his unripe years did want conceit.
Or he refused to take her figured proffer,
The tender nibbler would not touch the bait.
But smile and jest at every gentle offer,"

He must be settled with, and that speedily.
There was that in Captain Hamilton's affairs
which passed show. His financial position
was really getting shake, and Kate must be
married this season ; besides, her two young
sisters were rapidly growing up. So more
pressure still was brought to bear on Henry ;
and he at length, growing alarmed, sought
desperately to establish a rupture on a particular

night by dancing very frequently with
some one else.

Kate took little notice of this ; but, to his
horror, Mrs. Hamilton cornered him on the
spot, and said, " I can't have you acting in
this manner. Go and take my daughter down
to supper, if you please."

He was fairly paralyzed by the authoritative
tone in which this was said, and went
obediently without a word to do her behest.

He soon found Kate, who at once took his
arm and walked off, despite the protestations
of the meek curate that she was enofacred too

o

him for the dance just beginning.

Lady Park — the hostess of that evening —
had spared no trouble or expense to delight
her guests, and the arrangement of flowers and
wonderfully choice exotics, skilfully contrived
to form quiet recesses here and there, was
particularly praiseworthy.

Half way down the stairs Kate got the

unsuspecting Henry into one of these fairy
nooks, and there was nothing for it but to sit
by her side.

'' Now, sir," said she, " do you know what I
think of you ? "

That I'm an awful brute, I know ; but
please don't tell me so."

Yes, I sill tell you what I think of you."

*' Oh, don't ! " protests Henry, still affecting
to believe that he is going to be scolded,
whereas his instinct tells him that a tender
speech is imminent.

But the inexorable lady continues, '' I think
you just a dear, a darling, and "

Oh ! pardon me. Miss Hamilton, but this
is my dance ; I have been looking for you allover
"

Prince Piccolo has broken in upon them
at this critical moment.

How are you, Prince ? " says Henry, cordially,
"I am very glad to see you."

'' Quite well, I thank you, sir ! "

No, this is not your dance," cries Kate,
angrily ; " the last teas, and you never came
near me," and with this atrocious fiction she
leaves the unfortunate Prince protesting and
apologizing, while she goes with Henry down
to supper.

Once in the room among others the beleaguered
swain breathes anew; and as he
establishes his charge in a seat and looks round
on the viands, he says, quite gaily, being
now, as he thinks, safe, " Well, what will you
have ? "

Come nearer, and I'll tell you."

Nearer he comes, not at all suspicious ; then
she whispers in thrilling accents, '^ Til have
you ! "

A bomb-shell could not have startled him
more ; but with a desperate effort he regains
his presence of mind, and pretends to treat
the matter as a joke, saying with a laugh,

*' Oh, yes ! I dare say ; wait till you get the
chance ! " and busies himself desperately in
carving fowls and pouring out champagne.

But it is no use ; she returns to the charge,
and will not be gainsaid.

Yes, do you know, papa has found such
a charming little house that will just suit
us ? "

'' The devil he has ! " mentally ejaculates
the unhappy Henry. Feeling, however, that
he must speak now, or else for ever hold his
peace, he commences, " But look here, dear "
(he is obliged to appear affectionate), " what
strikes me is, that you could never be happy
without all this gaiety and entertaining people
as you have been accustomed. Now, you see,
1 could never manage that."

Oh, Henry, dear, I am sick to death of
it all, and do so long for a quiet home with
you."

Here was a poser, and he began to feel, as

it were, an utter brute in his efforts to repel
her. Still he went on :

"Yes, I know you think that now, but
you'd soon change your mind ; besides, you
and I are very young. Would you not like
to enjoy another season or two, and then see
what you think of it ? "

Oh, no, no ! my mind is quite made up."

Well, my darling — but there are so many
people about one can't talk. I'll tell you
what, I'll come and talk to you the day after
tomorrow about it, quietly by ourselves.
That'll be best, won't it ? There's such a
bustle here one hardly knows what one's
doing."

Then, without giving time for an answer,
he leads her off up-stairs, and succeeds in
getting through the rest of the evening without
a renewed assault, for Kate thinks he is
all right now.

Sleepless was the night that he passed, and

VOL. II. N

more than once he thought of weakly succumbing
to his fate ; but sterner counsels
prevailed. Chambers, it is true, derided him
next morning, and said escape was impossible,
indeed, did not believe that he wanted to
escape ; but Henry took the twelve o'clock
train from King's Cross and fled off to Yorkshire
to consult with Tom.

He apprised the good people at Newton
by telegraph of his intended arrival. As
may be surmised, they had heard little of
him of late, at least from himself ; but a good
many rumours had been about respecting his
doings.

Tom had been terribly put out with the
way he neglected the horses. He himself
had done his best to direct their management,
and they had been doing pretty well at the
North Country Meetings — paying their way,
at any rate; but the idea of Henry fooling
about in London, and not so much as writing

a line to show he took any interest in the
stable, was beyond a joke. The wanderer,
on his sudden return, was of course subjected
to a rigid cross-examination by the girls and
Mrs. Blackburn ; but he kept his own counsel
until he got alone with Tom, to whom he
unbosomed his soul and asked for advice.

Tom, being interested in the narrative, and
remembering how he himself had suffered
from Miss Whytehead, forgot his anger and
reflected —

Well," said he at length, " I can't see
that they can want you for anything but your
money'

Indeed ! " rejoined Henry, somewhat
piqued. "I don't think that's the girl's
reason, anyhow ; she could have any of these
foreign counts and princes if she liked."

Foreign counts and princes be blowed ! "
said Tom. '' Very likely the whole lot together
aren't worth as much as you are ; and she

N 2

knows that, depend on it. A girl like you
describe would never think of marrying you
for your own sake."

I don't agree with you ; but in any case,
what shall I do to be saved ? "

Oh, write and say you've lost a lot of
money ; you'll not be bothered after that, I'll
bet."

Henry decided at least to try this, and a
letter was at length concocted, as follows : —

Newton Vicarage.

*'My dear Kate,

I had a letter from my agent to
come down to Yorkshire this morning to see
about some matters that have gone wrong.
I hoped to have got back next day, so as to
come and see you ; but I now find I cannot.
My affairs have got into such a seriously complicated
state through the race-horses, that
my agent and I will be engaged at least a

week in establishing anything like order ; and
then the prospect looks black enough. I am
sorry also, for this reason, I shall not be able
to dine on Wednesday, as I promised, nor yet
to appear on Friday night. Please make my
excuses to Mrs. Hamilton, and believe me,
Yours gloomily,

H. JOLLIFFE."

This was posted so as to start first thing in
the morning. Henry expected an answer toit,
but none came, at which he was rather
vexed, and Tom laughed.

However, a visit to Malton and the horses
put him in a more healthy frame of mind,
and he vowed he would not miss Stockton and
York August Meetings.

After a week was past, being now refreshed
and re invigorated, he returned to town,
determined not to be made a fool of; and
went to call on the Hamiltons the very next

day, never dreaming, in his own self-conceit,
that Tom would prove a true prophet.

Very much, however, was he deceived.
From having been the petted and cherished
treasure, he found himself received in about
the same style as the inane curate was deemed
worthy of. He was of course treated with
civility, but there was no shutting up in boudoirs
now, no being left alone with Kate ; in
short, no eager desire for his company. Tom's
device had obviously succeeded, and yet he
was not happy. It had, in fact, succeeded too
well ; and when he saw that his money, and
not himself, was the object of pursuit, he felt
wounded in his self-esteem. Kate, however,
as he thought, still remained the same, but was
now deprived of opportunity. He often met
her still, for, having established himself among
so many of the Hamiltons' friends, he got
invitations direct now to all the places where
she went.

He was, in fiict, at last in a very dangerous
mood, being impatient of the parental
opposition, and much disposed, out of pure
spite, to go in for a desperate flirtation, since
the danger was clearly past. Had they been
alive to the real facts, it is quite possible they
might, by judicious management, have landed
him while he was actuated by this spirit,
which sprang simply from the contrariety of
human nature, or animal either, — for instance,
the pig, who must always be driven in the
other direction from that in Avhicli you really
wish him to go.

He commenced downright love-making to
Kate, and at her instance wrote letters under
cover to her maid, which were most finished and
elaborate, of the amatory kind, accompanied
by poems that contained fire enough to satisfy
the most craving young damsel under the
sun. He encountered her here, there, and
everywhere by appointment, and felt a savage

glee in thus scoring off the old people, who
were endeavouring so strenuously to get rid
of him. Indeed, for them it was now a matter
of the last importance. His Imperial Highness
Prince Lambertini had appeared ardently on
the scene ; if he could but be secured, all
would yet be well.

But Henry was determined not to let them
slight him in this way, and stuck to the lady
in a manner that must have seemed extraordinary
to her in contrast with his previous
phlegmatic behaviour.

Nay," thought he, " I'd even run off with
her to vex them ; but then it wotdd turn out
that I hadn't lost my money, and the laugh
would be on their side after all, for they'd have
gained their original object."

Kate all this while seemed intensely devoted
to Henry ; and thus matters stood when he
had to go down asrain to Yorkshire for the
weddings of a friend. This was on a We docs

day near the end of July Tom was much
pleased to hear of the success of his device ;
but Henry was very surly over it. The
wedding took place, and on Friday he got a
letter from Kate.

Eaton Square.

"Darling,

'* Please be sure to come back tomorrow
(Saturday), and call here on Sunday, as
my people are going away, and I shall be all
alone. In haste, with much love.

"Your own Katie."

He at once decided to go, still in a spirit of
revenge against the Captain and Mrs. Hamilton,
thinking how splendid it would be to
take possession in their absence ; but on the
Saturday morning before he started came
another note from Miss Kate, saying her
people had changed their plans, and she was
grieved to say where not going.

He therefore stayed on at the Vicarage over
Sunday, heard Mr. Blackburn's sermon, retailed
all the news from town he could think
of, submitted to much chaff, and then set off
to the Metropolis, determined not to be put
down by any father or mother in existence.

On arriving: at his rooms there was a letter
from Kate awaiting him. It ran thus —

'seaton Square.

"My dear Henry,

You will be surprised, and I fear
grieved, to hear that His Imperial Highness
Prince Lambertini has asked me to be his
wife, and I have accepted him. I thought I
had better tell you before any one else did. I
feel that I have not treated you weel], but it
cannot be helped ; and if you knew all you
might forgive me. Please, dear, try to forget
me. I know it will be difficult at first, but
you will soon manage it, and I hope we

shall always meet as the best of friends. I
must not write further, but remain,
*' Just once more,

Your own Katie."

Here indeed was a surprise ! " Heavens ! "
was Henry's first thought, "and I have put
myself in a position where I am considered
to deserve pity ! Fool that I have been ! She
thinks now I really loved her, whereas it was
only my idiotic spite to the old parents. . I
thought I had her quite safe though. Oh,
this passes all understanding ! " and he sat
down and wrote a letter of congratulation to
Mrs. Hamilton on her daughter's engagement.

CHAPTER VII.

Materials — pregnant with infernal flame,
Which into hollow engines long and round,
Thick rammed, at the other bore with touch of fire
Dilated and infuriate, shall send forth —
With thundering noise —
Such implements of mischief as shall dash
To pieces and o'erwhelm whatever stands
Adverse, that they shall fear we have disarmed
The Thunderer of his only dreaded bolt.
Nor long shall be our labour ; yet ere dawn
Effect shall end our wish." — ' Paradise Lost,' VI. 485.

Our discarded lover was not one to take his
position to heart, except in so far as he felt
aggravated at being defeated even by an
Imperial Highness.

'rafter all," he reflected, "I did not want
her for myself — wouldn't have her, in
fact ; and it's only a dog-in-manger business

to be vexed with another fellow taking
her."

The most irritating point was, that he really
had been going on lately as if he meant it ;
simply, as we have seen, through opposition to
the old people, and also partly from a feeling
of security, on account of his supposed losses.
This now, of course, made him appear in the
light of a disappointed suitor, although, ashe
said, he had handicapped himself out of
the race. He was fain to content himself
with the knowledge that he had the whole
field of princes, counts, &c., beaten to a standstill
at one time, and had nothing to do but
go in and win, which of his own choice he
avoided coins.

What cause then for perturbation of soul ?
Simply the proved fi\ct that Kate had not
cherished that real affection for him which he,
pluming himself in the mirror of his own conceit,
imagined he had inspired her withal.

Poor Henry ! he had acted wisely in a
worldly sense throughout, and shown acuteness
beyond his years ; but that was no reason why
he should expect to get so utterly the better of
a young lady who was completing her second
London season. No ; Kate had liked him well
enough to marry him — if with money. He
was a nice, good-looking boy, she said, and
his eyes, if nothing else, made him lovable ; in
fact, she supposed she did love him. Poor
fellow, she hoped he would not think her
very cruel ; but without money the thing was
absurd. She certainly preferred him to the
prince, probably always should do ; but what
matter ? She should see lots of him in the
future, and she certainly did not mean to give
up being on good terms with him ; only of
course it would be a Platonic matter.

We shall have more to say of Kate anon ;
but must for the present follow the movements
of the cast-off swain, who, sooner than face the

ridicule of London friends, returned the very
next day to Yorkshire.

Even while on his way there he seemed
doomed to have the affair raked up. The
Morning Post,' for instance, had an announcement
of the intended marriage, which it stated
was to take place on August the 9th — remarkably
rapid work apparently to us, who are
accustomed to live somewhat plethoric lives,
and dislike to be hurried.

Then at York station *' that ass Middleton "
came up and said in a loud voice, " Hallo,
Jolliffe 1 I hear you've been distinguishing
yourself. Is it true that you ran a prince to
a head in the Matrimonial Stakes the other
day ? "

To which civil answer must needs be made,
and jocular if possible, for fear of apparent
soreness and consequent chaff. Keeping to
the metaphor, Henry finds himself constrained
to say,

I wasn't ' spinning man, otherwise I could
have ' walked away from him ' at any time I
liked."

This is true enough ; but none the less does
the " ass Middleton " disbelieve it, and persist
in his gibes, so that anger had almost supervened,
but that the time for the Newton train
to start arrived opportunely.

At Newton Tom is objectionable inclined to
credit himself with having managed the whole
affair, and kept Henry out of harm's way.
Especially is he pleased at the verification of
his opinion as opposed to Henrys's respecting
the lady herself But he sees ere long that
Henry is discomposed by the course things
have taken, and so he drops the subject pretty
much ; while the others, who have no data but
vague gossip to go upon, are very glad to hear
all they can, but haven't much to say.

Mr. Blackburn seems to be quite devoting
his attention to the turf ever since the mare

and foal were located with him. He has got
the pedigree of Bartimaeus and the mare fully
tabulated, and discourses most learnedly on
the various excellent animals that appear
therein ; and it is quite on the cards that, if
fairly led up to it by discussion over the port,
he would be willing and desirous to back the
foal as his fancy for the Derby of three years
hence.

Henry soon catches some of the old healthy
spirit after hearing the good man talk, and
going with him to see this young Bartimaeus,
dio connects the blood of the two sensational
animals that ran first and second in that
memorable City and Suburban. To view this
spectacle of the beautiful Blair Athol mare
with her young hopeful ; to think of the past,
and Blair Athol himself ; to look forward to
the future, obscure, yet surely bright for the
baby race-horse ; then to feel the fresh country
air, and watch the fox-terriers, delighted at

VOL. II. o

release from kennel, harrying wildly around,
or perchance making futile chase after some
careless hare, — from all this there sprang sensations
of renewed vitality in Henry's mind ;
and the artificial round of London pleasures,
with the cloud of fancied loves, flirtations, disappointments,
and pique, began melting and
fading away.

He himself was overjoyed to find this ;
it seemed, indeed, a double coming home,
for he was also returning; to himself after a
considerable absence. To set all right, however,
he felt that some exciting exploit was
desirable, and the opportunity for such was
not wanting.

It so chanced that between Newton and the
nearest market town, Barnstaple to wit, a distance
of some nine miles intervened ; and it
was necessary for those at Newton not unfrequently
to resort to Barnstaple. Tom and
Henry often went. There was a club there, and

divers other sources of amusement ; and Mr.
Blackburn had to go in every week on his
magisterial duties.

The road was a very fair one, as roads go,
despite the efforts of sundry superannuated
gentlemen in corduroy breeches, blue woollen
hose, and large boots, the object of whose lives
apparently was to promote stumbling-blocks
for the equine race, by hacking up casual
stones here and there, or by causing fresh ones
to be brought, and then scattering them, as it
would seem, broadcast upon the track — in the
heat of summer too, when there was not a
chance of their being resolved into regular
macadam until the wet season came on and
softened the surface for their reception. The
old men took especial pleasure in adopting this
course just in the steepest parts of the steepest
hills, no doubt thinking that horses there
would be more liable to fall, and would in
such case also cause a more thorough disaster



than if the accident happened on level

ground.

Old road-menders almost invariably act in
this manner ; and as a man is, legally speaking,
held to intend the natural consequences of
his acts, it is no great stretch to say that they
intend to throw horses down, for that is the
only natural consequence that their acts can,
humanly speaking, have.

However, old men notwithstanding, this
road was fairly capable of being driven on but
for three obstacles, and thereby hangs the present
tale.

These obstacles were, in fact, three gates,
which by some mysterious ancient right,
whereof the memory of man knew not to the
contrary, a certain Mr. Reckit was entitled to
keep, and thus bar the passage of all mankind
on said road, until mankind got down from
his coach, carriage, cart, or Avheel-barrow, and
condescended to open the same.

Absolutely purposeless were these gates. It
is true, enclosing as they did about two miles
of the road, Mr. Reeldt, who owned the land
on both sides, was enabled to let the two
spaces comprised within them for a sum of 30^.
per annum, to such owners of cattle as affected
for their beasts that species of precarious sustenance
which can be enjoyed on the small
strips of grass at each side of a road, and on
the hedofe-bottoms.

o

But Mr. Reckit was a very rich man, and
SOs. a year were useless to him, while to the
mass of mankind these gates were a source of
dire rage, cursing, swearing, and all manner of
evil ; especially if perchance one was driving
alone, with a lively horse, when it became
necessary to choose between two ills — either
to keep holding the gate open, and trust your
horse to chance till it got through, whereupon
it doubtless ran away ; or else, in your efforts
not to lose the horse, to let the gate swing upon

the carriage with much damage thereto. You
could not possibly lead the horse and hold
the gate, at least not long enough to get
clear.

So matters stood at that time, and Henry,
whose study of Bentham and other works led
him to the conclusion that the destruction of
these gates would be most consistent with
sound principles of utility, and be manifestly
for 'the greatest happiness of the greatest
number," had long ere this conspired with. Tom
to make an end of them, and many efforts
had been made in that direction. These efforts
had been carried out on a plan prescribed by
the village butcher, who, when emboldened by
various threepennyworths of rum, had been
known to put his precept in practice upon one
of his own gates instead of the obnoxious ones.
Whether the rum had dulled his intellect so as
to cause a mistake, or whether, as some said,
he really would never have ventured to attack

any other gate than his own, does not clearly
appear.

The plan or system, however, was a good
one, and with a less determined man than Mr.
Reckit would have availed. He, however, was
ancient and pig-headed ; steadfastly purposed
to assert his right in defiance of all men.
The manner of the plan was this : to open
wide the gate, having first procured a large
stone ; then to insert your stone between the
gate-post and the heel of the gate about halfway
down ; then to pull the gate to, whereby
the hinges are drawn bodily from the post.
So great is the leverage you can thus apply
against the stone that failure is impossible ;
only of course your stone must be large
enough, otherwise it will fall down, or the gate
shut on it without result. Many times and
oft had Tom and Henry in their journeyings to
and from Barnstaple performed this feat, and
laid the disabled gate by the road-side.

The wrath of Mr. Keckit was great, and he
had procured more powerful hinges, and
riveted them at the other side of the posts,
thinking that so their removal was impossible.
In this he was right ; but, inasmuch as the
leverage power compelled something to give
way, these extra precautions only resulted in
the gates themselves breaking right in two,
whence arose much more damage and trouble
in repairing.

Nevertheless, the indomitable Reckit stuck
to his work, and would not yield. Nay, he
even caused placards to be printed of " £5
Reward. — Whereas some evil-disposed person
or persons did, on or about the — day of — ,
unlawfully and maliciously, &c., &c." But
detection of the offenders did not ensue. Nay,
they even tore down the offending structures
once more, the very night after this proclamation
was issued, and this time, with immense
labour, conveyed them far away. They were

exceedingly large and heavy, but Tom devised
a means of carriage by getting one end
placed on the foot-board of the dog-cart behind ;
then Henry and he alternately held up the
other end, whilst one led the horse. Thus did
they remove each gate separately, and cast them
all into a deep ditch ; but still Mr. Eeckit
returned to the charge. Due search was made,
and the lost were found and replaced.

The time had now arrived when something
more thorough and complete must be done,
and to Henry, in his then restless frame of
mind, it appeared feasible and desirable to
blow the gate-posts to atoms with gunpowder.
To Tom such an adventure savoured too much
of hazard and danger for him to embark in.
Indeed, he was now rapidly arriving at a time
of life when discretion begins to assert itself.
But Henry would not be put off his enterprise ;
and so he entered into alliance with Jack,
who was now become a stalwart youth, and

sufficiently reckless to carry out this nefarious
project.

The first thing they did was to go to York,
in order to purchase any necessary appliances
at shops where they were not known. The
principal requirement was a large auger, and
this they easily procured ; a rope was likewise
necessary, for it was decided that the only safe
way to go to business was by descending out
of a bed-room window when every one was in
bed and the house locked up. This also was
soon forthcoming, the vendor of the article
assuring them that it was a portion of the very
same rope that was then used for the York
Minster bells, — a good omen, as they thought.

Having satisfied themselves that nothing
more was necessary, they returned home, and
prepared for action the very next night.
Very ignorant, however, were they in the
mysteries of blasting operations, as will be
seen.

Tom regarded the whole business with a
good deal of apprehension, and indeed Henry
and Jack were not without some doubts as to
the rope performance ; for, though accustomed
to all kinds of everyday exercises, they
were by no means accomplished gymnasia,
and to go forth out of a third-story window
dependent solely on a rope was a matter
requiring some little nerve, especially as the
descent would have to take place in the nighttime.
Then as to climbing up again, there
was of course no opportunity to practise, and
see whether they could do it or not. They
must just trust to chance.

Some touch-paper was made of the old-fashioned
sort, such as we are accustomed to
find attached to our fifth of November crackers
and squibs, and which in the days of our youth
gave us much anxiety by so frequently leaving
the question in doubt as to whether it had
gone out or not ; invariably remaining torpid

so long as we watched the firework which we
destined for our delectation, but equally invariably
performing its work at the moment when
we had given up hope, and taken the thing
into our hands again to relict it, whence
arose explosions in our face and dire dismay.

This primitive saltpetre touch-paper was
of course most ill-suited for blasting ; but our
conspirators, as is usual with persons utterly
ignorant on the given subject, were completely
confident.

A couple of flasks of ordinary powder and
some paper for wadding were all the other
articles they thought fit to provide. The
auger was carefully secreted in an outhouse
below, as it was no use taking it up-stairs
merely to bring down again.

For disguise, which was also very requisite,
they donned somewhat outrageous costumes :
Henry being clad in white breeches, white
stockings, and white canvas boating - shoes,

with a white towel wrapped, turban-wise,
round his head ; then a most gay flowered
dressing-gown, and, to crown all, a pair of
trousers tied round his neck, the rearmost part
of which garments hung down behind like
some peculiar hood.

Jack tied round his head and ears a red
spotted handkerchief, which met under his
chin ; and was further draped in a flannel
cricket suit, the shirt being, however, worn
outside the trousers, and a belt put on overall
round the waist. He also had 
shoes.

These costumes were remarkable enough —
far too much so, in fact ; for they were sure to
attract the attention of any one who saw them,
which was by no means what was required.
However, such as they were they were decided
on ; and behold the two, thus caparisoned,
standing in much excitement in Henry's room
at dead of night, the good Mr. Blackburn

having long since seen the household up-stairs,
and securely bolted and barred all doors, or
other means for exit or ingress. Slumber
reigns supreme save in this room, and there,
the third member of the party, stands Tom,
nervous and tremulous, fearful of some mishap.
The window is an old-fashioned one, divided
into three separate parts, each part being, as
may be imagined, somewhat narrow. The
rope is securely fastened round one of the
middle upright columns of the frame, which is
sufficiently solid, being other than they make
them in these days. The right hand sash is
now opened as far as it will go, that being the
side from which the egress has to be made, so
as to descend on the soft grass, and miss the
hard gravel walk in case of a fall. It is a dark
night. Tom looks out, feels the rope, and
shudders.

"Now then," says Henry; 'have you got
the matches, Jack ? "

'rand I've got the flasks of powder and the
touch-paper ; there's nothing else ? "

''No."

Then here goes." And, not without a
trifle of extra heart-beating, Henry approaches
the window.

You'd better not," says Tom feebly.

"Oh, nonsense! give us a hand;" and so
the performance begins.

It is by no means easy, however, to get out
of a narrow window feet first, especially when
you are clad in a dressing-gown which is much
inclined to ruck up, and refuse to accompany
your person, as you wriggle yourself forth.
This any one who tries the experiment will
find out, and it is unnecessary to dilate on it
here.

Suffice it Henry did manage to emerge into
the night, and was at length fairly asking in
the darkness. First and foremost now the

rope, stretched against the window-frame, gave
a mighty crack.

This. was more than Tom could bear. "For
God's sake," he hoarsely whispered, " come
back, come back ! " Then, turning in desperate
agitation to Jack, he cried, '' For heaven's sake,
man, hold on to the rope I It's going to
break ! "

Of course, however, the rope is not going todo
anything of the kind, and Henry, who, after
the first moment in his unusual situation,
finds to his relief that he is descending easily
enough, reaches the ground in safety, and
sends up the welcome words, " All right."

The ice thus broken. Jack comes out as a
matter of course, only with even more squeezing
than Henry, as he is bigger, and fits the
window more tightly.

It must be mentioned that this particular
window was at the end of the house, and was
a solitary one, no others being below it ; so that

it was chosen for this special purpose rather
than Jack's or Tom's, where other windows
would have had to be passed in the descent,
with probable damage to the glass thereof,
and with certain wakening and alarm of the
sleepers within.

The scared, wan face of Tom can now be just
dimly descried peering out from above. '^ Tie
the rope up somewhere," he whispers, '^ else
some one will come and climb in when you're
away."

Henry laughs, but hoists Jack on his
shoulders, who secures it to a nail high up on
the wall — a nail that they had spotted in the
day time before, and so were prepared for when
they were coming down, otherwise damage
might have resulted. The auger is now
obtained, the yard-gates quietly climbed over,
a by no means easy matter, — and they are
off for the field of action.

It is a nice fresh night ; somewhat dark, for

VOL. II. p

the moon has not yet risen ; but the air has
an invigorating sparkle about it admirably
suited to stimulate the spirit of devilry which
has taken hold on the youths.

Oh ! " thinks Henry, " how far better is
this than all the absurd nonsense of a London
season put together ! " and in the free ecstasy
of the moment he feels inclined to " whoop,"
and " Tally ho," '' run," "jump," anything just
to give vent to the wild joy that is within
him.

But caution must be observed, for they are
going along the regular Barnstaple road, and
may meet some one. Eagerly they press on
for the first gate, some mile and a half distant,
and it is soon reached. A hasty survey is
made in all directions to see that no one is
near, and then the work begins. Confusion !
The post is as hard as iron I The auger will
not make any way in it at all, even though
pushed with the utmost force they can apply !

They struggle, they toil, till the perspiration
runs off their brows, first one taking a spell
and then the other ; but those massive old
posts are of the most seasoned oak, and are
impregnable to such a tool as they are
employing.

It is no use. Exhausted and dispirited
they are fain to return by the way that
they came, mournfully reflecting on the
failure, and somewhat exercised by the uncertainty
as to the possibility of ascent by
that rope.

That matter is, however, soon settled, for
they find it much easier than they expected,
and the entrance head first through the window
is decidedly easier than the feet first exit,
although it is necessary in this case to creep
along the floor on the hands until the whole
body and legs can get in.

The rope is now drawn up and secreted, and

all tokens of the intended crime are put aside ;

r 2

then bed, and untroubled sleep, all these
matters notwithstanding.

So ended the first attempt. But the project
was by no means abandoned ; only it was now
seen to be one that demanded more care than
was imagined.

As a result of this Henry made a special
journey over to Puddlesbro', and there casually
introduced the subject of blasting in conversation
with an iron-stone friend, who soon told
him all he wanted to knows He now found out
that, even if they could have bored a hole with
the bio auo-er, it would have been of no use
whatever to fill it with paper or anything of
that kind on the top of the powder. The
explosion would merely in such a case have
blown the paper out, as a gun does a wad, and
left the gate-post unharmed. The best thing
to do was, having made and charged the hole,
to plug it up with a mixture of clay and tow
and of course to discard the ridiculous old touch-paper,

which could not possibly burn through
this compound, but to use an ordinary string
fuse, any amount of which could easily be procured,
and which would burn through anything.

So then he returned very much wiser in
these particulars, and brought with him many
yards of fuse, and a centre-bit, wherewith to
bore several small holes in the posts close
together, and thus open out a way for the big
auger to get to work.

The next day was spent in preparations,
principally consisting in kneading up clay and
tow together into a large dough-like mass, and
testing the length of fuse required to enable
any one to run two or three hundred yards
before it was burned out. A mallet and
rammer were added to the list of tools, which
were all placed ready in the outhouse, hidden
behind some old wine-cases ; and when the
night came, and the good man had secured his
establishment, when the innocent among: the

household were asleep, then once more was
re-enacted the scene already described, with
safety as before, and with less perturbation on
the part of Tom. Henry has the powder and
clay in his dressing-gown pockets ; in his
hands he carries the big auger and the mallet.
Jack wields the centre-bit and rammer, while
in his pocket is the box of matches. Very
difficult is it to scale the yard-doors with all
these impediments ; but it is done, and they
are fairly-on their way, this time with very
different prospects of success.

They had not progressed far before they
heard the sounds of approaching steps, and
presently they met the doctor of the village —
a timorous little man — who was walking home
after seeing a patient. There is a moon
to-night, and it is certainly foolish to give
him any unnecessary chance of recognition ;
but the inducement to frio-ten him is irresistible,
and Henry springs towards him as they

are passing, with a weird and horrible yell,
waving the auger, like some strange weapon
in the air.

The Doctor does not stay for more, but runs
for his life, and the two have a hearty laugh
as they hear his little feet pattering away in
the distance.

But the first gate is soon reached, due
investigation of the neighbourhood made, and
then to work. The centre-bit drill is not to
be denied, even by such oak as this, and presently
three holes are made in close proximity
midway down the post upon which the gate is
huno^. Now for the bios auger ; hurrah ! it
bites ! Started in the midst of the three
above-mentioned holes, it finds the way thus
partially prepared for it ; and forcibly pressed
on and turned, it soon gets a hold on the
wood, and wins its way inexorably in, despite
the desperate hardness.

Henry turns till he has made good a depth

of full two inches, and then stops for breath,
while the metal of the auger is too hot to
touch, so severe is the work that it has been
doing.

Jack carries on the game ; then Henry
again ; and at least seven or eight inches are
penetrated, which is thought enough. Now
for the powder ! The hole has been bored in a
slightly downward direction, so that the charge
runs easily down. It is full now within three
inches of the outside. Where is the fuse ?
Here it is, all right. See that it is stuck well
into the powder, and then fall to with your
clay and tow. Earn it in hard ; beat it in
with mallet on rammer. Do this to the very
utmost of your capacity, lest by any chance it
be blown out and the gate-post remain unhurt.
There, wee can make no better of it. It is all
ready to be fired ; so let us on to the next
gate, for we must have the three charged first,
and then enjoy the sport as we go home.

A walk of a mile, and another post operated
on ; then on to the kst, and behold all is now
ready.

The work has taken between two and three
hours ; but it is done, and with hearts beating
we approach the climax.

Whatever we do," says Henry, " we must
be sure no one is near, or coming ; for it would
never do to have an accident."

So a strict search is made ; but the place is
still as the dead, and not a foot-fall sounds upon
the road. All is safe. The moon casts a sickly
light upon the scene, and the doomed gate
hanging on its fatal post looms out against the
background of white road, almost preternaturally
large, and, as it were, instinct with ghostly
life. Jack holds the match-box.

'' Give it me," cries Henry, trembling with
excitement, 'rand be getting away."

Jack moves off, and Henry strikes a match.
It goes out, and the suspense is prolonged.

Now another. This one burns bravely ; it is
touching the fuse. Fizz ! the fuse is lighted.
Away run Henry and Jack down the road as
hard as they can go, while the steady fizzing
of the fuse still sounds in their ears. They
have got some two hundred yards, and must
needs look back. There it is, spitting its
sparks yet. It is a supreme moment, watching
those sparks, and expecting the event with
nerves strung to the utmost tension. Will it
never come ? There it is ! And with a terrific
report and a blaze of light the thing is
done, and all is still.

Now the two rush frantically back to the
spot to see what has resulted. There is the
gate, in fragments over the road, and the post
split in four, and lying in the form of a Maltese
cross ! Nothing could be better. They hastily
clear the road, so that it may be safe for horses,
and then away in breathless haste, for the outraged
Reckit must have heard this even in his

bed, which is not far oiF, and with his myrmidons
may be nigh at hand.

Soon the next victim is reached, and the
fire deftly applied ; once more the flight, and
the delirious joy of expectation, as the squib-like
fuse spits on. Bang ! What a noise. By
Jove ! what is that ? Something went whizzing
overhead, and fell on the road behind
Jack and Henry. But they heed it not
now, so intent are they to see the state in
which this gate has been left. This post has
been shattered to fragments, and lies none
can say where ; but the gate itself is on the
road, not much injured. No matter ; throw
it into the ditch out of the way and come on.
Two or three hundred yards down the road
Jack tumbles over something.

'what on earth is that?"

'* Why, I do declare it's an immense piece of
the gate-post, that has been blown right over
our heads just now. My word, if this had

hit one of us it would have made rather a
mess ! "

Thus says Henry, and they run on to
their last mine, which is the one nearest
home.

This piece of post flying so far was somewhat
alarming, especially as they knew the present
fuse was the shortest of the three.

We must run like anything the instant I
light this," cried Henry, as in some apprehension
he addressed himself to the task, and
Jack stood anxiously by.

It so happened that in charging this post
they had dropped a good deal of powder on
the ground, and some malicious sprite chose
to direct a spark from the match among it ;
instantly it flared up in a most lurid manner.
Henry was just about lighting the fuse, and
the only thing that occurred to both him and
Jack was, that the said fuse had somehow
gone wrong, burnt all ofl" at once, and that

the explosion was taking place. Panic-stricken
by this, they fled wildly away ; but the sudden
glare of the powder around them had left
them for a moment or two quite blind, and
the result was, both rushed headlong into a
ditch, where they lay for some time quaking
with fear, and thoroughly wetted and bemired.
Presently they ventured to look out, and all
was still ; finally they dared to approach the
gate. There was everything as they had left
it : the fuse untouched, and the explosion still
a thing of the future.

Somewhat foolish they felt ; but neither
could laugh at the other, and no one had seen
them, so business was quietly resumed, and
this time efficaciously. There was another
brilliantly excruciating period as they sped
away, thinking every instant to hear that
glorious bang ; and then when it came, in all
its magnificence, another inspection of the
shattered ruins, and away home, very careful

to take with them all the paraphernalia of the
work.

So ended the memorable performance,
which, though in a certain sense trivial, yet
contained elements of excitement that were
equalled by nothing either of the two youngsters
ever experienced before or after. By
some it might be thought wrong, as being a
species of practical joke ; but Henry's maxim
was, that so long as he did no material damage
to persons or useful property, a joke was justifiable
; and in the present case he and Jack
really acted for the benefit of the neighbourhood.
On the whole, therefore, there was
nothing very atrocious in the matter, though
of course Mr. Reckit would think otherwise.

Home was soon regained, and, first and foremost,
all the tools were carefully hidden ; then
up the rope they climbed, put that and everything
else straight, and went to bed, after
telling Tom what had been done, — not that

he needed to be told, for lie had heard all
the reports.

Everything was so well managed that, on
a subsequent occasion, when Mr. Reckit hinted
to old Mr. Blackburn that he suspected Henry
and Tom of having perpetrated this grievous
deed, the worthy gentleman warmly assured
him that such could not be the case, as he
had himself seen the youths go up to bed that
very night ; had himself locked the house,
and all remained as he had left it till the
next morning.

Henry, who came in at the moment, assured
Mr. Eeckit that he had gone up to bed at
eleven o'clock that night, and had never
come doiun-stairs asrain till breakfast-time next
morning (which was, in fact, true) ; so the
aggrieved gentleman was utterly unable to
make anything out.

It was long before Henry got to sleep on
what remained of that night, so thoroughly

had he been awakened ; and then he was soon
aroused by his letters beiiig brought up. One
was addressed in Kate's writing, and the sight
of this effectually prevented his going to
sleep again. He tore it open with a slightly
trembling hand, and perfectly yelled with
astonishment on reading its contents, which
ran thus : —

Captain and Mrs. Hamilton request the
pleasure of Mr. Jolliffe's company on August
14th, at the marriage of their daughter to Mr.
Leroy I "

CHAPTER VIII.

No slime but mine : I must, forsooth, be forced
To give my hand, oppos'd against my heart,
Unto a mad-brain rudesby, full of spleen ;
Who woo'd in haste." — ' Taming of the Shrewd

*' Now what does all this mean ? " the reader
will probably say. *' Was ever anything so
ridiculously improbable 1 "

On this latter point we will not dispute,
though we might show cause with some effect
in favour of probability were we so minded ;
but we really are bound to clear up without
delay these intricacies respecting Kate.

Now the turning-point on which these somewhat
sensational facts hinge was this : Leroy
was in difficulties, — unknown as yet to the
outer world, but for all that certain and

VOL. II. Q

unavoidable. It is not well to inflict any dry
legal disquisition u23on a long-suffering public,
so it will suffice to remark that there is a law,
and that by that law a promoter of a public
company, when he procures the prospectus to
be issued to the public, should take care to
have reference made specially therein to any
contracts existing between himself and others
in regard to the company or its affairs. Any
prospectus issued without all information of
this kind being fully set out is deemed a
fraud against those who take shares on the
faith of it ; and those who knowingly issue
it are liable accordingly.

To take the example of the National Ironworks
Company, Limited, — had Leroy made a
direct contract with the original members of

o

it that he would promote the Company, that
is, place all the shares, in consideration of
£90,000 being paid him, there would have
been no possible doubt that such contract

would have had to be set out in the prospectus,
so that the eyes of the public might be fully
opened. But long before this, astute gentlemen
had concluded, that by going behind the
back of the Company, as it were, or rather, by
settling before they ever became — as they
thought — promoters of a company, their own
profit, through a private arrangement with the
vendor, as Leroy did with Sir Irving AUix,
the law might be effectually evaded ; and the
public led to believe that it was only paying
the intrinsic value of the property, inasmuch
as no mention of any contract for promotion-money
would appear in the prospectus.

The statute cannot contemplate — so argued
the promoting fraternity — any interference
with, or investigation into, the conduct of the
vendor after he gets his money. It is all paid
to him, fairly and squarely. What he does
with it afterwards is no one's concern but his
own. If he agrees to pay us a certain pak'^"

Q 2

of what he gets that is not the Company's
affair at all. When we made the arrangement
with him we were not promoters of the Company.
The Company agree to pay him so
much ; they pay it, get their property in
return, and then the matter is at an end, sofar
as they go.

All this may have some show of reason in
it, and in fact held water for a considerable
time ; for of course it may well be that a
would-be vendor of property is perfectly justified
in remunerating the man who obtains him
a purchaser ; but then, to make this all right,
the purchaser must be a rational independent
being, having a capacity to judge of the
matter for himself.

But, as distinguished from this, the fatal
point to the Leroy tribe was, that, having
made their arrangement with the vendor, by
which the purchase-money was to be largely
increased, and in part paid to them, they did

not make the sale to any independent person
or corporation, but proceeded to form a company
for the express purpose of buying the
property on the terms agreed ; and this company,
being at the outset their own creation,
as we have seen, had really no separate control
over the affair, but adopted, as a matter
of course, the arrangement which was the very
object for which it had been called into
existence.

The shares were then offered to the public,
who fondly imagined that the Company, being
now apparently a substantial reality, had of
course attended to its own interests as opposed
to those of the vendor, whereas up to that
time the vendor and the promoter had arranged
all according to their own views, and the
Company was a mere puppet in their hands.
A plain, common-sense view of the statute
shows, that all contracts should be set out
in the prospectus which would be likely to

influence the mind of a reasonable man who
was thinking of taking shares ; and it is clear
that any contract which causes an excess to be
paid on the purchase-money may most materially
depreciate the value of the shares.

Leroy had promoted a good many companies
during the last four years on these terms, and
had altogether received an immense sum of
money as the result of his labours. Some he
had lost ; but he had cleared out with a very
large fortune, and deemed himself without
another care in the world, except the difficulty
of ascending to the top of the social tree.

He saw little or nothing of his old city
friends now, and took a somewhat absurd
pride in not knowing what was going on in
the business world. His ambition was to
attain to political distinction, make a first-rate
marriage, and so become a great man.
He had made great way in this direction,
having proclaimed himself a most orthodox

Conservative, and being very free with his
money for charitable or any other objects.
He had already been chosen as a candidate for
the town of Chesterton in Surrey when the
next election came, and had won golden
opinions from the free and independent electors
of that place on account of the abundant
sums he spent among them.

Lady Geraldine Quantockck, the second
daughter of the Earl of Chesterton, the
great potentate of that neighbourhood, had
already attracted his attention as a desirable
match, and he flattered himself that she
was not indisposed to look kindly on
him.

Leroy was slumbering — so to speak — upon
the crater of a volcano, revelling in the glorious
prospect before him. The distant country, the
blue sky, the bright genial sun, all seemed to
speak of happiness, and everything that should
make life glad, if we may continue the side ;

then came the rude awakening — a volcanic
eruption — and all is blank and desolate.

It was even so : for some time the minds
of legal gentlemen had been exercised on the
subject of promoters of companies, and at last
an effort was'made to bring a very distinguished
one to book. The case was a precisely similar
one to that we have already described in our
account of the formation of the National
Ironworks Company, Limited.

Leroy happened to be dining at Lord
Chesterton's m town on that evening of
June when he heard the first news of these
proceedings.

I see," said one of the guests, " one of
these company promoters. Baron Kaufman, is
to be made to disgorge his ill-gotten gains if
possible."

Serve him right too," replied the host.
I've no sympathy with such fellows."

Lord Chesterton was a careless, forgetful

man,' and retained no recollection now as to
the way Leroy had made his money, even if
he had ever known.

The subject of conversation was soon
changed, Leroy not venturing to show any
interest in it, though he would have given
anything to have heard more ; and it may well
be conjectured that even the fair Geraldine
was nothing to him that night in comparison
with his desire to get to the club and see the
papers.

He was at length released, and hastened off
in a hansom to fully investigate. His worst
suspicions were confirmed : Baron Kaufman
was to be sued by a shareholder of the Nevada
Mine Company — the shares of which were
now at 75 per cent, discount — for the return
of the money he (the shareholder) had invested
on the faith of the prospectus, which
did not reveal an agreement between Kaufman
and the vendors, whereby the former was to

receive a large portion of the purchase-money.
This would be a test case, said the report,
and if decided against the Baron, would lead
to a very great deal of money being recovered
in a similar manner from other quarters.

Leroy felt a tremor of apprehension as he
read these words. He had always had a dim
sort of forebodings that something; of this kind
might happen ; but latterly a feeling of peaceful
security had more and more crept over
him. Now, what might ensue was too awful
to contemplate. ''If Kaufman is beaten, I am
ruined," he muttered to himself, as he strove
to reckon up how much he could be called onto
give back. He could not call it all to mind;
but he could easily recollect more than he
could possibly pay. '' To lose all too now !
when the fortune is in my grasp, and everything
going well ! Oh, I cannot, I will not let
it happen ! "

Then he tried to pull himself together:

drank a bran cly-and- soda, and walked out to
cool his brain, if possible, by the fresh air ashe
went homewards.

His mind was still in a whirl ; but ideas
began to shape themselves, and first he
thought, — •

Kaufman may win this trial after all."
This was devoutly to be wished for ; but
somehow he had a fixed presentiment it
would result otherwise. Then again came
an idea, —

If Kaufman is beaten I must secure my
money by some means."

Last of all, after much rumination, —
I must go in for Geraldine at once ; marry
her, and settle everything on her before they
have time to go at me. They can't upset an
ante-nuptial settlement, so that will save the
money ; besides, in any case I meant to take
her, it weill only be necessary to hasten things
on."

And with a lighter heart he found himself
near his home ; but remembering that his
destined bride was to be at Mrs. Arlington's
dance that night, he concluded to lose no
time, but at once hasten to lay more severe
siege to her affections. Hailing, therefore, a
passing cab, he set off on his enterprise, and
soon reached the house where Mrs. Arlington's
guests were now assembled in overflowing
numbers.

Leroy had come to be regarded almost in
the light of an acquisition by the generality
of hostesses, such a very eligible bachelor was
he, and so cleverly had he brought himself
forward in the world.

And yet, whatever might be thought of him
by the older generation, who had a keen regard
to the main chance, there was always something
about him that did not quite go down
with the younger ones, — a certain stiffness,
resulting either from early business habits, or

from natural coldness, which prevented him
from ever becoming a favourite.

Youn£ ladies, even in these days, do not
marry entirely for convenience ; and though
parents might highly approve of Leroy,
children could hardly bring themselves to
fancy him.

It has often happened so ; and a man who
has prided himself throughout all his life as a
judge of character and the human race, who
has amassed wealth simply by the superiority
of his intelligence to that of his fellow-men,
finds himself at last utterly at sea, completely
mistaken and puzzled in his association with
some simple girl.

The fact is, business and business matters
afford the very worst standard by which to
judge the better sort of womankind. Instinct,
and instinct alone, is the true o-uide by which
they can be safely approached ; and if we have
so schooled ourselves as to always act by reason

and by rule, we shall have so far deadened
the effects of instinct as to go sadly amiss in
our love-making.

Thus it was with Leroy. Lady Gerald fine
Quantockck had only seen in him a plain ordinary
man, of rather unprepossessing countenance,
and some fifteen years older than herself ;
but she had received him with great courtesy
and kindness, inasmuch as he was to be
member for Chesterton, and she knew that
her father would wish her to do so ; besides
which, she was an enthusiastic Conservative
herself Leroy could make himself very
entertaining, so much did he know of the
world ; and he was on excellent terms with
the family, with whom it was a matter of
principle to go in for him thoroughly now
that he was the candidate elected to represent
the Conservative interest in their borough. -

But he himself had been misled by Geraldine's
kindness of manner towards him, and the

pleasure she appeared to take in his society, so
that he imagined he had made, or was on the
verge of making, a conquest.

He quickly discovered her at this dance, and
was quite content to discover that he could
only get himself put down for two '^ squares."
Leroy had never mastered successfully the art
of waltzing, and he had too much sense to
attempt — at least among those whose opinion
he valued — what he knew he could not do
well. He soon found himself with her whom
he destined for his own, and to his satisfaction
she readily consented to sit out the
dance. Then he bee^an, — confident enough,
yet still conscious of an inaptitude for his
task, —

'' I'm afraid I went away rather unceremoniously
from your house to-night ; I can't
think what I was about. I came here on
purpose to apologize to you."

Indeed, Mr. Leroy," replied she, " we did

think you went away rather abruptly, and
feared you were ill."

She had thought of him, therefore ; and ashe
looked on her with an air almost of appropriation,
and marked the rare contour of her
figure, and the bright freshness of her well-cut
features — for Lady Geraldine was what in
these days would be a fashionable beauty —
he felt a something stealing over his heart
that, by no great stretch of imagination, might
be considered at least akin to love.

Oh, no," he went on, " I wasn't ill I don't
know quite how it happened ; the fact is, I
was not myself, and shall not be myself till
I've had some talk with you."

Indeed, Mr. Leroy, I shall be very glad to
help you if I can."

She thought he was troubled about electioneering
matters.

Thank you so much for that. You can
help me very much. Lady Geraldine, for I

love you, as you must have guessed ; and I ask
you to become my help-meet — that is, my
wife. Say that you will consent, and I shall
have nothing more to wish for in this world."

Now there was something so utterly unexpected
in this declaration of affection, and also
a savour of ill-breeding in the way Leioy
choose at such a moment to play upon the
words 'help-meet" and "help," that Lady
Geraldine was offended as well as surprised.

Mr. Leroy," she said, with much coldness,
I think you forget yourself I have never
given you any grounds for venturing to
address me thus. For my part, I shall try to
forget that you have ever done so ; and you
will understand, that on the smallest shadow
of a repetition of this evening's performance
you forfeit my own and my father's friendship.
' Will you kindly take me back to my
chap er one F"

Leroy did as he was bid, much crest-fallen,

VOL. II. R

and inwardly ruminating that women are
more difficult to understand than the investing
public, or even than the wiliest of German
Jews.

As maybe conjectured, he did not stay long
at Mrs. Arlington's after that, but went home,
and passed a sleepless night reflecting on his
prospects. It was clear he must marry someone,
as the sole method of saving his fortune,
in case the worst came to the worst, and
Kaufman was defeated in the momentous
action ; but he concluded at last, after thinking
vainly of possible spouses, that after all
he would be foolish to rush into wedlock in
this way from mere fear.

At least," thought he, " I will wait till
this trial is over, and then I shall know for
certain one way or the other ; but it may be
too late to find a wife then. Stay ! — happy
thought, by Jove ! — I'll make Kate Hamilton
marry me if it comes to a pinch. I've got

those letters of hers, and she isn't likely to
refuse ; besides, I know old Hamilton is getting
hard up, and would jump at the idea. I
might do worse too ; she's got £40,000, and
a fair position ; I shall take no harm with her.
Yes, that will be the plan. Since Geraldine
won't have me — more fool she, considering
what a settlement I should make — I'll bide
the event of this trial, and then, if it be
necessary, just marry Kate."

Anxiously did the days and weeks pass
while that Kaufman case dragged its weary
length along from one court to another.
Leroy felt a feverish desire to attend all the
time and hear what was going on; but he
knew it might excite suspicion against him if
he were seen there, and absolute apparent
indifference must be his role. With what
eagerness, however, did he devour all the
editions of the papers, whilst he cursed the
incompetence of the law-reporters, who so

R 2

often contrived to render things unintelligible
!

But the end came at last. He was not
dismayed or surprised, for his mind had long
told him it would be so. The shareholder
carried his point against Kaufman, and recovered
his money ; while the multitude of
other shareholders of the same company,
who had taken shares on the faith of that
prospectus, now rushed in also for their
judgments.

One point did not occur to Leroy at the
moment, which was, that only original shareholders
could make claims of this kind ; those
who had bought shares from others had no

o

such rights under the Act against the promoters.
So in reality the amount of liability
was not likely to be so great as he in his fear
was anticipating.

There was no time to be lost, he thought.
Any moment the torpid intellect of the

public might be further awaking. Immediate
marriage was necessary.

That very day Leroy went to call on the
Hamiltons : it was at the end of July, and
things were getting slow there as elsewhere,
excepting for the intended marriage of Kate
and Prince Lambertini on the 9th of next
month.

Leroy was welcomed kindly enough, though
there was a slight idea he had somewhat
neglected the family since he had got up in
the world, and was now only returning to
them because Kate was going to make a good
match. As a matter of fact, he had been so
profoundly interested in his own affairs he
had never discovered that she was engaged to
be married at all.

It was with no small surprise, therefore,
that he received Mrs. Hamilton's apologies
that they had forgotten to send him an invitation
for the wedding, and for a moment a

feeling of hopelessness flashed through his
mind. But his position was too perilous.
Marry he must, and Kate was the only girl
of any position that he could secure. The
thing must be carried through now.

So he prolonged his call, determined to bring
matters to an immediate issue. The opportunity
was given him by Mrs. Hamilton going
out to superintend dinner arrangements for
that nio^ht : and he then and there declared
to Kate that he had come there, not knowing
she was engaged, to ask her to marry him ;
but that now, when he knew another man was
before him, he felt quite determined that she

should be his.

Now, Frank — Mr. Leroy, I should say —

don't be a fool," said Kate.

I never was more in earnest in my life.

I really wish you to marry me. I am a far

better match than Lambertini, and will settle

all my money on you."

^' Really, I don't know what you mean by
talking like this. I am engaged. The invitations
for the wedding have gone out. It
takes place within a fortnight. You must be
joking.'^

It shall never take place' rejoined Leroy,
firmly ; "at least not with Lambertini as the
husband."

Kate laughed a half-forced laugh.

Now do talk sensibly. What are you
going to give me as a wedding present ? "

Myself and my fortune."

Nonsense ; I wouldn't have you on any
consideration."

Listen to me, Kate : it is well to come
to the point before your mother comes back.
I have some letters of yours, which you may
remember writing some years ago. I see you
do remember them. Well, you break off this
engagement with Lambertini, or I show him
those letters. I give you till tomorrow to

decide, and I will then call for your answer.
No words now. You are angry, so I shall
say good-bye ; but remember, I shall be here
for my answer tomorrow."

The reader may be left to speculate on the
frame of mind in which Kate now was. She
did not love the prince, it is true ; but to be
forced into giving him up in this ignominious
manner, after everything had been formally
announced, was too horrible. Still even that
was better than for him to give her up, as she
feared he would do if he saw those letters.

Leroy she absolutely hated for his conduct,
and felt she would sooner marry any one than
him ; but still, what was she to do ? For the
first time for many years Kate had a good
cry, and went miserable to bed that night.

But it so chanced, His Imperial Highness,
Prince Lambertini, was one of the syndicate
with which Kaufman was connected. Leroy
did not remember this till he got out of the

house. He knew that Lambertini's wealth
consisted solely of what he had made in
England. Suddenly the thought struck him —
Why, Lambertini will be ruined by this
Kaufman business ! " and without more ado
he drove hastily off to the Prince's abode.

There he introduced himself as Captain
Hamilton's solicitor ; found the prince careworn,
yet courteous ; explained that he had calledon
the delicate business of enquiring whether
the rumours were true that the prince was
implicated with Kaufman, etc., etc.

To which the prince returned a straightforward
answer enough, unsuspicious of guile,
saying also that he had been about to write
to Captain Hamilton on the subject.

Well, sir," said Leroy, " I am sure I am
deeply grieved ; but you will doubtless be aware
that it cannot be for the happiness of those
concerned that this marriage should take place,
and, acting for Captain Hamilton, I must

ask you to publicly announce in the papers
the reason why the engagement is broken
ofF."

Certainly I will do that," said the prince.
It is but right ; and you will see Captain
Hamilton and Miss Hamilton tomorrow and
explain."

I will ; but you may just as well write
direct and say what has happened, and what
you propose to do ; indeed, as I understand it,
you were about to do so before I came ? "

Yes, I was ; I will add a little to the
letters, and send them to-night. I am pained,
sir, as a gentleman, to have put Captain and
Miss Hamilton in this position ; I can say
no more. I wish you good-day, sir."

*' So, so," thought Leroy, as he went away.
'' That's fallen out very nicely ; for those
letters would have hardly sufficed to frighten
her into breaking off with the man, and I
could not have shown them to him, really.

I must make her consent tomorrow to have
me in the prince's place — poor devil ! "

Kate's first feeling the next clay, when the
letters from Lambertini arrived, was, that
Leroy had really betrayed her already to him,
and these were but polite excuses for putting
an end to the matter. Then she thought, Leroy
could have had no inducement to act till he
heard her decision ; and so it gradually dawned
on her that this financial failure of the prince
had helped her out of a very great difficulty,
to a certain extent.

She was relieved, on the one hand, from
the necessity of throwing him over ; and on
the other from the fear of having those letters
shown to him, so as to make him discard
her.

But there was still that horrid Leroy
wanting to marry her ; how could she get
over that ?

The astute gentleman himself had already

made a point of seeing Captain Hamilton on
the matter, as he had met him after a Board
meeting of the Directors of the National Ironworks
Company ; and to him he propounded
his desire to at once marry Kate, and settle
on her £250,000, the interest to be for her
sole and separate use, she having the first
life estate in it instead of himself — a most
unusually magnanimous offer for any man to
make.

Captain Hamilton was fairly astounded.
Events had crowded on him so thickly, he
really felt inclined to gasp for breath. The
unexpected intelligence about Lambertini when
all was settled for the marriage : and now to
find Leroy, who had been apparently almost
dropping their acquaintance of late, suddenly
coming forward with an offer like this — why,
it passed comprehension !

Nevertheless, the captain was quite alive
to the fact, that, in his embarrassed position.

such an arrangement was completely desirable,
and should be eagerly closed with.

The wedding could take place, only
with a different husband, and then with a
daughter provided for in such a manner he
might well be able to set his own affairs in
order.

My dear Frank," said he, " this is most
kind on your part. You know that T should
not, under any circumstances, wish for a better
son-in-law than you ; but your proposed settlement
is indeed generous ; " and the good
gentleman, whose nerves had been pretty
well unstrung by the prince's fiasco, was overcome
with emotion.

Leroy looked on with a queer expression,
half-pity, half-amusement, and then continued,
Well, Captain, since you are so kind as to
give me your consent, I must try my luck
with Kate, I suppose."

Yes, yes. It's rather sudden for her, isn't

it ? but she's a good girl, and will see that it
is for the best, I hope."

I hope so, I'm sure," and Leroy left his
future father-in-law to seek an interview with
the lady.

Kate, meanwhile, who had really not by
any means a strong character, despite her
considerable knowledge of men and things,
had been working herself into quite a fever of
hatred and loathing for Leroy. It is likely
enough that, if he had ascertained earlier how
Lambertini was to retire by force of circumstances,
and had therefore never mentioned
those old letters, she would not have been
disinclined to receive him as a suitor, since
she had up to then no particular objection to
him.

Now, however, that he had shown his hand,
and threatened her in that way, she positively
abominated him. That he would call that
day she was sure, and her first thought was

to keep out of the way ; but that would only
be deferring the evil hour. Best have it outwith
him quickly. And so she stayed at
home, while her mother went down to Black-heath
to investigate the truth of certain reports
concerning Master Jack's misdemeanours.

Leroy came sure enough, and went straight
to the point, for he knew there was nothing to
be gained by circumlocution.

I'm very glad, Kate, that the question of
the prince has been settled without further
trouble. I am sorry that I had to speak to
you as I did yesterday ; but I had no idea then
of Lambertini having come to grief I have
spoken to your father this morning, and he is
quite willing that you should marry me. 1
am to settle £250,000 on you for your sole
use ; and I now come to ask you if you will
have me ? "

Kate looked at him with a miserable, hunted
sort of expression.

What if I refuse ? "

^' I shall show those letters at the clubs to
any one who chooses to read them."

Now here was rather a weak point in
Leroy's attack, for he would certainly have
run the risk of suffering greatly in his own
reputation had he attempted any such performance
as he threatened ; and indeed anyone
capable of calmly considering the matter would
have been sure that he durst not do anything
of the kind ; but others besides him have been
mean enough ere now to utter such threats,
and even foolish enough to write them in
letters, whence to them have arisen sundry
troubles which need not here be detailed. But
Kate was terrified at the bare idea.

Oh ! is there no escape ? " she cried.
Do, please, be kind, and not ask me. Why
should you want me to marry you when you
see I can't bear the idea ? "

I must own," replied he, " that I should

not press you so, but that it is an important
matter of convenience to me to be married
quickly."

'^ But wliy to me ? wliy to me ? "

Because I know of no one else whom I
could get soon enough."

Oh, there must be some one ! Try, do
try."

I have tried. There is no one else whom I
can marry forthwith — at least, no one of suitable
position."

Kate burst into tears.

Oh, it is too cruel ! I cannot marry you.
The idea is too horrible."

Now listen to me, Kate. I don't want to
be cruel, or anything of that kind ; but married
I must be, so as to settle this money. For the
rest, Kate, I may tell you that this settlement
will enable you to help your father out of his
difficulties. You do not know it, but he is in
desperate difficulties, and but for this will be

VOL. II. s

ruined. You are fond of him I know ; do
this to save him. He is himself too proud and
too kind to press you ; but he is awfully
anxious to hear what you say. I don't ask
you to love me, or any nonsense of that kind.
I don't profess to love you. I look upon it as
purely a matter of business. Marry me, let
me control the income, and then live as you
like and where you like ; don't fear that I
shall ever make you unhappy."

She was silent for a while, and Leroy let
her think the matter over. Presently she
said,

Tell me, do you want to settle this money
because you are afraid you will lose it ? "

He nodded assent.

Some people have a claim upon you that
this settlement will defeat ? "

'' That is so."

But if it were known that you and I had
arranged to get married just to prevent these

people getting their money, would the settlement
hold good ? "

No, not if it could be clearly shown ; but
who could show it except ourselves ? "

"That's just what I wanted to arrive at."

Kate was getting quite self-possessed now ;
and the idea of helping her father, whom, when
she was fairly roused, she dearly loved, just
turned the scale in favour of Leroy. Besides,
there was perhaps a shade of a thought that
it would be some little triumph when her
friends were talking how her projected marriage
had fallen through, to show that she had a
man like Leroy ready to come forward at a
moment's notice.

*' Only I must have him in my power," she
said to herself. " He would lead me a wretched
life unless I get some hold over him. If I
am really to have the money in my own right,
I shall always be able to keep him in subjection."
So she continued aloud: "You have

S 2

-.x Min ii m il I «

Sociis MDCCCLXIX-MCMVH
BIBLIOTHECARIUS MDCCCLXXXI-MDCCCI

JJJ, XXlV^y^^JJJAJ^A

^.i

m

%.

g* «iArr: • sir

% lo&a

By " BLINKHOOLIE,"

AUTHOR OF
THE TALE OF A Horse," " HIDDEN TALENT," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA ST.

COVENT GARDEN.

1881.

[All Rights reserved.]

(Lite 193 Piccadilly.)

Blame ATHOL.

CHAPTER I.

*' Passion pale they met,

And greeted : hands in hands, and eye to eye,
Low on the border of her couch they sat.
Stammering and staring." — ' Guinevere .^

So it happened that a letter appeared from
Prince Lambertini in the ' Morning Post ' of
tin 13th of Align-avis". that injustice to
his Ic^i^ fi a net e, he v>-ish-d it to be known that
his recent mercantile misfortunes had been
the sole cause why the engagement had been
broken off.

Then on the 14th — the very next day — the

VOL. III. B

lady was married to Mr. Frank Leroy, with
considerable demonstration and display.

People who endeavoured to solve the problem
were simply obliged to give it up. The
matter seemed fairly inexplicable. Henry was
not at the wedding. He thought he had
better keep away ; and besides, there was the
grouse-shooting ; but he wrote to congratulate
Leroy, and, until the day was over, lapsed
into a state of stolid surprise at what had
happened.

A great change had come over Kate, however.
From being utterly careless, lighthearted,
and comparatively without much
feeling, she had grown grave and thoughtful.
Leroy's cold-blooded, business-like proposal,
which, perhaps, in weakness she had felt bound
to accept, grew more repulsive the more she
thought about it ; and the liking she had
always had for Henry was now forced out into
strong relief by the increasing dislike she entertained

for her future husband. Little by little,
as the few days before her wedding passed
away, she stirred up these ideas to a fever-heat,
and knew, or thought she knew, that she
was not only fond of Henry — for of that she
had been perfectly conscious all along — but
that she loved him, and, no matter what befel
her, she would never love another.

This then had come upon her : this state, at
which in other days she would have scoffed ;
this school-girl condition, to which no ordinary
events would ever have reduced her, had
resulted from emotions at length roused,
and from feelings which, though artificially
torpid, had been stirred by a thorough fit of
unhappiness.

She would have married the Prince without
a regret, for there was nothing objectionable
about him, and so the circumstance would not
have ruffled the gay tenor of her existence ;
but now it was different. Leroy's conduct

B 2

about the letters had been simply brutal, his
whole manner of dealing with her had been
so overbearing, he was so clearly a heartless
wretch, that, although she knew she would
have the whip-hand of him, she could not but
feel terribly miserable at the idea of marrying
him ; and by the very contrast she was
drawn more and more to Henry, who, all
unconscious, was disporting himself in his
northern home.

There was something insufferable about the
congratulations of friends, and the way they
spoke of the approaching wedding. Even her
mother, father, all of them drove her nearly
mad ; for of course they did not know the
truth, and treated the thing in a light that
made her almost distracted. More than once
she half resolved to be firm and break it off,
but simply had not the moral courage to do so.
What would Leroy do ? what would people
say ? And then her father ; it would be such

a terrible disappointment to him, for she could
see now how the worry of importunate creditors
had been telling on him.

So the day came, and in a fit of desperation
she sat down early in the morning and wrote
to Henry, telling him how she loved him,
more, far more, than she could ever have
dreamed of; that she was writing to him so
that he might receive her last signature of
Kate Hamilton " ; and then, unable to endure
the thought that he should look on her marriage
in the same way that every one else did,
she actually launched forth into the real state
of affairs, and declared how it was only to save
her father from ruin that she had consented,
and Leroy knew that was her sole reason.
Henry must never mention it to a soul ; but
Leroy had but one object in marrying her, that
was to secure the money he had made. She
had got a hold over him by knowing this, and
by being able to control the money that would

force him to be kind to her ; but Henry alone
had her love, then and for ever, &c.

Then Kate went to church ; the ceremony
was performed, and what a mockery it seemed
to her ! — To declare that she would " love,
honour, and obey " Leroy ! — Could any things
more false ? And then a chill of dread
crept over her as she thought she must bring
punishment upon herself by insulting the
house of God with such frightful untruths.

However, it was done, and the " happy
couple," as the papers always say, departed to
spend a quiet honeymoon at Shrove Hall, near
York, which, being the property of an uncle of
hers, who was shooting in Scotland, had been
placed at their disposal.

As for Henry, the letter just mentioned
caused all his old feelings, such as they were, to
revive, and to gain power and strength, being
now fostered by the knowledge, always so dear
to the heart of man, that he was preferred to

all others. He did not take Tom or any one
else into his confidence this time ; for he feared
to have cold water thrown on what seemed to
him an incident of true romance. Certainly
there was something very odd about this
marriage ; but there was her letter, that was
enough for him. So he went on giving his
imagination play, and piling up the ideal, until
he too had fabricated for himself a state which
he deemed to be of love, or something like it ;
yet even thus not without a selfish satisfaction
that for all that he could not now be made to
marry.

But Kate had not said where they were
going. She had, in fact, abstained purposely
from doing so ; and he was obliged to let the
days go by, thinking abstractedly of her,
without the power to go or write to her.

But the infinitesimal atoms of destiny are
shaping themselves so as to bring these two
together. Already they are separated by no

more than twenty miles, though they know it
not. And they are to meet anon, whether by
chance or by invisible, inexplicable attraction
we know not.

Shooting went on, but Henry did very badly
at it. Mr. Blackburn even succeeded in fairly
"wiping his eye" at an old cock grouse,
though he was mounted on his carriage-horse,
and had only ridden up to look on. He had
brought his gun with him, thinking he might
have a casual shot, but never intended to fire
from the back of the horse, as that animal,
though sedate enough, had never been used for
such a purpose. However, the sight of Henry
missing with both barrels, and the bird going
cackling away, was too much for the old
gentleman ; so he let fly then and there, killing
in grand style.

The horse, as it happened, stood like a rock ;
but for all that, it was an example of the life
there was in the old dog yet, as Tom irreverently

remarked in commenting on the circumstance.
Indeed, there are few people, young or
old, who would like to drop the reins and fire
from the back of a horse which they knew had
never experienced such an event before.

But as regards Henry's condition Tom was
puzzled, for he had appeared to have thoroughly
recovered himself up to the destruction of the
gates, and now to be suffering from a relapse ;
even a journey to Malton, where Jamieson
had a useful string, nearly wound up, for York,
did not seem to do very much good, except
that he brightened up for a while, and became
interested at the sight of Glentilt, a big,
slashing three-year-old, bought as a yearling
at Doncaster principally because he was a
Blair Athol.

This colt had been a very useful breadwinner
for the stable during the season. He
had, in fact, won no less than twelve races at
the various meetings, though, as they were allover

short courses, the outside world put him
down as a non-stayer. Jamieson himself was
by no means sure on that head, for, as the colt
had shown such a fine turn of speed, and there
were so many more short-distance races to win
than long ones, he had absolutely never tried
him to gallop further than six furlongs.

Why, sir, you see," said he, " he's not a
Derby horse, or anything of that kind, so 1^
just considered how best to make him profitable.
Now, you know, a horse doesn't want
to do nearly so much hard work for these short
courses as for the long ones. We just keep
him in good healthy condition, and then
'jump him off' a few times before he happens
to be wanted, and he's all right; but bless
you, if I wanted him for the Ebon, for instance,
I should have had to be clattering him
along for weeks back, and whether he could
stay or not, you may be sure his legs wouldn't
last so well at that game."

Why, it seems' said Henry, '' that many
horses then get the reputation of being non-states
without much reason."

Undoubtedly, sir. Where's the good of
wearing them out by galloping when they can
pick up more money, and last twice as long, by
going for the short cuts ? Unless your horse
be first class, when of course you trains him for
the Two Thousand, Derby, or Leger, as the case
may be, and wins a big lump all at once, why
you'd much better not think about whether he
can stay or not, until you find that he can't go
fast. It will be time enough then to try the
long distances."

Well," replied Henry, " I dare say you're
right from an economical point of view ; but,
somehow, I don't feel much pleasure in winning
the sort of races Glentilt has done, though of
course he has been very useful in the way of
paying expenses. I want to go out of the
regular routine at this York Meeting ; for, upon

my word, half the reason I have not oftener
been to see the horses run is that they go for
such uninteresting races now. I shall put
Glentilt in the Lascelles Stakes the first day.
It's one mile, and then we shall see how he
does ; if he wins, he shall go for the Queen's
Plate."

Very good, sir," said Jamieson, looking
with an appealing air at Tom, who, however,
was pleased to see Henry brighten up at last
over something, and was determined not to
discourage him.

So they departed home, leaving the trainer
slightly indignant at the intentions thus propounded
; but, after all, he thought, it mattered
not to him so long as he did not back the
horse.

The first day of York August Meeting soon
arrived, and with it there came the usual
influx of persons from all quarters. To those
who preferred, like Tom and Henry, to walk

on to Knavesmire, the scene was not a little
remarkable as they wended their way among
the crowds, all on sport intent, excepting
the light-fingered gentry, who are equally at
home on such occasions with the ,
the thimbles, or, it may be, the pockets
of the unwary.

Should you wish for a short route, instead
of going on to the carriage entrance, you will
find a narrow lane branching ofi" the main
road, which cuts ofi" a considerable angle. It
has walls on each side for some distance, and
then emerges into a couple of fields, through
which the path takes you straight on to the
course. But before rashly going by this way,
be forewarned that it is the resort of the
maimed, the halt, and the blind, who are
always stationed against the wall on either side
of you in great numbers. Where they come
from, and how, we know not, neither how
they go away. Suffice it they are inevitably'

there when you pass by, and they present all
the numerous eccentricities of withered legs
with immense feet turned the wrong way,
diseased faces, contorted bodies, and palsied
arms, that ever you may have imagined in
your wildest dreams.

Having survived this ordeal, you infallibly
encounter sallow men with red noses and sad-coloured
garments, who ask you, " Who will
be at the races ? " and, quickly presuming
that you 'give it up," answer the question
themselves bv say ins:, " The devil will be
there;" and you proceed on your way, perchance
reflecting that the " great father of
lies " will in all probability not find the society
less congenial to his tastes on account of
the said sallow-faced gentlemen forming part
of it.

Anon you observe the holiday yokels, shop-boys,
and others, essaying vainly to shoot
glass balls from traps, to the no small danger

of her Majesty's liege subjects, but with little
detriment to the balls.

Not far from here too, in those days Mr.
Tattersall would be holding his sale of blood
stock ; and there you would stop, if you were
a reasonable being, and take note of the
youngsters as they come under the hammer,
or were led about outside.

Will any one say five hundred for him ? —
four hundred ? — three ? — two ? — one ? — fifty ?
Will no one give fifty for him ? Take him
away then."

Alas ! words like these were too often heard
at York ; and so it happened these sales have
passed away, or next thing to it, with the
result that the Doncaster programme is hopelessly
crowded, and two rings have to be in
operation simultaneously.

It is extraordinary, under the circumstances,
that the Doncaster sales average so well as
they do, since they labour under this terrible

disadvantage. Fancy the feelings of the proprietors
of the Cobham and Harden Deer Park
studs, were it ordained that their yearlings
should be sold simultaneously !

However, to pass that by, in due time
Henry and Tom found themselves approaching
near to the enclosure, and there, the first thing
they saw, was Jamieson with Glentilt and a
couple of others.

*' There's a strongish lot, sir, for the Lascelles
Stakes," said he, touching his hat.

Yes," answered Henry ; "all the better
sport. Who is to ride him ? "

"I've got Jonas, sir ; he's a clever lad
enough. My own boy got a bit of a kick the
other day, and I didn't like to put him up."

"All right, Jamieson. He doesn't run for
an hour yet, I see, and I shall be here again."

Henry and Tom thereupon walked out upon
the course to see what was going on ; and,
meanwhile, a gentleman connected with Tim-bell's

stable, from which Nero, the probable
favourite for the Lascelles Stakes, hailed, had
just agreed with little Jonas, the destined rider
of Glentilt, to put him £100 to nothing on
their horse. He had previously dosed the boy
with the sweetest of Moet and Chandon, and
that, coupled with the donation of £lO in
advance, quite did the business.

Jonas was at the time very hard up. In
himself he was a well-meaning lad, but the
temptation of £100 was too strong for him,
coupled with the knowledge that there was a
ready explanation for G-lentilt's defeat in his
supposed inability to stay.

Mr. Timbrell and those associated with him
knew that their horse was certain to beat anything
else in the race ; but they feared Glentilt,
as they were aware that he was of much better
class than Nero, and, if he could stay the
course, would undoubtedly cause them to lose
the money which they intended to put down

VOL. III.

freely on this event. There was the doubt
about Glentilt's staying, it was true ; but it
would never do to risk that ; and hence arose
the transaction with Jonas.

Henry and Tom were satiating up the
course, when suddenly one from behind clapped
both of them on the shoulders at the same
moment. Starting round, they beheld the
newly-married Leroy, who appeared very glad
to see them. No time did he give for enquiry,
but cried cheerily, " Now come on, you fellows,
and have some lunch. We have a drag herewith
two or three people from York, and the
Missis ' will be delighted to see you, I am
sure."

Henry started in a way that no effort could
conceal.

'' She here ! " thought he. '' Scarcely married
a fortnight, and goes to races in a drag with
people from York, and is called the ' Missis ' !
It's really scandalous ! "

What more he might have thought goodness
knows, but he found himself, with Tom and
Leroy, by the side of the drag ; and there,
yes, there was Kate — the only lady of the
party. There were several officers from York,
and others whom Henry knew, and she was
alone among these !

A slight flush came over her face as she
saw him, but she quickly recovered herself,
and welcomed him in the most matter-of-fact
though cordial manner.

'' I felt sure we should see you here," she
said ; '' and is this Mr. Blackburn, whom I
have not seen since I was fourteen ? "

Tom replied that he was indeed that person,
though he should certainly not have recognized
her.

Because I made so little impression upon
you, I suppose ? "

"No, that can never be. The reason is,
that I deemed you incapable of improvement

C 2

then ; whereas now I find you improved
beyond all recognition."

That's a set speech you have, I suppose, for
occasions like this ; but really, Mr. Blackburn,
after your experience of Miss Whytehead, you
ought to have learned to speak discreetly. Ha !
ha ! you see I know all about you ! "

Tom, utterly outflanked by this unexpected
sally, owned his defeat by falling to on the
lunch ; while Henry, who had been standing
by, half-irritated at the conversation, climbed
up to Kate's side, and as he sat down looked
with sad earnestness in her eyes. The light
badinage of the gallant captains and others
who were clustered around, some on the drag,
some talking from below, the popping of
corks, the whole semblance of gaiety, sank into
nothing now as their glances met, and he
took her hand to shake in the orthodox style,
but forgot for a few moments to do anything
but hold it.

He could read all truly in that look of pain,
followed as it was by the soft yearning gaze
that almost seemed to say, " Oh that we two
were far away from here together ! " Stedfastly
still did he strive to look into her inmost heart,
and felt assured, without a word spoken, as the
honest blue eyes met his, that she had written
very truth — that he alone had her love.

Another moment, and he had pulled himself
together to make some common-place remark,
for Leroy was looking on, and the spell was
broken. Kate once more launched forth into
airy nothings with the whole posse comitatus
of men, and seemed to be about as fast a
young lady "as they make them" — at least
so thought Tom and divers of the officers.

Henry felt grieved at this ; but he divined,
and divined rightly, that she was in reality
trying desperately to become oblivious to her
position, and would do anything to keep
up excitement, which, if it subsided, would

leave her so sad and melancholy almost to
madness.

For all that," thought he, '* such a spirit is
very dangerous. It might lead to all manner
of ill — " and by the sophistry that is ever ready
in such matters, he was beginning to convince
himself that it was his duty to comfort Kate,
and render her life more happy.

But the time for the first race was drawing
near, and one by one the party went across to
the ring to make their various bets.

'' Are you going to do anything on this race,
Jolliffe ? "

No, thank you, no more ; at least, I beg
your pardon ; no, I shan't do anything this
time."

Well, then," continued Leroy, 'with a
peculiar expression, " you perhaps won't mind
looking after the ' Missis' till I come back."

All right, I shall have much pleasure."

The two were thus left comparatively alone

She seemed very stiff and constrained at first.
People always are when they meet one to
whom they have written more freely in a letter
than ever they have spoken. But Henry,
who, for all the romance of the business, had
not neglected the champagne, gradually thawed
the conversation into a state of interesting
half whispers ; and she, when she once began,
gave free play to her feelings, so that ere long
they sat there " the world forgetting, by the
world forgot," except, indeed, that the good
husband was watching them through his field-glasses
somewhat curiously.

Oh, Henry, don't, don't think I have come
here like this of my own wish. It's all hateful
to me when I think of it ; but Frank suggested
it, and anything, no matter how wild
it is, so long as it prevents me from thinking,
gives a little ease."

Don't talk that way, dear ; it's like
people who take chloral, or things of that

kind, to make them sleep. They gradually
want more and more till it kills them'

'' And if I died, would it not be better so ?
What have I to live for ? "

Live because I ask you, if for nothing else,
and promise me not to go in for excitement to
avoid thought. You have much need to think
in your position ; besides, if you say you can't
bear to think, I shall feel that you can't bear
to think of me."

Oh, but, Henry, dear, do you think me
wrong in having written to you like that ?
do you despise me now for talking to you
like this ? I've no one on earth to talk to
about it but you, and if you say it is
wrong — "

Oh, no, my darling, it's not wrong at all.
It is not like an ordinary case. So far as the
dry law goes you are his ; and he knew all the
time how the matter stood with you, so there
has been no deceit ; but in spirit you are

mine, and in heart. His in that sense you
will never be."

Yes, yes, that is so. Oh ! you surely never
dreamed I could ever love him ? "

No, darling, I did not ; but tell me, is he
kind to you ? "

Oh, yes, he is very considerate ; and
he says you and I may write to one
another''

'* Indeed ! Fm very glad to hear that."

And so did this converse proceed, innocently
enough, they thought at first, but moving over
hidden fires. So totally were they engrossed
each in the other — except once, when an old
gipsy fortune-teller aroused their attention by
her warnings against a fair gentleman — that
they hardly observed the finish for the first
race, in which one of Henry's horses took part,
and ran a good second. He did not even see
that it was in the race until he mechanically
glanced at his card when the winning numbers

went up, and found that he had come near
scorn' a win without knowing it.

However, it's an ill wind that blows nobody
any good, for had he gone off to attend to the
matter, he would inevitably have backed his
horse, and lost money, as Tom and the rest,
who now came back, had done.

But in no long time they are saddling for
the Lascelles Stakes ; and again does Henry
hang back to stay on the drag — this time,
however, not quite so far forgetting himself as
not to call out to Tom to take the odds to £10
for him about Glentilt.

1 must back him, you know," he continued,
as he is a Blair Athol, though I suppose he
can't possibly win."

Very strange did all this seem to lookers-on,
many of whom knew Henry, Tom, Leroy,
Kate, and indeed all the party ; and of course
the way Henry comported himself excited
much remark. We can only say it was strange ;

but our business is to state the facts, and such
as they were we have stated them.

But Henry was not so far gone yet as to
forget a Blair Athol, and that one his own :
so that, instead of resuming the conversation
as before, he discoursed on the subject of
Glentilt — a topic not wholly welcome to his
fair companion, but still the horse was his, and
so she felt some sort of interest in it.

There he comes ! " cries Henry, as he sees
Jamieson leading the white-faced chestnut onto
the course.

Oh, I hope he'll wdn ! " exclaims Kate.

'' Doesn't he go well ? " says Henry, waxing
excited as Jonas shoves him along round the
course towards the starting-post. " I don't
see why he should bustle him so ; however,
I suppose he wants wakening up, he's a sleepy
beast."

Now Master Jonas had done this in reality
to, if possible, take some little out of the horse

with a view to his not winning ; but the effort
is to take more out of himself, for the Moet
and Chandon has by no means been without
effect on his half starved little body, and this
rapid motion through the air causes the fumes
to rise to his head in an alarming fashion. He
is indeed drunk ; and in this point the gentleman
connected with Timbrell's stable has made
a serious error.

Of the other horses, bar Nero, no notice need
be taken. They were the usual sort of north-country
handicap animals, and Nero was now
being backed against the field. You could get
almost anything you liked against Glentilt, for
he was regarded as a " stiff one," owing to
certain hints that had leaked out.

There, they're off. By Jove, Glentilt has
got a good start."

Thus says Henry to Kate, as he stands
watching the horses rattling along towards the
top turn of the course.

"They're moving now to some tune, and
Glentilt's leading yet ; I suppose he'll never
stay home."

One of the most peculiar effects in watching
a race is to note how the speed of the horses
always seem to increase as they gradually
round a bend and present a broad side view.
So of course it was in the present instance,
as the field of twelve sped swiftly round the
top end of Knavesmire, and were even now
coming into the straight. Glentilt still leads,
Jonas, despite the drink, having sense to
so far perform what he has promised by
letting the horse run himself to a standstill if
possible.

They are coming up to him now," cry
the many, unwitting of the optical delusion
that always makes the field apparently draw
up to the leaders when they are fairly in the
straight.

Henry knows better.

He has a lead of three lengths, you fools !"
he shouts, '' and I do believe they'll never
catch him ; he's going very strong yet."

And then, as the white-face still shows the
wav at the distance, and Nero stru2:olin2j on
is evidently in difficulties, he cries in a very
tumult of feelings, —

Look, Kate ; look, dear ; there's the old Blair
Athol to the front as usual ! Glentilt wins !
Glentilt — go on, you fool ! go on ! "

But Jonas has all his work set to hang on
himself, and yet the one idea in his obfuscated
brain is, that he must stop the horse.
With this object he has been using the utmost
of his exhausted strength for the last quarter
of a mile, and is even now hauling like grim
death at the reins ; but Glentilt, who likes to
gallop away from his field, doesn't see the
force of these operations.

Idiot ! ass ! " yells Henry. '' He's going to
throw the race away."

And " Nero " is the cry, as the favourite,
ridden out to the very utmost, gradually draws
up. Locked together they pass the post,
Jonas, pale with fear and sickness, pulling with
what might and main he still possesses.

Oh, Henry, have you won ? " asks Kate.

*' Don t know," snaps he, scarce noticing
her. " Yes, I have ; hooray ! " for Glentilt's
number has gone up ; and without so much asa
glance at Kate he springs down, and with
a cry of " Blair Athol for ever ! " rushes to
meet the horse, and assist Jamieson in escorting
him back to weio^h in.

Jonas is half crying over the victory that
the horse has forced upon him : and there is
dire consternation among: the knowing ones
who went for Nero.

Great is the cheering from the ring, not
because of Henry or his horse specially, but
because it has been a rare race for the bookmakers,
few of the public having backed the

winner. To Henry it is a period of pure joy,
the old, true, honest feeling: for a while comiuor
back into his heart. He has forgotten Kate
and all the attendant follies ; and looks with
good Yorkshire love upon his horse — a love that
is refined in a manner incomprehensible to the
gross multitude by his long-cherished hero-worship
of Blair Athol. He has not had this
feeling: stirred for some loner time now, and it
comes on with redoubled force at last. Strange
though it may seem, it renders a return to
Kate for a while positively distasteful to him,
and he goes rather with Tom and Leroy to
see the last of the horse as he is taken away.
Then as to Jonas, he must be interviewed ;
so, having gathered up Jamieson, they search
for the youth, and find him in a corner
of the jockey's stand, very much not
himself.

*' What on earth did you pull at the horse
like that for ? " asks Henry.

"afraid he'd stop if I loosed his head,"
replies the youth, cunning even in drink.

Well, at all events you shall ride no more
horses of mine, now that I've seen what an
exhibition you make of yourself."

And the party depart, thinking that drink
only was to blame ; while poor Jonas, who has
put the other side in the hole by winning,
finds himself utterly fallen to the ground
between two stools, except for one comfort,
that £10 paid in advance.

Tom now informs Henry he has got £150
to £10 for him about Glentilt, which is a
very pretty bet under the circumstances, and
causes more hilarity of feeling, tiU, what with
meeting friends, and one thing and another,
the time has passed rapidly by, and he is still
in the inclosure.

One matter of especial interest occurs in
the shape of a combat between a very small
honest man (presumably) and a very large

VOL. III. D

welsher. This takes place outside the ring,
and our friends go forth to see the sport. The
little man has backed Glentilt, and comes for
his money. The large man declines to pay,
saying the bet was made about Nero. Whereupon
the other waxes furious, but several
unprepossessing-looking gentry step in and
affirm that they heard the bet made, and that
Nero was the horse.

I tell you what it is," now says the large
man, " I've a deuced good mind to give you
the hiding you deserve, you swindling little
scoundrel, trying to do me in this way ! He
deserves ducking in the pond, gentlemen."

And the men of evil countenance assent
loudly, while the unreasoning public begins
to draw menacingly round the small man.
At that moment an ancient gentleman, sitting
on a two-shilling stand hard by, proclaims ina
stentorian voice that the bet was booked
Glentilt," he heard it ; that the big man is

a welsher ; he knows him, etc., etc. And the
little one, having a large heart, seizes the
opportunity as the fickle multitude are wavering,
and fiercely assails the ponderous foe.
The evil-looking ones slink away, or have
already slunk, and there is no aid at hand.
The large man, whether from bad conscience
or from hustings of the people, makes but a
poor show ; he has already been dabbed smartly
in the eye and mouth, while yet another blow
gets home on his nose, another somewhere
about the belt, and there is wild excitement
as the contest rages.

Suddenly upon a ginger-beer stall there
springs a gentleman's servant in chocolate
livery, striving, what he can, to see the fight.
His emotions master him, and boil over ; he
must do something, so seizing on the stone
bottles, he hurls them in rapid succession, oneby
one, into the air, hither and thither, and
more than one crown is cracked by the descent

D 2

thereof. The ginger-beer vendor has been
gazing abstractedly at the combatants, but
looks round on his store at last. Oh ! who
can picture his expression when he sees what
is going on ? He flies on the man of chocolate
livery without more ado, and the two grovel
together under the stall ; confusion reigns
supreme, and the welsher escapes.

Being much edified by this scene, Henry
became more and more jovial, and spent a
very happy afternoon ; nor did he go back
to Kate till the last race was about to be run,
and the horses were being harnessed ready fora
start immediately afterwards.

He found her quiet and sad-looking, very
different from what she seemed at first ; and
his heart smote him as he thought, " She is
trying to keep quiet for my sake."

It was easy to explain to her that absence
]had been necessitated by looking after his
horses ; and then, as he was relapsing into his

previous love-lorn state, the race was over,
and with hopes of meeting on the morrow
the two were parted, as Leroy drove off at
once.

Loitering across the course, Tom and Henry-came
within some thirty yards of the two-shilling
stand before mentioned, and there
still sat the old gentleman who had denounced
the welsher. Almost all the other occupants
of the stand had moved off. He was alone
on the extreme end of it, and a considerable
height from the ground. While they were
casually glancing that way they saw a man
walk up the stand and engage the aged one
in conversation. This was one of the evil-looking
persons we have before referred to.
Before they had time to get nearer, they
caught sight of the very welsher himself, who
had come on to the stand from the other end,
and was slipping quickly and quietly along to
the old man.

Not thinking of any ill for the moment
they still watched, and then the welsher,
having drawn within reach while the other
distracted his victim's attention, lifted his
ponderous first and struck the unsuspecting
foe a terrible blow on the cheek, cutting an
awful gash, and knocking him right off the
stand down on the ground below.

Tom, Henry, and others rushed forward
to help the poor old man, whom they found
roaring out that he was killed, which reassured
them as to his safety; turning indignantly
then to find the cowardly ruffians who had
done the deed, they could not see a single
vestige of them.

Reader, do not think this a scene of fantastical
imagery ; there is not one single portion
of it that is exaggerated. The old gentleman
may still be seen at York race-meetings, and
may be recognized from the scar on his face ;
but he has found out that welshers are

dangerous men to deal with, and is
cautious.

We will pass over the rest of the August
Meeting. Kate and Henry were there everyday,
and his feelings were dubiously balanced
between her and his horses ; tending, however,
very much to the horse, when Glentilt, having
waited on his only opponent, the celebrated
Frenchman — winner of the Goodwood Stakes,
Cup, etc., and countless other races — came out
at the finish, and won the Queen's Plate in a
canter, to the utter surprise of all wise men ;
though, after all, we have more than once seen
similar results when there were only two in a
race : for instance, the defeat of Dutch Skater
by Amor at Doncaster.

But the races were over at last ; and Henry
had accepted an invitation from Leroy to come
and stay with them the next week at Shrove
Hall.

"I dare say it is strange to ask you to

come so early," added that gentleman ; " but
what matter ? I don't care what the world
thinks."

And I'm sure I don't," replied Henry, not
quite grasping what his " spiritual wife's "
husband meant.

CHAPTER II.

*' I have touched the highest point of all my greatness ;
And, from the full meridian of my glory,
I haste now to my setting." — 'Henry Viii

Henry in due course proceeded to Shrove
Hall, where he was heartily welcomed by
Leroy, and, we need hardly add, by Kate. He
had gone there much against the advice of
Tom, his sister Mary, and indeed any one who
cared to offer an opinion on the subject ; but
the fit was on him, and many elements besides
that of mere liking for the lady drew him
on.

The whole thing was so novel, so strange,
and Leroy's conduct in asking him to visit
them thus early was so totally remarkable,
that mere curiosity to see the end of it, and

love of adventure, acted powerfully on Ms mind
in forming the decision that he would go, in
spite of what any one said.

As to Leroy, it is hardly given us to understand
what were the first motives of his action
in this matter ; but it seems that he perhaps
had an idea that the only way to make life
supportable for his wife was to provide anything
and everything that would please her ;
and he knew well, partly from what he heard
in town, and partly from his observations at
the races, that Henry was, from her point of
view, a very desirable companion : so then let
her have Henry, by all means. It mattered
not at all to him so long as she lived on, and
remained amicable towards himself. It would
never do for her to die of grief, or anything of
that kind, for then the money would come
back to him, and would be as unsafe as before.
Besides, who knew but what some complication
of circumstances might arise in which it would

be useful to have her and Henry in his
power ?

Such may probably have been the train of
thought at first running through his mind ;
but, as he never divulged his ideas to a human
being, we can but surmise. Anyhow, he at
first showed no symptoms of jealousy, but
looked on with cynical amusement while
Henry sat and gazed at Kate on the first
evening of his arrival ; and she sans soncrs of
the " Looking Back " type with the tenderest
pathos and the most suggestive melancholy.

What a strange trio they were ! The fine
old drawing-room of Shrove Hall has seen
many distinguished and many strange characters
in its time ; it has heard not a little of
whispered intrigue ; but never since the time
it was built — long years ago — did it contain
three people more curiously circumstanced in
their respective relations.

'* I'm very glad you've come, Jollifie," said

Leroy in course of conversation, '^ because you
will be able to go out riding with the ' Missis
I never was a horseman, as you know ; and
she's been looking most wistfully at the nags
in the stables every day since we were
here."

Oh, yes ! " interposed Kate, " that will be
so nice ! My uncle has some capital horses,
and it has seemed quite a sin to see them
doing nothing. We'll go out tomorrow, and,
Frank, you can drive in the pony-trap."

'^ An excellent arrangement, I should say,"
cried Henry, laughing ; for he thought it best
to assume a light, jocular demeanour on what
concerned his heart most deeply.

So when the morrow came, as come it did —
though there had not been much sleep in the
house that night — instructions as to the equestrian
requirements were sent out; and with
the sun shining bright and clear the two set
out for their ride, Leroy promising to follow

them in no long time — a promise which events
prevented him from performing.

The horses were both fine free goers, with
the easiest of action, and sufficiently temperate
to give their riders full leisure to attend to
one another.

The first thing Henry said was, — "Why,
we forgot to tell him where we were going."

How stupid of us ! "

"111 go back in a minute, and let him
know."

No, don't bother now ; besides, he will be
as well where he is."

After this, of course our delicately-situated
youth did not press the subject further, but
continued, —

Well, where shall we go to "? "

''I don't care, Tm sure."

Let's go to Fountain's Abbey ; you've
never seen it, have you ? We can put up the
horses and walk through the grounds."

So they turned thitherward ; at first somewhat
embarrassed with the position, for however
well a man may get on when he has
partaken of a race-luncheon, he does not find
that same natural facility of discourse in the
plain light of the sober, serious morning. But
the sun was genial and warm ; the harvest
operations in the adjacent fields gave a picturesque
aspect to the country ; the birds were
singing — for upon such an occasion it would
have been most unorthodox on their parts to
have refrained — and there was something about
the general aspect and order of things to draw
a man's nature more easily to the surface than
could possibly have been the case had the air
been cold and damp.

Henry plucked a spray of leaves from the
branch of an overhanging elm as they were going
silently along, and looked abstractedly at it.

Tell me'' said she, *' what are you thinking
about ? "

I was thinking I would give you half of
this " — breaking it in two — " and I'll keep the
other half. Maybe it will be like a fairy tale,
and we shall find that so long as the leaves
stay green love will remain ; if yours or mine
turn brown, then love on that side is gone."

Kate took the leaves, and said nothing;
then he added :

Perhaps some day, if the leaves keep
green, we shall be able to join them together
again."

'' Oh, Henry, you must not talk like that.
It is impossible to think of such a thing without
wishing for it ; and it is impossible it could
be without — "

'' Without what, dear ? "

Without his death ! " and Kate looked up
with tears in her eyes.

Well, neither you nor I will ever wish for
that : still, I can't help wishing for you ; but
it seems only the shadow of a fond regret

made darker by the thought that hope is
vain."

Upon my word," thought he, a moment
after, '' if I'd seen that sentence written in a
novel I should have said no fellow could
possibly have brought it out on the spur of
the moment ; but for all that there it is."

Henry, we must not give up hope ; we
must be very good, and then, who knows what
may happen ? Oh, if I had felt like I do now
when we were so much together in London
they should never have kept me from you
when you lost your money ! "

'sand had I felt as I do now I should
never have said I lost it, because I didn't."

Oh, what do you mean ? "

And then followed explanation and lamentation,
self-condemnation on both sides, and
mutual conclusion that the hypocrisy of that
date was being atoned for by the unhappiness
of the present.

Now, let not the reader imagine these
proceedings excessively vile, or introduced to
impart a spurious interest in the characters.
Henry was utterly thoughtless in the matter ;
had no design of any kind ; simply took
things as they came, and accepted the position.
His love-making — if we may call it so — with
Kate was exactly what it would have been had
she been unmarried ; and this fact must be
kept steadily in view, lest the reader denounce
both us and him.

Kate too, who had been quite spoiled from
her youth upwards, thought of little except
that she loved him. She meant no harm at
all ; but, so far as the world went, she was
desperate ; indeed, to her mind anything was
better than to be considered by; it the dutiful
wife of Frank Leroy.

It was an attachment, however, that arose as
much from extraneous circumstances as anything,
for we have seen the two had by no

VOL. III. E

means the same feelings when nothing stood
between them : the very easiness of getting
married then rendered it common-place. Now
that there was, as it seemed, an inseparable
barrier the desire to surpass the same rose
proportionately. Such is human nature !

However, not to be tedious on this head,
let us on to Study, where the couple, having
delivered over their horses to the charge of a
man who sought their favour in that line,
passed into the beautiful grounds and gazed
with wonder and increasing sentiment on the
giant trees and beautiful expanses of ornamental
water. There were not many visitors
that day, and so the walk was all the more
enjoyable. Presently they reached a seat by
the side of the water, and sat down to survey
the scene around. Who could have planted
those enormous trees, and when ? How
strange it is that man, the lord of creation,
passes away, while the product of a small

shoot he has placed in the ground exists for
future generations ! Our works live after us,
at least if we have done a work worthy to
live ; but those trees might have been planted
by a child in olden times; — behold them
now ! — but where is the child ?

As they still sat and talked they espied
three ducks swimming towards them from the
opposite side of the water ; and to their no
small surprise, these birds kept on till they
came to the bank, up which they waddled,
and then stood looking at the two with wise
yet wistful eyes.

How strange ! " said Kate. '' What can
they mean ? "

'' Ah ! you see they're accustomed to the
manners of the regular English pleasure-seeker,
who never comes to a place like this
without food. Many sandwiches, hard-boiled
eggs, and other peculiarly English delicacies,
have been no doubt discussed where we

E 2

LlLiRAKY

UNIVERSITY Of Willing

are sitting, and the ducks expect their
share."

How horrid to be taken for people
who would come here and eat hard-boiled
eggs ! "

Yes ; it isn't a very romantic idea, is it ?
But at the same time, those ducks will think
us very mean and inferior beings."

Poor things, I wish I had something for
them ; I should hate to be thought stingy,
even by a duck."

Well, Kate, I'm afraid they will inevitably
think us so ; they are going away in disgust."

It was even so ; the ducks, having walked
anxiously round the back of the seat, where
they were accustomed to light on treasure-trove
in the shape of remnants of paper-bags
with crumbs in them, came to the front again,
gazed with great wonderment at these unproductive
mortals, and then stepped slowly and
it seemed sadly down the bank to swim back

whence they had come, pondering on this
circumstance, which was unparalleled by any
in their experience.

And now to walk on, where we can get the
first view of fountains Abbey, lying snug, as
is always the case, between the flanking hills.
Not so imposing at this first view is Fountains
as some abbeys we have seen ; for the size of
the place does not appear as yet. Once come
up to it, however, and you will be astonished
and delighted — at least, if you be not a dullard
in such matters. It is not for us, however, to
describe it ; we simply say it is grand ; and
for the rest, have not the details been written
in the guide-books ?

There too is the old yew tree, some one
thousand two hundred years old, the aforesaid
books inform us, and therefore not without a
claim to interest and to thought. It is a fit
subject for a poem, but in mercy to our
readers we abstain ; indeed, we believe that

they will find a poem ready-made about it in
the books.

Seriously though, what manner of men were
these old monks who dwelt here in the days
of old ? Was life for them all prayer and
penance ? or was it all beer and skittles ?
Who can tell ; so why speculate ? Only we
may observe in passing, that the kitchen
fire and chimney seem to have been passing
large ; and a most notable apartment is the
refectory .

Enough : let us return with Kate and
Henry, nor trouble our heads to listen to what
it is they are saying all the while.

The ride home passed, as is usual on such
occasions, like a bright dream far too quickly
over. Yet they were a good hour late for
all that, and Leroy had been waiting for
luncheon.

Well, I hope you've enjoyed yourselves."

Oh, so much ! " answered Kate. '' We've

been to Fountains Abbey, and it's just too
beautiful."

'' Indeed ! I couldn't have come after you,
even if I had known where you were going,
for I have had to arrange about going south
forthwith."

Goodness ! when do you go ? "
Oh, I'm not going to leave you here ;
but don't look disappointed, we'll all go
together."

There was a disagreeable emphasis on the
all," and Kate coloured rather angrily, while
Henry looked out of the window, pretending
not to have heard.

What do you mean ? " she asked. " Why
have we to go ? "

I got a telegram, shortly after you left, to
say Munroe, the member for Chesterton, is
dead, and I have to lose no time in getting
there to attend to electioneering matters.
You'll come and help me, Jolliflfe, I know ; I

hear you're great at ttiat sort of thing. No
excuses — it's settled ; I've ordered rooms
for us at one of the hotels, and we start
to-morrow'

Henry was quite ready for anything in his
then frame of mind, and, indeed, an election
was a sport he particularly affected ; so he
readily assented. And after another evening of
song and smouldering undercurrent of sentiment,
the next day came, and the three took
train for Chesterton, leaving the domestics of
Shrove Hall terribly exercised in their minds
as to the rights and wrongs of this remarkable
honeymoon.

Chesterton was in a state of great ^ te-ment.
Mr. Munroe, the late membeiftia-^kly
a Liberal, but Mr. Gladstone's gc^^p for
had been growing unpopular, and p^ for
the borough were now very equally •>'

Already Sir Harcourt Jackson had ^ppe^ ^.
on the scene as the candidate who was to

oppose Leroy, and canvassing, not to speak of
drinking, had commenced in good earnest.

Leroy and Kate, with Henry in attendance,
and the valet and maid somewhere behind,
were escorted through the town in triumph to
their hotel upon their arrival ; and they found
Lord Chesterton there already, with various
members of the committee, whom Leroy
thanked warmly for the attention.

Meanwhile the crowd of free and independent
electors loudly clamoured in front of the hotel,
and it was understood that they required a
few words from the Conservative candidate at
on' Great was the cheering when he stepped
ou " tl\e balcony of the front windows, and
hav ^-eH himself of what he called his 
for the manner in which they had
say t him ; denounced the Government
de; policy of leaving no man alone in the

^u^t enjoyment of his existence, harassing all
interests, meddling, muddling, etc. ; threw in

final allusions to Church, and State, religious
education and the Bible, which called forth
deafening applause, and so retired, having
created an excellent impression. Then there
was more uproar, and at last he led Kate to
the window, whereat the many-headed became
doubly vociferous, and the supporters of Sir
Harcourt Jackson gnawed their fingers, or
scratched their heads with despondent apprehension,
as they looked on from their shops or
other habitations around the market-place.

Lady Geraldine Quantockck, among other
members of the Earl's family, was now intro
duce to Kate, and surveyed her with some
curiosity when she found that she had met
her several times before, but had no idea that
Leroy had married the Miss Hamilton whom
she knew.

"A strange thing, indeed," thought she,
and so soon, too, after proposing to me. I
suppose he's done it out of pique."

Henry and Lady Geraldine speedily became
good friends, and she did not see at first how-things
were between him and Kate. She was
a most active politician in election times, and
had done great good by canvassing, much to
the scandal of the opposite party ; and here
was Henry, said to be an accomplished writer
of lampoons, squibs, skits, or whatever you
call the somewhat inferior compositions that
figure forth laborious jests when an election is
impending.

Obviously he was a heaven-sent messenger
to the unenlightened Radicals of Chesterton,
and she straightway tackled him on the subject,
causing him to take down notes of the
peculiarities of all Sir Harcourt Jackson's
supporters, and anything else he could think
of, with a view to writing: something that
should make them writhe with the anguish
his satire should cause, and should hold them
up to the ridicule of all just men.

Kate witnessed these confabulations, not
altogether pleased ; but the party separated
very shortly, as it was now dinner-time, and
she was left with her two gentlemen.

Comfortable rooms had been assigned to them,
and the cook used his or her best skill, so that
dinner was a success ; but afterwards Leroy
wrote letters, and Henry wrote squibs from the
notes he had taken, so that poor Kate began
to feel rather dull, and made a move to go to
bed, thinking that would bring Henry to herat
once. But no ; when in the agonies of composition
he always became peculiarly oblivious
to all surroundings, and indeed disagreeable
if interrupted. He merely moved his pencil
about impatiently for her to say " good-night,"
fearing to lose the idea that was then in his
head ; and so she had no resource except to go,
feeling very sore at heart, not to say angry.
Henry didn't even get up to let her out, and
was writing away faster than ever before the

door closed. Could it be that, as he left her
for his horses the other day, he only cared for
her when he had nothing better to think of ?
She looked at the leaves he had given her,
and they were still green.

Perhaps I expect too much," thought she,
and with that solatium fell asleep.

But there was a good deal of truth in her
suspicions for all that. Her youthful admirer
was such an easy-going individual that he
seldom found anything himself for his hand todo
; but when he did find it, or it was, as in
this case, put in his way, he did it with all his
might. With him the various episodes regarding
Kate were but the outcome of pure idleness
and leisure ; now' that he had work before
him Kate, for the time being, was cast to the
winds, and morning, noon, and night he was
busy, doing all he could in the good cause.

Kate really cared little about the business,
only she didn't like to go out much, for she

was so painfully conscious of being pointed
out as Leroy's wife — a distinction which her
soul abhorred.

So Henry and Lady Geraldine came a great
deal together ; and it is not too much to say
she was fairly delighted with him, for when
ladies take to anything — even politics — they
too are very energetic and thorough ; and he
certainly seemed in her eyes to work more
zealously, and with greater tact, than all the
rest of the committee put together, her father
included.

But after all an election is now-a-days a
very tame affair, since the introduction of the
despicable ballot, and the cessation of the
glorious old nomination-days and the hustings.
Oh, for the times of our youth, when we have
seen the sagacious multitude roar, and shriek,
and yell at the candidates, who, divided by
but narrow bounds, were free to denounce one
another successively from the same building.

wherein also were packed the dense files of
their principal supporters !

We once were located among others on the
hustings, and felt, as it were, a puppet in a
Punch and Judy show. Still, the scene below
was interesting and exciting enough, and we
got a good place near the front, close by our
candidate. Then was a time when it was
accounted wise by the multitude to stick bread
loaves on the end of staves with a price
marked thereon. What the peculiar political
significance was we forget. This, however, we
remember, that several of such loaves having
been pulled down, and become thoroughly
sopped in the puddle — for it was raining hard
a miscreant of the other party took upon
himself to hurl one of these sponge-like masses
at our candidate aforesaid, whom narrowly
missing, it flew full in our face, and burst in
fragments thereon, with hideous refulgent.
We draw a veil over this scene, except to say

that our candidate was elected, and that we in
future frequented the ground in front of the
hustings as the safer place.

There, at such places as Whitby, we have
seen the intelligent voter armed with the pliant
cod-fish ; armed, we say advisedly, for whether
held firmly through the gills, so as to slash the
enemy with the tail, or whether grasped by
the tail, and brandished club-like aloft, to
descend with head and shoulders on the doomed
foe, the cod, or any other large fish, is truly
formidable. There too the smaller fry, such
as herrings, whitings, &c., — if decayed, possibly
better, — are found useful as missiles ; and — but,
alas ! we are speaking in thu present tense :
such things are no longer, and we can but look
back to them as a brilliant ray in the light of
other days, which a so-called Liberal government
has obfuscated, in its anxiety, as it would
seem, to reduce what was once straightforward
and transparent, to secrecy, darkness, and the

ballot-box — a favour only to cowardice or the
spirit of duplicity.

But on that subject we might wax warm,
and it would never do to appear in the light of
rampant partisans ourselves. Indeed, he would
need to be very true to the cause who, knowing
Leroy, could become enthusiastic over his
election.

Still the work went on. Speech on speech
was made ; meeting after meeting was held ;
placards, pictures, squibs, and all manner of
oddities did abound ; and now the polling-day
was come.

From an early hour Henry, who had
chartered a large break, had been driving in
voters from outlying districts ; and was now
making raids through the public-houses to
secure all such as the cunning antagonists
might be rendering incompetent with
drink.

Great excitement prevailed, at least the

VOL. III. F

papers said so, and the Radical herd were not
disinclined to come to blows once or twice. In
the herd element the Conservatives were
decidedly weaker, and, knowing this, some
far-seeing gentleman had procured fifty small
bludgeons, with which he armed a body of the
most trustworthy — the bludgeons to be carried
up the sleeve, and only used in case of absolute
necessity. Leroy addressed more than one
speech to his supporters from his hotel, and Sir
Harcourt did the like from his. Flags, effigies,
and all manner of devices were carried hither
and thither. The day was getting on ; lists of
the supposed state of the poll were exhibited
by both parties, each giving themselves a considerable
majority ; and now, as the afternoon
was waning, every carriage full of voters
became an object of intense interest as it drove
up. Henry was standing at the Hotel door to
look on — the first rest he had taken in the
day — when a letter was handed to him. It had

been sent down-stairs by Lord Chesterton. It
ran thus : —

*' Dear Mr. Jolliffe,

"I am told ten of our farm-labourers
have been made drunk and shut up in a barn
at Jones's. You know the place ; you were
there the other day. Do, like a good fellow,
drive as hard as you can and fetch them.

Yours truly,

Chesterton."

Henry, on reading this, gazed wildly around
for a vehicle, as he had lost sight of the one
he had been using. Most opportunely there
appeared in sight a waggonette, driven as it
seemed by a butcher. Instantly to him the
mission was communicated. Henry jumped on
the box beside him, and away they rattled as
fast as the old thorough-bred horse could take
them, for there was but three quarters of an
hour before the closing of the poll.

F 2

"Take care that flag doesn't tumble out,
sir," said the man ; and Henry saw for the first
time that they had with them a large blue
banner, on a long and very heavy staff", which
was lying in the body of the vehicle. He
accordingly tended it during the rest of the
journey till they reached the barn. This was
locked ; they heard snoring within, but could
make no one answer.

Oh, there's no time to wait ; let's burst
the doors with the flag-staffs."

All right, sir ; " and the two rammed at
the obstacle with right good will, so that the
wood, being somewhat rotten, burst open at
the first assault.

There, sure enough, were the ten drunken
ones ; some, however, now recovering, and
startled by the noise into a kind of sobriety.

Come on, quick," cried Henry ; " you've
trot to vote." '

The men scratched their heads, and slowly

the position dawned on them. Those that
were able helped to convey the others to the
trap, and lay them down in the body of it,
while they essayed to sit up. One of them
acted as standard-bearer, and in less than five
minutes the party were ofi".

What a sensation they caused as they went
through the town ! for it was within ten
minutes of the closing hour, and it seemed
certain that the contest was very close. The
more sober of the men cheered loudly themselves,
and he with the flag brandished it
aloft, while the butcher shoved the horse along
so fast that the Radical mob were fain to make
way for him. They reached the polling-booth,
and all were got in, and, with one exception,
succeeded in giving their votes. That one
remained speechless and senseless up to the
last, so that nothing could be made of him.

The blood of the butcher was now up, and
he was all for another triumphant drive

through the crowd. Henry hardly liked the
idea, for they had looked mischief the last
time ; but he was not one to refuse.

"Jump up," he cried to the standard-bearer,
who was still more than half-drunk. '' Now
then, on you go ; " and away into the marketplace
again they drove, Henry and the butcher
on the box, the drunken standard-bearer alone
in the body of the vehicle.

This ostentatious triumph was too much for
the equanimity of the foe : from all sides they
rushed at them. Two men seized the horse's
head, but the adroit butcher slashed them both
heartily across the face with his whip, so that
they loose their hold, and the horse springs forward
into a gallop. The drunken man whirls
the flag-staff around, felling several of the nearest
to the earth, and they are away ; but a whole
sea of faces comes rushing after them as they
turn back to look, for that flag-staff has injured
some no little, and they mean business now.

Vollies of stones and mud hurtle through the
air, but fall innocuously on the backs of the
pursued, who at length gain the front of the
Conservative hotel, where Henry alights and
is among his friends.

Just then there is a tremendous rush an
the waggonette, and the drunken man is
dragged forth ; the butcher seizes the flag
from the staff just as it is disappearing, and
whipping up his horse rattles off, and thus
secures the honour of his party ; but there
are cries of " drown him," with reference to
the captured one, and he is even now being
conveyed rapidly to the river.

Then for the first time Henry thought the
fifty club-bearers must be utilized. They were
all ready at hand, and he charged with them to
the rescue. There was a short but sharp strife.
The rescue was effected, and the drunken man
was brought back in triumph to the hotel, his
clothes being now nearly torn to pieces.

Henry himself, after all this, found that he
had suffered no harm, except a few kicks on
the shins, and a thorough plastering on the
back with mud, the result of the fusillading
which had been directed at the waggonette.
The drunken man, who acted as a red rag on
the opposition, having been wisely removed
from sight, comparative good temper was
soon restored ; and there was nothing to do
but shout, drink, and wait for the declaration
of the poll.

This came at eleven p.m., and it was — Leroy,
1718 ; Jackson, 1714. Leroy had won by four
votes, thanks to the timely importation of
the drunken men.

How proud and elated did he feel when he
addressed the electors now ! He, Frank Leroy,
but a few years before a needy solicitor, now
raised up as his ambition had desired ; and it
but remained to force himself to the front in
the council of the nation, of which he was now

a member. On entering the hotel at last, the
Boots " handed him a letter that had arrived
during the day, but not been heeded. He
opened it, and read as follows : —

18, Budge-roi, E.C.

"Dear Sir,

*' We are instructed by Mr. Nicol
Haynes of Kimbolton to apply to you for repayment
of £2000, paid by him for two hundred
shares in the Patent Horse - Clipping Co.,
Limited. We may mention for your information,
that the ground of the demand is the
non - disclosure of your contract with the
patentee in the prospectus you caused to be
issued, and on the faith of which our client
took the shares. If the above sum be not paid
within one week legal proceedings will betaken
without further notice.

Yours truly,

'' MacMahon & Co."

'* F. Leroy, Esq.

Ckestertonr

CHAPTER III.

Nescio eqiio rudis
Severe ingenuous puer,
Venarique time." — Horace, ' Cwrm.,^ III. 34. 55.

There is no occasion to dwell on the remaining
doings of that year, for we are warned to
get forward by our rapidly decreasing space.
We must not, however, leave the question in
suspense as to what Leroy did in the matter
of this claim, which came upon him in the
light of such an effectual damper just at the
moment of his triumph. In itself it was capable
of being dealt with readily enough; but he
knew" it was but the beginning of evils, for
other shareholders in the various companies he
had floated where gradually awaking, one by
one, to a sense of their position. One comfort

he had — at least he thought so — that he was
at any rate only liable under the Act to the
attacks of individuals, and there was no chance
of the whole liability coming on him at once ;
besides, it was but the original shareholders,
with shares subscribed for on the faith of the.
prospectuses, who could claim against him
now. Against all holders of shares by transfer
from others he was safe, as he had nothing todo
with them.

With but £40,000 or £50,000 he believed,
after all, he could so finance matters as to
clear out all dissatisfied members, either by
paying them ofi" himself, or creating a market
so that others might buy their shares. On
the whole he had been precipitate in getting
married and settling everything, for his reputation
was now at stake, and all for want of
£50,000, which he might easily have reserved
from the settlement.

Now Leroy had to do with a certain amount

of trust-money. It was the property of an
old aunt of his, and he was the only one of
her three trustees who took any active concern
in her affairs. Among other securities there
were about £60,000 worth of foreign bonds, —
chiefly Russian, — sand he had them all in a safe
in town.

Much pressure, much temptation, and fear
of good position lost, have influenced better
men than Leroy before now to do what is
wrong. The reader will not therefore wonder,
that as the claims of the ever-growing creditors
became more and more imperative, the horror
of exposure, bankruptcy, newspaper reports,
and loss of his hardly-won seat in the House,
were too much for him.

The old lady will never be any the worse
for it, as I shall pay her the interest as usual.
She'll never know the difference, and I can
replace it by degrees."

Thus said he, and sent instructions to a firm

of brokers to sell the stocks and pay the
amount realized to his credit.

This was not regarded as anything remarkable,
for he was known to be an exceedingly
rich man ; and it was opined that the sale was
made with a view to completion of the purchase
of a fine estate and excellent house
he was reported to be about buying near
Chesterton.

This latter rumour was true enough, and
the estate was bought ; but the money that
paid for it was part of Kate's settlement.
Leroy, in fact, appropriated the proceeds of his
aunt's bonds for his own purposes, and by
this means managed to keep his own affairs
straight ; not but what even thus there was
need of the very nicest manipulation and
diplomacy.

Having once made this plunge into what
was his first legal crime, he became in some
respects a different man. No doubt he had

before this derived rnanv ill-gotten or-sins from
the public, but never, so far as he understood
it, beyond the pale of the law. Now it was
different ; and the fear was ever before him that
disclosure and disgrace might ensue. But
then he expected the old lady would leave him
all her money, as he was her sole living
relation, and so no one would be the wiser.
Still he was for the future nervous and irritable
in temperament, nor did he seem, as
heretofore, devoid of care.

Kate, when the election was over — for tintil
that time she had felt a mere nonentity, so far
as Henry was concerned — lost no time in
asserting: all her sway. Letters borrowing
gradually warmer and more warm passed
between the strange lovers : nor did Leroy
ever ask to know their contents. Some day,
he thought, they might develop into something
that would be of consequence ; but until then
let them be.

Following on these letters, he had been
induced by his wife to actually visit Oxford
during the winter ; had stayed at the Randolph,
and seen her go out day after day
with Henry, who had horses there for them
both to ride. Sometimes Leroy and Kate had
entertained Henry in their rooms, sometimes
they were with him in College, where the
remarkable dinners and the peculiarity of the
Scout's waiting were only relieved by the
enlivening strains of '' Slaps "' Band, specially
chartered for the occasion. There would be
other music too afterwards, for Henry always
had a piano : and, half imperceptibly to himself,
Leroy became from this ten days' visit a
trifle jealous.

It was a docr-in-the-manser. feeling:, no
doubt, for he did not care about Kate
himself; still there was something not altogether
pleasing about seeing; her entirely taken
up with another.

But these matters for the present we must
pass by, having merely glanced sketching at
them, so that the ingenious reader may fill
in the intervals for him or herself. We have
at least shown the state of affairs up to
date, and may become more explicit by-and-by.


But when the term was over, and all the
sport was done, it fell out that hunting in
Yorkshire was, during the Christmas vacation,
very attractive ; and without detailing at
length the facts connected therewith, it will
suffice to say that a certain Mr. Suffield had
afforded considerable amusement. He was a
wealthy Liverpool cotton-spinner, and had in
the meridian of life, or rather later, taken
it into his head to become a country gentleman.
This, by the way, was a very wise
resolution on his part ; and we are sure that
their name is Legion who, having made a
respectable fortune, might have followed his

example, and cleared out with it ; but that the
craze was on them, and they stuck to their
work, eventually, perchance, to lose all in the
bad times that were yet to be.

Mr. Suffield managed to meet with an
honest horse - dealer, and, giving unlimited
prices, was superbly mounted, so much so that
he incurred the envy of many, especially of
Jack Blackburn, who was but indifferently
furnished in that way, and was very fain to
assist him in riding his horses. Now, be it
known that Mr. Suffield had never been outside
a horse before he located himself in this
county ; and as he was now considerably over
forty years old, it may be conjectured he was
not very capable of witching the world with his
equestrian skill.

One evening, after Jack had actually been
out on foot, he remarked to Henry, with whom
he was now great friends, " I can't bear to see
that old Suffield riding those horses ; they're

VOL. III. G

far too good for him. It really ought to be
put a stop to."

You'd better write and tell him so."

"Don't be a fool ; but he does vex
me when I see him. I've a good mind though
to write him an anonymous letter about
it."

That would be a very inferior business ;
better write and tell him you will ride his
horses and make them handy for him."

What a joke that would be ! Wouldn't it
astonish him getting such a letter ! "

''Ah, well, but it wouldn't do to enrage
him ; we might send letters from some
stranger, offering to undertake the business,
and saying his horses were notoriously mismanaged."


'' Why," interposed Mary Jolliffe, who was
sitting near them, " you might send a lot of
people letters like that when you were about
it."

"That's true," said Jack.

"An excellent idea' added Henry. " Give
me paper and pens. Now then, what name
shall we write in ? It must be something very
uncommon."

No one offered a suggestion.

Battersby would be good for one part,"
continued Henry. " What say you to Joseph
Rawlinson Battersby ? "

All agreed that the name was unique and
excellent.

Now, then, let me write ; " and in a very
short time the following was composed.

It was destined to become famous, so we
give it ii extenso.

Mr. Joseph Rawlinson Battersby

Begs to announce that he is making his annual
tour through the hunting counties, for the purpose
of collecting a stud of horses, to be located for the
remainder of the present season at York.

In offering a copy of the rules to be observed by his

G 2

patrons, Mr. B. wishes to assure all that no insult is
intended ; he feels confident that they will see he
is actuated by a sincere desire to promote their
welfare.

They will doubtless be aware, that the value of
any horse is doubled after it has been ridden by
J. R. B.

Mr. B. makes it his object to observe in a day's
hunting such persons as are possessed of good but
mismanaged horses. He feels it the triumph of his
skill to reclaim and sell at large prices animals that,
from want of efficient horsemanship, have become
well-nigh ruined.

That Mr. B. can do this, if any man can, is certain;
and those who doubt it are referred to Mr.
Arthur Yates, the cleverness of whose horses is so
frequently spoken of in the sporting papers (all his
steeple-chasers are made by Mr. B.).

Mr. Ernest Willoughby, it is not generally known,
entrusted Langer for five weeks to Mr. B. Further
references can be given if required.

In anticipation of considerable patronage, Mr. B.
has engaged a number of commodious boxes at York,
and will have the horses under personal supervision.
For the next week his address will be Yarm ; afterwards
Scawin's Hotel, York.

RULES

To he observed his gentlemen intruding their
horses to Mr. Mastership.

1. That all horses must stand at the expense of

their owners.

2. All horses must be in York before February 1st.

3. Each horse to be accompanied by a groom,

4. Each owner must name the lowest price at

which he will sell his horse. If Mr. B. can
procure a larger sum , he will retain the
surplus.

5. Five per cent, on the price mentioned will be

deducted as commission, in case of a sale, and
will be charged if the horse is not sold.

6. All expenses are to be paid before the horses

are returned.

7. Mr. Battersby will be responsible for no damage.

8. Mr. Battersby' s hotel and other expenses will

be fairly divided among his subscribers.

9. Mr. B. can permit no interference ; the horses

must be entirely given up to him ; and no
owner will be, under any circumstances,
allowed to even mount his horse until Mr. B.
declares the education complete.

We do not mean that the above was the
very first draft ; but it was quickly settled in
that form, amid much laughter.

Tom, who came in just then, deigned to be
much pleased with it, and gave a fresh idea.

Why not have it printed as a circular — for
Vm. sure it reads like one — and send it to all
the York and Ainsty and Bedale men ? "

Capital ! " cried Henry. " 111 get it done
tomorrow by old David Peat at Barnstaple ;
and in that case we must stick some fictitious
printer's name at the bottom. Let me see.
Oh! ^T. K. Whitely, Printer, Darlington
That will do."

And so, from but a minute beginning, the
scheme of a large joke arose.

This joke was completely carried out ; the
circulars being despatched to the York and
Ainsty men the day before there was a meet
at Whortleberry Park, not far from Newton.

Thither Henry repaired, unpretentiously

arrayed in shooting-clothes, and mounted on
an old hog-maned horse, that often did harness
duty. A very comfortable mount, however,
was this old beast, unless it was necessary to
squeeze a little speed out of him through deep
ground. At the same time, no one could for
an instant think that he carried Joseph Rawlinson
Battersby, or that Joseph Rawlinson
Battersby would have taken the field in such
attire.

There was a large meet, and among those
present was Mr. Willoughby himself, who was
so audaciously referred to in the circular. He
had a week or two previously won a point-point
steeple-chase on his horse Laugar, and it
was for that reason Battersby pointed to that
special animal as the one he had educated, for
the name was at the time very familiar to all
the hunting-men.

There too was Mr. Suffield, somewhat
gloomy of aspect, and evidently perturbed.

He soon singled out Henry, whom he knew
very well, and riding up to him, said in a low
voice —

'' I have received a most peculiar circular
this morning — a man who says he takes note
of people out hunting who can't ride ; really
insulting, I call it'

Why, is it this thing ? " and Henry pulled
out one of the documents from his pocket.

*' Have you had one sent to you ? " asked
Mr. Suffield, an expression of relief coming
over his countenance.

Yes ; and I believe every one else has.
Lord Falconer, and all the lot of them."

Oh ! that alters the case altogether. I
dare say he has sent circulars to some who
can ride better than, or at least as well as,
himself ? "

I should think very likely indeed. I
wonder, though, if he'll do any business."

I shall certainly write to the man. That

grey mare of mine is a little too much for me ;
I might let him have ber."

Hey now moved oflP, leaving Mr. Suffield
much relieved in his mind that he was not
singled out by Battersby as a conspicuously
incompetent horseman, to whom the circular
might fitly go. This had been his first impression,
and he had been much bothered thereby ;
but now, when he found all were in the same
boat, he felt quite inclined to avail himself of
the man's services.

As the real author of this moved about,
exchanging greetings here and there with his
friends, there was but one word that struck on
his ears from every group that he passed by —
that was '' Battersby." Discussion on that
topic was universal, and abounded chiefly in
the neighbourhood of the unfortunate Willoughby,
who came in for a constant fire of
questions on the subject.

There was something absolutely delicious in

all this, at least so Henry thought, and he
entered with zest into the various conversations.
Very difficult, however, was it to avoid
bursting into fits of laughter now and again,
as the exquisite irony of the position kept
presenting itself vividly before him.

It was a blank day ; but for once it was all
the better so, for it afforded more opportunity
to hear and thoroughly realize the words and
opinions of all.

It was simply superb. Here, for instance,
was a gallant captain of the 9th Lancers,
thinking to lightly negotiate a small fence, but
his horse bucked over it with unexpected
vigour, and the gallant one showed very much
daylight.

Halloo, there, Fitzurse," cries a friend.
^^ Joseph Rawlinson Battersby will soon behaving
his eye on you ! "

Yes, indeed," thinks Henry, '' he's a great
deal nearer than you imagine."

I say, Willoughby," asks Lord Falconer,
riding up to that gentleman for the first time
that morning, " who is this Rawlinson Battersby
? You know him, I see. Upon my
word I half thought the thing was a hoax
when I got it ; but, after all, it seems genuine
enough. The fellow must take us all for fools.
Who is he ? "

Mr. Willoughby for the twentieth time
indignantly repudiates the alleged mentor of
Langer ; but the impression appears to prevail
that Battersby has let out a secret which the
owner of the horse did not wish to be known.
He had hitherto had all the credit connected
with the horse and his performances to himself
; small wonder, then, that he did not like
these facts being disclosed.

Take care, my horse kicks," cries someone.


Send him to Battersby," is the ready
reply.

*' I really think I will : he can't make him
worse, and he may make him better."

ril give him this mare," says another
gallant captain, "if he can make her jump
water."

And so the amusement goes on throughout
the day, no one seeming to doubt for a moment
that Battersby is an actual being, destined
soon to be among them. Such a story loses
greatly in the telling, and must necessarily
depend much on the imagination of the reader.
Let any one, however, endeavour to put himself
in the position of the author of this famous
document on that day, and he will be able to
realize, according to his capacities, what a
merry conceit " the whole affair was ; not
that the sport was by any means over yet, as
will shortly appear.

For the Bed ale men still remained ; and
to them the circular was despatched the day
before a meet at Skipton Bridge, whither

Henry betook himself, this time accompanied
by his sister Mary. Tom was of course of the
party, and they had made shift to give Jack a
mount, so that he might see the fun. In
their expectation of hearing much talk about
Battersby they were, however, disappointed,
and therein the difference between the gentlemen
of the Bedale and those of the York
and Ainsty was very notable. Very cautious
indeed were they of the Bedale in those days,
whatever they may be now ; indeed, when
it came to a really good thing, the worthy
master, John Booth, could show them all a
clean pair of heels, despite the fact of his
riding some eighteen stone. But then his
heart was in the right place : he knew every
inch of the country; and his horses, besides
being grand animals, were preternaturally
clever, for which, of course, the credit was due
to him who 'made" them. We have seen
one of his horses follow him like a doss over a

foot-bridge, and jump a stile off it on arriving
at the far side. We have seen him climb by-means
of a tree-branch over a brook that was
overflowing its banks, and the from the
other side call to his horse, which at once
plunged in and struggled through to him as
best it could. We have seen, — but enough of
that ; we could go on for a week dilating on
the cleverness of John Booth's horses, whereas
the matter just now does not deeply concern
us, saving that it affords a means of drawing
a contrast between him and the members of
his hunt, of course with a few honourable
exceptions.

Now these gentlemen, having received their
circulars, had taken them to heart in the same
manner that Mr. Suffield had at first done.
Each one was inwardly conscious of his own
inferior horsemanship, and therefore thought
that he, and he specially, had been singled outby
the observant eye of Battersby. Under

these circumstances no man communicated to
his fellow what had happened. Each brooded
darkly over his own circular, and kept it
concealed from mortal ken, deeply pondering
where, when, and how Battersby had spotted
him, or whether it was simply common fame
that had reported him to that accomplished
person as being one likely to stand in need of
his services.

Moreover, there was not much time for
discussion on the matter to arise, for Baldersby
Whin was always a sure find, and this occasion
proved no exception.

Many an hour have we stood waiting by
that whin for the fox that would not go away,
the nature of the ground, the denseness of the
cover, or some other reason always appearing
to enable the wily reynard to dodge about in
it with heart-rending perverseness ; while the
huntsman, and perchance the master, plunged
about on foot cracking their whips, shouting,

and scarifying their lower extremities with the
pricks, their horses waiting for them the while
as calm and complacent as cows.

It is on occasions such as this that the field
becomes more than usually sheep-like : ever
ready to gallop off pell-mell after any one who
chances to move hastily in any — no matter
what — direction. There are who will then
disport themselves in negotiating small fences
with great determination ; while in those days
there was one to whom we assigned the title
of the " Idiot man," who was possessed of a
certainly old steeple-chase mare named Polly,
and on her he would perpetually and persistently
gallop round or across the largest fields
while nothing was going on, occasionally,
though very rarely, essaying a jump, which
always landed him somewhere among the ears
of his steed ; but he never came off : he would
soon scramble back into the saddle, and still
urge along his wild career until the hounds

went away, aDd then as a rule he was no more
seen.

He was a thin, meagre - looking farmer ;
further description of him is unnecessary.

But now in this said whin behold the
gallant pack dotting and flickering about,
each one an instant seen and then an instant
lost from view. Thatcher the huntsman has an
unusually happy expression. He has a good
mount, which is something for him, as the
funds of the hunt do not run to a very
expensive establishment, and the whips have
to make shift with but sorry cattle. What a
superb weight carrier is that which the master
is riding ! not unknown in the show world, we
believe.

Here are one or two sportsmen with flowers
and such-like objectionable adornments. Depend
on it, they are not up to much. This
arose, John Bull-like individual — one of the
native gentleman farmers of the district — will

VOL. III. H

scarcely have an easy time of it on the big
black four-year-old by Valentine, that at best
will only do for harness.

There are sundry shapes and forms of riders
from Thirst — from the solicitor, who., with his
hat jammed on the back of his head, is ready
and willing to give you a lead over anything
without charging any fee whatever, to the
wine merchant, who appears to think that it is
as important for him to remain right side up,
without being shaken by jumps, as it would
be for the many bottles of excellent old port
which he is well known to possess.

From Sion Hill we have a good man and
true, with divers juveniles of his family, and
from Baldersby Park a party that go not
amiss.

There is Mr. Jack Falldown, who, it may be
from a presentiment that his name portends
mishap, is very careful to keep his horse on its
legs and himself on its back. He is irreproachably

dressed, but we apprehend he will not
be found to excel in other respects. At any
rate, his sister — the neatest rider "wot ever
was seen," as Mr. Jorrocks would say — is more
likely to distinguish the family name in the
annals of the chase.

But 'shark!" says Mr. Suffield, who is
sitting almost on the neck of his big grey
horse. " They've found, I think ; I heard a dor
hark

No time for laughing at this : it is true
enough, though oddly expressed. They have
found ; and what is more, the fox has gone
away on the far side of the whin, so that we
must catch hold of our horses' heads and hustle
along round the bottom corner there, so as to
get with them as soon as possible.

Henry has a good and fast mount this time
in the shape of one of his thorough-bred that
was not quite up to racing form. The horse
can jump too, and is well-up to his light weight.

H 2

Mary has her own clever little mare, and Jack
is on the old hog-maned horse.

Small opportunity, however, is there for
noting anything of this kind. The hounds are
racing away in glorious style ; we must on.

'^ They're going now, sir, aren't they ? "
calls out Thatcher, as Henry comes up alongside
of him.

They are so ; '' and both go on in silence.

The country is not very formidable, but
there is the master a good field ahead, and he
will take some catching. What's this ? a small
fence with a closed gate and much mud thereabout.
Jack Falldown has inspected this
fence, and has concluded that to open the gate
is the part of a discreet man. The gate, however,
is not amenable to his efforts, and remains
obdurate. His horse becomes excited and
impatient; paws the ground, stamps, and
splashes him. Just then Tom, who is rather
behind-hand, comes clattering up.

"You must get off, sir, you must get off,"
cries Falldown, who would not soil his own
boots in the mud for worlds ; '^ you cant
possibly open the gate without getting o/."

Ah nivver yet off'' says Tom, making
Pigg's celebrated rejoinder as he takes the
fence in his stride, and is soon far away, leaving
the unfortunate one still struo^ojlino: with the
refractory gate. Whether he ever got through
it or not does not clearly appear.

But there is no sign of the pace abating ;
it is simply astonishing ; and already there is
a very long tail to the field, not caused, as
usual, by obstacles, but simply by want of
sufficient speed. There seem to be but thirteen
or fourteen who can keep within hail even
now. Henry is there, of course, for with a
thorough-bred he can scarcely be otherwise.
Tom is beginning to draw up, but will probably
fall away again, as he has taken a lot out of his
horse already. Mr. Falldown's sister is, as

usual, going well. Jack and the old hog-mane
are pounding along hopelessly in the rear.
The master still shows the way, and it is extraordinary
to see what a turn of speed such a
heavy horse as his possesses.

The line now is through the grassland along
the side of the river Swale. Capital going this,
though a trifle heavy, as it lies low, and has to
be fenced off from the river by a high embankment.


Just look how the hounds are stretching
away ! sterns down, and nearly mute. They
too display somewhat of a tail now, more
than is altogether seemly ; but never mind,
they are doing rare work.

The master has come back to his field at
last, it would appear; but rather because he
is in doubt which way to go. Suddenly
Henry sees him diverge from the line, and
gallop away as hard as he can in the direction
of the Swale embankment.

What can he mean ? He is not a man todo
that for nothing. There must be some
grave and sufficient reason. That is what
flashes across Henry in a moment, and he
decides to follow this peculiar lead. One of
the whips follows him ; the rest of the field go
straight on after the hounds. The master
gains the top of the Swale embankment, which
is not over four feet wide there, but gets
gradually broader towards the base, and now he
is cantering gaily along upon this eminence,
fully fifteen above the level of the subjacent
ground. Henry and the whip pursue, scarce
knowing what to think, when to their surprise,
as they reach the top, they see looming in front
double posts and rails, very stiff too, which
the master is just about essaying. The big
horse, as clever as a cat, nips in and out with
the greatest safety ; and Henry, coming next, is
bound to go. He looks wistfully at the hedge
which runs down into the field below, to see

if by any chance it may be more easily negotiable
; but no, it is an ancient and absolutely
impervious bull-finch. These rails, with a fifteen
feet roll down one side or the other if you fall,
are the only possible place of egress ; and so
he just trusts to providence, — for his horse is
not an accomplished jumper of cramped places,
and canters quietly up to the objectionable
obstacle. The result is all right ; not what
one may call a " fluent " performance, as there
is a stop short, a bounce up and down, a stop,
and another bounce ; then the other side, and
a descent of the embankment again after the
master, who is bustling along more eagerly
than ever. A glance back to see the whip
safely over, and then away. There are the
hounds ; we shall be with them again very
soon.

But where are the field ? Nowhere visible !
nor were they ever visible so long as the
trio kept within view of those rails on the

embankment. Subsequent investigation, however,
disclosed the fact that, having been
hopelessly pounded, as the astute Mr. Booth
well knew they would be, they were constrained
at last to resort to the very rails over which
the advanced guard having passed, as we have
seen, were now out of sight. The rails did not
altogether please their noble minds; but the
John Bull gentleman on the black four-year-old
sacrificed himself for the common weal by
charging them, clearing the first lot, and
crashing through the second, and then rolling
with his horse right down the embankment
into the field below, fortunately without injury.
The rest of the field then succeeded in getting
over, and making the best they could of a
stern chase.

All this while Henry was marvelling more
and more how the weight-carrier could still
keep up the speed, which was really alarming.
He was driving his own horse along now,

and could just manage to hold his own with
the leader, but could not gain an inch on
him.

"Well," thought he, 'there am I on a
thorough-bred, riding only ten stone, and there
is he good eight stone heavier, and yet I cannot
catch him. That horse must be a very devil,
or this is an impostor ; and yet," looking round
at the whip, who was dropping astern, " I'm
not so badly off as some people."

On they went. What a lathering and soaping
of reins is there now ! An awkward feeling
there is too of having nothing to spare in the
way of effort at the fences.

By Jove ! if this goes on I shall have to
finish the run on foot." So he begins to think
as his mount pecks badly on, landing over a
small stake and bound. " What a man that
is!"

Newton House is not far off now. Surely
to goodness this cannot last much longer.

Ha ! the master has viewed him, and is
cramming forward with a final spurt.

'' Yonder he is ! "

Henry too sees him now, plodding along,
dead beat, only a field in front of the hounds ;
he disappears through a hedge ; now the
hounds are after him. Have they run into
him ? No ; they are found to be at fault, and
are spreading to cast themselves in that very
field into which we saw the fox go but a few
moments ago. He must have lain down in
ditch, and they have run over him. No, it
is not so ; and, strange though it may appear,
nothing more was ever made out of that fox.
That he had crept off somewhere, and was
l5dng helpless with exhaustion, is almost
certain ; but where could not be discovered,
though it must have been close at hand.

At any rate," says the master, wiping his

brow, " we've had one of the best gallops I

ever remember." Then pulling out his watch

Thirty-seven minutes, and from Baldersby
Whin to Newton House is over seven miles.
That's fast enough, in all conscience."

The field were now coming up, all with their
various stories of what had happened ; but to
those who had no second horses out — and our
party was among this number — it was very
advisable to make off home, for such a gruelling
had not fallen to the lot of any of them for
many a long day.

This is but a mere incident connected with
the Bedale, and grew naturally out of the
affair of Battersby, hence we have given it ;
but as to Battersby, the sport on that head
culminated when the worthy and sedate
Daily's Magazine ' got hold of the matter,
and thoroughly regarded the circular in the
most serious and critical light.

About a page of ' Our Van' was devoted to the
question, and the reader may see, if he chooses
to investigate, how completely the excellent

Van Driver ' was taken in, as well as other
people. We have not the magazine before ns,
but wee know well the gist of what was said.
There were some clever and sarcastic remarks
about Mr. Joseph Rawlinson Battersby being
a gentleman whose trumpeter was dead ; then a
resume of his circular, with most of his Rules
printed in full, certain portions of them being
in italics. " The italics are our own," said the
Van Driver,' who used them to draw attention
to what he deemed the particularly heinous
portions of the Rules. Then, said he, with
biting irony, " Mr. Battersby is going into
Yorkshire, a place where people are notoriously
incompetent to manage horses ; so we wish
him the success he deserves."

Especially, however, was he moved by the
reference to Mr. Arthur Yates and Mr. Ernest
Willoughby.

Unfortunate Mr. Battersby ! " wrote he.
What induced you to put such an awful

crammer upon paper ? We have been at some
trouble to investigate the matter, and — would
our readers believe it '? — Mr. Arthur Yates and
Mr. Ernest Willoughby never even heard of
Mr, Battershy!!''

The solemnity with which these strictures of
Daily were given was perhaps one of the best
points of the whole performance, which was
yet to have a final stage.

Various plans had been proposed and
abandoned for getting some one to personate
Battersby, or to send invitations to every one
to meet him at Sea win's Hotel on a certain
day, and then go among the number to see
what was said and done. But difficulties arose
in the way of such plans ; and there was also
the fact that, owing; to a defect in the details
of the arrangement, no provision had been
made for receiving letters sent to him to Yarm.
Several men wrote to him, and these would
doubtless have had their letters returned.

On the whole, then, another circular to get
hire out of this difficulty was what seemed
most requisite.

It ran thus : —

Mr. Joseph Rawlinson Battersby regrets to say,
that, owing to domestic affliction, he has been prevented
from coming to York as announced by him.

"For the above reason he did not go to Yarm,
and he fears that, in the cares and anxieties to which
he has been subjected, he may have suffered some of his
letters addressed there to be returned to the writers.

He has heard that Mr. Arthur Yates and Mr.
Ernest Willoughby deny all knowledge of him. So
be it : the infant, budding into adolescence, shakes
off the hand that has guided its hitherto tottering
steps; and it is thus that they, mounted on their
now perfect horses, repudiate J. R. B.

"Were he so disposed, proof would not be wanting
; such proof he scorns to give.

A time will come when Yorkshire gentlemen will
see him flitting, meteor-like, through the fastest run,
and, gazing from afar, they will confess that his own
intrinsic merit is a recommendation all-sufficient for
Joseph Rawlinson Battery."

A. L. Hardcastle, Printer, Cheltenham.

These circulars were posted by a friend of
Tom's in Cheltenham, and created additional
sensation. That they persisted as against
Mr. Willoughby and Mr. Yates was the most
remarkable part of them. Those gentlemen
doubtless felt anything but amicably disposed
towards the mendacious Battersby.

It was long before it became known that
Battersby was not genuine business, and then,
strangely enough, a certain officer of the 7 th
Lancers was charged with being the author of
the circulars. He, knowing that much amusement
had accrued from them, denied the soft
impeachment very feebly, if at all, and was
accounted ever after by his friends as a much
cleverer fellow than they had taken him to be.
He still retains the reputation of having perpetrated
this jest; and if we have given a different
aspect to the circumstances, so far as he is
concerned, it must be remembered that this
purports to be only a work of fiction.

CHAPTER IV.

Ah ! let me turn the page, nor chronicle,
In many words, the death of Faith, or tell
Of meetings by the newly-risen moon ;
Of passionate silence 'midst the brown bird's tune ;
Of wild tears wept within the noontide shade ;
Of wild vows spoken, that of old were made
For other ears, when, amidst other flowers,
He wandered through the love-begetting hours.
Suffice it, that unhappy was each day
Which without speech from Glauce passed away ;
And troublous dreams would visit him at night.
When day had passed, all barren of her sight."

The Life and Death ofJaso7i,' xvi. 706.

Another and more serious blow had meanwhile
fallen on Leroy. There had been for
some time a growing discontent among the
shareholders of the National Ironworks Company,
which had culminated in the Board of

VOL. III. I

Directors being forced to resign, and their
place being filled by others.

Sir Irving Allixx, an addle-headed, though
worthy soul, had never been fit for his position
as chairman ; besides which, he was comfortably
enough circumstanced now not to care
to persist in fulfilling an office that bored him
excessively, and which he did not understand.
He, however, volunteered to give his successor
every information he possibly could, as to the
details of the previous management of the
Company, and had several interviews with
him for that purpose.

During one of these he quite innocently
revealed how preliminaries had originally
been settled between Leroy and him, with
the result, as we know, that £90,000 of the
purchase-money was paid over to the former
gentleman, and no mention of the agreement
on that point had been made in the
prospectus.

The new chairman, who was a thorough man
of business, concealed his feelings on hearing
this, so as not to alarm Sir Irving ; but asked
him if he would object to depositing the agreement
in question at the office, so that all the
papers connected with the Company might
then be complete and in order.

The good Sir Irving, as guileless as a child,
had not the slightest objection, and the next
day procured from his solicitor his copy of the
agreement, and sent it in to the office of the
Company, with his compliments to the chairman.


As soon as it became apparent that there
was no doubt about the £90,000 really having
gone to Leroy, the solicitor of the Company
was instructed to take such steps as might be
necessary for the recovery of it.

Now Leroy was anticipating no danger in
this quarter, for the shares were still at par,
and therefore no individual holder was at all

I 2

likely to attack;;him, since the price originally
paid for them could easily be obtained in the
open market.

The undertaking had, in fact, succeeded in
supporting its load of promotion money,
though it had not been so successful as some
had hoped. But legal gentlemen again exercised
their minds, and decided that the Company
itself had a valid claim again Leroy for
misrepresentation — the measure of damages
being this same £90,000, which, whatever
the engineer's reports might say, was manifestly
a payment in excess of what the property
really cost. Not but what the case would be
different had such a sale been made to an
independent individual, or company not
represented by Leroy. It was the fact of
promoting the National Ironworks Company
himself that fixed him in a fiduciary
capacity towards it, and made him bound to
account for everything he received, whether

it came directly or indirectly from the
Company.

An ordinary trustee is always compelled by
the court to do this, though the person for
whom he acts is able in many cases to exercise
rational supervision over him. How much
more, therefore, must a promoter, over whom
at first the Company he forms can have no
command whatever, be confined within the
very strictest lines, so that he may not draw
any secret benefit from his charge in any shape
or form.

Some such arguments as these were excogitated,
with the result, that Leroy found himself
about to fissure in an action in which the
National Ironworks Company, Limited, would
be the plaintiffs; and though he had some
hopes of defending himself, still the publicity
and scandal would be most damaging to his
future prospects. If, however, he was beaten,
how was he to pay up the money ? It was

impossible that lie could do so. What, then,
remained but bankruptcy, and an enforced
resignation of his seat in Parliament ?

Amid the various reflections arising from
this state of affairs, the idea of utilizing Henry
kept gaining more and more ground. Could
he but once get that gay youth into a corner
and fairly compromised, then he could force
him to aid in paying off whatever might be
requisite. This at least was one of the props
on which he must depend. And without
more ado he wrote Henry a pressing invitation
to come and spend a week with them
before the Oxford term began ; they had now
got into their new abode near Chesterton,
and the ' Missis ' especially wanted him to
assist in arranging pictures, &c. There was
also a letter from Kate, urging him to come,
and so — to make a long story short — he
went.

Arrived at the town of Chesterton, now so

familiar to him from the electioneering campaign,
he found a most smart and well-appointed
trap to meet him, and was driven through two
or three miles of lovely country, till, turning
ois the road, they entered by the lodge gates
into Brancksey Park, where the acquired
domain of his friend began. A very beautiful
park it was, abounding in elm-trees of magnificent
growth, and affording the very richest
verdure to the Highland cattle that might be
seen here and there in considerable numbers.
The place had belonged to a noble family who
had long been in great difficulties, until at
length they succeeded in completing arrangements
for the sale of the estate, so as to invest
the proceeds at better interest. In this way
it happened that the new member for Chesterton
was able to get hold of it, — or rather, of
course his wife's trustees purchased it, though
he was the ostensible owner.

Crossing the brow of an opposing slope,

after some three quarters of a mile had been
traversed, Henry came in view of the house —
a massive old stone building, with any amount
of room in it, lying attliefoot of the declivity,
with a grand expanse of velvety lawn on
beyond in the front, at the foot of which was
a glassy sheet of ornamental water ; and further
away, trees, shrubs, and brushwood, and
a generally rougher aspect of affairs, which
formed a not un pleasing contrast to all that
was up to that point so carefully kept. ^

Soon he drove up to the door, and there
was Leroy to meet him, all smiles and cordiality
; while Kate, into whose presence he was
quickly ushered, failed utterly to avoid an
apparent confusion, which did not escape the
sharp eye of her husband. There was also
present her brother Jack, who, having of course
failed to pass his examination, had taken
refuge in this manner from the parental wrath;
and another, who seemed by this time quite

an old friend — Lady Geraldine Quantockck,
completed the small party. She had taken
something of a liking for Kate, whom she saw
to be utterly helpless in the management of
household affairs, and had come over to stay
for a week or so, and help her to so organize
matters that the establishment should be
worthy of the Conservative representative of
Chesterton. She was very glad to see Henry,
and told him so without the slightest hesitation,
from which that discreet youth augured
that, so far as she was concerned, there had
not been up to the present any ideas of tender
feeling for him, though at one time he had
almost thought otherwise.

Everything was done on the best scale at
Brancksey Park now, though as for the mistress,
it ^'as not long before even Henry saw
she was a complete child in the hands of her
servants. He and Leroy and Jack soon became
very jovial together; and the two ladies, though

as opposite in character as it was possible to
be, got on exceedingly well, and indeed, we
may say, established a complete friendship.

Now, during this destined week of Henry's
stay it may be thought we shall detail much
of what occurred ; but this would serve no
useful purpose. There are certain broad facts,
for instance, that Leroy contrived to have him
and Kate left as much as possible together,
that Jack became hopelessly enamoured of
Lady Geraldine — very hopelessly indeed, we
should say — that Henry gave way more than
eager he had done to the attractions of the
situation, and that Kate herself was growing
more and more blind to all the outside world,
so long as he was but with her.

Leroy, despite his fixed and deliberate
purpose, was still human, and so, prone to
jealousy. At times the cares and anxieties
of his position weighed heavily upon him ;
and then to see her, who, after all, was his wife.

so bound up in another, even tliougli it might
serve his ends, still it caused him a feeling of
irritable unrest, and a frame of mind that
might at any moment prove dangerous to
the lovers.

But he was a man who by long business
habits had schooled himself into the art of
keeping calm and collected. He had an end
in view, and he would work up to it steadily
and quietly, no matter what might occur to
stir up the-temper or enrage the mind.

There was no doubt of his self-control so
long as he was himself ; but the only question
was, how far the other troubles were weighing
him down. He had taken to drinking more
than usual of late. The wines in the cellar
were many and choice ; every night did he
insist on a thorough trial of something that
was quite out of the common, winding up
the night with billiards, copious ,
and early refreshes the next morning.

Henry, who was no drinker, still was always
ready to do as others did, and, what is more
to the point, was capable of doing it without
apparent injury. Jack Hamilton would drink
any amount any one pleased to offer him, so
that he generally ended the evening in a totally
fuddled state.

This was a strange state of things to come
upon in the house of a newly-married couple ;
but so it was. The servants, being subjected
merely to an effete housekeeper, ran complete
riot below-stairs ; but, so long as dinners were
well served, and the work — such as it was —
done, what did it matter ? and as for the
expense, which naturally waxed more and
more, why that's "of no consequence," as Mr.
Toots would say.

Now the only sensible individual in the lot
under the circumstances was Lady Geraldine.
Lookers-on see most of the game, and she was
not long before she discovered how the land

lay between Kate and Henry ; but Leroy she
could not make out. She was sure he was a
sharp, clever man, and yet he gave no token
of having discovered what was going on.
She herself was very sorry for what she saw.
She was gradually getting more attached to
Kate, — a sort of protecting attachment it was,
such as the strong feel for the weak, and there
could be no doubt now that Kate was most
thoroughly weak, though none might have
anticipated it, looking at her earlier career.
The incident of her compulsory marriage
seemed to have slackened all the fibres of her
nature, and left her quite unfit to cope with
the difficulties of every-day life. And as for
Henry, Lady Geraldine, from experience of him
at the election, knew that he was fit for something
better than this, and would fain have
expounded to him what a young fool he was
making of himself in her opinion ; but she knew
well that would do no good. She was interested

in him, she could not exactly tell how or
why ; somehow she felt that he was wasting
himself, and of course it was such a pity.

As to Jack, he was a mere nothing, and
served as a foil by which she could make the
others think she was not noticing them. It
wasn't wrong to trifle with him ; he was so
young that he would forget it in a few weeks.

Thus from a liking for Kate, and a certain
admiration for Henry, she waited her opportunity
to if possible smooth out these remarkable
complications ; but Lady Geraldine, though
very sensible and very practical, had never
been in love, and, moreover, was young, so
that she was liable enough to make a mistake.

Henry himself retained sufficient sense to
see that there must be some ulterior design
lurking behind his host's apparent desire to
retain him with them ; and as he kept yielding
to pleasure, and staying on and on long after
the Oxford term had commenced, he none the

less was Cautious, and had his eyes open so far
as he could, likewise his ears and wits lest
worse should come of it.

The tension of the situation and the
strangeness of it went very far to elevate the
youthful imagination. Love, high, pure, ideal,
beyond what romance had ever pictured,
seemed to have centred in them, and was very
apt to carry them to much extravagance.
Absence from each other became more and
more unbearable, until at last they took to
coming down - stairs again at night, when
Leroy, as was now invariably the case, had
sunk into a half drunken sleep on the couch in
his dressing-room, and all else were supposed
to be at rest. Thus they held sweet commune
by the replenished embers of the drawing-room
fire, and the bright moon would shine out in
the clear frosty sky, and look calm and placid
on them when they raised the blinds to gaze
upon her as they stood side by side.

Oh ! how many then were the bewailing of
that accursed marriage-tie ! How dark did the
future seem, like the distant woods, and yet
their love was fair and bright as the water
glistening there beneath the moon-beams ; fair
and bright, we say, and in a sense innocent,
except for its utter folly.

Oh, Henry," said she, on one of these
nights, " how can all this end ? "

I don't know, and at present I am so
happy I don't care."

Don't say that. I do so fear some ill coming
of it. He has been very different lately, so
strange, half mad, I should say, at times. Do
you know the other day he said he had a good
mind to shoot both you and me ? "

*' Indeed ! much obliged to him, I'm sure ;
but I don't think he'll do that."

I'm not so certain. He looked so wild
and savage when he said it, and he said other
horrible things that I can't tell you ; but

afterwards he seemed sorry, and asked to be
forgiven."

I should think so indeed ! fancy treating
you like that ! "

But, Henry, I'm frightened of him. He
takes so much to drink now, and looks quite
like a madman before an evening is over. I
lock my room door every night, for I am really
terrified of him. There is no telling what he
might do when he is like that. I often think
the feeling that he has given me the power
over his money irritates him so that he will
kill me to get it back again."

Nonsense, dear. Why his creditors would
get it then; it would make him as badly off
as if he had not married you at all."

I don't know, I'm sure ; but I am so afraid
of him. He's not accountable for his actions
when he's like that ; and only last night I
heard him trying to pick the lock between his
room and mine. He didn't manage to do it ;

VOL. III. K

but what, what am I to do if he does get it
open, and comes in in that awful state ? "

Henry was silent awhile. " Take old ' Tip '
the terrier to sleep in your room ; he'll bark at
him, won't he ? "

Yes, I think he will. I'll do that. But
perhaps he won't mind the barking, and oh !
what am I to do then ? " and Kate burst into
tears at the very thought.

Now tears cannot be endured by the male
mind; and at the sight of them Henry felt
that he must needs act the knight-errant to
the uttermost on behalf of this poor damsel.

If the worst comes to the worst," whispered
he, 'come to me, and never fear I will protect

you."

Kate continued to sob. " Yes, yes, I will ;
anything, no matter what people may say of
me, is better than being left with him."

And still the moon shone down on the pair
with a smooth, innocent light ; the countless

stars irradiated the infinite arch of sky, and the
reflections glittered and sparkled on the glassy
surface of the water in the front. There was
a lovely calmness and quietude outside, and
everything tended to draw out sentiment from
the dullest heart.

No dull hearts were theirs, but very impressionable.
Otherwise they had not stood therefor
there where many dangers. Leroy might
have picked the lock of that door in the
absence of Kate, and what then ? He might,
but less probably, have heard her steal downstairs,
and have come down after her.
AVhat then 1 He might have come downstairs
by chance, and what then ?

The fact was, discretion was fast vanishing
even from Henry, at least so far as these
evening interviews were concerned. He was
becoming more and more reckless, anil.
what with the difficulties, the doubts, the
dangers, and the romance of the thing, he

K 2

was giving way to a regular flare-up of
delusive love.

Now there is one test of delusive love, and
that is when the victim of it finds him or herself
able to deliver poetical sentiments after
due thought given thereto. We do not believe
the true lover ever quoted poetry. He should
be far too engrossed to do so. On the other
hand, the ordinary flirt, the sham, the make-believe,
the man who deceives even himself as
to the state of his feelings, can all deliver the
most florid sentences, make the prettiest of
speeches, and write the most passion-padded
letters.

And Henry was now saying something very
appropriate, was now discoursing of the moon,
the aspect of nature, and the smooth course
of true love, all of which it is no business of
ours to inflict upon our readers. His arm had
insensibly stolen on by little and little until
it was round that waist where it had never

been before, and certainly ought not to have
been then. Her head sank on his shoulder,
and their eyes met with the irresistible medium
of love expressed between them.

Suddenly a hand was laid on each of their
shoulders, and they started as if each had
received a mortal thrust.

The hands were those of Lady Geraldine,
who, with the peculiar instinct of women, had
discovered that the two were accustomed to
meet in this way ; and she had come with the
best of motives to try and bring them back to
their senses.

They form a strange group, standing therein
the moonlight, not one of the three for a
while speaking a word : Kate and Henry failing
from sheer confusion, and Lady Geraldine,
despite her good resolves, much embarrassed
by the situation which she had herself created.
All in a moment it flashed before her that she
was thinking to assume a position which could

only be suitable for some very old friend of
one or both of the parties, whereas she was
really but a recent acquaintance, and a young
one too. The very force of her character, and
the weakness of Kate's, had led her to usurp
most rapidly a sort of right to look after her.
But was she justified in proceeding to this
length ? Might not her motives be misconstrued
?

While they are yet standing, and the tableau
is Hot broken by speech or movement, there is
a step close at hand, and Leroy walks into the
room ; but half dressed, wild and uncouth in
look, with a pistol in his hand !

He catches sight of Henry, as it seems, and
levels the pistol full at him. It is an unpleasant
thing to look down the barrel of any such
weapon when an angry person is behind it, and
the sensations of the gay youth are decidedly
uncomfortable. Nevertheless, he has an instinctive
feeling that the man will instantly

tire if he retreats or shows a sign of fear, so he
looks him straight in the face, and remains
motionless.

For an instant — which seems ages —they
stand, the pale face of the husband showing,
ghastly in the wean light, a conflict of passions
that is terrible to behold ; the bold and
seemingly fearless gaze of the lover fronting
imminent death without a shadow of
hesitation. Kate is spell-bound with terror,
and Lady Geraldine almost gives way.
She, however, by a supreme effort nerves
herself.

Mr. Leroy," she cries, " are you mad ? "

He drops his hand with a start.

Tou here, Lady Geraldine ? I must have
been asleep. I thought I had caught some
burglars. JoUifFe, I beg you ten thousand
pardons. I was awoke by a noise, and came
down to see what it was. Upon my word 1
thought you were a burglar."

Kate at this moment fell down in a dead
faint, so terribly had she been alarmed.

*' Kate here too ! " said Leroy, rubbing his
eyes with well-feigned surprise as he ran forward
to help her. '' Steady ; she'll be all right
directly. What have you all been about ? "

Never mind what we've been about," said
Lady Geraldine ; " don't you see you've nearly
frightened Kate to death ? Let's see to her
before anything else."

Henry felt grateful to her for thus changing
the subject ; but, nevertheless, he was awfully
apprehensive of what she might say afterwards.


Leroy too. Was it true what he said about
the mistake he had made ? or had he ascertained
what was going on, and come down in a fit of
mad rage to wreak his vengeance, not seeing,
in his blind passion, that there was a third
member of the party — Lady Geraldine — until
she spoke ?

To us too the matter must remain somewhat
of a mystery, and we can only suggest
that it is likely Leroy, as he had given way
more and more to drink, was suffering mere
passion to override and at times thwart his
deliberate purpose. The expression of his face
when he levelled that pistol showed more than
mere animosity against a burglar. Doubtless
it was true he did not see Lady Geraldine ;
and probably she saved Henry's life ; though
even without her the man's strong reason
might have mastered his vindictive instincts,
so that he might have seen before it was too
late — had only the two been present— that he
'jiad gained, the vantage-ground he had been all
along striving for, and might now avail himself
to the utmost of the position.

Kate lies without a movement on the sofa
to which she has been borne. Her husband —
now a completely changed being — runs for
water ; Lady Geraldine for a light ; Henry

remains, keeping guard over the inanimate
form. As he watches her the beautiful eyes
open.

'' Where am I ? Henry, dear, is that you ?
Oh ! I remember all now. You are not hurt ?
Has she told him ? Oh ! what shall we
do?"

He has no answer to give to this last question,
for indeed there seem dark clouds overhanging
them, with never a ray of light
piercing through. In very hopelessness he
feels drawn towards her and she to him. He
kneels down by her side and kisses those lips
he has never touched before, and this without
hesitation, for it seems a natural outcome of
the situation.

My darling, while we love each other it
matters not what other people do. Let things
take their course, and don't be afraid. Hush !
they are coming."

Thus are things made rather worse by Lady

Geraldine's interference, for the two come
closer together in what they deem to be the
hour of danger ; and once advanced so far
they are not likely to go back again.

The light and the water arrive, but Kate is
found to have nearly recovered.

"You must be an excellent doctor, Jolt
? " says Leroy, in a way that may mean a
great deal.

I'm afraid there's no credit due to me ;
however, I'm glad it's no worse."

"Now perhaps you'll tell me," continued
Leroy, as they sat down for a while near Kate,
what dark plot you three were concocting
that led to these disastrous consequences."

Well, I'll tell you now," replies Lady
Geraldine, looking for an instant at the perturbed
couple, and appearing to enjoy keeping
them in suspense as to what she will say. " Mr.
JoUiffe said he saw a ghost moving over the
water there when he was looking from his bedroom

window the other night, and we declared
it could not be. He told us to watch for ourselves
; but then we durst not do that by ourselves
; and so it resulted in us all three agreeing
to come and investigate together from this
room at midnight. We didn't tell you, for we
knew you'd laugh at us."

A half-sigh of relief escaped Kate ; and
Henry could scarce repress a smile.

Did you see this ghost then ? "

No ; you interrupted us just as we were
expecting it."

"I am very sorry; however, I will wish
you better luck next time ; and now, if you're
quite recovered, Kate dear, I think we had
better all quit this scene and repair to rest."

So no harm had come of it as yet ; and the
party retired — two of them with feelings of
considerable gratitude towards Lady Geraldine,
and Leroy himself hardly knowing what to
think, but determined to bide his time.

Henry, when he was alone that night,
reflected somewhat seriously on the state of
affairs. What could it all mean ? Why, if
Leroy really entertained hostile feelings towards
him, did he still keep pressing him to
stay on with them ? Would it not be better
to depart before worse came of it ? Oh, no !
if Kate was in danger he must not leave
her ; and besides, it would be like closing
a book while you were in the middle of
the most exciting part. He would be very
careful and cautious in future, but he must
see the issue of this remarkable train of
circumstances.

The very next day came a telegram for
Lady Geraldine to go home, as a young
brother of hers was dangerously ill, and she
had positively no opportunity of saying anything
serious to Kate on the previous night's
performances. She departed, not altogether
regretted, remarking at the last, " I hope, Mr.

Jolliffe, you won't be so silly as to go looking
for that ghost again."

Henry laughed lightly, but Kate looked
foolish, and Leroy, on whom nothing was lost,
saw that there was more in this speech than
the ordinary signification of the words.

Then were these three and Jack left in the
house together; and the restraint of a lady
visitor thus being removed, more than ever
did the master of the establishment give way
to copious potations and continual carousals.
Care, trouble, annoyance, and disaster were
closing thick upon him, and he was now
striving desperately to court at least a temporary
oblivion of them. The man's very
countenance became changed. At one time it
had displayed reason and firmness in a marked
degree; now it seemed to vacillate and shift
between opposite extremes, and to partake as
much of the animal as the rational.

Scarcely a night came now when he had

not the greatest difficulty in staggering upstairs,
and he would just throw himself down
on his little couch, and fall into gross sleep
with all his clothes on. No wonder poor Kate
double-locked her door when she knew that
this was his regular condition.

Henry felt that he was dangerous, but only
if he saw himself feared. Instinctively he
was convinced that so long as he for his part
remained firm and unflinching he would suffer
no harm. It was that same instinct which
makes a wise man when a dog rushes at him
stand still, knowing that thus he will be safe ;
while the foolish one, who flees, suffers in the
calf of his leg or elsewhere.

The relations between the parties were
growing — to use a diplomatic phrase — decidedly
strained, for the more Leroy drank
the more did he become apt to break out
against the situation he had in his calm moments
deliberately schemed to bring about.

It maddened him too that he could not prove
anything with certainty, and so indeed at
times now he became fairly distraught.

All sorts of evil designs came floating like
black spectres before his mind's eye ; and
among other things, his soul, if he may be
said to have had one, rebelled against the idea
of a wife who dared to lock her doors. In
calmer moments, and in the day-time, he
feared her on account of her power over the
money ; but in the stupid intervals, between
sodden sleep, or when drink fired his waking
thoughts, he often grew reckless, and would
try by various means to open that door. The
door was a very stout one, and the lock very
peculiar and strong, so that without making a
loud noise it was really next to impossible to
overcome it ; but he was not a man to be
beaten easily.

It was by a happy intuition one night
Henry said to her, ''If ever he mixes you

anything to drink before going to bed be sure
you don't take it ; carry it up-stairs with you ; "
and actually that very night Leroy feigned an
alarm that she had caught cold, and insisted
on preparing for her something hot. This,
with a look at Henry, she took away with her,
and afterwards in due course all the household
were in bed.

Henry's room was down a long passage fur
away from Kate's ; but after sleeping a while
he woke with a start. What was that noise ?
A peculiar grating sound. He starts up,
opens the door, and listens. Yes, it is, it must
be, Leroy trying to unscrew the lock of that
door between his room and hers. Hark ! that
is Tip's bark ! With every nerve strung to
the uttermost Henry stands. It is a still clear
night, when every slightest sound may be
heard. Still the grating goes on. There is a
noise of the key turning in the door of her
room which leads on to the landing. Her

VOL. Til. L

hand is doubtless on that door, ready for
instant flight if he gets in through the other.
This is indeed a supreme moment.

In breathless attention with beating heart
Henry listens ; another second, and there may
come a climax, of a scuffle and a rush down
the passage towards him !

Quickly he decided what to do if this
happened. He would let her in ; lock and
barricade the door ; but how to act after that
he knew not. Certain it was he would
protect her ; but what a position it was ! All
this while he was quickly and quietly dressing
to be ready for the emergency. How Tip is
barking now ! He will wake the whole house.

•^ •J^ •^ ■* ■5f

The grating noise has ceased ; the dog has
stopped the performance ; and this night it
goes on no more.

Henry procured afterwards some of the
contents of that tumbler of drink, and had it

analyzed, when it was found to contain
laudanum enough to send any one into a very
deep and heavy sleep. Leroy, thinking she
had drunk this, had made sure he could get
into her room without waking her by the
noise ; and once there, he assured himself, with
malignant animosity, he would teach her who
was the master, and whether he was to be
treated in this way. What might have
happened goodness only knows ; fortunately a
disaster was averted.

Kate was becoming more and more terrified
at the prospects, and indeed the clouds were
fast darkening to a storm ; but a providential
demand came for Leroy 's immediate presence
in town ; and Henry, under the circumstances,
of course arranged to go off to Oxford. The
party was thus quietly broken up at a moment
when it seemed to require but another touch
to cause the crash of some culminating catastrophe
among them.

L 2

Chapter Y.

Dame Alice sits lonely in bower and hall,
Her sighs they rise and her tears they fall :

She sits alone, and she makes her moan ;

Dance and song she considers quite wrong ;

Feast and revel mere snares of the devil ;
She mended her hose, and she crieth, ' Alack !
When will Sir Ingoldsby Bray come back? ' "

Thou lies, thou lies, thou naughty foot page,
Full loud dost thou lie, false page, to me ! "

The Ligoldshy Penance''

We must now get forward somewhat rapidly,
and not dwell on the details of the next few
months. The plot had all the while been
thickening ; and Leroy himself, as financial
trouble came nearer and still more near, had
never in his calmer moments ceased from his
design of getting Henry into a position from

which he could be compelled to pay up a large
sum of money. But he was all this while
becoming less and less master of himself as he
gave way more and more to drink ; and at such
periods the natural instinctive feelings of the
man came out so that it was manifest he
cherished the most deadly hatred for Henry,
and the most bitter resentment against Kate,
on account of that very attachment to which
in reality he looked for the achievement of his
purposes.

The consequence was, his whole life was
henceforward a most conflicting study. He
would invite Henry constantly and most
kindly to stay with them ; he would take
Kate to Oxford, and let her be as much with
her strange lover as possible ; indeed, he would
appear to entertain for Henry the most effusive
friendship. Then at other times his face would
darken into anger ; malice would flash from his
eyes, and he would say the most cutting and

offensive things, as if the sight of the pair he
had thus brought together was intolerable
to him. Nay, it seemed that he would
be glad of some slight excuse to resort to
violence.

His rival — if rival indeed he could be called
never for a moment feared him. The same
feeling that a quiet, steady, and unruffled
demeanour would check the other's intemperate
spirit still remained with him, and so he was
always complacent and secure. But it was
a trying time for Kate, who lived in constant
apprehension ; indeed, it was this more than
anything else that drew her so irresistibly to
Henry for protection ; and it was, perhaps,
pity for her distress, as much as any other
sentiment, that made him anxious to be always
with her. He had thoroughly seen all Kate's
faults now : her utter incompetence as the
mistress of a house, her weakness, childishness,
and folly ; but what matter 1 Here was an

adventure that must be seen the last of ; here
was a pretty woman that must be defended.
This is not of course the form Henry's thoughts
took then, but we believe it was none the less
the basis of his action.

The spring had passed, and the summer was
creeping on; Doncaster had astonished the
racing world by winning the Derby, a circumstance
which appeared to profit few except his
astute trainer. Ascot, too, had passed, with its
wonderful finish between Gang Forward and
Kaiser for the Prince of Wales Stakes, when
the scion of the " accursed Blacklock " tribe
equalized the score by getting his head in front
of his old antagonist. Prince Charlie had
come brilliantly through more than one ordeal,
and the marvellous two-year-old Ecossais had
more than maintained the prestige of the Blair
Athol blood by his deeds. Poor old Ecossais !
There were not wanting those who said he
would not stand much training, and still we

find him in this present year of 1880 among
the entries for certain races.

Then there had been the first Cobham sale,
which was a great success, and Captain Rachel
had performed the memorable feat of springing
a thousand in one bid when he gave 2000
guineas for Claremont — a sum which that unfortunate
horse came near getting back when
he ran second for the Derby of his year.

Leroy had more than once figured prominently
in the House of Commons ; but it was ina
fitful sort of way, for the load of care that
was accumulating weighed him down and
unfitted him for any sort of work. He coukl
see no possible way of keeping the claim of the
National Ironworks Company in abeyance
much longer. He had hoped to effect a compromise
with them, but his negotiation on that
head fell through, and legal process was now
imminent.

In the midst of this Parliament was prorogued,.

and partly at Kate's wish, partly in
furtherance of his own design, he took her off
to spend a month or two at Scarbro, where
he invited Henry to join them. No second
invitation was needed, and a very short time
saw the party comfortably installed at the
Royal Hotel, where Leroy had taken rooms.

Now, if there is one place more than
another in England to which Kate and Henry
ouorht not in wisdom to have prone it is
Scarbro. Partaking, as it does, of quite a
continental character, it seems at certain times
of the year to be a very hot-bed for fostering
indiscretion, and the whole atmosphere of the
place savours somewhat of laxity.

Very charming has Scarbro been to us,
however, from our youth upwards ; whether
we have kept holiday there in July and August,
among the gay inhabitants of Bradford, Leeds,
Halifax, Huddersfield, and similar towns, who •
most do conorreffate there about that time ; or

whether we have waited for the Leger, and
gone for our share of the ozone among the
more fashionable fry.

What balls — how countless in number and
how remarkable in quality ! — have we there
frequented ! How many miles have we paraded
up and down the Spa, listening to the never-ceasing
flow of gossip and scandal ! How
many times have we entered the sacred precincts
of Marshall and Snelgrove, to come out
again perchance with lighter pockets, but
heavier hearts ! To us the very taUe-dliote
business was a source of amusement, and the
life of the hotel drawing-room was full of the
most comic elements. But Leroy was not one
to care for that sort of thing ; besides, he wanted
his intended dupes to be alone together as
much as possible ; and he therefore had a
private suite for the accommodation of the
party.

But despite all this Henry and Kate gave

him no opportunity such as he wished. They
were simply like ordinary lovers, whose engagement
was likely to be indefinitely protracted.
They had both schooled themselves into
thinking ^o more of the form of marriage that
had been gone through than they would of
any other obstacle that might have occurred to
prevent their union. They regretted it deeply
enough, but never contemplated it as anything
that rendered their present conduct wrong.
Still, none the less their affection — if affection
it might be termed — was on the increase, and
it was quite possible that some ill-timed
demonstration of it might be observed and
misconstrued ; but caution was not yet absent
from them, and no such untoward event
happened, so that the watching husband began
to grow enraged at his bad success in not
discovering what would, if discovered, have
probably enraged him still more.

There are many more besides him on the

look out, for they are in Yorkshire now, and
the fame of Henry's conduct has gone forth ;
so that there are old maiden ladies, weak-minded
men, and others who derive huge
pleasure in investigating and discussing the
case. Indeed, the matter is now notorious,
though the chief parties have no idea of that.
Kate never dreams that any one would venture
to speak ill of her, and Henry never bothers
his head about it at all.

Happily did the days pass during that
glorious summer-time. The whole round of
pleasures went on, and Pritchard's Band would
often supply music that seemed indeed " the
food of love." Most desirable, too, were the
balls, held in the excellent room of the hotel ;
not altogether what they should have been,
perhaps, but full of life and go, and to some
small extent, at any rate, select, as a certain
well-known baronet found to his cost when he
wished to introduce two of his lady friends,

but declined to give their names. Rumour
has it, that on that occasion he and mine
host were nearly coming to blows, but discretion
prevailed, and he of the blood-red hand thought
better of his pugilistic designs.

But among those present would be many
very remarkable specimens, such, for instance,
as a very fat old lady, who looked as if she
had brought all the diamonds from some large
jewel-shop upon her spacious person. Such
diamonds they were too ! so immense, and so
numerous ! Her lace, moreover, was said by
experts to be of marvellous quality and
value. But then all this only served to
show how such adornments are powerless to
lend beauty where it is not, or to add the
glamour of a charm where age and obesity
hold sway.

Gentlemen might be seen, likewise plentifully
jewelled, who would dance in strange
fashions, holding their partners' hands round

behind their own backs, or committing some
other eccentricities. One or two eminent actresses
would sometimes be present under the
charge of aged admirers ; and not a few ladies,
against whom Sir James Hannen had pronounced
a decree nisi, without any probability
that the Queen s proctor would intervene.

Into the full tide of amusement did Leroy
press his wife, thinking that so any straitlaced
ideas she might have would disappear,
and among it all Henry was constantly at her
side ; but still the claim of the National Ironworks
Company was becoming more urgent,
and still the opportunity to mulct him in hush-money
did not occur.

One morning, while the three were sitting
at lunch, a telegram was brought in for Leroy,
whose countenance changed visibly when he
read it. He rose hastily.

I must go off to town," said he, " to-night :
my auijt died yesterday, and I shall have

to see after everything, besides attending her
funeral."

'' Poor old lady ! Fm so sorry, though I never
knew her," said Kate in a tone of genuine
sympathy, which for a moment softened her
husband's hard, emotionless features. " But
what am I to do, Frank ? "

Oh, you'll stop here, of course. I shall be
back in a couple of days ; and I'm sure JoUifFe
will look after you."

A deep blush spread over her face, partly
from confusion, partly, we fear, from pleasure
at the idea.

'' Oh, but—"

But me no buts," interposed the husband,
assuming an even jocular tone. " It will be
all right. No one will know I'm not
here."

"But, my dear fellow," broke in Henry,
who had been up to then speechless with
astonishment at the proposal, " I'm sure it

would be better for me to go away too until
you return."

"Nonsense, man! If I don't object, why
should any one else ? The Missis couldn't
exist without you. I mean, of course, she
couldn't get on at all here without some one to
look after her. I am sure you will stay when
I tell you I shall take it as a great favour if
you do."

Well, of course if you really wish it I
have nothing more to say."

"That's right. Now I must see about
getting some traps put up ; " and Leroy left
the room in a very excited state.

He had good cause for excitement, for he fully
expected his aunt would have left him the whole
of her fortune, which, in spite of what he had
already spent out of it, still would amount to
fully £100,000, and with that sum his troubles
would be at an end ; but, on the other hand,
was the horrible fear that she might have left

him nothing ; and then, how should he account
for the Bonds, which, as we have seen, he had
converted to his own use, by availing himself
of his position as trustee ?

Oh, but it was impossible ! She had no
other living relation except himself, and he
had always been on the best of terms with
her ; so he dismissed all forebodings of that
sort, congratulated himself on the probable
acquisition of the balance of her money, bade a
cheerful adieu to Kate and Henry, and departed
on his way.

And what of the two thus left together ?
With respect to them he had acted in this
manner partly from force of circumstances, but
chiefly because he thought, if the worst came to
the worst, and the aunt had not left him her
money, the position he had left them in was
calculated — if anything was — to bring about the
complication he required, and the consequent
paying up on the part of Henry. Above all

VOL. III. M

would it be necessary in such a case, for it would
be a criminal matter were it discovered that
he had appropriated his aunt's Bonds. He had
little fear of not inheriting the property, but
it was well to prepare against all emergencies.

They were for all the world like two children
released from school when he had gone :
there seemed so much freedom, and no fear of
interference. They had not accompanied him
to the station, lest attention should thus be
drawn to his departure ; but they went and sat
on the Esplanade, simply revelling in their
position. Nevertheless, that Henry was by no
means hopelessly enamoured — if enamoured
at all — was illustrated by the fact that he
took care to order an unusually good dinner
that evening, for it seemed to him a suitable
occasion upon which to eat, drink, and be
merry.

They can cook well at the Royal upon
occasion, and they have some Irroy which is

particularly pleasing to the cultured palate.
This indeed did he think as he waxed jovial
over that repast, and Kate thought she had
never loved him so much before, as he sat therewith
an unusual sparkle in his eyes, and seemed
brim-full of fun and happiness.

Afterwards they must needs go on the Spa,
but thinking it well not to come too much
under notice, they obtained chairs right back
in the corner opposite the band, and sat quietly
looking at the various people, or at one
another. Now, close by where they sat is
a door leading through the back wall, which
protects the sitters, into the walks beyond,
and men kept continually coming in and out
of this door, admitting a wretched draught
every time they did so ; and as the evening
was rather chill, this state of affairs became
rapidly unbearable to Henry, who felt fit to
cope with anything and anybody.

Consequently, seeing a small ring attached

U 2

to the door by way of handle, he tried to hook
his stick into it, bat found that the stick was
too large. Kate's umbrella, however, would do,
and hastily taking it, he caught up the ring
with it and held on firmly. Presently someone
came to the door and pulled from the other
side ; Henry pulled also with the umbrella,
and so the door refused to open.

Meanwhile the band was discoursing the
very sweetest music, and the place was full of
people. The individual who had thus been
foiled at the door was evidently, however, not
satisfied. He went away, and in a little came
back, as was afterwards seen, with one of the
officials to examine into the matter.

The official endeavoured to effect an entrance,
with no better success, and then the man who
had summoned him also took hold, and the
two hauled away together. This was rather
more than Henry could manage, even though
he got up on his feet now, and stuck manfully

to the umbrella. Slowly the door was being
dragged open in spite of his efforts, when Kate,
who also felt a bit wild that night, jumped up,
and seizing hold of the umbrella lent him her
best assistance, so that the balance of power
being thus restored, the door was triumphantly
pulled back again, and the assailants for a
moment defeated.

Great excitement was caused by this remarkable
occurrence.

Stick to it," cried some one in the
immediate vicinity, encouraging the pair, and
all heads were turned to see what was going
on, and what might result. The end soon
came : a heavy pull from outside, strongly
resisted from the inside, and the ring in which
the umbrella was hooked broke right in two ;
the door flew open, and Kate and Henry,
instead of falling backwards, which they might
well have done, dropped very fortunately into
their respective chairs. The assailants had

of comae staggered back also when victory
came pin zzr:ii rhus unexpectedly, and so
the J did : isle in upon the foe so quickly
as they ought to have done with a view to
detecting who the guilty parties were. When
they did enter, — the official with passion
depicted on his countenance, — every one
appealed totally innocent and unconcerned ;
no one thought of giving information, and
30 they were obliged to leave the insult
Tuiavenged- The only result that it had was
to draw the special attention of those who had
been spectators to the two principal? in thf-
matter, and the busy gossips soon made great
capital of the way Mrs. Leroy had been
behaving, coupled with the fact that she was
oat in the late evening without her husband.

But the indiscreet couple had enjoyed the
joke thoroughly, and returned to the hotel in
excellent spirits. They went quietly, however,
up-stairs without committing more atrocities.

am(dL sai tliteiiiii d>3'!iTi for a ions: '^•^'^- Sir
bur it w-O'iil'i scTT-e H"? useful p~iJT»cse to drT.ail

supper:

the less 1^

as lie
aniTT

kis

black demons of misfortune borne on the
rushing blast, all, all are upon him at last, and
he cannot but be hurled and whirled away
until he alights in a felon's cell, where perhaps
he will repent his sins !

It is impossible the fact of his having sold
all those Bonds can long be kept secret.
There is but one chance : he must succeed in
his designs against Henry, and make him
advance the requisite sum. Failing this, after
all it is possible to fly the country ; and — happy
thought ! — he can still lay his hands on some
£5000 of his aunt's money that is lying at the
Bank. So lax have the arrangements been
that the other trustees have permitted cheques
to be signed by him alone. He will draw
that money out at once ; and probably he can
in any case borrow a large sum from Henry.
The situation is desperate, but not yet 

would return to Scarbro unexpectedly-that

would be at once — without warning. Who
knows then but that fate might befriend him ?
It is necessary, he tells those who are interested
in the proving of the will, that he should goto
look up some papers and documents he has
by mistake left behind ; and so he departs
northward in a state of mind to which no
enterprise or evil deed would come very much
amiss.

He travels through the night, but dreams
not of sleep, so much is his brain excited by
the agitating prospect before him. The man
is no coward after all. He is nerving himself,
and regaining his old powers of concentrating
thought and carrying purposes to effect that
always marked him in his business career, but
had so often been absent lately.

It was early morning when Scarbro was
reached, and he walked hastily to the Royal,
entering there just as the doors were opened,
about six o'clock. The porter stared to see

him come in at this extraordinary time ; nor
perhaps was it the time alone that aroused
attention : he himself looked strangely haggard,
his eyes were bloodshot, and his whole
mien betokened that something had gone
wrong. The porter remembered this afterwards
when subsequent events led to an
enquiry, but it was no business of his to think
much of it at the time.

Henry was lying calmly asleep, but was
suddenly awakened by that peculiar instinctive
feeling of being looked at, which most of
us have at times experienced.

He opened his eyes, and his surprise was
great to see Leroy standing silently by his
bed-side, with an expression of countenance
that was absolutely fiendish.

*' Halloo ! what on earth brought you
here ? "

Instantly the expression changed to one of
friendship.

Oh, I thought I could get down easier by
the night train, and I've just walked up to see
if you were awake."

"Oh, that's it, is it? Well, I am awake
now, thanks to you ; but I'm not going to getup
at this hour. You might let a fellow sleep
in peace, even if you do go in for night travelling
yourself."

Don't be cross. I didn't intend to wake
you."

'^ All right ; never mind. Well, what's the
news f

x4s I expected, my aunt has left me all
her money. But I see you're sleepy ; I'll
leave you to take it out, and we can talk in
the course of the day."

Two questions may occur. Why in reality
did Leroy go up to Henry's room in this
manner ? and why did he say his aunt had
left him her money ?

Certain it is that he had had a design

which prompted his action in the first question
; but his design, whatever it was, had
failed. Henry could see that from his face,
and felt within himself all the time that he
had triumphed. But as to this lie about the
aunt's money, we shall see more anon.

When Henry eventually got down stairs he
found that Kate was before him, and had
evidently been engaged in serious conversation
with her husband, who left the room to
get a newspaper, as he said, when the other
entered.

"Oh, what do you think he has been
saying ? He declares he is going right away
from England, just to make you and me
happy ! "

My dear Kate, what do you mean 1
What good would his going away do ? You
would still be his wife."

"No; he says he will talk to you about
that, and it can be made all right'

'' If this is really so lie is a better man
than we have ever taken bim to be, Kate ;
but hush ! he is coming."

Leroy here came back with something like
a benign smile on his countenance, and breakfast
proceeded amid a somewhat constrained
silence. Kate went away afterwards, and left
the two male beings together, when issue was
very shortly joined.

'tell me, Jollity," said Leroy, abruptly,
you love Kate, do you not ? "

Had Henry not been to a certain extent
prepared for some such conversation he would
have been greatly startled by this question ;
but as it was, he was cool enough, especially ashe
saw the well-known dangerous light in the
other's eye.

Yes, I do. It seems strange to say it to
you ; but you ask me, and so I answer you."

All right ; I've seen it for a long while."

"But I hope you distinctly understand, that

whatever my feelings may be, there has been
nothing — "

No need to make any declarations of that
sort, Jolliife ; if I had not trusted you, is it
likely I should have allowed you and Kate
to be so much together ? Let me now know
distinctly, would you marry her if you had the
chance ? "

Of course I would."

"You shall have it then."

A strange interview this, the reader may
justly think, and an improbable ; but let that
pass; there are more things in earth, let
alone heaven, than the reader perchance woes
of, — this is one of them. Let us proceed
with it.

Henry was at a loss what to say now, for
really he failed to comprehend what possible
project could be in view, so he simply waited
to hear more.

Now, Jolliffe, I am going to show my

implicit confidence in you by telling you a
certain secret wliicli would place me entirely
at the mercy of any one who knows it. I
must first have your assurance that you will
be kind to Kate," — here Leroy's voice shook a
little with apparent emotion, — " and that you
will work hard at the Bar to make yourself
a distinguished name, and so do honour to
her'

'eyes, ni do that."

** Then listen to me : Kate is not my wife at
all ! "

Good heavens ! what do you mean ? "

I may trust you with my secret ? "

Of course you may, my dear fellow. Is it
likely I would do you any harm ? "

"Well, then, this is it : I was married
fifteen years ago to another woman, and she
is still alive ! "

And can this be proved ? "

It can ; I have quite sufficient documents

to prove it myself, and I will leave them in a
sealed packet with you before I go."

Before you go ? "

*' Yes ; I ^Yill tell you what I am going todo.
This woman, my wife, whom I have kept
quiet up to now, has suddenly turned .quite
irreconcilable. She has vowed she will assert
her rights, and have me prosecuted for bigamy.
This I ascertained yesterday. You must not
therefore think I am conferring an overpowering
obligation on you by quitting the scene
and leaving Kate for you ; but I do ask you
to believe that a very great part of my motive
in doing so is the desire to make you both
happy. Were it not so I might perhaps stay
and adopt some powerful means for silencing
the woman who threatens me ; but it would
be a dangerous game, and having attained to
my position, I could never bear to face disgrace
and infamy."

But why, why did you ever get into such

a complication ? I never heard a whisper of
it."

Of course you never did. No, JollifFe ;
time is short, and we must deal only with
facts. I may write and explain, but now it
will suffice to say tl\at in this complication I
am ; and from it I mean to escape by flight.
I am going as far away as I can to begin life
anew. It will be with a heavy heart, for I
have done much that I ought not ; but there
will be the satisfaction of at least doing the
right thing by you and Kate."

Leroy, you are a good fellow, and I thank
you from my heart. But can nothing be done
to avoid this ? "

'' Nothings, so far as 1 can see. Now take
particular notice of what you must do. In
the first place, I want you to help me with
ready money ; you know mine is all tied up,
and I can't get a sufficient sum to take with
me ; I shall give you a regular charge for your

VOL. III. N

repayment out of my aunt's property that has
been left to me, and indeed I shall appoint
you to act for me in that ' matter, so that you
may send me out the balance as soon as it is
available. Will you do this ? "

Most certainly, to any extent I can. How
much do you want ? "

I want £5000, but must be contented with
what I can get."

I can just do that, as I have been selling
out some stock, and the money is lying at
the Bank for investment. You shall have
it with al] my heart."

** Thank you. The charge I give you will
sake it absolutely safe, and will of course
include interest."

Don't mention it ; I know that's all right.
I'll draw a cheque for you now."

By the way, it won't be possible to get
it cashed in Scarbro ; and I want to go tomorrow."


*' That's unfortunate. There will be nothing
for it but going round by Barnstaple and presenting
the cheque yourself at the Bank."

"Yes, I must do that, though it will be
rather out of the way."

So the cheque was drawn and handed over,
and an elaborate legal document was signed
by Leroy in the presence of the waiter, who
was summoned to act as witness. This document
was the one purporting to secure repayment
to Henry from the aunt's money. A
power of attorney was also executed, by which
he could act on Leroy 's behalf in the various
necessary matters ; and the legal business was
thus, as it seemed, put all in order.

"Now, to make all safe, Jolliffe, I have so
contrived, that when I am gone my real wife
will be informed that all my aunt's property
has been left to charities. Some of these
letters, which I must ask you to post, — say at
York, — will do that part of the business."

But what's the use of that ? "

Why, you see, she might come and push
her claim forward afc once, with a view to
getting hold of the money. When she knows
I'm gone, and thinks there is no money, she'll
keep quiet. You may trust me always to
provide well for her ; but I'm sure you will see
how important it will be for me to get the
money without any hitch."

Well, I suppose you know best. But
what am I to do afterwards then ? "

** Oh, Kate can discover in one of my boxes
the papers which, as I tell you, prove my
previous marriage. These must be forwarded
to her lawyers without the seal being broken,
so there will be no suspicion you or she knew
of the contents ; and then when it is discovered
you will communicate with my wife,
and arrange to have it legally settled."

Shall we be able to do that in your
absence ? "

Oh, yes ; you may take my word for all
the legal part of the business."

But amid all this, you haven't said what
Kate and I are to do here."

** Oh, you must suppose that I am summoned
off on important business, but that I'm
to be back in a week ; and if I'm not, that I
asked you to take Kate home to Chesterton ;
that I also asked you and her not to write to
any one about it meanwhile, for I thought her
parents would be angry if they heard of me
leaving her in such a way, and that if I was
able to come back and take her home, as I
confidently expected, they would never be any
the wiser."

'^ But why must we wait a week ? "

To give me a good start, of course, so that
no one may be able to trace where I have
gone. And mind, while I think of it, you
mustn't post those letters for a week either ;
they will inform my wife and some others of

my departure. There'll be nothing about it to
draw suspicion on you, even if you say you
posted them, for you can make out I told you
it was a practical joke I wished to have carried
out, in which the letters were to come from
York, just as people send valentines away
to be posted, you know."

"I see ; but I wish you'd write me down
all these instructions, so that I can make no
mistake. '^

I have already done so : here you are ; "
and Leroy handed Henry his brief in this
remarkable case. " You will there find
everything detailed that you must do ; and
I advise you to burn it when you have done
your part."

Such was the conversation between these
gentlemen ; and Henry, though he saw much
to dislike about the arrangements, was quite
carried away by the one great romantic idea,
and by the feeling that, after all, Leroy was

playing the part of a true friend, and being
also in distress ought to be assisted, even in
manners that might be questionable.

The reader, however, who is perhaps prematurely
behind the scenes, knows somewhat
better how far Leroy was a true friend in what
he was doing, and how far he was deserving of
assistance. The reader, however, is not as yet
entirely behind the scenes, though it is already
apparent that the alleged reason of iiiglit
was not the true one. Whether that altered
reason embodied matter of fact or not is
another question.

The rest of the day was spent in preparation
for the intended departure. Even Kate
became quite changed towards Leroy now,
when she heard what he was about to do.
Full of kind and thoughtful solicitude, she
worked hard to get everything together he
could possibly want, and felt quite sorry —
with a sister's sorrow — to think of how he

was to leave them and go forth into the wide
world alone.

She had most readily agreed that he should
draw down her balance at the Bank to about
£200, — which would give him another £2000,
and in all ways she sought to show him that
he had in her an affectionate friend now that
she believed herself not to be his wife.

And he, what did he think of this ? A
vision perhaps floated before him of life that
might have been innocent and happy — a life
she would have shared with him in perfect
content, when the regard she was now showing
might have been cherished into love, and
the vain fancies for such as Henry might
never have been dreamed of.

Oh, with all his cleverness, with all his
power to obtain and keep money, what a fool,
what a spendthrift he had been ! Wise in the
way of the world, he had been a fool in all
that pertains to happiness ; clever in amassing

wealth, lie had been terribly wasteful of the
chances and opportunities of life. A wild,
desperate passion for a moment seized him.
Why go through all this % Why bear it any
longer ?

Kate," said he suddenly, looking up from
his packing operations at her as she stood
ready to help him, " do you know I feel
more than inclined to shoot you and Henry
and myself, so as to end all this."

Frank, what do you mean ? "

'•' Nothing, dear, nothing ; I was mad for a
moment. I believe I shall go thoroughly
mad, some day. The sooner I get away the
better."

And the packing was resumed, but with less
self-possession on Kate's part.

Henry, to whom she soon afterwards told
what had occurred, said it was all nonsense,
and straightway went and purchased a neat
little revolver, which, with suitable cartridges.

he gave to his friend as a keep sake, suggesting
that it might be useful

Thank you, Jolhffe, very much for it ; but
I must ask you to keep it until I am in the
train going away. Then give it me : at
present my mind is on fire, and I know not
what I might do with it."

Very well ; but Fm sure you wouldn't do
any harm with it."

Perhaps not ; but I'd rather not be
tempted."

The trio sat up very late that night —
the last night they were to be together —
but they did not talk much. The position
seemed to have reached a stage beyond
mere words, and each one was perhaps
more occupied in attempting to realize
what was going to happen than in anything
else.

They retired at last, but were up betimes
in the morning ; and then came the drive to

the station, the train about to start, and the
farewell.

Leroy took a hand of each in his, and
placed them gently together. "God bless
you both ! " he whispered, with the semblance
of a tear in his eye ; then sprang into the
train, which was already on the move, received
the pistol from Henry, and was gone.

CHAPTER YI.

Into a limbo large and broad, since called
The Paradise of Fools, to few unknown." —

'Paradise Lost"* III. 495.

The two who were thus left behind on the
Scarbro platform walked slowly back to the
hotel, scarcely able to appreciate what had
happened, so quickly had it all come on, and
so very strange was the situation of affairs.
Little by little conversation began to flow,
and it tended chiefly to eulogy of him who
was now speeding away, not unmixed with a
growing sense of joy almost beyond conception
at the fate thus prepared for them.

Yes, they were indeed in the Paradise of
Fools now, both as to what they thought

of him, and as to their feelings for one
another. Under such a halo of romance a
calm, dispassionate view of the matter was
not possible. Their attachment, which had
been fostered by so many extraneous influences
before, was still destined to be fanned into a
fiercer flame by the very strangeness of this
part of the drama, and the exciting phases of
experience through which they were now
passing. Presently they may emerge into the
searching light of the common-place world,
aud we shall see if they have love of a nature
to stand the test.

Very wrong, the reader may think, this
sojourn of theirs at the Royal Hotel. Doubtless
it was at least a foolish thing ; doubtless
it was contrary to all recognized ideas. But
still, they were young. They had been told todo
it by Leroy ; they thought it was a matter
of vital necessity to him that they should do
so ; they were very innocent, whatever people

might think, and they considered themselves
very much in love. Perhaps then the reader
may be induced in some measure to forgive
them, or at least not to look on them with
utter scorn. What would any of us have
done in a similar position ? Some of us
better, perhaps ; many, undoubtedly, worse.

How sweet was that time thus spent ! It
was like the first awakening after troubled
sleep, or the calm succeeding a stormy sea,
before yet the heart has ceased to beat fast,
and the mind to be swiftly moved with the
anxieties so lately past.

Everything seemed delightful to them.
The music had never been so sweet, the sea*
never so glorious, the old hack horses they
at times would ride seemed endued with an
unwonted elasticity of movement. The air
was fresher, the sun more bright, and even
the very boatmen on the sands appeared
attractive ; so that to embark with one and

capture the silvery whiting, or have a good
invigorating sail through the clashing spray,
became more than once a method of amusement
and a thing of joy.

Then the evenings. Oh, those evenings !
when the pleasures and the revels of the day
were past, and alone they could sit and talk,
and talk, and talk, until minded perhaps by
the first streaks of coming day that it was not
well to sit up quite all the night, and so
would separate for rest.

But a little of this sort of thing — at least ina
book — goes a long way, and it is not our
intention to display it further, save to remark,
hat one afternoon, when they had but just
come in, and Kate was writing a letter and
Henry reading a book, the door opened and
Miss Whytehead was announced, who, following
close upon the announcement, stalked into the
room. She knew Kate's family slightly, and
as she happened to have come over to Scarbro

for a week or two, she had decided to call on
Mr. and Mrs. Leroy, who were staying at the
Royal, as she found from the list of visitors.
She was ever on the look-out for new friends,
inasmuch as she had of late years been perpetually
losing her old ones, such an inveterate
habit had she got of making mischief
among them. This she would do by telling
each one what the other had said about him or
her, and that was bad enough, so long as she
kept to it ; but of late she had taken to
inventing all kinds of malicious speeches about
almost every one she knew, and declaring to
the parties thus maligned that their dearest
friends were the authors. This kind of thing
was seen through before long, and, as may be
conjectured, Miss Whytehead's society was not
more eagerly sought after in consequence of it.
Here, however, she was ; and terribly
awkward was the position, for she knew Henry
well enough by sight, and also slightly to

speak to. There were greetings, and then a
feeling of constraint. What was to be said
about Leroy ? What about Henry ? "

Miss Whytehead was as sharp as a hawk,
and she saw at once there was something
wrong. Here indeed appeared food for scandal
and gossip if anywhere. She had seen Henry
and Kate on the Spa the night before, and he
was not there. What did it all mean ? Still
more stiffly the conversation went on, without
so much as a mention of his name.

You were on the Spa last night, I think ? "
said she to Kate.

Yes, we were there ; but I didn't see you,
Miss Whytehead."

I — we ! " — so she called Henry and herself
" we — " Really, Miss Whytehead began to
think it was not right for a virtuous person like
herself to stay any longer in such company ;
still she would like to hear nor, , so she
continued —

VOL. III. ^>

Oil, yes, I was there, looking at the
aconite ; very clever, was it not, Mr. JollifFe ? "

"I beg your pardon, did you say acolyte?^'

Well, acolyte, or aconite, it's all the same ;
I mean the man on the trapeze."

"Oh, the acrobat''

Yes, that's his name ; wasn't he clever ? "

"Very."

More stiff silence, commonplace remarks,
and departure at last of Miss Whytehead to
blaze abroad the fact that Henry and Mrs.
Leroy have eloped together, and are living at
Scarbro. There was just this fortunate element
in it, however, some people had seen Leroy
there, and few, if any, were disposed to believe
anything that Miss Whytehead said. She
had cried "wolf" so often that now when she
really had some sort of foundation for her
story she found it difficult to obtain credence.

But it may be imagined what the feelings of
our friends were after this unwelcome visitor

had departed. There were still two days of
the week during which they had to stay, and
the fear was that Captain and Mrs. Hamilton
might receive information from some source as
to what they were about. Not that it mattered
much ; but it would bring about an earlier
discovery of the flight.

"Besides," said Kate, 'she is an odious
woman ; I know her by repute, and she will
go saying all sorts of awful things about us."

That we may be sure of. But I hope she
won t be believed."

Horrid wretch ! did you see the kind of
indignantly pious air she put on before she
went ? "

Yes ; I'm afraid we're in for it, so far as
she is concerned ; but after all, dear, what
does it matter so long as we know we're all
right?"

The morning after this incident came a
letter from Leroy to Henry, posted in Ireland.

O 2

He wrote gloomily enough — had got the money
all right at Barnstaple, and was now on his
way to California. This Henry must on no
account reveal, for he had prepared the letters
which were to be posted in York with a view
to making every one else think he had gone to
Spain. He exhorted Henry to be kind to
Kate, and thus fulfil the last trust imposed on
him by a broken-hearted man, who would have
no other resting-place now than the grave ;
though faintly possible it was, that some day
he might return, and the trio again be happy ;
that perhaps then Henry's children might
learn to love him too. With blessings on
both he ended a letter so pathetic that it WvV
difficult to repress tears on reading it, almost
impossible to doubt its genuine character.

Poor Frank ! " said Kate, '* I am so sorry
for him. I do hope we may see him again,
don't you, Henry ? "

Yes, dear, I do indeed ; and I don't see

why we shouldn't, for hell have plenty of
money, and should get on all right wherever
he goes."

Did you give him any money, Henry ? "

I lent Lin some."

How much ? ''

Five thousand pounds."

Kate said nothing: ; hut with the instinct
peculiar to women she began to suspect from
this point chat all was not right.

The day passed, and the next. It was now
nearly time to depart, and Scarbro was looked
on once again with regretful eyes, as though
on saying good-bye to it the fairy land of
night romance faded away, and the ordinary
world re-appeared in its stead.

The first thing that recalled Henry to a
sense of common things was the fact that he
had to pay all the hotel bills, his good host
having departed to foreign climes without
mentioning that question. But what did that

matter ? It was a very small thing after all ;
so he did it without so much as an inward
murmur. Then at last in the morning of their
last day they drove off station wards, not
unmarked by chamber - maids and waiters,
whom, however, handsome gratuities had indisposed
to speak much ill. Cunning porters
and obsequious guards beset them with offers
of a carriage wherein they could be locked and
no one else admitted, and several derived no
small emolument in assisting to carry out this
object. Tickets were taken for Chesterton,
and the seclusion of the carriage basins been
successfully maintained, the engine whistled,
the train moved, and they were off.

It was really quite amusing travelling thus
together, and being taken for a newly-married
couple ; and all progressed most favourably
and blissfully in this fashion until York was
reached. Here it was necessary to change,
and here, as Henry said, they were almost sure

to meet some one they knew ; but, as good luck
unaccountably bad it, the station was very
empty that day. There was not long to wait,
and it seemed as if they were going to escape
undetected. Just, however, as they were
about to reach the carriage specially selected
for them as before, there came a voice, " I
beg your pardon, Mr. JollifFe, but you said you
would give me one of those fox-terrier puppies
of old Vixen's."

Henry started round : there was the guard
who did duty in the trains between Newton
and York, and had done so for many years.
A good genial old guard was this, and Henry
had been glad to promise him a puppy ; but he
wished him far enough just now. However,
there was nothing for it.

All right, Stevens," said he. " Go up to
the Vicarage, and tell them to give you the
white dog ; he'll make a good one for you, I
expect."

Much obliged to you, sir," and the guard
departed ou Lis way to carry the news to those
at Newton that he had seen Mr. Jolliffe going
off south with a lady. Who the lady was
they guessed readily enough, but remained
in great uncertainty as to what had really
happened.

What was even worse than this was, that
the conversation with this man had diverted
Henry's attention from their destined carriage ;
and now he found that people had been
allowed to get into it, nor was there another
empty one in the whole train.

Deeply objurgating the officials in his
inmost conscience for permitting such a misfortune,
he was none the less obliged to take
up his position with his fair love in the
company of two old ladies and one young
gentleman ; so that a miserable journey might
be anticipated, as in fact happened.

The old dames were going on to the very

end, so there was no hope ; and there was
nothing left but to make the best of it, and be
as happy as possible under the circumstances.
The letters had been posted in York according
to Leroy's request, and, for better for worse,
were now on their way.

The plot was rapidly drawing to a head.

"You know, dear," said Henry in a low
voice, " I shan't stay at Chesterton ; indeed, I
shall go back by the very next train, so that
people there won't be able to talk ; and then
I shall make my way straight to town to see
about this money business of his aunt's. The
sooner that can be settled the better, so that
we can get the rest cleared up."

Oh, but won't you come and stay a little ?
I shall be so miserable and frightened by
myself."

No, I'm sure it will be better not. We
had an excuse for staying at Scarbro, which
you must remember is, that he said he should

in all probability come back for you, and
asked us meanwhile not to mention his absence.
You won't forget that is what you must say ? "

No ; I know perfectly well : he said he
was called away at a moment's notice on urgent
business, that in case he was not back you
were to take me home, and, so that nothing
could go wrong, he empowered you to act for
him in everything connected with his aunt's
money."

*' Just so. I was to act in the improbable
event of his not comines back."

When do you think everything can be
settled ? "

I really have no idea ; for though I am byway
of being a law student, I haven't the
very faintest notion of any practice."

I hope it will be soon."

And the train sped on, carrying these last
dupes of Leroy to the south. Very unhappy
were they as the hours passed by ; but parting

must needs come at last, for Henry steadfastly
refused to leave the Chesterton station, or
indeed to show himself outside with her, where
the carriage was waiting ; so there was an
agonizing adieu, trebly so because it was in
public, and could be demonstrated only bywords
and looks.

Darling," said he, " next time we meet let
us trust you will be free."

"Yes, yes. How I shall pray for that
time ! "

Henry walks, sadly ruminating, up and down
the platform. There is something very flat,
melancholy, and miserable about being therein
this wise all alone, having made one long
journey, and being about to make another.
There is a sort of feelings as of the next
morning when one has caroused long and
joyously over night ; and at last the idea
dawns that it may be well to feed, a matter

not vet attended to during the dav. So this
hero of romance proceeded to the refreshment-room,
and there, after due deliberation, solaced
himself with a beef-steak and a bottle of
Pompey, after which he felt more able to
battle with the world and all its troubles.

In no long time, however, the London train
starts, and bears him away after this very
flung visit to Chesterton, to arrive in the great
metropolis during the dim dark hours of the
morning. A bed at the station hotel, a short
sleep, a refreshing bath, and then he sets forth
in a much cooler frame of mind, armed with
his documents, to interview Messrs. Boulter,
Bird, and Co., who, as he is instructed by Leroy,
have the management of the arrangements
connected with the aunt's money.

Arrived at their offices in Chancery Lane,
he waits some while among the clerks before
he can be seen, and then at last is ushered
into the presence of Mr. Boulter, a ponderous,

plethoric-looking gentleman, of no very great
intelligence. To him Henry, as is the custom
with eager clients, details rapidly how he has
come to represent Leroy in the matter of his
aunt, Miss Leroy, deceased ; how Leroy ought
to have come, but didn't ; had given him this
power of attorney, and also this charge, all of
which ]mr. Boulter, though looking Very profound,
failed to understand in the slightest
degree. Indeed, he really didn't know what
Henry was talking about.

Yes, yes, I see," he muttered ; " but " —
ringing the bell — " we had better have Mr.
Bird here to talk this matter over. He has
given more special attention to it than I have.
John, will you ask Mr. Bird to be so kind as
come in here ; a gentleman has called in the
matter of — of — "

Miss Leroy," explained Henry.

Of course. How stupid of me to forget
the name ! "

Here Mr. Bird came in as requested. He
was a very great contrast from this partner,
being a thin, sandy-haired, and remarkably
astute - looking gentleman ; indeed, it was a
fact, that all the important business of the firm
devolved upon him, and he had only entered
the partnership because he thereby acquired
the advantages of a very large and old-established
connection.

He soon grasped in a measure what Henry
had to say.

Really, this is most irregular on the part
of Mr. Leroy. Have you no idea, sir, where
he is ? "

'' Not the slightest''

It is most irregular," chimed in Mr. Boulter,
and relapsed into frowning silence.

'' I question much whether this power of
attorney is in order at all. We shall have to
take counsel's opinion about it. It is most
annoying," and Mr. Bird looked savagely at

Henry, as if he was to blame ; then continued,
- " And that other document you have there,
sir ; has it any bearing on this case ? "

Not immediately, I should say ; but it will
come in afterwards. It is a charge on the
estate in my favour."

Will you kindly allow me to look at it ?
What's this ? Frank Leroy — Henry Jolliffe.
Whereas by her last will and testament — appointed
the aforesaid Frank Leroy — ! Why;
sir, where did you get this ? "

From Mr. Leroy, of course ; whom else
should I get it from ? " answered Henry
sharply, rather nettled at the other's manner.

And you lent him £5000 upon this
security ? "

Yes ; it's good enough, isn't it ? "

It isn't worth the paper it's written on.
Nay, more, it is utterly false in what it
says."

How on earth can that be ? "

He told you his aunt had left him her
money ? '^

Yes, of course ; it's all set down there,
isn't it ? "

My dear sir, you have been most grossly
deceived. She didn't leave him a penny ! "

Good heavens 1 you don't say so ! "

Here was a blow for Henry ; and he was at
the first impulse about to tell all he knew, but
on second thoughts refrained, for he knew not
what might come of it ; but his heart was sick
within him, and he sat in silent dismay till he
was aroused by the guttural chuckling of Mr.
Boulter, who seemed to at length understand
what had happened.

A clever scamp ! " said he. " Who'd
have thought it ? But he'll have got more
than that, Bird ; he'll have got more than
that."

I think you are very probably right. Mr.
JoUiffe, with that power of attorney you can

at least ask to examine the trustee's pass-book
at the London and County Bank. Would
you be good enough to drive over and bring it
here ? "

Henry went as he was asked, and obtained
the pass-book easily enough. The account
had lately been simply in Leroy's name, so
that the Bank had no knowledge whatever of
its being other than a private matter of his.
This plan had been adopted to distinguish
money that was waiting for investment, or was
on deposit, from the mere interest, which of
course had been regularly paid to the old
lady's own account. It was a very unnecessary
proceeding, no doubt, and it looked very much
as though Leroy had long been contemplating
a confiscation ; but, nevertheless, it was so ;
and an examination of the book disclosed that
Mr. Leroy had drawn out £5000 the day after
the funeral

Mr. Boulter rubbed his fat hands with glee.

TOL. III. P

'' I told you so ; I told you so 1 " said he,
hoarse with merriment ; " but there'll be more
yet, Bird ; there'll be more yet."

"I sincerely hope not. Pray heaven the
rest of the principal is untouched. Mr. Jolliflfe,
you will, 1 am sure, pardon my troubling you
again. The matter is most serious ; will you
go to the Bank and ask for a memorandum of
the securities at present lying there on this
account ? "

Henry went, and returned. The foreign
bonds, it was found, had been withdrawn from
the Bank ; indeed, as we know, Leroy had
kept them in a safe at his office some while
before he was tempted to sell them.

*' He may have deposited them elsewhere,"
suggested Bird, thoughtfully.

Not he, not he," cried Boulter, now bursting
into laughter. " Upon my word, it's the
cleverest thing I've come across lor many a
long day."

"Really, Boulter, this mirth is somewhat
ill-timed."

Yes, yes ; 1 beg your pardon, Mr. Jolliffe/'
and Mr. Boulter once .more lapsed into his
expression of dignified obesity.

"I begin to see it all plainly now," continued
Mr. Bird : " he has appropriated those
bonds in his aunt's lifetime, thinking, probably,
she would make a will in his favour, and no
one would ever be the wiser. Now when he
found she left all away from him, he has just
bolted with all he could secure."

Ha ! ha ! " laughed Mr. Boulter, bursting
forth again, but instantly recovering himself
beneath his partner's angry glance.

Well, gentlemen," said Henry, " I need
hardly say under the circumstances how sorry
I am for all this ; he has misled me probably
more than any one. However, I will go and
see if I can find any other documents that
may be of use. I will also write to Mrs. Leroy,

who will, I am sure, help us as much as she
can."

And he left his wife with you at Scarbro ? "
said Mr. Boulter, whose dignity was undergoing
a complete collapse before what he deemed
the humour of the performance.

He did, sir," said Henry severely.

And you had to pay the hotel bill ? "

Really, sir, I must decline to enter into
any discussion with you on such matters. Mr.
Bird, I will Avrite to appoint a meeting with
you when I have anything to communicate.
Good morning, gentlemen."

And Henry departed in a state of mingled
anger with the portly Boulter, and dismay
and apprehension so far as his own interests
were concerned.

At once he telegraphed to Kate to send up
the sealed packet of documents purporting to
contain the evidence of Leroy's previous marriage,
and he wrote her a long letter explaining

all that had occurred, and preparing her for
the worst ; " For," said he, " the more I think
of it now the more improbable does this story
of the previous marriage seem. When he told
me it I knew of no other motive for his
running away from the country, except
his so-called desire to serve us. Now, a
most obvious motive is supplied in the
fact that he has taken all this money of
his aunt's, and could not escape detection.
I am very much afraid, therefore, he has
only used us as his dupes to enable him to
get safely away."

By the next post the documents arrived,
and also a despairing letter from Kate. But
almost without reading that Henry hurried off
to Messrs. Boulter and Bird's in a fever of
anxiety to have the parcel opened and the
contents disclosed.

There is no need to make a long story of it.
There was nothing inside but a few memoranda

of agreements for the lettmo; of villa residences
iu a suburban district.

There's nothing here that will help us, sir,"
said Mr. Bird, little knowing the reason that
particular packet had been so eagerly brought
to him ; and Henry went away sick at heart,
realizing at last what an utter fool he
had made of himself, or rather, had been
made.

Why, I might have been suspicious at the
parcel's being sealed," thought he ; 'but then
I never dreamed of him not beinor straight.
He must have had a low opinion of my cleverness
to be confident he could take me in so
easily. I should have thought he would have
made out marriagje-certificates and all kinds
of things ; and instead of that, he does me
with these beastly old agreement-papers 1 I
never had sense to ask for anything; definite :
didn't even demand the address of his supposed
wife. Nay, when I think of it, I didn't even

look to see whether one of those letters purported
to be addressed to her, not that that
would have been of much importance as things
have turned out, for it would just have been
a sham, and it would have been returned ' not
known,' no doubt, supposing he put any address
inside."

It was no use repining, though the position
was most maddening ; for it was impossible
to give any directions which might lead to
Leroy's capture, because that would have
involved an admission of what was really
done at Scarbro, and no satisfactory explanation
of that could be given, more especially
as the story had now been told as
Leroy desired that it should be. There
was nothing for it but to bear the disappointment,
and to think, after all, Kate was
happier and better off by herself than with
such a husband ; besides, there was this point
also, which, in the excitement of what had

passed, lie had never yet thought of. If Kate
were not married all the property settled on
her would have turned out not to be settled
at all, and could have been taken from her ;
but then it would be impossible to ascertain
now whether Leroy was alive or dead, and soin
any case when could she marry again ?

The letters posted at York had informed
various friends of his flight, and made excuses
for his conduct. Moreover, the story got into
the papers with all sorts of exaggerations, and
became a general topic of conversation.

Kate went to stay with her parents as soon
as it all came out ; and they, wisely thinking
it the best way to silence scandal, at once
asked Henry down also to discuss what had
happened, and advise on the future.

CHAPTER Iii.

Then he cried and said,
'Lo, how the gods are mocking me with this,
And show me pictures of my vanished bliss,
As though on earth I were, and not in hell ;
And images of things I know full well
Have set about me. Can I die again.
And in some lower hell forget the pain
My life is passed in now ? ' "

Tie Life and Death of Jason,' xvii. 1132.

Leroy had started from Liverpool, and we
have heard of him as far as Ireland. Thence
fairly away upon the ocean, the good ship
Dublin Castle ' was conveying him and his
fortunes to a new country. There it was he
expected to find fresh fields for his talent. A
man of his experience possessed of a moderate
amount of capital was bound to rise.

Such had been his thoughts while he planned

his escape, and so long as his firm will
remained, and his steadfast purpose to
stand, no matter who else fell, the prospect
seemed one that was at least far from
desperate.

He had shaved off his whiskers and heavy
moustache for fear of recognition by some one
on board, and he assumed the name of Johnson.
He was going out, he said, with what capital
he had been able to realize, to try his luck in
the colonies, for he was convinced that the old
country was played out.

There was nothing whatever unusual about
such a statement. Then, now, and in long
past years, the same cry has gone up. When
the National Debt was but a tithe of what it
is, the country could not possibly support
it, at least so thought and said very many
wiseacres ; yet still the old country lives and
prospers, whether yet at its zenith or not who
can tell ? Certainly not showing signs of

decay ; at any rate, that is our very bumble
opinion.

It may bave been concluded by this that
Leroy was a man over whose actions affection
and friendship bad no power. He cast them
aside whenever they stood in bis way, and so
he bad risen. It may well be that, so far as
success in business is concerned, be was in the
abstract right ; for, according to our experience,
selfishness, coupled with a rigid observance
of method, brings riches to men ; while
those wbo try to serve others generally fciil to
help themselves.

But we bold, that a man wbo is capable of
sacrificing friendship and affection to what be
deems bis own business interests is one whose
moral character will bear no severe strain. It
may .be be will never be put to the test in
this point, and will rise to affluence, eminence,
and the respect of all men ; but once let bim
be sorely tried, and be will fail, as we bave

seen Leroy did when he appropriated his
aunt's bonds. Sooner or later honesty is the
happiest, and therefore the best policy ; and in
his case he could not but think now with
bitter regret how, in his eager anxiety to preserve
his ill-gotten gains, he had rushed into
that marriage in a panic of fear that all he
had received might be recovered from him,
whereas subsequent experience and reflection
had shown he could easily have arranged
every claim against him with about half of
the fortune he had settled. Settled ? — That
was a bitter thought, for was not that the
very thing which hampered him, and so
tempted him to take those bonds ?

His desire to keep his money must have
made him mad, for otherwise he would have
known that it was impossible to do so and at
the same time preserve his own credit — at
least not without committing that crime. He
had been on the horns of a most manifest

dilemma — either he must pay his creditors, and
so lose his money ; or he must save his money,
and himself go through the Bankruptcy Court.
But he had been mad enough to cling: to the
money without carefully looking to the consequences
of his doing so ; and when they
were forced upon him, at a time when his
credit was become doubly dear to him, then
he shrank from those consequences, and
avoided them by the sin which had now
found him out.

It may be said, he should have applied to
his wife's trustees to release him from his
difficulties, and that would no doubt have
been the best course'; but he was a man of
a singularly proud and reserved disposition in
all that pertained to his financial state. He
knew that by the trustees he was regarded as
the personification of stability, and he could
not brins: himself to come before them in the
guise of a suppliant.

The position was gradually led up to, for
with him, as with others, the saying was true
enough, *'' Nemo repent fuit turpissimns ; "
but when the push came he turned from the
straight and narrow path ; his aunt's bonds
were ready to his hand : he took them, used
them, and thus meeting demands, without
even an attempt to borrow money, he maintained
his credit among all men, for a while
universally approved, save perhaps by his own
conscience.

Once fairly away his strength began to
give way. The old energy that had supported
him through his doings of the past week was
failing him, and in its stead the fitful gusts of
passion, intermixed with gloom and despondency,
were reasserting their sway.

He was a bad sailor, a very bad one indeed,
and though the introduction of this fact may
excite a smile, it is none the less directly connected
with what followed. There is very

little commiseration for people who are seasick
; why wee never could exactly make out,
but so it is. Those who are not ill regard
those who are from a stand-point of proved
superiority, and are inclined to ridicule rather
than to pity ; nevertheless, that the illness is
one of a most terribly depressing character is
certain.

Bodily depression means mental depression,
and here wee get the keynote of Leroy's action.
Yet, even as we write it, we cannot but be
conscious that many will think such a cause a
most inartistic introduction to such an effect
as we are about to narrate ; and this might be
so were it a case of pure fiction ; but we are
bound somewhat by facts, and must therefore
give them.

It might be that a congested liver would
form but an uninteresting motive for murder ;
but if we were writing of such a case — and
such cases have undoubtedly been — we should

not strive to embellish the liver, but just state
it plainly and simply.

With him, however, there were other concomitant
causes at work, the chief of which
was " drink." He had, as we know, been
giving way to it for some time, and as soon as
ever he was safe on board ship he commenced,
either to seek oblivion of the past by its means,
or to create a genial, happy frame of mind with
regard to the future.

Weakened as he was by his trials, this told
on him with double effect, and then, as the
winds arose, and the ships rolled and tossed
more and more, his condition became wretched
to the last degree.

Misfortune, misery, and illness bring down
the most stubborn hearts, and will even
extract prayers from lips that never uttered
them before, and will never utter them again
if comfort returns and abides with them.
And there are many who have not very evil

consciences who have, nevertheless, when
tossed about upon the seas, been reduced
to a state in which they would almost
wish to die, or certainly be quite indifferent
about it.

To one, however, who was leaving name and
fame, wealth and prosperity, behind, going
forth friendless and alone, in danger of pursuit
and capture, with the knowledge that he
had deceived every one, even those whom
he had affected to be serving ; with his mind
shifting and veering in a whirl of emotions,
that were now swaying it beyond the control
of his will, — once so strong, now so weak, —
bodily exhaustion was indeed a perilous
state.

It was night, and he in his cabin sat pale
and ghastly. The roar and crash of the waves
as they struck the ship, the footsteps and
indistinct voices overhead, and the melancholy
creaking and o^roaninsj of the timbers, seemed

O ^ C3

VOL. III. Q

to agitate him ; but he spoke no word : he was
thinking.

What were his thoughts ? That will
never be known ; but presently he burst forthwith
a wild light in his eye, "Oh, that
I could believe there was a God who hears
prayers, that I might pray him to undo the
past! My mother told me there was a God.
I have read the Bible with her. Would that
I could remember that Bible now ! What did
it say ? I remember one thing, — ' Cut it down;
why cumbered it the ground ? ' Strange !
why should I remember and think of that ?
What does it mean ? * Cut it down ; why
cumbered it the ground ? ' I seem to see the
words written up in letters of fire over there.
Oh, Kate, Kate ! how I have wronged you and
him you love ! How you two will hate me
now that you have found out all ! What a
ruin I have made of your happiness and of my
own ! From what a height how low have I

fallen ! Oh, it is madness to think of the
future : never, never again can I be what 1
was. I have been a wretch, a scoundrel, and
now what am I ? of what use am I ? Ah ! those
words of fire still there ; they seem burning
into my brain."

The wind howled and moaned over the great
waters, and the other sounds of storm had
increased.

His eye fell on the case wherein was the
revolver that Henry had given him. " The
words mean me," he muttered, with a sudden
flash of inspiration. " It is I who cumber the
ground."

Then after a pause he took the pistol from
the case. It was already loaded.

He told me it might prove useful : his
words were true. Yes, yes, it will be better so.
Did I speak just now of a God ? Well, it is
too late for me to think whether there is one
or not ; at least. He cannot be for such as me.

Q 2

But if there be devils, as I think there are,
if those be demons that are careering with the
angry blast over the sea, then let my spirit —
if I have a spirit — join them. They will find
a fitting mate. And yet I will do one good act
before the end."

He rose with difficulty to his feet, — for he
was very weak now, — and staggered across to
where he kept some note-paper. Returning to
his seat, he proceeded to write wearily enough
in pencil. It was but a few lines, addressed to
the captain of the ship, as follows : —

Sm,

What I am about to do you will know
before you read this. Why I have done it you
will probably understand before long. I write
this, however, to inform you that I am Frank
Leroy, of Brancksey Park, Chesterton, England.
Send my money and effects to my wife at that
address. I had purposely destroyed all trace

of my identity, but having changed my mind,
have thought fit to disclose it to you.
I remain,

Yours obediently,

^, Leroy."

Then a few more lines, which he addressed
to H. JollifFe, Esq., Newton Vicarage, Yorkshire.


Dear Henry,

Your revolver has * proved useful.'
I have freed Kate by its means, and rid the
world of a sinner. I think I have never done
a good act before. Give me credit for this
accordingly, or rather, give credit to what you
remember of me, for within two minutes from
the time I write this I shall be dead. Goodbye.
May you both be happy !

Yours till death,

F. Leroy."

He took the revolver. " Head or heart ? "
he muttered musingly to himself. ^^ I think
it might be difficult to hit my heart ; " and he
actually smiled over the grim conceit. " Head
be it then."

*****

He was found next morning perfectly dead,
and the letters by his side. He had done well
to write them, for otherwise no one would
ever have known but that he was Mr. Johnson,
as he at first said ; and Kate, hearing nothing
of his fate, would have been held in bondage
for at least seven years before she would have
been entitled to presume him dead.

CHAPTER Viii.

Forlorn ! the very word is like a bell

To toll me back from thee to my sole self !
Adieu ! the fancy cannot cheat so well

As she is feigned to do, deceiving elf.
Adieu ! adieu! tliy plaintive anthem fades

Past the near meadows, over the still stream,
Up the hill side ; and now 'tis buried deep

In the next valley-glades :
Was it a vision or a waking dream ?

Pled is the music. Do I wake or sleep ? " — Keats.

And now ought not Henry and Kate to get
married, and live happily ever afterwards ?
That were a consummation devoutly to be
wished, at least, some may think so ; but at
the risk of offending those who may have been
led to believe it would happen by what has
ozone before, we are bound to state what really
occurred, and to resist the inclination U>

render the story as the imagination would have
it—

And he that told the tale in older times
Says that Sir Garth wedded Leonora,
Eut he that told it later says Annette."

And we are in the present instance like the
truthful tale-teller of older times, not like the
later one, who said it was Annette just because
he thought it ought to have been.

Henry did not stay long with the Hamiltons,
to whom he only went for the sake of appearances.
The flight of Leroy had been a nine
days' wonder ; but people soon ceased to talk
about it, and his death was not yet known.

Under the circumstances the afflicted Kate,
of whom many and various opinions were
formed, had decided to take up her abode with
her parents, and to let Brancksey. What was
there left for her but to live a miserable life
and think of Henry ? It was possible to see
much of him before, when her husband was

there to apparently sanction it; but now there
could be no excuse for having him with her,
it could not be.

Meanwhile Henry went back to Oxford and
commenced reading by way of diversion ;
this, too, with such good purpose that he
actually secured a First in the History Schools
at the end of the term — a matter somewhat
remarkable when everything is considered.

The news of Leroy's end presently arrived.
Henry received his letter in due course,
which shocked him no little, as may be imagined,
and the fact of the death was proved
beyond all possible doubt. The greater part
of the money too that the unfortunate man
had taken with him was restored ; but of
course that went to the general body of his
creditors.

The bar thus removed, what remained but
to marry Kate and share her large fortune ?
Nothing. Yes, he was compelled to admit

nothing remained ; and yet he did not feel
altogether overjoyed about it.

Certainly he and she wrote tender epistles —
the words much the same as heretofore, but it
hardly seemed with such a true ring about
them. She indeed looked on the elinor now
as a foregone cod elusion, to be viewed after a
more matter-of-fact fashion ; while he — well,
he hardly knew what to think about it.

But he journeyed up to town that Christmas
to seethe Pantomimes, and the Hamiltons were
also at Eaton Square for a similar purpose ;
yet on the first available day he went not to
see Kate, but to see — Blair Athol at the Cobham
stud. It is sad now to think of Cobham,
and yet not so sad as it might have been had
the establishment been quite broken up in these
later days when we write. How familiar tous
once were the drives from Esher station to
the stud farm ; how happy were the days
spent there 1 What amusing converse have we

heard ! what samples of the most illustrious
blood have we seen I It is past and gone — for
us ; but, nevertheless, the days spent there will
shine brightly out through the remainder of
our existence.

To Henry the whole scene at Cobham was
indeed delightful, and even the hearty welcome
of the manager seemed to brings back common

o o

sense and enjoyment of life to his mind. AVhat
man ever seemed more genial and pleased to
see a kindred soul than that same manager ?

It was a busy day, and Henry, being left fora
while to his own devices, strolled on to where
he knew Blair Athol was, though he had not
been to see him as yet that morning. Entering
the yard wherein the great horse's box-stood,
he passed on to the door, the upper half
of which was open, and — there he was !

No need to express raptures here, no need
to illustrate admiration. There was Blair
Athol, and there was Henry gazing at him,

that is all we need say. We may watch them
though, and note the Ions:, lone look which is
bent upon the horse ; and we may attempt to
fathom what is passing in that wayward,
impressionable mind. This is something like
it :—

After all, there is something more truly
noble there to think about. He is grand,
magnificent, as he stands with that splendid
shoulder, that short back, that beautiful
blood-like reach of neck, on which the head,
with its amiable blaze face, is set so elegantly.
What ground he stands over ! what raking
liberty ! and see the length from the hip to the
round bone, and to the hock ! I love the horse,
even to the strange bump on his quarters I
love him. Yes, old man, T know your ankles
are a bit queer ; but you could travel on them,
couldn't you ? Aye, and your stock can do the
like, not quite the like as yet, perhaps, but
the time will come."

Then we see another long, long: craze over
the door, while old Blair steadily munches his
food, or looks round complacently from time
to time at his visitor.

I tell you what it is, Blair," says Henry at
length : " my love for you is wonderful, passing
the love of women ! "

Then more pondering, and fancy goes back
to the time when that same horse, then a
fresh young three-year-old, skimmed so lightly
over Langton Wold ; and when he bore with
him the hearts and the money of united
Yorkshire into the fray at Epsom, emerging a
glorious victor from the contest, and destined
to be famous for all succeeding ages. Then
all the after years in which his stock had run.

Why," thought Henry, " why have I not
been true to the cause ? Why have I not gone
in for them, and stuck to them heart and soul,
instead of playing the fool as I have done ? I
felt it when Glentilt won at York last August :

it made me so that I couldn't bear the thought
of Kate ; and why ? Because there is something
truer and better about this — I know it — ■
than there is about the other game."

His dream that he dreamed at Saltoun honor
years ago now flashed across him — when he
rode Blair Athol away from Kate and seeming
comfort to an obscure and barren wilderness of
what he deemed duty. Could there be anything
in this ? Could this natural repugnance
which the element of his soul that gloried in
Blair Athol had for his association with Kate
be what his dream foretold ?

'' Now then," cried the merry voice of the
manager behind him ; " how much longer are
ye going to stare at him ? "

Henry starts back from his reverie, and the
manager bursts into a hearty laugh.

He's worth looking at, too. I don't blame
you ; but if it had been some young woman
you couldn't have been more taken up."

He's better worth looking at than any
young woman I ever saw," laughed Henry.

Hoots, man ! but what's that I heard of
you at Scarbro ?" and the worthy soul laughed
at the bare idea of his question till the tears
ran down his cheeks; while Henry, who found
himself detected even in this quarter, could not
help joining in the merriment.

He and the manager were not to be parted
that day, for they succeeded in talking until
it was dinner-time, and so Henry had to stay ;
and then they talked over some excellent claret
until the last train time had passed, and so
there was nothing for it but a night there,
which, coupled with the spirit of Blair Athol
pervading the place, went an immense way
towards placing Henry's mind on a strong,
manly, honest basis, as different as possible
the miserable, weak, flickering pedestal
it had occupied during his recent adventures.

He felt as though he was stretching and

expanding himself from bonds with which he
had wilfully bound himself, but which he could
snap like pack-thread when he really felt called
upon to try. The phantasms, the enshrouding
miasma of moral weakness with which he had
been beset, were clearing off as clouds driven
by a rapid gale. All that he had done began
to appear to him as strange and unattractive.
Blair Athol and Blair Athol's manager had
made a man of him again — a man with a strong
heart, a discerning eye, and a calm will.

All this may seem hardly capable of belief
to the reader, who may rather see in Henry a
fickle soul, and may declaim against him for
this change, rather than approve it. We ourselves
will not go so far as to say that other
elements were not at work. We do not believe,
in the first place, that Henry ever loved Kate,
and wc have striven throughout to make this
sufficiently manifest. We think that what he
deemed love was the outcome of the spirit of

opposition, aided by the spirit of conceit. xVs
the American trotter goes at best speed so long
as you pull at him, as the pig goes one way so
long as you drive him the other, — but both
stop when you cease your efforts against them,
so, too, in this case the removal of the barrier
which the existence of Leroy had established
removed also what was the chief attraction
that lay between Henry and Kate. Parted
by necessity, they complained, and believed
they loved. The cause of parting being removed,
their love was like to be removed also.
Not that we mean in Kate's case she would
ever have absolutely renounced Henry of her
own accord. No ; she had made up her mind
to marry him, and was prepared to do so,
though the romance was all over, and she could
with difficulty now write him letters as of old ;
but he was all this while falling more and
more away, to be recalled to his allegiance less
and less each time he saw her.

VOL. III. R

There was undoubted wealth with her,
which to him would have been very acceptable
by this time, as he had run financial matters
into some disorder ; but there was also the
feeling that with her he lapsed into a state that
reduced him far below the level for which he
was fitted by intellect and by his natural
wishes. He now felt as a true man that he
had been wrong, very wrong, in acting with
her as he had done. Thank God, he could
acquit himself of all blame in the matter of
her husband's death. Yet it might have been
otherwise.

She was a pretty woman, and a good-hearted
woman, and would make some man a goodwife
; but not a man such as Henry. He himself
was too easily led, too easily swayed by
those with him, to be ever happy or successful
with her. She was weak and childish, and
weak and childish she would have made him :
then all the powers he possessed would have

been buried and lain dormant, while lie, conscious
of their existence, would have been
miserable because he had not the strength to
use them. What power of intellect he possessed
he proved, as we have said, by taking
his " first" at Oxford in spite of all drawbacks
; and that opportune journey to Cobham
had laid bare and open to him the whole necessities
of his life. With the strong he could
be strong, but with the weak he also was weak.
Something pure, something powerful, something
heroic, though embodied only in a horse, this
was what was required to elevate him, to drive
him onward in life ; something, by the contemplation
of which his spirit could be raised from
its lethargy and voluptuous ease.

Hero-worship is in itself the sign of a man
who can arouse his mind to think, to ponder,
and to admire. He who is incapable of hero-worship
is incapable of serious thought ; for n< >
one who really thinks can fail to find something

R 2

that is wonderful, past this ken, and therefore
admirable. The order of the universe, the preeminent
genius of a man — these are indeed
subjects for admiration, inasmuch as we can
never understand them ; no matter how scientific
we grow, we can never say in plain terms
what and how they are. The man who passes
them by as mere common-place matters is one
who, by nature or by education, is a non-thinker.
The rude savage, who sees in the order of the
universe a deity, who deifies a hero man, is
more wise, more worthy of commendation, and
more likely to meet with his reward.

This wonderment, this admiration, extending
even to the qualities of a horse, had taken
hold of Henry, and thus roused him to thought.
The reader may perhaps never understand this :
we cannot help it, but will only say to such as
scoff, Look at Blair Athol if you are fond of a
horse, and more especially if yr»u are Yorkshire
born ; look at him, and try to tell us what it is

that made him win the Derby and Leger ; what
it is that proclaims him at first sight a king
among horses; and what it is that excites a
feeling almost of adoration in many minds.
Is it not the very inexplicable quality or
essence that has ere now deified many a hero,
just because it is inexplicable ; and shall we say
that we are the worse in these cut-and-dried
ages for a glimpse of a genuine hero-worship,
even though the hero be a horse ?

Thought produces what is termed commonsense,
and common sense Henry was speedily
acquiring. His associations with Kate were
becoming: colder and still more cold. She was
indifferent to this herself, though still willing
to marry him ; indeed, for her the charm was
all past.

One of the first persons Henry met on his
return to town was Lord Chesterton, who welcomed
him most cordially, and asked him to
dinner in a quiet way.

You will find us quite in the rough," said
his lordship. 'ewe are so seldom in town at
this time of the year. You won't mind having
such short notice I am sure. Ah ! by the way,
you knew Leroy — awful scoundrel, wasn't he ?
We shall be having another election at Chesterton
directly. Well, good-bye ; see you tonight."


Henry heard in the course of the day at the
club that Lord Chesterton was in great difficulties.
He had gone the pace in his youth,
and had never manasseh to shake ofiPthe clutches
of the Jews. The estate was a magnificent
one, but charged almost beyond endurance ;
and, as a matter of fact, the family were living
quietly in town to economize.

This notwithstanding, the dinner, at which
there were eight or ten more or less eminent
guests, was all that could possibly be desired ;
and Henry was greatly pleased to meet Lady
Geraldine again, for of course she was there,

and looking much prettier somehow than he
ever fancied her to be. He did not have mncli
chance of speaking to her until after dinner,
but all the while he kept thinking of the truth,
honesty, and strength of her character. Partly
by experience, but chiefly by instinct, he knew
these qualities to be hers ; and completely
neglecting a faded though famous literary lady
who had been assigned to his charge, failing to
join with tolerable coherence in any conversation,
and seeming to be utterly stupid, he
ruminated and pondered on this one subject.
Truly the scales seemed to have fallen from his
eyes ; for how frightfully blind he must have
been not to see the worth of Lady Geraldine
as he saw it now, and that, too, when she had
scarcely spoken a word to him more than
ordinary greeting.

Before dinner was over, he had said to himself,
'' Here, by God's rood, is the one maid
for me." But then came despondency as he

remembered the past ; for how would she ever
by any possibility care about him whom she
had herself detected in the act of making himself
a fool ?

Afterwards in the drawing-room he managed
to get near her while some elaborate music was
going on. It was a large room, and they were
some little distance from the others. Very
awkward did he feel after he had located himself
on a chair in tolerable proximity to her,
and she, looking up from the pages of an uninteresting
album, surveyed him with an almost
maternal air of superiority. He tried to say
something about the Pantomimes, but failed ;
he could not speak to her on trivial subjects,
and she, though she seemed half amused, gave
him no assistance. At last he managed to
clumsily announce that he was going in for the
Bar examination on the first of January. Instantly
her face lighted up.

I'm very glad to hear that," she said ;

*' for I know you will do well if you will but
try."

Oh, I'm sure to pass all right."

I don't mean that. Of course you'll pass ;
but that's nothings. I thought from the fact
of your going in for the Examination you had
decided to work afterwards. That was what T
meant when I said you'd do well ; but I suppose
you'll grow idle again."

'' No, no," said Henry warmly ; " I do assure
you I won't. It may seem ridiculous to you,
but the sight of old Blair iVthol yesterday gave
me fresh life ; and I — I felt I'd been making
rather a fool of myself, don't you know, and
so—"

He stopped, confused, as he remembered
what she had seen of him and Kate ; but she,
with something of tenderness in her look,
asked,

And are you so weak that it depends
on a horse whether you do right or

wrong: ? " and she laughed a little, but not
unkindly.

"■ I don't know, I can hardly understand
myself ; I suppose I am weak, and an idiot.
But then if a horse can bring me to myself,
doesn't it show I am not so very far astray
not an inveterate fool ? I could manage
without the horse if Iliad any one like you to
drive sense into me."

Then his heart failed him a bit at having
said so much, and an unwonted blush showed
signs of asserting itself on his face.

*' Nonsense ; you must learn to depend on
yourself for good motives. Now don't think
I'm preaching to you ; but tell me what are you
really going to do ? " ''

"I'm going to work at my profession."

You really mean that ? "

"I really do."

I don't know why it should make me so
glad to hear you say so, but glad I am. One

thing more though I should like to know — are
you to console Mrs. Leroy for her husband's
death ? "

There was a little confusion on her part
as she brought out this question ; but Henry
answered very firmly, looking straight into her
eyes —

To be rid of him at all is in one sense
sufficient consolation for her. You know, Lady
Geraldine, how things once stood. That is
over ; that spell is broken for ever. I dreamed
years ago that Blair Athol took me from her
and what seemed pleasure, to face what seemed
hard work, or something of the kind. It was
a queer dream, but it has come true."

"But — but does she know this ? "

She cares no more for me than I for her,
and that is not at all. She has lots of money,
and will be happy in her way ; and I, though
I shall never shake off the regret for having
been such a fool and worse than a fool, will do

my best to go straight now ; hut I'm not a
very good hand at guiding myself. If I only
had your sense, or — " and then Henry pulled
up, fearing he was going ahead too fast.

Or what ? " asked she.

'^ You, dear Geraldine," interposed her father,
coming up at the moment, '' had better play
Sir William's accompaniment for him."

Geraldine started and flushed at the first
words, then got up to assist Sir William
Catches in his murderous execution of a

A few lines more now and we have done.
Experience of life has taught us that facts do
not fall out so symmetrically as fiction weavers
love to make them ; so if aught here disappoints
the expectations of the idealist, we have
only to plead that the " actual " is commonly
disappointing. Any one might have imagined
that Tom would have married Mary Jolliffe ;

and tins lie did, after Miss Whitehead had signalized
herself by forbidding the banns. So far
so good. But what will be said of Kate when
it is read that in no long tine she bestowed
herself and her fortune on her old fiance,
Prince Lambertini, who thereupon ceased
speculation, and lived with her prosperously
and happily.

And in their halls arose
The ciT of children, Ends and Grants
Of times to be."

And as for Henry, — well, we have had enough

of him. He shall be dealt with in two lines

from the good old Scottish song —

Next time that the Laird and Lady were seen,
They were gown' ann in aran to the kirk on the green."

Among presents on that occasion to the " lady,"
the least valuable, but most valued, was a horsehair
bracelet, the contribution of Blair Athol.

THE END.

CLAY AND Taylor, Fritters.

If

Of Ais.

UR8ANA


