iS«SJiJSSSSJ!^^--*■■

rc>'

MliWWlHWBMWni

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS


B238^^

V. I

VOL. I.

A TALE OF THE CORNISH COAST

BY THE

AUTHOR OF 'JOHN HERRING' ' MEHALAH ' &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON
S^^IITH, ELDER, & CO., L5 WATERLOO PLACE



[All ri'ihl.; reserved

CO

§ CONTENTS

Oi

7^

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

uj

Q

—I CHAPTER PAGE

I. THE BROTHERS 1

II. ROSE TREWHELLA . . . . . . 19

> III. PORTH-IERNE 35

N\

IV. BROTHER AND SISTER . . . . . 53

'I V. MOTHER AND SON . 65

3 VI. RED FEATHERSTONE . . . . . . 81

^

VII. A RACE FOR LIFE 103

M

■"^ VIII. THE SHADOW OF DEATH . . . . . il

-) IX. THE UNSPOKEN TONGUE . . . .131

X. A woman's soul . . . . . . 145

XI. A STUDY IN DRAWING . . . . .159

XII. NANTSILLAN 175

XIII. A QUIET EVENING , . . . .183

XIV. THE GOOSE FAIR . . . . . . 197

i

CONTENTS OF THE First Volume

CHAI'TF.R

XV. THE pedlar's PACK

XVI. ' Pa DE CHANCE ' .

XVn. THE FEATHERSTONES

XVIII. Maryland

XIX. Strangury .

XX. A TEMPTATION.

XXI. SPRINGTIME

•209

2;i6


■2e,i




CHAPTEE I.

T 11 E B R O T II E R S.

The road was bad. To speak with accuracy,
the road was not a road, but a track. To be
more accurate still, it was not a track, but a
series of tracks cut by cart and carriage and
gig wheels in the turf, and through it to the
sparry stone beneath, that worked up in lumps
like sugar, but which were so hard that the
wheel of a laden wain would not crush them.

Along this course — this tangled skein of
wheel tracks, over a moor, bounced and pitched
and lurched and dived a tax-cart with two menin
it, one very much older than the other, for
in fact he was the father.

The father drove, whilst the son sat holding
to the back of the seat with one hand, to the

VOL. I. B

side with the other, and with his eyes fixed on
the horse's ears. The driver was more accustomed
to the motions of the cart, was able to
balance himself without holding a rail.

Hardly a tree was visible. The down was
covered with short grass, dotted over with dark-green
clings of gorse, spotted with gold where
stray flowers bloomed, but covered with bursting
seed-pods. Here and there a hedge appeared
with thorns on the top, curling over away from
the west, and leafing only on the nether surface.

Beyond, where the sun was setting in a bed
of quivering fire, lay the Atlantic, with the
horizon half-way up the sky.

The horse or the driver, or the horse and
driver together, groped among the ruts for the
least profound and the least knobby at bottom
groped with the wheels of the tax-cart ; did
not like one rut, tried another, then a third,
after that went recklessly at any rut that offered,
found that did not succeed, once more went
through the course of selection, and finally
abandoned the exercise of intelligence and reason
for happy-go-luck}^, like many a man at the
outstart of life who tries one line, then another,
and finally allows himself to jolt on in whatever

rut receives him. In vain did horse, or driver,
or horse and driver together, endeavour to find
ruts to the gauge of the cart ; all the conveyances
that had ever gone before and cut for
themselves grooves had been just too broad or
just too narrow, so that the tax cart always
went with one Avheel deep in a furrow and the
other high on the turf.

Between the driver and the setting sun and
sea, fused into one sheet of flame, stood a house
a long, low house, all roof, except on the
side that was approached by the cart, the side
that looked inland. As the road was not a
road, but a skein of tracks, so the side was nota
side, but an irregular face. It was formed
of a front with doorway and low, wide windows
and tv/o uneven projecting gables, one at each
extremity. About this house clustered some
miserable trees — beech, that had died at their
heads, and lived a sickly, apologetic life in the
lower branches, where a few shrivelled leaves
appeared. The trunks of these trees were
inclined inland, at an angle so acute that anyone
unaccustomed to the habits of trees on the
coast woidd have expected them to fall at the
first pufF of wind.

B 2

This house was Towan. It belong-ed, at
the beginning of the century which we honour
with living in it, to Hence Havelock
(the name pronounced Gav'r-ock), a man
of some property — in fact, a small country
squire.

Towan was situated in the parish of St.
Kevin, on the north coast of Cornwall, about
four miles from Padstow and twelve from Wade-bridge.


The cart in which the two men rode belonged
to Hender Gaverock, and contained him and
his younger son Constantine, a fine young man
with hair auburn — a warm chestnut, and with
blue eyes. There was a certain resemblance
between the two men, but also a striking dissimilarity.
The same features and colour of
hair, but the young man was smooth and refined,
and the old one was rugged and uncouth.
There was in the either a hardness, a headstrong
look in the eyes, a selfwill in the modelling
of the hips, a domineer in the cut of the
nose. As for the son, Constantine, his mouth
expressed much weakness. It lacked brightness
and was overcast with discontent. His skin
was clearer than that of his either; it was,

plain at a glance that it had not been exposed
of late to the elements.

There, boy, is mother standing in the doorway
expecting us ! ' exclaimed old Hender, who
was driving, and he pointed before him with
his whip.

Us ! ' repeated Constantino ; ' mr, you
mean, father ; I have been absent for a twelvemonth
in Nankivel's fusty office — I hate it.'

Oh, Con ! you will become a great lawyer
in time.'

Constantine shrugged his shoulders and
made no answer to this remark. Presently,
after a moment of brooding, he said :

It is a hard thing that I should be moped
up in a lawyer's office, whilst Gerans, because
he is the eldest son, should be obliged to do
nothing. Why is he not now at the door with
my mother, looking out for me ? '

Because, you fool, he is out hunting.'

He can go hunting, boating, shooting, but
I must use the pen and have no horse, or boat,
or gun. I am nothing, and he is everything.
He is the first-born and the heir, born with
a silver spoon in his mouth. He has all the
love and ambition of the house fixed on him,

and poor I am driven into a far country to eat
husks with the swine — I mean into a dirty sty
of a lawyer's office.'

You will see, Con, the fatted calf will be
killed for you.'

Oh, I want no extraordinary festivity
made in honour of my return, as if I Avere a
prodigal son. I am not that, but most respectable,
steady, dusty, and dry. A lawyer's clerk
must be all that. It is part of the business.'

'Xo, Con, you are no prodigal son, and
Gerans is not like the elder brother in the parable.
He doesn't grumble and begrudge you
anything ; no one is more delighted than he at
your return. You are the younger, and must
accept the position.'

The old man was red in the face and sulky.
He was irritated at the mood of his son, who
returned after a long absence grumbling and
discontented because he had not the place and
advantages of his elder brother.

There'll be something for you after all.
Con,' said the squire. ' But wait and see what
it is. You will in the end settle near Towan.
I reckon it is a place you would like to spend
your days near.'

I don't know,' observed the j'oung man
with a shrug ; ' I Hke civilisation. You
wouldn't, I reckon, like to be taken by the
scruff of the neck and pitched out of this
century into the barbarism of a hundred years
ago. I feel like that, when returning from
a town, w^itli its polish and enlightenment and
good roads, to this wild moor — rough, gloomy,
headless.'

The trap drew up in front of the house,
and Hender Gaverock slowl}?- dismounted. He
was a strange old man. He wore liig-h boots
and a waterman's jersey under a rough, long-tailed
coat, weather-beaten and discoloured.
On ordinary occasions he wore no cap or hat,
but a surprising head of reddish-grey hair, harsh
and coarse, that blew about in the wind and
looked more lilac a mass of frowsy heather.
He never wore a hat except on Sundays and
when he went into a town, or to pay a call ;
then he covered his head with a shaggy white
beaver, almost as rough and tangled as his
natural head of hair. This day, as he had been
to Padstow, he did wear his hat, at the back of
his head. ' Hats blow off and bloAv away,'
said old Gaverock, * but it would take such a

gale as would uproot our Cornish cliffs to carry
the natural cover off my crown.'

A crimson kerchief was knotted round his
neck, the ends depended over his breast. In
very stormy and wet weather the utmost protection
he allowed himself was to take this kerchief
from his neck, tie it over his head, and
knot it under his chin.

In front of the windows and main door of
the house ran a slated walk the full length of
the face. Here Hender Gaverock was wont
to pace with great strides in his water-boots.
The slate slabs at each extremity of the walk
were marked with concentric circles. For,
when standing there, Hender turned on his
heels when he reached the last slate, and scored
the rings when lie revolved on his iron-shod
heels.

As the Squire dismounted he shouted for a
groom, but none appeared. Then he shouted
again, and swore.

By Golly ! ' he said, ' where are the men?
What has become of them. I want my horse
to be taken.'

He addressed his wife, who stood in the
porch, a delicate-sliced, sweet, faded lady, wearing

a white frilled cap. Altlioiigli the words
were spoken to her, Gaverock did not turn his
face towards her, bnt roared his words into the
wide space before the door, leaving the echoes
to repeat them in her ear.

Golly ! he does look curious, I protest, ;
exclaimed Hender, standing with his legs apart,
and his hands in his pockets, looking at Con ashe
dismounted.

Then Mrs. Gaverock came down the steps
of the porch, ran forward, put out both her
hands to clasp Constantine as he leaped to the
ground, her timid face fluttering with smiles
and suffused with tears — tears and smiles, the
common progeny of joy.

Out of the way, wife ! ' shouted Hender ;
don't molly-coddle the boy. Stand back. Con ;
let your mother look at you. Lord ! what sort
of a coat do you call that ? ' The father caught
his younger son by the shoulder, twirled him
about roughly, forward, backward, from side
to side, and laughed. ' Town fashions, eh ? my
word as a gentleman ! What jackanapes you
young men make of yourselves, and think to setup
as bucks and dandies. Where is Mathews ?
I want the horse and trap to be taken.'

I believe, husband,' said the old lady, ' the
hounds and hunters are in Nantsillan Grove,
and all the men have run after them and the
fox. You were not expected so soon.'

'Very well,' said the squire, 'Con and I
can take the trap round and unharness. Come,
sir, buck and dandy though you think yourself,
jackanapes though j^ou seem in my eyes, let me
see that you are true Cornish Gaverock to the
core still. Off with your coat, Constantine ! '

What do you want me to do, father ? '

The men have run after the hounds, of
course. I don't blame them. Let me see
that you are not a town fop. Come round
to the yard and unharness and rub the mare's
ears.'

I am not an ostler,' answered Constantine,
sulkily. He folded his arms over his breast
and looked down, his brows knitted, his lips
puffed out.

'Well,' exclaimed old Hender, 'here's a
twelvemonth you've been away, sitting on a
stool like a broody hen, hatching nothing but
legal mischief. Has that taken the manhood
out of you ? If so, 111 none of you. I'll disown
a milksop. Take this trap round and

unharness. What ! have you forgotten how to
unrig a horse ? '

'Hender, the boy is tired,' pleaded Mrs.
Gaverock.

'Tired? What with.? Sitting is natural
with him, and he has been but sitting outside
a coach a few hours, and a little longer m the
gig. Old woman, do not interfere. What I
choose I will have. What I order must be
done. What I set my head on must be carried
out. Come, take the mare out and groom her.'

The tone of command his father assumed
angered Constantino. The hectoring, domineering
ways of the old man had been endured when
he was a boy, but he was a man now, and he
was determined to resist.

I will not,' answered Constantino, surlily.

The old man looked at his son angrily. His
face was effervescing with life.

Lord ! ' he exclaimed, ' you've not unlearnt
country ways in Exeter, I hope. You were
always a bit of a milksop and jour mother's
darling. I bore with it when you were a boy,
but thought it unnatural. It is twice as unnatural
in a man. You should wear petticoats
and a bonnet. Jut — what have we got on ? '

He took Constantine by the shoulders once
more, and again spun him round.

Mercy on us ! what a dandy we are ! — a
green coat with brass buttons, like a buttercup
meadow ! a pair of waistcoats, one figured
satin underneath and the other above it of
nankin ! ' He stood back, placed his hands on
his hips and roared with daughter. ' Come, you
damned dandified fool ! ' he shouted, ' off with
the coat at once, I order, and unharness and
groom the mare.'

Constantino did not stir. His dogged look
intensified. All at once, his father went to him,
tripped up his heels, and cast him sprawling on
his back.

Then Hender burst out lauo-hinrv and as
his wife started forward to the aid of her
prostrate son he restrained her with his arm,
and said, ' A sulky ill-conditioned hound ! torn
his city coat, has he ! so much the better. The
rent will serve to let the wild wind in to blow
his sour humours away.' Then, without another
word he went towards the stable-yard, leading
the horse and cart, to do himself what his town-spoiled
son refused to soil his hands with doing.

Never heed this. Con,' said his mother.

'You know what a delight father takes in
showing his masterhood. You must put up
with his ways — they mean kindness, though
roughly expressed. To any one who knows
him, it is an outbreak of affection, quite as
much as my kisses.'

I wish I had not returned to Towan,'
answered Constantine, rising with the help of
his mother's hand. 'I cannot, I will not,
endure this treatment.'

My dear, dear Con ! ' said his mother,
you have come home to gladden my heart
with the sight of you. There, forget the cast.
You must not take it amiss. It is the way in
which your father shows his paternal love and
delight at seeing you home.'

I have been away for a twelvemonth, and
this is my first salutation when I come home.
He will kick me downstairs next, and you will
affirm it is to do me honour ; pitch me out of
the window, and be comforted to know it is
evidence of his predilection. I do not like
these ebullitions of fatherly love — they may do
among Choctaws and Otaheite Indians ; or
even '

Hush ! hush ! Con ! Eeraember that he

is your father ; you must not judge his conduct
and disparage his manners.' She put her handover
his hips as he muttered something about
Orang-outangs and kangaroos.'

Constantine kissed the hand, then his
mother clasped him to her heart and burst into
tears.

At that moment the clatter of horses' hoofs
and the ring of many voices were echoed by
the grey walls. Old Squire Gaverock ran out
from the stable-yard, and called, ' Back, Eose !
Got the brush, eh ? '

No, Guardyy ! no brush when cub-hunting,'
came the answer to the question.

A party of returning huntsmen swept up ;
with them, on a white horse, a graceful girl in
hat and riding habit.

Come in ! come in all of you ! Hunters
always, proverbially, are hungry. Had a good
run ? Scent lie well ? jSTo necks, no knees
broken ? Necks of men and knees of horses ? '

Gerans, take my rein,' said the girl, calling
to the elder son, who rode behind her,
and casting the reins towards him as she
leaped from her horse. Gerans had caught
sight of his brother, and ran to him with

sparkling eyes and extended hand, and so
neglected to attend to Eose. When he turned
to assist her to dismount, she was on her feet
already.

Late — sluggish and sleepy as usual, Cousin
Geraus ! ' she said ; ' and now, mind that
Phoebus be well cared for — he is very hot and
tired. Where is my cousin Constantine ? I
want an introduction, and hope to find him
more on the alert than you.'

She looked about her. ' What ! that
gentleman in tatters !

Hush ! hark, the dogs do barb,
The beggars are coming to Towan,
Some in rags, and some in jags •'

Constantine coloured at the reference to his
torn coat. ' I apologise for appearing before
you in this figure,' he said; but she interrupted
him with — ' Why ! bless me, Gerans ! Are you
twins ? You are so much alike that you must
mistake each other for self at times.'

Strangely alike the brothers were — the same
hair, the same features, the same build, the
same tricks of movement ; only in expression
were they unlike — Gerans frank and good-humoured,
Constantine moody and dissatisfied.

Eose did not wait for an answer to lier
question. Her quick blue eye had caught sight
of a young man turning his horse to ride away.
Here ! ' she exclaimed, catching up her habit
with one hand, and waving the whip imperiously
with the other, ' no skulking off, Mr.
Penhalligan. I have just caught you in the
act of executing a retreat, when the general
sounded a summons to table. Stay ! '

Miss Trewhella, one must be driven from
your presence — one is not disposed to skulk
from it,' answered the young man, a dark
handsome man, seated on a rough cob.

Well said, Mr. Penhalligan,' laughed the
girl. ' There is a polish of politeness about
you which is so rare an element at Towan that
we prize it when it is found. I doubt not but
that in proper hands something may be made
out of you.'

Anything may be made out of me, if you,
Miss Trewhella, will put your hand to the
moulding.'

I have neither the patience nor the skill,'
said Eose Trewhella, laughing ; ' I am doing
my best to civilise Uncle Hender, but the
result does not reward the pains.' Then,

suddenly, in an altered tone, ' Why is not your
sister Lovedayay out with us to-day ? '

Because I have no second horse on which
she can ride.'

Oh, you bad brother — like all men, selfish.
You should have stayed at home, and sent her
out.'

'Then, consider, there was no groom to
look after her.'

I have none to-day but my cousin, Gerans.
If it were possible for me to ride without a
groom, surely it was possible also for Lovedayay.'

Every gentleman in the field. Miss Trew-hell,
is your dutiful servant.'

'And the same to Lovedayay. Have you
noticed how I have pouted all day ? It has
been because your sister was not with us.'

How do you do, Dennis ? ' said Gerans,
coming up beside the dark young man, and
patting the neck of his cob. ' What sort of a
run have you had ? How did this mare keep
up ? '

Penhalligan shook his head. ' Only a cob
I can't keep hunters.'

How is your sister ? ' asked Gerans, passing
over the reply without notice. ' Look !

VOL. I. c

here is Coiistautiue. Do you see him? He
has returned home for a change.'

Constantine came up, awkwardly, with his
eyes on the ground ; but that may have been
due to disgust at appearing in a torn coat. He
held out his hand.

Dennis Peuhalligan did not meet the extended
fingers ; he pretended to overlook the
proffered hand. ' Constantine and I must have
a talk,' he said ; then he turned the head of his
horse and rode away to the stable-yard to hitch
up his beast.

CHAPTEE II.

ROSE TREWHELLA.

The party of huntsmen were assembled in the
hall of Towan House. The hall was low,
lighted by a long five-light granite window
looking to the east. It had an immense open
granite fireplace, in which a log was smouldering
upon a pair of andirons, banked up with
peat, that diffused an agreeable odour through
the room. The hall was panelled with oak
and ornamented with stags' horns. Towan in
past times was said to have had a deer-park,
but the park had consisted merely of a walled
paddock of some ten acres, in which was a
spring of pure water, with some gnarled,
crouching thorns above it.

The wall of the deer paddock remained in
places, but the greater portion was broken
down ; of the deer, all that remained were the
few horns on the wall, poor and stunted as the

c 2

trees that grew on that coast. The horns were
fitted into very rudely cut heads of oak, shaped
by a village carpenter in past times.

The Gaverocks were an old Cornish family,
untainted by intermixture with Saxon or Norman
blood. They had married and intermarried
with ancient families of extraction as
pure, and of name as Keltic, as their own : the
Killiowes, the Bodrugans, the Mennynnicks, the
Nanspians, the Eosvargus, and the Chynoweths.
It cannot be said that they had fallen from
their high estate, for they had lost none of
their land, but they had remained stationary,
whilst other families had mounted and others
had declined. Two hundred — nay, even a
hundred — years ago there was scarcely a parish
in the West of England without two, three, or
more resident gentry in it, owning good estates,
dividing the parish between them, marrying in
and out with each other, and leaving yeomen
to flourish in the interstices between their
estates. Most have disappeared. Here and
there one remains, who has bought up his
failing neighbours, and established himself as
sole squire in the place. Among these petty
gentry the lord of the manor exercised preeminence.

He had certain rights over the
lands of his neighbours, which they were unable
to resist, and he imwillinfx to resin. Sometimes
there were two manors in the same parish,
and then he whose manor included the church-town
was accorded the pre-eminence. A silent
and mysterious revolution has taken place in
the social conditions. The small gentry and
most of the yeomanry have disappeared — how
is not so easy to establish as the fact of their
disappearance

The old country gentlemen of small estate,
but of splendid pedigree, farmed their own
lands, and were not ashamed to have their
mansions surrounded by stacks and barns. ^
Indeed, in many instances the grand entrance

^ The parish of Bretton Lovely, in Devon, covers an area
of little over 8,000 acres, Down to 1750 there were eight gentle
families resident in it : landowners, with right to bear arms.
The Willoughby, an elder branch of the family of Lord
"Willoughby d'Eresby, the Corydon, Langesfords, Calmadys,
Burnes, the Parkers, ancestors of Lord Morley, the Incledons,
and the Luxmores, all have vanished from it.

^ The old house of the Parkers in Bretton Lovely, EUacott,
inherited from the heiress of EUacott, but of more recent date
than the marriage, has the house forming one side, and ' cob '
barns, and stables, and cowsheds enclosing a quadrangle and
opening into it. All the dwelling-house windows looked into
this farmyard. A pair of handsome gates — now destroyed —
admitted to farmyard and dwelling-house alike.

was through the farmyard by a paved way,
between heaps and pits of drug, to the manor-house,
which formed one side, Whilst outhouses,
stables, and barns enclosed the quadrangle.

Devon and Cornwall are strewn with these
old mansions, like empty snail-shells. The
gentry have left them, died or disappeared, and
they are converted into farmhouses or cottages.
The advance of civilisation had so far affected
the Gaverocks that they had swept away their
quadrangle and rebuilt their farm outhouses
behind instead of in front of the house. Turf
now grew where the stable-yard had been for
centuries, and a few eschalonia grew before
the windows, defied the winds and flowered
like alpine roses. But if the face of the house
had gained in respectability by the removal
of the yard, it had lost in shelter. The east
wind now rushed unbroken against it, and
drove in at the porch, slamming doors throughout
the house whenever any one entered or
quitted the mansion by the main entrance.
The characteristic feature of all these old 
had been that they never looked
out upon the world ; they were screened behind
walls, and every window blinked into a

court or an enclosed garden. The courts were
sometimes many — cells into which the sun
entered and where it was caught as in a trap,
but out of which the rude winds where excluded.
Now that this feature of Towan was effaced,
Towan was a draughty place — battered by
storm, piped through, screamed into, swashed
about by wind and rain.

Miss Eose Trewhella, who called Squire
Gaverock her uncle and his sons her cousins,
was no relation by blood, though a connexion
by marriage. Her father had married a lady
who was somehow related to some lady who had
at some time married a Gaverock. Her father
was dead, and had left his daughter to the care
of his friend of many years — Hender Gaverock,
of Towan. Trewhella (his Christian name was
Roseclear) had lived in another part of the
country, but he had visited his friend annually
for a month at Towan, and Gaverock had
annually returned the visit for the same length
of time. Till the death of Mr. Trewhella, the
young Gaverocks had seen nothing of Rose.
He had not brought her with him when he came
to Towan, because Hender had no daughter with
whom she might associate when there.

Eose was Eoseclear Trewhella's only child.
She was a wayward, spoiled girl ; was very
pretty, and conscious both of her beauty and
of the fiict that she was an heiress. She was
delicately fair, with hair like gold, and eyes blue
as the summer sea, and a complexion so clear
and bright that no one could look on her and
deny that she had been given at her baptism the
most appropriate name that could have been
selected to describe her.

On coming to Towan, Eose had settled herself
into her new quarters with perfect aptitude,
had won her way to the heart of Mrs. Gaverock,
whom, however, she bewildered, exercised a
sort of daring authority over the Squire, which
he endured because it was not worth his trouble
to resist, and treated Gerans as her groom and
errand-boy. She was good-natured and lively
as long as she had her own way ; when — which
was rarely — she was crossed, she pouted, and
managed to make every one about her uncomfortable.
She was not in the smallest degree
shy. Brought up in the society of men, who
flattered and made inch of her, she preferred
their company to that of women. But
though she liked to be with men, and be made

much of by men, she was dimly conscious of
an inarticulate, undefined craving for the companionship
of a woman to whom she could
empty her mind, of whom lie could exact
nothing but sympathy. Her mother had died
too early for her to be even a reminiscence.
On arriving at Towan she had made the acquaintance
of Lovedayay Penhalligan, and had
been drawn to her as she had been attracted
by no other woman.

Lovedayay was an orphan, like herself; pretty,
but of quite another order of beauty, with olive
skin, dark hair, and large soft umber eyes.
Lovedayay lived with her brother Dennis in a
cottage, called Nautsillan, rented of the Squire.

Dennis Penhalligan was a surgeon, a young
man, who had come to the place about five
years before, having bought the practice.
Dennis was a poor man ; his capital had not
permitted of his purchasing any other than a
very humble practice. He had spent his little
fortune on his own education and on thus establishing
himself. The neighbourhood was a
three-sided one — one side being the sea — and
was but sparsely inhabited.

Dennis Penhalligan was a tall, well-built

man, with black hair, an olive complexion, and
dark keen eyes. His poverty, the hardships he
had undergone in elbowing his way in life, had
taken the joy and elasticity from his spirits, and
had given a bitterness to his mood unusual to
one of his age. He was the intellectual superior
of all his neighbours, and he held himself
aloof from association with them, in cold and
sour contempt of their narrowness of interests
and pettiness of aim. His patients complained
of callousness in his treatment of their sufferings.
He did not administer to them that sympathy
which they desired equally with medicine. A
surgeon who has walked the hospitals looks on
his patients as cases, not persons. But when
he begins to practise for a fee, he finds that
persons insist on being considered persons and
not cases. They demand of their medical
attendant that he shall have, or simulate (it
matters nothing which), an individual interest in
them. Every practitioner should place himself
in the hands of an actor to qualify him for success
in his professional career.

Dennis was too haughtily truthful, too scornful
of Weakness, to pretend to what he did not
possess. When called to the side of a hypochondriac,

be treated the case both lightly and contemptuously.
When he saw that the complaint
was trifling:, he did not make a second and a third
call, and this was resented. People are often
ready to pay to be esteemed sick.

The result was that Penhalligan was unpopular.
The people of the neighbourhood
preferred sending ten miles to fetch an inferior
practitioner, who ministered to their humours
rather than physicked their disease, rather than
summon Dennis, who was at their door.

Dennis chafed at the non-recognition of his
merits. He despised the old, ignorant, drunken
doctor who stole his patients from under his
nose, but he was too proud and too conscientious
to alter his conduct.

From the hour of his first interview with
Eose Trewhella, the fair, cheerful girl had exercised
an extraordinary fascination over Dennis.
Her openness contrasted with his reserve, her
cheerfulness with his gravity, no less than her
clear complexion and golden locks contrasted
with his sallow face and black hair.

She was fully aware of the admiration she
had aroused in the heart of the village doctor,
and she was perfectly content to coquet with

him, to repulse him, as the caprice prompted
and his devotion amused or wearied her. He
had made no deeper impression on her heart
or fancy than any other man among the many
that fluttered around her. If he was regardless
of his patients' feelings, so also was she ;
in this one point alone were they alike.

The table in the hall was spread. Joints,
pies, tarts, cream, cakes, fruit, tea for those who
liked, and, for those who preferred, cider and
wine. A merry party was assembled about it,
of whom not the least niLTry was Eose, who
had changed her habit for a pretty evening dress.
Only Constantine was troubled and silent. He
could not forget his fall. He had changed his
coat, but not his humour. Dennis affected
cheerfulness. When in the society of Eose he
was happy as far as his morose nature was
capable of being galvanised into happiness.

A good many young men and half a
dozen ladies were present, laughing, joking
each other about the events of the day's ride,
or about accidents and mistakes on past occasions.


Presently some one started the subject of
the seashore and the phosphorescence of the

waves, which had been unusually beautiful the
night previous.

Let us go to the beach,' said one, ' and see
whether the waves are on fire this evening.'

The proposal was agreed to by acclamation.
The meal was rapidly concluded, and the merry,
eager throng of young people swept out of the
hall and away, laughing, talking, down a path
to Nantsillan Cove.

Eose remained. She was somewhat tired
with the day's ride, and did not care for a
scramble down the cliffs. She stood in the
window, with her hands behind her back, looking
after the party, till the last had passed round
the wing of the house and had disappeared.
Then she turned, and started to see Dennis
Penhalhgan still in the room.

Why are you not gone with the rest ? ' she
asked.

I had no inclination to go. May I not
remain in the sun if I am cold ? '

Of course. But I do not understand you ;
the sun has set.'

I was speaking metaphorically.'

She pursed up her lips. ' If you remain to
enjoy my society, you remain for woeful disappointment.

The only good things I had to
say are all said ; my Ait is wholly flown. My
conversation is like a pottle of market-woman's
strawberries, where the good fruit is at the top
and underneath is utter squash. I have but a
few notes of the nightingale, and all the rest
are twitters.' She took her straw hat and
swung it by the strings. ' It must be very
pleasant on the beach,' she said after a while.

I can well believe it.'

Then why do you not go thither ? '

How can you ask the question when you
remain ? '

I prefer to be here.'

So do I.'

'■ Why so ? ' She turned towards him and
thrust forth her pretty pouting red lips.

Because the queen of the swarm is here.'

I remain because I want to be alone.'

That is your reason, is it, Miss Rose ? '

Yes ; but I am not alone.'

Very well,' said Dennis, colouring. ' I will
leave you directly. It is not necessary to be so
frank with me. Will you not sit down ? — only
for a moment, and then I will go.'

I can stand.'

Yes ; but 1 want you to listen calmly
to me.'

I cannot be calm. It is no more in my
nature than it is in that of the restless Atlantic'


I pray you, if you cannot be calm, be
patient with me,' said Dennis. ' I want to say
two words to you. They are soon said. I
entreat you, be quiet and listen to me. Will
you. Miss Eose, or will you net ? ' He stepped
up to her and stood before her.

'Very well,' she said, with a sigh and a
shrug of her pretty little shoulders. 'But
pray be quick ; I am tired.'

Miss Eose, you have behaved strangely tome.
At times you have drawn me towards
you, as though you liked my company ; at
others you have scarcely noticed my presence.
To-day, although I was constantly at your
side, you barely deigned to observe me, to cast
at me a look or a word, till, hurt and sore,
I was about to leave, when suddenly you
turned on me all smiles, called me to your
side, forbade my escape, and during supper
singled me out for your sallies. Have I
offended you ? If so, tell me how. Have I

obtained your pardon ? If so, tell me by what
means. Your behaviour towards me passes
my comprehension ; you are a swaying magnet,
presenting alternatively the positive and the
negative poles.'

Positive and negative poles ! Mr. Pen-gallican,'
said Eose, swinging her hat vigorously
and keeping him at a distance with it.

You asked for two words, and after a long
preface you have produced them. Positive
and negative poles ! I protest ; these words
are vastly beyond my poor comprehension.'

What has made you angry with me ? '

Angry ! I am not angry. It takes something
to make me angry.'

Am not I something ? '

Oh, nothing, nothing.'

Miss Eose, do not be cruel ; you torture
me.'

I torture no one. Certain people are
like the Indian fakirs, they skewer themselves.
There,' she said, putting forth her hand,

strike palms ; we are hunting comrades.
Tally-ho ! '

Comrades only ? Comrades in the field —
nothing more ?

Rose TREWHELLA 3.;

Certainly not. Wliat more could you
wish ? '

'I could wish a great deal more. I do
wish for more ! '

Have you ever caught the phosphorescent
flash in the sea ? '

'Never.'

Have you ever wished to do so ? '

Never.'

Then do not desire to catch what eludes
being caught. Here come the maids to clear
away tea. Good-night, Mr. Penhalligan. You
had better go to the beach and see the weaves
break into lightning.'

Is this all you have to say to me ? '

AIL'

He turned away, took up his hat, and went
to the porch. When he reached the door he
halted, looked into his hat, and then turned
his head inquiringly towards Eose. She met
his eyes, smiled, and screwed up her lips,
and whirled her hat round, making with it
complete revolutions in the air. Then he set
his cap on his head and drew the door after
him. Eose stood considering for a moment,
with her slender linger to her lips ; then a

VOL. I. I>

pretty dimple came in her cheeks, and she
laughed, put on her straw hat, and went out ;
looked after the surgeon, and seeing that he
was on his way home, and had not taken the-path
to the Cove, she threw a kerchief round
her shoulders, and tripped lightly down the
path to the sea.

CHAPTEE III.

PORTH-IERKE.

Dennis Penhalligan walked from Towau with
his head down. He was not disappointed with
his rebuff, because he had not expected encouragement
; because, moreover, he was accustomed
to meet with discouragement in all
he undertook and at every turn. Some men
are never cast down, never have the heart
taken out of them ; such men are either
endowed with extraordinary buoyancy or with
extraordinary conceit. Dennis was not sanguine
by nature, he was not conceited, but he
was not diffident. He knew his own abilities,
but he knew also that successes are for the fools
and knaves. The fools are endowed by Providence
with luck to counterbalance their folly, and
the wise are burdened with conscience, which
prevents them profiting by their wisdom.

The cottage inhabited by Dennis Penhalligan

D 2

and his sister was hardly five minutes' walk
from Towan. It lay in a coomb into which
flowed the rill from the spring in the old deer-park.
This rill did not form the glen, it was
merely an affluent of the Nantsillan brook
which traversed the coomb. Under the brow
of the hills grew some trees, their tops tortured
to death the moment they rose sufficiently high
to catch the wind, but forming shelter and
giving shadow beneath them. Bedded among
these stunted and sloping trees was the cottage.


Dennis opened the door and walked in.

Please, sir,' said the servant-girl, a child
of fifteen, 'Miss Lovedayay be agone down to
the Cove. The gentlefolks comet after her
from Towan and looked her off.'

Dennis nodded, stood in the door, considered,
and after a slight hesitation moved
down the coomb to the sea.

The cottage was on the way to the beach
that is, on one way. A shorter path from
Towan led dowai the face of the cliff, but it
was somewhat dangerous. Prudent counsels
had prevailed with the young people, and
instead of risking the steep descent they had

taken the round by Nantsillan, and in doing so
had picked up Lovedayay.

Dennis was not in his best humour. He
was vexed at his sister's departure. He knew
that no harm would befall her, but he was unhappy
himself, and he could ill brook that she
was merry-making whilst he was troubled. In
this he was selfish. But he had an excuse.
He and his sister were alone together in the
world, and she was the only person to whom
he opened his heart, and from whom he could
endure sympathy.

He descended the coomb towards the shore.
The evening was rapidly closing in. A warm
orange light hung over the Atlantic to the west,
where the sun had set two hours ao-o. The
sea itself was leaden grey. As he approached
he heard the roar of the ever-restless ocean,
and saw the breakers flashing over the reefs.

The slope declined rapidly. The glen was
narrow, wooded in laps and folds, heather-clad
where exposed. The stream worked its way
through black peat lying under sand, in little
falls, till it reached the edge of the sea-fretted
cliff, where it danced over it in a small but
pretty cascade that gave its name to the coomb.

Nant is the Cornish word for a waterfall. At
this point the path left the turf, and descended
a few feet over the broken edges of a shelf of
slate-rock. At this point also Dennis caught
up Eose Trewhella rapidly descending the cliff
from To wan.

What ! ' exclaimed the young surgeon.
You have changed your mind ? '

Oh dear, yes. I change like the weathercock.'


In everything ? '

Certainly — in all things ; it is not men
only who are, as the poet says, " To one thing
constant never." Where are the rest ? I came
to Nantsillan Cove supposing you would not be
there.'

They are yonder. I will help you down
the steps to them.'

The steps consisted of the irregular natural
projections of the slate rock, which here rose
in strata almost perpendicular.

Lend me your hand,' said Eose. ' Let
us move more quickly. I want to be with
the others. See ! they are surely going into
Porth-Ierne.'

Penhalligan led the lively girl carefully

down the descent, from one jagged step to
another. She leaped from the last to the
beach. The shore was not, however, a smooth
sweep of sand in a crescent between the projecting
heads of Cardue and Sillan Point. The
sand was ribbed with sharp slate ridges running
np from the water to the cliffs, resembling the
dorsal fins of sharks that were buried under
the sand. Where the strata were soft the stone
had been dissolved by the waves, but between
the clayey yellow beds where bands of blue slate
that rang to a hammer like a bell and cut like
razors. Dennis helped Eose over these ridges.
Some were three feet, some a foot high, all
were fretted like saws. Eose skipped lightly
across them.

Why have they gone into Porth-Ierne ? '
she asked, and pointed to a cavern in the black
promontory of Cardue that formed the southern
horn of the bay. The northern promontory
was Sillan Point. ' Surely they are not
going through it into Sandymouth, and so
home ? ' '

No,' answered Penhalligan, ' they cannot
do that. The tide is rising and rolling in at
the Sandymouth opening of the tunnel. Our

friends have entered because without there is
too much light for them to observe the phosphorescence
of the water, or at all events to see
it to perfection. Within that natural gateway
night dwells, and there they can stand and seethe
liquid fire swirl past their feet.'

'Do you often have the sea on fire
here ? '

No — occasionally, when the water is
warm, and there have been south-westerly
winds. Sometimes before a great storm.'

Is the sea phosphorescent this evening ? '

I suspect so. Observe your feet on the
sand.'

Eose looked down. She was treading on
sand that had been just overhauled by a wave.
As she trod, a flash of pale white light surrounded
her little foot, a flash as faint as distant
summer lightning.

How strange ! ' said Eose. ' The touch of
my foot seems to kindle a flame.'

Not the touch of your foot only,' said
Dennis.

Eose tossed her head and withdrew her
hand from his.

See ! when I remove my foot the fire

ceases. I protest, the flame is very transient,
and very innocuous.'

Nantsillan Cove was a horseshoe bay gnawed
by the Atlantic surge out of the rocky coast,
which rose from two hundred to three hundred
feet above the sand and sea. The southern
horn of the bay, Cardue Head, was pierced at
the neck by a tunnel worked through by the
waves on both sides acting on a loop in the
contorted strata. This archway was some
twenty feet high. In time, perhaps, it would
become larger, and the roof fall in, and finally
Cardue Head would become an island. This
tunnel was called Porth-Ierne, or the Iron Gate
At low tide, with some picking of way among
pools, and scrambling over boulders, it was
possible to pass completely through from 
Cove into Sandymouth Bay. Even when
the tide was flowing, when the sea was calm, it
could be entered on a shelf of slate rock that
ran in half the way, forming a ledge on the
side, from which the water might be watched
as it raced in from the farther side, where the
tide flowed earlier than in the Cove. The
waves that swept into the bay were reflexed
by Sillan Point, whereas those at the western

entrance bowled in from the open ocean. The
party of young people was entering the tunnel
as Eose and the doctor reached the sands. Their
merry voices rang cheerily from the. black
rocks above the murmur of the rhythmic
waves.

Lovedayay is there ! ' exclaimed Eose. ' I
see her. My cousin Constantino is lifting her
now on to the ledge.'

Yes,' answered Dennis, ' Lovedayay is there.
That is why I have come on to the Cove.'

You did not calculate on finding nne here ? '

There is no calculating on what is fickle.'

You are not complimentary.'

I attribute to you the quality you flatter
yourself on possessing.'

It is one thing to give oneself a bad character,
another to have it given one by a second
person. Lovedayay ! ' called Eose, and ran forward.


Dennis's sister was only a few yards in
front ; she was standing on the rocky ledge
that stood draped with sea-tangles three feet
above the sand. The vast black cavern was
behind her. She was dressed in a simple white
evening ' sacque,' with a black ribbon round

her waist and black bows on her shoulders.
The dress was quite plain, except for a frill at
the bottom. It was short, and showed her
pretty feet in sandalled shoes. On hearing her
name called she stopped and turned. Lovedayay
was in complexion like her brother, dark-haired,
dark-eyed, olive-skinned, of moderate height,
and graceful. An expression of gentle, patient
sadness, mingled with great sweetness, never
left her face. Even when she smiled and
laughed, it was there, overlaid, not expunged.

'So you have come, Eose,' said Lovedayay.
I thought that you were too tired to undertake
a scramble.'

I changed my mind, Which is a prerogative
of ladies. I am a magnet, positive and negative
all in one. Your brother said so. Always
possessed of two minds running in opposite
directions. Your brother has been lecturing
me on caprice.'

Dennis could say nothing that was not for
your good.'

I object to his medicines. I have not
asked him to prescribe for my malady. I am
not his patient, but his emphatic impatient.
Come, Cousin Gerans, lend me your hand.

Mr. Penhalligan offers me no assistance, but
expects me to bound like a squirrel on to that
self which is little lower than my chin.'

The party moved cautiously and in single
file along the shelf into the bowels of the rock.

We can proceed no farther,' said Gerans.
Darkness palpable is to be found farther in,
and here where we stand is darkness sufficient
for our purpose. See ! see ! — the tide is
running.'

A shout of satisfaction from all in the cave.
A wave had entered from the Atlantic on the
open farther side, and the foam, luminous like
moonlight, was seen sweeping, breaking, flashing
among the broken strata and rolled stones
in the bottom. Then it ran on in fluid rills of
light below their feet,

How prodigiously fine 1 ' exclaimed one
after another. ' I have never seen the like
before.'

'The water is warm,' said one of the young
men stooping, and dipping his hand in the
flood.

It is carried by a hot current from southern
seas. It brings light to-night and rain tomorrow,'
said Gerans.

We must wait and watch some more
waves,' said one of the ladies. ' This is vastly
entertaining.'

Not many,' answered Gerans ; ' we must
not allow the tide to cover the sands, and
cover our retreat, or we shall not get home
dry-shod.'

Listen to the selfishness of the men,' said
Eose. ' They would forbid us a little pleasure
to save themselves the labour of changing their
stockings.'

O

'Not at all. We are considering your
skirts.'

Oh, do not care for them. We should
expect you to carry us dry-shod through the
water, two gentlemen to a lady, with plaited
hands.'

There ! there ! another wave ! ' was the
general exclamation. A bar of palpitating
white light was seen ; it shot over a rocky riband
covered it with a lambent, silvery veil,
then spread in a pool, through which the
flashes zigzagged like forked lightning; then
gathered in a shining river of pure moonlight,
and swirled past the ledge where the
young people were standing, and as it did so

threw out sufficient light to inumiiie the faces
bent down to watch it.

We must return,' said Gerans. ' This may
become not a case of wet feet, but of broken
necks, if we delay. The beach is not easy to
traverse in the twilight, cut across with the
slate ridges ; in the dark it is positively dangerous.'


Let us see one more,' begged Eose ; ' we
will hold ourselves responsible for all disasters.'

The next must be the last.'

It was, however, difficult to agree as to
which was the next. Small waves did not
count, and there existed divergence of opinion
as to the larger waves — whether they were
entitled to be reckoned or not, when one flashing
billow roared in, lighted the cave with
phosphorescent splendour, and, by throwing its
spray over those watching it, cut short further
dispute.

'Go on, Lovedayay,' said Dennis ; ' follow Mr.
Gerans.' Then he grasped the arm of Constantine,
and said, ' Stay behind. I must have a
word with you.'

What — here ? ' asked the young man whom
he held.

Yes ; here as well as anywhere else.'

'• I desire wet feet or a broken neck as little
as the others,' said Constantine, in surly tones.

I shall not detain you long,' answered
Dennis. ' But I have that to say to you which
must be delayed no longer.'

He watched the figures of the others in the
entrance of the cave, against the silvery grey
evening sky, as they leaped in succession from
the ledge to the shore.

We are now alone,' he said, and turned
in the dark towards Constantine, who put his
hands behind his back and leaned against the
natural wall of the cave.

Well, say on.' He spoke in an uneasy,
impatient tone.

I want to know — and know I will — what

is the tie between my sister and yourself. That

there is some tie I am well assured. When

Lovedayay was in Exeter, in the spring, where

you were also, in a solicitor's office, what took

place ? Something — but what, I do not know.'

Wliat says Lovedayay ? '

'Lovedayay will tell me nothing. She has

put me off with a promise of explanation on

your return. She admits only what I already

know — that something has occurred, but she
will say no more. She is under a promise, she
tells me.*

He waited. A wave roared in at the
western entrance, and filled the cavern with
light and noise.

Constantino moved from foot to foot uneasily.


Well,' said Dennis, ' I am expecting a
reply. Are you desirous of remaining here till
the tide swells over this ledge and washes us
both away ? Just now you deprecated wet feet.'

I am awkwardly situated,' said Constantino,
and then he paused. Dennis waited. Nothing-further
followed.

You are very awkwardly situated,' said
the young doctor, putting forth his hand and
touching Constantino's shoulder. 'Very awkwardly
situated, face to face, in this vault, with
Lovedayay's brother, a natural defender, and the
revenger of any wrong done to her. Unless I
get a satisfactory answer, I shall fling you over
into the water below.'

Two can play at that game,' answered
Constantino Gaverock, doggedly. ' My arms are
quite as strong as yours.'

Possibly,' said Dennis, with constrained
passion. 'But not stronger. I can hold you
here. I could fling you from hence ; very
possibly if I cast you down you would drag me
with you ; if you succeeded in that, you would
not succeed in disengaging yourself from my
grip. Suppose we do go down together ; there
I will hold you till the thundering sea envelopes
and batters us against the boulders, and washes
us on the slate blades,'

You need not become excited and angry,'
said the younger Gaverock. ' Why should we
not be friends ? '

Exactly,' answered the surgeon. ' Why
should we not ? I ask you to give me the
reason ? '

Promise me secrecy.'

I will make no promise where my sister is
concerned. As there is a God above me,' said
Dennis, sternly, ' I know that my sister is clear
as this sea-water of anything that can cloud
her honour. The water is crystalline, and if
we cannot see to the profoundest depths it is
not that the water is impure, but that the depth
is unfathomable by the eye. I am not asking

VOL. I. E

you because I doubt that — that I doubt as little
as that you are shuffling and evasive now.'

For Heaven's sake, let us get away from
this place,' said Constantine. ' This last Avave
skimmed our ledge, and the cavern is so dark ;
-we shall not find our way out readily.'

You shall stay here till I have my answer.'
Then Dennis seized both the arms of Constantine
and pinned him to the wall.

Let me go ; I will not endure this,' cried
Gaverock, writhing under the grasp of Dennis.

I will not. Speak, or here we decide
matters finally. You have had one fling to-day,
and a torn coat ; you shall have another, not on
a gravel walk, but on pointed rocks, that will
tear deeper than cloth, a fall from which you
will not rise. Listen to me, Constantine Gave-rock,'
he said in slow, stern tones, articulating
each word distinctly and with emphasis. ' I swear
before God in heaven, whose eye pierces to the
vault in which we now stand, that if an injury
has been done by you to my sister Lovedayay,
this gloomy cave shall receive your last sigh.'
Then a boom as the discharge of a gun,
-and a wall of water swept in, flashing and
twinkling, with a head of shaggy light, illuminating

the sides and roof; it caught the
young men above the knee, and nearly swept
them from the ledge.

At that moment Constantino disengaged his
rio;ht hand and struck Dennis in the chest.

A coward blow ! ' exclaimed the latter.
Is this your answer ? '

He would have grappled with Constantine
and cast him over into the eddying brine, regardless
whether he went over as well, but that
he saw before him, kindled by the mooney
gleam of the water — the face of Lovedayay.

The girl had clung to a rock till the force
of the wave was spent, and it had left the
ledge. Then she stepped forward.

Dennis ! Constantine ! Let me speak.

Do not touch each other. Do not strive about
me ; there must be no mysteries more. The one
and only secret I have ever had has burnt into
and eaten out my heart. Dennis, brother dear
and true, know all — I am Constantine's wife.'

Penhalligan let go his hold of the younger
Gaverock.

He took but a moment to collect himself,
then he said : ' Lovedayay, this is no place for
you ; take my hand. Come out whilst you can.'

E 2

L/N/Uroo.-n. -

He led his sister from the Iron Gate, and
landed her safely on the beach. Constantine
followed.

They could hear the voices of the rest of the
party who were ascending the steps towards the
head of the waterfall on their way to Towan.
Gerans had prudently taken a lanthorn with
him, judging that the return would be in the
dark, and on leaving the cavern he had struck
a light and kindled it. ISTow the spot of yellow
light travelled like a dancing will-o'-the-wisp
among the black shadows, up the face of the
inky rocks.

I do not see why you should treat me as
an enemy instead of as a brother-in-law,' said
Constantine. ' What Lovedayay says is true.'

Then why was I not told at once ? '

I was afraid of my father.'

Constantine,' said Dennis, gravely, ' I give
you three days' grace. Tell your father within
those days, or I will do so myself.'

Shake hands, Dennis, and let us part good
friends.'

When you have told your father I will
give you my hand, not before.'

CHAPTER IV.

BROTHER AND SISTER.

Dennis Penhalligan and his sister walked
home without exchanging many words. They
were both drenched with sea-water. Constantine
did not accompany them ; he took the
shorter, restful path up the cliff. There hung
still a soft light in the western sky, sufficient
to enable him to climb the rugged way, with
which he was familiar from childhood.

About an hour later, Dennis and his sister,
dry-clothed, were seated in their little room
over a low smouldering fire of wood.

On that bleak coast, where the atmosphere
is always moist, and everything is impregnated
with salt, a fire is acceptable even in summer,
after the sun has set ; and this was autumn.

Lovedayay sat on a stool by the fire, with
bellows on her knee, blowing up the embers.
The red pulsations of light played over her

pale face. Tears hung on her long dark lashes.
Her face was oval, the mouth was small, and
the brow broad ; her black hair was drawn
back, and tied in a knot behind her head, but
high. She possessed a very delicately beautiful
nape of neck — a beauty more exceptional
than is supposed. As she bent her head over
the bellows, with her moist eyes on the fire,
her pretty neck showed to great advantage.

Dennis did not speak ; he was looking
sadly at her, lost in a dream. What would
become of him if Lovedayay left his house ? He
would be quite alone. He could not ask a
woman to come and share his poverty as his
wife. Besides, he cared only for one woman,
Eose, and she was beyond his reach.

'I am glad you know all,' said Lovedayay,
looking up at him, resting the bellows on her
knee, and her right hand on the bellows and
her face in her hand. ' I have been so unhappy,
dear Dennis, in having a secret to
keep from you — I felt burdened, as with a
crime.'

I do not know all, sister,' answered the
doctor ; ' I know nothing but the bald fact.'
. She put her finger into her bosom and drew

forth a little gold ring, suspended about her
neck by a blue silk thread. ' Here, Dennis,
is my wedding ring. I was married at Exeter
in the spring. I know it was very wrong of
me not to ask your leave beforehand, and
wrong again of me not to tell you afterwards,
but — but Constantine begged me so
earnestly to keep the secret, and I thought he
intended to write home and tell all. I could
not refuse him, thinking it was for a short
while only. I know now that I ought to have
refused, but I did not, and it has made me
miserable ever since. You have no secrets
that you keep from me, Dennis, only one that
you have not spoken of, but it is one I have
guessed for myself.'

He sighed and looked into the fire.

Only another hopeless dream,' he said,
like so many others that have preceded it, and
burnt themselves away as fire castles into dead
ash.'

Why should you be discouraged, Dennis ? '
asked the girl, with her face full of sweet pity
and love. ' There is not a finer person of a
man than you in all the country side, none
certainly with half your brains.

Brains, Lovedayay,' said he with a faint
sneer — ' brains are of no account here. A
certain amount of brain is needed to appreciate
brain. Never mind me, we are speaking about
yourself.'

I will tell you everything now. I would
have told you all when I came back from
Exeter — but I might not. You have seen that
I was hiding something from you. You know
I have never hidden anything before ; and it
gave you trouble. Not more trouble, Dennis,
than it gave me. You little know the tears
and heartaches my foolish promise occasioned.
I wrote again and again to Con, to ask him to
release me, but he would not ; he alway's bade
me wait till his return. Now he is home it
has come out.'

Yes,' said Dennis, gloomily, ' most reluctantly.'


You must forgive him,' pleaded Lovedayay.
Poor fellow, he is so unhappily situated.
You know well enough what a rough, imperious
old man Hender Gaverock is. Both
his sons and his wife are afraid of him. Gerans
and Con have been brought up to dread his
anger. Con is not, like Gerans, the heir to the

estate ; lie is the younger son, and must shift
for himself ; he is quite dependent on his father.
He is now in a solicitor's office, and in time will
be able to support himself, perhaps in another
year. Till then he is subject to the old squire,
and — as you know, Dennis — there is no telling
what Mr. Gaverock might do if he knew that
his son had married without consulting him.'

'This is all well enough,' said Penhalligan,
but, Lovedayay, it does not explain why Constantino
married you on the sly.'

We have loved each other for some years
let me see, Dennis, it is six since you bought
this practice — well, ever since we knew each
other we have been attached. You saw it, you
made no objection.'

I did not suppose it meant anything serious,
when Constantino was without the means of
living, and of supporting a wife.'

Then he was in an office for a while at
Padstow, learning his business, and after that
he went to his uncle in Exeter — his mother's
brother. I do not suppose he will be taken
into partnership, because Mr. Nankivel has a
son in the office, but Con is sure that before
long he will earn his own livelihood ; in time

he will set up for himself at Padstow, and the
family interest will bring him clients.'

Still,' said the young surgeon — ' still, I do
not see the reason why he persuaded you to
marry him secretly.'

Lovedayay sighed. ' I know it was very
wrong. But, Dennis, wee loved each other so
dearly. Look here, brother dear,' she said,
brightening, and glancing into his eyes,
suppose you found that Eose loved you, and
you had the chance. Would you stop to ask
old Squire Gaverock's consent? Would you
not marry her and defy the future ? '

Dennis's dark complexion deepened. He
turned his face aside from his sister's scrutinising
gaze. After a pause he said slowly,

Lovedayay, Gaverock is not my father, and

Why has not Constantino done that very thing,
confess his act manfully, and defy the future ? '

He is going to — he promised you that he
would tell all.'

'Excuse me, Lovedayay, he did not. I
threatened him that if he did not I would. I
do not like his behaviour ; it is neither open
nor honourable.'

You must not misjudge him. Remember

what old Squire Gaverock is. A man would
think twice before lie told him anything, he is
so violent, so wilful.'

That may be. Gaverock is all you say —
but still the question remains unanswered.
Why did you marry ? '

'Because — because ' Lovedayay sank

on her knees before her brother, threw her
arms round his neck, buried her face in his
breast, and said, ' We were so fond of each
other. He was alone in the world '

How alone ? He has father, and mother,
and brother.'

Yes ; but his tastes, and his feelings, are
so different from theirs. He has a cultivated
mind, which Gerans has not ; and at Exeter
he had no one. He was so delighted to seeme
when I arrived there, and I — I was alone.'

How so ? You have me, your brother.'

Yes, darling Dennis ; a true, good, strong-brother
you have been. But when I was at
Exeter I felt very solitary. My cousin was
different in everything from me, and I was so
happy to meet Con again.'
: ' Well, Lovedayay.'

Well, Dennis ; we were young things, and

both away from our relations — I from you,
and he from his parents — and when he proposed
that we should take advantage of the
chance and get married, and spoke of his prospects,
and everything looked sunny before us,
I was very unwise ; I consented. But from the
moment I consented, and promised not to tell
you, or any one, my peace of mind was gone.
I assure you, brother, when I undertook to be
silent, I had no idea that he meant me to keep
the secret so long ; I thought he tended me
to hold my tongue only till he had been home
and told all himself. Perhaps he did mean so
but he did not return to Towan till to-day,
and I have been home for six months.'

'He acted very wrongly,' said the young
surgeon, gravely ; ' he placed you in a very
false position. I can never forgive him that,
whatever he may do to relieve you by an open
declaration of the truth now. He acted in a
selfish, inconsiderate manner.'

'Forgive him, Dennis,' pleaded the girl,
putting her hands together. ' He loved me so
very much. Do you not understand, brother,
that in love one may act very foolishly and
only find that out later ? ' . .

Loveclay,' said Dennis, after a moment's
consideration, ' I ought not to have been left in
the dark, not for an hour. Had I known, you
should not have returned here without your
ring, and bearing your maiden name. I shall
never respect Constantine for having suffered
this. A man should not allow the chance of a
breath to fall on and sully the clear, bright
surface of his wife's name. Constantine has
wilfully exposed it to a stain.'

Do not accuse him,' exclaimed his sister,
again clasping him in her arms, whilst her tears
flowed. 'I cannot bear it, Dennis. Remember
what he is to me. We all make
mistakes and rue them afterwards. Our judgments
are at fault, not our hearts.'

Dennis stood up, folded his arms, and
paced the room, with his head on his breast.

We shall see what happens within three
days,' said he. ' My mind misgives me. I do

not trust him. But ' He drew a long

breath. ' Is not this of a piece with all that
comes on us? Everything, everything goes
against us. Why was I given talents, without
a field in which to exercise them.? What
profits my study, when the patients turn to

white witches, quack remedies, and ignorant
pedants ? What will come of this marriage,
kept concealed? No good. No good has
ever come to us from anything we have taken
in hand. Whatever we have set our hearts
upon, if we have succeeded in securing it, has
turned to mockery and misery. We have nota
chance — you or I. " Man is born to misery
as the sparks that fly upward," said Job. It is
not true of all. It is terribly true of some.
Some men are born into the world with distorted
legs or spines, and some with distorted
prospects. With them everything goes perversely.
Providence flouts and buffets them
through life. Such are we — such am I. I am
like a tortured, bullied dog, driven with a whip
from corner to corner, lashed from one hiding-place
to another, never allowed to lie down
and bask in the sun without a cut of the cruel
whip across him. We see happiness all about
us, but it is not for us ; ease and plenty for
others, not for us ; success for mountebanks
and swindlers, not for us, true and sincere.
For us, corroding care, disappointments everywhere
; thorns, not flowers ; bitterness, not
honey ; shadow,; and no light. The light and

joy of life is flowing all about us, as the
luminous waves to-night, but we cannot grasp
and retain any of it. Eose asked me if I had
tried, and she said, " Do not wish it — it is not
for you." ' He sat down by the table, and
pulled a needle from his sister's workbox, then
rolled up his sleeve of shirt and coat. Love-day
did not notice him, she was looking into
the fire.

There are some,' he went on, workings with
the needle, ' to whom the world is full of blind
lanes ; it is so to me ; nowhere do I find an
opening where I may push my way. Everywhere
am I brought up short against a dead
wall. I have spent everything I possessed on
my education and in buying this practice, and
it scarce keeps us alive and respectably dressed.
What privations we have to endure, you and I
know. Is there any chance of getting away ?
None. Of a lightening in the horizon before
us? None. Of our affairs becoming more
easy, less of a strain ? None. I know very
well what will follow this disclosure. You,
dear Lovedayay, you are, in your blind love,
leading to the blank wall. Old Gaverock will
blaze out in one of his fury fits, turn Constantine

adrift, and give us notice to quit his
cottage. Where to find another that will suit I
do not know. Never mind. It is all part of the
writing of bitter things in the scroll against us.'
He stood up and took down his powder-flask,
took some of the powder, and rubbed it into
his arm.

What are you doing, Dennis ? ' asked his
sister.

Look ! ' laughed the young doctor, bitterly,
and he held his arm to her. He had tattooed
on it : ' Pas de chance*

CHAPTER V.

MOTHER AND SON.

CoNSTANTiNE walked home ia very troubled
mood. He knew that he must tell his father
what he had done, and he dreaded the result.
Constantine had more refinement of mind and
polish of taste than his elder brother, but he
had not his frank and direct character. From
childhood he had experienced his father's boisterous
imperiousness, which had repelled and
offended him. His mother, whose favourite
son he was, had made much of hin, and by
humouring his fancies had endeavoured to
compensate for the roughness of his father's
treatment, Constantine had no liking for out-of-door
pastimes, for hunting, shooting, fishing,
sailing, which all involved a good deal of exercise
and labour. He liked to saunter in the
sun, watching the workmen on the farm, or sit
over the fire with a book. His father had no

VOL. I. F

patience with inertness, being himself a man of
effervescing energy, and he forced Constantine
to accompany him with a gun after game, or
with a net after fish, when the young fellow
would have preferred to pick out a tune on the
piano or count the sails on the horizon. When
Constantine was put into a lawyer's office, away
from home and its uncongenial atmosphere, he
felt the relief, but the relief was only partial.
It would have been full but that it was associated
with work, and that work was almost as
repugnant to his taste as boating and hunting.
The yoimg man was finely and firmly built, as
his brother Gerans, and would have been his
match in athletic sports but for that physical
indolence which is so frequently associated with
superior mental culture. He preferred a book
to a hunt, and a morning at the piano to a
morning with a gun. In music he was self-taught,
and he had made no proficiency, because
too lazy to practise. He liked music
because it pleased without exacting anything
of him. In literature he read nothing that required
close attention. He read for amusement
not for profit.

His father's roughness and his mother's

favouritism had combined to destroy the moral
fibre of his character — to make him selfish,
shifty, and insincere. Under different circumstances
he would have been other. Circumstances
with him, as with Dennis Penhalligan,
had spoiled his life.

When Constantino entered the hall of
Towan, he found his father by the fire, with a
bottle of rum, a jug of hot water, a lemon,
sugar, and glasses on the oak table. Gerans
was standing and talking to him.

I have been caught in a wave, and am
drenched,' said Constantino. ' Lend me a coat,
Gerans ; my father tore my bottle-green, and
this one is sopped. I have but two here.'

Come to the hearth,' called Hender
Gaverock. 'A souse of salt water seasons a
man. Here is a hot fire to dry you from
without, and here is hot fire to warm you
within.'

I require a complete change,' said Constantine.
' I am drenched to the marrow of my
bones.'

Being made of sugar, you will melt. Get
along with you ! ' exclaimed the old man.
Gerans, give him a dry suit ; and then. Con,

F 2

come back to us and join in a bowl of punch
to welcome your return.'

Half an hour later the young man returned,
reluctantly, but unable to disobey his father.
He took his place by the fire.

Well,' shouted old Gaverock, ' what have
you learned at Exeter ? Can you indenture,
indite, draw a mortgage, and execute a conveyance
? '

I am learning my profession,' answered
Constantine.

And unlearning what you have acquired
here — how to ride a horse and steer a boat.
Eh ? '

No, father ; these things are never unlearnt,
any more than the art of swimming.'

I hope not. How many honest people
have you cheated out of their estates ? How
many have you squeezed dry as I squeeze this
lemon ? '

The profession of a lawyer is as honest as
any other,' said the young man,

May be. All rogues — the parsons, the
doctors, the dangers, the lawyers. All rogues
in their several ways. What ! ' turning to
his wife — ' no more rum ? Only three drops

in the bottle, eh ? Put the stone jars in the
boat tomorrow. I'll get more.'

Whither are you going, father ? ' asked
Gerans.

Going to take Con out sealing, to keep his
hand in. You can't come, Gerans ; you must
go to Wadebridge Fair and buy a horse. Con
and I will run to Featherstone's and fill the
jars.'

I had rather not go tomorrow, father,'
began the second son ; but he was cut short by
the old man.

Golly ! ' he exclaimed. ' Are you come
back to play the piano and read poetry ? Not
so. You are returned to Towan to be tuned
up to the proper pitch of manhood. You
shall come with me tomorrow, and prove that
you have not forgotten the management of a
boat. Mother will want oil for the lamps, and
Eose has been promised a pelisse of sealskin
against the winter, Do you think to win your
way to a girl's heart with tum-tum and books ?
If you do you vastly mistake the sex. I am
sixty-five and know them thoroughly. Stand
up, Con ! Stand up, Gerans ! Back against
the wall, my lady, out of my path.'

The old man hooked his arms through those
of his sons, taking one on each side, and strode
.with them up and down the hall — he in his
great boots, and his long coat buttoned back
behind, and with huge strides ; Gerans in his
riding-boots and breeches and short hunting-coat.


Ha ! ha ! ' shouted the Squire. ' About of
a height, all three, are we not, mother ? You
won't see such strapping fellows as we this side
Bodmin. It is of me they draw their size and
muscle and bone, as of me they take their name.
There, sit down, boys, and drink. Mother, put
your lips to the glass, to Con's prosperity — and
may he be the man in heart that he is in figure.
Ah, Con ! it will be no fault of mine if I do
not make as tough an old Cornish bull-dog of
you as your father is, your grandfather was,
and sour brother promises to become.'

The evening was spent in drinking punch
and talking. Old Gaverock did more of both
than his sons. He belonged to an order of
men passing away at the beginning of this
century — now completely gone. He was stiffened,
and not to be turned from a purpose
he had resolved on, even though his reason was

convinced that it was unwise. Accustomed
from youth to have his own way, finding no
one to oppose him, he was ungovernable in his
self-will Living in a corner of England, away
from civilising influences, reached by the
rising tide of culture, among men who drank
and gambled, fought, wrestled, smuggled, and
were not above reaping a harvest out of a
wreck, he had little of the gentler elements of
humanity in him.

As he drank he became more noisy, boastful,
and headstrong. To Constantine his conduct
was most repugnant. Gerans was accustomed
to him, laughed, joked, took his father's sallies
good-humouredly, and was shocked at nothing.

At last the old Squire rose, stamped, and
said :

What, Con ! scarce emptied your glass ?
Don't you appreciate the taste of smuggled
rum punch in Exeter Have you unlearned
the liking for anything stronger than sour cider ?
It is time for bed. To-morrow early be up,
and take with you Gerans's gun. We will go
after the seals.'

The Squire was not late to go to rest;
however much he drank, however merry he

was, he knew his time for turning in between
the blankets. He was an early riser. He was
up at daybreak in summer, and before daybreak
in winter, and therefore coidd not keep
late hours at night.

Soon after he had gone, Constantine sought
his room. Gaverock was mistaken in supposing
that he had not drunk. He had taken more than
was customary w with him, to drown the troubles
that worried his mind, though not as much as
behoved a proper Gaverock, He undressed
and threw himself on his bed, and fell asleep,
leaving his candle unextinguished.

He had not been long asleep before the
door was opened timidly, and his mother's
anxious face looked in. Lie alone in the
house was not asleep. She was wont to sit up
last, every night, to see that the fires and
candles were extinguished. On her way to
her room she observed the light under Constantine's
door, and she tapped. As there
was no answer, she gently entered. She seated
herself at his side, and stroked his disordered
hair, then folded her hands in her lap, with
her back to the candle, and patiently watched
him. Tears were in her faded eyes, but she

q

watched him with her whole soul, with every
fibre of her heart, unable to satisfy the weary,
hungry spirit of maternal love with the sight
of her best-loved son.

My boy, my dear, dear boy ! ' she whispered.
She had not seen him for a twelvemonth,
and his reception at home was not
such as to make him desirous of a repetition of
visits.

Mrs. Gaverock had led a life of care and
pain. Only for a short moment had she known
love, in the flowering of the wheat, in the
first glow of youth and passion, and then her
rough husband had thrust her on one side,
that he might follow his favourite pursuits,
which occupied his mind and filled his heart.
Love is an episode in man's life, it is the epic
of woman's soul.

She — gentle, loving, patient — had nothing
in common with Hender Gaverock, whose interests
were all external to the house. She
received from him many a hard word, and
much neglect, more intolerable than ill-usage.

Her youth passed without pleasure. Her
fresh cheeks faded, kissed, and her hair grew
grey, caressed by loving hands. All her

pride, all her love, lier every hope, were
wrapped up in her children, especially in Constantine.
All that was sweet, and pure, and
beautiful in her humble, womanly soul had
flowed together to form one strong; stream of
motherly love.

With self-devotion, fervour, tears, she had
seen her sons grow up under her eyes ; she
had watched them as the seamen watches
with fluttering wings and beating heart over
her young. By degrees Gerans was drawn
from her, led by his father along his way, into
his pursuits. Gerans was pliable, and an outdoor
life congenial to him. For the Squire he
.entertained the most profound admiration, and
.gave him unquestioning obedience. The softer
natured, more domestic Constantine was the
light of her eyes and the signet on her heart.
He was taken from her, and sent to a solicitor
in Padstow. Then she saw him only when he
returned on Saturday afternoon for the Sunday
at home. Whilst he was in this office her
weeks were consumed in longing for his return,
and in mingled delight and disappointment
when he was at home — delight at noticing his
growth, his good looks ; disappointment at

finding him less reliant on lier, bis one and
only friend.

After lie had spent an apprenticeship at
Padstow, he was sent, partly at her instance,
to her brother, a solicitor, in Exeter. From
that time she saw no more of him till his
return that day. Now, quietly, when no one
was by to observe her, and Hender was asleep,
unable to rebuke or ridicule her, she was able
undisturbed to sit and watch with every pulsation
of her heart the face of the boy she
loved.

The candle guttered into the socket and
went out. She could see Constantine's face
no more. It mattered not ; she could watch
where he lay, and listen to his breath drawn
evenly in sleep. His hand was outside the
bedclothes. She timidly took it between her
own.

i) '/ When he had arrived that day he had not
shown great eagerness to salute her ; but then
his father interposed by calling on him to unharness
the horse, and this had disturbed and
annoyed him. For how many, many days had
she counted on his return, and when he arrived
it was to disappoint her ! He had gone to

bed without wishing her good-night and kissing
her as in olden days. She excused him again
his father had kept him drinking till bedtime,
and then had dismissed him fuddled and
forgetful of his filial duties.

Mother ! '

With a start she heard him speak. He
was awake and looking at her. The night
was not dark — a crescent moon was in the
sky — and sufficient light flowed in at the
window to allow of his distinguishing her,
seated as she was between him and the light.

I am here. Con ! dear Con ! ' she said, and
pressed his hand. ' I hope I have not roused
you from your sleep.'

I do not know what awoke me,' he
answered. ' perhaps it was your hand holding
mine, perhaps it was disturbing dreams.'

Con,' she said, ' you went to bed without
giving me a good night and a kiss. Therefore
I could not rest.'

Then, mother, stoop over me, and let me
kiss you now,' he said ; and when she bent her
head he put his arm round her neck, and drew
her wet cheek down on his lips. ' Mother, you
have been crying ! '

Yes, Cou ; crying with happiness to have
you home again. You young people have
many pleasures and ambitions, but an old
woman has only one — the pleasure of seeing
her children, the ambition of seeing them
happy and prosperous.'

'Not much chance of prosperity for me,
the younger son,' said Constantine. ' That is
for Gerans. For me — as the paradise to
which I must aspire — a pettifogging lawyer's
office.'

Don't say that, Con ; it is not so,' said
his mother, hurt at the contemptuous allusion
to her brother.

Whether I say it or not, it is true,' he
answered.

You may be very happy and successful
if you will,' she said, speaking eagerly and
pressing his hand. ' Your father has not been
careless of your welfare. On the contrary, he
has provided for your future, and that is one
reason why you were sent for home at present.'


How is that ? ' asked Constantine, sceptically.
' I thought father had neither eyes nor
thoughts for any but his first-born.'

You wrong him, Con. He is just ; and
he has formed a beautiful scheme for your
advancement.'

Tell it me, mother,' asked the young man
sitting up in bed.

You have seen Eose Trewhella ? '

Yes.'

Is she not pretty ? Is she not altogether
charming ? '

I don't know. I paid no particular attention
to her qualities of face or mind.'

'But you must do so, dear Con. She is
not only very charming, sweet as her name
implies, but also a bit of living, dancing sunlight
; and, what is more to the purpose, worth
over four hundred pounds a year. Your father
is her guardian and trustee, and he has made
up his mind that you are to" take her and
her money, and so he will provide for you
splendidly.'

Mrs. Gaverock, in the delight of her heart
at the prospect, clapped her hands on that of
her son. He took the opportunity to withdraw
his hand.

This is rank nonsense ! ' he said.

It is not nonsense, Con,' she urged ; ' it is

the best of common sense. What an excellent
wife she will make ! And your father says
that you can sell her property at Kenwyn and
Truro and buy Trevithick. By this means
your estate will adjoin To wan, and we shall
see you every day. Oh, Con ! is not this
purely beautiful ? '

'Has the young lady been consulted?'
asked Constantine.

Oh no ; but she is sure to acquiesce in the
arrangement. Why, Con, any girl would be
proud to have you.'

But I may not care for the girl.'

You must like Eose. She is so pretty, so
pleasant. Besides, it is jour father's desire.'

Constantine threw himself down on the bed
angrily.

I cannot ! I will not ! '

But, Con, your father has resolved on it ;
and what he makes up his mind to must be
carried out.'

I cannot ! I will not ! '

Why ? For Heaven's sake do not say
"I cannot" to him — it would make him
furious. Oh, Con, reconsider! Do not stand
in your own light.'

'I have already done so,' answered Constantine.
' I have stood in my own light so
effectually that I am out in the dark and cold.
Curse it ! I can not take Miss Trewhella and
her four hundred, because I am married already
; and I icill not, for the other good
reason that bigamy is punishable with transportation.
I will tell you no more. Leave
me. I am tired and want sleep. The particulars
you shall know another time.'

CHAPTER VI.

RED FEATIIERSTOXE.

Squire Gaverock's boat, the 'Mermaid,' was
one of which he was justly proud, as the
fastest sailer between Tintagel and Trevose, that
is, for her size. She was a cutter, decked, and
with fixed bowsprit and mast, like a schooner.
Hender Gaverock was as much at home on the
deck of a boat as on the back of a horse. The
only place where he was not at home was — at
home, where he found nothing to do and nothing
to interest him except the bottle.

About seventy years ago seals were tolerably
numerous on the north-west Cornish coast.
There are a good many to be found there still,
but their numbers have of late been greatly
diminished. Seventy years ago they abounded
in the caves, where they reared their yoimg,
and in the bays they were frequently encountered
— their black heads rising out of the

VOL. I. G

sea, with strangely human eyes in them, rising
and falling with the swell of the sea.

Gaverock took with him his boatman, David
Tregellas. If he and Constantino were going
to shoot seals, one of the party must be at the
helm, another at the jib, and one must be ready
with the gun for the sport.

Got the stone jars there, David ? '

Aye, aye, sir ! Strapped together for easy
carriage.'

'That is right. I'll run the "Mermaid"
to Featherstone's Kitchen — Gwen's shop. We
have drunk ourselves out of rum.'

I reckon us had better not go so far as that,'
said Tregellas, shaking his head. ' The birds
be all flying inwards, and the water was on fire
last night.'

Glad to hear it,' said Gaverock. ' Here is
Constantine with this brains full of city fashions,
and his nerves as slack as trade in bullocks.
Do him good to have a blow, to clear his head
and brace his tendons ; and if he gets a splash
of brine in his face it will wash out the milk
and raspberry, and make his face less like a
girl's.'

What is right for you, Squire, is right forme,'

answered Tregellas. ' You've more to lose
than I.'

You mind the jib, David ; I'll tend the
main-sheet and steer. Now then, Con, hold
the gun, and keep your eyes open. Take heed
of the boom when I say " Luff" ; and don't let
it knock you overboard as if you were a lout
who had never tasted salt water.'

I reckon us'll see no seals to-day, Squire,'
said Tregellas. ' What sends the birds inland
sends the seals to security — which proves that
humans be bigger fools nor birds and beasts.'

If they don't show on the water we'll follow
them into their caves,' answered Gaverock,
angrily.

You must have a row-boat for doing that,'
argued Tregellas.

The Squire growled. He disliked contradiction.
He specially resented it when he knew
he was in the wrong. He had made up his
mind for sport, and sport he would have in spite
of wind and weather.

Wind south-south-west,' he said. ' Con, been
to Featherstone's Kitchen before ? '

No, father.'

You shall see the Kitchen whence we get

G 2

our supplies of spirits — spirits that pay no
duty.'

The day was pleasant. The sun shone, and
the sea rolled, but was not rough. The cutter
skimmed like a bird. In vain did Constantino
and his father look for seals. Not a seal was
to be seen. They ran into the little coves, but
the creatures were not there, neither basking
on the reefs nor floating on the waves.

Nothing can be conceived more magnificent
than that coast, with its crags of trap, or contorted
slate and gneiss, here and there strangely
barred with white spar. In the bays the gulls
and kittiwakes were flashing and screaming ;
and now and then a red-shanked, scar let-beaked
chough went by with a call of warning. The
birds were in excitement, shrieking to each
other, and answering in equally high-pitched
tones. The morning passed, wasted in hunting
o; after seals that would not show.

There they are, in yonder cave,' said
old Gaverock, indicating with his chin the
torn face of cliff, in which were many fissures
and vaults. ' If we had only a row-boat, we
could go in, and we should find them far away
in the dark, lying on ledges, looking at us, or,

if we threatened them, flapping pebbles at us
with their fins. Golly! I've been hit afore
this, and had my head cut open, as surely as
if the creatures had taken aim at me with
hands. At times I'm fain to believe the seals
are human and have souls. I dare say they have
about as much as a woman. I was out sealing
it was a day much like this — when I killed
Featherstone. Have you ever heard the tale,
Con? Well, I dare be bound you've heard
tell something about it, and all wrong. None
know the real rights but David Tregellas
and myself. Eed Featherstone was a rover as
well as a smuggler. If he had ]been only the
latter, it would have given me a sour soul to
have killed him, though we were rivals.
Featherstone was a proper bad man. He
carried off whatever his hands laid hold of.
He had a boat, the like of which was not seen
then, but the " Mermaid " would be her match
now. Golly ! I'd like to have the chance of
racing Featherstone's cutter ! She was built
something the same as this. Featherstone had
a large vessel, a schooner, and with her he
went to France, or Spain, no one knows
whither. He came back to these coasts laden

with things — stolen mostly ; I don't believe he
paid for his goods with money. Here and there
along the coast he had his kitchens — that is,
store places — whither folks might go and where
they might buy what they wanted, spirits and
wines and tobacco, and silks and laces and
china ; I can't tell you what things he did not
hide there, and I know he did a fine trade.
The kitchens were vaults scooped out of the
rocks, and cottages were built over them with
secret entrances, and secret exits to the water.
Very useful those kitchens were, and mighty
convenient they are still. We are bound now
for one, where I shall fill these jars with rum.
But Featherstone no longer plies the trade.
It has fallen prodigiously since his time. I
spiked him. Luff! mind your head, you fool! '
He altered the course of the 'Mermaid.'
It is an old story ; it happened before you
were born or thought of, before I married your
mother. Indeed, I doubt if I should have had
your mother if Featherstone had not first
been put out of the way. The folks call him
Eed Featherstone, because he was fond of
wearing a scarlet waistcoat laced with gold ;
but over it he wore a long oilskin shiny black

coat. In all weathers it was the same, and he
looked like a porpoise in his shiny suit buttoned
over his red waistcoat. But when he came
a-courting he left off the oilskin and showed
his waistcoat. He was vastly attached to your
mother, and I had a fancy towards her too.
Of course I had, or I would not have married
her. Well, Featherstone and I could not
abide each other, as was natural, for we Avere
rivals for your mother, and, by the Lord ! he
threatened to carry her off in his schooner if
she were not given to him, so her father and
brothers were armed and watched nidit and
day when Featherstone's boat was about. One
day, just such a day as this — how well I
remember it, and so does David yonder ! The
sun was darting, a beam (bank of cloud) was
over the West, lying on the sea. I was out
spearing seals. Guns weren't so plenty or so
good as now, and nothing like so sure of aim
as a spear. I used to take one of the old
weapons from the hall, a albert with a jagged
feather-like barb. I was partial to this
weapon, because, if the head went in far
enough, the seal could not slip away ; the barb
held it. Well, as I came shooting round that

headland yonder, I was close on the Watcher,
which is a shelf of rock leaning; with the rough
broken edge landwards, and sloping towards
the sea. It is only covered in a heavy sea.
David and I could not see the Watcher till we
were close upon it, and then, there I saw
Eed Featherstone seated on the sloping shelf
priming his pistols. He had on his oilskin
coat and oilskin leggings and long boots, and
shone in the sun like a porpoise. You couldn't
see a scrap of red about him. If he had his
scarlet waistcoat on, it was buttoned over.
But wait ! you shall hear.' The old man
chuckled. ' I didn't see all his waistcoat that
day, but I saw some of it, as you shall hear.'

He paused, wiped his brow with his sleeve,
and went on. ' When Featherstone saw me he
sprang to his feet and swore, and Tregellas
stayed his oars — he was that struck with astonishment
he didn't know what to do. Then
Featherstone shouted to me that now God or
the devil had brought us face to face, and we
would have it out, and settle, that hour, who
should have Lydia — that's your mother. He
held a pistol in each hand : one was a great
brass-mounted horse-pistol, and the other was

quite a toy tool, silver mounted. He held the
horse-pistol in his right and the other in his
left. I had no other arras with me but the
old albert ; but I was not afraid. Afraid ! '
The old man laughed. ' I afraid ! I snorted
like a walrus, and called to David to pull upto
the rock. I stood up in the boat and held
the spear above my head ready to cast ; but
Featherstone was beforehand with me, and he
fired the horse-pistol. He missed, for the boat
was rocking, but the bullet whizzed past my
head, and before ever he could discharge the
second at me I flung the spear, and it went
through the air straight as a cormorant after
a fish, and struck him in the chest and went
right through. I saw the end poking out behind,
thrusting out his oilskin. That was a
grand fling, that was, and I flung with such
force that I levered the boat away and she
shot back under my feet and brought me
down. That was well for me, as at the same
moment the second pistol went off — and they
say Featherstone was a better aim with his left
hand than with his right. When I picked myself
up, I saw Featherstone wrenching at the shaft
of spear to lug it out of him, but he could not,

for, as I told you, it was barbed ; then it was
that I saw some of the red waistcoat, for as he
pulled at the spear he pulled the frayed,
ragged edges of the red cloth out through
the hole in the oilskin where the spear had
entered. He could do nothing with it, and
he grasped his silver-mounted pistol again, and
tried to load it and prime it ; but it was all
no use — down he fell, and as he fell he
threatened me with his little pistol, but couldn't
hurt me, it was unloaded. Just then a black
boat shot out from the bay : Featherstone's
men were in it. They had been to the Kitchen
with stores, and they heard the shot and
hurried to their oars, and came after me.
David and I made off then as best we
might. Well, I was somewhat curdled in
mind after that, I allow; but it was a fair
fight. Nay, it was fair on my side and unfair
on his, for a albert was no match for two
pistols. Eed Featherstone had been outlawed
for his mal practices, so no harm could
come to me for having spiked him.'

What countryman was he ? ' asked Constantine.


Featherstone ? He was of these parts.

and yet he was not. That is to say, his
family lived somewhere up the coast just over
the border in Devon. The family is respectable
enough ; and I reckon Eed Featherstone took to
roving more for sport than for what it brought
him. He was a wild, wicked, restless spirit.
I don't fancy the taste continued in the family.
I've heard nothing of them ever since. Indeed,
I do not know if the race still exists.'

Was no inquiry made after his death ? '
No,' answered old Gaverock. ' He had
been outlawed for his misdeeds. I will say
that for Featherstone, he never stole anything
from the people on this coast ; but he was
not so particular elsewhere, and I've heard he
committed all sorts of depredations on the
coasts of Ireland and Wales, and South Devon
and Dorset, besides Avhat he did in France.
No, nothing was ever done about his death.
The news got all over the country that
I had spiked him, and some said it was a
good job and others did not think so. And
some again said that the last of Featherstone
had not been seen.'

If the man was dead,' said Constantine,
of course the last of him had been seen.'

Luff ! Look out for your head. I don't
know but that I'll tell you the reason why I say
this. About a year after I had killed Feather-stone,
I was out on a dark night, and the
summer lightning was flashing in the sky.
Well, I had my eye on the lighthouse of
Trevose. The light was steady enough, but
what was queer to me was that every now and
then something dark came between me and it,
and when it did I heard a click and saw some
sparks. I couldn't make it out at all till a
flash came out of the West, and then, for an
instant, I saw a black boat shoot past me, and
in it stood Featherstone with the pistol in his
left hand, and he clicked the trigger, and the
flint flashed sparks, but the pistol would not
go off. Ever since then I hear constantly the
click of the pistol and see the sparks fly out,
but I laugh at Featherstone. He can do
nothing to me. The pistol must be in mortal
hands to be loaded and primed to do me or
mine any hurt. Then, again, one day I was
in my boat after seals. Tregellas wasn't with
me, I was alone, and I rowed into one of the
caves near the Watcher. I got a long way in,
but the seals were not there ; at last I turned

to come back, and as I did so, I saw a dark
figure in the mouth of the cave, dressed in an
oilskin long coat and high boots, standing, I
fancied, on a rock that stood out of the water,
and yet I knew there was no rock there, and
he turned about, and I saw something like
a hump on the back. I had a lantern in the
bottom of the boat and I held it up, and then I
had a good look forward, and I saw a pair of
flashing eyes and white teeth. The shining
sea was behind him, and he seemed to go up
and down on the waves that rolled in, so then
I knew he did not stand on a rock. He was
busy with his pistol and snapped it, and
the sparks flew out. Then I laughed so
loud that the cave ranch with the roar of my
voice, and I cried, " No good ! no good,
Featherstone ! you can't hurt me till mortal
hand has hold of that pistol." I've not seen
him since.'

But how did you get out of the seal cave,
father ? '

I rowed right forward and right through
him.'

How do you mean ? '

I was not afraid. I dipped my oars and

went towards the entrance, and I looked over
my shoulder and saw him still there, and I
struck where he stood with the prow, and then
I saw sparks flying all about me ; and, what
was most curious of all, a spotted dog all at
once appeared, and ran from the bov/s to the
stern past me and leaped into the water again,
and I saw it no more.'

Dog ! What dog can that have been ? '
Featherstone's dog. He always had such
a dog. When I spiked him, the dog stood
on the Watcher barking at me. He kept
barking as I rowed away. Now, look out,
Con ! Mind yourself ! There is the Watcher.
That was the last I saw of Featherstone — last
but once, and that was in a dream the same
nio-ht. I reckon I was a bit flurried and fanciful
with what had happened, and I thought at
night I saw Featherstone standing by my bedside
and leaning over me. I saw the red
threads of the waistcoat sticking out through
the oilcloth coat where the staff" of the spear
had made a hole, and there ran out, drop by
drop, some blood. Tick, tick, tick ! — I heard
my watch go — then a drop. Tick, tick, tick !
then another drop. Featherstone's eyes

seemed to glare into mine and through my
head, and he said, " You I cannot, but yours."
Then tick, tick, tick ! — another drop — and he
had vanished. Kow, the curious thing is that,
when I woke in the morning, I saw three — just
three drops of blood on my sheet : so he had
been with me just nine seconds. Since then I
have not been threatened by him. What he
meant when he said " Not you, but yours," is
more than I can make out. However, I'm
glad I'm rid of him. I know very well he
could do me no harm. But lie was a nuisance
yes, he was a nuisance.'

The old man paused a moment, then
laughed and said :

After all I do not care. Let him come
again if he will. Let him try his worst. He
can do nothing. Keep a good heart, and renounce
the devil and all his works, and no
Feathcrstone can hurt me nor mine. Look at
the Watcher ! Here we are, Con, running into
the bay where many a keg has been unshipped
for Featherstone's Kitchen.'

The little vessel had her prow turned into
a small bay surrounded by sand-hills, and with
a good beach in the lap. Here the rocks were of

yellow clay-slate in thin layers : very friable and
of inferior height. The ' Mermaid ' ran ashore,
and Gaverock and his son leaped out on the sand.

Bide With her, Tregellas ! ' shouted the
old Squire ; then turning to his son, he said,
Con, where are the stone jars ? Sling them
over your shoulders and carry them after me
to the Kitchen,'

Don't y' be away long, now maister,' said
David Tregellas. ' Cast your eye to windward ;
there's a gale in thick (yonder) black beam,
and us'll have to tack terrible to get home.'

I see as well as you that wind is coming,'
answered Gaverock. ' With bread and cheese
and two jars of rum we shan't suffer even if we
reach home late and with wet skins. I like
the smell of a gale. Follow me, Con ! '

Then the old man strode up the shore, and
in a few minutes reached a miserable low
cottage that cowered under a sand-hill thickly
overgrown with coarse grass. A few tamarisks,
with their pale pink flowers now blooming,
grew beside the cottage on a wall that held
back the sand from overflowing and burying
the entrance.

The cottage was one story high, thatched

with reed, built of the yellow stone dug out of
the rock which the sand covered. It had a
single window — very small — and a low door.
Outside the door, on a bench, knitting a
stocking, sat a woman with tanned face and
coarse grey hair that blew about her head.
She looked up as Gaverock approached and
nodded.

We have come for a supply, Gwen,' said
the old man.

You'ni come right enough, Squire,' answered
she, ' but you'd none going home
'cackle as you came.' Then she pointed with
one of her knitting-pins at the sky.

Well, Gwen, I don't object to a capful of
wind and the backs of the white horses.'

Better return by land, Squire. The white
horses are going mad to-night, and may kick
you out of your saddle.'

By land ! Not I, Gwen, when I have the
Mermaid " to carry me. Be quick, fill me
the jars.'

She took the stone bottles without another
word and went indoors. She was absent for
some time. Gaverock stood and looked at the
sea. The day was rapidly changing. The

VOL. I. II

wind sobbed among the sea grass, and tossed
the tamarisks as if trying to tear them up. It
carried the sand in little puffs into Gaverock's
face. A haze had overspread the sky, and the
sun was shorn of its brightness. Says of
vapour struck across the vaud of heaven, radiating
from the west, straight as sun rays, but
dark ; a mass of white, curd dike cloud was
drifting below the upper canopy. The sea on
the horizon wos like indigo, near land it was
the colour of olive.

There is no time to be lost. We shall
have a rough passage back to Towan,' said the
old man.

'Leave the "Mermaid" here,' advised the
woman, coming out with the bottles. ' Stay the
night in this place. There be plenty of room,
though the house don't look to have accommodation
; and when the storm be overcast, go
home in the morning. Or, if you prefer, go
back by land.'

No, no,' answered Gaverock. ' I said I'd
be home in the " Mermaid " ; and as I came so
I return, and that — to-night.'

Ah, Squire,' said the woman, ' you always
was as untenable as a rusty jack.'

'Take up the rum, Con!' ordered the old
man.

Here s the money for you, Gwen.'

Then he and his son went back to the boat,
the latter laden with the jars of rum.

I was not born to be drowned,' said
Hender Gaverock as he slung himself on board,
in reply to a question of Tregellas whether he
would risk running into the storm. ' Con,
take charge of the bottles ; don't let them be
washed overboard. Mind, as soon as we catch
the gale we shall have to reef. We must keep
up some sail, as we have to tack to get home,
but we shall have to reef pretty short if the
wind be violent.'

We shan't pass the Watcher without reefing,'
said David.

You tend the jib,' said old Gaverock. He
looked up again at the sky. The smi was
behind the vapour, that was like the garment
of Deianira, through the rents of which fire and
venom were spurting. He untied his red
kerchief from his throat, and fastened it over
his rough shock of hair. That was the Squire's
confession that he recognised the gravity of the
storm he was about to face.

H 2

David,' said he, ' we shall have a dirty
night.'

'Dirt, sir, ain't the word for it. Say
"offal"' (awful).

David, if the wind shifts a point north, we
shall do. We shall make a quick run after all,
and be back at Towan to-night.'

The night is falling already,' said Constantine.


You mistake cloud for night, boy,' shouted
the Squire.

We had better not risk it,' urged the
young man.

'To which I say Amen,' said Tregellas.

What ! afraid of a wetting as of a spill ? '
laughed Havelock ; and the ' Mermaid ' shot
out, as David, who had shoved her off, leased
on board and went forward.

Hender Gaverock had no fear. He was
constitutionally incapable of fear ; always in a
fume with excess of energy, ever sanguine, delighting
in peril, as hardy as any pilot, he despised
the caution of Tregellas and the fear of
Constantine. He knew his boat and could
manage her as he could manage his horse.
She obeyed every turn of his wrist with

docility. Her timbers were sound. He knew
what he had to do. He must tack to windward
into the eye of the gale for a sufficient
distance, and then reach away to Sandymouth,
past Cardue. In Sandymouth was his harbour.

So long as he could keep up sufficient
canvas there was no danger, but the gale, if it
greatly increased, would not allow him to carry
much sail. He must, moreover, beat outward
the proper distance, or he would be swept in
on cliffs where his boat would go to pieces like
watchword.

As the ' Mermaid ' leaped into the open sea
beyond the Watcher, which was now enveloped
in boiling foam, the wind came down on
her, together with a heavy sea. A shadowlike
night — or like a presentiment of great disaster
— fell over the boat.

Beef away ! ' shouted Gaverock. ' David ! '

Aye, aye, sir.'

What boat is that to starboard ? Can you
make her out ? '

After a pause, Trcgellas replied, 'Don't
know her at all, maister. Her looks almost
like the living black shadow of the "mermaids"'


By Heaven ! ' shouted Gaverock, almost
springing to his feet, but not relaxing his grasp
on the tiller, ' I'm damned if that be not Eed
Featherstone's boat ! I know her cut. I've
not clapt eyes on her these thirty years, but I
know her again. What has brought her out
to-night ? I said I'd be glad to race the " Mermaid
" against her, and thouj^jh she be the devil'
own boat, and sail in the devil's own weather
golly ! I'll race her ! ' ^

I hare worked into this and the following chapter a tradition
of the North Cornish coast akin to that of the Flying
Dutchman, which is found in A'arions forms along the coast
from Land's End to Orkney and, indeed in Faroe, Norway and
Denmark.

CHAPTER VII.

A RACE FOE, LIFE.

Hold the sleet, Con,' ordered Hender Gave-rock,
'and throw yourself to windward as ballast.
Whatever yon do, but one turn round the fleet.
Many a score of boats have been lost by a
double turn.'

The wind rose to a hurricane, the waves
piled themselves up, and their foaming crests
broke against each other. The day was declining,
but the dense clouds made it dark before
its time. All colour was gone out of the
sea.

Now the little ' Mermaid ' proved how good
a vessel she was ; she skimmed the waves like
a seaboard, she danced on their crests like the
mermaid that she was. A grim smile lighted
the face of old Gaverock. He was proud of
his boat, and happy to be able to prove her
powers. She was scantily provided with ballast

for such a gale — only with Constantine, laden
with the stone jars.

Have the bottles with 3-011, lad. Take
them over from side to side,' said his father.
We must keep on all sail we can.'

For some time he saw no more of the
mysterious boat, but as he tacked he again
obtained a glimpse of her ; she also, like the
Mermaid,' was standing out to sea. The little
cutter leaned over with the force of the wind,
the water rushed up before her bows and at
times swept her deck.

For a moment the sunlight flared out a
parting ray from the west, and, as the 'Mermaid '
swung up a great billow, the three men saw, to
port, the strange boat, as if made of red-hot
metal, glowing, glaring, the sail a sheet of flame,
the men on board as men of fire.

This was only for a moment. Then the
black cloud descended on the sea, and night
fell ; but still for a while in the west a bloody
streak marked the division between sea and sky.
Vain began to fall heavily, driving before the
wind drops that struck as hard as hail ; it fell
so thick that it cut off all sight of the land and
of the horizon.

The sea rose higher. The gale lashed at
the sea, like a savage groom lashing a horse into
a frenzy of fear and fury. The wind shrieked
in the rigging, the water hissed and gulped
about the boat, the whole air was full of roar,
in which, now and again, came the thunder and
crash of a plunging billow distinct from the
general noise. Already had they been swept
by two or three seas, and were drenched to the
skin. The water foamed over old Tregellas,
who sat forward, and, pouring over the deck,
rushed out behind over the Squire. The other
boat was near them — so near that they could
have hailed one another had they been so
minded. Another reef ought to have been taken
in, but Gaverock did not like to confess himself
beaten in a race — which was a race for life.

Presently, however, when a furious blast
sent them over so that the water wet half the
sail, he was constrained to take in the second
reef, and then, next time he caught sight of the
phantom boat, he saw that those on board her
had done the same.

Eum, Con ! rum ! ' shouted Gaverock, and
passed the tin cup to his son, who removed the
cork from one of the jars, poured out with

shaking hand, and passed a jorum to his father,
then drank himself, and finally handed the canto
Tregellas. The spirit was needed ; the three
men were numb with cold, and wet to the bone.

When the rushing rain held up, the light on
Trevose Head was visible ; but Gaverock saw
that it was now impossible for him to make
Sandj'mouth that night. The wind was on shore
and he must run out to sea, and keep well out
till break of day. This could only be done by
constant tacking. He did not tell Constantino
or David. There was no need for hin to do so ;
both knew it as well as he. Unless he could
work out to open sea, the wind would carry
him ashore between the horns of Hartland and
Trevose. If he could manage to run under
Lundyy, he could lie there all night, ready for
return next day. Fortunately the gale was not
from the north-west, nor was it due west, but
with a point or two to the south-west.

The phosphorescent light on the black
billows seemed to the Squire to break into lambent
flame about the mysterious boat that shot
by out of darkness and into darkness again at
intervals. By this light he thought he could
distinguish the men on board, with their southwestern

on their heads ; but as they were all to
windward, and the boat keeled over steeply, he
could see no faces. Their backs were towards
him, but he fancied that he saw the man at the
helm with a spot of red glimmering through
his dark coat and drops of fire falling from it.
That may have been fancy only. In the uncertain
light, with the irregular motion of the
boats, with glimpses caught casually between
boiling seas, in the excited, strained condition of
his mind, Gaverock Vas liable to be deceived.

Not for a moment did the old man's heart
fail him. His spirits rose to the occasion. He
had expressed a wish to race Featherstone's
cutter. Featherstone had taken him at his
word ; the phantom ship was there, come at his
challenge, at one moment fiery, as if the deadman
and his boat had sprung to the challenge
from the flames of Tartarus, black for the most
part, as though drawn from the blackest abyss
of hell.

Presently he saw a mighty wall of water, as
of ink, rolling on, with the blear light of the
squally western sky behind it, showing its ragged,
tossing, threatening crown, sharply cut against
the light. Gaverock prepared to meet it, with

firm grasp of the helm and set teeth. For a
moment it seemed as though the ' Mermaid '
were al^oiit to cleave it — only for a moment, and
then she swung up, all lier planks straining,
as making a desperate effort ; then a rush of
whirling foam swept the deck and streamed out
of the lee scuppers, as the boat lay over almost
on her side. For a moment she stafr2;ered, as
though hesitating what to do next, righted herself,
and then went headlong down into the
sea-trough, as though diving like a cormorant
after a fish ; and the walls of black water stood
about her, enclosing her as the waves of the
Eed Sea above the chariots of Pharaoh.

Whilst this happened, Gaverock fancied he
heard a shout from the phantom boat, which he
could not see, hidden behind the liquid mounds.
Was it a cry of mockery ? or was it a threat ?
He waited till the ' Mermaid ' had mounted a
roller, and then he replied with a roar of defiance.


It was no longer possible to carry so much
sail, and he reefed again — but with reluctance.
The fury of the storm seemed to grow. He
dared not reef further, lest he should lose all
command over the boat.

The spray cut and cross-cut the old Squire's
face, as though he were being lashed with a
horse-whip. The water poured off his shaggy
eyebrows, binding him. He dared not let go
his hold of the tiller even with one hand to
wipe this face, and he bent his head, and
smeared the brine and rain away on his sleeve.

The rum was called for, and passed frequently.
Constantino suffered more than his
father. His hands were numb and shook with
cold. He was less accustomed to exposure than
Hender Gaverock and David Tregellas. For a
twelvemonth, at least, he had not been to sea.
He was angry and bitter at heart with his father
for exposing him to discomfort and danger. He
firmly resolved never to go out with the old
man again. It would be best for him to keep
away altogether from home, where he was
tripped up, mocked, thrust into peril of his life
by the inconsiderate, self-willed old man. Now
he was afraid of losing the jars of spirits ; afraid
of a wave washing them away. Therefore he
took off his kerchief and tied the handles
together with it. They were already bound
together with a piece of cord ; that cord he
passed behind his back, and the kerchief by this

means crossed his breast, holding a jar in price
under each arm. Thus, when he passed from
port to starboard he carried them without inconvenience.
That was his first idea in thus
attaching them about him, but his second was
that they might form a protection for himself
in the event of his being washed overboard or
of the vessel foundering.

Featherstone's boat — or that which Gave-rock
took for it — had been unseen for some
while. All at once it shot by. Then the old
Squire thought lie could distinguish the faces
of the men on board, lit by the upward flare of
the phosphorescent foam. They were white as
the faces of the dead. Not a word was spoken
as they went by, though the wind lulled for a
minute.

The lull was but for a minute. A little way
ahead through the darkness loomed on them
a mountain of water, with a curling, hoary,
spluttering fringe on its head. Gaverock
steered direct at the billow, and the sail was
eased as much as possible to help the little
Mermaid ' over the watery heap. The wave
came on as if on wheels, rushed down on them,
shivering into specks of foam in all parts, on its

side, as sparks blink out here and there in
tinder ; with a roar and a blow, it engulfed the
vessel and her crew. For a moment the ' Mermaid
' lay on her lee side, as about to keel over,
then gathered herself together and righted once
more. Gaverock heard a cry from the water.
Tregellas was overboard.

Good-bye to you, David ! ' cried the old
Squire, and said no more. Help was not to bethought
of. Then he imagined that he heard a
loud, triumphant shout come to him over the
water. He could not see Featherstone's boat, but
the sound came — or he fancied it came — from
the quarter where she must be. Constantine was
now alone in the vessel with his father. They had
to manage her between them. The old man could
not leave the tiller. He held it with iron hand,
though numbed with the cold, and with the fingers
stiff, without feeling, and contracted. Soon after,
again he caught a glimpse, but only a glimpse,
of the phantom boat. The clouds had parted
momentarily before the crescent moon, and a
ray had touched this mysterious vessel. For an
instant, an instant only, it shone out against the
night and storm, ghost-like, as if cut out of white
paper and stuck against the soot-black background.

Gaverock's pulses smote his ribs like
hammers. He was very angry. Featherstone,
the Eover, had revisited the world and the
scene of his exploits, to have his revenge on
the race that had compassed his murder. He
was following the ' Mermaid,' to watch and
track to death the man aud the son of the man
who had killed him. Gaverock looked about
for, and with his hand groped after Constantine's
2;un. A foolish desire for revenge came
over him. He would have liked, next time the
strange boat appeared, to discharge the gun at
the helmsman. But he abandoned the idea
almost as soon as it was formed. He dare not
desert the tiller, and the gun was doubtless
rendered useless by the water.

As the night wore on, Gaverock lost all
sense of time. Hour after hour had passed, but
the night became no darker ; the storm, if it
did not abate, grew no worse. Sometimes the
clouds aloft were torn apart, and the Squire
could look up at the stars and see tattered fragments
of vapour being whirled across the gap,
which then closed acjjain. At times driving
storms of rain came on, and when rain did not
fall the air was full of spondrift.

Gaverock guessed pretty well where he was,
and he altered somewhat the course of his boat.
He was now, according to his reckonings, driving
towards the Channel. He could see Lundyy
light at intervals, far away to leeward, but he
had lost sight of that on Trevose Head.

Gaverock's heart did not fail him, but he
was less confident than he had been of reaching
home alive. He took the peril without much
concern ; it was what must be expected by those
who went out boating in dirty weather. If he
were drowned, well — it could not be helped.
All must die. But he was vexed that he had
not been able to keep his word, and run home
to Towan in spite of the gale. Strange to say,
the feeling that prevailed in him, and nerved
him to battle with the tempest, was rage against
Featherstone. He had dared Featherstone to
race him, and Featherstone he saw would beat
him, and be able to exult over the wreck of the
Mermaid.' Not a thouo-jit did he drive to his
wife, to Gerans, toEose; his one absorbing consideration
was — how to disappoint Featherstone ;
his one consuming ambition was — to come off
with life and with an wrecked boat, not for

VOL. I. I

his own sake, but to defeat and disappoint
Featherstone.

Between three and four in the morning, as
the dawn was beofinnincf to lighten, Gaverock
saw again a mountain of foam before him, so
white, so broken, that he feared he was fallen
among? breakers ; next moment he recognised
his mistake. No rocks were there, no sandbank.
What he saw was a mountain of seething
foam, the clash and churn of angry waves
that had beaten against each other in a cross
sea, and had resolved themselves into a heap of
milky brine, that worked and hissed throughout
its substance and over its face. The ' Mermaid
' went in, and for a moment or two Gave-rock
and his son were holding their breath,
submerged in sea-water. When the ' Mermaid '
came out, she lay keel uppermost, and the
old man and Constantino were clinging to her
tackling and floating in the sea. Gaverock was
prepared for this. He had not lost his presence
of mind. He hacked through the shrouds on
the side, so as to allow the mast to float, instead
of working underneath her. Then, using great
exertion, he scrambled upon the keel, and
Constantino did the same.

There they sat, in cold and wet, gripping
the bottom of the boat with hands and knees,
covered every few minutes with the waves.

Constantine found that his powers were failing.
He could hold on but very little longer.
There was only just sufficient light for them
to know that the night was changing to day.
Constantine pulled the corks out of the jars,
one after the other, and poured forth their
contents, then he corked them tightly again.
Would it not be well for him to pass one of the
jars to his father? To do that, he must un-knot
both his kerchief and the cord, and his
hands were too numb for this. Besides, it was
doubtful whether a single jar would suffice to
float a man. He looked at his father. The
old man had strength and endurance in him
yet, and Constantine had neither. Besides, the
father had run him into this great peril, not he
the filth er. In common justice, therefore, the
risk should fall heaviest on the old man.

Father ! ' he called, ' I can hold on no
longer.'

Then let go. I'll give your respects to
mother.'

At that moment a great roller swept over

I 2

both. As the boat came out, Gaverock saw
the strange vessel, with the dark figures in it,
shoot by. Then he looked along the keel —
Constantine was gone.

The old man's heart beat, not with sorrow
for his son, not with fear for himself, but with
answer that Featherstone should have witnessed,
and be exulting over, the loss of his servant and
his son.

'I will not drown. Golly! I'll spoil his
sport yet,' shouted Gaverock ; and he took the
great knife wherewith he had cut through the
cordage, and with it he worked holes between
the wood and the lead of the keel, into which
he could fit his fingers, dead and frozen though
they were, but still with the cling in them, set
as claws.

Gaverock could no longer sit up ; he lay his
leno-th on the keel, with his red face on one
side, and the crimson kerchief dripping, hanging
o- loose round his neck — it had been washed
off his head — draggling behind him.

The day was lightening. Gulls laughed and
fluttered over the wreck, then plunged and shook
their wings about the clinging man, regardless of
lira, knowing his inability to injure them. The

wind was certainly abating, but the waves still
tumbled, and bounded, and shook themselves
into froth, and filled his ears with a sound as of
a roar out of infinite space, a roar that would
never end, a roar inarticulate and all-pervading.
And a sense came over him of cold and weariness
— of cold that no heat would ever thaw,
but Which was so cold as to chill and put out all
fire — of weariness that would never grow less,
and that no rest would ever refresh, but which
also would continue the same, never becoming
more acute, a dead weariness, with a thread of
eternity penetrating through it. But with all,
in spite of cold and weariness and noise, his
Vv'ill never failed — that remained unflaofo-in"',
nervous, iron. Overhead, pink flashes appeared
among the clouds, like the flowers of tamarisks
scattered about the sky. His eyes saw neither
the colour nor the light. He had no power
to observe anything, he had no thought for
anything, no wish but one, ' Featherstone !
Featherstone ! I'm not done yet, and I won't
give way.'

Then indistinctly, out of another world, he
heard voices, then he became conscious of
something not cold and watery touching him.

Gradually he came out of his far-off realm
of cold and weariness and numbness to the
meeting-place of a world of warmth and action
and Hfe. He heard human voices, he felt himself
caught by hands. But he clung the more
fiercely, tenaciously, to the keel. For a moment
his senses went, then came again, brought back
by the force of his dominant will.

The ' Mermaid ' was washed ashore in Bute
Haven, and he was in the arms of living men.

He looked round, and saw sand-hills. He
tried to cry out triumphantly, ' Featherstone !
not beaten ! ' but his voice and his consciousness
failed him.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE SHADOW OF DEATH.

On the third day after his interview with Constantine
in the Iron Gate, Dennis Penhalho;an
walked up the coomb and over the hill to
Towan. lie had heard that Gaverock and his
younger son had gone to sea in the ' Mermaid '
on the morning of the storm and had not returned.
His sister was white, red eyed, and
trembling with excitement and fear. She entreated
him to get the last news for her, and
relieve her alarm or confirm her worst anticipations.


On reaching Towan he saw a shaggy horse
in broken harness patched with rope and
string attached to a gig with torn splashboard,
and wheels without paint on the tires and paint-less
half way up the spokes, standing before
the door, with a rough boy, almost as wild as
the horse, and in clothes as torn and rudely

mended as the harness, seated in the gig, flicking
the horse with the whip for diversion, without
allowing him to leave the door.

Dennis went by into the hall. There he
saw Gerans, who held out his hand to him
without speaking.

The doctor heard a sound from the adjoining
parlour like the wailing of the wind, then
words followed, which he could not hear,
though he knew the voice to be that of Eose,
and then again a fresh burst of wails. Gerans
held his face averted.

Look at that, Dennis,' he said, pointing to
a letter on the table. ' Poor Con is lost.'

Dennis took up the letter and read it. It
was in the scrawling hand of the Squire :

Gleans, — I've sent a boy with a trap for
you from Bude ; he is to change horses at
Camelford. You are to came back with him,
and bring along with 5'ou two fresh jars, empty,
for rum. The others are lost. I'll fill them
on my way home. Very sorry to say that Tree
and Con were drowned, poor fellows, but
the " Mermaid " is all right — came ashore into
Bude Haven, keel up, and I astride thereon; so
the " Mermaid " was no derelict, and, I'm thankful

to add, no wreck neither. Very little wants
doing to her, and you and I will bring her
back to Sandymouth, By the time you are
here I reckon she'll be ready for sea again.
So am I. Sorry, terribly sorry, about Con. Tell
your mother not to be a fool, and cheer up.'

Dennis laid the letter on the table.

This is all ; you know no more ? '

Nothing but what the boy has told us.
My father came into Bude Harbour yesterday
morning on the " Mermaid," clinging to the
keel, unconscious, or nearly so, and poor

Con ' Gerans's voice broke down, and he

went to the window and leaned his elbows on
it, looking out, and putting his hand to his
eyes, and pretended that something was tickling
them.

Poor Con,' he said, after a while, ' was
washed off far out to sea. He told father he
could hold on no longer — he was overcome
with cold and exhaustion. Tregellas had been
carried off the deck earlier. My mother ! — my
poor mother ! '

Dennis respected his sorrow, and was silent
for some time. At last he said, in a low
tone :

'I am very grieved for your mother and
you — very. You have my warmest sympathy.
You are going to Bude now, I suppose ? '

Gerans nodded.

I want to know one thing before you
leave. Did your brother say anything particular
to you or your father before starting on
this disastrous expedition ? '

Say anything ! What do you mean ?
He said " Good-bye " — nothing more. He had
no idea that the cruise would be dangerous.'

'I do not mean that — I mean about
Lovedayay.'

About Lovedayay ! ' repeated Gerans, with
unfeigned surprise. 'No; what had he to
say

I must tell you now, Gerans. If this had
not happened, you woidd have heard it from
his own lips before to-day. I had his promise
to reveal it.'

Young Gaverock turned and looked at him
with a puzzled expression.

'It can be nothing of consequence now,
Dennis,' he said. 'You can tell me some
other time. I must be off to Bude to meet my
father.'

No, Gcrans. I should wish you to know
all at once, before you see him. You are regretting
the loss of a brother — I of a brother-in-law.'


The young Squire stared stupidly in
Dennis's face. He could not take in the meaning
f^ of his words.

Do you not understand me ? ' said the
surgeon. ' Constantine had married my sister.'

Nonsense ! ' Gerans blurted forth. ' You
are dreaming.'

It is true. When Lovedayay was in Exeter,
last spring, Constantine wrongly persuaded her,
and she weakly allowed herself to be persuaded.
They were married, but I did not
know it till three days ago.'

Impossible ! My father was not asked.'

No ; your father was not consulted, nor
was I. The thing was done secretly. Your
brother acted in a most dishonourable '

lie is dead,' said Gerans, holding up his
hand.

True ; but when I think of this my blood
boils. No one's consent was asked. They
were married, and parted. She returned tome
; he remained at Exeter. Months passed.

and the secret did not leak out, tlioiigli I
suspected something was being kept from me.
I read it in Lovedayay's face. I saw it lurking
in her once so honest eyes. I taxed her with
concealment, but she would confess nothing till
the return of Constantine. Then all came out.'
When ? '

When ! Why, in Porth-Ierne.'

Gerans said no more. He looked down,
greatly troubled.

Now,' Penhalhgan went on, ' I ask
whether Constantine had told your father
before he started on this unhappy sail ? '

I am sure he did not. My father would
have been so disconcerted, he would have
spoken about it to every one. My father gives
utterance before all the world to whatever
passes through his mind.'

You will ascertain, when you see the
Squire, whether he was told this on the
cruise ? '

I do not think Con would tell him then,
with old Treo-ellas in the boat.'

Then you must tell him as you return
with him.'

Gerans shook his head. ' Don't force me

to do that — at least, not now, with this trouble
on us. Father will launch out in angry words
against — against poor Con ; and I cannot bear
that — not now, at least. He never cared for
Con as did my mother and I. Con was my
brother, with only a year between us, and we
grew up together ; we were daily companions
and the best of friends. My father never
understood Con's superiority — he had far more
brains than I have. No, Dennis ; let this lie
quiet for a few days. It would heighten my
mother's grief.'

It must be known speedily.'

Why so?'

Because I will not have it remain hid.'

What good will it do ? '

It must come out,' said Dennis, firmly.

Gerans sighed, and held out his hand to
him. ' Well, old fellow, you think of a sister
I of a brother. Of course you are right, but
give us time.'

Penhalligan saw Gerans drive off, and then
he stood hesitating. Should he go directly
home and tell his sister what he had heard, or
should he first try to see and speak to Eose ?
The spell on him was too strong for him to be

able to break away. Being at Towan, he must
have a glimpse of her face. He knew that she
could not be his, because the happiness woukl
be too great for such as he, born under a flitch
star, without a chance ; yet he coukl not
muster up the moral courage to keep away
from her. He craved to see her, as an opium-eater
craves for the drug ; but the sight of her,
instead of soothing, tortured him. He lingered
at the door, with one foot on the step, his eyes
on the ground. He had a walking-stick in his
hand, and he scratched signs with the ferrule
in the earth. ' Why should I see her ? ' he
asked. ' The sight of her will make me miserable.
But I shall be miserable if I do not see
her. Why can I not tear myself away from
this place and go to the other end of England ?
I cannot. My sister is dependent on me. All
I had is sunk here, and here I must sink also.'
He raised his dark eyes, full of threatening
light, towards heaven, and muttered, ' Thou
writes bitter things against me.'

Then, at the door, appeared Eose, looking
pale and frightened, the laughter and light
washed from her eyes, but beautiful, more
beautiful than ever, in her pallor.

Mr. Penhalligan,' lie said, ' come, come
quickly, and see Mrs. Gaverock,'

In her eagerness she caught him by the
arm, and drew him after her through the hall
into the little parlour beyond, that opened out
of it — the one room that had a window with a
southern aspect. Mrs. Gaverock was there,
crouched on the floor against the window-frame,
her grey hair dishevelled and falling
down her back. She put her hand over her
face and forehead and through her hair with a
curious mechanical motion, and with the other
hand pointed to the window-frame, on which
were little scratches and dates.

Con ! ' said the old woman, ' little Con ! so
high. Four years old to-day. Little Con ! so
high, five years old to day ! ' and she pointed
to another notch or scratch. ' My Con, my
pretty boy, my pet, my darling, so high, six
years old — that is — how long ago ? ' She put
her trembling left hand to her brow and shook
her head, and brushed her forehead, and, unable
to solve the question, went on : ' What a
brave, pretty fellow, so tall for eight — no —
where was I ? I must begin again, with the
first score that was drawn to-day when he is

three. Con ! little Con ! four years, or three
years ? ' She put her hand to her head.
Help me ! which is it ? Little Con, pretty
boy, four years old to-day, and so high.' She
turned round, pointing, and looked at Dennis.
Her eyes were dazed.

Miss Trewhella,' said the young doctor,
ao at once for assistance. You must take
Mrs. Gaverock to bed and she must be bled.'
That was the panacea for all ills at the time of
which we write. ' Miss Eose, I will go home
immediately, and return with my instruments
and a composing draught. The shock has
been too much for head and heart.'

When he had seen the broken-minded and
broken-hearted mother taken to her room,
Dennis hastened home.

At his o;arclen sate, before he reached the
house, he saw the figure of his sister standing
looking up the path expectantly.

She was able to read nothing in his face ashe
came up ; she took his arm, and looked
questioningly into his dark lowering eyes.

Pas de chance,' he said, ' for us and for
all with whom we are brought in contact,
evil fortune hangs over us still, and blasts us.

Mrs. Gaverock is ill ; I must return at once to
Towan and bleed her.'

Lovedayay's lips quivered and lier eyes became
dim. She feared the worst. Had her
brother o;ood news he would not have tantalised
her. He would have communicated it at
once.

Mrs. Gaverock has had bad news, and it
has crushed her, mentally and physically. I
doubt if she will rally from it. Her heart was
set on one object, and — of course,' he said these
words with concentrated bitterness, ' that object
is taken from her. Lovedayay, there is but one
lesson life teaches, care for no person and nothing.
Be withe ut a noble hope, without a
great ambition — be as a beast, and rolling
through life, and then life opens and laughs in
response. Demand of it anything but what is
common and base and you curse yourself with
a career of misery.'

Lovedayay's quivering hand was in his, her
swimming eyes on his.

Sister,' he said, ' I have been told that the
vulgar oyster when born has got eyes, and a
faculty of seeing through them the world, and
light and colour and beauty. But the silt gets

VOL. I. K

in and frets them away, and little by little it
loses its eyes, and light and colour and beauty
are no more for it, only a base, mud-life underwater.
The eyes were only given it that they
might be taken away, and the remembrance of
light be to it a lifelong repining. Every faculty
we have is given us as a vehicle for suffering.
Let us love, desire, cling to anything, and that
thing is taken from us ! There ; go to your
room and cry. The blight is on you. Constantine
is dead.

But she did not go. She grasped his hand
tighter, and said, ' I have steeled my heart to
hear this, Dennis. I acted very wrongly and
Constantine very foolishly. That is over. Let
the past be past. Let the whole secret remain
a secret. Now it need be known to none but
ourselves. I can weep for him in my own
chamber ; I do not care that the world should
know why.'

CHAPTER IX.

THE Unspoken TONGUE.

Dennis Pexhalligan" and Rose Trewhella were
standing together in the hall by the window.
The light struck in on his dark face, and Eose
could not fail to notice how handsome it was.
He had asked her to follow him downstairs
from the sick-room of Mrs. Gaverock. In spite
of her playful and flippant manner with him,
Eose stood in awe of the young surgeon. To
one thoughtless, without a trouble, full of exuberant
spirit there is something impressive
in the character of a man who is intellectual,
strong of purpose or in passion, and weather-buffeted
and braced by adversity.

Miss Eose,' he said, leaning his elbow on
the sill of the window, and crossing his feet,
which he lashed with his riding whip, ' I should
like to send Lovedayay to take your place beside
Mrs. Gaverock.'

K 2

Why so ? ' asked the girl \vitli a flush of
hurt feeling, and with eyebrows Tufted in surprise.
Do not I care for her to the best of my power ? '

To the best of your power — yes,' answered
Dennis. He did not look in her face, his dark
eyes were fixed on his boots. ' But you have
not in you that which the patient requires.'

What is that ? '

Sympathy.'

There you are out of your reckoning, Mr.
Penhalhgan ; I am full of love and tenderness
to dear aunt. She can never say of me that I
neglect her.'

You do not neglect her,' answered Dennis,
but you do not understand what the aching
heart requires. You endeavour to cheer her,
to interest her with descriptions of this, that,
and another, lively and entertaining, but unsuitable.
You fret her much as she might be fretted
by a pretty molli that fluttered over her face,
or by the flicker of shining water in her weary
eyes. She does not ask to be entertained, she
does not want distraction. What she needs is
companionship cooling as evening dew, soft
as silver moonlight. You have never known
sorrow, you have had no experience of the

anguish of losing that about Avliich all your
heart fibres have been laced. You are incapable
of helping her. The ^vill is not wanting,
what lacks is the faculty. Do not grieve that
you have not got it. The faculty grows, like
'the blossom on the apple-tree which is beaten
to make it bloom. Every bruise produces a
flower, and every flower a fruit.'

Eose's clear blue eyes were on him, watching
his expressive face. Her pretty lips half
pouted, half inclined downwards at the corners.

How has Lovedayay gained the experience
that is denied me P '

I cannot tell you how,' answered Dennis ;
it suffices that she has. You will see that
the poor old lady will ching to her, but without
turning from you. You tease her. You are
restless, eager to be doing something for her,
to stir up her mind to foreign interests. She
desires to be let alone, to be wept with, to
have no word spoken to her ear, but to feel
the pity of a true, loving heart, speaking to her
in a voiceless, altogether mysterious way.'

You think very badly of me, doctor.'

Not at all.' He looked up suddenly.
Heaven knows how highly I think of you, too

highly for my own happiness. But let that
pass. No, Miss Eose. It is not so. Can you
talk Hindustani ? '

I— Hindustani ? No.'

Why not ? '

'Because, for a very simple reason, I have
never learned it.'

Why have you not learned it? '

I have no occasion for it,' answered Eose,
impatiently, and colour came in two bright spots
into her cheeks. She stamped her little foot.
What do you mean by this, Mr. Penhalligan ? '

This is my meaning, Miss Trewhella.
Hearts have their languages as well as lips.
You cannot converse with a Hindu, because
you cannot speak Hindustani ; so you cannot
commune with a sorrowful soul, because you
do not know sorrow. Can you comprehend
how a Hindu in England must yearn to hear
his OAvn tongue? In like way the sorrowful,
sick heart longs to have converse with another
that can speak and understand the language of
which every word is a tear.'

Eose looked on the ground, and now the
earnest eyes of Dennis were on her. Her lips
were curling.

Presently, with a flush of triumph in her
bright face, she glanced up, and said impetuously
:

I have taken you in your own toils, sir !
You, you, who lecture me on lack of sympathy,
how is it that it is precisely of you — of you that
p tents complain because you are unsympathetic
? Answer me that, thou Man of Feeing.'

He shrugged his shoulders and considered.
Then, with a scornful smile playing about his
mouth, he replied, ' Miss Trewhella, thou Lady
sans Feeling, I will explain the riddle : for the
same reason that you make a bad nurse. I
am, perhaps, unsympathetic towards the sick,
because I have never had a day's illness — no
aches have racked my bones or nerves. I
have not even had a catarrh to make me snuffle
in sympathy with him who has a cold in his
head. My trials and troubles have not been of
that sort, they have gone under another category.'


In what category, tell me ? ' The question
was impertinent, and Eose looked at him
timidly, uncertain how he would take it.

It is useless my telling you. You would
not understand me. Your life is one of unclouded

happiness. You have never been in
life's battle, never have received bullets and
barbs of iron in your flesh which lie there un-extracted,
festering, and making existence an
agony.'

No, I have not had that experience, and
I have no desire of acquiring it.'

I hope you never may have it.'

I should be afraid to send for you, were T
sick,' said Eose ; ' you would dissect my fibres
as callously as if you were unripping a rush
mat, and cut into my poor flesh as coldly as if
j'ou Vv'ere slicing a melon. I should look up
into your face in vain for pity.'

Indeed, indeed no ! If you were in suffering,
I would be unable to touch you, not from
callousness, but from emotion. And you knoAV
that, and j^ou speak thus because you know it
will set all the threads of my soul quivering.'
He passed his hand over his face. Eose saw
she had gone too far ; she rapidly changed the
subject.

Lovedayay,' she said, ' is full of tenderness
to the sick. You are quite right in wishing to
send her here to be with dear Aunt Gaverock.'

Then she said no more. Nor did he. After

an awkward silence of a minute, lie exclaimed
brightly, as a thought flashed up in her mind,
ISTow, Mr. Penhalligan, I am not going to let
you off without chastisement. You have been
hard on me, fluttering all my shortcomings, like
the linen from the wash on lines on a Tuesday.
I will not let you go without a last word, which
is woman's prerogative ; without a last touch,
as in a game of prisoner's base.'

Very well, touch me.'

You will not be angry ? '

How can T, when you set me the example of
bearing sharp instruction with so sweet an air ? '

Then be lamb-like now, Mr. Dennis, and
listen to reproof What I want to say is this.
It does seem to my stupid head that both
you and Lovedayay have gone through a rough
school.'

'Yes, it is so — she and I alike.'

And it seems to me that the same master,
and the same teaching, and the same rod, have
sent you out very diverse into the world.'

Go on,' he said, looking intently at her as
she spoke.

She has been sweetened by her sorrows,
and you — soured.'

He made no reply.

I suppose the bruise does not always become
a blossom on the apple-tree — sometimes
a canker,' she said.

Then the door burst open, and Hender
Gaverock and Gerans entered, the former
stamping, shaking himself, and diffusing a chill
air, a smell of the sea, and a sense of salt.

Hullo ! doctor ! you here ? How is my
lady ? Got over her hysterics yet ? Here am
I back, pickled in brine, and tough as tanned
hide. I had a near touch this time, though ;
and if I hadn't made up my mind not to be
drowned I should have followed David and
Con to Davy Jones's locker. I held on to the
keel with fingers and toes and-with every claw
of my will, which can grip like a crab. How
is the mistress ? I am very sorry about poor
Con. Better, however, to have swallowed too
much salt water than to be smothered in law-dust.
Poor fellow ! I'm as sorry at his loss
as a man can be. However, that which can't
be cured must be roasted and eaten, as the
cook said of the pork in summer, when the pig
was killed. I am sure I am as disturbed about
Con as a father can be, but I don't go into

hysterics. This is the way of women. Humour
them, and they come round in time. I'll tell
you what. If poor Con's body had been
recovered, and we could have had a decent
burial with cake and ale, and husbands and
scarves, the old lady would have rather liked
it, and have been hoping about like a winged
magpie. It is nothing but the lack of a burial
which makes her take to her bed. I am sixty-five.
I know women.'

Whither are you going, Mr. Gaverock ?
Not up to your wife's room ? ' exclaimed Pen-gallican.


'Yes, I am. What stands in the way?
She'll be glad to hear particulars. It will
rouse her out of her fit of hysterics.'

I must beg, my dear sir, that you do not
disturb her now. She must be soothed, not
excited. This is not a case of hysterics by any
means.'

Don't you suppose she will be impatient
to hear of poor Con, how he managed the
sheet ? He'd not forgotten that. I was half
afraid of trusting it into his hand, but we were
capsized through no fault of his. We went
over and the sail was full of water. There was

no help for it. Con and I fought a gallant
fight ; he ought to be here now, but is so
much younger than me that lie has not my
strength.'

Yon must not 2:0 to auntie,' said Eose. ' I
am about to run to Nantsillan myself for Love-day,
as I only disturb and irritate aunt. Love-day
is the proper medicine and nurse for her.'

Very well ! very well ! ' said the old man
impatiently. ' Pshaw ! the house smells of
medicine bottles. Come out into the fresh air,
Gerans. Sickness makes a whole house stuffy.
Besides, I want to see the horse yon bought at
Wadebrido'e Fair.'

When the Squire and his son had left the
hall, Eose said, ' Mr. Penhalligan, I think I
understand what you mean by the unspoken
language. I do not think my uncle and aunt
have that speech in common.'

Mr. Gaverock,' answered Dennis, ' has so
crushed out all exhibition of sensibility in himself,
and laughed and scorned it out of others,
that he dare not show his true feelings. I have
little doubt that he is more sensible of his son's
death than he allows others to see. As he has
checked in himself and in those about him

every token of feeling, lie has lost the capacity
to sympathise with suffering.'

Half an hour later Lovedayay Penhalligan
arrived. Eose thought her looking very unwell,
she was so pale, and her eyes sunken.
She asked her if she were ailing. Lovedayay
shook her head. She even tried to smile, but
filled.

Lovedayay wore a dark navy-blue cloth gown
and a white kerchief about her neck, crossed
over her bosom and pinned behind. Her hair
was plain, drawn back into a knot, and covered
by a white cap. Her sleeves were to her
elbows, where they were frilled, and she wore
long black mittens. Her features were not regular
and classical, and she had an olive complexion
; but there was a sweetness in her
expression which made every one say she was
pretty — some declared she was beautiful. Her
eyes were, however, her great charm, large,
deep, soft, and full of feeling ; eyes into which
any one might look, and which spoke as eyes
can speak of a patient, loving, and meek soul.
Dennis saw that she did not assume a blackgown,
though she had one, and he knew, thereby, that
she was resolved to have her secret kept. It

would be more precious, more holy to her, if
hidden in the deeps of her faithful soul. She was
not one who cried out for sympathy. She was
happiest in keeping her joys and sorrows to
herself, or sharing them only with her brother.
They were desecrated when made public. She
was reticent and retiring without being dull and
shy. She never pushed herself into, or in society.
She had to be sought out ; but when found,
and brought into conversation, her intelligence,
her pleasant humour and kindliness made her
very attractive. The men all liked her, and
the girls were not jealous.

Mrs. Gaverock's wan, troubled face kindled
the moment she entered her room. Lovedayay
drew a chair by her bedside and took the
old lady's hand in hers and kissed it respectfully.

Mrs. Gaverock said nothing, but lay looking
at her. Her eyes were no longer mazed, her
reason had returned ; but she was very weak,
and unable to speak above a whisper. But she
was thinking, and thinking of one thing, her
great loss ; every now and then a tear trickled
from her eye, and lie was too weak or unconscious
to put up her hand to wipe it away.
Lovedayay saw this at once, and with her handkerchief

very gently dried each tear as it welled
out of the faded eyes. Towards sunset the girl
was startled by the old woman putting out her
disengaged hand and trying to draw herself up
by the bed-post.

Can I help 3'ou ? ' asked Lovedayay, putting
her arms round her and raising; her.

Con said,' whispered Mrs. Gaverock — ' Con
said he was married.'

Lovedayay 's hand that held that of the patient
involuntarily quivered.

I have been looking at you,' said the poor
mother, ' and I wished — oh, I have wished so
much — that he had married you.'

Lovedayay hesitated for a moment ; her face
became paler and her heart fluttered. Then
she stooped, drew the old lady up in her bed ;
she seated herself on it, so that Mrs. Gaverock
could rest in her arms, and, putting her cheek
against that of the old woman, said, 'Your wish
is fulfilled. He did take me.'

Two hours later Dennis returned. He found
the Squire with Gerans and Eose at supper.
The latter stood up, took a candle, and said, 'I
will go with you, Mr. Penhalligan, and relieve
Lovedayay.'

She and the doctor entered the sick-room.
Twihghi had succeeded set of sun, and then
came darkness. When they entered with the
light they found Mrs. Gaverock lying in Love-day's
arms, asleep. Tears sparkled on her eyelashes,
but her face was peaceful ; it had lost
its despairing, distressed expression.

Lovedayay's eyes were also wet, and there
were glistening paths on her cheeks ; but she
smiled gently at her brother and Eose as they
entered, and held up her finger to impose on
them silence. Dennis looked attentively at the
sleeper, and then at his sister.

Mrs. Gaverock is better,' he said in a low
tone. ' She has had better medicine than I
could provide out of the Pharmacopoeia.' Then
he turned to Eose and said in a still lower tone,
audible only to her, ' Do you now understand
me when I refer to the unspoken, unwritten
lanQ;ua2:e ? '

CHAPTER X.
A woman's soul.

Gerans,' said the Squire, ' I'm sorry your
mother takes on so about Con. I can't seethe
sense of it. When a thing has happened,
and can't be undone, accept it. Wh}^ the
Camelford and Padstow Bank failed two years
a^o, and I lead a score of their notes in mv
pocket-bool^. I did not spread the notes out
before me, and weep over them till I had
sopped them to pulp. No, I burnt them all
and said no more on the matter. We can't
nsh Con up, and, if we did, what comfort would
that be to a natural man? If your mother
sticks in bed we shall have to o-et a housekeeper,
or the maids will be up to jinks. That
doctor comes here every day to see her, but I
know better than he how to cure her. A stiff
glass of rum and hot water, with a lemon slice
Heating on top and a dust of nutmeg, and sugar

TOL. I. L

to taste. Lord ! Gerans, there's nothing like
it, whether you get the shivers, or a nip of
rheumatism, or have a domestic affliction, or
get bad notes, or begin to think about your
soul. I was cut up, I can tell you, when I was
at the Falcon Inn at Bude. I was very sorry
for Con, but I took the stiffest glass I could
brew, and I put a bit of cucumber in it, and
that relieved me wonderfully. I tumbled into
bed — no sheets — between blankets, and slept
like a cat in the ashes. Your mother wants
rousing. I believe it's nothing but bile. I'd
like to put her on horseback and send her after
the hounds ; get her liver well shaken, and,
bless my heart, she'd be as right as Greenwich
time next day, and mope no more over Con.
I don't suppose Eose's habit would fit her, and
she couldn't go without one. What a pity it
is that the gun went to the bottom with Con !
Capital gun that was ; I'm only thankful that
I didn't lend Con mine, but made him take
yours. Lord ! if it had been mine was
drowned, I should have been angry. I know
that gun, and it knows my hand on it, as well
as Phoebus knows my touch on the reins.
Gerans, what do you think of Eose, eh ? '

Eose ! ' echoed the young man, startled
by the abrupt question. ' She is very nice.'

Nice — that is cool praise. Say something
warm.'

Well, father, I think her very bright,
cheerful, and pleasant in the house.'

To be sure she is — full of fun, and no
nonsense about her. Can't do without her
now, can we ? '

'We shall have to some day, when she
marries.'

What ! take four hundred a year away P
Not so, my good boy. I had intended her for
Con, as you get To wan, and there was no salt
in the box for him ; but, as Con has departed,
she is at your disposal. Four hundred a year
in house property at Truro. I'll tell you my
plan, Gerans. We'll sell this property and buy
Trevithick. That will be for sale before long,
and it will fit on to this estate as one nutshell
on to another, and as cream fits junket.'

But, my dear father '

'There must be no hesitation. Stay, I'll
have in some brandy at once. Upon my word,
I'm low this evening with the smell of medicine,
and the popping in and out of that doctor.

1 2

We'll have a bowl of punch and discuss it and
your marriage together. If you've objections
we'll drown them ; scruples, grate them up into
the nutmeg and give zest to the bowl. It is
not against the law : she is not your brother's
widow.'

Con knew nothing of this, did he ? '

No, how could he ? I had no time to
arrange it with him.'

Or Eose ? '

No, I had not broached it to her.'

But you are premature, father '

Premature ! What a word to stop my
mouth with. I will it, and that is enough. If
Con had lived, he should have had Rose and
her house property at Truro ; as he is dead,
you shall have her and buy Brevi thick. That
is settled.'

But Eose may object.'

Golly ! I'd like to see her. She object to
a strapping boy like you ? If I choose it — full
stop — the thing is done.'

Gerans was so astonished that he could not
speak. He sipped his glass and stared at his
father.

Now you know what suit to lead,' said

old Hender Gaverock. ' Lead hearts and I'll
trump. I suppose there must be a little sentiment
and moonshine and treacle and nightingale's
songs. Girls like that, but it is not
business. It is like the borage floating on top
of cider cup ; it gives a sort of a poetical
flavour, and it is an ornament, but in itself it is
nothing. Give her the blossom, but you drink
the cup.'

I do not suppose Eose cares for me, and,
as for myself ■'

You can't help liking her. Besides, what
is the odds ? Women aise women and gulls are
gulls, they are all alike — one a little whiter and
one a little noisier than another ; but if you
must have a wife, I don't see — and I've lived
long enough to know — that it matters very
much whom you take. They are as much
alike as herrings. Some have soft roes and
some have hard, and some begin with very
soft roes, which become gritty as gravel in old
age. You might go to Land's End and Lizard
and not fare better. That is settled. As soon
as decency permits, after the loss of Con, you
take Eose and her four hundred, and we'll
manage Trevithick.'

Then Lovely Penhalligan came in. She-had
been with Mrs. Gaverock, but was relieved
for the night by Eose Trewhella. The Squire
and this son stood np on her entry.

Come here, Miss Lovedayay,' said Hender
Gaverock ; ' we are discussing a bowl of rum-punch,
and all it lacks to make it perfect is that
you should put your lips to it. Come here ! '
he repeated in his dictatorial, domineering
manner ; ' I remember when in this very hall
we drank the ladies' healths out of vessels five
inches long by one inch deep, and they were
made of satin — the ladies' own shoes.'

My patterns are in the hall. Squire ; you
may try to drink my health out of them.'

Bring them in, Gerans, and we'll lit finger-glasses
to the rings and play forfeits who spills
a drop in draining the glass or breaks it.'

No, Squire Gaverock, I will not lend my
patterns for that ; Mrs. Gaverock will hold me
guilty of her broken bowls.'

Take my chair, Miss Lovedayay,' said the
old man, pointing to a leather-covered armchair,
high-backed, by the fire.

For a moment only,' answered the girl.
She took the chair he had vacated for her, and

laid her hands on the arms ; the back of the
chair and the protruding carved sides were
above her head. She was framed in old
stamped gilt leather, while the red firelight
flickered over her pale face, dark hair, and
large soft eyes.

'Now, Miss Penlialligan,' said the Squire,
I am glad I have cornered you, for I want a
word. You are spoiling Mrs. Gaverock. It is
very kind of you to come, but don't condole
with her — it makes her worse. She wants
stirring up. 1 know women.'

Pardon me, you do not.'

I — I not know them ! ' laughed the old
man. ' Golly ! I have had sixty-five years'
experience of them, and I ought to understand
them.'

No, you have spent sixty-five years in
their society, and you understand them less
now than you did sixty-five years ago. Then
you might have learned, now you are past
acquiring the knowledge.'

The old man stared at Lovedayay, amazed at
her audacity.

You think,' pursued the girl, ' that a
woman's soul is to be tinkered with a slater's

sax.^ It is of too fine a nature to be touched
even ■witli the thumb. When a particle of dust
enters your watch and stops the hands you
hold your breath as you examine the works,
lest a breath should rust them. A woman's
heart is more delicate in its mechanism than
that, and a rough touch and a rude blast will
spoil it for ever. You know our Cornish proverb,
" The earth is strewn with potsherds." It
means that everywhere, in every village, almost
in every house, are broken lives, lives broken
by rough usage and careless handling. You
would have used the finger-glasses for a jest
and a forfeit, and heeded nothing if they fell
and were shattered. We poor women are like
these same finger-glasses, full of fresh and pure
water for you men to dip sour soiled fingers
into and cleanse them, not for you to convert
into bumpers to break for a wager.'

Golly ! ' exclaimed old Gaverock. ' I
called you in here. Miss, that I might have a
word with you, and you are reading me a lecture.
It will do you good, Gerans, I hope. I

^ The sax is the short chopper used by slaters in cutting and
shaping slates. The word is the Saxon sea.v, a short sword.
It is in use in the West of England.

am past learning, as Miss Lovedayay has graciously
informed us.'

There was nothing offensive in her manner ;
she spoke gently, almost ]pleadingly, and she
looked delicate and pretty in the high-backed
chair with her elbows on the arms, and the
white frills trembling ns she moved her long
fingers as though playing on a harpsichord, but
really in nervous fear, on the rounded ends of
the chair-arm. As she spoke a light dew came
out on her pure brow, and her long dark lashes
were hung with molten frost drops.

You must not be angry with me, Squire,'
she said, looking timidly at him ; ' if I am very
bold with you it is my love for Mrs. Gaverock
which makes me speak. Leave the dear old
lady to Dennis and me; we will do our utmost
for her, but you must not interfere and throw
down the stones we set up.'

And Rose — does she count for nothing ? '

'No, I do not say that. Eose's part will
come later. The sunshine will cherish and
brighten when the broken flower is strong
enough to bear the heat and light, but a little
shade and cool and silence are needed now.'

Very well. Have things purely your own

way. It is no pleasure to me to go into a sickroom,
111 keep away altogether.'

Not that either,' said Lovedayay. ' Mrs.
Gaverock will like to see you. She will expect
you, and be pained if you do not visit her.
When you go, be gentle, not boisterous, and
not say much about Constantine. If you speak
of him, speak tenderly.'

The old man rubbed his chin, then turned
thoughtfully to Gerans.

I understand her,' he said. ' Last time I
went up clattering in my water-boots ; I'm to
go in pumps, that is what she means.' He
rubbed his chin again. ' I'll shave before I kiss
her. I dare say I scratched her last time. But
what a roundabout way she has of saying it.'

Comfort must be applied to a dulled soul,'
said Lovedayay, ' like gold leaf, that is so thin
and tender that it may not be touched. I have
seen a gilder blow the flickering sheet into the
air and let it lightly, softly fall where it is to
rest, and it has fallen over the whole surface,
and hidden every blemish. But if you apply it
with a finger you tear it, with a brush you
crease it, and leave a crinkled, ragged surface
full of rents and oozing size. Long experience

is needed to lay the golden leaf; afterwards,
another hand, less experienced, may burnish it.'

Then Lovedayay stood up.

It is time for me to be at home,' she said.
Dennis weill be expecting his supper on his return
from his round.'

I will accompany you ! ' exclaimed Gerans,
starting to his feet.

I can return well by myself. There is no
one and nothing I need fear.'

Certainly not alone,' said Gerans, ' now
that the night has fallen. You are so surpassing
kind in coming here daily to see my dear
mother, that I cannot suffer you to return unaccompanied,'
He took his hat, helped her into
her shawl, and gave her his arm.

When she was gone old Gaverock emptied
his glass, kicked the logs together on the hearth,
and growled : ' She is right so far, that I don't
know women as they are in these days. Lord !
the impudence to address me as she has. This
is what comes of the French Revolution. We
shall have Charlotte Cords here next.'

The night was not dark, the plovers were
still about, screaming, and from the cliffs could
be heard the noise of the gulls. High overhead

a flight of brent-geese went by, barking
like aerial dogs.

Lovedayay,' said Gerans, ' I have not seen
you since I heard of the relationship in which
we stand — that is, I have not seen you so as
to speak to you in private. As you heard my
father address you as Miss Penhalligan and
Miss Lovedayay, you understand that he has not
been made aware of that as yet. I have promised
Dennis to tell my father, but I have not
had a favourable opportunity for doing so.'

I do not see occasion for it,' said Lovedayay.
Let it be buried in the past.'

Poor dear Con acted very wrongly by
you. He ought to have been more considerate
of '

Not a word against him ! ' interrupted the
girl. ' As you have not told Mr. Gaverock, let
the story remain untold. I ask nothing from
him ; I acted wrongly and I must bear the
consequence. I shall always have your regard,
I trust ? '

Always, always, dear Lovedayay ! '

That suffices. Mrs. Gaverock knows, and
is happy in the knowledge. There is really no
occasion why your father should be troubled

by being told what has taken place. It is in
the past. It can do no good to repeat it, and
I know he would be very indignant if he
heard it.'

Well, sister, his anger would blow away
in a week or two.'

• In that week he would say words which
would hurt your mother and me where our
hearts are most tender, and the wounds would
not heal for years.'

It is but right, Lovedayay, that your connection
with the family should be known and acknowledged.'


If it were, reflections would be made on
poor Constantino for not having himself made
it known and having exacted acknowledgment
months ago.'

That is true, but your honour is more to
be considered than my brother's memory. I
cannot in conscience submit.'

You do not understand a woman's soul,'
answered Lovedayay, quietly. ' It is of that nature
that it will endure anything rather than that
the slightest injury should be done, even to the
memory of the man she loves. But do not be
troubled on that score. My secret is safe in the

hands of yourself and your dear mother. In
such good kind hands let it lie. Good-night,
brother Gerans ; I am at my gate. Think better
of women and deal more tenderly with their
fluttering hearts than does your father with his
experience of sixty-five years.'

CHAPTER XI.

A STUDY IN Drawing.

Praxiteles is said to have sculptured an Eros
which seemed to laugh, but which, when the
eyes of the figure were bandaged, seemed to
be grave, even stern, Eose Trewhella's eyes
danced with the avrfpid^iov yeka<nia of the
sparkling summer sea, but there was sufficient
decision in the lines of her mouth and in the
moulding of her nostrils to show that there
were the elements of a firm character in her,
undeveloped — a potentiality and a promise. At
present she was frivolous, careless, pleasure-loving,
without a perception of the seriousness
of life, without a thought of dangers that might
menace her unless watched against, of pitfalls
among which she might be drawn by her own
thoughtlessness.

She had been spoiled as a young girl, and
had grown to be wayward and exacting. Her

father had been careless and good-natured. She
had been petted by him, and flattered by his
fox-hunting friends. She had associated very
little with o;irls of her own aire. Her governess
had been ruled by her, she lead fixed her own
hours of work and studies. Iter education had,
therefore, been desultory.

But there was good, sterling good, in the
mine of her heart, overlaid with much worthless
stuff. She had obtained whatsoever she
wanted from her f other by coaxing or by sulking
; and she supposed that these two recipes
were infallible, and would suffice her to get all
she wanted out of other men.

When Gerans returned from Nantsillan, he
found Eose in the hall with his father. She
had left Mrs. Gaverock when the old lady went
to sleep. The Squire liked Eose ; she joked
with him, teased him, showed him a certain
amount of deference, and submitted to his authority.
Eose sat in the chair recently vacated
by Lovedayay, and presented the most marked
contrast to her. Her hair was tossed into a
tangle about her head, like floss silk ; it was
fair and golden ; in it Alas a fine strip of white
cambric, but whether tying the hair or entangled

in it, inextricably, could hardly be told.
It was like a ribbon we sometimes see woven
into a bird's-nest among the twigs. Her cheeks
were bright with colour, and her blue eyes
sparkled with mischief.

Directly Gerans entered she attacked him.

You have had a very pleasant walk in the
twilight, cousin, I am sure.'

I have seen Miss Lovedayay home.'

You need not tell me that. I got a glimpse
of you starting arm in arm, and thought you
made a pretty pair.'

Gerans coloured.

It would have been unmannerly to have
let her return to Nantsillan unescorted.'

Gerans the gallant ! Gerans the courtly !
What it must be for a young damsel to have
such a knight to attend her ! You seemed to
be in close conference. I suppose the subject
was most interesting — to yourselves.'

Eose saw that Gerans was uncomfortable,
and so she went on mischievously. She was
not jealous of Lovedayay, but she liked tormenting
Gerans, who was not agile of mind to evade
or parry her thrusts.

'Now,' said she, going up to him, and look-vol.

I. M

ing slyly into his eyes, ' what was it all about ?
Tell me, if you cau, the topic of your talk.'

Gerans was confused, and stammered an
incoherent reply. Afterwards, when he was
alone, he thought, ' How stupid of me ! I
should have answered that we were speaking
of poor Con. But that is the way with me ; I
never hit on the right thing to say till it is too
late to say it.'

The old father's suspicions were roused, and
he looked at his son with mistrust. When
Eose had left the room he said roughly,
'Gerans, I will have no foolery with Miss
Lovedayay. I have told you my mind. You
know what is expected of you. As for Mistress
Malapert, she is an impudent hussy, and I dislike
her. Prodigiously daring to tell me that I
know nothing of women ! What is her age ?
Twenty-one, I suppose. Been a woman three
years, only a girl before, and I have had sixty-five
years of experience of the sex. What was
that she said of a woman's soul ? A fine piece
of mechanism not to be breathed on. That is
flam ! It is like a peacock's tail. Whirr !
spread to blaze and dazzle you with its glitter
and colour and eyes, then draggled in the wet

and mud, and dropping a dowdy feather in the
dank grass. Pshaw
I not know women !

dank grass. Pshaw ! It is a thing of show

A woman, a dog, aud a walnut tree,

The more you whip 'em. the better they he.

Mind you this, Gerans, I will not allow you to
think of Lovedayay. As poor Con has gone to
the bottom of the sea, you must take Eose.
That is a settled matter. As for Mistress
Lovedayay, God bless my soul ! we should fight
if she and I were in the house together a week.
I cannot stand opposition, leastways from a
woman.'

Next day Eose's mood was changed. She
would not speak at early dinner, and went into
the parlour to sit by herself, with her hands in
her lap, looking out of the window. Gerans
followed her.

She did not turn her head when he opened
the door, nor Avhen he came across the floor to
her. He placed himself in the window, with
this back to the light, and looked at her. Her
lips were pouting, and her browns contracted.

'Are you unwell, Eose? '

Oh dear, no, Mr. Gerans Gaverock. But

M 2

it does not matter ; no one here cares how
I am.'

Why tho you say that? You surely know
how highly we all regard you.'

You regard me so highly as the lark, that
is so high that it is altogether lost to sight,
Master Gaverock.'

You used to call me Cousin Gerans.'

It was a mistake. You came to consider
me as a cousin, one on whom the common
courtesies of life, when expended, were wasted.
Look on me rather as an acquaintance, and
then I shall receive proper treatment.'

But Avhat have I done to ostend you ? '

Oh, nothing,' said Eose, rising and settling
her skirts and sitting down again. ' That
creeper should be cut ; it is trailing over the
window.'

'I will see to the creeper another time.
Why are you cross with me ? '

Cross ! You are rude ; a lady is never
cross. But this is the way with you men — you
charge us with having the vapours, and do not
consider the occasion, which is to be found in
yourselves.'

But what have I done to offend you ? '

Nothing ' answered Eose, looking him
coldly in the face.

Then why are you so dissatisfied ? '

I am not dissatisfied, because I have expected
nothing. I am dissatisfied when taken
to a wax work, and see what poor figures are
within the booth, different from the painted
promise without, but I am not dissatisfied where
nothing has been promised and nothing performed.'


Gerans was perplexed. He looked at her
with puzzlement in his brain, and said, humbly,
I don't know what you want ; but I do know
that we are all your dutiful servants, waiting on
your wishes.'

I have been wanting to wind a skein of
wool for a week, and no one has offered me his
hands on which to spread it.'

But, surely. Miss Eose, you had only to
express the desire, and my father or I would
have flown to offer you help.'

With the eagerness you flew yesterday to
osier it to Lovedayay. I warrant me she had not
to ask for your arm. You forestalled her wish ;
you pressed your arm on her. Was it not so ? '
Gerans was confused. ' Whereas poor I — I

must wait a week, and ask outright for help, ora
hand is not held out to me.'

Surely, Miss Eose, this is unreasonable
'

She interrupted him with an assumption of
anger, and started back in her chair. ' Unreasonable,
am I, and cross-grained, crabbed,
spiteful ; what next ? Eeally, Mr. Gerans
Gaverock, the Master of Manners does not
come round these parts, or I would pay to send
you to be schooled by him.'

I did not know you wanted any wool
winding, or I would have been proud and
happy '

You did not see that I was working; a
border of a running scroll for the drawing-room
fire-mat. You did not jive sufficient
thought to consider that my little ball of red
wool was drawing to an end. You have no
eyes for my necessities. They are engrossed
by Miss Penhalligan, I take it.'

Gerans coloured.

You deal very hardly with me.' he said,
penitently, ' I assure you I am not thinking of
Miss Lovedayay in the way you suppose.'

Eose laughed merrily and mockingly. ' Mr.

Gerans, I do not want your assurances. I am
too supremely indifferent to you to be made a
confidante of your partialities.'

Where is the wool ? ' asked Gerans, desperately.


Here. Are you going to he polite ? '

Gerans held out his hands.

When a young and pretty girl has got a
man fast with a skein about his fingers, which
she is winding in a ball, she has him completely
in her power. He is conscious that he is in a
position somewhat ludicrous and not manly.
He has to raise one hand and depress the other
in obedience to the beck of her finger. Whatever
she may say he cannot escape. He is her
captive for a quarter of an hour. The man
may have splendid abilities, but he is unable to
exercise them : his mind must follow the run
of the thread forwards and backwards, and he
cannot think of anything else. At the same
time the girl is winding mechanically, and
exercising all her wits to torment or coquet
with the victim.

Gerans, honest-hearted, slow of thought,
spent a very uncomfortable twenty minutes thus
tied ; he was in continual fear of entangling the

threads. They did catch occasionally, and,
when they caught, Eose was obliged to come
close to him, make him hold up his hands,
whilst her golden head turned and dipped
about, very close to his, and her delicate,
fragrant hands passed in and out between his
palms, turning the ball this way, then that — he
could almost have thought she was purposely
entangling the wool, had he possessed sufficient
guile to suppose it.

When a young girl holds the ball, and a
man has the skein, there is a link of connection
established between them — a wire of communication
is drawn from one battery to another.
The days of which we write were not those of
the electric telegraph ; but a telegraph of some
sort, conveying a series of messages, was set up
whenever a young lady asked a young gentleman
to hold the wool for her while she unwound.
A heart Alas at each end, a battery
and a registering table together. What touches,
what tremulous quivers, what strange little
tweaks the ball-spinner is able to send along
the thread to the hands of the skein holder !
It happens that the threads of the skein passover
the most sensitive portion of the hand,

between the fore-finger and the thumb, and
this registers all the little defiances, and trembling
entreaties, and quivering appeals, and bold
assaults of the ball-winder, and delivers them
all, sealed from every eye, direct to the heart
of the skein-holder, who cannot refuse them, so
engrossed is he in his mind on the vibration of
the thread over his hands.

When at length the end of the wool was
drawn slowly, almost reluctantly, off his left
hand, and he recovered the possession, first of
the right, then of the left, Gerans was in a
bewildered condition, not very sure that he
retained possession of his heart — whether that
had not also been wound away at the tail of
the worsted and secured by Miss Eose.

Thank you so very much. Cousin Gerans,'
said she, raising her blue eyes and looking at
him with an appeal for mercy in them. ' I am
sure I have been most exactions

at all. I like it.'

Do you now ? ' A roguish twinkle came
into her eyes, and dimples formed at the corners
of her mouth. ' You like beings made to
take the place of the backs of chairs. How
good of you to say so ; but you do not mean it?'

I am always ready to do anything for you,
Eose.'

Then you will not be cross with me anymore
? '

I cross ! ' He was justly astonished.

I suppose that no one knows his own
faults ; certainly no man will confess his — leastways
to a woman. Yet, you have been very
cross and peevish with me. I could scarcely
bear it.' Her voice shook, as the thread had
shaken in her fingers lately.

You have been very much mistaken, Eose.'

No, I have not. Trust a girl to read the
moods of those she is with. She opens in the
sun, and shivers and droops when there are
clouds in the sky.'

I was unaware of it. I am sure you misunderstood
; I could not be cross with you,'

You want some one always at your side to
tell you of your faults, and bid you correct
your blunders.'

Oh, Eose ! if you will execute that office
for me, it will be a delight to me to mend my
ways.'

You would not believe me when I told
3'ou you were erring.'

I would believe anything from those lips.'

Then you would have your faith sorely
tried,' said Eose, with a laugh, ' for I say one
thing this moment and another thing that.
Hark ! Mr. Gerans Gaverock, there comes
Dennis down from your mother's room.'

Dennis ! '

You did not hear him go up, you were so
engrossed in the skein. I did ; and now he
returns. I must positively see him ! ' Then
she ran into the hall, and was followed by
Gerans with heightened colour.

How do you do ? ' said the girl, stepping
up to the doctor. ' How is Mrs. Gaverock ?
Why has not Lovedayay been up to-day ? Is it
the drizzle that detains her ? What a day it
is ! — rain squeezed through a hair sieve, neither
falling nor rising nor driving, but floating in
the air.'

I have found my patient slowly mending,'
said Penhalligan. ' She must have the same
treatment — must be kept very quiet.'

And Lovedayay ? Is she coming here ?'

Not to-day. She is not very Avell, and
there is no necessity.'

Then I will go to her. Mr. Penhalligan,

swill you hold an umbrella over me ? I have
found this day more dull in the house than it
can possibly be outside, and so I will venture
forth. Mr. Gerans has informed me that I
have the vapours. I will take my vapours out
into the general fog. May I ask you, Mr.
Penhalligan, to wrap that cloak round me ? I
am clumsy with my overshoes : is it asking too
much of you to desire that you would put
your hand to help to slip them over my feet ?
Thank you ; you are very kind. I dare say I
shall not find it quite as dismal dien I am out
of Towan as the day has seemed to me looking
forth from the windows. You will lend me
your arm. and be careful that the drip of the
umbrella does not go down my back — will you
not, Mr. Penhalligan ?'

When they were gone Gerans took up the
bellows and began to blow the log that was
smouldering on the dogs in the fireplace.

'Well, Gerans,' said his father, 'how are
you getting on ? '

Middling,' answered the young man. ' The
log is green, and will not blaze.'

Old Gaverock snatched the bellows from his
hand, and sent puffs from the nozzle on his son.

Oil, you green stock ! ' be shouted. ' It is
you that do not kindle. When I was a young
man it was quite other. You are slow and
sleepy, without spark and crackle. What do
you mean by allowing Penhalligan to carry
your mistress off to Nantsillan? You be on
the alert, or hell take her away altogether —
and then we shall lose Trevithick. Gerans, I
went all over Trevithick yesterday, and I'll
take you there tomorrow. We must have it.
It comes alongside of Dinnabol Farm, as if
made to run with it. At Dinnabol the sheep
get the rot because of the wet clay ; let them
have the healthy moor of Trevithick to run on,
and you can fatten at Dinnabol. In the autumn
the mischief is done in the clay lands, and at
Dinnabol we have no sound rais for the sheep.
Gerans, we must and we shall have Trevithick.'

I don't suppose Eose cares for me,' said
Gerans, in a depressed mood, which showed
itself by his tone of voice. ' If she had any
regard for me she would not tease me so
cruelly.'

You are a fool, Gerans. I know she likes
you.'

The young man shook his head ; he was

very red in the face, annoyed with Eose, angry
with Penhalliojan.

I tell you she does,' pursued his father.
That Mistress Malapert dared to say I knew
nothing of women — I with my sixty-five years'
experience. I can see through Eose as if she
were a tumbler of water dipped out of the
Atlantic. She is drawing you, Gerans. I
know it because she teases you.' The old man
began to sing —

Phyllis is my only joy,
Sometimes forward, sometimes coy,

She was kind to Dennis Penhalligan and

cruel to me,' said Gerans.

Mv Q'ood fool ! ' exclaimed the old man,

that is all part of her play. Eun after her.

You are not going to let that Doctor Sawbones

walk with her to Nantsillan and walk back

with her as well ? '

She might not like my pursuing her.'

Nonsense ! she wants you to run after her.'

He forced his son out of the house, then he

reseated himself in his armchair, and burst out

laughing. 'And so Mistress Malapert said I

did not know women ! '

CHAPTEE XII.

NANTSILLAN.

Eos Trewiiella had hardly got out of sight
of To wan before she let go her hold of Dennis's
arm, and said, 'Mr. Penhalligan, I do not think
that the umbrella is of the slightest use against
the mist. Moreover, there are so many puddles
which I must skip over or circumvent that I
can do better for myself if I walk unassisted.
How long have you known my cousin Gerans ?
Have you been friends from boyhood ? You
know he is not really my cousin ; indeed, weare
no relation whatever, but it would sound
too unfriendly to call him Mr. Gerans, and too
familiar to call him Gerans, so I split the difference
and designate him cousin. I think
him very nice, do not you ? '

Whoever commends himself to you needs
no praise from me,' answered Dennis.

Kow, Mr. Penhalligan, this is one of your

stilT, set phrases, fine sounding and evasive. I
want your real opinion of him.'

I think that he is truthful, sincere, and
kind-hearted.'

I am glad you think that. But he is
stupid and slow ; you will allow that ? '

He will mend in time.'

When ? '

When weaned.'

Eose looked round and lao-hed. ' What
do you mean ? '

At present he thinks, sees, hears, smells
through his father's organs, and acts as his
members. When the old Squire dies, or when
Gerans marries, he will cut his teeth. He has
not his brother's quickness, but such docility
and honour in 2; of a father must deserve him
length of days in the land — denied to the less
submissive younger brother.'

Rose bit her lip, and looked out of the
corners of her eyes at Penhalligan. He was
walking": with his head down ; his dark slice
was wet with the fog, his lips were set, and his
brow was gloomy.

I am sorry for Lovedayay,' said Eose.
What is the matter with her ? '

He moved his shoulders uneasily. 'Nothing
to signify. She cannot go every day to
To wan. There are home duties. We do not
keep a servant. This is our washing day.'
He coloured as he spoke.

'Why did you not say so, instead of pretending
she was ill? I shall be in the way.
I shall go back.' She stood still.

No, no, Miss Trewhella,' he begged ; ' do
not return. Pray come on. Lovedayay will be
so delighted to see you — so honoured by your
crossing our mean threshold.'

Why did you say she was ill when she was
not ? '

Because,' he answered, ' I am a moral
coward, and I was ashamed to admit that she
had the scrubbing and the ironing to do.
Poverty is dishonour.'

Not at all ; poverty is honourable.'

Then why are we ashamed to confess it?'

We are ashamed to be thought religious
and temperate and thrifty ; and out of the
same perversity we are ashamed to be thought
poor. How long have you known Gerans ? '

For five or six years— ever since I have
been here.'

VOL. T. N

'Which did you like best — Gerans or his
brother who is dead, Constantine ? '

I preferred the society of the younger.
He often came to us. He was musical, so am
I, and I have a pianoforte that belonged to my
mother.'

You play ! How clever you are ! '

A surgeon need be nimble of fingers ; and
practice on the kej^s is good schooling for delicacy
of touch on the human nerves. Here weare
at my cottage.'

You are sure I shall not be in the way ?
I will just speak to Lovedayay and run away.'

I will accompany you home if you must
return.'

Not so. I can go back to To wan by myself.
But perhaps Gerans will come to fetch
me. I am teaching him to be polite to ladies.'

So she went in.

The cottage was small ; it consisted of a
reception room or hall, small, floored with
slate, and low. Also of a tiny parlour at the
side, and a surgery. The parlour was unfurnished,
and was used as a work-room. The
brother and sister sat in the hall. This room
had whitewashed walls ; against them were

hung the surgeon's diploma, a sampler worked
by Lovedayay's mother when a gh^l, giving the
letters of the alphabet, the numerals, a tree, a
flower, and a bu-d all of the same size.

On the chimney-piece were two good old
china vases, relics of better days, and against
the wall away from the door was a piano,
another relic of a time when the Penhalliffiins
were better off. Before the hearth was a ruse
made of scraps of cloth woven into a piece of
canvas — warm, but plain. Muslin curtains
hung over the Window. Everything in the
room and about the house was very plain, but
clean and in excellent order. The garden beds
within the wicket-gate were carefully attended
to and free from weeds. The flowers in them
were common, but bloomed freely, in gratitude
for the care shown them. Against the walls of
the house were a jessamine and a monthly rose
that was a free bloomer. In the hall, although
everything was plain, yet an air of snuguess
and of beauty was afforded by the abundance
of flowers and leaves wherewith it was adorned.
In saucers were blackberry leaves of every
shade between lemon yellow and carmine,
beech leaves of warm copper hue, pink dogs

2

wood leaves, and the transparent crimson berries
of the wild guelder rose, pale blue Michaelmas
daisies, clusters of rose-hips, feathery traveller's-joy,
sprigs of cranes-bill still flowering, blue
borage, graceful rainbow-coloured carrot leaves,
delicate white-veined arrow-headed blades of
ivy, beautiful grasses — the table, the chimney
the window, the whatnot, were adorned
with posies, each of which was a study in
colour, all picked, sorted, settled in their
glasses by the skilful fingers of Lovedayay. Bare
of furniture, lacking in ornament the room
might be, but it was scrupulously clean, and
brightened by these charming clusters of
autumn leaves and flowers.

Eose had no time to look round before
Lovedayay herself came to her from the parlour,
with colour glowing through the olive skin of
her cheeks, and her dark eyes shining with love
and pleasure. She held out both her hands to
Eose, and Eose saw that they were crinkled
with immersion in hot water. Lovedayay wore a
thin cotton gown, and had arms bare from the
elbow, very white, streaked with pretty blue
veins.

Eose caught Lovedayay almost boisterously in

lier arms, and kissed her on both cheeks and on
her lips.

That designing brother of yours pretended
you were seriously ill, and brought me here to
nurse you. In reality he desired the pleasure
of my society; he was tired of the dull walk
alone in the mist. Now you are busy, and I
suppose I shall be in the way. Yet I must
detain you from your work for three minutes.
Oh ! it is insufferable in Towan. Guardyy says
to his son, " Gerans, good boy, trot into the
parlour and talk to Eose," and in the tame
fellow trots. Presently the old gentleman puts
in his head at the door and says, " Gerans, good
boy, that will do, come here ! " Then the tame
fellow goes pit-a-pat back to his place at the
old man's heel. Next the Squire says, " Curl
yourself up in a corner by the fire, and I give
you leave to snore." Then the docile creature
curls up and snores. Presently the father takes
the bread and cuts it up, and says, " Gerans,
sit up prettily and beg," so up he sits on his
hind feet and holds his front pats before him —
so ! ' She imitated a dog begging. ' " Snap ! "
says Mr. Gaverock, and snap goes Gerans. It is
really wonderful how well trained the creature

is. Is it not so, Mr. Peiihalligan ? ' asked Eose,
turning sharply round and confronting Dennis.

Lovedayay took Eose by the hand, and drew
her into the parlour and shut the door.

Do not say these sharp things, dear,' she
said in a gentle tone. ' Gerans is very good.
Look for the excellences in people, not for
their weaknesses, and you will be the happier.'

I have not spoken half as sharply as your
brother,' said Eose, in self-defence. ' I give
Gerans credit for being a well-trained poodle ;
Mr. Penhalligan said lie was an unweaned baby.'

I am sorry Dennis said that ; it is not
true.'

Of course you take up the cudgels for
Gerans Gaverock.' Eose pouted as she spoke.
He is so civil to you, and forestalls all your
wishes.'

Lovedayay 's clear frank eyes rested on the
twinkling blue eyes of Eose, and the latter fell
before the steady gaze. ' Dear Eose,' said Love-day,
' Gerans is nothing more to me, can be
nothing more to me, than a kind and trusted —
almost brother. I shall, I can, think of him
in no other light, so give way to no romantic
fancies. Gerans is honourable, straightforward,



and simple-hearted. We have all oiir weaknesses,
you as well as he — I most of all. Two
men look on the same face and draw it ; the
one makes a beautiful portrait, the other a caricature.
The one leaves out of sight all that is
gross, and sordid, and common in the face ; he
paints the soul — as it might and may be —
shining through the features as through a figured
globe. The other knows nothing of soul, sees
no ideal, believes in none. He grasps everything
that is ridiculous, mean, and transitory in
the face, and delineates that. You must look
at mankind as either the painter or the caricaturist.
It is best for us to take the higher
platform.' After a short pause : ' Will you help
me, dear Eose ? '

Eose looked round the parlour ; it was
wholly unfurnished. The Penhalligans used
only the hall. One room sufficed them, and
Lovedayay did her ironing in the parlour. The
long deal table was covered with linen, a fire
was in the grate, and irons stood around it,
becoming heated.

'Eose, I am ironing my brother's collars
and shirt-fronts. AVill you offer these frills forme
? '

My dear Lovedayay ! ' exclaimed Eose, ' I
wish with all my heart I could ; but I never
did anything iiseftd in all my life, except wool-work.'


And that is very useful. I with I had time
to do some.'

Eose's heart fluttered and her eyes danced.
Lovedayay, you darling ! Will you ? Oh, don't
say me nay ! '

How can I till I know what you want ? '
said the other, laughing.

I have begun a mat — that is, the border
for a mat to go before the fire. It is very
pretty ; the ground olive-green with a broad
scroll over it of folded ribbon, shaded from red
to white. I began it three years ago, and I doa
little from time to time. Now I will attack
it like a dragon if you will accept it from me
and use it for your parlour mat when you fit
up this room. Why have you not furnished
it?'

We are waiting for our ship to arrive,'
answered Lovedayay, ' and Nantsillan Cove is so
dangerous with reefs that our ship has not yet
ventured in.'

But,' began Eose, looking round her

with wonder, ' why does not your servant do
this?'

Because our servant is a little girl of
twelve, and she would probably spoil the
things.'

Does she cook your dinners and make the
bread ? '

No ; I am cook and baker.'

She cleans the rooms and makes the beds? '

No ; I am housemaid.'

And the garden ? Who attends to that ? '

I am gardener.'

But Mr. Penhalligan's horse ? Surely you
are not groom also ? '

'No, that I am not ; my brother is his own
groom.'

This is very strange to me. And your
dresses ? And the linen ? Are you also dressmaker
and scouring maid ? '

Yes, I am.'

Then,' said Eose, ' I am a very useless
creature in the world. I cannot understand
you. You work like a common woman, and
yet you look always like a lady.'

Am I not a lady ? ' asked Lovedayay, with a
quiet smile.

Eose in reply threw lier arms round her
and kissed her again.

How good ! — how very good you are ! '
she said with a gush of love and enthusiasm.
I wish — oh ! I wish I were like you ! '

Lovedayay shook her head and went on with
the ironing whilst she talked, glad, perhaps, to
be able to hide her face by bending over her
work.

No, dear, I am not good. I have committed
grave faults ; I have done things both
foolish and wrong, for which I shall grieve all
ray days, the shadow of which will always Kiang
over me. I have had more experience of life
than you, that is all, and I am ordered by it
beyond my years.'

There is Gerans ! ' interrupted Eose, starting,
as she saw his head pass the window. ' I
thought he would come. I suppose his father
has sent him. I will charge him with it.'

Prithee do not,' entreated Lovedayay, laying
aside her work and going up to her. ' You will
wound him — that will be the result ; and is that
a result to be desired ? '

He should come unprompted.'

'Perhaps he has; possibly not. Does it

matter? He wanted to leave, and Mr. Gave-rock
sno;o:ested that lie should. Two hearts
felt kindly towards you instead of one. You
should be pleased to have it so. Kow, one word
with you before we go into the next room to
them.' Lovedayay's face became distressed, and
her hand clasped Eose's arm nervously. ' Do
not play tricks with my brother. I know you
mean no harm, but Dennis is unable to bear
trifling. He takes everything seriously, too
seriously. You remember the fable of the frogs
and the boys who threw stones at them. "What
is fun to you," said the frogs, " is death to us." '

Eose's tell-tale mouth twitched, the lips
pouted, but the corners went down ; she was
half disposed to defiance, half to cry.

We will detain both you and Mr. Gerans,'
said Lovedayay, ' and have tea ; then Dennis and
I will do our best to amuse you with music'

Oh, that will be prime ! ' exclaimed Eose,
laughing. ' But how about the ironing ? Is
Mr. Penhalligan to go limp-collared tomorrow
because we are here ? '

Leave that to me. We shall have a pleasant
evening.'

CHAPTER Xii.

A QUIET EVENING.

LovEDAY went out of the parlour at once to
meet and welcome Gerans, and invite him in to
a dish of tea. ' You will excuse me,' she said
smiling, ' if I run away for a few minutes and
put off my work-a-day for my holiday gown.
It is a holiday indeed for us to entertain friends.
Dennis, make up the fire and draw the curtains.
Mr. Gerans, there is one corner of the hearth
for you, and there is a corner also for Rose, and
to her I entrust the bellows.'

Gerans winced at the reference to the bellows,
and looked at Lovedayay. But he remembered
that she could not have heard his father's
remark, and his colour, which had flashed to
his temples, disappeared again.

The little maid of twelve appeared, and laid
the cloth, standing on tiptoe and stretching over
the table to smooth out the creases. By the

time it was laid evenly, Loved ay reappeared ina
cloth gown, and helped the child to arrange
the table. A pretty Derby tea service appeared,
inherited by Lovedayay from her mother, a rabbit
pie, cold, and preserves of whortleberry, and
blackberry, and strawberry, of her own making.
Then ensued a pause of a quarter of an hour,
during which the little maid ran to the nearest
farm for cream and butter.

Presently the tea-kettle came in, and was
given a final heating on the hall fire, to insure
that the water was really on the boil when
poured upon the Chinese leaves. The curtains
were drawn, the candles lighted, a faggot of dry
wood thrown on the fire, and the little party
drew to the table.

Then Eose uttered an exclamation of delight.
On her plate lay a little bunch of purple violets.
Oh, Lovedayay ! how sweet the flowers are ! and
how sweet of you to give me them ! '

Our violets bloom here all the year round,
the glen is so warm and love ' (sheltered).

Like the pretty thoughts and fragrant virtues
of your dear heart,' said Eose, eagerly.
Of all flowers I love the violet best.'

The violets of Nantsillan will not compare

with the rose of Towau,' said Dennis Peulial-
ligan.

Eose tossed her head impatiently. ' Spare
me your formal compliments,' she said ; ' mine
was a pretty speech that sprang spontaneous
from my heart, and yours is laboured and artificial.'


Eose was, at first, less exuberant in her
spirits than usual. What Lovedayay had said to
her in the parlour affected her, but only for a
while. She was too buoyant to be long depressed,
and by the time tea was over she had
regained complete elasticity.

Dennis shook off some of his gloom, and endeavoured
to be cheerful. He was very pleased
to have Eose at his table, yet at the same time
he was ashamed of the bareness of his room, its
white walls, its common furniture. He could
never dispel the sense of bis poverty. He was
proud, perhaps vain, not of his appearance, but
of his abilities, and the sense of his being unworthily
placed and hardly treated never left
him. He was ashamed of his table because the
cloth was coarse, of the forks because they were
of steel with black handles, of the preserves because
they were of ordinary wild fruit. His

heart was so cankered with discontent that he
could not see and rejoice over the comforts and
cleanliness that were his, provided by the care
of his sister. He never saw what advantages
he had, but he was keen-sighted towards the
deficiencies. There is no more dangerous mood
than one that is dissatisfied, none more tormenting
than that which is unthankful. Love-day
had a daily struggle with him to bring him
to a better mind, but was unsuccessful.

Dennis,' she said to him, ' the world is a
mirror which reflects our humours — laugh to it,
and it laughs back to you ; scowl at it, and it
returns your defiance. It will answer you as
you address it, like an echo, just a note lower.'

Dennis asked Eose during tea if she were
fond of music.

Music ! ' she answered, clapping her hands.
Oh, I love it ! I love nothing better.'

His dark face lightened as she said this.
They had a passion in common.

Then,' said he, ' I will play you a sonata
of Beethoven's ; that in C minor. It is my
favourite ; of others, I have to ask what they
mean, but this one tells its own tale. I can
play this better than another, not because I

have practised it oftener, but because I can
speak it through my fingers. Every note expresses
a thought of my heart. As I interpret
this sonata, it is the utterance of titanic defiance
by one wounded in spirit ; like a tamed eagle
that longs to soar, but cannot, it beats its wings
in frenzy and scorn, and gnaws its own heart
out, because condemned to lie on earth when
its proper sphere is above the clouds. It feels
itself cast down and banned by a dark and inexorable
power above which denies it light and
air. In the maestro you hear the agony of
the soul ; in the allegro, its defiance. There is
a battle in which the restive spirit submits, and
then revolts, cries out in fury against the iron
fate which holds it down, and then throws itself
sullenly with face to earth, in sob and moan.
Here and there bright and melodious passages
flash, like summer lightning, or pass as fragrant
airs, but they do not lessen the darkness nor
alleviate the pain.'

Do you mean to tell me, Mr. Penhalligan,
that all this is contained in a few pages of
music ? '

You shall judge for yourself. You have
heard my " Argument," now listen to the canto.'

lie seated himself at the piano, and began
to phil. In a moment his soul was caught by
the music, and he was carried away from his
surroundings, as Elijah was caught and borne
upwards in the chariot of fire. After a while,
as he was playing, as perhaps he had never
played before, his nerves excited by the presence
of Eose, he became dimly conscious of
something indistinct and irritating, a something
that drew him down from his heights, and
brought him into the vulgar presence of unworthy
surroundings. By degrees he became
aware what it was that marred his pleasure — it
was a conversation carried on in a low tone in
the room. He thought at first that the tiresome
little maid was clearing away the tea
things, and asking her mistress instructions ;
but when he paused to turn a leaf he heard
Eose asking Gerans, ' But, really, cousin, what
is a goose fair ? '

He tried to play on, but his interest in the
music was gone. Lovedayay had watched his
face, had seen his emotions throughout the performance
quiver in his face, and now she read
in it disappointment and anger. She went
close to his side and said, ' Dennis, this is caviar

VOL. I.

to her ; play something lighter, the dance
music in Lord Westmoreland's " Bajazet." '

Without answering;, he allowed his fingers
rapidly to glide into the frivolous, worthless
music of the noble dilettante.

The talking ceased at once, and Eose's little
feet beat the dance time on the slate floor.

Presently Dennis ceased. Then Eose clapped
her hands. ' Thank you so much, Mr. Penal
I have enjoyed myself greatly. But
really, I did not think Beethoven could have
written anything as fine. All the first part
struck me as poor stuff, but the scherzo at the
end was delicious.'

'Come round the fire,' said Lovedayay, quickly,
stepping between her brother and Eose, to hide
from her the expression of distress and disgust
that passed over his face. ' I have got a lapful
of chestnuts from our own tree. We must
toast them in the embers ; and little Euth will
bring in glasses. You must taste my metheglin
brewed from our own hives, and spicy with
thyme from Towan Down.'

Penhalligan,' said Gerans, ' are you going
to the Goose Fair at Wadebridge ? '

Dennis shook his head. ' Why should I go ? '

Lovedayay might like to be there, and eat
Michaelmas goose.'

Lovedayay is quite content to be at home,'
said Miss Penhalligan,

You must come, Dennis, and you also, Miss
Penhalligan. The Goose Fair is an institution.
My father goes, of course. We pick up my
admit and uncle Loveys on the way. It is settled
that Eose is to go. I insist on your being my
guests. Do not refuse me. Let me count —
that makes seven. It takes four to a goose.
We will have two. I dare say Anthony Loveys
will come with his father and mother to make
the eiolith.'

Penhalligan looked at his sister doubtfully.
Gerans went on : 'A moonlight night to drive
home in over the moors. The Squire and the
Loveyses can go in the chaise, and you and I,
Dennis, and the young ladies in the gigs. There
are our trap and yours available. If you will
drive Lovedayay, I will drive Eose.'

I shall not be able to go, I fear,' said Pen-gallican,
with darkening brow and quivering
lip.

Cousin Gerans,' exclaimed Eose, ' I should



have supposed that it lay with the ladies to
choose their partners.'

By all means,' answered Gerans ; ' express
your wishes, and they shall be obeyed.'

Then I think you shall drive Lovedayay one
way, and me the other way. I shall have the
pleasure of listening to Mr. Penhalligan's compliments
on one of the journeys, and to endure
your uncouthness on the other. Which it is to
be must be decided by lot. Here, Mr. Gerans,
are my hands. One contains a violet, and the
other nothing. Choose which you will have
for the drive to Wadebridge. If you pick the
violet you have Lovedayay, if you choose the
other hand you elect simply me.'

I take your left,' said Gerans. She opened
her hand and showed the rosy palm.

There, Mr. Penhalligan, yours is the honour
and pleasure of driving me home by moonlight
over the downs to Towan, after the Goose Fair.
Will not that induce you to sacrifice your
patients for a day ? '

CHAPTER XIV.

T 11 E G S E r A I R.

The Goose Fair in the West of England is nota
fair at wliicli geese are sold, but is one at
wliicli geese are eaten. It takes place about
Michaelmas — Old Michaelmas — and then all the
country round the town at which it is Field
makes holiday. The labourers cast aside their
flails and picks, put on their best clothes ; the
serving-maids beg a holiday with glowing
cheeks and tears of entreaty ; the farmers and
their Vives, and sons and daughters, and, till
not many years ago, the gentry and the parsons,
rode or drove to the market town with eagerness
to eat goose. Geese ran over the commons
in every village, and drank out of the
ponds in every farm, and everywhere were
eaten at home ; nevertheless, a home-fed, home-roasted,
home served-up goose was by universal
consent a base and insipid dish when compared

■\vitli Old Michaelmas goose ate in common in
the market-town on Goose Fair Day. Better
eat no mince pies at Christmas than omit to
eat roast iroose at Old Michaelmas Fair. Goose
eaten then meant plenty throughout the ensuing
twelvemonth. . The way in which this is expressed
in the West Country vernacular is more
precise than elegant. To write it would make
the page blush the colour of the ' Globe.' Suffice
it to say that he who eats roast goose on
Goose Fair Day is sure not to have an empty
stomach till next Michaelmas.

The Squire was a great stickler for old customs.
Every year he drove to Wadebridge
and picked up his married sister Barbara, and
her husband Anthony Loveys, on the way, and
carried them with him to the ' Lion's Head ' at
Wadebridge, where they dined together — of
course — on goose ! When his own sons were
old enough, and when young Anthony Loveys,
his nephew, was of sufficient age to dine abroad,
they were included in the party. Mr. and
Mrs. Gaverock and Mr. and Mrs. Love's sat
down to one goose at a table by themselves ;
and Gerans, Constantine, and Anthony, junior,
sat down to a second close at another table

by themselves ; and being young, hearty, and
liiingry, the three managed to demons a goose
between them, though, according to orthodox
custom, it takes four to eat a goose.

On the fair day a smoke redolent of goose
hanover the little town of WadebridQ;e. The
atmosphere in every house vas impregnated
with it from cellar to attic. The inn kitchens
were unable to cook all the birds required, and
all the house kitchens in proximity to each inn
lent themselves to be utilised for the occasion.
The inns had not sitting-rooms to contain the
guests, and beds were pulled to pieces and
stacked in the garrets, and withstands piled
one on another, that sleeping apartments might
for the nonce be converted into eating-rooms.
The gardens around Wadebridge had their sage
reaped down, and their onions torn up and
wheelbarrowed into the town days before, to
stuff the geese that were to stuff the eaters at
the fair. Feathers which had been a shilling a
pound all the rest of the year dropped, as
suddenly as the mercury before a cyclone, to
nine pence. Children turned up their noses at
butter, and enriched their bread with yellow
goose fat. Dogs, cats, despised mutton and

beef bones throiidi the whole month of October,
they were given such a surfeit of goose
intestines.

To insure that every goose was well done,
it was boiled the day before, and then roasted
on the day of the fair ; and goose broth — the
water in which the geese had been boiled — was
to be had for the asking by all the beggars,
and poor, and sick in and round Wadebridge,
but was despised and scouted by them, and so
poured away for the pigs by those who kept
pigs, and down the gutters by those who had
none.

When the soir was over and the town relapsed
into its normal stillness, and the smoke
of the fires and the fumes of the roast lifted
and were wafted away, then the Wadebridgians
settled down to pies of gizzard and feet, and
hashes of neck and doctor's nose which lasted a
week, and soup of giblet and relics of stuffing
becoming weaker and less savoury day after
day.

The reader may suppose that we are about
to describe to him the dinners themselves on
Old Michaelmas Days, to revive in him the
savoury recollections of many a sage-and-oniony

and unctuous moment in his past : spots in
life's pilgrimage on which it is a pleasure to
look back, moments which were greasy lout
guileless. We are not going to do so.

At one table sat Squire Gaverock with his
sister and brother-in-law and young Anthony ;
at the other the two young ladies with Gerans
and Dennis. Old Gaverock carved his goose
with experience, and helped himself to the flap
of fat skin that covered the stuffing:. Gerans
squirted the gravy over the table, and in the
faces of his companions, in his clumsy attempts
to find the joints of the wings and legs. The
old people had done their first helping before
the young had begun their hacked and shapeless
morsels. But time was made, like o-eese,
to be killed. The afternoon was before them,
in which, after a protracted, merry meal, to
stroll about the town and look at the shows
and shops.

Young Anthony Loveys was a tall, heavy
young man, into whose constitution goose
seemed to have largely entered. He spoke
very little, ate hungrily, was blank in face,
red complexioned, and pufr}^ with a rough
skin. He could ride, and liked dogs ; he drank

readily with his father and uncle, but never
became uproarious. By age he belonged to
the younger party, but that party was not sorry
to be without him at their table, when he
would have contributed nothing to their entertainment.


To the goose succeeded apple tart with
clotted cream ; then cheese and celery, and a
bottle of port. After that, the young people
were at liberty to leave the table ; but their
elders, and the heavy Anthony junior, remained
at theirs talking, arguing, eating apples, and
drinking more wine. Mrs. Loveys, indeed, protested
that she had shopping to do in the town,
and during her absence a neighbour, also dining
that day on goose at the ' Lion's Head,' took
her place.

The morning had been bright and sunny,
with a pleasant air from the sea. When the
diners turned out into the street and square,
they saw that a change in the weather had
taken place. The wind had veered round to
the north-east, had risen, and was bitterly cold.
Heavy clouds were massed on the horizon and
were rolling over and obscuring the sk3^ Some
persons in the market-place said they had

heard thicker ; others said they had seen
hohtiiiiifr, but had heard no thunder.

ID C

The delay in getting dinner, the insufficiency
of waiters, and the general reluctance to breakup
from table, had brought the afternoon to half-past
three before the inn was left for the sightseeing
and shopping. The fairing was done
with shivers. The owners of stalls were withdrawing
their wares under cover ; darkness
was settling prematurely over the town. Hark!
A distant moan and then roar. In another
minute down came snow in a blinding shower,
whirled over Wadebridge and the valley of the
Camel by a furious icy gale.

Come here ! Come in here ! ' exclaimed
Dennis Peuhalligan, drawing the ladies under a
booth out of the snow and wind. The booth
was a hut of rough boards.

There were various wares exposed on the
counter of the booth where they stood, but the
party did not regard them ; they stood looking
at the snow as it swept past.

The street was full of flying people, farmers
and peasants who had come in for the day to
enjoy the fair and eat goose, and buy at the
stalls. Mothers had dolls, and little windmills,

and wooden horses for their children, and as
they ran they dropped some of these treasures.
There rose much laughing and many shouts.
The storm increased the merriment.

Do look there ! ' exclaimed Eose ; ' see
that odd man ! ' She pointed to the figure of a
pedlar who passed carrying a pack slung before
him, a long basket covered with tarpaulin.
The man was fantastically dressed, with a
feather in his hair, and no cap on his head.
He wore a long oilskin coat. As he passed the
wind swirled the snow about him, so that he
seemed to walk in the midst of an eddy of
revolving flakes that half obscured him,

How odd ! ' said Eose. ' Do you see the
fellow, Gerans ? '

'Yes,' answered the vouno; man. 'But
what amuses me most is that o't farmer with
the packet of lemon drops ; the snow has melted
the paper, and he is trailing the sweet things
around him.'

Now the man is gone,' said Eose.

Come,' said Gerans, ' let us see whether
there is anything in this stall that can attract
us till the storm blows over.'

They turned and examined the wares.

They consisted of old iron ; there was nothing
they could buy.

'A pity we have not come where there
were bonbons and cakes,' said Gerans. ' I
Avould treat you to the whole contents.'

At all events,' said Lovcday, ' we have
sot shelter from the snow.'

Dennis was excited and irritable. The wine
he had drunk had heated his brain without
warming his heart. He was jealous of Gerans's
attentions to Eose, which were marked, and he
resented being behoved to his rival for the
feast. He was angry with himself for having
accepted the invitation, and he was angry with
Gerans for having invited him. When he detected
Gerans saying something to Eose which
made her laugh, he suspected that the joke was
about himself, his poverty, his want of professional
success, his ill-humour. The dark veins
in his brow swelled, and his lips quivered so
that he was forced to bite them to disguise his
agitation. He could not quarrel with Gerans
over the cups for which the latter had paid, but
he would be glad of an occasion for a quarrel
elsewhere than at the table where Gerans was
host. The observant eye of Lovedayay was on

him. He felt it, and resented that also. He
knew that she read his heart, and he was angry
with her — his best friend — for doing so. He
would have hidden his ill-humour, his envy, his
hate, but he could not do so.

They turned to look again at the weather.
As they did so, again the strange pedlar Eose
had noticed came into sight, walking slowly
against the storm. As he came up to the stall
where the little party was clustered, he stood
and turned and looked at them. His lips
moved and he half opened his pack. They saw
that he was deformed. He had not an ordinary
hunch, but a something that protruded from
the middle of his back in a strange peak. He
was a singular-looking man, with long, ragged
black hair. A band was tied round his head,
holding his hair in place, and in this band were
stuck a peacock's feather and a Cornish crystal.
His features were bold, an aquiline nose, and
arched, thick black brows. His complexion
was coppery, this eyes were deep-sunken, and
from the hollow sockets they gleamed with a
mixture of appeal, provocation, insolence, and
deference. He wore a glazed oilskin suit, very
long which he kept wrapping and flapping

about him with his arms ; beneath it the colour
of a red waistcoat or jacket, they could not
distinguish which, was visible when the waterproof
fell apart. He wore long wading-boots.

He was followed by a white and liver-coloured
dog. As he stood looking at the
little party an involuntary shiver ran through
them.

I am cold,' said Eose. ' Let us move
away from here. I do not mind the snow.'

Let us go,' said Lovedayay to her brother.
I have done all the fairing I care for.'

That is, you have done none ; for you
have not had money to spend.'

I have bought what little I need,' said
Lovedayay, gently. 'After all, Dennis, we do
not v/ant much, and what is the use of buying
what "vve can do without ? '

The pedlar was gone. A rush, blinding
and dense, of hail and snow mixed, went by,
and with his head down against it, followed by
his dog, went the man.

Who is that queer man ? ' asked Eose.

How can I tell ? ' answered Gerans. ' He
is quite a stranger — some showman or mountebank.'


His eve rested on me and made me feel
colder than if I had been cut by a blast of east
wind and snow.'

Well, you will never see him again.'
I wonder now,' said Eose, ' what he could
have in that pack he carried before him. I
have brought money in my pocket and have
bono lit nothing.'

CHAPTER XV.

THE pedlar's pack.

Halloo ! You in here, Eose ? Lovedayay ?
What! the hits and the maidens out in the
storm ? '

The voice was that of old Gaverock.

You here too, Anthony ? '

The voice was that of old Loveys.

Come along, we have ordered coffee,'
shouted old Gaveroch. ' Here's myself and
the rest of us old folks come to look for you
through the snow.'

Hender stood outside the booth. At the
same moment the pedlar was again seen, now
standing beside him, and his dog ran round the
Squire. Old Gaverock turned and looked at
the dog, then he fixed his eyes with a wide
stare on the pedlar. He put his hand to his
brow, drew it over his eyes, which had in them
a startled expression, and his mouth fell open.

VOL. I. P

What is this? Who are you ? What is
here ? ' he asked. ' Come away, Eose ; come
away, Miss Peuhalhgan. Gerans, we must be
driving home.'

Oh, uncle ! ' said Eose Trewhella, ' who is
that strange mans We have seen him pass
several times. What has he got in that pack
he carries in front of him ? Do go and ask
him, Gerans. You, Guardyy ! '

Come away,' said old Gaverock, with a tone
full of uneasiness. ' This is not fit weather for you
girls. Come away ; we must be returning home.'

He was manifestly ill at ease. He kept his
eyes fixed on the pedlar with something like
alarm in them. Eose, with lier perversity of
nature, now wanted to stay. A few minutes
before she had wished to leave. But old Gave-rock
would take no refusal ; he would allow
of no delay. He drew the girls away from the
booth towards the inn.

Gerans remained behind and went up to
the pedlar, who had placed his pack on the
snow at his feet.

Have you any wares in your pack,' he
asked, ' wares that would interest the ladies ?
You are a stranger here, are you not ? '

I have wares.'

Let me look at them.'

No ; the ladies must see, not you.'

'Then bring the pack to the inn. They
will be there some minutes before leaving
Wadebridge.'

The pedlar, without more ado, stooped and
took up the box of Wicker-work covered with
black oilcloth. As he was unable to carry his
pack slung behind him, because of the hump in
his back, he carried it in front, slung round his
neck, as a hurdy-gurdy player carries his instrument.


I will show my pretty things,' he said ; ' they
are not for you, sir, nor for any of the gentlemen
— only for the ladies.' Then he followed
Gerans to the inn.

The party was all there in the long room,
well lighted and hot, waiting for the horses
and traps to be brought round. When the
pedlar appeared with his basket and raised the
lid, every one crowded up to look in, expecting
to find needles, thimbles, thread, and tape. But
what was their surprise to find that it contained
nothing but roses ! Roses at that time of ther

2

year — just now when hail and snow were driving
about the house, when the winter storm was
tearing every leaf off the trees and every
flower from its stem ! It was true that the
blossoms were mostly those of monthly roses,
that bloom up till Christmas ; still, the sight of
a basketful of them presented in a heated inn
parlour to men laden with wine and spirits, and
inclined to be uproarious, was incongruous.
The roses were done up in little bunches : the
pretty Bourbon, just introduced ; the Noisette
and the China roses ; buds with leaves, and
single flowers in full blow, with a little maidenhair
fern.

The men laughed ; some scoffed. The ladies
were delighted, and the vouufy men eacfei'ly
bought bouquets for them. Probably the pedlar
did a better trade in these perishable articles
than he could have done with needles and
threads,

Guardyy ! ' cried Eose, ' you must positively
take home a very large bunch for dear aunt.
You could bring her no firing that would please
her better.'

'My love,' said Mr. Loveys to his wife,
choose your posy and command my purse.'

I must give one to you, Miss Eose, and
another to you, Miss Lovedayay,' said Gerans.

It is carrying coals to Newcastle to offer
roses to the Queen Eose — the Sanspareille,' said
Dennis.

Eeally, Mr. Dennis,' exclaimed Eose, laughing,
' your laboured compliments overwhelm
me!'

You will allow me as well as Gerans to
offer you a posy ? ' he asked.

I have two hands,' answered Eose, gaily.
I wish I had four, to carry a bunch in each.'

Then pray choose.'

She thrust her hand into the basket, in
among the flowers, and uttered a startled cry
as she sharply withdrew it.

What is the matter ? ' asked Lovedayay,
standing up.

Look ! look ! ' exclaimed Eose. ' There
is a toad among them, at the bottom, hidden
by the flowers.'

A toad ! Impossible,' said Lovedayay, and
put in her hand.

Eose grasped lier wrist and drew her fingers
away.

'Do not touch. I know there is ; I felt it.

You cannot see — the rose leaves hide it — but I
had a glimpse of the beast ; it spits — poison.'

Dennis hushed sarcastically, and shook the
basket. Then there emerged from under the
sweet and delicate flowers, a little round, glossy,
brown object.

Eose cried out, and shrank back Lovedayay
recoiled also. Those crowding round the table
shook it, and again the roses covered the object
from their eyes. Whatever it was, it lay at the
very bottom of the box.

I know it is a toad ! ' said Eose, vehemently.
' I touched its cold and clammy body,
and it sent a shudder up my arm and a chill to
my heart. Look ! there — again.'

The pressure of hands on the table, the
thrusting of men against its side eager to see
for themselves, gave movement to the box ;
and for an instant a round brown object appeared
above the rose leaves and then dipped
inter them acrain.

What have you got there ? — in there,
Hunchback ? '

Where ? '

There ; under the roses, at the bottom of
your pack.'

Crushed roses, bruised rose leaves. Nothing
else, gentlemen, that I am aware of,'

But beneath the roses ? ' asked Gerans.

Nothing at all.'

There ! See ! Peeping up again above
there.'

This is the best way to ascertain,' said
Dennis, and he turned the basket over on the
table.

My posies ! — my flowers ! — you will spoil
them ! ' cried the pedlar in dismay.

The heap of flowers lay strewn about, and
among the beautiful pink and white blossoms
lay a small double-barrelled pistol, with rusty
barrels, but with a polished curled handle of
brown mottled wood ; so shaped that at the
first glance, as it peeped out from among the
roses, in the uncertain light of the candles, it
might readily be taken for a reptile. Dennis
Penhalligan took up the pistol and examined it.
As he did so a black spider emerged from the
bore and ran over his hand.

The pedlar was uneasy, and wanted to have
the weapon returned to him. He put out his
hand across the table, with the oilskin sleeve
on it, and tried to grasp the handle and take it

from Dennis, but the young man would not
give it up. He turned the pistol over, rubbed
the rust spots, and examined the lock ; then
he handed it to Squire Gaverock, who was
clamouring to have a sight of the weapon.

Pshaw ! ' exclaimed the old man. ' Do
you call this a pistol? It is more fitted for
ladies than men. It might knock over a sparrow,
nothing bigger.' He tossed the pistol back.
Another took it up and looked at it. So it
was passed round.

What do you ^^'ant for it ? ' asked Mr.
Loveys. ' It is worth the value of old iron,
nothing more.'

It is not mine, sir ; it is not for sale.
Give me my little pistol back. If I had thought
to sell it, I would never have put it among
flowers to rust.'

Dennis took hold of the weapon again.

'Pray mind what you are about,' said
Gerans. ' It may be loaded ; and you are
pointing the barrel at me.'

Will you sell it ? ' asked Penhalligan of
the pedlar.

You do not want the ugly plaything,' said
his sister. ' What could you do with it.? '

Play with it, as it is a plaything,' answered
the young surgeon. ' Practise with it on a
rainy day ; that is pleasant sport for an idle
hour. I will have the pistol. What is your
price, Hunchback ? '

Price ! ' repeated the pedlar. ' It is not
for sale ; it is worth nothing. To set it to
rights will cast money; but the stock is good.
I will take a guinea for the thing.'

Dennis opened his purse, then coloured to
the roots of his hair. He had not a guinea in
his purse.

Lovedayay,' he said in a low tone, ' lend mea
few shillings.'

My dear Dennis, I have nothing.'

Do you wish very much to have the
pistol?' asked Eose.

Before he could reply, an ostler came in to
say that Squire Gaverock's carriage and the
gigs were ready.

'The storm has abated,' said Mrs. Loveys.

Oh, look ! ' exclaimed Lovedayay, glancing
through the window, ' the moon is shining, and
the street is white with snow.'

Hail, hail ! ' corrected Gerans. ' The
moors will be rylistenin^]^ white as we derive

home. I hope you have wraps, Miss Lovedayay ;
we shall meet the wind.'

In the bustle of preparation for the long
drive home the pedlar was forgotten. He took
the opportunity to refill his basket with the
scattered flowers,

Are you ready, Miss Eose ? ' asked the
surgeon. ' My horse is impatient to be off.'

Coming directly ; I have forgotten something.'


Gerans and Lovedayay started. The sky had
cleared — a few curdy clouds hung in it, like
ice-floes in a dark cold sea ; the ground everywhere
was white and crackling under the feet
of men and horses.

The barouche with the Squire was shut,
but he shouted through the window for a drop
of cordial all round to keep out the cold.

Now, Mr. Dennis, I am at your service,'
said Eose, coming out at the door ; ' it is my
fate, I believe, to be driven by you. Fortunate !
for if you upset the trap, and dislocate my neck,
you are at hand to set it again.' He helped
her into his gig, and in another moment they
were driving homewards in the wake of Gerans.

In a quarter of an hour they were out of

the valley, on the high road. On each side
was moor, treeless, white, shining in the moonlight
; rocks seemed like lumps of coal, bushes
as fibrous tufts black as soot.

Gerans is out of sight,' said Eose.

He has a better horse than mine. One
such as myself must put up with a cob.'

Do you know, Mr. Penhalligan, I shall not
go to another Goose Fair ; one is sufficient in a
life's experience.'

Nor I,' said he.

I do not think it is quite an entertainment
for a lady. One generation becomes more
particular than another, I believe. Our successors
will be too nice to sit at table in an
inn with men drinking, and go to a booth todo
their shopping. I felt all the time that
dear Lovedayay was out of place. But Mrs.
Loveys liked it, and Mrs. Gaverock always
attended.'

When the ladies decline to attend the
gentlemen will hold aloof. Then it will be left
to farmers and their wives to frequent the
ordinary.'

I believe Gerans would not care to go
unless accustomed to do so.'

Gerans ! ' laiidied the surgeon ; ' he o-oes
because his father says " Go " ; and he eats his
goose because his father puts the roast bird
under his nose. If he obeys his wife, when he
gets one, as he obeys this father, his daily meal
will be off humble pie.'

You are too hard on poor Cousin Gerans,'
said Eose, in an injured tone.

I am but repeating what you have said.
You likened him to a dancing dois; the other
evening. I saw dancing poodles to-day at the
fair, and remembered your simile.'

Eose said nothing, but moved uneasily in
her seat. So they drove on, neither speaking.

The white moorland, cold and shining, was
stretched to the horizon on both sides. The
road was indicated only by granite stones stuck
on end, capped with snow, casting black
shadows away from the moon. Everything
around was in white and black ; there was no
colour in the dark skv aloft, no colour in the
inky sea, caught in glimpses between the headlands
; no colour in the tortured thorn-bushes
and rare crippled ashes come upon here and
there. They might have been driving over the
surface of the full moon.

Presently Eose said, ' Let his have done
with joking on that subject. It has become
distasteful to me.'

Perhaps the subject of your jokes has
been changed,' said Dennis, bitterly, ' and I am
the unhappy victim of your raillery. I saw
you laughing with Gerans.'

Eose opened her eyes wide. ' We were not
thinking or speaking of you.'

The unfortunate and the unhappy are not
worthy to be thought of by those on whom
fate smiles.'

Why do you speak like this, Mr. Penal
' asked Eose. 'You are not unfortunate,
and have no right to be unhappy. You are
very highly blessed in having a sister such as
Lovedayay, and ought to be serenely happy in
such a sweet home as Nantsillan.'

I may have ambitions beyond, a sister to
keep house for me, and a hired cottage, scantily
furnished, with slate floors.'

'You are young, and have the world before
you,' said Eose, cheerfully.

The world before me ! ' repeated Dennis
with a sneer. ' A world like this ' — he swept
the horizon with his whip — ' cold, dead, shelterless,

over Which to go, with head down
against the numbing wind, without a gleam of
sunshine to cheer, a continual winter, moonlight,
and beyond '• — he pointed with his whip
to the black Atlantic — ' the unfathomed sea of
Infinite Night. It is now as it was of old in
Egypt. Some are in day, whilst others are immersed
in a darkness from which there is no
escape.'

He put his hand into his overcoat pocket
for his kerchief, as his brow was wet.

What is this ? ' he asked in surprise, as he
drew something from it. Insensibly he tightened
the rein and checked the horse. In his
hand he held a small pistol, and the moon
glinted on its polished stock and rusty barrel.

Eose laughed.

This is the pistol I saw among the flowers,'
he said.

Accept it as a little present fi-om me,' said
Eose, coaxing' but timidly. ' I saw you
wished to have it, so stayed behind and bought
it. Keep it for my sake.'

And use it,' asked Dennis, ' should the
necessity arise ? '

CHAPTER XVI.

'PAS DE CHANCE.'

Dennis was more than touched, he was deeply
moved by the kindness of Eose. His blood
rushed through his veins like lava streams.
His hand shook as he held the reins.

How good — how very good of you ! ' he
said. ' I feel it the more because I am unused
to receive kindnesses.'

He put the reins in her hand. ' You can
drive for a minute whilst I look at your
present. How I shall value it, words cannot
tell ; never, never will I part with it whilst I
have life.'

He turned it over in the moonlight. The
rust spots on it were like the marks — the
blotches — on the back of a toad ; the steel
shone white in the moon's rays, flashed and
became dark again. Dennis tried the cock.

Don't span it,' said Eose ; ' it may be
loaded.'

Penlialligan laughed. ' Not likely. An
old pistol, lying at the bottom of a basketful of
roses. Loaded ! Why should it be loaded ? '
He drew the trigger carelessly. At once a
report followed, with a flash, and the bullet
flew over the horse's head.

The beast, frightened at the discharge,
bounded, kicked, and dashed forward. Before
Dennis had time to wrest the reins from the
hand of Eose, the horse had run the gig
against one of the granite blocks by the
roadside, and almost instantaneously the gig
was over, and Dennis and Eose were in the
road.

Penhalhgan picked himself up. He Alas
shaken, but not hurt.

Without a thought for his cob and trap, he
ran to Eose, who lay on the snow motionless.
In mad terror he picked her up, and spoke to
her, but she made no answer.

Eose ! My dearest ! Eose, for God's sake
speak ! '

He felt her arms, her feet ; no bones were
broken ; the words she had said as he lifted her

into the gig recurred to him — but her neck was
not broken.

Eose ! Eose ! ' he cried, and clasped her
in his arms. He knelt on the hail and snow-covered
ground and held her to his heart.
My God ! ' he said, ' has it come to this, that
I have killed her I love best in the world ? '
He turned her face to the moonlight. How
lovely it was ! In his agony and passion he
put his lips to her brow, her cheeks, her
mouth. ' I may never have another chance of
kissing her,' he said fiercely. As he held her
to his heart it was as though he held her before
a rai2;in<i furnace, and that the heat it gave
forth must restore her. He leaned his cheek
to her mouth, to feel if she were breathing ;
he laid his hand on her heart to learn if it
were beating. Then he put his fingers through
his hair, and held his temples, which were
bursting with the boiling, beating pulses of fire,
and his eyes were lifted to the black sky, in
which swam the chill, dead moon. ' My God ! '
he said in a voice that shook with passion,
give her to me, and I will be good. I have
not prayed for many years. I ask this one
thing now. Give her to me ! '

VOL. I. Q

He felt her move in his arms.

Dennis,' she said, ' what is it ? What are
you saying ? '

I am praying.'

For me ? '

Yes — yes — yes, for you. Only for you.'

What is the matter ? Where am I ? What
has happened ? ' She disengaged herself from
his embraciii2j arm and tried to stand.

We have been upset. You are hurt ? '

She felt her head. ' No,' she said, ' not
much. I lost all sense. Now I am right.
What happened ? Where is the gig ? Did we
fall out ? '

Now he looked round.

The gig is broken. There is my poor
horse, fast by the head. The rein has caught
in the axle, and the axle turnings brought
his head up to the wheel.'

Can we not f>"0 on ? '

Penhalligan shook his head.

But what is to be done ? We cannot
spend the night on the moor and sleep in the
snow.'

The chaise is coming on with Mr. Gaverock
and the Loveys' party. The young cub can

turn out on the box, and you will travel home,
inside.'

But you ? '

Dennis shrugged his shoulders. ' What
happens to me is of little moment. I must
release my cob and ride him home.'

I am so sorry. It is all my fault,'

I regret the accident for one thing only.'

'What is that.P'

It deprives me of your company for the
rest of the way.'

That is nothing.'

To me — everything.'

Even the cutting wind and the snow cannot
freeze compliments from your tongue.'

Dennis led her to a block of granite and
seated her upon it. He collected the wraps
and folded them round her ; if she would have
suffered him he would have taken off his overcoat
and laid it in the snow for her feet to rest
in, and folded it over them to keep them warm.

Mr. Penhalligan, I cannot, I will not permit
this ; you are over-kind to me and over-cruel
to yourself. See the poor horse. Do
release him, and tell me the true condition of

the gig.'

a 2

The horse must wait until you are taken
away from me by the chaise. Every moment
now is to me most precious.'

Eeally, Mr. Penhalhgan, you turn me
dizzy again. Do attend to the horse.'

The carriage may be here at any moment.*
Well — the sooner the better for me.'
But not for me, Eose ! no, not for me ! '
He stood before her in the white road, with his
right hand on his brow ; the moonlight was full
on his face ; she could see it working convulsively,
as the face of a man might work who was
on the rack. ' Eose ! dear Eose ! I have held
you for one moment in my arms, to my heart.
I confess all. I touched your lips with mine,
and have drunk from them madness ! I know
what I am, a man with no fortune, and no
luck, a disappointed, an unhappy man. And
sou are born to enjoy life, without a care or a
sorrow, or occasion for thought. I look at you
as Dives in torment gazed at Lazarus afar off,
and feel but too cruelly that there is a gulf
between ; but it is a gulf which love can overleap.
Dives ! ' he laughed, and his laugh was
shrill and startling in the night. ' I liken myself
to Dives. The time for Dives to be cast

into hell and Lazarus to be translated to heaven
is over. Dives now mounts to Paradise, and
the poor and the sick and the aching in heart
and bone, and the sore of skin and racked of
brain, toss and ache and moan in life and in
eternity.' He spoke so fast, and in such a
passion, his breath coming in gasps breaking
his speech, that Eose could hardly catch what
he said. She was frightened at his vehemence,
and she put out her hand to lay it on his arm
and pacify him. He mistook her meaning, and
caught her hand in his.

Eose ! dear, dear Eose ! ' he cried, ' is it
true that my long night is turning to day?
That happiness is coming to me, even to me ?
Oh, Eose ! you have never known or dreamed
of love such as mine. I am not a poor, sleepy,
cold-blooded creature such as Gerans. I love
you. I have knelt here in the snow and stretched
my hands to God and asked for you. I who
never pray, I cannot endure life without you.
Eose, speak to me. Tell me you hear what I
say. Tell me that I am not to despair.' He
clenched her hand so tightly in his that she
cried out with pain. ' I have hurt you ! ' he
said ; ' that is the nature of my love. I hurt

those I love.' He became cooler, and folded
his arms.

Then the horse, driven desperate by the
restraint of its head, began to kick furiously at
the broken gig behind it.

Do, Mr. Penhalligan — do look to the poor
horse. Give me a minute to collect myself.'

He stood doubting Whether to obey or not ;
then he saw, coming; alon; the road from Camel-ford,
two orange balls of licht. The barouche
was approaching.

JSFo,' he said firmly. ' I vvdll have my answer
now. It must be now. I must know whether
I shall have you or lose you. On this moment
everything hinges. I had not thought to speak,
but the necessity drove me, I could not do
other. Answer me.'

Mr. Penhalligan,' began Rose, after a pause,
with her eyes along the road, watching the approaching
carriage lamps, and measuring the
distance between them and the place where she
sat, ' Mr. Penhalligan '

When you woke from your unconsciousness
you called me Dennis,' he interrupted.

Did I ? That was because I was unconscious
still — of what was fitting.'

Answer me, Eose. There is but a moment
more.' He also looked round. The tramp of
the horses in the snow and hail was audible.

You are too late,' she said slowly, articulating
each word with distinctness. ' Gerans
asked me on my way to the Goose Fair, and I
said Yes.'

Then he burst into a wild, fierce, ringing
laugh, and clasped his hands over his head, and
wrung them there.

Pas de chance ! ' he cried — ' Pas de chance !
It is always so.'

Halloa ! who are there ? ' was shouted in
their ears. The barouche was level with him ;
the driver had drawn up.

Eose ran to the door and knocked. Old
Gaverock and Mr. Love's were out directly.

It was my doing, all my fault,' said Eose,
half crying, half laughing, and nigh on hysterics.
' I would drive, and, having the reins,
upset the gig.' She turned to the surgeon.
Mr. Dennis, whatever you may say to the contrary,
I alone am responsible. It was my fault
solely.'

Curse it ! ' exclaimed old Gaverock. ' Who
cares whose fault it was ? The fn<^ is broken

and will have to be mended. You, Missis, will
come home with us now. Penhalligan, how
will you manage ? '

I shall ride home.'

Here ! ' shouted the Squire, ' give me the
light.'

He took the carriage lamp and looked about
in the snow. ' Is there anything lost ? What
is this ? Here is a pistol ! Golly ! very like
that we saw to-day in the pedlar's pack.'

It is mine,' said Dennis, and he took it
from the Squire's hand.

Just then a large white owl flew hooting to
and fro over the carriage and the little group,
flitting like a great ghost-moth or swaying like
a pendulum. At the same time, from under
the carriage ran the white spotted mongrel of
the pedlar, and began to limp on three legs
round the party, then to throw itself on its back
as one dead, then to leap with all fours straight
up into the air and dance on its hind legs.

How comes this brute here ? ' asked Mr.
Loveys. ' What is it ? Performing these antics
here ! To whom does it belong ? '

Mr. Gaverock took the coachman's whip
and lashed at the dog, hit it, and the beast

began to howl, then dashed under the carriage,
and disappeared.

The moon passed behind a white curdy
cloud, and formed in it a ghastly ring of tawny
hue ; it was like a single great owl's eye staring
down at them from its socket of radiating
feathers.

Young Anthony, useful when anything
touching horses had to be done, had gone with
the coachman to Dennis's gig, and disengaged
the cob, with much shouting to the frightened
beast. The brute was hot and trembling, his
rough coat standing out, matted with sweat, and
the steam rose from him, Anthony, junior,
patted his neck and uttered ' Woes ! ' in his ear,
which produced a soothing effect, whilst the
coachman extricated the gig from the place
where it was wedged.

Her ain't so bad used but what her maybe
made to run,' said the driver, speaking of
the gig. ' The splash board be scott (broken to
pieces) and the axle be bent : but otherwise
her's middling sound. But her must be drove
slowly and with care.'

Where are my flowers ? Has anyone seen
my beautiful roses ? I must have my posies,'

said Eose. ' Oh, Guardyy ! let me have the
lamp. I want them so much.'

Never mind the roses,' said old Gaverock.
We must get on our way.'

'But I do mind them,' answered Eose, • not
only for their own beautiful sakes, but also for
the sake of those who gave them to me.'

Dennis approached. He said nothing, but
held out the bunches. He had found them in
the snow.

Oh, thank you again, Mr. Penhalligan,' said
Eose, looking at him and smiling, but somewhat
timid still. ' There is no end to the favours you
do me. You recover me out of the snow, and
will not suffer my sweet namesakes to lie and
perish in it.'

Are all the cloaks and wraps in ? ' asked
Gaverock. ' Come, Eose, we cannot spend the
nisjht here.'

Yes, Guardyy, I believe so. I am ready.'

Then get in yourself.'

She stepped into the chaise ; then, opening
the window, put out her hand. * Good-night,
Mr. Dennis,' she said, in her prettiest tones.
'You have overwhelmed me with kindness. I
shall never forget this night.'

Drive on,' said Gaverock.

Then the yellow glare — the little of colour
there was in that waste of white and black —
moved forward, and Dennis Penhalligau was left
in the road looking after the carriage. Though
steeped in his own trouble, he started as he
noticed a figure, which he thought was that of
the pedlar, crouched behind the carriage, clinging
to the great springs. In the moonlight he
could not make out the nature of the coat, but
his doubt ceased when he saw the shadow of
the dog pursuing the barouche. The white
dog with spots was itself scarce distinguishable
against the snow and stony ground, but its
shadow was black and defined. Dennis clasped
his hands and moaned.

Would to God we had both been dashed
against these stone posts, and the life crushed
out of us ! Always too late for luck ! The
prize is out of my reach. Healing, rest, happiness,
are for others, not for me. Pas de chance !
Pas de chance ! '

CHAPTER XVII.

THE FEATHERSTONES.

When the hero of a novel falls overboard, is
wrecked, or plunges off a cliff into the sea, unless
he be produced within a few chapters with
his nose eaten off by fish and his eyes pecked
out by seagulls, the reader may be certain that
he will turn up unhurt somewhere near the end
of the book. Constantine Gaverock, it is true,
is not our hero — indeed, we have no hero ; but
he is an important personage in our tale, and as
we have not shown his bones in process of transformation
into coral, nor his eyes into pearls,
nor as undergoing any kind of sea-change, the
reader may expect to see him again. Indeed, we
gave the reader every reason to suppose that
he would not be drowned, for we expressly
stated that he was launched from the keel of
the ' Mermaid ' with two stone jars lashed about
him, from which the spirits had been emptied,

and which were corked full of air. Now, anyone
with a particle of intelligence must know
that a man thus buoyed cannot sink.

Constantine did not sink. On the contrary,
he floated like a bubble, and was driven by the
waves against the black cutter which old Gave-rock
supposed to be that of the rover Feather-stone.
The men on board the vessel saved
him, but not before he had been beaten against
the side and was so stunned and bruised as to
be unconscious that he was in safety.

Constantine did not recover consciousness
till he was brought to land and had been in
bed for three days. He did, indeed, occasionally
open his eyes, when roused to take food,
but he closed them again, and dropped off" into
sleep. His head had struck the side of the
boat, and he was suffering from concussion of
the brain. He dimly saw figures about his bed,
and was aware that he was in bed, but he felt
no interest to know who visited him, or where
he was, or why he was there.

On the third day, he woke from his stupor
and looked about him. He was in a strange
room. He raised himself on his elbow for
better inspection. The room was large, with a

coved ceiling. There was a fireplace in which
a fire of sea-coal was burning ; in the corner
was a spinet. The sun was shining in through
the window, and he could see through the latticed
panes into a little court. Above the roof
opposite were tree-tops, curled and leafless. He
thought, on seeing this, ' I am somewhere near
the coast.'

Whilst he was wondering and looking; about
him, the door opened, and a man of about thirty-entered,
very tall, grave, with dark hair and
large hazel eyes ; he was dressed in a dark suit,
knee breeches and blue worsted stockings, like
a farmer.

I am glad to find you better,' he said in a
quiet, precise tone. ' I supposed you would
recover consciousness to day — if at all. The
Lord be praised ! I am glad, and I am thankful.'


Not more than I,' said Constantine. ' But
where the devil am I ? '

Hush ! ' said the man gravely. ' It is not
through the agency of Satan that you are here ;
it is the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our
eyes.'

'I should like to know where I am, and

how I came here,' said Constantine. He spoke
with a raised tone, for he fancied that the man
was slightly deaf; he fancied it from the way
in which he tinned the side of this head to him
when he spoke, and from the intent, earnest
expression of his face, as he listened to catch
what was said.

You are at Maryland,' answered the man,
you are our guest ; our name is Featherstone
Featherstone of Maryland.' A slight colour
rose to his face, and a look of annoyance crossed
it. ' Unfortunately the name is known along
the coast. If you come from these parts you
may have heard it — not spoken of with honour.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the
children's teeth are set on edge. Of the Lord's
mercies, however, we are not utterly destroyed
for the iniquities of our parents ; and perhaps,
in His pity. He suffers the children to expiate
by a blameless life, and by love and charity
and prayer, for the sins of former generations.'

Constantine turned red and white. He was
in the house of a man whose father or uncle,
he knew not which, had been killed by his own
father.

You were out in the terrible storm which,

I fear, sent many poor fellows to their last account,'
Mr. Featherstone went on. ' Your boat
and ours were close neighbours for some way ;
when yours capsized we picked you up. You
were unconscious. But I must not speak to
you more, newly restored. One thing only I
ask. Put your hands together, as you cannot
kneel, and consecrate to heaven your first returning
thoughts.'

Then the grave man withdrew.

When he was gone, Constantine lay quiet,
with his face to the wall, thinking. lie was
awkwardly situated. He had got into the house,
of all others, he would least like to fid himself
in. Whereabouts he was he did not exactly
know. Maryland was somewhere on the coast
between Hartland and Padstow Point, he supposed,
but he had never before heard the name.
Whether it was in Cornwall or Devon he did
not know. It certainly could be nowhere near
his own home, or he would have heard of it.
As for old Featherstone, idiom his father had
spiked, he was known all along the coast, and
had his kitchens and cellars near every accessible
bay, but he had never heard, that he remembered,
where Featherstone's house was.

He had been as ubiquitous as the Flying Dutchman.


Constantine could not think for long. His
head was painful, and his thoughts began to
wander when he tried to concentrate them.

Presently the door opened again, and a
young lady entered, dressed in grave colours,
but with a fresh and rosy face and pleasant,
kindly expression. She had dark hair, and,
what goes so charmingly with that, violet blue
eyes. She had some needlework in her hands.
She seated herself in the window and sewed.
Constantine watched her. He thought her very
pretty. There was a purity and innocence in
her face which were more attractive than her
beauty. Beautiful she properly was not, as her
features were not regular, but her face was
agreeable. The young man saw a likeness in
her to the man, and concluded that she must
be his sister, not his wife. His features were
much more pronounced and regular than hers.
He had a strongly characterised aquiline nose,
dark eyebrows, and rather sunken eyes. She
had not the same sort of nose, nor as heavy
brows, yet there was an unmistakable family
resemblance between them.

VOL. T. R

She saw that he was watching lier, and
looked round smiHng.

I am glad you are better,' she said, in a
gentle voice with a Cornish intonation ; ' we
have been very anxious about j'ou. We thought,
if you did not rouse to-day, you would not
rouse at all. And now, you must not talk, or
trouble your poor head about anything you see
or hear. Best and be thankful. I am Juliet,
Paul Featherstone's sister, and your nurse.'

I am fond of music,' said Constantine. ' It
would be the best medicine for me if you would
play me something.' She threw down her
needlework at once, and went to the spinet,
opened it, and played ' All people that on earth
do dwell.'

At the first notes, a rich deep bass voice
rose from the court outside, singing the psalm,
and Juliet's sweet, untaught, but musical voice
sang also.

When the psalm was done, Constantine said,
I thank you. Can you sing me something
else ? I should like something of Mozart.'

I don't know anything of his, though I
believe he wrote masses,' said Juliot. ' I play
mostly sacred music. My brother does not

care for any other. I can play you some of
Tallis or Purcell'

Anything,' said Constantine ; ' but it is not
very lively ; perhaps, however, it may be more
soothing.'

My brother Paul likes psalm tunes most of
all,' she said, ' and so I play more psalm tunes
than anything else. I can play and sing Jackson's
" Te Deem " if you like, and " Angels
ever bright and fair." '

What sort of music do you like best, yourself
? ' asked Constantine.

I ! ' exclaimed Juliot, modestly colouring —
I — oh I — I do not know, I never considered.
Of course I like that which pleases Paul best.'

Does Mr. Featherstone object to your
playing other than sacred music ? '

Oh no,' answered Juliot, frankly, turning
her honest face, and looking full at him out of
her honest violet eyes, ' not at all. Paul is nota
Methodist. I can play gavottes and quadrilles
; and he and I sing together Jackson's
pretty duet, "Time has not thinned my flowing
hair." But he says that no music speaks to
his heart like the old psalm tunes. Whenever
Paul is fretted about anything, or has met with

R 2

annoyance, I can always bring his gentle, sweet
look back on his dear face with a psalm tune.
When I saw that you were awake and looking
a little troubled, I played the " Old Hundredth."
I thought it would have the same effect on you
as it does on my brother.'

Is he married ? ' asked Constantine.

Paul married ! ' echoed Juliot, and laughed.
I cannot fancy him with a wife. And yet she
would be a happy woman who won him, for
Paul is the gentlest of men. The animals all
love him. When he 2;oes out on the cliffs, the
gulls come round him in flights ; and the sheep
run to him when he appears on the common.
As for the cows and horses — I am sure they
adore him. I never hurt an animal, that I
know, but they will not come to me as they
go to Paul. The people round look on him as
some one quite out of the ordinary, and come
to him to have their arms and leas struck when
suffering from swellings, and they bring him
kerchiefs to bless, when any one has cut himself
in the hay or corn-field, that he may stop the
flow of blood.'

But — does this succeed .? '

Of course it does. Paul would not do it

else. But he is very humble, and it pains him
if anyone says it is because he is so good. /
think that is the reason. He thinks that it is
given him that he may do a little good to makeup
for the great wrongs done to men, and the
sins committed in the sight of God, by our
uncle — Eed Featherstone.'

I do not know quite where I am. Am I
in Devon, or Cornwall, or in Wales ? '

You are in Devon. This is the parish of
Welcombe. Our little Maryland brook runs
down to the sea and divides the counties and
parish from Morwenstowe. We have a little
harbour : it is the only bay in which in decent
weather a boat may run in and be safe. We
keep a boat there. Paul is very particular
about his boat. It is the old cutter that our
uncle had. When there is a storm, my
brother is on the look-out to help distressed
vessels, and save those who are in peril. Paul
is so good. He was returning from Hale,
where he had some business, when he saved
you, not so far out from Black Eock, where
the people say the spirit of our poor uncle is
engaged weaving ropes of sand. At one time
we heard a great many stories about what went

on in his time ; of his wickedness, of how he
wrecked vessels, and murdered the crews when
washed ashore, and of how he pondered on
the coasts of France and Wales. But now weare
told nothing ; the people know that it distresses
my brother to hear these tales. It is
now a great many years since he was killed. If
ever there was a case of murder, that was one —
a man called Gaverock ran him throufrli with
an old spear whilst he sat in the sun on a rock
warming himself. It was a treacherous and
cruel act, though I admit my poor uncle
deserved his death. People say he wilfully
wrecked vessels, and if sailors and passengers
swam ashore he killed them ; but I cannot
believe this ; I think this an exaggeration. Do
not talk to Paul about his uncle ; he cannot
endure it.'

Just then Paul Featherstone came in.

'You are not overstraining our patient's
attention ? ' said he. ' Remember, he must be
spared.'

Paul, I have been telling him where he
is — he did not quite understand.'

You are in Maryland in Welcombe,' said

Mr. Featlierstone, ' and you will also find a
Welcome in Maryland.' He turned to his sister.
I am making a joke, Juliot.'

So I hear. You are very humorous, Paul.'

Will you bring up the beef broth for our
friend ? ' said Paul Featherstone ; ' I believe it
is quite ready.'

I hope my sister has not made you talk
more than your strength can bear ? ' said Mr.
Featherstone, addressing Constantine.

Not at all ; she has been speaking to me,
and playing and singing for my pleasure.'

Juliot is alway's ready to do a kindness.
Her heart overflows with goodness. In Welcombe,
near the church, is a holy well to which
people came in Catholic times for the blessed
water that healed infirmities and cleared eyes
of the scales that covered them. The parish
takes its name from this well. It never fails.
The limpid spring never diminishes, never runs
dry, and all the way down to the sea, whither
its waters run, the grass is green and flowers
bloom. My sister Juliot's heart is a better holy
well than that. It also never fails, and whithersoever
its influence reaches it bears healing,

strength, and beauty and love. I am glad you
are here, to know Juliot. Do not raise your
voice to speak to me. I can hear. I am not
as deaf as you suppose.'

I cannot sufficiently thank you for your
kindness,' said Constantine.

Oh, I do nothing. My sister thinks and
cares for you. I am only her servant, and do
what she designs. I am the hand that executes
what her head and heart devise. I hope you
will not think me wanting in courtesy if I ask
your name.'

'Gaverock,' answered Constantine after a
pause, and with some nervousness.

Eock,' said Mr. Featherstone, who had not
caught the full name. ' Now that is indeed
curious, that the Eock should come to the
Stone, whereas generally the stone comes from
the rock. Our name,' he explained, ' is Feather-stone.'


Just then Juliot came in, bearing a bowl of
soup on a tray.

Sister,' said Paul, turning to her, ' our
patient, whom by God's providence we have
been able to help, is called Eock. Mr. Eock —

my sister, Miss Featherstone. Juliot, I have
made a joke. I have said that now the rock
has come to the stone instead of the stone
proceeding from the rock. Do you follow me ? '
Oh, Paul, how clever, low humorous you
are ! '

CHAPTEE Xviii.

Maryland.

Maryland House was built by William Atkins
in 1656, as a stone in the wall testifies. It is
one of the most picturesque and delightful
specimens of a small gentleman's house of the
seventeenth century that we know. Not that
it has architectural adornment. Of that it is
absolutely free, but that it remains to this day
perfectly untouched. It stands as it was when
built, without an addition, and without a stone
of the structure having been thrown down.
An avenue leads to a little gatehouse that
closes with strong oak doors. In this gatehouse
lived the porter, with a peephole to command
the avenue, and windows to light him, opening
into the first court — quadrangle it is not, but
an oblong court, before the face of the house.
The entrance is from the east, and the face of
the house is to the east, away from the sea.

The north side of this court is closed by a high
wall. On the south side is the wall of the
garden, with a door in it ; the ground slopes
rapidly to the south into the glen of the Mars-land
brook, and the garden takes all the sun,
and is screened from the sea-gales by a dense
wood of beech. The most prominent feature
in the facade is the immense hall chimney
forming a buttress, one side of which is utilised
as the wall of the porch. The front consists of
several gables of irregular height, charmingly
picturesque. If we enter the porch, we pass
through the house by a passage one side of
which screens off the hall, and the other the
kitchen and cellar and buttery. We then
emerge upon the quadrangle of the mansion,
into which the hall also looks, westward, and
in which, on the north, are the drawing-room
windows, securing by this arrangement shelter
and sun. The west side is formed of sundry
domestic buildings, and the south side is occupied
by the servants' apartments.

Maryland Combe is the most beautiful on
this portion of the north Cornish and Devon
coast. It is deep, clothed with oak coppice,
and opens on a lovely bay. But scarcely a

tourist who visits the coast thinks of looking in
on this gem of old English country life and
architecture. Since visitors have frequented
this coast, settlers from the metropolis and
elsewhere have come, and have built mansions —
such miracles of hideousness that the traveller
may rub his eyes, and, looking from the modern
to the ancient, ask whether, after all, we have
progressed during the two hundred years since
Maryland was built. At the present day,
Maryland, like so many other mansions of the
gentry of a century or two ago, is turned into
a farmhouse, and no guide-book calls the
attention of the tourist to its beauty.

At all times Maryland was out of the way.
The old north coast road from Bedford to
Stratton, which is as ancient as British times,
runs honor the watershed of the streams which
empty after a brief course down the thousand
comes into the sea, and, on the other hand,
of the Taniar and Porridge. This watershed is
a long backbone of elevated moorland within
sight of the sea. Between it and the ocean are
numerous — innumerable — deeply cleft valleys,
becoming deeper as they near the sea, without
the intervening hills becoming lower. The

consequence is that a road skirting the cliffs
would be a road consisting of scramble and
slide up and down hills as steep as mediaeval
high-pitched roofs. Let the reader look at the
back of his hand, and he may imagine a road
taken across his knuckles to represent the highroad,
and his fingers with the clefts between
will well represent the conformation of the
land between that road and the sea. His
finger-ends accordingly figure for precipitous
headlands standing out of the ocean. The
ravine between his index finger of the left
hand and the middle finger represents the
Welcombe valley, near the head of which
stands the little parish church. The fissure
between the middle finger and the ring finger
symbolises the Maryland glen, which divides the
counties. Halfway between the knuckle of the
hand and the finger-nail, on the slope to the
south, lies old Maryland House. The valley
between the rinj^ finer and the little finger is
that of Morwenstowe, and the end of the rincj
finger is the splendid crag of Hennacliff, rising
450 feet sheer out of the waves. The highroad
traverses the bleak and barren moor, where
the stiff clay soil refuses to yield anything but

rushes and gorse, and this dreary country
stretches away to the east, and in it rises the
Tamar. On the other side the comes are
fertile, and, being sheltered by the folds of the
hills, give pleasant pasture meadows and leafy
coppices. To the present day there is no inn
in either Welcombe or Morwenstowe, nothing
to invite the traveller to diverge from the highroad
to visit these glens. At the time of which
we write, some seventy years ago, this angle of
coast was as little visited as Iceland, and those
who dwelt in it were unknown beyond the
moor side and road.

The Atkyns family, who, in the seventeenth
century, owned the estate of Maryland, did not
appear at the last heralds' visitation of Devon
and Cornwall, in 1620, probably because they
did not hear in their isolated nook that the
heralds were holding inquisition as to who were
gentle and entitled to bear arms and who were
to be discounted as ignohiles. But though the
Atkyns family did not then appear at Barnstaple
on September 9, 1620, when the heralds
held their court, there can be no question as to
the antiquity and the gentility of the family.

But the Atkyns family went, as nine out of

every ten old families have gone ; and at the
time of which we are telling, and indeed for
some hundred years before, Maryland had been
in the hands of the Featherstones.

Should the tourist be induced by this account
to diverge from the main road and visit
Maryland, let him look in the side of the hedge
of the lane descending into the combe, and he
will observe the entrance to one of Feather-stone's
kitchens, a vault, arched and walled
with brick, filled in indeed, but still structurally
uninjured and readily distinguishable. In it
he hid his spoils ; the place was easily accessible
from the house, but the goods were not
stored in his house, lest on a domiciliary visit
they should be found by the constables.

When Constantine was left to himself, he
considered what had taken place. He was not
sorry that his name had been mistaken. He
would make no attempt to correct the error
into which Paul Featherstone had fallen. Why
should he ? It would do no good. It would
only give annoyance. It might cause his expulsion
from the house.

Constantine took the world as it went, very
easily. He liked to be comfortable, and not to

have much to do. He was averse to the roughness
of his father's ways, and he was not sorry
to be now away from home. Dennis Penlial-
ligan had given him three days for communicating
the fact of his marriage to his father.
The time was now past, and no doubt the old
man knew by this time, if he were ave, the
secret that had been kept from him. Of his
father's safety he was not, however, sure, and
he resolved, without saying anything to his
hosts, as soon as he was able, on going to
Bude Haven and making inquiries.

Next day he was better and got up, but
could not leave the room. He was surprisingly
weak. He was amazed at himself, how his
strength had gone in a few days. His head
was still painful, especially when he exercised
it, so that he was glad to have cold compresses
applied. Juhot attended him, and was so kind,
and earnest in her desire to relieve his pain,
and to see him recovered, that he felt disposed
to make the most of his weakness and suffering.

During the ensuing days he sat up longer
than he had been able to do at first. He saw
a good deal of Paul Featherstone, who took
every opportunity of visiting him ; but he saw

most of Juliot, who brought her work to his
room, and sat with him the greater part of the
afternoon.

'You will not see Paul to-day,' she said
once. ' He is gone over to Stanbury, which belongs
to us. It came through my mother, and
Paul has to go there two or three times a week.
It tires him, as he must ride : there is no driving
on these by-roads, and Paul cannot ride well, it
hurts him. He received a slight injury when
he was young, which makes it painful for him
to ride, and it is too far for him to walk with
ease, our hills are so steep. My mother was a
Stanburv, and she brought the estate to us.'

Does that, then, belong to your brother as
well as Maryland ? '

It does and it does not. Properly it belongs
to me, and Maryland is Paul's ; but it
does not matter — what is his is mine, and what
is mine is his. There is no mine and thine
between us.'

But if he or you were to marry it could
not go on like this.'

I do not know. We have neither of us
given a thought to that,' answered Juliot, blushing.
' It is so unlikely. We see nobody. We

VOL. I. s

visit no one, and no one visits us. Paul cannot
go far, as I have told you ; he is not very
strong, and it hurts him to ride. Besides, the
ill-fame of our family through two or three
generations has cast us into isolation. When
Paul and I grew up we knew no one, and no
visitors came to this house which bore so bada
name, and so we have lived to ourselves. Weare
very happy, and quite content, and "avant no
change,'

But would you not wish Paul to marry
and give you a sister-in-law ? You must need
some lady friend to whom to open your heart.'

If Paul were to marry — but the thought is
so strange I cannot grasp it — I should love the
wife he chose very dearly, for his sake, but I do
not know that I want her. I keep no secrets
from Paul, and Paul tells me everything that
passes in his mind. I am sure you never,
though you may have travelled very far, you
never met with so beautiful and sincere a mind
as that of Paul. He is so good. He is a little
too trustful, if lie has a fault ; he believes that
every one else is as good as himself.'

But you will marry some day, and what
about Stanbury then ? And Paul, how would

lie like to have that cut off, after having managed
it with Maryland so long ? '

Paul ! Oh, Paul would always do what is
right, and would not have a wish contrary to
what he thought was right. Besides,' she said,
going on with her needlework hastily, ■ the
thing will never be. It is not possible.'

What is Stanbury worth ? '

Juliot laughed, and looked round at him
frankly, with her pretty, deep violet eyes — so
pretty under their long dark lashes. ' I do not
know. I have not an idea. I do not suppose
my brother even could tell you. It is a nice
little property, and the Stanburys lived on it
for many generations. They were not great
people, like the Grenville, and Elles, and
Arundel, but a very long way behind. I suppose
the property is much the same as this in
value, but no one knows less about these matters
or cares less than myself.'

Why does not your brother put in a farmer
at Stanbury ? '

He either does not like to let it, or cannot.
You see, Stanbury never has been a farm — I
mean it never has been let. My mother's family
lived there from generation to generation, and

3 2

Paul hardly likes to turn it into an ordinary
farmhouse. Besides, I am not sure that he can
let it on lease, lest I should marry — not that

it is likely — in which case ' She did

not finish the sentence, but got confused and
red,

I understand. Should you marry, you and
your husband would go to Stanbury. I do not
suppose Paul can let the place on lease.'

Nothing more was said for a few moments ;
Juliot sat with her needle in hand, looking out
of the window, thinking. Presently she broke
the silence with, ' I wish Paul had not to go
there so much, it always over-tires him. He
never complains, but his eyes become sunken in
his face ; then I know he is over-done, and has
suffered. It does him good to be out of doors,
and he has enough to occupy him here, in looking
after Maryland Farm ; but the journeys to
Stanbury hurt him. I wish he would get some
good, conscientious man to attend to the estate
for him. He has had so much trouble with the
caretakers he has put in. Some have turned
out drunkards, others have been dishonest, and
the last man has been in deep with the smugglers,
and actually let them store away their

rim goods in the place. Paul was really angry
about that. It takes a great deal to put hmi
out, but that did annoy him, and no one about
sympathised with his feelings, and thought he
behaved very unjustly to the man, when he
gave him notice of dismissal. As if Paul could
be unjust ! ' She held up her head with a pretty
pride. ' No one but I, his sister, know what it
costs Paul to dismiss a man from his service.
It costs him many wakeful nights. He turns
the man's conduct over in his mind, and tries to
find excuses for him, and he is over-ingenious
in doing so. But even when he finds these excuses,
he still knows when he must give dismissal,
for lie has to consider the example to
others. I believe it gives him a heartache more
than the man he turns away. I hear him sighing,
Avhen he is not conscious that any one is
near ; and, indeed, he sighs involuntarily, without
knowing it, when I am present, and is reproaching
himself for undue severity. I think
a conscience may be over tender.'

I quite agree with you,' said Constantine.
The hedgehog is sensible, it does not coil itself
up with the prickles inwards. Now, shall we
have some music ? '

She put down her needlework instantly and
went to the spinet.

Do I hear Mr. Featherstone reading aloud
in the evening ? '

Yes. He is fond of books, but we have
not many. He is reading now Mr. Brooke's
"Fool of Quality." Do you know it? My
brother is very fond of the book. It is in six
volumes. Sometimes he reads poetry, Crashaw
and Vaughan, and George Herbert. If it would
give you pleasure, he would come up here and
read, and I Avould come also. He was afraid
to offer it, lest it should be too much for your
poor head. My brother wishes to do all in his
power to make you happy and comfortable, and
the " Fool of Quality " is a mighty pleasant
book. On holidays he reads Nelson's " Fasts
and Festivals." '

CHAPTER XIX.

STAN BURY.

When Constantine was thought sufficiently convalescent
to come downstairs, Mr. Featherstone
went to him in the morning, and laid some
garments on a chair by the bed.

Mr. Eock,' he said, ' you have conferred
on my sister and me real favours as well as
affording us great pleasure. You will not, I
trust, shrink from extending your kindness
to us.'

I — what have I done ? ' asked Constantine,
sitting up in bed. ' It is I who am the recipient,
not the conferrer, of favours.'

'Mr. Eock,' said Paul Featherstone, 'to
house the shipwrecked, to nurse the sick, to
minister to those who need a helping hand
through poverty, or weakness, or accident, is to
my good sister and, secondarily, to me such a
blessed privilege, that we cannot be satisfied till

we have added to our pleasure that of clothing
those who are deprived by disaster of their customary
wardrobe. Whilst you have been confined
to your bed, we have taken the liberty of
calling in a village tailor, and he has fashioned
you a suit out of some claret-coloured cloth I
happened to have in the house. He had your
suit in which you were wrecked as his pattern,
and I believe you will find it a decent fit, though
mayhap the colour of the stuff be not to your
liking. As to your linen, Juliot has cared for
that. You have seen her busy with her needle ;
she has supplied you with what is necessary.
Do not thank me,' said Paul Featherstone, holding
up his hand, as he noticed that Constantine
was about to speak ; ' it is we who have cause
to thank a loving Providence which has put the
opportunity into our hands. We live so quieta
life here, and see nothing of the world, that a
visitor sent us is a friend given us, and, having
few friends, it is a delight to us to help as best
we can those whom God bestows on us.'

He bowed with old-fashioned courtesy and
left the room. Constantine got up and dressed.
The suit, though made by a village tailor, was
well made ; it was after the cut of his garments

got in Exeter. He stood before a glass and
looked at himself in them. He was pleased
-with his appearance. He made a fine figure of
a man. His illness gave a look of refinement
to his face. He was a good-looking young fellow,
and he was never more conscious of this
than at the present moment. He put his hand
into his pockets, and found in one a folded and
sealed paper, addressed to himself, on opening
which three bank-notes fell out, one for ten
pounds and two for five. A present from Paul
Featherstone, or a loan, according to Constantine's
circumstances. Not a word accompanied
the notes. If Constantine had means, he would
repay the advance ; if he had not, Paul would
never ask for the money — he was free to
keep) it.

What nice, simple people these are ! ' said
young Gaverock. ' They understand what a
person wants, without forcing him to ask. This
is what I consider good manners. I had to
plague my father with my necessities before I
got anything out of him.'

The moment Constantine's foot was heard
on the landing, Paul and Juliot ran to his assistance.
The staircase was steep, and they

thought he might need support in descending.
Therefore, each gave him an arm, and he went
down with his right hand resting on the arm of
the sister and the left on that of the brother.

He noticed that both were flushed when
they conducted him into the little low-ceiled
hall. They were flushed with pleasure at getting
their guest downstairs, and seeing him so
much improved in health. They were like
children, pleased with small matters, and pleased
that others should be happy and well.

By the hearth was an armchair, and they
led him to it ; and when he was seated, Paul
clasped his hand and wrung it, and said, ' I
shall always remember this day. I am so glad
so glad ! '

Tears came up into the deep violet eyes of
Juliot, tears of sympathy and pleasure. She
said nothing, but Constantine saw that her heart
was with her brother's, full of happiness, because
he was sufficiently recovered to come downstairs.


Juliot,' said Paul, with a smile, ' we have
now a vested interest in Mr. Eock.'

Yes, quite.'

That was a joke, Juliot.'

You quite sparkle, Paul. You are so
witty.'

I am sorry to have to leave you, Mr. Eock,
on such a joyful occasion,' said Mr. Featherstone,
'but I am obliged to go over to Stanbury.
Perhaps, when you are well enough, in a week
or two, you will accompany me. I have some
annoyance there.'

If I can be of any service to you, here or
there, now or at any time, command me,' said
Constantine ; ' I am not ignorant of law.'

Paul shook his head. ' We have nothing todo
with law here. I would rather suffer the
extremity of injury than prosecute any one.'

And I have had much experience in farm
management.'

That is another matter,' said Mr. Feather-stone
; ' and, indeed, therein you may do me
great service. But of that we can talk at another
time. I again apologise.' He bowed himself
out. ' Juliot,' he said, in the door, ' you will
entertain Mr. Eock in my absence, that the time
hang not heavy on his hands.'

Constantine looked about the little hall with
some curiosity. It was very plain, with a slated
floor ; a little dull, as both windows looked into

yards enclosed by high walls, east and west,
and the sun was not shining; into either. Indeed,
the sun that day was not shining at all.
A long oak table occupied the centre with peg
holes at the end, showing that in former times
it had served not only as a table at which to
eat, but also as a shuffle-board on which to
gamble. Over the mantel-piece was a picture,
apparently a portrait, badly painted, in a black
frame. It represented a man, at full length,
but the size of the picture was small. Constantine
looked at the painting and was struck by
it. The man was represented in a red waistcoat
and black velvet coat, and he had a white
spotted dog at his side. He wore high boots,
but instead of a cap had a strap round his head
confining his thick black hair, and in the strap
was stuck a peacock's feather, where the band
was fastened by a sort of brooch with a white
stone in it, probably a Cornish crystal. The
features were pronounced — an eagle nose, and
arched brows, with the eyes sunken under them.
The mouth was hard and the jowl heavy.

Juliot noticed that Constantino's eyes were
on the picture, and that it excited his interest.

That,' she said, ' is the likeness of our uncle,

the wicked Featherstone, who was killed by a
man called Gaverock, He was so wicked that
the parson would not bury him in consecrated
ground and read the service over him ; so he is
laid just outside the wall. Paul thinks, and of
course he is right, that the shadow of his evil
influence hangs over the place and the family.
He quotes Scripture to prove it ; but I am sure
of one thing, there is none of the sinful nature
of our uncle in dear brother Paul, who is as
good a man as old Featherstone the Eover was
bad.'

What a curious fashion for a head-dress ! '
said Constantine.

Whether he wore that or not I cannot say.
I dare be bound there are people in the place
who could tell ; but Paul does not speak about
the old Eover, nor does he wish me to converse
with them about him. The subject is painful
to Paid. He feels it very much. I have
thought — but 1 may be wrong — that the plume
and the crystal may be a fancy of the painter
to express the name, Feather-stone.'

I see that your brother is like his uncle,
except about the chin and mouth. He has the
same nose, and eyes, and brow.'

But nothing — nothing whatever in character.'


Was that your uncle's spotted dog ? '

'That — yes. The dog lay down on his
grave, and never left it, would eat nothing, and
died. So there must have been some goodness
and kindness in the old Eover, or the dog
would not have attached itself to him. When
the dog died, it was buried beside its master —
that is, a hole was made in the earth by his
grave, and the brute was laid there.'

About a week after this, Paul Featherstone
said to Constantine, ' Do you not think that a
ride would be beneficial to your health, Mr.
Eock ? You are heartily welcome to the use
of my cob, as much and as often as pleases
you.'

Thank you,' answered Constantine ; ' I
should like a ride greatly. If I can be of
service to you at Stanbury, to take a message,
or to see whether an order has been executed,
command me.'

Certainly,' said Paul ; ' you can oblige me
greatly. The roofs were badly used by the
gale, and I sent a wagon for slates. The
masons are there, and should have related

where the roofs were ripped. The water has
been kept out for the time with hurdles and
straw.'

I will go there to-day.'

And,' continued Paul, ' you may inquire
of old Carwithen if he has got work. He has
acted as hind for me hitherto — that is, for my
sister — Stanbury belongs to her — and I have
had to dismiss him, but I allow him to remain
till he finds a suitable situation. The old man
has abused my confidence. I am sorry. I
liked him. Ascertain for me whether he has
heard of a place, and I will thank you.'

Constantine enjoyed his ride. The air was
mild, the sun shone, and the sea sparkled.
Lundyy Isle was full in view, its granite cliffs
white in the sunshine. The leafy copse-covered
combe basked in the last warm light of declining
autumn. The leaves were russet as the
bosom of a redbreast. On the high land the
gorge still bloomed ; its golden flowers were,
however, sparse. In the hedgerows the long
glossy hart's-tongue ferns were shrivelled by
frost.

I like this country,' said Constantine, looking
round. ' It is more homelike than Towan.

I could be very comfortable here. It is not
quite so bleak as about Padstow, aud the
people don't seem so rugged as my father
and his set.'

He passed Morwenstowe valley and church,
and ascended the hill opposite. He inquired
his way, and was directed to Stanbury. ' Bless
my soul!' said Constantine, 'what an 
corner one is in here ! Why, one
might spend a life here unknown to the rest
of the world, and without hearing how the rest
of the world fires. That is just the sort of life
I should like.'

He arrived at last at the house : it was
small and comfortable and unpretentious. The
land about it seemed good. ' One might fare
worse than on this estate,' said Constantine.
Then, as a man approached, he asked, ' Are
you Eichard Carwithen ? ' The man was rough
and old, very broad-shouldered, with husbands
tied about his legs, below the knees. ' Ay,'
answered he, ' at your service, Eichard Car-within
; and you, sir, I reckon, be Mr. Eock,
as we've heard of at Maryland. Will you come
in and have a drop of something to keep the
cold out ? '

Take the horse, please, and I will go round
with you. The master has asked me to see if
the repairs are done.'

The master ! ' repeated Carwithen. ' Stan-bury
don't belong by rights to he ! Stanbury
belongs to the lady, and he who takes the lady
takes Stanbury. More's the fool he who don't
seize his chance while he may.' He looked at
Constantine and laughed. Gaverock coloured
to the roots of his hair.

Has the gale done you much harm here ? '
asked he.

Dipped off slates here and there, as a gale
be like to,' answered Carwithen. ' Providence,
that cares for sparrows, cares for slaters and
shipwrights, and makes work for both ; it tears
the roofs away and sinks vessels with the same
blast.'

'Were there many wrecks on the coast,
that you have heard, in the last gale ? ' asked
Constantine.

Carwithen shrugged his shoulders. ' Taught
to signify,' he said. ' There was a boat washed
ashore at Bude, the " Mermaid." '

'All hands lost?'

The skipper came ashore all right.'

VOL. I. T

Any more ? '

A schooner went to pieces in Weymouth
her name was the "Marianne" — just off
Featherstone's Eock. I reckon that was the
vessel in which you were. Bound for Bristol.
All hands lost but you. That was the boat
you was in, wasn't it ? '

Constantine paused. After a moment he
answered, ' Yes.'

I have not heard of more,' continued Car-within
; ' but that's not saying there were no
more. Us don't get news fast here. I snowed
a case of a vessel laden with copper, Event to
pieces in Tonacombe Cove, and the Moriens
farmers were still as mice about it till
they'd brought up all the ore on donkeys'
backs. The neighbours in Kilkhampton and
Bude knew nothing about it till the bones
were picked clean. That's our ways, hereabouts.
We don't talk when we're eating.'

How many acres are there in Stanbury ? '

'About nine hundred, and some of the
land first-rate. Come in, sir, and have a drop
of comfort. You drank water enough when
picked np, I reckon, not to want any of that.
Come in, sir, and sit down.'

Have you heard of another situation,
Eichard ? ' asked Constantine.

No,' answered Carwithen, roughly. ' Stone
deaf on that side. I'm very comfortable here,
and don't want to go. What is the sense, I
ask you, of Squire Featherstone taking on, if I
do lend a hand to the runners ? I ain't against
Scripture. Show me the passage that condemns
smuggling, and opens the kingdom of
Heaven to dangers, and I submit. What is
there wrong in smuggling ? Nobody can say.
It's the custom of the country. Wasn't Levi
an exciseman, and called away, because it was
not a fit occupation for an apostle ? Do you
mean to tell me that the sons of Zebedee
owned a boat and went all about the sea and
brought across nothings but fishes ? It is not
in human nature. It is not credible. I should
have no respect for them if they were such
fools. Come in, sir. I'll tell you the truth
of the matter. Master is a very good man, and
great in Scripture. So am I, and because he
can't bring down a great text on my head and
floor me touching smuggling, he's so put out,
he wants to be rid of me. That is the sense of
the matter.' He stopped in the door, and

T 2

turned again to address Gaverock. ' Now, look
you here, Mr. Eock. Them two is a pair of
innocents. Stanbury, and with it as sweet a
turtle-dove as ever were hatched, are to be had
for the asking, and the man who gets Stanbury
will know better than show Eichard Car with en
the door, and object to a keg of brandy, real
cognac, left now and again at his doorstep.'

After that visit to Stanbury, Constantine
rode back in a meditative mood. ' What a fool
I have made of myself ! ' was the burden of his
reflections.

On reaching Maryland he was met by Paul
Featherstone.

Eock,' said the Squire, ' my sister and I
have been considering during your absence.
We want to ask of you a favour. I am notable
to attend to Stanbury as I ought. Would
it be possible for me to persuade you to spend
the winter with us, and to look after the farm
for me ? — that is, for Juliot — Stanbury is hers.

I need hardly say ' He hesitated, and

patted the horse's neck, and looked at the
mane. ' We will not ask you to give us your
services gratuitously. We will try to make it

up to you — but it would be doing me a real
kindness, and Juliot a great service.'

'I shall be most happy,' answered Constantine
; ' I have no ties — anywhere.'

CHAPTER XX.

A Temptation.

CoNSTANTiNE Gayerock settled himself to his
satisfaction into the situation offered him. He
knew from the nature of the man with whom
he had to deal that he would be treated with
honour and liberality, though no terms were
agreed on between them. Paul, indeed, with
delicacy, shrank from the mention of money.
He knew that Constantino was a gentleman,
and with a gentleman money transactions are
necessarily awkward to conduct, to spare the
feelings on both sides. Constantine was far
less sensitive on this point than he was credited
with being by Paul Featherstone, and he would
rather have been told the amount of his salary
than be left to conjecture what it might be.

Constantine had that easy-going temperament
which made him adapt himself readily
to the place where he was. There were few

positions into which he could not accommodate
himself, except such as exacted energy and
resolution. He liked to waste his day in rambling
about the Maryland Farm with Feather-stone,
riding over to Stanbury to smoke a pipe
and drink grog with Carwithen, play on the
spinet, and sing with Juliot, and read aloud, or
join a game of cribbage in the evening. Scott's
novels were then appearing. ' Waverley ' had
attracted attention ; it was quickly followed by
Guy Mannering ' and the ' Antiquary.' Paul
Featherstone was not narrow in his reading ;
he preferred a religious book, as he preferred
sacred music, because both appealed to the
deep feelings of his soul ; but light literature
and opera music where not condemned by him.
Waverley ' was procured, and read aloud by
Constantine, and both Paul and his sister were
so delighted with it that ' Guy Mannering ' was
purchased for evening reading in like manner.

The days grew shorter and the evenings
longer. Very easy days for Constantine, very
pleasant evenings for all. Young Gaverock
thought of the office of Mr. Nankivel at Exeter,
the tedious work of enoTOssinoj he had done
there, seated on a high stool in a dreary office

with the window looking into a back yard to
the north against a bit of the okl crumbling
red sandstone city walk How monotonous that
life had been ! How much better off he was
at Maryland ! At Exeter he was under a master.
At Maryland he was his owen master.

He looked about him at Stanbury, riding
thither on Paul's cob. He was fond of horse
exercise. At Exeter he had not a chance of
getting astride of a horse. In the office his
hours were from nine to twelve, and from one
to five. Here he regulated his work — such as
it was — according to his own convenience.

Constantine was not an exacting man. He
was not restless by nature, craving for change,
wanting excitement. He was happy to be left
alone, to spend his days in a sleepy, slow manner,
and amuse himself with small matters.

He liked a talk with Carwithen, and so
persuaded Featherstone, who was ready to be
persuaded, that the old man was prepared to
abandon his intercourse with the smugglers.

Carwithen never lost an opportunity of
urging Constantine to secure for himself the estate
over which he was now but a paid overseer.

Gaverock shook his head and made no
answer.

I shouldn't like to be turned out of this
nest, I confess,' mused lie ; ' so comfortably
lined with down, so little to do in it but turnabout
from side to side and open my mouth to
receive my worms,'

One day — it was a Sunday — Constantine
was walking with Paul Feathers tone from the
church. They came to a "well, rudely built up,
slabbed over with great granite stones, with a

DC '

gable of solid stepped masonry built up on the
horizontal covering slabs.

By the way, Mr. Eock,' said Featherstone,
'it occurs to me that we have not been told
your Christian name. I ask in no spirit of inquisitiveness,
but in one of friendliness. Here,
when we know and esteem a man, we cease to
call him by his surname alone, we call him by
both his names.'

My name,' answered Constantine, ' is John.'
He spoke the truth, he was baptized John Constantine.
But he did not speak the whole
truth.

Then,' said Featlierstone, ' you will suffer
us to call you John Eock.'

They were standing by the Holy Well.

This,' said Constantine, looking down into
the water to conceal his face, and speaking so
as to change the subject — ' this, I presume, is
the well of which you spoke to me, as resembling
the heart of your sister.'

As he spoke he put his walking-stick into
the pool to measure its depth, and he played
with it, stirring up the sediment. Paul caught
his hand.

For God's sake,' said Featherstone, hastily,
do not that. The saying here is, " Who
troubles the spring, troubles his soul." '

The tardiness will soon settle,' said Constantine.


In the well — yes. In you ? — you know
best. I tell 5'ou only what the people here
say. That which is by nature placid soon casts
down what clouds it — that which is not as
clear takes long to disperse its cloud.'

They walked on, talking. Paul Feather -
stone was restrained in his manner. Something
was on his mind which he desired to say and
yet dreaded to utter.

As they neared Maryland he became agitated.
He stood still, and laid his hand on the
arm of Constantine.

I wish to communicate something to you,'
he said ; ' but I must ask beforehand that you
will do me justice to believe I speak with the
best intentions.' He paused, and Constantine
bowed. His heart failed him. Was Paul
about to rebuke him, and bid him depart ; to
tell him he needed his services no longer ?

Mr. John Eock,' said Paul Featherstone,
we have enjoyed your society during the few
months you have been with us, and we are in
dread of losing you. I think that I can assure
myself that you have been happy at Maryland.'
Constantine bowed again. ' I cannot be deceived
in what I have seen,' he continued. ' I
believe that my sister likes your presence here,
as much — even more than myself. We unite
in desiring that you will remain. I wish above
all things to secure my dear sister's happiness.
If — as I almost hope — you are not indifferent
to her — and I am sure she is not indifferent to
you — why should you not remain here permanently
? Excuse me speaking : I thought some
modest shrinking on your part might restrain

your tongue. For that reason I speak. K I
am mistaken, it matters not. Juliot has no
idea that I have divined her feelings and am
revealing them to you. She shall never know.
But if this regard be reciprocal — if '

Constantine clasped his hand and pressed
it, almost wrung it. His emotions, conflicting,
tumultuous, would not allow him to speak.

Your hand tells me I am right,' said Paul.

Constantine did not say No. The temptation
came to him — from the best of men, and
he yielded. The purest of wells was to be
troubled by his base hand.

CHAPTER XXI.

Springtime.

A YEAR and a half had elapsed — to be exact,
nineteen months — smce the snowy Goose Fair.
Spring had come and was passing into summer.
The trees had put forth their green leaves,
tender and fresh, and the rushing salty blast
from the sea had shrivelled them up and turned
them black. Only those protected by shelter
had survived. In the dingles, the comes,
under the hedges, the glistening pennywort
leaves had spread, the white saxifage spikes of
flowers had shot up, the primroses had opened,
laughed and faded, and now the stately foxglove
was everywhere tossing its pink bells.

The garden of Towan was not a snuggery in
which the flowers could flourish, but the glen of
Nantsillan was overrun with them ; plants that
had languished at Towan, and had been cast
forth, had found their way to the sheltered

glen, and run wild there — blue navelwort,
pink fumitory, and yellow horn poppy. About
Towan the gulls screamed, and the magpies
chattered, and the permits piped, but down in
the sheltered glen of Nantsillan thrushes and
blackbirds sang and finches cheered and
chirruped.

The sea had thrown aside its winter grey
trimmed with white and put on azure and
spangles, and the winds exchanged their wail
for a plaintive song.

Joyous with summer triumph that coast
could never be, with its tortured trees and
scanty vegetation, that fought the winds, a
guerilla warfare of ambushes. But it could be
pleasant, always with an under-note of melancholy
in its gaiety.

A change has taken place in Towan since
we were last there. Mrs. Gaverock is better,
but will never recover her former vigour.
When old people descend the scale, they go
down, not by steps but by stages. The loss
of Constantine had broken her. She was sofar
recovered that she could attend to some of
the little matters that needed attention in the
house, but she was delicate and weak, and

obliged to rest in her own room much during
the day. Dennis Penhalligan came to see her
every week and administer medicines to enable
her to remain something of her lost strength.

Old Squire Gaverock had not suffered from
his exposure in the storm. If it had done anything
to him it had roughened and roughened
him. Tough and rough he had been before ; he
was now, perhaps, even more domineering, exacting,
and boisterous than previously. He had
a new ambition, now that Constantine was lost,
and this ambition made him proud and headstrong
and resolute to accomplish it. Gerans
had married Eose, and they were now away
on their honeymoon. The old man was elate.
Eose's money would come to the family head,
and the estate of Towan might be considerably
extended.

'We'll build up the paddock wall again,
and have some deer in it once more. We will,
by Golly ! ' he said.

He had despatched Gerans to Truro, on his
honeymoon, to look about the house property
there of Eose, and see whether it could be disposed
of to advantage. There was a tin mine
in Kenwyn on her land, bringing in royalties.

Gerans was to inquire into the condition of this
mine, and take advice with the Truro solicitor
whether to sell the land or keep it for a few
years. Old Gaverock had no idea of business.
He kept no accounts. When he had money
in his pocket he spent it ; he did not waste it
throw it away — but he spent it, and when
he had no money he lived without. He could
kill his own sheep and bullocks when he
wanted meat ; he had his own dairy. He grew
his own corn. He could live on the produce
of his farm till next court day and the rents
came in again to flush his limp purse. He was
now somewhat troubled with his responsibility
for Eose. He received her rents, and muddled
her money with his own. Sometimes he had
not change in his drawer, where he kept his
cash, then he borrowed the change from the
drawer where he kept Eose's money, and then
forgot what he had borrowed, and put back
sometimes more, sometimes less. His intention
was to be honest in his dealing nth the trust,
but he was by education unfitted to undertake
one. He had reckoned on the help of Constantine,
who, having been given a business
training, would be able to disentangle the

affairs ; but Constantine was dead, and the
tangle became more confused. Gerans was of
no use to him. Gerans was reared in the same
want of system as himself. The old man became
uneasy in his conscience. He did not
wish to do wrong, and he did not know how
he stood with regard to the trust. So he asked
the help of Penhalligan.

Dennis had a clear head, and was businesslike.
He came up continually to Towan to
see Mrs. Gaverock — which was nonsense — old
women can no more be patched up than old
cracked crockery ; but he might be of service
in looking into the trust, in arranging the
figures, and in advising about the sale. Gave-rock
had the idea that lawyers were all rogues,
and that if he consulted a lawyer he would be
given rascally advice. ' One lawyer shovels
into the pocket of the other,' he said, ' as one
hand washes the other hand. But Penhalligan
is a doctor, not a lawyer, so he may be able to
give an unblessed opinion.' As he regarded all
lawyers to be rogues, he considered all doctors
to be humbugs, as far as their profession affected
them — that is, he considered law to be rascality
and medicine quackery ; but a lawyer or a

VOL. I. U

doctor, taken independently of his profession,
might be an honest man. If he were himself
miwell, he would not think of calling in a
surgeon ; he would ask the opinion of a non-professional,
because more likely from the
latter to get an unprejudiced opinion. A
doctor would protract his illness to extract a
larger fee. By degrees old Gaverock came to
regard Dennis with respect. He found that he
was quite able to see his way through legal
documents, and to sift and sort debit from credit
entries.

What is the sense of writing " Debtor "
there ? ' said Gaverock, pointing to the head of
an account book. ' I pay my way. It is insulting.
You'll be putting me down as bankrupt
next. Besides, you are setting down
there things I have paid. You may scribble
them there if you please, but you won't force
me to pay them adam.'

With his mind alive to this own incapacity,
and with a keen suspicion that the solicitors at
Truro were not to be trusted, he was ready to
accept advice from Dennis and submit to his
opinion in a way he had done to no one else.
Dennis Penhalligan had a peremptory, decided

manner, and this exactly suited Gaverock. The
old Squire readily submitted to be guided
through a quagmire iu which at every step he
took he sank, when he felt that the hand extended
to him was that of a man who knew
where he was treading. Although he grumbled
at Doctor Sawbones giving himself airs,
yet he secretly approved of the tone he assumed,
and blindly submitted to his advice.
Gerans was surprised and Rose annoyed at the
influence gained over old Gaverock by the
young doctor. The former was unsuspicious
of the attachment of Dennis for Miss Trewhella,
and the latter was too prudent to waken his
jealousy by adverting to it. Eosewas annoyed
at the influence gained over Mr. Gaverock,
because she considered, not without reason,
that Dennis was taking a place in the counsels
of the family that properly belonged to Gerans,
that he was advising and directing concerning
her property instead of the man who Alas
shortly to be her husband. Involuntarily, she
contrasted Gerans's ignorance with the knowledge
of Dermis, the promptitude and intelligence
of the latter with the procrastination and
stupidity of the former. Gerans was 

and easy-going ; it never occurred to
him to oppose his father ; if he formed a contrary
opinion, he allowed the old man to override
him, and trample it down, scornfully,
whereas if Dennis Penhalligan expressed an
opinion the Squire submitted at once.

Gerans,' said she, one day, pouting and
peevish, ' why do you allows Mr. Penhalligan
to supplant you as your father's adviser ? He
is listened to, and no ear is turned to you. He
directs and is obeyed ; you express a wish and
are ignored.'

My dear Eose, I know nothing about
business. Dennis is a very good fellow, has
plenty of brains, and is invaluable. If I were
to meddle I should muddle.'

But 3^oiir father ought to pay attention
to your wishes, and not listen to Dennis .'


What ! attend to my advice when I am as
ignorant of these matters as a babe ! '

Yes, whether for right or wrong, for good
or evil, your opinion should be deferred to.'

I don't see that, Eose,' said Gerans, gooch
umouredly.

'lam not at all convinced that Penhalli-
can's advice is for the best,' urged Eose.

o

There we differ. Of course he advises for
our welfare. We are friends. He likes you
and he likes me.'

Eose's cheek flushed, and a light quivered
in her eye. She was tempted to tell him of
Dennis's proposal on the night of the Goose
Fair, but her better judgment prevailed. She
might have done so without exciting jealousy
and dislike of his rival in the heart of Gerans.
Gerans was so perfectly truthful, right-minded,
and good-hearted, that he would have pitied
Dennis, not borne him ill-will ; he would not
have suspected that he continued to harbour a
hopeless passion for hose and to nourish bitter
feelings against himself.

For some time before the marriage Rose
Trewhella was not in an amiable mood. She was
fond of Gerans, but impatient of his placidity
and angry at his subinissiveness to his father.
She saw all his weaknesses, she liked him, but
did not love him with all her heart, and she
caught herself contrasting him with Dennis,
and asking herself which was the better man
of the two — better, not as to the qualities of
the heart, but of the mind. A little corroding
contempt for the easy good-humour of Gerans
was seated, like a ' worm i' the bud,' very near

her heart. To Dennis she could look up, on
him she could lean, he was strong and tall ;
but at Gerans she must laugh or curl her lip,
he was so small and weak where Dennis was
great and strong. She was angry with herself
for drawing this contrast, because she really
liked Gerans and she had no spark of affection
for Dennis. Then she thought of Old Michaelmas
Day — of her drive with Gerans to Wade-bridge,
and his proposal ; she thought how broad
and red he had seemed seated by her in the
gig with his greatcoat on and a thick white
beecher over his chin, how he had fidgeted
over his proposal, and made it clumsily, in a
prosaic manner, whilst blowing his nose in a
great orange pocket-handkerchief spotted white.
She would always associate that most eventful
moment of her life with the great yellow bandana
kerchief and the white woollen beecher.
There had been no passion in his voice ; he
had been like one labouring to get rid of an
irksome duty, great shy booby that he was.
Then — on the way home, how different !
What fire, what rage, what romance, in the
declaration of Dennis ! She remembered how
she had recovered consciousness in his arms,
against his furiously beating heart. She recalled

Ills quivering face, his frantic words, his
vehement appeal, his despair. Did Geraus
love her? She could not tell. He showed no
tokens of passion. Did Dennis love her ? Of
his love there could be no question. She was
irritated at the contrast.

Gerans,' said she, one day, after she had
been thinking about this, ' tell me truly, on
your honour, what I desire to know of you.'

Of course I will, Eose — I keep no secrets
from you.'

Tell me : before you started on Goose Fair
day, did your father order you to propose on
the road ? '

Order ! No, Eose — not exactly that. He
recommended me to speak to you.'

That is enough,' she said, and ran to her
room, where she burst into tears. She sulked
for a week after that avowal. ' He is, indeed,
like a well-trained poodle,' she said. ' Never
mind, as soon as we are married, I will insist
on his taking his own course, and the old man
must give way. If he will not, I will not remain
at To wan ; I shall make Gerans come with
me to Truro, and there we can settle, and be
masters in our own house.'

Whilst Gerans and Eose were away on their

honeymoon trip to Truro, Squire Gaverock saw
more of Dennis than before. His presence had
become a necessity to him. Loveclay had not
been easy at the frequent visits of her brother
to Towan before the marriage. She knew the
state of his heart, and she thought that it coukl
conduce to no good that he shoukl meet Eose so
often. She saw that every visit made him miserable
and gloomy. She heard him pace his room
at night and sigh. She noticed how much more
worn and thin his face became, and how the
lines, hard and bitter, about his mouth deepened.
Dennis was becoming irritable towards her as
well. He thought she watched him, and he
thought right ; he did not value the tender
love that prompted her to observe him ; he regarded
her attention as intrusive and inquisitive.
He became silent and reserved with her,
sometimes he even lost his temper, and spoke
roughly to her. Then her eyes filled with tears,
and she withdrew, but said nothing, knowing
that it was best to leave him alone. She was
unaware that he had spoken his heart's secret
to Eose ; she saw that Eose's engagement was
preying on his mind and heart. She tried to
hide from him that she saw the trouble he was
in, and that she was watchful of him, yet her

deep sympathy must express itself, if not byword,
at least by act of love ; and when he
noticed that she saw and pitied his sufferings,
he was offended and resented it.

At Christmas he had met with disappointment
about his bills. Several were unpaid ;
payment was delayed, and he was pressed for
money to meet certain debts he had contracted
for groceries, and drugs, and drapery. He
could not pay till he had received his dues, and
if he were importunate for his money he might
lose his patients. This also helped to fret his
temper and make him more despondent in his
view of life.

Whilst he was thus troubled, old Gaverock
called him in to help him in the management
of Eose Trewhella's property. He had loved
Eose without any mercenary ideas in his head ;
but, as he went through the accounts, and
examined into her affairs, previous to the marriage,
for the drawing up of the settlement, it
was forced on him — how he would have been
relieved of his embarrassments if only he could
have secured the hand of the heiress.

Take from him the talent, and give it to
him that hath ten,' muttered Dennis one day ;

that is the order of the world's government.
This world is a school, in which every good
thing goes to the favorites, and certain poor
boys get only impositions and blows. I have
but one luxury left me, one friend dear to my
heart, my last, my only consolation. From that
I shall be parted.' He set his teeth, and his
eyes glared fiercely. ' That will be taken from
me, because I am to be utterly badgered, and
goaded to madness. My piano — I shall have to
sell that, if I can find a purchaser in this desolate
land. My piano — my mother's piano! No
more Beethoven, no more Mozart and Haydn ! '
He clenched his nervous fino-hers behind his
back, and his chin sank on his breast. ' Some
men are born under a star, and the star may
disappear for a while but returns in the sky. I
was born under a meteor, whose course is downward,
a flare, a few sparks, and then — nothing.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

SpolUsuojiU; tf Cru. FriiUeis, New-street Square, London.

Fcp. 8vo. Pictorial Boards, is. each.

MEHALAH :

A STORY OF THE SALT MARSHES.

Full of indication of more than ordinary talent, and one of the most promising work
of fiction that the present season has produced.' — The Athenaeum.

The book is one of the most powerful that has, so far as we know, appeared for many
years. It will remind many readers of Emily Bronchi's wonderful story, " Wuthering
Heights," and indeed in some respects it is even more powerful.' —The Scotsm.^.v.

The book is full of smart epigrammatic writing, and has also a good deal of humour.
The strange wild poetry of the locality is well brought out, and the characters are well
sustained. The book is by no means a commonplace one, and will suggest as well as
amuses-the Queen.

"Mehalah" is far above the ordinary level of novels. The v\-riter possesses strength,
and strength is one of the rarest qualities in modern fiction'— Daily News.

'A bit of real romance: original, violent, powerful, novel both in place and circumstance,
and peculiarly impressive'— Truth.

JOHN HERRING:

A WEST OF ENGLAND ROMANCE.

Among most novels of the day "John Herring " is a very considerable work indeed,
and both deserves and will receive proportionate attentions Pali, Mall Gazette.

Far, very far, above the level of ordinary novels.' Ac ahem Y.

'A powerful and interesting novel. The English is admirable ; there is great freshness
aid vigour in the descriptions of scenery and character, and in the narrative there

is abundance of invention, and many of the situations .are extremely dramatic But

the most original, and, perhaps, the most successful part of the book, is that which deals

with the Dartmoor savages, Joyce Cobbledick and her father How Joyce is

reclaimed through her affections, and old Cobbledick still furtht r degraded by contact
with the " beer and baccy" side of civilisation, is told in a manner which of itself ought
to mark out "John Herring" as a book of unusual originality and power.' — The Times.

COURT ROYAL.

" Court Royal" is among the few novels of our time that deserve, and will probably
obtain, life beyond its day. Intellect, knowledge, fancy, and humour have gone to its
making, und thought besides-the Graphic.

'The story holds the reader under a spell which is unbroken from first to last.'^ —
Morning Pt.isT.

It is difficult to say which is the most striking feature of this remarkable and welcome
novel-the quaint humour, the consummate power, or the freshness-vanity Fair.

It is a book endowed with the quality of real vitality ; unlike most of the novels of
the day, it will not be merely read and forgotten'— The Scotsmen.

'inhere are a great many clever things in it, and one .scene in particular so remarkably
good that it can be compared only to some of the best bits of Moliere. I he plot, mourner,
is very ably constructed and the incidents are ably managed.' — The Guaklia.n.

London: S:\nTH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Each Work complete in One Volume, price Six Shillings.

JESS. By H. Rider Haggard, Author of ' King Solomon's
Mines ' &c. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THE HEIR OF THE AGES. By James Pain,

Author of 'By Proxy,' 'Lost Sir Massinger,' 'The Canon's
Ward,' &c. Crown Svo. 6s.

DEMOS. A Story of Socialist Life in England. Crown
8vo. 6s.

THE GIANT'S ROBE. By F. Anstey, Author of

Vice Versa ' &c. Crown Svo. 6^'.

OLD KENSINGTON. By Miss Thackeray. Crown
8vo. 6^.

THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG

PRINCE. By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

TO ESTHER, and other Sketches. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

BLUE BEARD'S KEYS, and other Stories.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

THE STORY OP ELIZABETH; TWO HOURS;

FROM AN ISLAND. By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS, and other Essays.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MISS ANGEL; FULHAM LAWN. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MISS WILLIAMSON'S Divinations. By

Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MRS. DYMOND. By Miss Thackeray. Cr. Svo. 6^.
Blandly REEFS. Bv Lady Varney, Author of

'Stone Edge' &c. Crown Svo. 6s.

Lattice LISLE. By Lady Varney. With 3 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. 6s.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

■' ' " III III! 1 11 III II

3 0112 042678109

^^

BMMBIMaWM B i ll I 'l l inillOT I III' l inMl ll lllM I WHIBIHHI't"'

nrm t ■ •"■ ■ :'^'

'^

-■c(f <^-

i^&i^i4:#f^!^-

LI B Mary

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

V.2 ^

-'; J

<f^

'(^

VOL. II.

.•1 TALE OF THE CORNISH COAST

r.Y The

AUTHOR OF 'JOHN HEREIN G ' ' MEHALAH ' &e.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 1-5 WATERLOO PLACE



hall rights re.^ervecU

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

XXII. RETURN 1

XXIII. Five-and-twenty POUNDS . , . . 15

XXIV. A FOUR-LEAVED SHAMROCK . . .31

XXV. A Lovers' VISITATION 44

XXVI. IN THE DUSK 60

XXVII. THE MOSS-ROSE . . . . . . 76

XXVIII. BROKEN RESOLUTIONS 1*2

XXIX. A SENTENCE OF EXILE. . . 106

XXX. SAMPHIRE 123

XXXI. THE deer's WELL 144

XXXII. ANTHONY'S WOOING 158

XXXIII. FAREWELL 177

XXXIV. 'p. F.' 193

XXXV. ENGAGED . . . . . . . 205

CHAPTER PAGE

XXXVI. THE THRESHOLD OF A SORROW . . 220

XXXVII IN THE Hay-field . . . 232

XXXVIII. AT THE GATE . . . . . .249

XXXIX. THE WOOF . 260

XL. THE WARP . . . . . .278

XLI, ANOTHER NOTICE TO QUIT . . . , 286

CHAPTER XXII.

Return.

I EXPECT them back to-day,' said old Gave-rock
; ' and high time they were home — only
spending money and idling. - What the advantage
of a honeymoon is I never could see. It
is a cruel institution, for it makes a young
couple sick of each other's society, whereas, if
they were at home, and had their daily duties
to attend to, they would have something else to
think of than each other's shortcomings.'

At what o'clock do you expect them ? '
asked Dennis.

I cannot tell. They take post-horses from
St. Column. They have been spending their
month in Truro ; or rather on the outskirts.
Eose has a house in Kenwyn, about a mile out-vol.

II. B

side. If it had been in Truro, it might have
been let ; but there has been no tenant found
for it all the while she has been here, so she
has been out of pocket, had to put in a couple,
as caretakers, at so much per week, whereas if
let money would have come in. That comes of
leaving it in the hands of lawyers. I don't believe
that any trouble has been taken to let the
house. I suppose they make something out of
it — got some understanding; with the man I
have put in the house to keep it. But what is
one to do — at a distance ? I can't run about
searching for tenants. I want to sell the place,
and I will do so.'

But does — does your daughter-in-law wish
it ? She was born in the Kenwyn house ; it is
associated with her childhood and happiest recollections.'


If she does not like it, she may lump it. I
do not see the fun of paying a salary to a caretaker,
and having house and furniture deteriorate,
whereas the money for which it was
sold could be well expended here. If she is a
fool and don't see that, I pity her.'

You wish the young people to live herewith
you ? ' asked Dennis.

Wish — choose,' answered the Squire.
Hark ! there they are.'

He rose and walked to the porch. Penal
hung back, a spasm of pain came over
him, and drops stood on his brow.

The okl man boisterously welcomed his son
and Eose, and shouted to the post-boy to go
round to the kitchen and regale himself.

Come in, come in ! ' he roared, ' That is
right — glad to return to Towan ; utterly tired
of each other ; ready to take off your coats and
be at work. Heigh ! Gerans, the mare has
foaled. Poor Buttercup ! we nearly lost her in
milk fever. I haven't been out in the " Mermaid
" since you left. Come in : here is Mr.
Penhalhgan, run up to welcome you, and see
how you both look. Last time we saw you,
you were like two ring-doves. Have you begun
to peck out each other's feathers yet ? '

Gerans went up at once to Dennis, with his
hand extended, and his honest face radiant with
good-nature. ' Glad to see you, old fellow,' he
said wringing his hand, ' How is Lovedayay ? Is
she here ? '

I should have thought,' said Eose, somewhat

sharply, ' that a dutiful son's first thought
should have been of his mother.'

How is my mother ? ' asked the docile
Gerans, turning to his father.

All right ; never was better — except for
fancies. Thinks herself ill, imagines an ache ina
rib — there it is ; then in her toe, and the
obedient ache flies thither ; and so it dances allover
her body in attendance on her fancies. Is
it not so, Penhalligan ? No — of course you will
not admit it ; any more than a parson will
admit we are not all miserable sinners in need
of tinkering into tolerable Christians.'

Eose, on entering, had given Dennis a very
cool salutation, but when she heard her inconsiderate
husband rush into inquiries after Love-day
she changed her mind, and greeted him
with considerable cordiality, hoping thereby to
make Gerans jealous. But Gerans was without
a spark of suspicion in him. ' That is right,' he
said ; ' glad to see you welcome our friend cordially.'
Eose looked at him to see if he were
in earnest ; when she saw that he was — pouted,
and went ofi" to her room.

Well, Dennis,' said the unconscious Gerans,
very pleased to see you again, and only wish

you had something as bright to cheer you as I
have. I hope you have been here often to enliven
my father. Father, I suppose you have
wanted me home ? '

Oh, yes,' answered the old man. ' I had
to sit up with Buttercup all night, and give her
gruel, because you were not here. Can't trust
Tom Geake. Can't trust anyone, now I have
lost old Tregellas. Geake will promise everything,
but performance is a limping leg that
don't keep pace with promise. Lord bless me I '
exclaimed old Gaverock, ' I've had to be master
and mistress together, and order dinner and
keep the maidens in discipline. Mother can't
or won't get about, and there would have been
riot and waste if I had not looked to everything.
Now Eose is here, she shall be housekeeper.
I found the maidens in the kitchen
had been using the silver, and sending me the
plated forks and spoons. I found that out because
I saw a silver spoon in the pig's trough
and inquired how it had got there.'

You will stay and sup with us, Dennis ? '
said Gerans, arresting the doctor as he was
taking his hat. ' Come, on my return you
must be neighbourly.'

I had rather go home,' answered Peuhalli-
gan ; ' Lovedayay will be expecting me.'

I will send a boy down to ask Lovedayay to
come up,' said Gerans. ' Do stay, and hear
what we have seen and done. It is a real pleasure
to meet you again. Eose has been among
her acquaintances, but they where all strangers
to me. I am rejoiced to meet an old friend
once more. Do stay, Dennis. Eose will like it
also. Now excuse me — I must run upstairs and
see my mother.'

Stay, Penhalligan, I wish it,' ordered the
Squire. ' I must go out and see that the postboy
has put the horses in the proper stalls, and
that some cider has been drawn for him. The
maidens one day drew me a jug of lamp oil for
my dinner. I went into the kitchen myself ina
pretty state of tempest, and found that they
were drinking a bottle of my best claret. Stays
here, Penhalligan, till I come back.' He went
to the door, then returned, and said, ' High time
Eose should be hero. Will you believe me ? I
thought my nightcap was very damp, and yesterday
found the chambermaid wiping out the
basins with it.' Then he went away.

The glimpse Dennis had had of Eose on her

arrival, flushed with excitement at her return to
Towan, sufficed to show that her beauty was
heightened, and to revive in him the fire that
was slowly consuming his heart.

He could not, and he did not, believe that
she loved Gerans. She had sneered at him
only a few days before she accepted him. His
jealous eye had not observed in her any of the
tokens of love. What had been Eose's answer
to himself when he told her of his passion ?
That he was too late. Too late might well bean
expression of regret that she had accepted a
man for whom she did not care, in ignorance
that she was loved by another for whom she
had a regard. To the jaundiced eye of Dennis,
Gerans was undeserving of her respect. His
good-nature was stupidity ; his submission to
his father, mean-spiritedness. He had recognised
his good qualities before, now he disputed
them all. How could a bright, intelligent girl
like Eose love a boor ? She must despise him,
and regret that she was yoked to him.

As he thus thought, with knitted brow, by
the hearth, Eose entered. On observing him,
she resumed her distant behaviour. She was
in a somewhat ruffled mood, and vexed at

seeing him there. She did not forget that he
was a rejected lover.

I hope Lovedayay is well,' she said coldly.
She is very well ; she will be here directly.'
Indeed ! Does she know I am returned ? '
Gerans has sent a boy down to tell her to
come up.'

Eose frowned. She did not speak for a
moment. After a while she said, ' Gerans is
inconsiderate and selfish. This is your sister's
day for ironing, as I know. She must not be
dragged away from her work. I am provoked
at the thoughtlessness of Gerans. I will run
down tomorrow morniniJj and see her.'
You wish me to stop the messenger ? '
Stop Geraus's messenger to Lovedayay ! By
all means ' — she turned her head — ' if he is not
gone already.'

Dennis went out. When he returned he was
accompanied by the Squire.

Well, Eose ! ' shouted the latter. ' Very
glad to have you here. Been quite lost without
you. Mother has given up in a foolish despondent
way, and there is no rousing her. I have
had to see to everything and been driven distracted
by the maidens. They have run to the

store cupboard as they liked, and eaten all the
sugar : first the lump, then the moist. I had
none for my toddy last night. When I found
there was no sugar I took a pot of honey, and
discovered finger impressions in that. How
have you enjoyed yourself? '

Very well, uncle,' answered Eose, hardly
recovered from her irritation. ' You see I was
amonof old scenes and old friends at Truro.'

Did you find a tenant for the house? '

No,' answered Eose, airily, ' we did not
trouble to look for one.'

Why not ? I expressly commanded Gerans
to do so.'

I did not wish it,' said Eose, ' and I forbade
Gerans to move.'

Indeed ! And pray why ? '

I think it not unlikely we may go there
again.'

Not this year. You have had your jaunt
with Gerans, and I can spare neither of you.
The maidens have nearly driven me mad. Do
you know that, having worn out the leather of
the knife-board, they took and adapted one of
the legs of my hunting breeches ? No, no, Eose,
here you stay and keep house for me.'

But, uncle '

Eose,' said the old man peremptorily, ' I
will it. Consider, you are paying fifty pounds
in rates and for gamekeepers for your house at
Kenwyn, and it might be let for a hundred,
and the tenant pay all outs. A hundred in
pocket, instead of fifty out. Do you understand
? '

I think it not improbable that Gerans and
I will settle there, instead of living with you at
To wan.'

Old Gaverock burst out laughing.

What is there absurd in this ? ' asked Eose,
with heightened colour. ' I like Truro. I am
known there. It is not a desert. There are
plenty of friends about Kenwyn.'

Have done,' said the old man roughly ;
enough that I don't choose it.'

But perhaps I may wish it,' said Eose ; ' I
presume I have a voice in the matter.'

This is soon settled,' exclaimed Gaverock,
indignant at her opposition. ' I shall sell the
house.'

Eose fired up. ' My home ! You cannot.
You shall not.'

Cannot and shall not are strong words,'

said the Squire, ' aud need justification. I
am your trustee, and I shall act as I think
proper.'

But Gerans ' began Eose, with tears

rising to her eyes.

Gerans has no will but mine,' answered
old Gaverock.

Through the month of her absence Eose
had been resolving to try her strength against
her father-in-law. She considered that it would
be impossible for her to live happily in Towan
if the old man were allowed to rule unopposed.
He must be taught that other wills had to be
considered beside his own. She had spoken to
her husband on the subject, but had met with
no encouragement. ' My father is a very clever
man,' said Gerans ; ' it will not do to oppose
him. He never has met with resistance. Besides,
he always knows better than anyone
else — than you or I — what ought to be
done.'

Eose had brought her opposition to the
point just described when her husband came
in. She felt her own weakness and need of
help, so she turned eagerly to him. ' Gerans,'
she said, 'I have just told your father that weare

not going to live at Towan, and may go
back to Kenwyn '

And he has pooh-poohed her,' said the old
man.

I will not be pooh-poohed ! ' exclaimed
Eose. ' I like my old home, and I will not
allow it to be sold.'

Who talks of selling it ? ' said Gerans.

Your father.'

He has good reasons, doubtless.'

'He shall not do it. It is my home. I
love it.'

Then Eose burst into tears. Gerans looked
undecidedly from his wife to his father.

I think,' said Dennis, ' that it will not do
to sell, at any rate at present. Mining interest
is down. There is no money circulating, but
this will not be for long. House property
about Truro is certain to rise in value. I have
heard that land suitable for building purposes
has gone up five-and-thirty per cent, within
the last twenty years, and it is likely to become
more valuable every year. Just now there is
depression, and it would be a vast pity to sell
at a moment dien you would get a poor
price. Keep till better times ; and in the

meantime you may come to reconsider your
determination.'

Thank you,' said Eose.
There is something in this,' acquiesced old
Gaverock. ' Very well, Eose. I won't sell
just at present. I'll think about it, and wait
for better times.'

Eose turned with a flushed face towards
her husband, and some words trembled on her
lips, but she controlled herself and did not
speak them. Penhalligan saw her, and guessed
what was passing in her mind.

When she and Gerans were alone together
she burst forth with, ' This is intolerable !
You dare not raise a word in my favour.
You would let your father play ducks and
drakes with my money, and rub your hands
and applaud.'

My dear Eose, you are mistaken. My
father will do the best possible for you.'

I do not care whether he meditates good

or bad. I want to have things done as you

and I choose, not as he wills.'

You are unreasonable, Eose.'

'I may be. I do not care. I want, and

will have, my own way, whether reasonable

or not. Why do you not take my part ?
Why must I be beholden to Mr. PenhaUigan
for support? You are my natural protector,
and you stand Hke a sheep by my side and
bleat Ah ! when the old ram calls Baa ! '

CHAPTER XXIII.

Five-and-twenty POUNDS.

When Dennis Penlialligan came home to
Nantsillan, that evening, he scarcely spoke to
his sister. She thought he looked hafra:ard and
miserable — more so than usual. He walked
straight to the piano, opened it and began to
play. After waiting for him to cease, she went
to him, laid her hand lightly on his shoulder,
stooped, and kissed his brow.

It is late, Dennis. I am going to bed.
Is there anything you would like to eat or
drink that I can fetch you ? Little Euth has
gone to roost three hours ago,'

He shook off her hand impatiently.

You will not remain up long,' she said.
'You want sleep as much as a child.'

Do you grudge me my only pleasure ? '
he asked impatiently. ' I am parting from my
best solace.'

Wliat do you mean, Dennis ? '

I am going to sell the piano.'

You shall not do that. No, Dennis, indeed
you shall not.'

It cannot be helped. If we eat, we must
pay for our food. We cannot live without
food, and we can live without music'

Oh, Dennis, dear brother ! It was mamma's
instrument. Her sweet influence will pass away,
it almost seems, if the piano goes. When you
are unhappy, and vexed about money, and
other troubles, you fly to this, and find comfort
in its music'

Yes,' he said, ' that is just why it must go.'

I do not agree with you.'

I must be robbed and bereaved of everything,'
he said. ' Do you know who will buy
it ? Old Anthony Loveys — because his wife is
talking of a dance, and their harpsichord is
worn out. He will give five-and-twenty pounds
for the instrument.'

Dennis, it cost a hundred and fifty.'

We must take what we can get.'

Oh, my brother, what would you do
without your piano ? It is necessary to your
happiness.'

I have no happiness — as beggared of that
as of cash.'

You must not be deprived of it. You
would never, nowhere, be able to get one as
cheap, and — it is so good. Why do you not
ask Mr. Gaverock to lend you the money ? '

Dennis shook his head,

You are too proud,' she said timidly.

I do not see my way to being able to
repay the money. What prospect is there of
this practice improving ? What chance is thereof
farmers being more ready to pay for medical
attendance ? The poor call me in, and I must
take my pay as I can, in pence.'

Lovedayay sighed. She kissed him again, and
withdrew, not to sleep, but to think.

The state of poverty in which they were
was becoming distressing. Dennis did not make
way in the neighbourhood ; his gloomy temper,
morbid and touchy, did not conciliate goodwill,
and his rigid conscientiousness dissatisfied
patients who wanted to be thought and to think
themselves ill. His pride stood in the way
of success. He would make no effort to be
popular, because he would not conciliate the
good opinion of persons whose opinion he consol.

II. c

ordered not worth having. Perhaps the only
individual who got on with him and whom he
did not repel was Squire Gaverock. The Squire
was so rough himself, that he appreciated the
unyielding temper of the doctor.

Lovedayay would have lost heart but that
she supposed her brother's disappointment about
Eose must wear off, and then perhaps he would
become brighter and more sanguine. His
manner and mood were depressing, but she
made a brave struggle not to be crushed by
them. How to better their prospects occupied
her mind night and day. It was clear to her
that till the daily grind of poverty was relieved
there was no chance of her brother's spirits
improving.

A fat sorrow, says a Cornish proverb, is
better to bear than a lean sorrow. She made
great allowance for the morose mood of Dennis.
He had to bear a very heavy disappointment on
great leanness.

Next morning, without waiting for Eose to
visit her, Lovedayay went up to Towan. Eose
received her stiffly she thought ; but Lovedayay
was without suspicion, and she attributed the
distance and the coldness of her reception to

nervousness on the part of Rose at being seen
in her new condition as bride.

After a little general conversation, which
dragged, Lovedayay went headlong at the purpose
of her visit.

My dear Eose,' she said, ' I have come to
ask a great kindness of you, a kindness wliicli
is to remain strictly between me and thee. I
need say nothing about our hoeing straitened
in circumstances. Dennis has but one solace
in all his troubles — his piano. You have heard
how beautifully he plays on it. Tliat instrument
when new cost a hundred and fifty
guineas, and was my father's wedding present
to my mother. It is not, of course, worth the
sum then given for it ; but it is a good piano,
and worth a good deal of money. Dennis is in
immediate difficulties, and proposes selling it
to Mr. Loveys, who will give five-and-twenty
pounds for it. If the piano leaves our house, I
do not know what will happen to Dennis : he
will become so depressed that nothing will
rouse him again. You do not know how bitter
life can be made by the lack of a few shillings :
how it galls the pride and frets the temper,
how it darkens the eyes, and lies like a fester

2

ing thorn in the sick souL I have come up
here to entreat you to do Dennis and me a
great kindness. Will you buy our piano and
leave it with us till you want it, or till we
can redeem it ? I do not like to ask you to
advance us the money. I am, like Dennis, too
proud to do that ; but ' — she laughed through
the tears that were in her eyes — ' I delude my
haughty spirit by a trick : I say — buy the
piano. We will consider it as yours, take care
of it for you, and — yet — I am sure you will
allow us to repurchase it of you if we are ever
able to afford it.'

She fixed her earnest eyes on those of
Eose. Eose had been offended by the desire
of Gerans to see Lovedayay directly he arrived
at home, and could not forgive his sending
down after her, and had felt angry with Love-day
and determined to keep her at a distance.
But Eose was kind-hearted, and was at once
touched by the story told her — touched especially,
as Lovedayay pleaded not for herself, but
for Dennis. Eose pitied the young doctor.
Penhalligan had loved her very dearly, with
an intensity of passion of which Gerans was
incapable ; and her marriage had been to him

a bitter disappointment. Rose was relieved
directly she heard Lovedayay's request, because
an opportunity was offered her of showing the
rejected suitor a little favour and doing him a
great kindness.

Lovedayay went on. 'Dear Eose, I see by
your face that you pity him — poor fellow.
You will do what I ask, will you not ? Now
for something further. I have no doubt that
you will want needlework executed for you.
Mrs. Gaverock is ill, and can do little. You
have told me repeatedly that you are unskilful
with the needle. Allow me to do all the making
and mending that is required for the house,
and let me earn a small sum, which can be
struck off quarterly from the piano debt. May
this be so ? '

Rose, in effusive pity and good nature,
caught her round the neck and kissed her.

My dear Lovedayay,' she said, ' I have not
the sum with me just now in my purse, but
you shall have it. I will give it you and your
brother — that, and more.'

No,' said Lovedayay, ' we will not receive
any money as a present. You shall buy the
piano, and suffer me to repurchase it. If you

are to do us a kiiidiiGss, it must be doue on
my terms.'

Gerans shall get me the money at once
out of my father-in-law.'

You will not tell anyone what it is for :
that is to remain a secret between us. Only
Dennis must know ; and, believe me, he will
value the piano all the more when he knows it
is yours.'

Will he ? ' exclaimed Eose. ' I am so glad
to hear that.'

Squire Gaverock and Gerans were out, so
that Eose was unable to speak to them whilst
Lovedayay was with her.

I suppose your brother will be coming up
in the evening,' she said. ' I will send the
money by him.'

Then Lovedayay left.

Gerans and his father did not return till
late in the afternoon. They had been out
together in the boat. When Gerans went to his
room to change his coat, Eose followed him,

I want five-and-twenty pounds,' she said.

Do you ? ' asked Gerans. ' Your wishes
are moderate. I want a thousand, but I do not
know where to find them.'

I want the money at once,' said Eose. ' I
have immediate need of it.'

Tor what purpose ? ' asked he. ' There are
no shops here. You have spent quite enough
at Truro.'

Never mind the object. I want and will
have the money.'

My dear Eose, you are welcome to it, as
far as I am concerned.'

The money is mine,' said Eose.

My father manages for you. He is your
trustee. The guardianship of your dear self he
lias transferred to me, but not the trusteeship
of your fortune.' He put his arm round her,
to draw her to him and kiss her, but she was
annoyed, and with a twist escaped his arm.

It seems to me vastly strange,' said Eose,
that I should have three or four hundred a
year, and yet not be able to touch twenty-five
pounds when I want them.'

Tell me what for, and I will ask my father
to let you have the sum ? '

I will not tell you. The reason is good
enough : I want it.'

But that is not a reason wherewith to
convince my father.'

I will give no other.'

to"

Then you stand little chance of obtaining
the money.'

Do you mean to tell me that you refuse
to ask him for it ? '

No, Eose, dear. I will ask, but he is not
likely to consent.'

Make him give it me.'

I make my father ! ' Gerans fairly laughed
at the idea. ' I thought that by this time you
knew how resolute a man he is.'

I will not be satisfied vv^ith twenty-live
pounds now,' said Eose. ' I will have forty.
Go and ask him for forty.'

Be reasonable, my sweet blossom,' said
Gerans. 'Anything that you desire in reason
you shall have, but a sufficient reason must be
shown. My father is responsible for your
money, and he will not let you have it to
throw away.'

I am not going to throw it away.'

'What are you about to do with it?'

I will not tell'

I have nothing of my own,' said Gerans
good-humouredly, ' or I would gladly let you
have what you want, and ask no questions ; but

with my father it is otherwise. He must know
the why and wherefore of every penny spent.'

Come with me,' said Eose. ' I will have
it out with the Squire.'

She was very angry, and went down into
the hall with her cheeks flaming and her pretty
lips pursed. Gaverock was there. He had
thrown himself into his chair without changing
his clothes or washing his hands, which were
stained with gunpowder. His hair was very
rough, heaped in a thick tangle on his head.
He was cleaning his gun, and the air in the
hall was impregnated with the offensive odour.
He threw the oiled, blackened rag into the fire.

There are others than the maidens want
keeping in order,' said Eose, looking at the
gun, sniffing, and tossing her head.

*The maidens!' repeated old Gaverock.
They do indeed require looking to. Will you
believe it ? — I had no butter with my bread for
two or three days. I was told the cows had
yielded badly. Then the maids were all laid
up with a bilious attack, and had to take blue
pill and be visited by the doctor. I found they
had been puzzling; at the clotted cream. That
is Why I had no butter. If my wife can't, or

won't, look after them, you must do so, Mistress
Eose. You are not here only as a beauty,
but for business.'

I am here now on business,' said she. ' I
want money — forty pounds.'

Forty porpoises ! ' laughed Gaverock.
Whence are you going to get them ? '

From you. I must have money. It is
mine, and I will have it. My father did not
leave you my trustee to bully me, and deprive
me of my money.'

Halloo, Mistress Briar Eose ! Showing
your thorns ? ' He looked at her with astonishment.
' This is the second time. Yesterday ;
then again to-day.'

I want only fair treatment,' said Eose. ' I
want money. I will consent to take five-and-twenty
pounds, but not one farthing less,'

If you have any bills, bring them to me,'
Gaverock said. ' But you shall not have the
money without telling me the purpose for which
it is destined.'

That I will not tell you,' said Eose, stubbornly.


Very well ! '

Gaverock put his hands into his pockets,

threw his head back in the chair, and stretched
out his legs their full length. The action
was defiant, contemptuous ; and Rose's blood
flamed.

*You shall find me the money,' she said,
or I will go to a lawyer, and get him to
insist on your giving me up my own.'

Gaverock turned his head, and looked at
her ; then laughed.

Gerans, there is a mutinous spirit here
that must be quelled, or your cruise will end
in wreck.'

I think, father, you might as well let her
have something. You have just asked her to
take the management of the house out of my
mother's hands, and, as you know well, there
must be money given her for housekeeping.'

The money is not for housekeeping,' said
Rose, whose bosom was heaving with the
breath that panted, and whose heart was beating
fast.

Let me know her object, and, if I think
it right, she shall have the money,' said the old
man composedly. ' But, Gerans —

A whistling-woinan and a crowing hen
Are good for neither God nor men.

This is not even a crowing barndoor fowl, buta
strutting, blustering jenny-wren.'

Then there came a knock at the porch door.

There is Penhalligan, I know his step
and rap. Gerans, run and open to him,' said
the Squire.

Gerans shall not open the door ! ' exclaimed
Eose, angrily. ' As you can't manage
your maidens, you order your son about. It
is a servant's place to answer the door, not
that of a gentleman.'

Nonsense, Eose,' said Gerans. ' How can
you be so foolish ? Penhalligan is a friend.
One friend alway's flies to open to another.'
Then he moved towards the door.

Eose rushed out of the room, ran upstairs,
and locked herself into her own apartment,
where she gave vent to her anger and disappointment
in tears.

Presently Gerans came up and knocked at
the door ; she would not even answer, much
less open to him, and he descended again.

Lie did not appear at supper, and again
Gerans came to her door.

I want nothing,' lie said, in answer to his
questions.

He hesitated a little while on the landing,
and then said peremptorily —

Open the door ! '

No,' she answered ; ' I am not coming
down.'

Open the door, Rose.'

I will not.'

Then I will burst it open.'

She was alarmed, and obeyed. She stood,
frightened, in the doorway ; her hair dishevelled,
and her eyes red.

Eose,' he said in a gentle tone, ' you
have been very foolish. You shall have the
five-aud-twenty pounds. My father has consented.'


Who has got that out of him ? ' asked she
eagerly. ' You ? '

Not I,' answered Gerans. ' That matters
nothing. There, Eose, wash your face and
come down.'

Who persuaded your father ? '

Penhalligan reasoned with him. My father
is quite open to reason, but he "^vill not be
defied and brow-beaten.'

Penhalli""an did it !'

Yes. My father will furnish you with a

regular allowance, paid quarterly, for you to
dispose of as you see best.'

This is Mr. Peulialligan's proposal P '

Yes, and a very sensible one.'

She stamped her foot angrily on the floor,
and took a turn round the room, with teeth
set and flashing eyes.

Gerans,' she said, with heaving bosom, ' I
do not know whether I most despise you
or '

'Or what?'

She turned sullenly away without answering.

CHAPTER XXIV.

A Fouler LEAVED SHAMROCK.

Dennis Penhalligan was walking tliroiigh the
combe next morning. The spring or early
summer sun was streaming through the young
leaves of the wood. Flies danced in the golden
light. The dingle was fragrant with spring
flowers. The bluebells were not over; the
red-robin was in bloom. The fern was raising
its red, furred shepherds' crooks out of the
ground, ready to uncoil as the heat grew more
generous ; the speedwell threw up its blue
spires.

The wood-doves cooed softly; a squirrel
leaped among the interlaced boughs — his was
an easy run overhead, for here the boughs
were netted like coarse lace ; as they were
debarred from rising high, they spread laterally
and formed a densely woven screen of branches,
twigs, and foliage. A magpie screamed and

rushed away. Dennis looked after it and
laughed mockingly. ' One for sorrow ; only
one,' lie said. His thoughts were weaving a
plaiting like the branches above him ; he was
thinking of Eose. It seemed to him that he
could understand her heart. She had never
loved Gerans ; she had been persuaded into
taking him partly, perhaps, because she was
comfortable at Towan, and did not know where
else to go ; partly induced by his good looks
and easy good nature. She had not known intime
that she was loved by him, Dennis, or
she would have hesitated, perhaps have refused
Gerans. Dennis was rejected only because he
asked too late. He clunsj to this thought. He
built out of it a hope that he was kindly regarded
by Eose ; that she harboured a secret
liking for him in her heart — a liking which,
under more favourable circumstances, might
have unfolded into love. Now that she was
married she had found out that she did not
love Gerans. There was a void in her heart
which could not be filled by such as he. Dennis
had watched her face on her return from the
bridal tour ; he had been present at the quarrel
on the arrival. He had seen her turn an

angry, disappointed countenance on her husband.
There lead been no trace of affection in
her expression when she spoke to him. Only
yesterday there had been an altercation. He
had arrived in the middle of it ; he had seen
Eose dash out of the room with a face on fire
with indignation and wrath. Gerans had, of
course, occasioned it. Dennis heard that Eose
had wanted money, and he himself had advised
the old Squire to let her have pin money,
and not create a lasting quarrel by unreasonable
refusal. The Squire had yielded to his
advice.

The marriage was like to be a miserable
one. Dennis did not regret this. He felt bitterly
that Gerans had spoiled his own happiness,
and blighted that of Eose, who certainly would
have been happy in his love.

Whilst he was thus thinking he came out
into a glade. Here the sun lay on a bed of
turf, completely buried under old brown autumn
leaves. The wind had eddied here as it swept
down over the trees, and had heaped the dead
leaves above the grass. They lay dense as a
russet carpet, stifling the grass below by forbidding
light and air to reach it.

VOL. ir. D

Dennis Penhalligan stood still and looked
at the carpet of dead leaves. The elect was singular.
In the wood the soil was teeming with
life ; here was one broad tract of death. The
rains had wet and glued the leaves together ;
those beneath were, perhaps, half-rotten, but
the upper surface was uninjured. The leaves
were distinct as plates of mail, and covered the
earth like a panoply, protecting it from every
arrow of sunlight.

When Dennis put his foot on the bed of
leaves it bent, but did not break, and the soil
beneath seemed spongy. He looked round and
saw exactly how the phenomenon had been
brought about. The glade vas completely
enclosed by dwarf trees ; when the wind drove
the leaves into it there they whirled, but thence
they could not escape. There was no door of
escape open for them. \Yhen the wind rushed
up the valley from the sea and stripped the
withered foliage from the boughs and carried
it in a fluttering cloud before it, it swept them
all into this open space and left them to spin
and dance and turn over and over there, and
finally fill on one another, till they were
cemented together where they lay by common

decay. With the leaves were spit-open beech-mast
cases, with prickly outsides, all empty,
and many masts, but the masts were lifeless.
Dennis stooped and pressed several between
his fingers ; they were fleshless husks, refused
even by the wood-pigeons.

Such a backwater as this I find myself inhere,'
he said, ' a place of withered hopes and
dead promise, of empty aspirations and disappointed
ambitions. I cannot escape from it.
Here I must spin about and rot away, without
a prospect of emancipation.' He bowed and
picked up a rose-hip, no longer bright scarlet
and hard, but pulpy, black, decayed. ' Nor I
alone,' he said with a sigh : ' the rose also must
wither here, lose its beauty, and become filth
on the face of the earth — it will be so also with
the other Eose.'

He walked on ; the little footpath was
embedded in leaves, somewhat crushed and
half-converted into mire. All at once Dennis
stopped, looked, and knelt down. Before him
was a little spot of green ; some two or three
living leaves had driven their way through the
casing of dead leaves. Dennis put Ins hand to

D 2 .

one of these and picked it. ' Is it possible ?
A four-leaved shamrock I '

At the same moment the bushes parted
before him, and Eose appeared, framed in
young spring green foliage and bursting honeysuckle,
the sun on her golden hair and in her
brilliant blue eyes, and illumining her 
face. She wore a white straw
hat, trimmed with pink, shaded satin ribbon inlarge
bows, and lined with silk of the same hue ;
a white kerchief was round her bosom ; she
was dressed in a soft silvery-grey gown, short,
showing her pretty little feet in white stockings
and low black shoes. In her hand she held a
packet of white paper with a scarlet seal, very
large, on it.

Dennis remained kneeling at her feet, looking
up at her as in a trance, hardly able to
believe that he saw the true Eose, and not a
spirit of the wood appearing in her form to
deceive and torment him.

What is it that you have found, Mr. 
?' asked Eose, smiling.

He remained still on one knee, speechless.

Have I caught you in the commission of a
crime?' asked Eose, drawing nearer. Then

she also stooped. ' A four-leaved clover,' she
said with delight. ' That is lucky. You — you
who are for ever bewailing your misfortunes,
you have got the good luck to-day in your
hands. You are right not to speak. A word
will break the spell. You must form a wish,
and that wish is sure to be granted.'

He rose now to his feet, holding the 
in his hand, and looking from it to
Eose.

Come,' said she, ' form your wish ; it ia
yours.'

He looked intently at lier, and her eyes fell
before his burning glance. Then he shook his
head and handed her the leaf ' I have nothing
to wish for,' he said.

Oh, happy man, who has everything he
desires ! '

Not so. Mistress Eose ; one who has lost
the only thing he could wish for, one who is
deprived of that has not another wish left.'

Eose coloured. She understood his meaning
and was confused. She rapidly recovered
herself and said, ' You are too soon dispirited,
Mr. Peuhalligan. You think, at the first discomfiture,
that all is lost. I am sure you were

wishing very much for something. I can read
your heart. I know what passes therein.'

He started, and his colour deepened.

I do,' she continued. ' You thought you
had lost your piano, and were wishing to be
able to keep it. See, your wish is granted. It
is yours to keep till — till you need it no more.'

He raised his brows. ' I do not understand.
Has Lovedayay been blabbing?'

Lovedayay has sold me her piano, the pretty
instrument that was her mother's, and to which
you had no right whatever. Lovedayay has fled
to me to save her from her brother. She has
sold it to me for twenty-five pounds. Here is
the money. You can hand it to her from me.
I ask you a favour, Mr. Penhalligan. Will you
keep my piano in your house, as there is no
room for it at Towan, and practise on it as
much as you can to preserve it in tune till I
want it, which will not be till I leave Towan
and set up my tent-poles in Truro ? '

How kind of you — how very kind ! ' said
the Doctor, greatly moved and colouring deeply.

Not at all. Selfish, most selfish,' answered
Rose. ' But you see I was right. I read your
wish, and brought fulfilment at the same time.'

To be thought of kindly by you, Mistress
Eose, was more than I dared desire.'

'Take this,' she said, and pressed the little
packet into his hands. ' Give it to Lovedayay
from me, and take no toll on your way.'

He caught her hand and bowed his hips to
the finger-tips. The blood rushed into her
brow.

That will do, Mr. Penhalligan. You owe
me no gratitude. I am consulting my own
convenience. When I move to Truro I shall
carry off my piano.'

May that never be ! '

selfish man, you want to keep my piano ! '

I do not wish to lose sight of my benefactress.'


I am not a benefactress, I repeat. You
mistake.'

I make no mistake. May I offer you now
this four-leaved shamrock ? As you say, it has
fulfilled my wish, perhaps it may fulfil yours.'

It is too late — I have spoken.'

It is not too late ; you have not had the
shamrock in your hand yet.'

'Is that so? Very well, I will accept the
leaf.'

He gave it her, and she stood in the sweet
sunlight on the mat of dead leaves, the doves
cooing in the wood, a pair of white butterflies
flickering about her — a lovely object, lovely
and sweet as a wild rose in June. She frowned
whilst she considered what her wish should be,
though a pretty dimple played about her mouth.
She was half-amused, half-ashamed of herself.
By degrees the expression of her face changed.
The brightness and merriment went out of it,
and a shadow of vexation and a gloom of discontent
crossed it. Dennis watched her face
intently. The light of the sun was full on her,
so that she could not lift her eyes to see him,
but he could watch every change in her countenance.


I have wished,' she said moodily, ' but I
have no hope that my desire Avill be answered.'

I believe I have read jour wish,' he said.

She started, looked up, but in the dazzling
light her eyes fell again ; in her clear face the
tell-tale blood flickered. She had been wishing;
that Gerans would be a little more resolute
with his father.

In another moment her mood changed.
The cloud was dispersed, laughter and dimples

returned, and with a short twinkling glance at
Dennis, she said —

'Well, Mr. Penlialligan, I hope you have
learnt a lesson to-day — Never despair.' Tien
she went backwards among the bushes, putting
forth her hands and drawing them apart, and
in a moment was lost to sight. Dennis stood
rooted to the spot, looking after her. He had
quite misinterpreted the thoughts of her heart
when her face clouded. Only in this was he
right, that she had turned her mind to Gerans,
and that her wish was connected with him.

When she had formed her wish she threw
down the leaf; it lay at his feet resting on the
dead leaves. He picked it up and put it to his
lips. Then he opened his pocket-book and
pressed the leaf therein.

He walked home with a tumult in his heart.
When he came near his house he turned ; he
would not go in and be seen of his sister. He
did not choose, he could not endure that her
eye should mark the agitation of his mind. He
felt that before her honest eye his own would
turn away.

The last words of Eose rani in his ear —
Never despair.' What was the one thing he

cared for ? The one object of his heart's desire ?
He had told her plainly enough that he cared
for, wished for her, and that he had no desire
for anything beside. Having lost her he had
lost everything. Knowing this, with strange
significance she had bidden him hope on — not
despair. Then the remembrance of Constantine
came upon him. The sea had engulfed the one
brother, why not also the other ? Gerans was
going that very day on the water with his father.
Involuntarily Dennis looked up at the sky for a
token of wind. Was this also in her mind, he
asked himself, when she held the leaf and bade
him hope on ? Gerans, Gerans alone, stood in
his way.

Then he laughed bitterly and harshly, as
again his tread disturbed the magpie.

One for sorrow — only one,' he said. ' A
life-long sorrow, with only one solace in it —
she hates and despises him as heartily as I hate
and despise him.'

He looked at the packet he held ; it was
addressed to his sister in Eose's hand, and sealed
with the crest of the Gaverocks, a goat on a
mount, tripping, a canting crest on the name,
which in old Cornish means ' The Goat-Hill.'

He entered Nantsillan Cottage, placed the

letter on the piano, seated himself, and began
to play. Then his sister came in. He was glad
to be at the instrument that she might not see
his face. He signed to her to take the packet.

Dennis, dear,' she said, ' I know its contents.
Twenty-five pounds. It will tide us
over our present trouble.'

And sweep us on into one that is worse,'
he said.

Why will you look for darkness instead of
day ? Be hopeful.'

He smiled. Twice he had been bidden not
to be discouraged.

Lovedayay returned to her work, but presently
looked into the room again.

What are you playing, Dennis ? '

I am playing out of my own head and
heart,' he answered.

I do not like it ; change the piece,' she
said ; ' it is wild, threatening, and uncomfortable.
It has made me uneasy. Throw in some
brighter chords ; bring in a thread of sweet
melody.'

I cannot ; the music leads me on ; I follow,
blindly. It is with music that is improvised as
with destiny ; we make neither, they make
themselves.'

CHAPTER XXV.

A Lovers' VISITATION.

Now that Geraus was at home, old Gaverock
dressed him from it. He made him ride With
him to market and cruise With him about the
coast. The Squire had for some time wanted
to visit St. Ives, to have the ' Mermaid ' refitted
with sails and cordage, St. Ives being a great
place for such manufacture. Accordingly, Gerans
had not been home a week before the old
man had told him to be ready to go with him
to St. Ives. Gerans raised no objection.

I suppose the neighbours will be coming
to call on us,' said Eose, pouting. ' I presume
I am to be left alone to receive them.'

Show them every hospitality,' answered
Squire Gaverock. ' Stuff them with cake, make
them drink your health in old port. I give you
the keys. Don't let the maidens get it. Lord
bless you ! whilst you were away the lobbies

(buns) came in without figs (raisins). I ate four
lobbies and got but one fig. Yet the proper
amount was served out, only the maidens ate
the figs instead of putting them into the lobbies.
Then — will you believe it? — I sent a
maid to draw me a jug of cider for my supper,
and she forgot to turn the tap, so by next
morning a whole hogshead had run to waste.'

I cannot go after the servants and see that
they do their work properly,' said Eose, tossing
her head.

Very well,' answered Gaverock, grimly ;
then I will tell you what to expect. You will
have all the crusts and stale ends of loaves
served for you to eat, whilst the maidens are
gorging on fresh bread. That was my experience.
Never spent such a miserable time as
since my old woman has been laid up. Damn
hysterics ! Gerans, come on. In that villainous
month with the maidens I got more grey hairs
than in three years previous. I do not know
what would have been the end had not Lovedayay
Penhalhgan come to the rescue, and brought
some order into the store closet and discipline
into the kitchen. All the lemons went mouldy
whilst I had the key, and the mice made a nest

in the bac of vermicelli. I found the gardener's
boys playing marbles in the backyard with the
nutmegs. How they got them is a mystery.
I suppose the maidens '

Perhaps,' said Eose, throwing up lier chin,
it would conduce to your happiness, uncle, if
Lovedayay were to take up her residence in the
house altogether, and manage the maidens, the
store-room, Gerans, and me.'

I'll tell y' what, mistress,' said the old man,
we shall be brought to that if you don't take
heartily to doing your duty. Someone must be
housekeeper here. I won't ; one month was
enough for me. I'd rather manage a caravan
of monkeys than a kitchens of maidens. If
you won't do your duty, someone must be summoned
to do it for you.'

Father,' said Gerans, ' Rose will always do
her duty.'

Do not speak off your book,' said Eose,
sharply, turning on her husband. ' You cannot
answer that I will do my duty ; but you may
promise that I will always follow my pleasure.'

The colt must be broken into harness by
you or by me, Gerans,' said the Squire on his
way down to the boat. ' At the touch of the

whip up go lier heels : none the worse for that
in the end. But it will be a tough job just at
first to break her. Whatever you do, Gerans,
don't give her her head. She wants a firm
hand on the reins ; must be ridden with the
curb ; and when she sets back her ears, dig into
her flanks with your spurs, and cut her this
way, that way, till your arm aches. Trust me ;
I know women.' The old Squire illustrated his
instruction with hand and heel. ' After a while,'
he went on, ' it is beautiful to see how they
obey. You have only to draw your whip tenderly
across their necks, and they understand
you as if you spoke volumes. I am sixty five;
I have made my experiences ; I know them.'

In the meantime, the poor woman on whom
his experience had been made with curb, and
bearing rein, and spur, and whip, was a broken-spirited,
failing creature, unable to attend to
the requirements of her house ; who came down
into the drawing-room every day, was visited
by her husband, who tried to rout her into
activity, who scolded, and hectored, and rebuked
her for yielding to imaginary maladies, and
piling all domestic vexations upon his back.

Gerans was dutiful and kind to his mother;

but he could not be much with her, and his
subjects of interest were not hers. Besides, fora
month lie had been away ; and during that
month, but for Lovedayay, she would have been
neglected. Lovedayay had made a point of visiting
the old lady every day. A tender love had
sprung up between them, and Mrs. Gaverock
was unhappy and restless on the day that she
did not see the girl. Lovedayay had a soothing
influence upon her mind, fretted with her husband's
impatience, with the consciousness that
household affairs were on the cross, that she
had duties to discharge which she was incapable
of discharging. Gaverock rushed into her room
when anything went wrong. She suffered for
the butter and the crusts, and the cider cask run
out, and the jug of lamp oil, and the rashness
buns, and the mice in the vermicelli, and the
boys with the nutmegs, and the mildewed lemons,
and the hunting breeches converted into a knife-board,
and the wet nightcap. She worried
about these things till they made her nervous
and ill ; her brain could not bear the daily
annoyances ; and when the Squire plunged into
the room, and flung the store-room keys down
on the table with an oath, and swore he would

have 110 more to do with stores and servants,
then Lovedayay took up the bunch, and distributed
what was needed every day till the return
of Eose.

It is a peculiarity of the female mind that
it draws delight from the possession of a secret
which it can share with one or two close friends.
Mrs. Gaverock and Lovedayay had a secret — the
secret of the marriage of the latter — and this
secret formed the closest of bonds between them.
Should this ever cease to be a secret, one great
charm and sweetness of their intercourse would
be gone. Both felt this, and shrank from the
thought of Constantine's marriage becoming
generally known.

After the return of Eose and Gerans, Love-day
did not come to Towan every day to visit
the old lady. She thought it was the place of
Eose to become the consoler and stay of her
mother-in-law. But Eose, though kind, was
not considerate ; and she did not understand
and sympathise with the old lady so as to
enable her to fill the position which was hers
by right.

Squire Gaverock and Gerans would be
absent for some days. For how many, depended

VOL. II. E

on the wIdcI and the activity of the registers at
St. Ives. Eose was not pleased at her husband
being carried cff immediately on his return
home. The old man had not shown her proper
consideration in throwing on her the sole responsibility
of receiving visitors.

The same day that Squire Gaverock left,
the Loveys' party came to call : old Anthony,
young Anthony, and the Madam. Although
we have put Madam Loveys last, she was the
most important person of the three. Anthony
Loveys, senior, was an old, heavy, red-faced
man ; and Anthony Loveys, junior, was a
young, heavy, red-faced man. Neither had
anything to say for himself, except on the
subject of dogs and horses. To these two
subjects the elder added rates. When Anthony,
junior, reached the independent position
and age of his father, he also, doubtless, would
supplement dogs and horses with rates as topics
on which he could talk. Mrs. Loveys was a
woman with bright, keen eyes, and a Woman
nose. She was accustomed to command in the
house and outside, and met with equal obedience
from her servants, her son, and her
husband. She had inherited the domineering

spirit of the Gaverocks ; and, as her husband
had yielded to it, she became the one person
of authority in the house and in her parish.
Even the clerk in church, when he gave out
the psalm, announced, ' Let Madam and I sing
to the praise and glory,' &c. He thus gave it
out because he and she were the only persons
in the church who sang. The peasants could
not read ; and the two Anthonies either had no
voices or were too lazy to use them. Madam
Loveys sang loudly and sang well. The congregation
stood up to listen to Madam sing,
and sat down to listen to the parson pray.
Occasionally, din-king the service. Madam Loveys
would rise from her knees, stand up, and look
round. If she saw that any of the labourers
or their wives were asleep, or inattentive, she
coughed. If this did not rouse them to devotion,
she coughed a second time. She rarely
was obliged to cough a third time, so greatly
in awe of her did the people stand. The
Loveys' party were shown into the parlour.
Madam Loveys sailed in first — tall, portly, head
erect, eagle eyes looking into every corner —
followed by old Anthony, and old Anthony by
young Anthony, scuffling in.

E 2

'How do you do, Lydia?' to Mrs. Gave-rock
on the sofa. ' Better, of course ; don't
deny it. I won't believe you. And Eose, my
dear, glad to see you. Come to call and
welcome you as one of us. Now Anthony,
give your aunt your right, not your left hand.
How have you enjoyed your trip? Greatly,
of course. You have got a line fellow for a
husband — quite a Gaverock in build, but wanting
the Gaverock force of character. Anthony,
don't shake your cousin's hand as if you were
working a pump. Ease the finger-tips gallantly
to your lips. You don't mean to tell me,
Lydia, that Gaverock is gone to St. Ives, and
has taken Gerans with him ? Tell him when you
see him that I say his conduct is preposterous
that / say it. He will mind me. You may
sit down, Anthony.' She gave no instruction
to her husband. She had given him up in
despair, but her son, though aged one-and-twenty,
was as yet unformed, and she did her
best to model him.

I am sorry Gaverock is not here,' said Mr.
Loveys. ' I wanted to consult him. They've
stuck on twopence in the pound in our parish.
I don't understand it.'

That is all right,' said Madam, ' don't you
bother yourself about it. You never did understand
anything in which division and subtraction
were necessary.'

But, my dear, twopence in the pound is
not subtraction, it is addition.'

If you are in doubt, send the overseers upto
me with the rate-book. I'll go through the
account. Anthony, you may go and look at
the stables — only mind your boots. We are
going to stay for tea.'

Of course you are,' said Mrs. Gaverock,
kindly, but looking somewhat blank ; for Mrs.
Loveys overpowered her, and she was incapable
of the strain of entertaining the two
Anthonies.

We are going to spend the evening,' said
Madam ; ' as Hender and Gerans are gone, you
are likely to be dull, so I have brought my
husband and son to enliven you.'

Mrs. Gaverock looked with an appealing
glance at Eose. Eose smiled. ' I am very
glad. Aunt Honora,' she said, ' Lovedayay Pen-gallican
is coming ; I will send down a boy for
the doctor, and we will do our best to be
merry. We will have music and cards.'

I think,' said Mr. Loveys, ' that I also
woiikl like to look into the stables.'

Go,' said his wife, ' examine the horses,
and feel the pigs. We can do without you
till tea time. I want a chat with Lydia and
Eose, and you are in the way.'

Thank you, my dear. I'll be sure to be
here for the meal.'

Then Mr. Loveys slipped away.

Eose, nettled at the conduct of her father-in-law,
was resolved to show him that she
could do very well without his presence, that
his absence was a relief to her. She was determined
that she would do her best to give
the Loveys a pleasant evening, knowing that
Madam would tell her brother how vastly
they had enjoyed themselves during his absence.
But this was not her only motive. The Loveys'
party were, vrhen alone, very trying to Mrs.
Gaverock, and it was her duty to the poor lady
to relieve her of the trouble of entertaining them.

At the time of which we write, and the
custom prevailed to some twenty-five years ago
in the West of England, it was a common
thing for friends to visit, sometimes uninvited,
and to take a ' high tea' — that is, tea and meat

and cakes and puddings and "wine, and spend
the evening till the moon shone on their ride
or drive home. Few dined late. Nothing
more hospitable, pleasant, and sociable could
have been devised than these visits. In a
thinly-peopled region distances are great, and
a visit entails a journey of some hours. Moreover,
a visit in a thinly-peopled country is
hailed by those on whom the descent is made
as a pleasure for which to be grateful. Also, a
visit entailing several hours' drive over breezy
downs makes the visitors hungry; therefore
those visited, being grateful, exhibit their gratitude
by feeding their visitors.

The Loveys family did not live at a great
distance — in fact, they lived only in the next
parish ; nevertheless, a visit with them, whether
near or far, always meant a visitation of several
hours, and a meal, to which the two Anthonies
and Madam always did justice. Madam was
hospitable in return. To call and not stay
some hours and eat at her table was to offend
her. This was the custom of the country and
of the time, and we, who in our younger days
were familiar with it, sigh over the old, homely,
hospitable fashions that have passed away.

Lovedayay arrived shortly after, and Dennis
came up in answer to a summons, bringing his
music with him. Lovedayay at once saw what
was to be done, to amuse the Loveys family to
the relief of Mrs. Gaverock, and she devoted
herself to doing this. It was hard to get anything
but Yes and No out of young Anthony,
but she did manage to "galvanism him into a
little life, assisted by his mother, who administered
shocks at intervals by saying, ' Now
then, Anthony, did you hear what Miss Pen-gallican
was asking? Of course you know
where the wild yellow marigold grows, and
will be happy to bring her some roots — say so.'
Or, ' Come, Anthony, no doubt you are right,
that what Miss Penhalligan has seen in the
glen is a badger; but go on, and promise to
hunt there with the dogs and catch it, and
cure the skin for her. You can do that, you
know, with alum and ]pepper.' Or, ' Well,
Anthony! Say something more than Law!
when you have trodden the gathers out of Miss
Penhalligan's gown.'

During tea, Mrs. Gaverock was left to herself
in the drawing-room. Lovedayay took hera
cup, and what she fancied from the table ;

but when the meal was over, the whole party
returned to the parlour for a round game, and
for music.

'Do you think, Mr. Penhalligan, that you
could read us something ? ' asked Rose. ' Something
not dreary and terrible ; as a variety to
cards and music. Not the "Essay on Man"
and the " Dissertation on Happiness."

Happiness ! our being's end and aim !
Good, Pleasure, Ease, Content ! whate'er thy name :
That something still which prompts th' eternal sigh,
For which we bear to live, or dare to die,
YV^hich still so near us, yet beyond us lies,
O'erlooked, seen double, by the fool, and wise.'

Let me hear the " Ease of the Lock," '
asked Mrs. Gaverock, gently ; ' it is many years
since I have either read it or heard it read.'

Mistress Eose has Pope on the tip of her
tongue,' said Dennis, ' surely she can recite us
some of his verses.'

'No, Mr. Penhalligan, my memory is only
stocked with scraps, like a rag-bag.'

" The Ease of the Lock," by all means,'
said Madam Loveys. ' Anthony knows nothing
about it. His mind needs culture. Anthony,
sit by me, and I can then ensure your keeping
awake. I will nudge you, or touch you with

my fan when we reach verses of conspicuous
beauty, Mr. PenhaUigan, you will confer a
lasting obligation on us if you will read.'

It would be unmannerly to make a condition,'
said Dennis, ' but it is permissible to
offer a petition. I venture to ask that between
the cantos Mrs. Eose will favour us with her
harp and a song.'

The evening passed briskly. Eose was in
her element. At her father's house entertainments
had been frequent ; she was not shy;
she was delighted to have distraction, relief
from the monotony of life at Towan.

I can see by aunt's face that she has enjoyed
herself,' said Eose. 'We have not had
too much of one thing, though Mr. Penhalli-
gan's reading, and Lovedayay's singing, and Mr.
Loveys' whist, and Madam's comments, and Mr,
Anthony's attention, have all been admirable
of their kind. I invite you here again on
Saturday, and I will get some of the Bretons
to come as well from the Rectory, But stay
I have a suo-gestion.' She threw a number
of little books on the table. ' Why should we
not, next time, diversify our amusements still
further ? At our house in Kenwyn, when papa

was alive, we used to make up parties to read
plays, each taking a part. Shall we begin on
Monday ? Take each a copy and all look over
your parts. What do you say, Aunt Loveys ?
And you, Mr. Penhalligan ? Let us begin " She
Stoops to Conquer." '

CHAPTER XXVI.

IN THE DUSK.

Gerans and his father returned to Towan on
Saturday evening. The 'Mermaid' was run
into the little port at Sandymouth, and secured,
then both ascended the cliff, for home.

Wliat have we here ? ' asked the Squire,
hats and sticks ! Tliat is the hat of Loveys —
I know it, and there is Madam's umbrella.
Her clogs also.'

Dennis is also here,' said Gerans, ' I know
this overcoat.'

'And that green umbrella belongs to the
Misses Brendon,' said Hender Gaverock. ' There
seems to be a party here.' He opened the door
into the hall, and saw that the table was laid
with glass, silver, preserves, pies, cold chicken,
and adorned with flowers.

Old Gaverock laughed. ' Whilst the cat is
away the mice are romping. I must take off

my sea-togs and make myself presentable. You
do the same, Gerans.'

Where is Mrs. Eose Gaverock ? ' asked the
young man of a servant. He was toil that she
was in her own room. Mrs. Gaverock was in
the parlour with the company.

Gerans was disappointed. In his kindly,
tender heart the words Eose had said to him
before he left rankled. He tried to forget and
bury them out of thought, but they worked up,
like stones in a ploughed field. He was inclined
to judge her charitably. She was accustomed
to have her own way, and was impatient of
opposition. When opposed, she fired up and
said words which, doubtless, she afterwards
repented having uttered, and which at the time
they were spoken were exaggerations of her
momentary feeling.

She had told him that she despised him, she
had scoffed at his obedience to his father ; but
his conscience was clear ; he had given way to
his father because his father was in the right ;
surely Eose would have despised him if he had
supported her in demanding and doing what
was wrong. She did not mean what she said.
Her words were the spluttering of sparks from

a burning log of fir. The sparks scorched and
marked where they fell, but were too small and
powerless to ignite anything. Besides, Gerans
had been accustomed to rough words from his
father, all his life, which had gone with a good
deal of affection. Nevertheless, the experience
of stinging speeches from a woman's lips was
new to Gerans, and was painful, partly because
he believed them to be undeserved, chiefly
because the speaker was very dear to him.

He had looked forward to his return, that
he might be alone with Eose, and be completely
reconciled. She would beg his pardon for what
she had said, and he would caution her not to
test her powers against those of the old Squire.
He heard the buzz of voices in the parlour ; he
was glad she was in her own room ; he could
see her alone first, before she met the visitors.
Their presence was not pleasant to him. He
was not very well, and would have to remain
in his own room ; he must either withdraw her
from the party downstairs, or remain the evening
by himself.

Why should she not keep me company ? '
he said. ' I would gladly do so, if she were ill.
She will be pleased to be with me. A woman

is happy to sacrifice something for the man she
loves. She is not wanted in the parlour, for
my mother is there, my father is going in, and
my aunt is hostess in our house.'

He opened his dressing-room door and went
in, and would have passed through into the
bedroom beyond, but he heard Lovedayay's voice,
within, speaking to Eose. The door of communication
was ajar. There was another door
into the bedroom from the corridor outside.

'You are longing for their return, I suppose.'


Oh dear, no ! ' answered Eose, ' not at all.
I fairly skipped when their backs were turned.
Lovedayay, there is nothing like marriage for
making a girl sick of mankind.'

Then ensued a pause. Presently Lovedayay
spoke again : ' When do you suppose they will
be home ? '

Perhaps tomorrow, perhaps the day after.
If I had my wishes, not for another week. I
am not sure, though, that I should not like them
to come home to-night, and see low well we
can entertain ourselves in their absence. Now
run down, dear ; I will follow directly.'

Lovedayay left the room by the door into the

passage. Then Gorans came in. There was a
carpet on the floor, and he had taken off his
big waterloo in the back hall below stairs.
Consequently, Eose did not hear his tread when
he opened the door and entered. She was
standinG: before a looking-glass, arranoiijo- a red
geranium in her hair. She was prettily, coquettishly
dressed in white, with short sleeves,
and much of her lovely neck and throat showing.
A coral chain was round her neck. There
was a childlike beauty and simplicity about her
appearance.

She heard the noise of his foot on her bedroom
floor, and turned half round, with her
arms raised, adjusting the scarlet flower, and
the loose sleeves were fallen back, exhibiting
her delicate, rounded, ivory arms. She supposed
a servant-maid had entered, to tell her she was
wanted below. But, as nothing was said, she
turned round with an impatient movement.

Mv dear Eose ! ' exclaimed Gerans.

She started. For a moment she looked at
him, with parted lips, and expressionless, wide-opened
eyes, without uttering a word. Then
suddenly she became scarlet.

*What! already back? You startled me.

I thought you woukl not be here so soon. I
hardly expected you to sail on Friday.'

As she spoke, she withdrew her right hand
from her hair, and held it out to him, whilst
with the other she continued fidf^etinir with the
flower and the pin that held it.

We thought to take you by surprise, to
give you pleasure, my sweet white Rose ! my
dear spring morning, my dewy blossom ! '

He held her hand with both his, and drew
her towards him, till he could pass his arm round
her, hold her to his heart, which was beating
fast, and kiss her brow.

There,' he said, ' I shall not be away for so
long again, unless I can help it. Every day of
absence has to me been one of longing for your
presence.'

He spoke with a tone of reproach in his
voice, not intentional. He spoke the truth, but
as he spoke he recalled her words to Lovedayay,
expressing a very different feeling.

Let me have another look at the Pride of
my Life,' he said, and held her at arm's length.
Then he saw that he had not been wrong in
scaling her a dewy blossom, for tears stood in
her eyes.

VOL. II. F

Why are you crying ? ' lie asked.

She bowed her head on lier bosom, and
gave no answer. Had she spoken she wouki
have sobbed.

Gerans considered for a moment, and a informed
on his open brow, but it passed away.
He thought that she was regretting her unkind
Avoids spoken before they parted, regretting the
light words just said, in his hearing, to Lovedayay ;
and, in his good nature, he thought to spare her
the humiliation of confessing the reason.

Never mind,' he said. ' I startled you — did
I not?'

Yes,' she answered ; ' I have not recovered
myself yet.'

He went to the window, and looked out on
the rainy, grey sky, to allow her, unobserved,
to recover herself. He said, still gazing out
through the panes of glass :

We have had a wet miserable sail ; but the
expectation of soon seeing you has filled ray
heart with lono;ino;.'

She did not answer. After a while he
turned round, and saw his young wife seated
on a sofa, wiping her eyes.

What ! ' he said. ' Not yet recovered ? '

Oh yes,' lie answered. ' I was only thinking
that '

She bit her red, quivering Hps, and her
bosom rose with a sob.

My dearest Eose,' he said. ' There — there !
think no more about it.'

He took a chair, turned the back towards
her, and seated himself on it astride, with his
elbows on the back, looking at her. The window
was behind him, and the evening light was
on her pretty, troubled face. Gerans thought
how lovely she was, what a prize was his, low
surpassingly happy he ought to be.

You have got company downstairs,' he said,
to change the current of her thoughts, and.
divert it from self-reproach.

Yes,' she replied, looking down at her lap ;
Uncle and Aunt Loveys are here, and young
Mr. Brendon and his sister.'

Lovedayay is also here, surely.'

Yes ; Lovedayay, of course, is here.'

Is that all ? Not Dennis ? '

Oh — Mr. Penhalligan also.'

She coloured slightly ; her eyes were still
on her lap. But Gerans was entirely free from
jealousy. He did. not observe the flush.

v 2

Has anything happened whilst I have been
away ? '

Nothing particular. There have been calls.
The Loveys' party, and the Bretons, also
Captain and Mrs. Trefry, and the parson from
St. Gowan — I forget his name.'

Gerans rocked himself in his chair, without
turning his eyes from Eose.

I have not been well. I caught a cold, I
suppose, in my eyes, and I have suffered much.
One day I could not bear the light. I had to
remain shut in at the little tavern where we put
up at St. Ives, whilst my father went about the
new sails and tackle.'

He stopped. She did not seem to be listening.
When he stopped she started.

Yes ? ' she said quickly. ' Sails and tackle
you were speaking about.'

I was telling you that I had been very unwell.
I got a chill and inflammation of my eyes.'

I am very, very sorry.'

You have not observed how red they still
are. I cannot bear a strong light.'

I could not see ; the room was dark,' she
explained, and stooped and looked — but shyly
into his eyes.

He turned his head that she might observe
low red and hot they were.

I see. I am sorry.'

I cannot bear much light, especially candle
and lamp light, so I will not go downstairs. I
would prefer to sit here in the dusk, with you.
You can let me have a place beside you on the
settee, and wee will talk together. We shall
enjoy that so much more than being downstairs
with the Loveys and Brendon parties.'

Yes,' answered Eose, faintly not cordially.

But I suppose you must show yourself.
Look here, Eose ; explain to them why I remain
away, and make an excuse for yourself as
well. Was it not Pluto, the God of Darkness,
who had Proserpine for a wife, half whose time
was to be spent with the merry gods in light,
and the other half with her husband in darkness?
Well, so let it be to-night. Go down
to tea, and after that is over slip away, and
come to keep me company.'

But,' said she, with trembling lips, ' we are
going to read a play ; it is all settled, and I
shall be wanted.'

No, no,' answered Gerans, cheerfully, ' Miss
Brendon can take your part, but I do not suppose

there will be reading where my father is
present. He will endure nothing but cards.'

Then Geraus stood up, and went into his
dressing-room.

I have not been acting judiciously,' he said,
sitting so long talking to you, in my wet clothes.
However, I have not felt it ; I have been in a
glow, sitting over against you, my pretty.'

Then he shut his dressing-room door.

No sooner was Eose alone than her self-restraint
gave way, and she began to cry. Why,
she could not explain to herself. She was disappointed
of a pleasant evening, and of amusing
herself reading her part in ' She Stoops to Conquer.'
She was happy among many people ;
she had dressed herself with special care to
attract admiration, to force everyone present to
say : How pretty she is ! What a lucky fellow
Gerans Gaverock is to have got so charming a
bride ! She wanted particularly to hear Mr.
Penhalligan play, and to sing with him and
Lovedayay ' Five times by the taper's light.' She
had set her mind on playing her harp. Her
beautiful arms, bare above the rosy elbow, would
show to-night, and make even poor playing
acceptable.

It was really too provoking of Gerans to
come home that night — and with sore eyes also,
which would prevent him from going down to
the company. It was cruel, it was unreasonable
of him to ask her to sit with him in the dark in
the bedroom, Whilst there were lights, and card-tables,
and round games, and conversation, and
laughter, and music below. Lie was obliged
to wash her face, to put away the traces of her
tears, before she could descend. She went
downstairs at last, and assisted at tea ; but her
cheerfulness was gone — a shadow of disappointment
hung over her brow. Iter attention was
distracted, and she took little or no part in the
conversation. This mattered the less because
the Squire was there, and where he was no one
else could talk. He was boisterous, in good
spirits, and full of what he had done and seen
in St. Ives. Mr. Loveys interrupted him once
to ask his opinion about the extra twopence in
the pound added to the rate, but Hender Gave-rock
was too much interested in his own proceedings,
and the conduct of the ' Mermaid,'
newly rigged, to turn his thoughts to the rates,
and consider whether the imposition was just
or not.

After tea, Rose reluctantly apologised for
leaving the guests, and promised to return as
soon as she could be spared, then she went upto
Gerans.

He kept her with him a long time, telling
her what had been done, repeating in other
"words the uninteresting story of the expedition
to St. Ives, already told during tea by his father.
It seemed to her as if he never would have done
the time seemed interminable. Occasionally
she heard the burst of laughter from downstairs,
then the sound of the piano. Dennis Penal
was playing. She had heard the piece
before, Beethoven's Sonata in C minor ; he had
played it on the evening when she and Gerans
were at Nantsillan, before that eventful Goose
Fair.

As her mind wandered, drawn away by the
music, indistinctly heard, the voice of Gerans
sounded in her ear as out of a remote distance,
and she no longer heard what he was saying.
Then she recovered her thoughts with an eflbrt,
to catch a word or two, and make some suitable
observation, or ask a pertinent question, that
Gerans might not notice her abstraction.

Presently, he pressed her hand so tightly in
his, that she uttered an exclamation of pain.

You hurt me.'

I do not think you are attending to me. I
want to give you a piece of advice.'

I detest advice,' said Eose. ' I never read
the morals to " sop's Fables." '

It is for your advantage,' said Gerans,
gravely. ' Promise me, my own darling, do not
be cross with my father ; do not oppose him, if he
is a little dictatorial and crabbed. He thinks you
ought to be more yielding, and I am sure he
will thwart you on all sorts of points till you
give way. It is best to humour him. You goton
very well with him before we were married.
Why do you change your behaviour now?
Nothing is to be gained by it. Take my advice,
dear Prose, and give way.'

And so,' said she angrily, ' I am to be
thwarted, and contradicted, and bullied, and
brow-beaten, and you will stand by and allow
it ! You — my husband ! allow it ! '

My dear Eose, be reasonable. He is my
father. We are in his house. He is the best
of men, but he has his humours. You can lead

him where you will, if you pretend deference
to his will.'

I will not pretend. I have my will, as
well as he.'

If you are in the right, I will support you ;
if you are in the wrong, I will not. My father
is an old man, and respect is due to grey hairs.'

His hair is red.'

Eed mingled with grey. He is more than
thrice your age. He knows far better than you
what is wise and just and reasonable. I will
not sustain you when you act on caprice, butin
a matter of right you may rest on me — only,
I am quite sure, my father will never interfere
with you, without occasion, unless you provoke
him. He is annoyed with you now. Take my
advice and be submissive. You will get your
own way with a tongue of velvet, rather than
with a tongue roughened to a rasp.'

She shook her hand free from his, and stood
up.

I will not remain here,' she said, ' to be
insulted. I have sacrificed my pleasure downstairs,
to sit with you, and listen to your droning
talk, like the whirr of a winnowing machine, all
about nothing, whilst below there is music, and

merry talk, and stories, and round games. So
I am repaid. I will not come up here again
till all are gone. Sit in the dark by yourself.'

Send up Dennis Penlialligan,' said Gerans
with a siofh. ' I want him to sive me something'
for my eyes.'

Send him up ! ' exclaimed Eose, in a tone
of irritation. ' That is too bad ! you will spoil
our amusements by keeping him here, when he
is wanted to sing, or play, or take a part in a
game. You are selfish — in all things selfish,
without a thought of me.'

She went out, and slammed the door ; but
as she stood on the landing before descending
the stairs, she hesitated, and her hand on the
banister shook. A qualm came over her conscience.
She had spoken and acted unkindly
to her husband. She half turned to run back,
and throw herself into his arms and kiss his hot
eyes. But she recalled his advice, and his
warning not to expect support from him against
Hender Gaverock, and her bosom heaved with
anger ; she set her pretty red lips, and with firm
step descended the stairs.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE I^rOSS-ROSE,

Next day was Sunday. Lovedayay was up early,
looking at lier flowers. She had been watching
a moss-rose for some days, expecting its first
bud to break. The bright morning sun had
effected this, with its warm kiss, and Lovedayay
picked the flower with delight ; then, with instinctive
kindness and unselfishness, ran up the
hill to Towan, and without ringing entered the
hall where breakfast was laid, and placed the
moss-rose on Eose's plate. No one was in the
room to observe her. She did not tarry, but
ran home.

Hose, however, did not come down till
late ; Gaverock had made his own breakfast
when she arrived in the hall ; Mrs. Gaverock
had hers taken to her ; and Gerans was there
talking to Penhalligan, who had come to see
how his eyes were, on his way to church. Eose

was in her riding habit. She intended to goto
church on Phoebus, her horse ; the distance
was considerable, and the road was muddy with
the rain of yesterday. She made a laughing
apology for her lateness ; she had overslept
herself, she said, and went to the head of the
table to pour herself out a cup of tea. Then
she saw the pretty bud on her plate. She
looked up, and caught Penhalligan's eye ; she
coloured. The rose came from Nantsillan ; there
were no moss-roses at To wan. She concluded
immediately that Dennis had brought it and
put it in her plate for her. She said nothing,
but pinned the bud into her bosom, then sat
down and took a hasty meal.

Presently the front-door bell was rung, and
Gerans, looking out, said, ' Eose, your horse is
at the door.'

I shall be ready in a minute,' she replied,

I am not going to church to-day,' said
Gerans. ' I will stay at home and nurse my
eyes. Dennis, I dare say, will be kind enough
to escort you, if my father has gone on before.'

They went out through the porch. The
groom was holding Phoebus, a pretty roan, that
might be said to belong to Eose, for she had

ridden him ever since she had been at Towan,
and considered him as her horse, though he
had not been bought for her, or formally made
over to her.

I do not know exactly what the time is,'
said Eose. ' I do not object to being a little
late at church, so long as I am not very late.
I smile when I enter during the Confession, I
blush if I am at the First Lesson, I would hide
my face in my handkerchief at the Second.'

What is this? ' shouted old Gaverock, bursting
out of the hall (he Alas attired for church,
with a beaver hat on his head, very rough).
What have you got Phoebus here for ? Eose,
you are not going to ride. Eun upstairs and
take off that habit at once. You are going to
walk with me. I can't have Phoebus ridden
to-day.'

The road is dirty,' said Gerans.

What if it be ? ' asked Hender Gaverock,
turning sharp on him. 'Dirty roads don't
drown. She shall walk. Petherick ! ' — to the
groom—' take the horse back to the stable.'

Stop,' said Dennis, laying his hand on the
bridle, as the man was about to obey his master.

'I will ride to church,' said Eose, indignantly.

I am ill my habit ready. Geraus, help me upon
Phcfibus.'

Mrs. Eose,' shouted the Squire, ' it won't
do. Phcfibus must not be used to-day. The
shoe is too tight and pinches him. Eun upstairs
at once and change your habit.'

I do not choose,' said Eose ; ' I intend to
ride.'

I went into the stable yesterday, and saw
he had been badly shod. I'll have the shoe off
tomorrow,' said the Squire. ' Petherick, take
him round.'

A pinching shoe will not lame him,' argued
Eose, her face clouding and colouring ; ' the
distance to the church is not so great as to
injure him.'

'I have said it. That suffices,' exclaimed
Gaverock.

Then Gerans came up to her, and said,
Eose, do not be unreasonable, and lame Phoebus
you will spoil him for a ride in the week if
you do.'

Of course, it is I who am unreasonable, not
Mr. Gaverock.'

Take the horse round, Petherick,' ordered
the Squire.

'I will ride,' said Eose, angrily, brushing
past her husband. ' Here, Gerans. help me into
my saddle.'

Gerans hesitated. Whilst he hesitated, Dennis
stepped quickly to her aid, and in a moment
had raised her to her place on Phoebus.

Eose ! Eose ! ' shouted the Squire in tones
of amazement and indignation.

Thank you, Mr. Penhalligan,' said she, ' for
coming to my aid when my husband hung back.'

Then she whipped Phoebus, and dashed
away.

Penhalligan ! ' shouted old Gaverock, very
red in the face, ' How dare you '

Mr. Gaverock,' interrupted the doctor, ' I
beg you will be careful what words you address
to me. I am not a dog or a daughter-in-law
to be addressed imperiously.'

Do you know, sir ? Do you know who I

am — that — that ' Old Gaverock could not

finish his inquiry ; his anger choked him, and
he ended his question with a splutter.

I know one thing very well,' said the doctor
— ' that the wishes of Mrs. Eose ought to bea
law to you, and to your son.' Then he turned
to go.

Come back ! I want a word with you,'
roared the angry man. ' By Golly ! am I to be
bearded by a pettifogging Sawbones ? ' He ran
after Penhalligan, as the surgeon did not arrest
his steps. He laid his hand on his arm, and
said angrily, ' Do you know, sir, who I am ? I
am Gaverock of Towan, who is not accustomed
to be disobeyed, and who will not, will not, m
his old age, endure what he would not permit
in his youth.'

Mr. Gaverock of Towan,' said Penhalligan,"
the veins in his forehead swollen and black, his
dark eye flashing, ' I knew that these seasons
harboured many strange creatures ; I learn now
that they harbour also bears.'

I give you notice ! ' roared the old man,
beside himself with wrath. 'I will turn you
out of Nantsillan. You shall not inhabit it, and
be my neighbour one day longer than I can
help.'

You cannot desire my departure more
heartily than myself, from a place where the
people are as savage as their surroundings.'

Then he walked along the church road,
leaving Mr. Gaverock bewildered with the new
sensation of having been encountered by a man

VOL. II. G

who did not fear him, and who gave hin as
good as he took.

Penhalligan found Eose in the Lane over the
brow of the hill. She had reined m Phccbns.
He came on with long strides, his hat drawn
over his eyes, and his head down to conceal his
agitation. His face was livid with rage, and
his eyes sparkled.

Thank you, Mr. Dennis,' she said, when he
was level with her. ' This is not the first time
you have acted as my champion. Once, when
my guardian wanted to sell the house at Ken-gwyn,
again to obtain for me an allowance, and
now to save me a dirty walk. I am afraid,
however, that this last intervention has been a
mistake — Phoebus really limps. Still, I would
not for the world go back to Towan and confess
myself in the wrong, and beaten.'

No harm will follow,' said the young surgeon,
' if you walk the horse. I will pace at
your side. If he trips, my hand will grasp the
bridle at the bit.'

Is the Squire following ? '

I do not know. I think not. I have given
him something to digest that does not agree
with his stomach.'

I hope I have not been the occasion of a
quarrel.'

There has been a quarrel, and a friendship
ripped, which can never be revealed.'

Not between you and Gerans ? '

The friendship was between the Squire, not
his son, and me,' said Penhalligan after a pause,
with reserve in his tone. Eose slightly winced.

'I thought you and Gerans were such fast
friends,' she said timidly.

Penhalligan made no reply.

I am sure that Gerans always speaks of
you with the warmest regard.'

He can afford to do so ; he has lost nothing
through me.'

After that, neither spoke for full ten minutes.
Dennis walked near the head of Phoebus, looking
gloomily before him, and Eose looked back at
intervals nervously, along the Towan lane, wishing,
yet at the same time not wishing, that the
Squire would appear — wishing, because she did
not desire to be alone with Dennis ; not wishing,
because she dreaded the old man's anger.

The morning was as beautiful as an early
summer morning could be. The hedges were
brilliant with fresh fern and bursting flowers.

G 2

The honeysuckles were out, and as the path
passed a bush with the trailing trumpet flowers,
they traversed a zone of fragrance. The will
roses were blooming, white and blush pink.

The raindrops glittered on the sprays and
grass. The may was not over, the thorn-bushes
had shed most of their flowers in a white snow
over the road, but flowers, turning pink before
they fell, still hung in the bushes. When the
sea was caught in glimpses through gates in the
high hedge on the left, it was seen bluer than
the sky, lost in it at the horizon, where a vapour
hid the line of demarcation between sea and sky.
The bells of the parish church, that lay in the
valley, were wafted to their ears on the pleasant
air.

Eose broke the silence, which was becoming
painful. ' The Squire is a very determined man,'
she said ; ' one must bend or break who dares
oppose him.'

Dennis turned his face, and looked up at
her, like one awakening from a dream. ' Yes,'
he said, and pressed his hat lower over his eyes ;
'but all will not bend, or break. They will
not, though he set his knee against them, and
use his utmost strength for their destruction.'

I hope — Mr. Peiilialligun ' lie began,

and stopped the horse.

There is no use hoping,' he answered, and
urged Phoebus on. ' He has ordered me out of
Nantsilhin. It is his house, and he can do what
he will with his own.'

Oh, Mr. Dennis ! ' cried Eose, turning pale,
and her heart standing still. She could say no
more. Her pallor was succeeded by a rush of
blood to her face ; she — she by her persistence
over a trifle had been the occasion of Dennis
Penhalligan becoming homeless. The tears rose
in her eyes. He did not look up at her ; he
walked on, with his hand on the bit and his
eyes lowered.

Presently she said, in a choking voice, ' I
am sorry — I am so, so sorry. I shall never
forgive myself.'

He raised his eyes to her face, with a
kindling glance, full of vehemence, and said, ' I
am amply, most amply repaid by your pity.'

Did not my husband put in a word for you
with his father ? ' she asked with a tremulous
voice.

Dennis laughed mockingly, bitterly. ' Not he.
As the old one pipes, the young one whistles.'

Again ensued a silence. Eose's bosom
heaved. The peal on the church bells changed.

I am sorry, more sorry than I have words
to say,' she murmured.

Do not repeat that,' said Dennis, earnestly,
leaving the head of Phoebus and coming by her
foot. ' I cannot bear it. I am unaccustomed
to sympathy. What matters one more kick
along the road of life? It is only one more
among the many I have received. You — you
also will have your sorrows. If the old man
has not spared me, he will not spare you. You
will come to understand Beethoven's Sonata in
C minor.'

I have my sorrows already,' she said, and
a sob escaped her breast.

You I ' he exclaimed, standing still, and
Phoebus also stood, either startled by his loud
tone or involuntarily arrested by the hand of
Eose on the bridle. ' You — you have sorrows !
You, whom I have always associated with unclouded
joy ! '

Have I not cause to be unhappy ? ' she
asked, ' with a father-in-law who browbeat me,
who will not allow me my way in anything, who
treats my opinions with contempt, as though I

were a child ' — lier pity for herself grew as she
recited her wrongs — ' and with a husband who
will never stand by his wife, and see that she is
not wronged ? He swore at the altar to uphold
and cherish me, and this is how he keeps his
oath ! I am — I am very Wretched. And now
I have become the unwitting cause of a wrong
done to you.'

'Do not name that — it is nothing. The
rich always spurn the poor.'

If I may not mention it, still I must think
of it,' continued Eose ; then recurring to herself,
and her own wrongs, she said, ' What am I, a
poor young girl, feeble, thoughtless, helpless —
I look around for someone to help, comfort
advise me, to be a stay to me, and a friend, and
I find none ! '

Do not say that — it is not true,' said Dennis
in a deep thrilling tone.

No,' she said, and her tears flowed, tears of
pity for herself. ' No, perhaps not. I have a
friend. You have proved yourself one. You
will always be my friend ! '

Your friend ? ' he asked, in a voice scarcely
audible from emotion. ' Your friend ! Oh Eose ! '
and his flashing eyes met hers. He seized

her hand, that hung down, aud pressed it in his
own. ' Your friend ! ever ! ever ! '

He pressed her hand so vehemently, aud, in
his agitation, so inconsiderately, that she cried
out from pain. Gerans had pressed that hand
the evening before, and then she had exclaimed,
You hurt me ! ' She remembered that now,
and contrasted the fierce agonising squeeze of
Dennis with the firm, but sparing pressure of
the hand of Gerans, which had not hurt her,
though she had affected to pretend it had.

The bells ceased pealing, and the single bell
tolled, the token that service would begin in
five minutes. The clergyman was already vesting.


Then Eose touched Phoebus with her whip,
to make him hurry on. Her horse was really
lame, and he could not go fast. Nevertheless,
she reached the church in time, and took her
place by herself in the Towan pew. The church
was for the most part seated with old carved
oak benches, such as remain in a great number
of churches in the West to this day, and which
were, fifty or sixty years ago, much more common.
The bench ends were richly, even profusely
carved, but in the Towan aisle they had

been swept away to make room for a square
baize-lined pew. This box had the advantage
of screening Eose's face from the congregation,
except when she stood up, and therefore of
isolating her, and leaving her to her own
thoughts. In her pew, Eose became cool and
collected. The influence of the place made
itself felt, and the solemn words of the service
entering at her ear loosed in her mind.

By degrees she became aware that she had
acted foolishly, if not wrongly. Eose loved
Gerans, but she loved herself better. She was,
naturally, a coquette, and the way in which she
had been reared had fostered her vanity, love
of admiration, and self-will. Her heart had
not veered from Gerans to Dennis. She did
not care for the latter, more than so far as his
homage flattered her vanity

She was provoked with Gerans ; she was
angry with him, but she loved him, not passionately
indeed, but sincerely. She was provoked
with him, partly because he was so amenable to
his father, but also because he took his bliss so
equably, and he was so undemonstrative in his
love. It would do him good to be made jealous,
to feel her displeasure. It would goad him into

more energy in trying to win, and more solicitude
to retain her affection.

These thoughts Hew through her mind during
the service. Then she recalled what had just
taken place, and she felt she had gone too far
with Dennis ; she had no right to complain to
any man of her husband, and to ask his support
in the place of her husband. She felt this so
strongly that as she came out of church she
looked round for Dennis, and when she caught
his eye deliberately removed the moss-rose bud
from her bosom, and threw it down in the grass
beside the path. She supposed that he had put
the bud on her plate, and by throwing it away
she intended him to understand that she refused
his offer of friendship and declined his homage.

But Dennis, who followed, misread her mind.
He stooped, and picked up the bud. He remembered
the look she had cast him when she
found it on her plate, and, now that she had
thrown it down, he thought that she had cast it
in his way for him to take and keep in remembrance
of her, and as an encouragement.

A moment later Gerans appeared, leading
Phoebus, from the church stable.

• Though I could not come to service, I came

to assist you and escort you home,' he said.
Petherick has assured me that the horse is
hxmed with bad shoeing.'

Oh, thank you, thank you, Gerans, for
coming,' she said without a look at Dennis ;
who supposed she had cast the rose to him, asa
pledge of her regard, at the moment she saw
her husband approach.

Gerans, I am so pleased to have your company
home.'

CHAPTER XXVIII.

BROKEN RESOLUTIONS.

Dennis had sneered at the idea of Gerans interfering
with his father when the hitter ordered
the doctor to leave NantsiUan, Nevertheless,
Gerans had interfered. He waited till Dennis
was out of sight, and the old man's choler was
somewhat cooled, to say, ' You did not mean
what you said, fatlicr. Dennis is not given
notice to quit.'

I will have nothing; more to do with the
fellow,' stormed the old Squire. ' He shall not
set foot across my threshold ; he shall not dose
my wife ; he shall not live on my land, I have
given way to him too much ; I have taken his
opinion on sundry matters, not surgical and
medicinal, and that has puffed him up with conceit.
I'll do clean contrary to all he has advised.
I will sell the Kenwyn estate. I will not make
Eose any allowance. I will call in old Doctor

o

Square from Padstow, if your mother must
have a doctor to humbug her.'

'My dear father, you will use your own
discretion about these matters, later, when you
have weighed them. Not now, when you are
heated. As for Dennis, he must not be turned
out of Nantsillan.'

Not turned out ! I'll rout him out with a
red-hot poker if he stays a minute after his
time.'

You cannot, you must not. A doctor has
had that cottage as long as I can remember,
or you either.'

Time some other trade should go into it.'

There is no other house into which he can

go.'

Yes, there are two or three in the village.'

No ; single rooms in which he might be
received as a lodger. But, remember, father,
he has his sister with him. We must consider
Lovedayay.'

'Why should we consider her? She is no
relation.'

My dear father,' said Gerans. firmly, ' you
must consider Lovedayay. She has been most
kind and attentive to mother; scarce a day

has passed without her coming here to see
lier '

And cocker her up in the decision that lie
is ilL All your mother wants is a good routing
up. She has nothing the matter with her but
the vapours.'

'Whether Lovedayay has acted wisely or
unwisely does not affect the case. She has
acted as her kind heart prompted, and her visits
have been of the greatest comfort to my mother.
My mother loves her as if she were her own
daughter — loves her far more, clings to her
more, far more than to Eose. Eose is very
good, but she does not suit mother as Lovedayay
suits her.'

Your mother did without Lovedayay in times
past, she must do without her in time to come.'

Consider how useful she was when you
were at your wits' ends with the servants,
during our absence.'

The maidens ! ' exclaimed the old Squire,
firing up. ' I will give you an instance of their
stupidity. I put out my wading boots, that
cost me three guineas, to be rubbed over with
tallow. Will you believe me, after larding the
boots, they set them in a rat-run between the

sink and the larder, and of course, in the morning,
the rats had eaten the top leathers away —
holes as bio as a crown ? '

It is rarely that I have interfered with what
you have determined,' said Gerans, returning
to his point ; ' but now I must remonstrate
against your sending Dennis Penhalligan and
his sister out of Nantsillan. The neighbourhood
will cry shame on you if you do.'

'Let the neighbourhood dare to prescribe
to me what I am to do with my houses and
tenants ! ' said the Squire, wrathfully.

Your better feelings will not allow you.'

I have said it,' exclaimed Hender Gaverock.
What would the neighbourhood say if it heard
that I had spoken a thing one day and withdrawn
it the next ? You ought to know that
what I say I stick to.'

I entreat you to forbear, father,'

'You are pertinacious. Why should I
forbear? Show me a proper reason. Those
you have given are chaffy, worthless.'

Then Gerans told his father the whole truth
about Constantine and Lovedayay. The surprise,
indignation, and rage of the old man knew no
bounds. The story had been kept from him at

first, lest he should burst forth into violence,
and in his violence say words about his dead
son which he would afterwards regret, but which
would wound mortally his weak and failing wife.
But now his wrath took another turn : he cast
no blame on Constantine. He was at the moment
occupied with the Penhalligans, and the
secret now divulged exasperated him against
them to the last degree. He was angry with
Gerans for not having told him before, but he
was furious against Lovedayay and her brother for
thrusting themselves uninvited into relationship
with his family. 'The sister of the beggarly
Sawbones ! ' he cried, walking up and down the
travel before the house, with hui^e strides, ' to
dare to inveigle my son — my son, into marriage
with herself — the hussy who says I do not know
women ! I know them so well that I see through
her machinations. Do you think, you fool,
Gerans, that she came here out of Christian
charity to your mother ? Not a bit ; she came
to work herself into a place in this house, and
when she had got into a snug corner, to be able
to snap her fingers in my face and dare me to
turn her out because she was my daughter-in-law.'
Then he flew out in another direction.

I don't believe it — not a word of it ! The impudent
wench ! It was a love affair, and no
marriage at all. She has deceived you, lied to
you ! I will not believe till I see the marriage
lines. I will go to Nantsillan at once, and dare
her to produce them. And that Sawbones
brother ! He thought to trade on his connection
! To patch up his miserable practice with
the recommendation of the Gaverocks his kinsmen,
and send out his bottles of jalap and boxes
of pills sealed with our crest ! Golly ! my blood
boils. Gerans, I shall never forgive you for
keeping this infamy concealed from me. Now,
it is well that I know it. Not for another day,
if I can help it, shall these beggars live in my
house. That was the meaning of sending Love-day
to Exeter, was it, where my son Con was
in an office? A deep-laid scheme. A clever
scheme. A scheme worthy of that black-eyed
crafty hussy ! But it shall not answer. I am
glad I know it. I will go down at once and
force her to tell me the truth. I always knew
that Con was a milksop ; I never thought him
such a cursed fool ! But Adam was no match
for Eve, and so, I suppose, one must not wonder
if Con fell a prey to another intriguing woman.

VOL. II. II

I not know women ! I know this, that they
can combine the subtlety and wickedness of the
serpent with the innocent outward appearance
of the dove.'

In vain did Gerans strive to abate his
father's fury, and divert him from his purpose
of an immediate interview with Lovedayay. He
entreated him to postpone the visit till the morrow.
The old man would listen to no advice ;
in his headstrong temper and roused passion he
rushed off in the direction of the cottage, shaking
Gerans from him when he held his arm to
detain hin.

Then Gerans, greatly troubled at having
made matters worse by telling his father what
had so long been kept from him, resolved to go
down to the church, meet Eose, and urge her
to do what she could to appease the irate old
man. Perhaps if she made her submission, his
answer would abate.

He arrived at the church during; the sermon.
Instead of going in, he went to the stables provided
for the horses of churchitoers from a
distance, and brought out Phoebus, in readiness
for Eose.

He helped her into the saddle, and led the

horse away ; he wanted to get ahead of the people
who were about to stream along the same road.
She, penitent for what she had done, did not
look behind her, nor say a word to Dennis.
She held the reins, and allowed her husband to
urge on the lame horse.

I see Phoebus does limp,' she said. ' However,
he is not lame. When the shoe is taken
off he weill be right. The road is very muddy ;
I should not have liked to walk it. If your
father had not been so peremptory, I might,
however, have gone on foot, but I will not be
ordered about — like you.'

She could not help it ; even when penitent
she must say something sharp, and also excuse
herself, when half acknowledging that she had
been in the wrong. When they were some way
ahead of those coming from church in the same
direction, and quite out of earshot, Gerans said,
in a low tone, ' Eose, I want your help. I am
afraid my father is much put out, I wish that
you would tell him you are sorry that you took
Phoebus, It weill please him. You see the horse
is unfit to be ridden,'

He will be right when the shoe is off.'

Do you knows, Eose, that my father, in a fit

H 2

of impetuosity, gave notice to the Peulialligans
to leave their cottage? What is to be done?
Where is poor Lovedayay to go? I wish you
would intercede with father and get him to
yield in this one matter.'

Eose's lips closed tightly. ' I suppose,' she
said constrainedly, ' if " poor Lovedayay " is to go,
that poor Dennis must go also.'

Yes, of course ; but that is not such a great
concern. But our dear Lovedayay! — I cannot
bear to think of it. What will mother do?
Where can Lovedayay go ? '

I should have supposed it of far more consequence
that Mr. Dennis should be housed than
our dear Lovedayay." '

Not at all,' answered Gerans, without perceiving
that she was speaking ironically. ' He,
as a man, can find lodgings somewhere, but she
there is no place where they could be taken
in together.'

And,' said Eose, ' it would be so very hard
that Lovedayay should not be within a gunshot of
Towan.'

Yes, quite so,' answered Gerans. ' It would
not do at all ; she could not then be in and out
of our house at all times.'

That would be intolerable indeed.'

I do not know — intolerable, but very inconvenient.'


There I differ from you,' said Eose, coldly.
I am not sure but that her frequent visits are
inconvenient at present, and I can quite imagine
that they may become intolerable.'

I cannot see that,' Gerans replied, not in
the least understanding his wife. 'My father
is so exasperated that he may forbid her as well
as Dennis the house.'

It is, of course, of far more importance that
Lovedayay should be at home there than that Mr.
Dennis should be admitted.'

'Of course it is. My dear mother is so
attached to her '

Your mother only ? '

No, all of us — you, I know, like her, love
her dearly, and I — I am very fond of her.'

'I suppose that, as we are made one by
marriage, we must share everything, even our
attachments.'

Yes, Eose, so it ought to be, and so I hope
it is. Lovedayay is so good, noble, and true, that
we must value and love her. You do both.'

He was wholly unconscious of the irritation

Ms words caused. He spoke of Lovedayay's
trouble, because he thought that would touch
and move his wife more than any consideration
for the doctor. He was devoid of jealousy
himself, and had no conception that his wife
could be jealous of him and Lovedayay. He
regarded the latter so completely as a sister,
that the thought that she could be regarded
in any other light by him never entered his
head.

'My father has gone down to Nantsillan,'
continued Gerans. ' I hope he will control himself;
he was very excited when he went off.
Lovedayay is there alone, I know.'

You know, do you ? How do you know
that?'

'Because little Euth came out of church.
One or the other must remain at home to cook
the dinner.'

At home,' repeated Eose. ' Do you mean
Nantsillan Cottage when you say " at home " ^ '

Yes,' he answered, and turned and looked
at her. 'I do not understand you. Nantsillan
is their home.'

Oh ! you spoke of it as home — as your
home.'

How can you so misinterpret me ? ' said
Gerans. Then he sighed. It struck him that
she was in a captious and unyielding mood, but
he did not see the reason for it.

Phoebus went slowly on. Rose's cheeks
burned. All her penitence and good resolutions
were gone. She was angry with her
husband for talking so persistently of Lovedayay.
After they had gone on in silence a little way,
Gerans stepped back, and, laying his hand on
the crupper, said, ' Eose, dear, speak a word for
them to father. He must not turn them out ;
they have had troubles enough without our
adding to them — more troubles than you know.
They are very poor, and have made a hard fight
to get on. I fear this change would break their
back.'

So you creep behind my skirt, and thrust
me on, because you dare not yourself interfere ? '

'Eose, I have spoken, but my father will
not listen.'

That is false,' said Eose, vehemently ; ' you
said nothing. You had not the courage to stand
up for a friend. You are a coward ! '

Eose ! ' exclaimed Gerans, withdrawing his
hand from the back of the horse, and colouring

' Eose ! ' lie repeated in a tone of reproach
and pain and astonishment.

She did not spare him. She had no pity.
She went on with flaming cheeks and sparkling
eyes : ' Nothing is to be expected of a man who
will not take the part of his own wife. No
wonder if such a fellow is too timid to defend
his own friend. I know some who would never
have suffered me to be ill-treated and insulted,
had I listened to one or other of them instead
of to you. I wish I had never seen your face.'

Gerans turned deadly pale. He said, with
quivering lips, ' Eose, you were not forced to
take me.'

No ; but when I took you, I did not know
you as I do now.'

Gerans had hold of her rein. He let go,
and walked on. He did not look at her, he
hung his head. Not two months had elapsed
since they had been married, and his happiness
was gone.

All the annoyances, disappointments, slights
she had undergone, real or imaginary, justly or
unjustly, in Towan, were alive and moving and
gnawing in her soul. Another man would
never have allowed her to be subjected to these.

Dennis Penhalligan would have protected lier
from the slightest breath of offence. Dennis
was not afraid of old Gaverock. He defied him
to his face when Eose's pleasure was concerned.
How Gerans had hung back — that morning at
the door ! How Dennis had sprung forward to
lift her into her seat ! They were men of different
stamp. She began to cry. Gerans heard
her, and her tears fell as fire-drops on his heart.
He could not speak to her. He had nothing to
say to her. She did not love him.

When they arrived at Towan, he handed her
from the horse, but said nothing. He did not
look at her. She went within. He walked
away, with bowed head.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A SENTENCE OF EXILE.

Hender Gaverock, in his Sunday suit, but
without his rough beaver hat, strode down to
Nantsillan, opened the cottage door without
knocking, and, entering the front room or little
hall, shouted, 'Lovedayay Penhalligan, where are
you ? I want you. Come here.'

Lovedayay was in the kitchen. She came to
him at once. She knew by his voice, and she
saw by his face, that he was in a passion, and
had lost all control over himself. Lovedayay wore
a white apron, that covered her bosom and was
fastened on her shoulders. Her gown was deep
blue. She looked very pretty with her rich
dark hair, lustrous eyes, and oval, pale face.
She was not alarmed, but she felt at once that
she must exercise great discretion with a man
who had no command over what he said or
what he did.

'I am at your service, Mr. Gaveroek,' said
Lovedayay. ' Will you take a chair P ' Then she
seated herself.

No, I will not,' he answered roughly.
'Why do you sit down? Stand up when I
speak to you.' He could browbeat her better,
face to face with her, than with her in a chair,
by the hearth, showing him only her profile.

You must excuse me, Mr. Gaveroek. I
know you will, you are so kind and considerate.
I have been standing all the morning, and a
moment in a chair is a boon.'

I have heard a scandalous story,' said the
Squire, pacing the little hall, and turning his
great rough, shaggy head towards her, as he
strode, with his hands behind his back, under
the tails of his plum coloured coat. ' I have
heard a scandalous story, and I have come hereabout
it.'

Then, Squire,' said Lovedayay, gently, ' you
have come to the wrong place.'

'I have not. I know what I am about,
where I am.'

You have come to call on a gentlewoman,'
said Lovedayay, ' and are lier visitor, in her parlour.'


Gaverock was somewhat abashed, but he
was too highly incensed for a soft word to affect
him more than momentarily.

Mistress Lovedayay Penhalligan ' — he emphasised
the surname — ' I have just heard a story
about you and Constantine, outrageous, detestable,
scandalous.'

Excuse me, Vir. Gaverock, I have green
gooseberries to pick.' She made him a slight
bow, and withdrew into the kitchen. He continued
striding up and down the hall, waiting
for her. After a few minutes she returned,
looked him full in the fiice, and reseated herself,
with a dish of gooseberries in her lap, and
put an empty pie-dish, for the stalks, on the
table. She was so cool, so collected, that Gave-rock
was disconcerted. She fixed her honest
dark eyes on him, and said, ' You have heard
that Constantine and I were married in Exeter.
It is true, but I did not wish that it should be
known.'

It is not true. I dispute it. Show me the
certificate.'

'Mr. Gaverock,' she said, raising her head,
I excuse those hasty and ill-considered words ;
but I will not suffer them to be repeated, nor

endure words like them. I cannot show you
the certificate, because I did not furnish myself
with a copy. But I mil write, or you can write,
if you doubt my word of honour, and obtain a
copy of the register from St. Shadwell's Church
in Exeter.'

I do not believe it. I will not believe it,'
stormed the angry man ; ' it is a disgraceful
imposition. What took place between you and

Con, you know best, but I will not allow '

She was gone. The basin of gooseberries was
left on the table ; she had quietly and easily
withdrawn.

He paced the room again. It was full ten
minutes before she returned, and resumed her
place and dish of berries.

How can I talk if you run out of the room
every few minutes ? ' he asked.

'How can I stay when you forget to whom
you are speaking ? ' she replied. ' I am your
daughter-in-law. I did not seek the honour.
I shrank from it. It was pressed upon me. I
have endeavoured to keep the relationship a
secret. I shall bring no dishonour on the name
of Gaverock ; that name, however, will be dishonoured
by any man who bears it and fails

to behave as a gentleman in the presence of a

lady.'

Do you mean to imply ' began Gave-rock,

threateningly.

I imply nothing,' said Lovedayay, quietly ;
'I state a fact that you yourself must admit.
Would it not be dishonourable of a man who is
a gentleman by birth and position to forget what
is due to a lady, and address her in terms of
insolence when she is alone, with no one by to
protect her ? '

Gaverock was very angry. He thrust his
hands into his pockets and paced the room.

You have not replied to my question,' said
Lovedayay.

He would not answer.

Mr. Gaverock,' she said, ' you want to talk
to me, and I am ready to speak with you ; but
I will only consent to a conversation on these
terms — that you sit opposite me, Mistress
Lovedayay, and hold the pie-dish into which I
put the gooseberry stalks.'

I am not here to be made a fool of,' said
the Squire.

Nor am I here to waste valuable time. The
gooseberries are to be made fool of, not the

Squire of Towan. That is left to himself and
his inconsiderate temper.'

She set a chair for him opposite herself, and
held the back, waiting for him to occupy it.
He shortened his tramp and his steps, hesitated,
drew near the chair, went back, came again,
and finally seated himself. Then she put the
basin in his hands.

What is this for ? ' he asked angrily.

For the stalks of the gooseberries, and the
little brown ends, which must not be allowed ina
fool, or it spoils it. I dare say you know that
by experience.'

'Miss Lovedayay,' said Hender Gaverock,
you and your brother will have to turn out of
this house. I have given him notice. I will
have none of you in my neighbourhood anymore.
Your brother, madam, has defied meme
; interfered with me, me ; and '

Take care of the pie-dish ! ' she said as he
flung himself back impetuously in the chair.

And has called me a bear — me, me ! '

Well, Mr. Gaverock. Is there anything so
dreadful and offensive in that ? A bear is rough,
tough, and indomitable. You do not pretend
to be sleek as a greyhound ; all your muscles

are as hawsers, and who is there that has ventured
to tame you ? '

This recognition of his roughness, toughness,
and incompatibility, three qualities on which he
prided himself, somewhat mollified the old
Squire.

And because of this, you are going to expel
us from this house ? This is not kind.'

Not for this only,' answered Gaverock. ' I
will not have the doctor trade on his relation .
ship, and you establish a claim to be one of us.'

Have we done so ? Have we shown the
smallest desire to do this ? Who told you of
my marriage ? Not Dennis ? '

No, Gerans.'

You have not heard anything about it from
the neighbours,' said Lovedayay ; ' it was I who
begged Gerans to keep it secret. But for my
urgency it would have been the talk of the
county. If now the tidings spread, it well be
through you, not through me. Unless Gerans
has told Rose, she is ignorant. The secret was
in the hands of Mrs. Gaverock, Gerans, and
Dennis.'

My wife knows — and never told me ! '

She knows. Constantine had himself told

her part of the secret ; I confided to her the
rest.'

Women cannot keep secrets — it will spread
like thistledown in a week.'

You do not know women, or you would
not say so. It has been known to Mrs. Gave-rock
since last autumn twelvemonth, when poor
Constantine was drowned, and whom has she
told ? No one. Whom have I told ? If the
story circulate you will set it running.'

I — I do not want it to abet about. I would
hush it up if possible. I am too vexed, too indignant
— too ashamed.'

It is I,' said Lovedayay, gently, ' who have
cause to be ashamed, not you. And I am
ashamed — deeply humbled, and there is not an
hour of the day in which it does not weigh on
me.'

You ! — it was an honour.'

I do not see it so. I did wronix. I consented
to marry Constantine privately ; I will
not reproach him ; but I may say that I neither
intended nor expected that any secret should
have been made of the marriage, when once it
had taken place. A secret incas made of it, and
I have had to suffer. I am suffering now from

VOL. II. I

it. When poor Constantine was dead, I thought
to bury my secret in forgetfulness. No advantage
could come of divulging it. But as it has
leaked out — it cannot be helped.'

I do not want it to go farther. Why
should we have this put into the mouths of half
Cornwall ? '

Exactly — why should we ? I do not ask
for recognition. Dennis has no such desire. It
lies with you to publish or suppress what has
been confided to you.'

Oh, I ! It is no such honour to me '

Then with Lovedayay's calm face before him, full
of dignity, and her soft eyes fixed on him, he
became conscious that he was about to make a
rude remark, unworthy of a gentleman.

He considered for awhile. If he turned
Dennis Penhalligan out of Nantsillan, no doubt
the surgeon would go about complaining of the
wrong done him by the man whose son had
married his sister. He would do the thing of
all others most likely to publish the affair.

Are you not treating us with undue severity,'
said Lovedayay, ' in banishing us from this
cottage ? You know there is no other house in
the place that we can have. You are therefore

forcibly separating my brother and me, and
breaking up our poor little home. A young
man beginning professional life has not an easy
time, and it is surely harsh to make it more
painful to him than need be. My offence is not
mine alone. Poor Constantine, who married
me, was your own flesh and blood. If there be
fault on my side, and I freely admit it, blame
attaches to him also. Why should the burden
of expiation fall on my brother and me alone ?
Why should your family bear none of it ? My
brother knew nothing of the marriage till Constantine's
return, the ensuing autumn. He was
not consulted. He was kept as much in ignorance
as yourself. It is not right that he should
suffer for what I have done.'

He has offended me,' said Gaverock.

How, I do not know,' Lovedayay said.

Then I will tell you. Phoebus was ill-shod
and like to go lame. Eose insisted on riding
him to church, and when I forbade her, and
she persisted, your brother took her part, and
helped her into the saddle.'

He acted wisely,' said Lovedayay. ' Eose is
wilful, and resolved to have her own way. She
will lame Phoebus, and find that she cannot ride

I 2

him again for many days. She will be forced
to admit that you were right, and that she was
wrong. Henceforth she will show you more
deference. She has been taught in the only
way she could be taught, by experience, that
your orders are not capriciously given, but rest
on common sense.'

There is something in that,' said the Squire.

My brother saw that clearly, and he allowed
her to have her own way, that she might
return to Towan ashamed of her obstinacy.
Sunday is a day for acquiring moral lessons,'

I will tell you what it is, Mss Pen '

He stopped, corrected himself, and recommenced
his sentence. ' I will tell you what it
is, Lovedayay. I am more incensed against you
than against him. His conduct, as you say, is
capable of being given a different interpretation
from that I gave it ; and what he said may be
accepted as complimentary, though I cannot say
I thought he spoke it with that intention. Still,
as his manners are peculiar, and unformed, I
will suppose that he did mean to compliment
me. I admit that I am rough, vigorous, and
tough — I am that, as every sane man on this
coast knows, and no man has yet been able to

throw me, though I have wrestled with the best
men in Cornwall. But I am a man of my
word. When I have said a thing, I stick to it.
I have said that I would turn you out of ,
and so I will. I could never look Gerans
in the face, never order him about, if I were to
go back from what I have said.'

'You may put down the pie-dish, Mr.
Gaverock,' said Lovedayay ; ' I have finished the
gooseberries.'

Ah,' growled the Squire, ' I had green
gooseberry pudding on Whitsunday, but the
maidens were not looked after, and to save
themselves trouble did not pick the gooseberries.
But that is neither here nor there. We are not
talking of gooseberries. As I said, I stick to
my word, and I have said I would turn you out
of Nantsillan. Gerans will expect it. I expect
it of myself. But — there are two of you. You
are the chief offender. If you will go, I will
not be hard on the doctor. He, at all events,
is not a relation ; but you — if your story be
correct, and I suppose I must admit that it is —
you stand to me in the surprising and close relationship
of daughter-in-law. Now I am not
prepared for this. It will take my mind sometime

to get used to the idea. I shall have to
determine on a course of action. You must go.
It is best for you. It is necessary for me. I
do not say, Go away for ever, but go away for
awhile — for a twelvemonth, till I have had time
to digest this startling piece of news, and have
decided whether to recognise you or not. If
you will consent to this, I will retreat so far as
to allow the doctor to remain here. This understanding
must be come to between us, that
not one word is said of the — the circumstance
just told me, this startling news sprung on me,
when so unprepared to receive it. No one must
know of it till I have made up my mind what
is to be done, and if, at the end of a twelvemonth,
I refuse to acknowledge you, then you
and your brother must accept my refusal as
final. If you choose to come to my terms, I
will say no more about his vacating Nantsillan.'

I accept the terms,' said Lovedayay. ' I
accept them heartily. I am willing to go. I
believe it will be best for myself, as you say,
though on other grounds. I will go somewhere,
and earn a little money, so as to be a help to
poor Dennis.'

As Squire Gaverock walked back to Towan

lie said to himself, ' That young woman has
some sense in her — for a woman. She did not
forget what was due to me ; she maintained a
proper respect. If she only had money, I would
rather have her as my daughter-in-law than
Miss Vanity Scatterbrain, who has not yet
learned her place.'

In about half an hour after the Squire had
gone Dennis entered the cottage.

Oh, Dennis ! ' said Lovedayay, who came to
him from the kitchen on hearing his step, ' Mr.
Gaverock has been here whilst you were at
church. He has been told all. He is highly
incensed against me. He was very angry at
first with you, but that is passed away.'

He has given me notice to quit the house,'
said Dennis. He had not raised his eyes to his
sister on entering, and now he looked furtively
at her. He saw that her eyes were swimming
with tears. ' Is that what has made you cry ? '

No, Dennis ; he will allow you to remain,
but I must go.'

You ! Why ? '

'Because of my marriage with Con. He
cannot make up his mind whether to recognise
it or not ; and he has made me promise to

go away for a twelvemonth. But lie will not
disturb you.'

Dennis drew a long breath. He did not
exhibit much concern at the prospect of losing
his sister.

Suddenly, after drying her tears, Lovedayay
exclaimed —

Dennis, what is that rose in your buttonhole
? Where did you get it ? '

He looked away, as her searching eyes were
on his face.

Dennis, I know that rose. It is from our
garden ; there is but one.'

Well,' he said roughly, ' if you know the
rose, why do you ask about it ? '

Because — oh, Dennis ! — I gave it to Eose
Gaverock. That is, I carried it up to Towan,
and put it in her plate at the breakfast table.
How came you by it ? '

I picked it up,' he answered, with a sullen
look and impatience in his tone.

She watched his face eagerly with alarm
and pain.

Oh, Dennis,' she said, ' why did you pick
it up ? '

He turned angrily on her, and said —

Lovoday, this is intolerable. I will not
stand here to be catechised.'

Dennis, dear brother ' — Lovedayay spoke in a
low, pleading tone, and put her hand on him —
you picked it up because it was hers, because
she had worn it. I see it in your face. This
must not be. Dennis, she is lost to you, she
belongs to Gerans ; and you must not, without
sin, lay a thought to her. Dennis, dear Dennis,
I have noticed that you have not crushed and
cast out of your heart the love you bore her.
But it is a duty. You nest be true, and good,
and honourable, and a Christian. Oli, Dennis'
she pressed on him, and put up her other
hand beseechingly on his arm — ' let me take
the rose away ; and as I pluck it, be brave,
and pluck every thought of her out of your
heart.'

She put her delicate, slender fingers to the
lappet of his coat. He sprang back, cast her
off, his dark eyes glared, and his brows contracted.


'Have you done with this preaching? ' he
said. ' I have borne from you more than I
will endure for the future. It is well you are
going. I am sick of prying and peeping eyes ;

go as soon as you can. I had rather be alone.
I am tired of your officious care.'

Oh, Dennis ! ' she said, and covered her
eyes ; then fled the room, and buried her face
on her pillow. She had lost her brother's love,
and was banished alike from her home and his
heart.

CHAPTEE XXX.

SAMPHIRE.

During the early dinner Gerans was silent.
Eose, on the other hand, was lively. She did
her utmost to let Gaverock, the father, and her
husband see that she was in good spirits, and
quite unaffected by what had taken place. But
on this occasion she had an uphill scramble.
Hender Gaverock was not in his jovial, boisterous
humour ; and Gerans said nothing. Moreover,
Eose was not well at ease with her conscience,
and felt disposed rather to cry than to
laugh. This, however, was the last thing she
would allow either of the men to suspect. Mrs.
Gaverock came in to dinner, but she was never
to be relied upon to furnish topics of conversation
and keep up a flagging talk. She seemed,
on this occasion, to be conscious that something
had gone wrong, and to be more than usually
depressed by this consciousness. She was a

quiet, faded old lady ; very ready to do her
duty in the house as far as her physical powers
allowed ; but she was too diffident of her knowledge,
too narrow in her interests, too much
afraid of her husband, to be of much use
solidly. She was a good listener, a kind sympathiser;
and in opinions she always agreed
with the last speaker, because she never could
see more than one side of any question at a time.
She looked from her husband to Gerans, and
then to Eose, with perplexity and timidity,
afraid to ask if anything was the matter and
unable to explain their moods. That Eose's
hilarity was put on she knew by her feminine
instinct ; but in her innocent, humble heart,
she attributed it to her goodness in desiring to
brighten a dull meal and recover the spirits of
her father-inlaw and husband. She was struck
with admiration at Eose's ability and energy,
an ability and energy of which she was herself
devoid and incapable.

After dinner, Eose gave her mother-in-law
one arm, and Gerans gave her one on the other
side, and they helped her back to the sofa in the
parlour, where she had her Bible and Church
Service and a volume of Blair's Sermons on a

tea-table at her side. She had gone religiously
through the form of prayer for the morning,
and would do the same in the afternoon with
Eose to help her, and such of the servants as
could not be spared to go to church. The performance
was dreary and not very improving.
The Psalms were divided among those who
could read, each taking a verse, and in the
case of the servants hashing it, and in the case
of the scullery-maid spelling it and making-nonsense
out of it. Eose galloped away with
her verse, her Truro maid trotted with hers,
Mrs. Gaverock's verse went along at an amble,
but the rest were in various conditions of crawl
and tumble. The Lessons were gone through
in the same way; and no one, when it came to
her turn, had the faintest idea of what she was
reading about. However, it was all well intended.


Gerans withdrew. His mother cast a sad
look after him. She feared that religion was
losing its hold on her son, as he shrank from
these spirit-deadening exercises. Eose would
have run away had she dared, but she had
sufficient grace to be sensible that it would be
kind and dutiful to remain.

We must allow the servants time to dine
and wash up,' said ]airs. Gaverock, ' and then
we will begin.'

Yes,' answered Eose, with her mouth down
at the corners. She was standing by the
window, looking out, watching Gerans as he
left the house. There was a dejection about
him — affecting his walk, his bearing, this face —
she had never seen in him before. She knew
the cause, and she relented towards him, for
she really did love him.

What can be the matter with father and
Gerans ? ' asked Mrs. Gaverock, as she turned
over the pages of Blair in quest of a sermon that
would do to read to the maids. ' They were
neither of them in their usual spirits at dinner.
Do you know the reason ? '

No, aunt.'

To-morrow is Gerans's birthday. Have
you prepared something for him ? I have
knitted him a pair of mitts, though I do not
think he will wear them. Still, he will value
them. They will tell him he has been thought
of.'

I have nothing, aunt. I forgot about his
birthday.'

Which of these two sermons will do best,
Eose ? Just cast your eye over them and give
me your opinion.'

My dear aunt, either will do equally well :
they are just like each other and all the rest ;
the same words only differently arranged. And
as for ideas, they are, like the raisins in the
cakes uncle complains of, conspicuous by their
absence. When I was at school we called
these plum-loaves milestone cakes, because
of the distance between the raisins. As for the
ideas in the sermons, the distance between
them is to be measured by geographical miles,
which are seven hundred and ninety-five feet
and four-fifths longer than the statute mile.'

When the service was over, Eose's feelings
were in an irritated condition. She heartily
that Goliath had killed David, and
prevented him from writing Psalms ; and that
with the Destruction of Jerusalem the First
and Second Lessons had gone to make the
blaze brighter.

Gerans returned somewhat later. The
service had lasted quite an hour and a half.
Every verse spelled and made nonsense of by
the scullery-maid had occupied three minutes.

Eose was sitting by the drawing-room window,
looking out for his return. She saw him arrive
with head down.

He seems still very unhappy,' thought
Eose. ' Perhaps I was a little too sharp with
him.' Her heart beat fast.

Mrs. Gaverock said something, and Eose
answered incoherently.

The drawing-room window was open.
Would he come to it ? — lean his elbow on the
sill, aud stand there and speak to her? If he
would come, she would address him cheerfully,
and give him a tender look, which would make
him forget any hasty word she might have
spoken. But Gerans did not turn his head
and look towards the parlour window. She
heard his steps in the hall, and listened. He
would come along to the parlour to his mother
and her. He did not do so. Then a hard look
came on her face. If Gerans had not noticed
her at the window, it was his duty to come
after her into the room where she sat. She
was convinced that Gerans did not choose to
see her, and she threw up her head haughtily.
If he did not want a reconciliation, neither
did she. If he would not apologise to her.

she Avoid not go out of her way to seek
Mm.

I hear GeraDs in the next room,' said Mrs.
Gaverock. ' Call him to me, Eose.'

Eose had to be twice asked to do this
before she complied. Then she went to the
door and said coldly, 'Your mother wants you.'

I will come,' he said, and entered the
parlour.

Geraus,' said the old lady, ' what is this I
hear about the samphire picking? Are you
going tomorrow? '

Yes, mother ; it is in condition now. Love-day
wants to pickle some and send it to her
cousin in Exeter, and Eose will want some for
this house, and Madam Loveys also.'

Lovedayay first, and I only next,' said Eose,
shortly, frowning.

No ! — not so. Dennis and Anthony join
me. Lovedayay always has her store in now,
and so do you, mother. I told Anthony and
Dennis about it yesterday. We may as well
all go together. Licked, we must help each
other ; the rocks are so precipitous that we
cannot get the samphire without a rope.'

Oh, Gerans, be careful ! '

VOL. ir. K

He laughed, but not cheerfully — not his
usual careless, gay laugh. ' I shall be careful
enough ; but if I am over the edge of the cliff,
it lies with Dennis and Anthony to be careful.
Dennis cannot go over an edge, he turns giddy
at a precipice ; and Anthony is so slow and
clumsy.'

Do they hold the rope ? '

Yes, attached to my waist. If they let go,
don't expect me home tomorrow, for home I
shall not come.'

Take some one else. Take Petherick or
Ago.'

My dear mother, have no fear. There are
not two more powerful young men in these
parts than Dennis and Anthony, and they will
not let me go, they love me too well.'

Yes, but they may lack nerve.'

Dennis has nerve. The only fear is lest
Anthony should go to sleep at his rope end.'

Oh, Gerans ! ' exclaimed his mother. ' Do
not be angry with me. All the samphire in the
world is not worth your life. Give up this expedition.
My mind forebodes ill.'

He stooped over her and kissed her.

You are weak and nervous,' he said. ' Have

no uneasiness about me. I have none for myself.'


As he went out of the room he cast a glance
at his wife. Eose stood with averted face.

Do you know what you are looking at ? '
asked Mrs. Gaverock, following the direction of
her eyes. ' On that window-jamb is marked
the height of Gerans on each of his birthdays
till he was full grown. He will never stand
higher now than the highest score ; but — he
may lie lower than the lowest. It was so with
Con.' Then her tears flowed.

On the morrow, the three young men —
taking with them a coil of new rope, bought
recently at St. Ives, and sure to stand any strain
put on it — went along the cliffs together, above
the sea, in quest of samphire.

The samphire derives its name from Saint-pierre,
because it is ripe and ready to be pickled
about St. Peter's Day — that is, June the twenty-ninth.
It is a fleshy stalked and leaved plant,
with pale whitey-green flowers like those of the
fennel. It only grows on such crags above the
sea as the gulls delight to haunt, above the lash
of the waves, but ready to sip of though not to
be engulfed in their brine. It sprouts out of

K 2

rocky crevices in thick clusters, enlivening the
bald cliff faces where noticing else will grow.
Not one of our native plants can at all compare
with this in flavour when pickled with vinegar
and spices. It is pleasantly aromatic both in
odour and taste, and very succulent. As it was
highly prized at one time, those who lived near
the coast collected it and sent it to their friends
inland.

Gerans wore light shoes, without nails in
the soles ; a short jacket ; and a sower's pouch
slung round him, in which to put the gathered
plants as they were plucked. He was not in
the cheerful humour which was common to
him. The samphire-picking he greatly enjoyed
on former occasions, and he was wont to go
forth singing to his dangerous pursuit. There
was pleasure in hanging halfway down a cliff
with the rolling blue-green sea curling and
foaming underneath ; and to feel the sun strike
back from the rocks to which lie clung ; and
to inhale at every inspiration an air that went
down into his lungs as the vapour of the elixir
of life. It was pleasant to be among the
wheeling gulls, the kittiwakes with their scarlet
beaks, the great cormorants with metallic

plumage, the gannets — the young black and
white speckled, and the older white with blue-grey
faces — the glossy black, scarlet-stockinged
chuff: to have these birds wheeling and screaming
around, and to invade their nests, and see
their startled young, it was worth the risk of
the descent. It was pleasant to be among the
scented glassy-stalked samphire, and the pink
dancing tufts of the thrift. On a bright day,
nothing gave so great a sense of light, and
sparkle, and buoyancy as a swing down the
face of the sea cliffs after samphire. But this
morning Gerans was not himself It was his
birthday, and Eose had forgotten to congratulate
him on it. He was going forth on a
perilous enterprise, and she had manifested no
concern about it. He had expected every moment
that morning from his waking that she
would recollect what day it was, and would
come smiling to him, put her arms round his
neck, and wish him many happy returns of it.
A very little love on her part would have made
him forgive, if he could not wholly forget, her
words of yesterday. But she gave no token of
relenting. It was certain that she loved him
no more. She had taken him, not knowing

her own mind ; and now she had discovered,
when too late to retract the step, that she did
not either respect or love him. He had noticed,
ever since his return from Truro with
her, that she had become estranged from him
bit by bit, but he had hoped that the gulf
might close instead of widening farther. Now
he knew that he must abandon this hope. He
felt no bitterness towards her ; he loved her as
much as ever, possibly more. He had no suspicion
of her heart having turned from him to
another. He did not suppose that she was still
the coquette, demanding, insisting on admiration,
that she had been before. He knew that
he had forfeited her love by his submission to
his father and, he supposed, from deficiencies
of manner, and mind, and culture, which she
observed, but of which he was ignorant.

Dennis was not in a conversational mood
either, and Anthony only talked with an effort.
Consequent, the three walked along the cliffs
in silence, only broken by remarks about spots
where it was likely that samphire would be
found, where it was observed growing in accessible
spots, and where it was safe to descend.

After some little discussion, a place was

fixed upon where Gerans had gone down informer
years. This was on the face of the cliff
called Carrie Point, pierced by the Iron Gate.

The day was most beautiful. The sea was
like a great sapphire, full of changing lights,
and flashes, and shades of colour. The turf
was thickly covered with thrift, running through
every change of hue from pink to silvery white.
Here and there a delicate little blue flax-flower
shook in the wind — a flower so delicate, that
when picked it shed its leaves at once.

Here,' said Gerans, as he fastened the rope
round his waist ; ' I will go down the clilT in
this place. I know that the samphire is abundant
here, though one cannot see it from the
top, as the edge slightly curves over.'

'Mind your footing, and the knot,' said
Dennis. ' A fall here would end your happiness
in this world.'

Gerans sighed. ' I do not know but that it
would be as good a way out of one's troubles
as any.'

Troubles ! ' exclaimed Dennis, scornfully.
'You, a Gaverock, with everything you can
wish for, have no right to speak about troubles.'

But I have troubles,' answered Gerans,

laying his hand on his heart. ' There is a
skeleton in every house.' He looked up at
Dennis, and their eyes met ; only for a moment
and Dennis knew by the sadness in those of
Gerans that Gerans was aware that he was not
loved by his wife. A wave of hot blood rolled
through his veins, making sparks flash before
his eyes, then darkness came over them. It
passed, and he had regained his composure.
But his heart beat faster, a triumphant feeling
swelled in his breast. Eose did not love Gerans,
never had loved him ; she writhed in her marriage
bonds. If she loved any one, it was himself,
Dennis Penhalligau.

Ready ? ' asked Gerans,

Ready you are,' replied the other two, and
Gerans crept over the edge, his white seed-pouch
disappearing first, then his face, and last,
the fingers clinging to the turf. As the fingers,
first of one hand, then of the other, left their
hold, the thought rushed through Penhalligan's
brain, ' Now the man who stands between you
and happiness is in your power. What does
he care for life ? He would thank you to let
him fall.'

A crowbar had been driven into the turf.

and the rope looped round that. Anthony-played
it out as it was wanted ; Dennis knelt
on one knee, with the heel of the other foot
driven into the turf, grasping the cord with
both hands, one before the other. At the farther
end, the unseen end, was Gerans, creeping
down the face of rock, holding to projections
with his hands or resting his feet on ledges.
At times the strain on the rope was great, at
others not at all. The two young men were
forced to be on the alert, as they could see
nothing of their comrade, and were obliged to
be ready to have the rope jerked violently at
any moment.

Once while the strain was greatest, and
they knew that Gerans was swinging almost
with his entire weight over the spiked rocks
and foaming surf, the temptation to let go came
over Dennis with such power that he had great
difficulty in conquering it. The temptation was
not of the will, or of malice, to destroy Gerans ;
it was the numbing fear of letting go and so
becoming his murderer, that almost took the
power out of his muscles. The sensation was
much the same as that which is felt when one
stands on the verge of a precipice. One feels

impelled to cast oneself down, not from any
wish to do so, but from an all but irresistible fascination,
which the thought of falling exercises
on the mind. Dennis saw Gerans dashing from
his foothold, whirling down through the air to
the sea below, and the sight of this descent,
to his imagination, unnerved him ; his fingers
trembled and began to relax, whilst a sweat of
agony burst from his brow and lips and studded
them with great drops.

Whether he could have mastered the weakness,
had it continued, cannot be said. Fortunately,
Gerans obtained foothold on a ledge,
relaxing the cord, then shouted, and shook it,
and Dennis and Anthony began to draw him
up, he helping himself with his hands and knees
and toes.

He brought up his pouch full of samphire.
Then he cast himself on the turf to rest a few
minutes, and Dennis was glad of the relief.

I have seen plenty growing a little way
to the right,' said Gerans. ' Quite a bed of it.
I will go down there in a minute.'

Give us more than a minute for rest,' said
Dennis. 'Both Anthony Loveys and I have
need of breathing time, besides, I have had

a sharp pull ou the rope, and it has made my
hands tender.'

Tender or not, they must be tough enough
to sustain me,' answered Gerans. ' My life
depends on them.'

Do not fear for me,' said Dennis, gravely.
But though he spoke boldly he had lost confidence
in his nerve.

'I am ready for j^ou when you like,' said
Anthony. ' My skin is like leather.'

The three walked alone; the verge to the
spot indicated by Geraus. The excitement of
the descent, and the herb-picking, had driven
from him his despondency, and as he went over
the edge his face was smiling and hopeful as
usual.

For God's sake be careful now,' were his
last words. ' Don't go to sleep, Anthony.
There is a tickle (difficult) bit where I cannot
plant a foot.'

The bar is well driven in,' said Anthony
Loveys.

Yes,' said Dennis, looking over his shoulder.
But the bar is nought without the grip on the
rope slewed about it. Hold hard.'

The two young men exerted their full

strength ; with heels driven into the turf they
were firm as rooted trees. The cord was given
a turn about the bar, and the bar was driven
into the ground slanting steeply away from the
direction in which was the strain ; but the soil
on the surface of the rock was not of sufficient
depth to allow of its being forced down to any
considerable distance. It would have been
quite insufficient alone to have supported the
weight of a man. With the rope looped round
it, it materially assisted in sustaining the burden.
Very cautiously the young men let out length
to allow of the descent of Gerans. He was
hanging now quite free from the cliff over
jagged points of slate and the waves, torn and
tattered as they rushed over and in and out
among the blades of rock. According to his
estimate, he must descend sheer fifty feet before
he reached the shelf on which the samphire
grew in a green belt, rankly.

How much rope had been payed out, how
long they had been slowly lowering Gerans,
neither Dennis nor young Loveys knew exactly,
when suddenly a white liver-spotted dog, limping,
ran up, and jumped over the rope behind
Penhalligan, who did not see it, drawing its

lame cold foot across the back of Anthony's
hand.

Anthony, startled, and, in his surprise, forgetful
of what he was about, let go his hold to
wipe away the clammy moisture, like the track
of a slug, left by the mongrel dog's foot on his
hand.

Instantly the rope flew away, jerking the
bar out of the ground, and throwing up the
turf, rushing through the hands of Dennis. A
cry was heard, whether that of Gerans or of a
gull, neither knew, neither heeded. Dennis
threw himself full length on the cord, gripping
it with all the force he could concentrate into the
muscles of his arms, but the weight and fall at
the farther end drew him along the turf to the
edge of the precipice. In another moment he
woukl have been over as well as Gerans ; but
the end of the coil was fortunately round
Loveys, and, as it ran out, caught him, and he
cast himself, or was flung across the course of
the pull, instead of in the line of it, like Dennis,
and the rope was arrested by his weight and
resistance.

Then Penhalligan retreated backwards, hand
behind hand, till he was a safe distance from

the edge. He was quivering in all bis muscles
and sick at heart ; he had seen over the cliff
the spikes and razor-blades of slate far below
waiting to cut and kill him. Slowly the two
young men drew in the rope till Gerans was
safely landed on the top. lie was white and
agitated.

It was my fault,' said Anthony, when
Gerans cast himself on the turf, speechless, beside
Dennis, who also was unable to speak. ' I
thought I heard a low bark behind me, and a
moment after saw the flap of a coat in the
wind, and just then a spotted dog like that of
the pedlar at the Goose Fair ran over my
hands, and took the power out of them, just
as if I'd had a shock from a sea-nettle.'

But for Penhallio-an I would have been
dashed to pieces,' said Gerans. ' Give me your
hand, Dennis ; I thank you for my life.'

The doctor held out his hands. They were
covered with blood ; the rope had flayed his
palms in flying through them, and the backs
and knuckles were cut and bleeding from the
stones over which they had been drawn.

'Don't thank me. I cannot shake hands,'
said Dennis, coldly. ' I saved my own life.'

Anthony Loveys looked about and behind
him. ' I can't make it out at all,' he said. ' I
see no one here, and no dog either. Yet, if it
were the pedlar, he could not have left the cliff
by this time,'

Bah, Anthony ! ' said Gerans. ' It \Yas a
dream. You fell asleep over your work.'

CHAPTEE XXXI.

THE deer's well.

Gleans returned to Towau with the sapphire
for Eose. He went in search of her at once,
and found her in her own room. He was too
agitated to observe her mood.

'Eose,' he said; 'as I began life on this
day, I almost ended it. I have been nearer my
end than I ever was on any former occasion.
I owe my life to Dennis. Anthony let go the
rope, and I was being whirled down to death,
dien Dennis arrested it, and saved me. He
will not come in ; he is washing his hands at the
Deer's Well. He has torn and cut them. Take
him some rag. I will go to my mother. I do
not want her to know anything about it, and
Anthony is below.'

Eose looked at him with anxiety, and
trembled. He did not kiss her ; he hurried
away to his mother, afraid of Anthony Loveys

in his stupidity letting out the danger he had
been in.

Eose got some pieces of soft old rag, and a
bottle of Friar's balsam, and, without putting
on her hat or bonnet, went out through the old
deer paddock to the well. This well lay on
one side of the house, in a depression, with
old thorn trees growing about it, overruling
and plaiting their branches together like clasped
fingers across the spring. The well itself was
built up of grey lichened stones, and had originally
been gabled like that we have described
at Welcombe, but many of the stones were out
of place, and it was ruinous. Still, the trough
that received the water was sound and free
from fallen stones, and indeed from it most of
the water used in the house was derived. As
it was in a depression, those standing at the
well were invisible from the house, the roofs of
which and the chimney-tops could be seen at
the well, but no window commanded the Deer's
Well.

Eose hurried down the slope over the fresh
and springy turf, sown thick with daisy and
buttercup, and found Dennis on his knee at
the spring, holding his hands in the water to

VOL. IJ. L

arrest the blood and cleanse earthy particles
from the wounds.

She turned her face away as she held out
the balsam and the Une. ' Do not let me see
blood,' she said, ' or I shall faint. But tell me,
are you really very — very much hurt ? '

Dennis stood up, and taking the rags from
her hands, sopped them in balsam and fastened
them round his fingers where most cut and
abraded.

Nothing to signify,' he said. ' Perhaps
now that I have been hurt myself, I shall have
what I hitherto lacked, sympathy for sufferers.'

And you saved Gerans's life ! How I thank
you.'

'I saved my own at the same time. He
nearly dragged me over the edge of the cliff.
I cannot fasten this kerchief round my hand ;
would you object to do it.? You will see no
blood. The stains that you see on the wrapper
are those of balsam.'

He held out his right hand. The left was
bound up. He had put the white strips over
the palms and knuckles, but with the bound
left hand he was unable to knot them. Eose
took the ends, and drew the loose strips tighter.

Do I hurt yon ? ' she said, raising her blue
eyes to his face.

Yes, always. But I cherish my pain.'
His dark orbs met hers, and she dropped her
eyes hastily.

How pretty she was in her white dress,
gathered rather high, according to our modern
notions, below the bosom, and falling plain to
a set of frills of the same material as the dress,
at the bottom. About her neck was thrown a
forget-me-not blue kerchief, tucked into her
breast, where the gown was edged with a broad
double frill, like that on the skirt. Her golden
curly head was exposed to the full blaze of the
sun, which seemed to revel in the tangle of
burnished beautiful hairs, and produce flakes
and glints of light and colour among them.

Dennis's pulses beat. She looked so young,
so girlish, so slender and sweet — she could not
be regarded as a married woman, with that
childish, coquettish face, and those laughing
blue eyes, and the little compressed cherry-red
hips, that seemed made to laugh and kiss, and
could not express a serious thought, or quiver
with pain.

Her hands trembled, for she was nervous,

1,2

whilst tying the bandages. She felt that his
eyes were on her head.

It would have been well, perhaps,' said
Dennis, ' if we had both gone over the edge
together, Gerans and I, and so there had been
at once an end of two broken lives.'

Broken ! ' She glanced up surprised, caught
his deep look again, and resumed her work on
his hand, with her eyes on the rag.

Broken and miserable,' he said.

I know,' said Eose, ' that you have had
many disappointments, I know that you have
not been appreciated according to your merits,
and that you are unhappy, because disappointed
; but Gerans — why should you speak
of him as having a broken life ? '

Because, where he looked for happiness
he met with disappointment.'

Then the blood shot through every artery
of Eose's body, and crimsoned her face and
throat and temples. Her fresh lips tightened
and lost their cherry redness. She misunderstood
him. She thought he meant that Gerans
had loved Lovedayay, but had been unable to
marry her, perhaps because his father would
not permit it. He had taken herself because

old Hender Gaverock had ordered him ; but
he could not draw his heart away from Love-day,
therefore he was miserable, and his life
broken.

Penhalligan, who watched her intently, saw
the tumult in her soul, and misinterpreted it.
He thought that in it he saw an acknowledgment
that he was right. She did not love, she
did not even care for Gerans, to whom she was
totally linked. What had been her first words
on coming to him? Had she not spoken to
him of himself, and only afterwards of Gerans ?
To his passion-distorted mind, such a small
matter as this had its significance.

'Lovedayay ' began Eose, and then the

words died away on her lips. She trembled.
She let go the bandage, which was nov tied.
She did not look up, she clasped her hands before
her, and , watched the water that flowed,
away from the Deer's Well.

Lovedayay,' said Dennis, after a pause, ' Love-day
is going away. She leaves Nantsillan and
me for a twelvemonth.'

Lovedayay going ! ' exclaimed Rose in surprise,
and with a leap of her heart in pleasure.

Yes,' he answered. ' Lovedayay is going away

directly. You will not see her again for a
year.'

But — why ? — for what reason ? '

The Squire washes it. He has extorted
from her a promise that she will go.'

But why ? — tell me, why ? '

Squire Gaverock has his reasons. If he
has not mentioned them to you, it is not for me
to repeat them.'

Eose said no more. She stood, buried in
thought, and now there was no laughter in her
eyes, no dimples in her soft cheeks, little colour
in them, and the merry lips were agitated with
distress.

The Squire thought it best that she should
go. So do L'

And Gerans ? '

He was not consulted.'

She understood the reason of the banishment
of Lovedayay ; she could see all as clearly
as though she had been told everything. The
Squire had discovered, what was obvious to
her, that Gerans was still attached to Dennis's
sister ; therefore for Lovedayay's sake, for the
sake of Gerans, and of herself, Eose, he had
advised that she should go. Tien it was to be

hoped that, in her absence, Gerans would cease
to think of her, and that his heart would incline
to his wife.

It was unfortunate that Eose had not been
told of the marriage to Constantine. Gerans
had not confided it to her, because he did not
feel justified in doing so against the wishes of
Lovedayay, and when the old Squire heard of it,
Not a word to Eose,' he said, ' or her wagging
tongue will publish what I want to keep quiet.
I know women too well to entrust them with
secrets.'

Eose was hurt, and was incensed. The
tears welled up into her eyes, and her bosom
heaved fast ; but she tried to conceal her emotion
from Dennis, or, at least, to disguise the
occasion of it.

That is very hard upon you,' she said ;
what will you do without your sister, to keep
house for you ? '

I have had harder things to bear than
that,' said Dennis.

She was struggling with herself. She tried
hard to control her agitation ; but she was unaccustomed
to self-restraint.

When is Lovedayay going ? ' she asked,

with a fluttering mouth, and a voice full of
tears.

lu two clays — at latest. To-morrow if she
can. She has already written to her cousin at
Exeter to expect her.'

She put up her hands to her mouth, and
pressed her knuckles to her lips to arrest their
quivering.

There is that matter of the piano,' said
Dennis. ' Lovedayay undertook to repay the sum
you advanced upon it. She will be better able
to do so now than if she remained here. She
will look out for a situation in which she can
earn some money, a situation suitable for a
gentlewoman,' he explained.

Say nothing about that,' entreated Eose,
putting out her hand to \yave away all mention
of money. Then a great sob burst from her
bosom, and she gave way to a flood of tears.
I am so unhappy ! so unhappy ! ' she gasped,
to excuse this outbreak.

Instantly Dennis seized her hand, drew her
to him, clasped her in his arms, and kissed her
lips and weet cheeks, fiercely, passionately.

Eose recovered herself, and strove with him,
crying, 'Let go! Leave me!' flaming in her

cheeks, and drawing back. Then both heard
a cry. Dennis relaxed his grasp of her, and
both looking up, saw Lovedayay standing on the
path that descended to the well, standing as
one frozen.

Eose shook herself free and fled past Love-day,
without a word, and ran into the house, to
her own room, and locked herself in. Dennis
turned deadly white. ' Peeping, prying again ! '
he said ; ' I shall count the hours till I see your
back.' As he went by he thrust her from him
roughly, with a look so angry, so charged with
dislike, that Lovedayay covered her face and
moaned. She was too deeply wounded and
shamed to weep.

Lovedayay had come to Towan to see Mrs.
Gaverock and to break to her as gently as she
could her approaching departure. She knew
that the old lady would feel the loss of her
very keenly, and she was afraid of her hearing
that she was going from other lips than her
own. Whilst she was at Towan, Gerans told
her that her brother had cut his hands badly,
and was washing them at the Deer's Well.
Then, anxious to know the extent of his hurt,
she ran to find him, and arrived at the moment

when lie had clasped Eose to his heart and was
kissing her.

It was some time before she could sufficiently
recover herself to walk home, and then
a numbness was on her brain, and a chill at
her heart, such as no trouble had brought
heretofore.

When Eose was alone in her room, she
threw herself in a chair by her bed, laid her
hands folded on the bed and her face on her
hands, and wept long and convulsively. She
hardly knew what had happened, her brain
was in a whirl. But after an hour, when the
storm of her grief and shame had spent itself,
she was able to recollect all that had passed.
She poured water into her basin, and washed
her cheeks and lips, and rubbed them with the
towel till they smarted, to wipe away the taint
of Dennis's kisses. What must he think of her,
to dare thus to touch her ! What a low, vile
opinion he must have formed of her ! Her
anger boiled up. She — a married woman — to
be thus insulted! The sense of humiliation
burnt like fire in her heart, and called forth a
new and scalding rain. Gladly would she have
sacrificed all her jewelry — her pretty coral

necklet, her Woman pearl earrings, if only
thereby she could undo what had been done.
Never before had she been treated with such
indignity, and she hated the man who had
offended her. Should she tell Gerans? He
would be obliged to revenge the wrong done
her. She would do so. She would get the
Squire to turn Dennis out of the cottage as
well as Lovedayay. Then she thought that it
was no wonder she was shown disrespect when
she received scant courtesy from her own
husband. Whose fault was it that she had
met with this outrage? Whose but Gerans's,
who had shown Dennis and every one that he
would not fight her battles ? Whose but
Gerans's, who allowed it to be seen by all that
he had no love for his wife? Whose but
Gerans's, who was always deserting her to run
down to Nantsillan courting the society of his
old flame, Lovedayay ?

Then the current of her indignation turned
against the latter, for having witnessed her
humiliation. If only the insolence of Dennis
had been offered with no eye-witness to telltales,
it would have mattered less ; but that
there should have been a witness ! — and that

witness, Lovedayay ! A fresh flood of tears ran
over her burning cheeks.

Would she tell Gerans of the insolence of
Dennis ? No — she would not. He had not the
manhood in him to protect her ; why — in such
a matter as the riding of Phoebus, he had deserted
her, and left her vindication to Dennis.
Dennis at least had courage ; and if he loved
her, was proud to champion her. Dennis Pen-hall
egan had acted towards her very wrongly,
ut then — he loved her so intensely ! As for
Gerans, he did not love her at all. Dennis
had forgotten himself, and he would regret it.
Those regrets should be his punishment. He
would be ashamed to meet her again. How he
admired, worshipped, loved her ! She thought
of the night of the Goose Fair, and of the
declaration of his despair in the snow ! His
life had indeed been broken by the loss of
her. As for Gerans, he took everything easily.
Nothing disconcerted him for long.

When Eose descended to the hall and to
the parlour, she seated herself in the shade.
She had not the courage to meet the eyes of
her mother-in-law or of her husband. She
thought they must certainly read in her face

what had happened. Her cheeks burnt, and
her eyes were cast down, and she was very
silent. But neither Mrs. Gaverock nor Gerans
observed her condition ; and presently she reasoned
with herself that she had no occasion for
being ashamed, and sitting like a penitent ; she
had not encouraged Dennis to kiss her. When he
put his arm round her, she had bidden him let
go, and had striven to thrust him off. Why
should she feel compunction because a man noway
related to her had misconducted himself?

Eose ! ' said Mrs. Gaverock ; and at the
call Eose started from the study into which
she had fallen. 'Eose! are you aware that
this is Gerans's twenty-third birthday ? '

It had escaped me,' answered Eose.

Then — you have not wished him well ? '

I wish you,' said Eose, turning to her
husband, ' many happy returns of the day.'
She spoke without warmth.

Was that spoken in earnest or in sarcasm ? '
asked Gerans, fixing his eyes on her face entreatingly,
but doubtfully.

Take it which way you like,' she answered
with a shrug of her shoulders, stood up, and
left the room.

CHAPTER XXXII.

ANTHONY'S WOOING

Loved AY returned to Nantsillan, hardly able to
think, so stupefied was she by what she lead seen.
But she pressed her hands to her bosom, and
repeated to herself, ' I am glad I am going ! '

She had loved her brother so dearly, believed
in him so stoutly, encouraged him so
bravely, brightened his cloudy moods with so
sanguine a trust in Providence, that what had
occurred shook her soul to its depths. How
could she hope any more that Heaven would
smile upon her brother's efforts, and grant a
turn for the better in his prospects, when he
harboured a passion that was sinful ? She had
not believed him to be bad ; she had trusted
in his integrity. Now that trust was shaken
down. She was as despondent as Dennis, for
the grounds of her confidence and hope were
destroyed.

She saw little of him that evenings and next
day. He treated her with coldness, and held
her at a distance. She would like to speak to
him of what lay in her heart, but he allowed
her no opportunity. He kept away from the
house, as fearing she might speak ; and she, in
her mind, was doubtful whether a word from
her would avail, whether it might not aggravate
him to speak cruel words to her which
would mortally wound her loving soul.

She had much to occupy her, and this was
as well ; it took ofi* her thoughts from what
had happened. She had to pack her clothes,
and instruct little Euth what to do for her
master, and to find a woman who could come
in by day and char. Dennis left the whole
arrangement and provision with her. He acted
as though the house could go on as well without
her as with her presence.

In the morning of the day following — that
is, on Tuesday — Squire Gaverock looked in.

Good-morning, Lovedayay,' he said. ' I hear
you are going on Wednesday by the coach from
Wadebridge. That is right. When you've a
mind to do a thing, do it at once, as the cormorant
said when he swallowed a herriot

Gerans shall drive you over to meet
the coach. I reckon your brother's gig won't
hold your box, and he will be wanted tomorrow.
I hear that Reuben House is very ill
with inflammation, and Penhalligan can't be
spared a whole day to take you into Wade-bridge.'


'Thank you, Mr. Gaverock. I shall be
much obliged.'

Golly ! don't thank me. I pack you off,
and so must see you despatched. I've come
about that, and' — he shuffled his feet — 'I
suppose you ain't too proud to accept a present
from me. Mind you, it implies no recognition.
I must have time to digest what has been told
me, and make up my mind about it. A present
commits me to nothing, you understand.' He
crushed a couple of five-pound notes into her
hand, then hastily went on, to interrupt her as
she began to speak : ' Gerans had a near shave
of having every bone in his body broken yesterday.
I heard all about it from Anthony.
Your brother was nigh pulled over the cliffs as
well, for he clung on till Anthony was able to
lay hold. Well! a man's life on this coast,
what with winds and waves and rocks, is full

of venture. But that makes life the more enjoyable.'
Then suddenly, without giving Love-day
time to speak, he strode out of the door,
and climbed the steep path through the glen
to Towan moor.

The old Squire had spoken with more gentleness
than was usual for him, and there had
been a kindly look in his rough face. He was
thought to be a close and hard man about
money. For him to give her ten pounds
proved that she had made some way into his
regard. To part with it must have cost him a
strufT2;le.

Squire Gaverock had not been gone long
before the farmer's wife who supplied the 
with butter and milk appeared. She
was a rosy-faced, dark-haired, stout woman
named Josse — Jemima Josse.

Loramussy, Miss Lovedayay,' exclaimed she,
coming in, ' what be this us ha' heard ?
You're a going to leave us ! Loramussy, who
every ha' believed it ! '

Yes, Mrs. Josse,' said Lovedayay. ' I am
going away for a while, but only for a while.'

Folks do talk," observed Mrs. Josse.
There be no more stopping 'em than there be

VOL. II. M

a-stopping the waves from roaring and the sand
from shifting. Uncle Lackey were up to our
place about an hour ago, and says he, " Sure
Miss Lovedayay be going all along of your bill
for eggs and butter and the side o' bacon you
had back along to Cursemass." " No, never ! "
says I, but I thought I'd just run down and see.
If 't be, and it'll keep you. Miss, we'll halve
the bacon, and let the eggs and the milk stand
over to better times.'

No, Mrs. Josse ; I assure you it is not
that. I have the money all ready for you.'

Well now, I be glad o' that,' said the
Avoman. ' How folks can have the face to talk I
I've got my little bill in my pocket, made upto
the end o' the month ; that's the half year,
tacked on to the Cursemass account. If you'd
not mind settling all to once, as you can. But
if you can't, well, I'll say naught about it. It
shall stand over. Still, if once you do get to
a great town, there's no knowing what attractions
the beautiful things in the shop winders
may have on you, and you'll be spending the
money.'

I will pay you in full, Mrs. Josse.'

And,' said Jemima, ' I've made so bold,

Miss, as to bring you down a pound o' cream,
real Cornish cream, wi' a round o' brown bread
at top to keep it sweet, and make it travel
beautiful. Us have heard you're going to
Exeter, and my old man and me, us have
heard that they Devonshire folk do go and
brag as they can make cream, and calls it
Devonshire cream. How folks can be so
wicked and set up to be Christians, beats me.
But the world is joiner to destruction. It's all
prophesied. You'll accept the pound o' Cornish
cream, will you not, Miss, and let some
of the folks in Devon look at it, and taste it,
and may they never make so would as to call
their own rubbish cream again.'

When Jemima Josse was gone, an old
woman, bent with rheumatism, arrived, leaning
on a stick.

'Well, Mary Tregothnan,' said Lovedayay.
Come to see me before I leave ? '

Lord ! Miss, whatever shall us do without
y' ? ' asked old Mary. ' There be that
three yards o' red flannel you was so very
good as to give me last winter. I rolled 'n
round my body and sewed it on, and her do
give me a power of comfort. Whenever I goes

K 2

to cliurcb, and whenever I ses my prayers, I
be wearing tliicky (that) flannel, and the Lord
sees it, and I show 'n low good Miss Lovedayay
were to a poor body with rheumatics in her
bones. But, Miss, I 'sure you I've never had
thick bit o' flannel off to this day, and never
will till her drops off.'

Oh, Mary, surely '

My dear young teddy, if you knew the
comfort her be to my back ! But I reckon
you're going away, and mebbe won't be here
next winter. I'm that would, Miss, to bring
you a bottle of ketchup I made last fall. Her's
cruel good, and he'll keep a terrible longtime.'


Oh, thank you, thank you so much, Mary ! '

My dear ! if the flannel should go all into
holes about mee, afore you come back, it will
be a pity. I reckon you'll be too far away
to think on me next winter when it be cold
and I be took wi' the pains in my back, and
the flannel be wore as thin as muslin. But,
sure, whenever you take the ketchup you'll
mind old Mary Tregothnau and her bad back.'

The next to come was little Euth.

Please, Miss,' said the small maid, hoklino-

a pair of large mottled blue, green, and black
gull's eggs, ' my brother Jim have been scrambling
about the cliffs. He thought you'd like
to have some gull's eggs to show to the
foreigners inland in Devonshire. I reckon
they've never seen a gull's egg. But this bea
wrongs time for £setting; them o;ood, as all the
little 'uns be hatched out, so he were forced to
get two as was addled. If you'll shake them,
Miss, you'll hear how the trades washes about
inside. Jim sed they'd better not be blowed —
they wouldn't travel so well. But when you're
settled, Miss, please to make a hole at both
ends, and put your mouth to one, and blow as
hard as ever you can, and all the herds will
come out fast enough. And Jim sed as how
you was to be very fearful wi' them and fold
them up in your best silk gown, in the middle
of the box, for if they wos to break — there'd
be a speech ! ' (smell).

Oh, thank you, Euth, and thank Jim so
much for me ! '

And, please, Miss, Jim sed I wos to tell
you that if you heard of a situation with a
nobleman as gamekeeper, he'd take it very kind
if you'd put in a word for him.'

The next to come was the captain of a slate
quarry in the parish, with a pot of honey in
one hand, and a slab of slate under the other
arm.

Why, Miss Penhalligan ! ' said Captain
Davie, ' this is a disaster indeed, that us is to
lose you. I don't believe as there be nobody
in the parish will be missed more than you.
Not that folks sees so much of you. You've
your duties at home, but when you do visit 'em,
they vallies your visits as those of angels. As
for my wife, her be that took on, her have so
thought about your going that it have give
lier the colic, and her can't come up and see
yourself as herd have liked. So I've a-come
instead. I do assure you. Miss, us have cried
in the night thinking you was going.' He began
to sniff and wipe his eyes and nose. ' And
now I've made that daring bold to bring you
up a little present of a pot of honey. It come
from a virgin swarm, took last fall, and beautiful
and clear now as when it was ruined out
of the comb. Lord ! sure I've shocked the
pot in coming, and the cover be a bit busted,
and the honey be running down the side. But,
Miss, the pot will travel well enough if you put

it at the bottom of your box under the clothes,
and write on the cover of your box, in big
letters, " This side uppermost." '

How good, how kind you are ! ' exclaimed
Lovedayay, with the tears in her eyes also.

And, Miss,' continued the captain, producing
the great slate and placing that also on
the table, ' if I might be so bold as to ask a
favour, would you mind taking this here sample
of our slate with you, and if when you're
about travelling you hear any talk of slate,
would you kindly show This sample, and ring
it, and let folks see the colour, and recommend
my quarry.'

So Lovedayay was left with a pot of cream in
dog days, sure to become sour ; a medicine
bottle of ketchup, stopped with an old castor-oil
cork that did not lit, and was so oily that
it would not keep in ; two addled gull's eggs,
a pot of honey running over the side, and a
slab of slate, to add to the rest of her property ;
and she was too sensible of the kindness shown
her, and too conscientious, to leave any of these
articles behind.

The affection and generosity of the good
people touched her. She saw nothing of the

selfishness that spiced their kindness ; she saw
the kindness alone. That the Squire had given
lier ten pounds to help to be rid of her, and
that the farmer's wife had come down to get
her money if she could, and that Mary wanted
another three yards of flannel, and Jim a good
situation, and Captain Davie an extension of
custom, through her, was either unnoticed by
her, or was not regarded as in any way derogating
from the kindness of the people in
making their presents.

But these were not the only visitors Love-day
had, interrupting her at her packing.

Whilst she was engaged, in the afternoon,
in securing the honey with a cover of oiled
paper, she was called away by the arrival of
Madam Loveys and Anthony, her son.

Why ! ' exclaimed the lady, looking round
her, and taking observations of everything in
the room, ' what is the meaning of this. Miss
Penhalligan ? Going to leave us ! The news
only reached me this morning. Cook told me
when I was ordering dinner. I prevented Anthony
going out boating this afternoon, and
have made him put on his best clothes, and
have brought him over.'

What Anthony had to do with this was not
clear.

Why arc you going ? ' asked Madam .
'No one goes away without a reason. What
is your reason ? '

'There are several reasons,' said Lovedayay,
One is that I want to relieve my brother from
a little expense, and I intend to earn some
money if I may with my services.'

Any situation in view ? '

No, Mrs. Loveys, none.'

Umph ! '

Then from young Anthony, ' Go out,
Toby ! Get out, you rascal ! ' addressed to a
terrier who had come in and was jumping
about him.

The dog will do no harm here,' said 
' Let me get him a bit of biscuit.'

No, please,' said Madam. ' We have rules.
The dogs are not fed in the house, and the dog
ought not to come in. Turn out Toby, Anthony.'


Then ensued a series of efforts on the part
of Anthony to get the dog out. Toby went
under the table, and would not leave, though
his master adjured him. At last young Anthony

slipped out at the door, and kneeling down
began to scratch with his fingers on the step.
Toby, thinking the noise proceeded from rats,
went out to ascertain. But directly he saw his
master, he darted back into the hall again.

Never mind the dog,' said Lovedayay.

But I do mind. Miss Penhalligan,' said
Madam. ' Rules are rules. If it were not
that this floor is slated, Toby would not have
dared to intrude. How are you going ? '

The Squire has very kindly offered to have
me driven to Wadebridge, where I shall take
the coach to Bodmin, and from Bodmin, by
Launceston, I shall go by coach to Exeter.'

Umph ! '

• I hope Mr. Loveys is well ? '

Oh, nothing ever ails him but gout. I
think, Anthony, if Miss Penhalligan will allow
you to seduce Toby into the kitchen, you might
shut him in there, and run round, and in again
by the front of the house.'

This manoeuvre was executed, but with only
partial success. The dog was, indeed, beguiled
into the kitchen, but he created such terror in
Euth, by jumping up on her and snapping at
her nose and the flaps of her white cap, that

Mrs. Loveys was obliged to open the door and
call Toby back into the hall. He at once returned,
and beo:an smelling? round the room for
rats.

Where are you going to in Exeter ? ' asked
Madam, reseating herself.

I am going to my cousin till I hear of
something.'

How long will that be ? '

Loved ay could not tell.

Have you had this idea long in your head ?
Eeally, Anthony, that Toby is unendurable.
What is he about now ? '

There are rats there, I reckon,' said Anthony.
The terrier was on one side scratching
furiously in the corner, uttering sharp barks.

I think he smells the cake in my cupboard,'
said Lovedayay, rising ; ' he shall be given a bit.'

Upon my word, Anthony, I will not bring
you out with me again if you cannot keep Toby
in order.' Mrs. Loveys stood up hastily and
arrested Lovedayay. ' No, Miss Penhalligan, not
in the room. Toby ! Toby ! Give me the piece
of saffron cake, Miss Penhalligan. I will decoy
the dog out of the house, and keep him there
a while, and leave Anthony.'

Then Madam Loveys walked in a stately
manner out of the door, holding up a piece
of yellow plumage, whilst Toby danced , and
jumped, and barked round her, and tumbled
over, picked himself up, and jumped again.

Lovedayay reseated herself.

Toby is but a pup,' said Anthony.

Then ensued a silence. Lovedayay looked
to the door, expecting the return of Mrs.
Loveys.

Mamma is walking about with Toby,' explained
Anthony. ' She won't be in for some
minutes.'

Another silence ensued.

Are you fond of dogs ? ' asked young
Loveys.

I never had one to care for,' answered the
young lady. ' Would you like a piece of cake ?
Very plain.'

Thank you,' answered Anthony, ' I can
always eat cake,'

Perhaps you would like a little cream on
top of it,' said Loveda}^. ' Mrs. Josse has been
so very kind as to send me a pot, but I really
do not think it will keep till I reach Exeter.
Let me find you a spoon and a plate.'

Thank you,' answered Anthony. ' Plum
cake is terrible good with cream.'

Then ensued another pause, of long duration,
during which young Loveys heaped the
clotted cream on his cake as thickly as it would
stand, and conveyed it to his mouth, not, however,
without dropping some on the floor, which
he covered with his foot.

I hope you find it good,' said Lovedayay.

'Terrible,' answered Anthony, and helped
himself to more.

Then Madam Loveys was visible, passing
the window and looking in. Also Toby came
to the door, stood on the threshold, looked at
Anthony and at Lovedayay, shook his ears, and
went back to Madam. At the sight of the
dog young Loveys concealed the cake and
cream, lest Toby should exact a share.

Toby ! how are they getting on ? ' asked
Madam Loveys without, quite audibly to those
within.

Young Anthony grew red, pushed the cream
from him, and said, ' Don't you eat any? '

Not now, thank you,' answered Lovedayay.

A long pause. Anthony coughed, and
crossed his feet. Then coughed again, disunited

his feet, and recrossed them, the foot below on
the former occasion being placed uppermost on
this.

Mrs. Loveys again swept past the door and
window. Anthony, as though stimulated by
the sight of his mother to say something, remarked,
' Toby's tail is cut too short to be beautiful,
I think, and his ears ain't cut at all. They
don't congrue.'

I don't see why dogs' tails should be cut,'
said Lovedayay.

'Oh, of course, they must be cut.'

Why ? '

Because, you see, they always are cut.'

'Always?'

Depends, of course, on the sort of dog.'

Madam Loveys now stood in the doorway ;
she said, ' Well, Anthony ? ' in a tone of query.

Well, mother,' answered the young man ina
tone of assurance.

Then Madam Loveys resumed her walk.

Will not Mrs. Loveys come in and sit
down ? ' asked Lovedayay.

Oh no, not yet, till we've settled about it.'

Settled about what ? ' inquired the young
lady, somewhat puzzled.

Oh, you know. All that sort of thing.
You know.'

A pause. Then Anthony got up, went to
the door, and called his mother. She appeared
at once with Toby. The dog dashed in, became
at once aware that some eating had been
going on, span about the floor after crumbs,
lapped up the spilt cream, and insisted on more,
jumping about the table, and sniffing and yelping.


All right, mother,' said Anthony. ' She
understands.'

Glad to hear it. So he has asked you ? '
said Mrs. Loveys, addressing Lovedayay.

I beg your pardon,' said the latter, colouring.
' Mr. Anthony has asked me nothing. I
asked him why dogs' tails were cut, and have
not yet had a satisfactory answer.'

There, Anthony, you never can be trusted.
Sit down Miss Penhalligan.' Lovedayay had risen
when ]vii's. Loveys entered. ' I must speak for
him. Anthony will have plenty to live on, but
he must have a wife with a head on her shoulders,
and I have fixed on you. You are so excellent,
and so kind and generally beloved, so
prudent and sensible, that I think you will do

very well for Anthony ; his father and I have
the greatest pleasure in saying so.'

Loveclay was too astonished to speak.

Anthony is not a bad fellow. He is dough
to be moulded. A woman with wits will make
something out of him.'

My dear Mrs. Loveys,' said Lovedayay, greatly
moved, ' this is kind and flattering of you. I
had not an idea. It is so unexpected. I had
not the remotest '

There is no immediate hurry,' said Madam.
Turn the proposal over. Good Heavens !
Puff! piss!'

Toby had leaped on the table to get at the
cream and cake, and had upset the gull's eggs
on the slate floor. An immediate retreat into
the open air was necessary.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

FAREWELL.

The last to emerge from the cottage was Anthony,
who said, with a sense of pride, ' I have
put the cream out of the reach of the dog.
Toby is very fond of cream.'

My dear Miss Penhalhgan,' said Mrs. Loveys,
standing on the doorstep, ' we are quite
of one mind in this. Nothing could be better
for Anthony. Though he is my son, I say it,
he is a good boy. There is no vice in him, and
his constitution is sound. He has had measles,
chicken-pox, whooping-cough, and ringworm,
and got through and out of all bravely. He
has been vaccinated, and it took beautifully.
What more could you desire ? We do not wish
to hasten you to a decision, but desire that you
will bear our proposal in mind, mark and inwardly
digest it.'

Mrs. Loveys, Mr. Anthony ! ' said Love-vol.

II. N

day, looking from one to the other ; ' you must
not think me ungrateful for the great honour
and kindness you have shown me, but '

There can be no buts in the case,' said Mrs.
Loveys ; ' it commends itself to my mind as
admirable, and Mr. Loveys quite agrees with
me. As Anthony is so flexible, it is most important
that he should be put in the hands of a
woman with a character and will of her own.
He has, or will have, quite sufficient means.
After his father's death he will be well off. We
have put our heads together, and weighed a
good many girls one against another, and we
have decided on you for our daughter-in-law.'

I cannot — I cannot, indeed,' protested
Lovedayay, tearfully. ' You are very good. I
shall never forget your goodness, but — it cannot,
indeed, be.'

Hoity toity ! ' exclaimed Madam. ' No
can't and shan't with me. What I have
settled shall be. I was a Gaverock, and though
I have changed my name by marrying Loveys,
still, bone and muscle and fat and flesh, I am
Gaverock still. Come Anthony ! Come Toby !
Pah ! I have the smell of those addled eggs in
my nose still.'

My dear Mrs. Loves

dear Miss Penlialligan, leave everything
to me. I am a manager. There — we
will say no more about this matter at present.
Let it stand to settle. It will do Anthony good
to have the cloud lang over him, ready to fall
when we summon it to descend. Stay, my
dear ; I saw an advertisement in " The Light
of the West " that may suit you. I will send it
to Towan to-night, and you shall have it in the
morning. One of the Towan maidens is at our
house, and she will carry it back.'

Oh, Mrs. Loveys, dear, kind Mrs. Loveys !
I cannot express to you all — do not think me
unfeeling, ungrateful. I will write to you from
Exeter.'

'Very well, do so. Let us hear of your
safe arrival and prospects. I will put a pencil
mark against the advertisement. It may or it
may not suit you. It may be already filled, or
it may be still vacant. Come along, Anthony I
come along, Toby ! Anthony, you awkward
fellow, are you going away without saying
good-bye to Miss Penlialligan, whom you may
not see for many months.? Good-bye, Miss
Lovedayay ; you have my best wishes, and — oh !

N 2

I must not forget — here is a little brooch I
have brought you, rather pretty, of spiral gold
work, with an enamel view of the Staunch in
the middle — a scene in the Alps. You will
keep it as a remembrancer of me ; and when
you look at that you will think of my proposal
for Anthony. Now then, Toby ! Come along,
Anthony ! '

When the Loveys' party was gone, Lovedayay
sat for a few minutes in the unfurnished parlour,
whilst little Euth wiped up the mess made
by the broken eggs.

Poor Euth was sore distressed at their
going scott ' on the floor ; and Lovedayay Alas
obliged to simulate great disappointment as
well, and to beg that she might be given two
more gull's eggs next spring, when they would
be fresh, not addled.

Lovedayay was obliged to sit quiet for a while
to review the proposal made to her. She could
not accept it.

It was very kind of Mrs. Loveys, she
thought; she had not conceived the smallest
ambition in that direction. Were she to become
Mrs. Anthony, she would be in a position of
considerable social advantage — she would have

an excellent home and handsome fortune to dispose
of ; that it would assist her brother greatly
she was aho aware, but, notwithstanding all the
advantages, it was a proposal she could not
entertain. She shook her head. No, it was as
she had told Mrs Loveys, a thing that could
not be. She resolved not to say anything about
it to Dennis ; indeed, not to any one. If the
Loveys liked to speak about it, they might ; but
lie resolved to write from Exeter to tell Mrs.
Loveys that she refused the offer definitely. It
would be easier to write than to speak her
refusal. It would be more likely to be taken
as final when written.

Lovedayay again thought of the kindness of
all who had come to see her that day, and
again forgot that every one of her visitors lead
come, not only to give, but also to take.

She could not allow herself much time for
her thoughts. She had too much to do. She
had promised Mrs. Gaverock to run up in the
afternoon and say good-bye to her. The afternoon
was wearing on. She put on her bonnet
and took her way to To wan. Lie must also
part with Eose, and she doubted how to do so
after yesterday. In her sweet, innocent heart.

she could not believe that Eose had given
Dennis any encouragement ; she was sure that
the kisses had been taken by violence. She felt
that Eose must be full of indignation against
Dennis, and she herself felt that, as the sister of
the man who had offered the insult, some of
the anger of the injured woman must overflow
upon her. Knowing what she did, having seen
the insult offered, and knowing also that Eose
knew her to have witnessed it, the meeting
between them must be awkward, and their
conduct towards each other restrained ; indeed,
Lovedayay told herself that she would not venture
to look up and meet Eose's eye. That incident
of yesterday had covered Lovedayay with humiliation
and stained her brow with shame.

The parting of Mrs. Gaverock with Lovedayay
was tender; the old lady had, however, the
great consolation of hope that on Lovedayay 's
return it would be as her acknowledged
daughter-in-law. She had not much confidence
in her own influence with Hender Gaverock,
but she could do something. She saw, moreover,
that the old Squire was becoming daily
more irritated against Eose, who was insubordinate,
and who was unwilling or incapable of

taking the management of ' the maidens,' whose
turbulence, thoughtlessness, and neglect were
as vexatious to the old man now that Eose was
at the head of the house as Avhen she was away
on her honeymoon. Eose had the key of the
store-room, but forgot to give out supplies, and
went for a ride on Phoebus with the key in
her pocket. The Squire discovered that ' the
maidens ' were gravitating one and all to the
stables, to laugh and romp with the groom and
coachman, and that, accordingly, the men did
their work imperfectly. The bread was undertake,
the potatoes were boiled without salt,
the beds were made with a strip of blanket to
tease the feet when thrust to the bottom, the
coal-cellar was left unlocked, and tracks of
dropped fragments indicated the road to all the
neighbouring cottages except Nantsillan. Now
and then old Gaverock, with exhausted patience,
rushed in among ' the maidens ' and
gave them all notice to quit, scaring and scattering
them, squalling and chattering, as a
paper kite sent up over a rookery scares and
scatters the clamorous rooks. But no improvement
was effected by his interference ; either
the same maidens came back on their own

terms, or raw, ignorant hands were imported,
who smashed the crockery, stood on one foot
with their hands in their pockets when addressed
by their mistress, and sent in the plates and
tumblers smeared and thumbed. Occasionally
before her marriage, Eose had interfered,
and had spasmodically made herself useful ;
but she did nothing well for long, she tired
rapidly of self-imposed tasks, and when the
tasks became duties she was reluctant to
acknowledge them as such. Mrs. Gaverock
foresaw that, before the twelvemonth was out,
the Squire would send for Lovedayay, acknowledge
her as a Gaverock, and make her his
housekeeper. She Alas so confident of this that
she smiled through her tears as she bade
Lovedayay good-bye, and threw her gold chain
round her neck, and bade her keep her pretty
gold watch as a remembrance of Towau.

Eose was not in the parlour with her
mother-in law, but as Lovedayay left she saw her
in the hall. With downcast eyes the latter
approached Eose, and said, ' Good-bye, I am
off tomorrow, and shall not see you again fora
twelvemonth.'

I am sure you will have a very pleasant

drive to Wadebridge tomorrow,' said Eose,
with sarcasm in her tone. She had been told
that Gerans was to take Lovedayay to the coach.
Lovedayay raised her timid eyes with surprise,
and dropped them again.

'I hope you will have a satisfactory absence,'
said Eose, holding out her hand, and
touching that of Lovedayay with the tips of her
lingers. ' You have my best wishes.' With a
cold, distant bow she left the room.

Miss Penhalligau, hurt, though she had not
expected cordiality, walked back to Nantsillan
more sad at heart than she had been before that
day. She found Dennis returned. He asked
where she had been, and she told him she had
said farewell to Mrs. Gaverock and Eose at
Towan. He said nothing more than that he
was going out again to see Reuben House.

When Lovedayay had left, Eose composed her
face and went into the parlour to her mother-in-law,


'My dear,' said Mrs, Gaverock, 'I hear a
noise from the kitchen ; it penetrates even
here, though there is a six-foot stone wall between.
The sound is that of the maidens
talking together. I suspect they are all chattering,

whereas Mary ought to be ironing in
the laundry ,and Anne milking in the townhouse,
and Susan drawing down the blinds upstairs,
and Betty getting the tea-things ready, and
Priscilla Availing up in the back kitchen, and
Gentler preparing the pie for supper or peeling
the potatoes. Would you kindly look into the
kitchen. Hark ! I hear men's voices. I think
that possibly the gardener, and the coachman,
and the stable-boy, and one or two of the
labourers may be there as well.'

Eose went out, and for a minute there was a
lull in the buzz of voices that made its way
even through a six-foot wall. Directly Eose
left the kitchen it recommenced louder than
ever.

Yes,' said she, returning to Mrs. Gaverock,
the men were there, drinking cyder and eating
hunches of currant cake. They had come for
their milk, they said. It is my belief that they
are given fresh milk instead of scalded.'

Verj^ likely,' said Mrs. Gaverock. ' I wish,
Eose, you would look after matters a little more.
I cannot ; I did it when I was able. I would
do it now, if I could.'

I was not brought up to it,' answered

Eose ; ' my follies lead a housekeeper, and I
am ignorant of the smallest matters of housekeeping.'


That is unfortunate ; someone must take
file management of an establishment such as
this.'

Besides,' said Eose, ' I don't like it.'

We cannot always do what we like. We
have duties to perform, as well as pleases to
distract us.'

I do not see it. We are rich enough to
have a woman here who can look after the
maids and serve out stores.'

My dear,' said Mrs. Gaverock, confidentially,
' 1 am in hopes of getting our Lovedayay
here eventually, in the house, and then she
shall have the keys and the control of everything.
That is my scheme.'

Eose flushed angrily.

Indeed ! Set her over me ; take from me
my proper authority ! Let her plant her feet
on my neck ! '

My dear,' exclaimed Mrs. Gaverock, ' I do
not understand you. Just now you said that
you wanted a person here to relieve you of
irksome obligations.'

A hired servant, yes. I won't have Love-day
in the house ; if she comes, I shall leave it.'

Mrs. Gaverock looked at her out of her
faded eyes with astonishment.

You are incomprehensible to me, Eose ;
there is not a more suitable person than Love-day.
I thought you were devoted to her.'

I do not want to have her installed here ina
position of authority over me.'

She would not be in authority.'

'Yes, she would. If I wanted squab pie
some day, she would answer, " Can't have it, I
have ordered neck of mutton." I do not like
neck. I never did like it. Besides, there are
other reasons.'

What ? '

Eose was silent.

Come here, and sit by me on the sofa,' said
Mrs. Gaverock. ' You are one of the family.
There is no reason why you should be kept in
the dark any longer. You shall be told all.'

Then Mrs. Gaverock confided to Eose the
story of Constantine's secret marriage to Love-day.


My husband,' she went on, ' knew nothing
about it till last Sunday, and then he was very

angry. He lias ordered Lovedayay to go away,
whilst he makes up his mind whether to recognise
her as a Gaverock or not.'

Eose hung her head, and covered her face
with both her hands. She was ashamed of her
jealousy. Now she understood why Gerans
had made so much of Lovedayayayay ; why Lovedayayayay
deserved much attention. Now she comprehended
the force of Lovedayay 's words that evening
that she had been with her at Nantsillan,
when she had said, ' Gerans is nothing, can be
nothing more to me, than a kind and trusted
brother.'

Lovedayay was her sister-in-law, a cruelly
injured sister-in-law, denied recognition by the
old tyrant Squire, when she had a right to
exact it. She had been unfairly treated by
Constantino. Why had not Gerans stood up
for her? Eose answered herself indignantly,
Because he is a coward, he feared his father.'
Then in her impetuosity, acting on the sudden
revulsion in her feelings, inconsiderate in this,
as in all things, conscious only that she had not
parted from Lovedayay with the affection that
was her due, regardless whether it were well
for her, after the event of yesterday, to go to

the house of Dennis Penhalligan, she threw on
her bonnet and shawl, and ran down to ,
sprung into the hall, and cast her arms
round Lovedayay, crying and laughing and kissing
her and calling her by every available
endearing term.

Oh, Lovedayayayay, dear Lovedayayayay, you must forgive
me if I was cold to you just now. The —
the servants were bothering me. I wish you
would come and take the management out of
my hands.'

She was ashamed to admit her jealousy, so
she gave a false excuse.

I thought, I thought,' said Lovedayay, timidly,
speaking in a tremulous, low tone, ' that you
were angry with me because ' she hesitated,
caught her breath, as her heart fluttered,
because of what my brother did, because he
so forgot himself yesterday. Oh, dear Eose,
do forgive him ! If you love me at all, do
forgive and forget this offence,'

I took the rags to the well because my
husband told me to do so,' explained Eose.
'He said that Mr. Penhalligan had torn his
hands badly, and that they were bleeding.'

Forgive him this once, Eose,' pleaded

Lovedayay, earnestly. ' Tell no one of his impertinence,
and he will, I trust, never forget
himself again. It is, I dare say, hard for you
to pardon him. I can understand your indignation,
but great excuse is to be made for
Dennis. I may tell you now, though my mouth
was sealed before, that he loved you, very, very
much. I think he cared more for you than for
any person or anything the world contains. My
brother has a very strong nature, and he feels
very strongly. He has had to put great control
on himself; and then, when he was excited,
and fevered, just recovered from the brink of
destruction, thrilled in every nerve, and fired
with the pain of his wounds, you will allow
there is some little excuse to be made for him.
I am sure — I am sure Dennis will never so for
forget himself as to commit such an indiscretion
again . You will — you will forgive ? '

Very well, Lovedayay,' answered Eose, with
great magnanimity, ' as you ask it I will pass
this affront over. I can refuse you nothing.
Otherwise ' She did not finish her sentence,
but assumed an indignant and injured
look.

Dennis Penhalligan saw Eose leave the

cottage. She did not see him. He watched
her, and he thought, ' I have not offended her.
Had my conduct yesterday been regarded as
an unpardonable affront, she would not have
come to my cottage in the evening. Why
should she come ? She had already said farewell
to Lovedayay. She comes to show me that
I am forgiven.'

CHAPTEE XXXIV.
p. F.'

Gerans drove Lovedayay to Wadebridge next
day, and saw her and her box safe into and on
the coach. Lovedayay was silent and tearful when
she started. She was leaving home, a small
home and a humble one — still it was home.
This was the second time her home had been
broken up. The first time was on the death of
her mother, this was on the death of her confidence
and belief in her brother. Dennis had
turned on her, who had loved him with such
tender devotion, and had spurned her from
him. Nautsillan could never be to her a home
again ; when she returned, perhaps she would
be recognised by Squire Gaverock as a connection,
perhaps not. Either way it mattered little
to her ; Nantsillan could not be home, because
the mutual love and trust which make a home
had gone, and would never return the same.

VOL. II.

Gerans did not attempt to comfort her, he
allowed her to cry her heart's first sorrow
away ; he was kind and pitiful. Only when
he thought her grief was abating did he speak,
and bid her hope for the best, and always rely
on this, that at Towan there were those who
loved her and who would love to hear tidings
of her, to whom good news of her would bring
the best of pleasure and bad news would afford
acutest sorrow. 'Whatever my father may
decide, Lovedayay,' he said, in a kind tone, ' remember
that I am your brother. Whether he
acknowledge you or not, I am honoured and
proud to look to you as bound to me b}^
kinship.' Then in a sad voice, full of humility,
I'm but a poor sort of a fellow, and am thankful
to have one to hold by whom all can
respect.'

Lovedayay looked at him, touched by his
kindness, but surprised at the diffident tone.
Gerans, strong, hale, handsome ; a young squire,
with a beautiful young wife. What right had
he to speak doubtfully of himself? She was
unable to see into his heart. His confidence in
himself was rudely shaken. His wife did not
love him. The reason was to be sought in

himself, and he was conscious now, for the first
time, of his own shortcomings.

Strangely, as he became aware that Eose
did not care for him, his love for her became
more articulate. It had been inchoate. He
had liked her greatly, was attached to her in a
dreamy, indistinct way, till he discovered that
she had no love for him ; then, but not till then,
did his love become distinct, ardent — a passion.
Lovedayay saw that his open, pleasant face was
clouded, and then it struck her that this arose
from more than distress at her departure. She
was far too humble-minded to imagine that the
loss of such an insignificant person as herself
could disturb the bright sky of the young
Squire of To wan.

I hope, Gerans, you have had nothing to
vex you,' she asked with some tremor, for lie
thought it just possible Eose might have spoken
to him of the behaviour of Dennis.

He sighed. ' I have nothing very special,'
he said. He was so upright, so transparently
truthful, that he could not endure to say what
was not strictly true, so he corrected himself.
I should not have said that. " The heart



knoweth its own bitterness, and a stranger
intermeddle not with its joy," ' he said.

I am not a stranger,' said Lovedayay, gently ;
and the text speaks of the stranger not intermeddling
with joy. The full heart is better if
It can overflow into that of a friend — a sister.
You have said I am a sister.' He shook his
head, and whipped the horse.

You, dear Lovedayay, do not know what a
tumble down it is to one who thought himself
great things to find he is a poor fool. The
cock has crowed on the dunghill very loud till
the day that the nightingale sang, and then he
discovered he was only a dunghill fowl, and
hid his head.'

'What hand has made you fall? What
voice has sung and made you droop your
wings ? '

He did not answer her, but looked straightaway
to the horizon. ^

After a while, she saw him put up his whip
hand to his eyes, and draw the back across
them.

Gerans,' she said gently, in her soft entreating
tones, ' tell your sister what is the trouble
in your heart.'



Loveclay, you know Eose hotter than anyone
else.'

I think so. A ghi understands a girl, and
a man understands a man.'

Yes,' he said. ' I do not think Eose loves
me. That is, truly spoken, I know she does
not. You see, she was but a child when I asked
her to be mine, and even now she is but a little
over nineteen. We waited over her nineteenth
birthday to be married. What is a boy of
eighteen or nineteen ? He is only a boy, wayward,
unstable, not knowing his own mind. A
girl is the same. I dare say Eose thought there
was more in me than there is. I never came
up to Constantine in parts. He was in compound
abstraction before I got out of low division.'

I am sure you are mistaken,' said Lovedayay,
gravely.

No, I am not,' answered Gerans ; ' in these
matters the heart is very keen sighted.'

Gerans,' said Lovedayay ; ' do not be cast
down without occasion. I know Eose intimately.
Yesterday she said good-bye to me
with such coldness that I was very unhappy,
and an hour after she ran down to Nantsillan,
and lugged and kissed me and cried ; and she

told me she loved me most dearly. Do you
know wliy she was cold before ? She told me
because she was worried about the servants.
She changes her mood, not because she is capricious,
but because she can only think of one
thing at a time.' He shook his head.

She has been growing colder and colder
towards me.'

Do not be discouraged. Be kind and attentive
to her. Do not reproach her, bear with
her. As you say, she is a child. Perhaps she
has not yet loved you with ardour — that will
come with time, as the seriousness of life impresses
itself upon her. She has something of
the butterfly in her yet. The ants are given
wings for one day to find a home, and when
they have found it, they bite off their wings
with their own teeth, and settle for life. Eose
has but just come to her home, and her shiny,
beautiful, rainbow wings are quivering in the
sweet air and pure sunshine ; do not be impatient,
wait — wait, and she will tear them off with her
own hands.'

Gerans's face lightened. It was a pleasure to
see the shadow glide away.

A woman,' continued Lovedayay, ' is a

creeper ; lie must cling to the post to which she
is tied, it is her nature to do so.'

Gerans laughed. ' A very wooden post is
that to which my blush Eose is bound.'

One very strong,' said Lovedayay, quickly,
smiling also, ' and sound to the core.'

Here Ave are at Wadebridge,' said Gerans ;
and now, before I forget it, I have in my pocket
a paper which my aunt Loveys sent up to our
house to be given to you. She says that she
has marked with red ink the passage about
which she spoke to you,'

He fumbled in his pocket, and produced
the newspaper, and gave it to Lovedayay, who,
without looking at it, put it in her reticule.

I shall have abundance of time in the coach
for looking at the news and reading the advertisements,'
she said.

He handed her from the light cart, and
helped the ostler to convey her box to the
coach, which was already standing in front of
the inn, and the horses were being put in.

The box was hauled to the top of the coach,
and strapped down. Lovedayay stepped into the
coach. She was the only passenger inside.

You have not far to go before you change,'

said Gerans at the window. ' At Bodmin you
get into another coach which will convey you
to Launceston, where you sleep the night. You
will travel tomorrow to Exeter. Here, Love-day,
is a little basket of provisions, a roast
chicken and some cold eggs and some cake, my
mother sends you, and a little bottle of wine.
I am so ashamed, I alone have nothing for you
but my best, best wishes, dear sister. God be
with you.'

Your best wishes — I prize nothing higher.'
She took his hand, and leaning through the
window lightly kissed his cheek.

God bless you, dear Gerans. Be sure of
this — whatever clouds and showers you pass
through, that true honest heart will lead you at
last to great happiness.'

Gerans pressed her hand. ' I accept your
words,' he said, ' as the message of an angel.'

Then the driver cracked his whip this way,
that way, when round went the wheels — clatter,
clatter, went the horses' hoofs on the boulder
pavement ; a white handkerchief was waved out
of the coach window, and Gerans stood, with
his hat in his hand, signalling after it.

Then the four horses swung round a corner,

and the scarlet-bodied coach lurched after them ;
and Gerans saw Lovedayay no more.

The distance from Wadebridge to Bodmin
is but seven miles ; Lovedayay sat back and
allowed her tears to flow unrestrained because
unobserved. Her talk with Gerans had done
her good, she had been able to clear away a
trouble that oppressed him. She spoke to him
in great sincerity ; she understood Eose better
than Rose understood herself. She could not
believe that Eose was untrue to her husband,
even in thought, but she quite believed that her
heart had not yet been roused to love and value
Gerans as he deserved.

She knew well that one cause, if not the
chief cause of Eose's dissatisfaction was her
husband's submission to his either. Lovedayay
had not spoken on this matter to Gerans, because
he had not alluded to it ; but if he had done so,
she would have counselled him to continue as
heretofore. The caprice of a girl must not turn
him against the mature determination of an
experienced man, Gerans must think for himself,
and if, which was most sure, Eose opposed
the old Squire out of empty fancy, out of a spirit
of perversity, he must not take his wife's side.

This would displease her at first, but after a
while she would admit that he had acted aright.

Lovedayay was so confident in the rectitude of
Gerans that she did not regret not having given
him advice on this point. His o^vn conscience
would be his best adviser, other counsel was
superfluous.

At Bodmin, Lovedayay got a seat inside the
Launceston and Exeter coach only through the
courtesy of a gentleman, who had secured an
inside seat, but vacated it for her, and went
outside.

The day was so fine, the air so exhilarating,
that she had little compunction in accepting his
offer, and assurance that he preferred a place on
the top.

About an hour after leaving Bodmin, as the
scenery was uninteresting, and she desired to
turn her thoughts away from Nantsillan and
Towan for a while, Lovedayay opened her reticule,
and drew forth the paper sent her by Mrs. Loveys.
It was a small badly-printed sheet, with a print,
rude and blotty, of a lighthouse on the top.
Under this woodcut was the title, ' The Light of
the West.' It was a religious paper for Sunday
reading. As Lovedayay unfolded it, her eye was

caught by a score of red ink against an advertisement.
She looked at the paragraph indicated,
and read as follows :

'Wanted, immediately, a gentlewoman by
birth and education, to be the companion of a
young married lady, with a child, an infant ; to
assist in the management of the house, and the
care of the child. Remuneration liberal. Apply
P. F., the Post Office, Launceston. A personal
interview desired.'

Why,' said Lovedayay to herself, ' this is the
very thing I desire. Nothing could suit me
better. I will not go on to Exeter tomorrow,
I will stay a day in Launceston.'

She thought a good deal about this opening.
"P. F.," ' she repeated to herself, ' P must stand
for Priscilla, or Prudence, or Philippa, or
Phoebe.'

The long road over the dreary Bodmin
moors was not interesting ; little presented itself
to distract her thoughts from herself and the
chance presented to her by the advertisement.

" P. F.," ' she said. ' I wonder whether I
shall come to know and make a friend of
"P. F. ?"'

As the coach, in the evening, dashed up to

the door of the King's Arms, a gentleman who
was walking towards the inn sprang aside from
the horses.

The coach drew up at the inn. Then the
door was opened, and the gentleman, a tall,
grave young man, with very black hair, an
aquiline nose, and deep-set dark eyes, courteously
came to the coach-door and held out
his arm to assist Lovedayay Penhalligan to descend.


CHAPTER XXXV.

ENGAGED.

When Lovedayay had settled about a bedroom,
and had unpacked what few things she would
want for the night, had removed her bonnet
and taken off her gloves, and smoothed her
glossy, abundant dark hair, she came down into
the coffee-room of the King's Arms, and ordered
tea and an egg.

The gentleman who had handed her from
the coach was there, reading a paper. He was
dressed in a long black coat with high velvet
collar, and dark knee-breeches with black silk
stockings. His hair was black, cut short in
front, but falling behind, longer than was usual
at the time. Indeed, his dress was antiquated.
He was in the costume worn, probably, by his
father. His throat was surrounded by a white,
fine linen tie, and his waistcoat disclosed beautiful
lace ruffles in front.

His manner, like his dress, was old-fashioned
and courtly. When he heard Lovedayay order
her frugal repast, he put down the paper he
was reading, stood up, bowed, and said :

Will you excuse the interference, madam,
of a gentleman who, though he has not passed
through the College of Surgeons, yet exercises
some of the functions of a medical man ? There
are some men, madam, who are born to heal
the infirmities of their fellows, who have the
instinct, or shall I not say reverently, the inspiration,
of healing given to them from on
high, without any seeking and study. There are
others who acquire laboriously what is intuitive
in some. I speak in no spirit of vanity when
I say that I am a born physician of the body.'

Lovedayay looked at him with wonder, marvelling
to what this preamble would lead.
There was an expression of such goodness, simplicity,
and desire to oblige in his striking face,
that she felt confidence at once in her strange
companion of the coffee-room.

You have come a long way to-day,
madam?'

Yes, fi"om almost the other end of Cornwall.'


And you have been journeying the entire
day?'

Yes, sir. I left home early. I have been
in two coaches and an open gig.'

Then,' said he, ' I am confirmed in my
audacity in prescribing for you something more
substantial than an egg, a bit of toast, and tea.
I have ordered a roast fowl for my supper, and
a custard pudding. I hope, madam, you will
not regard me as taking an undue liberty, being
a total stranger, in asking you to share the
fowl with me. It would be foul conduct in
me to eat the bird, and leave the lady but the
egg. Which,' said he, ' is a joke, madam.'

Then he gave directions to the waiter to
have two covers laid at the table.

'I believe,' said the gentleman, who was, it
need hardly be said, Paul Featherstone, of
Maryland, ' that I am the intruder here. The
general coffee-room is repugnant to me. There
has been smoking in it, and I am averse to the
odour of tobacco. I believe that this is, in
fact, the private ladies' room, and that I am
here only on sufferance, madam. If my presence
at all incommodes you, I will withdraw ;
but I trust to your good nature to endure my

society for a little while. We must both eat,
and why not eat in society ? Social intercourse
gives relish to the best food. T am so accustomed
to the company of my sister, that a meal
without a lady to grace the board would not
agree with me.'

Lovedayay did not answer him, save with a
grateful look. He spoke in so kind a tone,
and with a manner so fatherly, that she felt
quite safe in his presence and company from
the slightest impertinence.

My sister,' said Paul Featlierstone, ' is one
of the most remarkable women in the world.
It is a privilege to be her brother. She thinks
and cares for every one who comes within the
radius of her influence, as the sun lights, warms,
and attracts every planet in the solar system.
But,' said Paul, and his mouth twitched, ' rare
confusion am I making in my similitudes. The
sun has no satellite, but the planet is allowed
one or more. My sister, who has been married
for over a twelvemonth, has lately acquired a
little, a very tiny bright and shining moon,
which sails round her, and never leaves her ;
and my sister delights in the soft and silvery
radiance of her little moon.' .

You speak, sir, as if the presence added to
your own pleasure and light.'

'To be sure it does,' answered Paul, his
face kindling with a sweet and happy brightness.
' A child in the house is a blessing from
on high. I was out at night — I had, in fact,
ridden for a doctor, and was returned — and as
the groom took my horse, through the still,
starry, dark-blue sky we saw a silvery streak ;
it described a curve, and was formed by a brilliant
meteor. When my man saw that I was
watching it, he said, "Folks do say that falling
stars be little souls coming to babes out o' paradise."
And sure enough, when I entered the
house, I heard a faint sobbing. The soul had
come, and found it dark and desolate here
below — away from paradise.'

You have no children of your own, sir ? '

I ! ' exclaimed Paul in surprise, and laughed.
I have not a wife. I have not reached the
point of considering it possible that I may have
one. No,' he shook his head, ' I pity the
woman that would take me. My ideal of
womanhood is so high, that she would be ever
on the tremble lest she fall short of it. I believe,'
continued Paul, dropping into a medias

II. p

time mood, ' that the characteristic of man is
justice, and that of woman is self-abnegation.
Excuse me if I seem to say a hard thing, but I
do not observe in woman that rooted conscience
of justice that I find inherent in men. But, on
the other hand, I find immeasurable love in
woman, a self-devotion that countess not the
cost, that will give up everything and think no
merit lies in doing so. Man, on the contrary,
can do a spasmodic act of self-denial, but cannot
live a life of it. Man is naturally selfish ;
woman is instinctively unselfish.'

And, sir, in evidence of man's natural selfishness,
you insist on my partaking of your
roast chicken.'

I beg your pardon. In evidence of my
natural justice I osier you half. I could not
eat it all myself ; you will allow that ? I deny
myself nothing. Whereas, if you had sat down
to your cup of tea and one egg, and you had
seen me sitting in the window fasting, you could
not have broken the end of the egg or touched
your cup. Your kind, pitiful eyes would have
sought me, and striven to catch mine ; and
then, with a blush, you would have offered me
your egg and untasted cup, and you would have

gone to bed perfectly Imply because I had eaten
one and emptied the other.'

Lovedayay winced at the reference to herself,
but she smiled and said modestly, ' You judge
our virtues higher than they deserve. Your
justice is largely qualified with mercy.'

'Not at all,' answered Paul Featherstone.
I do not pretend that every woman is a perfect
pattern of self-abnegation, but that she is set in
the key of which self-devotion is the dominant.
Whatever be the melody, however varied the
harmonies of her life, the dominant underlies
the melody, and interpenetrates the harmonies ;
and at the last the whole piece comes — possibly
after changes into other keys — back to the
original, and dies away, as its only proper finis] i,
on the dominant. It is the same with man,
only the male key has justice for its ruling note.
However wrongheaded a man may be, and however
criminally he may act, the note of justice
is vibrating, thrilling, heard and felt deep down
in the depths of his conscience. He may drown
it for a while in noise ; but, as the noise ceases,
the key-note is heard still sounding, and will
sound as long as life lasts.'

p 2

'I have sometimes thought,' began Love-day
; then hesitated, and ceased.

Yes,' said Paul Featherstone, encouragingly.
I entreat you to tell me your thought.'

I have sometimes thought,' said Lovedayay,
with lowered eyes, ' whilst I have been wools
that wee poor women are embroidering
our lives with all sorts of colours, and making
of them various figures, but that there must be
some common cross-thread on which we all
elaborate the varied patterns of our humble
lives. You have given me one of the threads,
the warp or the woof, I know not which. Is
there not another ? '

Yes,' answered Paul. ' Self-abnegation is
the woof, religion is the warp. That is not
naturally in men, as in women. On these two
threads the whole carpet of life is embroidered ;
done in strange reversed mode, sometimes, as the
Gobelin tapestry is wrought, when the maker
sees nothing of the design which he is developing.
He stands behind the threads, and thrusts
his colours in and out — now this, now that —
in a blind way, and only those on the other side
see the result. It is so with the soul within.
Behind these threads, weaving life's beautiful

Lobelia carpet, the soul stands and sees not the
end to which it is working — beholds only ragged
ends, and irregular threads, and ugly knots —
whereas the world sees a beautiful, rich, and
consistent whole.'

I am afraid,' said Lovedayay, ' we must be
content to weave our little lives into kettle-holders,
not Gobelin tapestry.'

And a kettle-holder saves the hand from
being burnt,' answered Paul. ' So, many an
insignificant modest life has been a hand-guard
against much suffering.' Then, looking across
the table, he said, ' I see that you have brought
your blotting-book, and want to write letters.
Do not let me interrupt you. I will go out and
take a turn in the town, or, if no inconvenience
to you here, will take the newspaper and read.'

No inconvenience whatever,' said Love-day,
readily. ' It is true that I have a couple
of letters to write, and there is no ink in my
room.'

Paul at once placed the rack of pens and
the inkstand on the table, beyond the white
table-cloth, and rang for the Waiter to remove
the supper.

Lovedayay opened her book, took a couple of

sheets of paper, and, spreading one before her,
wrote to Mrs. Loveys. Lovedayay took a longtime
in 'writing this letter. It was well to let
Madam know at once that the suit of Anthony
was hopeless. She was resolved not to leave
Mrs. Loveys and the young man in suspense,
or in the delusion that she acquiesced in their
arrangement. The sooner they were made
aware that she could not accept him the
better. Her conscience would be clear. She
was thankful for the honour shown her — in
her humble mind, she considered it an enormous
condescension — but she could not resolve
to think of the union as possible. To
Tier brother she lead not mentioned the offer,
fearful lest he should try to persuade her to
the sacrifice for the sake of his interest. Her
faith in Dennis was so shaken that she admitted
the possibility of this meanness. Yet,
when the strange gentleman spoke of woman's
self-devotion, she felt her cheeks burn, and
was aware with shame that there Alas one
act of self-devotion of which she was not capable.
She could not take Anthony Loveys,
even for the love she bore to her brother.
Had she, perhaps, sufficient of the spice of

masculine justice in her soul to strengthen her
against this, as more than a brother had a
right to exact ? Perhaps so.

The letter to Madam Loveys was a difficult
letter to compose. Poor Lovedayay spoiled
her first copy, and had to write a second. She
thought long between each line she wrote,
and was so engrossed in her thoughts as to
completely forget the presence of the gentleman,
who was seated in the background behind
the newspaper.

As she considered, with her pen to her
lips and one hand on the paper, the trace
of her thoughts was visible in her pure face,
like the fleeting? shadows of the clouds daring
the day over the moor : never deep and threatening,
always soft ; a bloom, not a gloom ; a
varying beauty of colour in the pervading sunlight.


Paul Featherstone's eyes, irresistibly attached
to her, watched her, then returned to
the newspaper. Paul was ashamed of himself
for looking at her. He knew he ought not todo
so, as she was unconscious of his presence,
but the attraction was too strong for him to
fight against it. There was something — he

knew not himself what it was — in Lovedayay's
face which drew his sympathy towards her.
He suspected sorrow ; he saw intelligence ; and
he recognised the guileless goodness of her
soul by that instinct which exists in all cognate
spirits.

Once he noticed a clear trickling tear issue
from under her dark lash and roll down her
cheek. Then the hand that held the newspaper
trembled. Paul was full of pity for
suffering, and he would have been glad to
comfort the bruised heart of Lovedayay, if he
knew what was her pain.

At length the letter was finished, and
folded, and sealed with a wafer. Then she
addressed it, put it aside, and wrote the second
letter. This was done quickly, without long
consideration.

When it was finished she stood up, and
then started. She saw Paul Featherstone.
She had completely forgotten him. He had
said something about going out round the town,
and she had perhaps fancied he was no longer
in the room. He had remained without noise,
and this had led to her error, if it was an error,
and not absorption and forgetfulness.

She took up the two letters, intending to
go out at once and post them ; but Paul
Featherstone rose at the same time.

If you will allow me,' he said, ' I will take
the letters for you to the office.'

Thank you very much,' she replied. ' Only
one will have postage to be paid on it — at least
I suppose so. The other is to be left till called
for.'

He looked at the directions, and smiled,

You have afforded me a rare pleasure,' he
said. ' I shall have to post but one of the
letters. The second is addressed to me. I am
P. F." '

Lovedayay started, and looked at him. The
colour went, then came, in her face.

I need hardly say,' continued Paul Feather-stone,
' that it will indeed be a proud thing forme
if I can secure your kind, generous services
for my sister. I am glad,' he said, after a pause,
on two accounts ; on my sister's, that she should
have for her companion one to whom she is
sure to cling, and whom she will treasure ; on
yours, that you should have the opportunity of
knowing one whom it is a privilege to know.'

Sir,' said Lovedayay, timidly, ' you Avill

want references. You know nothing of my
abilities.'

I want no references,' answered Paul.
None in this case are necessary.' He bowed.

My brother,' faltered Lovedayay, ' is a
surgeon.'

And I,' said Paul, ' am one also. Unrecognised
by the faculty, indeed, but I am a
healer of men by natural gift from on high.'

'My name,' she said, 'is Lovedayay Pen-gallican.'


I am Paul Feathcrstone, of Maryland. My
sister Juliot is Mrs. Eock. She was married
just after Christmas twelvemonth to a Mr.
John Pick, who lives with me. Miss Peuhalli-
gan, shall j^ou be able to travel tomorrow ? I
am impatient to make you acquainted with my
sister Juliot. I am sure you will love her —
you cannot fail to love her — she is so good.
We are a quiet family, and live in a quiet
nook, out of the noise and rush of the current
of life, but we are happy and peaceful ; and,
please God, the peace and happiness of that
home will remain unbroken. It has been
heightened and deepened by the addition of
the little one who has risen on our horizon.

Did I say that be added to oiir peace ? Well —
happiness — hardly quiet. Miss Penhalligan, this
is almost a joke.'

So Lovedayay went from the house of the
surgeon, who was one by science, but without
sympathy, to that of the physician, who was
one by sympathy, but without science.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE THRESHOLD OF A SORROW.

Next day Paul Featherstone and Lovedayay departed,
the former on the box, the latter inside
the Stratton coach. At Stratton, Paul's horse
and conveyance were awaiting him. lie had
left them there, when he was on his way to
Launceston, on the double business of consulting
his lawyer and finding a companion for his
sister.

The letter to Madam Loveys had been
despatched without its containing any further
allusion to the advertisement of ' P. F.' than
thanks to the lady for the copy of the paper
sent. Lovedayay had deemed it as well not to say
anything about her application till lie heard
whether it were successful. She resolved to
write to Mrs. Loveys and to her brother from
her destination, to inform them that she was
settled, and to acknowledge her debt to the

former for having directed her attention to the
advertisement, which had so speedily answered
her most sanguine wishes.

Lovedayay did not fail to notice the resemblance
of the scenery to that of the home she
had left. The character of the coast was the
same, and the air, fresh and invigorating, was
the same.

The evening was closing when she reached
Marslaud. Paul had been attentive to her
throughout the journey, at every stoppage of
the coach coming to the window to inquire
how she was ; and, in the gig, he interested
her with his quaint conversation. At Stratton
he pointed out to her Stamford Hill, the scene
of the victory of the Royalists under Sir Devil
Grenville, in 1 G43. At Kilkhampton he showed
her the valley and the woods where once stood
Stowe House, the ancestral home of the Grenville.
The glimpses of the sea, with the evening
sun gleaming on it, converting it into a sea
of fire, were like those about Towau. She
moonlit almost have believed herself returning
home but for the voice of the driver.

As the sun went down Maryland was
reached, and a cold grey shadow was on the

courtyard as Paul drove through the gateway
into it.

You are at my house,' said Paul, assisting
Lovedayay to descend. ' Give me your hand, that
I may lead you with a welcome over my
threshold.'

He conducted her through the rude porch,
with old-fashioned gallantry.

How cold your hand is,' he said.

Lovedayay stood still. A sudden nervous
trembling; had come over her.

'Are you ill — over tired, Miss PenhalH-
gan? '

She put her hand to her brow, to collect
her thoughts, which left her for an instant, and
answered, ' I am better. A momentary faintness,
it is past.'

He took her hand and led her within.
Welcome, Miss Penhalligan,' he said. ' In
God's name I wish you peace and happiness,
rest from care, and bright days in the future,
across this threshold.'

She bent her head in acknowledgment.

And now,' he said, ' for my sister.'

In a moment the door at the end of the
hall opened, and Juliot scudded the length of

it and fell into lier brother's arms. ' Oh, Paul !
I did not expect you home to-day.'

Juliot,' said he, ' I have brought you a
friend. This good, sweet lady has done us
the honour and conferred on us the favour of
paying us a visit, not to be a short one, we
trust, sure that she will be a companion to you,
and love and be loved by little Con.'

Juliot at once carried off Lovedayay to the
room above the parlour — the room with the
southern aspect, the room in which the spinet
had stood. The instrument was not there now,
it was removed to the drawing-room under it.

Lovedayay was given whatever she wanted
Juliot was full of thought and kindness ; but,
through all her eagerness to be hospitable, one
desire prevailed and transpired, ' You will not
mind, as soon as you can, without inconvenience,
you will come and see the Baby.'

'I am ready now,' answered Lovedayay.
What a pretty room this is.'

Do you know that in this room lay my
husband sick for many days, before he was my
husband. I was accustomed to sit in the window,
and wait, and watch, and pray that he
might recover. But then, I had no thousjlit at

all of him but as a sick man claiming our aid.
The room lias acquired for me a new charm
since then. Mr. Eock is not here to-day. He
is at a farm or property we have some little way
off, called Stanbury. They are hay-making
there, as we are here, and he has to watch the
hay harvest there. In this part of the world
everything depends on seizing the golden
weather when it comes. The sun does not
wait on our leisure.'

Then Juliot led Lovedayay along a passage to
the nursery. ' I must tell you that this house
has got a king now, reigning by right divine,
and as an autocrat. We have to do homage at
his little feet. Oh, Miss Penhalligan, they are
the dearest little weeny feet ! And to see the
comical way in which the tiny toes work about
and are never at rest ! I could spend an hour
in merely watching the little feet. But the
hands are more beautiful still. You cannot
look at them without falling to kiss them. His
Majesty is asleep now. You Avill not disturb
him in his sacred repose.'

She brought Lovedayay to the side of the
cradle, an old-fashioned rocking cradle, in which
Paul and herself, and perhaps their father, had

slept in infancy. Lovedayay stooped over the
child, and saw that its bright eyes were open.
Directly, it began to coo like a dove and pat its
hands on the coverlet excitedly, whilst dimples
formed in the fat cheeks.

The darling is awake ! ' exclaimed Juliot,
and in a serene temper. How beautiful ! How
fortunate. Miss PenhalUgan. I would not for
the world have lead you make first acquaintance
with his Royal Highness when his mood is contrary.
People, involuntarily, are governed by
prepossessions formed on first sight. I am so
glad you have seen my darling smiling and
happy on this first interview.

Allow me to take him and throne him in my
arms,' said Lovedayay. Seeing a smile on Juliot's
face, she put her hands into the crib and took
the little fellow out. All Juliot's nerves quivered,
and her heart stood still, till her eyes
reassured her that Lovedayay knew how to hold
a baby.

The little monarch was quite content to rest
his head on the heart and be encircled by the
arms of Lovedayay ; he crowed, and puckered up
his mouth, and kicked and flapped, expressive
of contentment.

VOL. II. Q

He was born in December, so lie is now
six months old,' said the delighted mother.
Take that stool and sit on it, with the little bird
nested on your lap. How cosy he is in your
arms ! '

He is not in the least shy. He is a precious
little treasure.'

Precious ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Eock. ' His
price is above rubies. Everyone here values
him unspeakably high. Paul quite adores him.
I cannot give the maids a greater treat than
to take him down into the kitchen for them
to surround and admire. To-morrow we will
carry him into the hay-field, and make sweet
hay with him ; shall we not, my pet ? Shall
we fling a bind of hay round your tiny neck,
and draw the small head to us, and cover it
with kisses ? Will you laugh and clap and chirp
with joy ? '

Lovedayay sat with the child on her lap, looking
at it. As when a vein has been wounded a
rush of warm blood pours over the skin, and a
mingled sensation ensues of pleasure and pain,
so was it now with her. A stream of warm
love poured from her heart, but she was sensible
of an ache, unaccountable in her gentle breast.

He takes happily to you,' said Juliot, ' and
does not seem to concern himself much about
me. Oh, the fickle fellow! Con! Con! Look
at your mother ! '

Lovedayay looked suddenly up at Mrs. Eock.

His name is Constantine,' said Juliot. ' My
dear husband had a fancy for it, though it is not
his own name, he is called John ; nor do I hear
that he had any relatives of that name. Paul
did not disapprove. Paul says that Constantine
was a king of Devon and Cornwall, who resigned
his crown and went into a monastery in Scotland.
No one knew there who he was, till one day a
monk overheard him laughing, whilst grinding
corn in a quern, and saying, " What would my
people say at home if they saw King Constantine
grinding rye, like a donkey in a mill." I did
not myself care much for the name at first, but
this rogue will make it sweet to me.'

Lovedayay bowed over the child, and drew it
tight to her bosom, laid her face on it, and felt
that love and pain were equal in her heart.

Do you know the name Constantine ? '
asked Juliot.

Yes,' answered Lovedayay, raising her face,
it is a name that to me is very dear.'

Q 2

Have you had any one so-called whom you
loved ? '

Lovedayay paused.

There is a ruined church dedicated to St.
Constantine near my home, and I have been
very happy there.'

The answer sufficed. JuUot asked no more ;
she saw that she had touched a tender point in
Lovedayay's heart. ' I dare say I am very absurd,'
she said, ' but I will have no nurse to baby ; I
do everything for him. You can understand,
he is a great tie. In fact, I can do nothing else.
But, he is too precious to be trusted in rough
hands. Look at the weeny bones of the fingers
why, they can be no thicker than pins. Just
fancy how easily one of them might be injured ! '
she shuddered. ' No, I must look after him
myself, or have a lady to help me, and relieve
me now and then. That is why my brother
Paul has urged me to secure suitable assistance.
He says that I am made a perfect slave to Constantine
; that it must not be, I have other duties
to attend to. Of course he is right. My brother
is always right. And now, with his usual good
fortune, he has lit upon you. I am sure we
shall like each other. That is, I am sure I shall

like you. Baby has decided the matter. He
has accepted you as my substitute now and then ;
only now and then, understand, you fickle fellow
! ' shaking her hand at the child. Then it
began to cry, and strain its arms towards its
mother. ' There ! ' exclaimed Juliot, with a
triumphant laugh, ' after all he wants to come to
his mother! He is not going to desert her!
He will not turn away his heart wholly from
her ! Though she does not object to his giving
a part of it, a little part, to Miss PenhaUigan.'

Will you take the stool ? ' asked Loved ay,
rising.

'Neo, no,' answered Juliot, quickly, 'baby
and I are quite content on the chair. Look !
he is patting his hands ! Bake a cake, bake a
cake, baker 's-man.' Then ensued that loving
play with the child, familiar to all women.
Lovedayay put her face close to the little fellow
and kissed, then drew it away again, and he
crowed, and kicked, and went into fits of ecstatic
laughter, and clapped his warm, soft little palms
on her cheeks, and proceeded to munch her
with his toothless gums.

The pride and delight of the mother were
unbounded. Her heart warmed to Lovedayay,

and she slipped into calling lier by her Christian
name before an hour was past.

You drove with tiny brother from Stratton,'
said Mrs. Eock. ' What a privilege ! Paul is
a remarkable man, whom it is an advantage to
know. I am so glad you have made his acquaintance
; you will learn to value him more
and more every day, he is so good. Indeed, I
look up to him with wonder and reverence, and
the poor people regard him with extraordinary
respect. You will not see my husband to-night ;
he does not return from Stanbury till the hay is
carried. And now, if you do not mind going
down into the hall, I will send the rogue to
sleep. Then we will have supper, which I am
sure both you and Paul need after your long
journey.'

Lovedayay descended to the hall, and found
Paul Featherstone there.

You have seen the baby,' he said, ' and you
have seen my sister. I am glad you know her ;
to make her acquaintance is an event in the
life.'

Lovedayay 's attention was arrested by the
picture of Featherstone the Eover. She started.

How very strange ! ' she said.

That is the portrait of my uncle,' said Paul.

How strange ! ' repeated Lovedayay, with her
eyes still on the picture.

The dress, no doubt, strikes you as peculiar.'

I have seen — at least, it seems to me that
I must have seen him.'

That is quite impossible. He died long
before you were born.'

Lovedayay considered. Tlicn she said, thoughtfully,
' Yes, of course it is impossible, and yet

Then a faintness and a shudder came

over her, such as she had felt on crossing the
threshold.

You are not well,' said Paul, in alarm, ' you
have been overdone. Sit down. You must
take a glass of wine.'

Thank you,' answered Lovedayay, seating
herself with her back to the picture, 'it is
nothing ; it is over again. It seemed to me as
if I were stepping — I hardly knew whither —
into some terrible, overwhelming horror. As
if I were on the threshold of some great sorrow.'

CHAPTER XXXVII.

IN THE Hay-field.

A DAY of cloudless brilliancy, a day of days for
the haysel. The wind was off shore, and therefore
the sea was still, and reflected the white
distant cliffs of Limdy, and the passing sail.
The air was fragrant with hay. There had been
a succession of beautiful days, and the farmers
were making the most of it — all but a few laggards,
noted for invariably cutting when they
ought to be sowing.

Lovedayay was occupied through the greater
part of the morning unpacking her box, and
arranging her possessions in the room assigned
to her. This was the same into which Juliot
had first shown her — the same that Constantino
had occupied. It was the best bedroom, reserved
for visitors, but the Featherstones had
no strangers staying with them. They had no
acquaintances at a distance, and few in their
immediate neighbourhood.

She had some little ornaments of her own,
relics of the home where she had spent her
childhood with her mother. She had removed
nothing that she might have laid claim to by
right from the sitting-room at Nantsillan, only
the trifles of her own bedroom, which her
brother would not miss.

She came, when she had done, into the
nursery, and insisted on taking little Con into
the garden, the pretty garden on the southern
slope, walled in, with its old-fashioned flowers.
Paul was passionately attached to flowers ; and
he had his beds of herbs — simples, which he
used, after the advice of old Culpej)per. Every
walk and bed in the garden was scrupulously
cared for, weeded and trim ; and herbs and
flowers repaid the attention shown them. Nothing
gave Paul greater delight than to spend
a fine morning in his garden. 'When man
was in a state of innocency,' he said, ' God put
him in a garden ; and through a garden, methinks,
we steal back to innocency.'

All Lovedayay's anxieties, and the strange
misgiving that had come over her on the preceding
evening, had passed away. She was
very happy and hopeful. Not a word had been

said about money — the amount of remuneration
for her services. As with Constantine, so with
Lovedayay, this was left undetermined ; but Love-day
knew as well that Paul would overpay her
services, as he knew that she would undervalue
them.

In the garden she saw Mr. Featherstone, in
his plain grey suit and blue worsted stockings,
with a spud, engaged on one of the beds. He
came towards her at once, and said :

'You have a great privilege and responsibility.
Miss Penhalligan, in the custody of this
urchin. Every responsibility is tied to a blessing,
and there is no blessing unencumbered
with a duty. " What God hath joined, let not
man put asunder." As this little fellow grows
up, we shall have to use the utmost circumspection
to provide that he grows aright. Look
here, Miss Penhalligan' (he stooped, and picked
a tender double-leaf). ' Do you know what
this is ? It is the seed-leaf of a plant. I have
plucked it, and it will never now come to life.
It has been killed, and I know not of what
nature it was. The soul of a child is sown
thick with seeds, and these seeds spring up
rapidly, developing thus double-leaves, from

which you can hardly tell what their promise
is. You will have to use the utmost care not
to pluck up the good along with the tares.'

I hope,' said Lovedayay, ' that the child's
little soul will become like this trim and
pleasant garden, where nothing grows but what
is healthful and beautiful.'

It cannot fail to be other,' said Paul Fear
' with two such gardeners as you
and Juliot.'

Then he fell to thinking, leaning on his
spud, with his eyes on the ground, and seemed
forgetful of the presence of another. After a
while he drew two circles in the gravel with
the end of his spud, the circles cutting each
other, so as to form a long and narrow ellipse.

Man stands,' said Paul, ' at the intersection
of the two spheres, the material and the spiritual,
the natural and the supernatural. There'
(he made a mark with the tool), ' there stands
little Con now, and he will either stand there
all his days, or be drawn away to the centre
of one circle or the other. All early training
must be towards the maintenance of equilibrium,
towards the education of man to perfection
— that is, to live equally in both spheres.

I think I said to you the evening we were first
acquainted that woman was naturally more
religious than man. That is, she has her place
more on the spiritual side of the ellipse, and,
therefore, on her the spiritual centre exerts a
greater attraction. The tendency of man is to
gravitate more and more towards the material ;
and if once he passes out of the spiritual sphere
beyond that curve ' (he indicated what he meant
with the spud) ' then he is a man with reason
intelligence, may be — but without soul anymore.
He is outside the spiritual sphere. The
tie or attraction between him and the spiritual
centre is broken. There is no longer attraction
outside a sphere. This is what I want, what I
pray, that our little babe may from infancy be
so turned that the centre of the spiritual circle
may attract him more and more through life,
till ' — he drew his tool along the gravel — ' till
he passes out of the material circle, he has
traversed that arc, and the gross things of life
affect him no more.'

I suppose,' said Lovedayay, ' that the nearer
one is drawn to either centre, the stronger the
attraction becomes, and the more rapid the
movement towards it.'

It is SO,' answered Paul. Then he caught
the child from her, and held it above his head
in his strong arms, with the face to the sky,
and in the brilliant sun. ' See ! ' he said.
Never hold the child with its eyes on shadow ;
always set its face to the light. That is the
great secret of life's training.' He kissed the
babe tenderly, and returned it to Lovedayay's
arms ; then he said, ' You understand me, for
you have your face towards the centre of spirit
and life and light, and so has Juliot.'

And Mr. Eock ? '

I do not judge any man,' answered Paul,
and resumed his spud and walked away.

Lovedayay noticed a slight look of disappointment
on his earnest, kind face. It was not the
first time she had observed this ; whenever allusion
had been made to his brother-in-law the
look had come over him, as a faint and very
transient shadow.

Then Lovedayay, watching Paul at his bed of
herbs, standing in the full sunlight, thought
how different was his theory of life from that
of her brother. Paul looked at the light, and
Dennis's face was set towards the shadow.
Presently Mr. Featherstone retiu-ned to her.

He had been thinking whilst working, and,
pointing to the space between the arcs, drew a
hne, cut at each end by the circumference of a
circle, and said, ' That is the measure of man's
free will. When he passes beyond the curve
his power of volition ceases ; he is inevitably
drawn to the centre. We oscillate between the
arcs. Hark ! I am wanted.'

He stood listening, and Lovedayay heard the
tramp of a galloping horse along the road, then
down the avenue.

lu another moment a man, excited and
hot, came into the garden, holding a handkerchief.


Please, your honour,' he said, ' John Yosper
have a-gone and cut himself bad wi' a scythe in
the leg, and us can't stop the flow of blood
noways ; so I've brought this to your honour.'

Mr. Featherstone took the kerchief within
both his hands. His face became grave, and his
eyes fixed, and his look abstracted. He passed
the kerchief once between his palms, and handed
it back to the man.

'Side back as fast as you can,' he said, 'and
bind this about his leg. The blood, however,
is already stayed. Do not touch the kerchief

with more than the tips of your fingers ; ride
holding it at arm's length.'

When the man was gone, Lovedayay looked
at Paul Featherstone with amazement.

I am obliged to remain at home during
hay and corn harvests,' he said. ' So many
accidents occur, and I like to be where I maybe
found at once.'

Do you mean that — you have really
stopped the bleeding of this man Vesper's leg ? '

Yes,' answered Paul, with wonder at her
doubt ; ' of course I have — yet not I ; the
power given me has done it. It never fails.
Not I— no, not I.' ^

Paul was about to return to his work, when
the garden gate was again opened, and a poor
young man hobbled in on crutches.

Good-morning, Tooke. Come to have
your knee struck ? '

Yes, your honour ; it be a deal easier since
your honour have blessed 'n '

^ Lest the author should be charged with transgressing the
bounds of truth in this account, he assures the reader that such
a method of arresting haemorrhage is resorted to still in the
West of England, and he has known persons such as Paul
Featherstone constantly resorted to as thus described — and
practising successfully.

Sit down on the bench, James,' said
Featherstone ; and, kneeling on one knee before
the cripple, he laid his hand on the swollen
joint, and as he did so the same fixed, 
came into his eyes that Lovedayay had
noticed when he had the kerchief between his
palms.

'I seem to feel the pain drawer out by
your finger ends,' said the lad. ' I know exact
to a line where your honour's fingers have
rested ; there be no hurting there, but lines o'
ache where they have not touched.'

Is the swelling gone down, James ? '

yes, your honour — gone down powerful.'

That will do for to-day ; come again tomorrow.
Now go round to the kitchen and stay
there, and tell the maids you are to have you*
dinner. Do not stint the beef, James.'

The next to arrive Avec two women with a
baby.

The little chap have got the thrush,' said
the mother. ' Us have took 'n and passed 'n at
new moon three times under a bramble as is
growed to both ends in the ground, but all to
no good. Us have gotten naught by it but a
lot o' scratches,'

And you deserve them,' said Paul. ' You
have no right to have recourse to superstitious
methods. Superstition is sinful. How can you
expect a cure if you apply to such unblessed
remedies. Give me the child. Open its mouth ;
I will put my finger in.' When he had done
this, he gave the infant back to the mother.
There,' he said, ' you need not return to me ;
the eruption will begin to disappear to-day, and
in a couple of days the child will be well. Ask
the dairy-maid to give you a quart of new milk.'

The next to arrive was an old woman with
sore eyes.

Betty,' said Featherstone, ' go every morning
and wash your eyes in the water of the
Holy "Well. Now see if the cook can give you
a little dinner. You have had a long, hot walk.
If you cannot eat the meat, there is pudding
you will like.'

That the beef, and the milk, and the pudding
had anything to do with the drawing of patients
to Maryland, or with the cure of the under-fed,
Featherstone did not suppose ; nor, to do them
justice, did the sick attribute their healing to
anything other than the touch of his hand.
Lovedayay, who had seen nothing of the self-vol.

II. E

seeking in her own visitors, thought that in this
case there may have been deception, not in
Paul Featherstone himself — he was absolutely
sincere, and believed thoroughly in the powers
lodged in him — but in the patients. She ventured
to say as much, sure that her remark
would not be taken ill.

Do you not think, Mr. Featherstone, that
the sick may come as much for what they can
get in your kitchen as in this your consulting-room
? '

Perhaps,' he replied, quite undisturbed by
the suggestion. ' No motives are wholly pure ;
they are always more or less double, more or
less charged with earthly particles. My motives
are never absolutely translucent ; all men's
motives are like water — analyse, and there is
something in the clearest ; but then, the only
perfectly pure water is that which has been
Q distilled, and that is undriukable.'

i In the afternoon Juliot and Lovedayay went
together to the hay-field, carrying the baby.
The harvest was nearly over, the last of the
fragrant loads were being taken home, and tea
and saffron buns were carried into the field for
the men. Most of the servant-maids were there

as well, raking the hay together, laughing and
joking with the men.

Every now and then a rake was dropped,
and one of the young men was seen with a
whip of twisted hay pursuing a girl, trying to
catch and hold her with the hay-loop whilst he
kissed her. The pressure of work was over,
the strain was relaxed, a little romp and relaxation
were allowable now.

Juliot and Lovedayay sat under the shade of
some trees, beneath a hedge wreathed with
pink wild rose and honeysuckle, and with clusters
of meadow-sweet, white, scattering their
powdery pollen on the arms that brushed them,
climbing the steep hedge-bank as refugees from
the all-destroying scythe.

The yellow evening sun bathed the hay-field
in bands striking through the trees ; the
doves were cooing in the wood ; the butterflies
dancing about the dried grass, and then fluttering
away to the fresh flowers in the hedgerows.
A bumble-bee in brown and yellow
deep pile velvet was humming round the baby
as though it thought honey was to be gathered
from it — in reality attracted by the wreath of
wild rose Lovedayay had made for his white

R 2

washing hat, that would fall flapping over the
little fellow's face, and make him growl in
protest.

Lovedayay was very happy. Her clouds
seemed to have parted and rolled out of her
sky. The delight of having a baby to worship
and play with, and of having one so sweet,
womanly, and sympathetic as Juliot to talk to,
filled her heart to the brim. For a while the
cares of the past were lost sight of; she gave
herself over to the unmixed pleasure of the
present. The two ladies were seated a little
way from the harvesters ; the laughter and calls
lost harshness, and were wafted to them as
pleasant music by the fragrant air, along with
strands of grass, and seeds of hawk-weed, and
black leaves of meadow clover.

The maids had lighted a fire, and slung a
kettle, to make the tea, and the white smoke
rose above the hedge in a thick curl, and was
then dispersed as a blue vapour through the
wood.

Every kind of distraction was offered to the
baby. A chain of daisies was made by Love-day,
and suspended round his neck, to be at
once torn to pieces by his impatient hands ;

dandelion ' clock ' heads were puffed, to ascertain
the hour ; the golden buttercup was held
in the sun under his fat chin, to prophesy
whether he would love butter ; a tiger moth,
with yellow, crimson, and black wings, was
suffered to creep unmolested along Lovedayay's
hand, till the little fellow made a dab at it with
his, and then the insect, startled, flew away.
Honeysuckle trumpets were picked, and the
sweet drop expressed on baby's lips ; then the
little red tongue was poked out and curled
about the lips, much as a lizard protrudes his
tongue to catch up its food. Lovedayay's gold
watch-chain was suddenly laid hold of, and
wrenched, and almost broken. Out flew the
watch Mrs. Gaverock had given her, and that
was held first to one ear, then the other.
Nothing' satisfied Con for long. Some new
distraction was demanded every minute, and
the ingenuity of the mother and Lovedayay taxed
to the uttermost.

Paul Featherstone remained at home till
Constantine arrived.

'Done the haysel at Stanbury,' said the
latter joyously. ' First-rate crop, and splendidly
carried. How are you getting on here ? '

Very well indeed. The last loads are now
returning. Will you come with me to the
field ? '

Yes. Is my wife there with the baby ? '

And her companion,' said Paul. ' I have
had the best success, John Eock. Providence
has blessed us in this as in all we do. I do
not believe if I had the world to pick from I
could have found one better fitted for the post
lie is designed by us to fill. She has won her
way already to Juliot's heart, and little Con
is as content with her as in the arms of his
mother.'

Where did you pick her up ? '

At Launceston.'

Was she well recommended ? '

Her face, her voice, her whole appearance,
were her best recommendation. You cannot
look at her and not trust her.'

What is her name ? '
Penhalligau.'

What ! ' Constantine's heart stood still.

Come with me — I am going to the hay-field
— and you shall see and judge for yourself.'

Paul Featherstone did not observe the alarm
in the face of his brother-in-law. He put on his

hat and went out at the door. Constantine
followed. ' It is impossible,' he muttered.
'There is no occasion to be uneasy. There
are hundreds of Penhalligans beside Lovedayay.'
He plucked up courage at the thought, and
strode alongside of Paul. But he did not speak
to him. He was busied with his own uneasy
thoughts and alarms. He asked no more questions.
He was afraid to do so, as he was
unable for some moments to command his
voice.

They reached the harvest-field. The last
load of hay was being heaped on the waggon
Paul went towards the men.

There,' he said, pointing to the shade-under
the hedge, ' there they are. Go and*
make Miss Penhalhgan's acquaintance.'

Constantine walked in the direction indicated.
He could see his wife with the baby
in her arms seated on the bank. The back
of the other lady was towards him, and she
was bent, so that he could not make out her
form.

Lovedayay was, indeed, crouching before the
little child, counting the buttons of its dress,
saying slowly, as she went from one to the

other, ' Tinker — tailor — soldier — sailor — gentleman
— apothecary — ploughboy — thief. My pet
is not — never can be that. Tinker — tailor —
will he be a soldier ? Not a cruel soldier, to
kill and be killed. Sailor, to be tossed on the
deep sea and wrecked ? ' She sighed. ' Gentleman
? Of course, of course ! nothing else ;
my golden boy can be nothing else but a
gentleman — the sweetest, dearest '

Lovedayay,' said Juhot, interrupting the other
who, in a transport of love and happiness, had
clasped the tiny gentleman in her arms and
was covering him with kisses, ' Lovedayay, my
husband.'

Lovedayay rose to her knees, without looking
round, then to her feet, stood, turned, and was
face to face with Constantine !

For one moment — but it seemed to him an
hour — they confronted each other in silence,
then, without a cry, without a word, Lovedayay
fell, as though he had struck her down with
an axe.

CHAPTEE XXXVIII.

AT THE GATE.

Constantine hovered irresolute whether to help
Lovedayay to rise or to turn and escape. His
mind was in confusion. He knew that a great
danger menaced him, but he had no readiness
of resource to make an attempt to escape from
it. Juliot had not a suspicion of the cause of
Lovedayay 's fall ; she attributed it to a turn of
the ankle or a trip in a root, and she asked
anxiously if she were hurt.

• John, give her your hand. What is the
matter, dear? Have you hurt yourself? ' She
was unable to assist her, as she held the baby.

But Lovedayay, herself, rose unassisted. Constantino
held out his hand, but she did not
accept it. She pressed both her palms to her
brow, as though by the pressure to assure herself
that she was awake and in her senses, and
not the prey to a horrible delusion. She looked

into Constantine's eyes to be certain that it was
he, himself — her husband, esteemed dead — who
stood before her. She read the confirmation in
his confusion and dismay.

Then she turned away. Accustomed for
many years to self-control, but never before
tried as she was tried now, her powers of restraint
over herself did not wholly desert her.
Lie said nothing ; she could not speak ; she
could scarce see. It was as though the smoke
from the fire that had been lighted for the
haysel tea-drinking had blown before her eyes ;
she looked into a mist ; sounds she heard as
from a distance.

'Lovedayay,' said Juliot, 'you are ill, you
look death-like. I entreat you, go home.'

She did not stir ; she moved her lips, and
held out her hands mechanically, to take the
child.

No,' said Juliot. ' Indeed, and indeed you
shall not. You were over-tired with the journey
yesterday, and the day before. You turned
faint last evening, Paul told me. I am sure
you are not well ; go home.'

But still the words, though they entered
her ear, met with no response. She heard

them, but they struck on her ear without her
knowing: what their meaniufif was.

Juliot was alarmed at her appearance.

John,' she said, ' give her your arm, take
her home ; she is very much upset by the
journey, and the sun has been hot. Go, dear
Lovedayay, go with him. I insist on it.'

If you insist, yes,' answered Lovedayay,
dimly conscious that she had been given an
order.

Juliot was distressed. ' I did not mean to
speak harshly, only in your own interest. John,
take her with you.'

I shall be better directly,' said Lovedayay,
recovering her composure slightly ; ' I should
like some cold water.'

You shall have some. John, take her to
the spring,' said Juliot, tenderly. 'Lean on
him, dear ; he is strong and will support you,
and a few steps will do you good — it will enable
you to recover yourself.'

Constantino drew Lovedayay 's arm through
his, and hurried her away ; he was nervous,
alarmed, eager to get her out of the field
before Paul saw that she was unwell, lest he
should come after her, and interfere with his

having a few words with her in private. He
looked over his shoulder as he went along, and
pressed Lovedayay to walk faster than she was
able,' till they were in the lane alone. Then
he somewhat relaxed his speed ; then also she
withdrew her hand from his arm, and walked
at his side in silence. He could not speak.
What to say, how to excuse his conduct, he
knew not.

She did not turn her face to him, she
walked with her arms by her sides, and her
eyes fixed in a lustreless stare before her. She
would have walked into the hedge at the turn of
the lane if he had not touched and turned her.
The lane descended into the combe ; a gate to
the west allowed an orange belt of sunlight to
fall across it, and strike on the little stream,
here only a spring which shot over a stone
mantled with the greenest moss, and fell a few
feet into a drain which passed under the way.
The rock about the spring was overhung with
delicate fern, now shining in the sun, which
struck on it obliquely.

Lovedayay saw and staggered to the spring ;
she could go no farther, her strength was deserting
her, and her consciousness failing. She

clung to an ash root in the hedge that was
clear of earth. Constantino filled his hat with
water and sprinkled the cold drops in her face.
She revived, looked at him, at first with gratitude,
then with fear. Her first instinct was
thankfulness for a kindness shown her, her first
impulse to acknowledge it ; but this was followed
by the recollection of who it was who
helped her, and the terror that this knowledge
awoke overwhelmed every other thought.

When she was somewhat recovered, she
remained leaning against the hedge, clinging to
the grey ash root. The orange evening sun
was on her pale face, and sparkled in the
water-drops that hung in her hair, on her
lashes, and that trickled over her cheeks. She
did not wipe them away, she did not feel them.
They were not tears. She could not cry.
They were the fresh drops from the spring.
She looked with unswerving eyes before herat
a delicate quivering maidenhair fern that
caught the draught through the gate, and
swayed and shuddered and flashed in the sun,
then dropped out of it. She saw this, and
followed every vibration of the frond in all
that followed. She was not interested in the

fern, but lie saw and noted it, and to her last
hour that dancing frond of fern was associated
in her mind with the interview with Constantine
at the spring.

I am very, very sorry for this,' fathered he.

She made no answer. What could she
answer? Her bosom rose and fell, and every
inspiration was like a knife piercing her. The
mental anguish translated itself into physical
suffering, so closely were the forces correlated.
She stood, as Paul had said, in two spheres, and
spiritual and bodily anguish were as one to her
in this supreme hour.

Lovedayay,' he continued, ' why do you not
look at me ? Why do you not speak ? I suppose
you considered me dead.'

She slightly bent her head.

I was wrecked, Lovedayay — that is, I was
washed off the keel of the "Mermaid" and
was picked up insensible by the boat of Paul
Featherstone. I was much hurt ; my head had
struck the side. I lay for a long time unconscious,
and when I came round to life I was
here, at Maryland.'

She slightly moved her hand on the root of
the ali, in token that lie was listening. She

had no glove on the hand, the sun shone warm
over the long, delicate, sensitive fingers — fingers
that spoke of a refined mind.

I was here,' Constantine went on. ' Paul
Featherstone made me his steward to Stanbury,
and then he forced his sister on me. I did not
want to do what was wrong, but I am weak, I
dare say you know that, anr] the temptation
came to me. It was very wrong of Paul
Featherstone proposing it to me. He ought to
have known better. What was I to say when
I had set before me the prospect of dismissal
and beggary, if I did not come to his terms ? '

Lovedayay looked steadily at him, and her
lips opened.

Constantine,' she said, ' this is not true.'

It is true,' he answered, his eyes falling
before hers. 'That is — he did not know, of
course, about you, and he made a mistake
about my name. However, that is passed.
It is no use crying over spilt milk. What
has been done is past undoing. I am very
sorry, and I know I have acted very wrongly.
I am sure my conscience has reproached me
for it over and over again. I cannot help
myself, the thing is done ; and, now, if I knew

what was the right thing to do, I would do it ;
but you see, yourself, Lovedayay, what a predicament
I am in. Paul Featherstone is a
very strict-thinking, pedantic fellow. When
he knows all, I shall be handed over by him
to the constables, I shall be sent to prison,
tried at the assizes for bigamy, and be transported
for life. That is what will be my fate
when this becomes known. I do not see how
Featherstone can act otherwise.'

What am I to do ! my God ! my
God ! ' cried Lovedayay, clasping her hands on
the root.

He must give me in charge ; then comes
the disgrace to my name and family. My
father — my poor, poor mother! What will
Gerans say? It will cover him with shame.
He will never hold up his head again. As
for my mother, it will kill her.' He sighed and
moaned. ' There is only one chance of escape,'
he said, ' aud that is for you to hold your
tongue. If you tell all, I am not gained to
you. You lose me for ever, as I shall be sent
as a convict to Van Diemen's Land to work
in chains, in prison clothes till I die. What
then will be the advantage of your telling?

None to yourself, and infinite distress to others.
If you want revenge on me, very well, you
shall have it.'

She raised her hand deprecatingly.

Whom else do you desire to punish — my
mother? I thought you liked her. Gerans?
he is your brother's friend. Then consider
these people here. Tell the truth, and what is
Juliot ? A betrayed woman with a bastard.'

Again she raised her hand deprecatingly.

*Paul Featherstone is a just man, and he
will believe it his duty before God and man to
bring me to justice. Let him do so, and cover
two — three families with ignominy, his family,
mine, and yours. You will come in for the
disgrace as well, remember, for you will be
indicated as the woman with a convict husband.'


Lovedayay covered her face with her hands.
She was not thinking of herself, she was thinking
of Paul Featherstone, of his horror when
he knew the truth, of the unspeakable shame
that would fall on JuUot and her babe. She
thought also of Mrs. Gaverock, and she knew
that if told that her loved Constantine was
alive and a felon, with a blasted name, she
VOL. II. S

would die of a broken heart. She thought
also of honest Gerans, of his trouble about
Eose. Was she going to add to this trouble ?

She raised her head, and again stood looking
intently at the quivering maidenhair fern.
Her soul trembled like it, but unlike it, in
darkness, not in light.

By a cruel fatality the happiness of all those
whom she loved, and who had been good to
her, was put into her hands to destroy with a
word : of Mrs. Gaverock, Gerans, Eose, Paul
Featherstone, Juliot, and the little babe. She
would bring shame also on Madam Loveys,
and stupid Anthony. She had herself desired
that her marriage with Constantine should be
kept secret. Now was she to publish it to
bring about general dismay, and to cover those
she loved and regarded with dishonour?

Hark ! ' cried Constantine, ' I hear the
cheers. The last load is made up. The waggon
is in motion, the harvesters will be here. Love-day,
have pity on me ; do not be cruel ! '

They could hear the creak of the wheels
of the laden waggon on the road, the shouts of
the waggoners, and the clash of the ironshod
hoofs on the stones.

Lovedayay ! ' said Constautine, trembling and
turning cold, ' if you have any love for me still,
keep silence for a few days only, till I have
considered what is to be done. I shall find a
way out of this desperate difficulty, if you give
me time. Oh, Lovedayay, we are all weak, frail,
sinful creatures ! Forgive me as you hope to
be forgiven yourself ! '

'Self-abnegation is the woof of woman's
life,' Paul had said to her ; his words, or the
tenor of them, rose in her mind, and strengthened
her to embroider a little more of lier pure story
over that sad thread.

She could not speak, but she held out her
hand.

Constautine grasped it and said, ' Thank
you, Lovedayay, this is like you.'

Then, without a word or a look at him,
without returning the pressure of his hand, she
went up the lane to the avenue and gate of
Maryland.

s 2

CHAPTER XXXIX.

THE WOOF.

Paul Featherstone came on before the waggon,
and caught Constantine up at the gate and
spring. He had not left the spot where Love-day
had extended to him her hand in assurance
that she would keep silence — for a while.

Twice had he persuaded her not to speak,
to be secret about their marriage. The first
time when they were married, now — when she
found herself cruelly betrayed. The imposition
of silence on her on the former occasion had
brought with it a train of sorrow, the imposition
of silence on her now was the only means of
averting dishonour and misery indescribable.
Would she keep her promise ? For how long
would she restrain her tongue ? What way
was to be found out of this tangle ? Constantine's
head was full cf questions, to none of
which could he give an answer. He must have

time to find a means of escape from the dilemma.
He was incapable of seeing any at present in his
then condition of dismay and bewilderment.

What is this I hear ? ' asked Paul. ' Miss
Penhalligan is ill, Juliot tells me ; you were to
have escorted her to Maryland. Why are you
standing here, Eock ? '

She is better. She has gone on by herself.
She did not require my aid. A fit of giddiness
soon over.'

Ah ! something of the sort came upon
her yesterday. Poor soul, she has been overstrained
in mind and body! There is a lookin
her face as if she had dipped her foot into
the bitter waters of March.'

I know nothing of that,' said Constantine ;
I dare say the journey has upset her. She
will be right again in a day or two. Do not
tax her energies too much for a while. I will
speak to Juliot to spare her.'

You should not have allowed her to go on
alone,' said Paul, reproachfully, and the same
shade of disappointment that Lovedayay had noticed
stole across his face. ' Juliot trusted you
to see her to the house in safety, and you should
have fulfilled exactly the trust.'

Constautine's lip curled, but he said nothing.

Paul and he walked on. As they ascended
the hill the former turned to him, ' I beg your
pardon, Epck ; I ought not to have reproved
you so sharply. She may have laid her commands
on you, which would alter the case. I
was alarmed for her. A lit might take her,
unawares, and she fall on the hard stones. I
could not endure the thought, and it was present
to me when I rebuked you.'

Say no more about it.'

And yet I am not sorry that I was led to
speak. I do wish, John Eock, that you were
more reliable. My words are kindly meant,
take them kindly. We have all our faults, I
chief of all, and if you blame me where I have
done amiss I will accept the admonition thankfully
and endeavour to amend. I deal with
you as I would be dealt by. John, during the
past eighteen months I have had brought to
my mind irresistibly, and involuntarily, the
story of the son who said to his father, "I go,
sir, and went not." '

Had you not better apply to the Bishop
for a licence to preach ? ' asked Constantine,
irritably.

No,' answered Paul, insensible to irony,
I have no wish for that. My vocation is for
the life of a recluse, not for a public career.
But you are evading the subject, Eock.'

I am getting too old to be lectured.'

'But not to learn. We are learning all our
days, correcting what is wrong, and acquiring
what is deficient. Do not resent what I have
said.' He stood still and looked back along
the lane. ' The dew is beginning to fall. I
wish Juliot would come. I want to hear how
our friend is. Will you go back, John, and
help to carry the baby, or shall I ? '

'You seem so anxious about the young
lady that you had better go on, Featherstone,
and peep or listen at the keyhole, to learn how
she is. We are none of us, you know, too old
to learn.'

Paul Featherstone looked at him with
astonishment. He understood neither his tone,
nor the sneer in his words, but they grated on
him.

I do not take your meaning, John Eock —
I never pry and listen. I could not do so.
You have greatly misunderstood me, to think
such a thing possible. I want to know how

Miss Penhalligan is, because she is ill and because
lie is my guest.'

Constantine scarcely waited for the end of
his sentence. He walked back to meet his
wife with the child.

Paul turned towards the house. ' He has
hurt me,' said Paul. ' But he did not mean it.
He is thoughtless.'

Lovedayay on reaching the house had gone
to her room, and thrown herself on the bed.
She could not cry. She was as one half-stunned.
She was conscious of what had
taken place, but she felt a numbness in her
brain, which prevented her from fully realising
it, as it affected herself, and from forming a
resolution for the future. The discovery had
been so sudden, so overwhelming, so utterly
unexpected.

She trembled, and the bed shook under
her ; she had folded her hands and lay with her
cheek on them, looking at the wall with wide-open
eyes. Her breath came fast, and her
pulses throbbed in her temples, and each throb
was like the stroke of a hammer against her
head. Paul Featherstone had told her that the

science of life was to turn the face to the light ;
but where was light to which she could look ?
There was open to her only an abyss of gloom.
Instinctively she had turned, as she lay on her
bed, away from the window to look at a blank
and shadowed wall. Everything before her
was blank. There was no exit, no escape.

So Juliot found her lying, when she came
to her. At the sound of Juliot's voice a shudder,
more violent and convulsive than her continuous
trembling, shook Lovedayay's frame ; and
when Mrs. Eock bent over her to ask how she
was, Lovedayay with horror thrust her away, but
immediately repented, sat up, and held forth
her arms, entreating pardon.

Juliot asked if she felt herself better ?
Yes — she was better. If she wanted anything ?
No — nothing but to be alone.

At this Juliot retired, and Lovedayay reproached
herself for having answered un-courteously.
She wanted nothing, nothing
whatever but that. What else could she
desire ? Constantine was lost to her more
fatally than if he had been engulfed, as she had
believed, by the sea. Then she could think of
him as still her own Constantine, although in

another world, and cherish her love of him and
the remembrance of his love. Now he was
lost wholly to her. Her respect for him was
gone, she was robbed of that as she had been
robbed of her respect for her brother. She
loved Constantino still, and she loved Dennis
still, but the love for both was a pitiful, sorrowing
love, a love that stooped, not that stood
on tiptoe. She could not wish to have Constantine
to herself, for she could no longer
honour him. Even if she had desired him, she
could not have him, for to assert her claim
was to condemn him to transportation.

She remembered the morning when she was
married in St. Shadwell's Church at Exeter, and
the solemn sincerity with which she had vowed
to hold to Constantino till death parted them.
How could she be true to her oath if she now
renounced him ; yet how could she be true to
him without committing great cruelty to others ?
She was morally bound to keep her promise,
and yet, it seemed to her, she would be morally
wrong if she asserted her claim.

Her thoughts went round and round in her
brain, the same thoughts, never getting any
farther, sometimes revolving more furiously

than at other times, but not for a moment
stationary, as though within her skull was a
mill-wheel that rushed and scattered the foam
about, now swiftly, now slowly, always going,
never at rest. She lay perfectly motionless on
her bed, with her feet crossed, and her hands
closed, and her cheek on them, but her
thoughts whirled incessantly and could not be
arrested.

So she lay till darkness had closed in ; then
again Juliot came to her room, this time with
a cup of tea and some toast. Lovedayay sat upon
the bed, but her hand shook so that she
spilt the contents of the cup, and her throat
rose and prevented her from swallowing the
toast.

You are ill,' said Juliot, with anxiety ; ' let
me send for a doctor.'

I am not ill,' answered Lovedayay ; ' I am
unhappy. I shall be better tomorrow.'

Then she laid her head again on her hands,
and her hands on the pillow, in the same position,
and said no more. And again, impatient
at the interruption, the wheel of thoughts went
rushing round, and round, and round again in
her hot, aching brain. She was unconscious

that Jiiliot was still in the room, standing by
the bed watching her. Juhot remained some
minutes with her eyes on her, perplexed and
uneasy. Presently she said, ' My dear girl,
you must undress and go to bed. You cannot
lie there. Let me help you off with your
gown.'

Then Lovedayay shuddered and held her
Viands to her bosom to prevent Juliot from
touching her dress, and uncovering the blue
silk thread, and seeing the gold wedding-ring
that hunch there.

'No ! no! ' she exclaimed, with such terror
in her voice that Juliot desisted. ' Let me
alone.'

I will not let you alone unless you promise
me to go to bed. You are either ill now, or
are on the eve of an illness.'

I promise ; I promise,' gasped Lovedayay,
and she sat on her bed, and watched Juliot
with wide, alarmed eyes, till she left the room.
Then only mechanically did she undress, and
lie down.

Sleep she could not. Even whilst engaged
removing her clothes, she was conscious of the
revolution of the wheel of thoughts, speculation,

doubts, conjectures, in her head ; every
thought, and doubt, and imagination was armed
with a blade that cut, like the spikes of a
catherine-wheel, that tore and tortured her
relentlessly. And now to her former thoughts
there came another, an added dread, lest she
should become really ill, unconscious or delirious,
and that in this state the ring in her
bosom would be seen, and her tongue might
blab the secret. She folded her hands over the
ring, and pressed them and it to her breast,
and the ring became white hot, and burnt its
way, little by little, deeper and yet deeper in
through the tender skin and flesh, and buried
itself in the palpitating heart, and there it spun
round and round and threw out drops of molten
gold, burning with unspeakable anguish, drop
on drop, drop on drop, but never would melt
away.

She considered whether, in her box, in her
drawers, in a book, anywhere, there was a
written line that would reveal the secret, should
curious eyes search them whilst she was unconscious.
No — there was nothing ; all Constantine's
letters were destroyed. There was
nothing but the ring to betray her.

Through all the tossing, and turnings, and
fire of her brain there ran the dominant thought
of self-abnegation. Her first duty was towards
her husband, to save him from the terrible consequences
of his own guilt. Her self-sacrifice
must assume a form never contemplated by her
as possible — she must sin for him, she must go
from her marriage vow, and give him up. In
sickness and in health, for richer, for poorer,
for better, for worse, she could not have and
hold him, she must not cherish him. She must
resign her proper place at his side, her proper
office as his comforter and stay and cherisher,
to another, against her vow. It must be so.
She saw no escape from this, no alternative but
one of misery and humiliation for others. One
must suffer or many. She would accept the
burden, and the sin that attended it. The
sacrifice was more than she could bear —
or almost more — but she felt that she was
bound to bear it. The hours passed, and
she could not sleep ; she was still thinking,
the wheel spinning and tearing in her head,
the ring burning and sinking and melting in
her heart, and now and then she was aware
that her self-command was slipping from her.

The tension was more than her nerves could
endure without giving way. That was now
her chief terror, lest she should have fever fall
on her and sweep her away into unconsciousness.


Where could she hide the ring? What
could be done with it ? It must not be seen.

When Juliot came down from Lovedayay's
room for the last time that night, she said to
her brother, who was waiting anxiously for her
report, 'lam not at all satisfied with leaving
her alone. I cannot make her out. Poor soul,
some acute suffering seems to be endured by
her, with a determination not to let it be
known of what nature it is nor what is its
extent. Yet I cannot be with her. She
entreats me to leave her, and she will endure
no servant with her. What is to be done ? '

Go to bed, Juliot,' answered Paul. ' Baby
is your charge. I will sit up in the parlour
under her room, and if she is stirring I shall
hear. If she is worse I shall know, and can
summon assistance.*

So it was settled. Paul remained awake in
the house, reading and meditating in the .
The spinet was there, but he did

not venture to touch it, lest he should disturb
the sick girl above.

The night was as lovely as the day. The
sky was without a cloud, and the full moon
shone down into the tiny quadrangle into which
the windows looked. Paul had the shutters
back, so that he could see the moonlight in the
court, and could look up to the pure sky and
a solitary star that hung in it. On the opposite
side of the quadrangle was a window, and
an orange gleam from it showed where the
baby slept with Juliot, and a rush light burnt
through the hours of darkness.

All in the house were asleep ; not a sound
had he heard in the room above. He trusted
that poor Lovedayay was also sleeping. The
book he had been reading had possessed no
interest for him.

His mind wandered from it and would not
be arrested by its contents. He sat at the
spinet and played on the keys, without sounding
them, various airs that came into his
memory and harmonised with the tenor of his
imaginations. Then he sat in the window, and
looked long into the silvery blue sky, at the
one star. He did not look at his watch to

note how the night passed, because he was not
impatient. Paul was never so content as when
alone, in a still house, communing with his
thoughts.

After a while he stood up, went into the
hall, unlocked the porch door, and took a turnup
and down the avenue in the moonlight.
He was stiff with sitting still, and felt a little
chilled. The great oak gates of the lodge were
never fastened. They had been barred every
night in the Eover's days, never since. What
had Paul to fear ?

He did not remain long in the avenue, ashe
was afraid of being away from his post for
more than a few minutes. He returned to the
parlour, without locking the hall door, and
resumed his place at the window, looking up
at the sky and the star.

How long he thus sat, lost in meditation,
he did not know. He was roused from it as
by an electric shock — he heard a movement in
the room overhead. He started to his feet, for
he heard a soft tread. He went to the parlour
door and listened. The footfall was on the
landing ; it was descending the stairs. Alarmed,
uncertain what to do, what ought to be done,

VOL. II. T

Paul remained standing in the doorway, holding
the latch with his left hand, watching.

Then he saw a white figure issue from the
staircase doorway, and walk down the hall
slowly, A couple of wax candles were burning
in the room behind Paul, and their light
shone along the floor and cast his shadow over
it. The floor was of slate, but some mats were
on it, and a strip of carpet between the porch
entrance and the stair door.

There could be no doubt whatever as to
who was walking through the hall ; there could
be no doubt as to her unconsciousness of what
she was doing. Had she been awake or in her
right mind, she would have seen the candlelight
and the man standing watching her, and
have shrunk away. She saw nothing ; she was
ashamed of nothing. She was in her long
white dress, as she had lain in bed ; she was
possessed by one idea, even in her sleep. She
held her hands folded one over the other, on
her bosom. She looked neither to right nor to
left, but walked on. She went direct to the
porch doorway, released one hand from its hold
on her breast, opened the closed door, and
went out.

Then Paul recovered from his amazement.
He knew that she was walking in her sleep.
He caiio'ht from a hook in the hall a large
dark cloak that his sister wore in wet weather,
and hurried after Lovedayay. He would not
wake her, and cover her with confusion, and
fill her with terror. He threw the cloak over
her shoulders, and she accepted it as a matter
of course, and drew it with the disengaged
hand together across her bosom and wdiat she
held so tightly and secretly there. She went
through the outer court and under the gatehouse,
and down the avenue ; her eyes were
wide quid fixed before her. She did not turn
her head ; she did not feel the cold earth and
stones under her bare feet. Paul followed herat
a little distance. Lie passed out of the
avenue into the lane, and descended the hill
till she reached the little spring opposite the
gate. There she stood still, and, letting go her
hold on the mantle, put forth her right hand
to the ash root she had held and leaned on
in the evening? light. Now the lio-ht struck
through the gateway as then, but the light was
now that of the moon — then, of the sun. Then
it had turned all it touched to gold — now, to

T 2

silver ; then the sprig water fell in diamonds
now, in pearls. The lane was overarched
with trees, and was therefore in shadow, except
at the well, where the gate and gap in the trees
allowed the moonlight to Hood the road and
illumine the bank and falling water. The
cloak slipped from Lovedayay's shoulders to her
feet, and in the halo of white effulgence she
stood, looking before her with motionless eyes
at a frond of maidenhair fern that danced in
the air and flashed into a cluster of silver
flakes, and then sank back into invisibility.
She put her fingers to her neck and drew the
gold wedding ring from her bosom, and held
it, suspended by its silk thread, spinning and
twinkling in the moonlight. Never hasty,
never rough, in anything she did, waking or
sleeping, she unknotted the string — she did not
break it.

Then she sighed, and holding it between
her palms, and resting both, closed, on the ash
root, she laid her brow on them, and so remained,
still as a figure of marble, for full five
minutes. Whilst Paul hesitated whether to
step forwards and throw the cloak over her
again, she raised her head, and, with a rapid

motion, cast the ring from her into the
spring.

Then she turned away, and began rapidly
to retrace her steps. Paul followed, carrying
the mantle, but afraid of touching her. She
had done that which she had determined on,
and was more likely now to be roused from
sleep by a word or a touch. The highest mercy
he could show her was to allow her to return
to her room roused.

She did not wake. She went back as she
had come, and Paul, when he returned to the
parlour, heard her throw herself on her bed.
Then all Alas still.

Paul locked the hall door, and resumed his
place at the window. He blew out the candles,
and sat thinking till morning broke and the
star had passed over the roof beyond his range.

CHAPTEE XL.

THE WARP.

For many clays Lovedayay was confined to her
bed by nervous fever. She was unconscious,
and rambled. But she never uttered one word
about her marriage, or named Constantine.
She spoke very little, and then concerning her
brother, and little Euth, and domestic arrangements
at Nantsillan. The slab of slate weighed
on her. What was she to do with it ? How
many years was she to carry it about with her ?
Was it always to be on her head, pressing her
down ? — because it hurt her ; it was too heavy
for her to bear. Would no one take the slab
of slate off her head, or must she bear it till
it crushed her into the earth ? If so, would
someone write on it ' Lovedayay,' and nothing
more, and leave it as her tombstone ? Then
for hours she lay with her forefinger on her
lips, checking herself lest she should say something
that must not be said.

I thought,' said Constantine, ' that you
were about to get a companion for JuHot, to
save her trouble, and you have given her an
additional pack to carry. This comes of boasting,
Featherstoue. You told me you had secured
a treasure. But I suppose you are content
that this house should be a hospital.'

'You were nursed in it,' said Paul, with
slight reproach in his tone.

The best thing you can do is to send her
about her business as soon as she is well.
Juliot has enough to do with the baby, and
ouo'ht not to be worried with nursiuQ- sick
women.'

We did not pack you away.'

No ; I was useful to you. Saved you the
rides to Stanbury.'

And this poor girl will be useful when she
is well.'

I suppose she will not be drawing her
salary all the time she is being coddled up ? '
said Constantine.

Paul did not answer ; he stood up, and
walked away.

Constantine was in reality very anxious
about the condition of Lovedayay. He stood in

daily terror of lier revealing the secret which
would consign him to prison, He was not
heartless, but he was rendered so for the time
by his fear for himself; and, in his desire to
screen himself from suspicion, he allowed Paul
to regard him as lacking in common charity.
His want of feeling, or apparent want of feeling,
for the patient, angered Paul Featherstoue, who
could not forget that his brother-in-law had
lain in the same condition, in the same room,
less than two years ago, and owed his life to
the attentions he and his sister had freely,
ungrudgingly given him.

Paul Featherstoue did not call in a medical
man for Lovedayay. ' The mind is suffering,' he
said, ' and reacts on the body. A surgeon can
do nothing. The mind will recover itself presently,
and then the body will cast off its fever.
Too much wool has been worked over the woof,
and the string is strained.'

He visited the sick room every day, and sat
some time beside Lovedayay. Sometimes he
stood over her. He never went to her without
kneeling by her side and praying, or repeating
the psalms of David. His presence always
brought her reef. She did not recognise him

when delirious, or speak to him ; but she was
cooler, calmer, after his visits. He laid his
hand on her hot brow, and a stream of soothing
influence passed from him to her ; the
flame in her cheek became less fierce, her restlessness
abated.

If she could cry, she would be better,' said
Paul one day, when glimmering consciousness
appeared in her eyes. ' Juliot, bring the baby.
She seemed to love it. Try whether she will
recognise the child. Perhaps the little finger
may touch the rock of stone, and the rivers
gush forth in dry places.'

Juliot went out, and returned with the
little fellow in her arms, placed him on Love-day's
bed, and said : ' My dear, I have brought
you my baby, little Constantine. Kiss him.'

Then Lovedayay shuddered, and shrank away
with a look of trouble and terror in her face ;
and as she crouched back against the wall, with
her hands extended before her, to hold off the
child from touching her, they saw that the
experiment had failed. They had done harm,
not good, by it, Paul was disappointed and
puzzled. He said to Lovedayay : ' Give me your
hand.'

She always obeyed him ; she extended her
hand to him, and he put his fingers on the
pulse ; the blood was leaping and hammering
in her veins.

Lie down,' he said.

She submitted.

Shut your eyes.'

She closed the lids.

Can you sleep ? '

She shook her head slightly.

'I am your master; I order you to sleep.
I am your physician ; I prescribe sleep. I am
your friend ; I beseech sleep.'

She unclosed her eyes, looked at him with
such anguish in them as to move him grievously.
Then she closed her eyes again. He continued
to hold her wrist till the pulse became more
regular, and then he withdrew.

Next day she Alas better ; the fire was gone
from her cheeks. She was Yevj pale, sunken
eyed, and thin, but the light of restored intelligence
was in her eyes. She was very weak.
A look of settled melancholy, almost of despair,
was in her face.

Paul Featherstone again visited her, and
this time signed to his sister to leave the room.

He stood — he did not attempt to take a clair
he stood some little way from the bed. He
had his hat in his hands ; he held it with both
in front of him. His back was towards the
door and the hsfht of the window, but the reflected
light from the white walls and sheet
partly illumined his grave, earnest face.

Miss Penlialligan,' he said, in a low tone,
I have not much to say to you to-day, and I
will not intrude for more than a couple of
minutes. I only dare to venture here as your
doctor. I have had to deal in this room with
two cases, of which yours is one. There has
been unconsciousness and fever in both — in the
first caused by outward physical wounds, in
this by inward wounds dealt to the spirit. I
do not know your story, but I know this, that
you have had to suffer. The pain of a crushed
soul has been yours, and that brought on your
illness. The wounds are not healed, the cause
of your sorrow not removed. I see in your
face that the anguish remains, though the bodily
fever is over. I know one thing more. As I
told you that the dominant of woman's life is
self-sacrifice, so I doubt not that the besinuino;,
the middle, and the ending of this passage of

wild and troubled music has been on the dominant
that rules true woman.' He paused. Her
eyes were on his, full of entreaty not to ask
anything — not to press her to yield up the
secret. He quite understood her. * I ask you
nothing. I want to know nothing. That I
am right in what I have said I know without
asking. This I will assure you for your comfort
: you never said a word, in your wildest
paroxysms, which conveyed a hint of anything
you may wish to keep from us.' He saw a
look of relief creep into her eyes. ' But I
have not come here to speak about this. I
have come to remind you of something you
yourself asked me. You said to me that
life was an embroidery on canvas, and you
accepted what I told you was the woof of
woman's life. Have you forgotten what I said
was the warp ? The strings of that are fixed
above — in heaven. Throw the rest of your
threads about the warp, and the woof will not
give way.' He was silent again for a moment.
Then he went on : ' Do you know the constellation
of Charles's Wain ? It turns and turns
for ever, but in all its turnings the two foremost
stars ever point in one direction ; therefore

they are called the Pointers. In all the
motions of the Wain they never turn a hairbreadth
aside — they ever point to the Pole Star.
There are many changes and revolutions in life,
but each of us has his pointers — the head and
the heart, and they will keep him steady if they
point ever to the centre of the spiritual sphere.'

Then he bowed and left the room.

A moment after, she heard him at the
spinet below, playing and singing :

As pants the hart for cooling streams,

"When heated in the chase,
So longs my soul for Thee, God !

And The refreshing grace.

Then the tears trickled from the eyes of
Lovedayay and moistened her pillow.

CHAPTER XLI.

ANOTHER NOTICE TO QUIT.

CoNSTANTiNE was engaged all the time that
Lovedayay was ill in forming plans of escape from
the dangerous as well as embarrassing situation
in which he was placed. None were satisfactory.
All rested on the assumption that
Lovedayay would be induced to abandon her
rights. But could he hope this? Had he a
right to expect it? She was his legitimate
wife, and was it likely that she would waive
her claim in favour of another woman ? That
she loved him dearly he knew ; but was her
love of so unselfish a nature as to induce her to
renounce him ? Was not love essentially selfish ?
He had wronged her in the most cruel manner
in which wrong could have been done. Was it
not probable that the injury done her would
transform her love into hatred, and that she
would seek revenge? How could she better

chastise him for having deserted her for another
than by proclaiming his infamy and exacting
legal retribution ?

But supposing that she consented not to
betray him, Avould she be able to keep the
secret? Would she not be moved, when next
she was at Towan, to confide to his mother that
he, her best-loved son, her Benjamin, the apple
of her eye, was still alive. Would she be able
to keep the secret from Gerans, his brother, who
had always loved him with a strong, unselfish,
fraternal love ?

Would she be silent to her own brother,
Dennis ? If Dennis knew the truth, he would
certainly demand redress for his sister's wrongs.
He would not be satisfied that his sister should
forfeit her position.

Lovedayay would be writing home, every one
in his old parish, all his relations and friends
would know where she was, and what more
likely than that some one or other of them
would drop in at Marslaud to see her, for
Lovedayay was an universal favourite. Then, if
any one from the old place came to Maryland,
the mischief would be done.

He trusted that Loved had said nothing

compromise him during her delirium, or
nothing that Paul Featherstone and Juliot had
understood as compromising to him. If she
had used his name in her murmurs, it was
possible that the fond Juliot had supposed she
was speaking of the child, and flattering herself
that the sick girl had already become attached
to it. A mother is sufficiently proud and
foolish to believe anything, said Constantine.

He could not, however, conceal from himself
that Paul did not regard him with the
same friendliness as before, and this change in
his manner filled him with uneasiness. Did
Paul suspect anything ? Had he an inkling of
an idea that he and Lovedayay were not absolute
strangers to each other ? Had Paul noticed his
alarm when the name of Penhalligan was mentioned
to him ? Had Juliot told Paul that it
was at sight of him, Constantine, that Lovedayay
had been overcome ?

In his fear and desire to allay suspicion
Constantine overdue his j^art. He spoke with
heartlessness of the sick woman, and expressed
impatience at her illness. This it was which
alienated Paul from him. Featherstone suspected
nothing, but he was shocked and disgusted

at Constantine's lack of generosity, and
dearth of sympathy.

Paul's manner became more restrained and
cold towards him, and this, instead of inducing
Constantine to alter his conduct, drove him to
accentuate it.

Lovedayay had been thinking, quite as much
as he, what was to be done. He had considered
what was expedient, she what was right.

One day, when Paul was about the farm
and Juliot was with the baby in the garden,
Constantine took the occasion of beinor alone in
the house with Lovedayay to talk to her about
the future. She was sufficiently recovered to
sit in the parlour. He had shunned a short
private interview when left alone for a few
minutes ; it must be painful to both, and could
lead to nothing, Now he had his chance, and
he seized it.

She was looking deathly white, with bright
but sunken eyes ; beautified she always was, her
intense sorrow had spiritualised her beauty, and
Constantine thought her now more lovely than
he had ever done before. He had never lost his
affection for lier, but his fear for himself had
stifled it in his bosom when he saw her au'ain.

VOL. II. V

She looked at him sadly, with a tinge of fear
in her sadness.

My dear Lovedayay,' he said, carefully shutting
the door behind hin, 'lam so glad to
see you better, and trust you will soon be well.
I have not had a chance before of speaking with
you in private, and telling you how anxious I
have been whilst you where ill. It has been
doubly distressful to me, because I was forced
to conceal my feelings.'

She did not interrupt him. She did not
curl lier lip and wonder whether his anxiety
were for himself or for her.

I have been thinking wdiat is to be
done, and I cannot tell. What have you
thought ? '

You asked me to be silent till you had
come to a resolution. I have kept my word.
What do you propose ? '

My dear Lovedayay, you see the position I
am in, It is desperate. I have schemed one
thing, then another, and every scheme when
built up seems reared on sand, which will shift
and let it down.' He was afraid to propose to
her any one of his schemes : they all rested on
the one base of her self-abnegation, and he had

not the heart — he had sufficient sense of shame
not to ask that of her.

Constantine,' she said, ' what do you offer
me? '

I have no offer to make.'

And I am to be silent till you have made
up your mind ? '

Yes, I entreat you. Some solution will
present itself, must do so, but I have not found
it yet.'

Listen to me,' she said, calmly. ' I have
had even more time than you for the consideration
of this matter. You have had distractions,
I have had none ; waking, all day I have
thought of nothing else ; in my bed, unable to
sleep, at night, I have had the problem ever
before me. Even sleeping it has been present,
embarrassing me. I have considered it from
every possible point of view; I have disengaged
my own interests from it, I have tried to Se it,
as I might have seen it had it pleased Grot to
take me to Himself, That, perhaps, would
have been the simplest way out of the maze,
but that it was not to be the way God has shown
by leaving me here. I was willing enough to
go. I clung to life, no, not by a finger end —

TJ 2

but I have been sent back from the door of
death with a command to stay. Therefore,
Constantine, the puzzle must be riddled out
between us.'

What is to be done? ' asked he, distractedly.
I have tried to discover, and cannot.'

Perhaps you have looked at it from one
narrow point of sight — your interests, or your
fancied interests. But we must consider it from
another ; we must ask. What is right to be
done ? '

Constantine's heart sank. He was not prepared
to think of it thus. Thought of thus there
was but one answer.

You are my husband in the sight of God,
and by the law of the land. I am your wife,
and Juliot is not. You will allow this.'

Yes ' — reluctantly admitted. ' But, consider
'

Let me say what I desire, and then you
shall speak. The plain, broad right is that you
and I live together henceforth as we have sworn
to each other. Is it not so ? '

He did not answer.

But,' continued Lovedayay, ' that has been
made impossible by your guilty act. It cannot

be. It never can be. If your guilt is made
known, you will be separated from me and
from your other wife, equally. Is it not so ? '

Yes, it is ; and surely, Lovedayay, if you
have a heart '

Let me finish what I have to say. I have
thought it all out. It is clear to me now, but
I cannot say that it will remain so. I cannot
live with you as your wife, and you cannot
return to me as my husband, because of your
crime. Not only because the law would banish
you, but also because my whole nature recoils
from it. But, as you are living now, you are
in sin. Poor Juliot is guiltless, because she is
ignorant ; but you are not, and every day that
5''ou remain here aggravates your sin, and lessens
your chance of pardon and salvation. Is it not
so?'

He did not answer.

Do not think for one moment that I regard
Juliot with jealousy. I pity her. I love her.
I cannot do other than both admire and love
her for her singleness of mind and childlike
innocence. She knows nothing of the battles
and agonies of life. She has lived here as a
nun in a convent, secluded from the knowledge

of evil. Not for the world would I have her
faith ill goodness shaken by the discovery of
the wrong you have done her. I will never,
never tell her. I will for ever seal my mouth
lest she should know this terrible secret : I
would spare her the shame which would crush
and kill her ; and for her brother's sake —
so good, so kind, so pious, and so simple — I
would be silent, if there were no other motive
to influence me, but '

Constantine had been breathing freer. At
the ' but ' he began to shiver with fear asrain.

But,' she continued, ' though she must not
know the cruelty and feel the disgrace, you
must not remain here as her husband. That
would be sin. You must go hence.'

What ! ' exclaimed Constantine, angrily ;
you would banish me ! '

Not I. You must exile yourself. I will
do nothing, I can do nothing, but tell you your
duty. Not to come to me — I do not ask, I do
not wish that. It will be a pang to Juliot, but an
innocent pang — not a degrading torture, like the
knowledge of your iniquity. Am I not right?'

And pray, whither am I to go ? '

That I leave to you.'

You will swear to me most solemnly not
to reveal our marriage to Juliot, to Paul, to
any one ? '

I have shown that I can keep silence, and
I will keep it. But understand that your
father and mother, Gerans, and Eose all know
about that. I am now in banishment myself
from Nantsillan, for a twelvemonth. At the
end of this time I return, and the old Squire
will probably recognise my relationship. I
will say nothing about you ; I will not allow
them to suppose, from anything I may say, that
you are still alive. Accident, or rather Providence,
has brought me here, to startle you out
of your security, and tell you your duty. If
you neglect to attend to me, Providence may
again interfere, not to warn, but to punish.'

A veiled threat,' muttered Constantine.

JSTot at all. Not through me shall you
ever suffer.'

He considered. What she said was true ;
there was always a danger of his being discovered.
There were plenty of persons in his
own county who knew him ; he was known
by some in Exeter. He was shut up in a little
corner of land — there was danger in leaving it ;

he must be for ever in fear of its invasion, and
of his recognition. If his previous marriage
was known to his father and mother, to Gerans
and Eose, it would soon be known to all who
cared, and his recognition would lead to his
destruction.

Lovedayay,' he said, ' you have put this ina
new light to me. I admit to you that my
conscience has been very uneasy. I have not
been happy. I did what was wrong, and then
did not know how to undo the wroncr. You
must give me time to think well over what you
have put to me so clearly. And now, as
you have pronounced sentence of banishment
against me, I must deliver the same to you.
You cannot stay here.'

No,' she answered quietly, ' I do not wish
to. Here is a letter I have written to-day to my
cousin in Exeter, to ask her to receive me. I
was to have gone to her when diverted at
Launceston.'

No one at home knows where you are at
present ? '

How can they ? I have not written. I
have been too ill to write, even if the wish had
been in me.'

I will see to this letter being posted.'

When 1 hear from her I will leave. I will
leave gladly. To be here is daily suffering. I
had written to my cousin from Nantsillan to
expect me, but did not wait for an answer ;
she will have wondered what became of me
when I did not arrive,'

Do not condemn me, Lovedayay. I have, I
have indeed, suffered.'

I know that you have done very wrong,
but I do not condemn you. No one has any
right to judge another who has not been subjected
to the same temptation.'

And you will forgive me ? '

I will forgive you freely, heartily, when I
am sure that you are repentant.'

I am that now.'

Alien you have left this place I will forgive
you.'

Then they heard the voice of Juliot, talking
to her baby, as she entered the house from the
garden.

Constantine at once left the parlour.

You have been in to see our patient,' said
Juliot. ' She is, indeed, patient, which is a
joke, as Paul would say. By the way, have

VOL. II. X

you observed, John, how much graver ray
brother has become of late? He was wont
to be vastly humorous, but now he never
jokes. What has come over him, I wonder? '

END OP THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY

6P0TT1SW00DE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

LONDON

LIFE AND WORKS OF Charlotte Bronze

(CURRER BELL and her sisters),

EMILY and ANNE Bronze

(ELLIS AND ACTON BELL).
In Seven Volumes, large crown 8vo. handsomely bound in cloth, price 5s. per volume.

The descriptions in 'Jane Eyre' and the other fictions by Charlotte Bronte and her
Sisters being mostly of actual places, the Publishers considered that Views are the most
suitable Illustrations for the novels. They are indebted for a clue to the real names of
the most interesting scenes to a friend of the Bronte family, who enabled the artist, Mr.
G. M. Winiperis, to identify the places described. He made faithful sketches of them on
he spot, and drew them on wood. It is hoped that these views will add fresh interest to
he reading of the stories.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronchi. With Five Illustrations.
SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
Villette. By Charlotte Fronts. With Five Illustrations.
THE PROFESSOR, and POEMS. By Charlotte Broth?. With Poems by her

Sisters and Father. With Five Illustrations.
WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. And AGNES GREY. By Anne
Bronte. With a Preface and Biographical Notice of both Authors by Charlotte
Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze. By Mrs. Gaskell. With Seven Illustrations.
*s* TAe volumes are also to be had infcp. %vo. limp cloth, price 2j. td. each.

UNIFORM EDITION OF

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES.

In Seven Volumes, each containing Four Illustrations.

Price 3s. 6d. each, bound in cloth; or in Sets of Seven Volumes, handsomely bound

in half-morocco, price £2. 10s.

CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES:

Vol. I. WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.

Vol. II. NORTH AND SOUTH.

Vol. III. SYLVIA'S LOVERS.

Vol. IV. CRANFORD.
Company Manners — The Well of Pen-morphia — The Heart of John Middleton — Traits
and Stories of the Huguenots — Six Weeks at Heppenheim — The Squire's Story — •
Libbie Marsh's Three Eras — Curious if True— The Moorland Cottage — The Sexton's
Hero — Disappearances — Right at last — The Manchester Marriage — Lois the Witch — The
Crooked Branch. y^^ y MARY BARTON.

Cousin Phillips — My French Master — The Old Nurse's Story — Bess's Troubles at Home
Christmas Storms and Sunshine.

Vol. VI. RUTH.
The Grey Woman — Morton Hall — Mr. Harrison's Confessions — Hand and Heart.

Vol. VII. LIZZIE LEIGH.
A Dark Night's Work — Round the Sofa — My Lady Ludlow — An Accursed Race— The
Doom of the Griffiths — Haifa Lifetime Ago — The Poor Clare — The Half-Brothers.

*»* The Volumes are also to be had infcp. Svo. limp cloth, price zs. 6d. each.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

NEW 'Standard' EDITION. In 26 vols, large 8vo.
vos. 6rf. each. This Edition contains some of Mr. Thackeray's writings not
before collected, with many additional Illustrations. It has been printed
from new type, on fine paper; and, with the exception of the Edition de
Luxe, it is the largest and handsomest edition that has been public-shed.

THE Edition de luxe. Twenty-six Volumes, imperial

8vo. Containing 248 Steel Engravings, 1,620 Wood Engravings, and 88 Coloured
Illustrations. The steel and wood engravings are all printed on real China
paper. The NUMBER of COPIES PRINTED is LIMITED to ONE Thousand,
each copy being numbered. The Work can only be obtained through
Booksellers, who will furnish information regarding terms, &c.

THE LIBRARY EDITION. With Illustrations by the Author,
Richard Doyle, and Frederick Walker. Twenty-four Volumes, large
crown 8vo. handsomely bound in cloth, price £9 ; or half-russia, marbled
edges, £13. I3s.

*4* The Volumes are sold separately, in cloth, price Is. M. each.

THE POPULAR EDITION. 13 vols, crown sto. with Frontispiece
to each volume, scarlet cloth, gilt top, price £3. bs. ; and in half-morocco,
gilt, price £5. Its.

*»* The Volumes are sold separately, in green cloth, price 5s. each.

CHEAPER ILLUSTRATED EDITION. In Twenty-six Volumes,
crown 8vo. price Ss. Gd. each. In Sets of Twenty-six Volumes uniformly
bound in cloth, price £4. lis.; or handsomely bound in half-morocco, price
£8. 8.!. Containing nearly all the small Woodcut Illustrations of the former
Editions and many New Illustrations by Eminent Artists.
THIS EDITION CONTAINS ALTOGETHER 1,773 ILLUSTRATIONS

By the Anchor : Luke Fii-des, A.R.A. ; Mrs. Butler (Miss Elizabeth Thompson) ;

George Do Married ; Richard Doyle; Frederick Walker, A.R.A. ; Georob

Cruikshank; Joh^j Leech; Fuan'k Dickson; Lixley Sambouunk ; F. Barnard;

E. J. Wheeler; P. A. Fraser; Charles Keene ; R. B. Wallace; J. P.

Atkinson ; W. J. Webb ; T. R. Macquoid ; M. Fitzgerald ; \V. Ralston ;

John Collier ; H. Furnish ; G. G. Kilburne, &c., &c., &c.

THE POCKET EDITION. In process of issue in monthly volumes.
Price Is. 6rf. per volume in half-cloth, cut or uncut edges ; or Is. in paper
covers.
*>* ^ List of the Volumes already published will be sent on application.

Ballads. By William Makepeace Thackeray. With a Portrait
of the Author, and 56 Illustrations by the Author; Mrs. Butter (Miss
Elizabeth Thompson) ; George Da Married; John Collier; H. Furnish ;
G. G. KiLBURNK ; M. Fitzgerald; and J. Parkinson. Printed on toned
paper by Clay, Sons, & Taylor; and elegantly bound in cloth, gilt edges, by
Burn. Small 4to. 16s.

W. M. THACKERAY'S SKETCHES.

THE ORPHAN OF Pillion, and other Sketches, Fragments,
and Drawings. By William Makepeace Thackeray. Copied by
a process that gives a faithful reproduction of the originals. With a Preface
and Editorial Notes by Miss Thackeray. A New Edition, in a new style
of binding, bevelled boards, gilt edges, royal 4to. price One Guinea.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

c

T

X,

■' . V

^^\]

?fi

^ -^-

vt. 'iks. -^' " t^.

^ %fe, lu jy^^^

9>.

'^

V (jb )l^^

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 042822780

OF THE

U N 1 VLR.S City

Of 1 Ll Noise


V.3

f^ A

VOL. III.

A TALE OF THE CORNISH COAST

BY THE

AUTHOR OF 'JOHN Herein ' ' MEHALAH ' &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



hall fights deserted

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

XLII. OX A BENCH 1

XLIII. BETWEEN TWO HEAVENS . . . . 16

XLIV. FLED . 30

XLV. FEATHERSTONE's KITCHEN . . . . 46

XLVI. RICHARD CARWITHEN . . . . .61

XLVII. DISCOVERED . . . . . . . 75

XLVIII. A STROKE . 89

XLIX. THE LAST CORD . . . . . . 99

L. AN APPARITION .113

LI. WANTED: money! 128

LII. ON THE TURF . . . . .143

LIII. A THOUSAND POUNDS . . . . . 158

CHAPTER PAGE

LIV. THE SPOTTED DOG 174

LV. AWAY ! . . . ■ 189

LVI. A SHOT . 202

LVII. ANOTHER SHOT . . . . ^ . 218

LVIII. ON FOUR Ones 230

LIX. RECONCILIATION . . . . . . 246

LX. A BED OF VIOLETS 259

CHAPTER XLII.

ON A BENCH.

The departure of Lovedayay from Marslaud was
not so easily managed as Constantine supposed.
Days passed without an answer from the Exeter
cousin, and at last Lovedayay 's letter was
returned from the Dead Letter Office : ' Left
Exeter ; address not known.'

Lovedayay was troubled. What should she
do ? Whither could she go ? She must consult
Constantine. There was no one else
whom she could consult. She was uneasy,
anxious to leave, partly because her brother
and friends at Towan knew nothing about her
where she was, what she was doing — and
also because a continued residence at Maryland
was unendurable to her.

VOL. III. B

She had seen little of Constantine since the
interview in the parlour. He had, or pretended
to have, business at Stanbury which
occupied him so continuously that he slept
there, coming to Maryland only now and then.

One beautiful day the opportunity she
desired arrived. She was in the garden,
sitting on the bench, holding the baby on her
lap, talking and singing to it. She was much
improved in health, but still looked delicate,
and the expression of intense sadness would
not wear out of her face, but it was qualified
and sweetened by resignation. She had no
hope in life, no object towards which she could
strive. Sometimes, when she was in the garden
with the child, Paul was also there, working,
or collecting herbs, and he would talk to
her. His conversation always brought her
comfort. Without knowing her secret he
divined the depth of her trouble, and sympathised
with her.

Paul's conversation acted on her hot and
suffering heart like the flow over it of cool
spring water.

The child exercised a healing influence
also. It drew her attention from herself. She

became very fond of it, and it was a pleasure
to her to be able to carry it about and amuse
it whilst the mother was engaged on her duties
in the house. When Lovedayay was not nursing
little Con she was engaged on needlework,
repairs which had been neglected after the
birth of the child, because Juliot had not time
to attend to both.

She had made a little posy of bachelor's-buttons
for the baby when the garden door
opened, and Const antoine came to her. He
looked sharply about, to make sure that Paul
Featherstone was not there, and then he seated
himself on the bench beside Lovedayay. At the
back grew an elder, now a mass of sweetness
and white bloom.

'I am glad to find you alone,' said Constantine.
' Why are you still here ? '

She told him the reason. He was perplexed,
and bit his thumb.

I thought your cousin was living beyond
her income. How is it you did not know this
before leaving Nantsillan ? '

I wrote, but left before the return of the
letter. It will have arrived, and alarmed my
brother : he will not know where I am.'

« 2

■ ' There is no help for it,' said Constantine.
You must remain here a little longer, till
something is heard of. I will put an advertisement
for you in an Exeter paper. Tell me,
have Paul Featherstone and Juliot questioned
you regarding the cause of your illness ? '

Oh, Constantine ! no. They have vastly
too good feeling to do such a thing. But
Mr. Featherstone is so wonderful that I fancy
at times he sees into my soul and reads what is
there. I am sure he knows more than his
sister.'

^ ' Does he suspect me ? '
I do not think so. I cannot tell what he
knows, but I believe, from the way he has
with me, that he has more knowledge than we
suppose. He has great and miraculous powers.'
Pshaw ! ' scoffed Constantine. ' Do not
be imposed on by his airs. He fancies that he
has the gift of healing, but he is a quack and a
mountebank.'

You must not say that,' exclaimed Love-day,
with some warmth. ' He is true to
himself and to others.'

-'- Constantine laughed. ' He imposes first on
himself and then upon others. I thought you

had more common sense than to be deceived
by his pretensions. I'll tell you what happened
whilst I have been here. I went with Paul
one Sunday to Welcombe Church, and found it
crowded with an unusually large congregation.
All through the service it was clear the people
were thinking of something other than the
prayers and sermon. When the parson retired,
then the churchwardens came up to the
Featherstone pew, and asked Paul to accompany
them. So he went out, and all the
people lined the churchyard path, apparently
expecting something. They closed in after Paul
and the churchwardens, and followed them to
the church-house. " Us have got him at last,"
said one of the wardens. " The old enemy
be safe locked up in here," said the other.
What do you mean ? " asked Paul, much
puzzled. " Sure, Squire, us have caught the
devil, and locked him in. Nicholas Hayward,
there, found him in the road." We entered,
and there lay a black india rubber ball on the
floor. " Nicholas Hayward took 'n up off the
road, not knowing what he was," said one of
the-wardens ; " and when he let 'n fall, then he
jumped and danced so high he was sure that

he'd laid hold on him then. So he said the
Church Catechism right through, questions and
all, and, thus fortified, he sent him on vi' his
foot, till he got him into the church-house, and
there he be." " Why," said Paul, " this is quite
natural ; it is not Satan, it is an indiarubber
bouncing ball." Then he took it up and went
out before all the congregation, and tried to
explain its properties. Then he threw it down,
and away it sprang over their heads, and the
folk flew right and left ; and where the ball
fell no one ever saw. But all Welcombe parish
believes that Squire Featherstone conjured the
devil away.' ^

Mr. Featherstone did not encourage their
superstition ; he endeavoured to dispel it.'

'He could do no other, with me at his
elbow. If I had not been present, there is no
knowing to what hocus-pocus he might have
had resort.'

For shame, Constantino ! '

Well,' said he, with a laugh and shrug of
his shoulders, ' it is an instance of the way in
which the people encourage him in his craze ;

A true incident that occurred about forty years ago. The
thing found was, however, not a ball, but a gutta-percha whip.

and lie does nothing, as you have seen, to discourage
them in their belief. Here, Lovedayay,
give me the baby.'

He took the child in his arms and played
with it. The little fellow laughed, and beat
with his feet on his father's knees, and tried to
stand and leap on them. Lovedayay had stuck
little tufts of golden bachelor's-buttons down
the front of his dress, and as Constantine
danced him they fell out on his Jap, and then
on the ground about his feet, where he carelessly
trod on them.

He is like me, is he not, Lovedayay ? ' asked
he.

Yes, despotic as a Gaverock,' she replied.

Tell me about home,' said Constantine.
I have heard nothing since I left, and I cannot
make inquiries. I have not had the
chance of asking you. Is the old place just
the same — and the old people, how are they ? '

She told him about them. He was interested
and moved by recollections, and sighed.

It is very hard ! You cannot understand
my feelings. I wish again and again that I
could go home and see them all. Now that I
may not, I feel an almost uncontrollable desire

to go. My father was rough, but, after all,
Geraus and I had a very happy boyhood.
How is Phoebus ? '

Phoebus belongs now to Eose.'

She will not know how to manage him.
I should like to slip back to Towan, by night,
open the stable door, and gallop away on
Phoebus, But it would not do ; it cannot be.
Oh, Lovedayay ! I have imprisoned myself here.
I dare not go anywhere, lest I should be
stumbled upon and recognised by some one
from our parts. I have come to hate this
nook of the world. Look at those bachelor's-buttons
— how scraggy they grow ! Do you
remember the plant in the Towan garden
under the drawing-room window ? I nearly
committed myself one day when I was herewith
Juliot. She spoke of this very tuft, and
said that she was fond of the golden flower.
Then I laughed, and said I knew far finer
shrubs of bachelor's-buttons. " You should
see ours," I began ; then recollected myself,
and turned the colour of a peony.'

Lovedayay sighed. :

Look at this little fellow,' said Constantine.
There is not a scrap of Featherstone in him,

I am glad to say ; he has my nose, and my
haunt his eyes will, I think, be like mine —
only one cannot tell of what colour a baby's
eyes are. Lovedayay, was my father very angry
when he heard about our marriage ? '

'At first, but he soon cooled,'

Ah ! now that it is too late, 1 wish I had
been brave and told him all. One is always
wise after the event, when it is irrevocable. I
hate my life here, with this weariful Paul
Featherstone, solemn and dreamy, and in this
cramped nook from which I can no more
escape than a mouse from a trap. How is
Bryony ? '

What, the black cow ? '

Yes. I remember her when she was a
little calf. I was wont to give her sugar, and
she was tame as a kitten, and ran after me and
licked my hand. Whenever I came home
from Padstow she ambled and jumped for joy.
She had not forgotten me on my return from
Exeter. I went through the yard when the
cows were being brought in to be milked, and
she broke away from the rest, and lowed, and
rubbed her head against me, and licked my
hand.'

'I heard Mrs. Gaverock say that Bryony
gave more milk than two of the red Devons.*

I care for nothing here, and for nobody
'

Nobody ! ' exclaimed Lovedayay, looking
round. ' Not this little fellow ? '

Oh, of course, I exclude him. If I ran
away I should carry him with me. You must
not condemn me for what I have done. All
men make mistakes some time or other, only
most are able to redress them somehow, and I
cannot — that is the difference.' Then he handed
the baby back to Lovedayay. He was tired of
holding it, and of its jumps and pats on his
cheeks. ' The little fellow goes to you quite

readily, as if ' He checked himself. A

constrained pause ensued. ' Were they very
distressed at Towan when they thought I was
dead ? ' he asked.

It nigh on broke your dear mother's heart.
She has never recovered the shock. She was
off her head for a while, thinking of you as a
child.'

Ah ! so was I off my head. If I had not
been so, I would not have got into this cursed
predicament. So Gerans is married, and has

got Eose. Some fellows are born to luck. Why,
she must be worth four or five hundred a year,
and charming to boot. Gerans is a good fellow,
exit that is no reason why the skies should rain
gold on him and pitch on me. I could be quite
as good a fellow as he if circumstances allowed
me. The saying is, " A poet is born, not made " ;
it is the reverse with a virtuous moan — he is
made, not born. How can a man be righteous
when he is impecunious? A man must live.
When you are drowning you catch at what you
can to keep you afloat, and don't ask if the
casks have paid the excise on which you are
washed ashore. Was the "Mermaid" badly
hurt ? '

Lovedayay was made uncomfortable by his
conversation. She did not see his meanness,
selfishness, and want of balance, but his talk
fretted her wounded and suffering heart, she
hardly knew why.

Constantine,' she said, ' never mind about
the " Mermaid." We have other matters that
concern us more nearly. I think day and night
about them, and it seems to me that there is
no escape from the consequences this side the
grave. We must do our duty, each going the

straight road that opens before us, and spare
others as much as we can.'

Be easy,' he answered, with a tone of
impatience ; ' I shall find a way out. A
rabbit has more holes than one to his burrow.
There is no knot that cannot be untied with
patience.'

Lovedayay shook her head sadly. ' We are all
enveloped in one cloud,' she said, ' and the cloud
is so charged with lightning that some must
be struck, and none can escape unhinged. You
are bound to both Juliot and me — to both by
the most sacred vows. My claim is the elder,
and is the claim tlmt the law would allow.
Nevertheless, you are bound to her ; you made
promises to her, and she put her life in your
hands, trusting to them. You are bound to
her by this mutual bond.' She bent over the
child, which was falling asleep, and her tears
dropped on its sweet, innocent face. ' The
child itself has a strong claim on you by nature,
though not by law. Why do you speak so
lightly of rabbit holes, and taking your choice
out of which you will run? You can leave
neither Juliot nor me without breaking a tie one
end of which is attached to your heart. You

cannot leave either Juliot or me without giving
one of us inexpressible pain. You have broken
your mother's heart, you have broken mine,
and — it is inevitable — you must break Juliot's.
Yes, the saying is true : " The earth is strewn
with potsherds " — the broken lives of us frail
vessels of clay.'

I suppose I shall have to leave Maryland,'
said Constantino. ' I shall not be sorry. I am
weary of my imprisonment here. I did what
was wrong, and I repent. My conscience will
not be easy till I have escaped from this false
position. But whither am I to go? I have
no money. I cannot return to Nankivel at
Exeter or to Towan without giving some account
of myself, and I am a bad hand at inventing
lies. I have told enough since I came here,
and every one of them has cut my throat as it
came up.'

Nevertheless, that is your best course.
Return to your father, but tell no lies. Decline
to say where you have been.'

Yes ! and then there will be hue-and-cry
through the country after me. Paul will advertise
me — full description given, and full account
of how I was found. Then, what will happen ?

Judge for yourself. No, Lovedayay, that will
not answer.'

You are bound to go,' said Lovedayay. ' That
is a clear duty.'

And safer for me,' added Constantine.

But,' she went on, ' do not go yet. I must
leave ; I cannot remain under the same roof
with you and Juliot. I cannot visit my cousin,
as I do not know where she is. You must
bestir yourself to find some situation for me ;
otherwise I shall leave without knowing whither
I am going. My position here is insupportable.'


Just then Juliot came into the garden, and
seeing the two together on the bench talking,
she clapped her hands, and called over her
shoulder to her brother :

Paul ! Paul ! come here. I am so glad !
John is reconciled at last to Lovedayay.'

I am rejoiced that his eyes are opened to
acknowledge worth where it is found,' said
Paul, entering.

Do you know, Lovedayay,' explained Juliot,
that Mr. Eock was quite prejudiced against
you ? He did not know you, and I think he
was afraid that you would steal away baby's

heart from me. Now that you have had a talk
together you will have come to like each other
I am so delighted ! '

Dinner is ready,' Juliot said, when Constantine
stood up, greatly confused.

Then all went together into the hall. Constantino
had not dined with Lovedayay since her
recovery ; he had kept away at Stanbury.
Now, as he sat at table, he looked from her to
Juliot, and from Juliot back to Lovedayay. There
could be little question which was the most
attractive of the two women to whom he was
bound. Juliot had the simplicity of a child in
her face ; that of Lovedayay was full of intelligence,
and the sweetness bred of pain. They
were both pleasant looking, but Lovedayay was
the most beautiful.

After all,' said Constantine to himself, ' I
do love my first wife, and I do not care particularly
for the second. Confound that fool,
Paul, for throwing his sister at my head ! '

CHAPTEE XLIII.

BETWEEN TWO HEAVENS.

I HAVE a plan, a beautiful plan,' said Juliot,
when the early dinner was ended. ' The days
so perfect, the wind is off shore, and the sea
is so still, that I have set my mind on Lovedayay
having a paddle on the water. What do you
say, Paul ? Will you take the oars ? From
you, Lovedayay, I will allow no refusal. The air
on the sea, the sun, the sparkling water, will do
you much good, and bring colour to your pale
cheeks.'

Which boat shall we take ? ' asked Paul.
I suppose Eock will take an oar as well.'

Oh, no ! ' exclaimed Juliot, eagerly, ' John
is not going, nor am I. That is, we will stroll
with you as far as the beach, but I shall have
baby in my arms, and I am not going to sea
with him. You will probably stay out longer
than the young gentleman will approve, so I

retain Join to assist me in carrying him home.
If he is amiable, we will await you on the sand
and let the fine fellow play with the shingle ;
if he be overcome with ennui John and I will
transport him home.'

I think it w^oiild do the child good to be
rowed about in the bay,' said Constantino.

My dear John, you must leave me to decide
what is good for my boy. When he is six
months or a year older I will not object. The
air would be too strong for his lungs now, or
his lungs might be too strong for those in the
boat. He is capricious, and when he wills
spoils the best sport.'

As you choose,' said Constantine.

Paul Featherstone "was well content to meet
his sister's wishes. Lovedayay was grateful for
the thought and kindness ; Constantine alone
appeared dissatisfied with the proposal, though
he did not actively oppose it. The four, Juliot
carrying the baby, descended the valley towards
the shore of Maryland Mouth.

Do not wait for us,' said Juliot. ' Push
on, Paul, with Miss Penhalligan, and seize the
day in its splendour. My line gentleman detains
me ; he wishes to touch everything he sees,

VOL. III. c

and what lie touches he puts into his mouth.
He is an experimental philosopher. Well, sir,
what is your opinion of dandelion? Will it
serve as a pickle ? The flies are tiresome, are
they, Constantine the little ? John, dear, fetch
me some large bracken leaves, that I may arrange
them about his hat to drive away the
tormentors. There, sir, is King Charles's oak in
the bracken stalk, where your father has cut
athwart. It does not interest you now. Wait
a few years, and then you will be hunting for
the meanings of the cabalistic characters in the
fern-stalk yourself.'

Constantine assisted Paul in running the
boat to the water ; then Lovedayay was handed
in. Featherstone removed his coat, and took
an oar. ' You will not take the other ? ' asked
he of Constantine.

No, Paul,' said Juhot, ' John remains with
me.' -• '■■■■■

I don't know that,' said Constantine, perversely.
' Hold hard, Featherstone, I will join
you.'

But Paul thrust off from land, and left his
brother-in-law on the beach, with a moody
brow and a dissatisfied grumble.

Come to me, John,' said Jiiliot. ' Do you
uot see ? You men are so dull : I do not want
a third to spoil that little water-party.'

Why should I spoil it ? ' he asked, impatiently.


Oh, John ! you think me simple, but I
am shrewder in some matters than you.'

Her words, instead of allaying, aggravated
his discontent. He paced the sands, and
looked after the receding boat with an angry
scowl.

John, what is the matter ? '

I ought to have been at Stanbury to-day,
not fooling here.'

Paul rowed Lovedayay well out from shore.
The sky was perfectly serene, and as the wind
was from the east and blew over the cliffs,
the sea was unruffled for some way out ; indeed,
in the bay, it was quite still. The beauty
of colour in the water was indescribable. The
sea on the north-west coast is so deep, the
rocks rising precipitously out of many fathoms
of water, that it is wholly void of earthy particles,
and is transparent almost as an atmosphere
and blue as the sky overhead.

The sea, though it did not form waves, and

c 2

to the eye was still, yet heaved with the swell
from the ocean ; but the effect was soothing —
it was as though the sea were breathing in
sweet sleep under the rays of the summer

sun.

That the sea was not altogether still was also
evident from the line of white about the rocks.
a precipitous cliff that formed the horn of the
bay dividing it from Welcombe Mouth. The
surf was, however, nothing to-day compared to
what it usually was over and about the slate
rocks there. Lovedayay looked up at the sky, and
then down into the sea. It seemed as though
the boat were hanging between two equally
deep, blue, and tranquil heavens.

You are almost disposed to doubt which is
the real heaven,' said Paul; 'many look for it
below, instead of above, yet there is one beneath
as well as one above — bright, beautiful,
peaceful, so long as it reflects the upper heaven.
Shall I tell you what is the occasion of breaker
and foam and wreck and ruin? It is the
setting of the wind inland, instead of off the
shore. Which is an allegory.' Then he pulled
more vigorously, and shot round a rock beyond
sight of those on the beach. The gulls

were fluttering around, flashing like snowflakes.
Lovedayay put her fingers over the side,
and let the clear water flow between them.
As the boat moved a soft air fanned her face,
but failed when Paul suddenly shipped his oars
and allowed the boat to float and heave on the
sea as it listed.

Then he put his hand in his waistcoat
pocket and drew forth a piece of silver paper,
which he unfolded, and from it took a gold
ring attached to a thread of blue silk, and
handed it in his palm to Lovedayay.

Madam,' said he, ' I return you what was
yours, found by me under circumstances I need
not detail. That it is connected with your
trouble, I am well assured. Of your secret grief
I know nothing, and I desire to know no more
than you choose to tell. But, madam, I am
moved to ask you to confide somewhat in me.
You are alone, and without a counsellor ; I
might help you, and I trust I could tender you
consolation also.'

He had found the ring suspended by its
silken thread to a frond of maidenhair fern
beside the spring in the lane. Lovedayay had,
indeed, missed it, and been uneasy at its loss.

and quite unconscious that she had cast it from
her in a sleep-walk.

The faint colour that had come into her
cheeks finned by the sea air died away, and a
cloud came over her eyes. She trembled when
she took the ring from his hand ; she said
nothing for some minutes, but her bosom
heaved, not with the even swell of the sea at
that moment, but as it heaves at the coming
on of a storm. Presently she raised her eyes
to the face of Paul Featherstone, and said in a
low, but distinct voice : ' It belongs to me.
You have a right to know more. I have been
married, and have lost my husband.'

Lost '

Lost at sea.'

Your happiness was of short duration ? '

My happiness ! '

She said no more, but her tone told him
how very short, how very slight, the happiness
had been.

He put the oars into the water again, and
rowed on, outward, to where the wind coming
over the cliffs touched and roughened the
surface — but the touch was light and the
roughness little. Holding the oars in the
water, or raising them and letting the clear

drops run off the blades, using no exertion, but
seeing that the tide did not carry the boat
further. Paul paused, and looking gravely at
Lovedayay he said, ' You have no home, no one
to care for you, to protect you from trouble, to
shield you from harm ; no one to whom to
confide your sorrows, and from whom to accept
consolation. From the moment that I found

your ring, I suspected your story, and '

He hesitated, drew a long breath, and said,
I have desired an opportunity of asking you
to accept from me that of which you are
bereaved.'

Lovedayay looked at him at first with uneasiness,
then with alarm.

'The time must come, and come quickly,
when my brother-in-law will leave Maryland,
and take up his residence at Stanbury with his
wife and child. Stanbury is theirs, and, somehow,
Mr. Eock and I do not agree together
quite as well as I should wish. I have nothing
to say against him, but our opinions and feelings
are not harmonious, and it is best that he
should go to his own house, where he is master.
And now, madam, I venture, very humbly, and
knowing my own deficiencies and your transcendent
excellence, to entreat you '

Oh, stay, stay ! ' exclaimed Lovedayay, intones
of distress. She clasped her hands, and
entreated, ' Oh, Mr. Featherstone, I beseech
you, say no more ! '

He obeyed, he rowed harder, turned the
head of the boat landwards, and was silent.
Lovedayay sat speechless, with her hands pressed
to her bosom. The cup of bitterness that had
been given her was not drained to the dregs. She
must be a cause of disappointment and grief to
the good, courteous, and kind man who had led
hitherto a life free from heart-ache.

After a long silence he said, whilst still
rowing :

'I must not allow this interview to pass
without making myself clearly understood,
without assuring myself that you do not mistake
my meaning. I look on you with such
respect, such tender regard, that I should be
most happy to place my life, my fortune, my
name at your feet.'

'It cannot be,' answered Lovedayay, profoundly
agitated, gasping for breath.

Tell me this,' he said, ' you do not love
another ? '

No,' she replied, after a moment's thought ;

I think of none but the husband I have
lost.'

But he is lost ! ' exclaimed Paul.

Lovedayay covered her eyes, and bowed her
face on her knees.

The sun was declining now, and its rays
gilt the chflfs ; the boat was out of the rougher
water, under the lee of the coast again. The
gulls were screaming and chattering, boldly
diving near the boat, and coming up with fish,
and dashing on to wing again with a splash of
water.

Madam,' said Paul Featherstone, ' why can
you not be happy at Maryland ? A quiet corner
of a quiet Avorld, where there is nothing to
distress from without or from within — almost
too quiet for our good, maybe — perhaps too
still to last without a ruffle. My sister loves
you, and would gladly receive you. Of myself
I will say nothing, save this, that the whole
desire of my life would be to make you
happy.'

You are so good, so generous,' said Love-day,
' that it goes to my heart to refuse you
but — I cannot, I cannot.'

Regard for the dead,' continued Paul, ' is

just and good ; but do not let the dead stand
between you and happiness. The dead do not
return from the deep of the sea to cut you off
from home and rest and love. They do not haunt
us, after they are dead, to forbid us forming new
friendships and relationships. By all means be
faithful to the memory of him you have lost,
but, believe me, he in Paradise will rejoice, if
he ever loved you, to see that his poor storm-beaten
dove is offered a sheltering cot.'

She could not speak, the power to answer
was gone from her, so great was her despair.

I am in no hurry,' Paul went on. 'I will
wait for you patiently two or three years, till
your fresh grief has abated. If I trouble you
now, it is only because I am eager to save you
from fresh trials.'

Oh, how good, how kind to me ! ' said
Lovedayay. ' And I seem so ungrateful ! Oh,
Mr. Featherstone, believe me, there is no man on
earth whom I respect as I respect you. There
is no man on earth from whom I could obtain
better guidance, more strength., holier comfort.
Be my friend, my guide — if I may ask this ; but
ask for nothing further. It cannot be. Indeed,
indeed.' She fell on her knees in the boat, and

put her hands to her brow. ' I cannot explain
myself. I shall go mad. It cannot be.'

Madam,' said Paul, ' I fear T have been too
hasty. Your sorrow is too recent. T can wait.
I apologise for having spoken ; I will transgress
no more. Have no fear. Endeavour to forget
the rash words that I have addressed to you.
It grieves me to the heart that I have troubled
you. You have asked me to be your friend ; I
am content to stand in that capacity to you.
Consider me for ever after as your friend, who
has your interests and welfare near his heart ;
I am honoured beyond my deserts to be so regarded.
I was premature in speaking, because
I thought that the time would shortly come
when Mr. Eock and I would part — he to go to
Stanbury, I to remain here. But I will master
my repugnance — that is, I mean I will think
the best I can of him, excuse him as far as I
can, and bear with what it costs me a struggle
to endure, for yom sake. I am sorry to speak
thus of my own brother-in-law, but I cannot
avoid it. I am disappointed ; he is hardly
what I supposed him to be. But there, I will
say no more on this topic, which is painful tome,
and only touched on to explain my temerity

in addressing you as I have to-day. Madam,
we are at the shore. Allow me to offer you
my hand to disembark. On some future occasion,
it may be far away, I shall dare to offer it
you again — then to embark on a cruise as still
and tossed as that to-day, to float with me
between two heavens.'

She made no answer, but stepped ashore.
He drew the boat up and secured it ; then
offered her his arm, but she declined it. constantine
and Juliot were no longer on the beach ;
the evening was settling down, and the dew
falling, so the mother had carried baby home.
As Lovedayay walked without speaking at Paul's
side, he also was silent. She thought of his
words, ' floating between two heavens.' She
had been cast out of the rest and serenity of
one, and a second had been opened and offered
to her that day, into which she could not enter.
Peace, happiness, security, love, were no more
for her ; she could no more recover the heaven
she had lost, nor reach another. She still loved
Constantine, but she had lost respect for him.
Even if she were to condone the past, a home
with him would never be a happy home : the
recollection of his treachery, his desertion, must

penetrate and poison it. The iron had entered
into her soul, and could never be extracted ;
and the wound could not be salved over by his
hand.

Paul regretted his precipitation, but did not
lose hope. Surely, in time, the living would
take the place of the dead in her thoughts. He
resolved to behave towards her as he had done
hitherto — in no way to force his attentions upon
her, to embarrass and pain her.

She was tired ascending the hill, which was
very steep, and Paul cut her a stout ash staff,
on which to lean, as she declined his arm.

At last they reached the house. At the
entrance of the first court under the gatehouse
Paul said, in a low tone:

One final word, and I will trouble you no
more with my attentions. Have you noticed
the scroll that adorns the old sun-dial in the
garden ? Upon it stands the legend, " I wait
upon the sun." I am like that dial. I will
not be dispirited by rejection, by cloud, by
wintry shadow. I wall live in hope, and will
wait upon the sun.'

CHAPTER XLIV.

FLED.

The proposal of Paul Featherstone had greatly
increased Lovedayay's uneasiness. She could not
remain longer at Maryland, placed between a
husband who did not acknowledge her, and
was married to another, and an honourable,
sincere man who sought her as his wife. If
her position was intolerable before, it was made
more so by the event of that day. She could
not, she must not, remain. She had, indeed,
accepted Constantine's undertaking to find hera
place, but some time must elapse before the
place was found, and Constantine was not a man
of energy to bestir himself.

She was impatient, moreover, to communicate
with her brother and with her friends at
Towan, and relieve them from the suspense in
which she was aware they must be, not knowing

what had become of her. She was not
angry with Constantine — she was disappointed
with him, and her faith in him was more com -
lately wrecked than her faith in Dennis. She
was not jealous of Juhot — she loved and pitied
her. For Paul she felt great regard, and some
awe. She could not remain at Maryland,
because the conflicting feelings constantly
roused in her bosom were more than she could
bear. The strain was never off her. She was
conscious of a craving in her soul for rest, a
longing to be away, where she should no longer
see her husband, her rival, the child that was
his but not hers, the man who sought of her
what she could not give him. There was not
one of the household that did not cause hera
pang. Hitherto, Paul, and he alone, had
been a comfort to her. In his society and
conversation she could, in a measure, escape
from her cares It was so now no longer.
His company would embarrass her ; he would
be another to fill her with nervous alarm.

That night, when she retired to her room,
she considered what was to be done. She was
without one person to whom she could apply
for advice. She was forced to be everything to

herself. More strength was required of her
than she was endowed with — strength of will,
strength of judgment, strength of nerve, physical
power.

How long would it be before Constantine
advertised ? He had asked no particulars as to
what sort of a situation she needed ; he had
offered to advertise in his careless, inconsiderate
manner, and days might elapse before he fulfilled
his undertaking ; and, after that, more
time must pass before answers arrived, and
more still before final arrangements were come
to. Thus weeks might drag out before she got
away. She had not the courage to contemplate
this. She might recover her health if away
from the sights and voices that troubled her,
but a few more days among them would cast
her back on the bed of sickness. She must get
away. Her soul hungered, ached, strained for
escape.

What excuse could she offer for leaving ?
She had been treated with exceptional kindness.
To leave would savour of ingratitude. - Yet
Paul's offer furnished the excuse. She might
make it her plea that she could no longer with
delicacy remain in the house of the man whom

she had refused. He would understand this,
and explain her conduct to Juliot. This consideration
decided her. She would leave at
once. Instead of going to bed, she remained
up all night packing her box, reserving from
it only those few things which she would need
at once, and which she could carry in her
reticule. Then, in the early hours of the
morning, she stole downstairs, unfastened the
hall door, and left Maryland. She took with
her the staff Paul had cut the evening before
and placed in her hand. That was the only
things she carried from Maryland with her,
except her painful secret.

The morning air was fresh ; the birds were
singing already, although the sun was not yet
risen. There was light in the sky, as there
always is at midsummer, and the light was
growing, for in another hour the sun would rise.
Away in the north-west the Lundyy lighthouse
was winking ; aloft was one star, fading. She
hurried away from the house with beating
heart, for as she passed out of the porch she
heard the plaintive wail of the baby. It was
cutting teeth, and fretful in the night, waking
with a start, in a terror, and crying out and

VOL. HI. D

sobbing. Juliot also was awake, sitting up in
her bed, and soothing the infant, speaking
caressingly to it, kissing its little hands and
fiery check.

Paul's dog came to her bounding, fawning,
and asking to be patted, addressed, and taken a
walk. Lovedayay had some difficulty in persuading
him not to attend her.

She left the court and the avenue, and
descended the hill to the spring. The water
was dark now ; neither diamonds nor pearls fell
over the rock, and the maidenhair fern leaf was
not visible in the gloom of the hedge. Love-day
stood one moment by the spring, holding
the ash root, recalling that first terrible interview
; then she put her hands to the water and
caught it in her palms, and drank. The freshness
of the air and of the fountain invigorated
her, and she pushed on.

Of the country she knew nothing. She had
but a vague recollection of the way by which
she had come from Stratton. She remembered
a high road, and then lanes — intricate, winding,
innumerable. But she had a general idea as to
the direction she must take. She had resolved
to go to Stratton, and thence make her way by
coach to Launceston, where she would remain

till she had decided on her future course. She
must keep the sea on her right hand — that she
knew. In course of time she must reach
Stratton or Bude Haven. Bude was only three
miles from Stratton, Should she reach Bude
first, she must strike inland for the town of
Stratton. That formed the substance of what
she knew. Unfortunately, she was ignorant of
the structure (geography, we should call it now,
but the word was unknown then) of the land ;
and, consequently, instead of striking inland, due
east, till she hit the high road on the backbone
of the moor, she hugged the coast, and lost herself
among winding lanes, among hills and valleys,
which only a goat could scramble up directly ;
where the lanes zigzagged, and dodged, and
shifted direction at every bow^shot she went. The
hills, even when ascended at a slant, are mere
scrambles, most exhausting to a strong man, and
Lovedayay was worn with sickness and without
food. She came upon neither farmhouse nor
village inn. The sun rose, and struck on her
back with scorching heat as she toiled upthehills.
She stood still, and wiped the perspiration from
her brow, whilst she leaned on Paul's stick. She
was sick and faint with hunger. From weak

'1

ness, the tears came into her eyes and mingled
with the drops that fell from her forehead.
When she had a steep hill to descend, her feet
failed her ; she leaned heavily on the staff, and
her ankles turned ; she had not the strength to
stay herself from falling ; and when she stood
still, her limbs quivered with convulsive muscular
trembling — the fruit of over exertion. If
she could have found a farm lie would have
asked for bread and a cup of milk, if she had
lighted on an inn she would have ordered a
meal ; but she was out of the region of houses,
passing now over gorse-strewn moors, then
through oak coppice. The wild strawberries
were ripe, but too small to satisfy her. On
reaching the bottom of a glen, overcome by
weariness, she crept into a little wood of dwarf
oak, laid herself down in the bracken under
the shade, and, before she was aware that she
was sleepy, sank into unconsciousness.

Whilst she lay thus hidden, slumbering from
exhaustion of mind and body, the day changed.
The burning rays of the sun had been those
which precede a storm. Clouds rose, covered
the sky, and cut off the heat and light of the
sun. A cold wind wailed through the valley,

and whistled among the oak leaves of the
coppice. Lovedayay slept on. Her tiredness
after the sleepless night, and the weariness of
her walk, and the exhaustion consequent on
want of food, had cast her into a paralysing
slumber, in which she neither heard nor felt —
did not even dream. She did not wake till
the storm burst ; then she was cold, shivering,
and bewildered. She came forth from the
dripping wood to see scuds of rain drive by,
filling the valley with flying drifts that concealed
every object. The lightning flashed, and the
thunder boomed, but not very near ; and the
lightning, though vivid, was not forked and
distinct. The wind roared up the valley, and
on its breath carried the growl of the angry
sea which it was lashing into fury. Uncertain
where she was, and in what direction she had
to go, Lovedayay ascended the hill she had last
come down and emerged on a moor, where she
lost her way, and found herself near the ragged
edge of a cliff that projected into space illimitable,
like the last hour of life. In her alarm
she took the opposite direction, but could make
out no road. Tracks there were, trodden by
cattle, that led nowhere. The valleys below

were filled with eddying vapour and driving
rain. She was drenched. The water ran up
her sleeve from the staff she held. The wind
caught her ribbons and made of them instruments
of shrill screaming music. The water
came as in sheets from her brow over her eyes,
blinding her, and the moisture soaked her
bosom. Her skirts clunj]^ to her limbs as though
they had been dipped in a river.

She seated herself under a ragged scrap of
hedge, made of stones and clay, that the cattle
had scrambled over and trodden down till it
resembled the jaw of an old woman with a few
fangs standing up. Under one of these she
crouched, with a thorn-bush stretching above
her landwards like a streamer. The wind
howled and screeched through the twigs, and
curled round the corners and lashed at her wet
skirts, and beat her in the face with splashes of
sea foam.

She could not sit there, worn out with
hunger, with knees that trembled with fatigue,
numbed with the wet that penetrated everywhere.
She stood up with an involuntary
moan, and staggered forwards.

Surely the evening was setting in, the light

was perceptibly becoming less. The thunder
rolled away and muttered in the distance, but
the rain continued to fall. Lovedayay looked up,
and around — there was no rent anywhere in the
clouds.

It" she could but find the road again, the
road must lead to some habitation. Little by
little she would push on till she reached a
cottage. Any house, however humble, would
suffice. Driven inland by the wind, holding to
the staff to prevent herself from being blown
over, picking her v/ay among gorse-bushes, she
reached at length a rough stone wall, and was
obliged to turn down it towards the valley before
she could find a gate. Then she saw by it what
in the dialect of the country is called a tallat —
that is, a shed, wattled and roofed with gorse-bushes,
and with an open door. She was
thankful for the shelter, and crept in ; but the
floor was dirty, it had been trodden by horses,
and the water had entered from the ground
outside. She went to the farther end, by the
manger, where it was drier, and laid herself
down there. She put her hands to her face to
wipe the wet from her eyes, and she took the
cold, soaked bonnet from her head, and tried

to rest against the side, but the prickles of the
gorse pierced her. There was nothing she
could lean against except one rough piece of
wreck wood, that supported the manger.
Against this she sat, upright, with her face to
the entrance through which the wan light
entered, and the wind and rain eddied. She
had thrown up her sodden bonnet into the
manger ; discoloured drops fell from it, stained
with the dye in the once pretty ribbons.

At first she felt warm in this sheltered tallat —
compared with outside it was warm; butLoveday
had carried the chill in with her in her soaked
garments, and she soon began to feel numbed.
Then she heard a scampering without, and some
wild moor ponies appeared at the entrance,
romans with bleached manes. They stood in the
doorway and stared at her, then plunged away,
then returned. One more daring than the rest
entered, but when Lovedayay spoke it threw up
its heels and dashed forth again, snorting and
whinnying.

This was notice for her to leave. She dared
not remain longer, wet to the bone, in the tallat.
But when she tried to rise her limbs were so
stiff that she could scarcely move them, and

her knees when she rose failed under her. She
considered that if horses and an enclosure were
there, there must be a farm near ; but her heart
sank. She doubted if she would have strength
to reach it.

• • • • •

Constantine was sitting that same evening
in the kitchen at Stanbury with old Carwithen.

A fire Alas smouldering on the hearth, the
wood was from a wreck, and it gave forth the
peculiar odour which comes from wood that
has been long immersed in sea-water ; the
afternoon was so stormy and damp that a fire
was pleasant. They had the kettle over the
fire boiling, and on the table tumblers and a
bottle of spirits. Constantine had left Mars-land
the evening before, after seeing Juliot
safe home with the baby, and had slept the
night at Stanbury. During the morning he
had been about the farm, but had been driven
in by the storm. Accordingly he spent his
afternoon with old Carwithen and hot rum-and-water.
A good deal of rum was drunk at
Stanbury, and not one drop of it had paid
duty.

I'll tell y' what it be, your honour,' said

Carwithen, knocking the ashes out of his pipe
against the side of the fireplace. ' It is my
opinion that I put you in the way of becoming
master of Stanbury, and I expect some consideration
for it. If you be coming to live here
along with madam, what is to become of me ?
Am I to turn out o' Stanbury and go down to
Featherstone's Kitchen and live there ? I've
been long enough here to like a better house.
I put you up to getting Stanbury, but I did not
reckon on your turning me out.'

Is it not reasonable ? ' asked Constantine,
impatiently. 'This house is mine — at least, it
is my wife's, and here we shall live, as we
ought. I am sick of Maryland ; I'll no longer
stay there with that canting fool, Featherstone ;
I'll come here. Here I shall be master in my
own house, and, whether you like it or not,
you must turn out. I will give you employment
on the land.'
At what wage ? '

At an ordinary day-labourer's wage.'
I am not to have my hind's wage ? '
Of course not. I shall be here to manage
my own affairs. I shall not need a hind. I
shall not pay more than I am obliged.'

So, this is what I receive for putting you
up to getting the place ! '

How can you talk so foolishly ! You
have had nothing to do with me and my
marriage. I am not a fool. How the wind
roars ! It will blow in the window. The
water is comines in through the leadwork,
and driving in under the door. We shall
be swamped if this continues.'

Master,' said Carwithen, surlily, ' you're
well enough and friendly wi' a fellow as long
as he serves your purpose, but as soon as you
think you can do without him, you're ready to
kick him aside with no compunction. That's
not Scripture.'

'You have no claim upon me at all. I
shall pay such men as I want, and such wages
as are reasonable. I shall not want a hind
when I am here myself, therefore I shall not
keep one. If you are not content to take a
labourer's pay you may look out for a hind's
place elsewhere. Hark ! Good Heaven ! what
is that P '

A blow at the door had startled him, as
though some heavy body had fallen against it.

Nothing but the wind,' said Carwithen.

I've heard the wind beat at the windows that
you could have sworn it was some one outside
striking them with his hands. Satan be called
the Prince of the Power of the Air. When
he heard you threatening to cut me down
he were inclined to be in and strangle you for
your wickedness.'

If a man is not to look after his own interests,'
said Constantine, ' no one else will look
after them for him.'

True for you,' said Carwitheu, ' but a
man's best interests don't always lie in using
short measure in dealing? with others and long?
measure in dealing with self. Master Paul
Featherstone at Maryland will be better served
than you at Stanbury, for he measures long to
others and short to self.'

I think it is time for you to go and see
after the cattle,' said Constantine. ' Finish
your glass of grog first.'

'I'll do that without invitation,' said Car-within.
And when the old man had put his
pipe on the mantelshelf and drained his glass,
he threw a sack over his shoulders, put a
south-wester on his head, grasped a staff, and
went to the door.

Upon my word,' said he, ' the wind be
beating against it so that I doubt if I can shut
the door again. Come you here, master, and
put your shoulder to it after I'm outside.'

Then Carwithen opened the door, and the
wind and rain rioted into the kitchen, blowing
the log into a sudden blaze, and whirling the
white wood ashes in an eddy on the hearth.

Good Lord ! ' cried the old man, ' what
have we here ? '

Upon the threshold lay the body of a
woman, soaked with rain ; she had apparently
reached the door and fallen unconscious on
the step as she tried to knock for admission.
Her failing powers had carried her so far, and
there deserted her.

Constantine was behind Carwithen, with
his head down, against the wind, that blew his
hair about. The old man knelt, and turned
the face of the woman towards the light.

My God ! ' gasped Constantine, and smote
his brow. ' What is to be done ? Lovedayay !
Lovedayay ! '

CHAPTER XLV.

FEATHERSTONE's KITCHEN".

In a hollow of the moor over which poor
Lovedayay had wandered in the storm without
finding shelter was a cottage ; the roof was of
turf, and so low that it was invisible till one
was close upon it. It had but a single face,
and that was turned, contrary to the invariable
custom, towards the sea. All the other sides
were banked up with peat, out of which the
grass grew rankly, so that no one coming on
the house would suppose it was a cabin inhabited
by human beings, and not a gigantic
rabbit warren.

In front of this hovel, on a bench, sat
Lovedayay and a girl. The girl was Raisin
Carwithen, the daughter of the old hind at
Stanbury. She lived in this odd turf house,
and earned a few shillings by watching the

cattle turned out to graze on the down. Lie
was a young woman of thirty, with strongly-marked
features, a rough, uncivilised girl,
almost as wild as the colt that had claimed the
tallat into which Lovedayay had intruded.

How came I here ? ' said Lovedayay. ' I
remember nothing.'

I reckon you don't,' answered Thomasine
Tamsin, as she was called. ' You was nigh
melted right away, you must have been out
and about in that storm. My word ! it came
down proper solid water sheets.'

Where was I found ? '

At Stanbury. You'd got so far and could
go no further, I reckon. Father found you
over the drexil (threshold) when he went to
open the door.'

But who is your father ? '

Old Dick Carwithen, sure enough. Who
other ? '

He took me into Stanbury ? '

Sees, he did. He and the young Squire.'

Who ? '

Squire Eock. Father and he were sitting,
smoking and talking and drinking spirits and
water together, and they heard a sort of bang

again' the door, but they took no particular
heed. The wind were hammering that powerful
on window and door, they thought it the
wind. But, after a bit, father up and out after
the cattle, and there he found you, as I said, in a
faint, and wet as seaweed, on the drexil. So
he called to the Squire, and the Squire and he
carried you in, and mother, her came, and
they took you to the best bedroom, and there
the men left you, and mother undressed you,
and put on you warm blankets, and set a hot
brick to your feet, and made some rabbit
broth, and fed you with it, and last of all you
was dressed in my clothes and brought here.'

But why here ? '

Sure enough, I cannot tell. The master
wouldn't allow you to bide in Stanbury. He
said, No, you must be took to Featherstone's
Kitchen.'

'To what?'

To this place, for certain ; this be Fear
Kitchen. Not, you know, Squire
Featherstone's kitchen to Maryland. Lord
bless you ! don't think that. There be reasons
why this house is called Featherstone's Kitchen,
and there be others like it, I'm told, further

down the coast, right away to Land's End, but
about here 1 know of none but this. It don't
take its name after Squire Paul, bless your
heart ! It was christened after his uncle, who
was a mighty rough sort of a man, very fond
of the sea, and made it his pleasure to dare
the dangers. There be queer talk of he, I can
tell you. I've nothing again' him ; he were
a useful man in his time, he dug out this here
Kitchen, and it serves its purpose now as well
as then. I've heard tell that old Featherstone
were here one day, sitting on a cask, when in
at the door came a couple of sheriff's officers to
take him. "My men," said he, and he took a
pistol in his hand, " I'm sitting on a keg of
gunpowder. I don't care a hang for my life,
nor half a hang for yours. If you don't sheer
off at once, I'll discharge the contents of the
pistol into this here keg I be sitting on." Sure
as cows have calves, and not calves cows, the
sheriff's officers did sheer off.'

'But why was I brought here? ' again asked
Loved ay.

The young Squire would have it,' answered
the girl. ' As soon as ever they seed there
was life in you, then he gave father and mother

VOL. III. E

no rest, but swore you should not stay and be
nursed at Stanbury. Naught would please him
but that you was taken to the Kitchen. So
to the Kitchen you was took, and in the Kitchen
you be, leastways, a sitting in front of him ' (it).

Lovedayay was pained and surprised.

'I reckon,' Tamsin continued, ' he were a-
thinking of his missus. The master is married,
you know, to Squire Featherstone's sister. The
property be hers, not his. I've heard my father
tell that it be that tightly tied up that the
master can't lay a linger to it, can't sell a tree
off it, or an acre out of it. I reckon, all the
money belongs to Madam, and none to he ;
which must be as o'allinjT to a man as riding; in
market on a lady's saddle. Well, it seems tome,
it stands this way. He thought his missus
might be jealous, hearing there was a teddy
staying at Stanbury, and he so much there
and not much at Maryland. If you larrup a
donkey with a bunch of thistles he'll not eat a
mouthful of thistles never after, he takes a distaste
to the sight of them. So I reckon it maybe
with men, when they've a wife about 'em,
a-scratching and a-stinging, they take ever after
a sort of disgust to the sight of petticoats.

Women are jealous creatures, it is their nature.
Mother told me that the young Squire laid it on
her and father as hard as he could, they was
not to say a word to nobody about you. He
had you brought here where nobody would see
you and none be the wiser, and run about telling
tales and making of scandal. Squire Eock
were mighty particular that you should be well
cared for. You was to have chicken and rabbit
broth, and wine, and wear my Sunday clothes,
and mother's flannel petticoat, and have a hot
bottle in your bed, and red currant jelly, and
just anything one could think of to make a teddy
happy and contented.'

Lovedayay sat silent, looking seaward and
musing. Presently she found an explanation
of Constantine's conduct which satisfied her, as
it did not show him to be heartless. He had
doubtless considered that she had escaped from
Maryland with the intention of hiding herself.
She could not remain concealed at Stanbury,
therefore he had removed her to the cottage
where she would be seen by no one, and
where she might remain for many days without
her hiding-place being discovered.

If you'll come with me,' said Thomasine,

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLfNOl!

• I'll show you round the Kitchen. This be a
queer place, sure enough, to those as is unacquainted
with the like. The old Eover
Featherstone, as he were called, he durst dispose
of his goods too near to Maryland, though
he had a store there, so he had a cave scooped
out in the rock here, in our cottage. Mnd 5^ou
this bit o' land didn't belong to he. My grandfather
were a squatter on it, and nobody said
him nay. My grandfather was glad enough to
oblige Eed Featherstone in anything, so he
helped to have a hole dug in the rock from our
inner wood store. Squire Paul be another kind
of man altogether. He have his fancies, and
Eed Featherstone had his. Men's tastes differ —
some are all for religion, and some for wickedness
; some can eat mussels, and others can't.
I've known a man blown up and nigh strangled
by eating of a dish of mussels which were innocent
to another's stomach. It's just the same with
smuggling, and wrecking, and drinking. They
suited Eed Featherstone's stomach, and they
don't agree with Squire Paul. We ain't all
constituted alike, praises be ! Father ain't a
dainty man. He can do with all sorts, pick
a bit of Scripture, and then pick a bit of

smuggling ; he can combine Gospel and drink,
and curdle neither, but make a sort of junket
out of 'em, which is a gift. Praises be ! If
you Avill come along of me, I'll show y' a path
iu the face of the cliff down to the Cove. You
see I keep a pair o' donkeys on the down.
They can scramble up and down the cliffs, and
are as sure-footed as a fly. When a boat comes
into Maryland Mouth then they send the kegs
over here in a row-boat, if weather permits, if
not on the backs of donkeys. Bless your heart !
not on mine. All the farmers round about
keep donkeys and lend 'em for the purpose.
The smugglers take 'em, and no questions are
asked. The farmers are pleased to help and
loan 'em. But if a boat can be run to our Cove,
then my beasts go down the cliff and bring upon
their backs what spirits and other things are
for this neighbourhood, and I store them away
in Featherstone's Kitchen. So all the kitchens
along the coast are supplied ; I dispose of the
spirits and take the money, and so all parties
are accommodated, which is a provision of
nature, beautiful to think on, sure enough.'

Have you never been married ? ' asked
Lovedayay.

Never,' answered Thomasine, sorrowfully.
'That's the only real drawback to a place like
this. It's so out of the way j'ou don't get a
fair start with other girls. It is not as if the
men will come after yon. it is yon inst (^o
after them. Men are inch like snipe in their
flight, and a straight shot from the shoulder
won't bring them down ; you must allow for
their dipping. It is only the old and heavy
chaps as whirr up under your feet and go level
away like a partridge. And yet,' continued
Thomasine, ' I ain't sure that I shan't come into
the goal and get the prize before others that
have started before me, and used more exertion
in the running. You see. Miss, the race for a
husband among us maidens is very much like a
race in sacks at a fair. There be a deal of hindrance
and impediment, but along we go. It
is she as takes the littlest steps and minds to
keep the sack up about her neck as will come
in at last, not they as makes the big jumps and
is most fiery eager. They go down on their
noses pretty smart, and lie about like potatoes
turned out of a garden. It is shuffling on, not
leaps, as does it.'

The talkative girl was interrupted by the

appearance of Constantine, who came over the
clown towards the cottage.

Thomasine at once retired into the hovel.
Constantine greeted Lovedayay with restraint ; he
feared the eyes and ears of Thomasine, and he
drew Lovedayay from the front of the cottage,
away to the edge of the cliff, where they were
beyond earshot.

Lovedayay,' said he, ' I am glad you are
better. You have no conception how anxious
and distressed I have been. But what can
have induced you to come to Stanbury ?
What more likely than such a course to arouse
suspicion ? '

I did not intend it,' she answered, meekly.
I ran away from Maryland. I could not remain
there longer '

Why not ? I told you I would look out
for some situation for you. You ought to have
remained.'

I could not. Con,' she said gently, but
firmly. ' I will tell you why. I was there ina
wrong position. I was there as an unmarried
woman, and Mr. Featherstone has asked me
She faltered.

I understand,' said Constantine, testily ;

'well, what of that? You refused him. It
will do him good. He has his own way too
much. His sister worships him, kneels before
him in an adoring attitude, and that has turned
his head. I am glad to hear he has had his
nose tweaked. It will draw some of the fantastic
humours out of him.'

After that I could not stay.'

'Why notes I didn't ask you to stay long.
Don't you see that by your conduct you are
exciting suspicion ? You think only of yourself,
Lovedayay, and have no consideration forme.
You should have stayed on a few days,
then have given a formal notice, said that your
health would not allow you to undertake the
duties, and gone, and there would have been
the end of the matter. But to run away, as
if you had stolen some silver spoons — good
Heavens, Lovedayay ! Juliot and Paul will be
imagining all sorts of things.'

No, Constantine, there you are mistaken.'

I am not mistaken. I am alarmed for
myself. It is I am in danger, not you. You
think only of how you may get away from a
place where you have had a great shock and
grief. I do not blame you for wishing to leave,

but I do blame you greatly for putting me in
danger. You should not be selfish, Lovedayay.
Selfishness is objectionable in a man, but it is
offensive in a woman.'

What will you have me do, now ? ' asked
Lovedayay, unwilling to argue.

Do — there is nothing that can be done
but remain where you are. You are like a
draughtsman on a board driven into a corner,
with only two moves, one forward and one
back. Here you are safe enough, if you do
not take flight again. Do you suppose that
happiness is to be caught, as a child goes after
a bird, with a pinch of salt to clap on its tail .^
Happiness will come to you in good time, if
you take matters easy, and do not go racing
over the country with your reticule in your
hand, chasing it.'

You quite mistake me,' said Lovedayay,
gravely. ' I have given up all hopes of happiness.
I left Maryland because I coidd not remain
there after Mr. Featherstone had asked
me to be his wife.'

That was what Paul meant by taking you
out in the boat, was it .^ Juliot played into his
hands. A pair of ninnies, both.' Constantino

was angry. If he loved any one beside himself,
that person was Lovedayay. ' Nothing in the
world would give me greater pleasure than to
take a cudgel to his head and beat the nonsense
out of it. Unfortunately, just now, and
till you are well away, I am in his power, and
he may do me a cursed turn — show me the
white horse, as the wrestlers say as they give
the fling that breaks the backbone. I wish it
were in my power to kick up his heels. I
shall have it some day. I must wait my time,
and then I shall pay him out for daring to insult
you with his addresses.'

'You must not speak thus,' said Lovedayay.
Mr. Featherstone is the soul of honour. If he
addressed me, he did so with respect, and in
ignorance of my position, which ignorance is
due to you, who dare not tell him the truth.'

Oh, you reproach me ! ' said Constantine,
angrily. ' The compliment of an offer has disposed
you to think kindly of the crackbrained
quack. You turn against me, of course, following
the rest. Such is the way of the world.
My father never had a good word for me, and
Gerans was the hero. I was always in the
background, always forced to play second fiddle.

Now, because I am in difficulty and danger,
even you will not spare me.'

Constantine ! ' She looked reproachfully at
him, and he coloured.

I meant no harm,' he said. ' You must
make allowances for me. I am harassed and
nervous. I live in daily terror of discovery.
Perhaps you have not fully realised what discovery
would entail on me.'

What am I to do now ? May I not go ? '

You must remain concealed in this place.
On no account allow auy one to see you. I
have no doubt that that fool Featherstone will
be stirring up the neighbourhood in quest of
you. I have insisted on old Carwithen and his
wife holding their tongues. None but they
know that you are here. As soon as I can I
will get you away by boat to Lovely. Give
me time to consider what is best, and all will
come right. I'm like a boy with a puzzle map.
It is confusion now, but with patience I shall
make it out and fit all into a consistent whole.
Now I'm poking the toe of Italy in the side
of Russia, and fitting Timbuctoo into Great
Britain.'

I have no clothes fit to go in,' said Love-day.

' Everything is in my box at Mars-land.'


There it must remain. You must not
meddle with that. I will see what I can get
for you. Or, stay ! write a letter as if from
Exeter, and say you have found a home therewith
your cousin, and I will get it posted to
Juliot.'

'No,' answered Lovedayay. 'I will not
speak or write an untruth. I want to be somewhere
whence I can write. I cannot remain
here for long.'

'Stay a week. Only a week. Before
seven days are past something shall be decided.
Now I must go. Tamsin Carwithen must not
see U3 so long together, or she will suspect
something.'

CHAPTER XLVI.

RICHARD CARWITHEN.

Loved AY was not missed at first by Paul and
Juliot. She did not appear at breakfast, but
neither was surprised, because they thought
she was tired with the excursion on the water,
and hoped that she lead overslept herself and
was recruiting her strength.

Well, Paul ? ' said Juliot, with inquiry in
her tone and in the look of her eyes.

Paul Featherstone sighed, and shook his
head. ' I was too precipitate, Juliot. I feared
it myself, but you encouraged me. She has
had great sorrows which have so crushed her
that she cannot yet look up. She is like a
bruised and broken flower*, lying on the ground ;
we must raise her, and tie her up, and have
patience, allow the sap to flow, and the healing
processes to begin. We must not demand

fresh bloom of the flower this season ; we must
be satisfied if it does not wither away.'

'I thought that your regard, dear Paul,
would have been the stay for the flower. It
would have held to that and become strong.'

Juliot, I have reproached myself severely
for my haste. But I acted from the best motive.
I desired to be honourable and open with her.
As she was in the house, and had won my
respect and love, I did not consider it proper
to leave her in ignorance of my sentiments, and
to allow her to settle into a house in a menial
position when I purposed to make her its
mistress. But I was too precipitate. I hurt
and alarmed her.'

Oh, Paul ! what will she do now ? She
will hardly be induced to stay here if she has
refused your addresses.'

Featherstone leaned back, and looked with
dismay at his sister. ' Juliot ! ' he exclaimed,
I had not thought of that. Where is Eock ? '

John went back to Stanbur}^ last night.
He is very busy there.'

'So it seems. He used not to be there so
much. But the place has demands on him.
Now he is there all day and night as well.'

'He tells me the men there need much
supervision.'

Paul left Marslaud after breakfast, without
saying whither he Alas going, consequently
he was not at home when the discovery was
made that Lovedayay had fled. Her packed box,
the bed not slept in, showed that she had gone.
Juliot sent after her brother, but Paul was
not to be found, and did not return till noon.
Then, only, was he made aware of Lovedayay's
disappearance.

The morning; had been lost in looking for
him. Juliot was incapable of giving directions
for a search. Paul was filled with consternation
and self-reproach. ' Oh, poor soul, poor soul ! '
he exclaimed, ' I have driven her from her
newly discovered retreat. Juliot, she must be
found and brought back ; it is not she, it is I
who must go. It is my fault that this has come
about. I will go to Stanbury, and let Eock
live here for a while. She must not be driven
away. God be merciful to her ! She is in no
fit condition of mind or body for a journey.'

Whither has she gone ? ' asked Juliot.

I doubt not, towards Exeter,' answered
Paul. ' She let fall, as I was driving her here,

something about a cousin whom she had
purposed visiting Avhen arrested on her journey
by my advertisement. She has certainly started
on her way thither. I shall reproach myself
for this all my days. The weather is changing.
We shall have a storm this afternoon, and she
may be exposed to it ! ' He ordered the horse
to be put in the trap at once. There was room
in this conveyance for two only. ' Juliot,' said
Paul, ' I shall take Willy Penrose with me, and
when we find her I shall alight and let Willy
drive her home, and I will come after afoot.'

Paul spent the whole afternoon in the storm,
driving from place to place making inquiries,
always without result. The district was thinly
populated, and there were more ways than oneby
which Lovedayay might have gone. No main
road ran thence in the direction of Exeter, but
lanes and parish roads led away, an intricate
ramification, towards villages to the east. Had
she gone across country by one of these towards
Warrington? or had she gone by another to
Noteworthy ? or had she taken the main road
alone the coast to Hartland, intending to follow
thence the highway to Exeter through Bedford ?
or had she gone along the coast to Stratton, to

take the coach thence to Launceston ? It was
uncertain which of all these ways she had gone.
One was just as near as another. There was
actually only one direction in which she could
not have gone — due west, over the chfTs, and
into the sea.

Paul, disappointed on one road, took another ;
the horse became fagged, his companion dissatisfied.
The storm raged about them. The
rain drenched them, driving through all the
clothes they wore, forming a pool in the
bottom of the gig. Now and then the horse
stood still, and obstinately refused to stir, till
some whirling rush of rain had spent itself.
The tempest defeated the object of Paul. It
was most likely that Lovedayay had taken refuge
somewhere off the road. It drove every one indoors,
there was no traffic, therefore none to see
her, if she did pass. Late in the evening, almost
as wearied as his horse and man, but reluctant
still to give up the search, Paul turned homewards
: perhaps he would not have done that
but for the hope that some tidings of the missing
girl had been obtained nearer home — that,
possibly, she might have been driven back by
the storm. It was, to him, unaccountable that

VOL. III. F

no one had seen her, yet he had asked at every
cottage he had passed, of every traveller he had
encountered.

When he reached home, he was disappointed.
Nothing had been learned of her. The servants
Avere questioned. The only thing that could be
elicited from them was that the hall door was
discovered to be unlocked in the morning, Nota
line was found in her room to afford a clue.
There was no fresh direction on the box to
show whither it was to be sent. The old
address to her cousin's in Exeter was, indeed,
there, scored through with a pencil. On his
return Paul wrote at once to this address, but
too late for the post.

Has Eock been here, Juliot ? '

No, Paul. I suppose the tempest has detained
him at Stanbury.'

I have been everywhere but thither. It
is mysterious, prodigiously strange to me. She
seems to have disappeared as effectually as if
the earth had swallowed her up.'

Take off your wet clothes, Paul, or you
will be laid up. You are not a strong man.
You must have a posset, and go to bed.'

I — I take a hot posset ! ' exclaimed Paul,

'and she — she, poor soul, whom I drove from
this house by my persecution is, perhaps, in
cold, and wet, and hunger ! My God ! I cannot
bear to think of what may be ! Oh, Juliot,
Juliot ! ' He was overcome with emotion. He
took his sister by the hand, and covered his
face with the other.

I'll get a change of clothes,' he said, when
he had recovered himself; ' but I cannot go to
bed. I have sent Will Penrose home, he is
tired and wet and out of temper ; and I have
bid Eager Gale harness the other horse and
bring him round in half an hour.'

But night is set in ; whither are you going?'
I shall drive now to Stratton. I have
thought that she may have avoided the nearest
houses and made for the town ; we came thence,
and she would naturally think to go back
thither. There she knows a coach is to be
caught which would carry her away. I will
drive to-night to Stratton, and make inquiries.
She may even have gone thither by the coast
through Stanbury. Eock might give us news
if he were here, but I doubt her having gone
that way ; she would have passed Stanbury
before the storm broke, and Eock Avould for

F 2

certain have broiio-ht her back. It is much
more Hkely that she would go by the way she
came, and avoid the houses.'

Then he went to his room and changed his
clothes. When vested in a dry suit he came
down, and hastily took some refreshment. ' I
will go alone now,' said he ; ' T will not take
Eager with me. Even if I found her, I would
not bring her home to-night, but place her
where she would be safe and well cared for.'

Then he departed. The storm was over,
the violence of the gale had spent itself, but it
left behind a small drizzle that in time woidd
wet one exposed to it as thoroughly as the
previous pelting rain.

It was late at night, or rather very early in
the morning, when Paul returned. His journey
had been in vain. He had been to every inn
in the little town of Stratton, but could hear
nothing of Lovedayay. He left word at the coach
office that she was not to go till he had been
communicated with, should she appear there.
And, finally, he announced at each of the inns
that he would give a liberal golden reward to
any one who should bring him information
which might lead to her recovery.

When Paul Featlierstone came home he
was completely work out m body and in mind.
He was not a strong man, and the exposure to
the wet and the wind for twelve hours, and
the strain on his nerves, had exhausted him.
He threw off his sodden garments, and went to
bed, but he could not sleep. He could think
only of the poor girl, a wanderer, in the storm,
without a home to which to go, without a
friend on whom to lean. She was not restored
to her full strength since her illness. Had she
succumbed ? Was she lying dead behind a
hedge, or in a copse ? His brow was as wet,
and not his brow only, his eyes as well, at the
thought, as if they were still in the drift of the
rain. He put both his hands over his face,
and as he lay, hour by hour, instead of thinking
further of what might have happened, he
prayed.

Next morning Constantine appeared.

Well, Featherstone ! how are you all after
the storm ? The wind took our new patrick
and blew it over. To-day, if middling fine,
Ave shall try to dry the hay, and rick it again.
Was your hay thatched ? We didn't reckon on
such a gale, did we ? '

Then Paul told him of the loss of Lovedayay.

Don't you trouble your head about her,'
said Constantine, with affected composure.
The poor creature was evidently off her head,
and has gone over the cliffs into the sea. I
never supposed her right in the brain — gone
melancholy mad. I've heard of such cases.'

Paul looked at him with horror. The idea
that Lovedayay had come to an end in this way
had not occurred to him. Even now he could
hardly bring himself to entertain the conjecture
that she had voluntarily destroyed herself, but
he remembered that she had walked in her
sleep once, and it was possible that she had
again gone sleep-walking in the direction of
the sea. No doubt but her thoughts that
nifdit had been on the excursion with him
in the boat ; what more likely than that she
had dreamt of the sea, and gone towards it —
perhaps down the same road they had traversed
together, to and from the bay?

This thought made such an impression on
Paul that he left the house immediately, and
descended the lane to Maryland Mouth, and
there searched the beach. Not a trace of
Lovedayay was to be found. He went to the

boathouse and searched that. He explored
the caves in the rocks. Nowhere a token that
she had been there — the tide had risen and
ebbed since they had left the boat, so that
every foot-mark on the sand was effaced.

When slowly and sadly, and, it must be
added, wearily, he ascended the steep hill to
Maryland, his attention was caught by the
bush of ash from which he lead cut the staff
for Lovedayay. Where was that staff .^ He
considered when he reached home. The staff
was gone. She must have taken it with her.
Surely, then, she intended it for a support on
a long or steep walk. This and the packed
box, and the slept-in bed, satisfied him that
she had not ozone from the house walking in
her sleep. That she had taken the stick with
her assured him that she had not meditated
suicide.

It was a relief to him to think this. It
was a comfort to him, a very minute one, but
still something of a comfort, to think that the
staff he had cut for her had been a stay to her.

Three days passed, and still no news of
Lovedayay. The anxiety was wearing Paul, who
reproached himself, unnecessarily and unreasonably,

but he had an over-sensitive conscience.
His fears that she might have been
overcome by exhaustion, and died in the
storm, or that in the cloud and driving rain
she might have fallen over the cliffs, returned.
He went in a boat along the coast, searching
every margin of sand, but still, ineffectually.
He Event round the neighbourhood again, offering
rewards, but no one put in a claim for any.
He could attend to none of the business of the
farm. His mind was engrossed with the search
for Lovedayay.

Please, your honour,' said Carwithen,
appearing before him as he went out on foot
down the avenue to resume his inquiries — he
had worn out his horses, and was obliged on
this day to give them rest — ' please, your
honour,' said Carwithen, ' Scripture says. Thou
shalt not muzzle the ox that breadth out the
corn. If you want to find the young lady,
you must pay folks for the trouble they take
in hunting; after her.'

'I am ready to do so. Dick, have you
news ? Do not keep what you may chance to
know from me. What has brought you from
Stanbury ? '

'Your honour, I tlioiight I'd take the
liberty of asking, How much ? '

What do you mean ? '

Your honour have promised a reward to
such as can give information respecting Miss
Penhalligan.'

Dick Carwithen,' exclaimed Paul, suddenly,
' where did you find that staff of ash ?
I recognise it. I cut it for lier the evening
before she disappeared.'

That may be. Aud it may be also that I
can tell more than about where the stick were
found. The truth of the matter is this, master.
Squire Eock and I don't hit it off together as I
should like. Scripture says, Thou shalt not
plough with an ox and an ass together.'

Tell me,' said Featherstone, ' tell me
straight out, what you have discovered. I will
reward you.'

Look here, master, it turns to this, How
much ? Just as all men turn to dust and ashes,
so do all questions turn to guineas and shillings.
What will you pay ? '

Name your price,' said Paul, impatiently.

There's that little holding of forty acres at
Coombc,' said Carwithen. ' Old Kcnnard is

dying, and when lie's gone it will be vacant :
he had it for life, as he reclaimed it out of
the moor. Now, if I may have that at three
shillings an acre for fourteen years' lease I'll
tell you a good deal.'

Paul looked at him with surprise and disgust.


Ah ! ' said Carwithen, ' I'll do more than
tell you, I'll take you where you shall see her,
but whether alive or dead I won't say till j'ou
give me my price. If I tread out your corn,
I mustn't be muzzled. Let me assure you of
this — if you don't hear it from me you will
never know anything more about her.'

Paul gave way at once.

Come with me down to Maryland Mouth,'
said Carwithen, ' and we will go by boat under
the rocks.' Then he laughed. ' I was not to
have a hind's place any longer, but to be
reduced to work as a labourer and have a
labourer's wage ! '

CHAPTER XLVII.

DISCOVERED.

Constantine went every day to Featlierstone's
Kitchen, especially at such times as he knew
Tamsin Carwithen would not be there. Tamsin
came to the house at Staubury daily to assist
her mother with the washing ; and Constantine
took the occasion for slipping off to the Kitchen
on the cliff, so as to enjoy a long conversation
with Lovedayay unobserved.

The old inclination for Lovedayay revived in
his heart, and the attraction that drew him
to her originally again exerted over him its
former power. The notice that Paul took of
her had made him jealous, and he was angry
with him for having dared to propose to her.
A first love is always surrounded with a halo
of romance which surrounds no second love.
Moreover, Constantine had never really cared

for Juliot. He had taken her for the sake of
Stanbury and an easy life. He was tired of
the monotony of his existence at Maryland,
impatient of the fear which kept him there a
prisoner, and, dien he saw Lovedayay again, he
lon£!;ed to recover what he had lost or thrown
away. The recollection — the old courtship,
the early happy love — spun its delicate gleaming
magic fibres round his heart, and filled
him with melancholy. How happy he would
have been with her, if he had had the courage
to confess his marriage to the old Squire, and
his father had accepted it, and made him a
small allowance, which, with what he earned
in an office, would have sufficed to support
them ! What might have been is always so
superior to what is.

He had forfeited Lovedayay 's regard, but
hardly lost her love. Was it wholly impossible
for him to recover the regard ?

Surely not, if he showed her good proof of
repentance.

He was uneasy at the efforts made by Paul
Featherstone to find her. Wherever he went,
he heard nothing talked about but the missing
lady. The labourers leaned on their picks and

discussed the subject. He was asked by everyone
he rat whether any news about her had
reached Maryland. Carwithen took a grim
delight in exciting his alarm. What the relation
was between Mr. Eock and the lady
Eichard Carwithen could not understand, nor
why his master pressed him with such urgency
to be silent. Constantine had no fear of Car-within
betraying him, because he supposed it
was the old man's interest to remain in favour
with him, as Squire of Stanbury, and because
Carwithen, he knew, had no regard for Paul
Featherstone. He had, moreover, promised to
pay him the same reward for keeping the secret
as Featherstone had offered for news of the
lost lady.

'I can get no sleep,' said Constantine to
Lovedayay. ' Paul is raising an insane hue-and-cry,
and disturbing the entire country. I
want your bonnet and cloak. I will throw them
into the sea ; they Avill be washed ashore, and
then, perhaps, this prodigious fuss will abate —
Paul will suppose that you have drowned yourself.'


'I will not let you have them for this
purpose,' answered Lovedayay. ' I would not

have Mr. Featherstone suppose it of me, that I
could destroy myself.'

Oh ! he may think you tumbled over the
cliffs, and were drowned accidentally.'

Lovedayay made no reply to this, and Constantine,
seeing he had annoyed her, did not
press the point.

'I am much afraid,' she said, after a while,
that my brother will be alarmed as well, and
make inquiries all the way from Wadebridge to
Launceston, and so be led on to Maryland ; then
all will come out.'

Constantino turned livid. He had not considered
this danger.

Lovedayay,' he said, after a few moments of
anxious thought, as he paced the turf near the
cottage, ' I have made up my mind ; I will do
what you advised. I will leave Maryland forever,
Maryland and Stanbury both. I will go
out into the world, and begin life afresh. I
have acted very wrongly, and I will use my
best endeavour to undo the wrong. I tell you,
Lovedayay, that I cannot bear myself for my
error, and I am terribly scared at the prospect
that it entails. I can have no peace any more,
now that I have seen you again. After all —

you are my wife — my own dear wife, to whom
I am boimd, with whom I promised to fight
tliroiigh the world. I tell you the whole truth,
Lovedayay, I have never, never loved au}^ one but
you. You I loved in the dear, happy old days
at Towan, days of innocence and brightness. I
he awake at night and think of them. Whilst
I am about the farm all day I am recalling
them. I did wrong in not telling my father at
once when eye married. I did wrong in persuading
you to marry me without asking his
consent. One Avrong act, we are told, draws on
a chain of others. It has been so in this case,
I have proved it ; and I reproach myself for the
first and all that followed. But I suppose it is
inevitable. If once we do verona, we must qo on
from wrong to wrong till brought to our senses.
That, I presume, is a moral necessity, a law of
the universe, just like gravitation, and the revolution
of the sun. .ISTow I see what I have done,
and am resolved never to do anything that is
wrong again. I loved you always, and I will
love you ever, as I promised and vowed, and if
you have the spirit of Christianity in you, yon
will forgive me.'

When Constantino told Lovedayay that he

loved her, and her only, then, as was natural,
her heart bounded and her cheeks flushed. But
the excitation was momentary, the colour went
again, and her pulse resumed its ordinary beat.
She shook her head. She tried to speak, but
her words failed.

I will tell you what my plan is,' continued
Constantine. 'I have resolved to leave England.
I cannot settle anywhere in the British
Isles. If that owl, Paul, makes such a disturbance
because you are lost, who are nothing to
him, what a tenfold disturbance will he make
to find me, whom he married to his sister. He
would stir up the whole country till I was
tracked out. 'No, no, Lovedayay. That will
never do for me. I will leave the country. I
wall go to America, where, in a new world, I
may begin a new and a better life — with you.'

Lovedayay had been seated. She started to
her feet and walked abruptly away, along the
down, to be for a few moments by herself to
consider this proposal of Constantino's. She was
his wife. It was her duty to be with him. He
loved her and loved her only. She loved him
and him only. He had sinned against her and
against Juliot. Ouij^ht she so far to foro-et the

past as to accompany him? She could not
answer this question at once. Indeed she
hardly put it to herself as a question to be
decided at once. She was overcome by the
offer, by the glimmer it afforded her of a future
home.

Constantino lacked the tact to leave her to
herself. He went after her. He went from
the extreme of despondency to the most sanguine
elation. His scheme was perfect. All
would come right now. He was learned in the
law — that is, he had been a few years in an
office, engrossing — and would be certain to
obtain a judgesliip in the United States. He
was perfectly acquainted with the management
of a farm. He would obtain a grant of land,
and build a log-house, and Lovedayay and he
would dwell together in it, as happy as two
wood-pigeons. He was well-educated, he would
set up a school and charge high, and train young
American citizens in knowledge and virtue, and
realise a fortune — a man of parts from England
could not fail to succeed. Anything, everything
was open to him.

'Oh, Constantine ! ' exclaimed Lovedayay,
what would Mr. Featherstone and Juliot think

VOL. III. G

if they found that we had gone together to
America ? I would not that she should know
how she has been deceived by you, and I
would not have him think unworthily of me.'

What can it matter what their opinion is
of us, when we are beyond the sea ? Besides,
I would write to Featherstone and tell him
everything. Then the responsibility of undeceiving
his sister would lie on his shoulders,
and he would not think ill of you. He would,
on the contrary, think highly of you for following
your proper husband over the Atlantic to
his new home.'

Oh, Constautine ! ' said she, in a tone of
agony, distressed by the conflicting feelings in
her bosom, 'is it really, really true that you
love me alone, that you will forget poor Juliot
and the little child she has borne to you ? '

If it were not so, would I make this proposal
to you ? ' he answered. ' Consider the
sacrifice I am ready to make at the altar of
duty. I lose Banbury, a comfortable home,
and a nice fortune, to go forth in poverty, as
an exile — what for ? Because, Lovedayay, my
conscience tells me I ought to do it. When
conscience speaks we must obey. And in this

case inclination jumps with obligation. I have
told you I love you, I cannot live away from
yon. If you refuse to come with me I will
stay in England, but I will not remain herewith
Juliot. I will follow you wherever you
go ; I will follow you like a dog. You
shall not be able to shake me off, except in
one way, by delivering me over to justice ;
and that you will not do — you are too noble,
too generous, too good at heart. That is a
contingency not to be considered. Remember
that you are my wife in the sight of heaven,
that you are responsible to heaven for me. If
you let me go alone to America, I do not
know what will become of me. I shall have
nothing to live for — no home, no happiness.
I dare say I shall take to drink and perish
miserably. Of course you will come with me.
You are not, I trust, lost to all sense of religion
and moral obligation.'

Lovedayay musing looked into his face, and
shook her head, whilst pressing her hands on
her heaving bosom. Could she flatter herself
that her reappearance had driven Juliot wholly
from his heart ? That in a foreign land the
yearning for his little son would not awake in

G 2

him and make him restless to return to England
and see his child assail ? Was he one who
would endure the privations of exile ? One
who had sufficient tenacity of purpose to hold
to his resolution ? In America, if they had to
undergo hardships, would he not turn against
her, and reproach her with banishment ? Was
he trustworthy ? Also, she felt great repugnance
against uniting her lot with him now,
after his treachery and falsehood, and the
wrong he had done to her and to Juliot and to
Paul.

I love you,' she said, ' I love you dearly.
God, who reads the heart, knows it. But
what happiness would I fid if I knew you
were unhappy ? I am glad that you still love
me ; but we can never be happy together
ao'ain — never ! '

My dear Lovedayay,' exclaimed Constantine,
what nonsense you talk ! Of course we can
be happy together. In a new world, amid
fresh scenes, fresh occupations, surrounded by
new people, we shall be quite happy. We
shall shake off all these unpleasantness, like
a dog who gets out of a bath. He shakes
himself, and away fly the drops in all directions,

and in ten minutes he is dry as Paul
Featherstoue, We shall sit together over our
own fireside and not give even a thought to the
past. Oh, Lovedayay, how happy we shall be !
Cares, fears, troubles drowned like Pharaoh in
the deep of the sea, sunk deeper than he, as the
Atlantic is more profound than the Eed Sea.
We will have a garden of our own, and
put mignonette under the window — I am so
fond of the scent of mignonette — and we will
have a little summer-house in the corner of our
garden with Banksia roses trained over it ;
that will be charming. And then we will sit
there in the evenings, and I will read to you
Guy Mannering," whilst you knit my stockings.
Have you read that? It is prodigiously
interesting. Then, consider this, my sweet
wife, we shall be in a climate that is dry.
Here we are in a warm bath and a steam alike
in every season. In America when the winter
sets in there is real cold weather, and in the
summer there is real heat. On my word,
Lovedayay, I am all eagerness to start.'

Constantino,' said Lovedayay, looking at
him with eyes that streamed with tears, ' do
not try me with such pictures. It cannot beat

least not now. That you should go is right,
and I do not say that after a time I will not
rejoin you, but not now, certainly not now.
Go yourself, and, if join think proper, write to
Mr. Featherstone and tell him the whole truth.
But I cannot go with you. Perhaps after
three years, when you have shown yourself in
earnest, I may follow, but I will not, I cannot,
go With you now. The sooner you go, the
better. Do not delay ; it is right that you
should depart.'

This is unkind,' said Constantine, impatiently.
' You want to drive me away, and
you will not help me in my difficulties. It is
easy to say Go, but harder to do it. I have
little money, and one cannot cross the ocean
without means. I shall have to sell stock off
the farm, and raise something in spite of Paul
Featherstone, who will ask me what I am
about.'

If you have no right to make money on
Stanbury, do not try to do it. Take my advice
once again, Constantine. Be straightforward
and truthful. Go, as the prodigal in the parable,
and your father will not cast you out. Confess
everything to Mr. Gaverock and ask him to

help you to cross to America. He will certainly
assist you, and assist you liberally. Is lie not
your father ? Then from Towan write to Mr.
Featherstone, and tell him the whole truth, and
tell him you are leaving England for ever, a
penitent for the wrong you have done. He is
so good, he will accept your repentance, and
not attempt pursuit and demand chastisement.
You must write, leaving all to him. If he were
to demand your punishment, accept it ; give
him the time to decide whether he will punish,
or whether he will pardon. That will be most
honourable, and when he has granted you
leave to depart unmolested, go. After three
years, Constantino, when you have proved your
own heart, if you still desire my presence, I
will cross the ocean to you, and I will never
by word or look reproach you for the past, but
freely, heartily forgive you your trespass against
me, as I look for forgiveness of my trespasses
from heaven. There, Constantine, in pledge of
my sincerity I give you my hand — no — not
one, I give you both.'

As she held out her arms, and he clasped
her hands, they were startled by the appearance
of Paul Featherstone, standing before

them. Their backs had been turned to the
path that ascended the chef from the little
strand, but as she gave Constantine her hands
she turned, intending to go back to the cottage,
having said her last words. In so turning she
saw Paul, and her start induced Constantine to
turn also. Constantine turned pale with fear,
and dropped the hands of Lovedayay. She felt
the blood rush to her face and temples. She
covered her eyes with her hands, and fled to
the hovel.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

A STROKE.

Paul Featiierstone and Constantine Gaverock
stood confronting each other. Both were pale
as chalk.

Constantine was in deadly fear lest Paul
should have heard any portion of his conversation
with Lovedayay. But Paul had not caught a
word. He could not have approached to listen
to them ; to do this was repugnant to his character.
But he had seen enough to send the
blood to his heart. She whom he had been
seeking everywhere was living concealed under
the protection of his brother-in-law. She had
run away from Maryland to be near him. That
they were on very intimate terms their conversation,
and the way in which they had held
each other's hands, the dismay with which they
had started asunder on seeing him, sufficiently

proved. lie had been hurt by the coldness
and callousness of Eock towards the suffering;
girl. It had never occurred to him that this
might be assumed to disguise a warmer feeling.
Now he was too startled to consider the relation
in which they stood to each other, or account
for the intimacy, to speculate when it had begun,
and to what an extent it had been carried.

Constantine was the first to recover his self-possession
sufficiently to ask Pant what he
wanted there. Had he come in quest of him ?

Paul Featherstone turned his eyes slowly
upon him. He had been looking after Love-day,
flying to the cottage. He was overwhelmed
by the double betrayal of himself and
his sister.

I do not seek you,' answered he, gravely.
Not you — certainly not join — the husband of
my sister Juliot.'

Constantine winced ; but the words of Paul
afforded him some relief. Paul would not have
emphasised the relationship if he had any suspicions
of the truth. This conviction revived
his courage.

What do you want ? ' he asked. ' I know
you have extraordinary ways. Are you qualifying

to act as Jack-in-tlie-box, popping up
unexpectedly under one's nose ? '

Featlierstone did not deign a reply ; he had
a dark vein on his brow, and this swelled.
Alien he was much disturbed it puffed and
became purple. He was indignant and angry,
but he had not lost his usual self-control, his
somewhat pedantic stateliness of manner.

There is nothing wonderful in a poor girl
seeking protection with me against your impertinence,'
said Constantine. He stooped,
picked a ]pink-flowering thrift, and began to
bite the stalk. His jaws were trembling ; he
did this to conceal the chatter of his teeth.
Do you not think,' asked Constantine, with
low cunning, attacking his brother-in-law to
protect himself from assault, ' do you not think
that the advertisement in "The Light of the
West " was worded wrong, and should have
stood, " Wanted, a companion for Paul Feather-stone
; 3'oung, pretty, and sanctimonious " ? '

Eock ! ' said Paul, sternly, ' be silent.'

I have a duty to perform,' said Constantine,
defiant in self-defence. ' When a young
lady whom you have beguiled into sour house
is driven by your insolent addresses to escape

from it ; when lie flies to me — a married man
to protect her ; throws herself upon my
honour and chivalry to ward off your offensive
persecutions, then I am only doing my duty asa
gentleman when I say to join, Go back the
way you came, and trouble her no more.
Good Heavens ! the whole country is ringing
with your scandalous conduct ; your name is
coupled with lies in a way intolerable to the
modesty of a virtuous gentlewoman. Everyone
laughs and winks, and says an aside behind
his hand, when you pass along the road nose in
air, hunting the pretty and pious companion.'

Eock !' exclaimed Paul, his eyes flashing
with indignation.

It is very sanctimonious for you to profess
to be shocked when I tell you the truth. You
have hoodwinked yourself as well as others.
You live in a world of self-delusion, and it is
well that I can pluck you out of it and show
you the contemptible figure you make, as
viewed from outside. In a fog a sheep is magnified
to the size of an elephant, and in the fog
you live in nothing bears its proper proportions.
You had the temerity, when Miss Penhalhgan
was ill, to force yourself into her room, and

make your passes over lier face, and press her
hand under the pretence of feeling her pulse.
When she recovers you take her out on the
water, and make a point of rowing behind the
rocks where you may be out of sight, and you
take the base advantage of being alone with
her in a boat, when you know she is unable to
escape, and I am not at hand to protect her, to
pester her with vulgar and insolent attentions.
Bah ! Whether you be most fool or rogue I
do not pretend to say. I should be sorry to
make the analysis of such nasty material. A
little of all sorts, made up as a Chinaman
makes a picture of a plant with the flower of
one stock on the stalk of another, garnished
with the leaves of a third.'

You despicable fellow said Paul, with his
black brows knit and his eyes flashing wrathfully.
'You are not Worthy to be answered
by a man of honour. I am ready enough to
allow that I am full of fault, and may, unknown
to myself, have fallen into follies and
error ; but I know you now out of your own
mouth, the outpouring of your base mind, I
know you. I have long dreaded the discovery,
and have shrunk from it ; now you stand

revealed to me in all your vileness. Had
I known what a dishonourable, ill-disposed
creature you were, I would have struck you
with the marling spike when j^ou clung to the
side of my boat, and not have held out a hand
to save you. Or, had I saved your life, as I
might have that of a dog, I would never have
admitted you under my roof, to bring on it
grief, and shame, and dishonour.'

Constantino flamed up with rage. He
could cast insults at another, but could not
endure to hear the truth spoken of himself.

Cursed be the day,' he exclaimed, ' that
ever I came under that roof of yours, that ever
I crossed your threshold. From that day I date
all my misery. You — you and your sister
have made me what I am, an unhappy, tormented
man.'

These words of Constantino confirmed the
suspicion of Paul. They were the confession
of his love for Lovedayay, and his alienation from
Juliot, his Avise. Exasperated to the last degree
by this infidelity towards his sister, he uttered
a groan of vv^rath and pain, and raised the ash
staff he held, and thrust with it at Iiis brothers
to repel him. The action was hasty ;

he did not intend to strike him, hut to express
his horror. The touch of the stick was sufficient
to make Constantino blind with fury.
He shook Featherstoue off, wrenched the staff
from his grasp, and struck him with it a blow
so violent that Paul staggered bach and fell
against a stone. He tried to gather himself
up ; he was deadly pale. A stream of blood
poured from his head. He swayed on his
knees, put forth his hands to find support, and
sank back on the turf.

Then Constantino heard a cry — and in
another moment Lovedayay flew past him, knelt
on the ground, and raised Paul in her arms,
and strove to staunch his blood with her kerchief


Constantino stood staring at Paul's whiteface,
and the streaming blood, without stirring,
without thinking, frozen with consternation at
what he had done.

His rage evaporated, and his fears gained
the upper hand. He looked about him. No
one was present. None had seen the struggle
save Lovedayay.

Now all was over. The secret must come
out. It could be retained no longer. This

quarrel with Paul would inevitably lead to his
detection.

What have you done ? ' cried Lovedayay.
Oh, Con ! Con ! You have killed him, and
added one sin to another. Eun ! Bring me
water ! Help me to carry him to the house !
Oh, Con ! I would you had struck and killed
me instead.'

Constantine ran to the edge of the cliff, then
returned.

Lovedayay,' said he, ' there is the boat
below in which Paul Featherstone came. I
shall take it and be off, I cannot, I dare not
remain. Come with me. It will be safer forme
if you do ; then nothing can be extracted
from you to criminate me.'

Oil, Constantine, run for water ! I cannot
leave him in this condition, insensible.'

Let him be — he is not killed, he is hurt,
that is all, and when he comes round can
practise passes on himself. It will be an
occupation and an amusement. Come along,
Lovedayay ! No time is to be lost. The weather
is fine, and I will row down the coast till we
reach Towan ; then we will go together before
my father, and ask his forgiveness and favour.'

I cannot go with you ; I have told you
that I will not do so. Now, least of all, when
Mr. Featherstone is in this condition. Bring
me water.*

How selfish you are, Lovedayay, you do not
think of me. I must get away. I entreat you
as your husband I command you — to accompany
me.'

Constantine, you have forfeited your right
to command. When you have recovered my
respect again I will submit to your orders, not
earlier.'

There ! he is becoming conscious. Come,
or I shall believe that you care more for Paul
Featherstone than for me.'

Constantine ! ' she looked at him with an
indignant flash in her dark eyes.

I am not going to wait and waste valuable
time,' said he. 'If you will not come,
stay and coddle Paul Featherstone. It will
be some time before I send for a disobedient
wife.'

Without looking at her again he descended
the path to the beach. Carwithen, seeing him,
hid behind a rock, fearing his anger. But

VOL. III. H

Constantine had not observed him. He went
to the boat, jumped in, and rowed himself
away.

Towan ! ' he said, ' yes, that is my only
chance now. I will return to Towan.'

CHAPTER XLIX.

THE LAST CORD.

CaewitheiN' came up the path in the face of
the cliff after Constantine had gone off with
the boat. On seeing that Paul Featherstone
was hurt, and resting in Lovedayay's arms, he
came to his assistance. Shortly after Thomasine
also arrived, and Paul was brought to consciousness,
and was sufficiently recovered to stand.
He had received a cut in the back of his head,
and had lost a good deal of blood, but there
was nothing dangerous in the wound — the skull
was not broken.

Lovedayay had taken the white kerchief from
her neck and bound it round his head tightly,
and arrested the bleeding.

He signed to Carwithen and his daughter
to withdraw, and then lie said to Lovedayay :
Madam, I shall feel obliged if you will say

H 2

nothing about a struggle with Mr. Eock. The
cut in my head was made by a stone in the
ground, against which I fell.'

Lovedayay bowed her consent. There was an
expression of sadness in his eyes as he looked
at her that went to her heart.

Mr. Featherstone,' she said, timidly, ' I
pray you not to judge me by appearances. I
pray you to be pitiful and forbearing.'

Madam,' he said, but he paused a long time
before he spoke, ' He who is over all knows
how anxious, how eager I am to excuse you,
but I cannot condone what is unexplained.'

She was silent. He waited for her to
speak, but as she said nothing he went on
slowly, sadly — ' I will go in now to the cottage.
Carwithen will attend to me. He can manage
so trifling a cut as that I have received. I will
return presently, and listen with patience to
what you may wish to say, in the hope that
you will be able to relieve my mind of a great
pain.' Then he withdrew.

Lovedayay was left alone. Her shoulders and
neck were uncovered, she had torn off her
kerchief for Paul's head. His blood stained the
bosom of her gown. There was a little water

near the cottage — a land spring, and she washed
it thereat. Then .she stood on the chfT looking
seaward. She saw Constantine's boat, but
he was already so far off that she could not
distinguish him. She thought over what had
taken place, and considered what she could say
to Mr. Featherstone — how she could give a
colourable explanation of her conduct. She
could not account for her presence there satisfactorily.
Would he believe that she had found
her way to Stanbury by accident ? If he were
persuaded that this was so, how could she
explain the intimacy with Constantine .^ She
saw that to exculpate herself she must betray
him, and, however unworthy he might be, that
she could not do. If she had any lingering
regard for Constantine after the discovery of
his falsehood, he had dispelled it now by his
insolence and injustice to Paul Featherstone.
For this latter, Lovedayay had conceived the
deepest respect. His simplicity of character,
his earnest desire to do what was right and
kind, had touched her heart ; and the ungenerosity,
the ingratitude of Constantine in attacking
him, had filled her with horror and repugnance.
She had known him to be weak : she

now saw his irremediable worthlessness. If he
had had any spark of good feeling hungering in
his heart he could not have taunted Paul with
such words. He was a coward and a scoundrel.

With this discovery her love for hin died,
as her respect had died. Now he had dragged
her into the lowest humiliation. He had left
her to bear the shame of being regarded by
Paul Featherstone as a woman lost to gratitude
and to honour. Father than that she should
be lightly thought of, Constantino would have
braved the worst had he possessed a manly
spirit. He had preferred to expose her to
shame, and escape himself from danger.

In about a quarter of an hour Paul Feather-stone
came forth from the cottage. Eichard
Carwithen had patched up the wound in his
head with plaster, of which he fortunately had
some. Paul came forward to Lovedayay, who
was sitting meditatively on a sand-hill. She
rose as he approached. He was very pale —
paler than could be accounted for by the amount
of blood he had lost.

Will you permit me,' he said, ' to ask you
a few questions, madam ? ' ^

v She had noticed that he ceased to address

her as Miss Penlialligan after lie had learned
that she was a widow. She bowed her head.

You will allow me to lean on this staff .^ '
he said, kneeling and picking up that with
which Constantine had struck him. 'I am
shaken by the blow, and shall be glad of the
support.'

He shrank from putting the questions to her
which he had to put to her.

I have thought it advisable to ask you a
few things — to — to save you much speaking.
It will be simpler and better. Carwithen has
told me that Mr. Eock is gone. He took the
boat and rowed away in the direction of Bude,
not towards Maryland.'

Mr. Featherstone,' said Lovedayay, in a low
tone, with her hands clasped before her and
her eyes on the ground, ' I may tell you this —
he is gone for ever. You will see him no
more.'

Then she was silent ; and he did not speak,
but she felt that his eyes were on her face,
searching it.

Why has he gone ? '

She was unable to answer. i

Madam,' he said, in a very low tone, and

his voice shook as he spoke, ' as I was returning
to consciousness I thought I heard his voice
addressing you, and asking you to accompany
him. And — I heard you refuse ? '

'Yes.' She was as white as himself, and
she was trembling.

He kitchen the staff, but his fingers opened
and closed and worked nervously on it.

I would say enough,' he continued,

after a long pause, ' but that I must know something
more. I have my sister, my dear sister,
to consider.' Then he stopped. He was not
strong enough, after the blow and fall and the
loss of blood, to proceed rapidly, and every sentence
was torn from him with a wrench of pain.

I would hear further. Did you know him ?
Was there any attachment to — to him before
you came to Maryland ? '

Yes,' very faintly.

One question more. Is Penhalligan your
real name ? '

'No.'

Then, involuntarily, a groan escaped him.
Lovedayay looked up with terror. Had he divined
the truth ? No, he had not.

'Then,' he said slowly, articulating each

word distinctly, and each as it issued from his
heart cost him a pang, and each as it fell on
her ear entered and pierced her brain, ' under
a feigned name you made your way into my
home, you followed him whom you loved, and
who, I suppose, loved you. And then, when he
had arranged all, you fled to him, to Stanbury.'

With a cry of despair, putting up her
quivering hands, she said, ' No ! no ! '

Do not deny it,' he went on, mastering his
emotion with an efibrt which covered his brow
with sweat drops. ' You left Maryland, and came
direct to Stanbury, where he was awaiting you.
Carwithen told me all.'

What would her denial profit her? She
raised her hands in speechless agony, put her
fingers to her teeth, then let her hands fall again
flat on her lap, and her head hung down on her
bosom, as if it were a flower-head that had been
struck and broken, but not broken ofi*.

And yet,' said he, ' I have to acknowledge
a debt to you. The evening before you departed
you behaved honourably to me. When I asked
you '

She raised her hand to stop the words ; she
could not lift her eyes.

You dealt with me conscientiously ; you
refused me. I thank God for that ! both because
it saved me from a terrible awakening when
too late, but also for your own sake, because it
shows me that your soul still stirs in response to
generous feelings. And again, now, when he
asked you to escape with him, the grace of God
prevailed : you resisted the voice of the tempter,

and ' He could not speak any more. He

shook ; he was weeping ; he was enfeebled by
what he had undergone, and unable at this
moment to retain the mastery over himself.

At the sound of his broken voice, and the
sob that issued from his heart, Lovedayay's frozen
horror and despair gave way. She had been
standing;. She threw herself before him on her
knees, she held up her clasped hands above her
head, the tears poured from her eyes, and a
storm of passionate weeping choked her words.
Have patience with me ! — Have pity on
me ! — Do not condemn me ! — Oh, do not think
so badly of me ! — I am not wicked ! — I have
been weak and have erred ! — -I beseech you
pardon me ! — It is not all as you say ! — I am
not so lost as that ! — And you ! you ! you to cast
me out ! — You to scorn and reject me ! ' Then

she bowed her face to the coarse sea-grass,
and the pink and silver thrift, and the purple
sea-lavender; and held her hands with the
fingers interlaced tight, as though woven out of
wire, over her lips to restrain them from saying
more.

I do not condemn you,' said Paul, calmly.
He had recovered his composure, which had
left him only for a moment. ' I should indeed
be an unworthy servant of Him who stooped
and wrote on the sand when such an other was
brought before him if I did not pity with an
infinite and loving pity instead of condemnation.
Far from speaking words of condemnation, I am
thanking heaven that you are repentant, and
hoping that this is the beginning of a new life.
Stand up, I pray you. Do not lie there in the
sand. Be composed. We must consider the
future.'

She obeyed him mechanically.

He walked away, leaning heavily on the
staff, towards the edge of the cliff, and held his
hand over his eyes, whilst he looked along the
coast towards the south, as trying to see the
boat in which Constantino was departing. He
stood thus gazing for a long while motionless.

but he saw nothing. It may be doubted
whether he were in reality straining his eyes to
follow the boat and find the direction it was
taking. After some time, during which he
stood motionless, with his back towards Love-day,
he turned and came to her.

Let us sit down,' he said, with composed
voice. ' I am not strong enough to stand long

CD C O

just now. I can speak better, and with less
effort, if you will allow me to take my place on
this stone.' He did not look at her, fearing lest
he should lose control over his voice if he saw
her white tear-stained face, and large, entreating,
anguish-brimming eyes.

Madam,' he said, ' between you and me let
the past be no more mentioned, or let it bespoken
of as little as may be. I shall have to
consider my sister, and break to her the news
that she has lost her husband. I would spare
her unnecessary pain ; I would spare her the
thought of evil. She must not hear your name
associated with that of John Eock, she must
have no suspicion that your disappearance is in
any way mixed up with his departure. I trust
you will suffer me to decide for you what is best.
What is best for you is also best for us. You

will allow me to rule your course for a little
while?'

She bowed for an answer. He did not look
at her, but he saw her shadow, and the motion
of the shadow assured him of her consent.

It will be advisable for you to remain herewith
Tamsin Carwithen, at least for a time.'

She assented, as before.

You were taken in the storm, drenched to
the skin, and were found in a state of exhaustion
and unconsciousness by Carwithen, who brought
you here. This is what I shall tell Juliot, and
what shall be given to the world. It will suffice.
Mr. Eock has gone away on business of his own.
Has he gone to his home ?'

Lovedayay hesitated to admit this.

I have never asked him about his home.
I understood he had none, and that his past
was associated with misfortune. I did not press
to know. I saw no need. Now I suspect that
I was deceived by his very reticence. If you
do not assure me to the contrary, I will assert
that he has gone to his home on business of
his own.'

Lovedayay offered no denial.

What is to follow time will decide. It is

very important, madam, for your honour, that
you should remain here, and that it be known
throughout the neighbourhood that you are
here, and that here you should continue for
some time after it has become certain that
John Eock has departed, never to return.
You can understand my motives. I shall be
glad that you accept my decision for your own
sake, and for that of my sister.'

It shall be so,' said Lovedayay.

That you cannot return to Maryland, you
see for yourself. Should Juliot come to you
and entreat you to return, you must refuse.
You can say, what is true, that your health
incapacitates you from being of assistance
to her. You can be understood to reside
here, to lodge in this cottage with Tamsin
Carwithen, till your health is recruited. And
now, madam, farewell — for ever. I do not
suppose we shall meet again. It is best
not.' He stood up. ' Your box, left at Mars-land,
shall be sent to you here. I believe
the arrangement made — or contemplated — was
such that a half-yearly notice should be given,
and the salary was fixed, though not named.
You will allow me to send you what we owe

you ; the notice to leave comes from me.
Excuse me entering on these matters now, but,
ass I may not see you again, I desire to make
everything clear. Your box shall be sent over
to-day, and with it the sum of money to which
you are entitled, together with a little present
which you will not, I am sure, pain my sister
by refusing.'

Oh, Mr. Featlierstone ! ' cried Lovedayay,
Mr. Featherstone ! I cannot, I cannot bear
this ! I have now lost everything. I am
without a mother, without a home, and I have
lost my husband, and I have lost my brother.
There is one thing to which I clung — your
respect ; but that also is gone, and yet indeed
I do not deserve it.'

Madam answered Paul, ' it is possible
that the explanation which would clear your
conduct, which is denied to-day, may be
afforded in the future. If you can assure me
of that, the pity you now command will not be
unaccompanied with respect.'

Lovedayay shook her head sadly. She could
give him no hope of such an explanation, at
least from her lips. If it came, which she
doubted, it would be from Constantine.

I wish you farewell,' said Paul, sorrowfully,
after waiting for a reply. ' We shall
probably never meet again.'

He bowed solemnly, and went away. She
looked after him with eyes filled with tears.
She saw him, when he reached the cottage,
unbind her kerchief from his head and give it
to Tamsin, with a sign that it was to be returned
to the owner. But Paul did not look
back. Then he took a clean kerchief the
daughter of old Carwithen gave him, and that
he bound around his head. He would not
take away with him any remembrance of
Lovedayay.

She understood his meaning in the action,
and it overcame her. She had indeed lost
everything — except his pity.

CHAPTER L.

AN Apparition.

Squire Gaverock, Gerans, and Eose were in
the room called the study, in which, however,
no study was ever undertaken. They were all
dressed in deep mourning. Mrs. Gaverock
was dead, and had that day been buried. A
stroke had fallen on her shortly after the
departure of Lovedayay, which had greatly
affected her, and this was followed by another,
from which she did not rally. Her departure
had been without pain. She had faded away
in sleep. How far the Squire had felt his
wife's loss none could say. He was not accustomed
to show his emotion ; it is possible that
he did not feel much. ' It is, taken all in all,'
said he, ' a happy release. She wasn't good for
much of late, and no comfort to herself, let
alone others. As for the maidens, she'd lost

VOL. III. I

every mite of control over them. I do not
.know how it is with others ; but, for my part,
I'd be shot or drowned rather than die soaking
in bed, dying by inches. But,' he added,
philosophically, ' tastes differ, and there is no
accounting; for them.'

On this occasion he had a bundle of banknotes
before him, and a paper.

Here,' said the Squire, ' you see what your
mother's will was, Gerans. She had her money
tied up to her ; not much, but something, from
eighty to a hundred a year, in the Three per
Cents., and one or two other little matters.
You see she had left everything to Constantine ;
but as he is dead she revoked, and by a codicil
left all for life to Lovedayay ; and I was to dispose
of some shares she had in the Bridgewater
Canal at once, and pay over the proceeds to
Lovedayay for her immediate necessities. Here
is the money, but where is Lovedayay? She
executed a deed of attorney just before the
second fit she had to enable the sale at once,
and so it was effected before she died, but I
have only got the money to-day. Now it is at
Lovedayay's disposal, if I could find her. All
the rest of your mother's money — that is, the

money in Consols — will come to you after
Lovedayay's death. It won't go out of the family.
I have nothing against what your mother did.
Constantine made an ass of himself, and you
must suffer. Eighty pounds a year would have
been something to you ; but, after all, you are
well off, more comfortable than ever I was
with your mother. She, when squeezed as
tight as you could, was not worth quite a hundred,
and Eose is worth four without squeezing.'

Dennis — I mean Mr. Penhalligan,' said
Eose, ' has gone to Exeter to make inquiries.
Lovedayay has not written, and nothing has been
heard concerning her. When he reached
Launceston, he could learn no news ; she had
spent the night at the King's Arms and gone
on by coach next day, but by which coach and
whither no one had noticed.'

How did you hear that ? ' asked Gerans.

Mr. Penhalligan wrote to me,' she replied,
colouring. ' He knew I was very anxious, and
promised to send me news on the first opportunity.'


Gerans nodded. He was not surprised nor
suspicious. Nothing more natural than that
Eose should desire tidings of her friend and

I 2

sister-in-law, nothing more proper than that
Dennis should report progress.

'My old friend, Ennoder Hocking,' said
the Squire, ' when he was dying was asked
whether he would prefer to be buried in the
old churchyard or in the new cemetery, and he
replied that he would certainly prefer the new
ground, because it lay on gravel and was
healthier, whereas the old graveyard was on
clay and a " rheumatics place." As for myself,
I don't care a farthing where I am buried,
but I do care how I die. Bless my soul I
what inconvenience and expense there is in a
death-bed, and how quick and economical is an
accident ; no long drawn-out sickness for me,
if I may have my choice. But this is neither
here nor there, only this I will say, Constantine
showed his good sense and good taste in
going out of this world in the way he did. No
nursing, no doctor's bill, no funeral expenses.
I hope it will be the same with myself.'

Rose uttered a cry of terror. She was
seated facing the window, and she saw a pale
face looking in. The others, startled, turned in
the same direction, but observed nothing ; they
asked her what was the occasion of her alarm.

I thought — I thought ! ' she said, in trepidation,
' that I saw Gerans out there, looking
deathly white. He looked in through the window
glass and fixed his eyes on me.'

That,' said Gerans, ' is impossible, for
here I am in the flesh and in the solid, not very
pallid, but fresh in colour.'

Even as he spoke the door behind him
opened, and framed in the entrance stood Constantine,
so like Gerans, but paler, that all
who saw him were silent, startled, not knowing
what to think — whether they had before them
the ghost of Constantino or the ' double ' of
Gerans.

Well ! ' exclaimed Constantine, ' what are
you all staring at me for in that mazed manner?
Do you take me for a spectre? Not
impossible, you have been eager enough to
reckon me among the dead ; not an effort did
you make to discover whether I were alive.
Don't you know me again, father ? or has disappointment
taken the breath out of your
lungs? Gerans, here I am to trouble you
again.'

Good Heavens ! ' exclaimed Gerans, springing
up, and rushing to his brother with open

arms. ' Constantine, old fellow ! Is this really
you ? Oh, my God, how glad I am ! ' He
clasped his hand and shook it, then caught
his brother in his arms, and hugged him. ' I
am rejoiced ! Who ever would have expected
this ! '

What, Constantine thrown up by the sea ! '
exclaimed the Squire. ' Humph ! come forward,
and let me have a look at you.'

Rose gazed on the restored brother with
amazement. He was extraordinarily like her
husband. Of late Gerans had lost much of his
cheerfulness, and this brought him into closer
resemblance to the pale, depressed man who
stood before them.

So you are Constantine ! ' said old Gaverock,
without manifesting any exuberant delight at
the recognition. 'Always too late for everything.
Look here ! ' He spread out the banknotes
on the table. ' Here are four hundred
pounds, the proceeds of the sale of the Bridgewater
Canal shares ; but they are not for you.
There are two thousand six hundred in the
Three per Cents., but they are not for you.
Just returned too late for the plunder ! '

What do you mean, father ? ' asked Constantine,

whilst his eyes rested eagerly, greedily
on the money.

I mean this, that your mother is no more.
And as you chose to keep away and sham dead,
she has left her money to Lovedayay instead.
And now we do not know what has become of
her. You do not, I suppose ? '

I — how should I know ? '

His father looked at him from head to foot.
He had been in his boat for some time rowing,
had not been able to get much to eat, had been
wet and exhausted, and had no appearance of
prosperity about him.

Do you see this ? ' asked old Gaverock.
Tour hundred pounds in notes, and some
small gold and silver over. You don't look tome
as if you had had the handling of this sort
of thing where you have been.'

No,' laughed Constantine, contemptuously.
Where I have been I have not fingered much
money.'

I can believe that,' said Gaverock ; and he
put the notes away in a pocket-book, and the
coin in a purse, thrust them into his library
table drawer, locked it, and put the key in his
pocket. ' But this might have been yours, had

you not been hiding and made us believe you
were dead. Now, your best way is to find
your wife, and ask her to provide you with a
shilHug or two for clean linen.'

Con,' said Gerans, ' look at Eose. She is
my wife now, and your sister-in-law.'

Constantine held out his hand, but Eose
accepted it without alacrity. His close resemblance
to her husband was strange to her.

You have come from a distance,' she said.
'You are hungry and tired. I will hasten supper.'

Ah ! ' said he, ' do so. I have not eaten
anything since early morning.'

Sit down,' said Hender Gaverock, pointing
to a chair on the other side of the table.
Whence come you ? From the bottom of the
sea ? The last I saw of you was on the keel
of the " Mermaid," when a sea went over her.
What have you been doing with yourself all
this time ? '

Constantine shrugged his shoulders. ' One
thing to-day, something else tomorrow — whatever
offered.'

Why did you not go back to Nankivel ?
Why did you not communicate with us ? Why
did you let us suppose you dead ? '

Nankivel ! I had had enough of a lawyer's
office. I did not write, because I had no pleasant
news to tell.'

That you have not done well is no wonder
to me. You are not the man to make a
fortune.'

*I'm not an eldest son, born with a gold
spoon in his mouth, who gets the property and
the heiress.'

His father brought his fist down on the
table.

Whose fault is it that you did not get the
heiress. Con ? Your own — you married a
beggar.'

Father,' interposed Gerans, ' what is the
advantage of going back to the past ? Con is
here, alive — that suffices. He is welcome, and
we are rejoiced to see him ; if he is unlucky,
home is the place for him, where his best
friends will endeavour to comfort him. If he
had been fortunate, we should have rejoiced.
Whether he returns to us prosperous or unfortunate
is of little moment, so long as we have
him again, risen from the dead.'

I want to know,' said the old man, rapping
on the table again, ' I want to know what he

has been about all this while ? It is getting on
for two years since he disappeared. What has
he been about ? Where has he been hiding ? '

I tell you,' answered Constantine, sullenly,
I have been in various places, trying my hand
at various things. If I was picked up by an
outward-bound vessel for the West Indies, and
went there, and have now come back — what
have you to say to that ? '

Your complexion is not tanned enough for
the sun of the West Indies,' said old Gaverock.

That shows you know nothing about the
matter. Do you suppose that one can return
in six days from the New World, and bring
one's tanned skin back ? The voyage is long
enough to bleach the face; besides, I have
been ill.'

One can see that,' said Gerans. ' Do not
be unkind to him, father. Poor Con has been
ill, and has suffered. Why, the father in the
parable ran to meet his son when he returned,
and he was a prodigal. Con has not been that,
and you are scarcely gracious to him.'

'Do not you meddle,' said old Gaverock,
angrily. ' I know what I am about. It is not
for the yellow beaks to instruct the parent

birds. I must know all about you, Constantine,
before I receive you cordially. The
prodigal returned with a confession, and therefore
was taken to his father's heart. You
come back with evasion and equivocation ;
therefore I hold you at a distance, with the
table between us.'

He continued rapping angrily on the board.
His temper was rising. Then he stood up and
paced the room with his usual huge strides,
with his hands in his pockets. Constantine's
eyes followed him. Dusk had set in, and it
was becoming dark in the room.

First of all, you married without my leave,
and left me in ignorance of the circumstances.
Then you were washed off the keel of the " Mermaid,"
when I, the older by more than double
your years, held on. Then you let us suppose
you were dead ; and so your mother has willed
away her money to Lovedayay, for her own irresponsible,
private, and independent use. Then
you come home, without a profession, without
money, and, of course, want to be helped on to
your feet.'

Constantine looked askance at his father.

Yes,' he said, ' I do want help. I have

made up my mind to settle in the West Indies.
I will have a sugar plantation there, and
negroes to work for me ; but land and slaves
are not to be had for nothing. I have come
home to ask you to assist me, and then I will
trouble you no more.'

Loved ay is your wife. She has four hundred
pounds. You must settle matters with
her. I suppose you intend to take her with
you?'

You tell me that Lovedayay is lost.'

Yes, but she will be found. Her brother
is gone in search of her. People do not get
lost for long in England.'

I do not intend to take her out with meat
first, till I have my estate and house ; after
that, I will write, or return for her.'

Well, you must settle matters with her.
I can give you nothing.'

I cannot wait till she is found. I have to
be off in a few days. I do not wish to meet
Dennis Penhalhgan.'

Why not ? Are you a coward ? '

I do not wish to quarrel with him. We
nigh came to blows before, and we are sure to
come to an angry encounter now if we meet.

He is my brother in-law, and I do not want to
hurt him. In a little while all will be right.
I shall have my sugar plantation and my
negroes, and be a thriving man, with a good
house, and Loved will be with me ; and
then Dennis may come out and doctor my
blacks, if he cannot succeed with white people
here. He is inclined to be my enemy now
because I am down. But when I am up, he
will be amiable enough. No, I will not meet
him. Why should you not give me the money,
father ? Lovedayay is sure to approve.'

But supposing she does not, then I shall
have to make it up to her. No, no.'

Then let me have five hundred pounds to
start with. I am your son ; you are bound
to provide for me.'

Did I not pay a premium to Nankivel for
you ? Who forfeited that ? I have no money
to advance. I am always out of pocket. I
can't sell without Gerans's consent, and if he
consented I would not do it — not reduce the
property for you.'

'Why not? I am your son. Why is
Gerans to have everything and I nothing ? '

It is your own faint if you have nothing.

You were put in a lawyer's office, and on the
road to a livelihood, and that opportunity you
threw away. I had an heiress for you worth
five hundred per annum, and you married
Lovedayay on the sly, and threw that chance
away. You were your mother's favourite son
and heir to all her money, and you let her suppose
you were dead, and so you have lost her
money, which has gone to Lovedayay. Now
you are dependent on your wife. Find her,
and get her to advance you the five hundred
pounds. I will tell you what I think, Constantine.
Some men are like skittles, set upto
be bowled over. You may set them up
a hundred times, and they go over on their
sides a hundred and one times. You are one
of these. You have no independence of character,
no manliness of heart.'

That is the fatherly reception I get,'
sneered Constantine. ' Because I return with
empty pockets I am unwelcome ; had I come
back with a full purse I should have been
made much of. I am not the prodigal son
of the Gospel who returns snuffling and beseeching
forgiveness. I came back to demand
my rights, and, by Heavens ! I will have them ;

and, what is more, you'll be eager to give me
the money to get me off.'

Old Gaverock went hastily out of the room ;
he was so angry that he feared an explosion,
and he had sufficient sense to avoid that on
the night of his lost son's return.

'You must not speak to father in that
manner. Con,' cautioned Gerans. ' He is unaccustomed
to it, and cannot bear it.'

Pshaw ! ' exclaimed Constantine, ' he will
have to open his eyes wide before long to
what I say, unless ' — he went to the locked
drawer where the money was — ' unless he furnishes
me with this.'

CHAPTER LI.

WANTED : money!

Well,' said Squire Gaverock after breakfast to
Constantine, ' what is to become of you ? '

Constantine was now dressed iu a suit of
his elder brother's clothes, and he looked much
better than yesterday ; he had recovered his
colour, and seemed to have filled out. A good
sleep after a hearty supper had wrought a great
improvement in his appearance. When Eose
looked at him, in clothes that her husband
usually wore, the resemblance between them
was remarkable. The brothers were alike in
everything except in the expression of their
faces.

What is to become of me ? ' asked Constantine.
' That remains for you to decide.'

Gerans was very pleased to have his brother
home. He considered him as his natural friend,

to whom he could open his heart, and confide
the trouble that corroded his soul. He showed
Constantine the kindliest, most affectionate sympathy,
which the latter accepted without thanks,
as his right. Gerans lived in clover, whereas
he had to shift for himself on the bare world
beyond the hedge.

I will tell you what will become of you,'
said old Hender Gaverock ; ' you shall remain
here till Lovedayay is heard of, and then you shall
settle matters with her. If she chooses to let
you have the four hundred, she may, and I will
add another hundred, which is the utmost I
can do. That will make five hundred pounds.
With five hundred pounds you shall go to Barbadoes,
or wherever you like ; I shall have done
with you. You will take your wife With you,
or leave her for a year till you are settled.
That is the plan. It will do. You shall follow
it.'

I cannot wait till Lovedayay is found,'
answered Constantine.

Why not ? What reasons ? '

I have my reasons.' He looked round.
Eose had left the room, only Gerans and his
father were there. ' You have your plans, father,

VOL. III. K

and I have mine. I tell you I am off tomorrow,
or the day after at latest. I cannot, and I will
not, wait.'

Why not ? '

I have told yon. I have my reasons. That
must suffice.'

But it does not suffice.'

You had better not ask further.'

But I do ask further.'

then you ask in vain.'

Then you are a worthless vagabond,' said
old Gaverock, in a rage.

If I am a vagabond, who has made me
so? Who but yourself? All your solicitude
has been for Gerans ; I have been unconsidered.'


'That is false. You were sent with Nan-kiel.'


Yes — when I had not the smallest inclination
for a solicitor's office. Of course I am a
vagabond. I have no home. I must go over
the world looking for one. I have not a house
and acres provided for me by my ancestors.
They are for Gerans.'

If you had had a spark of honour in your
whole carcass you would not have returned

home as you have, after allowing us for two
years to believe you dead.'

If you had had a spark of fatherly feeing
iu you, you would never have penned me into
Nankivel's musty office, with a brick wall to
look at, and old parchments to munch. An
unnatural father has made a vagabond son.'

HenderGaverock's face became red as blood,
and his eyes sparkled. He grasped Constantine
by the collar, dragged him up from his
chair, and thrust him down on it again with such
violence that the chair gave way, and Constantine
fell to the ground.

I will teach you how a son is to address his
father,' said he, and shook his fist at Constantine,
who scrambled to his feet with face livid with
rage and mortification.

I have been treated with only violence
and insult by you,' said Constantine. ' I ask
you for money now, that I may depart out of
your sight, never to appear before you again,
and have it I will.'

You will !— how ? '

Father,' interposed Gerans, ' what can bethe
harm of granting him what he desires ? He
has his reasons, which are no doubt good, that

K 2

make it necessary for him to leave immediately,
and he wants the money at once. A penny
now is worth twopence ten minutes hence.
Con has told you that he cannot wait.'

'He has had his deserts.'

No, he has not,' answered Gerans, boldly ;
'you are doing him an injustice.'

I — an injustice ! ' The old man flamed
up, and Constantine laughed.

I ask for five hundred pounds. The sum
is moderate. I forewarn you, if you do not
give me the money willingly, I will make you
give it,' said Constantine.

You ! You make me ! '

Yes, I will. If I were to ask for a thousand
you would give it with gladness to be rid
of me.'

I should like to see the force you will
wield against me, to make me pay money which
I do not choose to expend.'

Do you remember, when I last came here,
3''0u tripped me up, father ? '

Old Gaverock nodded.

It is my turn now, and such a fall I will
give you as you never experienced before.'

Con,' interposed Gerans, ' why do you

aggravate father? You can gain nothing by
doing no, and your manner is offensive, as your
conduct is improper.'

'Leave me to settle my affairs,' answered
Constantine, impatiently. ' My father will not
give me the money. Is it so ? '

Yes, it is so,' answered Gaverock.

I will make him do it, with the threat of
dishonour on himself, the family, and the name
of Gaverock.'

What ! what ! '

'Ah ! that is my weapon. I must tell you
the truth. I have got into a scrape. It was
no fault of mine, but let that pass. I am now
in danger of arrest and of conviction as a felon,
and of transportation.'

The old man uttered a hoarse cry. Like
a madman he rushed upon Constantine, who
turned pale and started back, and armed himself
with a leg of the broken chair. Gerans
threw himself between them, laid hold of the
furious old man, grappled with and restrained
and overpowered him, and thrust him back.

Gerans ! ' gasped the old Squire, ' Gerans ! '
He ceased to resist, and his son let go his hold.
The old man panted for breath. Gerans also

breathed hard and fast. He was astonished at
himself for daring to oppose and control his
father, and he cast down his eyes before him,
as one that was guilty. He turned aside to his
brother, and said, reproachfully, ' Con, you
should not say false and idle words certain to
anger our father. You know how sacred he
holds the honour and name of the family.'

I spoke nothing but the ugly truth,' said
Constantine.

That,' answered Gerans, ' I will never
believe. You are the cleverest and best of us
two. I might bungle into wrongdoing, but not
you. You have twice as much brains as I.'

The world is for the brainless, then,'
mocked Constantine. ' Towan estate, and an
heiress with four hundred a year. I — the
clever one of the family — am a vagabond who
sues in vain for a few hundred.'

The old man stood looking from one sou
to the other without speaking, hardly knowing
with which to be most angry.

Father,' said Gerans, approaching old
Hender ; but the Squire would accept no submission
— he thrust him away with violence, and
a smothered oath.

Gerans gave this brother a sign to leave the
house, and Constantine threw aside the leg of
the chair which he had taken up as a weapon
wherewith to defend himself, and went out at
the porch door. In another moment Gerans
followed him. They walked on together in
silence for some distance over the downs towards
the sea.

Presently Constantine asked, ' Have you
seen mother's will ? '

Yes — that is, I have heard it read.'

I must have a look at it. I believe it
may be upset. She left the money to Lovedayay
conditionally on my death.'

You need not trouble yourself about that.
Lovedayay gets the money, and she is your wife.
It is all the same.'

It is not all the same. I want the money
at once. I cannot wait for it till she is found
and can give her consent. I am not sure that
she will consent without conditions. How
much have you got with Eose ? '

I do not know. I have not looked into
matters.'

I suppose that now her affairs are out of
father's hands and in yours. He was her

trustee only-whilst she vas under age and
unmarried.'

I do not know.'

You can raise money, I presume, independently
of his consent ? '

I do not know.'

Constantine laughed contemptuously. ' You
do not deserve to have money, if you do not
know on what tenure you have it, what is its
amount, whether you can dispose of it, whether
you can control it.'

I have had no occasion,' answered Gerans.
Father is an excellent manager. An agent at
Truro manages for Eose ; and when that property
is sold, we shall buy Diable and other
land round here so as to have all the estates
together within a ring fence. That is father's
plan, and I approve of it. Eose does not want
to have the house atKenwyn sold, in which she
was born and lived, and if my father insists
on that I shall oppose him, but that is the sale
point on which any difference is likely to arise.
He aims only at doing the best for Eose and
me. She knows that as surely as myself, and
we are content to trust him.'

I would trust no one but myself,' said

Constantine. ' However, I am not here to talk
over your plans of rising to be a big county
squire and possibly a high sheriff; your affairs
concern me now only as they touch me. My
necessities are urgent. What I said is true. I
will give no particulars, I am under a cloud,
and must leave the country. I have been
drawn into a horrible quagmire, from which I
must scramble before I am sucked down into
the depth. The money I must have, or in
very spite, to revenge myself on father, I will
let the worst come, and then he will go mad
with shame and rage and vexation that he did
not come to my terms in time.'

Constantine ! I cannot, I will not, believe
that you have done anything dishonourable.'

No — the wrongdoing has been forced on
me. You say I have brains. I am easy-going
and good-natured. Easy-going and good-natured
folk get imposed on. I was imposed
on by a hypocritical, pious idiot — and he has
led me into such a trouble that unless I escape
out of the country at once, of my own accord,
I shall be transported out of it, at the cost of
the country.'

'Oh, Con!'

What help to me is there in your reproachful
Constantine ! and Oh, Cons ! I
want — not exclamations of righteous or simulated
horror, but ready money. In my opinion
it is they who lay pitfalls for the unwary who
should be punished, not those who fall into
them. It is all very well for you to stick to
the high road of virtue, because you have no
temptations to leave it ; you are an eldest son
and married to an heiress, but I am nothing
and have nothing. I have to get what I can,
make a nest like a puffin in a disused rabbit
burrow, or catch a meal like a skua from the
gulls when they return from fishing by striking
them in the breast, making them disgorge, and
catching and rushing off with their prey.'

Brother, this is very dreadful ! '

Of course it is. So is a torn coat, but a
tailor will not mend it by holding up his hands
over the rent. He must take needle and thread
and draw the riven edges together. I want
money.'

What have you done. Con ? ' asked Gerans,
with sinking heart.

Sever mind what I have done. The
thing that we have to consider is, what is to be

doue with me. What do you consider is the
thing to be done with a cankered apple-tree in
your garden ? You get rid of it as quickly
as you can, lest the canker spread. I am the
cankered tree. You must get rid of me.
Mind you, Gerans, it is the soil that produces
the canker ; the tree is good enough, and the
best sorts of apples take the canker readiest.
Your sour cyder fruit never catch it. I have
not been given proper nourishing soil in which
my roots may spread, so I have got the canker.
You must 'get rid of me, send me to the West
Indies. There I shall recover and bear bigger
and better apples than even you with your
Towan and your heiress.'

Have you been, really, in the West Indies,
Con?'

'Never mind where I have been. Again
your questions are irrelevant. I can assure
you I have been in a new world to this, with
quite a different order of ideas, and habits, and
manners from those of the old world ruled by
the Squire of Towan. Where I am going, not
where I have been, is that to occupy us at
present, and that I do not mind telling you. I
am going out of the kingdom, to the West

Indies, and I am going as quickly as I can to
prevent being sent east to Botany Bay.'

I cannot believe this.'

What ? That I am in dang-er ? You will
have to arrive at conviction pretty sharply, or
the danger will be at your door in the shape of
a couple of sheriff's officers to arrest me. I
will not wait here much longer. I have some
patience with your sluggish minds, which require
time to take in new notions, but I will
not protract the time indefinitely. Money I
want, and will have. Five hundred pounds.
If you will give me some of your own — that is,
Eose's — or if father will give me Lovedayay's, it
is one to me. The money I must have, and do
not so much care out of whose pocket it proceeds
so long as it finds its way into mine. If
you advance me the money, I will repay it at
five per cent, interest out of my sugar canes.
If I have Lovedayay's, she of course will join me,
and suck the sugar on the spot out of the canes
grown on her gold.'

You must give mee time to think this over,'
said Gerans. ' If you must have money, you
shall have it. Whatever is mine, personally, I
will freely share with you, but I cannot take

Eose's money without her consent, nor can my
father give you the four hundred pounds left to
Lovedayay without her consent. But, Con ! that
you have been unfortunate I know ; that you
have been guilty, I cannot and will not believe.'
You have said that already, and I am glad
of your good opinion. As you say, I am unfortunate
; but the self-righteous world will say I
was something else. Well ! when I am on my
sugar plantation whacking my negroes, I shall
whistle across the ocean in the face of this
rotten, canting, hypocritical old world. When
I am wealthy I will come back, and it will
bow low before me and do worship. You will
see ! You will see ! ' He laughed carelessly.
Gerans, I must have some of the mignonette
seed from under the drawing-room window.
I am passionately fond of the scent of mignonette,
and the hot sun of the West Indies will
draw it out in double fragrance. Do you remember
the butter-scotch we were wont to
make together, Gerans? and how little sugar
mother would spare ? You will come out and
pay me a visit on our plantation, and we will
make butter-scotch out of my own sugar,
grown on the estate.' Then Constantine threw

himself down on the short grass. ' I am
going no further with you, Gerans,' he said.
I have a fit of laziness on me, and I will lie
and dream here of my sugar plantation. You
go on and find out how the money is to be
raised for purchasing it.'

CHAPTER LII.

ON THE TURF.

Constantine lay on the turf, picking up little
empty white shell cases which strewed it, and
crushing them between his fins-hers. There
was not much sport in this proceeding, but it
was a distraction. To wan was on his left ;
from where he lay he overlooked the house.
When he was tired of cracking shells he raised
his head on his right hand, put a stalk of thrift
in his mouth, and tried to tie a knot in it with
his tongue. His eyes rested on Towan, without
any emotion at seeing the home of his
childhood again, at the prospect of seeing it
now for the last time.

'If I feet to the West Indies I shall not be
such a fool as to return home to my father's
growls, and my brother's exclamations of Oh,
Cont'

His heart was bitter within him at the
thought that his brother was well provided
for, happily married, exposed to none of the
roughs of life, whilst he had to shift for his
having, run into, and succumb to temptations.
He stood now in peril of transportation,
simply because he was a younger son. Gerans
was respected as an honourable, just, and
generous man, solely because he was the firstborn,
and as firstborn had everything showered
on him for which another must fight.
He was angry with Gerans, because he envied'
his luck. He was angry with his father,
because his father was partial. He was angry
even with his dead mother, because she had
put him to inconvenience by her will, making
him subservient to his wife, to whom he did
not want to owe an obligation just then. The
reception he had met with from his father had
not been cordial. He did not stop to inquire
whether he deserved a better reception, after
showing so little regard for the feelings of his
parents as to leave them for nearly two years in
ignorance that he was alive. He had returned
home, not that home now exercised any attractive
spell on his heart, not to see again his old

father and mother, and the brother who loved
him with such sincerity, but because he wanted
money, and Icnew not whither he should turn
for it beside home. Nevertheless a soft
emotion had risen in his heart on the yester
eve when he came up from the strand, and
saw before him the old walls and roofs, and
his hand had trembled on the door latch before
he pressed it, out of real feeling. But that
was transient, and had given way to bitterness
and discontent. He was ashamed of the
momentary melting, as of a weakness. Even
his brother's hearty welcome could not rethaw
his frozen heart. He thought of him only as
one who stood between him and an easy life.

There is no saying,' said Constantine, spitting
the stalk of thrift from his mouth ; ' Gerans
may be dissembling, and be only eager how to
be rid of me cheaply. It is as well that I have
no great tenderness towards him. We shall be
better able to deal with one another in businesslike
fashion,'

Lying on the turf and looking towards
Towan, he saw the old Squire ride away on
his favourite cob. Constantine knew it well.
Whither is he going ? ' he asked, and then .

III. L

membered the day was that of market at Padstow,
and the Squire never missed attending.

It is nothing to him that I am here,'
sneered Constantine. ' He is off to learn the
price of bullocks and sheep.'

He was wrong in his conjecture. Squire
Gaverock was not on his way to Padstow without
thought of his son. He was on his way
thither to see about raising a hundred pounds
for Constantine. He had made up his mind
to give him that ; more he could not, without
selling land, and the idea of selling did
not enter his head. ' With a hundred pounds
from me, and Lovedayay's four hundred, and her
eighty pounds per annum from the Three per
Cents. — it is enough. He must be satisfied.
If he has to ask his wife for the money, so
much the better ; it will make him behave to
her with kindness and respect.' Jog, jog, jog !
After all,' mused the Squire, ' I was a bit sharp
with the boy, but he made me angry. Why
did he not write and let us know he was alive,
and not make his mother miserable ? ' Jog,
jog, jog! 'I don't like his looks. There is a
skulking, hang-dog expression in his face which
it did not wear in old times.'

Constantine's eyes followed his father along
the Padstow road without love. He was thinking
of the four hundred pounds in the old
man's table drawer. That money was his own by
rights. His mother had left it to Lovedayay only
because she believed her son Constantine was
dead. Morally, if not legally, the money was
his. If he could get hold of that money, he
would be able to settle in the West Indies, and
with some assiduity and determination, and by
keeping the negroes up to their work with a
cat-o'-nine-tails, make a large fortune. There
was no doubt about that, as there was also no
doubt that it would be idle for him to go to
Barbadoes or anywhere else without capital. ' I
am going to be a master, not a slave,' said
Constantine.

Presently he saw Eose come out of the
house and enter the walled garden, carrying a
basket. She left the garden door open — it
was too much trouble to shut it. She went
among the raspberry bushes, and began picking
the fruit. Constantine thought, though too far
off to be certain, that she put quite as many
berries into her mouth as into the basket. In
fact she did so. She had gone into the garden

ito

pick for a raspberry pudding. Eose lead the
keys of the store-room, and ate the currants
and raisins, and figs, and almonds there whenever
she went to the room. She helped herself,
not because she was greedy, but because she
liked sweet things, and liked having; something;
in her mouth to play with, and she never denied
herself any fancy. So — she liked to see and
talk to and coquet with Dennis Penhalligan, and
notwithstanding his impertinence at the well
she met him and conversed with him, and
allowed him to compliment her, and take
her hand. It was a pastime, and no harm was
meant.

Constantine was so intent watching Eose,
and laughing at the motion of her hand to her
lips instead of to the basket, that he did not
observe the approach of a man from Nantsillan
till he was close at hand — and then he started
as he recognised Dennis. The young doctor
did not go to the house, but walked to the
garden door. Perhaps he judged by the door
being left open who was within. Perhaps ashe
went by he caught a glimpse of Eose in her
morning wave. Constantine was interested and
alarmed. He wished he were near enough to

overhear their conversation. He considered
whether, if he crept down to the garden wall,
he could catch any of it, but he abandoned the
thought of doing this ; the wall was high, and
of brick. From where he was, he could see
what passed ; behind the wall, he would be
able neither to see nor to hear.

He saw Eose start with surprise, and take
a step eagerly forwards to meet Dennis, then
she extended her hand to him, and Penhalligan
took and held it for some while.

Humph ! ' said Constantine, ' on uncommonly
friendly terms. To be sure he is her
brother-in-law twice removed.'

At last Eose drew her hand hastily away,
and began to pick raspberries rapidly. They
seemed to have much to say to each other.
Constantine looked anxiously. He wondered
whether Dennis had obtained a clue to where
his sister was. He wondered whether Eose
was telling Dennis that he, Constantine, was
there. Constantine thought that if Penhalligan
made a motion of surprise, he would detect it,
and that would assure him that the surgeon
had been made aware of the reappearance of
his brother-in-law, long supposed to be drowned.

But look as closely as he could, Constantine
could detect no such movement. They had
other matters to talk about, much more interesting
than himself, thought Constantine and
laughed. ' And Gerans, the soft-headed, there
is no thought of him either, I suppose.'

Just then he saw, but only for a moment,
an odd figure of a man in a red waistcoat, that
peeped from beneath an oilskin coat, standing
in the garden doorway, and at the same time a
white spotted dog ran up and down between the
raspberry bushes.

The moment Penhalligan saw the dog, he
ceased speaking to Eose ; he seemed to become
excited and angry ; he ran after the dog, threw
stones at it, and — all at once, Constantine could
see neither it nor the red-vested man any more.
He supposed that the man had gone along
under the wall towards the house, and the dog
had left the garden and followed him. The
spotted dog had, however, effectually interrupted
the interview. Dennis Penhalligan said a few
more words to Eose, and then hastily left the
garden and returned to Nantsillan. Then Constantine
observed that Eose stood by the bushes
with her forefinger to her lips in a deep study ;

she neither ate nor put into the basket anymore
raspberries.

If he had been near enough to hear the
conversation, he would have been greatly relieved
of his anxieties. In the first place he
would have learned that Dennis had not come
upon the traces of his sister, and that he was
altogether following; a misleading; clue. Pen

DO

gallican had assumed that Lovedayay had gone
to Exeter, and he had made that the point of
departure for his inquiries. It is true that
Madam Loveys had mentioned to him the advertisement,
but he argued that if his sister had
taken the situation she would certainly have
written, whereas it was much more probable
that she had found her cousin and was with
her. Her cousin was in money difficulties and
did not want her address to be known, and
had persuaded Lovedayay not to write to her
friends. Consequently Dennis was trying to
find out his cousin with the anticipation of discovering
Lovedayay with her. He had returned
home unsuccessful, to make some arrangements
about his business, intending to leave again
after a few days. In the second place Constantine
would have learned that Eose had not betrayed

the fact of his being alive and at Towan.
The spotted dog had disturbed the conversation
and interrupted the current of her thoughts
when she was on the point of making the communication
to Dennis. Constantine thought
that there was something suspicious in this
meeting of Eose with Dennis. It was by appointment.
The door had been left open purposely.
That was his conclusion. ' Well,' said
he, ' I can make some use of it, I dare say.'

Gerans had laughed at him half an hour
ago for picking up a crooked nail on the road,
and asked him what use it could be to him.
Then he had replied that it would come handy
somehow, and some day. Why was it that
Constantine was prepared to lay hold of anything,
however crooked, and turn it to his own
purposes ? of anything that chance cast in his
way, and convert it into a weapon wherewith
to wound his fellow-men ?

'Because,' he would answer, 'I am a younger
son.'

Constantine had good abilities, better than
Gerans ; he had the same lazy good nature as
his brother, a love of taking things easily, but
circumstances were against him, and for Gerans.

He had not a fortune to fall back upon. He
could not take life easily, he must work to get
a living, and he was angry because of this obligation.
Why should he, and not Gerans, have
to work ?

The day was warm, the sun had heated
the sandy soil of the turf on which he lay. He
had nothing to do but grumble over the injustice
with which he had been treated and find
palliations for his own ill-doing. He was tired
of lying with his head propped on one elbow,
so he threw himself back, put his hands under
his head, drew his hat over his face, and went
to sleep.

When Gerans came back, he found his
brother where he had left him, sleeping and
snoring.

Gerans had been thinking since he parted
from Constantino. He had not forgotten the
reproaches of Eose because he gave way to his
father so readily, but he would not oppose the
old man without a better reason than to show
that he had an independent opinion. Eose was
indifferent as to the occasion of a passage of
arms, in her eagerness to have a battle in which
her husband would measure his strength with

his father. Gerans was essentially a peace-loving
man, and a just man. He would yield
in matters unimportant to insure peace, and
he would not oppose his father in matters
where his father, he knew, was in the right.
He was aware that his yielding to his father
had lost him the respect and love of his wife ;
now the occasion had come in which he would
have to take a decided line of opposition. He
might not thereby recover his wife's regard,
but he would be doing a justice to his
brother.

He had a notion that To wan estates where
worth in the gross about twelve hundred a year
that is, when all outs were paid, about eight
hundred — but he was not sure ; his father neither
told him the value, nor consulted him about the
burdens. There was a mortgage on it he knew
for his aunt's jointure, but to what amount he
was unaware. There were continual repairs
being executed to the farm buildings and cottages,
but at what annual cost he was not told.
The only way by which he had obtained an
inkling into the amount of his father's income
was through the rate-book which the parish
overseer had shown him one day. Whether

there were other charges on the estate than the
mortgage for Madam Loveys he did not know.
What the cost of the maintenance of the Towan
establishment was lie was unable to conjecture.

His father kept no accounts.

Gerans waited by his brother's side till Constantine
awoke. The latter sat up, rubbed his
eyes, and asked how long he had been asleep.

'Con,' said Gerans, 'I have thought over
what is to be done. When I was married no
settlement of the property was made. Time
enough when a boy is born, said father. Consequently,
he and I can do with it pretty much
what we will. It is of no use asking him to do
too much — we must be moderate in our demands
now ; if, after my father's death, I can help you
further, and you need assistance, command me.
At present I am powerless without his consent.
I have resolved to ask him to raise a thousand
pounds for you on Towan. Then, with Love-day's
four hundred in cash, you will have something
to start with, and she will have mother's
two thousand six hundred in the Three per
Cents.'

Do you mean this ? ' asked Constantine,
with pleased but incredulous surprise.

I do, indeed,' answered Gerans. ' You are
tiny brother. Here is my hand, old fellow — is
it a compact ? I would do more for you if I
could.'

Constantino walked on at the side of his
brother towards To wan.

You see, Con, that if I should have no son,
the property would come to you. So if you
go out of the country, you must not leave us
without tidings of you. Towan nearly came
to change of heirs the other day when I was
samphire-picking for Eose. Penhalligan saved
my life.'

Constantine laughed.

There was something unpleasant in the tone
of his laugh — a significant innuendo — which
jarred with Gerans, and he looked at his
brother.

I have been witness to-day to a meeting,'
said Constantine. 'Rose was in the garden
picking raspberries when Dennis Penhalligan
came to her,'

Dennis back ! ' exclaimed Gerans, with
glad surprise ; ' then he has tidings of Lovedayay.'

Possibly,' answered Constantine ; ' I was
not so unpolite as to run down and form a third

in the party.' He spoke mockingly, and Gerans
looked at him again, indignantly, whilst the
colour rushed to his face. But he was without
suspicion of Eose, without jealousy of Dennis ;
he flushed with indignation at Constantine for
reflecting on his wife's proceedings with disparagement.
He said nothing more till they
reached the house.

Chapter Lii

A THOUSAND POUNDS.

When Gerans and Constantine entered Towan.
the former said to Eose, ' What news of Love-day
? I hear from Con that you have seen
Dennis.'

Met him between the raspberry bushes in
the garden,' said Constantine.

Eose looked sharply at her brother-in-law ;
there was a smirk on his lips and a twinkle in
his eye which angered her. She knit her brows,
turned her back on him, and answered in a
voice tremulous with shame and annoyance,
No news at all.' Then she went with quick
steps towards the door.

Stay a while,' spoke Constantine ; ' I don't
want Penhalligan or, indeed, any one outside
Towan to know of my presence here. Will you
be good enough to keep my return a secret till
my back is turned, which will be as quickly

as possible. T shall be obliged if you will silence
the servants.'

'I cannot answer for them,' replied Eose.
Why you should be ashamed to be seen,
unless you have done what is discreditable, I
do not understand.'

I explained my reasons to my father and
your husband this morning,' said Constantine,
coolly ; ' as for the servants, their tongues can
be tied. Promise them each a crown, if my
return be kept secret till this day week.'

Eose made no answer. She went out of
the room without another word. She was
angry with Constantine and v/ith herself, perhaps
a little frightened at the consequences of
her inconsiderate conduct. Not a word had
passed between her and Dennis to which
Gerans might not have listened. Their conversation
had been about Lovedayay, in whose
welfare Gerans was as much interested as
herself. Dennis had acted, perhaps, injudiciously
in coming to her into the garden instead
of going to the house, and she had also, perhaps,
been unwise in inviting him to come to
Towan that evening to see her and Gerans,
and tell them his plans for the prosecution

of the search. Penlialhgan was reluctant to
enter Towan after his quarrel with the old
Squire. Mr. Gaverock had not quite forgotten
and forgiven the young surgeon for calling him
a bear, though he professed to be content with
the explanation given by Lovedayay. Dennis
had not apologised, and had not withdrawn
the expression. Therefore he treated him
with coldness, and Dennis would not cross the
threshold unless called in professionally, or
specially invited. He had been summoned to
Mrs. Gaverock when she was taken with
paralysis, but specially invited he had not been
till Eose asked him in the garden. She had
intimated to him that she had something particular
to tell him. She had told him nothing
about Mrs. Gaverock's will, nor of the return
of Constantine. Now she thought that if she
had been guilty of an indiscretion, she would
soon put that to rights. She wrote a note :

Dear Mr. Penhalligan, — Pray do not come
up this evening, as I asked you. — Yours very
sincerely,

Eos Gaverock.'

She sent the note down to Nantsillan bv

the postman, who arrived just then, a poor
man nearly deaf. Then her mind was relieved.
She had done nothing wrong, nothing wherewith
to reproach herself.

Constantino and Gerans were in the hall,
the latter turning over the letters. The former
was at the window.

Do you employ the postman for carrying
messages ? ' asked he.

'Yes, sometimes,' answered Gerans, with
indifference.

Because I see Eose outside slipping a
triangular note into his hand.'

Very possibly,' Gerans answered shortly ;
he was hurt and offended at his brother's tone
and words.

'Eose,' said he, when his wife came in,
have you been giving old Hockaday a
note ? '

'Yes,' she answered.

To whom ? '

A friend she replied, shortly, and left the
room.

Constantino laughed.

She will not be taken to task by j'Ou,' he
said.

VOL. III. M

I did wrong to take her to task,' answered
Gerans, sadly, ' I was wanting in good feeling,
and she replied to me as I deserved.'

The wife of Caesar is above suspicion ! '
sneered Constantine.

In every way,' answered Gerans, sharply,
as sold is imperishable, because the element
of canker is not in it. The cloud covers the
mirror from the breath of him who approaches
it, the mirror itself is clear.'

Constantine shrugged his shoulders.
Have you a white liver-spotted dog ? ' he
asked.
'No.'

Pshaw ! because I have seen one about
To wan to-day.'

We have no such dog.'
In the evening Squire Gaverock returned
from Padstow. He went into the study where
his sons and Eose were seated awaiting him.
Since the last sickness and death of Mrs.
Gaverock the drawing-room had been deserted
by Eose, and she preferred to sit in the library
or hall ; the former was the snugger room.
Old Gaverock was little there. He used the
apartment as his office. His box of deeds

was there, his desk and money were there, his
letters were there, this whips, and guns, and
spurs.

He had ridden off his anger, and returned
in good-humour.

Eose,' said he, ' the Kenwyn mine is sold,
and the money is in the banker's hands at
Padstow. lever had so much gold and notes
at my disposal before. I am going to see
Tregellas tomorrow about the purchase of
Trevithick.'

I have no objection to the sale of the mine,'
answered Eose, ' but I will not have ray house
at Kenwyn disposed of

I have not said I will sell that,' said the
old man, roughly. ' Don't screech before you
are pinched.'

What did you sell the mine for ? ' asked
Constantine.

For more money than you will ever get,
sitting in the corner, twiddling your thumbs,
I sold for two thousand five hundred and
eighty pounds. Five years ago it would have
sold for six thousand.'

Eose was sitting in the window, embroidering
the border for the carpet she had promised

M 2

to Lovedayay, on which she had been so long
engaged.

Is that money mine now ? '

No, my dear,' answered the Squire; ' I am
yom trustee and shall invest it for you. You
are not to be entrusted with large sums to play
ducks and drakes with.'

Father,' said Gerans, ' I have been considering
to-day what is to be done for my
brother. You have kept me always in the dark
as to the value of this estate, but I can forma
rough estimate of what it is worth. There
is enough to keep Eose and me here in comfort,
and we do not ask for luxuries. The
estate has not been re-entailed on my marriage,
and therefore you or I can sell or mortgage
with mutual consent. It is my wish that Constantine
be given a thousand pounds at once, to
enable him to buy an estate in the West Indies.'

He spoke quietly and firmly.

Old Gaverock's eyebrows went up to the
roots of his hair as he listened to his eldest son.

A hundred pounds,' he said ; ' here it is.
I have raised it this day at Padstow by note
of hand. Here it is in gold and paper.' He
pulled a purse out of his trousers pocket, and

a book out of the breast pocket of his coat.
Then he unlocked his drawer, and threw in
purse and book. ' There,' he said, ' there is
the hundred pounds I promised. He can have
four hundred from Lovedayay when he finds her.
He shall have no more.' He slammed the
drawer and locked it.

A hundred pounds is insufficient,' said
Gerans. ' My mother's money is his and Love-day's,
quite independently of what I wish Constantine
to have out of the property.'

You — you wish ! ' echoed old Gaverock in
too much amazement to boil up with wrath.

Eose put down her needle, and turned her
face towards her husband. She was surprised
at his audacity.

'Yes,' said Gerans, unabashed; 'I have
made up my mind to that sum. You cannot
raise money on the estate without my consent,
and I cannot raise any without yours.'

I know all that better than you.'

Well, father, I wish that justice should
be done to Constantino. It is not fair that I
should have everything, and he nothing.'

He will have his mother's fortune — through
his wife. If he does not have it directly, whose

fault is that but his own, because he allowed
her to suppose him dead.'

That is not sufficient. Besides, he is in
immediate need of a large sum of money. He
is confident of success in the New World if he
lands on it with good capital to dispose of
The least that I can think of letting; him have is
one thousand pounds.'

Pray how is that to be raked out of the
ground ? Are you going to open a cairn, expecting
to find a pot of gold ? '

We will mortgage a portion of the estate
to raise it.'

No, thank you. It is well you say we.
You luckily cannot do this without my consent,
and that shall never be given. I will not allow
the property to be further encumbered. I have
had trouble enough with the burdens on it. I
only shook off some with the aid of money I
had with your mother,'

Very well,' said Geraus. ' If the property
was cleared with her money, let the money be
repaid to her son Constantino out of it. A
thousand pounds, I ask for no more,'

A hundred ! ' roared old Gaverock.

A thousand ! ' replied Gerans, determinedly.

Eose, sitting at the window, listened with
growing surprise. The man who had yielded
to his father unquestionably in everything
hitherto, was now showing him a very determined
front. What a transformation was
effected in the submissive, pliable Gerans, who
had been ready to slip into a mouse hole before
his father's wrath till now ! What occasioned
this change ? Surely the love he bore to his
brother steeled him to defy the anger of the old
tyrant. How little love must he have felt for
her, if he had not once stood up in her defence
against the Squire ! He was bold in his brother's
behalf, timorous in hers. She was not worth
enough in his eyes to make him measure his
strength with his father, in spite of all she had
said to urge him. His opposition to old Gave-rock
now, instead of pleasing her, aroused her
resentment. There was another man who loved
her with so fierce a love that he had taken her
part in a trifling matter such as the mounting of
Phoebus, even when he knew she was in the
wrong. How he had held her hand that day,
what fire had flickered in his eyes as he looked
at her, how his voice had quivered with passion
when he addressed her, suppressed, but suppressed

with a terrible effort, because be knew
that lie would be offended if he gave it vent !
Gerans was not even jealous of Penhalligan's
admiration and devotion. He had accepted
Constantine's hint about the conversation in the
garden, and had received the news that she
sent private notes by the postman, without
surprise and anger. He did not really I've her.
He had married her only because he was an
obedient boj^, and had been ordered to do so
by his Hither. She recalled the drive to Wade-bridge
and the proposal of Gerans, his chin ina
white woollen muffler, and his spotted pocket-handkerchief
to this nose. Then there rose up
before her eyes the scene on the road when
Dennis told her of his love. She uttered a
faint cry. Outside the window was Dennis,
leaning against a side wall, looking at her
through the glass. None of the rest could see
him ; she saw his burning eyes fixed on her,
saw the heaving of his breast, saw his hands
convulsively clenched on his bosom, saw how
white and agonised was his face.

None in the room had heard her exclamation.
Old Gaverock was storming' against
Gerans. He had worked himself up into fury.

Constantine sat in a corner, biting this nails,
watching his father ; Gerans, pale but firm, sat
opposite the old man, listening to him, waiting
till the storm was overcast. None of the three
had attention to bestow on her. She made a
sign to Dennis, waving her hand, a sign of
entreaty that he would go away ; but he would
not obey. She looked at him beseechingly,
and again waved her hand. What a proof of
love was this in poor Penhalligan, that in spite
of her commands he would come, if only to get
a glimpse of her face through a window ! She
was alarmed, however, at his remaining outside.
She stuck her needle into the canvas, and began
to roll it up ; she intended to leave the room,
go outside and entreat Dennis to depart. Just
then the door opened, and the servant came in
with candles. Eose started uo and drew the

L

blinds across the window. She was afraid of
the girl seeing outside the face of Dennis.
When the lights were brought in the Squire
ceased to speak, and waited till the servant left.
Eose's attention had been distracted from
the altercation by Dennis's appearance. Now
that the curtains were drawn, and he could not
see her, he would go away. She leaned her

head on her hand and watched Geraus. His
resolution would fail, she was sure. He made
a little show of resistance, and then would give
way. The storm was broken loose, and he
would strike sail and run before it. But
Gerans did not strike sail as she supposed. He
did not budge from the ground he had taken
up. She listened to him dien he spoke, and
was fain to allow that he was right in what he
advanced. He was firm and temperate, but
his cheeks glowed, and his eyes flashed.

Father,' said he at last, ' the property will
be mine eventually, and I will bear the loss,
not you. I am not only ready but eager to
make the sacrifice, because I consider it
just.'

You dare to charge me with injustice ! '

I deny that you have treated Con with the
liberality that he has a right to expect of you.
You should not require any urging from me todo
an act of justice.'

I am not responsible to you,' shouted the
old man. ' Golly ! if I had spoken to my
father in the manner you have addressed me,
he would have knocked me down. I will not
give him a penny over a hundred pounds.'

Constantine stood up and left the room.
Impotent rage boiled in his heart. He could
not remain in his fathers's presence, and constrain
himself. He must go out and cool his heated
face, and leave the calmer Gerans to manage
for him.

When he was gone, his brother said in a
softer tone than heretofore, ' Father, it is not
fair that Con should be placed completely
dependent on his wife. My mother never intended
that. Eight is right. My dear mother
wished to leave Con her money. You have
yourself told me that seme of her money was
sunk in the property.'

That was years ago — she has not mentioned
that in her will.'

'I know what her wishes were — that all
she had, and all she ever had had, should go to
Con. I will not accept the freedom bought by
her money. Poor Con has had much trouble,
has gone through great privations, I fear he
has got into some difficulties — I hope he exaggerates
their extent. I cannot hold up my
head and look an honest man in the eyes, unless
I can feel that justice has been done him,
and that the wishes of my dear mother have

been carried out.' As he spoke his eyes
moistened, and his tone became soft and pleadings.


I have had a quiet and comfortable home,
and Con has had none at all. I have had plenty,
and he has had poverty. I have my position
secured to me, and he has a position to gain.
I cannot enjoy an easy hour if I know that he
has been thrust forth to hunger and hardship.
It must not be so ! Father, your own heart
will tell what I say is right. Give him the
thousand pounds at once. You say you have
got money in the bank.'

That is not mine — it is Eose's.'

Very well. Let us mortgage one of the
farms to Eose, and raise on it the sum I want.
Eose ! ' he said, turning sharply towards her,
Eose ! you will consent to that, will you
not ? '

Yes, Gerans, heartily ! '

There ! there ! ' he exclaimed, almost with
a shout of triumph, ' see what a good, true,
noble wife Eose is. God bless you, Eose, for
that word.'

Eose has nothing to do with it,' said old

Gaverock. 'Her consent is nothing. I am
her trustee, and I will not allow it. What is
that?'

Eose was weeping. Why? She did not
know, herself.

CHAPTER LIV.

THE SPOTTED DOG.

The letter received by Dennis from Eose had
not had the effect on him she intended. The
tone of the note was more than friendly.
What did she mean by it? Was it a confession
of her own weakness, and dread of
seeing him again ? Or did she hint that he
was not to come openly to the door and ask
for admission ? He had no rest at home. As
the evening closed in, and silvery twilight
filled the sky, he was irresistibly drawn to
To wan. The moor was silent and solitary.
He approached the house stealthily. He
looked at the garden door. It was not
open, it was not ajar. Then he thought he
observed the face of Eose at a window, and he
crept nearer, leaned his back against the brick
garden wall, where it joined to the wall of the

house, and looked at Eose, as she sat engaged
on her needlework in the window. The sill
of this window was low, a couple of feet above
the turf outside. The window had looked
originally into the court, but the outer walls of
the court, screening the front of Towan manor-house,
had been pulled down, so that it was
now exposed to the road and moor.

He saw Eose signal to him, and he misread
her signal. He thought she waved her
hand to him to remain where he was, and be
quiet, till she came out to speak to him. He
waited patiently, without stirring, watching
her face till the curtains were drawn. After
that he waited on. He could hear voices
speaking in the room where Eose was ; he
could distinguish that of the Squire, it was loud
and rough. Hs thought he could hear as well
that of Gerans ; but he caught not a word of
their conversation. What they spoke about
was indifferent to him ; he had not come thereto
hear them argue, but to see and speak to
Eose, if only' for a minute.

He waited on patiently. Eose would come
to him, when she could ; she had waved her
hand to him through the window in token

of recognition. He was accustomed to wait
motionless by the bedside of a patient, watching
a crisis ; so he stood now, not altering his
position. His thoughts were active. How
fate had fought against him ! How cruelly it
had dealt with the lives of two human beings !
It had separated him and Eose, and had bound
her to a man she did not and could not love.
He believed that she hated Gerans, and repented
the day that she lead married him.
He believed that she loved himself, and himself
only. His declaration of love had drawn
from her the cry of ' Too late ! ' Too late had
she found that she was loved by the only man
whom she loved. He thought of the samphire-picking.
Why had he thrown himself on the
rope and arrested the fall of Gerans ? Why
had he not rather let go and allowed him to
crash down among the knife-ike slate rocks?
He wondered at himself. For once luck lead
befriended him — had put into his hands the
chance he desired, and he had cast it from
him. Had he not been an inconsiderate, impulsive
fool, he would have let the cord whirl
away — and Gerans would by this time have
been buried, and he would not be lingering

there, waiting, hoping, yet knowing that he
had nothing to expect but disappointment.
All he could look to was to touch Eose's hand,
speak a few words about Lovedayay, wish her a
good-night, and go away miserable, despairing,
to his lonely home.

He looked at his hands, and then struck
them against the wall behind him with such
force that they bled. Fool that he was to
stand between himself and happiness. AYliy had
he wounded and galled his hands to save his
adversary and to perpetuate his wretchedness ?
His wretchedness ! not his own only — that of
poor Eose also, chained to an uncongenial,
commonplace country clown.

If he had but money, he would carry her
off to some distant land, away, by sea, out of
the kingdom, and begin with her a new life.
But that was not possible. He was poor and
powerless. He could hope for nothing more
than to see Eose now and then, listen to her
sweet voice, and know without expecting to
hear her confess that she loved him.

The porch-door opened, and a man came
forth. That man was Constantine, but he was
dressed in a suit belonging to his brother.

VOL. III. N

Summer twilight was iu the sky, so that Dennis
could see though he could not distinguish, and
Constantine and Gerans were extraordinarily-alike.
The young surgeon was startled, and
had at once to form a resolution. Where he
stood he could be seen. He had presence of
mind, and he came forward from his dark
corner. Constantine started and drew back ;
he recognised him at once.

Gerans,' said Penhalligan, ' I have come
up to tell you and Eose that I have ascertained
at last the address of my cousin — that is, I
know where she is. This day's post has brought
me tidings of her. She is at Goodriugton, near
Panton. I am off in two days to see if Love-day
be with her.'

'Eight,' answered Constantine, afraid to
speak more than a word or two lest his voice
should betray him.

Eose has told you, I suppose, that my
search in Exeter was fruitless ? ' said Dennis.

Yes.' Constantine moved to go away.

I leave on Saturday, and trust at last to
discover her.'

Content.' Then, suddenly, ' Gal ! — the
spotted dog again ! '

In the twilijrlit lie saw the white mongrel
with its liver patches running round him and
Dennis, limping. Then the beast stood up on
its hind legs and hopped about them like a
kangaroo, then flung itself down on its side as
if dead.

Curse the brute ! ' exclaimed Dennis.
That dog will drive me mad. I am haunted
with it. Yesterday, in the night, as I drove
back from Wadebridge, it sprang over a heap
of stones by the roadside at the very spot
where I had been upset with Rose on the night
of the Goose Fair, and I have not been able to
get rid of it since. I see it continually jumping
about me, and then disappearing, coming tome
when I least expect it ; and yet I can never
lay hold of it. I have thrown stones at it, but
cannot hit it. I have run after it with a stick,
but cannot reach it,'

'Shoot it,' said Constantine.

I will,' answered Dennis. ' See — it is

gone ! '

The dog had disappeared.

Constantine bowed and withdrew to the
house. Dennis was satisfied from his manner that
he — Gerans, as he supposed him — was offended.

N 2

It is well,' muttered he — ' well that he should
understand that I hate him. I cannot dissemble.
I am too proud and too thorough to affect love
where I hate. Perhaps he knows the reason.
It is best so. Best that he should know that
he stands between the happiness of two unfortunates
whom fate has separated. May be
Eose has told him that she scorns and abhors
him. It is best so. Best that he should feel
some of the misery he has brought upon ns.'

He walked leisurely back to ISTautsillan.
He did not doubt that Eose loved him. Had
he not clasped her in his arms and kissed her
red lips at the well, and she had forgiven him ?
Had not her blue eyes told him that she was
pleased to see him, and had she not invited him
to come to Towan and see her again ? Had not
her letter shown him mistrust of her own heart ?
He excused her for not coming to him. She
was under restraint. There was a quarrel in
the family, and she was the victim. The old
Squire and Geraus had been assailing her with
reproaches — had been pouring over her vials of
wrath and gall. She had borne this for him,
because she loved him. She was doomed to
a life of daily ill-treatment by two men — the

boisterous, brutal father, the surly, suspicious
husband — because she loved him. For how
many years was this misery to be spun out, her
bright life darkened, her joyous spirit saddened,
her tender heart broken, because she loved
him ? Oh, that there were some way of escape
some means of freeing her from this bondage !

As he came to the dingle down which dived
the path to this cottage, he saw a man standing
at the edge of the wood with a basket slung
over his shoulder by a strap. A crescent moon
was in the sky lying on its back, shedding a
silvery light which, with the summer twilight,
enabled him to see and recognise the pedlar
whom he had first beheld at Wadebridge at
the Goose Fair ; but in that uncertain cold
light he could not distinguish the colour of his
waistcoat. The face was very white with the
moon on it, and the Cornish crystal in the band
round his wild, long, black hair flashed suddenly,
then was unseen, then flashed again, like
a revolving lin;lit at sea.

Something, Dennis could not say what, arrested
his steps when he saw this strange man,
and he stood watching him. The pedlar did
not seem to observe him ; he was playing or

practising with bis long basket. With his hand
iiG rapped the bottom, and the blow jerked up
the lid, whereupon a number of roses sprang
into the air — wdnte, red, yellow, perhaps, butin
the combined twilight and moonlight they all
gleamed a ghastly white, and fell again into the
basket, when the lid dropped on them and shut
them in. Another rap — up sprang the lid, and
high into the cold light leaped the roses, to
drop again and be shut in by the lid. The
performance was clever. Not a rose fell over
the side upon the ground, nor did the lid close
on the flowers till all were in the basket. The
man was practising, apparently. He tried to
jerk the flowers higher, and each time higher,
and was always equally successful in catching
and securing them. Then he changed his
proceeding. He tapped twice at the bottom,
and now roses and glow-worms shot up out
of the basket, a rain of ghostlike bloom and
pale stars. Tap, tap ! and again the mingled
spray was thrown up, again to fall and disappear
in the basket.

Dennis stood spellbound ; how long he
would have thus remained cannot be said. He
was released from his astonishment by seeing

the spotted cur leap out of the bushes and begin
its gambols round the pedlar. Then his anger
broke loose.

You, fellow ! ' he shouted, ' take that beast
away. I have been plagued with it. I do not
want either you or your dog in my neighbourhood.
Get away with you at once. Leave this
place. Take yourself and the brute elsewhere.
I warn join — if I see that cursed dog again I
will kill it ! '

He stepped forward. Immediately, without
a word, the man backed before him into the
wood, and the dog dived behind some bushes.

Confound these tramps ! ' muttered Dennis.
Why does not Squire Gaverock, who is a
justice of peace, clear the neighbourhood of
them. Hah ! the fellow was not as successful
as I thought.'

He saw a pale rose lying on the path in his
way, a rose that must have fallen from the
pedlar's basket. He stooped to pick it up, but
as he stood his shadow was cast over it and
the piece of road on which it lay. He groped
with his fingers on the ground, but picked up
nothing save bits of earth and dust. Then he
stood on one side to allow the crescent moon to

illumine the path again. The rose was no
longer there !

He went in at his garden gate, unlocked his
door, and fastened it from the inside. On the
hall table was laid his supper. He lit a candle
and took his place, but he had no appetite, and
he thrust his plate away.

He was by himself in the house. Little
Euth, after having laid supper for him, was
wont to go away with the woman who came
there to char for him. She slept at her cottage
and returned early in the morning. She carried
away the back-door key with her, and let
herself in with it next day. He sat up late,
doing nothing with his hands, but with his head
busy. Of Lovedayay he thought little. He was
not much concerned about her. He had made
up his mind that she was with her cousin ; she
had discovered her somehow in Exeter, or discovered
her address when there, and had gone
to her, and was now at Goodriuoton. The
journey to Exeter and the stay there had put
him to some expense, and his absence had
interfered with his duties at home. As is usual,
he had been more wanted when away than
when at Nantsillan. Several sick people had

sent for him, and, finding he was absent, had
transferred themselves to the old tippling doctor
at Padstow.

Dennis considered how different his prospects
would have been had Eose been his wife.
Comfortably off, unoppressed with the daily
pinch of poverty, with her presence as sunlight
in his home, all the darkness and burden of his
life would have rolled away. Then from out
of his burning, dry heart there welled up a
fiery spring of hate against Gerans. He, and
he only, was it who had spoiled his life, stolen
from him the woman he loved, deprived him of
the money which would have made him easy
in his circumstances. He had nothing to live
for now — nothing — nothing — and that was
Gerans's doing ! He would have liked to have
his enemy there, in the dark room with him,
and to have fought him. His nerves quivered
with pleasure at the thought of striking Gerans,
of beating him down, of hearing the thud of his
head on the slate floor. He stood up, with feet
apart, and imagined himself standing above
Gerans, with the life of his enemy in his power.
Would he spare him ? Dennis laughed aloud.
When he laughed, then a dog outside barked, a

strange bark like a lau£fli, or the echo of a
laiigli. Dennis went to the window and looked
out. He could see no dog. He saw the moon
twinkling among the swaying boughs and leaves
of the oak wood, and the flickering lights on
the ground like white dancing roses. Then he
went upstairs to bed. But though he lay in bed
he could not sleep. He had retired at midnight.
The crescent moon was gone, or no longer
shone in at the window. The wind sighed outside
amono- the trees.

All at once, he started and raised his head.
Against the whitewashed wall at the foot of his
bed he thought he saw something move. The
moon had not set ; it had not shone into his room
because of a dense mass of ivy-hung elm and
a holly that had obscured it. Now it passed
from behind these bushes and flared between
some boughs, making a grotesque figure on his
wall that waved and moved as the branches
and leaves waved and moved. The freakish
light drew on his wall a figure like a white dog
sitting up on its haunches, with its paws before
it, begging, and the head bobbing and turning,
the paws now thrust forward, then drawn in
as though trying to reach some object, and

failing. Moreover, the white dog was covered
with moving liver spots. The head was atone
moment very distinct, with a brilliant
eye, then it was blurred and shapeless, then it
was turned aside and clear again. The beast
seemed to put up its paws and wash its face
as a cat or a rabbit, and the ears flapped as
it turned its head. All the while the liver
spots ran over the body, melting into each
other, dividing, disappearing, then manifesting
themselves again.

Suddenly the fantastic figure was gone, the
wind rushed past the window, and whilst the
wind rushed there was no white dog on the
wall, but a whirl of white roses flying up and
down fast, faster, up and down and in and out,
some falling on the floor, some sprinkling their
petals over the bed, but all gathering themselves
up again, the petals rejoining the blossoms
that shed them, and dancing like a spin
of snowflakes.

Dennis threw himself back on his pillow.
Isis mind was overwrought, his nerves unstrung
; he was becoming a prey to fancies.

The gust of wind was gone ; there were
flickers of light and moving spots of shadow

on the wall still, but no shape. He watched
them till they went out, one after another.
Now, certainly, the moon had passed beyond
the house, or behind so dense a mass of foliage
as not to cast shadows and lights in his room.
So he thought, but was presently undeceived
by seeing one gleaming spot, one that seemed
to shine and twinkle like the Cornish crystal in
the pedlar's hair. This spot appeared on the
wall and travelled along it slowly. Dennis
followed it with his eyes. It was formed,
doubtless, like the rest of the fantastic figures,
by the moon among the branches and leaves ;
but it was certainly strange that on this occasion
there was but a single light. It crept
along the whitewashed wall very stealthily. It
seemed to travel like a snail, and at a snail's
pace. All at once it flashed with double
brilliancy. It had touched and was gleaming
on the little double-barrelled pistol Eose had
given to Dennis on the night of the Goose Fair !

CHAPTER LV.

AWAY !

Next morning, early, Squire Gaverock departed
on his cob, along the Padstow road.
He did not say whither he was going, or what
business took him from home ; he was out of
humour with both his sons, would speak to
neither, and merely told Eose curtly that he
would not be home to early dinner, unless he
got through what he had to do much quicker
than he expected. Gerans also went out, in
the direction of Nantsillan, after informing
Eose that he intended seeing Dennis — for what
purpose he did not say.

Thus Constantine was left alone with Eose
in the study.

Gone down to Nantsillan, is he ? ' said the
former. He was sitting half on the table, but
his foot was on the ground — the right foot ;

the toe of the left rested on the top leather of
the right boot. He wore a pair of Gerans's
hunting-boots, with red leather tops. He had
on his back a blue coat with brass buttons, his
brother's best coat. Geraus had told him to
make free with his wardrobe, and he had taken
him at his word. He had on, as well, a white
nankeen waistcoat, and a fine shirt with a frill
all of the best that he could rummage out of
the drawers and cupboard of Gerans. He had
a stick in his hand, and with the ferrule he
played with the toe of his — that is, his brother's
boot. Only Gerans's best boots fitted him ;
those at all worn would not accommodate
themselves to his feet.

Gone down to Nantsillan, is he ? ' asked
Constantine. ' I am not surprised. Gone to
have it out with Dennis, I presume.'

Have what out ? ' asked Eose. ' It is vague,
and refers to anything without life.'

Plenty of life in this matter — a little exuberance
mayhap.'

I do not pretend to understand you,' said
Eose, tossing her head and curling her hp,

Probably you pretend not to understand
me.'

You take liberties to be impolite, trusting
to your kinship, and to my husband's placidity
of temper.'

Oh ! that placidity is ruffled, and may toss
and foam. You are indebted to me that I did
not work him into breakers this morning, by
telling him that your gallant was hanging about
the house last night under the windows, waiting
for you to come out; but the naughty
Gerans was within, and would not let you
escape.'

'You are a bad, insolent man,' exclaimed
Eose, in shame and disgust.

The meeting in the garden was not enough
by day ; you must meet again by the garden
wall at nicrht.'

He laughed, but his laugh was silenced by
the flaming indignation in her eyes. She was
swinging herself out of the room, when he
caught her by the wrist, and said :

I have not told Gerans, but I will, unless
you pay me to be silent.'

Eose did not understand him, though he
pointed with his stick to the drawer where his
father had locked up the money.

Say what you like,' she answered, disengaging

herself from him. ' Speak the truth
I am not ashamed of that — but hint nothing
from your evil heart.'

Then she left the study and ran to her bedroom,
where she locked herself in to weep her
heart out. Her feelings were in tumult, swaying
her from side to side. Everything rocked
about her, and the ground rocked under her
feet. She saw now how foolish, how inconsiderate
she had been, to put her character in
the hands of one so unscrupulous as Constantine.
She had trifled with the thoughts of Dennis's
love for no other reason than that his devotion
flattered her vanity.

When she was gone, Constantine took the
handle of the drawer and drew at it. The
drawer was locked and resisted his efforts.
There were five hundred pounds in there.
Gerans offered to get a thousand for him, but
Gerans had shown his powerlessness the evening
before. Should he wait another day, and
allow Gerans to plead for him again ? He was
by no means sure that his brother was in
earnest. No man who was not a fool would
burden his estate with a thousand pounds if he
could help it. Of course Gerans affected to

desire it, as a decent show of fraternal love is
expected by the world ; but there was no
reality in his effort, no sincerity in his protestations.
No man, said Constantine, can fatten
on promises. A sprat in the net is worth more
than a whale in the sea.

He threw himself into his father's chair, and
stretched out both his legs before him, and
tapped the toes of his boots alternately with
the ferrule of the cane, whilst his eyes rested
<m these same toes. His brows were knit, and
his forehead full of creases. He thrust out
his lips, ' For good or ill,' he said, ' I wish I
were in my brother's boots — metaphorically as
well as really.' Constantine's character had
deteriorated rapidly of late. Three years ago
lie had been a pleasure-loving, careless, good-natured
young fellow — selfish, disliking the
drudgery of work, but without harm in him.
Then came the initial wrong done in marrying
Lovedayay clandestinely. From that moment he
had taken a downward turn, and his path had
become precipitous of late. He had allowed
himself to drift into moral ruin ; he had not
run into it wilfully. He had never harboured
bad intentions, had always desired to do what

VOL. III. O

was right, but had lacked the energy to act on
what he knew was right, till the perceptive
moral faculty was dead within him. He was now
incapable of seeing what a base and despicable
ruffian he had become. The old father was
not free from guilt in this disintegration of his
son's character. His despotism exercised over
the lads whilst their characters were forming
had injured both, had deprived both of self-reliance
and spontaneity.

Constantine had in his pocket the crooked
nail he had picked up on the road, when walk-ins
outside the house with Gerans. Now he
found a use for it. He put the nail to the
drawer lock, and in another moment the money
that had been left by his mother to Lovedayay
was before him — that and the hundred pounds
his father had undertaken to give him — five
hundred pounds in all. His hand trembled
as he turned over the bank-notes, his face was
white as chalk, and cold drops beaded his brow
and upper lip. But he was able to pacify his
conscience. He was taking what was his own.
His mother had intended him to have it. She
had left it to Lovedayay under an erroneous
belief in his death. Besides, it was his anyhow,

for Lovedayay was his wife, and between husband
and wife there is no mine and thine, or rather,
on the side of the husband, ' thine is mine, and
mine is mine ' — all take and no give. He put
the purse with the gold and the two pocketbooks
away in his breast, shut the drawer, and
stalked out of the room, whistling. He looked
round in the hall for Eose. If she had been
there he would have told her some lie to excuse
his absence from dinner. His father would
not be home till the afternoon. Gerans was
away. Gerans would not think of examining
the drawer. Eose would be too busy about
household matters. He had several hours
during which he could escape ; but, he thought,
it would not do to depart in the boat in Gerans's
best blue coat. He would, indeed, take that
with him ; but for the rough work of rowing
he would wear something less fine. So he
went upstairs, took off the coat and waistcoat,
and put on a common every-day suit that also
belonged to Gerans, rolled up the blue coat
and nankeen waistcoat in a bundle, and went
off over the downs towards the cliffs, with his
bundle in hand. The boat in which he had come
from Stanbury — Paul Featherstone's boat —



was uot in the boathouse at Saudymouth ; he
had come into Nantsillan Cove, and had run
his Httle craft into the Iron Gate, and drawn
it up on some sands there, which were not submerged
except in a storm. When he had gone
a little way along the down, as if on his way
to Sandymouth, he struck a different course
and came round towards the steep goat-path
that led down the face of the crags to the bay
into which the Nantsillan brook discharged
itself in a pretty fall. He had quite made up
his mind what to do. He would row to New
Quay, and leave the boat there. Thence he
would strike inland by Truro, and cross the
isthmus to Falmouth, whence he could easily
and quickly get out of the country. Whether
there were packets or sailing vessels bound for
the West Indies from Falmouth, or that put
in at Falmouth, he did not know. That he
could ascertain when he got there. More probably
they ran from Bristol. But that was a
matter of minor consideration ; his great desire
now was to leave the kingdom as expeditiously
as possible. Whither he went concerned him
less ; with five hundred pounds in his pocket
the world was open to him.

There is Canada,' said he to himself, ' but
I don't fancy it. The winters there are very
cold, and I dislike cold. There are the States
but I should have to work hard there, and
I am not partial to work. Then, turning in
another direction, there is New South Wales,
but I do not fancy the society there — a bad
type of men, the scum of England, convicts,
rao tai; — not the sort I could associate with.
No, first thoughts are best thoughts, and the
cream comes to the top when the milk is sweet.
I'll go to the West Indies — perhaps Jamaica,
perhaps Saint Domingo, perhaps South Carolina
anywhere where there is negro labour, and
there are sugar-canes. I always had a sweet
tooth ; I had rather grow sugar than anything
else. How Gerans and I loved treacle-pudding as
boys ! By George ! I'll go to the West Indies,
I Avill ! ' After a while he began to consider
about Lovedayay. ' She is too finical in her
ideas. I am very fond of her, and she will
have two thousand six hundred in the Funds.
There is this disadvantage, that she knows my
unfortunate story, and might throw it in my
face at any time. Perhaps it would be advisable
to begin the new sum with a fresh slate ;

on an old odc, liovrever rubbed, the figures
come throu2jli and confuse the reckoning;. I
am very deeply attached to Lovedayay, and she
is my wife. If I am an exile, it will be a
pleasure to have some one to speak with who
knows about the old place, and with whom one
can talk of former times — pleasant times before
this wretched muddle came about. Besides,
I must have some one to cook and stitch, and
knit my stockings. I think I will send for
Lovedayay. Yet, perhaps it will be wisest for me
to see how I can get on without her first. If
I want her two thousand six hundred I can
always fetch her over. If I find I can do without,
well, I shall be unencumbered. This is
settled ; Lovedayay waits on my convenience.
The woman was made for man, and not man
for the woman. She has caused me annoyance
and heartache and mental worry enough at
Stanbury and Maryland. It is well that she
should suffer a bit for it, and learn by punishment
not to bo self-seeking.' lie strode on a
little further, and his thoughts took another
direction. He laughed. 'Curse it,' said he, 'I
am sorry to go without enlightening Gerans's
mind about that little pretty coquette, Eose.

He is without a suspicion. I wish I had told
him that I found the doctor lingering under
the garden wall last night. I owe Gerans a
kindness. I will write to him when I reach
Falmouth, and post my letter just before I step
aboard. I will tell him all I have seen, and
what I suspect. Then there will be a storm in
Towan. I should like to be there to witness it.
However, one cannot fire a gun and stand by
the target and see the shot strike.' He was now
very near the head of the path where it descended
the precipice. ' I wonder,' he said to
himself, ' I wonder what Gerans had to say to
Penhalligan this morning. He looked grave
when he went off, and intended something more
than to invite him to (j,o out fishing or row after
seals. If he was going to call him to order for
casting sleeps-eyes at Eose, there will be an
ugly end to the meeting, for Dennis is violent
when his blood is up, and Gerans, for all his
quietness, is deuced determined when his honour
is touched. I would give a crown to be
present at that interview ; but we cannot have
all our wishes gratified, and I have got five
hundred pounds in my pocket, and the sea is
before me.'

Constantine descended the path in the face
of the rock very warily. He was accustomed
to cliffs ; he could look down without losing his
head. Some people can climb up more easily
than descend ; it was not so with Constantine
in more ways that one.

'I think,' said Constantine, as he crept
down, holding by one hand to every projection
of rock available, and trying the path before
him with his foot before he rested any weight
on it, ' I think it both a queer and an unfair thing
that Gerans and I should be as like as two
acorns growing on one stalk, and yet that he
should have the sunshine and I the shadow, he
the luck and I the loss.'

He reached the shore in safety. ' Ah ! ' he
growled, ' the tide does not quite suit. There
is a fatality against me. I cannot get the boat
out for another hour — perhaps more. I must
go into Porth-Ierne, and lie hid there, and be
ready to float the boat as soon as the water
rises. No one will dream of looking for me
there ; besides, the money will not be missed
till father returns, and that will not be till
afternoon.'

He jumped upon the ledge of slate rock
that ran into the tunnel scooped by the waves
through the promontory of Cardue, and disappeared
within the vault.

CHAPTER LVL

A SHOT.

Gerans Gaverock walked to Nantsillan. The
morning was bright, and every bush in the
glen was hung with dewdrops, that twinkled
prismatically in the early sun. Near the sea
the dew foils of a clear night heavily, and
beads the twigs and grass with drops as rain.

Gerans's face, as Constantine had remarked,
was serious. He was not G;oino; to tell 
that Constantine was there, because
his brother did not wish it, but he was determined
to let him know that Lovedayay was nota
widow, as he and she supposed.

Where is your master ? ' asked Gerans at
the door, of little Ruth, who answered the
knock.

'Master lev a-gone out and about wi' a
pistol,' answered the girl, ' There lev been a
queer white spotted dog about the place yesterday

aud all night and this morning, sure
enoii2;h, a-worritinoj of master. He lie a-took
on terrible, and heave gone out to shoot 'n.
Nobody seems to know nothing about the dog ;
her don't belong to nobody, seeming.'

Which way has Mr. Penhalligan gone ? '

Down the combe, your honour. But, sir,
don't you go for to run in the way when he's
a-firing. It be the spotted dog he's going to
kill, and master 'd be terrible put out if he
shot you instead o' the dog.'

Gerans looked at the little garden before
the cottage as he went through it. The absence
of Lovedayay's hand was perceptible. The white
jasmine had broken away from its ties against
the wall, and was fallen over on a flower-bed ;
the Canterbury bells had been beaten by w'md
and rain, and needed binding to a stick. Weeds
had sprung up among the garden flowers, and
daisy-leaves appeared with grass in the paths.
Even the gate, and the doorstep, looked uncared
for, and the window-glass was not clean
in a climate where encrusting salt from the sea-air
has to be incessantly rubbed away.

Gerans walked slowly down the glen towards
the cove, looking on all sides for Pen-gallican.

The little stream, running among
ferns and under trees, emerged from shadow,
and danced sparkling over stones, where the
grove abruptly stopped at a turn of the valley
and gave place to short turf and furze. The
point where exposure to the prevalent northwest
wind began was marked as sharply as
wiili a knife. The trees were arrested, and
the sea-grass and thrift becfan. The air was
light, the sea blue, and the hills primrose in
the soft sunlight, with here and there a cobalt
shadow cast by a white cloud on the down
sides, indigo when on the sea. Gerans now
saw Penhalligan before him, and he called.
Dennis turned. He had the pistol in his hand.
He saw that Gerans's eye was on it, and he
explained the reason of his carrying it.

Do you remember that pedlar at the Goose
Fair ? He had a white spotted dog. Well,
that dog has haunted me of late. I see it
everywhere. It runs round me when I walk.
I hear it outside my house. I dream of it in
my bed. It stood this morning on my doorstep
looking in on me, then it scampered off.
I will make an end of the brute. I will be
pestered with it no more. It has gone this

way, I believe, but I do not see it at the
moment.'

The pistol is loaded ? '

Oh yes, both barrels ; if one fails the other
shall not'

Never mind the dog. Come on with me,
Dennis, down into the cove, or to that rock by
the fall, where we can sit in the sun together,
and talk. I have something I want to says to
you very particularly.'

I am at your service. My time is not in
such requisition that I cannot spare an hour.
Besides, Euth knows where I am should any one
come to the surgery for me.'

I have not had an opportunity of speaking
alone to you since Lovedayay left,' said Gerans.
'jSFo news of her, Eose tells me.'

None.'

Are you going to seek her again ? '

Yes ; tomorrow. T think she is near
Panton with her cousin.'

You think ; you are not sure ? '

I am not sure ; I suspect.'

I shall sit here,' said Gerans, letting himself
down on a stone. ' I like to hear the
plash of the water. Sit down also, Dennis.'

Thank you. I prefer to stand.'

Gerans sat musing in the sun ; his pleasant,
good-natured face was troubled now ; he
wanted to tell Dennis that Constantine was
alive without allowing him to suspect that he
was then at Towan. He was so open in character
and frank of speech that he had great
difficulty in keeping anything concealed. He
was now considering how he was to tell half
the truth.

You think you will see Lovedayay shortly ? '
he asked.

I consider it probable.'

Give my love to her. I always have had
the greatest regard for Lovedayay. She is so
noble, so good, so true.'

Dennis said nothing in reply.

Tell her that I hope by the time she
returns, or, if she does not return, by the time
wee know she is settled somewhere, I may be
able to give her an agreeable surprise. Probably
the very pleasantness surprise that could
be given her. Can you guess, Dennis ? '

Not at all.'

Well, only tell her that, no more. It will
set her mind working, and her loving heart

fluttering.' He looked up. ' Dennis, turn the
mouth of the pistol another way, will you ?
It is aimed now right at my heart. You are a
nervous being, and your finger might twitch
the trigger involuntarily if I said something to
surprise you very much, and — that would be
bad for both of us.'

Penhalligan averted the barrel, and muttered
something which Gerans did not catch.
But Gerans looked attentively at his face, and
said, ' Dennis, old fellow, you are out of
humour with me. You have been so for sometime
; you have avoided me, and have answered
me shortly. By the Lord ! if we are not
friends it is a pity — close neighbours, and meeting
each other daily ; not so only, but brothers-in-law.
Come, Dennis, sit down on that stone,
and tell rae how I have offended you.'

Penhalligan's face darkened. His brows
drew together. Instead of complying with the
request of Gerans he planted himself more
hrmly where he stood, with one foot on the
path, the other on a stone, and folded his arms,
the pistol thrust forth out of his right, pointing
behind him towards the crags of Cardue. He
made no other answer to Gerans.

Well ! ' said the latter, ' this is not the
best of fellowship. However,' he sighed, 'I
have no complaint to make against you ; it is
you who have occasion against us. That is
why I am here now, Dennis. That is what I
want to speak about. I have been thinking a
great deal of late about your sister, and I see
that she has been ungenerously, even cruelly,
treated by us. I ought to have seen this before.
I did see it in a vaporous manner, but now I
see it all sharp and clear before me. I have
leaned too much hitherto on my father's judgment,
and taken his opinion as infallible. I
acknowledge my mistake. A man must think
for himself, and do what is right according to
his own conscience, not according to what
another thinks is right. That has been my
weakness, but I see it now, and will fight
against it. I do not like to resist my father ;
I do not like to suppose he can be wrong ; but
still — it is inevitable that we should not see
duties aUke.'

To what does this preface lead ? '
To this, Dennis. I have resolved to let
all the world know the relationship in which
Lovedayay stands to us. It is all very well for

my fatlicr to banish her for a, twelvemonth,
and say that he will take a year to decide
whether he will acknowledge her or not. I
acknowledge her as my sister. I have a voice
in the matter as well as he. I have a conscience
which tells me it is a shame and a sin to
conceal this any longer, and to impose hardships
on poor Lovedayay. My God! it is an
honour to us to have her for our relative. If I
have occasion to be proud of anything, it is of
that. She is a noble girl, and I will hold up
my head at the thought that she is my sister.
I think I esteem her even more highly than do
you.'

Dennis shrugged his shoulders, and said
nothing.

I have had a passage of arms with my
father,' continued Gerans, ' about another matter,
in which he was in the wrong and I in the
right, and to my astonishment I have carried
my point. We differed about the raising of a
thousand pounds on the property, and — will
you believe it? — after a hard fight he gave
way, gave way all at once, and has gone over
to-day to Padstow about the money. Now,
I am well satisfied that Lovedayay has been

VOL It. p

unfairly dealt with by its Gaverocks. It all
began with Constantine. I did not like to
speak against him when I thought him dead —
that is, not at first, but I felt that he had acted
very wrongfully by her. Now I do not mind
saying this plainly. It is from us that expiation
should come. We have injured Lovedayay,
not Lovedayay us. Constantino trapped her into
a clandestine marriage, and held her by a
promise of silence under false assurances ; he
assured her that he would tell his father about
their union, and he failed to do so. Lovedayay
fulfilled her part honourably ; Constantine betrayed
the trust she had placed in him. This
is clear to me now as Cardue Point, and it is a
truth not tunnelled through and liable to be
broken down like Cardue Point.'

Gerans paused, and looked up at Pen-gallican.
The same gloomy frown was on his
face ; his arms were folded tight, his hands
clenched, his lips were drawn over his teeth,
and were white.

I dare say you have felt that we have
used you badly,' pursued Gerans. 'I consented
to hold my tongue because Lovedayay
urc^ed it. But I ouojht not to have Hastened

to lier. It was weak in me to give way.
Tliat you have resented our behaviour I am
well aware. I have seen how you have drawn
away from me and have declined my friendship.
That has gone to my heart, and I have felt
it the more because I knew it was deserved.
Now, Dennis, I ask your pardon. I will keep
silence no longer. This very evening I will
have the matter out with my father, and Love-day
shall have right done her, full and immediate.
I go over tomorrow to Madam
Loveys to tell her everything, and through
her I trumpet the truth to the entire neighbourhood.
It will be in vain for my father
to oppose me; I will carry through what I
now know to be right. But that is not all ;
there is more to be told, only not yet. You
must have patience, Dennis, and in a week at
furthest you shall hear additional news which
will surprise and please you. Have you been
told that my mother has left all she had to
Lovedayay ? '

No. I was away when your mother was
buried.'

She has left her foi: hundred pounds in

r 2

cash, and two thousand six hundred in the
Stocks.'

Dennis turned and looked at Gerans with
surprise.

It is true,' said Gerans ; ' my father is
executor, and has the money ready for Love-day
directly she is found. I am delighted at
this, and it will help to reconcile my father to
the view I take.'

He waited, expecting Penhalhgan to say
something ; as he did not, Gerans went on,
with increasing eagerness and some emotion :
There, Dennis ! You know now that I will
do all that is honourable and j last towards your
sister. It has not been done before this because
I have been — yes, I will confess it — a coward.
I gave way to my father in everything, without
weighing my own responsibility. You may
believe me, Dennis, when I assure you that I
have been brought to see my weakness, and
to make this confession, by having suffered
in a way you do not know, but which has
been very cutting to me. I have had to
undergo punishment, and my sentence is not
yet worked out ; however, I will bear it,
and do better. Now give me your hand

Dennis, old fellow, and let us be best friends
again.'

He stood up from the rock on which he
had been sitting and held out his hand towards
the surgeon.

Take it away,' said Dennis, hoarsely, ' I
am not a hypocrite. I will not promise what
I cannot give.' He quivered with emotion.
He saw that by striking Gerans in the chest
he could upset him over the edge of the rock,
and that then Gerans would fall down the steep
cliff and be broken in every bone.

Gerans looked at him with surprise.
Dennis,' he said, gravely, ' no one, not even
my deadliest enemy, would have offered me his
hand and asked pardon, and been refused.'

How do you know that I am not your
deadliest enemy ? ' cried Dennis, in a sudden
outburst of hate and rage,

My enemy ! — and yet you saved my life ? '
said Gerans, shaking his head.

Cursed, cursed to all eternity be the moment
in which I did that ! ' exclaimed Dennis,
in a paroxysm of jealousy and fury. ' I hate
myself for having done it. Go along with
you, I tell you, go whilst you may. Beware

of me ! I am dangerous ! There is no more
room on earth for you and me.'

His words, his face, the twitching of his
hands, one of which held the deadly weapon,
showed a conflict of dread and desperation in
his heart.

Gerans looked him fnmly, questioning,
in the eyes. Dennis turned his face away. He
could not meet his look. Then Gerans reseated
himself on the stone, and hid his face in his
hands.

After a few minutes of mutual silence,
Gerans said, in a voice that shook, ' Dennis,
you do not bear me this hatred on account of
your sister ? '

The answer of Penhalligan was a groan.

What was there in the tone of this utterance
that made Gerans look at his companion
with a face that grew cold and livid with
horror? The secret of Dennis's soul was revealed
by that moan. The truth, to which he
had been so long and so unaccountably blind,
was disclosed by it to Gerans. If Dennis loved
Eose, then, indeed, all hope of reconciliation
was over.

He stood slowly up, and without a word

went up the path towards the combe. He
must be alone with the anguish and terror that
tossed and tore in his heart.

His silence and his departure showed Dennis
that his love had been discovered. The die
was cast. Never aQ-ain could he and Geraus
meet. He could no more go up to Towan and
see Eose. If he had thrust Gerans over the
precipice, even then, when the truth burst on
him, and he was stunned with the discovery,
the riddle would have been solved, Eose have
been free, and himself on the way to happiness
; but when, for the second time, the life
of his rival had been in his power, he had not
seized the opportunity. ' Woe be to him if he
gives me a third chance ! ' exclaimed Dennis.

Then he descended the steep path to the
bay. He would pace the sand, and consider
his course. The image of Eose stood before
him, in her pretty white dress with a blue sash,
her golden hair, her forget-me-not blue eyes
full of sparkle, as she stood before him in the
glade carpeted with dead leaves, holding the
four-leafed shamrock, and bidding him not
despair. He flamed at the vision. His blood
went in scalding waves through his arteries.

She was not happy ; she could not be happy
with Geraus, because she loved him, Dennis.
He fancied he heard her voice above the swash
of the rising tide, that lapped the sand, and
stroked it, and withdrew, to lap again, 'Save
me ! release me ! Dennis ! ' He fancied her
extending her delicate arms towards him, love
and longing on her red lips, in her gleaming
eyes.

What salvation was possible for Eose ?
None, save through the death of Geraus, and
twice had he put from him the chance of fjce-
hug her without grasping it.

The sun was hot ; fevered with his thoughts,
teased with the roughness of the beach, that
was cut through with vertical reefs of slate, he
looked for shade, where he could rest and be
cool. He stood by the projecting portion of
the slate ledge that ran some way into the
Porth-Ierne tunnel. He mounted the ledge. In
the gloom and chill of the Iron Gate he would
sit and think what was to be done. He crept
along the shelf, and suddenly — confronted the
man he hated.

Time gulls in Nantsillan Cove were startled
by a report — it sounded like that of a gun —

from the depths of Porth-Ierne, and the echo was
caught and beaten back by the cliff opposite.
Then Cardue took the echo, and flung it back
at Sillan Head. And so the opposite crags
played ball with the report, till it grew so faint
and small that they threw it away.

The reverberations were not done when a
man. rushed out of the cave, leaped from the
shelf, and crossed the sands hastily towards the
path that led to Nantsillan.

CHAPTER Liii.

AXOTIIER SHOT.

Here I am,' said old Gaverock, bustling into
the hall, with this coat tails pinned forward, his
riding-whip in hand, this top-boots on his feet.
Back for dinner after all. I rode right on end
into Padstow, went into the bank, settled my
business, and here I am again. Eose, all is
settled famously. Con shall have a hundred
pounds to start with, and as soon as he gets to
Barbadoes, or Jericho, or Botany Bay — wherever
it is that he intends to set up — then he
shall have nine hundred. I've not a word to
say against Gerans for sticking up to me as he
did last night. If a man has an opinion, let
him flourish it, and not throw it away. I respect
him for it, Gerans will be a man yet.
Where is he, Eose? The bell has rung. I
heard it as I came along the down. Heigh !
some one, ring the house-bell again. The boys

are out in the stable-yard may be, and so engrossed
in the horses that they cannot hear.
In my time I was always hearty for my dinner,
never missed a meal, and was first in my place
at table. Being the bell ! But, Eose, we will
begin. I wait for no man. What is it ? East
mutton ? '

The Squire was in good spirits ; he talked
incessantly during dinner, interrupting his conversation
at intervals to inquire after Gerans
and Constantine. It appeared to Eose that he
had come round to the opinion of his eldest
son about giving Constantine the large sum
asked for him, but he did not like to admit it ;
he pretended that he yielded because the real
person to be pinched would be Gerans, not
himself, and that he could not stand in the way
of a man nipping his finger in a door, if he
chose wilfully to nip it.

Eose did not share the old man's spirits ;
she had been so much disturbed by Constantine's
insolence in the morning, and by the rude
awakening of her conscience that had resulted
from it, that she was depressed, and, although
she would not admit it to herself, uneasy at the
absence of her husband. Gerans had gone to

speak in private about some serious matter to
Dennis. Was she the subject of their talk?
"Would she be the occasion of a quarrel ? Had
she by her folly nourished the hopeless passion
of Dennis, and alienated from her the heart of
Gorans? Her eyes were red with tears, but
the Squire did not observe this.

Eun,' said she to one of the servants, ' run
to Nantsillan, and inquire if Mr. Gerans has
been there.'

The messenger returned to say that Mr.
Gerans had been there in the morning, and had
gone after Mr. Penhalligan, and that neither
had returned.

After dinner the old man went out to inspect
some buildings that were being repaired
at the back, and to see that his cob had eaten
her oats and was properly groomed.

Eose went to her room. She was restless.
She looked at her face in the glass, and was
shocked to see how pale she was and how red
about the eyes. She soused her face well with
fresh water, and, to distract her attention from
her self-reproaches, changed her gown.

The room was hot, and she could not
breathe. She put on her hat and went out to

walk on the down, and fill her lungs with sea-air
— and to look for Gerans.

Where are you going ? ' shouted the Squire.
He was outside the calves' house, ordering a
portion of the wall to be rebuilt. ' Going to
hunt after your husband ? Don't you have any
fears about him ; he and Con have probably
gone fishing.'

She went on, m the direction of Nantsillan
Cove, over the track taken by Constantino that
morning. She had no intention of descending
the dangerous path. She purposed looking out
seaward, on the chance of getting a sight of
Gerans and Constantino in a boat.

Suddenly, Dennis Peuhalligan stood before
her. He came abruptly on her from the steep
ascent. Eose's heart leaped and stood still
when she saw that he was alone. He did not
seem to observe her at first. His hat was
drawn over his eyes and his step was uncertain.
When he heard her call his name he looked at
her with eyes the expression of which frightened
lier.

Mr. Peuhalligan ! ' she cried, ' for pity's
sake tell me, where is my husband ? '

His eyes flashed, then faded. He seemed

like a man who was recovering from a swoon,
who did not know where he was and who was
addressing him. He opened his mouth to speak,
but only an unintelligible murmur issued from
it. Eose was seriously alarmed. His manner
was enough to startle her, her conscience sufficiently
aroused to warn her of danger. In her
fear she grasped his wrist, she shook him, and
said:

Tell me, tell me, where is Gerans ? '
Then he seemed to recover himself. His
eyebrows drew together, and his eyes kindled.
He looked at her with a searching glance, and
asked in a low tone, ' Am I his keeper ? What
do I care for him ? '

Eose let go her hold. She turned deadly
pale and trembled. Her heart stood still. She
looked at him with terror, afraid to ask more.
His eyes fell. He remained before her with
his head sunk, and his nervous hand clutching
at something in his breast pocket.

Dennis,' said Eose, ' where is he ? '
You do not love him, why then do you
ask? ' he said, in a hoarse whisper.

Then she laid hold of him, fiercely, frantically,
with a hand on each shoulder. ' Dennis !

tell me ! Have you seen him ? What has
happened ? Where is he ? '

Let me go,' answered he, sullenly. ' Gerans
will trouble you no more. He has fallen —
down the rocks — into the sea — is dead ! '

Then Eose uttered a scream, shriller than
the cry of the sea-gulls. ' You have killed
him — murderer ! '

She was staggering forward to the cliff
edge, unconscious whither lie went, when he
caught her, and said in a deep, hoarse, vibrating
tone :

Why do you cry? You did not love him.'

I — I not love him ! ' She wrung her hands
over lier head in the air. ' Gerans ! dear
husband ! my dearest love ! my only love ! It
is not true ; you are not dead ! '

Eose ! — you love me.'

She thrust him away with a cry of horror,
and, turning, ran home, threw herself before
her father-inlaw on her knees, and cried : ' He
is dead ! He is dead ! He has been murdered !
my God, have mercy on me ! my God,
forgive me ! '

But when she had turned from Penhalligan,
with a look and cry of loathing, she heard n

lanofh behind her, a lavish the like of which
she never lead heard before, the sound of which
in all her after-life she never forgot. The laugh
proceeded from Dennis. He had committed
murder, and Eose loved the murdered man.
His ill fate pursued him to the last. Fate
played a hideous game with him, and mocked
him to the end. Eose loved Gerans, had loved
him all along, and had not cared for him —
Dennis. She had coquetted with him, but had
reserved for him no place in her heart. With
this torturing thought gnawing at his brain he
reached his cottage.

Please, sir,' said little Euth, ' will you have
some dinner? There be cold roast beef and
pickled cauliflower.'

He started, and left the house again. He
must be alone now. He staggered up the
combe till he came to the spot where the floor
of dead leaves lay, now as of old — the place
where Eose had bidden him not despair. He
moved like a piece of clockwork. From the
moment that he saw the white face of Gerans
before him in the Iron Gate, and fired at him,
to the moment that he met Eose on the cliffs,
he remembered nothing. He had seen Gerans,

struck by his ball, totter back, and fall from
the ledge of rock into the water below, a dark
pool left by the ebbed tide, which the rising
tide was replenishing.

Murderer! That word uttered by Eose
hammered in his ear, and would not cease.
He had committed a murder. For what end ?
To break the heart of Eose, and to cover his
soul with an indelible stain. Whether brought
to justice or not mattered nothing — the self-reproach,
the consciousness of guilt would never
leave him, night or day.

Dead ! Gerans dead ! In the stupefaction
that followed the first outbreak of horror, this
was all that Eose could repeat. She felt everything
spin about her. She ran into the hall,
without purpose, without knowing whither she
went, and fell on her knees, with her hands
pressed to her brow, rocking herself in a
stunned state, in which she could think of
nothing. She moaned, and the tears ran over
her cheeks, her brain was bursting, her heart
was contracted with a spasm of pain. So old
Gaverock found her. What was the meaning
of her alarm ? What occasion had she for her
fear ? Why did she frighten him without cause ?

VOL. III. Q

As he spoke he seemed to be turning about
the piercing sword that had penetrated to lier
heart, and with every turn a fresh gash was
made. She screamed with pain.

Eose, be rational,' said the Squire. ' Dead !
Murdered ! How dead ? By whom murdered ? '

He is dead ; I know it,' cried Rose. ' Murdered
by Dennis Penhalhgan.'

This is nonsense,' said the old man.
Woman's exaggeration and irrational jumping
to conclusions. Why do you say this? Give
me a reason. Have you seen Gerans? How
do you know he is dead ? What grounds have
you for your charge? Because he did not
return to dinner you have worked yourself into
hysterics. That is it. I know women.'

Eose somewhat recovered her senses when
thus catechised. What would she not have
given now to be able to say that she had no
grounds for believing that Dennis had killed
her husband, no grounds for supposing that he
bore him enmity ! She, she herself was the
cause of the crime ; her vanity, which craved
for flattery, and which was pleased with alluring
to her such a man as Dennis. She, she
herself had murdered Gerans. She had inflamed

the heart of Penhalligaii against him.
She was as guilty of his death as if she had
murdered him with her own hand. Then there
singed up in her memory the recollection of
her unkindness to Gerans, the coldness with
which she had met his overtures, the bitterness
with which she had reproached him. ' I know
he is dead. Dennis Penhalligan told me so
was all she could say to her father-in-law.
Old Gaverock was angry with her tears, impatient
with the difficulty of getting a statement
out of her mouth.

I don't believe a word of it,' he said.
Women like to imagine disasters, and enjoy
a squeal over them, knowing that there is
nothing at the bottom. I'll go to Penhalligan^
and learn from him what this means.' Then
he strode out of the house.

Eose remained where she was, a prey ta
despair and self-reproach. She threw herself
in a chair, and wept and prayed, and beat her
]lead. The servants heard her, and peeped in
at the door, and whispered ; then one of the
oldest ventured in and spoke to her, and asked
what was the matter, was she ill? She had
better have a drop of brandy.

tt

Go away ! Leave me alone ! I am not
ill ! ' She started erect on her knees, and
thrust the woman away with her right hand,
with the left in her hair, which was dishevelled,
and falling about her neck. She was as one
mad, mad with the agony of remorse. The
servant-maid withdrew ; but Eose could not
remain where she was, with the girls talking
about her, peering in, and volunteering advice.
She stood up, went out of the porch door, and
tottered along the path towards Nantsillan.

Hark ! a shot. She shrunk in all her
muscles and nerves at the sound.

Half an hour passed. She had staggered
to the garden wall, and was leaning against
that, looking along the path, waiting for the
return of her father-in-law. That half-hour to
her went creeping along as if each minute were
an hour.

Presently she saw Hender Gaverock rise
from the combe and come slowly along the
way towards her. She tried to leave the wall
and go to meet him, but her knees yielded
under her weight. She was constrained to
await him there. One look at his altered
countenance sufficed to convince her that her

worst fears were well founded. She had lost
Gerans for ever. The face of the old Squire
was grey as ashes.

I cannot ask any questions of Dennis Pen-gallican,'
he said, in a low tone. ' He has shot
himself through the heart.'

CHAPTEE LVIII.

ox FOUR OARS.

The old man said no more. He went past
Hose, towards the house. Eose's tears dried
ia her eyes. She crept after her father-in-law,
supporting herself against the brick garden wall
till lie came to the spot where Dennis had
stood the evening before, watching her through
the windows. Vividly did she now see him, ashe
looked at her with his burning eyes. She
cried out with fear. She fled from the spot,
and stumbled over the porch steps. Dennis
was dead also. Dead — by his own act. Her
guilt became deeper, blacker, more hideous !

No one in To wan noticed her. There owns
commotion there. Old Gaverock was sending
the men out to look for Gerans — or his body ;
ad one fellow rode away towards Padsto^v,
with loose rein, to summon the old drunken
doctor, and another ran off to the farm nearest

Nantsillan, to get aid for removing the body of
Penhalligan from the glade to his house.

Eose crouched on the steps, holding to a
granite ball that ornamented the low wall that
enclosed them. Her shame was more than
she could bear. For some time she could not
cry, but at last the tears began to flow again,
and as they flowed they washed away all the
false colours with which she had disguised to
herself the relations in which she had stood to
Dennis, colours painted on with the hand of
discontent, vanity, and weakness. She knew
her guilt. She could no longer excuse her
conduct, and the breath of death blew away
all the ashes which had overlain and threatened
to choke the glowing embers of her real love
for Gerans.

Hitherto Eose had lived in a dream of
pleasure and self-confidence. Now she was
rudely awakened to see the ruin that her
thoughtlessness had brought on herself and
others.

Squire Gavcrock went out with his men,
and searched the shore of Sandymouth and
Nantsillan Cove in vain. They ran out the
boats and explored the rocks where they rose

out of the sea. They could find no trace of
the presence of Gerans, alive or dead. After a
search of some hours the Squire came home.
He bade his men continue their examination of
the coast ; he returned to inquire if any tidings
of his lost son had reached Towan during his
absence. He found that none had.

Then he entered his study, and threw himself
into his chair, to consider what was to be
done. He passed his hand over his eyes and
brow, and the hand shook as he did so. However
often he made this movement he was
unable to brush away the picture of Dennis
lying on the mat of russet autumn leaves,
cemented together with the rain and rot of
winter, with a pistol falling from his lifeless
hand, and the blood clotted on his breast over
the heart.

Would Penhalligan have destroyed himself
had Eose's accusation been unfounded .? This
question insisted on being answered, but he
strove to put the question away from him.
Why had Eose accused him? Was it only
because Dennis had informed her of the death
of her husband, or did some dreadful mystery
lurk behind this into which he dare not look ?

The old man's mouth quivered, as did his hand.
One dark mystery after another stole through
his thoughts, unexplained, which he feared to
attempt to solve. A tide was rising and surrounding
him. and each wave that leaped higher
was more threatening than the last. What lay
before him ? What were the discoveries that
would be forced on him ? He heard Eose's
foot in the hall. He would not go out to her.
He would not speak to her. He shrank from
even looking at her. To what extent was she
responsible for what had taken place ? He
dared not ask her, or ask himself.

The ambition of his life was at an end. In
one moment his pride, his desire, were broken
down. His hopes, his ambitions, had been
centred in his son, and lay dead with him.

Suddenly he started back in his chair, and
ran it against the bookcase, and sat staring at
the drawer of his table. The drawer had been
tampered with. There were marks on it that
an effort had been made to open it, and that
the lock had been broken. He stood up and
put his hand to the drawer. It opened readily.
The lock was torn off, the mahogany bruised.
The money was gone. Purse and pocket-book —

the purse with the gold, the pocket-book with
the notes — all were gone.

Who was the robber? Had this robbery
any connection with the loss of Gerans and the
self-destruction of Penhalligan ? The number
of questions rising before the old man's mind
and demanding replies was growing and becoming'
bewildering;. He was led from darken
o

ness to deeper darkness, into night profound.

His mind went at once to Constantine. That
Gerans had taken the money did not suggest
itself to him. That Dennis had done so, been
caught in the act by Gerans, that Dennis had
killed him to conceal his theft, and then, finding
he could not escape, had shot himself, was a
possible solution. But then, where was Constantine
? Why was he away ? Why had not
signs of him been seen ? The brothers had not
gone out boating together. Every boat that
belonged to Towan was in its place. Where
was Constantine to give them some information
about Gerans ? Then, suddenly, it occurred to
the old man that if Penhalligan had taken the
money, the purse and note-book would be
found on him. He ought to have remained by
the corpse and examined the pockets. But he

had been too alarmed and anxious to find
Gerans to consider that ; besides, when Dennis
was discovered, the Squire had no suspicion
that the money was taken.

Where was Constautine ? Constautine had
wanted the money. He was impatient to have
it at once ; he had refused to stay more than a
day. There was a mystery about Constantine.
He had darkly hinted that he was in danger of
arrest for some crime. The Squire lead put
this from him as an attempt to extort the money
from him by playing on his family pride. But
now he began to fear that there was some
truth in the threat. Constautine had taken
money elsewhere, or forged a name. Tliat
would explain both his reticence and his eagerness
to get away. He had not told his parents
that he was alive because he wished it to bethought
generally that he was dead, and that
so his guilt might not be disclosed. By some
means it had been found out that he was not
dead, and he had come home to be helped to
escape from the country, and now that this
help had been delayed he had taken the money
from his father's drawer, and gone. Perhaps
this was the story of Constantine, the old man

thought, with a flush on his brow, aud with
clenched hands.

But — what had this to do with the disappearance
of Gerans and the suicide of Dennis?
Time alone could solve these riddles. Then a
fresh horror came on him, and made him gasp.
If Gerans were dead, then his estate, and the
representation of the family, the headship of
the Gaverocks — Toujours sans tache — would
devolve on Constantine, on this runagate, this
wretch dio robbed his own father and wife,
who was flying from justice ! What would
become of Towan in the hands of an unprincipled
scoundrel, who dare not show his face
in England? He groaned. He would have
paid out his heart's blood to the last drop cheerfully
at that moment, if with it he could redeem
Gerans from death. He compared the two
brothers, so strangely alike in face and build ;
and now a flame of real love flashed up through
the thick crust of pride that he had suffered to
grow over his heart. Gerans had always been
an obedient, amiable son, had never given him
annoyance, had been ever upright and true
and manly.

He had not treated Gerans properly ; he

had exacted from him submission with despotic
authority, he had not considered his years, and
that he ought to have taken him into counsel,
and listened to his opinion. He saw by the
unselfishness of Gerans, with which he had
stood forth on behalf of his brother, that his
heart was good to the core ; he saw by the
pertinacity with which he held to his determination,
that he was bold where he felt he was
right. A feeling of pride at the recognition of
the merits of Gerans woke up in the old man's
soul, and now the tears began to trickle down
his cheeks, from eyes that had not been thus
moistened since childhood.

Alas ! no tears, no love, no recognition,
would bring; back the dead.

Squire Gaverock went to Nantsillan. He
put on his roughest manner to disguise his emotion.
He found the house overrun with the
curious ; no one was in authority, every one had
as much right there as another. He drove
them all out except the farmer's wife, Mrs.
Jemima Josse, and the charwoman, and old Mary
Trcgothnan, who undertook to lay the body
out ; all the gentlefolks liked her to lay them
out, lie explained, she did make such pretty

corpses of them. Then he inquired whether
any money had been found in the pockets of
the dead man, any purse, any note-books. Yes,
a leather purse had been found that contained
a few shillings. Farmer Josse had taken charge
of that as he was constable. Yes, there had
been discovered one note-book ; it was produced,
and the Squire saw it was the surgeon's
pocket register of his visits and the maladies of
the patients visited. Mr. Gaverock made strict
inquiries, and had no occasion to doubt that
this was all. The constable, Mr. Josse, had
been on the spot when the body was moved,
and had seen and taken note of everything the
pockets contained. The Squire placed Mrs.
Josse in charge. She was an old servant of
Towan, her husband a tenant ; Nantsillan was
the property of the Gaverocks, and Squire
Hender was Justice of Peace. He was accordingly
obeyed promptly.

Then he returned to Towan. As his face
was directed homeward the stern and rouo-h
expression deserted it, and it became haggard
and distressed.

Any news ? ' he asked.

There was none.

Where is Mrs. Eose ? '

Please your honour, hers upstairs, a-locked
into the bedroom, a-crying like blazes. Us
have took her up some tea and toast, but her
won't touch it.'

Go, someone, upstairs, and tell her to come
to me into the study. Tell her I insist on her
obedience.'

He went into the library and cast himself
into the chair.

In a few moments Eose entered, so changed
in face and manner that the Squire looked at
her some time with surprise without speaking.

Eose,' said he at last, ' are you now sufficiently
composed to answer questions in a
rational manner ? '

She looked up at him. He thought her
eyes filled her face, so large were they, so shrunk
were her fresh and rounded cheeks. Her lips
moved, but she could not speak. The lips had
lost their cherry redness.

Eose,' he said, ' tell me everything you
know, everything that can help me to understand
what lias happened. There is something
behind this to which I cannot get, and which
you, perhaps, may disclose.'

I will tell you everything,' she answered
slowly, then paused to gather up her courage
and strength for the avowal.

In that pause she and the old man heard a
step on the hall floor that they knew, and held
their breath.

The study door opened, and he whom they
believed to be dead came in.

Squire Gaverock grasped the arms of his
chair, and half rose from it. That was Gerans,
certainly, before him, and not his ghost, though
Gerans looked pale and dejected. Eose uttered
a cry, flew to his breast, and threw her arms
round him.

Gerans ! Gerans ! you are alive ! '

Her cry was as full of joy and ecstasy of
love as the song that breaks from the throat of
a nightingale on a still spring night. It went
direct to the heart of Gerans, who understood
its meaning, and he put his arm round her, and
held her to his beating heart, whilst with the
other hand he pressed back the white brow
that was buried in his bosom, in order that
he might look into her eyes. She dared
not yet meet his steady, inquiring eyes, and
she shook hier head from his hold, and laid

it on his shoulder, and burst into a storm of
tears.

Old Squire Gaverock held out his hand,
So, so — a false alarm. That is well.' He
drew a long breath. ' Women are fools. With
my sixty-five years, Golly ! I ought to have
known better than believe their alarms. Gerans,
we thought you were dead.'

I am alive and sound,' answered Gerans,
with astonishment. ' This is not the first time
I have absented myself from dinner.'

Where is Constantine ? '

Is he not here ? I have not seen him.'

Gerans, where did you part from Penal
? '

At the waterfall into the cove.'

What had you to do with him ? ' asked
the Squire, gravely.

With Dennis ? Oh, we had a conversation.'

And an altercation ? '

Not on my side. I apologised to him for
our conduct to Lovedayay. I shall speak about
that presently.'

Do you not know what has happened ? '

Happened ? — to him ? — no. I parted from
him many hours ago.'

VOL. III. R

Rose charged him with having murdered
you, and he has eliot himself.'

Gerans stared at his father with horror and
perplexity. He became pale as death, whilst
Eose clung to him more passionately. He put
his hand over his eyes, and tried to collect his
thoughts.

I do not understand this,' he said. ' Dennis
has been for some time incensed against us,
against me for not taking up Lovedayay's cause
with the vigour that I ought to have shown,
and for something else I need not mention.'
He felt Eose's arms contract convulsively about
him, and heard a sob escape her labouring
bosom. ' And he has been irritated with you,
father, for sending Lovedayay away and not acknowledging
her, as you ought to have done.
Then ensued the disappearance of Lovedayay. It
is possible that poor Dennis's mind has become
disturbed. I did not think him himself when
I left him this morning. I did not tell him
plainly that Constantine had returned. I do
not think he had heard of it, or he would have
mentioned it to me. I only told him that a
great surprise and joy were in store for Lovedayay.'
Gerans,' said Eose, looking up in his face,

through her tears, ' dear Gerans, he told nie
that you Avere dead. He had seen you fall'

His mind was disturbed,' said Gerans, 'poor
fellow ! My God ! what troubles, what sorrows
come on us ! '

Neither his father nor his wife had anything
to say to this. A tear came from Gerans's eye
and fell on the cheek of Eose, a tear of sorrow
for his friend.

Then they heard a tramp of feet, and, looking
through the study window, they saw eight
men approach the house carrying four oars
crossed on their shoulders, and on the oars lay
a body.

Before the eight men walked another, carrying
a bundle.

They are bringing him here ! ' cried Rose,
cowering into her husband's breast in terror.
Oh, do not let them I Why should they bring
him here? — this is not his home. Let him betaken
to Nantsillan.'

Gerans disengaged himself from her clinging
arms. He looked steadily through the window,
then he turned quickly back, and said : ' Stay,
stay here, Eose. Do not leave the room.
Father, this is not Dennis. Prepare your mind

R 2

for another and worse disaster.' He had recognised
his red-topped boots on the legs of the
man who was being borne by the eight. He
knew that Constantine had put them on that
morning.

The old Squire stood up, trembling like an
aspen, with white face.

God be gracious to us ! ' he gasped. ' Give
me your arm, Gerans. I — I find my feet fail
me. Not — it is not — Constantine ? '

In another moment the tramp of the feet
was in the hall. Then with a sigh of relief the
eight bearers put down their burden upon the
long oak dinner table, withdrew the oars and
wiped their brows with their sleeves.

The ninth man placed the bundle at the
foot of the dead man who lay on the gate — a
man in a suit of Gerans's clothes, with his fine
frilled shirt, and with his red-topped boots ; and
with his white face streaked with blood from
a wound in the forehead where a bullet had
pierced his brain. In death, Constantine bore
a strange and striking likeness to his brother,
who now stood nearly as white, and with as
rigid a face, bending over him.

Here, your honour,' said the man who

had carried the bundle, ' here be two pocketbooks
and a purse us have took out of his coat
pockets, lest they should fall and be lost. I
reckon they be chuck full of money. And us
be dry, and would like a drop of cider.'

CHAPTEE LIX.

Reconciliation.

That evening when Gerans came to his room
for the night he found Eose, dressed as lie had
been, sitting on the sofa awaiting him. He was
late, he had sat up long in conversation with
his father. He was surprised to find Eose not
gone to bed.

Oh, Eose,' he said, with a little reproach
in his tone, ' you will overture yourself. You
should be asleep at this hour.'

No, Gerans, no,' she replied. ' I could not
sleep till I had spoken with you. Tell me, tell
me all. You think that Dennis shot Constantine,
and then went away and destroyed himself.
Why did he kill Constantine ? '

He bore him a grudge. Con had behaved
very badly towards Lovedayay. Con had first
married her secretly, and made her promise

not to tell what had been done, but to leave to
him the communication to his parents. He
took advantage of her promise, and did not
tell any one. Then, when it came out, he hid
himself somewhere — where, perhaps, we shall
never learn — and allowed Lovedayay to suppose
he was dead. That was cruel and unjust treatment,
and no doubt Dennis felt it keenly ; he
was a man of strong passions, and resented it.
I had been speaking to him in the morning on
the matter, but I could make nothing out of
him. I suppose he was wild with rage because
he had heard that Constantine was alive and
home again. He left his house armed with a
pistol. He went to find Con, and ask him his
intentions, to know what he meant to do about
Lovedayay. What ensued when they met no
one now can tell, but I conjecture that there
was a quarrel ; Constantine did not satisfy
Dennis, and Dennis, blind with anger, shot him.
Then he woke to the full horror of what he
had done, and destroyed himself.'

That is the way in which you explain the
whole story ? ' asked Eose, looking him question
ingle in the eyes. ' That you think accounts
for everything ? '

'It explains all,' he answered, but with
some hesitation.

Gerans,' said Eose, with a firmness unusual
in her, ' Gerans, dear husband, no — it was not
so.'

Eose ! ' he exclaimed, and shuddered.
Eose ! enough. It is explained.'

No, Gerans, no. This will not do. You
shall know the whole truth. I wull not hide
anything from you. No, Gerans, it was not so
at all — Dennis Penhalligan shot Constantino
because he mistook him for you.'

'Eose! Eose!'

I have more to say. I am guilty, I, even
I, of the death of Constantino and of Dennis.
It was I, by my vanity and love of admiration,
who lured Dennis on, till he was mad with
love for me and hate for you. But, oh,
Gerans, I swear to you, by the God who stands
above the starry sky, that I have not loved any
but you.'

I will believe you,' he said, sadly. ' I
have always trusted you. I have loved you —
in spite of all.'

In spite of my folly, my temper, my
wicked words ! ' she said, and her tears began

to flow, ' oil, Gerans ! I know now how
wicked I have been. Here, in this very room,
I treated you cruelly, when you returned with
inflamed eyes from St. Ives. You asked me to
stay with you, and I would not. I wanted to
be away with the company below.' She threw
herself on her knees before him. ' I am unworthy
of you, Gerans ; indeed, indeed, I am.'

He tried to raise her. ' Say no more, Eose.
Your acknowledgment of having done wrong
is the utmost you can do to efface the past.'

I will not rise,' she said, ' till you know
everything. I will tell you all, I will tell
you what the thoughts of my heart were, as
well as the words I said. I will not be forgiven
till you know the truth as clearly as I
can put it.'

Eose, 1 also have to ask your pardon. I
was too yielding to my father.'

No, Gerans, you were right, and I was
wrong. You did not oppose your father, because
my whims were unreasonable. You were
right not to let me have my own way. Because
I have taken my course it has led me to
this.'

He raised her from the floor, and made her

sit by this side on the sofa ; and there he, with
his arm round her, and her wet face in his
breast, listened to the whole story of her
frivolity, her play with Dennis — to his coming
and standing outside the window on the previous
evening. She told him of the ride to
church on Phoebus, of everything that had
passed on that expedition, of her brief repentance
in church, and the return of her bad
spirit on the way home ; she told him of her
foolish jealousy of Lovedayay ; she told him of
the kiss Dennis had given her at the well.
She hid nothing from him. ' But, oh, Gerans, I
never, never, loved any one but you, and I
wanted to make you love me more by forcing
you to become jealous.'

'But I was not jealous.'

No — because you could not believe me as
bad as I was.' He drew her close to his heart,
and the bond between them was resealed, to
last unstrained, unbroken, till death.

• • • • •

The brothers-in-law were buried the same
days, and at the same time. Indeed, the two
coffins were borne to the church in one procession
— first that of Constantine, then that of

Peiihalligan ; and one body of mourners attended
both — first walked Squire Gaverock
with Lovedayay on his arm, then Gerans with
Madam Loveys, then Mr. Loveys and Eose,
and finally Anthony, junior.

The news of the deaths of Dennis and of
Constantine Gaverock had spread through the
country. It was in the papers. Thus Lovedayay
had been apprised of her brother's and husband's
simultaneous decease. She sent at once
to Maryland for Paul Featherstone. When he
came to the cottage, she told him everything.
The necessity for keeping silence was removed.

One request she made, that Juliot might
never be told of her husband's treachery. Let
her know that he was dead — not that he had
led her into a dishonourable marriage, which
cast a stain on her child.

Paul was too astonished at the revelation to
be able to determine at once what should be
done.

I must return immediately to Nantsillan,'
said Lovedayay, earnestly, entreatingly, to Mr.
Featherstone. ' I must attend the funeral of
my brother ; and I will go, if need be, on my
knees to Mr. Gaverock to beseech him to keep

the secret of my marriage. It need never be
known now.'

Nothing had come out at the double inquest.
One man had been found eliot through the
head, the other through the heart, both killed
by the same weapon, a double-barrelled pistol.
Dennis was found in the wood, lying dead on
the dry leaves ; Constantine vas washed ashore
by the tide in the cove. It was not till long
after that the boat in the Iron Gate was discovered.
The tide had carried his body out of
Forth-herne, and cast it up below the waterfall.

No motive could be attributed to Dennis
for killing him. No one but the Gaverocks
knew of the marriage. little Euth was called,
to account for Penhallijyan <]foinor out with the

O O D

pistol. She was able most confidently to assert
that Mr. Constantine had not been to the
cottage, and that Mr. Dennis had complained
of annoyance from a dog that haunted him.
Who had seen the dog ? No one else. The
supposition arrived at was that Mr. Penhalligan
was suffering from disturbance of the brain,
that accidentally he had shot Mr. Constantine
Gaverock, and that then, horror struck at what
he had done, he had destroyed himself.

The verdict on Constantine was ' Accidental
death ' ; that on Dennis was ' Suicide whilst ina
state of unsound mind.' Neither Eose nor
Gerans was called to give evidence. Properly,
Eose ought to have been summoned, as she had
given the first notice of a tragedy, but she was
spared the painfulness of so doing. The old
Squire deposed to the finding of the body of
Dennis ; no evidence appeared necessitating
the call of Gerans. That was well, for he could
not have kept back the subject of conversation
with Dennis if closely interrogated. The real
cause of the murder and suicide was never
known to Lovedayay or to the Squire ; two only
knew it, and they kept it locked in their own
breasts.

Madam Loveys with her son and husband
would not return to Towan after the funeral.
The lady had ordered a carriage to await them in
the village to carry them home. She made her
son mount the box, and put her husband inside,
and then, when they were seated, entered the
carriage herself, and ordered the coachman to
drive on. As soon as old Gaverock with Love-day,
Gerans and Eose, and the servant had returned
to Towan, the Squire called his son and

daughters-inlaw into the library, and bade
them be seated.

The old man ^Yas greatly altered — his hair
was greyer and less rough, his eyes had lost
their commanding flash, his complexion was
less hale, his hand less steady, his gait less
confident, his voice was lower, and his manner
had ceased to be boisterous.

Is the door shut behind you, Gerans ? '

Yes, father.'

My children,' said the Squire, and his eyes
as he said ' my children ' rested on Lovedayay as
well as Eose, ' we have now a single duty to
perform, a duty that has been delayed too
long Our Lovedayay must have right done
her. She must receive immediate acknowledgment.
I blame myself for having denied it
to her so long. Now it shall be accorded to
her fully and publicly. This house is henceforth
her home, our name is her name, we
form but one family, and I am her father as
truly as I am yours, Eose. From me she can
count on receiving henceforth deference and
love.'

Yes,' said Gerans, ' so it must be.'

Then, Lovedayay, who was pale as snow but

composed, said, ' No, dear Mr. Gaverock. If
I have any claims upon you, let me claim your
submission to one thing I ask. Let the past
be forgotten. Do not let it be known that I
married Constantine.'

Not— why not ? '

For his sake,' she answered. ' We must
think of the dead, and spare his memory. I may
say for my poor brother's sake also ; I would
have his memory also spared. If it transpire
that I was married to Constantine privately,
and that he did not let his marriage be known,
people will at once suspect that the death of
Constantine was not accidental, that Dennis
shot him out of revenge for the wrong he conceived
that he had done to his sister. I do
not myself believe this — but that is what people
will say.'

The old man considered. This was certainly
true.

Did Constantine not communicate with you
after he disappeared and we believed him dead ? '
asked Gerans.

No,' replied Lovedayay. ' I received no letter,
no tidings of any sort from him. Till quite
recently I, like you, believed him to be dead.'

I suppose we shall never know where lie
was during the time between when he was
washed off the keel of the " Mermaid " and when
he reappeared the other day here to meet, as it
proved, his death.'

The old man said this musingly, and Love-day
did not contradict him. He never did learn
where Constantino had been, for Lovedayay never
told. She held back this from the Squire lest
she should add to his shame and sorrow, and he
held back from her the truth about Constantino
breaking open his drawer and stealing her
money lest he should add to her sorrow.

I do not ask of you to publish what for my
sake, for the sake of Constantine, and for the
sake of Dennis, had better be kept secret,' said
Lovedayay ; ' let all that miserable story be buried
from the world, and forgotten, if possible, by
ourselves.'

Come by me, Lovedayay,' said the old man,
gently. When she obeyed, he drew her hand
within his, and stroked it with his rough but
unnerved hand.

My Lovedayay, my dear, very dear Love-day,'
he said, ' I am sixty-five years old, and
I thought I knew women, but I am only beginning

to know them now. Lovedayay, I did
think it was conferring a great honour on you
to allow you to bear our name, but I am not
so sure of that now.' He leaned his elbow on
the table, and thrust his left hand through his
grey hair, whilst clear tears rolled down his
cheeks. ' Dishonour has been brought on the
name of Gaverock by — by my son, and perhaps
you do well to refuse to bear it. Aye, though
you may not know ail, it is so — dishonour.'

Lovedayay rose and put her arms round his
neck, whilst the tears welled out of her eyes.

No, dear Mr. Gaverock, do not say that.
It is because I love and respect that name that
I would ward off from it the breath of reproach.'
Then she kissed him.

He still held her hand. ' But you will stay
with us here, you will make this a home ? I
will not be domineering or violent any more.
Gerans, I have to ask your forgiveness. Here,
before your wife, I must acknowledge that you
are sometimes right, and that I esteem you for
holding your ground when your conscience forbids
a surrender. Eose, I must ask jour forgiveness
also. I have tried you also. I have

VOL. III. s

been to blame. My poor wife, I wish she where
here, I would ask her forgiveness also I did
not understand her. By the way, Gerans, have
you an old hat that will fit me ? I won't go about
bareheaded any more — by Golly ! I won't.'

CHAPTER LX.

A BED OF VIOLETS.

A TWELVEMONTH — nay, more — had passed, winter
had set in and tossed its foam over the cliffs,
and the wind had carried the roar of the wintry-atlantic
far inland. Spring, summer, autumn
passed, and now as the last leaves were shed in
Nantsillan glen, Lovedayay was stooping over her
old bed of purple violets, picking a bunch. She
had a little basket on her left arm, slung on the
wrist ; she wore long black mittens from her
elbows to her hands. She had no bonnet on,
but a shawl was thrown over her head and
pinned under her chin. The fern in the combe
was as brown as copper, but the moss in revenge
was showing itself vividly green. Here and
there the blue bugloss, and with it pink cranes-bill,
remained in flower, defying the wintry
winds, smiling under a clouded sky. A few
rooks were cawing, and jackdaws chattering ; a

s 2

yellow finch swinging on a maple twig was
piping. No bird was disturbed by Lovedayay.
She stooped and passed her fingers among the
green leaves, and plucked each violet that was
discovered, and made them into a little cluster.
Some were in the basket ; she put her bunches
into the basket, not the several violets as picked.
The shawl over her head was much the same in
colour as the flowers she gathered. Her gown
was black, with a white lace fringe about the
sleeves and flounce.

She was so engrossed in gathering violets
that she did not hear the fall of a step behind
her.

How do you do, Miss — Mrs. I mean — Love-day?'


She started, rose upright, turned, and the
colour came into her cheeks and a liofht into
her dark eyes.

Oh, Mr. Featherstone, I am so heartily glad
to see you ! '

Excuse me,' he said, ' I apologise for calling
you by your Christian name, but I was hardly
able to decide by what name to address you
with strict truth and to avoid giving pain.' He
was the same stiff, pragmatical man, haggling

about trifles, yet sincere to his heart's core. She
held out her hand to him, after passing the
violets from the right hand to the left.

He bowed over it, and with old-fashioned
courtesy, old-fashioned even then, pressed his
lips to her fingers.

Your hand is fragrant with violets,' he said,
and what marvel, when you are as a violet
yourself, sweet, and hiding beneath the leaves.'

Pardon me, sir,' said Lovedayay, ' I am standing
on the leaves ; look above me, all are fallen.'

I was speaking metaphorically,' said Paul,
with a slight tone of vexation, but so slight that
it was lost as soon as perceived. ' I have ventured
to search for you, madam, as I doubted
how to ask after you at the door of Towan.
Should I inquire for Miss Penhalligan, or for
Mrs. Eock — pardon me, Mrs. Gaverock, I mean.
I was unaware to what extent circumstances
were known, and under which name you were
now pleased to pass. So I wandered and waited
about till I lighted upon you, and now, most
appropriately, I find you at a violet bed. You
will take no offence, madam, if I say that in my
mind the violet is so associated with your sweet
self that at Maryland my sister Juliot, who shares

iTiy views in everything, and myself always regard
the violet bed under the wall as sacred to
the memory of one whom we have both learned
to love and revere.'

Lovedayay would have been puzzled by his
odd address had she not known the man, and
been able to allow for his formal ways. She
was really'' pleased to see him, she had the
warmest regard for him, she valued him as a
man perfectly true, sincere, upright ; she smiled
at his quaint ways and rather liked them, they
savoured of old-world manners, and there was
a lack of these in Towan which made her ready
to condone some exaggeration in Paul Feather-stone.


How is Juliot ? ' she asked. ' I have longed
to hear, yet did not like to write.'

Juliot is well, and the little Con is also welland
very flourishing,' answered Paul Feather-stone.
' There will be a Stanbury of Staubury
yet. I have spent forty pounds in obtaining a
royal licence for young Master Con to assume
the name of Stanbury in place of Eock, so that
henceforth that little urchin is Squire Stanbury
of Stanbury, and our dear mother's name will
flourish anew in him.'

What — what does Juliet know ? ' asked
Lovedayay, timidly,

Nothing. I have stood as a wall about her,
fencing her from the knowledge, and now all
danger is past. She still believes in a Mr. Eock,
and supposes he has been drowned. Her great
grief is that his body has not been recovered.
I would not for anything in this world that she
should be undeceived. Juliot is a child in heart,
and has the faith of a child. Were she to learn
what a wicked — excuse me — were she to know
all, her faith in the goodness of mankind would
receive such a shock that the childlike spirit in
her would droop and die. No — she shall never
know — never, so help me, God ! ' He took off
his hat at the last words. Then he covered
again and continued, ' And I — I also must ask,
what is known here ? '

Nothing,' answered Lovedayay. ' That is to
say, only Mr. Gaverock and Gerans know the
truth, and it is their wish now, as well as mine,
that the past should be buried.'

So the marriage of Constantino Gaverock
and Lovedayay Penhalligan is to remain hidden in
the parish register of the church in Exeter where
you were married ? '



Yes. It is so, indeed.'

Then,' said Paul, ' should you ever be
married again it seems to me that the most
suitable proceeding would be for you to be remarried
in that same church, that the two registers
might be preserved in the same book, sono
disguise or evasion of the truth would be
needed, and such discourse or evasion would be
very painful, and hardly to be justified.'

Lovedayay coloured, then laughed, and said :
We need not consider remote eventualities, Mr.
Featherstone. We will talk of Juliot and little
Con. Is he much grown ? Is he a dear pet ?
How many teeth has he ? What colour is his
hair — and his eyes ? '

Pardon me, at this moment I cannot talk
of little Con. He is a dear little mayflower.
But who thinks of the daisy when he lights on
the violet ? Nor is that such a remote contingency
as you consider, that is if join would
deign — that is to say — if your humble servant
should find favour in your eyes.'

The bunch of violets fell from Lovedayay's
hand, and the colour deserted her cheeks.

I am well aware,' continued Paul ; he removed
his hat and, kneeling stiffly, began topick

up the violets that she had let fall. ' I am
well aware,' he said whilst thus engaged, ' that
I am unworthy to solicit such a treasure. I have
sinned against you most deeply, and should not
dare to appear before you now were I not convinced
that in you every sweetness and beauty
of soul were to be found, the quality of mercy,
the grace of generosity included. I had the mad
folly at one time to doubt you. Now, reviewing
the past, I am covered with shame at the thought
that I should have been so wicked, so graceless,
as to doubt you. You — you are to me the ideal
of womanhood, all gentleness, truth, self-surrender,
pity. I do not ask you if you have
cared for me. I know that when you were
under my roof you suffered the bitterest of pains.
I know that then into the pure temple of your
soul no thought of me could enter, dedicated
then as it was to another, though that other was
unworthy. I ask only to make some amends to
you for the wrong I did in mistrusting you, and
I ask for Juliet's sake. She wants a sister to
guide, comfort, and help her. I know my own
unworthiness, but I know also that as you have
seen Juliot you must love her. So — take me
for my sister's sake.'

Lovedayay was trembling. She knew the
man at her feet, his perfect integrity, his chivalrous
honour and love of truth ; she was not
blind to his weaknesses.

Madam ! ' he said, ' I have picked up all
the violets. I do not ask you to speak. What
shall I do with the violets ? Am I to take the
little posy and carry it away with me as the
only remembrance I have of the one woman
whom I love and regard above every other
woman under heaven? Or may I put the
violets into your basket, and help you to carry
the sweet and pretty burden ? '

She hesitated but for a moment, and then
held out the little basket to him.

The air about them was fragrant with violets.

• •••••

The bells of Welcome were ringing a peal
in the fresh summer air a twelvemonth after the
events last recorded. The wind carried their
music in waves inland, much as wave on wave
flows with the tide upon the shore. At the
entrance of the avenue to Maryland is an arch
of laurel and fir and flowers.

Many people are gathered in the avenue,
more outside, lining the pretty lane past the

spring, up the hill, away towards the Stratton
road. All are in their Sunday clothes ; the
children have bunches of flowers in their hands.

Hark !

The cracking of postillions' whips are heard,
and down the hill amidst cheers comes a carriage,
the horses and the boys with white favours.
The cheers swell into a roar of applause. At
the entrance to the avenue the carriage draws
up, and a servant lets down the steps. Then
Paul Featherstone descends, and holds out his
hand for a lady.

At the same moment from the gateway
appears Juliot in black, with a widow's cap, and
a baby on her left arm, running forward to put
her disengaged arm round the lady, and laugh
and cry together for joy of heart.

Welcome ! welcome ! darling Lovedayay ! '

Then the bride, who is in a soft grey silk,
with white bonnet, veil, and orange flowers, with
a face almost as white as the orange blossoms,
but with her large dark eyes alight with pleasure
and gratitude, bows to the tenants and
cottagers who crowd round to touch and take
her hand, and the children to thrust their posies
on her.

'I think,' said Paul, 'that we shall have to
change the name of this place from Mars-land
to the Land of Venus, for no wars will be fought
here in this home of love. This, Juliot, you
will perceive, is a sort of a joke ! '

Oh, Paul ! how glad I am to hear you joking
again ! You are so humorous.'

• •••••

Good heavens, Lovedayay ! how came you
by that ? ' asked Paul one day, when all his
wife's effects were being unpacked and arranged
in her room and drawers. The china vases,
relics of her mother, had been placed on the
mantelshelf. The sampler had been hung in
the hall. The piano had been put in the
drawing-room. Paul pointed to none of these
things, but to a small, double-barrelled pistol.

Lovedayay shuddered. ' Oh, Paul ! I do not
know how that has come among my goods. It
it ' She did not finish her sentence.

He was turning and examining it.

Lovedayay, this is very singular. Do you see
this little silver shield let in, with our arms on
it — a chevron between three ostrich plumes, and
above it P. F., my uncle's initials as well as
mine. The pistol has never been mine ; it must

have belonged to him. How did you come by
it?'

Oh, Paul, dear Paul, throw it into the sea !
Do not let it remain with us. I did not know
it was in my box. That was the weapon which
robbed poor Constantine and Dennis of their
lives.'

Mr. Featherstone put the weapon down, as
if it burnt his fingers, but he still looked at it
with a puzzled face.

But, Lovedayay, how did Dennis come by
it?'

Just then, with a shiver, Lovedayay thought
of the red-waistcoated pedlar, and then of the
picture in the hall of the old rover Featherstone.

'' Paul,' she said, ' I cannot tell you now.
I will some day ; but it seems to me as though
the spirit of your uncle could not rest till it had
wrought out its revenge on the family of Gave-rock,
and taken blood for blood. We will
speak about it another time.'

• •••••

Juliot ! ' said Paul one day, on coming home
to Maryland from a ride to Stanbury, whither
he had been summoned, ' the storms have been
ripping the roof again at the little Squire's place.

We must make it snug for him, but it will cost
money.'

Oh, please,' said Loveclay, raising her dark
pleading eyes, 'if you want slates, would you
mind ordering them from Captain Quince, of
the Towan quarries. I have a specimen slab in
my bedroom., which I brought with me when
I first came here. He — he almost forced me to
take it ; he was very kind.'

Certainly. T will send a boat thither for a
load. But pray, Lovedayay, what are you going
to do with that red flannel ? '

'I am going to send it home by my little
maid Euth, before Christmas, to an old woman,
Mary Tregothnan, who suffers from rheumatism.
And — dear Paul — you have lost Willy Penrose.
Would you mind taking on Euth's brother as
stable boy? He once got for me two addled
gull's eggs, which was very thoughtful of him,
and I do not like to seem ungrateful.'

To be sure I will,' answered Paul. ' Love
day, you have only to ask me for anything and
you shall have it ; to express a wish, and it shall
be fulfilled. Since you have been here the whole
house has been sweet with your presence, as
with the fragrance of violets, that bloom and

are sweet throiiglioiit the year. I love the day
that brought you here, and made Lovedayay mine
own. Heaven has made my day of Mfe a day
of love. Which,' he added after a pause,
though it sounds like a joke, is not a joke,
but a plain statement of fact.'

THE END.

imXTKD BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-.STUKET .SQLAKF.

LONDON

J ^

■\- -I'

C-!.■

'^^:^-^^:-

^^^r^

m

:^.r:>:"

3 0112 042822798

^^
