n

OF Thou

N Rivers City

or Ill Noise

V. I

»>'/

Defend.

Wakes Cone Hall.

p-it

I Advertiser. I

'patriotism & CONTENT

.^ when selecting a useful Dress from the
materials manufactured by Messrs. HENRY PEASE
ou Co's SUCCESSORS, which meet all the requirements
of fastidious buyers as well as of economically inclined
ones. THU Darlington Cross Weep Serges
All-Wool Foules and Gold Medal Cashmeres
(always in favour, and NEVER AS YET
SUPERSEDED as a WOOLLEN FABRIC)
have justly a world-wide reputation, which
they fully maintain in their New Patterns,
the colourings being after the latest modes,
and exceedingly artistic. But a line to

.Messrs. H. PEASE & Co's Success.,

^.xx ing a TEMPTING BOX OF PATTERNS, when the consents
can be discussed and studied in a far more satisfactory
manner than is conveyed in a mere verbal descrir^-'on."—

The " Queen."

ST. MARY'S HOSPITAL, W.

Supported anti. el by Voluntary C ntrihution.<.

The Governors make an Earnest appeal for further Assistance, to enable
:hem to meet the urgent claims mule upon them by the sick poor of the
neighbourhood.

St. Mary's is the only General Hospital in this district of London, and it
'believes over Twenty Eight thousand patients every year.

Annual Subscriptions are earnestly solicited, as these form the staple
3f Hospital Income. Donations and Subscriptions will be thankfully
received by the Bankers, Sir Samuel Scott, Bart., & Co., ], Cavendish
Square, or by the Secretary, at the Hospital. PIETRO Mitchell, Secretary .

NORTON & SON,

w^

5, CONDUIT STREET,

t

REGENT STREET, W.

Ladies' Costumes, Ulsters, &c.

Estimates for repairs, on town
or country examinations, furnished
free.

-inOA'BJ UO 9S'BI[0in(I JO UOT^dO

dT[% Jim peqqoC oS'btii'bo Iuy

PC

<i

M

o
c

jy2

i-)C3CjrO. rotherham Veterinary

Surgeon and Canine Pathologist by Special Appointment
to H.M. the Queen and Royal Family, may be consulted
from 2.0 until 5.30 daily (Saturdays and Sundays excepted;
upon those days by appointment). Fee, 2s, 6d.,
or, by letter, 3s. 6d,

The ROYAL CANINE SURGERY,

55, SOUTH MOLTON STREET, BOND STREET, W.
The Hospital, most healthily situated near ,
has well appointed and spacious Kennels for
large dogs, and every home comfort for pet dogs. The
exercising ground covers fifty acres of grass land.

J. ANDREWS,

BUiLDER AND D3SC0EAT0E,
W MOUNT STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

Speciality-SANATORY WORKS, AS CARRIED OUT
UNDER THE LEADING PROFESSORS OF HYGIENE.

Established 1824.

CHRISTOPHER SEWELL, Late shepherd)
4, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

Practical Goldsmith and Jeweller.

Mourning AND BRIDAL GIFTS TO ORDER.

Watches, Clocks, Musical Boxes, Cleaned, Repaired, and adjusted by Experienced

Workmen, under personal supervision.

CLOCKS WOUND BY CONTRACT.

Old Gold, Silver, aud Precious Stones Exchanged or Purchased to any amount.

THE PRINCE'S PORT,

50 YEARS IN WOOD.

PALE COLOR. SOFT. "DELICATE

Eminent authorities recommend this Port well
matured in Wood not only for (general consumptions
hut especially for the use of those suffering fro)u you.

In Fortuyal^ where you is unknown this style of
Fort is always used.

BERRY Bros & Co.,

3, ST. a"J^^^>£ES's STI^EiEJT:
LONDON, S.W.

ESTABLISHED 200 YEARS.

A detailed price-list of Wines, Spirits, and Liqueurs on application

i

g

TIME - Saying PUBLICATIONS.

I

Account Books
Bills Paid Books
Cellar Books

Daily Consumption Books

Dairy Account BtDoks
Engagement Books

Game Books

Horse Registers
Household Account Books

,, Inventory Books

Washing Books
Larder Books
Linen Books
Menu Books
Poultry Account Books
Stable Expenses Books
Visiting Books

Wages Books (Servant's)

Wine Bin Books

from

J. DAY

PUBLISHERS &
16, MOUNT

d.

o











o
c

1 o

5 o

6 6

2 O
O






o



I






I












& SON,

BOOKSELLERS,
STREET, W.


i

LADIES' & GENTLEMEN'S

HUNTING, SHOOTING, & WALKING
BOOT MAKER,

52, SOUTH MOLTON ST., BOND ST., W.

Manufacturer of the Cheated Edinhurrjli Boot Varnish Blacl-iwj,
ami Waterproof Leather Dressing.

MILITARY BOOTS.

Boots and Shoes to match Costumes.

Russia Leather Boots.

Waterproof Patent
Hunting Boots.

Improved Flexure Boots. j|

Mountain Boots.

Skating Boots.

Brown Hide Boots for
Polo or the Colonies

Racing Boots.

Lawn Tennis Shoes.

Slippers to any style.

LADIES' RIDING Alia HUNTING BOOTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.

2hc Shape of the Feet taken and Lasts Modelled on the most approved
anatomical principles, and kept exclusively for each customer.

men

W. Faulkner begs most respectfully to call the attention of Ladies and gentlemen
to the BOOT '.UREE Branch. Boot Trees assist to keep the boots in proper
.shape, preventing them from wrinkling and shrinking after they have been worn
in the wet; they can be cleaned better, and do not require so much blacking,
thereby preventing the deleterious effect produced by its frequent application.

Lasts &, Boot Trees of every description Manufactured on the
Premises, at Most Reasonable Prices for Cash.

Ladies residing in the Country can have Boots or Boot Trees sent their exact
size by forwarding an Old Boot by Post.

173, NEW BOND STREET, W.,

ICES for BALLS, Dinner and GARDEN PARTIES,

IN 1T0V.EL FRENCH STYLES,
PACKED TO TRAVEL 30 MILES.

CHOCOLATE & Coffee E IN Per Sect CONDITION.
DESSERTS AND FRENCH NOVELTIES

IN CONSTANT VARIETY.

W. p. LILLIGBAPP & Co,

# #' ^

BY SPECIAL ^^" '"^i^Sfe APPOINTMENT

TO H R.H. THE ^^/^it^U-*;jCgi^-,iW^'^ PRINCE OF WALES.

SEAL SKIN JACKET,

Jttr %M\, ifs, & Coat ftlanitfaclirars,

AND

GENERAL Farmers,
27, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE.

SKINS DRESSED AND MOUNTED.

FURS Exchanged AMD TAICBK CARE OF.

HEAVENS,

HUNTING RACING. AND STEEPLECHASE

Satrbkr ante harness Ipahur,

28, SOUTH MOLTON St, OXFORD ST.

RACING CAP AND JACKET MAKER. EXPORT SADDLER.

WITH SELF-FITTING ENDS

are made in sizes, 4, 6, 8, or 12 to lb., paced in 12 lb, wood cases, or in 3 lb. boxes.

PRICE 9d. PER LB.

MARCHANT & SON,

Wax Chandlers and Oil Merchants,

59, Burners STREET, LONDON, W,

And at 160. North Street, BEiaHTOl^.

Paul's Fish Culture, if 1?7, Euston Rd., N.W.

5 11^, *• V ^^^''^" ^^^'J

Trade Catalogue of the wC^^^ World's Fishes, Reptiles,
Amphibious, Press ^^"^^^^^ Opinions, etc., Stamp.

100 GREEN TREE FROGS 40 « or teach

too GOLD FISH 30'« or 6d. EACH.

Patent Fish Kettle, extra Plants, Snails, Shingle Free, sent to any
part of the Kingdom. lOO Carp, Tench, Dace, Roach, &c., &c., 15/-.

PAUL'S AQUARIA MANAGEMENT,

Without changing the water. Description of Fish, Plants, Snails, &c.,

impost free.

PAUL'S FISH LIFE PRESERVER.

Prepared Fish Food ; invigorates the Fish, makes them grow, keeps
them healthy, full of fire and go. Packets, impost paid.

6d. PAUL'S FISH CULTURE. 6d.

A Monthly Illustrated Journal, published to raise the neglected state
of Fish Culture to its earlier. Standard, to re-populate the rivers, ponds,
lakes, &:c. Every farmer, land or water owner, should study aqua-culture.
This journal gives valuable information how ;o400 ^^^ YEAR
may be made out of one acre of Water.

GEO. Davies & SON,

Uriulixiil Sjjirt m\h €al\m slabs,

HOSIERS AND Outriders,
29, NORTH AUDLEY ST., GROSVENOR SQ., W.

Partout AT Shepherd's BUSH, W.

CARNABYN,

OR NOURISHING MEAT & MALT WINE.

Highly recommended by the MEDICAL FACULTY as an exceedingly
nourishing, digestive and Restorative compound.

DOSE— From Half to a Wineglassful 3 times a day.

Prepared HOOPER & Come'

55, Grosvenor Street, W. ^, LABORATORY,

And at 7, PALL MALL EAST, LOmOK. J MITCHAM, SURREY.

In BOTTLES 2/6, 5/- & 7/6.

To he obtained of all Chemists, Wine Merchants and Grocers throughout the

United Kingdom.

J. DAY & SON'S

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER

SUITABLE FOR WRITING WITH QUILL OR STEEL PENS.
SAMPLES POST FREE.

JOHN DAY & SON,

16, 2^ G JJ JST T Street,
LONDON. W.

BURKE'S LANDED GENTRY

A Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Landed
Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland.

Sir Bernard Burke, C.B., LL.D.,

Being a record of the Lineage, Arc., of about 4.500 Families, with a description of
their Arms, Crests, <i:c Thoroughly Revised throughout. This edition of the
Landed Gentry has been compiled from communications made by the chiefs and
heads of Families from their private papers, traditions and genealogies. The great
aim has been to arrive at accuracy, and in order to attain this end, every available
source of information has been exhausted, and a correspondence carried on which
has secured many thousands of communications from those most competent to
improve and correct the work. Apocryphal statements, which had crept into
former editions, have been expunged, erroneous particulars and incorrect descents
discovered and omitted, and some memoirs excluded as being no longer associated
with the possession of landed property.

Two Vols., Super Royal 8vo. Cloth gilt, price £^ ^s.

Burke's Peerage, Baronetage, Knightage, h.

FOR 1887,

One Vol., Super Royal %vo. Cloth gilt, price £i ipsa

LARGE DISCOUNT FOR CASH OFF THE ABOVE WORKS.

SOLD BY

JOHN DAY & SON,

16, 3^^0XJ3SrT STREET, "W-

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,

Samples may be had post free on application.

Stationers,

16, MOUNT Street, W

CAUTION TO LADIES.

Crystal Palace Bond's G-old medal
Marking Ink.

Prepared by the Daughter, is the genuine, ask for and see you get it. In Her

Majesty's High Court of Justice another action, costs and damages against the

wrong-doers, for selling colourable imitations. Greatest Marking Ink Maker of

the World, larger sale than all others combined, 29 gold, other medals, and Royal

appointments to Crystal Palace Bond's.

CAUTIOIi]'— We have no relations soliciting: Orders.

CAUTION— John BOND'S EBONITE MARKING INK must not be heated
in the cloth. Especially adapted to Crystal Palace John Bond's india
rubber stamps, metal-bodied type, &c. Cheapest house in Europe. Trade only.
Works, 75, Southgate-road, London, N.

JOHN DAY & SON, Agents,

16, MOUNT STREET, GROSVENOR SQUARE, W.

DE LA RUE'S
DIARIES FOR tSS7.

SOLD BY

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W.

Pettish's & BLACKWOOD'S

DIARIES FOR 1887.

SOLD BY

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W.

New and Second-hand.

BILLIARD ^ y^j ^^^ BAGATELLE

and J^^^^J^^f TABLES,

In all Sizes and at all Prices.
BIIL,IL,I-A.I^XD B.A I1,I-.S,

CLOTHS,' CHALKS, CUES, TIPS,

And all other Billiard Requisites.
WHOLESALE, RETAIL, cj- FOR EXPORTATION.

OLD BALLS ADJUSTED OR ' EXCHANGED,

AND

TABLES RE-CUSHIONED and RE-COVERED,

Adjusted, Removed, Bought, Sold, or Warehoused,

And every kind of Billiard Work executed-^vith dispatch & at moderate charges.

Price Lists, Cloth cid Cushion Rubber Samples, Post Free.

When writing for Samples of the latter, please state for what kind of Table

they are wanted.

HENNIG BROS.,

BILLIARD TABLE MAKERS, ^

H, HIGH ST., LONDON, W.C. ^®

(Opposite St. Giles's Church.)
ESTABLISHED 1862.

Mr. JOHN D. WOOD,

Agent for
West-end HOUSES,

COUNTRY HOUSES,

SUMMER and RIVERSIDE HOUSES,

SHOOTINGS and FISHINGS,

HUNTING BOXES,

YACHTING HOUSES.

Offices— W, MOUNT ST., LONDON. W.

Children's 1'2 g
Ladies" - 2'U ^
Gents' - H/^ ^

Hemstitched : g
Ladies' - 2/1 U "^
Gents' - 4/11 (ij

CAMBRIC
POCKET HANDKERCHIEFS

IRISH
^ DAMASK
^ TABLE
LINEN.

Fish Napkins, 2/11 per
doz. Dinner Napkins,
5 6 per dozen. Table
Cloths, 2 yds. square,
2/11 ; 2.1 yds. by 3 yds.
5/11 each. Kitchen
Table Cloths, ll^d.
each. Strong Huckaback
Towels, 4/6 per
(1 o z . ]M o n o o- r a m s ,
Crests, Coats of Anne,
1 initials, ,!<c Woven and
Enil:>r( limited. Samples
and Illustrated price
lists post free to any
part of the World.

ROBINSON & CLEAVER, by Special Appointments to H.M. the
Queen and Hel. «S: Kill. the Crown Princess (if (Germany, BETF.IST.

T O

S

22 Pages (Illustrated) post free. See Pages 6 to lo for

HOW TO MAKE BLANC MANGE,

Baked Custard, Farola Cream. Farola Cake, Grantly Porridge, Grantly
Puddings, IViilk Porridge, Children's or Family Pudding. Baked Pudding,
Steamed Pudding. French Pudding. Italian Polenta. Semolina Soup,
Pastry. Scones and Sweet Cakes, and Semolina Cake, with economyand
taste, together with the opinions of the Jh-iiish Medical Journal, Lancet, iS:c.,
Iii . Post Free from Messrs. J. &. T. Marshall. Glasgow, and 15, New Broad
Street. London. Neb —Everyone is much pleased with this little work.
Send your address (naming this publication) by post card or letter, and
it will be sent you free of charge.

Send your Name and Address, and mention Davis Advertiser, and receive, per
I return, post free, sample and particulars of

SMITHS-COLCHESTER

THE BEST DIGESTIVE.

No household should be without this valuable and Palatai;!.!-: S [i.MrLAN'T, so
liiKhiy spoken of by the great Duke of Wellington. A .small iiicce taken after a
meal is an effectual Pkeve.ntative against Indices in i liLaxiiiess or Running on
the Chest, and fulness after meals ; or, taken at bed-time i.\ its wnrmih-giNing and
.Stomachic properties. Promotes Sleeps A small piece di-solved in the mouth
when exposed to damp and cold Warms the Chest, and presents those injuries
which arise from Chills. It is invaluable to SroRTS.MEX, and is recommended by
the Duchess of Beaufort, the Marquis of Waterford, Sec., &c., isis. Price i/i.j, 2/9,
and 4/6 ; of all Chemists. ]!e careful 10 buv only SMrrH^s-Coi.CiiESTER LivE-lost;
Candy, prepared nv Whetstone (Late Smith and Greenstone),
CHEMIST, COLCHESTER, as, in consequence of its popularity, and the
commonness of the name (Smith), imitations are rife. Per Frost, 1/4, sand 5/- ;
or, sample, free .

VJO Q>0 civ

RED SPIDER

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

London

BY THE AUTHOR OF
JOHN HERRING ' « MEHALAH ' &c.

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. L

Chatty & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



The right of translation is reserved

^

A), '

PREFACE,

Fifty years ago ! Half a century has passed
-^ since the writer was a child in the parish where
he has laid the scene of this tale.

There he had a trusty nurse, and a somewhat
romantic story was attached to her life.
Faithful, good creature ! She was carrying the
"^ writer in her arms over a brook by a bridge
elevated high above the water, when the plank
i^^^ broke. She at once held up her charge

'y)

^i^ over her head, with both arms, and made no

rv attempt to save herself, thinking only of him,

\J as she fell on the stones and into the water.

^ He escaped wholly unhurt, owing to her

devotion.

Many years after, the author read a little
German story which curiously recalled to him
his nurse and her career. When a few
years ago he revisited the scenes of his childhood,
he thought to recall on paper many and
many a recollection of village life in the southwest
of England in one of its most still and
forgotten corners. So he has taken this thread
of story, not wholly original in its initiation, and
has altered and twisted it to suit his purpose, and
has strung on it sundry pictures of what was
beginning to fade half a century ago in Devon.
Old customs, modes of thought, of speech,
quaint sayings, weird superstitions are all disappearing
out of the country, utterly and forever.


The labourer is now enfranchised, education
is universal, railways have made life circulate
freer ; and we stand now before a great

social dissolving view, from which old things
are passing away, and what is coming on we
can only partly guess,* not wholly distinguish.

In revisiting the parish of Bratton Lovely,
the author found little of the outward scenery
changed, but the modes of life were in a state
of transition. The same hills, the same dear
old moors and woods, the same green coombs,
the same flowers, the same old church, and
the same glorious landscape. The reader will
perhaps accept with leniency a slight tale for
the sake of the pictures it presents of what is
gone for ever, or is fast fading away. Corydon's
Charity, of course, is non-existent in
Bratton parish. The names are all taken,
christian and sire, from the early registers
of the parish. Village characteristics, incidents,
superstitions have been worked in, from
actual recollections. The author has tried

to be very close in local colour ; and, if it be
not too bold a comparison, he would have this
little story considered, like one of Birket Foster's
water-colours, rather as a transcript from
nature than as a finished, original, highly-arranged
and considered picture.

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. THE BEOTHEES-rN"-LAW 1

II. THE MONET-spines 17

III. Weldon's cairn 32

IV. THE WHITE HARE 55

V. 'tIMEO DAXAOS ET dona EERENTES' . . . 64

YI. THE PROGRESS OP STRIFE 80

Vn. Cordon's charity 96

VIII. A Lingered 115

IX. CHARLES LFXMOEE l32

X. ON THE STEPS 146

XI. IN THE LINNET 163

XII. Langford 176

XIII. THE EEYEL 193

XIV. THE LAMB-tiller 218

XV. A BOLT From THE BLUE 234

XVI. KEEPING WATCH 251

XVII. MES. Vale 273

XVIII. TREASURE TEOVE 291

CHAPTER I.

THE Brothers-in-law.

Heigh ! for a badger-skin waistcoat like that
of Hillary Caspian of Chimsworthy ! What
would not I give to be the owner of such a
waistcoat ? Many a covetous glance was cast
at that waistcoat in the parish church of Bratton
Clovelly, in the county of Devon, on Sunday,
where it appeared during public worship in a
pew ; and when the parson read the Decalogue,
many a heart was relieved to learn that the
prohibition against covetousness did not extend
to badger-skin waistcoats. That waistcoat was
made of the skin of a badger Hillary Caspian
had himself drawn and killed. In colour it

VOL. I. B

was silver-grey graduating to black. The fur
was so deep that the hand that grasped it sank
into it. The waistcoat was lined with red, and
had flaps of fur to double over the breast when
the wind lay in the east and the frost was
cruel. When the wind was wet and warm,
the flaps were turned back, exposing the gay
crimson lining, and greatly enhancing its
beauty. The waistcoat had been constructed
for Hillary Caspian by his loving wife before
she died.

Hillary Caspian of Chimsworthy was a
big, brisk, florid man, with light grey eyes.
His face was open, round, hearty, and of
the colour of a brimstone pippin. He was, to
all appearance, a well-to-do man. But appearances
are not always to be trusted.
Chimsworthy, where he lived, was a farm of
two hundred acres ; the subsoil clay, some of
the land moor, and more bog ; but the moor
was a fine place for sheep, and the bog produced
pasture for the young stock when the

clay grass land was drought dry. Hillary had
an orchard of the best sorts of apples grown in
the West, and he had a nursery of apples, of
grafts, and of seedlings. When he ate a
particularly good apple, he collected the pips
for sowing, put them in a paper cornet, and
wrote thereon, ' This here apple was seated of

I on ,' such and such a day, * and cruel

good he were too.' [Cruel in the West, means
no more than ' very')

The farm of Chimsworthy had come to
Caspian through his wife, who was dead.
His brother-in-law was Taverner Langford of
Langford. Taverner's mother had been a Hill,
Blandina Hill, heiress of Chimsworthy, and it
went to her daughter Blandina, who carried
it when she married to her Cornish husband,
Hillary Caspian.

Taverner Langford was unmarried, getting
on in years, and had no nearer relative than
young Hillary Nanspian^ his nephew, the only
child of his deceased sister Blandina, It was

J 2

an understood thing in the parish of Bratton
Clovelly that young Hillary would be heir
to his uncle, and succeed to both Langford
and Chimsworthy. Taverner said nothing
about this, and took no particular notice of
Hillary junior, but, as Hillary senior and the
parish argued, if Taverner does not leave
everything to the young one, whom can he
make his heir ? Hillary was a warm-blooded
man. He suffered little from cold ; he liked
to live in his shirt sleeves. When rain fell, he
threw a sack over his shoulders. He drew on
his cloth coat only for church and market.
He was an imposing man, out of his coat orin
it, big in girth, broad in beam, and tall of
stature. But especially imposing was he when
he rode to market on his white cob, in his
badger-skin waistcoat turned up with crimson.
The consciousness that he was, or
ought to be, a man of substance never left
him. His son Hillary would be a wealthy
yeoman, and he — she Hillary senior — was the

father of this son, this Wealthy yeoman prospective.
On this thought he puffed himself
up. Considering this, he jingled the coins in
his pocket. Boasting of this he drank with
the farmers till he was as red in face as the
lappets of his waistcoat.

Adjoining the house was a good oak wood
covering the slope to the brook that flowed in
the bottom. Fine sticks of timber had been
cut thence, time out of mind. The rafters of
the old house, the beams of the cattle-sheds,
the posts of the gates, the very rails (' shivers,'
as they were locally called), the flooring
(* blanch eon ' locally), all were of oak, hard as
iron ; and all came out of Chimsworthy wood.
An avenue of contorted, stunted limes led to
the entrance gates of granite, topped with
stone balls ; and the gates gave admission to a
yard deep in dung. The house was low, part
of cob — that is, clay and straw kneaded and
embarked — part of stone laid in clay, not in
lime. In the cob walls, plastered white, were

oak windows, in the stone walls two granite
windows. The house was shaped like the
letter T, of which the top stroke represents the
stone portion, containing the parlour and the
best bedroom over it, and the stairs. The
roofs were thatched. There was more roof
than wall to Chimsworthy, which cowered
almost into the ground.

At the back of the house rose the lofty
bank of Broadbury, the highest ridge between
Dartmoor and the Atlantic. The rain that
fell on the Down above oozed through the
shale about Chimsworthy, so that the lane and
yards were perpetually wet, and compelled
those who lived there to walk in wading boots.

In shape, Broadbury is a crescent, with the
horns east and west, and the lap of the half
moon lies to the south. In this lap, the
nursery of countless streams, stands Chatsworth,
with a bank of pines behind it, and
above the black pines golden gorse, and over
the golden gorse blue sky and fleecy white

clouds. The countless springs issue from
emerald patches of bog, where bloom the
purple butterwort, the white grass of Parnassus,
the yellow asphodel, and the blood-tipped sundew.
The rivulets become rills, and swell to
brooks which have scooped themselves coombs
in the hill slope, and the coombs as they descend
deepen into valleys, whose sides are rich
with oak coppice, and the bottoms are rank
with cotton grass, fleecy and flickering as the
white clouds that drift overhead.

Chimsworthy had originally belonged to
the Hills, a fine old yeoman family, but the
last of the Hills had carried it by marriage
to the Langford of Langford. How it had
gone to Hillary Caspian by his marriage with
the daughter of Mrs. Langford lias already
been told.

Langford had been owned for many generations
by the Langford, once a gentle family,
with large estates both in Bratton Clovelly and
in Markham Church, near Bute in Cornwall.

Nothing now remained to Taverner but the
ancestral house and the home estate of some
four hundred acres. Chimsworthy had been
united with it by his father's marriage, but lost
again by his sister's union with the Cornishman
Caspian.

Something like twenty-four months of
married life was all that poor Blandina had ;
and since he had lost his wife, Hillary had remained
a widower. Many a farmer's daughter
had set her eyes on him, for he was a fine
man, but in vain. Hillary Caspian had now
lived at Chimsworthy twenty-two years. His
son Hillary was aged twenty.

Langford was a different sort of place from
Chimsworthy, and Taverner Langford was a
different sort of man from Hillary Caspian.
Langford stood higher than Chimsworthy. It
was built on the edge of Broadbury, but slightly
under its lea, in a situation commanding an
extensive and superb view of Dartmoor, that
rose against the eastern horizon, a wall of turquoise

in sunshine, of indigo in cloudy weather,
with picturesque serrated ridge. The intermediate
country was much indented with deep
valleys, running north and south, clothed in
dark woods, and the effect was that of gazing
over a billowy sea at a mountainous coast.

JSfot a tree, scarce a bush, stood about Langford,
which occupied a site too elevated and
exposed for the growth of anything but thorns
and gorse. The house itself was stiff, slate
roofed, and with slate-encased walls, giving it a
harsh metallic appearance.

Taverner Langford was a tall, gaunt man,
high-shouldered, with a stoop, dark-haired,
dark-eyed, and sallow-complexioned. He had
high cheekbones and a large hard mouth. His
hair was grizzled with age, but his eyes had
lost none of their keenness, they bored like
bradawls. His eyebrows were very thick and
dark, looking more like pieces of black fur
glued on to his forehead than natural growths.
He never looked any one steadily in the face, but

cast furtive glances, with which, however, he saw
vastly more than did Hillary with his wide grey-eyed
stare.

Taverner Langford had never married. It
had never been heard in Bratton that he had
courted a girl. His housekeeping was managed
by a grey-faced, sour woman. Widow Vale.
As Hillary iN'anspian was people's churchwarden,
Taverner Langford was parson's churchwarden.
The Reverend Mr. Eobbins, the rector,
had appointed him, at the Easter vestry five
years before the opening of this tale, because
he was a Dissenter. He did this for two
reasons : first, to disarm Langford's opposition to
the Church ; and secondly, to manifest his own
tolerance — an easy tolerance that springs out
of void of convictions. The two wardens were
reap jointed annually. They and two others
acted as feoffees of an estate left in charity
for the poor. They let the land to each other
alternate years at a shilling an acre, and consumed
the proceeds in a dinner at the ' Eing of

Bells ' once a year. The poor were provided
with the scraps that fell from the feoffees'
table.

Taverner Langford was respected in the
place and throughout the neighbourhood, because
he represented a family as old as the parish
church, a family which lead once owned large
possessions, and maintained some state ; also
because he was an exceedingly shrewd man,
whom no one could overreach, and who was
supposed to have amassed much money. But
he was not a popular man. He was taciturn,
self-contained, and shunned society. He drank
water only, never smoked nor swore ; with the
farmers he was unsociable, with the labourers
ungracious, in all his dealings he was grasping
and unyielding. Dishonourable he was not;
unscrupulous he was not, except only in exacting
the last penny of his bargains.

Hillary Caspian's presence was commanding
and he was fond of his glass, smoked and
swore ; the glass, the pipe, and an oath were

all links of good fellowship. Nevertheless, he
also was not a popular man. In the first place
he was a foreigner — that is, a Cornishman ; in
the second, he was arrogant and boastful.

The brothers-in-law got on better with each
other than with others. Each knew and allowed
for the other's infirmities. Towards Taverner
Hillary bated his pride ; he had sufficient
discretion not to brag in the presence of a man
to whom he owed money. Hillary was a badman
of business, wasteful, liberal, and careless
of his money. He had saved nothing out of
Chimsworthy, and, after a run of bad seasons,
had been forced to borrow of his brother-in-law
to meet current expenses.

Taverner and Hillary Averse not cordial
friends, but they were friends. Taverner felt,
though he did not acknowledge, his isolation,
and he was glad to have his brother-in-law to
whom he could open his lips. Knowing himself
to be of a good old gentle family, Taverner
kept himself from terms of familiarity with the

farmers, but he was too close with his money
to take his place with the gentry.

There was one point on which Hillary was
irrationally sensitive ; there was also a point on
which Taverner was tender. Each avoided
touching the delicate and irritable spot in the
other. Once, and only once, had Caspian
flared up at a word from Langford, and for a
moment their friendship had been threatened
with rupture.

Hillary Caspian was, as has been said,
a Comishman, and the rooted, ineradicable
belief of the Devonian is that their Celtic
Trans-samaritan neighbours are born with tails.
The people of Bratton Clovelly persisted in
asserting that Caspian had a tail concealed
under his garments. When first he entered
the parish, rude boys had shouted after him
inquiries about the caudal appendage, and he
had retaliated so unmercifully, that their
parents had resented it, and the chastisement,
instead of driving the prejudice out, had

deepened it into indelible conviction. ' For
why,' it was argued, ' should he take on so,
unless it be true ? '

He was annoyed at church by the interested
attention paid to him by the women and
children when he seated himself in the
Chimsworthy pew, and dien riding to market,
by the look of curiosity with which his seaton
the saddle was watched by the men.

The only occasion on which the friendship
of Langford and Caspian threatened a
cleavage, was when the former, whether with
kindly intention or sarcastically cannot be determined,
urged on Hillary the advisability
of his publicly bathing in the river Throstle,
one hot summer day, so as to afford ocular
demonstration to the people of the parish that
they laboured under a delusion in asserting
the prolongation of his spine. This proposition
so irritated Caspian, that he burst into a
tempest of oaths, and for some weeks would
not speak to his brother-in-law. Though

eventually reconciled, the recollection of the
affront was never wholly effaced.

The sensitive point with Taverner Langford
was of a very different nature. Not being a
married man he was obliged to engage a housekeeper
to manage this dairy, his maids, and his
domestic affairs generally. His housekeeper,
Mrs, Yeale, was a vinegary woman, of very unpleasant
appearance. She managed admirably,
was economical, active, and clean. The mere
fact, however, of her being at Langford was
enough to give rise to some scandal. She was
intensely disliked by all the servants on the
farm and by the maids in the house.

'Why don't Mr. Langford get rid of the
woman, so ill-favoured, so sharp-tongued, so
unpleasant, unless he can't help himself .^ ' was
reasoned. 'You may depend on it there's
something.'

Taverner was touchy on this matter. He
broke with Farmer Welland for inquiring of him
flippantly, ' How goes the missus .? '

Langford detested the woman, who had a
livid face, pink eyes, and a rasping voice ; but
as scandal attached to him with such a creature
in his house, he argued : How much more
consistency would it assume had he a better
favoured housekeeper !

Moreover,' he reasoned, ' where can I get
one who will look after my interests so well
as Mrs. Veale ? If she be bitter to me, she's
shoes and wormwood to the servants.'

CHAPTER II.

THE Money-SPINNER.

A LITTLE spark will burn a big hole — a very
little spark indeed was the occasion of a great
blaze of temper, and a great gap in the friendship
of the brothers-inlaw. Langford possessed
this disadvantage : it lay so high, and
was so exposed, that it lacked cosiness. It
had nowhere about it a nook where a man
might sit and enjoy the sun without being cut
by the wind. Broadbury was the meeting-place
of all the winds. Thither the wind roared
without let from the Atlantic, and to the back
of it every tree bowed from the north-west ;
thither it swept from the east with a leap
from the rocky crests of Dartmoor, sparing the
intervening park-like lowlands.

VOL. I. c

Chimsworthy had no prospect from its
windows ; but it stood at the source of an
affluent of the Tamar, and beyond its granite
gates, across the lane that led up to Broad-bury,
was a stile, and beyond the stile a slope
with a view down the valley to the setting sun
and the purple range of Cornish tors above
Liskeard, Carlton, Barra, Kilmar, and
Trevartha.

On Sunday evenings, and whenever the
fancy took him, Taverner Langford would descend
Broadbury by the lane, cross the stile,
and seat himself on a rude granite slab on the
farther side of the hedge, that had been placed
there by one of the Hills — it had been the
'quoit ' of a great prehistoric dolmen or cromlech,
but the supporters had been removed to
serve as gate posts, and the covering stone now
formed a seat. On this stone Taverner Langford
spent many an hour with his chin on the
handle of his thorn stick, looking over the
wood and meadows and arable land of Chatsworth,

and scheming how money might be
made out of the farm where it profitably
worked. He noted with jealous eye the
ravages caused by neglect, the gaps in the
hedges, the broken roofs, the crop of thistles,
the choked drains bursting many yards above
their mouths, bursting because their mouths
had not been kept open. The farm had been
managed by Taverner's father along with
Langford, and had been handed over on
Blandina's marriage, in excellent condition, to
Xanspian, and had gone back ever since he
had enjoyed it. This angered Langford,
though he knew Chimsworthy would never be
his. ' This is the sort of tricks to which young
Larry is reared, which he will play with Langford.
As the bull gambols, so capers the calf.'
Hillary did not relish the visits of Taverner
to the Look-out Stone. He thought, and
thought rightly, that Langford was criticising
unfavourably his management of the estate.
He was conscious that the farm had deck



perforated, but he laid the blame on the
weather and the badness of construction of the
drains, on everything but himself. ' How can
you expect drains to last, put down as they
are, one flat stone on edge and another leaning
on it aslant ? Down it goes with the weight of
earth atop, and the passage is choked. I'll eat
a Jew without mint-sauce if a drain so constructed
will last twenty years.' Chimsworthy
could never go to Taverner, what right then
had he to grumble if it were in bad order ?

When Langford came to the Look-out Stone
Hillary soon heard of it, and went to him in
his shirt-sleeves, pipe in mouth, and with a jug
of cyder in his hand. Then some such a
greeting as this ensued :

Trespassing again, Taverner ? '

Looking at the laud over which I've
walked, and where I've weeded many a day,
with my father, before you was thought of in
Bratton Clovelly.'

Then Hillary drew the pipe from his lips,

and, raking the horizon with the seaHng-waxed
end, said, ' Fine land, yonder.'-

Moor — naught but moor,' answered Langford
disparagingly.

No carding of sheep on peaty moor,' said
Caspian triumphantly.

No fattening of bullocks on heather,' replied
Taverner. ' It is wet in Devon, it is
wetter in Cornwall.'

Wetter ! That is not possible. Here we
live on the rose of a watering-can, pillowed
among bogs.'

'There are worse things than water,'
sneered Langford, pointing to the jug.

Ah ! ' said Hillary in defence. ' Sour is
the land that grows sour apples and sour folks.'

Heaven made the apples — they are good
enough. Man makes the cyder — which is evil.
Thus it is with other good gifts, we pervert
them to our bad ends.'

This was the formula gone through, with
slight variations, whenever the brothers-in-law

met at the granite seat. A little ruffle of
each other, but it went no further.

Hillary Caspian was a talker, not loud but
continuous. He had a rich, low, murmuring
voice, with which he spoke out of one side of
his mouth, whilst he inhaled tobacco through
the other. It was pleasant to listen to, like
the thrum of a bumble-bee or the whirr of a
winnowing fan. The eyes closed, the head
nodded, and sleep ensued. But every now and
then Hillary uttered an oath, for he was not a
man to wear a padlock on his lips, and then
the dozing listener woke with a start. When
that listener was Taverner, he uttered his protest.
' The word is uncalled for, Hillary ;
change it for one that sounds like it, and is
inoffensive and unmeaning.'

There was much difference in the way in
which the two men behaved when angered.
Hillary Alas hot and blazed up in a sudden
outburst. He was easily angered, but soon
pacified, unless his pride were hurt. Taverner,

on the other hand, though equally ready to
take umbrage, took it in another fashion. He
tiu-ned sallow, said little, and brooded over his
wrong. If an opportunity offered to resent it,
it was not allowed to pass, however long after
the event. One evening the brothers-in-law
were at the Look-out Stone. Hillary was
standing with this foot on the block on which
Taverner sat.

I'll tell you what,' said Caspian, ' I wish
I'd got a few thousands to spare. Swaddle-down
is for sale, and the farm joins mine, and
would be handy for stock.'

And I wish I could buy Bannadon. That
will be in the market shortly, but I cannot
unless you repay me what you have borrowed.'

Can't do that just now ; not comfortably,
you understand.'

Then what is the good of your scheming
to buy Swaddledown ? A man without teeth
mustn't pick nuts.'

'And what is the good of your wanting

Bannadon when you have as much as you can
manage at Langford ? A man with his mouth
full mustn't take a second bite till he's swallowed
the first.'

Then neither spoke for a few moments.
Presently, however, Hillary drew a long whiff,
and blew the smoke before him. Slowly he
pulled the pipe from between his lips, and with
the end of the stem pointed down the valley.
It would be something to be able to call those
fields my own.'

That would be pulling on boots to hide
the stocking full of holes,' sneered Taverner.
Hillary coloured, and his eyes twinkled.
'There is no picking feathers off a toad, or
clothes off a naked man,' he muttered ; ' and if
you squeeze a crab-apple you get only sourness.
If I were not your brother-in-law I shouldn't
put up with your words. But you can't help it.
Shoes and blackberries grow in the same hedge,
and their natures are as they began. Older
they grow, they grow either sweeter or sourer.'

Ah ! ' retorted Taverner, ' out of the same
acre some grow wheat and others nettles.'

'It is all very well your talking,' said
Hillary, putting his thumbs in his waistcoat
arm-holes, and expanding. ' You, no doubt,
have made money, one way or other. I have
not ; but then, I am not a screw. I am a freehanded,
open man. God forbid that I should
be a screw ! '

'A screw holds together and a wedge
drives apart,' said Taverner.

I don't know,' said Hillary, looking across
lovingly at the Swaddledown fields, ' but I
may be able to find the money. My credit is
not so low that I need look far. If you will
not help me others will.'

How can you raise it ? on a mortgage ?
You cannot without young Hillary's consent,
and he is not of age.'

Luck will come my way some time,' said
Caspian. 'Luck is not nailed to one point
of the compass, brother Langford. Don't you

flatter yourself that it always goes to you.
Luck veers as the wind.'

'That is true, but as the wind here sets
three days out of four from the west, so does
hick set most time towards the thrifty man.'

Sooner or later it will turn to me.'

I know what you mean. I've heard tell
of what you have said to the farmers when
warmed with liquor. The wind don't blow
over a whitehead without carrying away some
of its down and dropping it where least wanted.
I've heard your boasts, they are idle — idle as
thistledown. Do you think you'll ever succeed
to Langford ? I'll live to see your burying.'

My burying won't help you to Chatsworth,'
retorted Hillary. ' My Larry stands
in your way. Heigh ! I said it ! The luck is
coming my way already ! ' he exclaimed eagerly.
He put down his foot, placed both palms on
the slab of granite, and leaned over it.

Not a moment before it is needed,' said
Taverner. ' You've had some bad falls, and

they'd have been breakdown tumbles but for
my help. I suppose you must let Swaddledown
go ; it's a pity too, lying handy as the button at
the flap of your pocket.'

She is coming my way as fast as she can ! '

'What, Swaddledown?'

No ! Luck ! Look ! running right into
my hands. The money-spinner ! '

The money-spinner ! ' Taverner started to
his feet. ' Where ? Whither is she running ? '

Stand out of the sunlight, weill you ! '
exclaimed Hillary. ' How can I see and secure
her with your shadow cast across the stone ? '

Where is she ? '

I tell you she is making direct for me. I
knew the luck would come if I waited. Curse
you ! Get on one side, will you ? '

'Don't swear,' sake Langford, standing at
the other end of the granite slab, and resting
his hands on it. ' The money-spinner is a
tickle (touchy) beast, and may take offence at
a godless word. I see her, she has turned.

You've scared her with your oaths, and now
she is running towards me.'

'She's going to fetch some of your luck
and bring it to my pocket ; she's on the turn
again.'

'No, she is not. She is making for me,
not you.'

But she is on my stone. She has brought
the luck to me.'

She may be on your stone now, but she is
leaving it for my hand, as fast as her red legs
can carry her.'

You're luring her away from me, are you .^ '
cried Hillary, blazing as red as any money-spinner.


Luring ! She's running her natural course
as sure as a fox runs before the wind.'

Stand out of the sun ! It is the ugly
shade you cast that chills her. She goes where
she may be warmest.'

Out of thine own mouth thou speaks thy
condemnation,' scoffed Langford. 'Of course

she goes to the warmest corner, and which is
warmest, my pocket or thine ? — the full or the
empty? '

The spinner is on my stone, and I will
have her ! ' cried Hillary.

Your stone ! — yes, yours because you got
it and Chimsworthy away from me.'

The spinner is by your hand ! ' roared
Caspian, and with an oath he threw himself
across the stone and swept the surface with
his hands.

Langford uttered an exclamation of anger.
You have crushed — you have killed her !
There is an end of luck to you, you long-tailed
Cornish orang-outang ! '

Hillary Caspian staggered back. His face
became dark with rage. He opened his hips,
but was inarticulate for a moment ; then he

roared, ' You say that, do you, you , that

let yourself be led and tongue-lashed by your
housekeeper.*

Our friendship is at an end,' said Langford,

turning livid, and his dark bushy brows met
across his forehead. ' Never shall you set foot
in Langford now.'

'Never! It will come to my Larry, and
I'll drink your burying ale there yet.'

Larry shall never have it.'

You can't keep him out,' exclaimed
Hillary.

Do not be so sure of that,' said Taverner.

I am sure. I have seen the parchments.'

'I know them better than you,' laughed
Langford. Then he went to the stile to leave
the field.

I'll have the law of you,' shouted Hillary ;
you are trespassing on my land.'

I trespassing ! ' mocked Langford ; ' this is
a stile leading to Swaddledown.'

There is no right of way here. This is a
private stile leading only to the Look-out Stone.
I will have the law of you, I swear.'

Thus it was that the friendship of twenty-two
years was broken, and the brothers-in-law

became declared and deadly enemies. The
friendship was broken irremediably by an
insect almost microscopic — a little scarlet
spider no larger than a mustard-seed, invested
by popular superstition with the power of
spinning money in the pocket of him who
secures it.

RED SPIDER

CHAPTER III
weldon's cairn.

Whilst Hillary Caspian and Taverner Langford
were falling out over a minute red spider,
Hillary junior, or Larry as he was called by
his intimates, was talking to Honor Luxmore
in a nook of the rubble of Weldon's Cairn.

Weldon's Cairn is a great barrow, or
tumulus on Broadbury, not far from Lang-worthy.
Its original name has been lost.
Since a certain Weldon was hung in chains on a
gallows set up on this mound for the murder
of three women it has borne his name.

The barrow was piled up of stones and
black peat earth, and was covered with gorse,
so that the old British warrior who lay beneath

may indeed be said to have made his bed in
glory. The gorse brake not only blazed as
fire, but streamed forth perfume like a censer.
Only on the summit was a bare space, where
the gallows had stood, and Weldon had dropped
piecemeal, and been trodden by the sheep into
the black soil.

On the south-west side, facing the sun, was
a hollow. Treasure-seekers had dug into the
mound. Tradition said that therein lay a heroin
harness of gold. The panoply that wrapped
him round was indeed of gold, but it was the
gold of the ever-blooming gorse. Having
found nothing but a few flint flakes and broken
sheds, the seekers had abandoned the cairn,
without filling up the cavity. This had fallen
in, and was lined with moss and short grass,
and fringed about with blushing heath and
blazing gorse.

In this bright and fragrant hollow, secluded
from the world, and sheltered from the wind
that wafted down on her the honey breath of

VOL. I. D

the furze, and exposed to the warmth of the
declining sun, sat Honor Luxmore ; and near
her, not seated, but leaning against the side of
the excavation, stood Hillary junior talking to
her.

Hillary was like his father, well built, fair-haired,
and flushed with life. His eyes were
blue, quick and honest, sparkling with fun ;
and his bearing was that of the heir of
Chims worthy and Langford. There was
unmistakable self-reliance in his face, making
up, in measure, for lack of superior intelligence.


Honor Luxmore demands a fuller account
than young Hillary.

Some way down the lane from Weldon's
Cairn stood a cottage. This cottage was constructed
on the bank or hesse above the
roadway, so that the door was reached by a
flight of steps, partly cut in the rock, partly
constructed of stone. A handrail assisted
ascent and descent. The cottage seemed to

have taken refuge up the side of the bank to
escape from the water in the' lane. Actually
the roadway was cut through shale to some
depth, leaving the cottage on the true surface
of the land. The road had no doubt in part
been artificially cut, but certainly it had been
also scooped in part by the water, which,
issuing from the joints of the shale, converted
it into a watercourse. The sides of the road
were rich with moss and fern, and the moss
and fern were spangled with drops that oozed
out of the rock. Below the steps was a spring,
in a hole scooped in the side of the loose,
shale rock.

The cottage itself was of cob, whitewashed,
with a thatched roof, brown and soft as the fur
of a mole. The windows were small and low.
In this cottage lived Oliver Luxmore, a man
poor in everything but children, and of these
he possessed more than he knew how to provide
for. The cottage was like a hive. Flaxen

boys and girls of all ages might be seen
pouring out on their way to school, or swarming
home in the evening. They were all
pretty children, with dazzling blue eyes and
clear complexions and fair hair, from the
youngest, a little maid of three, upwards ; and
what was better than beauty, they were patterns
of neatness and cleanliness. According
to the proverb, cleanliness comes next to
goodness, but these little Luxmores were both
cleanly and goodly. The goodliness they drew
from their parents, but the cleanliness was due
to Honor, the eldest daughter of Oliver Lux-more,
who stood to her brothers and sisters in
the place of mother, for the wife of Luxmore
had died three years ago, just after the birth
of her youngest.

The father was a carrier, who drove a van
on Fridays to Tavistock, and on Saturdays to
Okehampton, the market-days at these respective
places. On the other week-days he
worked for the farmers, doing odd jobs, and so

earning money for the sustenance of his many-children.


Oliver Luxmore was a quiet, dreamy, un-energetic
man, who was hampered by a belief
that he was the right heir to a good property,
which would certainly be his if only he were
able to find the necessary registers, but what
these registers were, whether of marriage or
birth, he was uncertain. At the extreme limits
of the parish, in a pretty situation, lay a good
house of Queen Anne's reign, with some fine
trees, and traces of gardens, and a fishpond,
called Coombe Park, which had belonged to the
Luxmoores or Luxmores. But this property
had been sold, and Oliver maintained that if
he had had but one hundred pounds wherewith
to find the registers, Coombe Park could not
have been sold, and he would be a squire
there, with a good fortune. He had visited a
lawyer in Okehampton, and another at Tavis-
took, to ask them to take up his case on speculation,
but Oliver's ideas were so hazy as to his

pedigree, never resolving themselves into definite
statements of fact, that both one and the
other declined to touch his claim unless they
were given some certain ground on which to
work.

Then he went to the Eector of Bratton, and
with his help extracted all the entries of births,
marriages, and deaths of the Luxmores — pages
of them, showing that from the beginning of the
sixteenth century the name had abounded there,
and belonged to or was assumed by persons of
all ranks and conditions. Then Oliver took
this Hst to the Okehampton lawyer.

Look here,' said he, ' my eldest daughter
is called Honor, and in 1662 John Luxmore,
gentleman, and Temperance, his wife, had a
daughter baptised called Honor. That's proof,
is it not ? '

Why was your daughter christened by
this name ? '

Well, you see my wife was Honor, and so
we called our first girl after her.'

This may be taken as a specimen that will
suffice of Oliver's evidences, and as a justification
of the solicitors declining to take up his
claim.

It is one hundred pounds that is wanted
to do it,' said Oliver Luxmore. ' If I had that
to spend on the registers, it would come right
enough. I always heard my father say that
if we had our rights we shouldn't be in the
cottage in Water Lane.'

Oliver spent money and wasted time over
his ineffectual attempts to prove his descent
and establish his rights, but he had not the
slightest idea what to search for and how to
search. He did not even know Ms grandfather's
Christian-name, but believed it began
with a J, for he had an old linen shirt that
was marked in the tail with J. L., and was
so strong and sound that he wore it still.
J. might stand for John, or James, or Joseph,
or Jeremiah. But then he was not quite sure
the shirt had belonged to his grandfather, but

he had heard his mother say she believed it
had.

On days when he might have been earning
money he would wander away to Coomb e
Park, prowl round the estate estimating its
value, or go into the house to drink cyder
with the yeoman who now owned and occupied
it, to tell him that his claim might yet
be established, and to assure him that he
would deal honourably and liberally with him
when he turned him out. The yeoman and
his wife regarded him as something of a
nuisance, but nevertheless treated him with
respect. There was no knowing, they said,
but that he might prove in the end to be the
heir, and then where would they be ? Oliver
would have liked to see the title-deeds, but of
these he was not allowed a glimpse, though he
could not have read them had he seen them, or
made his claim the clearer if he had been able
to read them.

We have said that Oliver Luxmore worked

for the farmers on the days of the week on
which he was not carrying between Bratton
and Tavistock and Okehampton ; but Thursdays
and Mondays were broken days. On
Thursdays he went about soliciting orders,
and on Mondays he went about distributing
parcels. Thus he had only two clear days for
jobbing. The work of a carrier is desultory,
and unfits him for manual labour and for persevering
work. He gets into idle, gossiping
ways. When he picks up a parcel or a
passenger he has to spend a quarter of an hour
discussing what has to be done with the parcel,
and has to settle the passenger comfortably
among the parcels, without the passenger impinging
on the parcels, or the parcels incommoding
the passenger.

Oliver was an obliging, amiable man. In
the front of his van was a seat, the top
of which could be raised on hinges, and in
which he deposited watches that went to be
cleaned, books of the Reading Club that

travelled between subscribers, medicine bottles
and boxes of pills, ribbons, brooches, and other
delicate goods. The lid of this box was sat
on and kept secure by Oliver. He was devoid
of humour. To every commission, to every
joke, to every reprimand, he had but one
answer, ' Certainly, certainly, very true.'

Oliver,' said Caspian one day, ' I can
suggest to you a means of increasing your
income. Put a sitting of eggs inter you when
you go to market, and sell the young chickens
when you get there.'

Certainly, certainly, sir, very true,' was his
civil reply, without a muscle of his face moving.

Oh, Mr. Luxmore ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Bobbins, the restores, ' this is the same book
you brought me last month from the parsonage
at Maristowe. I have had it and returned it,
and now you bring it me again. ]\iind it
goes back on Friday ; and you shall not be
paid for your trouble, as I cannot be expected
to read the same book over twice.'

Certainly, certainly, ma'am, very true.'

Oh, Mr. Luxmore,' said Mrs. Veale, ' you
are to mind and match me the silk, cut on the
cross, and if the shade be out, I won't take it,
you must return it, and pay for it from your
own pocket.'

Certainly, certainly, ma'am.'

The Vivid,' as Mr. Luxmore's van was
called, beheld its name. There was no vivacity
(pass the word) about it. It went slowly uphill,
because the horse had so much to draw.
It went slower down hill, because it had to
back against such a prodigious weight, descending
by natural velocity. There was not a mile
not half a mile — of level road between
Bratton Clovelly and the market-towns.

The carrier's horse was a rough creature,
brown, with a long tail, thick mane, and coarse
hair about the fetlocks, of the colour of tow.
It lived in a precarious manner ; the children
cut grass in the hedges for it, and it was
sometimes turned out on Broadbury, with

hobbles on its feet. It ate the refuse of
Liixmore's vegetable garden, the turnip-tops,
the potato parings, the maggot-nibbled outer
cabbage leaves, and the decayed apples from
his trees. Once, when the horse had knocked
his nose, and Luxmore had put a linseed
poultice over it, in a bit of sacking tied round
the head with four stout tapes, when his back
was turned the horse curled his tongue out of
his mouth, detached the poultice, and ate it,
linseed, sacking, and tapes, to the last grain
and thread. There was nothing but stones
that horse would not eat. He bit away great
pieces from his manger. He took a bite out
of Luxmore's trousers, he gnawed the bark off
the cherry-tree by his gate, he gobbled up
nettles, thistles, furze, as though his appetite
were as vitiated as an East Indian's.

Oliver Luxmore had to put up with a good
many bad debts ; his business did not bring
him in much money ; he was never able to
lay by a penny : how could he with so many

mouths to feed at home ? Honor would have
been unable to make both ends meet unless
she had been a manager. The family would
have been better off if Charles, the eldest son,
two years the senior of Honor, had fulfilled
his duty to his own. But Charles, having
reached the full wage earning age, had en-hated,
and was away on foreign service. His
father and sister did not even know where he
was, for he had not troubled himself to write
since his departure. Charles had always been
a wild and headstrong boy who needed a
firm hand over him to direct him right. But
Oliver Luxmore's hand was weak, and the
mother, a shrewd, painstaking woman of decided
character, had made the boy obstinate
and sulky, by exerting over him the authority
which should have been exercised by his
father.

After the death of his wife, Oliver remained
as weak as during her life, very good-natured,
and so pliant as to bend to the wills of his

children, even to that of his youngest, Temperance,
aged three. The family would indisputably
have run wild, and his affairs gone to
ruin, had not Honor assumed her mother's
place, and ruled the little house with energy
and decision. Her rule was firm but loving,
and few of the children ventured to disobey
her, not even the thirteen-year-old Joseph, or
her next sister, Kate, aged seventeen ; no, not
even her father, Oliver ; indeed he was the
least difficult to manage of all. There were
nine children in all. Charles, Honor, Kate,
Joseph, have already been mentioned, so has
little Temperance the baby. Between Joseph
and Temperance came Pattie, that is Patience,
Willy, Martha, and Charity. The children
were all pretty and well-conducted. Charles
was no longer a child. He was away. He
therefore is not reckoned among those who
were pretty and well-conducted.

Honor was tall ; her bearing very erect ;
her well-knit, vigorous frame, the glance of her

clear hazel eyes, her firm mouth, all combined
to inspire respect and insure submission. The
respectability of her father, the honesty of her
brothers and sisters were due to Honor, and to
Honor alone. But for her presence in the
house everything would have gone wrong,
Kate was too lively and careless to manage it,
the others too young, her father helpless. Had
she not been there to keep home orderly, and
the children neat, Oliver would have drifted to
the tavern to bury his troubles in the ale-can,
and the little ones would have sunk into squalor
and strife, and struggled out of childhood into
misery, beggary, and vice.

The children had inherited from their
father blue eyes and very fair hair ; they had
lovely complexions, and clear, bright colour ;
some of them had certainly derived from him
also an inertness of character which left them
and their futures at the mercy of the persons
and the chances that should surround or fall in
their way. This was not the case with Kate,

who had character of her own, though very
diverse from that of her eldest sister. Kate
promised to be the beauty of the family. Her
blue eyes twinkled with mirth and mischief,
like summer seas. She had a roguish dimple
in her cheeks, and an expression of consciousness
of her good looks on her face.

Honor was different in appearance, as in
character, from the rest. She hardly seemed to
belong to the family. She had hair the colour
of barley-sugar, and hazel-brown eyes. She
looked every one whom she addressed straight
in the face, and was absolutely void of vanity ;
she asked no admiration like Kate. She was
contemptuously indifferent to her looks, and
yet she was never untidy. All the rest were
better dressed than herself. She never gave
herself new clothes ; she had an old store of
her mother's to draw from for her own
clothing; but though her gown was antiquated
and often patched, it was never ragged,
never had tape and thread ends hanging from

it. She had inherited her grandmother's scarlet
cloak, and was the last person in that neighbourhood
to wear such a garment. This she
only wore on Sundays, but she wore it on
every Sunday, summer as well as winter, when
she went to church. She also wore red stockings,
and as she was taller than her mother,
and her mother's gowns could not be lengthened,
a good deal of red stocking showed.
She wore these stockings simply because they
were her mother's and had to be worn out,
and because Kate objected to them for her own
feet. Perhaps it was the shortness of the
skirts that gave to Honor a look of length of
red limb below the scarlet cloak a little grotesque,
that occasioned the boys of Bratton to
nickname her ' the Eed Spider.'

The mischievous Kate teased her by asserting
that she got her name from her hair ; but
Honor's hair was not red, it was not even chestnut
brown, it was golden brown, like beech-leaves
in autumn — a very rare, but a most

VOL. I. E

beautiful colour. It was all one to Honor what
hair she had, all one to her what the boys
styled her. No girl could be jealous of her ;
she had no eyes for the lads, her whole heart,
her every thought was centred in home. As the
chapter-house of a cathedral is built in a circle
and leans on one central pillar, and as the fall of
that pillar would insure the ruin of the house,
so was it with the cottage of the Luxmores —
on her it rested. This she knew, and the little
self-consciousness she possessed was the consciousness
that on her all leaned for support,
and to her owed their uprightness.

What a lot of socks and stockings you have
got on the furze bushes about you,' said Hillary.

'Yes — like to have. There are so many
little feet at home that tread holes.'

You must be glad that they are two-footed,
not four-footed animals, those brothers and
sisters of yours.'

I am, or I could not darn their stockings,
much less knit them.'

Hillary thought a moment ; then he said,
looking at a pair of very much darned red
stockings hung over a branch of heather,
• You know they call you the Eed Spider, and
they say true. The Eed Spider brings luck
wherever she goes. I am sure you are the
money-spinner in your house.'

I! ' exclaimed the girl, who coloured slightly,
and looked up ; ' I — I spin, but never money.'

Well, you bring luck.'

'I keep out ill-luck,' she answered with
confidence ; ' I can do no more, but that is something,
and that takes me all my time. I have
hardly leisure to sleep.'

Why have you brought all these stockings
out on the Down .^ Are you going to convert
Weldon's Cairn into a second-hand mercer's
shop ? '

Larry, in spite of proverb to the contrary,
I am forced to do two things at a time. I have
Diamond to watch as well as stockings to darn.
The poor beast is not Avell, and I have brought

IIMIWCDOITV f\x

him from the stable. The Httle ones are at
school, except of course Temperance, and Kate
is with her cutting grass in the lane for Diamond.'


What would you do if you lost Diamond ? '
asked young Hillary,

Larry, don't even suggest such an evil.
If you whistle you call up wind, and if you
whisper the name of the devil he looks in at
the door. We got into debt buying Diamond,
and it took us three years to work our way out.
Now we are clear, and it would be too dreadful
to get into debt again. You know, Larry,
what the mothers do with children who have
the thrush. They pass them under a bramble
that grows with a loop into the ground. Like
enough the little creatures lose the thrush, but
they carry away scratches. Debt, to my thinking,
is like treatment ; you get rid of one evil by
sticking yourself full of thorns. So take my
advice, and never get into debt.'

I'm not like to,' laughed the young man,

'with Chimsworthy behind me and Langford
before me.'

Never reckon on what you've not got,'
said Honor. ' That's like buying the hogshead
before the apples have set, or killing a pig
without having the pickle-tub. Langford
is not yours, any more than Coombe Park is
ours.'

Langford must come to us Nanspians
some day, you know. Honor. Not that I
reckon on it. God forbid. May Uncle Taverner
live for ever. But it gives a chap confidence
to know that a large estate will come to
him in the end.'

Don't reckon on that,' said Honor.

It can't fail. It stands so in the deeds.'

But Mr. Langford might marry.'

Hillary would have burst into a hearty
laugh at the idea, had not Honor laid her hand
on his arm to arrest him, and raised the forefinger
of the other to impose silence.

Sitting up on its hind legs, in a begging

posture, at the month of the excavation, was a
white hare. It looked at the young people fora
moment, doubtingly, inquiringly. Then
Hillary stirred, and with a flash it was gone.

Hillary exclaimed, ' Honor ! is it not the
picture of Mrs. Verie ? '

CHAPTEE IV.

THE WHITE HARE.

I HAVE seen the white hare before, several
times,' said Honor Luxmore.

'You have? Do you know what folks
say?'

They say that it is unlucky to see a white
hare ; but I think nothing of that.'

I do not mean that,' said Hillary, laughing.
'But they say that when a witch goes
on her errands she takes this shape. Perhaps,
Honor,' he went on with roguery in his twinkling
eyes, ' Mrs. Yeale is off over the Down inquest
of her master. He has gone to the
Look-out Stone to have a talk to my father.'

Nonsense, Larry. I put no credit in those

tales of witches ; besides, I never heard that
Mrs. Yeale was one — not properly'

She is white with pink eyes, and so is
the hare,' argued Hillary, ' and spiteful she is,
certainly. I hope, if that were her, she won't
be bringing mischief to you or to me. We
shall see. If that were her, Uncle Taverner
will be coming home directly. Folks say that
he is afraid of her tongue, and that is the only
thing in heaven or hell he is afraid of.'

Honor uttered an exclamation of surprise
and alarm. A black ungainly figure stood before
them, black against the glowing western
sky. She recovered herself at once and rose
respectfully. Hillary turned and recognised
his uncle.

Well, Uncle Taverner ! ' he exclaimed,
you have come on us suddenly. We were
just talking about you.'

Ah ! ' answered Langford, leaning on his
stick and lowering at him, ' leave me out
of your talk and your calculations altogether.

I dare say you have been reckoning on my
shoes, and how well they would fit your young
feet. No, no ! no feet of yours shall ever be
thrust into them.' Then seeing that Hillary
was disconcerted, he laughed a harsh, bitter
laugh. ' Your father and I have parted forever.
We have quarrelled; I will not speak
to him more. To you I speak now for the
last time also. As Caspian has split with
Langford, Chims worthy and Langford will
not splice. Remember that. Go to work,
young man, go to work, instead of standing
idling here. Your father is in my debt, and
you must help him to earn the money to pay
me off.' Then he turned to Honor, and said,
Why are you here, instead of watching your
horse ? Diamond is down in the gravel-pit, on
his side, dead or dying.'

Honor sprang up with a cry.

The white hare,' said Hillary, ' has brought
the ill-luck — to both of us at once.'

Neither of the young people gave another

thought to Taverner Langford. Honor was
in distress about the horse, and Hillary was
desirous of assisting her. He accompanied
her to the spot, a hole dug in the surface of the
moor for rubble wherewith to mend the road.
Diamond had either made his way into it by
the cart road, or had fallen over the edge.
He lay on his side panting.

Poor fellow,' said Hillary gravely, ' Diamond
is done for.'

Oh, I ought not to have let him from my
sight,' cried Honor, stung with self-reproach.

'You could do nothing for him,' said the
young man. ' He is not dying from your
neglect. Look here. Honor, do you see that
hoof-print ? He walked in, he did not fall over
the edge. Every beast when it feels death
approach tries to hide itself, as though it were
ashamed — as though death were a crime. It
is so, Honor.'

Larry ! Wliat can I do ? Wliat can I
do for poor Diamond ? '

You can do nothing but pat him and let
him go out of the world with a word of love.'

I will do that. I will indeed ! ' Then
she caressed the old horse, and stroked its
cheek and nose, and spoke to it tenderly.
Diamond raised his head, snuffed, rubbed this
head against his 5'oung mistress, then laid it
down again on the stones and died.

Honor's tears flowed, but she was not one
to make a demonstration of distress. She said :
I must go home, Larry, and get supper ready
for the children. I can do nothing here now.'

I am very sorry for you,' said Hillary,
showing more emotion than she ; ' I am indeed,
Honor. I know what a terrible loss this will
be to your father, and he is too proud a man
to go round with a brief. Put your hand to
mine, Honor ; we shall always be good friends,
and I will do what I can for you ; but it cannot
be much now that Uncle Taverner is
across with us, and about to exact his money.
I will tell you what. I will get my father to

lend you our horse Derby for awhile, till we
can scheme what is to be done. I wish I'd got
a quarter of an acre of land of my own, and I
would sell it and give you the money wherewith
to bay another horse. I would, in truth
and sincerity, Honor.'

I am sure of that,' answered the girl ; ' I
know I can always trust to your good will and
kind offices. Good-bye ! I must go.'

Then Hillary went slowly homewards. The
sun had gone down in the west, and the sky was
full of after glory. A few level bars, steps of
vivid fire, were drawn against the sky, and
there was, as it were, a pavement of sapphire
strewn with the down from a flamingo. The
moor stood with every furze-bush on its margin
and two small cairns on the edo;e blotted black
against the blaze. As Hillary descended from
the moor he got into the Chimsworthy Lane,
shadowed by a plantation of Scottish pines his
father had made twenty years ago, and which
stood up high enough to intercept the light.

Poor Honor ! ' mused Hillary. ' Whatever
will lie and her father and all those little uns
do without the horse? A carrier without a
horse is a helpless animal. I don't like to ask
my father too much for the Luxmores, and
seem hot about them, or he will be thinking
I am in love with Honor, which I am not.
Some chaps think a young fellow cannot speak
to a girl, or even look at her, without being in
love with her. I like Honor well enough, as a
friend, but no more.'

The road was very rough, he could not
descend fast because of the loose stones. In
rainy weather the way was a watercourse, and
the water broke up the shale rock that formed
the floor and scattered it in angular fragments
over the road.

What a ridiculous notion, that I should be
in love with a carrier's daughter ! I a Xanspian

of Chimsworthy, and heir ' he stopped.

No — that part is not to be, though how Uncle
Taverner will do us out of Langford is more

than I can imagine. That he should marry
and have a family is clean too ridiculous !
Confound that stone ! It nigh turned and
broke my ankle. If Honor's father had
Coombe Park it would be another matter.
Then, possibly, I might think of her in a
different way ; but — a cottage girl ! — a carrier's
daughter ! Luxmore is not a bad name. But
then they have the name and nothing else.
I'll cut myself a stick, or I shall be down on
my nose. I should not care for Honor to seeme
tomorrow with a broken nose. These
pines may be a shelter, but they cast a very
black shadow, and the rabbits breed in the
plantation like midges in a duck-pond.'

He cut himself a stick and went on. 'If
Honor where here, I should be forced to lend
her a hand, and then if father or any one were
to meet us, there'd be laughter and jokes.
I'm mighty glad Honor is not here.'

Presently he got beyond the pines.

The hedges were high, the way still dark.

Good heavens ! ' he exclaimed, ' the white
hare again ! '

As he cried out, a white animal ran up the
lane, passed him and disappeared.

'Confound it,' said Hillary. 'I wish I

had not seen that. Why what have we

here ? '

He ran forward. In the lane, across it,
where the stile to the Look-out Stone allowed a
streak of western light to stream across the
road, lay Hillary Caspian senior, insensible,
on his face, with the broken cyder jug in his
hand.

'Father! what ails you? Speak!' cried
Hillary junior. He tried to lift the old man ;
he could raise but not carry him. The anger
aroused by his contention with Langford had
brought on a fit.

CHAPTER Y.

Time DANAOS ET Dona Fermented.'

Honor Luxmore sat near the window, weaving
a hamper out of willow twigs. Her sister
Kate was similarly engaged. By the fire sat
Oliver, smoking and watching the smouldering
peat on the hearth. The sisters earned money
by making baskets. Down in the bottoms, in
the marshy land, grew willow-bushes ; and they
were allowed by the farmers to cut as much as
they needed free of charge. Towards Christmas,
indeed from the 1st of October, there was
a demand for ' mounds,' in which to send away
game as presents. Honor, Kate, and even
some of the younger children could plait
withies into hampers, which their father took

into Launceston and Tavistock on market-days
and sold. Little figures make up long sums,
and so the small proceeds of the basket-weaving
formed no inconsiderable profit in the year,
out of which Honor was able to clothe her
sister Kate and one of the other children.

Silence had lasted some time in the room ;
Oliver leaned forward with his elbows on his
knees, dreamily watching the fire. At last he
said, ' Whatever I am to do for a horse I cannot
tell. I've sold the carcase to Squire Imply
to feed the hounds with for a half-sovereign,
and the skin for another ten shillings. That is
all I got for Diamond. I suppose I shall have
to give up carrying and go on the land. To
think of that, I that should be in Coombe Park
riding about in a gilded coach with four cream
horses and long tails and a powdered coachman
on the box — that I should become a day
labourer for lack of a horse ! '

'Never mind about Coombe Park, father.
It is of no use looking down a well for a lost

VOL. I. F

shilling. Young Mr. Larry Caspian will lend
you a horse for a while.'

What will that avail ? ' asked Oliver disconsolately.
' It is like sucking eggs when
you've got the consumption. It puts off the
dying a few days, but it don't cure.'

The last horse was paid for. You are not
in debt.'

Ah ! but then I had not so many little
ones growing up. I could be trusted to pay.
But now they consume every penny I earn.'

They cost more as they grow up, but they
also earn something. I've a mind to do this,
father. You know I've been asked by several
gentlefolk to go to their houses and reseat their
cane-bottomed chairs, but I've never liked to
go because of the distance, and because I
wouldn't leave the house and the children.
But now Kate is old enough to take my place
and do such little matters as are needed here
during the day, I will go about and do the
chairs.

Oliver Luxmore laughed. 'You'll never
buy a horse "vvith cane bottoms. No, that
won't do. I'll give up carrying and go work
on the roads. You don't know what grand
new macadamised roads are being laid out ; they
are carrying them round slopes, where before
they went straight up. They are filling in
bottoms, and slicing into hills. Thousands
upon thousands of pounds are being spent, and
there are whole gangs of men engaged upon
them.'

No, father, you are too old for that work.
Besides, those who go to the road-making are
the rough and riotous young fellows who want
high wages, and who spend their money in
drink. No, such society is not for you.'

I don't see that,' said the father. ' As
you say, the wages are very high ; I am not so
old that I cannot work.'

You are unaccustomed to the kind of
work.'

F 2

I should get into the way of it, and I am
no drunkard to waste my money.'

But you are a Luxmore.'

Oliver held up his head. That last was
an unanswerable argument. He considered
for a while, and then he said, ' I cannot borrow
the money of Mr. Caspian, he is ill. It is, of
course, useless my asking Mr. Langford, he is
not a lending, but a taking man.'

If we worked out the first debt, we can
work out the second,' said Honor. 'I know
that you can get nothing from Chi ms worthy,
and I do not suppose you can get anything
from Langford, nevertheless you might try.
Mr. Langford knows you to be an industrious
and a conscientious man. He has but to lookin
your face, father, to be sure that you would
rather be cheated than cheat any one. Try
Mr. Taverner Langford tomorrow.'

It is no good,' sighed Oliver. ' Only
wear out shoe leather for nothing. You go if
you think anything of the chance. Folks say.

walk with Hope, or you are walking backwards.'


I — I go to Mr. Langford ! '

No need for that, when I have come toyon,'
answered a voice at the open window.

Honor started, looked up, and saw Tavern er
Langford there, looking at her, and then at
Oliver.

"Won't you step in and take a chair, sir ? '
asked Honor, rising and moving towards the
door.

'No, I am well where I am,' answered
Taverner, leaning his elbows on the bottom
of the window and peering in. He wore a
broad-brimmed hat, that shadowed the upper
part of his face, but out of this shadow shone
his eyes with phosphoric light.

Father ! ' exclaimed Honor, ' here is Mr.
Langford.'

Oliver had risen and stood with this pipe
in one hand leaning against one jamb of the
chimney, looking wonderingly at the visitor.

Langford had ascended the steps from the lane,
and thus had appeared suddenly before the
Luxmores.

From the window no one that passed was
visible unless he were seated on the top of a
load of hay carted along the lane from the
harvest-field.

Oliver Luxmore went to the window, and,
like his daughter, asked, ' Will you step inside,
sir ? '

No, thank you,' answered Langford, ' I can
talk very comfortably standing where I am.
I know you to be a sensible man, Luxmore, and
to have your eyes about you, and your ears
open. There is no man goes about the country
so much as you. They say that in a town the
barber knows all the news, and in the country
the carrier. Now I'll tell you what I want,
Luxmore, and perhaps you'll do me the favour
to help me to what I want. I'm short of
hands, and I want a trusty fellow who can act
as cattle-driver for me. I won't have a boy.

Boys over-drive and hurt the cattle. I must
have a man. Do you know of one who will
suit?'

Oliver shook his head. ' I don't know that
I do, and I don't know that I don't.'

You are talking riddles, Luxmore. What
do you mean ? '

Well, sir,' answered the carrier with a
sigh, ' my meaning is this. Poor Diamond is
dead, and I am thinking of giving up the carry -
ing trade.'

Giving up the " Vivid " ! You are not in
your senses, man.'

Ah, sir, how am I to buy a new horse ?
The price is up and money is scarce — leastways
with me. Horses ain't to be bought on
promises no more than they are to be reared
on wind.'

Want a horse, do you ? Of course the
'' Vivid " won't go by herself except down hill,
and that is what every one and every thing
can do unassisted. It is the getting up hill that

costs a strain. Ah, Luxmore, I could show you
two men, one going up and the other down,
going down as fast as the laden van on Eexhill,
without a horse to back against it. You've
only to look to Chimsworthy to see that. I
need not say in which direction to turn your
eyes to see the contrary.'

He pushed up his hat and looked at the
carrier, then at Honor. He did not deign to
cast a passing glance at Kate.

Then, sir,' said Oliver, ' if the worst came
to the worst — I mean, sir, begging your pardon,
and no ojQTence intended, if I could not get
another horse, and where it is to come from
the Lord Almighty only knows — I'd have to
work for my living some other way, and I
might be glad to take service with you. I was
even thinking on going to the roads that be
making, but Honor won't hear of that, so I
reckon it can't be.'

No,' answered Taverner, with his eyes
resting on Honor, ' no, she is quite right.

Your proper place is at home with the family.
The men on the roads are a wild lot.'

'So she said,' the carrier put in humbly,
and of course Honor knows.'

Now look you here, Luxmore,' said Taverner,
' I'm not a man to squander and give away,
as every one in Bratton knows, but I'm not as
hard as they are pleased to say, and where a
worthy man is in need, and no great risk is
seen by myself, and I'm not out of pocket,
I don't mind helping him. I do not say but
what I'll let you have my grey for keep.
She's not an infant. There's not much gambol
about her, but there is a deal of work. You
shall have her for awhile ; and pay me ten
shillings a week, as hire. That is a favourable
offer, is it not ? '

The carrier stood silent with astonishment.
Honor's cheeks flushed with pleasure and surprise,
so did those of Kate.

'Your grey!' exclaimed Luxmore. 'I know
her well. She's worth five-and-twenty pounds.

She may be. I do not know. I will not
consider that. I do not want her just now, and
shall be glad to lend her for her keep and a
trifle. You are an honest man. Your family's
like mine — come down in the world.'

Ah ! ' exclaimed the carrier, raising his
head proudly, ' I reckon Coombe Park is where
I should be, and all I want wherewith to get it
is a hundred pounds and a register.'

That may be,' said Taverner ; ' there were
Luxmores in Bratton as long as there have been
Langford, and that goes back hundreds of
years. I do not want to see you fall to the
ground. I am ready to lend you a helping
hand. You may fetch away the grey when
you like. You will have to sign an acknowledgment,
and promise to return her in good
and sound condition. Always safest to have a
contract properly executed and signed, then
there can be no starting up of a misunderstanding
afterwards.'

I am to have your grey ! ' Oliver Lux-more

child not believe in his good fortune, and
this good fortune coming to him from such an
unexpected quarter. ' There now ! Honor
said I was to go up to Langford and see you.
She thought you might help, and 'twas no use
in the world asking at Chimsworthy.'

Honor said that ! ' exclaimed Taverner,
and he looked at the girl and nodded approvingly.


Then Luxmore, who had been sitting in his
shirt-sleeves, took his coat and put it on, Event
to the nail and unhooked his hat.

I don't mind if I go and look at the grey,'
he said. He had sufficient prudence not to
accept till he had seen.

Whilst Oliver Luxmore was assuming his
coat, Langford, leaning on his arms in the
window, watched the active fingers of Honor,
engaged in weaving a basket. Her feet were
thrust forward, with the red stockings encasing
them.

Ah ! ' said Taverner, half aloud, half to

himself ; ' I know a red spider that brings kick.
Well for him who secures her.'

Just then voices were audible, bright and
clear, coming from the lane ; and in a few
minutes up the steps trooped the younger
children of the carrier, returning from school.
Each, even the boy of thirteen, went at once
to Honor, stood before her, and showed face
and hands and clothes.

Please, Honor,' said one little girl, ' I've
got a tear in my pinafore. I couldn't help it.
There was a nail in the desk.'

Well, Pattie, bring me my workbox.'

How clean, orderly, happy the children
were ! Each before going to school was
examined to insure that it was scrupulously
neat ; and each on returning was submitted to
examination again, to show that it had kept its
clothes tidy whilst at school, and its face and
hands clean.

Regardless of the presence and observations
of Langford, Honor mended Pattie's pinafore.

She was accustomed to do at once what she
observed must be done. She never put off
what had to be done to a future time. Perhaps
this was one of the secrets of her getting
through so much work.

When each child had thus reported itself to
Honor, she dismissed it with a kiss, and sent it
to salute the father.

You will find, each of you, a piece of
bread-and-butter and a mug of milk in the
back kitchen,' she said. Then the children
filed out of the room to where their simple
meal was laid out for them.

Busy, systematic, thrifty,' said Taverner
Langford, looking approvingly at Honor. ' The
three feet that stay Honour.' Whether he
made this remark in reference to her name
the girl could not make out ; she looked up
suddenly at him, but his face was inscrutable,
as he stood with his back to the light in the
window, with his broad-brimmed hat drawn
over his eyes.

Her father was ready to depart with Langford.
As the latter turned to go, he nodded
to the girl in an approving and friendly way,
and then turning to her father, as he prepared
to descend the steps, said, ' What a maid that
eldest daughter of yours is ! Everything in
your house is clean, everything in place, even
the children. The sphere is not big enough
for her, she has talents for managing a farm.'

Ah ! ' groaned Luxmore, ' if we had our

riches, and Coombe Park came to us '

The sisters heard no more. Their father had
reached the foot of the steps.

When both he and Langford had disappeared,
Kate burst out laughing.

Honor ! ' she said, ' that screw, Mr.
Langford ! how his voice creaked. I thought
all the time he was speaking of a screw driven
into father, creak, creak, creak ! '

For shame, Kate ! Mr. Taverner Langford
has done us a great kindness. He must not
be ridiculed.'

I do not believe in his kindness,' answered
the lively Kate. ' The grey has got the
glanders, or is spavined, that is why he wants
to lend her. Unless father is ' very keen,
Mr. Langford will overreach him.' Then she
threw aside the basket she had been weaving.
There, Honor, that is done, and my fingers
are sore. I will do no more. No — not even
to buy the grey with my earnings. I am sure
that grey is coming to bring us ill-luck. I
turned my thumb in all the time that Mr.
Langford was here, I thought he had the evil
eye, and — Honor — his wicked eye was on
you.'

CHAPTEE YI.

THE Progress OF STRIFE.

So it fell out that two worthy men, landowners,
brothers-in-law, in the parish of Bratton
Clovelly, each a churchwarden, each a pillar
of religion, Hakim and Book, one of the Temple,
the other of the Tabernacle, were at variance.
About what? About nothing, a little red spider,
so minute that many a man could not see it
without his spectacles.

The money-spinner had provoked the calling
of names, the flying forth of fury, the rush of
blood to the head of Hillary Caspian, and
a fit. It was leading to a good deal more, it
was about to involve others beside the principals.


But the money-spinner was really only the
red speck at the meeting-point of rivalries,
and brooding discontents and growing grievances.
Caspian had long chafed at the superiority
assumed by Langford, had been angry at
his own ill-success, and envious of the prosperity
of his brother-inlaw. And Langford
had fretted over the thriftlessness of Caspian,
and the prospect of his OAvn gains being dissipated
by his nephew.

Hillary was a boastful and violent man.
Taverner was suspicious and morose. But
Caspian was good-natured at bottom ; his
anger, if boisterous, soon blew away. Langford's
temper was bitter ; he was not malevolent, but
he harboured his wrongs, and made a sort of
duty of revenging them.

The love of saving had become so much a
part of Taverner's soul, that it caused him real
agony of mind to think that all he had laid
by might be wasted by young Hillary, who,
brought up in his father's improvident ways,

VOL. I. G

was sure to turn out a like waste. Moreover,
he did not like young Larry. He bore him
that curious aversion which old men sometimes
manifest for the young. Taverner had been
an ungainly youth, without ease of manner or
social warmth. He had never made himself
friends of either sex; always solitary, he had
been driven in on himself. Now that he was
in the decline of life he resented the presence
in others of those qualities he had never himself
possessed. The buoyant spirits, the self-confidence,
the good humour, the pleasant
looks, the swinging walk of young Larry were
all annoyances to Langford, who would have
taken a liking to the lad had he been shy and
uncouth.

Formerly, scarcely a day had passed without
the brothers-in-law meeting. Sometimes
they encountered accidentally on Broadbury,
or in the lanes, at other times they met by
appointment at the Look-outshone. They
discussed together the weather, the crops, the

cattle, the markets. Hillary was a shrewd
man, and had seen more of the world than
Taverner, who had, however, read more books
than the other. Langford had respect for the
worldly experience of his brother-in-law, and
Caspian venerated the book learning in the
other. The Chimsworthy brother could see
various ways in which money might be made,
and had even made suggestions by which he of
Langford had reaped a pecuniary profit, but
he Alas too lazy a man to undertake new
ventures himself, too lazy even to properly
cultivate in the old way the land on which he
lived.

Hillary was conscious that he was falling in
the estimation of his brother-in-law. He was
chafed by the sense of his indebtedness to him.
He saw no way of escape from the debt he
owed save] by Taverner's death, and he began
to have a lurking hope of release in that way.
He was not stimulated to activity. ' What is
the advantage of making a labour of life,' he

G 2

asked — not of his brother-in-law — ' when a
man has a comfortable property, and another in
reversion ? '

The great day of all, on wliicli the kindly
relations of the brothers-in-law were brought
forward and paraded before the parish, was on
the feast day of Coryndon's Charity. Then
Hillary Caspian arrived arm-in-arm with
Taverner Langford, Hillary in his badger-skin
waistcoat with red lappets, Taverner in dark
homespun, with black cravat and high collar.
As they walked down the village every man
touched his hat and every woman curtsied.
When they came to a puddle, and puddles are
common in the roads of Bratton Clovelly, then
Hillary Caspian would say, ' Take care, Taverner,
lest you splash your polished boots and
dark breeches.' Thereupon the brothers-in-law
unlinked, walked round the puddle, and
hooked together on the further side. At the
dinner, which was attended by the Eector, who
sat at the head and carved, the wayward

and the overseer, the landlord of the ' Eing of
Bells,' where the dinner was held, and several
of the principal farmers, ex-feoffees, or feoffees
in prospective, speeches were made. Hillary,
with a glass of rum-ands water and a spoon in
it, stood up and spoke of his fellow-churchwarden
and feoffee and brother-in-law in such a
rich and warm speech, that, under the united influence
of hot strong rum, and weak maudlin
Christianity, and sound general good-fellowship,
and goose and suet pudding, the tears
rose into the eyes of the hearers, and their
moral feelings were as elevated as if they had
heard a sermon of Mr. Romaine.

After that, Taverner proposed the health of
his co-feoffee and churchwarden in a nervous,
hesitating speech, during which he shuffled
with his feet on the floor, and his hands on the
table, and became hot and moist, and almost
cried — not with tender emotion, but with the
sense of humiliation at his own inability to
speak with fluency. But, of course, all present

thought this agitation was due to the great
affection he bore to his brother-in-law.

When Parson Eobbins, the Eector, heard of
the quarrel, he Alas like one thunderstruck.
He could not believe it. ' Whatever shall I
do ? I shall have to take a side. Mercy on us,
what times we live in, when I am forced to
take a side ! '

As to the farmers generally, they chuckled.
Now at last there was a chance of one of them
getting into Coryndon's Charity and getting a
lease of the poor's lands.

Hillary Caspian recovered from his fit,
but the breach between the brothers-in-law
was not healed. When he again appeared at
market he was greatly changed. The apoplectic
stroke, the blood-letting, the call in of
the money owed to Langford, had combined to
alter him. He was not as florid, as upright, as
imperious as before. His face was mottled, the
badger-skin waistcoat no longer fitted him as a
glove, it fell into wrinkles, and the hair began

to look as though the moth had got ito it.
A slight stoop appeared in his gait. He became
querulous and touchy. Hitherto, when
offended, he had discharged a big, mouth-filling
oath, as a mortar throws a shell;
now he fumed, and swore, and grumbled.
There was no appeasing him. He was like
the mitrailleuse that was to be, but was not
then. Hitherto, he had sat on his settle,
smoking, and eating his bread and cheese,
and had allowed the fowls to come in and
pick up the crumbs at his feet. Now he
threw sticks at them and drove them out of
the kitchen.

Encounters between the brothers-in-law
were unavoidable, but when they met they
pretended not to see each other. They
made circuits to avoid meeting. When they
passed in the lane, they looked over opposite
hedges.

The quarrel might, perhaps, have been
patched up, had it not been for the tongue

of Mrs. Veale. Taverner Langford disliked
this pasty-faced, bleached woman greatly, but
he was afraid of dismissing her, because he
doubted whether it would be possible for him
to provide himself with as good a manager in
his house and about the cattle. Though he
disliked her, he was greatly influenced by her,
and she found that her best mode of ingratiating
herself with him was by setting him
against others. She had a venomous dislike
for the Nanspians. ' If anything were to
happen to the master, those Nanspians would
take all, and where should I be ? ' she reasoned.
She thought her best chance of remaining at
Langford and of insuring that something was
left to her by the master in consideration for
her faithful services was to make him suspect
and dislike all who surrounded him. He listened
to her, and though he discounted all she
said, yet the repetition of her hints and suggestions,
and retailed stories, told on him more
than he allowed himself to believe. Through

her lie heard of the boasts of his brother-in-law.
and his attention was called to fresh instances
of mismanagement at Chimsworthy. Atone
time Mrs. Yeale had audaciously hoped
to become mistress of the place. Langford
was a lone shy man, how coidd he resist the
ambuscades and snares of a designing woman?
But Mrs. Yeale in time learned that her ambition
in this direction was doomed to disappointment,
and that efforts made to secure
the master would effect her own expulsion.
She therefore changed her tactics, dared to
lecture and cave him the roucrh of her tongue.
Langford endured this, because it showed him
she had no designs on him, and convinced him
that she was severe and faithful. And she
made herself indispensable to him in becoming
the medium of communication between himself
and those with whom he was offended. He
had sufficient of the gentleman in him to
shrink from reprimanding his servants and
lagging with a dealer ; he was miserly, but

too much of a gentleman to show it openly.
He made Mrs. Veale cut down expenses,
watch against waste, and economise in small
matters.

How is it that women are able to lay hold
of and lead men by their noses as easily as they
take up and turn about a teapot by its handle ?
Is it that their hands are fashioned for the purpose,
and men's noses are fitted by Nature for
their hands? Although the nose of Taverner
Langford was Woman, and expressive of character
and individuality, Mrs. Veale held him
by it ; and he followed with the docility of a
colt caught and led by the forelock.

It was a cause of great disappointment to
Hillary that Taverner was in a position to give
him annoyance, whereas he was unable to retaliate.
Langford had called in the money he
had advanced to his brother-in-law ; it must be
repaid within three months. Langford had
threatened the father and son with disinheritance.
On the other side, he was powerless to

punish Langford. The consciousness of this
was a distress to Caspian, and occasioned the
irritability of temper we have mentioned.
Unable to endure the humiliation of being
hurt without being able to return the blow,
he went into the office of the lawyer Physick,
at Okehampton.

Mr. Physick,' said he, ' I want to be thundering
disagreeable.'

By all means, Mr. Caspian. Very right
and proper.'

I'm going to be very offensive.'

To be sure. You have occasion, no question.'


• I want a summons made out against Mrs.
Veale, that is, the housekeeper of Taverner
Langford.'

The deuce you do ! ' exclaimed the lawyer,
starting into an erect position on his seat.
The housekeeper of your brother-in-law ! '

The same. I want to hit him through
her;

Why, Lord bless me ! What has come to
pass ? I thought you and Mr. Langford were
on the best of terms.'

'Then, sir, you thought wrong. We are
no longer friends ; we do not speak.'

What has occasioned this ? '

Caspian looked down. He was ashamed
to mention the red spider ; so he made no
reply.

Well ! and what is the summons to be
made out for ? '

For giving me a stroke of the apoplexy.'

I do not understand.'

'You must know,' said Hillary, lowering
his voice, ' that I have a notion Mrs. Yeale is
a witch ; and when Langford and I fell out
she came meddling with her witchcraft. She
came as a White Hare.'

'As a what?'

'As a White Hare,' answered Hillary, drawing
forth a kerchief and blowing his nose, and
in the act of blowing fixing the lawyer over

the top of it with his eyes, and saying through
it, 'My Larry saw her.'

Mr. Physick uttered a sigh of disappointment,
and said ironically, ' This is not a case
for me. You must consult the White Witch
in Exeter.'

Can you do nothing ? '

Certainly not. If that is all you have
come about, you have come on a fool's errand.'

But this was not all. Caspian wanted to
raise the money for paying his brother-in-law.
Mr. Physick was better able to accommodate
him in this. ' There is another matter I want
to know,' said Caspian. ' Taverner Langford
threatens to disinherit me and my Larry. Can
he do it ? I reckon not. You have the settlements.
The threat is idle and vain as the
wind, is it not ? '

'Langford is settled property in tail male,'
answered the solicitor. ' Should Mr. Langford
die unmarried and without male issue, it will
fall to you, and if you predecease, to your son.'

There ! ' exclaimed Hillary, drawing a
long breath, 'I knew as much; Larry and I
are as sure of Langford as if we had our
feet on it now. He cannot take it from us.
We could, if we chose, raise money on it.'

'JSTot so fast, Mr. Caspian. What aged
man is your brother-in-law? '

Oh, between fifty eight and sixty.'

He may marry.'

Taverner marry ! ' exclaimed Hillary ; he
put his hands on his knees and laughed till he
shook. ' Bless me ! whom could Taverner
marry but Mrs. Veale ? — and he won't take her.
He is not such a fool as to turn a servant under
him into a mistress over him. But let him. I
give him Mrs. Yeale, and welcome. Mays I beat
the wedding. Why, she will not see this
side of forty, and there is no fear of a family.'

He may take some one else.'

She would not let him. She holds him
under her thumb. Besides, there are none
suitable about our neighbourhood. At Swad-

dledown are only children, Farmer Welland's
sister at Breathe is in a consumption, and at
the rectory Miss Eobbins is old. No, Mr.
Physick, there is absolutely no one suitable for
him.'

Then he may take some one unsuitable.'

CHAPTEE VII.

The opinion gained ground in Bratton Clovelly
that it was a pity two such good friends and
worthy brothers-in-law should quarrel and be
drawn on into acts of violence and vengeance,
as seemed probable. As the Coryndon feoffee
dinner drew on, expression was given to their
opinion pretty freely, and the question was
debated. What would happen at the dinner?
Would the enemies refuse to meet each other ?
In that case, which would cede to the other?
Perhaps, under the circumstance, the dinner
would not take place, and the profits, not being
consumed, would be given to the widows. That
might establish a dangerous precedent. Widows

in future years might quote this, aud resist the
reintroduction of the dinner. Fortunately
widows, though often violent and noisy, are
not dangerous animals, and may be browbeaten
with impunity.

Nevertheless a general consensus of opinion
existed among the overseers, and way-wardens,
acting, ex, and prospective, that the dinner must
not be allowed to fall through even for one
year. Englishmen, with their habitual caution,
are very much afraid of establishing a precedent.


Hillary Caspian was spoken to on the
subject, and he opined that the dinner must
be held. ' If Taverner Langford is ashamed to
meet me, let him stay away. I shall pay him
every penny I owed, and can look him in the
face. We shall be merrier without him.'

Notice of the dinner was sent to Langford ;
he made no reply, but from his manner it was
concluded that he would not attend.

The day of the Trust dinner arrived.

VOL. I. H

Geese had been killed. WhifF! they could be
smelt all down the village to leeward of the
inn, and widows came out and sniffed up all
they were likely to receive of Coryndon's
Charity. Beef was being roasted. Hah !
The eye that peeped into the kitchen saw it
turning and browning before the great wood
fire, and when the landlord's wife was not
talking, the ear heard the frizzle of the fat and
the drop, drop into the pan beneath.

What was that clinking? Men's hearts
danced at the sound. A row of tumblers was
placed on the dresser, and spoons set in them.
In the dairy a maid was taking cream, golden
as the buttercup, off the pans to be eaten —
believe it, non-devonian, if you can, gnash
your teeth with envy and tear your hair — to be
eaten with plum-pudding. See ! yonder stands
a glass vessel containing nutty-white celery in
it, the leaves at the top not unfolded, not
green, but of the colour of pale butter. Hard
by is a plate with squares of cheese on it, hard

by indeed, for, oh — what a falling off is there !
the Devon cheese is like board.

About the door of the ' Eing of Bells ' was
assembled a knot of men in their Sunday best,
with glossy, soaped faces. They were discussing
the quarrel between the brothers-in-law
when the Eector arrived. He was a bland
man, with a face like a suet-pudding ; he shook
hands cordially with every one.

We've been talking, Parson, about the
two who have got across. 'Tis a pity now,
is it not ? '

Parson Eobbins looked from one to another,
to gather the prevailing opinion, before he
committed himself Then, seeing one shake
his head, and hearing another say, ' It's a bad
job,' he ventured to say, ' Well, it may be so
considered.' He was too cautious a man to
say ' / consider it so ; ' he could always edge
out of an ' It may be so considered.' Parson
Eobbins was the most inoffensive of men. He
never, in the pulpit, insisted on a duty lest he

H 2

should offend a Churchman, nor on a doctrine
lest he should shock a Dissenter. It was his
highest ambition to stand well with all men,
and he endeavoured to gain his point by
disagreeing with nobody and insisting on
nothing.

I hear,' said Farmer Yelled, ' that the
two never meet each other and never speak.
They are waiting a chance of flying at each
other's throats.'

Ah ! ' observed the Eector, ' so it has been
reported in the parish.' He Alas too careful to
say ' reported to me!

Why, pity on us ! ' said a little cattle-jobber
with a squint ; ' when folks who look
straight before them fall across, how am I to
keep straight with my eyes askew ? '

Every one laughed at these words. Harry
Piper, the speaker, was a general favourite,
because his jokes were level with their comprehension,
and he did not scruple to make a
butt of himself. The sexton, a solemn man,

with such command over his features that nota
muscle twitched when a fly walked on his
nose, even he unbent, and creases formed
about his mouth.

Now look here,* said Piper, ' if we don't
take the matter in hand these two churchwardens
will be doing each other a mischief.
Let us reconcile them. A better day than this
for the purpose cannot be found.'

Mr. Piper's sentiments are eminently
Christian,' said the Eector, looking round;
then qualifying his statement with, 'that is,
as far as I can judge without going further
into the matter.'

Will Master Caspian be here ? ' asked
one.

I know that he will,' answered the cattle-jobber,
' but not the other, unless he be
fetched.'

Well, let him be fetched.'

That is,' said the Parson, ' if he will
come.'

There was then, leaning against the inn
door, a ragged fellow with a wooden leg, and
a stump of an arm into which a hook was
screwed — a fellow with a roguish eye, a baldhead,
and a black full beard. Tom Rout
lived on any little odd jobs given him by the
farmers to keep him off the parish. He had
lost his leg and arm through the explosion
of a gun when out poaching. Now he drove
bullocks to pasture, cows to be milked, sheep
to the common, and wired rabbits. This was
the proper man to send after Tavern er Langford.


You may ride my pony,' said the cattle-jobber,
' and so be quicker on your way.'

And,' said the guardian of the poor, ' you
shall dine on the leavings and drink the heeltaps
for your trouble.'

As he went on his way, Crout turned over
in his mind how he was to induce Taverner
Langford to come to the dinner. Crout was
unable to comprehend how any man needed

persuasion to draw him to goose, beef, and
plum-pudding.

On his way he passed Hillary Caspian,
in his badger-skin waistcoat with red lappets,
riding his strawberry mare. He was on his
way to the ' King of Bells.'

Whither away, Grout ? ' shouted Hillary.

Out to Broadbury, after Farmer Burney's
sheep that have broken.'

Then he rode on.

When lie reached the gate of Langford,
he descended. At once the black Newfoundland
house-dog became furious, and flew at
him, and with true instinct snapped at the calf
of flesh, not the leg of wood. Tom Crout
yelled and swore, and made the best of his
way to the door, where Taverner and Mrs.
Yeale appeared to call off the dog.

'It is a shame to keep dogs like that,
vicious brutes ready to tear a Christian to
tatters.'

I didn't suppose you was a Christian, hearing

your heathenish oaths,' said Mrs. Yeale ;
and as to the tatters, they were there before
the dog touched you.'

The parson has sent me,' said Crout, ' and
he would not send me if I were not a Christian.
As for my tatters, if you will give me an old
coat, I'll leave them behind. Please, Mr. Langford,
the feoffees and guests are at the "Eing
of Bells," and cannot begin without you. The
beef is getting cold, and the goose is becoming
burnt.'

'Let them fall to. The dinner is sure to
be good.'

How can they, master, without you or
Mr. Caspian ? '

Is he not there .^ '

Not a speck of his fur waistcoat visible,
not a glimmer of his blue eye to be seen.
Ah, Mr. Langford, such a dinner 1 Such goose,
with onion stuffing, and sage, and mint, and
marjoram ! I heard the butcher tell our landlord
he'd never cut such a sirloin in all his life

as that roasting for to-day ; smells like a bean-field,
and brown as a chestnut ! As for the
plum-pudding, it is bursting with raisins ! '

That will suffice,' said Taverner, unmoved
by the description. ' I do not intend to go.'

Not intend to go ! Very well, then, I
shall have to go to Chimsworthy and bring
Mr. Caspian. I'll tell him you haven't the
heart to meet folks. You prefer to hide your
head here, as if you had committed something
of which you are ashamed. Very well. When
he hears that you mustn't show, he will go
and swagger at the "Eing of Bells" without
you.'

I do not choose to meet him. He may be
there after all.'

'Not a bit. When I left all were assembled,
and he was not there. May I be
struck dead if he was there ! The parson said
to the rest, " Whatever shall we do without
Master Langford, my own churchwarden, so to
speak — my right hand, and the representative

of the oldest and grandest family in the place.
That is a come-down of greatness if he don't
turn up at the feoffees' dinner." May I die on
the doorstep if these were not his very words !
Then he went on, "I did reckon on Master
Langford to be here to keep me in countenance.
]sow here I lay down my knife and
fork, and not a bite will I eat, nor a cut will I
make into that bubbling, frizzling, savoury
goose, unless Taverner Langford be here. So
go along, Crout, and fetch him." '

Is that true ? ' asked Langford, flattered.
May my remaining leg and arm wither if
it be not ! Then Farmer Burney up and
said, " He mustn't come, he's mortally afraid
of meeting Hillary Caspian." '

Did he say that ? ' asked Taverner,
flushing.

Strike me blind if he did not ! '
I'll come. Go on, I will follow.'
When Crout returned to the ' Eing of Bells,'
he found Caspian there, large and red. The

cripple slipped up to Piper and whispered,
He'll be here, leave a place opposite the
other, and fall to at the beef.'

The fly,' observed the parson to a couple
of farmers — ' the fly is the great enemy of the
turnip. It attacks the seed-leaves when they
appear.'

That is true.'

'Now, what you want with turnips is a
good shower after the seed has been sown,
and warmth to precipitate the growth at the
critical period. At least, so I have been informed.'


It is so, Parson.'

*In wet weather the fly does not appear, or
the plant grows with sufficient rapidity to
outstrip the ravages of the fly.'

To be sure, you are quite right, sir.'

This fact of the turnip-fly was one of the
few scraps of agricultural information Parson
Eobbins had picked up, and he retailed it at
tithe, club, and feoffees dinners.

Then the landlord appeared at the inn
door, and announced, ' All ready, gentlemen !
sorry you have been kept waiting ! '

At the moment that Caspian and the
parson entered, Langford arrived and went
after them, without seeing the former, down
the passage to the long room. The passage
was narrow, tortuous, and dark. ' Wait a bit,
gentlemen,' said the host, ' one at a time
through the door ; his Reverence won't say
grace till all are seated.'

Here is a place, Master Langford,' said
Piper, ' on the right hand of the parson, with
your back to the window. Go round his
chair to get at it.'

Taverner took the place indicated. Then
the Eector rapped on the table, and all rose for
grace.

As Langford rose he looked in front of him,
and saw the face of ISTanspian, who sat on the
Eector 's left. Hillary had not observed him
before, he was looking at the goose. When he

raised his eyes and met the stare of Taverner,
his face became mottled, whereas that of his
brother-in-law tinned white. Neither spoke,
but sank into his place, and during dinner
looked neither to right, nor left, nor in front.
Only once did Taverner slyly peep at Hillary,
and in that glimpse he noted his altered
appearance. Hillary was ordered, fallen
away, changed altogether for the worse.
Then he drew forth his blue cotton pocket-handkerchief
and cleared his nose. Neither
relished his dinner. The goose was burnt and
flavourless, the beef raw and tough, the
potatoes under-boiled, the apple-tart lacked
cloves, the plum-pudding was over spiced, the
cheese was tough, and the celery gritty. So,
at least, they seemed to these two, but to these
two alone. When the spirits were produced
all eyes were turned on Hillary Caspian, but
he neither rose nor spoke. Taverner Langford
was also mute. ' Propose the health of the
chairman,' whispered Piper into Hillary's ear.

I am people's churchwarden,' answered
he sullenly.

Propose the health of the chairman,' said
his right hand neighbour to Langford.

I am a Dissenter,* he replied.

Then the Eector stood up and gave the
health of the King, which was drunk with all
honours.

Shall we adjourn to the fire ? ' asked he ;
each take his glass and pipe.'

Then up rose the Eector once again, and
said, 'Ahem! Fill your glasses, gentlemen. Mr.
Langford, I insist. No shirking this toast.
You, Mr. Caspian, need no persuasion.
Ahem ! '

Piper came round and poured spirits into
Langford's glass, then hot water.

Ahem ! ' said the Eector. ' I have been
in your midst, I may say, as your spiritual
pastor, set — set — ahem ! — under you these forty
years, and, I thank heaven, never has there
been a single discord — ahem ! — between me

and my parishioners. If I have not always
been able to agree with them — ahem! — I
have taken care not to disagree with them !
I mean — I mean, if they have had their
opinions, I have not always seen my way to
accepting them, because I have studiously
avoided having any opinions at all. Now —
ahem ! — I see a slight jar between my nearest
and dearest neighbours,' he looked at Langford
and Caspian. ' And I long to see it
ended.' (' Hear, hear, hear ! ') 'I express the
unanimous opinion of the entire parish. On
this one point, after forty opinionless years,
I venture — ahem ! — to have an opinion, a
decided opinion, an emphatic opinion' — (immense
applause) — ' I call upon you all, my
Christian brethren, to unite with me in healing
this unseemly quarrel — I mean this quarrel :
the unseemliness is in the quarrel, not in the
quarrellers.'

Langford drank his gin-and-water not knowing
what he did, and his hand shook. Caspian

emptied this glass. Both looked at the door :
there was no escape that way, the back of
burly Farmer Brandon filled it. All eyes
were on them.

Come now said Piper, ' what is the sense
of this quarrel ? Are you women to behave in
this unreasonable manner ? You, both of you,
look the worse for the squabble. What is it
all about ? '

Upon my word, I do not know,' said
Caspian. ' I never did Langford a hurt in my
life. Why did he insult me ? '

I insult him ! ' repeated Taverner. ' Heaven
knows I bore him no ill-will, but when he
dared to address me as '

I swear by ' burst in Hillary.

Do not swear ! ' said Langford, hastily.
Let your yea be yea.' The ice was broken
between them. One had addressed the other.
Now they looked each other full in the face.
Hillary's eyes moistened. Taverner's mouth
twitched.

Why did you employ offensive language
towards me ? ' asked Hillary.

I ! ' exclaimed Taverner ; ' no, it was you
who addressed me in words I could not
endure.'

The critical moment had arrived. In
another moment they would clasp hands, and
be reconciled for life, ^o one spoke, all
watched the two men eagerly.

Well, Taverner,' said Hillary, ' you know
I am a hot man, and my words fly from my
tongue before I have cooled them.'

I dare say I may have said what I never
meant. Most certainly what I did say was not
to be taken seriously.'

But,' put in Parson Bobbins, ' what vias
said?'

'Judge all,' exclaimed Taverner. 'I was
angry, and I called Hillary Caspian a long-tailed
Cornish orang-outang.'

The moment the words were uttered, he
was aware that he had made a mistake. The

VOL. I. I

insult was repeated in the most public possible
manner. If the words spoken in private had
exasperated Hillary, how much more so now !

Caspian no sooner heard the offensive
words than he roared forth, 'And I — I said
then, and I repeat now, that you are nose-led,
tongue-lashed by your housekeeper, Mrs.
Veale.' Then he dashed his scalding rum-and-water
in the face of his brother-in-law.

CHAPTER VIII.

A Lingered,

The time taken by the ' Vivid ' over the journey
to and from the market towns was something
to be wondered at. A good man is merciful to
his beast. Certainly Oliver Luxmore was a
good man, and he showed it by his solicitude for
the welfare of the grey. On Friday he drove
to Tavistock market at a snail's pace, to spare
the horse, because it had to make a journey on
the morrow to Launceston or Okehampton.
On Saturday he drove to market at a slug's
pace, because the grey had done such hardwork
on the preceding day. The road, as has
been said, was all up and down hill, and the
hills are as steep as house roofs. Consequently

I 2

the travellers by the ' Vivid ' were expected to
walk up the hills to ease the load, and to walk
down the hills lest the weight of the ^ Vivid '
should carry the van over the grey. The fare
one way was a shilling, the return journey
could be made for sixpence. All goods, except
what might be carried on the lap, were paid for
extra. As the man said who was conveyed
in a sedan-chair from which the bottom had
fallen out, but for the honour of the thing, he
might as well have walked. Passengers by the
Vivid ' started at half-past six in the morning,
and reached the market town about half-past
eleven. They took provisions with them, and
ate two meals on the way. They also talked
their very lungs out ; but the recuperative
power of their lungs was so great that they
were fresh to talk all the way home. The van
left the town at four and reached Bratton at or
about nine.

A carrier must naturally be endowed with
great patience. Oliver Luxmore was by

nature thus qualified. He was easy-going,
gentle, apathetic. Nothing excited him except
the mention of Coombe Park. His business
tended to make him more easy-going and
patient than he was naturally. He allowed himself
to be imposed upon, he resented nothing,
he gave way before every man who had a
rough, and every woman who had a sharp,
tongue. He was cheerful and kindly. Everyone
liked him, and laughed at him.

One Saturday night, after his return from
Okehampton, Oliver was taking his supper.
The younger children were in bed, but Kate
was up, she had been to market that day with
her father. Kate was a very pretty girl, sharp
eyed, sharp witted — with fair hair, a beautiful
complexion, and eyes blue and sparkling —
turquoises with the flash of the opal in them.
She was seventeen. Her father rather spoiled
her. He bought her ribbons and brooches
when the money was needed for necessaries.

'I brought Larry Caspian back part of

the way with me,' said Oliver. ' His father
drove him into town, but the old man stayed
to drink, and Larry preferred to come on with
me.'

That was well of him,' said Honor, looking
up with a smile.

'We talked of the grey,' continued the
carrier. ' Larry was on the box with me. I
put Kate inside, among the clucking, clacking
old women. Larry asked me about the
grey, and I told him how that we had got her.
He shook his head, and he said, " Take care of
yourself, Luxmore, lest in running out of the
rain you get under the drip. I don't believe
that Uncle Taverner is the man to do favours
for nothing." '

Did he say that ? ' asked Honor. ' He
meant nothing by it — he was joking.'

Of course he was joking. We joke a good
deal together about one thing or another. He
is grown a fine fellow. He came swinging
up to me with his thumbs in his armholes and

said, '' Mr. Luxmore, Honor won't be able to
withstand me in this waistcoat. She'll fall
down and worship." '

'Did he say that?' asked Honor, and her
brow flushed.

Tush ! you must not take his words as
seriously meant. He had got a fine satin
waistcoat to-day, figured with flowers. He
pulled his coat open to show it me. I suppose
he thought the satin waistcoat would draw
you as a scarlet rag will attract rabbits.'

Honor turned the subject.

What more did he say about Mr. Langford?'


Oh, nothing particular. He told me he
was sorry that his father could not spare us a
horse, to keep us out of the clutches of his
uncle Taverner. Then he laughed and said
you had warned him not to run into debt, and
yet had led the way yourself.'

'Quinto debt, how?'

Oliver evaded an answer. ' In going up

the hills, Kate and he walked together. He
got impatient at last, and walked on by himself,
and we never caught him up again.'

Honor did not look up from her work.
She was mending some clothes of one of the
children.

'He asked me a great deal about you,'
said Kate. ' He said it was a shame that you
should stick at home and never go to market,
and see life.'

How can I, with the house to look after ?
When you are a little more reliable, Kate, I
may go. I cannot now.' Suddenly they
heard a loud, deep voice at the door.

Halloo ! what a climb to the cock-loft.'

They looked startled to the door, and saw
a man standing in it, with military trousers on
his legs, and his hands in his pockets, watching
them, with a laugh on his face.

You have some supper ! That's well.
I'm cussed hungry. Walked from Tavistock.
Why weren't you there to-day, father ? '

It is Charles ! ' exclaimed Luxmore, springing
to his feet, and upsetting the table as he
did so — that the cyder jug fell and was broken,
and spilt its contents, and some plates went to
pieces on the slate floor.

Charlie, welcome home ! Who would
have expected to see you ? Where have you
been? What have you done? Have you
served your time ? Have you got your discharge
? Lord, how glad I am to see you I '

Charles Luxmore, who entered the cottage,
was a tall man, he looked ragged and wretched.
His shoes were worn out, and his feet, stock-ingress,
showed through the holes. His military
trousers were sun-scorched, worn, badly
patched, and in tatters about the ankles. His
coat was split down the back, brown where
exposed to the brunt of the weather. His
whole appearance was such, that one who met
him in a lonely lane would be sensible of
relief when he had passed him, and found himself
unmolested.

Halloo ! there,' said he, drawing near to
the fallen table, picking up the broken jug, and
swearing, because the last drops of cyder were
out of it. ' What are you staring at me for, as
if I were a wild beast escaped from a caravan ?
Curse me, body and bones, don't you know
me?'

Charles ! ' exclaimed Honor, ' you home,
and in this condition ? '

Dash it ! is that you. Honor ? How you
have shot up. And this you, Kate ? Thunder !
what a pair of pretty girls you are. Where are
the rest of the pansies ? Let me see them, and
get my greeting over. Lug them out of bed
that I may see them. Curse it, I forget how
many of them there are.'

Seven, beside our two selves,' said Honor.
Nine in all.'

Let me see them. Confound it ! It must
be got over.'

The rest are in bed,' said Honor. ' They
must not be disturbed out of their sleep.'

Never mind. Where is the old woman ? '

I do not know whom you mean, Charles.'

Mother. Where is she ? '

Dead, Charles.'

He was silent for a moment. Then he
said, 'Fetch the little devils, I want to see
them.'

Charles, for shame ! ' exclaimed Honor,
reddening and frowning, and her brown eyes
flashed an angry light.

Tut, tut ! soldier's talk. You won't find
my tongue wear kid gloves. I meant no harm.'

'You shall not speak of the children in
such terms,' said Honor, firmly.

Halloo ! Do you think I will stand being
hectored by you ? '

'There, there,' threw in Oliver Luxmore,
'the boy meant nothing by it. He has got
into a careless way of expressing himself. That
is all.'

That is all,' laughed Charles, 'and now I
have a true soldier's thirst, and I am not a dog

to lap up the spilt liquor off the floor. What
is it, beer? Is there any brandy in the
house ? '

You can have a drop of cyder,' said Honor,
with frowning brows. ' Or, if that does not
please you, water from the spring. The cyder
is middling, but the water is good.*

No water for me. Fetch me the cyder.'

There is a hogshead in the cellar under
the stairs in the back kitchen,' said Honor.
Fill yourself a mug of it.'

You can fetch it for me.'

'I can do so, but I will not,' answered
Honor. ' Charles, I will not stir hand or foot
for a man who will speak of his innocent little
brothers and sisters as you have done.'

Take care of yourself ! ' exclaimed Charles,
looking at her threateningly.

She was not overawed by his look. Her
cheeks glowed with inner agitation. ' I am
not afraid of you,' she said, and reseated herself
at her work.

I will fetch the cyder,' offered the
good-natured Kate, springing into the back
kitchen.

That is a good, dear girl,' said Charles ;
you and I will be friends, and stand out
against that dragon.'

He took the minor. ' Pshaw ! this is not
sufficient. I am thirsty as desert sand. Fetch
me a jugful.

There is not another jug in the house,'
said Kate. ' I will fill the muo' ao'ain.'

Just then at the kitchen door appeared a
white figure.

Whom have we here ? ' exclaimed Charles.

Joe ! what has brought you down ? Goto
bed again,' said Honor.

Not a bit ; come here. I am the eldest
in the house. I take the command by virtue
of seniority,' shouted Charles, and springing
from the chair, he caught the little white
figure, brought the child in, and seated him on
his knee. ' I am your brother,' said Charles.

Mind this. From henceforth you obey me,
and don't heed what Honor says.'

Honor looked at her father. Would he
allow this ? Oliver made no remark.

What is your name, young jackanapes
? ' asked Charles, ' and what brings you
here ? '

'I am Joseph, that is Joe,' answered the
little boy. ' I heard your voice, and something
said about soldiers, and I crawled downstairs to
see who you were.'

Let the child go to bed,' asked the father.
He will catch a chill in his nightshirt.'

Not he,' replied Charles. ' The kid wants
to hear what I have to say, and you are all on
pins, I know.'

'Well, that is true,' said Oliver Luxmore.
I shall be glad to learn what brings you
home. You have not served your full time.
You have not bought yourself out. If you
were on leave, you would be in uniform.'

Oh, I'm out of the service,' answered

Charles. ' Look here.' He held .out his right-hand.
The forefinger was gone. ' I cut it off
myself, because I was sick of serving his
Majesty, tired of war and its hardships. I felt
such an inextinguishable longing for home,
that I cut off my trigger finger to obtain my
discharge.'

For shame, Charles, for shame ! ' exclaimed
Honor.

Oh, you are again rebuking me ! You
have missed your proper place. You should
be army chaplain. I've been in India, and
I've fought the Afghans. Ah! I've been
with General Pollock, and stormed and looted
Cabal'

You have been in battle ! ' exclaimed little
Joe.

I have, and shot men, and run my bayonet
into a dozen naked Afghans.' He laughed
boisterously. ' It is like sticking a pig. That
sack of Cabal was high fun. No quarter given.
We blew up the great bazaar, crack ! boom !

high into the air, but not till we had cleared
away all the loot we could. And, will you
believe it? we marched away in triumph,
carrying off the cedar doors of Sonata, as
Samson with the gates of Gaza. Lord Ellen-borough
ordered it, and we did it. But they
were not the original gates after all, but copies.
Then, damn it, I thought '

Silence,' said Honor indignantly. ' With
the child on your knee will you curse and
swear ? '

An oath will do no harm, will it, Joe ? '
asked the soldier, addressing the little boy, who
sat staring; in his face with wonder and admiration.
' A good oath clears the heart, as a
cough relieves a choking throat, is it not so,
Joe ? or as a discharge of guns breaks a
waterspout, eh ? ' The little boy looked from
his brother to his sister. It was characteristic
of the condition of affairs in the house that he
did not look to his father.

I don't know, brother Charles,' answered

he. ' Honor would not allow it, she says it is
wicked.'

Oh, she ! ' mocked the soldier. ' I suppose
you are under petticoat government still, or
have been. Never mind, Joe. Now that I am
come home you shall take orders from me, and
not from her.'

Joe,' said Honor sternly, ' go at once
to bed.'

He shall stay and hear the rest of the
story. He shall hear how I lost my finger.'

The child hesitated.

Then Honor said gravely, ' Joe, you will do
that which you know to be right.'

At once the little boy slipped from his
brother's knee, ran to Honor, threw his arms
round her neck, kissed her on both cheeks, and
ran away, upstairs.

So, so,' said Charles, ' open war between
us ! Well, sister, you have begun early. We
shall see who will obtain the victory.'

'I don't think Honor need fear a soldier

VOL. I. K

who cuts off his finger to escape fighting,' said
Kate.

What, you also in arms against me ? ' exclaimed
Charles, turning on the younger sister.

You asked Joe if he were under petticoat
government, and sneered at him for it ; but you
seem to be vacant only when fighting petticoats,'
retorted Kate.

I'm in a wasp's nest here,' laughed
Charles.

Never mind Kate,' said Oliver, ' she hasa
sharp tongue. Tell us further about your
finger.'

I lost more than my finger — I lost prize
money and a pension. As I told you, I was
weary of the service, and wanted to get home.
I thought I should do well with all the loot
and prize-money, and if I where wounded also
and incapacitated for service, I should have a .
pension as well ; so I took off my finger with an
axe, and tried to make believe I was hurt inaction.
But the surgeon would not allow it.

I got into trouble and was discharged with the
loss of my prize-money as a lingered.'

You are not ashamed to tell us this ? ' exclaimed
Honor.

It was a mistake,' said Charles.

We are ashamed to sit and listen to you,'
said Honor, with an indignant flash of her eyes,
and with set brows. ' Come, Kate, let us to
bed and leave him.'

Good night, lingered,' said Kate.

K 2

CHAPTER IX.

CHARLES LUXMORE.

The next day was Sunday. Charles lay in bed,
and did not appear to breakfast. Oliver Lux-more,
Kate, and the younger children were
dressed for church. Honor remained at home
alternately with Kate on Sunday mornings to
take care of Temple, the youngest, and to cook
the dinner. This was Honor's morning at
home.

Oliver Luxmore stood in doubt, one
moment taking his Sunday hat, then putting
it back in its card box, then again changing
his mind.

Before they started, Charles swaggered into
the kitchen, and asked for something to eat.

Where are you all going to, you crabs, as
gay as if fresh scalded ? ' asked Charles.

This is Sunday,' answered his father, ' and
I was thinking of taking them to church ; but if
you wish it, I will remain at home.'

'Suit yourself,' said Charles, contemptuously,
only don't ask me to go with you. I should
hardly do you credit in these rags, and the
parson would hardly do me good. In India
there were four or five religions, and where
there is such a choice one learns to shift without
any.'

'What had I better do?' asked Oliver
turning to Honor.

Go to church with the children, father. I
will remain with Charles.'

I am to have your society, am I ? ' asked the
soldier. ' An hour and a half of curry, piping
hot ! Well, I can endure it. I can give as well
as take. Let me have a look at you, Kate. A
tidy wench, who will soon be turning the heads
of the boys, spinning them like tee-totus.

Let me see your tongue.' Kate put out her
tongue, then he chucked her under the chin and
made her bite her tongue. The tears came
into her eyes.

Charles I you have hurt me. You have
hurt me very much.'

Glad to hear it,' he said, contemptuously.
I intended to do it. The tongue is too long,
and too sharp, and demands clipping and
blunting. I have chastised you for your impertinence
last night.'

I suppose I had better go,' said Oliver.

Certainly, father,' answered Honor.

Then, still hesitating at every step from the
cottage to the lane, Oliver went forth followed
by seven children.

Charles drew a short black pipe from his
pocket, stuffed it with tobacco, which he carried
loose about him, and after lighting it at the fire
on the hearth, seated himself in his father's
chair, and began to smoke. Presently he drew
the pipe out of his mouth, and looking askance

at his sister, said 'Ami to forage for 'myself
this morning ? '

Honor came quietly up to him, and standing
before him, said, ' I spoke harshly to you,
Charles, last night. I Alas angry, when you
talked of the dear little ones offensively. But
I dare say you meant no harm. It is a bad
sign when the words come faster from the lips
than the thoughts form in the heart. You shall
have your breakfast. I will lay it for you on the
table. I am afraid, Charles, that your service
in the army has taught you all the vices and
none of the virtues of the soldier. A soldier is
tidy and trim, and you are dirty and ragged.
I am sorry for you ; you are my brother, and I
have always loved you.'

Blazes and fury ! ' exclaimed Charles ;
this is a new-fangled fashion of showing love.
I have been from home five years, and this is
the way in which I am welcomed home ! I
have come home with a ragged coat, and therefore
I am served with cold comfort. If I had

returned with gold guineas I should have been
overwhelmed with affection.'

Not so,' said Honor gravely. ' If you had
returned with a sound character we would
respect the rags ; but what makes my heartache
is to see, not the tattered jacket, but the
conscience all to pieces. How long is it since
you landed ? '

Five or six months ago.'

Where have you been since your return ? '

Where I could spend my money. I did
bring something with me, and I lived on it
whilst it lasted. It is not all gone yet. Look
here.' He plunged his hand into his trousers
pocket and jingled his coins carelessly in it.

There ! ' said he, ' you will feel more
respect for me, and your love wake up, when
you see I have money still, not much, but still,
some. Curse it, I was a fool not to buy you
a ribbon or a kerchief, and then you would
have received me with smiles instead of frowns.'

Honor looked him steadily in the face, out

of her clear hazel eyes. 'No, Charles, I want
no presents from you. Why did not you
return to us at once ? '

Because I had no wish to be buried alive
in Bratton Clovelly. Are you satisfied ? Here
I am at last.'

Yes,' she repeated, ' here you are at last.
What are you going to do now you are here ? '

I don't know,' answered her brother with a
shrug. Then he folded his arms, threw out his
legs, and leaned back in the chair. ' A fellow
like me, who has seen the world, can always
pick up a living.'

Honor sighed. What had he learned?
For what was he fitted ?

Charles,' she said, ' this is your father's
house, and here you were born. You have as
true a right to shelter in it as I. You are
heartily welcome, you may believe that. But
look about you. We are not in Coombe Park.
Including you we make up twelve in this
cottage. What we live on is what your father

earns by his carrying; but he is in debt, and
we have no money to spare, we cannot afford
to maintain idlers.'

Take my money,' said Charles, emptying
his pocket oh the table.

'No,' answered Honor. 'For a week we
will feed you for nothing. That money must be
spent in dressing you respectably. By next
week you will have found work.'

Maybe,' said the soldier. ' It is not every
sort of work that will suit me. Any one want
a gamekeeper about here ? '

No, Charles, there is only Squire Impey in
this parish ; besides, without your forefinger,
who would take you as a gamekeeper ? '

The devil take me, I forgot that.'

Curses again,' said Honor. ' You must
refrain your mouth before the children.'

I have not gone to church,' said Charles
sullenly, ' because I didn't want to be preached
to ; spare me a sermon at home.'

Charles,' said Honor, ' I have hard work

to make both ends meet, and to keep the children
in order. You must not make my work
harder — perhaps impossible. K you remain
here, you will need my help to make you
comfortable and to put your clothes in order.
You will throw an additional burden on me,
already heavily weighted. I do not grudge you
that. But remember that extra work for an
additional member means less time for earning
money at basket-weaving. We must come to
an understanding. I do not grudge you the
time or the trouble, but I Avill only give them
to you on condition that you do not interfere
with my management of the children, and
that you refrain your tongue from oaths and
unseemly speech.'

Charles stood up, went to her, took her by
both ears, and kissed her. ^ There, corporal,
that is settled.'

Honor resented the impertinence of laying
hold of her by both ears, but she swallowed
her annoyance, and accepted the reconciliation.

I have a good heart,' said Charles, ' but it
has been rolled in the mud.'

Give us the goodness, and wash off the
soil,' answered Honor. Then she brought him
some bread-and-butter and milk. ' Charles,'
she said, ' I will see if I cannot find some of
father's clothes that will fit you. T cannot
endure to see you in this condition.'

Not suitable to the heir of Coombe Park,
is it P ' laughed Charles. ' Is the governor as
mad on that now as of old .^ '

Say nothing to him about Coombe Park, I
pray you,' urged Honor. ' It takes the nerve
out of his arms and the marrow from his
bones. It may be that we have gentle blood
in us, or it may not. I have heard tell that in
old times servants in a house took the names
of their masters.'

I have always boasted I was a gentleman,
till I came to believe it,' said the soldier.
You'd have laughed to hear me talk of
Coombe Park, and the deer there, and the

coaches and horses, and father as Justice of
Peace, and Deputy-lieutenant, and all that sort
of thing, and his wrath at my enlisting as a
private.'

I should not have laughed. I should have
cried.'

And, Honor, I reckon it is the gentle
blood in my veins which has made a waste
of me. I could never keep my money, I threw
it away like a lord.'

Honor sighed. The myth of descent from
the Luxmores of Coombe Park had marred
her father's moral strength, and depraved her
brother's character.

There they come, the little devils ! '
shouted Charles, springing up and knocking
the ashes out of his pipe, which he put away
in his waistcoat pocket.

Charles ! ' again remonstrated Honor, butin
vain. Her elder brother was unaccustomed
to control his tongue. There was a
certain amount of good nature in him, inherited

from his father, and this Honor thankfully
recognised ; but he was like his father run to
seed. Luxmore would have become the same
but for the strong sustaining character of his
daughter.

Charley went to the door, and stood at the
head of the steps. Along the lane came Oliver
Luxmore with his children, Hillary junior and
Kate bringing up the rear.

Now then, you kids, big and little! ' shouted
Charles, ' see what I have got. A handful of
halfpence. Scramble for them. Who gets
most buys most sweeties.' Then he threw the
coppers down among the children. The little
ones held up their hands, jumped, tumbled
over each other, quarrelled, tore and dirtied
their Sunday clothes, whilst Charles stood
above laughing and applauding. Oliver Lux-more
said nothing'.

Come in, come in at once ! ' cried Honor,
rushing to the door with angry face. ' Charles,
is this the way you keep your promises ? '

'I must give the children something, and
amuse myself as well,' said the soldier.

Honor looked down the road and saw Kate
with young Hillary Caspian. They were
laughing together.

There now,' said Kate, as she reached the
foot of the steps, ' Honor, see the young fellow
who boasts he will make you fall down and
worship his waistcoat.'

It was a joke,' said Larry, turning red.
He poked his hat up from his right, then from
his left ear, he was overcome with shame.

Honor's colour slightly changed at the
words of her sister, but she rapidly recovered
herself.

'So,' continued the mischievous Kate, 'you
have come round all this way to blaze your
new waistcoat in the eyes of Honor, because she
could not come to church to worship it ? '

Young Caspian looked up furtively at
Honor, ashamed to say a word in self-exculpation.


Talk of girls giving themselves airs over
their fine clothes ! ' said Kate, ' men are as
proud as peacocks when they put on spring
plumage.'

It serves you right, Mr. Larry,' said Honor,
that Kate torments you. Vanity must be
humbled.'

I spoke in jest,' explained Hillary. ' All
the parish knows that when I joke I do not
mean what I say. When a word comes to my
hips, out it flies, good or bad. All the world
knows that.'

'All the world knows that,' she repeated.
It is bad to wear no drag on the tongue, but
let it run down hill to a smash. Instead of
boasting of this you should be ashamed of it.'

I am not boasting,' he said, with a little
irritation.

Then I misunderstood you. When a man
has a fault, let him master it, and not excuse
himself with the miserable reason, that his fault
is known to all the world.'

Come, Honor, do not be cross with me,'
he said, running up the steps, and holding out
his hand.

I am not cross with you,' she answered,
but she did not give him her hand.

How can I know that, if you will not
shake hands .^ '

^ Because all the world knows I tell no lies,'
she answered coldly, and turned away.

VOL. I.

CHAPTEE X.

ON THE STEPS.

For a week Charles Luxmore made a pretence
of looking for work. Work of various kind
was offered him, but none was sufficiently to
his taste for him to accept it. He had still
money in his pocket. He did not renew his
offer of it to Honor. She had fitted him in a
suit of his father's clothes, and he looked respectable.
He was often in the ' Eing of Bells,'
or at a pubic-house in a neighbouring parish.
He was an amusing companion to the young
men who met in the tavern to drink. He had
plenty to say for himself, had seen a great
deal of life, and had been to the other side of
the world. Thus he associated with the least

respectable, both old and young, the drunkards
and the disorderly.

He was not afflicted with bashfulness, nor
nice about truth, and over his ale he boasted of
what he had seen and done in India. He said
no more about his self-inflicted wound ; and
was loud in his declamation against the injustice
of his officers, and the ingratitude of his
country which cast him adrift, a maimed man,
without compensation and pension. When he
had drunk he was noisy and quarrelsome ;
and those who sat with him about the tavern
table were cautious not to fall into dispute
with him. There was a fire in his eye which
led them to shirk a quarrel.

About a mile from the church in a new
house lived a certain Squire Impey, a gentleman
who had bought a property there, but
who did not belong to those parts. No one
knew exactly whence he came. He was a
jovial man, who kept hounds, hunted and
drank. Charles went to him, and he was the

L 2

only man for whom he condescended to do
some work, and from whom to take pay ; but
the work was occasional, Charles was an
amusing man to talk to, and Impey liked to
have a chat with him. Then he rambled away
to Coombe Park, where he made himself so
disagreeable by his insolence, that he was
ordered off the premises. His father and
brothers and sisters did not see much of him ;
he returned home occasionally to sleep, and
when the mind took him to go to market, he
went in the van with his father.

Much was said in the place of the conduct
of Charles Luxmore — more, a great deal, than
came to the ears of Honor. Oliver heard
everything, for in the van the parish was discussed
on the journey to market, and those
who sat within did not consider whether the
driver on the box heard what they said. Oliver
never repeated these things to his eldest daughter,
but Honor knew quite enough of the proceedings
of Charles without this. She spoke

to Charles himself, rebuked him, remonstrated
with him, entreated him with tears in her eyes
to be more steady ; but she only made matters
worse ; she angered him the more because he
knew that she was right. He scoffed at her
anxiety about himself; he swore and burst
into paroxysms of fury when she reprimanded
him.

Do not you suppose,' said he, ' that I am
going to be brought inter your thumb, like
father and the rest.'

Possibly she might have been more successful
had she gone to work more gently. But
with her clear understanding she supposed that
every one else could be governed by reason,
and she appealed to his sense, not to his heart.
He must see, she argued, to what end this disorderly
Kfe would lead, if she put it before
him nakedly. She supposed she could prove
to him her sisterly affection in no truer way
than by rebuke and advice.

Although Honor's heart was full of womanly

tenderness, there was something masculine in
her character. There could not fail to be.
Since her mother's death she had been the
strength of the house, to her all had held.
Circumstances had given her a hardness which
was not natural to her.

Charles vowed after each fresh contest
with Honor that he could not go near the cottage
again. He would go elsewhere, out of
range of her guns ; but he did not keep his
vow. It was forgotten on the morrow. Honor
was not a scold. She had too good judgment to
go on rebuking and grumbling, but she spoke
her mind once, and acted with decision. She
withstood Charles whenever his inconsiderate
good nature or his disorderly conduct threatened
to disturb the clocklike working of the
house, to upset the confidence the children had
in her, and to mar their simplicity. She encountered
his violence with fearlessness. She
never became angry, and returned words for
words, but she held to her decision with toughness.

Her father was afraid of Charles, and
counselled his daughter to yield. Opposition,
he argued, was unavailing, and would aggravate
unpleasantness.

Honor suffered more than transpired. Her
brother's disrepute rankled in her heart. She
was a proud girl, and though she placed no
store on her father's dreams of Coombe Park,
she had a strong sense of family dignity, and
she was cut to the quick when Charles's conduct
became the talk of the neighbourhood. Never
a talker, she grew more than ever reserved.
When she went to or returned from church on
Sunday, she shunned acquaintances ; she would
not linger for a gossip in the churchyard, or
join company with a neighbour in the lane.
She took a child by each hand, and with set
face, and brows sternly contracted, looking
neither right nor left, she went her way.
Brightness had faded from her face. She was
too proud to show the humiliation she felt at
heart. ' Oh my,' said the urchins, ' ain't

Eed Spider mighty stuck up ! Too proud to
speak to nobody, now, seeming.'

Honor saw little of young Larry. Once or
twice he made as though he would walk home
with her from church, but she gave him no encouragement
; she held little Charity's hand, and
made Charity hold that of Martha, and kept
Charity and Martha between her and the young
man, breaking "all familiar converse. She had
not the heart to talk to him.

You need not take on about Charles,' said
her father one day. ' Every one knows that you
are a good girl, and makes allowances for a
soldier.'

Disorderly ways,' answered Honor, ' are
like infectious diseases. When one has an
attack, it runs through the house.'

Why do you not encourage folk to be
friendly ? You hold yourself aloof from all.'

Honor sighed.

I cannot forget Charles, and the shame he
is bringing on us. For me it matters little, but

it matters much to the rest. The children will
lose sense of fear at bad language, lies and bragging.
Kate is a pretty girl, and some decent lad
may take a fancy to her ; but who would make a
maid his wife who had such a brother ? '

Oh ! as for that, young Larry Caspian is
after her. You should see low they go on together,
tormenting and joking each other.'

Honor coloured and turned her face aside ,
She said nothing for a minute, then with composed
voice and manner she went on.

See the bad example set to Joe. He tries his
wings to fly away from me, as is natural ; boys
resist being controlled by the apron. He sees
his elder brother, he hears him, he copies him,
and he will follow him down the road to destruction.
We must get Joe away into service
unless we can make Charles go, which would
be the better plan of the two.'

Charles has been away for some years.
We must not drive him out of the house now
we have him home again.'

Father, I wish you would be firm with
him

I — I ! ' he shook his head, ' I cannot
be hard with the boy. Remember what he has
gone through in India, in the wars. Look at his
poor hand. Home is a place to which a child
returns when no other house is open to it.'

Honor looked sadly at the carrier. No
help was to be had from him.

I suppose, father,' she said, ' that there
are rights all round. If Charles comes home
claiming the shelter of our roof and a place atour
table, he is bound in some way. He has
no right to dishonour the roof and disturb
the table. I grudge him no pains to make
him comfortable, but I do expect he wil not
make it impossible for me to keep the home
decent.'

Of course, of course. Honor,' said the
carrier, rubbing his palms slowly between his
knees, and looking vacantly into the fire.
That is reasonable.'

And right,' said Honor. ' And, father, you
should make a stand. Now, all the responsibility
falls on me.'

Oh, yes. I will make a stand ; certainly,
certainly,' said Luxmore. ' Now let us change
the subject.'

• No,' answered the girl. ' I cannot, and I
will not. Charles must be made to conduct
himself properly. I will not allow the little
ones to hear his profane talk, and see his devil-may-care
ways. Mother committed them tome,
and I will stand between them and evil.
If it comes to a fight, we shall fight. All I
wish is that the fight was not to be between
brother and sister.' Her voice became hard,
her brows contracted, her face became pale
with intensity of feeling.

There, there ! ' groaned Oliver Luxmore,
don't make out matters worse than they are.
A sheep looks as big as a cow in a fog. You
see ghosts where I see thorn-trees. Be gentler
with Charles, and not so peremptory. Men

will not be ordered about by women. Charles
is not a bad boy. There is meat on a trout as
well as bones. All will come right in the end.'

Honor said no more. Her eyes filled ; she
stooped over her needlework to conceal them ;
her hand moved quickly, but the stitches were
uneven.

I will do something, I will indeed,' said
Luxmore, rising. He took his hat and went
out, but returned quickly a few minutes later,
agitated, and went through the room, saying
hastily, ' Honor ! he is coming, and — I think —
drunk.'

Then he escaped into the back kitchen
and out into the paddock in the rear where he
kept his horse. That was all the help Honor
was likely to get from him — to be forewarned.

Next moment two of the children flew up
the steps frightened and heated.

0, Honor ! Charlie is tight ! '

Honor stood up, folded her needlework,
put it aside, and went to the door.

Children,' she said, ' go behind into the
field to father.' Then she went to the head of
the steps and looked down the lane.

She saw her brother, coming on with a
lurching walk, holding a stick, followed by a
swarm of school-children, recently dismissed,
who jeered, pelted him, and when he turned
to threaten, dispersed to gather again and
continue tormenting. Charles was not thoroughly
drunk, but he was not sober. Honor's
brow became blood-red for a moment, and
her hand trembled on the rail ; but the colour
left her forehead again, and her hand was firm
as she descended the steps.

At the sight of Honor Luxmore the children
fell back, and ceased from their molestations.


Halloa, Honor ! ' shouted Charles, staggering
to the foot of the steps. ' A parcel of
gadflies, all buzz and sting ! I'll teach 'em to
touch a soldier! Let me pass. Honor, and
get away from the creatures.'

No, Charles,' answered this sister, ' you do
not pass.'

'Why not?'

Because I will not let you — drunk.'

I am not drunk, not at all. It is
you who are in liquor. Let me pass.' He
put his hand on the rail, and took a step
up.

You shall not pass ! ' she spoke coolly,

resolutely.

'Curse you for a pig-headed fool,' said
Charles, ' I'm not going to be stopped by such
as you.'

Such as I shall stop you,' answered Honor.
Shame on you to dishonour the steps by which
our mother went down to her burial ! Verily,
I saw her in my dreams, putting her hands
over her face in her grave to hide the sight of
her son.'

'Stand aside.'

I will not budge ! '

'T was a fool to come home,' muttered

Charles, ' to be pickled in vinegar like walnuts
I wish I'd stayed away.'

'I wish you had, Charles, till you had
learned to conduct yourself with decency.'

I will not be preached to,' he growled ;
then becoming lachrymose, he said, ' I come
home after having been away, a wanderer, for
many years. I come home from bloody wars,
covered with wounds, and find all against me.
This is a heartless world. I did expect to find
love at home, and pity from my sister.'

I love and pity you,' said Honor, ' but I
can only respect him who is respectable.'

Let me pass !

I will not, Charles.'

Then he laid hold of her, and tried to pull
her off the steps ; but she had a firm grip of
the rail, and she was strong.

The children in the lane, seeing the scuffle,
drew near and watched with mischievous
delight. Charles was not so tipsy that he did
not know what he was about, not so far gone

^s to be easily shaken off. Honor was obliged
to bold with both hands to the rail. He
caught her round the waist, and slung her
from side to side, whilst oaths poured from his
lips. In the struggle her hair broke loose, and
fell about her shoulders.

She set her teeth and her eyes glittered.
Fire flamed in her cheeks. She was resolved
at all costs not to let him go by. She had
threatened that she would fight him, and now,
before she had expected it, the fight was forced
upon her.

Finding himself foiled, unable to dislodge
her, and unable to pass her, Charles let go,
went down the steps, and kicked and thrust
at the support of the handrail, till he broke
it down. Then, with a laugh of defiance,
he sprang up the steps brandishing the post.
But, when the rail gave way, Honor seized it,
and ascending before him, facing him, stepping
backward, she planted herself against the
cottage door, with the rail athwart it, behind

her, held with both hands, blocking the
entrance.

Charles was forced to stay himself With
the broken post he held, as he ascended the
steps.

Honor ! ' he shouted, ' get out of the way
at once, I am dangerous when opposed.'

'Not to me,' she answered; 'I am not afraid
of you, drunk or sober. You shall not cross
this doorstep.'

He stood eyeing her, with the post half
raised, threateningly. She met his unsteady
gaze without flinching. Was there no one to
see her there but the tipsy Charles and the
frightened children's A pity if there was
not. She was erect, dignified, with bosom
expanded, as her bare arms were behind her.
Her cheeks were brilliant with colour, her
fallen hair, raining about her shoulders, blazed
with the red evening sun on it, her large hazel
eyes were also full of fire. Her bosom heaved
as she breathed fast and hard. She wore a

VOL. I. M

pale, faded print dress, and a white apron.
Below, her red ankles and feet were planted
firm as iron on the sacred doorstep of Home,
that she protected.

As Charles stood irresolute, opposite her,
the children in the lane, thinking he was about
to strike her, began to scream.

In a moment Hillary Caspian appeared,
sprang up the steps, caught Charles by the
shoulder, struck the post out of his hand, and
dragging him down the steps, flung him his
length in the road.

Lie there, you drunken blackguard ! ' he
said ; ' you shall not stand up till you have
begged your sister's pardon, and asked permission
to sleep off your drink in the stable.'

CHAPTER XI.

IN THE Linnet.

jSText morning, when Cliarles Luxmore awoke,
he found himself lying on the hay in the little
'linnet,' or lean-to shed, of his father. The
door was open and the sun streamed in, intense
and glaring. In the doorway, on a bundle
of straw, sat his sister Honor, knitting. The
sun was shining in and through her golden
hair, and the strong, fiery light shone through
her hands, and nose, and lips, crimson — or
seemed to do so. Charles watched her for
some time out of his half-closed eves, and
confessed to himself that she was a fine, noble-looking
girl, a girl for a brother to be proud of.
Her profile was to the light, the nose straight,
the lips sharp-cut, now expanded, then closed

M 2

tight, as moved by her thoughts, and her hair
shone Hke the morning clouds above the rising
sun.

What ! sentinel, keeping guard ? ' shouted
Charles, stretching his limbs and sitting up.
'In custody, ami? Eh?'

I have brought you your breakfast, Charles,'
answered Honor. ' There is a bowl of bread
and milk at your elbow.'

He was hungry, so he took the bowl. His
hair was ruffled, and full of strands of hay ; he
passed his hand over his face.

I've had many a sleep in a barn before
now,' he said ; ' there are worse bedrooms,
but there is one drawback. You can't smoke
a pipe in one, or you run the chance of setting
fire to bed and house. I did that once, and
had a near scratch to escape before the flames
roasted me. Best was, I managed to escape
before any one was on the spot, so I was not
taken up ; suspicion fell on a labourer who had
been dismissed a fortnight before.'

And you said nothing ? '

Certainly not. Do you take me for a
fool?'

Honor's lips contracted, so did her brow.

Charles put the spoon into the bread and
milk, then, as he was setting it to his mouth,
burst out laughing, and spilt the sop over his
clothes.

It was enough to make a fellow laugh,' he
explained. ' To see last night how scared
the kids were — Martha and Charity — and how
they cut along when they saw me coming
home.'

This is not a cause for laughter. If you
had a heart you would weep.'

I thought I caught sio^ht of father.'

'You did, but he also turned and left you.
He could not face you as you were. You
should be ashamed of yourself, Charles.'

There, there ! ' he exclaimed impatiently,
I will listen to no rebukes. I was not drunk,
only a bit fresh.'

'Drunk or fresh matters little, you were
not in a fit condition to come home ; and what
is more, I will not allow you to live in this
cottage longer.'

You will not ? '

No, I will not.'

Who is to prevent me ? '

'I will'

You ! — and what if I force you out of the
way, and go in and brave you ? '

You may go in, but I leave and take with
me all the little ones. I have made up my
mind what to do ; I can work and earn
enough to support the children, but I will not
no, I will not let them see you and hear you
more.'

He looked at her. Her face was resolute.
She was the girl to carry out her threat.

I curse the day I came back to see your
wry face,' he muttered, and rolled over on his
side, away from her.

She made no reply. Her lips quivered.

He did not see it, as he was no longer looking
at the door.

Home is home,' he said, ' and go where
one will there are threads that draw one back
to it.'

Honor was softened. ' I am glad, Charles,
that you love home. If you love it, respect
it.'

Don't fancy that I came home out of love
for you.'

Honor sighed.

I came home to see how father fared
about Coombe Park, and how mother was
flourishing.'

Well, Charles, I am glad you thought of
father and mother. You must have a right
heart, at ground. Mother is dead, but I know
she shames over your bad conduct, and would
rejoice were you to mend.'

How do you know that ? There is no
postal communication with the other world,
that I am aware of.'

Never mind how I know it, ]put I do.'
I was a fool to return. There is no
kindness left in the world. If there were I
should find a pinch at home, and pity from
you.'

'Charles, if I have been harsh with you,
it has been through your own fault. God,
who reads all hearts, knows that I love you.
But then, I love all the rest of my brothers
and sisters, and now that mother is not here to
see after them, whom have they got but myself
to protect them ? I defend them as a cat defends
her kittens from a dog. Charles, I am
sorry if I have been rough and unkind, and
sisterly to you, but indeed, indeed I cannot
help myself. Mother laid the duty on me
when she was dying. She caught my hand —
so,' she grasped his wrist, and looking earnestly
in his face, said, ' and laid it on me to be
father and mother to the little ones. I bent
over her and kissed her, and promised I would,
and she died with lier hand still holding my

wrist. I feel her grip there to this day, whenever
danger threatens the children. When
you first came into the house, on your return,
I felt her fingers close as tight on me as when
she died. She is always with me, keeping me
up to my duty. I cannot help myself, Charles ;
I must do what I know I ought, and I am
sure it is wrong for me to allow you to remain
with us longer. Consider, Charles, what the life
is that you are now leading.'

The life is all right,' said he moodily. ' I
can pay my way. I have more brains than
any of these clodhoppers round, and can always
earn my livelihood.'

Begin about it,' urged Honor.

Time enough for that when the last
copper is gone wherewith to stop a pipe and
fill a can of ale.'

Charles ! Charles ! ' exclaimed his sister,
your own coppers are spent long ago. Now
you are smoking the clothes off your little
brothers' and sisters' backs, and drinking and

squandering the little money I have for feeding
them. For shame ! ' the blood rushed into
her cheeks with sudden anger, as the injustice
of his conduct presented itself before her
vividly. ' Your father works that you may
idle ! It is a shame ! It is a sin.'

Hold your tongue ! '

I will not hold my tongue she answered
hotly. ' You know how good, and gentle, and
forbearing father is, how ready he is to give
everything to his children, how unwilling to
say to any one a harsh word, and you take
advantage of his good nature ; you, that should
be building up the house, are tearing it down
on the heads of all of us, father, Kate, Patience,
Joe, Willy — down to little Temperance, all,
all!'

That is right, Honor, comb his head with
a rake and the locks will lie smooth.'

Both Honor and Charles looked up. Hillary
stood before them in the doorway. The girl
had turned her face to her brother, and had

not observed his approach. She was ill-pleased
at his arrival. She wished no stranger to
inter-meddle with her family troubles.

You here ? ' exclaimed Charles, starting to
one knee. ' Mr. Larry Caspian, I owe you
something, and I shall repay it when the occasion
comes. Not now, though I have a mind
to it, because I have a headache. But I can
order you off the premises. Get along, or I'll
kick you.'

Larry gave a contemptuous shrug with his
shoulders, and looked to Honor.

Well, Honor, have you a good-morning
for me .^ '

I have ordered you off the premises,' shouted
Charles.

Shall I pitch him into the road again .^ '
asked Larry of the girl.

Then Honor said, ' I did not ask your help
yesterday, and I do not seek your interference
now.'

Charles burst into a rude laugh. 'You

have your answer, Mr. Larry,' he said ; ' about
face and away with you, and learn that there
is one girl in the 'place whose head you have
not turned.'

If I am not wanted, of course I go,' said
Hillary, annoyed.

Then he walked away, whistling, with his
hands in his pockets. ' There are more cherries
on the tree than that on the topmost twig,* he
said to himself in a tone of dissatisfaction. ' If
Honor can't be pleasant others are not so particular.'


Larry Caspian was a spoiled lad. The
girls of Bratton made much of him. He was a
fine young man, and he was heir to a good
estate. The girls not only did not go out of
their way to avoid him, but they threw themselves,
unblushingly, ostentatiously in his path ;
and their efforts to catch him were supported
by their mothers. The girls hung about the
lanes after church hoping to have a word with
him, and sighed and cast him languishing

glances during Divine worship. Their mothers
flattered him. This was enough to make the
lad conceited. Only Honor kept away from him.
She scarcely looked at him, and held him at a
distance. The other girls accepted his most
impudent sales without offence ; he did not
venture a jest with Honor. Her refusal of the
homage which he had come to regard as his
due piqued him, and forced him to think of
Honor more often than of any other girl in the
place. He did not know his own mind about
her, whether he liked or whether he disliked
her, but he knew that he was chagrined at her
indifference.

Sulky, he sauntered on to Broadbury, towards
Weldon's Cairn. The moor was stretched
around, unbroken by a hedge, or wall, or tree.
Before him rose the Tumulus. ' Hah ! ' he
said to himself, ' she was ready to talk tome
here ; we were to have been good friends,
but that cursed White Hare brought us all ill-luck.'


As he spoke to his surprise he saw something
white emerge from the cutting in the
side. He stood still, and in a moment Mrs.
Yeale leaped out of the hollow, went over the
side, and disappeared down a dyke that ran in
the direction of Langford.

The apparition and disappearance were so
sudden, the sight of the woman so surprising,
that Hillary was hardly sure he was in his
senses, and not the prey to a hallucination.
He was made very uncomfortable by what he
had seen, and instead of going on towards the
mound, he turned and walked away. '

This is wonderful,' he said. ' Whatever
could take Mrs. Veale to Weldon's Cairn? If it
were she — and I'd not take my oath on it — I'm
too bewildered to guess her purpose.'

He halted and mused. ' I always said she
was a witch, and now I believe it. She's been
there after her devilries, to get some bones or
dust of the gibbeted man, or a ink of his

chain, to work some further wickedness with.
I'll see Honor again, I will, for all the airs she
gives herself, and warn her not to sit on
Weldon's mount. It's not safe.'

CHAPTER XII.

LANGFORD.

Honor put on her list and threw a kerchief
over her shoulders, and took her little brother
Willy by the hand.

Whither are you going, Honor ? ' asked
Kate.

'I am going to find a place for Charles,
as he will not seek one for himself. I have
turned him out of this house, and must secure
him shelter elsewhere.'

Who will have him ? ' asked Kate contemptuously.
She was less forbearing with
Charles than Honor. Honor did not answer
immediately.

Try Chims worthy,' suggested Kate ; ' Larry
would put in a word for us.'

Honor slightly coloured. She put on her
red cloak.

I cannot, Kate. Larry and Charles have
quarrelled.'

'Larry bears no grudges. I will answer
for him.'

I do not wish to ask a favour of the
Nanspians.'

'Why not?'

Honor made no reply. She clasped the
child's hand tightly and closed her lips. Then,
without another word, she left the cottage.
Kate shrugged her shoulders.

Honor went slowly up the lane to Broad-bury
; she did not speak to her little brother
her head was slightly bowed, she was deep in
thought, and hectic spots of colour tinged her
cheeks.

What ! Honor, in your scarlet ! ' exclaimed
Larry. She looked up in surprise. He had
come up to Broadbury the second time

VOL. I. N

that day, drawn there irresistibly by desire to
see Honor. He thought it probable, as the
day was fine, that she would go there with her
knitting.

'What has brought you to Broadbury in
this array, Honor?' asked Hillary, standing
before her, and intercepting her path.

I am on my road to Langford,' answered
the girl with composure.

Take care. Honor, take care where you
go. There is a witch there, ]airs. Veale ; if you
get in her bad books you will rue it. I have
seen her to-day at Weldon's Cairn gathering
the dead man's dust, out of which to mix some
hell-potion.'

Honor shook her head.

It is true,' said Hillary earnestly ; ' she
jumped and ran — and her ways were those of
that white hare we saw at the mound. Nothing
will now persuade me that she was not
that hare. Do not go on. Honor ; leave Langford
alone. No luck awaits you there.'

'Nonsense, Larry, you cannot have seen
Mrs. Veale up here.'

I tell you that I did. I saw something
white hopping and running, and I am sure it
was she in the hole scooped by the treasure-seekers.'


What can she have wanted there ? '

What but the dust of old Weldon ? And
what good can she do with that ? None — she
needs it only for some devilry. Do not go
near her, Honor ; I have come here on purpose
to warn you that the woman is dangerous.'

I must go on,' said Honor. ' It is kind of
you, Larry, but I have business which I must
do at Langford. I have never harmed Mrs.
Veale, and she will not want to hurt me =
But now, Larry, let me say that I am sorry
if I offended you this morning. I spoke
rather rough, because I was afraid of a quarrel
and a fight between you and Charles. Do
not take it amiss. Now do not stay me, I must
go forward.'

IT 2

'I will let you go on one promise — that
you will not cross Mrs. Veale.' He caught her
hand.

How can I give offence to her .^ She is
nothing to me, nor I to her. You must really
make way, Larry.'

He shook his head. ' I don't like it,' he
said ; but he could not further stay her.

Langford lies under the brow of Broad-bury,
looking over the tossing sea-like expanse
of hill and dale. It lies at a very considerable
elevation, nearly a thousand feet above the sea,
and to protect it from the weather is covered
with slate, as though mail-clad. Few trees
stand about it affording shelter. Honor walked
through the yard to the door and thrice knocked.
Very tardy was the reply. Mrs. Yeale opened
the door, and stood holding it with one hand,
barring the entrance with her body and the
other hand. She was in a light cotton dress,
from which the colours had been washed. Her
face, her eyes, her hair had the same bleached

appearance. Her eyelashes were white, overhanging
faded eyes, to which they gave a
banking uncertain look.

AVhat do you want ? ' asked the housekeeper,
looking at her with surprise and with
flickering eyes.

I have come to see Mr. Langford,' answered
Honor ; ' is your master at home ? '

My master, oh yes ! ' with a sneer, ' my
master is at home — my mistress not yet. Oh
no ! not yet.'

I want to see him.'

You do ? Come, this is sharp, quick work.
You follow one on another as April on March.'

Honor did not understand her. She
thought the woman was out of her mind. She
made no reply, but looking firmly at her, said,
I will go into the kitchen and sit down till your
master is disengaged. Is he in the house now ? '

'You know he is, and you knows who is
with him.'

Honor drew her brother after her, and

entered. She was too proud to give the
woman words.

What do you want ? Where are you
going ? ' asked the housekeeper, standing aside
to let Honor pass, but casting at her a look so
full of malevolence, that Honor turned down
her thumb in her palm instinctively to counteract
the evil eye. Honor took a kitchen chair
and seated herself. ' I will wait here,' she
said, ' till Mr. Langford can see me.'

Mrs. Yeale stood, still holding the door,
looking at her, her white face quivering, her
eyes flickering. The child, startled, crept close
to his sister, and clung to her.

Mrs. Veale came forward, without removing
her eyes from the girl. ' Take care ! '
she said in a husky voice. ' Take care ! you are
not here yet.'

Then Honor laughed.

Not here, Mrs. Veale .^ What do you
mean ? I am here.'

Before the housekeeper could speak again

men's voices were audible in the passage, and,
to her astonishment, Honor recognised that of
her father. She rose at once, and confronted
him and Taverner Langford as they entered the
kitchen.

What — yon here ? ' exclaimed Oliver Lux-more
with undisguised astonishment. ' Why,
Honor, what in the world has drawn you to
Langford ? I did not know that you and Mrs
Veale were friends.'

I have come to speak to Mr. Langford,'
was her reply, spoken quietly ; ' but I am
glad, father, that you are here, as I should prefer
to speak before you. May we go into the
parlour ? '

She looked at Mrs. Yeale, as much as to say
that she did not care to speak before witnesses.

Mrs. Veale,' said Langford, with a sharp
tone, ' I heard steps from the parlour door two
minutes ago. I object to listeners at key-holes.
Do you understand ? '

He did not wait for an answer, but turned

and led the way down the passage he and
Lnxmore had just emerged from.

Little Willy uttered a cry. 'Don't leave
me with the old woman, please, please. Honor ! *

You shall come with me,' answered the
girl, and she drew the child with her into the
parlour.

Here we are,' said Taverner, shutting the
door. ' Take a seat, take a seat ! The little
boy can find a stool at the window.'

Thank you, Mr. Langford, I will not detain
you ^\Q minutes. I prefer to stand. I
am glad my father is here. Doubtless he has
come on the same matter as myself.'

The two men exchanged glances.

I have come to ask you to try Charles,' she
continued. 'Some little while ago you told
father that you wanted a man to act as drover
for you. I have not heard that you have met
with such a servant. Try my brother Charles.
He is doing no work now, and Satan sets
snares in the way of the idle. If you will

please to give him a chance, you will confer onus
a great favour, and be doing a good work as
well, for which the Lord will reward you.'

That is what has brought you here ? '
asked the yeoman.

Yes, sir.'

Have you heard it said throughout the
country that I am not a man to grant
favours ? '

I do not heed what folks say. Besides,
I know that this is not so. You have already
acted very kindly to us. You lent father a
very good horse.'

Why have you not applied elsewhere ? at
Chirasworthy, for instance.'

Because I do not wish to be beholden to
the Nanspians, sir,' answered Honor.

You do not approve of your sister keeping
company with that Merry Andrew,' said
Taverner approvingly.

She does not keep company with him,'
answered the girl gravely.

*• At any rate lie lets him dance after her,
draws him on. Well, well ! it is natural, perhaps.
But don't advise her to be too eager.
Young Larry is not so great a catch as some
suppose, and as he and his father give out.
Look at Chimsworthy — a wilderness of thistles,
and rushes springing where grass grew to my
recollection. There is no saying, some day you
may be seated at Coombe Park, and then the
Nanspians will be below you.'

Coombe Park ! ' echoed Honor, looking at
her father, then at old Langford. ' Surely, sir,
you think nothing of that ! Do not encourage
father in that fancy ; we never were and never
will be at Coombe Park.'

Honor ! ' exclaimed Oliver Luxmore,
working his feet uneasily under the table,
there you are wrong. The Luxmores have
had it for many generations. You have only
to look in the registers to see that.'

Yes, father, some Luxmores have been
there, but not our Luxmores as far as we know.

I wish you would not trouble your head about
Coombe Park. We shall never get it. I doubt
if we have a thread of a right to it. If we
have, I never saw it.'

We shall see, we shall see,' said the carrier.
Girls haven't got lawyers' minds, and don't
follow evidence.'

I have undertaken to go with your father
to Lawyer Physick at Okehampton,' said
Taverner Langford, ' and to help him to have
his right examined.'

Nothing can come of it but heart-breaking,'
sighed Honor ; ' father will sip certainties
to seize shadows.'

I have nothing to lose,' said Oliver, ' and
much to gain.'

Honor knew it was in vain to attempt to
disabuse him of his cherished delusion. She
so far shared his views as to believe that the
family had gentle blood in their veins, and
were descended somehow, in some vague, undefined
manner, from the Luxmores of Coombe

Park, through, perhaps, some younger son of
a junior branch, and she liked to suppose that
the beauty and superiority of manner in her
brothers and sisters were due to this, but she
did not share in her father's expectations of
recovering the property. Her understanding
was too clear to harbour this.

'I will go back to what I asked of Mr.
Langford,' she said, after a pause. ' Will you
take my brother Charles into your service,
sir ? He wants a firm hand over him. He
is not bad at heart, but he is infirm of purpose,
easily led astray. If he were here with you,
he would be far from the " Eing of Bells," and
his work would sever him from idle companions.'


So, you don't want him to be at Ghims-
worthy ? '

I do not desire to be under obligation
there.'

You have no objection to placing yourself
under obligation to me .^ '

Honor did not like the tone. She did not
understand his returning to the same point ;
she turned uneasily to her father, and asked
him to put in a word for poor Charles.

Mr. Langford is more likely to grant a
boon to you than to me,' answered Oliver
evasively.

Sit down, Honor,' he said. ' You have
remained standing the whole time you have
been here.'

I have been making a request,' she answered.


The request is granted. Sit down.'

She was reluctant, yet unwilling to disoblige.


Oliver signed to her to take a place. She
obeyed. She was uncomfortable. There was
an indefinable something in the way in which
the old yeoman looked at and addressed her,
something equally indefinable in her father's
manner, that combined to disturb her.

Mrs. Yeale came in on some excuse, to ask

her master a question, with her white eyelashes
quivering. She cast a sidelong glance
at Honor full of malice, as she entered. When
she left the room she did not shut the door,
and the girl saw her white face and flickering
eyes turned towards her, watching her out of
the darkness of the passage. She was for a
moment spellbound, but recovered herself
when Taverner Langford, with an impatient
exclamation, slammed the door.

I shall be glad to be rid of the old prying
cat,' he said,

Is Mrs. Yeale going to leave you ? ' asked
Honor. Then she caught her father and Langford
exchange glances, and her brow became
hot — she hardly knew wherefore.

I am thinking of a change,' said the yeoman.

I hope you are going to have as good a
housekeeper,' said Honor ; ' a better you cannot
have.'

Oh ! ' he laughed, ' a better, certainly, and
what is quite as certain — a prettier one. If

I had noi been sure of that, I would not

have ' He checked himself and nodded to

the carrier, who laughed.

Honor looked from one to the other inquiringly,
then asked somewhat sternly, ' You
would not have — what, Mr. Langford ? '

Humph ! I would not have taken Charles.'

What is the connection ? ' asked the girl.

'More things are connected than sleeve-links,'
answered Langford. ' I would not have
let your father have the horse if you were
thriftless at home. I would not take Charles
into service, unless I thought to find in him
some of the qualities of the sister.'

Put my qualities, such as they are, on one
side,' said Honor roughly.

'That,' said Langford, looking across at
Luxmore, ' that is not to be thought of

Then the carrier laughed nervously, and
with a side glance at his daughter.

Honor coloured. She was offended, but
unable to say at what. She put her hand on

lier little brother's head and stroked it nervously.


Then the yeoman began to talk to the
carrier about his estate, the quality of the land,
his cows and horses, his woods, his pastures,
the money he was able to put away every year,
and contrasted his style of farming with that
of the Nanspians at Chimsworthy. As he
spoke he fixed his eyes on Honor, to see if his
wealth impressed her. But her face expressed
no concern. It was clouded ; she was thinking,
not listening.

All at once the insinuations of Mrs. Yeale
rushed into her mind. She saw her meaning.
She connected that with the looks of the two
men. Blood rushed to her face. She sprang
to her feet. The room swam before her eyes.

« I must go.' she said. •' I am wanted at
home.'

CHAPTEE XIII.

THE REVEL.

If to Sally in our alley and the apprentice who
loved her, ' Of all the days within the week
there was no day but one day,' so to all the
maids and all the lads in country villages, in
olden times, there was no day in all the year
that might compare with the day of the village
Level.

The Eevel is noah a thing of the past, or
lingers on, a limp and faded semblance of the
robust festival that fifty years ago was looked
forward to through half the year, and looked
back on through the other half, and formed the
topic of conversation for the entire twelvemonths.


VOL. I.

On Eevel day horse-races were run, got
up by the village taverner, for a plated mug ora
punch ladle ; wrestling matches were played
for a champion belt, booths were set up in
streets of canvas and board for the sale of
brooches, ribbons, toys, sweet stuff, and saffron-cakes.
There were merry-go-rounds, peep-shows,
menageries, and waxwork. The
cheap-jack was never wanting, the focus of
merriment.

In and about 1849 the commons were enclosed
on which the races had been run, and the
tents pitched, and gipsies had encamped. Magistrates,
squires, parsons, and ponce conspired
against Revels, routed them out of the field,
and supplied their places with other attractions,
cottage-garden shows, harvest thanksgivings,
and school teas.

Possibly there were objectionable features
in those old Revels which made their abolition
advisable, but the writer remembers none of
these. He saw them through the eyes of a

child, and recalls the childish delight they
afforded.

The day was clear and sunny. People
streamed into Bratton Clovelly from the country
round, many on foot, others in gigs and carts,
all in gayest apparel. Honor had dressed the
children neatly, had assumed her scarlet cloak,
and stood at the cottage door turning the key
ready to depart with the little eager company,
when the tramp of a horse's hoof was heard,
and Larry Caspian drew up before the house.
He was driving his dappled cob in the shafts
of a two-wheeled tax-cart.

What, Larry ! ' exclaimed Kate, ' mounted
on high to display the flowery waistcoat?
Lost your legs that you cannot walk a
mile P '

Not a bit, sharp-tongue,' answered the
young man, good-naturedly. ' I have come
round for Honor and you and the little
ones.'

We have feet, sixteen onions us.'

But the tiny feet will be tired with trotting
all day. You will have fairings moreover to
bring home.'

Thank you for the kind thought, Larry,'
said Honor, softened by his consideration and
by the pleasant smile that attended his words.
'Kate and I will walk, but we accept your
offer for the children.'

I cannot take them without you,' said the
young man. ' I hold the whip with one hand
and the reins with the other. I have not a
third wherewith to control a load of wriggling
worms.'

Jump in. Honor,' said Kate ; ' sit between
me and the driver, to keep the peace.'

The eldest sister packed the children in
behind and before, then, without more ado,
ascended the seat by Larry, and was followed
by Kate, with elastic spring.

Height ! ' exclaimed the young man, ' I
reckon no showman at the Eevel has half so
fine wares as myself to exhibit.'

What, the waistcoat ? ' asked Kate, leaning
forward to look in his face.

Ko, not the waistcoat,' answered he ;
cutlery, keen and bright.'

Your wit must have gone through much
sharpening.'

I do not allude to my wit. I mean the
pretty wares beside me.'

But, driver, the wares are not and never
will be yours.'

As they drew near Bratton they heard a
shout from behind, and turning saw Taverner
Langford driving in, with Mrs. Yeale beside
him, at a rattling pace. Larry drew aside tolet
them pass ; as they went by Taverner looked
keenly at Honor, and Mrs. Yeale cast her a
spiteful glance, then turned to her master and
whispered something.

Upon my word ! ' exclaimed Larry, ' I've a
mind to play a lark. Say nothing, girls, but
don't be surprised if we give Uncle Langford a
hare-hunt.'

He drew rein and went slow through the
street of the ' church town.' The street and
the open space before the church gate were
full of people. It was, moreover, enlivened
with booths. Larry was well content to appear
in state at the fair, driving instead of walking
like a common labourer, and driving with two
such pretty girls as Honor and Kate at his side.
He contrasted his company to that of his uncle.
I wonder my uncle don't get rid of that Mrs.
Veale. No wonder he has turned sour with
her face always before him.' He shouted to
those who stood in the road to clear the way ;
he cracked his whip, and when some paid no
attention brought the lash across their shoulders.
Then they started aside, whether angry or good-humoured
mattered nothing to the thoughtless
lad.

He drevz up before the ' Eing of Bells,' cast
the reins to the ostler, jumped out, and helped
the sisters to descend, then lifted the children
down with a cheerful word to each.

The little party strolled through the fair,
Honor holding Charity by her left and Temperance
by her right hand ; but the crowd was
too great for the youngest to see anything.
Honor stooped and took the little girl on her
right arm, but immediately Larry lifted the
child from her to his shoulder.

See ! ' whispered Joe, holding a coin under
Kate's eyes, ' Larry I^Tanspian give me this.'

And I have something too from him,' said
Pattie.

And so have I,' whispered Willy.

Honor pretended not to hear, but lie was
touched, and looked with kindly eyes at the
young man. He had his faults, his foolish
vanity ; but there was good in him, or he would
not trouble himself about the little ones. She
had not been able to give the children more
than a penny each for fairing. The village was
thronged. The noise was great. The cheap-jack
shouted in a voice made hoarse by professional
exercise. The ringers had got to the

bells in the church tower. At a stall was a
man with a gun, a target, and a tray of nuts,
calling ' Only a halfpenny a shot ! ' There was
Charles there trying the gun, and his failures to
hit the bull's-eye elicited shouts of laughter,
which became more boisterous as he lost his
temper. The barrel was purposely bent to
prevent a level shot reaching the mark. A boy
paraded gaudy paper-mills on sticks that whirled
in the wind — only one penny each. A barrel
organ ground forth, ' The flaxen-headed Plow-boy,'
and a miserable blinking monkey on it
held out a tin for coppers. Honor was so
fully engrossed in the children, watching that
they did not stray, get knocked over or crushed,
that she had not attention to give to the sights
of the fair ; but Kate was all excitement and
delight. Larry kept near the sisters, but could
not say much to them : the noise was deafening
and little Temperance exacting.

Presently the party drew up before a table
behind which stood a man selling rat poison.

A stick was attached to the table, and to this
stick was affixed a board, above the heads of
the people, on which was a pictorial representation
of rats and mice expiring in attitudes of
mortal agony. The man vended also small
hones. He took a knife, drew the edge of the
blade over his thumb to show that it was blunt,
then swept it once, twice, thrice, this Away, that
way, on the bit of stone, and see ! he plucked
a hair from his beard, and cut, and the blade
severed it. Fourpence for a small stone, sixpence,
a shilling, according to sizes. The coins
were tossed on the table, and the hones carried
away.

What is it, ma'am — a hone ? ' asked the
dealer.

'No, the poison.'

A white arm was thrust between those who
lined the table. Hillary turned, and saw Mrs.
Veale.

Keep it locked up, ma'am. There's
enough in that packet to poison a regiment.'

Whether a regiment of soldiers or of rats
he did not explain.

At the crockery stall Larry halted, and
passed Temperance over to Honor. Now his
reason for driving in the spring-cart became
apparent. He had been commissioned to purchase
a supply of pots, and mugs, and dishes,
and plates, for home use. Honor also made
purchases at this stall, and the young man
carried them for her to his cart, as well as his
own supply. Then she lingered at a drapery
stall, and bought some strong material for frocks
for the youngest sisters. Whilst she was thus
engaged, Larry went to a stall of sweetstuif,
presided over by a man in Avhite apron, with
copper scales, and bought some twisted red
and white barbers' poles of peppermint. immediately
the atmosphere about the little party
was impregnated with the fragrance of peppermint.


A few steps beyond was a menagerie. A
painted canvas before the enclosure of vans

represented Noah's ark, with the animals ascending
a plank and entering it by a door in
the side. In another compartment was a picture
of a boa-constrictor catching a negro, and
opening his jaws to swallow him. Over this
picture was inscribed, ' Twine, gentle evergreen,'
and the serpent was painted emerald. In
another compartment, again, was a polar scene,
with icebergs and white bears, seals and whales.

Oh, we must see the wild beasts ! ' exclaimed
Kate.

A consultation ensued. Larry wished to
treat the whole party, but to this Honor would
not agree. Finally, it was decided that Kate,
Joe, and Pattie should enter, and that Honor
should remain without with the children. Accordingly
the three went in with Larry, and
presently returned disappointed and laughing.
The menagerie had resolved itself into a few
mounting parrots, a torpid snake in a blanket,
two unsavoury monkeys, and an ass painted
with stripes to pass as a zebra.

Adjoining the menagerie was another exhibition,
even more pretentious. Three men
appeared before it on a platform, one with a
trumpet, another with cymbals, the third with a
drum. Then forth leaped clown, harlequin
and columbine, and danced, cut jokes, and
went head over heels. The clown balanced a
knife on his nose ; then bang ! toot, toot !
clash ! bang, bang, bang ! from the three instruments,
working the children into the wildest
speculation. Honor had spent the money laid
aside for amusement, and could not afford to
take her party in, and she would accept no
further favours from Larry.

Just then up came Charles.

Halloo, mates ! you all here ! ' he shouted,
elbowing his way to them. ' That is prime. I
will treat you ; I've a yellow boy,' he spun
a half-sovereign in the air and caught it between
both palms. ' Come along, kids. I'm
going to treat half a dozen young chaps as well.
Shall I stand for you, Larry ? ' he asked contemptuously,

' or have the thistles and rushes
sold so well you can afford to treat yourself? '

Larry frowned. 'I see my father yonder
signing to me,' he said. ' I must go to him.'

Then Hillary worked his way to the rear,
offended at the insolence of Charles, red in
face, and vowing he would not do another kindness
to the family.

Old Caspian was in the long-room of the
Eing of Bells,' at the window. He had caught
sight of his son, whose flowered satin waistcoat
was conspicuous, and was beckoning to him
with his clay pipe ; he wanted to know whether
he had bought the crockery — video ' cloak ' — as
desired, and what he had paid for it.

Come on, you fellows ! ' called Charles to
some of his companions. 'How many are you
Six, and myself, and the two girls, that makes
nine sixpences, and the little uns at half-price
makes five threepence. Temperance is a baby
and don't count. That is all, five-and-nine ;
shovel out the change, old girl, four-and-three.'

He threw down the gold coin on the table,
where a gorgeous woman in red and blue
and spangles, wearing a gilt foil crown and
huge earrings, was taking money and giving
greasy admission tickets. The circus was small.
The seats were one row deep, deal planks
laid on trestles. Only at one end were reserved
places covered with red baize for the
nobility, gentry, and clergy, who, as a bill informed
the public, greedily patronised the
show. On this occasion these benches were
conspicuously empty. The performers appeared
in faded blessings, very soiled at the
elbows and knees ; the paint on the faces was
laid on coarsely ; the sawdust in the ring was
damp and smelt sour.

The clown cut his jests with the conductor,
carried off his cap, and received a crack of the
whip. He leaped high in the air, turned a
somersault, and ran round the arena on hands
and feet, peering between his legs.

A dappled horse was led out, and the

columbine mounted and galloped round the
ring. Every now and then the hoofs struck
the enclosing boards, and the children shrank
against Honor and Kate in terror. Then a
spray of sawdust was showered over the lads,
who roared with laughter, thinking it a joke.

A second horse was led out to be ridden
by the harlequin, but the clown insisted on
mounting it, and was kicked off. Then the
harlequin ran across the area, whilst the horse
was in full career, and leaped upon its back,
held the columbine's hand, and round and
round they went together. All was wretchedly
poor. The jokes of the clown were as threadbare
as the silks, and as dull as the spangles on
the equestrians. Poverty and squalor peered
through the tawdry show. But an audience of
country folk is uncritical and easily pleased.
The jests were relished, the costumes admired,
and the somersaults applauded. All at once a
commotion ensued. The queen in red and
blue, who had sold the tickets of admission,

appeared in a state of loud and hot excitement,
calling for the manager and gesticulating
vehemently. The performance was interrupted.
The horses of harlequin and columbine were
restrained, and were walked leisurely round
the arena, whilst the lady in gauze (very
crumpled) seated herself on the flat saddle and
looked at the spectators, who curiously scrutinised
her features and compared opinions as
to her beauty. Presently the clown ran to the
scene of commotion. The queen was in very
unreal excitement, shaking her head, with her
pendant earrings flapping, very loud and vulgar
in voice ; some of the audience crowded about
the speakers.

Then Honor was aware that faces and
fingers were pointed towards the bench
which she and her party occupied, and in
another moment the manager, the crowned
lady-manageress, the clown, now joined by the
harlequin, who had given his horse to a boy,
and a throng of inquisitive spectators, came

down — some across the arena, others stumbling
over the deal benches — towards the little party.

That's he ! ' shouted the lady in crimson
and blue, shaking her black curls, puffing with
anger, and indicating with a fat and dirty hand.
'That's the blackguard who has cheated us.'
She pointed at Charles.

The columbine drew rein and stood her
horse before the group, looking down on it.
She had holes in her stockings, and the cherry
silk of her bodice was frayed. Kate saw
that.

Look here, you rascal ! What do you
mean by trying to cheat us poor artists, with
horses and babies to feed, and all our wardrobe
to keep in trim, eh? What do you
mean by it ? '

Then the clown in broad cockney, ' What
do you mean by it, eh ? Some one run for
the constable, will you? Though we be
travelling showmen we're true-born Britons,
and the law is made to protect all alike.'

VOL. I. p

'What is the matter?' asked Honor, rising,
with the frightened Temperance in her arms
dinging to her neck and screaming, and
Charity and Martha holding her skirts,
wrapping themselves in her red cloak and
sobbing.

Ah, you may well ask what is the
matter ! ' exclaimed the queen. ' If that
young chap belongs to you in any way, more's
the pity.'

It is an indictable offence,' put in the
manager. ' It is cheating honest folk ; that is
what it is.'

Charles burst out laughing.

I've a right to pay you in your own coin,
eh ? ' he said contemptuously, thrusting his
hands into his pockets, and planting a foot
on the barrier.

What do you mean by our own coin ? '
asked the angry manageress, planting her arms
akimbo.

'Giving false for false,' mocked Charles.

It is insulting of us lie is ! ' exclaimed
the columbine, from her vantage post. ' And
he calls himself a gentleman.'

Pray what right have you to invite the
public to such a spectacle as this ? ' asked
Charles. ' You have only a couple of screws for
horses, and an old girl of forty for columbine,
a harlequin with the lumbago, and a clown
without wit — and you don't call this cheating?'

Turn him out ! ' cried the lady in
crumpled muslin, '- it's but twenty-three I
am.'

What is this all about ? ' asked Honor,
vainly endeavouring to gather the cause of the
quarrel and compose the frightened children
at the same time. The bystanders, indignant
at the disparagement of the performance,
hissed. All those on the further side of the
arena, losing their awe of the sawdust, came
over it, crowding round the gauzy columbine
and her horse, asking what the row was about,
and getting no answer

p 2

The columbine was obliged to use her whip
lightly to keep them off. Boys were picking
spangles off the saddle-cloth, and pulling hairs
out of the mane of the horse.

How many was it ? Fourteen persons let
in ? ' asked the manager.

And I gave him back change, ,'
added the manageress.

'You shall have your cursed change,' said
Charles. ' Get along with you all. Go on with
your wretched performance. Here are four
shillings, the boys shall scramble for the pence
when I find them.' He held out some silver.

No, I won't take it. You shall pay for
all the tickets,' said the woman. ' You ain't
a-going to defraud us nohow if I can help it.
Let's see, how many was you? Four and three
from ten makes five-and-nine.'

'I can't do it,' said Charles, becoming
sulky. ' If you were the fool to accept a brass
token you must pay for the lesson, and be
sharper next time. I have no more money.'

'Cheat! cheat! Passing bad money!' the
bystanders groaned, hissed, hooted. Charles
waxed angry and blazed red. He cursed those
who made such a noise, he swore he would
not pay a halfpenny, he had no money. They
might search his pockets. They might squeeze
him. They would get nothing out of him.
They might keep the brass token, and welcome,
he had nothing else to give them. He
turned his pockets out to show they were
empty.

The whole assembly, performers in tights,
muslin, velvets, ochre and whitening, the
spectators — country lads with their lasses,
farmers and their waives — were crushed in a
dense mass about the scene of altercation.
Many of the lads disliked Charles for his
swagger and superiority, and were glad to
vent their envy in groans and hisses. The
elder men thought it incumbent on them to
see that justice was done ; they called out that
the money must be paid.

Charles, becoming heated, cast his words
about, regardless whom he hurt. The manager
stared, the queen screamed, the clown swore,
and columbine, who held a hoop, tried to throw
it over the head of the offender, and pull him
down over the barrier. By a sudden movement
the young man wrenched the whip from
the hand of the manager, and raising it over his
head threatened to clear a way with the lash.
The people started back. Then into the space
Honor advanced.

What has he done ? I am his sister.
Show me the piece of money.'

Look at that — and turn yelier,' exclaimed
the manager's Avise. ' Darn it now, if I ain't
a-gone and broke one o' them pearl drops in my
ear. Look at the coin,' she put the token into
the girl's hand. ' What do yer say to that ? '
Then she whisked her head of curls about as if
to overtake her ear and see the wreck of pearl-drop
— silvered glass which had been crushed in
the press. ' And this also, young man, comes

of yer wickedness. What am I to do with one
pendant? Can't wear it in my nose like an
Injun. Now then, young woman in scarlet,
what do yer call that ? '

Honor turned the coin over in her palm,

This is a brass tradesman's token,' she
said, ' it is not money. We stand in your
debt iive-and-ninepence. I have nothing by
me. You must trust me ; you shall be
paid.'

No, no ! we won't trust none of you,'
said the angry woman. ' We ain't a-going tolet
you out without the money. Pay or to
prison you walk. Someone run for the constable,
and I'll give him a ticket gratis for this
evening's entertainment.'

Then many voices were raised to deprecate
her wrath. 'This is Honor.' * Trust Honor
as you'd trust granite.' 'Honor in name and
Honor in truth.' ' Honor never wronged a fly.'
'Eed spider is a lucky insect 'Why don't
the red spider spin money now ? '

Leave her alone, she's good as gold. She
can't help if the brother is a rascal.'

But though many voices were raised in her
favour, no hands were thrust into pockets to
produce the requisite money.

Honor looked about. She was hot, and her
brow moist ; her lips quivered ; a streak of sun
was on her scarlet cloak and sent a red reflection
over her face.

We will not be beholden to you, madam,'
she said, with as much composure as she could
muster. Then she unloosed her cloak from
her neck and from the encircling arms of
Temperance. ' There,' she said, ' take this ;
the cloth is good. It is worth more money
than what we owe you. Keep it till I come or
send to redeem it.'

She put the scarlet cloak into the woman's
hands, then turned, gathered the children
about her, and looking at those who stood in
front, said with dignity, ' I will trouble you to

I

make way. We will interrupt the performance
no longer.'

Then, gravely, with set hips and erect head,
she went out, drawing her little party after her,
Kate following, flushed and crying, and Charles,
with a swagger and a laugh and jest to those
he passed, behind Kate.

When they came outside, however, Charles
slunk away. The six young men whom Charles
had treated remained. They had worked their
way along the benches to dissociate themselves
from the party of the Luxmores, and put on a
look as if they had paid for their own seats.
We needn't go, for sure,' whispered one to
another. 'We be paid for now out of Miss
Honor's red cloak.'

CHAPTEE Xii.

THE LAMB-KILLER.

Honor could not recover herself at once. Her
heart beat fast and her breathing was quick.
Her hands that clasped the children twitched
convulsively. She looked round at Charles
before he slipped away, and their eyes met.
His expression rapidly changed, his colour
went, his eyes fell before those of his sister.
He drew his cap over his face, and elbowed
his way through the crowd out of sight.

Honor felt keenly what had occurred ; she
was the sister of a rogue ; the honourable name
of Luxmore was tarnished. How would her
father bear this ? This, the family honour,
was the one thing on which he prided himself.

And what about Charles? Would not he be
forced to leave the place she had found for
him? Would Taverner Langford keep in his
employ a man who cheated ?

But Honor took a more serious view of the
occurrence than the general public. Popular
opinion was not as censorious as her conscience.
Those whom Charles had attempted
to defraud were strangers — vagrants belonging
to no parish, and without the pale, fair game
for a sharp man to overreach. If the public
virtue had protested loudly in the show, it was
not in the interests of fair dealing, but as an
opportunity of annoying a braggart.

Honor, wounded and ashamed, shrank from
contact with her acquaintances, and with Kate
worked her way out of the throng, away from
the fair, and home, without seeing more of
Larry.

Kate took Charles's misconduct to heart in a
different way from Honor ; she was angry, disappointed
because her pleasure was spoiled, and

fretted. But the children, as they trotted
homewards, were not weary of talking of the
wonders they had seen and the enjoyment
they had had.

In the evening Hillary drove up with his
spring-cart, and called the girls out to take
their fairings from his trap, some crocks, a roll
of drapery, and some other small matters.
Hillary was cheerful and full of fun. He repeated
the jokes of the cheap-jack, and told of
the neighbours that had been taken in. He
mentioned whom he had met, and what he had
seen. He allowed the dappled horse to stand
in the road, with the reins on the ground,
whilst, with one foot planted on the steps, he
lingered chatting: with the girls before their door.
He was so bright and amusing that Kate forgot
her vexation and laughed. Even the grave
Honor was unable to forbear a smile. Of the
disturbance in the circus caused by Charles he
said nothing, and Honor felt grateful for his tact.
He remained talking for half an hour. He

I

carried the girls' parcels into the cottage for
them, and insisted on a kiss from the tiny ones.
It almost seemed as if he were tarrying for something
— an opportunity which did not offer ;
but this did not occur to the girls. They felt
his kindness in halting to cheer them. Their
father was not yet returned from the fair. They
were not likely to see Charles again that day.

'By the way, Honor,' said Larry, 'you
have some lambs, have you not .^ '

'Yes, five.'

Can you fasten them and the ewes in at
night?'

No — we have no place. But why .^ They
will not take hurt at this time of the year.'

Don't reckon on that,' said the young
man ; ' I've heard tell there is a lamb-killer
about. Farmer Hexagon lost three, and one
went from Swaddledown last night. Have you
not heard ? Watches must be set. None can
tell whose do has taken to lamb-killing till it
is seen in the act.'

A bad business for us if we lose our lambs,'
said Honor. ' We reckon on selling them and
the ewes in the fall, to meet our debt to Mr.
Langford for the horse.'

Then forewarned is forearmed. Lock
them up.'

It can't be done, Larry. You can't pocket
your watch when you're without a pocket.'

'Li that case I hope the lamb-killer will
look elsewhere. That is all. Good-night.
But before I go mind this. If you have trouble
about your lambs, call on me. I'll watch for
you now you have not Charles at your command.
We're neighbours and must be neighbourly.'


Thank you heartily, Larry. I wall do so.

Then the lad went away, whistling in his
cart, but as he went he turned and waved his
hand to the sisters.

The children were tired and put to bed.
Kate was weary and soon left. Honor had
to sit up for her father, whose van was in request

that clay to convey people and their
purchases from the fair to their distant homes.
After Oliver had come in and had his supper,
Honor put away the plates, brushed up the
crumbs, set the chairs straight, and went to
bed. Kate and the children were sound asleep.
Honor's brain was excited, and she kept awake.
She was unobserved now, and could, let her
tears flow. She had borne up bravely all day ;
the relaxation was necessary for her now.
Before her family and the world Honor was
reserved and restrained. She was forced to
assume a coldness that was not natural to her
heart. There was not one person in the house
who could be relied on. Her father was devoid
of moral backbone. He remembered the commissions
of his customers, but his memory failed
respecting his duties to his children and the
obligations of home. Kate had too sharp a
tongue and a Immour too capricious to
exercise authority. She set the children ])y
the ears. As for the little ones, they were too

young to be supposed to think. So Honor had
to consider for her father and the other seven
inmates of the cottage, also of late for Charles —
to have a head to think for nine creatures who
did not think for themselves. There was not
one of the nine who stood firm, who was
not shiftless. There are few occupations
more trying to the temper than the setting
up of ninepins on a skittle-floor. Honor
did not become querulous, as is the manner of
most women who have more duties to discharge
than their strength allows. She was overtaxed,
but she sheltered herself under an assumption
of coldness. Some thought her proud, others
unfeeling. Kate could not fathom her. Oliver
took all she did as a matter of course. He
neither spared her nor applauded her. Perhaps
no one in the parish was so blind to her excellence
as her father. Kate was his favourite
daughter.

Honor dried her tears on the pillow.
What would the end be .^ Kate was at her

side fast asleep. Honor leaned on her elbow
and looked at her sleeping sister. The moon
was shining. A muslin blind was drawn across
the window, but a patch of light was on the
whitewashed wall, and was brilliant enough to
irradiate the whole chamber. Kate's light
silky hair was ruffled about her head. She lay
with one arm out, and the hand under her
head ; her delicate arm was bare. Honor
looked long at her ; her lips quivered, she
stooped over Kate and kissed her, and her
lips quivered no more. ' How pretty she is,'
she said to her own heart ; ' no wonder he went
away whistling " Kathleen Mavourneen."

All at once Honor started, as though
electrified. She heard the sheep in the paddock
making an unwonted noise, and recalled
what Larry had said. In a moment she was
out of bed, and had drawn aside the window-blind.
The sheep and lambs were running
wildly about. Some leaped at the hedge,
trying to scramble up and over ; others huddled

VOL. 1. Q

against the gate leading to the lane. Honor
opened the casement and put forth her head.
Then she saw a dark shadow sweep across the
field, before which the clustered sheep scattered.


Honor slipped on a few garments, descended
the stair, opened the kitchen door, and went
forth armed with a stick. The lamb-killer was
in the paddock, chasing down one of the flock
that he had managed to separate from the rest.
Honor called, but her voice was unheeded or
unheard, owing to the bleating of the frightened
sheep. She ran through the dewy grass, but
her pace was as nothing to that of the dog.
The frightened lamb fled from side to side, and
up and down, till its powers were exhausted ;
and then it stood piteously bleating, paralysed
with terror, and the dog was at its throat and
had torn it before Honor could reach the
spot.

When she approached the dog leaped the
hedge and disappeared through a gap in the

bushes at the top. The girl went about the
field pacifying the sheep, calling them, and
counting them. They came about her skirts,
pressing one on another, bleating, entreating
protection, interfering with her movements.
Two of the lambs were sone. One she had
seen killed ; a second was missing. She
searched and found it ; it had been overrun
and had got jammed between two rails. In its
efforts to escape, it had become injured. Its
life was spent with exhaustion and fear, but it
was not quite dead. It still panted. She disengaged
the little creature, and carried it in her
arms into the house, followed by the agitated
ewes, whom she could hardly drive back from
the garden gate.

Honor did not expect the dog to return
that night, but she sat up watching for a couple
of hours, and then returned to her bedroom,
though not to sleep.

Here was a fresh trouble come upon the
family. The loss of two lambs, in their state

q2

of poverty, was a serious loss, and she could
not be sure that this was the end. The dog
might return another night and kill more, and
that was a crushing loss to poor people.

Next morning, when Kate and the children
heard the news, their distress was great. Many-tears
were shed over the dead lambs. Kate
was loud in her indignation against those who
let their dogs rove at night. She was sure it
was done on purpose, out of malice. It was
impossible to suppose that the owner of a lamb-killer
was ignorant of the proclivities of his
dog. If they could only find out whose dog
it was they would make him pay for the mischief.


I suppose, father, you will sit up to-night
and watch for the brute ? '

I — I ! ' answered the carrier. ' What will
that avail ? I never shot anything in my life
but one sparrow, and that I blew to pieces. I
rested my gun-barrel on the shiver (bar) of a
gate, and waited till a sparrow came to some

crumbs I lead scattered. Then I fired, and a
splash of blood and some feathers were all that
remained of the sparrow. No, I am no shot.
The noise close to my ear unnerves me. Besides,
I am short-sighted. No ; if the dog
takes the lambs, let him, I cannot prevent it.'

But you must sit up, father.'

'What can I do? If I saw the dog I
should not know whose 't was. Honor saw it,
she can say whose it was.'

I do not know. It struck me as like Mr.
Langford's Eover, but I cannot be sure ; the
ash-trees were between the moon and the
meadow, and flickered.'

Oh ! if it be Eover we are right.'

How so, father ? '

Langford will pay if his dog has done the
damage.'

He must be made to pay,' said Kate. ' He
won't do it if he can scrape out.'

I cannot be sure it was Eover,' said Honor.
I saw a dark beast, but the ash flickered in

the wind, and the flakes of moonlight ran over
the grass like lambs, and the shadows like
black dogs. I was not near enough to make
sure. Unless we can swear to Eover, wee must
be content to lose.'

'Mr. Langford will not dispute about a
lamb or two,' said Oliver, rubbing his ear.

Then he will be different in this to what
he is in everything else,' said Kate.

He won't be hard on us,' said her father.
Honor was accustomed to see him take his
troubles easily, but he was unwontedly, perplexingly
indifferent now, and the loss was
grave and might be graver.

'I will watch with you to-night, Honor,'
said Kate. ' And what is more, I will swear to
Eover, if I see the end of his tail. Then we
can charge the lambs at a pound a-piece to old
Langford.'

'As for that,' said the father, with a side-glance
at his eldest daughter, ' Mr. Langford — ■
don't call him old Langford any more, Kate,

it's not respectful — Mr. Langford won't press
for the horse. It lies with you whether we
have him for nothing or have to return
him.'

He spoke looking at Honor, but he had
addressed Kate just before. The latter did
not heed his words. Honor had been crossing
the room with a bowl in her hands. She
stood still and looked at him. A question as
to his meaning rose to her lips, but she did not
allow it to pass over them. She saw that a
knowing smile lurked at her father's mouth-corners,
and that he was rubbing his hands
nervously. The subject was not one to be
prosecuted in the presence of her brothers and
sisters. She considered a moment, then went
into the back kitchen with the bowl. She would
make her father explain himself when they
were together alone.

Dark and shapeless thoughts passed through
her mind, like the shadows of the ash foliage in
the moonlight. She was full of undefined apprehension

of coming trouble. But Honor had
no time to give way to her fears. There was
no leisure for an explanation. The dead lambs
had to be skinned and their meat disposed of.

Honor was busily engaged the whole morning.
She was forced to concentrate her mind
on her task, but unable to escape the apprehension
which clouded her. It did not escape her
that her father's manner changed, as soon as
the children were despatched to school and
Kate had gone forth. He became perceptibly
nervous. He was shy of being in the room
with Honor, and started when she spoke to him.
He pretended to look for means of fastening up
the flock for the night, but he went about it
listlessly. His playful humour had evaporated ;
he seemed to expect to be taken to task for his
words, and to dread the explanation. His
troubled face cleared when he saw Hillary
Xanspian appear at the top of the hedge that
divided the Chimsworthy property from the
carrier's paddock. The young man swung himself

up by a bough, and stood on the hedge
parting some hazel-bushes.

What is this I hear ? The lamb-killer been
to you last night ? '

Yes, Larry, and I am trying to find how
we may pen the sheep in out of reach. I've
only the linhay, and that is full.'

Are you going to sit up ? '

'No, Larry, I am not a shot, and like a
beetle at night.'

I'll do it. Where are Kate and Honor ?
I promised them I would do it, and I keep my
word. Little Joe tells me Honor thinks the
dog was Eover. What a game if I shoot Uncle
Taverner's dog ! I hope I may have that luck.
Expect me. I will bring my gun to-night.

CHAPTEE XV.

A BOLT From THE BLUE.

Honor's kitchen work was done. She came to
her father after Larry Caspian had departed,
and said, • Now, father, I want to know your
meaning, when you said that it lay with me
Whether you should keep the horse or not ? '

Then she seated herself near the door, with
a gown of little Pattie's she was turning.

It was so to speak rigmarole,' answered
Oliver colouring, and pretending to plait a lash
for his whip.

She shook her head. ' You did not speak
the words without purpose.'

'We lead a hard life,' said Oliver evasively.
'That you can't deny and keep an honest
tongue.'

'I do not attempt to deny it,' she said,
threading a needle at the light that streamed
in through the open door. The carrier looked
at her appealingly. Behind her, seen through
the door, was a bank of bushes and pink foxgloves,
' flopadocks ' is the local name. He
looked at the sunlit picture with dreamy
eyes.

I shouldn't wonder,' he said, ' if there
was a hundred flowers on that there tallest
klopstock.'

I should not either,' said Honor without
looking off her work. Then ensued another
pause.

Presently the carrier sighed and said, ' It
be main difficult to make both ends meet.
The children are growing up. Their appetites
increase. Their clothes get more expensive.
The carrying business don't prosper as it ought.
Kate, I reckon, will have to go into service, wee
can't keep her at home ; but I don't like the
notion — she a Luxmore of Coombe Park.'

'We are not Luxmores of Coombe Park,
but Luxmores out of it,' said Honor.

Coombe Park should be ours by right,
and it rests with you whether we get our
rights.'

How so ? This is the second hint you
have given that much depends on me. What
have I to do With the recovery of Coombe
Park ? How does the debt for the horse rest
with me ? '

It is a hard matter to be kept out of our
rights,' said Oliver. ' A beautiful property, a fine
house and a fishpond — only a hundred pounds
wanted to search the registers to get it.'

No hundred pounds will come to us,' said
Honor. 'The clouds drop thunderbolts, not
nuggets. So as well make up our minds to be
where we are.'

No, I can't do that,' said the carrier,
plaiting vigorous y. ' You haven't got a bit
of green silk, have you, to finish the lash
with?'

Whether from wishing or from working,
no hundred pounds will come,' continued the
girl.

And see what a rain of troubles has come
on us,' said the carrier. ' First comes your poor
mother's death, then the horse, now the lambs,
and on top of all poor Charles.'

More the reason why we should put aside
all thought of a hundred pounds.'

Providence never deserts the deserving,'
said Luxmore. 'I'm sure I've done my duty in
that state o' life in which I am. It is darkest
before dawn.'

I see no daylight breaking.'

'Larry Caspian makes great count of
Kate,' mused Luxmore, and then abruptly,
confound it ! I've plaited the lash wrong, and
must unravel it again.'

'What wall come of Larry's liking for
Kate ? Will that bring us a hundred pounds
and Coombe Park ? ' asked Honor bluntly.

I can't quite say that. But I reckon it

would be a rare thing to have her settled at
Chimsworthy.'

No,' said Honor, ' not unless Larry alters.
Chimsworthy grows weeds. The old man is
more given to boasting than to work. Larry
cares more to be flattered than to mind the
plough.'

I won't have a Luxmore of mine marry
out of her station. We must hold up our
heads.'

Of course we must,' said Honor. ' What
am I doing all day, thinking of all night, but
how we may keep our heads upright ? '

What a mercy it would be not to be
always fretting over halfpence ! If you and
Kate were well married, what a satisfaction
it would be to me and what a comfort all
round.'

Do not reckon on me,' said Honor ; ' I
shall not marry, I have the children to care
for. You do not want to drive me out of the
house, do y', father ? '

No, certainly not. But I should like to
see you and Kate well married, Kate to Larry
Caspian and Chims worthy, and you — well,
you equally well placed. Then you might
combine to help me to my own. Consider
this. Honor ! If we had Coombe Park, all
our troubles would clear like clouds before a
setting sun. Charles would no longer be a
trouble to us. He shows his gentle blood by
dislike for work. If he were not forced to
labour he would make a proper gentleman.
Why then, Honor, what a satisfaction to you
to have been the saving, the making of your
brother ! '

Then won't stand on the feet of 7/V said
Honor.

It depends on you.'

How on me ? ' she rested her hands on her
lap, and looked steadily at her father. He unravelled
his lash with nervous hands. Honor
saw that they shook. Then without turning
his eyes from his plaiting, he said timidly, ' I

only thought how well it would be for us if
you were at Langford.'

How can I be at Langford ? Mrs. Veale
is the housekeeper, and I do not wish for her
place.'

Oh no, not her place — not her place by
any means,' said her father.

What other place then ? ' she was resolved
to force him to speak out, though she guessed
his meaning.

He did not answer her immediately. He
looked at the ' flopadocks ' through the front
door, then he looked to see if there was a way
of escape open by the back.

I — I thought — that is to say — T hoped —
you might fancy to become Mrs. Langford.'

Honor rose proudly from her seat, knd
placed her needlework in the chair. She stood
in the doorway, with the illumined hedge
behind her. If Oliver had looked at her face
he could not have seen it ; he would have seen
only the dark head set on a long and upright

neck, with a haze of golden brown about it.
But he did not look up ; he drew a long
breath. The worst was over. He had spoken,
and Honor knew all.

In the morning the carrier had flattered
himself it would be easy to tell Honor, but
when he prepared to come to the point he
found it difficult. He knew that the proposal
would offend his daughter, that it would not
appear to her in the light in which he saw it.
He was afraid of her, as an inferior nature
fears one that is greater, piu:er than itself.
Now he felt like a schoolboy who has been
caught cribbing, and expects the cane.

You see. Honor,' said he in an apologetic
tone, ' Taverner Langford is a rich man, and of
very good family. It would be no disgrace to
him to marry you, and you cannot reckon to
look higher. I don't know but that his family
and ours date back to Adam. He has kept
his acres, and we have lost ours. However,
with your help, I hope we may recover Coombe
YCL. I. B

Park and our proper position. What a fine
thing. Honor, to be able to restore a fallen
family, and to be the means of saving a
brother ! Taverner Langford is proud, and
would like to see his wife's relations among
the landed gentry. He would help us with a
hundred pounds. Indeed, he has almost
promised the money. As to the horse, we
need not concern ourselves about that, and
the lambs need trouble you no more. There
is a special blessing pronounced on the peacemakers.
Honor, and that would be yours if you
married Taverner and Kate took Hillary, for
then Langford must make up his quarrel with
the Nanspians.'

Honor reseated herself, and put her work
back on her lap. Oliver had not the courage
to look at her face, or he would have seen
that she was with difficulty controlling the
strong emotion that nigh choked her. He sat
with averted eyes, and maundered on upon the
advantage-es of the connection.

So,' exclaimed Honor at length, 'Taverner
Langford has asked for me to be his wife ! But,
father, he asked before he knew of that affair
yesterday. That alters the look. He will back
out when he hears of Charles's conduct.'

'Not at all. I saw him yesterday evening,
and he laughed at the story. He took
it as a practical joke played on the circus
folk — and what harm? Everyone likes his
jokes, and the Eevel is the time for playing
them.'

He has not dismissed Charles ? '

Certainly not.'

'I would have done so, had he been my
servant.'

Then she leaned her head on her hand and
gazed before her, full of gloomy thought. Her
father watched her, when he saw she was not
looking at him.

'The advantage for Charles would be so
great,' he said.

Yes,' she exclaimed, with a tone of ime

2

patience. ' But there are some sacrifices it is
not fair to expect of a sister.'

Consider that, instead of being a servant
in the house, Charles would regard himself as
at home at Laugford. He is not a bad fellow,
his blood is against his doing menial
work. When he mounts to his proper place
you will see he will be a credit to us all. You
don't take razors to cut cabbages. I, also, will
no longer be forced to earn my livelihood
by carrying. If your mind be healthy, Honor,
you will see how unbecoming it is for a Lux-more
to be a common carrier. Lord bless me !
When I am at Coombe Park, you at Langford,
and Kate at Chimsworthy, what a
power we shall be in the place. Why, I may
even become a feoffees of Coryndon's Charity !
Langford is rich. He has a good estate. He
has spent nothing on himself for many years.
There must be a lot of money laid by somewhere.
He cannot have saved less than three
hundred pounds a year, and I should not stare

to hear he had put by five. Say this has been
going on for twenty years. That amounts to
ten thousand pounds at the lowest reckoning.
Ten thousand pounds ! Think of that, Honor.
Then remember that okl Hillary J^anspian is
in debt to Tavern er Langford, and pressed to
raise the money, as the debt has been called
up. You must persuade Taverner to let the
money lie where it is, and so you will bring
peace to Chims worthy.'

Honor shook her head.

It cannot be, father,' she said, in a low
tone.

I feared you would raise difficulties,' he
said, in an altered, disappointed voice. ' Of course
he is too old for you. That is what you girls
think most about.'

She shook her head.

Perhaps you have fancied someone else,'
he went on ; ' well, we can't have plum cake
every day. It is true enough that Taverner
Langford is not a yellow gosling ; but then he

has ten thousand pounds, and they say that a
young man's slave is an old man's darling. He
won't live for ever, and then you know — '■ — '

Honor's cheeks flushed ; she raised her
head, passed her hand over her brow, and
looking at her father with dim eyes, said,
That is not it — no, that is not it.' Then with
an access of energy, ' I will tell you the real
truth. I cannot marry whom I do not love,
and I cannot love whom I do not respect. Mr.
Langford is a hard man. He has been hard
on his kinsman, Mr. Caspian, and though the
old man had a stroke, Mr. Langford never went
near him, never sent to ask how he was, and
remained his enemy. About what ? I've heard
tell about a little red spider. Mr. Langford
may be rich, but he loves his money more than
his flesh and blood, and such an one I cannot
respect.'

The carrier forced a laugh. ' Is not this
pot falling foul of kettle ? ' he asked. ' Who is
hard if you are not ? Have you shown gentleness

to Charles, who is your very brother ?
Whereas Caspian is but a brother-in-law.'

I have not been hard with Charles. I
must protect the children from him. He is my
brother, and I love him. But I love the others
also. I will do all I can for him, but I will
not have the others spoiled for his amusement.'

'We don't all see ourselves as others see
us,' said Oliver sulkily. Honor was stung by
his injustice, but she made no reply. She took
up her sewing again, but she could not see to
make stitches. She laid her work again on
her lap, and mused, looking out of the door at
the fox-gloves, and the honeysuckle and mid
rose in the hedge. The scent of the honeysuckle
was wafted into the room.

Why should Mr. Langford want me as his
wife? ' she asked dreamily ; ' surely Mrs. Yeale
will suit him better. She is near his age, and
accustomed to his ways. Besides,' she paused,
then resumed, ' there have been queer tales
about him and her.'

Pshaw, Honor ! a pack of lies.'

I have no doubt of that,' she said ; ' still
I cannot see why he wants me.'

'Honor, my child,' said her father slowly
and with his face turned from her ; ' he and
Caspian of Chimsworthy don't hit it off together,
and the property is so left that if he
hasn't children it will pass to his sister's son,
young Larry. The old man can't bear to think
of that, and on their reckoning on his dead
shoes, and he'd draw a trump from his pack
against those Nanspians.'

Honor flamed crimson and her eyes flashed.
And so — so this is it ! I am to help to widen
the split ! I am to stand between Larry and his
rights ! Father, dear father, how can you
urge me ? How can you hope this ? No,
never, never will I consent. Let him look
elsewhere. There are plenty of maidens in
Bratton less nice than me. No, never, never
will I have him.'

Oliver Luxmore stood up, troubled and
ashamed.

You put everything upside down,' lie said ;
I thought you would be a peace-maker.'

You yourself tell me that I am chosen out
of spite to make the strife hotter. Now you
have told me the why, the matter is made
worse. Such an offer is an outrage. Never,
father, no, never, never,' she stamped, so
strong, so intense was her disgust. ' I will
hear no more. I grieve that you have spoken,
father. I grieve more that you have thought
such a thing possible. I grieve most of all
that you have wished it.'

Turn the offer over in your mind. Honor,'
he said sauntering to the door, from which she
had withdrawn. She was leaning against the
wall between the door and the window, with
her hands over her face. ' Mlk runs through
the fingers when first you dip "em, but by
turning and turning you turn out butter. So,

I dare be bound, the whole thing will look
different if you turn it over.'

I will put it away from me, out of my
thought,' she said hotly. She was hurt and
angry.

If you refuse him we shall have to buy a
horse.'

Well, we must buy. I will work the flesh
from my fingers till I earn it, and get out of
obligation. But I never, never, never will consent
to be Taverner Langford's wife, not for
your sake, father, nor for that of Charles.'

Well,' said the carrier ; ' some folks don't
know what is good for 'em. I reckon there's a
hundred bells on that there klopstock. I'll go
and count 'em.'

Chapter XVI.

KEEPING WATCH.

In the evening Hillary the younger arrived,
according to promise, with his gun. Oliver
Luxmore feebly protested against troubling
him. ' It is very good of you, Larry, but I
don't think I ought to accept it.'

It is pleasure, not trouble,' answered
Larry.

If the dog does not come to-night, I will
keep guard on the morrow,' said the carrier.
I may not be able to shoot the dog, but I can
scare him away with a bang.'

I hope to kill him,' said Hillary. ' Have
you not heard that a guinea is offered for his
carcase? Several farmers have clubbed and
offered the reward.'

Have your lambs suffered, Larry ? '

Ours are all right ; driven under cover.'

The young man supped with the Luxmores.
He was full of mirth. Kate did not spare her
tongue ; she attacked and he retaliated, but all
good-humouredly. 'They make a pair, do
they not ? ' whispered Oliver to his eldest
daughter. ' Better spar before marriage and
kiss after, than kiss first and squabble
later.'

'Larry,' said Honor, 'I will keep the fire
up with a mote (tree-stump). You may be
cold during the night, and like to run in and
warm yourself.'

Ay, Honor,' said her father. ' Have a
cider posset on the hob to furnish inner
comfort.'

Let no one sit up for me ; I shall want
nothing,' answered Hillary, ' unless one of you
girls will give me an hour of your company to
break the back of the watch.'

Your zeal is oozing out at your elbows,*

said Kate. ' Honor or I, or even little Joe,
could manage to drive away the dog.'

But not shoot it,' retorted Hillary. ' Lock
your door and leave me without. I shall be
content if I earn the guinea.'

I will remain below,' said Honor quietly.
We must not let all the burden rest on you.
And if you are kind enough, Larry, to look
after our lambs, we are bound to look after
you.'

If one of you remains astir, let it be
Honor,' said the young man. ' Kate and I
would quarrel, and the uproar would keep the
dog away.'

I do not offer to sit up to-night,' said the
carrier, ' as my turn comes on the morrow,
and I have had heavy work to-day that has
tired me.'

Then he rose, held out his hand to Larry,
kissed his daughters, and went upstairs to his
room. Kate followed him speedily. Larry
took up his gun and went out, and walked

round the field. Then he came to the kitchen
and said, ' All is quiet, not a sign to be seen of
the enemy. I hope he will not disappoint me.
You must have your red cloak again.'

My red cloak ? ' repeated Honor.

Ay, your red cloak that you parted with
to the woman at the circus. I heard about it.
If I shoot the dog, half the prize money goes
to you.'

Not so, Larry. It is, or will be, all your
own.'

But you first saw the dog, you share the
watch, you keep up the fire, and brew me a
posset. How was it with David's soldiers?
What was his decision? They that tarried
with the stuff should share with those that went
to war. You have Scripture against you.
Honor, and will have to take ten - and-six.'


Don't reckon and divide before the dog is
shot;

If he comes this way he shall sup off lead,

never doubt. Then you shall have your red
cloak again.'

Honor sighed. ' Neo, Larry, I shall never
see it more. The fair is over, the circus gone,
whither I know no more than what has become
of yesterday.'

Charles behaved very badly. Of course
I did not mention it before, but we are alone
together now, and I may say it.'

He did not act rightly — he meant it as a
joke.'

I can't forgive him for robbing you of
your pretty red cloak. Here, Honor, take
it. I have it.'

Then he pulled out a closely folded bundle
and extended it to her. The girl was surprised
and pleased. This was considerate and
kind of Larry. She had noticed him carrying
this bundle, but had given no thought as to
what it was. Her eyes filled.

Oh Larry ! God bless you for your kindness.'


I was tempted to hang it round my neck
till I gave it back, I should have looked quite
military in it.'

It was my mother's cloak,' she answered
quickly. ' You might have worn it and it
would have done you good. My mother will
bless you out of paradise for your consideration.
Oh my dear, dear mother ! she was so wise,
and thoughtful, and good.' Honor spread the
cloak over the young man's head. 'There,'
she said, ' take that as if she had touched you.
You have lost your mother.'

Yes, but I do not remember her.'

Oh ! it is a bad thing for you to be without
your mother, Larry.' She paused, then
held out her hand to him, and her honest eyes
met his glowing with gratitude, swimming
with feeling.

'All right,' he said. 'No thanks. Weare
neighbours and good friends. If I help
you to-day you will stand by me tomorrow.
That is so, is it not, dear Honor ? '



He threw his gin over his shoulder and
went out into the meadow. He was glad to
escape the pressure of her hand ; the look of
her eyes had made his heart beat with unwonted
emotion. She had never given him
such a look before. She was not as cold as he
supposed. He was aware that he had acted
well in the matter of the cloak. He had gone
to the manageress of the circus directly he
heard what had taken place, and had made an
offer for the garment. The woman, seeing his
eagerness to secure it, refused to surrender it
under a sum more than its value. He had
bought it with the sacrifice of the rest of his
pocket-money. That was one reason why he
hoped to kill the dog. He would replenish his
empty purse. In this matter he had acted
as his heart dictated, but he was quite aware
that he had done a fine thing. Honor paid
him his due, and that raised Honor in his
estimation. ' She has heart,' he said, ' though
she don't often show it. A girl must have

VOL. I. S

heart to do as she did for that worthless
brother

Whilst Larry stood without waiting for the
dog, Honor was within, sitting by the fire, a
prey to distressing thoughts. She was not
thinking of Larry or of Charles ; she was thinking
of what had passed between her and her
father.

She occupied a low stool on the hearth,
rested her head in her lap, folded her hands
round her knees. The red glow of the
smouldering fire made her head like copper,
and gave to her faded red stockings a brilliancy
they lacked by day.

She had dimly suspected that something
was plotted against her on the occasion of her
visit to Langford, when she had found her
father with Langford. What she had dreaded
had come to pass. Her father had consented
to sell her so as to extricate himself from a
petty debt, but, above all, that he might be
'given means of prosecuting his imaginary

claims. Coombe Park was a curse to them.
It had blighted Charles, it had spoiled her
father's energies, it was doomed to make a
breach between her and her father. She had
never herself thought of Coombe Park ; she
had treated its acquisition as an impossible
dream, only not to be put aside as absurd
because harboured by her father. She was
conscious now of a slight stirring of reproach
in her heart against him, but she battled
against it and beat it down. Strong in her
sense of filial respect, she would not allow
herself to entertain a thought that her father
was unjust. She apologised to herself for his
conduct. She explained his motives. He had
supposed that the prospect of being mistress of
a large house, over wide acres, would fill her
ambition. He meant well, but men do not
understand the cravings of the hearts of women.
But, explain away his conduct as she would,
she was unable to dissipate the sense of wrong
inflicted, to salve the wound caused by his

apparent eagerness to get rid of her out of the
house. The back door was opened softly.

Honor ! still awake ? '

Yes, Larry.'

Will you give me a drop of hot cider ?
I am chilled. Have you a potato sack I
can cast over my shoulders The dew falls
heavily.'

No sign of the dog yet ? '

None at all. The sheep are browsing at
ease. It is dull work standing at a gate
watching them. I wish the dog would come.'

Let us change places, Larry. You come
by the fire and I will watch at the gate. The
moment that I see him I will give warning.'

And scare him away ! No, Honor, I want
the prize-money.'

Then I will come out and keep you company.
Here are two potato sacks, one for
your shoulders, the other for mine. If we
talk in a low tone we shall not warn off the
dog.'

'That is well, Honor. So we shall make
the hours spin. The moon is shining brightly.
There have been clouds, and then the dew did
not fall as cold and chill. I have been hearkening
to the owls, what a screeching and a hooting
they make, and there is one in the apple-tree
snoring like my father.'

'Have you been standing all the while,
Larry ? '

Yes, Honor, leaning against the gate. If
there had been anything to sit on I should
have seated myself. My fingers are numb. I
must thaw them at your coals.'

He went to the fire and held his hands in
the glow. ' Honor ! ' he said, ' you have been
crying. I see the glitter of the tears on your
cheeks.'

Yes, I have been crying — not much.'

What made you cry ? '

Girl's troubles,' she answered.

Girl's troubles ! What are they ? '

Little matters to those they do not concern.

Then ensued another pause.
'I wish you would tell me one thing said
the girl, 'yet it is what I have no right to
ask. Do you owe Mr. Langford a great deal
of money ? '

Oh yes,' answered Hillary carelessly, ' a
great deal. He has called it in, and we shall
have to pay in a month or two.'

Can you do so out of your savings ? '

We have no savings. We shall go to
Mr. Physick — father and I — and get a
mortgage made on the property. It is easily
done. I am of age. Father couldn't have
done it by himself, but I can join and let
him.' He held up his head. He was proud
of the consequence gained by consenting to a
mortgage.

'The first thing you have to do with the
property is to burden it,' said Honor.

You may put it so if you like.' Instead of
looking round at him admiring his consequence,
she reproached him.

That is something to be ashamed of, I
think,' she said.

Not at all. If I did not, Uncle Taverner
could come down on us and have a sale of
our cattle and waggons and what not. But,
maybe, that would suit your ideas better ? '

No,' said Honor gravely, ' not at all.
No doubt you are right ; but you are old
enough not to have let it come to this. Your
service on the farm ought to have been worth
fifty pounds a year for the last four years. I
doubt if it has been worth as many shillings.'

He clicked his tongue in the side of his
mouth, and threw out his right leg impatiently.

Mr. Langford has saved thousands of
pounds. He puts by several hundreds every
year, and his land is no better than yours.'

Uncle Taverner is a screw.' Then, jauntily,

.«<HW«K-W4^.Vf;.»Wi

I only sit there by day, and that only now
and then when I can get out a bit. I have
not been there for some time.'

Then ensued another pause.
'I wish you would tell me one thing,' said
the girl, 'yet it is what I have no right to
ask. Do you owe Mr. Langford a great deal
of money ? '

Oh yes,' answered Hillary carelessly, ' a
great deal. He has called it in, and we shall
have to pay in a month or two.'

Can you do so out of your savings ? '

We have no savings. We shall go to
Mr. Physick — father and I — and get a
mortgage made on the property. It is easily
done. I am of age. Father couldn't have
done it by himself, but I can join and let
him.' He held up his head. He was proud
of the consequence gained by consenting to a
mortgage.

'The first thing you have to do with the
property is to burden it,' said Honor.

Hillary screwed up his mouth.

You may put it so if you like.' Instead of
looking round at him admiring his consequence,
she reproached him.

That is something to be ashamed of, I
think,' she said.

Not at all. If I did not, Uncle Taverner
could come down on us and have a sale of
our cattle and waf^grons and what not. But,
maybe, that would suit your ideas better? '

No,' said Honor gravely, ' not at all.
No doubt you are right ; but you are old
enough not to have let it come to this. Your
service on the farm ought to have been worth
fifty pounds a year for the last four years. I
doubt if it has been worth as many shillings.'

He clicked his tongue in the side of his
mouth, and threw out his right leg impatiently.

Mr. Langford has saved thousands of
pounds. He puts by several hundreds every
year, and his land is no better than yours.'

Uncle Taverner is a screw.' Then, jauntily,

we Nanspians are open-handed, we can't
screw.'

But you can save, Larry.'

If Uncle Taverner puts away hundreds, I
wonder where he puts them away ? '

That, of course, I cannot say.'

I wonder if Mrs. Veale knows ? ' Then he
chuckled, and said, ' Honor, some of the chaps
be talking of giving him a hare-hunt. We
think he ought to be shamed out of letting that
woman tongue-lash him as she does ? '

Larry ! ' exclaimed Honor, turning sharply
on him and clutching his arm, ' for God's sake
do not be mixed up in such an affair. He is
your uncle, and you may be very unjust.' He
shrugged his shoulders.

Tm not over sweet on Uncle Taverner,'
he said. ' It is mean of him calling in that
money, and he deserves to be touched up on
the raw.'

'Larry, you warned me against Mrs. Veale.
Now I warn you to have no hand in this save

to hold it back. It must not be ; and for you
to share in it will be scandalous.*

How the owls are hooting ! To-who !
Who ! Who ! I wonder what sort of voice
the old white owl has. He goes about noiseless,
like a bit of cotton grass blown by the
wind.'

Then Honor went back to what she was
speaking of before. ' It goes to my heart to
see good land neglected. Your nettle-seeds
sow our land, and thistle-heads blow over our
hedge. Now that your father is not what he
was, you should grasp the plough-handle firmly.
Larry, you know the knack of the plough.
Throw your weight on the handles. If you do
not, what happens ? '

The plough throws you.'

Yes, hings you up and falls over. It is
so with the farm. Throw your whole weight
on it, through your arms, or it will throw
you.'

That old snore is waking,' said Hillary.

You love pleasure, and do not care for
work,' pursued Honor. ' You are good-natured,
and are everyone's friend and your own enemy.
You shut your eyes to your proper interest and
open your purse to the parish. The bee and
the wasp both build combs, both fly over the
same flowers and enjoy the same summer, but
one gathers honey and the other emptiness.
Larry, do not be offended with me if I speak
the truth. The girls flirt with you and flatter
you, and the elder folk call you a Merry
Andrew, and say you have no mischief in you,
and it is a pity you have not brains. That is
not true. You have brains, but you do not
use them. Larry, you have no sister and no
mother to speak openly to you. Let me speak
to you as if I were your sister, and take it well,
as it is meant.'

So she talked to him. Her voice was soft
and low, her tone tremulous. She was afraid
to hurt him, and yet desirous to let him know
his duty.

She was stirred to the depth of her heart
by the events of the day.

Carry was unaccustomed to rebuke. He
knew that she spoke the truth, but it wounded
his vanity, as well as flattered it, to be taken to
task by her. It wounded him, because it
showed him he was no hero in her eyes ; it
flattered him, because he saw that she took a
strong interest in his welfare. He tried to
vindicate himself. She listened patiently ; his
excuses were lame. She beat them aside with
a few direct words. ' Do not be offended with
me,' she pleaded, turning her face to him,
and then the moonlight fell over her noble
features; the potato sack had slipped back.
'I think of you, dear Larry, as a brother,
as a kind brother who has done many a good
turn to us, and I feel for you as an elder
sister.'

But, Honor, you are younger than I am by
eighteen months.'

I am older in experience, Larry ; in that

I am very, very old. You are not angry with
me?'

No, Honor, but I am not as bad as you
make out.'

'Bad ! Oh Larry, I never, never thought, I
never said you were bad. Far otherwise. I
know that your heart is rich and deep and good.
It is like the soil of your best meadows. But
then, Larry, the best soil will grow the strongest
weeds. Sometimes when I look through the
gates of Chimsworthy I long to be within, with
a hook reaping down and rooting up. And
now I am peering through the gates of your
honest eyes, and the same longing comes over
me.'

He could see by the earnest expression of
her face, by the twinkle of tears on her lassies,
that she spoke out of the fulness of her heart.
She was not praising him, she was rebuking
him, yet he was not angry. He looked intently
at her pure, beautiful face. She could not bear
his gaze, he saw her weakness. He put his

finger to her eyelashes. • The dew is falling
heavily, and has dropped some diamonds here
lie said.

She stood up.

Hark ! ' she said, and turned her head.
The cuckoo clock in the kitchen is calling

o

midnight. We need remain here no longer.'

I should Hke to remain till day,' said
Larry.

What, to be scolded .^ '
• To be told the truth, dear Honor.'
Do not forget what I have said. I spoke
because I care for you. The sheep will not be
disturbed to-night. Will you have some posset
and go home ? '

Your father will keep guard tomorrow
night, but the night after that I will be here
again. Oh Honor, you will sit up with me, will
you not?' He took her hand. 'How much
better I had been, how the Chimsworthy coomb
would have flowed with honey, had God given
me such a sister as you.'

Well, begin to weed yourself and Chatsworth,'
she said with a smile.

Will you not give me a word of praise as
well as of blame ? *

When you deserve it.'

She pressed his hand, then withdrew it,
entered the cottage, and fastened the door.

Hillary walked away with his gun over
his shoulder, musing as he had not mused
before.

CHAPTEE Xiii.

MRS. Tale.

Charles Luxmore had left the Eevel shortly
after the departure of his sisters. He returned
to Langford covered with shame and full of
anger. He was not ashamed of his rascality.
He thought himself justified in playing a trick
on tricksters. But he was ashamed at being
conquered by his sister, and he was unable to
disguise to himself that he cut an ignoble figure
beside her. At the circus there had been a
general recognition of her worth, and as general
a disparagement of himself. Why had she
interfered ? He had courted a ' row ' in which
he might have held his own against the equestrians,
sure of support from the young Brat-vol.

I. T

ionian. That would have been sport, better
than timing in the sawdust and skipping
through hoops. If he could only have excited
a fight, the occasion would have been forgotten
in the results ; he would have come out inflaming
colours as a gallant fellow. Now,
because Honor had interfered and put him in
the wrong, he had been dismissed as a rogue.

He knew well enough the red cloak Honor
had given away. He knew that it had belonged
to her mother, and that Honor prized it highly,
and that it was very necessary to her.

Let him excuse himself as he would, a
sense of degradation oppressed him which he
was unable to shake off.

The behaviour of his comrades had changed
towards him, and this galled him. After leaving
the circus he had essayed swagger, but it had
not availed. His companions withdrew from
him as if ashamed to be seen in his society.
The popular feeling was roused in behalf of
Honor, who was universally esteemed, rather

than offended at the fraud played on the
equestrians. It was well known that he,
Charles, had not behaved towards her with consideration,
that he had increased the burden
she bore so bravely. This last act was the
climax of his wrong-doing. Charles's inordinate
vanity had been hurt, and he was angry with
everyone but himself.

He returned to the farmhouse, where he
had been taken in, cursing the stupidity of the
villagers, the wholesomeness of his sisters,
the cowardice of his companions, and his own
generosity.

He was without money now, and with no
prospect of getting any till his wage was paid.

He turned out his pockets ; there was
nothing in them, not even the brass token.
He was too proud to borrow of his boon
companions ; he questioned whether, if he
asked, they would lend him any. He doubted
if the innkeeper would let him drink upon
trust. How intolerable for him to be without

T 2

money ! To have to lounge his evenings away
in the settle before the fire at Langford, or
loafing about the lanes ! ' I know well enough
he muttered, ' why the louts keep away from
me. 'Tis because they know I'm cleaned out.
It's not along of that cursed token, not a
bit. If I'd my pockets full they'd be round
me again as thick as flies on a cow's nose.'

He had only been a few days in the service
of Taverner Langford. He had entered the
service rather surlily, only because forced todo
so, as Honor refused to allow him to sleep
and have meals at home. 'It'll keep me in
meat for a bit, and I'll look about me,' he said ;
but it is not the sort o' place for a gentleman
a Luxmore.'

He had not asked leave to take a holiday
on the occasion of the Eevel. He had taken it
as a matter of course. The Eevel was a holiday,
of course ; so is Sunday. ' I don't ask old
Langford whether I'm to keep the Sabbath by
doing nothing : I do nothing. I don't ask him

if I'm to enjoy myself Eevel day: I enjoy
myself. These are understood things.' He
curled his lip contemptuously. 'What a
shabby wage I get, or am to get ! ' he muttered.
'No pay, no work; short pay, short
work. That stands to reason — like buttering
parsnips.'

He sauntered into the Langford kitchen
and threw himself into the settle, with his hat
on, and his legs outstretched, and his hands in
his pockets. Disappointment, humiliation, impecuniosity
combined to chafe his temper, and
give him a dejected, hang-dog appearance.

Mrs. Yeale passed and repassed without
speaking. She observed him without allowing
him to perceive that she observed him.
Indeed, he hardly noticed her, and he was
startled by her voice when she said, as he bent
over the fire, 'Charles Luxmore, what do y'
think of the Eevel now? I've a-been there,
and to my reckoning it were grand, but, Lord !
you've been over the world, and seen so many

fine things that our poor Eevel is nought in
your eyes, I reckon.'

Bah ! poor stuff, indeed. You should see
Bombay, or the bazaar at Kandahar ! Bratton
Clovelly! Bah! Punjab, Cawbul, Delhi,
Peshawur! Ghuznee! Hyderabad!' The
utterance of these names, which he knew would
convey no idea whatever to the mind of Mrs.
Veale, afforded him relief. It morally elevated
him. It showed him that he knew more
of the world than Mrs. Veale. 'You don't
happen to know Dost Mahomet ? '

Oh, dear, no ! '

Nor ever heard tell of him ? '

No, Mr. Luxmore.'

He's an Ameer.'

Is he now ? '

I've fought him. Leastways his son, Akbar
Khan.'

You wasn't hard on him, I hope ? '

No, I wasn't that. I merely carried off the
doors of his mosque.'

Did that hurt him much ? '

His feelings, Mrs. Veale, awful.'

Lord bless me ! ' exclaimed the woman,
looking at him over her shoulder as she stirred
a pot on the fire, with her queer banking eyes
studying his expression but expressing nothing
themselves.

'I do wonder you be home from the Eevel
so early. A soldier like you, and a fine young
chap, ought to have stayed and enjoyed yourself.
The best of the fun, I've heard tell, is in
the evening.'

'How can I stay at the Eevel when I
haven't a copper to spend there ? ' asked Charles
surely.

I don't like to see a grand young fellow
like you sitting at home, like an old man with
the rheumatics. We will be friends, Charles.
I will give you a crown to buy your good-will.'
She took the money from her pocket and
handed it him.

'I thank you,' he said grandly — she had

called him a grand young man — ' but I can't
go to the Eevel now.' Nevertheless he pocketed
the crown. ' I've seen enough of it, and got
sick of it. Wretched stalls where nothing is
for sale worth buying, wretched shows where
nothing is seen worth seeing. I came away
because the Eevel wearied me.'

You'll find it dull here,' said the housekeeper.
' We poor ignorant creatures think the
Eevel and all in it mighty fine things, because
we know no better and haven't seen the world.
It seems to me, Mr. Luxmore, you're in the
wrong place, as the elephant said to the stickleback
that had got into the ark.'

I should just about think I was,' said
Charles, kicking out with both his heels. Mrs.
Yeale was a plain, not to say unpleasant-looking
woman, much older than himself; he would
not have given her a thought had she not called
him ' Mr. Luxmore,' and so recognised that he
was a superior being to the Ricks and Toms on
the farm.

Peshawur ! Allahabad ! Cawbul ! that's how
they come,' said Charles. Mrs. Yeale stood with
hand on the handle of the pan, an iron spoon
uplifted in the other, waiting to drink in
further information. ' Through the Khyber
Pass,' he added, drawing his brows together
and screwing up his mouth.

Xo doubt about it,' said Mrs. Veale. ' It
must be so, if you ses it. And Solomon in all
his glory was not arrayed like one of these.'
She stirred the pot ; then, thinking she had not
made herself intelligible, she explained, 'I
mean that Solomon, though the wisest of men,
didn't know that, I reckon.'

How could he,' asked Charles, ' never having
been there ? '

'I do wonder, now, if you'll excuse the
remark,' said the housekeeper, ' that you didn't
bring the silver belt here and hang it up over
th e mantel-shelf. '

Silver belt ? What silver belt ? '

Oh ! you know. The champion wrestler's

belt that is to be tried for this afternoon. I
suppose you didn't go in for it because you
thought it wouldn't be fair on the young chaps
here to take from them everything.'

'I did not consider it worth my while
trying for it,' said Charles, with a kick at
the hearth with his toes — not an irritated
kick, but a flattered, self-satisfied, pleased
kick. ' Of course I could have had it if I had
tried.'

Of course you might, you who've been a
soldier in the wars, and fought them bloodthirsty
Afghans. Lord ! I reckon they was like
Goliaths of Gath, the weight of whose spear
was as a weaver's beam.'

Charles jerked his head knowingly.

Afghanistan was a hard nut to crack.'

Ah ! ' acquiesced Mrs. Veale. ' So said old
Goodie as she mumbled pebbles.' Then she
stood up and looked at him. ' I know a fine
man when I see him,' she said, ' able to hold
himself like the best gentleman, and walking

with his head in the air as if the country belonged
to him.'

Ah ! ' said Charles, taking off his hat
and sitting erect, ' if all men had their rights
Coombe Park would be ours.

'Don't I know that?' asked the housekeeper.
' Everyone knows that. Nobody can
look at you without seeing you're a gentleman
born. And I say it is a shame and a sin that
you should be kicked out of your proper nest,
and it the habitation of strangers, cuckoos who
never built it, but have turned out the rightful
owners. I reckon it made me turn scarlet
as your sister's cloak to see her come crawling
here t'other day on bended knees to ask the
master to take you in. She's no lady, not got
a drop of blue blood in her veins, or she'd not
ha' done that. I'll tell you what it is, Mr.
Charles. All the gentle blood has run one
way and all the vulgar blood the other, as in our
barton field the sweet water comes out at the
well, and the ridden (ferruginous red water) at

the alders.' She spoke with such acrimony,
and with a look so spiteful, that Charles asked,
What has Honor done to offend you ? '

Oh nothing, nothing at all ! I don't stoop
to take offence at her.' Then, observing that
the young man resented this disparagement of
his sister, she added hastily, ' There, enough of
her. She's good enough to wash and comb
the little uns and patch their clothes. We will
talk about yourself, as the fox said to the
goose, when she axed him if duck weren't more
tasty. Why have you come from the Eevel ?
There be some better reason than an empty
pocket.'

I have been insulted.'

Of course you have,' said Mrs. Veale,
and I know the reason. The young men
here can't abide you. For why? Because
you're too much of a gentleman, you're too
high for 'em. As the churchyard cross said to
the cross on the spire, " Us can't talk wi'out
shouting." Do you know wdiat the poacher as

was convicted said to the justice o' peace?
I'm not in a position, your worship, to punch
your head, but I can spit on your shadow." '

Without any boasting, I may admit that I
and these young clodhopping louts ain't of the
same sort,' said Charles proudly.

'That's just what the urchin (hedgehog)
said to the little rabbits when he curled up in
their nest.'

'Ah ! ' laughed Charles, 'but the urchin had
quills and could turn the rabbits out, and I
have not.'

You've been in the army, and that gives
a man bearing, and you've been half over
the world, and that gives knowledge ; and
nature have favoured you with good looks.
The lads are jealous of you.'

They do not appreciate me, certainly,' said
Charles, swelling with self-importance.

This is a wicked world,' said Mrs. Yeale.
Then she produced a bottle of gin and a glass,
and put them at Charles's elbow. ' Take a drop

of comfort,' lie said persuasively, ' though
for such as you it should be old crusted port
and not the Plymouth liquor, as folks say is
distilled from turnips.'

Young Luxmore needed no pressing; he
helped himself.

I reckon,' pursued Mrs. Veale, ' you were
done out of Coombe Park by those who didn't
scruple to swear it away. Money and law
together will turn the best rights topsy-turvy.'

No doubt about that, ma'am,' said Charles.
I've heard my father say, many a time, that
with a hundred pounds he could win Coombe
Park back.'

Then why do you not lay out the hundred
pounds ? '

Because I haven't got 'em,* answered
Charles.

Oh ! they're to be got,' said the housekeeper,
' as the gipsy said to his wife when she
told 'n she were partial to chickens.'

It seems to me,' said the young man, ' that

it is a hard world for them that is straight.
The crooked ones have the best of it.'

'Not at all,' answered the housekeeper.
The crooked ones can't go through a straight
hole. It is they who can bend about like the
ferret as gets on best, straight or crooked as
suits the occasion.'

Charles stood up, drank off his glass, and
paced the room. The housekeeper filled his
glass again. The young man observed her
actions and returned to his seat. As he
flung himself into the settle again he said, ' I
don't know what the devil makes you take such
an interest in my affairs.'

Mrs. Veale looked hard at him, and answered,
'A woman can't be indifferent to a
good looking man.' Charles tossed off his glass
to hide his confusion. So this bleached creature
had fallen in love with him ! — a woman his
senior by some fifteen years. He was flattered,
but felt that the situation was unpleasant.

This is a bad world,' he said, ' and I wish

I had the re-making of it. The good luck goes
to the undeserving.'

That is only true because those who have
wits want readiness. A screw will go in and
hold where a nail would split. Coombe Park
is yours by right ; it has been taken from you
by wrong. I should get it back again were
I you, and not be too nice about the means.'
Charles sighed and shook his head.

What a life you would lead as young
squire,' said Mrs. Yeale. 'The maidens now
run after Larry I^anspian, because he is heir to
Chimsworthy, and don't give much attention to
you, because you've nothing in present and nothing
in prospect. But if you were at Coombe
Park they'd come round you thick as damsels
in Shushan to be seen of Ahasuerus, and Larry
Caspian would be nowhere in their thoughts.'
She laughed scornfully. ' And the fellows that
turn up their noses at you now, because you
eat Langford's bread crusts and earn ninepence,
how they would cringe to you and call you

sir, and run errands for you, and be thankful
for a nod or a word ! Then the farmers who
now call you a good-fortnight would pipe another
note, and be proud to shake hands. And
Parson Eobbins would wait with his white gown
on, and not venture to say, " When the wicked
man," till he saw you in the Coombe Park pew.
And the landlord's door at the " Eing of Bells "
would be ever open to you, and his best seat
by the fire would be yours. And I — poor I —
would be proud to think I'd poured out a glass
of Plymouth spirit to the young squire, and
that he'd listened to my foolish words.'

Charles tossed his head, and threw up and
turned over the crown in his trousers pocket.
Then, unsolicited, he poured himself out another
glass and tossed it off. That would be a grand
day when he was squire and all Bratton was
at his feet.

Mrs. Yeale stood erect before him with
flickering eyes. ' Do y' know the stone steps
beside the door ? ' she asked.

VOL. I. U

'Yes!'

What be they put there for ? '

They are stepping-stones to help to mount
into the saddle.'

What stones be they ? '

I'm sure I can't say,'

Eight ; no more does he know or care
who uses them. Well, I'm naught, but I can
help you into the saddle of Coombe Park.'

CHAPTER XVIII.

TREASURE TROVE.

Charles Luxmore was not able to sleep much
that night. It was not that his conscience
troubled him. He gave hardly a thought to
the affair at the circus. His imagination was
excited ; that delusive faculty, which, according
to Paley, is the parent of so much error
and evil. The idea of Coombe Park recurred
incessantly to his mind and kept him awake.
But it was not the acquisition of wealth and
position that made the prospect so alluring ;
it was the hope of crowing over all those who
had despised him, of exciting the envy of those
who now looked down on him.

The ' Eing of Bells ' was on the Coombe

u 2

estate. How lie could swagger there as the
landlord's overlord ! The Nanspians, Taverner
Langford, had but a few hundred acres, and
the Coombe Park property was nigh on two
thousand.

Squire Impey and he would be the two
great men of the place, and as the squire at
Culm Court was a hunting man, he, Charles
Luxmore, would be hand in glove with
him.

It would be worth much to ride in scarlet
after the hounds, with his top boots and a
black velvet cap, and the hand holding a whip
curled on the thigh so, and to jog past old
Langford, and cast him a ' 'Do, Taverner, this
morning ? Middling, eh ? ' and to crack the
whip at Hillary Caspian and shout, ' Out o'
the way, you cub, or I'll ride you down.' He
sat up in bed and flapped his arms, holding
the blanket as reins, and choked with his tongue,
and imagined himself galloping over the field
after the hounds at full cry. Eight along

Broadbury, over the fences of Langford,
across Taverner's land, tearing, breaking
through the hedges of Chimsworthy, tally-ho
! With a kick, Charles sent the bedclothes
flying on to the floor.

'By George!' he said. 'We shall have
a meet in front of Coombe Park, and Honor
and Kate shall serve out cherry-brandy to
the huntsmen.' Then he scrambled about the
floor collecting his bed-clothes and rearranging
them. ' I'll go to Coombe Park tomorrow,
and look where the kennels are to be. I'll
give an eye also to the pond. I don't believe
it has been properly cleaned out and fit for
trout since the place left our hands. I'm
afraid Honor will never rise to her situation —
always keep a maid-of- all work mind. Confound
these bed-clothes, I've got them all
askew.'

So possessed was Charles with the idea that
it did not forsake him when morning came.
It clung to him all the day. ' There's only a

hundred pounds wanted,' he said, ' for us to
establish our clan.'

Then he paused in the work on which he
was engaged. ' How am I to reach a hundred
pounds on nine pence a day, I'd like to know ?
Ninepence a day is four-and-six a week, and
that makes eleven guineas or thereabouts per
annum. I must have something to spend on
clothing and amusement. Say I put away
seven guineas in the year, why it would take
me thirteen to fourteen years to earn a hundred
pounds — going straight as a nail, not as a
screw, nor as a ferret.'

In the evening' Charles wandered away to
Coombe Park. The owner, a yeoman named
Pengelly, who, however, owned only the home
farm, not the entire property, had been accustomed
to the visits of Oliver Luxmore,
which had been regarded as a sort of necessary
nuisance. He was by no means disposed to
have his place haunted by the young man
also, of whose conduct he had received a bad

report from all sides. He therefore treated
Charles with scant courtesy, and when young
Luxmore tried bluster and brag, he ordered
him off the premises.

Charles returned to Langford foaming with
rage. Mrs. Yeale awaited him.

The master is not home,' she said ; ' where
have you been ? '

Been to see my proper home he answered,
and been threatened with the constable if I
did not clear away. What do you mean by
giving me all sorts of ideas and expectations,
and subjecting me to insult, eh .? answer me
that.'

Don't you fly out in flaming fury, Mr.
Charles.'

I'm like to when treated as I have been.
So would you. So will you, if what I hear is
like to come about. There's talk of a hare-hunt.'


'A what?'

A hare-hunt.'

Where ? ' Mrs. Veale stood before him
growing teacher white every moment, and
quivering in all her members and in every
fibre of her pale dress, in every hair of her
blinking eyelids.

Why here — at Langford.'

She caught his arm and shook him. ' You
will not suffer it ! You will stay it ! '

'Should they try it on, trust me,' said
Charles mockingly. ' Specially if Larry Nan-spin
be in it. I've a grudge against him
must be paid off.'

Mrs. Yeale passed her hand over her
brow. ' To think they should dare ! should
dare ! ' she muttered. ' But you'll not suffer
it. A hare-hunt ! what do they take me
for ? '

Charles Luxmore uttered a short ironical
laugh. ' Dear blood ! ' ^ she muttered, and
her sharp fingers nipped and played on his
arm as though she were fingering a flute.

A Devonshire expression, meaning ' Dear fellow.'

You'll revenge me if they do ! Trust me !
when I'm deadly wronged I can hurt, and
hurt I will, and when one does me good I
repay it — to a hundred pounds.'

She laughed bitterly. There was something
painful in her laugh. It was devoid of
mirth, and provoked no laughter. Although
she said many odd things, invented quaint
similes, or used those which were traditional,
they hardly ever awoke a smile, her tone was
so cheerless, husky and unpleasant.

So Farmer Pengelly insulted you ! Ha I
it would be a most laughable conceit to prove
that he had no title, and had thrown away his
thousands.'

'OnCoombePark?'

On what else .^ What did he say to you ? '

Never mind what he said. What he said
hurt me. He called me a vagabond and
empty pocket, and said I might go pack to
the devil.'

And when you have established your

right, and shown that he bought without a
proper title, then you'd stand on the doorsteps,
stick in hand, and say, Pengelly ! who has the
empty pocket ? Who is the vagabond without
a house ? Go pack to the devil. What be
you to stye in a gentleman's mansion ? Whom
God Almighty made an ass bides an ass. And
cats as ain't got manners must keep off Turkey
carpets.'

Then, still holding his arm, she said,
Come here ! I've never shown you over this
house ; not that Langford is fit to compare
with Coombe Park. Yet this were a gentleman's
house once. But what were the Lang-fords
as compared with the Luxmores ? You'll
see a Luxmore monument at the very altar-steps
o' the chancel in Bratton Church, but that
of a Langford is half-way down the nave,
which shows how different they were estimated.'
After a short silence, Charles felt a spasmodic
quiver pass over her, like the thrill of a peacock
when spreading its tail. ' They would have a

liare-lumt, would they, and put me to a- public
shame ? '

'Ko, no, Mrs. Yeale,' said Charles caressingly,
' I'll put a stop to that ; and if they
venture I'll break the necks of those that have
to do with it.'

Come with me,' said the woman hoarsely,
I'll show you all. Here,' she flung open
the sitting-room door, • here is the parlour
where your sister went down on her knees to
the master. If he'd ha' axed her to lick his
boots she'd ha' done it — no proper pride in
her — and all for nine pence a day.'

Charles became very red in the face.

This is the desk at which the master
writes and does his accounts. In it, I reckon,
be his books. I've never seed them, and I
doubt if I could make much out of 'em if I
did. Them things don't agree wi' my Cities,
as the cherub said of the armchair.'

'Does old Langford always sit in this room?'

Oh yes I too proud to sit in the kitchen wi'

such as me — not even in winter. Then I
must make his fire here every day, and have
the worry of keeping it in. There is one thing
don't suit him now he is cut wi' the Nanspians.
Formerly he got all his fuel from their wood.
There are no plantations on Langford, and the
old trees are cut down. When he got his
fuel at Chimsworthy he hadn't to pay, and
now he must get a rick of firing elsewhere.'
She pointed to an old-fashioned cupboard in
the wall. ' There he keeps his sugar and his
tea and his currants. He keeps all under
key, lest I or the maidens should steal them.
Now you look at me, and I'll show you something.'
She opened an empty place under the
cupboard and knocked upwards thrice with
her fist, and the glass doors of the repository
of the groceries flew open. She laughed
huskily. ' There ! if I strike I shoot up the bolt,
and the lock won't hold the doors together.
When I press them together and shut back,
down falls the bolt.'

That is ingenious, Mrs. Veale — stay, don't
shut yet. I have a sweet tooth, and see some
raisins in the bag there.'

'Now leave them alone. I've something
better to show you. Men reckon themselves
clever, but women beat them in cleverness.
Go to the fire-place. Kneel at it, and put
your hand up on the left side, thrust in your
arm full length and turn the hand round.'

I shall dirty myself. I shall get a black
hand.'

Of course you will. That is how I found
it out. Don't be afraid of a little soot. There
is a sort of oven at the side. This room were
not always a parlour, I reckon ; there were a
large open fire-place in it, and when the grate
was put in it left the space behind not at all,
or only half, filled in — leastways, the road to
the oven door was not blocked. Have you
found it ? '

Yes,' answered Charles. ' I have my hand
in something.'

And something in your hand, eli ? '

Yes, a box, a largish box.'

He drew forth a tin case, very heavy, with
a handle at the top. It was locked with a
letter padlock.

*Into that box the master puts all his
savings. I reckon there be hundreds of pounds
stowed away there, may be thousands. The
master himself don't know how much. He's
too afeared of being seen or heard counting it.
When he has money he takes out the box,
opens it, and puts in the gold, only gold and
paper, no silver. Banks break. He will have
none of them, but this old cloak oven he thinks
is secure. He may be mistaken.'

How did you find this out ? '

'By his black hand. Whenever he had
sold bullocks or sheep, and I knew he had
received money, so sure was he to come in herewith
a white hand and come out with one that
was black, that is how I found it. I know more.
I know the word that will open the box.'

How did you find that out ? '

The master was himself afraid of forgetting
it, and I chanced to see in the first leaf of his
Bible here in pencil the reference Gen. xxxvi.
23. One day I chanced to look out the passage,
and it was this: " The children of Shoal were
these : Allan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho,
and Onam." I thought a man must have a bad
conscience to find comfort in such a passage as
that. And what do y' think? I found the
same reference in his pocket-book. Then I
knew it must mean something I didn't seethe
end of. And one day I were full o' light,
like a lantern. I saw it all. Do y' see, this new
padlock makes only four letter words, and in
that verse there are two words of four letters,
and I found as how the master changed about.
One year he took Ebal and next year Onam.
It be the turn o' Ebal now.'

Charles felt the weight of the case and
turned the padlock towards him.

Lord ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Yeale, ' what if the

master have got his thousand or two there !
It's nothing to what might be yours if you had
Coombe Park.'

Suddenly both started. Langford's voice
was heard outside. Charles hastily replaced the
case where he had found it, and slipped out of
the room with Mrs. Yeale, who held him and
drew him after her, her nervous fingers playing
on his arm-bone as on a pipe.

'Come here,' she whispered, 'let me was
your hand. It is black. Here, at the sink.' She
chuckled as she soaped his hand and wrist.
And here the master have washed his, and
thought I did not consider it.' Then she
quivered through her whole body and her eyes
banked. She put up her shaking finger, and
whispered ' Ebal ! '

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

rraxTED by

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE
London

A List of Books

PUBLISHED BY

Chatty & Winds,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Sold by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers:

About. — The Fellah: An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About,
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A Dictionary of the Drama, Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s, 6d. [preparing.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown Svo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and lustres
ns, clo th gilt, 7s^ 6d^

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from iso to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
P ost 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6 d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s, each,
Carr of Carrion.
Confidences.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Maid, Wife, or Widow?
Valerie's Fate.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 68. each.
The Evolutionist at Large. Second

Edition, revised.
Vignettes from Nature.
Colin Clout's Calendar.

Strange Stories. With Frontispiece

bv George Du Maurier. Cr. Svo,

cL ex., 63. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.
Phillstia: A Novel. Crown Svo, cloth

ejira. 3s. 6d.; pos Svo, illust. bds., 2s.
Babylon: A Novel. With 12 Lists.

by P. Macnab. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 38. 6d, ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.
For Maine's Sake: A Tale of Love

and Dynamite. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s.
In all Shades: A Novel, New and

Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s, 6d.
The Beckoning Hand, &c. With a

Frontispiece by Townley Green.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra a, 63.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W, Collects
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
639 Illustrations, 7s, 6d,

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farrer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward, With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations,
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P.
Kingston. Crown 8vo, 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With a
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 3s 6d.

Arnold.— Bird Life in England.

By Lester Arnold. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra. 6s. [Prep bring.

Art (The) of Amusing : A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
8vo cloth e extra, 4s. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. Withnearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations
from Originals. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s.

Bacteria.— A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
87 lusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London
; together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G, Hilton Price,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.),Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

English Su names : Their Sources and
Significations. Third Ed., revised.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.


Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering! of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. All engraved
on Steel in the highest style of
Art. Edited, with Notices of the
Artists, by Sydney Armytage, Mea.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt
edges, 21s.

Bechstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bechstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d.
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or. Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts, Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia. One Shilling Monthly.
The Number for January contained
the First Chapters of a New Novel by
Sarah Tytler, Author of " Citoyenne
Jacqueline," &c. entitled Disappeared,
with Illustrations by P. Macnab; and
Stories by Wilkie Collins, Miss
Braddon, Mrs. Alfred Hunt, the
Author of " Phyllis," and other Popular
Authors. — A New Serial Story by
W, Clark Russell, entitled The
Frozen Pirate, will be begun in the
July Number.

\* Now ready, the Volume for November
1886 to February 1887, cloth extra,
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.; Cases for binding Vols.,
2 s. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number,

1 887. Demy Svo, with Illustrations, Is.
preparing.

Ben~nettTw.C.,LL.D.),Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England.
Songs for Sailors.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post Svo, illust.

boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 23. 6d.

each.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

All Sorts and Conditions of Men;
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.

Besant, Walter, continued —
All in a Garden Fair. With 6 Illusts.

by H. Furnish.
Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece

by Charles Green.
Uncle Ja ck, and other Sto ries.

Children of Gibeon : A Novel. New
and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The World Went Very Weil Then.
With Etching of Portrait by John
Petrie, R.A., and Illustrations by
A. Fore steer. Three Vo ls., cr. 8vo.

The Art of Fiction. Demy 8vo, Is.

Library Edition of the Novels of

Walter Besant 8c James Rice.

Messrs, Chatto & Winds have in
preparation a choicely-printed Library
Edition of the Novels of Messrs. Besant
and Rice. The Volumes (each one containing
a Complete Novel) will be printed j
from a specially-cast fount of type by
Messrs. Ballantyne & Hanson, of
the Ballantyne Press, on a large crown
bvo page, and will be issued in Six-shilling
Monthly Volumes, handsomely
bound in cloth by Messrs. Burn & Co.
The First Volume of 512 pages (now in
the press) will be

Ready-iVIoney Mortify,
with an Etched Portrait 0/ James Rice,
and New Preface Walter Besant,
telling the story of his literary partnership
with James Rice. This Novel will
be followed at regular intervals by the
following : —

My Little Girl.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

The Golden Butterfly.

The Monks of Helena.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

The Seamy Sides &c. &c^

Bentham-Edwards (M.), Novels

by. Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
each. ; post Bvo, illust. bds., 2s. each,
FeUcia^ I Kitty.

Bewick (Thos.) and his Pupils.

By Austin Dobson. With 95 Illustrations.
Square Bvo, cloth extra, Lips. 6d.

Birthday Books: —

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square Bvo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 63.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts. Small Bvo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy Bvo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding,

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1886, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1887. With numerous
Illustrations. Is. [Preparing.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Academy Notes, 1880-84. Complete
in One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 6S.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1873 to 1886, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1887. With numerous
Illusts. Is. [Preparing.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
Bvo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illusts. Is. [ New Edit, preparing.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 12B Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy^vo, cloth limp, 3s.

Illustrated Catalogue of the Luxembourg
Gallery. Containing about
250 Reproductions after the Original
Drawings of the Artists. Edited by
F. G. DuMAS. Demy Bvo, 3s. 6d.

The Paris Salon, 1887. With about
300 Facsimile Sketches. Edit, by Fag.
Dumas. Demy B vo, 3s. preparing.

Blake (William): Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Test. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. Bvo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s. each.
Canters in Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.
Coloured in facs smile o f the originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. [Trotter.

Savage L ife: Adventures of a Globe-chronicles
of No-Man's Land
Post Bvo, illust. boards, 23.

Brand's Observations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.

Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s. each.

Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.

Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck op
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
and American Legends.

Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts
Eastern Sketches.

Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.

Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, «c.
The Select Woi^ks of Bret Harte, in

Prose and Poetry. With introductory

Essay by J. M. Belt ew Portrait

of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 7s. 6d.
Bret Harte's Complete Poetical

Works. Author's Copyright Edition.

Beautifully printed on hand-made

paper and bound in buckram. Cr.

Bvo, 4s. 6d.
Gabriel Conroy : A Novel. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other

Stories. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.

8vo, picture cover. Is.
Luck of Roaring Camp, and other

Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is. [2s. 6d.

Slip. Post Bvo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cl. limp,
Californian Stories (including The

Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff

Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Maruja: A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.

boards, 23. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With

28 original Drawings by Kate

Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours

by Edmund Eva ns. S m. 4to, bds., 5s.

Brewer^(RevrDr.), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References. Plots, and Stories.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), continued —
A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d. ; half-bound, 93.

Brewster(SirDa>/id),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cl. ex., 4s. 6d.

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. John.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Portrait.
Royal 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Bri I lat-Savarin.— Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, Mea.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d .

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones. | London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbath. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
C own 8vo, cloth e extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab.

Annann Water. I The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan,

The Master of the Mine.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by GooDALL, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. each.
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Verney Loveth Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2l3.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8vo, cloth extra, 32s.

Burton (Robert):

The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomisedd : Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Child Harold. An entirely
New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Illusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of " The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to. 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Caine (T. Hall), Novels by:

The Shadow of a Crime. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

A Son of Hagar. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. shortly.

Cameron (Comers), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold: A

Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Verney Loveth
Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 21s.
The Cruise of the "Black Prince"
Privateer, Commanded by Robert
Hawkins, Master Mariner. By
Commander V. Loveth Cameron,
Ren., C.B., D.C.L. With Frontispiece
and Vignette by P. Macnab.
Crown 8vo, cl. e x., 5s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Loveth),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Juliet's Guardian D receivers Ever.
Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, Dost 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Carlyle and Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra. 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Prays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II,,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or s separately, Gs. each.

Chatto & Jackson.— Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatto
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 28s^ ^

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H R . Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 68.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H, R,
Haw eis. Demy 8vc, cloth limp, 2s.6d.

Chronicle (The) of the Coach :

Charing Cross to Ilfracorabe. By J. D,
Champlain. With 75 Illustrations by
Edward L. Chichester. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.
Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, its. lln the press.

Clodd. — Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S., Author
of " The Childhood of Religions," &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Coleman.— Curly: An Actor's
Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Collins (Winkle), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
33.6d. each ; post8vo,illustrated bds.,
2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonina. Illust. by SirJoHsGiLBERT.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du M aurier and F. A. Fraser.

Man end Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poop Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss OP Mrs. P With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.DU MAURIERandC.S.REINHARDT.

The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Files and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
I Say No."
The Evil Genius.

Little Novels.

Three Vols., cr. 8vo.
iShoHly.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown 8vo cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration.
From Midnig ht to IVMdnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by:
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Post Svo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
Svo cloth extra, gi lt, 7s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Rya n. Crow n Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal Svo. with 65 Illusts.,28s.

A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated

by W. J. Hennessy. Square Svo,

cl both extra, 63.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours with the Players. With a

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play : A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Copyright. —A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright In
Literary and Dramatic Works. By

Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances

of the West of England; or. The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Craddock.— The Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains By

Charles Egbert Craddock. Post
Svo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Creasy. — Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 j
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by '
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruli<shank. By
Blanchard Errol, Author ot
"The Life of Napoleon Hi," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. ci.

Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
^7 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
78. 6d.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Work8

by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


Inthe Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cussans.— Handbook of Heraldry;

with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Cussans.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d^

Cyples. — Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cyples. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated bo arts, 2s.

Daniel. — Merrie England in
the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet.— The'Evangellst; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 23.

Covenant. — What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Davknant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp.

Is. 6d. each.

One Thousand IVledical Maxims.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide.

Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 2s. ;
cloth limp. 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D Two Vols,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 123.

be Maistre. — A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

De Mille. — A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s, 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles). Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s each.
Sketches by Boz. I Nicholas Nickleby.
Pickwick Papers. I Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,
1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. —
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
May fair Library, Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. Svo, cloth
extra, lOs. 6d,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8 vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A; Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Ivied. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 78. 66

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrigbts.Players,and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown Svo, half-bound,
123. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s. 8d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. ByFRANCES Hays. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Words, Facts, ana Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 73. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot. — The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.



Dorann. — Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dorann,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown Svo,
half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, Tiie Old. Cr. Svo,

cl. ex Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with IntroductoryEssay
byA.C. Swinburne; Vol. III., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk-lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev, A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
Svo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Merrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert (Lord) of Cherbury's Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Churton Collins. Crown Svo,
parchment, 88.

Edwardes(i\/lrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
38. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 28.

eggleston.— Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2 s.

Emanuel. — On Diamonds and

PrecIousStones: their History.Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

English Merchants: Memoirs
in Illustration of the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne,
With Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit.
revised. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 61.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

Eyes, Our: How to Preserve

Them from Infancy to Old Age. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. Fifth
Edition. With 55 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth. Is .

Falrholt.— Tobacco: Its History

and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Salaries, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of*^" Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Farrer (James Anson), Works

by:
Military IVianners and Customs.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
War: Three Essays, Reprinted from
Military Manners." Crown 8vo,
13. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Chemical History of a Candle!
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
With numerous Illustrations.

On the Various Forces of Nature.
and their Relations to each other:
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution,
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
With numerous Illustrations.

Fin Bee. — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art ot
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s'. 6d.

Fireworks, The Complete Art

of Making; or. The Pyrotechnist's
Treasury. By Thomas Kentish. With
267 Illustrations. A New Edition, Revised
throughout and greatly Enlarged.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 53.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Manor.
Does Writing Pay? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life Cr.8vo, cloth extra, 68.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fatal Zero : A Hamburg Diary. Or.
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete
Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth.
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 68.

Fonblanque.— Filthy Lucre : A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28.

Francillon (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illust. boards, 23. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Cophetua. |

Olympia. Post 8vo, illust boards, 23.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, Is.

BOOKS PUBLISH ED BY

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each.

Frere. — Pandurang Hari ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Frere, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell.— Oneof Two: A Novel.
By Hair Friswell. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7.
Showing their Name, Date of Foundation,
Objects, Income,Officials,&c. Published
Annually. Cr. Svo, cloth, Is. 6d.

Gardening Books:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each,

A Year's World in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. ByF.G. Heath. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 6s.

Garrett.— The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. Svo,
cl. ex., 33. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1887. One Shilling Monthly. In
addition to the Articles upon subjects
in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine has so high a
reputation, "Science Notes," by W.
Mattieuu Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Talk," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
*^* Now ready, the Volume for July to

December, iso, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d.;

Cases for binding, 28. each.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,

Robin Gray. I The Flower of the

For Lack of Gold. Forest. [hem.

What will the I A Heart's Prob-world

Say | TheGoldenShaft.

In Honour Bound. Of High Degree.
Queen of the i Fancy Free.

Meadow. Loving a Dream.

Braes of Yarrow. ! A Hard Knot.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
For the King. | In PasturesGreen.
In Love and War.
By Mead and Stream.
Heart's Delight. [Preparing.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and 
Princess — The
Palace ol Truth — Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains— Broken
Hearts— Engaged— Sweethearts—
Gretchen — Dan'l Druce — Tom Cobb —
H.M.S. Pinafore— The Sorcerer— The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by VV. S. Gilbert. Containing:
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
—The Pirates of Penzance— loathe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Glenny. — A Year's Work In

I Garden and Greenhouse: Practical

Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to

the Management of the Flower, Fruit,

I and Frame Garden. By George

i Glenny. Post Svo, Is.; cloth. Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

II

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Ella. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical introductions
Notes, byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Lite, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7S. ci.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. Svo, picture cover. Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
KoNER. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy Svo, cl. ex., 73. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret

Harte.— The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor.

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Habberton— Breton's Bayou.

By John Habberton, Author of
Helen's Babies." Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown Svo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d,

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Serpent Play.

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8s.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Maclise, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium Syo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Halliday.— Every-day Papers.

By Andrew Pallida. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2 s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post Svo, cl. limp, 23. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of

Very EasyTricks,Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extracts. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hardy (Lady Ductus). — Paul

Wynter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Harry. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas.— Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of *• Fai from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo. illustrated boards, 2s.

Harwood. — The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Hi^-xwood. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small Svo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
Coloured Frontispiece and lUusts.Ss.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s,

Chaucer for Schools. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).— American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward.Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown Svo, c loth extra, 6s.

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Garth. j Sebastian Stroke.

Elllce Quentin. | Dust.
Prince Saronl's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each.
Miss Madonna.
Love— or a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.

Fcap. Svo, illustrated cover, Is.

Hays.— Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, ^g.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pr assure.

Ivan de Biron: A Novel. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s .

Heptalogia (The); or, The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
148. [/« preparation.

Herbert. — The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Cherbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Churton Collins.
Crown Svo, bound in parchment, 83.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Hoey.— The Lover's Creed.

B;' Mrs. Castel Hoey. With Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. New and Cheaper
Edit. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by :

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp
23. 6d. — Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
svo, cloth limp, 28,



Holmes. — The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, Med. With Illustrations,
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Great of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
Wi*a all the original Illustrations.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by :

From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart : A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous

Works, including his Ludicrous
AdventureSjBons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
lusts. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Hooper. — The House of Raby :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hopkins—" 'Twixt Love and

Duty." A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Horne. — Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s.

Howell. — Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
oi Great Britain. By Geo. Howell
M.P. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hunt. — Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Ollier. Post
tiVQ: cloth lirrsp, 28.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by

Crown Svo, cloth .extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thornicroft's IViodel.

The Leaden Casket.

Self-condemned.

That other Person.

Indoor Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown Svo, is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Ingelow.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Ingelow. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post Svo, cloth limp,
23. 6d.

Irving — Tales of a Traveller.

By Washington Irving. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

The Dark Colleen. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Queen of Connaught. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Janvier. — Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each.
Nature near London.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by :

Post Svo, Is. each; cloth. Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

Jesse. — Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Pest Svo, cloth limp, 2§.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Jeux esprit. Collected and

Edited by Henry S. Leigh. PostSvo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.


Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 183. ; or separately , 6s. each.

Joseph US, TheCompleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews" and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 143.

Kempt. — Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Kershaw. — Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post bvo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 23. 6d,

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by :

Oakshiott Castle. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Knight.— The Patient's Vade

Mecum: How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown Bvo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 61,

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post Svo, cloth extra, 23.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c.:

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:
Studies from " The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. Svo, cloth extra. 63.

Lares and Penates , or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes.

Life in London ; or. The History

of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. '



Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 61. each.
Witch Stories.

TheTrueStopyof Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves; Essays on Women.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love !" | lone.

Longfellow:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," " The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood"'
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,

Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 61.

Lucy.— Gideon Fleyce: A NoveL

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, Ribs.

Macalpine. — Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery Macalpine.
Crown 8vo, bound in canvas,
23. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Wopks

by:
A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of iso. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each.— Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 6s. each.
And a Jubilee Edition, with an
Appendix of Events to the end of
I&86, complete in Two Vols,, square
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

McCarthy (]{jsTi>^),'cantinued —

A Short History ot Our Own Times.

One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

History of the Four Georges. Four

Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
IVIiss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
IVIaid of Athens.
Camiola: A Girl with a Fortune,

LInley Rochford. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics, by
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell-prayed. Newand Cheaper
Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Shortly.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),

Works by:
An OutlineoftheHistory of Ireland,

from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr.8vo, Is. ; cloth, 1st 6d.
Ireland since the Union: Sketches

of Irish History from 1798 to 1886.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Case for Home Rule. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
England under Gladstone, 1880-85.

Second Edition, revised. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crovra

8vo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy. Crown 8vo,

Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.
Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.

Small 8vo, gold cloth, 3s. 6d.

Macdonell. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonell.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Gaines.
By Robert Macgregor. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Mackay. — Interludes and Undertones
; or. Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 63.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Macdonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
Works of Fancy and Imagination.

Pocket Edition, Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. Vol. i.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life.— Vol. 2. The Disciple.
The Gospel Women. A Book of
Sonnets. Organ Songs.— Vol. 3.
Violin Songs. Songs of the Days
AND Nights. A Book of Dreams.
Roadside Poems. Poems for
Children. Vol. 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs. — Vols.
5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance. — Vol. 7. The Portent. —
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. — Vol.
9. Cross Purposes. The Golden
Key. The Carson. Little
Daylight. — Vol. 10. The Cruel
Painter The Wow o' Riven.
The Castle. The Broken Swords.
The Gray Wolf. Uncle Cornelius.


The Volumes are also sold separately
in Grolier-pattern cloth, 28. 6d. each.

Macllse Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;

with Me ijoirs — Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal — illustrative
of the Literature of the former
hall of the Present Century. By
William Bates. B.A. With 85 Portraits
pi in ted on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 61.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d. each.
In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.
Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cramer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Magna Oh art a. An exact Facsimile

of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.

Mallock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia; or. Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living P Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur: The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 28.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of tht Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition (under
the title of " Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8vf;. illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Eraser. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Glided Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With III Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 111 alterations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.



Mark Twain's Works, continued—

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
—Cheap Edition, post 8vo,illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Life on the Mississippi. With about !
500 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

The Adventures of Hucnleberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2&.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Coi Cunningham.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s.6d. each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open ! Sesame!

Writ ten In Fire

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2p, each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
fighting the Air.

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown Svo,
clot h extra, 6s.

Waterman. — Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Matthews. — A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s ; cloth,
2s. 6d.

iviayfair Library, The:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.

Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1S70. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Melancholy Anatomisedd: A Popular

Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy

of Melancholy."
Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

Mayfair Library, continued-the
Speeches of Charles Dickens.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T

DOBSON.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing : The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity — The Princess—
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Druce— Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.

Collected and Edited by A. Perceval

Graves.
Animals and their Masters. By Sir

Arthur Helps.
Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps,
Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry

J. Jennings.
The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table

By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.
Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt.
Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from

his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Forensic Anecdotes; or. Humour and

Curiosities of the Law and Men of

Law. By Jacob Haywood.
Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob

Haywood.
Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.

Leigh.
True History of Joshua Davidson.

By E. Lynn Linton.
Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.
Ourselves: Essays on Women. By

E. Lynn Linton.
Pastimes and Players. By Robert

Macgregor.
The New Paul and Virginia. By

W. H. Mallock.
New Republic. By W. H, Mallock,
Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-

ley-penned.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-

mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by

George Du Maurier.
Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By

H. A. Page.

looks PUBLISHED BY

Mayfair Library,
Puniana. By the
More Puniana.

Rowley.
The Philosophy

Don Felix de
By Stream and

Senior.
Old Stories Re

Thornbury.
Leaves from a

Book. By Dr.

continued.

Hon. Hugh Rowley.

By the Hon. Hugh

of Handwriting. By

Salamanca.

Sea. By William

told. By Walter

Naturalist's Note-andrew

Wilson.

Mayhew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mayhew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. cl.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
L.RC.P. Lord. Cr.Svo, Is.; cl.,ls.6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, iron the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E.Sw£et and
J. Army Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards. 2s. each.
Tou ch and Go. [ IVlr. Dorillion.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. Svo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.
The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin; with Directions for Diet,

Wines. Soaps, Baths, &c.
The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of the Ski n.

Wordsworth (Mrs). — Fathers

Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown Svo.cloth extra. 3s. 6d. each ;

po. 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A IVlodel Father.

Joseph's Coat.

Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Val strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the World.

A Bit of Human Nature.

First Person Singular.

Cynic Fortune.

Old Blazer's Hero. Two Vols., crown
Svo, 12s. [Shortly.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Coins Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott. Square Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

O'Connor. — Lord Beaconsfield

A Biography. ByT. P. O'Connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

O'Hanlon. — The Unforeseen:

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress in England.

Reilly.— Phoebe's Fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth
extra. 7s. 6d.

Music and Moonlight,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Fcap. Svo,

Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

^9

Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage.

Stpathmore.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Castles

Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Famine.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.

Sign a.

In a Winter City.
Ariadne
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrello.
A Village Commune.

Bimbi.

In iVlaremma
Wands.
Frescoes. [fine.

A Dog of Flanders. I Pr i ness Naprax-
Pascarel. ! Othman r.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Sm.cr.8vo,cl.es.,5 s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With Portrait. Post 8vo,cl. limp, 2s.6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 53.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures of
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of " Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, with a Frontispiece
coloured by hand, and nearly lOO
Illustrations, 16s.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Pap. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S., and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Crown Svo. Is.; cloth, ls.6(i.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,
Paul Ferrolll: A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrolll Kill ed his Wife.

Paul.— Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a '
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson. j
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23. '

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word. | Halves.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy. | High Spirits.

Under One Roof.

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only. | From Exile.

The Canon's Ward.

Post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Kit: A Memory. | Carlyon's Year.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor. Murphy's Master,

Fallen Fortunes.

A County Family. I At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The ClyfFards of ClyfFe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendoline's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

The Talk of the Town.

In Peril and Privation: Stories of
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, 6s.

Holiday Tasks : Being Essays written
in Vacation Time. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Glow-Worm Tales. Three Vols.,
crown Svo.

Pears. — The Present Depression
In Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
GoADBY and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Demy Svo, Is.

Pennell (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Pu Married.

The Muses of Mayfair, Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Pennell.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. Gd. each.
Beyond the Gates By the Author

of " The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglar rs in Paradise.

Pirkis (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:

Trooping with Crows. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 2s. [Preparing,

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious
Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols,,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Pbe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post 8vo, il lust. bds. ,2s.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post 8vo, ci. limp, 2s.

Praed (Mrs. Campbell). —the

Right Honourable:" A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., bds. [Shortly .

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown Svo, cloth extra, 43. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown Svo, Is. ^d.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lane aster's Riva l.

GerrJd. Post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully
Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Rambosson. — Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown Svo, cloth gilt,
nuTXieLOus Illusts., and a beautifully
exec ute d Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by :

Cr. Svo, cloth extra, illustrated,33.6d.
each ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s. each.

Peg 'Vofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
Fit^DES, A. R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
Wii Liar Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. Unwell,

The Course of True Love Never did
rein Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all Trades; and James Lambert,
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A. , and C. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Haro CAsh. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.

Grifl.tii Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
FiLDES, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
oy Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Fdw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Files, A.R.A. ,
C. Green, and H. Woods, A,R.A.

A simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford,

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by
Too. Coulter.

Singleheai't and Doubleface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. Macnab.

Good stories of Men and other
Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

The J i It, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Read.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By tha Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Filth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Richardson, — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Heir Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party

Weird S tories.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s.6d. each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
3^ Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates bv
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d .

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phi;, Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

Poe ts' Natural Hist ry. [ Prep bring.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte
eve. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colour rs^ H ands one 1 y printed, 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hug hj^ Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
tfor^ Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Runciman (James),.Stories by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each

cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Round the Galley-Fire.

On the Fok'sle Head: A Collection
of Yarns and Sea Descriptions.

In the M middle Watch.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. each.

A Voyage to the Cape.

A Book for the Hammock.[P>'«/>an«;°'.

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala, Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (1688 to 1847). Edited
byHENRvSANSON. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.33 6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Tw o Dreamers.
One Against the World. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. 8vn. cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The High Mills.

Heart Sal age. | Sea stan.

Gideon's Rock.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated
Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lover, of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F Les., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
6s. per y^.ar, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 73. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXII. (i836), at 53. each.
Cases for Binding, Is. 6d. each.

Scott (Sir Walter), Poems by :

Marmion. With over 100 new Illustrations
by leading Artists. Small
4to, cloth extra, 16s.

The Lay of the Last Minstrel. With
over 100 new Illustrations by leading
Artists. Sm.4to,cl. ex. ,133.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out : One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations;
with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or "White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

The Art of Amusing: A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Games.Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades By Frank Belleww,
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many Illusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior.— By Stream and Sea.

By William Senior. Post 8vo, cloth
l imp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
accordingtothetrue Original! Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. — A Reproduction
of the extremely aboriginal,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
]. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
pieces of Music, set to Words taken
tom the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
bvo. cloth extra, 8s.

Sheridan: —

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and lofull-page Illusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Short Say Tngs^f Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent. M.A.
Fifth Edition, Revised and Enlarged,
Crown 8vo, cl both extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
"Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c., by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards , 18s.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (George R.), Works by

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illusts.

by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.
Rogues and Vagabonds. Post 8vo,

illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s 6d.
The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust.

bds., 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.
Mary Jane's Memoirs. Post 8vo,

illust b ds, 2s. ; cl, 2s. 6d.[P>'g/>am:g- .

Sister Dora: A Biography. By

Margaret Lonsdale. Popular Edition,
Revised, with additional Chapter,
a New Dedication and Preface,
and Four Illustrations. Sq. 8vo, picture
cover, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

Sketchley. — A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketchley. Post
8vo , illustrated boards, 2s.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo.
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 63.

The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cl, ex., 6s.



Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Society in London. By A

Foreign Resident. New and Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Spalding.-Elizabetlian Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them, By T.
Spalding, LL.B. Cr. 8vo, cl.ex., 53.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. Middlemost, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown 8vo,
cloth e extra, 63.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, I
33. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

A Barren Title. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cl., ls.6d.

Wife or No V/ife? Cr. Svo, picture
cover, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 63.

Staunton. — Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B.WoRMALD. New
Edition, small cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Stedman. — The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index. By
Edmund Clarence Stedman, Author
of " Victorian Poets." Cr. 8vo,cl.ex., 9s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Sixth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Crane. Post Svo, cl. Ip., 2s. 6d.
Familiar Studies of IVlen and Books.

Second Edit. Crown Svo, cl. ex., 6s.
New Arabian Nights. Crown svo,

cl. extra, 6s. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 23.
The Silverado Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cheap Edition, post Svo, picture

cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.
Prince Otto: A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. ;

post Svo, illustrated boards. 2s.
The Merry Men, and other Tales and

Fables. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s.

Sterndale. — The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

St. John. — A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Stoddard.— Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer.
Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

St. Pierre. — Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, with Life,
by Re v. E. Clarke. Post8vo,cl.lp.,2s.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c.,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by Wm.Hone. Cr. Svo. cl. extra, 73.6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. VVithMapof
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d .

Swinburne (Algernon C),

Works by:
Select Poems by Algernon Charles

Swinburne. Fcap, Svo, cl. extra, 6s.

preparing,

Atlanta in Corydon. Crown Svo, 6s.

Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 7S.

Poems and Ballads First Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Cr. Svo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. Svo, 93. Cr. Svo, same price.
Notes Poems and Reviews. Svo.ls.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. Svo, 10s.6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

Svo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, Is.
Note on Charlotte Bronze. Cr.Svo, 6s.

Doors PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued —
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. 8vo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.8vo,63.
Studies ill Song. Crown 8vo, 7s. ^

IVlary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 83. j
Tristan of Lioness, and other |

Poems. Crown Svo. Ds,
Century of Roundels. Small 4to' 8s. |
A Midsummer Holiday, and other '
Poems. Crown Svo, 7s. !

Marino Fallen: Tragedy. Cr.8vo,6s.
A Study of Victor Hugo, Cr. Svo, 6s.
Miscellanies. Crown Svo, 123.

Symonds. — Wine, Women and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into Eng-
1 sli Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
, MO Ends. Small Svo, parchment, 63.

syn tax's (Dr.) Th rc;e Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Hotel. Med. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Tai nes History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small Svo,
cloth boards, sos. — Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post S vo, cl. limp, 2s .

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by. Crown Svo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and loo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them: A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Illustrations.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare,' ' " 'Twixt Axe and Crown' " The
Fool's Revenge," " Aright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'* " Plot and Passion'*
One Vol., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*+* The Plays may also be had separately
Is^^ach^

Tennyson (Lord): A Biographical

Sketch. By H. J, Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.

Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading'. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 73. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud Aisle.

The Violin-Player .

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thorn son's Seasons and^astl e

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 73. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 28.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
In London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts .

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept In the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. I Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The La nd-Leaguers.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John C abdicate. | American Senator

Trollope( Frances E.), Novels by

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Mab el's Pro dress. I Anne Furness.

Trollope (T. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.



Trowbridge. — Farnell's Folly :

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8v o, illustrated boards, 23.

Turgenieff. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
33. 6d.; post 8vo, illustra te d board s, 23.^

Tytler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards , 23^

Tother (Sarah), Novels by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint iVlungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.

Lady Bell.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Buried D diamonds.

Disappeared. With Six Illustrations
by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s. Shortly.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds., 73. 6d. ea ch.

Villars. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
Svo , picture c over. Is

Walfo7^"7Ecrw7M.A.),Worksl3y":

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12000, distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs .Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-seventh Annual Edition,
for 1S87, cloth gilt, 503.
The Shilling Peerage (1887). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth. Is.
Published annually.
^ The Shilling Baronetage (1887).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is.
The Shilling Knightage (1887). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, complied—

The Shilling House of Commons

(1887). Containing a List of all tli^-

Members of Parliament, their Tov n

and Country Addresses, &c. New

Edition, embodying the results of

I the recent General Election. 32mo,

I cloth. Is. Published annually.

The Compliance Peerage, Baronetage,

Knightage, and House of

Commons (1887). In One Volume,

royal 321 1) 0, cloth extra, g wilt edges, 53.

Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 73. dalton

andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse ol
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown Svo, cloth antique, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whitman, Poems by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, printed en hand-made
paper and bound in buckram, 6s.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or. Life
among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
.america. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrie England in the Olden Time.
By George'! Daniel. With Illustrations
by RoBT. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
ByTiioM.-ss Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London airs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wild? of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: Tho Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued —

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &.c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. ByE. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Partes.
By Jacob Larvvood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mackay.

Warner. — A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, &c. :—
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 23.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
ol the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.

The Roil of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 5s.

Wayfarer, The : Journal of the
Society of Cyclists, Published Quarterly.
Price Is. Number 1., for October
1886, and Number II., for January
1887, a re now ready.

Weather7How to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery

and Porcelain ; or. History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Louder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 43. 6tl.

Whlstler's(Mp.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin :
Art and Art Critics." Cr.8vo,ls. [Shortly.

Williams (W. Mattieuu, F.R.A.S.);

Works by :
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science In Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 23. 6d.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, cloth extra. 6s.

Arson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.STE^),
Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. 8vo. cl. ex., with Illusts., 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth
limp, Is. 6d.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Cavalry Life. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Regimental Legends. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated

boards , 2s.

Women of the Day : A Biographical

Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8vo , cloth extra, 5s.

Wood .— Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2 s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and cheaper issue,
cr, 8vo,cl. ex.,7s. 6 d. ; half-bound, 9s .

Wright (Thomas), Works by:~

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c.

History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque In Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrate ed by F. W. Fairholt.F.S.A.

Vates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23, each.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope,
Land at Last

2^

NEW Three-volume NOVELS.

WILKIE COLLINS'S Neil STORIES.

Little Novels. By Wilkie Collins,
Author of "The Woman in White."
Three Vols., crown 8vo. shortly.

WALTER BBS ANT'S NEW NOVEL.

The World Went Very Well Then.

Three Vols., crown 8vo.

CHRISTIE U Urea Y'S NEW NOVEL

Old Blazer's Hero. By D. Christie

Murray. Two Vols., crown 8vo,

12s. shortly.

JAMES PAYN's NEW Collection
OF STORIES.
Glow-Worm Tales. By James Pain.
Three Vols., crown 8vo.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors. Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Philistia.
In all Shades.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.
Children of Gibeon.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
A Son of Hagar.

BY MRS. H. LOVETT CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS,
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonina. i New Magdalen.

Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret,
Queen of Hearts

My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?

I The Frozen Deep.

The Law and the

Lady.

■ The wo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel 'slaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science

I i Say No.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT,
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE EDV/ARDES.
Archie Lovell.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Fatal Zero.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua.
One by One.
A Real Queen.

Prefaced by Sir BARTLE Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Capel Girts.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. | For Lack of Gold.
V/hat will the World Say?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadows.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shafts Of High Degree.
Fancy Free. | Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. | Felice Quentln.

Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. I Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love — OP a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.
That other Person.

BY JEAN Angelo,
Fated to be Free.

BY HARRIETT JAY,
The Queen of Connaught

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord .^
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"My Love !" I lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | DonnaQuixote

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camiola.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written In Fire,
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. I Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father. I Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature,
first Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES PAYN.
Lost Sip Massing A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
The Canon's

Ward
Talk of the Town.
C. PRICE.
I The Foreigners.

bert.
Best of Husbands
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Hep
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
BY E.

Valentine.

Mps. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend.
Had Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long,
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself In His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton
A Woman-hate. | Headland.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other*
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. RI Udall.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS,
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
Two Dreamers.
The Lion In the Path.

ig

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweathet'.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Pock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS,
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued—
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea,
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists,

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.
Buried Diamonds.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF

Post 8vo, illustrated
BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carr of Carrion. 1 Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN,
Strange Stories.
Philistia.
Babylon.

BY Shelley BE AUG HAM P.
Grantley Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
ThisSonof Vulcan. 1 MyLittiaGlrl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men,
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack

POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 2s. each.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Oonroy. | Flip.
Maruja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,

The Martyrdom

of Madeline.
Annann Water.
The New Abelard,
Matt.

The Shadow of

the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
Love Me for Ever.
Foxglove Manor.
The Master of the Mine.

BY MRS. BURNETT,
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. LOVETT CAMERON
Deceivers Ever, | Juliet's Guardian

BY M ACL A REN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bap Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonina.

Basil.

Hide and Seek,

The Dead Secret.

Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman In White.
The Moonstone*

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

WiLKiE Collins, continued.
Man and Wife. I Haunted Hotel.
Poor Miss Finch. | The Fallen Leaves.
Miss op Mrs.? Jezebel'sDaugliter

New Magdalen. The Black Robe.
The Frozen Deep. Heart and Science
Law and the Lady. "I Say No."
TheTwo Destinies | The Evil Genius.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky
Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. 1 Archie Lovell.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. I Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. 1 A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir H. BARTLE Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY MAIN FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT
The Capel Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. The Flower of the

For Lack of Gold. Forest.
What will the A Heart's Problem
World Say ? Braes of Yarrow,

In Honour Bound. TheGolden Shaft.
In Love and War. Of High Degree.
For the King. Fancy Free.

In PasturesGreen Mead and Stream.
Queen of the Mea Loving a Dream,
dow. A Hard Knot.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY yates GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY JOHN HABBERTON.
Breton's Bayou.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
Every-Day Papers.
BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Wynter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. j Sebastian Stroke

Elllce Quentin. | Dust.
Prince Saronl's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER.
The House of Raby.

BY Tight HOPKINS.
'Twixt Love and Duty.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornlcroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY HARRIETT JAY,
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Duncan



Cheap Popular Novels, continued
E, Lynn Linton, continued —
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"iVIy Love." | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy.

MIssMisanthrope
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a

Season.
Maid of Athens.
Camilla.

Dear LadyDisdain
The Watergate

Neighbours.
My Enemy's

Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open! Sesame I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air.

Oats. I Written in Fire.

BY y. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.
BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
ALife'sAtonement Hearts.
A Model Father. Way of the World.
Joseph's Coat. A Bit of Human

Coals of Fire. Nature.

By the Gate of the First Person Sin-sea,
gular.
Val Strange. Cynic Fortune.
BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteiadies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.
Held in Bondage. | TwoLittieWooden

Stratford.

C hand OS.

Under Two Flags.

italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascarel.
Signa. [Fine.

Shoes.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.
I Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.

Bimbi.
I Wands.
I Frescoes.

In Maremma.

Princess Naprax- i Othman,

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES PAYN.

Lost Sip massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

Clyffards of ClyfTe

The FamilyScape-
grace.

Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her

HumorousStories

Gwendoline's Harvest.


£200 Reward.

Like Father, Like

Son.
Marine Residence
Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit : A Memory.
The Canon's Ward
Talk of the Town.

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. I Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long,
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. I A WomanHater.
Readiana. | The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
BY .Mi-.S. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Vv'eird Stories.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Chatty ^ WINDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY JAMES RUN CI MAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Baimaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL.
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.
In the Middle Watch.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.
Mary Jane's Memoirs.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.
Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Aisle,

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.
Diamond Out Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The V/ay We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family
The Land-leaguer
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Oaldigate.
By ERA NOES ELEANOR TROLLOPE
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE.
Farnell's Folly.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—'
BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Staples from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
Huckleber;'y Finn.
Life on the Mississippi.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Beside's Pass.
Saint IVIungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

DY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. I The Forlorn Hope.
Land bt Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Ppui Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

POP'aLARSHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte,
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Jul. AN Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. . By Mrs.

PiRKJS.

The Professor's Wife. By Leonard
Graham.

A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.

Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.

Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S.

Phelps.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE.S.PnELPs.
Doom: An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
Wife or No Wife ? By T. W, Speight
The Silverado Squatters. By R.

Louis Stevenson.

J. OGDEN and CO., PRINTERS, 29, 30 AND 3I, GREAT SAFFRON HILL, Eg.

t>^^«;^

3 0112 040259407

OF Thun

Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

i DAY'S LIBRARY I

ADVGKTI^GR. f

"PATRIOTISM & CONTENT

go hand in hand when selecting a useful Dress from the
materials manufactured by Messrs. HENRY PEASE
& Co's SUCCESSORS, which meet all the requirements
of fastidious buyers as well as of economically inclined
ones. THE Darlington Gross Weep Serges
All-Wool Foules and Gold Medal Cashmeres
(always in favour, and NEVER AS YET
-.5^.^^=^ '- SUPERSEDED as a WOOLLEN FABRIC)
5^\i/'^^^ have justly a world-wide reputation, which
they fully maintain in their New Patterns,
the colourings being after the latest modes,
and exceedingly artistic. But a line to

'^ ^ , messrs. H. PEASE & Co's Success.,

will bring a TEMPTING BOX OF PATTERNS, when the contents
can be discussed and studied in a far more satisfactory

manner than is conveyed in a mere verbal description"—

The " Queen."

ST. MARY'S HOSPITAL, W.

Supported ENTIRELY b(/ Voluntary Contributions.

The Governors make an Earnest appeal for further Assistance, to enable
them to meet the urgent claims made upon them by the sick poor of the
neighbourhood.

St. Mary's is the only General Hospital in this district of London, and it
relieves over Twenty Eight thousand patients every year.

Annual Subscriptions are earnestly solicited, as these form the staple
of Hospital Income. Donations and Subscriptions will be thankfully
received by the Bankers, Sir Samuel Scott, Bart., & Co., ], Cavendish
Square, or by the Secretary, at the Hospital. PIETRO Mitchell, Secretary .

urn

mum$M

p

5, CONDUIT STREET,

REGENT STREET, W.

Ladies' Costumes, Ulsters, &c.

•smj8^ 9iq^
-inoA'Bj no osBqoind |o noi^^do

.y M

O

c

in

J30Cj^. rotherham Veterinary

Surgeon and Canine Pathologist by Special Appointment
to H.M. the Queen and Royal Family, may be consulted
from 2.0 until 5.30 daily (Saturdays and Sundays excepted;
upon those days by appointment). Fee, 2s. 6d.,
or, by letter, 3s. 6d.

The ROYAL CANINE SURGERY,

55, SOUTH MOLTON STREET, BOND STREET, W.
The Hospital, most healthily situated near ,
has well appointed and spacious Kennels for
large dogs, and every home comfort for pet dogs. The
exercising ground covers fifty acres of grass land.

J. ANDREWS,

BUILDER AND DECORATOR,

W' MOUNT STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

Speciality-SANATORY WORKS, AS CARRIED OUT
UNDER THE LEADING PROFESSORS OF HYGIENE.

Established 1824.

CHRISTOPHER S EWE LL,(Late shepherd)

4, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

•^7;7" u^ T C lEI .^i^lSTJD O IL. O G KI ISJ: .A. KI E hei ,

Practical Goldsmith and Jeweller.

MOURNING AND BRIDAL GIFTS TO ORDER.

Watches, Clocks, Musical Boxes, Cleaned, Repaired, and adjusted by Experienced
Workmen, under personal supervision.

CLOCKS WOUND BY CONTRACT.

Old Gold, Silver, aud Precious Stones Exchanged or Purchased to any amount.

THE PRINCE'S PORT,

50 YEARS IN WOOD.

PALE COLOR. SOFT. DELICATE.

Eminent authorities recommend this PORT, tell
matured in Wood, not onhj for general consumption,
hut especially for the use of those siiferiwj from gout.

In Portugal, inhere gout is unhewn, this style of
Port is alio says u'^ed.

BERRY Bros & Co.

3, ST. O'.^lsZLElS^B Street:
LONDON, S.W.

ESTABLISHED 200 YEARS.

A detailed price-list of Wines, Spirits, and Liqueurs on application

LADIES' & GENTLEMEN'S

HUNTING, SHOOTING, & WALKING
BOOT MAKER,

52, SOUTH IVIOLTON ST., BOND ST., W.

Manufacturer of the Celebrated Edinburgh Boot Varnish Blackman
Waterproof Leather Dressings.

MILITARY BOOTS.

Boots and Shoes to match Costumes.

Russia Leather Boots.

Waterproof Patent
Hunting Boots.

Improved Flexure Boots

Mountain Boots.

Skating Boots.

Brown Hide Boots for
Polo or the Colonies.

Racing Boots.

Lawn Tennis Shoes.

Slippers to any style.

LADIES' RIDING AHD Hunting BOOTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.

Ie Shape of the Feet taken and Lasts Modelled on the most approved
anatomical 2'>rinci2'>les, and kept exclusively for each customer.

W. Faulkner begs most respectful to call the attention of Ladies and Gentlemen
to the BOOT 'L'KEE Branch. Boot Trees assist to keep the boots in proper
shape, preventing them from wrinkling and shrinking after they have been worn
in the wet; they can be cleaned better, and do not require so much blacking,
thereby preventing tie deleterious effect produced by its frequent application.

Lasts &, Boot Trees of every description Manufactured on the
Premises, at Most Reasonable Prices for Cash.

Ladies residing in the Country can have Boots or Boot Trees sent their exact
size by forwarding an Old Boot by Post.

173, NEW BOND STREET, W.,

ICES for BALLS, DINNER and GARDEN PARTIES,

IN NOVEL FRENCH STYLES,
PACKED TO TRAVEL 30 MILES.

CHOCOLATE & C Offer IN Pere CT CONDITION.
DESSERTS AND FRENCH NOVELTIES

IN CONSTANT VARIETY.

W. p. LILLIGEAPP & Co,

BY SPECIAL '5l'^^pwWl'^^K& APPOINTMENT

TO H R.H. THE ^"feS^^^a^^ PRINCE OF WALES.

SEAL SKIN JACKET,

Jwr Cloak, set. ^ Coat ^anMfaclnrm,

AND

GENERAL Fullers,
27, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE.

SKINS DRESSED AND MOUNTED.

FURS Exchange) Amid Take CARE OF.

HEAVENS,

HUNTING. RACING, AND STEEPLECHASE
28, SOUTH MOLTON ST., OXFORD ST.

RACING CAP AND JACKET MAKER. EXPORT SADDLER.

WITH SELF-FITTING ENDS

are made in sizes, 4, 6, 8, or 12 to lb., paced in 12 lb. wood cases, or in 3 lb. boxes

PRICE 9d. PER LB.

MARCHANT & SON, ^

Wax Chandlers and Oil Merchants, 1

59, Burners STREET, LONDON, Wj

And at 160. NORTH STREET, BRIGHTON.

Paul's Fish Culture, ^177, Euston Rd, N.Wj

Trade Catalogue of the 3^^^^ World's Fishes, Reptiles, -j
Amphibious, Press ^""^^^jf Opinions, etc., Stamp. ^

100 GREEN TREE FROGS 40 « or 1- Each
100 GOLD FISH door 6d. EACH.

Patent Fish Kettle, extra Plants, Snails, Shingle Free, sent to ans
part of the Kingdom. 100 Carp, Tench, Dace, Roach, &:c., &c., 15;'-.

PAUL'S AQUARIA MANAGEMENT, '

Without changing the water. Description of Fish, Plants, Snails, &c

impost free.

PAUL'S FISH LIFE PRESERVER. ^

Prepared Pish Food; invigorates the Fish, makes them grow, keeps
them healthy, full of lire and go. Packets, i -, post paid.

6d. PAUL'S FISH CULTURE. 6d. 1

A Monthly Illustrated Journal, published to raise the neglected state
of Fish Culture to its earlier^Standard, to re-populate the rivers, ponds,
lakes, (S:c. Every farmer, land or water owner, should study aqua-culture.
This journal gives valuable information how ;(^400 PER YEAR
may be made out of one acre of Water,

GEO, Davies & SON, i

HOSIERS AND Outriders, \

29, NORTH AUDLEY ST., GROSVENOR SQ., W^

Factors AT Shepherd's BUSH, W. ^

CARNABYN,

OR NOURISHING MEAT & MALT WINE.

Highly recommended by the MEDICAL FACULTY as an exceedingly
nourishing, digestive and Restorative compound.

DOSE— From Half to a Wingless 3 times a day.

Prepared HOOPER & COMY-.

55, GROSVENOR STREET, ¥. ^, LABORATORY,

And at 7, PALL MALL EAST, LO^TDOI^. / MITCHAM, SURREY.

In BOTTLES 2 6, 5/- & 7/6.

To he obtained of all Chemists, Wine Merchants and Grocers throughout the

Un item King do m .

J. DAY & SON'S

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER

SUITABLE FOR WRITING WITH QUILL OR STEEL PENS.
SAMPLES POST FREE.

JOHN DAY & SON,

16, ZMZOTJjSTT Street,

LONDON. W.

BURKE'S LANDED GENTRY

A Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Landed
Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland.

BY

Sir Bernard Burke, C.B., LL!D.,

Ulster King-of-Arms.

Being a record of the Lineage, »frc., of about 4,500 Families, with a description of
their Arms, Crests, &c. Thoroughly Revised throughout. This edition of the
Landed Gentry has been compiled from communications made by the chiefs and
heads of Families from their private papers, traditions and genealogies. The great
aim has been to arrive at accuracy, and in order to attain this end, every' available
source of information has been exhausted, and a correspondence carried on which
has secured many thousands of communications from those most competent to
improve and correct the work. Apocryphal statements, which had crept into
former editions, have been expunged, erroneous particulars and incorrect descents
discovered and omitted, and some memoirs excluded as being no longer associated
with the possession of landed property.

Two Vols., 'Super Royal Svo. Cloth gilt, price-^3 3s.

Buried's Peerage, Baronetage, Knightage, &c.

FOR 1887,

One Vol., Super Royal 8vo. Cloth gilt, price £i ipsa

LARGE DISCOUNT FOR CASH OFF THE ABOVE WORKS.

SOLD BY

JOHN DAY & SON,

16, l^OXJl^T Street, "Vet

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

Samples may be had post free on application,
MOUNT Street, W

CAUTION TO LADIES.

Crystal Palace Bond's G-old Medal
Marking Ink.

Prepared by the Daughter, is the genuine, ask for and see you get it. In Her

Majesty's High Court of Justice another action, costs and damages against the

wrong-doers, for selling colourable imitations. Greatest Marking Ink Maker of

the World, larger sale than all others combined, 29 gold, other medals, and Royal

appointments to Ci-ystal Palace Bond's.

CAUTION— We have no relations soliciting Orders.

CAUTION— JOIIX BOND'S EBONITE MARKING INK must not be heated
in the cloth. Especially adapted to Crystal Palace John Bond's india
rubber stamps, metal-bodied type, &c. Cheapest house in Europe. Trade only.
Works, 75, Sou theater road, London, N.

JOHN DAY & SON, Agents,

16, MOUNT STREET, GROSVENOR SQUARE, W. i

DE LA RUE'S \

DIARIES FOR 1887. ;

SOLD BY j

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W. ]

Pettish's & BLACKWOOD'S i

DIARIES FOR 1887. \

SOLD BY ;

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W. ^

New Pend Second-hand

BILLIARD
and

BAGATELLE
TABLES,

'^^^ '^^^ ^^ '

/n all Sizes and at all Prices.

CLOTHS, Chalks CUES, TIPS,

And all other Billiard Requisites.
WHOLESALE, BET AIL, cj- FOR EXFOllTATIOK

OLD BALLS ADJUSTED OR EXCHANGED,

AND

TABLES RE-CUSHIONED and RE-COVERED,

Adjusted, Removed, Bought, Sold, or Warehoused,

And every kind of Billiard Work executed with dispatch & at moderate charges.

Price Lists Cloth and Cushion Rubber Saints, Post Free.

When writing for Samples of the latter, please state for what kind of Table

they are wanted.

HENNIG BROS.,

BILLIARD TABLE MAKERS,

W, HIGH ST., LONDON, W.C.

(Opposite St. Giles's Church.)
ESTABLISHED 1862.

Mr. JOHN D. WOOD,

Agent for
West-end HOUSES,

COUNTRY HOUSES,

SUMMER and RIVERSIDE HOUSES,
SHOOTINGS and FISHINGS,
HUNTING BOXES,

YACHTING HOUSES.
0ffices~19, MOUNT ST., LONDON. W.

Children's
Ladies' -

G.-nts' -

1/2 § j Hemstitched:
21 U '^ I Ladies' - 2/11^
3/6"' ^ I Gents' - 4/11

Gambols
POCKET HANDKERCHIEF!

IRISH

DAMASK
TABLE
LINEN,

Fish Napkins, 2/11 p(
doz. Dinner Napkin
5/6 per dozen. Table'
Cloths, 2 yds. square
2/11 ; 21 yds. by 3 yd
5/11 each. Kitchen
Table Cloths, ll^c
each. Strong Huckaback
Towels, 4/6 pe
doz. Monograms
Crests, Coats of Arms'
Initials, &c., Woven an(|
Embroidered. Smile;'
and Illustrated price
lists post free to ans
part of the World. j

ROBINSON & CLEAVER, by Special Appointments to H.M. th(
Quci'ii and ILL v\: L.H. the Crown Princess of Germany, BELFAST,

TO H O TJ S E "VV?" I "V" E S.

22 Pages (Illustrated) post free. See Pages 6 to lo for

HOW TO MAKE BLANC MANGE,

Baked Custard, Farola Cream. Farola Cake,
Puddings, Milk Porridge. Children's or Fame
Steamed Pudding, French Pudding. Italian
Pastry, Scones and Sweet Cakes, and Semoli
taste, together with the opinions o f the British
i^c. Post Free from Messrs. J. & I . Marshall,
Street, London. Neb. — Everyone is much pi
Send your address (naming this publication)
It will be sent you free of charge.

Grantly Porridge, Grande

ly Pudding. Baked Pudding

Polenta, Semolina Soup,

ina Cake, v/ith economic

Medical Joj(?-nal, lancet, S:c
Glasgow, and 15, New Broad
eased with this little work,

by post card or letter, and

Send your Name and Address, and mention Day's Advertiser, and receive, per
return, post free, sample and particulars of

Smith's COLCHESTER

THE BEST DIGESTIVE.

No household should be without this valuable and Palatable Stimulant, so
highly spoken of by the great Duke of Wellington. A small piece taken after a
meal is an effectual Preservative against Indigestion, heaviness or burning on
the Chest, and fulness after meals ; or, taken at bed-time, by its warmth-giving and
Stomachic properties, Promotes Sleep. A small piece dissolved in the mouth
when exposed to damp and cold Warms the Chest, and prevents those injuries
which arise from Chills. It is invaluable to Sportsmen, and is recommended by
tete Duchess of Beaufort, the Marquis of Waterford, &c., &c., S:c. Price i/i^, 2/9,
and 4/6 ; of all Chemists. Be careful to buy only Smith's-Colchester Live-Long
rH^PMi^^.^^^'^r^r^"^ Whetstone (Late Smith and Whetstone),
Liit-MlSI, Colchester, as, in consequence of its popularity, and the
commonness of the name (Smith), imitations are rife.Per Post, 1/4, sand 5/-;
or, sample, free .

RED SPIDER

II.

LONDON

BY THE AUTHOR OF
JOHN HERRING ' ' MEHALAH ' &c.

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. IL

Chatty & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



IT/ie right 0/ translation is reserved

fbib%

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

Chapter Page

XIX. A DEAD DOG 1

XX. A Fire-POUND NOTE 14

XXI. Refused 32

XXII. THE HATSEL 45

XXIII. A Brawl 60

XXIV. THE HAND OP GLORY 78

XXV. THE Have HUNT 93

XXVI. BITTER MEDICINE 109

XXVII. AFTER SWEETNESS 123

XXVIII. A FIRST STEP 14-1

XXIX. A BLOW 158

XXX. YES ! 173

XXXI. THE NEW MISTRESS 189

XXXII. THE CHINA DOG 203

Xxxii. AMONG THE GORSE 215

XXXIV. THE VISITATION 234

XXXV. A WARNING 248

XXXVI. A SETTLEMENT 265

XXXVII. A BOWL OF BROTH 281

XXXVIII. THE LOOK-On STONE SCO

CHAPTER XIX.

A DEAD DOG.

The second night of watch proved unavailing,
for the best of good reasons, that the watch
was not kept. Oliver Luxmore sat up, but,
finding the night chilly outside the house,
attempted to keep watch with a pipe of
tobacco and a jug and glass of cider posset
within. The consequence was that he went
to sleep over the fire. During that same night
another of the lambs was worried. Mischief
had also been done at Swaddledown, as the
family heard during the day. There a ewe
had been killed, overrun, thrown into a grip

VOL. II. B

(dyke by hedge) whence it could not rise, and
where it had been torn, and had died.

'We must not ask your father to watch
again,' said Hillary, with the corners of his
mouth twitching. ' We believe what he says
now when he tells us he is very shortsighted.
I will come to-night and the night after, if
need be, till I earn my guinea. The rascal
has been here twice and has escaped. He
shall not succeed the third time. I will take
a nap by day and be lively as an owl at
night.'

The maids at Chims worthy joked the lad
about his visits to the cottage ; he did not go
there after the dog, but after Kate. A guinea !
What was a guinea to the heir of Chimsworthy?
A young man cares more for girls' hearts than
for money. He did not contradict them, he
turned aside their banter with banter. But
the lively conversation of Kate had lost its
charm for him. He exchanged jests with her,
but took less pleasure than heretofore in doing

SO. That night and the next he spent at this
post watching for the lamb-killer. Honor
gave him her company. He was surprised at
himself for becoming serious, still more that
the conversation and society of the grave
Honor should afford him so much pleasure.
In her company everything assumed a new
aspect, was seen through coloured glass.

Honor herself was changed during these
still night watches. A softness, inbred in her,
but to which she was unable to yield during
the day, manifested itself in her manner, her
speech, lier appearance, a bloom as that on the
plum. Her inner heart unfolded like a night-flower,
and poured forth fragrance. Thoughts
that had long dwelt and worked in her mind,
but to which she had never given words,
found expression at last. Her real mind, her
great, pure, deep soul, had been as a fountain
sealed to her father and sister Kate ; they
could not have understood her thoughts ; she
knew this without acknowledging it other than

s 2

by instinctive silence. But now she had beside
her a companion, sympathetic, intelligent ; and
the night that veiled their faces and the working
of their emotions allowed them to sneak
with frankness. Banter died away on Hillary's
lips, he respected her and her thoughts too
highly to treat either lightly. Though he
could not fully understand her he could not
withhold his reverence. He saw the nobility
of her character, her self-devotion made beautiful
by its unconsciousness, her directness of
purpose, her thoroughness, and her clear simplicity
running through her life like a sparkling
river. Her nature was the reverse of his own.
He treated life as a holiday, and its duties as
annoyances ; she looked to the duties as constituting
life, and to pleasures as accidents.
He became dissatisfied with himself without
feeling resentment towards Honor for inspiring
the feeling. With all his frivolity and self-conceit
there was good stuff in Hillary. It
was evidence of this that he now appreciated

Honor. At night, under the dark heavens
strewn with stars, or with the moon rising as a
globe of gold over Dartmoor, these two young
people sat on the bench, with potato-sacks
over their shoulders sheltering them from the
dew, or at the hearth suffused by the glow of
the peat embers, and talked with muffled voices
as if in church.

The second, the third night, during which
Hillary watched, passed uneventfully. Each
night, or morning rather, as Hillary left, the
pressure of his hand clasping that of Honor
became warmer. After he was gone, the girl sat
musing for some minutes, listening to his dying
steps as he passed along the lane homewards.
Then she sighed, shook her head, as though to
shake off some dream tha*^ tole over her, and
went to bed.

Hillary's determined watching was not,
however, destined to remain fruitless. Early
on the fourth night, after he had been at his
post an hour, the bleating and scampering

of the sleep showed that their enemy was at
hand.

In another moment both saw a dark animal
dash across the field hi pursuit. Hillary fired,
and the creature fell over.

Bring a lantern, Honor,' he shouted. • Let
us see whose dog it is.'

She ran indoors. Her father and Kate had
been roused by the report.

When she returned with the lantern to
the field, 'You were right, Honor,' said
Hillary, ' this is Uncle Taverner's Eover. Poor
fellow, we were friends once, when I was
allowed at Langford. Now he and his
master have fallen to bad ways. I have put
the seal on my misdoings, and Uncle Taverner
will never forgive me for having shot his
dog.'

Well, perhaps you will recover your wits
now' said Kate.

'Wits! why?'

Wits — you have been dull enough lately.

Perhaps as the clog went sheep-kilhDg, your
wits went wool-gathering. They have been
dead, or not at home.'

Go home, Larry,' said Honor ; ' and take
our best thanks to warm you.'

Hillary, however, seemed ill-disposed to go.
He hung about the kitchen pretending that his
fingers wanted warming, or considering what
was to be done with the carcass of the dog.
What he really desired was a further chat with
Honor. But Kate would not allow him to be
alone with her sister, though unsuspicious of
the state of his feelings, and indifferent to them
herself. She was like a mosquito that buzzes
about a sleep-drunk man, threatening him,
rousing him, settling, and stabbing, and escaping
before his hand can chastise. The more she
plied him with her jokes, the more dispirited
he became, and incapable of repartee.

Well,' said he at length, ' I suppose it is
time for all to go to bed. You have all seen
enough of the dead dog.'

'And we of the live lion,' said Kate.

He went hesitatingly to the door, then
came back, tied the dog's hind feet together,
and slung the body over his back on his gun.
Then he went back to the door.

Kate said something to Honor, gave Larry
a nod, and went away to bed.

Honor accompanied him to the door, to
fasten it after him.

I wish Eover had not come for a couple
of hours,' he said, as he held out his hand.

You have won your guinea, and must be
content,' she answered with a smile.

Do you suppose I care for the guinea,
except that I may share it with you ? ' he asked.
I'll tell you what we Avill do with it, break it
in half, and each keep a half.'

Then it will be of no good to either,'
answered Honor. ' You told me yourself that
the money was a consideration to you, as you
were empty-pocketed.'

I forgot all about the guinea after the first

night in the pleasure of being with you. I
would give the guinea to be allowed to come
here again tomorrow night. Confound old
Eover for being in such a hurry for his dose of
lead;

'What is that about lead?' called Kate
from the steps of the stairs. ' I think, Larry',
the lead has got into your brains, and into your
feet.'

Honor shook her head, and tried to withdraw
her hand from that of the young man ;
but he would not release it. ' No, Larry, no,
that cannot be.'

May I not come again ? '

No, Larry, on no account,' she said gravely.

But, Honor, if I come down the lane, and
you hear the owls call very loud under the
bank, you wall open the door and slip out.
You will bring the potato-sacks, and let us
have a talk again on the bench with them
over our shoulders ? '

No, I will not — indeed I will not. I pray

you, if you have any thought for me, do not
try this. Good-night, Larry — you are a
brother to me.'

She wrenched her hand from his, and shut
the door. He heard her bolt it. Then he
went down the steps and walked away, ill
pleased. But after he had gone some distance,
he turned, and saw the cottage door open, and
Honor standing in it, Tier dark figure against
the fire glow. Had she relented and changed
her mind? He came back. Then the door
was shut and barred again. He was offended,
and, to disguise his confusion, whistled a merry
air, and whistled it so loud as that Honor might
hear it and understand that her refusal gave
him no concern.

Hillary had not reached the end of the
lane before he stumbled against Charles.

Hallo ! ' exclaimed the latter. ' What are
you doing here at this time o' night .^ Got
your gun, eh ? And game too, eh ? Poaching
on Langford. A common poacher. I'll report

you. Not hare-hunting yet ? Take care
how you do that. I'll break your neck if you
come near Langford after that game.'

What you have been doing is clear
enough,' said Hillary, stepping aside. 'You
have been at the " Eing of Bells," drinking.'

'What if I havens No harm in that, if I
have money to pay my score. Nothing against
that, have you ? '

Nothing at all ; but I doubt your having
the money. A week ago you were reduced to
a brass token.'

You think yourself cock of the walk, do
you ? ' said Charles, insolently, ' because you
are heir to Chimsworthy? What is Chimsworthy
to Coombe Park ? Come ! I bet now
you've naught but coppers in your pocket.
Hands in and see which can make the most
show.'

As he spoke, he thrust forth his palm, and
Hillary heard the chink of money, and the
sound of coins falling on the stones.

If you had money at the fair-time,' said
Hillary, coldly, ' all I can say is that you
behaved infamously.'

I had no money then.'

How you have got it since, I do not know,'
said Hillary.

That is no concern of yours. Master
Larry,' answered Charles, roughly. ' You will
live to see me Squire at Coombe Park ; and
when I'm there, curse me if I don't offer you
the place of game-keeper to keep off rogues.
An old poacher is the best keeper.'

'You cur! ' exclaimed Hillary, blazing up.
This is my game.' He swung the dead dog
about, and struck Charles on the cheek with
the carcass so violently as to knock him into
the hedge. ' This is my game. Your master's
dog, which has been worrying and killing your
father's lambs whilst you have been boozing
in a tavern.'

By George ! ' swore Charles, with difficulty

picking himself up. 'I'll break your cursed
neck, I will.'

But Larry had gone on his way by the
time Charles had regained equilibrium.

'This is the second time he's struck me
down,' said Charles, and next moment a great
stone passed Larry, then another struck the
dead dog on his back with sufficient force to
have stunned him had it struck his head.

He turned and shouted angrily, ' You
tipsy blackguard, heave another, and I'll shoot.
The gun is loaded.'

And, by George ! I'll break your neck ! '
yelled Charles after him.

CHAPTEE XX.

A Five-pound NOTE.

No sooner had Hillary got the guinea for shooting
the sheep-killer than he went to the cottage
and offered half to Honor Luxmore. She
refused it, and would by no persuasion be induced
to accept it.

No, Larry, no — a thousand times no.
You redeemed my cloak, and will not let me
pay you for that. I will not touch a farthing
of this well-earned prize.'

Then Larry went to Tavistock and expended
part of the money in the purchase of a handsome
silk kerchief, white with sprigs of lilac,
and slips of moss-rose on it. He returned in
the carrier's van instead of waitin^:^ for his

father, who remained to drink with other
farmers. This entailed the walking up of the
hills. When he got out for this object, he left
his parcel on the seat. On his return he found
the women within sniggering.

Don't }'' be offended at us now,' said one.
But it is just so. Your parcel came open of
herself wi' the jolting of the Vivid, and us
couldn't help seeing what was inside. Us can't
be expected to sit wi' our eyes shut. 'Taint
in reason nor in nature. I must say this — 'tis
a pretty kerchief, and Kate Luxmore will look
like a real teddy in it o' Sunday, to be sure.'

Then the rest of the women laughed.

Hillary coloured, and was annoyed. The
parcel had not come open of itself The
women's inquisitive fingers had opened it, and
their curious eyes had examined the contents.
They had rushed to the conclusion that the
kerchief was intended for Kate — Larry was
much about with the maiden, they were always
teasing each other, laughing together, and

Hillary had been several evenings to the
carrier's cottage guarding the lambs and sheep.

The young man did not disabuse them of
their error. He was vexed that they should
suppose him caught by the rattle Kate, instead
of by the reliable Honor ; it showed him that
they supposed him less sensible than he was.
But he thought with satisfaction of the surprise
of the gossips on Sunday, when they saw the
kerchief about the neck of the elder sister,
instead of that of Kate.

In this expectation, however, he was disappointed.
Next day, he went to the cottage at
an hour when he was sure to find Honor there
alone, and, with radiant face and sparkling eyes,
unfolded the paper, and offered his present to
the girl.

Honor was more startled than pleased — at
least, it seemed so — and at first absolutely
declined the kerchief. ' No, Larry, I thank
you for your kind thought, but I must not
accept it. I am sorry that you have spent your

money — the kerchief is very pretty ; but I cannot
wear it.'

How wrong-headed and haughty you are,
Honor ! Why will you not take it ? ' The
blood made his face dark, he was offended and
angry. He had never made a girl a present
before, and this, his first, was rejected. 'It
gave me a vast deal of pleasure buying it. I
turned over a score, and couldn't well choose
which would look best on your shoulders. You
have given me good advice ; and here is my
return, as an assurance that I will observe it.'

I am not wrong-headed and haughty,
Larry,' answered Honor, gently. ' But see !
in spite of what I said, in spite of my
better judgment, rather than wound you,
I will take the handkerchief. Indeed, indeed,
dear Larry, I am not unthankful and
ungracious, though I may seem so. And now
I will only take it as a pledge that you have
laid my words to heart. Let it mean that, and
that only. But, Larry, the women in the van

VOL. II. c

saw it. I cannot wear it just now, certainly
not on Sunday next. You know yourself what
conclusions they would draw, and we must not
deceive them into taking us to be what we are
not, and never can be, to each other.'

'Why not, Honor?'

Instead of answering, she said with a smile,
My brother, Larry, this I will undertake.
When I see that you have become a man of
deeds and not of words, then I will throw the
kerchief round my neck and wear it at church.
It shall be a token to you of my approval.
Will that content you ? '

He tried his utmost to obtain a further
concession. She was resolute. She did not
wish to be ungracious, but she was determined
to give him no encouragement. She had
thought out her position, and resolved on her
course. She knew that her way was chalked for
her. She must be mother to all her little sisters
and brothers, till they were grown up and had
dispersed. There was no saying what her father

might do were she away. He might marry
again, and a stepmother would ill-treat or
neglect the little ones. If she were to marry,
it could be on one understanding only, that she
brought the family with her to the husband's
house — and to that no man would consent. It
would be unfair to burden a young man thus.
Her father, moreover, was not a man to be left.
What Charles had become, without a firm
hand over him, that might Oliver Luxmore also
become, even if he did not marry. His dispositions
were not bad, but his character was
infirm. No ! it was impossible for her to
contemplate marriage. Kate might, but not
she. The line of duty lay clear before her asa
white road in summer heat, and she had not
even the wish to desert it. It was right for her
to nip Larry's growing liking for herself, at
once and in the bud.

After Larry had gone, she folded and put
away his present among her few valuables.
She valued it, as the first warm breath of spring

c 2

20 RED SPIDER

is valued. She said nothing to Kate or the
others about it. Her heart 'was lighter, and
she sans: over her work. The little offering
was a token that through the troubled sky the
sun was about to shine.

A day or two after, Charles lounged in,
and seated himself by the fire. She was
pleased to see him. He was at honest work
with Mr. Langford, earning an honest wage.
She said as much. Charles laughed contemptuously.
' Mnepence,' he said, ' ninepence
a day. What is nine pence ? '

It is more than you had as a soldier.'
But as a soldier I lead the uniform and
the position. Now I am a day-labourer — I, a
Luxmore, the young squire with nine pence and
lodging and meat.'

Well, Charles, it is a beginning.'

Beginning at nine pence. As Mrs. Veale

says, " One can't stand upon coppers and keep

out of the dirt." What is the meat and drink ?

The cider cuts one's throat as it c^oes down,

and the food is insufficient and indigestible.
If I had not a friend to forage for me, I should
be badly off.'

If you keep this place a twelvemonth, you
will get a better situation next year.'

Keep at Langford a twelvemonth ! * exclaimed
Charles. ' Not if I know it. It won't
do. Never mind wdiy. I say it ^von't do.'

Then he began working his heel in a hole
of the floor where the slate was broken.

You know Mrs. Veale ? ' he asked, without
looking at his sister.

Yes, Charles. That is, I have seen her,
and have even spoken to her, but — know her
that is more than 1 profess. She is not a
person I am like to know.'

You had better not,' said Charles. ' She
don't love you. When I mention your name
her face turns green. She'd ill-wish you if she
could.'

I have never done her an injury,' said
Honor.

'That may be. Hate is like love, it
pitches at random, as Mrs. Veale says. You
may laugh, Honor, but that same woman is
in love with me.'

Nonsense ! ' Honor did not laugh, she
was too shocked to laugh.

What is there nonsensical in that ? I tell
you she is. She cooks me better food than for
the rest of the men, aud she favours me in
many ways.'

She cannot be such a fool.'

There is no folly in fancying me,' said
Charles, sharply. ' I have good looks, have
seen the world, and compare with the louts
here as wheat with rye. Many a woman
has lost her heart to a younger man than
herself.'

Charles, you must be plain and rough
with her if this be so — though I can scarce
believe it.'

'No one forces you to believe it. But

don't you think I'm going to make IVIrs. Yeale

your sister-in-law. I'm too wide-awake for
that. She is ugly, and — she's a bad un.
Yes musingly, ' she is a bad un.'

Then he worked his heel more vigorously
in the hole. ' Take care what you are about,
Charles, you are breaking the slate, and
making what was bad, worse.'

I wish I had Mrs. Yeale's heart under that
there stone,' said Charles, viciously. ' I'd grind
my heel into it till I'd worked through it.
You don't know how uncomfortable she
makes me.'

Well, keep her at arm's length.'

'I can't do it. She won't let me. She
runs after me as a cat after a milk-maid.'

Surely, Charles, you can just put a stop to
that.'

I suppose I must.'

He continued, in spite of remonstrance,
grinding through the broken slate into the

earth. His face was hot and red. He put his
elbow up, and wiped his brow on his sleeve.

It is cursed warm here,' he said at last.

Then keep away from the fire. I'm glad
you have come to see me, Charles ; I always
wish you well.'

Oh, for the matter of that I only came
here to be out of the way of Mrs. Yeale.'

Then Honor laughed. 'Really, Charles,
this is childish.'

It is not kind of you to laugh,' said he,
sulkily ; ' you do not know what it is to have
your head turned, and to feel yourself pulled
about and drawn alone against your will. It
is like " oranges and lemons," as we played at
school, when you are on the weakest side.'

Whither can Mrs. Yeale draw you .^ Not
to the altar rails, surely.'

Oh no ! not to the altar-rails. Mrs. Yeale
is a bad un.'

His manner puzzled Honor. She was convinced
he was not telling her everything.

What is it, Charles ? ' she said ; ' you may
give me your confidence. Tell me all that
troubles you. What is behind ? I know you
are keeping back something from me. If I
can advise and help you. I will do so. I am
your nearest sister.' Then she put her arms
round his neck and kissed him.

Don't do that,' said he, roughly. ' I hate
scenes, sisterly affection and motherly counsel,
and all that sort of batter-pudding without eg
and sugar. I reckon I am outgrown that long
as^o. I have been a soldier and know the world.
If you think to pin me to your apron, as you
have pinned father, you are mightily mistaken.
No ; I will tell you no more, only this — don't
be surprised if I leave Langford. Ninepence
a day is not enough to hold me.'

Oh, Charles, I entreat you to stay. You
have regular work there and regular pay. As
for Mrs. Veale '

Curse Mrs. Veale ! ' interrupted Charles,
and with a stamp of his iron-shod heel he

broke the corners of the slate slab. Then he
stood up. .

'Look here, Honor. I mustn't forget a
message. Old Langford wants to see my father
mighty particular, and he is to come up to
the house to have a talk with him. He told
me so himself, and indeed sent me here.
Father is to come up this evening, as he is not
at home now. You will remember to send
him. Honor ? '

Yes,' she answered, bending her face over
her work, ' yes, I shall not forget, Charles.'

Her brother had not the faintest suspicion
that his master was a suitor for Honor's hand.
Mrs. Veale knew it, but she did not tell him.
She had reasons for not doing so.

Ninepence per diem ! ' muttered the young
man, standing in the doorway. 'That makes
fourpence for ale, and fourpence for baccy, and
a penny for clothing. Taint reasonable. I
won't stand it. I reckon I'll be off.'

Then, after a moment of irresolution, he

came back into the middle of the room, and,
taking Honor's head between his hands, said in
an altered tone, as he kissed her, ' After all, you
are a good girl. Don't be angry if I spoke
sharp. I'm that ruffled I don't know what I
say, or what I do. You mayn't be a proper
Luxmore in spirit — that is, not like father and
me — but you are hard-working, and so I forgive
you in a Christian spirit. As Mrs. Yeale
says, even the Chosen People must have
Gibeonites to hew wood and draw water for
them. After I am gone, look under the china
dog on the mantel-shelf.'

Then he went hastily away.

Honor shuddered. His breath smelt of
brandy.

Half an hour later, Oliver Luxmore came
in. Then Honor told him that Charles had
been to the house with a message for him from
Mr. Langford. Oliver rubbed his head and
looked forlorn. He knew as well as his
daughter what this meant.

I suppose,' said lie, in a timid, questioning
tone. ' I suppose, Honor, you have not thought
better of what we was discussing together?
Xo doubt Mr. Langford is impatient for his
answer.'

No doubt,' answered the girl.

You haven't reconsidered your difficulty in
the matter? It seems to me — but then I am
nobody, though your father — it seems to me
that if there be no prior attachment, as folks
call it — and you assure me there is none — there
can't be great hardship in taking him. Riches
and lands are not bad things ; and. Honor, it
is worth considering that in this world we never
can have everything we desire. Providence
always mixes the portions we are given to
sup.'

'Yes, father, that is true. I am content
with that put to my lips. It is sweet, for I
have your love, and the love of all my brothers
and sisters. Charles has been here, and he
kissed me as he never kissed me before. That

makes nine lumps of sugar in my cup. If
there be a little bitterness, what then ? '

Well, Honor, you must decide. We cannot
drive you, and you count our wishes as
nought.'

He was seated, rubbing his hands, then his
hair, and turning his head from side to side ina
feeble, forlorn, irresolute manner. Honor
was sorry for his disappointment, but not
inclined to yield.

'Father dear, consider. If I did take
Mr. Langford, he would not receive you and
all the darlings into Langford house as well —
and I will not be parted from you. AYho takes
me takes all the hive. I am the queen-bee.'

I will ask,' said the carrier, breathing
freer. ' I can but ask. He can but refuse ;
besides, it will look better, putting the refusal
on his hands. It may be that he w411 not
object. There be a lot o' rooms, for sure, at
Langford he makes no use of; and I dare say
he might accommodate us. There be one, I

know, full o' apples, and another of onions, and
I dare say he keeps wool in a third.'

Honor, who was standing by the fire,
started, and said hastily, with shaking voice,
'You misunderstand me, father. On no account
will I take him. No — on no conditions
whatever.' Her hand was on the mantelshelf,
and as it shook with her emotion she touched
and knocked over a china dog spotted red, a
rude chimney ornament. A piece of folded
paper fell at her feet. She stooped and picked
it up. It was a five-pound note.

She looked at it at first without perceiving
what it was, as her mind was occupied. But
presently she saw what it was that she held,
and then she looked at it with perplexity, and
after a moment with uneasiness, and changed
colour.

Father ! ' she said, ' here is a five-pound
note of the Exeter and Plymouth Bank, left by
Charles. What does it mean? How can he
have got it? Before he parted from me, he

said something about looking under the china
dog, but I gave no heed to his words ; his
breath smelt of spirits, and I thought he spoke
away from his meaning. His manner was odd.
Father! wherever can Charles have got the
money? Oh, father! I hope all is right.'

She put her hand to her heart ; a qualm of
fear came over her.

Eight ! Of course it is right,' said the
carrier. ' Five pounds ! Why that will come
in handy. It will go towards the cost of
the horse if you persist. As for these lambs,
he ought to pay me for them, but I don't
like to press it, as I hear he won't allow
it was his dog killed them, and he swears
Hillary shot Eover out of spite, and lays the
lamb-killing on the dog unjustly. Well,
Honor, I suppose you must have your own
way ; but it is hard on Charles and me, who
work as slaves — we who by rights should be
squires.'

CHAPTEE XXI.

REFUSED !

The carrier walked slowly and reluctantly to
Langford. He was uncomfortable with the
answer he had to take to Taverner Langford.
Oliver was a kindly man, ready to oblige
any one, shrinking from nothing so sensitively
as from a rough word and an angry mood.
It would have saved a lot of trouble,' said he
to himself, ' if Honor had given way. I
shouldn't have been so out of countenance now
and it does seem an ungrateful thing after
the loan of the horse.'

He found Langford in his parlour at his
desk. The old man spun round on his seat.

Ah, ha ! ' said he, ' come at my call, father-in-law.
Well — dien is the wedding to be ? '

The carrier stood stupidly looking at him,
rubbing his hands together and shifting from
foot to foot. ' The wedding ! '

Yes, man, the wedding ; when is it to
be?'

The wedding ! ' repeated Oliver, looking
through the window for help. 'I'm sure I
don't know.'

You must find that out. I'm impatient to
be married. Ha, ha ! what faces the Nansj^ians
will pull, father and son, when they see me
lead from church a blooming, blushing bride.'

Well, now,' said the carrier, wiping the
perspiration from his brow, ' I'm sorry to have
to say it, but Honor don't see it in the proper
light.'

What — refuses me ? '

Not exactly refuses, but begs ofi".'

Begs ofi*! ' repeated Tavern er, incredulously.
He could hardly have been more disconcerted
if he had heard that all his cattle
were dying and his stacks blazing. ' Begs off ! '

VOL. II. D

he again exclaimed ; ' then low about my
horse ? '

The carrier scratched his head and sighed.

'Do you suppose that I gave you the
horse ? ' said Taverner. ' You can hardly
have been such a fool as that. I am not one
to give a cow here, and a sheep there, and a
horse to a third, just because there are so many
needy persons wanting them. You must return
me the horse and pay me ten shillings a week
for the hire during the time you have had him,
unless Honor becomes my wife.'

I will pay you for the horse,' said Lux-more,
faintly.

'Whence will you get the money? Do
you think I am a fool?' asked Langford,
angrily. His pride was hurt. His eyes flashed
and his skin became of a livid complexion.
He, the wealthiest man in Bratton Clovelly;
he, the representative of the most respectable
family there — one as old as the parish itself;
he, the parson's churchwarden, and the elder

of the Methodist chapel — he had been refused
by a poverty-stricken carrier's daughter. The
insult was unendurable. He stood up to leave
the room, but when he had his hand on the
latch he turned and came back. In the first
access of wrath he had resolved to crush the
carrier. He could do it. He had but to take
back his horse, and the Vivid was reduced to a
stationary condition. Luxmore might offer to
buy the horse, but he could not do it. He
knew how poor he was. Moreover, he could
cut his business away from him at any moment
by setting up the cripple as carrier.

But he thought better of it. Of what avail
to him if Luxmore were ruined .^ He desired
to revenge himself on the Nanspians. The
carrier was too small game to be hunted down,
he was set on the humiliation of much bigger
men than he. His envy and hatred of the
Nanspians had by no means abated, and the
killing of his dog Eover by young Hillary had
excited it to frenzy. That his dog was a sheep



killer would not excuse Larry's act. He did
not allow that Eover was the culprit. His
nephew had shot the dog out of malice, and
had feigned as an excuse that he had caught
the dog pursuing lambs.

The wealthy yeoman might certainly, without
difficulty, have found another girl less hard
to please than Honor. All girls would not
have thought with her. His money would have
weighed with them. He could not understand
his refusal. ' What is the matter with the girl?'
he said surlily. ' I thought her too wise to be
in love. She has not set her heart on any
boyish jackanapes, has she ? '

Honor ? Oh no ! Honor has no sweetheart,'
said the father. 'It certainly is not
that, Mr. Langford.'

Then what is it ? What possible objection
scan she make? I'm not a beardless boy and
a rosy-faced beauty, that is true.'

No, Mr. Langford, I am sure she has nota
word against your age and personal appearance.

Indeed, a young girl generally prefers
as a husband one to whom she can look up, who
is her superior in every way.'

I am that. Wliat is it, then ? '

Well, Mr. Langford,' said the carrier,
drawing the back of his hand across his lips,
I think it is about this. She don't like to
desert me and the children. She promised her
mother to stand by us, and Honor is so conscientious
that what she has promised she will
stick to.'

Oh,' said Taverner, somewhat mollified to
find that neither his age nor lack of beauty
was objected to, ' that is it, is it ? '

'Yes, sir,' answered the carrier, sheepishly;
you see there are six little uns ; then comes
Kate, and then Cliarles, and then I. That
makes nine of us Honor has to care for. And,'
he said more eagerly, heaving a sigh of relief,
'you see, she didn't think it quite a fair thing to
saddle you with us all, with Pattie and Joe,
Willie, Martha, Charity, Temperance, Kate,

Charles, and myself. It does make a lot when
you come to consider.'

It did certainly, as Tavern er admitted. He
had no intention whatever of incumbering
himself with Honor's relations, if he did marry
her. He took a turn up and down the room,
with his heavy dark brows knit and his thin
lips screwed together. Oliver watched his face,
and thought that it was a very ugly and ill-tempered
face.

It does Honor some credit having such
delicacy of feeling,' suggested he. ' I very
much doubt how you could accommodate us all
in this house.'

I do not see how I could possibly do it,'
said Taverner, sharply.

And Honor couldn't think to tear herself
away from us. I suppose you wouldn't consider
the possibility of coming to us .? '

No, I would not.'

Taverner Langford was perplexed. He
entirely accepted Oliver's explanation. It was

quite reasonable that Honor should refuse him
out of a high sense of duty ; it was not conceivable
that she should decline alliance with him
on any other grounds. stow, although Taverner
had not hitherto found time or courage to marry,
he was by no means insensible to female beauty.
He had long observed the stately, upright
daughter of the carrier, with her beautiful
abundant auburn hair and clear brown eyes.
He had observed her more than she supposed,
and he had seen how hard-working, self-devoted
she was, how economical, how clean in her own
person and in her house. Such a woman as that
would be more agreeable in the house than
Mrs. Yeale. He would have to pay her no
wage for one thing, her pleasant face and voice
would be a relief after the sour visage and
grating tones of the housekeeper. He knew
perfectly that Mrs. Yeale had had designs on
him from the moment she had entered his house.
She had flattered, slaved ; she had assumed
an amount of authority in the house hardly

consistent with her position. Langford had not
resisted her encroachments ; he allowed her to
cherish hopes of securing him in the end, as a
means of ensuring her fidelity to his interests.
He chuckled to himself at the thought of the
image and disappointment that would consume
her when he announced that he was about to
be married.

He was a suspicious man, and he mistrusted
every woman, but he mistrusted Honor less
than any woman or man he knew. He had
observed no other with half the attention he
had devoted to her, and he had never seen in
her the smallest tokens of frivolity and indifference
to duty. If she was so scrupulous in
the discharge of her obligations to father and
sisters, how dependable she would be in her
own house, when working and saving for
husband and children of her own.

She was no idler, she was no talker, and
Taverner hated idleness and gossip. Of what
other girl in Bratton Clovelly could as much be

said? No, he would trust this house and
happiness to no other than Honor Luxmore.

Taverner dearly loved money, but he loved
mastery better. A wife with a fortune of her
own would have felt some independence, but a
wife who brought him nothing would not be
disposed to assert herself. She would look upto
him as the exclusive author of her happiness,
and never venture to contradict him, never
have a will of her own.

If that be her only objection, it may be
circumvented,' said Langford, ' if not got over.
I thought, perhaps, she declined my hand from
some other cause.'

What other cause could there be ^ ' asked
Oliver.

To be sure there is no other that should
govern a rational creature ; but few women are
rational. I have done something for you
already, for you have my horse. I have done
a good deal for Charles also ; I pay him nine-pence
a day and give him his food. It is quite

possible that I may do a vast deal for the rest
of you. But of course that depends. I'm not
likely to take you up and make much of you
unless you are connected with me by marriage.
You can judge for yourself. Should I be
likely to leave you all unprovided for if Honor
vere Mrs. Langford .^ Of course I would not
allow it to be said that my wife's relations were
in need.'

These words of Taverner Langford made
Oliver's pulse beat fast.

And then,' continued the yeoman, ' who
can say but that I might give you a hand to
help you into Coombe Park.'

Luxmore's eye kindled, and his cheeks
became dappled with fiery spots. Here was a
prospect ! but it was like the prospect of the
Promised Land to Moses on Pisgah if Honor
proved unyielding.

You are the girl's father,' said Langford.
Hoity-toity ! I have no patience with a man

who allows his daughter to give herself airs.
He knows what is best for her, and must
decide. Make her give way.'

OHver would have laughed aloud at the
idea of his forcing his daughter's will into compliance
with his own, had not the case been so
serious.

Look here, Mr. Langford,' he said. ' I'll
do what I can. I'll tell Honor the liberal offer
you have made ; and I trust she'll see it aright
and be thankful.' He stood up. ' Before I
go,' he said, producing the five-pound note, ' I'd
just like to reduce my debt to you for the
horse, if you please.'

How much ? ' asked Taverner.

Give pounds,' answered the carrier. ' If
I kept it by me I should spend it, so I thought
best to bring it straight to you. You'll give
me a slip o' paper as a receipt.'

Langford took out his pocket-book, folded
the note, and put it in the pocket of the book ;

then made a pencil entry. I always,' said
he, ' enter every note I receive with its number.
Comes useful at times for reference. To be
sure, you shall have a receipt.'

CHAPTEE XXII.

THE HAYSEL.

Hillary became impatient. He made no way
with Honor ; if any change in his position had
taken place, he had gone back. In spite of
her entreaty, he went to the cottage down the
lane hooting like an owl, but she did not
answer the call. Then he plucked up courage
and went in on the chance of getting a word
with her alone, but he went in vain. Oliver
Luxmore was glad to see him, chatted with
him, and offered him a place at their supper-board,
or a drink of cider. He defended
himself against the sallies of Kate. He spoke
now and then to Honor, and was answered in
friendly tone ; but that was all. If by chance

he met her during the day in the lane or on
the down, and she could not escape him, she
would not stay to talk, she pleaded work.
Hillary was disappointed, and, what was more,
offended. His vanity was hurt, and vanity ina
young man is his most sensitive fibre. No
other girl in the parish would treat his advances
as did Honor. The other girls laid
themselves out to catch him, Honor shrank
from him. He knew that she liked him, he
was angry because she did not love him.

Hillary's nature, though sound, was marred
by his bringing up. He had been spoiled by
flattery and indulgence. His father's boasting,
the great expectations held out to him, the
consciousness of vigour, health, and good looks,
combined to make Larry consider himself the
very finest young fellow, not in Bratton only,
but in all England. Self-conceit is like mercury,
when it touches gold it renders it dull,
and a strong fire is needed to expel the alloy
and restore the. gold to its proper brilliancy.

Mortified in his self-consequence, stung by
Honor's indifference, after a few attempts and
failures Hillary changed his tactics. He resolved
to show Honor, if she did not meet him,
he could turn elsewhere. Unfortunately, Kate
was at hand to serve his purpose. Kate did
not particularly care for Larry. She had a
fancy for Samuel Oaten, the farmer's son at
Swaddledown ; but of this Honor neither knew
nor suspected anything. Kate was pleased to
see Hillary whenever he came, as she was glad
to have a butt for her jokes, and with feminine
ingenuity used him to throw dust in the eyes
of her father, sister, and companions to obscure
their perception of her attachment for Sam
Oaten.

At first Hillary was in a bad temper, disinclined
for conversation, and unable to retaliate
upon Kate ; but by degrees his old cheerfulness
returned, and he received and replied to
her banter with what readiness he possessed.

One day he came into the cottage with a

hay fork over his shoulder. ' You maidens
he said, ' come along to the hay-field. We
want help badly. Bring the little ones and let
them romp and eat cake. Whilst the sunshines
we must make hay.'

Honor, without a word, rose and folded
her work.

If you can toss hay as you can toss chaff,'
said the young man addressing Kate, ' you will
be useful indeed.'

'Larry, it is reported that your uncle
Langford will not save hay till it has been
rained on welL "If it be too good," he
argues, " the cows will eat too much of it."
Your wit is wicked like Langford's hay ; it is
weak and washed out. A little goes a long
way With those who taste it.'

A happy and merry party in the hatfield,
women and girls tossing the hay into cocks, and
the men with the waggon collecting it and
carrying it home. The air was fragrant with
the scent. In a corner under a hedge were a

barrel of cider, and blue and white mugs,
and a basketful of saffron-cake. Whoever was
thirsty went to the cider cask, whoever was
hungry helped himself to the plum loaf. The
field rang with laughter, and occasional
screams, as a man twisted a cord of . hay, "recast
the loop round a girl's neck, drew her > head
towards him and kissed her ^ face. That is
called 'the making of sweet ;hay.' : ,.

Honor worked steadily. ^ No one ventured
to make ' sweet hay ' with her, and Kate was
too much on the alert, though one or two young
men slyly crept towards her with twisted bands.
The little ones were building themselves nests
of hay, and burying one another, and jumping
over haycocks, and chasing each other with
bands, to catch and kiss, in imitation of their
elders. Hillary turned in his work and looked
at Honor and Kate, hoping that the former
would commend his diligence, and that the
latter would give him occasion for a joke. But
Honor was too much engrossed in her raking,

VOL. 11. E

and had too little idea of necessary work being
lauded as a virtue ; and the latter was looking
at Samuel Voaden, who had come over from
Swaddledown to help his neighbour — the
haysel at home being over.

When the half-laden waggon drew up near
where Honor was raking, Hillary said to her ina
low tone, 'I have been Working ever since
the dew was off the grass.'

I suppose so, Larry.'

I have been working very hard.'

Of course you have, Larry.'

And I am very hot.'

I do not doubt it.'

How cool you are, Honor ! '

I — cool I ' she looked at him with surprise.
'On the contrary, I am very warm.'
She had no perception that he pleaded for
praise.

Larry,' said Kate, ' you were right to
press us into service. It will rain tomorrow.'

How do you know that ? '

Because you are working to-day.'

Quick as thought, he threw some hay
strands round her head, and kissed both her
rosy cheeks.

Kate drew herself away, angry at his impudence,
especially angry at his kissing her
before Samuel Oaten. She threw down her
pitchfork (' liable ' in the local dialect), and
folding her arms, said with a frown and a pout,
Do the rest yourself. I will work for you no
more.'

Oh, Kate, do not take offence. I went
naturally where was the sweetest hay.'

In her anger she looked prettier than when
in good humour. She glanced round out of the
corners of her eyes, and saw to her satisfaction
that Samuel was on the further side of the
waggon, unconscious of what had taken place.
Hillary was humble, he made ample apology,
and offered lavish flattery. Kate maintained, or
affected to maintain, her anger for some time, and
forced Larry to redouble his efforts to regain

e2

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

her favour. Her fair hair, fine as silk just
wound from a cocoon, was ruffled over her
brow, and her brow was pealed with heat-drops.
She was a slender girl, with a long
neck and the prettiest shoulders in the world.
She wore a light gown, frilled about the throat
and bosom and sleeves, tucked up at the side,
showing a blue petticoat and white stockings.
She picked up the ' h cable ' with a sigh, and then
stood leaning on it, with the sleeves fallen back,
exposing her delicate arms as for as the rosy
elbows.

It was not possible for Kate to remain long
angry with Larry, he was so good-natured,
so full of fuss, so coaxing ; he paid such pretty
compliments, his eyes were so roguish, his face
so handsome — besides, Samuel was on the
other side of the waggon, seeing, hearing
nothing.

The dimples formed in her cheeks, the contraction
of lips and brows gave way, the
angry sparkle disappeared from her blue eyes.

and then her clear laugh announced that
she was pacified. Hillary, knowing he had
conquered, audacious in his pride of conquest,
put his arm round her waist, stooped, and
kissed the bare arm nearest him that rested
on the pitchfork, then he sprang aside as she
attempted to box his ears.

Honor was hard by and had seen both
kisses, and had heard every word that had
passed. She continued her work as though
unconscious. For a moment, a pang of
jealousy contracted her bosom, but she hastily
mastered it. She knew that she could not,
must not regard Hillary in any other light than
as a brother, and yet she was unable to see her
sister supplanting her in his affections without
some natural qualms. But Honor was
unselfish, and she hid her suffering. Kate as
little suspected the state of her sister's heart
as Honor suspected Kate's liking for Sam
Voaden. And now, all at once, an idea shot
through Honor's mind which crimsoned her

face. How she had misread Hillary's manner
when they were together watching for the
lamb-killer! She had fancied then that his
heart was drawing towards her, and the
thought had filled her with unutterable happiness.
Now she saw his demeanour in another
aspect. He really loved Kate, and his affection
for her was only a reflection of his love for the
younger sister. He had sought to gain her
esteem, to forward his suit with Kate. When
this thought occurred to Honor, she hid her
face, humbled and distressed at having been
deluded by self-conceit. She made it clear to
herself now that Hillary had thought only of
Kate. Her sister had said nothing to her
about Hillary — but was that wonderful, ashe
had not declared himself? A transient
gleam had lightened her soul. It was over.
Work was Honor's lot in life, perhaps sorrow,
not love.

The last load is carried, and in good order.
Where is the dance to be ? ' asked Samuel

Voaden, coining into sight as the waggon
moved on.

In the barn,' answered Hillary.

Kate,' said Hillary, ' give me the first
dance.'

And me the second,' pleaded Samuel.

When Combe wrote and Lowlands illustrated
the ' Tour of Doctor Syntax,' a dance
was the necessary complement of a harvest
whether of corn or hay — especially of the
latter, as then the barn was empty. The Reverend
Doctor Syntax thought it not derogatory
to his office to play the fiddle on such occasions.
Moreover, half a century ago, the village
fiddler was invited into any cottage, when, at
the sound of his instrument, lads and maidens
would assemble, dance for a couple of hours
and disperse before darkness settled in. The
denunciation of dancing as a deadly sin by
the Methodists has caused it to fall into desuetude.
Morality has not been bettered thereby.
The young people who formerly met

by clayliglit on the cottage floor, now meet,
after chapel, in the dark, in hedge corners.

Hillary and Samuel had engaged Kate.
Neither had thought of Honor, though she
stood by, raking the fragrant hay.

Up, up ! ' shouted both young men.
Kate, you must ride on the last load.'

The waggon moved away, with Kate
mounted on the sweet contents, and with the
young men running at the side. Honor remained
alone, looking after them, resting on
her rake, and, in spite of her efforts, the tears
filled her eyes.

But she did not give way to her emotion.

Honor called the children, when the last
load left the field, and led them home. She
was hot and tired, and her heart ached, but she
was content with herself. She had conquered
the rising movement of jealousy, and was ready
to accept Hillary as her sister's acknowledged
lover.

Kate followed her. An hour later the

dance in the barn would begin. The lads and
maidens went home to smarten up, and wash
off the dust and stain of labour, and the barn
had to be decorated with green branches, and
the candles lit.

Kate went upstairs at once to dress. Honor
remained below to hear the children's prayers,
and get the youngest ready for bed. Then she
went up to the room she shared with Kate,
carrying little Temperance in her arms.

Oh, Honor, bundle them all in. What a
time you have been ! We shall be late ; and I
have promised to open the dance with Larry.'

I am not going, Kate.'

'Not going! Of course you are going.'

No, I am not. Father is not home, and
will want his supper. Besides, I cannot leave
the house with all the little ones in it unprotected.'


'There are no ogres hereabouts that eat
children,' said Kate, hastily. ' We can manage.
This is nonsense ; you must come.'

I do not care to, Kate. Sit down in that
chair, and I will dress your hair. It is tossed
like a haycock.'

Kate seated herself, and Hod or combed and
brushed her sister's hair, then put a blue
riband through it ; and took the kerchief from
her box, and drew it over Kate's shoulders,
and pinned it in place.

Oh, Honor ! What a lovely silk kerchief !
Where did you get this ? How long have you
had it? Why have you not shown it me
before ? '

It is for you, dearest Kate ; I am glad you
like it.'

Kate stood up, looked at herself in the
glass, and then threw her arms round her
sister and kissed her.

You are a daring,' exclaimed Kate. ' Always
thinking of others, never giving yourself
anything. Let me remain at home — do you
go instead of me.'

Honor shook her head. She was pleased to

see Kate's delight, but there was an undercurrent
of sadness in lier soul. She was
adorning her sister for Hillary.

Kate did not press Honor to go stead of
her, though she was sufficiently good-hearted
to have taken her sister's place without becoming
ill-tempered, had Honor accepted the
offer.

Do I look very nice .^ ' asked Kate, with
the irresistible dimples coming into her cheeks.
I wonder what Larry will say when he sees
me with this blue ribbon, and this pretty kerchief.'


And I — ' said Honor slowly, not without
effort, ' I also wonder.'

CHAPTEE XXIII.

A BRAWL.

When Kate came to the barn, she found it
decorated with green boughs. There were no
windows, only the great barn door, consequently
the sides were dark ; but here four
lanterns had been hung, diffusing a dull yellow
light. The threshing-floor was in the middle,
planked ; on either side the barn was slated,
so that the dancing was to be in the middle.
Forms were placed on the slate flooring for
those who rested or looked on. On a table
sat the fiddler with a jug of cider near him.

The season of the year was that of Barney
bright, when, as the old saw says, there is all
day and no night. The sun did not set till past

eight, and then left the north-west full of silver
light. The hedgerows, as Kate passed between
them, streamed forth the fragrance from the
honeysuckle which was wreathed about them
in masses of flower, apricot-yellow, and pink.
Where the incense of the eglantine ceased to
fill the air it was burdened with the sweetness
of white clover that flowered thickly over the
broad green patches of grass by the road-side.
Hillary was awaiting Kate to open the
dance with her. He had gone to the gate to
meet her ; he recognised his kerchief at once ;
he was surprised and hurt. Why was Honor
not there ? Kate came with her little brother
Joe holding her hand. Joe had begged permission
to attend the dance. Why had Honor
made over Larry's present to her sister? It
was a slight, an intentional slight. Larry bit
his lips and frowned ; his heart beat fast with
angry emotion. He approached Kate with an
ungracious air, and led her to the dance without
a pleasant word.

Kate was unquestionably the prettiest girl
present. She held her fair head erect, in consciousness
of superiority. Her hair was abundant,
full of natural wave and curl, and the
sky-blue ribbon in it seemed to hold it together,
and to be the only restraining power that prevented
it breaking loose and enveloping her from
head to foot in the most beautiful gloss silk.
Her complexion was that of the wild rose,
heightened by her rapid walk and by excitement
; her eyes were blue as the forget-me-not.

The evening sun shone in at the barn door,
as yellow, but purer and brighter than the
lantern light. Had there been a painter present
he would have seized the occasion to
paint the pretty scene — the old barn with oaken
timbers, its great double doors open, flounder
a penthouse roof leaning forward te
cover the laden weans as they were being unpacked
of their corn-sheaves ; the depths of the
barn dark as night, illumined feebly by th(
pendent lanterns ; and the midst, the threshing

floor, crowded with dancers, dio flickered in
the saffron glow of the setting sun.

Kate noticed that Hillary, whilst he danced
with her, observed the kerchief intently.

Is it not pretty ? ' she asked innocently.
Honor gave it me. She had kept it for mein
her box ever since the Eevel, and not told
me that she had it ; nor did I see her buy it
then. Honor is so good, so kind.'

Hillary said nothing in reply, but his
humour was not improved. His mind wandered
from his partner.

When is Honor coming ? ' he asked abruptly.


She is not coming at all.'

'Why not?'

'Father is not home, and will want his
supper when he does return.'

'Honor must do all the drudging whilst
others dance,' he said peevishly.

I offered to stay and let her come, but she
would not hear of it.'

Hillary danced badly ; lie lost step. He
excused himself ; but Kate was dissatisfied with
her partner, he was dull, and she was displeased
to see that Sam Oaten was dancing and laughing
and enjoying himself with some one else.

You are a clumsy partner,' she said, ' and
dance like old Diamond when backing against
a load going down hUl.'

'Honor gave you that kerchief? What did
she say when she gave it you ? '

Nothing.'

He said no more, and led her to a bench in
the side of the barn.

'What! tired already, Larry? I am not.'

I am,' he answered sulkily.

Directly, Sam Oaten came to her, and was
received with smiles.

Larry Caspian came left leg foremost out
of bed this morning,' she said. ' He is as out
of tune as Piper's fiddle.'

Kate was in great request that evening.
The lads pressed about her, proud to circle

round the floor with the graceful pretty girl ;
but she gave the preference to Samuel Voaden.
Hillary asked her to dance with him in ' The
Triumph,' but she told him sharply she would
reserve her hand for him in the Dumps, and he
did not ask her again.

The girls present looked at Kate with envy.
They were unable to dispute her beauty ; but
her charm of manner and lively wit made her
even more acceptable to the lads than her good
looks. She was perfectly conscious of the
envy and admiration she excited, and as much
gratified with one as with the other.

Samuel Oaten was infatuated. He pressed
his attentions, and Kate received them with
pleasure. As she danced past Larry she cast
him glances of contemptuous pity.

Hillary was angry with Honor, angry with
Kate, angry with himself. The spoiled prince
was cast aside by two girls — a common carrier's
daughters. He was as irritated against Kate
now as he was previously against Honor.

VOL. II. F

When lie heard Kate laugh, he winced,
suspecting that she was joking about him.
His eyes followed the kerchief, and his heart
grew bitter within him. He made no attempt
to be amusing. He had nothing to say to
any one. He let the dances go on without
seeking partners. He stood lounging against
the barn door, with a sprig of honeysuckle in
his mouth, and Ins hands behind his back.

The sun was set, a cool grey light suffused
the meadow, the backyard, the barn, the groups
who stood about, and the dancers Within.

A dog ventured in at the door, and he
kicked it out.

The dog snarled and barked, and he nearly
quarrelled with young Oaten because the
latter objected to his dog being kicked.

Then, all at once, his mood changed. It
occurred to him that very probably Honor
stayed away just for the purpose of showing
him she did not care for him. If that were so,
he would let her know that he was not to be

put out of heart by lier slights. He would not
afford her the gratification of hearing through
her sister that he was dispirited and unhappy.
Then he dashed into the midst of the girls,
snatched a partner, and thenceforth danced
and laughed and was uproariously merry.

At ten o'clock the dancing was over.
Country folk kept early hours then ; the
cider barrel was run out, the basket of cakes
emptied, and the tallow lights in the lanterns
burnt down to a flicker in a flood of melted

grease.

The young men prepared to escort their
partners home.

Hillary saw that Samuel was going with
Kate. He was exasperated to the last degree. He
did not care particularly for Kate, but he did
care that it should not be talked of in the village
that Sam Voaden had plucked her away from
under his very nose. Gossip gave her to him
as a sweetheart, and gossip would make merry
over his discomfiture. Besides, he wanted an

p 2

excuse for going to the cottage and having an
explanation with Honor about the kerchief.

As Oaten's dog passed in front of him at
a call from his master, Larry kicked it.

Leave my dog alone, will you ! ' shouted
Samuel. ' That is the second time you have
kicked Punch. The dog don't hurt you, why
should you hurt him ? '

I shall kick the brute if I choose,' said
Hillary. ' It has no right here in the barn.'

What harm has Punch done ? And now,
what is against his leaving ? '

You had no right to bring the dog here.
It has been in the plantation after young
game.'

Punch is wrong whether in the barn or
out of it. The guinea you got for shooting
Eover has given you a set against dogs seemingly,'
said young Voaden.

The dog took your lambs at Swaddledown,
and you were too much a lie-abed to stop it, '
sneered Hillary.

Some folk,' answered Samuel, ' have
every tiling in such first-rate order at home
they can spare time to help their neighbours.'

No more I ' exclaimed Kate ; ' you shall
not quarrel.'

Hillary looked round. Near him were
tvv'o women who had been in the van when he
returned from Tavistock with the kerchief.
They, no doubt, recognised it over Kate's
shoulders. They made sure it was his love-token
to her, and, wearing it, she was about to
affront him in their eyes. His wounded vanity
made him blind to what he said or did.

Here, Kate,' he said, thrusting himself
forward, ' I am going to take you home. You
cannot go with Samuel. His cursed Punch is
an ill-conditioned brute, and will kill your
chickens.'

Nonsense,' laughed Kate, ' our chickens
are all under cover.'

I'll fight you,' said Hillary, turning to
Samuel. ' Kate was enf^ao^ed to me for the

Tanks and you carried her off without asking
leave. I will not be insulted by you on my
father's land, and under my own roof. If you
are a man you Avill fight me.'

'Nonsense, Larry,' answered Samuel, good-humouredly,
' I'll not quarrel with you. It
takes two to make a quarrel, as it takes two
to kiss.'

You are afraid, that is why.'

I am not afraid of you, Larry,' said Samuel.
You are as touchy this evening as if whipped
with nettles.'

Come with me, Kate,' exclaimed Hillary.
You have known me longer than Oaten.
If he chooses to take you, he must fight me
first.'

I will not fight you, Larry,' answered
the young Swaddledown farmer ; ' but I don't
object to a fling with you, if you will wrestle.'

'Very well ; throw off' your coat.'

The young men removed their jackets,

^ An old country dance.

waistcoats, and the handkerchiefs from their
throats. They were both fine fellows — well-built
and strong. Those who had been dancing
surrounded them in a ring, men and maids.

Cornish fashion, not Devon,' said Samuel.

Ay, ay ! ' shouted the bystanders, ' Cornish
wrestle now.'

Eight — Cornish,' answered Hillary.

The difference between Devon and Cornish
wrestling consists in this, that in a Devon
wrestle kicking is admissible ; but then, as a
protection to their shins, the antagonists have
their legs wreathed with husbands {yulgo
shillings). As the legs were on this occasion
unprotected, Devon wrestling was inadmissible.
Both fashions were in vogue near
the Tamar, and every young man would wrestle
one way or the other as decided beforehand.


The opponents fixed each other with their
eyes, and stood breathless, and every voice was
hushed. Instantaneously, as moved by one

impulse, they sprang at each other, and were
writhing, tossing, coiling in each other's embrace.
Neither could make the other budge from his
ground, or throw him, exerting his utmost
strength and skill. The haymakers stood
silent, looking on appreciatively — the girls a
little frightened, the men rehshingiy, relishing
it more than the dance. Not one of the lads
at that moment had a thought to cast at his
partner. Their hands twitched, their feet
moved, they bent, threw themselves back,
swung aside, responsive to the movements of
the wrestlers.

The antagonists gasped, snorted, as with
set teeth and closed lips they drew long inspirations
through their nostrils. Their sweat
poured in streams from their brows.

Simultaneously, moved by one impulse,
they let go their hold, and stood quivering and
wiping their brows, with labouring breasts ;
then, with a shout, closed again.

Ho ! ' a general exclamation. In the first

grapple Hillary had slipped, and gone down on
one knee. Immediately Samuel let go.

There ! ' said he, holding out his hand.
We have had enough. Strike palms, old boy.'

No,' gasped Hillary, blazing with anger
and shame. ' I was not flung. I slipped on
the dockleaf there. I will not allow myself
beaten. Come on again.'

I will not do so,' answered Samuel. ' If
you have not had enough, I have.'

'You shall go on. You are a coward to
sneak out now when an accident gave you
advantage.'

Very well, then,' said Samuel ; ' but you
have lost your temper, and I'll have no more
than this round with you.'

The young men were very equally matched.
They grappled once more, twisted, doubled,
gasped ; the ground was torn up under their
feet. As the feet twirled and flew, it was
hard to say how many were on the ground at
once, and whose they were.

Samuel suddenly caught his antagonist over
the arms, and pushed them to his side.

He'll have Larry down ! he will, by
George ! ' shouted several. ' Well done,
Samuel ! Go it, Samuel Voaden ! '

Ha ! ' shouted Sam, starting back. ' Who
goes against rules ? You kicked.'

You he ! I did not.'

'You did! you did, Larry,' shouted three
or four of the spectators. It was true ; in his
excitement Larry had forgotten that he and his
opponent were without shillings and wrestling
in Cornish fashion, and he had kicked ; but in
good faith he had denied doing it, for he was
unconscious of his actions, so blinded and buzzed
was he with anger, disappointment,
and shame.

I'll not wrestle any more,' said Samuel,
if you don't wrestle fair. No — I won't at all.
You are in a Avhite fury. So — if it's unfair in
you to kick, it is unfair in me to take advantage
of your temper.'

It is not done. One or other must go
down.'

Then Kate pushed forward. ' Neither of
you shall attend me home,' she said ; ' I am
going with little Joe only.'

Whether this would have ended the affray
is doubtful. Another interruption was more
successful. Suddenly a loud blast of a horn,
then a yelping as of dogs, then another blast — -
and through the yard before the barn, breaking
the ring, sweeping between the combatants,
passed a strange figure — a man wearing a black
bull's hide, with long brown paper ears on his
head ; the hide was fastened about his waist, and
the tail trailed behind. He was followed by a
dozen boys barking, baying, yelping, and after
them hobbled Tom Grout blowing born.

It's no good,' said the lame fellow, halting
in the broken ring ; ' I can't follow the hare,
Mr. Larry JSTanspian ; the hunt is waiting for
you. On wi' a green coat, and mount your
piebald, and take my horn. I wish I could

follow; but it's hin-possible. Whew! you hare !
Heigh ! Piper, stay, will you, and start fair.'

I'll have Nothing to do with it,' said
Hillary, still panting.

That is right, Larry,' said Kate in his ear,
You oughtn't. Honor said as much, and that
she hoped you would keep out of it.'

Did she ! ' said Hillary, angrily ; ' then I'll
go in for it.'

'Larry, old chap,' exclaimed Oaten, patting
him on the shoulder, ' I wasn't the better
man, nor was you. You slipped on the dock-leaf,
and that don't reckon as a fall. We'll
have another bout some other day, if you wish
it. Now let us have the lark of the Hare Hunt.'

Hillary considered a moment, and wiped
his face. He had fallen in the general estimation.
He had been sulky, he had provoked
Sam, and the wrestle had not turned to his
credit. Here was a chance offered of taking
the lead once more. If he did not act the huntsman,
Sam would.

'All right, Crout,' said he, 'give me the
horn; I'll have my horse round directly, and
the green coat on.'

Do not, do not, Larry,' entreated Kate.

Tell Honor I'm not pinned to her apron,'
answered the young man, and ran into the
house.

CHAPTEE Xxii.

THE Hand OF Glory.

The reader may have been puzzled by the
hints made by Larry to Honor, and by Charles
to Mrs. Yeale, of a threatened hare hunt, and
he may have wondered Why such a threat
should have disturbed Honor and angered the
housekeeper. There are plenty of hares on
Broadbury Moor ; there have been hare hunts
there as long as men could remember ; frequently,
all through the winter. An ordinary
hare hunt Avould not have stirred much feeling
in women's bosoms. The menaced hare hunt
was something very different. A stag and a
hare hunt are the rude means employed by a
village community for maintaining either its

standard of morals or expressing its disapprobation
of petticoat rule. The stag hunt is
by no means an institution of the past, it flourishes
to the present day ; and where the magistrates
have interfered, this interference has
stimulated it to larger proportions. The hare
hunt, now extinct, was intended to ridicule the
man who submitted to a rough W' Oman's
tongue.

The stag hunt takes place either on the
wedding-night of a man Who has married a
girl of light character, or when a wife is
suspected of having played her husband false.
The hare hunt more properly satirised the
relations between Taverner Langford and ]\Ii\s.
Yeale. In not a few cases, especially with a
stag hunt, there is gross injustice done. It
cannot be otherwise : the Vehm-Gericht is self-constituted,
sits in the tavern, and passes its
sentence without summons and hearing: of the
accused. There is no defence and no appeal
from the court. The infliction of the sentence

confers an indelible stain, and generally drives
those who have been thus branded out of
the neighbourhood. Petty spite and private
grudges are sometimes so revenged ; and a
marriage in a Avell-conducted family, which
has held itself above the rest in a parish,
is made an occasion for one of these outrages,
whereby the envy of the unsuccessful
and disreputable finds a vent.

There probably would have been no hare
hunt near Langford had not the ^ quarrel
between Langford and Caspian agitated the
whole parish, and given occasion for a frolic
which would not have been adventured had
the brothers-in-law been combined.

Well, Mr. Charles,' said Mrs. Veale, ' what
have you done with the hive-pound note I let
you have ? Is it all spent ? '

'I gave it to my father and sister,' answered
Charles. ' I've occasioned them some expense,
and I thought I'd make it up to them whilst I
could.'

That was mighty liberal of you,' sneered
Mrs. Yeale.

I am liberal, pretty free-handed with my
money. It comes of my blood.'

Ah ! ' said the housekeeper, ' and I reckon
now you'll be wanting more.'

I could do with more,' replied young
Luxmore, ' but I will not trouble you.'

'Oh! it's no trouble,' said Mrs. Veale, 'I
know very well that lending to you is safe as
putting into the Bank of England. You must
have your own some day, and when you're
squire you won't see me want.'

Rely on me, I will deal most generously
with you. I shall not forget your kindness,
Mrs. Veale.'

But,' said the woman slyly, eyeing him, ' I
can't find you as much as you require. You
can't spin more out of me than my own weight,
as the silkworm said. I've put aside my little
savings. But as you see, the master don't pay
VOL. ir. G

freely. He gives you only nine pence, and fine
she shruCTo^ecl her shoulders.

DO

If I were in your place,' she went on,
after a pause, ' I should be tempted to borrow
a hundred or so, and go to Physick the lawyer
with it, and say, help me to Coombe Park, and
when Pve that, I'll give you a hundred more.'

'Who'd lend me the money? You have
not so much.'

'1:^0, I have not so much.'

What other person would trust me ? '

'The money might be had.'

Others don't see my prospects as you do.'

I'd be inclined to borrow wi'out asking,'
said the housekeeper cautiously. She was as
one feeling her way; she kept her eyes on
Charles as she talked. Charles st red. He
knew her meaning.

How dare you suggest such a thing ! ' lie
said in a low tone, looking at her uneasily.
Curse you ! Don't wink at me with your
white lashes that way, you make me uneasy.'

I only suggested it,' said Mrs. Veale,
turning her head aside. ' I reckon no harm
would be done. The master don't know how
much he has in his box. We had it out t'other
day between us, and counted. There be over
a thousand pounds there. Do y' think he
counts it every week? Not he. Who'd
know ? The money would be put back, and
wi' interest, six, seven, ten per cent., if you
liked, when you'd got Coombe Park.'

'Have done,' said Luxmore with nervous
irritation ; ' I'm no thief, and never could
become one.'

'Who asked you to be one? Not I. I
said as how you might become his banker fora
hundred pounds. The bank gives but three
per cent., and you would give nine. Who'd
be the loser? Not master. He'd gain nine
pounds without knowing it — and wouldn't he
crow ! '

Charles Luxmore caught his hat and stood
up.

G 2

Where be you going to ? ' asked Mrs.
Veale.

I cannot stand this,' he said in an agitated
voice. 'You torment me. You put notions
into me that won't let me sleep, that make me
miserable. I shall go.'

Whither ? To the Eing o' Bells. There
be no one there to-night, all be away to Chatsworth
at the Haysel. You sit down again,
and I weill give you some cherry cordial.'

He obeyed sulkily.

'You can't go to dance at Chimsworthy,
because you be here at Langford, and there's
no dancing and merry-making here. But wait
till you're at Coombe Park, and then you'll have
junketings and harvest-homes and dances when
you will. That'll be a rare life.'

He said nothing, but thrust his hands into
his pockets, and looked moodily before him.

Shall I tell you now who'll find you the
money ? '

He did not speak.

Weldon will;
■ ' What ? ' he looked up in surprise.

Ay ! old Weldon as was gibbeted, he
will.'

Charles laughed contemptuously. ' You
are talking folly. I always thought you mad.'

'Did you ever hear of the Hand of
Glory ? '

J^o, never.'

I wonder what became of Weldon's hand
the hand that throttled Mary Bundle, and
stuck the knife into the heart of Jane, and
brought down their aunt wi' a bloAv of the fist.
That hand was a mighty hand.'

Weldon Alas hung in chains, and fell to
dust.'

But not the hand. Such a hand as that
was too precious. Did you never hear it was
cut off, and the body swung for years without
it?'

No, I did not.'

It was so.'

What good was it to anyone ? '

It was worth pounds and pounds.'

As a curiosity ? '

No, as a Hand of Glory. It were washed
in mother's milk to a child base-born, and
smoked in the reek of gallows-wood, and then
laid with tamarisk from the sea, and vervain,
and rue, and bog-bean.'

'Well, what then?'

Why, then, sure it's a Hand of Glory.' She
paused, then struck her hand across her forehead,
' and grass off the graves of them as it
killed — I forgot to say that was added.'

What can such a hand do ? '

Everything. If I had it here and set it upon
the mantelshelf, and set a light to the
fingers, all would flame blue, and then every
soul in the house would sleep except us two,
and we might ransack the whole place and
none would stir or hinder or see. And if we
let the hand flame on, they would lie asleep till
we where far away beyond their reach.'

If you had this Hand of Glory, I wouldn't
help you to use it,' said Charles, writhing on
his seat.

'That is not all,' Mrs. Yeale went on,
standing by a little tea-table with her hand on
it, the other against her side. ' That hand has
wonderful powers of itself. It is as a thing
alive, though dead and dry as leather. If you
say certain words it begins to run about on its
fingers like a rat. Maybe you're sitting over
the fire of nights, and hear something' stirrings,
and see a brown thing; scuttlincr over the floor
and you think it is a rat. It is not. It is the
dead man's hand. Perhaps you hear a
scratching on the wall, and look round, and
see a great black spider — a monstrous spider
going about, running over and over the wainscot,
and touching and twitching at the bell
wires. It is not a spider, it is the murderer's
hand. It hasn't eyes, it goes by the feel, till it
comes to gold, and then, at the touch the dark
skin becomes lio'ht and shines as the tail of a

glowworm, and it picks and gathers by its
own light. I reckon, if that hand o' Weldon's
were in the oven behind the parlour-grate, it
would make such a light that you'd see what
was on every guinea, whether the man and
horse or the spade, and you could read every
note as well as if you had the daylight. Then the
ring-finger and the little finger close over what
money the hand has been bidden fetch, and it
runs away on the thumb and other two — and
then, if you will, it's soldierlike with a bag
behind.'

I don't believe a word of it,' said Charles,
but his words were more confident than his tone.

You see,' Mrs. Yeale went on, ' there is
this about it, you tell the hand to go and fetch
the money, but you don't say whither it is to
go, and you do not know. You get the money
and can swear you have robbed no one. I
reckon, mostly the money is found by the hand
in old cairns and ruins. I've been told there's
a table of gold in Broadbury Castle that only

comes to the top on Midsummer night for an
hour, and then sinks again. Folks far away
see a great light on Broadbury, and say we be
swaling (burning gorse) up here ; but it is no
such thing ; it is the gold table coming up, and
shining like fire, and the clouds above reflection
o- its liszt.'

Pity the hand don't break off bits of the
gold table,' said Charles sarcastically ; but his
face was mottled with fear ; Mrs. Veale's stories
frightened him.

Yes, 'tis a pity,' she said. ' Maybe it will
some day.'

Pray what do you say to the hand to
make it run your errands ? '

Ah ! ' she continued, without answering
his question. ' There be other things the
Hand of Glory can do. It will go if you send it
to some person — bolts and locks will not keep
it out, and it will catch the end of the bedclothes,
and scramble up, and pass itself over
the eyes of the sleeper, and make him sleep

like a dead man, and it will dive under the
clothes and lay its fingers on the heart ; then
there will come aches and spasms there, or it
will creep down the thighs and pinch and pat,
and that brings rheumatic pains. I've heard
of one hand thus sent as went down under the
bedclothes to th(3 bottom of the sleeper's foot,
and there it closed up all the lingers but one,
and with that it bored and bored, working
itself about like a gimlet, and then gangrene
set in, and the man touched thus was dead in
three days.'

It is a mighty fortunate thing you've not
the hand of old Weldon,' growled Charles.

I have got it,' answered Mrs. Yeale.

Charles looked at her with staring eyes.

You shall see it,' she said.

I do not want to. I will not ! ' he exclaimed,
shuddering.

Weldon's hand will fetch you a hundred
pounds, and we will not ask whence it comes,'
said Mrs. Yeale.

I will not have it, I will not touch it ! ' He
spoke in a hoarse, horrified whisper.

You shall come with me, and I will show
you where I keep it, and perhaps you will find
the hand closed ; and when I say. Hand of
Glory ! open ! Hand of Glory ! give up ! then
you will see the fingers unclose, and the glittering'
cold coins will be in the brown i:)alm.'

I will not touch them.'

No harm in your looking at them. Come
with me.'

She stood before him with her firm mouth
set, and her blinking eyes on him. He tried
to resist. He settled himself more comfortably
into his seat. But his efforts to oppose her will
were in vain. He uttered a curse, drew his
hands out of his pocket, put his hat on his head.

Go on,' he said surlily ; ' but I tell y' I
won't go without the lantern. Where is it ? '

In Weldon's Cairn.'

I will not go,' said Charles, drawing back,
and all colour leaving his cheek.

Then I'll send the hand after you. Come.'

I'll take the lantern.'

As you like, but hide the light till we
get to the hill. There it don't matter if folks
see a flame dancing about the mound. They
will keep their distance — Come on, after me.'

CHAPTEE Xxi.

THE HAKE Hunt.

Directly Mrs. Veale, followed by Charles, came
outside the house the former turned and said,
with a chuckle, ' You want a lantern, do y', a
summer night such as this ? '

The sky was full of twilight, every thorn
tree and holly bush was visible on the hedges,
every pebble in the yard.

I'm not going to Weldon's Cairn without,'
said Luxmore, sulkily. ' I don't want to go at
all ; and I won't go there without light.'

Very well. I will wait at the gate for
you.'

He went into the stable, where was a horn-sided
tin lantern, and took it down from its

crook, then went back into the kitchen and
lifted the candle at the fire.

'I've a mind not to go,' he muttered.
What does the woman want with me, pulling
me, driving me, this way and that ? If I'd
been told I was to be subjected to this sort of
persecution, I wouldn't have come here. It's
not to be endured for nine pence. Ninepence !
It would be bad at eighteen pence. I wish I
Alas in Afghanistan. Cawbul, Ghuznee, Kandahar
don't astonish her. She ain't open-mouthed
at them, but sets my hair on end with her
Hand of Glory, and talks of how money is to
be got. I know what she is after ; she wants
me to run away with her and the cash box. I
won't do it — not with her, for certain ; not with
the cash box if I can help it. I don't believe
a word about a Hand of Glory. I'm curious
to know how she'll get out of it, now she's
promised to show it me.'

He started, and swore.

Gore ! ' he said ; ' it's only a rat behind the

wainscot ; I thought it was the hand creeping
after me. I suppose I must go. For certain,
Mrs. Yeale is a bad un. But ; what is that ?
The shadow of my own hand on the wall,
naught else.'

He threw over him a cloak he wore in wet
weather, and hid the lantern under it.

For sure,' he said, ' folks would think it
queer if they saw me going out such a summer
night as this with a lantern ; but I won't go to
Weldon's Cairn without, that is certain.'

Well,' said Mrs. Yeale ; ' so you have
come at last ! '

Yes, I have come. Adhere is the master ?
I've not seen him about.'

He never said nothing to no one, and went
off to Holsworthy to-day.'

• When will he be back ? '

Not tomorrow ; there's a fair there ; the
day after, perhaps.'

A heavy black cloud hung in the sky,
stretching apparently above Broadbury. Below

it the silvery light flowed from behind the
horizon. To the east, although it was night,
the range of Dartmoor was visible, bathed in
the soft reflection from the north western sky.
The tumulus upon which Weldon had been
executed was not far out on the heath. Mrs.
Yeale led the way with firm tread ; Charles
followed with growing reluctance. A great
white owl whisked bv. The glowworms were
shining mysteriously under tufts of grass. As
they pushed through the heather they disturbed
large moths. A rabbit dashed past.

Hush ! ' whispered Charles. ' I'm sure I
heard a horn.'

Ah ! ' answered Mrs. Scale, ' Squire Ars-cost
rides the downs at night, they say, and
has this hundred years.'

I don't care to go any further,' said the
young man.

You shall come on. I am going to show
you the Hand of Glory.'

He was powerless to resist. As his father

had fallen inter the authority of Honor, so
the strong over-mastering will of this woman
domineered Charles, and made him do what
she would. He felt his subjection, his powerlessness.
He saw the precipice to which she
was leading him, and knew that he could not
escape.

I wish I had never come to Langford
he muttered to himself ' It's Honor's doing.
If I go wrong, she is to blame. She sent me
here, and all for nine pence.' Then, stepping
forward beside the housekeeper, ' I say, Mrs.
Yeale, how do you manage to stow anything
away in a mound ? '

Easy, if the mound be not solid,' she
replied. ' There is a sort of stone coffin in the
middle, made of pieces of granite set on end,
and others laid on top. When the treasure-seekers
dug into the hill, they came as far as
one of the stones, and they stove it in, but
found nothing, or, if they found aught, they
VOL. II. n

carried it away. Tien, I reckon, they put the
stone back, or the earth fell down and covered
all up, and the heather bushes grew over it all.
But I looked one day about there for a place
where I could hide things. I thought as the
master had his secret place, I'd have mine too ;
and I knew no place could be safer than where
old Weldon hume, as folk don't like to come
too near it — leastways in the dark. Well,
then, I found a little hole, as might have been
made by a rabbit, and I cleared it out ; and
there I found the gap and the stone cofhn. I
crept in, it were not over big, but wi' a light I
coukl see about. I thought at first I'd come
on Weldon's bones, but no bones were there,
nothing at all but a rabbit nest, and some
white snail shells. After that I made up the
entrance again, just as it was, and no one
would know it was there. But I can find it ;
there is a bunch of heath by it, and some
rushes, and how rushes came to grow there
beats me.'

So you keep Weldon's hand in there, do

yon?'

Yes, I do;

How did you manage to get it ? '

I will not tell you.'

I do not believe you have it ; I don't
believe but what you told me a parcel of lies
about the Hand of Glory. I've been \o Afghanistan,
and Cabal, and the Bombay Presidency,
and never heard of such a thing. It is
not in reason. If a dead hand can move, why
has not my finger that Alas cut off in battle
come back to me ? '

Shall I send the Hand after it .^ '

The suggestion made Charles uneasy. He
looked about him, as afraid to see the black
hand running on the grass, leaping the tufts of
furze, carrying his dead finger, to drop it at his
feet.

V/hat are you muttering ? ' asked he,
sharply.

I'm only repeating. Hand of Glory !

H 2

Hand of Light ! Fetch, fetch ! Mean and
bring '

I'll strike you down if you go on with
your devilry, you hag said Charles, angrily.

'We are at the place.'

They entered the cutting made by the
treasure-seekers, the gap in which Honor had
often sat in the sun, unconscious of the stone
kistvaen hidden behind her, indifferent to the
terrors of the haunted hill, whilst the sun
blazed on it.

'The night is much darker than it was,'
said Charles uneasily, as he looked about him.

It was as he said. The black mass of cloud
had spread and covered the sky, cutting off the
light except from the horizon.

I don't like the looks of the cloud,' said
Charles. ' There will be rain before long, and
there's thunder aloft for certain.'

What is that to you ? Are you afraid of
a shower ? You have your cloak. Bring out
the lantern. It matters not who sees the limit

now. If anyone does see it, hell say it's a
corpse-candle on its travels.'

What is a corpse-candle? '

Don't you know ? ' She gave a short, dry
laugh. ' It's a light that travels by night along
a road, and comes to the door of the house
out of which a corpse will be brought in a day
or two.'

Does no one carry the candle ? '

It travels by itself.' Then she said, ' Give
me the light.'

I will not let it out of my hand,' answered
Charles, looking about him timorously. 'I
don't think anyone will see the light, down in
this hole.'

Hold the lantern where I show you —
there.'

He did as required. It gave a poor, sickly
light, but sufficient to show where the woman
wanted to work. She began to scratch away
the earth with her hands, and Charles, watching
her, thought she worked as a rabbit or

hare might with its front paws. Presently she
said :

There is the hole, look in.'

He saw a dark opening, but had no desire
to peer into it. Indeed, he drew back.

How can I see, if you take away the lantern
? ' asked Mrs. Veale. ' Put your arm in
and you will find the hand.'

He drew still further away. ' I will not.
I have seen enough. I know of this hiding-place.
That suffices. I will go home.'

The horror came over him lest she should
force him to put his hand into the stone coffin,
and that there, in the blackness and mystery
of the interior, the dead hand of the murderer
would make a leap and clasp his.

I have had enough of this,' he said, and a
shiver ran through him, ' I will go home.
Curse me ! I'm not going to be mixed up
with all this devilry and witchery if I can
help it.'

Perhaps the hand is gone,' said Mrs. Yeale.

Oil ! I hope so.'

I sent it after your finger.'

Indeed, may it be song on its travels.'
He vas reassured. It vas not pleasant to
think of so close proximity to the murderer's
embalmed, still active hand. He suspected
that ]airs. Yeale was attempting; to writ-ole out
of her undertaking. ' Indeed — I thought I
was to see the hand, and now the hand is not
here.'

I cannot say. Anyhow, the money is
here.'

What money? '

That for which you asked.'

I asked for none.'

You decked a hundred pounds for the
purpose of getting back Coombe Park. Put in
your hand and take it.'

I will not.'

His courage was returned, as he thought
he saw evasion of her promise in the woman.

For the matter of that, if this Hand of

Glory can fetch money, it might as well fetch
more than that.'

How much ? '

A hundred is not over much. Two hundred
— a thousand.'

Say a thousand.'

So I do.'

Put in your hand. It is there.'

Hark ! '

Put in your hand.'

I will not.'

Then you fool ! you coward ! I must take
it for you ! ' she hissed in her husky voice. She
stooped, and thrust both her hands and arms
deep into the kistvaen.

Hush ! ' whispered Charles, as he laid his
hand on her shoulder, and covered the light
with a flap of his mantle. She remained still
for a minute with her arms buried in the grave.
There was certainly a sound, a tramp of many
feet, and the fall of horses' hoofs, heard, then
not heard, as they went over road or turf.

There,' whispered Mrs. Yeale, and drew a
box from the hole and placed it on Charles's
lap. As she did so, the mantle flap fell from
the lantern, and the light shone over the box.
Charles at once recognised Taverner Langford's
cash box, with the letter padlock.

Ebal,' whispered Mrs. Yeale. ' A thousand
pounds are yours.'

At that instant, loud and starting, close to
the cairn sounded the blast of a horn, instantly
responded to by the baying and yelping of
dogs, by shouts, and screams, and cheers, and
a tramp of rushing feet, and a crack of whips.

The suddenness of the uproar, its unexpectedness,
its weirdness, coming on Charles's overwrought
nerves, at the same moment that he
saw himself unwillingly involved in a robbery,
completely overcame him ; he uttered a cry of
horror, sprang to his feet, upset the money
box, and leaped out of the cutting, swinging
the lantern, with his wide mantle Happier
about him. His foot tripped and he fell ; he

picked himself up and bounded into the road
against a horse With rider, who was in the act
of blowing a horn.

Charles was too frightened and bewildered
to remember anything about the hare hunt.
He did not know where he was, what he was
doing, against whom he had flung himself.
The horse plunged, bounded aside, and cast his
rider from his back. Charles stood with one
hand to his head looking vacantly at the road
and the prostrate figure in it. In another
moment Mrs. Yeale was at his elbow. ' What
have you done ? ' she gasped, ' You fool ! what
have you done ? '

Charles had sufficiently recovered himself to
understand what had taken place.

It is the hare hunt,' he said. ' Do you
hear them ? The dogs ! This is — my God I it
is Larry Caspian. He is dead. I said I would
break his neck, and I have done it. But I did
not mean it. I did not intend to frighten the
horse. I — I ' — and he burst into tears.

You are a fool,' said Mrs. Yeale angrily.
What do you mean staying here ? ' Lie took
the horn from the prostrate Larry and blew it.
Don't let them tim and find you here by his
dead body. If you drill not go, I must, though
I had no hand in killing; him.' She snatched
the lantern from this hand and extinguished it.
That ever I had to do with such an one as
you ! Be off, as you value your neck ; do not
stay. Be off! If you threatened Larry and
have fulfilled your threat, who will believe that
this was accident ? '

Charles, dio had been overcome by weakness
for a moment, was nerved again by fear.

Take his head,' said Mrs. Veale, ' lay him
on the turf, among the dark gorse, where he
mayn't be seen all at once, and that will give
you more time to get off.'

I cannot take his head,' said Charles,
trembling.

Then take his heels. Do as I bid,' ordered
the housekeeper. She bent and raised Larry.

Sure enough,' lie said, ' his neck is broken.
He'll never speak another word.'

Charles let go his hold of the feet. ' I will
not touch him,' he said. ' I will not stay. I
wish I'd never come to Langford. It was all
Honor's fault forcing I must o;o.'

Yes, go,' said Mrs. Yeale, ' and go along
Broadbury, where you Avill meet no man, and
no footmarks will be left by which you may be
traced.' Mrs. Yeale, unassisted, dragged the
senseless body out of the rough road over the
turf.

Is he dead ? is he really dead ? ' asked
Charles.

Go ! ' said Mrs. Yeale, ' or I shall have the
chance of your hand to make into a better Hand
of Glory than that of Weldon.'

CHAPTEE Xxii.

BITTER MEDICINE.

The hare and hounds ran some distance before
they perceived that they were not pursued by
the huntsman and that the horn had ceased to
cheer them on. Then little Piper, the cattle-jobber,
clothed in the black ox-hide, stopped
panting, turned, and said, ' Where be the
hunter to ? I don't hear his horse nor his
horn.' The dogs halted. They were boys
and young men with blackened faces. Piper's
face was also covered with soot. His appearance
was diabolical, with the long ears on
his head, his white eyes peering about from
under them, a bladder under his chin, and the
black hide enveloping him. According to the

traditional usas^e on such occasions, the hunt
ends ^vitli the stag or hare, one or the other,
being fagged out, and thrown at the door of the
house whose inmates' conduct has occasioned
the stag or hare hunt. Then the hunter stands
astride over the animal, if a stag, and with a
knife slits the bladder that is distended with
bullock's blood, and which is thus poured out
before the offender's door. If, however, the
hunt be that of a hare the pretence is — or was
made of knocking it on the head. It may
seem incredible to our readers that such savage
proceedings should still survive in our midst, yet
it is so, and they will not be readily abolished
Not suspecting anything, the hare and the
pack turned and ran back along the road they

1 The author once tore down with his own hands the
following bill affixed to a wall at four cross roads :—

Notice ! — On Thursday night the Red Hunter's

PACK OP STAG HOUNDS WILL MEET AT . . . InN, AND WILL
RUN TO Ground A Fails STAG. GENTLEMEN ARE REQUESTED
TO ATTEND.'

The police were communicated with, but were unable to
interfere as no breach of the peace was committed.

had traversed, yelping, shouting, hooting, blowing
through their half-closed hands, leaping,
some lads riding on the backs of others, one ina
white female ragged gown running about and
before the hare. Happing the arms and hooting
like an owl.

Would Taverner Langford come forth,
worked to fury by the insult? Several were armed
with sticks in the event of an affray with him
and his men. Would he hide behind a liege
and fire at them out of this trumpet-mouthed
blunderbuss that hung over the kitchen mantelpiece
in Langford ? If he did that, they had
legs and could run beyond range. They did
not know that he was away at Holsworthy.
The road to that town lay over the back of
Broadbury and passed not another house in
the parish.

The wild chase swept over the moor, past
Weldon's Cairn, past Langford, then turned
and went back again.

I'll tell you what it be,' said Piper, halting

and confronting his pursuers. ' Larry Caspian
have thought better of it, and gone home.
Tees his uncle, you know, we'd making game
of, and perhaps he's 'shamed to go on in it.'

He should have thought of that before,'
said one of the dogs. ' Us ain't a going to
have our hunt spoiled for the lack of a
hunter.'

Why didn't he say so in proper time ? '
argued a second.

Heigh ! there's his horse ! ' shouted a
third, and ran over the moor towards the piebald,
which, having recovered from its alarm,
was quietly browsing on the sweet, fine moor

grass.

Sure eneas it be,' said Piper ; ' then
Larry can't be far off.'

Another shout.

He's been thrown. He is lying here by
the roadside.'

Then there was a rush of the pack to the
spot indicated, and in a moment the insensible

lad was in the arms of Piper, surrounded by
an eao;er throne.

Get along, you fellows,' shouted the hare.
you'll give him no breathing room.'

Ah ! and There'll lie think himself, I
wonder, when he opens his eyes and sees he is
in the hands of one with black slice and lon^p
ears, and tail and hairy body ? I reckon he
won't suppose he's in Abraham's bosom.'

That'll he take you for either, in your
black faces ? ' retorted Piper. ' Not angels of
light, sure-ly.' Then okl Grout hobbled up.
He had followed far in the rear, as best he
could with his lame leg and stick.

What be the matter, now ? ' he asked.
What, Larry Xanspian throned ? Some o'
you lads run for a gate. Us nun' carry 'a
home on that. There may be bones broke,
mussy knows.'

I reckon we can't take 'n into Langford,'
sucfs^ested Sam Oaten.

CO

Likely, eh ? ' sneered Piper. ' You Sam,

VOL. IT. I

fret a sate for the lad. He must be carried
home at once, and send for a doctor.'

He was obeyed ; and in a few minutes a
procession was formed, conveying Larry from
the moor.

'He groaned as we lifted 'n,' said Sam
Oaten.

So he's got life in him yet.'

His hand ain't cold, what I may coll dead
cold,' said another.

'You go forrard, Piper,' said Tom Grout,
that he mayn't see you and be frightened if
he do open his eyes.'

Then the cattle-jobber walked first, holding
the lonfy cow's tail over his arm, lest those who
followed should tread on it and be tripped up.
Sam Voaden and three other young men
raised the gate on their shoulders, and walked
easily under it. Behind came the hounds,
careful not to present their blackened faces to
the opening eyes of their unconscious friend ;
and, lastly, Tom Grout mounted on the piebald.

One of the boys had found the horn, and unable
to resist the temptation to try his breath
on it, blew a faint blast.

Shut up, will you ? ' shouted Piper, turning.
' Who is that braying ? You'll be making
Larry fancy he hears the last trump, and he'll
hump off the gate and hurt himself again.'

Larry Caspian had not broken his neck
nor fractured his skull. He was much bruised,
strained, and his right arm and collar-bone
were broken. His insensibility proceeded from
concussion of the brain ; but even this was not
serious, for he gradually recovered his consciousness
as he Alas being carried homewards.
Too dazed at first to know where he was,
what had happened, and how he came to be
out and lying on a gate, he did not speak or
stir. Indeed, he felt unwilling to make an
effort, a sense of exhaustion overmastered him,
and every movement caused him pain. He
lay with his face to the night sky, watching
the dark cloud, listening to the voices of his

bearers, and picking with the fingers of his left
hand at a mossy gate bar under him. At first
he did not hear what words were passing about
him, he was aware only of voices speaking :
the first connected sentence he was able to
follow was this : —

'T would be a bad job if Larry were
killed.'

'Bad job for him, yes,' was the reply.
What do y' mean by that .^ ' asked Sam
Voaden. He recognised Sam's voice at once,
and he felt the movement of Sam's shoulder
tilting the fore end of the gate as he turned his
head to ask the question.

0, I mean naught but what everyone says.
A bad job for any chap to die ; but I don't
reckon the loss would be great to Chimsworthy.
Some chance, then, of the farm going to proper
hands. Larry ain't much, and never will be,
but for larks and big talk. I say that Chatsworth
is a disgrace to the parish ; and what
is more there is sure to be a smash there unless

there comes an alteration. Alteration there
would never be under Larry.'

'I've heard tell that the old man has
borrowed a sight of money from Taverner
Langford, and now he's bound to pay it off,
and can't do it.'

Not like to, the way he's gone on ; sowing
brag brings brambles.'

You see,' said Oaten, ' they always
reckoned on getting Langford, some day, when
the old fellow died.'

'And what a miaiity bi"' fool Larry is to
aggravate his uncle. Instead of keeping good
terms with the old gentleman he goes out o' his
road to offend him.'

I say it's regular un-decent his being out
to-night hunting the hare before his own uncle's
door.'

I say so, too. It weren't my place to
say naught, but I thought it, and so did every
proper chap.'

It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.'

Does his father know what's he's been
after?'

No, of course not ; old Caspian would ha'
taken a stick to his back, if he'd heard he was
in for such things.'

I know that however bad an uncle might
use me, I'd never have nothing to do with a
hare hunt that concerned him — no, nor an aunt
neither.'

Larry was always a sort of a giddy chap.'

He's a bit o' a fool, or he wouldn't have
come into this.'

Maybe this will shake what little sense he
has out of his head.'

I'll tell y' what. If Larry had been in the
army — he'd have turned out as great a blackguard
as Charles Luxmore.'

The girls have spoiled Larry, they make so
much of him.'

Make much of him ! They like to make
sport of him, but there's not one of them cares
a farthing for him, not if they've any sense.

They know fast enough what Chimsworthy and
idleness are coming too. Why, there was Kate
Luxmore. Everyone thought she and Larry
were keeping company and would make a pair ;
but this evening, you saw, directly she had a
chance of Sam, she shook him ofi^, and quite
right too.'

never mind me and Kate,' said Sam, turning:
his head assail.

But us do mind, and us think as Kate be a
sensible maiden, and us thought her a fool
before to take up wi' Larry Caspian.'

This conversation was not pleasant for the
young man laid on the gate to hear, and it took
from him the desire to speak and allow his
bearers to know he was awake, and had heard
their criticism on his character and conduct.
The judgment passed on him was not altogether
just, but there was sufficient justice in it to
humble him. Yes, he had acted most improperly
in allowing himself to be drawn into
taking part in the hare hunt. Xo — he was not,

he could never have become such a blackguard
as Charles Luxmore.

Halt ! ' commanded Piper, and the convoy
stood still.

'We can't go like this to Chimsworthy,'
said the little cattle-jobber ; ' it'll give the old
man another stroke. Let us stop at the Lux-mores'
cottage, and wash our faces, and put off
these things, and send on word that we're coming
; the old fellow mustn't be dropt down on
wi' bad news too sudden.'

Eight ! Honor shall be sent on to break
the news.'

Honor ! Larry felt the blood mount to his
brow She had herself dissuaded him from
having anything to do with this wretched affair
which had ended so disastrously to himself, and
when Kate advised him to keep away from it
because Honor disapproved, he had sent her an
insolent defiance. Now he was to be laid
before her door, bruised and broken, because he
had disobeyed her warning. He tried to lift

Myself to protest — but sank back. Xo — he
thought — it serves me right.

The party clescencled the rough lane from
Broadbury, and had to move more slowly and
with greater precaution. The bearers had to
look to their steps and talk less. Larry 's
thoughts turned to Honor. Now he had found
out how true where her words. What she had
said to him gently, was said now roughly,
wounding. She had but spoken to him the
wholesome truth which was patent to everyone
but himself, but she had spoken it so as to inflict
no pain. She had tried to humble him, but
with so pitiful a hand, that he could have
kissed the hand, and asked it to continue its
work. But he had not taken her advice, he
had not learned her lesson, and he was now
called to suffer the consequences. Those nights
spent beside Honor under the clear night sky —
how happy they had been ! How her influence
had fallen over him like dew, and he had felt
that it was well with him to his heart's core.

How utterly different she was from the other
girls of Bratton. They littered him. She rebuked
him. They pressed their attentions on
him. She shrank from his notice. He could
recall all she had said. Her words stood out in
his recollection like the stars in the night heavens
— but he had not directed his course by
them.

Now, as the young men carried him down
the lane, he knew every tree he passed, and that
he was nearing Honor, step by step. He desired
to see her, yet feared her reproachful eye.

CHAPTER XXVII.

AFTER SWEETNESS.

Oliver Luxmore had returned home before
Kate came from the dance, and had eaten his
supper, and gone to bed. Her father had been
a cause of distress to Honor of late. He said,
indeed, no more about Taverner's suit, but he
could not forget it, and he was continually
grumbling over the difficulties of his position,
his poverty, the hardships of his having to be a
carrier, when he ought to be a gentleman, and
might be a squire if certain persons would put
out a little finger to help him to his rights.

His careless good humour had given place
to peevish discontent. By nature he was kind
and considerate, but his disappointment had, at
least temporarily, embittered his mood. He

threw out oblique reproaches which hurt Honor,
for she felt that they were aimed at her. He
complained that times were altered, children
were without filial affection, they begrudged their
parents the repose that was their due in the
evening of their days. He was getting on in
years, and was forced to slave for the support
of a family, when his family — at least the elder
of them — ought to be maintaining him. He
wished that the Thrustle were as deep as the
Tamar, and he would throw himself in and so
end his sorrows. His children — his ungrateful
children — must not be surprised if some day he
did not return. There was no saying, on occasions,
when a waterspout broke, the Thrustle
was so full of water that a man might drown
himself in it.

In vain did Honor attempt to turn his
thoughts into pleasant channels. He found a
morbid pleasure in being absorbed in the contemplation
of his sores. He became churHsli
towards Honor and refused to be cheered. She

had fine speeches on her tongue, but he was a
man who preferred deeds to words. A girl of
words and not of deeds was Hke a garden full
of weeds. When the weeds began to grow, like
the heavens thick with snow, when the snow
began to fall — and so on — and so on — he had
forgotten the rest of the jingle.

Now for the first time, thinly, was Honor
conscious of a moral resemblance between her
father and Charles. Wliat Charles had become,
her father might become. The elements of
character were in germ in him that had developed
in the son. As likenesses in a family come
out at unexpected moments, that had never
before been noticed, so was it with the psychical
features of these two. Honor saw Charles in
her father, and the sight distressed her.

Oliver Luxmore did not venture to say out
openly what he desired, but his hints, his
insinuations, his grumbling, were significant ;
they pierced as barbed steel, they bruised as
blows. Till recently, Oliver had recognised

his daughter's moral superiority, and had submitted.
Now his eye was jaundiced. He
thought her steadfastness of purpose to be
dofro;edness, her resistance to his wishes to bethe
result of self-will, and his respect for her
faded.

Although Honor made no complaint, no
defence, she suffered acutely. She had surrendered
Larry because her duty tied her to
the home that needed her. Was it necessary
for her to make a further sacrifice — a supreme
sacrifice for the sake of her father .^ She had
no faith in the verbal promises of Taverner
Langford, to stand by and assist her brothers
and sisters, but it was in her power to exact
from him a written undertaking which he
would be unable to shake off. Suppose she
were to marry Langford — what then ? Then —
the dark cloud would lift and roll away.
There would be no more struggle to make
both ends meet, no more patching and darning
of old clothes, no more limiting of the amount

of bread dealt out to each child. Her father's
temper would mend. He would recover his
kindly humour, and play with the little ones,
and joke with the neighbours, and be affectionate
towards her. There woidd be no more
need for him to travel with a waggon in all
weathers to market, but he would spend his
last years in comfort, cared for by his children,
instead of exhausting himself for them.

o

However bright such a prospect might
appear. Honor could not reconcile herself to it.
Her feminine instincts revolted against the
price she must pay to obtain it.

That evening Oliver Luxmore ate his supper
in sulky silence, and went to bed without
wishing Honor a good night. When Kate
arrived, she found her sister in tears.

Honor ! ' exclaimed the eager, lively girl,
what is the matter ? You have been crying
because you could not go to the dance.'

No, dear Kate, not at all.'

Honor ! what is the meaning of this ?

Marianne Spry tells me she saw the silk
kerchief you gave me before to-clays'

'Well, why not?'

But, Honor, I do not understand. Mrs.
Spry says that Larry bought it — bought it at
Tavistock after he had killed the dog that
worried our lambs — after he had got the
guinea, and she believes he bought it with that
money.'

Well, Kate ! ' Honor stooped over her
needlework.

Well, Honor ! ' — Kate paused and looked
hard at her. ' How is it that Larry bought it,
and you had it in your chest ? That is what I
want to know.'

Larry gave it me,'

Oh — ho ! He gave it you ! '

Yes, I sat up with him when he was
watching for the lamb-killer ; he is grateful for
that trifling trouble I took.'

But, Honor ! Marianne Spry said that she
and others chaffed Larry in the van about the

kerchief he had bought for me — and it was not
for me.'

Honor said nothing ; she worked very diligently
with her fingers by the poor light of the
tallow candle on the table. Kate stooped to
get sight of her face, and saw that her cheek
was red.

Honor, dear ! The kerchief was not forme.
Why did you make me wear it ? '

Because, Kate — because you are the right
person to wear his present.'

I — wliy I ? ' asked Kate impetuously.

Honor looked up, looked steadfastly into
her sister's eyes.

Because Larry loves you, and you love
him.'

I can answer for myself that I do not,'
said Kate vehemently. ' And I don't fancy he
is much in love with me. No, Honor, he was
in a queer mood this evening, and what made
him queer was that you were not in the barn,
and had decked me out in the kerchief he gave

VOL. IL K

Next day Physick the lawyer came, and
brought the mortgage and the money. The
signatures were appended, a cross for Larry,
and the money received.

Now,' said the old man, ' I'd like you, Mr.
Physick, to go over to Laugford and pay the
sum I owe to my brother-in-law. I can't go
myself. He's spoken that insolent to me, and
that too before the whole of Coryndon's Charity,
that I can never set foot over his drexil (threshold)
again. So I'd wish you to go for me,
and bring me my note of hand back all square.'

I will go as well,' said Larry, who was
up, able to walk about, but without his jacket,
because of his bandaged bones and arm strapped
back.

You ! ' exclaimed his father. ' Why should
you go?'

I wish it,' answered the lad. ' I'll tell
you the reason after.'

You'd better not go out yet.'

'Why not? Mr. Physick will drive me

there and back in his gig. I shall not be
shaken. The gig has springs.'

I reckon there's a certain cottage the
rogue will want to get out at on the way.
Don't let him, Mr. Physick, or he won't be
home for hours.'

Although the gig had springs Larry suffered
in it, and was glad to descend with Mr. Physick
at Langford.

Taverner Langford had returned home but
an hour before ; he had been to the fair at
Holsworthy, and thence had gone into bedford
about a contract for young bullocks. He
had just finished his dinner of bread and cheese,
washed down with water, when Mrs. Yeale
opened the parlour door, and without a word
showed in Mr. Physick and Larry.

Langford greeted the lawyer with a nod.
Please to take a chair.' He stared at Hillary
with surprise, and said nothing to him.

We've come to pay you the loan you
called in,' said Physick.

Well, it is this. There's been an accident,
and Master Larry Caspian lev fallen on hia
head off his horse and hunted himself bad.'

Honor began to tremble, and caught the
door with one hand and the door-post with the
other.

Now do y' take it easy. He ain't dead,
only hurt. Us don't want to go right on end
carrying him into Chimsworthy, all of us dressed
as we are. First place, it might frighten
Master Caspian, second place, he oughtn't like
the larks Larry has been on. So us thought if
you would let us clean our faces, and take off
our skins and other things, and cut the green coat
off the back of Larry, here ; and then, you'd be
so good as run on to Chimsworthy and prepare
the old gentleman, you'd be — well, you'd be
yourself — I couldn't put it better.'

Honor had recovered her composure.
I will do what you wish,' she said, and her
voice was firm, though low.

You see,' Piper went on. ' It's a bit

ockerd like ; I reckon the old man wouldn't be
satisfied that Larry were mixed up in a hare-hunt
that made game of Taverner Langford, his
own wife's brother ; and I don't say that Larry
acted right in being in it. Howsomever, he
has been, and is now the worse for it. Will
you please to bring the candle and let us see
how bad he be.'

Honor took the tin candlestick with the
tallow dip, and descended the steps, holding it.

The four bearers set the gate upon the
ground, and Honor held the candle aloft that
the light might fall on Larry. But a soft wind
was blowing, and it drove the flame on one
side, making; the honos wick glow and then
carrying it away in sparks.

Mr. Piper, go into the cottage and ask my
sister Kate to give you my scissors. I will
remove the coat. Go all of you, either to
the well a few steps down the lane, or into our
kitchen, and wait. Kate will give you towel
and soap. Leave me with Larry. I must deal

very gently with him, and I had rather you
were none of you by.'

• You're right,' said Piper. ' Us had better
have white faces and get clear of horses and
other gear before he sees us.'

'We must be quick,' said Sam Voaden.
Larry must be got home as fast as may be.'

Then they ran, some to the well in the
bank, some — Sam, of course — into the cottage,
and left Honor for a moment or two beside the
prostrate man, kneeling, holding the guttering
candle with one hand, and screening the flame
from the wind with the other.

Then Larry opened his eyes, and looked
long and earnestly into her face. He said
nothing. He did not stir a finger ; but his eyes
spoke.

Larry ! ' she breathed. Her heart spoke
in her voice, ' Larry, are you much hurt ? '

He slightly moved his head.

Much, Larry ? where ? '

In my pride, Honor,' he answered.

She looked at him with surprise : at first
hardly comprehending his meaning.

Then Kate came down the steps with the
scissors.

Honor ! How dreadful ! I told him not
to go ! I told him you disapproved ! And now
he is punished. Honor ! is he badly injured ?
HeisnotkiUed?'

No, Kate, he is not killed. How far hurt
I cannot tell. Larry! you must let me move
you. I may hurt you a little ^'

You cannot hurt me,' he said. ' I have hurt
myself.'

Honor ! ' exclaimed Kate. ' If he can
speak he is not so bad. Shall I help .^ '

No, Kate,' answered Honor, ' go back to
the cottage and give the young men what they
want to clean their faces ; those at the well "
also. I can manage Larry by myself.'

She stooped over him.

Larry ! you must let me raise you a little
bit. Tell me truly, are any bones broken ? '

I do not know, Honor. I feel as if I
could not move. I am full of pain, full in all
my limbs, but most full in my heart.'

She began to cut up the seams of the sleeves.

I cannot move my right arm,' he said. ' I
suppose there is some breakage there.'

Yes,' she said gravely, ' I can feel a bone
is broken.'

If that be all it does not matter,' he said
more cheerfully, ' but I want to say to you,
Honor, something whilst no one is by.'

What is it ? '

I have done very wrong in many ways. I
have been a fool, and I shall never be anything
else unless you '

'Never mind that now,' she hastily interrupted
him. ' We must think only at present
of your aching joints and broken bones.'

Then Oliver Luxmore's voice was heard
calling, and asking what was the matter ? Who
were in the house ? He had been roused from
his sleep and was alarmed. Kate ran up the

stairs to pacify him, and when he knew the
circumstances he hastily dressed.

An altercation broke out at the well There
was not room for all to get at the water. One
came running u^^ with streaming face to Honor,
Am I clean ? ' he asked. ' How is Larry ?
Not so bad hurt after all, is he ? ' Then he
went up the steps into the cottage to consult
his fellows as to the condition of his face, and
to wipe it.

Honor removed the coat in pieces.

Thank you,' said Larry. ' The candle is
out ? '

'Yes, the wind has made it out (extinguished

it.'

My left hand is sound. Come on that side.'

She did as he asked.

And this,' he said, ' is the side where my
heart is. Honor, I'm very sorry I did not
follow your advice. I am sorry now for many
things. I want you to forgive me.'

I have nothing; to forgive.'

Lean over me. I want to whisper. I
don't want the fellows to hear.'

She stooped with her face near his. Then
he raised his uninjured arm, put it round her
neck, and drew her cheek to his lips, and kissed
her. ' Honor ! dear Honor ! I love no one !
no one in the world but you ! And I love you
more than words can say.'

Did she kiss him .^ She did not know herself
A light, then a darkness, were before her
eyes. What time passed then ? A second ora
century? She did not know. A sudden
widening of the world to infinity, a loss of all
limitations — time, space — an unconsciousness of
distinction, joy, pain, day, night, a loss of
identity — was it she herself, or another ?

Then a wakening as from a trance, with
tingling veins, and dazed eyes, and whirling
brain, and fluttering heart, and voice uncontrolled,
as from the cottage door, down the
steps, and from the well, up the lane came
simultaneously the rabble of boys and men.

Well, how is he ? ' ' Have you got the
coat off ? ' ' Can he speak ? ' ' Any bones
broke ? '

Honor could not answer the questions ; she
heard them, but had no voice wherewith to
speak.

'Eaisethe gate again,' said Piper. 'Sam,
are you ready ? Why are you behind .^ We
must get on.'

Honor,' said Larry in a low voice, ' walk
by the side of me. Hold my hand.'

He is better,' said one of the young men ;
he can speak. He knows Honor.'

Yes, he is better,' she said, ' but he has his
right arm broken, and he is much shaken and
bruised. Let me walk beside him, I can stay
the gate and ease him as you carry him over
the ruts and stones.' So she walked at his side
with her hand in his. In a few minutes the
party had arrived at the granite gates of
Chimsworthy.

Stay here,' ordered Piper. ' Now, Honor

Luxmore, will you go on up the avenue and
tell the old gentleman ? Us'll come after with
Master Larry in ten minutes.'

'I will go,' said Honor, disengaging her
hand.

How are you now ? ' asked Piper, coming
up to the young man.

Better,' he said, ' better than ever before.'

CHAPTEE Xxviii.

A FIRST STEP.

For the next two days and nights Larry was in
great pain. His arm and collar-bone had been
set, but strains are more painful than breakages,
and the young fellow in his fall had managed
to bruise and sprain his muscles as well as fracture
his bones. He could not sleep ; he could
not move in bed ; every turn, even the slightest,
caused him agony. The doctor enjoined perfect
rest. Through the two long sleepless
nights his mind was active, and the train of
thought that had begun as he was being carried
from Broadbury continued to move in his brain.
What different nights were these to those spent
by him on the bench with Honor ! He considered

what she had said to him, and he knew
that what she had said was right. How careless
of his best interests he had been ! How regardless
of his duties ! How neglectful of his
proper self-respect ! Of course she was right.
His father never had properly managed the
farm, and since his stroke he had paid it less
attention than before. He, the son and heir,
ought to have devoted himself to the work of
the farm, and made that his main object, not
to amuse himself.

His father came up to his room several
times a day to enquire how he was.

There's Physick coming here,' said the old
man, ' and I want you to use your hand when
he comes.'

I have only my left.'

Well, the left must do. If you can't sign
your name, you can make a cross and that will
suffice.'

What do you want me to sign, father ? '

The mortgage. Physick mil find the

money, and then we shall pay off Taverner
Langford, and have done.'

Larry sighed. He remembered what
Honor had said. He was helping to burden,
not to relieve, the property.

Can't it be helped, father ? I'd rather
not, if the money could be raised any other
way.'

But that is impossible without a sale.'

'Why did Uncle Taverner lend the
money ? '

We were behind in a score of things.'

Is it all gone, father ? '

Gone ! of course it is. Now I'm wanting
more, and I must raise double what Taverner
lends me, half to pay him off, and half to meet
present demands.'

How is this ? '

Bad times. Things will come round some
day.'

How long have they been bad ? '

Ever since your mother died. That was

a bad day for us.' The old man sat rubbing
his chin. ' The next bad day was when I
quarrelled with Taverner, or rather, when
Taverner quarrelled with me. 'Tis a pity. I
made up his orchard with my new grafts ; and
a more beautiful lot of apple-trees are not to be
seen — and he for to cut them. Shameful.'

What was the quarrel about, father ? '

'I've told you afore. A red spider.
Taverner tried to spoke (draw) her away, when
she was running straight as a line into my
pocket. But I reckon he can't keep you forever
out of Langford. He may live for tenor
twelve years out of wicked spite, but he is
not immortal, and Langford will come to you in
the end. Then you can clear off the mortgages.
I reckon I shall be gone then.'

Don't say that, father.'

I know I shall. When Taverner smoked
that spider away he carried off my health, and
I were took with the stroke immediately. I've
not been myself since.' He continued rubbing

his chin. ' And now comes this mortgage, and
you laid up in bed as you never was before.
It all comes o' smoking away the spider.'

Father,' said Larry earnestly, but timorously
: ' I wish you would let me bring another
here.'

Another what ? '

'Eed Spider.'

What do you mean ? '

Honor Luxmore.'

The old man looked puzzled, then gradually
an idea of his son's meaning crept ito his
head.

I thought,' said he slowly, ' I thought it
was t'other maid.'

No, dear father, I love Honor. Let me
bring her here, let her be my wife, and I'm
sure she will bring luck to this house.'

Hillary senior continued rubbing his chin.
Her mayn't have money,' he mused, ' but
her's good up and down the backbone ; as a
money-spinner is all redness and naught else,

VOL. II. L

SO is Honor all goodness and not a speck of
black in her.'

It is so indeed, father.'
I'm better pleased than if it were Kate.'
I never really thought of Kate.'
'Well, you was sly about it then. All
folks said that Kate had stolen your fancy.
Well now. Honor mayn't be a money-bringer,
I reckon she's got nothing — Oliver be poor as
rushy land — but she may spin it. There's no
saying.'

Say yes, father.'

'Her's a red spider that Taverner won't
try to spoke away,' chuckled old Caspian.
Then he continued musing. He was an altered
man of late, not ready with his thoughts, quick
of motion, lively of tongue as before. He took
time to come to a decision, and drifted in his
ideas from one matter to another. ' Things
haven't gone quite right since Blandina died, they
haven't — though I don't allow that to others.
I've had five years of wool beamed (laid) up.

I said I'd not sell with wool so low, and it has
been sorry down ever since, and now it's risen
a penny and I tried to sell — the worm is in it
and the staple is spoiled, and it won't fetch any
price. Then there be the maidens. They've
let the thunder get into the milk and turn it
sour, and wasted the Lord knows how much
butter, because they were lazy and wouldn't
leave their beds in time at ^wq o'clock, and
make before the sun is hot. If you'd a goodwife,
herd mend all that. And Honor ! well,
no one has other than a good word for her.
I'm main pleased vi' your choice, Larry.
Yes, I be.'

Oh, father ! Thank you ! thank you ! '
'It's not for me to go into the maidens'
room and rake them out of bed at half-past
three in the mornings. I put it to you, Larry.
Folks would say it was indecent. And if I
don't, the butter ain't made, the thunder gets in
the pans, and I lose many pounds. I reckon
Honor Luxmore would do that. I've been

L 2

racking my brains as you rack cider, how to get
over the difficulty, and it was ail dark before
me, but now I see daylight at last. Honor
will rake the maids out o' their beds, and I
needn't interfere. You'll be quick about it,
won't you, Larry, before the blazing hot
summer weather sets in, with thunder in the
air, and spoils the milk.'

He passed his hand through his grey hair.
I had a bell put up in their bedroom, and a
wire brought along to mine, and a handle nigh
my bed, that I might ring them up in the
mornings early. It cost me nigh on thirty
shillings did that bell. The hanger had to
come all the way from Tavistock, and it took
him two days to put up, and there were a lot of
cranks to it. Well, it was just so much money
thrown away. What do y' think the maidens
contrived ? Why, they stuffed an old worsted
stocking into the bell and tied it round the
clapper; I might pull the rope as if I were
pealing a triple bob major, and not a sound

came out of the bell, because of the stocking:.
Well, I wouldn't go into the maidens' room
and see what was the matter, and so I sent to
Tavistock for the bell-hanger out again, and he
charged me three shillings for himself, and half-a-crown
for his man, and ten shillings for the
hire of a trap, and all he did was to remove the
stocking. Next night the maidens tied up the
clapper with the fellow stocking. If Honor were
here she'd put all that to rights, wouldn't she ? '

I'm sure of it, father.'

You be sharp and get well,' continued the
old man, ' then we'll have it all over, and save
pounds of butter.' He stood up. ' I mustn't
shake hands wi' you, Larry, but I'm main
pleased. Honor's good through and through
as a money-spinner is scarlet.'

Larry was fain to smile, in spite of his
pain. This was like his either. The old man
went on vehemently, hotly for some new fancy,
and in a few weeks tired of it, and did nothing
more about it.

Next day Physic the lawyer came, and
brought the mortgage and the money. The
signatures were appended, a cross for Larry,
and the money received.

Now,' said the old man, ' I'd like you, Mr.
Physick, to go over to Langford and pay the
sum I owe to my brother-in-law. I can't go
myself. He's spoken that insolent to me, and
that too before the whole of Coryndon's Charity,
that I can never set foot over his drexil (threshold)
again. So I'd wish you to go for me,
and bring me my note of hand back all square.'

I will go as well,' said Larry, who was
up, able to walk about, but without his jacket,
because of his bandaged bones and arm strapped
back.

You ! ' exclaimed his father. ' Why should
you go?'

I wish it,' answered the lad. ' I'll tell
you the reason after.'

You'd better not go out yet.'

'Why not? Mr. Physick will drive me

there and back in this gig. I shall not be
shaken. The gig has springs.'

I reckon there's a certain cottage the
rogue will want to get out at on the way.
Don't let him, Mr. Physick, or he won't be
home for hours.'

Although the gig had springs Larry suffered
in it, and was glad to descend with Mr. Physick
at Langford.

Taverner Langford had returned home but
an hour before; he had been to the fair at
Holsworthy, and thence had gone into bedford
about a contract for young bullocks. He
had just finished this dinner of bread and cheese,
washed down with water, when Mrs. Veale
opened the parlour door, and without a word
shoved in Mr. Physick and Larry.

Langford greeted the lawyer with a nod.
Please to take a chair.' He stared at Hillary
with surprise, and said nothing to him.

We've come to pay you the loan you
called in,' said Physick.

Eight answered Taverner, ' I was expecting
the money, though why ? — grapes of thorns
and figs of thistles is against nature as well as
Scripture.' Then he eyed his nephew furtively.
He saw that he was looking pale .and worn,
that his arm was bandaged, and he was without
a jacket. He saw that the lad moved
stiffly when he walked. ' You may sit down,*
he said gruffly. Larry took the back of an
armchair with his left hand and drew it to
him, then slowly let himself down into it.
All his movements, and the twitching of the
muscles in his face, showed he was in pain.
His uncle watched him and saw this, but he
asked no questions.

When the money had been counted, and
the release handed over, and Physick had indulged
in some desultory talk, and disparagement
of water, which he saw that Taverner
was drinking, he rose to leave. Langford was
not in a conversational mood, his dark brows
were knit.

Then Larry stood up, and came towards
the table, against which he stayed himself with
his hand.

'I beg your pardon. Uncle Taverner,' he
said in a., voice somewhat tremulous, whilst
colour came into and spotted his brow. ' I
came here, though I thought you would not
care to see me.'

I don't mind when I see your back,' interrupted
Langford surlily, 'your father insulted
me grossly.'

I have come. Uncle Taverner '

Ah ! I suppose your father has sent you.
He wants to patch up the quarrel ; you may
go back and tell him it is too late. I won't
make it up. It is of no use. I have nothing
to lose by estrangement. You and he are the
losers, and that to a heavy amount, as you
shall learn some day.'

I have not come with any message from
my father.'

You've come for yourself, have you ?

You think that Langford would be a fine farm
for the growth of wild oats? You shan't
trv it.'

I came here of my own accord,' said the
young man. 'My father knows nothing of
my purpose. I have come to tell you that I
am very sorry for what I did, — what I did, I
dare say you have not heard, as you have been
away. You shall hear from me.'

'What have you done? Some foolery, I
warrant.'

Yes, uncle, something worse than foolery.
The night you were away, and Ashen we did
not know but you were at Langford, there was
a hare hunt before your doors.'

What ! ' almost screamed the old man.

Physick was unable to restrain a laugh.

There was a hare hunt, and I was in it.
I took a principal part. I was thrown from
my horse, and picked up unconscious, and the
thing came to an end, it went no further. I have
been badly hurt. I might have been killed.'

And pray how came that about ? ' asked
the old man quivering with anger. ' A light
from heaven — struck you to the ground, like
Saul when breathing out threatening and
slaughters against the Elect? And now
you're a converted character, eh ? and so think
I'll take you back into favour, and let you
have Langford ? '

'No, uncle. L do not know quite what it
was threw me down. Don't think me mad if
I say it — but it seemed to me to be old Weldon
rising from the cairn and rushing down on me,
to strike me to the earth.'

Langford looked at him with amazement.

'I tell you just what happened. I was
riding in the hunt — more shame to me — and
I had the horn to my lips, and was just by the
Gibbet Hill, when my piebald stood bolt still,
and shivered with fear, and all at once there
came a yellow light out of the barrow, and a
great black figure with flapping clothes about
it and I remember no more.'

Langford was like the rest of his class, full
of belief in the supernatural. Larry spoke
with such earnestness of tone, his face so fully-expressed
his conviction, that the old man was
awed.

'I have broken my right arm and collarbone.
I have suffered a great deal, I have not
slept for three nights, and this is the first day
I have been out of my bedroom. Uncle
Taverner, I made up my mind the very first
night, that I Avould come to you directly I was
able, and tell you that I am ashamed of myself.
When the fellows were carrying me away on a
gate, and I woke up — then I knew I had done
wrong. I was warned beforehand twice to
have nothing to do with the hunt. I heard
those who were carrying me say how bad I
behaved in taking part in the game against my
own uncle. There — uncle ! I'm very sorry,
and I hope I'll never be such a fool and so
wicked again.'

Taverner's lips quivered, whether from

V

suppressed rage, or from a rising better emotion,
neither Physick nor Larry knew, for they
left the room, whilst the old man stared after
them with his dark brows contracted over his
keen, twinkling eyes, and he sat motionless,
and without speaking.

Larry was some little while getting into
the gig. Mrs. Veale stood on the doorsteps
watching him. All at once they heard a cry
from the inside of the house —a cry, whether
of terror, or rage, or pain, could not be told.

'What is it?' asked Physick. 'What's
the matter ? '

It's master,' said Mrs. Yeale ; ' something
has disagreed with him, I reckon.'

CHAPTEE XXIX.

A BLOW.

Honor felt like one who has looked into the
lightning. A glimpse of surpassing light, a.
vision into a heaven of fire, Alas succeeded by
darkness and numbness of mind.

She was unable for some while to recover
her mental and moral balance. The joy that
had wrapped her soul as in flame had left a
pain of fire. What had she done ? What
would come of this ? Must she go on or could
she step back? The moment when Larry's
lips had met her cheek, and his words of love
had rushed in at her ear and boiled through
her veins, lead been one in which her self-control
had deserted her.

She thought over and over what had taken
place. She felt his grasp of her hand, his arm
about her neck, the pressure of his lips. What
must follow on this ? She had not withdrawn
herself from him at his touch. She could not
have done so. The power of resistance had
left her. But now, as her clear mind arranged
duties and weighed them against passion, she
was doubtful what to do. It was strange for
her to feel need of advice, to be forced to ask
another what to do, yet now she felt that she
could not judge for herself; but she also knew
of no one who could advise her. There was
nothing for her but to wait. Her simple faith
raised her soul to God, and she prayed for a
right judgment. She would leave the future in
His hands : events must decide her course for
her. Of one thing she was clear in her view :
her duty to her father and brothers and sisters
she must not desert them. Whether she must
wholly surrender her happiness for them, or
whether she could combine her duty ^vith her

inclination, she could not tell ; that Larry and
the future must decide.

She waited in patience. She knew that he
would come to her as soon as he could. She
heard daily from Chimsworthy how he was.
Little Joe ran up and inquired.

She saw him drive by with Mr. Physick.
Whither was he going ? To Okehampton ? It
was not the shortest road. As he passed the
cottage his face was turned towards it, and she
saw his eyes looking for her, but the gig was
not arrested. She was in the house, and had
but a glimpse of him through the open door.
Whether lie had seen lier or not she could not
tell.

Presently he returned. He must have been
to Langford. She stood in the doorway, and
their eyes met. He did not stay the horse ; he
could not. He sat beside the lawyer, who was
driving, and the broken rii2[ht arm was near the
reins. Physick was between him and Honor ;
but Larry turned his head and looked at her

as the trap went by. How pale and thin he
seemed ! What marks of suffering were on his
face ! The tears of pity came into Honor's
eyes.

He will come and see me soon,' she said to
herself. ' May I have my strength to do what
is right.' Then she seated herself at her work.

Kate was in the house, lively as a finch.
Honor was always reserved ; she was now more
silent than usual. Kate's humour was unusually
lively. Her tongue moved as nimbly as her
feet and fingers, her conversation sparkled, and
her tones danced like her eyes. When she was
not talking she was singing. She made her
jokes and laughed over them herself, as Honor
was in no laughing mood.

Oddly enough, Sam Voaden was daily in
the lane. He came round by the cottage from
Swaddledown to ask at Chimsworthy after
Larry ; he made two miles out of a journey
that need not have been three-quarters across
the fields. When Sam went by he whistled
YOL. II. M

very loud, and then Kate found that the pitcher
was empty and needed replenishing at the
well ; on such occasions, moreover, the pitcher
took a long time filling. Kate made no secret
of her heart's affairs to her sister. It was in
her nature to talk, and a girl in love likes nothing
better, when not with her lover, than to
talk about him.

Honor put away her needlework and got
the supper-table ready, and whilst she was
putting the cold pasty on the table her father
walked in. He was going next day to Tavis-
took, and had been round for commissions.

He was out of spirits, did not say much,
wiped his face with his sleeve, and complained
of the weather — it was sultry, he was tired.
Some of his customers had been exacting and
had worried him. ' The pasty is heavy ; it goes
against me,' he grumbled. ' All well for young
appetites.'

Shall I do you a bit of bacon, father ? '
asked Honor.

Eicli that,' lie said discontentedly. ' I'm
fanciful in my eating. I can't help it ; I'm
too poor to have what would suit me. It is in
my constitution. Those who have the constitutions
of gentlefolk want the food of gentlefolk.'
He took a little piece of pasty, but
pushed it away. ' It makes my throat rise ;
look at that great hunch of suet in it, like a
horse tooth (quartz spar) in granite. I can't eat
anything ; you may clear away.'

Actually Oliver Luxmore had eaten supper
at one of the farms ; that Alas why he had now
no appetite ; but he invade occasion of his having
no relish for his food to grumble and make
Honor uncomfortable.

The fog was a hunting this morning, so
we've had a fine day for going nowhere, and it's
gone a fishing this evening, to let me understand
it will rain tomorrow when I go into
Tavistock. It is always so. Vain on market
days to spoil my custom and run away with
profits.'

M 2

In explanation of his words, it is necessary
to say that, when the white fog mounts the
hills it is said to go hunting, when it lies along
the rivers it is said to be fishing, and these
conditions of fog are weather indications.

I don't know what you call that,' said
Oliver, pointing with his fork to a piece of
meat in the pasty. ' It looks to me as if it
were a goat caterpillar got in. I suppose you
found it crawling across the lane from one of
the willow trees, and, because we're poor and
can't afford meat, stuck it in.'

Father, it is wholesome ; it is nothing
but a bit of pig-crackling. You know we
were given a piece of young pork by Mrs.
Voaden, the other day.'

Then Oliver sprang to his feet, and Honor
started back in surprise.

Without a word of agitation, with whiteface,
and glaring eyes, with hand extended and
shaking, Taverner Langford came in at the
door.

There ! there ! ' he said, in a voice raised
almost to a scream. ' This is what comes of
doing a favour. Now I am punished.'

What is the matter, Mr. Langford ? ' asked
the carrier deferentially.

'What is the matter? Everything is the
matter,' he cried. He tinned to Honor : ' It
is your doing, yours, yours.'

What have I done ? ' she asked, with composure.


You asked me to take him in ; the scoundrel,
the rogue.'

You cannot mean my brother Charles,'
said Honor, with dignity ; ' or you would-not
speak thus under our roof to his father and
sisters.'

Oh no, of course not, you don't like to
hear it ; but that is what he is.'

What has Charles done ? ' asked Oliver in
alarm.

Robbed me ! ' shrieked Tavern er, with
his whole body quivering, and with vehement

action of his hands. 'Robbed me, and railway
with my money.'

He gasped for breath, his eyes glared, the
sweat ran off his brow. He was without his
hat, he had run bareheaded from Langford,
and his grizzled hair was disordered.

He has robbed me of nigh on a thousand
pounds, and he has gone away with the money.
He took occasion of my being from home ;
he has taken all — all — all I had laid by. I
thought no one knew where was my bank.
He must have watched me ; he found out ; he
has taken the box and all its contents.'

'Charles could not, would not, do such a
thing,' said Honor, with heaving bosom ; she
was more angry at the charge than alarmed.

'Could not! would not! Where is he
now ? '

I do not know. We have not seen him
for several days.'

He has not been seen at Langford
either. As soon as I Alas off to Holsworthy he

V

bolted. He knew he would have three days
clear, perhaps more, for getting away with the
money.'

It is impossible,' said Honor. ' Charles
may be idle, but he is not wicked.'

'He has robbed me,' repeated Taverner
vehemently. ' Do you want proof ? The five
pound note.'

Honor shuddered ; she had forgotten that.

Do you remember, Luxmore, you paid mea
note of the Exeter and Plymouth Bank ? Do
you remember that I took the number ? '

OHver looked helplessly about the room,
from Langford to Honor and Kate.

I ask you, whence you got that note ?
Come, answer me that ? You, Luxmore, who
gave you that note ? '

Charles,' moaned the carrier, and covered
his face with his hands, as he threw himself
into a chair,

I thought as much. Let me tell you that
that note had been abstracted from my boar

I had the hist of all the notes in it, but I did
not go over them till I found that I had been
robbed. Here is the note. I did not restore
it to the box. I kept it in my pocket-book.
I can swear — I have my entries to prove it —
that it had been stolen from me. When I
found Charles was gone, I thought it must have
been he who had robbed me. When I saw
the number of the note agreed with one I had
put into the box a month ago, then I knew it
must be he. You brought me the note, and he
is your son.'

Kate burst into tears and wrung her hands.

Honor saw the faces of the children
frightened, inclined for tears ; she sent them all
upstairs to their bedrooms.

Oliver sat at the table with his forehead in
his hands, and his fingers in his hair.

None spoke. Langford looked at the
carrier, then at Honor. Kate threw herself
into the chair by the window and wept aloud.
Honor stood in the middle of the room, with

lier head bent ; she was deadly pale, she dared
not raise her eyes.

What will you do ? ' she asked in a low
tone.

Do ! ' exclaimed Taverner ; 'Oh, that is
soon answered. I send at once to Tavistock,
Launceston, and Okehampton, and communicate
with the proper authorities and have him
arrested. There are magistrates, and constables,
and laws, and prisons in England, for
the detention and chastisement of thieves and
burglars.'

Oliver moaned. 'I cannot bear the disgrace.
I shall drown myself.'

What will that avail ? ' sneered Langford.
Will it save my thousand pounds ? Will it
save Charles from transportation ? It is a pity
that there is no more hanging for robbery, or
Weldon's mound would be handy, and the old
gibbet beam in my barn would serve once more.'

The words were cruel. Honor's teeth
clenched and her hands closed convulsively.

Then Oliver Luxmore withdrew his hands
from his face, dragged himself towards Langford,
and threw himself on the ground at his
feet.

Have pity on him, on me, on us all. The
shame will kill us, brand us. It will kill me,
it will stain my name, my children, for ever.'

Get up,' said Langford, roughly. ' I'm not
to be moved by men's tears.'

But Oliver was deaf; his great absorbing
agony momentarily gave dignity to his feeble
pitiful character, to him even crouching on
the slate floor.

Spare us the dishonour,' he pleaded. ' I
cannot bear it ; this one thing I cannot. Lux-more
— thief — convict ! ' He passed his handover
his brow and raised his eyes ; they were
blank. 'Luxmore, of Coombe Park — Lux-more
I Take care ! ' his voice became shrill.
Dishonour I cannot bear. Take care lest you
drive me desperate. Father let us all die, I,
Honor, Kate, and the little ones, and end the

■ name, than that it should hive on stained.' He
tried to rise, but his knees shook and gave way
under him.

You may sell all I have. Take the van,
everything. We cannot find you a thousand
pounds. We will all work as slaves — only —
spare us the dishonour ! spare us this ! '

Kate came up and cast herself at her
father's side and raised her streaming eyes.

'Well,' said Taverner, turning to Honor,
do you alone not join ? Are you too proud? '

Mr. Langford,' she answered, with emotion,
'you are too hard. I pray to God, who is
merciful.'

You are proud ! You are proud ! ' he said,
scowling. ' You, Oliver Luxmore ! you, Kate !
do not kneel to me. Go, turn to her. The
fate of Charles, the honour of your name,
your happiness, that of your children, rest with
her — with her ! '

He looked at her.

She did not speak ; she understood his

meaning. A pang as of a sword went through
her soul. She raised her clenched hands and
put them to her mouth, and pressed the knuckles
against her teeth. In the agony of that moment
she was near screaming.

There ! ' said Langford, pointing to her.
Look how haughty she is. But she must bend.
Entreat her, or command her, as you will.
With her the issue lies. I will wait till tomorrow
at ten, and take no steps for the capture
of Charles. If before that hour I have
yes, it is well. I pay a thousand pounds for
that yes. I shall be content. If not, then — '
he did not finish the sentence ; he went out at
the door.

Then only did Honor give way. She saw
as it were a cloud of blue smoke rising round
her. She held out her hands, grasping, but
catching; nothings, and fell on the floor insensible.


CHAPTEE XXX.

YES !

Honor could not rest iu lier bed that night.
Oliver Liixmore in the adjoining room groaned
and sighed, he was sleepless. Kate, who shared
her bed, was awake and tossed from side to
side. Poor Kate knew that the disgrace would
separate her from Sam. She was too generous
to urge her sister to make the costly sacrifice.
Oliver felt that words would be unavailing, the
matter must be left to Honor ; his best advocate
was in her own conscience. The resolution
one way or the other must be come to by
Honor unresisted, unswayed. She lay still in
her bed, but Kate knew she did not sleep.
She lay with her hands clasped as in prayer on

her heaving bosom. Her eyes were on the
little latticed Window, and on a moth dancing
dreamily up and down the panes, a large black
moth that made the little diamonds of glass
click at the stroke of its wings. Her hair
over her brow was curled with the heat of her
brain, the light short hair that would not be
brushed back and lie with the copper-gold
strands. Great drops rolled off her forehead
upon the pillow. Afterwards, Kate felt that
the cover was wet, and thought it was with
Honor's tears, but she was not crying. Her
eyes were dry and burning, but the moisture
poured off her brow. Her feet were like ice.
She might have been dead, she lay so still.
Kate hardly heard her breathe. She held her
breath and listened once, as she feared Honor
was in a swoon. She did not speak to her
sister. An indefinable consciousness that Honor
must not be disturbed, must be left alone, restrained
her. Once she stole her hand under
the bedclothes round her sister, and laid it on

her heart. Then she knew for certain what a
raging storm was awake in that still, hardly-breathing
form.

That touch, unattended by word, was more
than Honor could bear. She said nothing, but
stole from bed, and put on some of her clothes.
Kate watched her through her half-closed lids,
and dared not speak or otherwise interfere.
Honor went softly, barefooted down the stairs,
that creaked beneath her tread. Her father
heard the step. He knew whose it was. He
also would not interfere. It was best for all —
for Kate, for Charles, for himself, for Joe, and
Pattie, and Willie, and Martha, and Charity,
and little Temperance — that Honor should be
wholly undisturbed.

The girl unfastened the back door, took up
the little bench, cast a potato-sack over her
head, and went forth, shutting the door gently
behind her.

She carried the seat under the hedge in the
paddock, where she had watched with Larry,

and placed herself on it, then rested her elbow
on her knee, and her head in her hand. Her
feet were bare, dipped in the dewy grass ; a
seeded dandelion, stirred by them, shed its ripe
down over them. She thrust the sack from
her head. She could not endure the weight
and the heat, and laid it across her shoulders;
from them it slipped unheeded. Her arms
were bare from the elbow. The cold night
wind stroked the arm that stayed up her
scorched brain. She had prayed that God
would guide her, and the guidance had led
into a way of sorrows. ' It is expedient that
one man should die for the people,' those words
of the High Priest recurred to Honor, and she
thought how that He to whom they referred
had accepted the decision. She would have
died — died ! how willingly, how eagerly ! —
for the dear ones under the thatched roof; she
would have leaped into fire, not for all, but for
any one of them, for little Temperance, for dear
Charity, for Martha, for Willie, for darling

Pattie, for good, true Joe, for Kate, for her
father of course — yes, even for Charles — but
this that was demanded of her was worse thana
brief spasm of pain in fire ; it was a lifelong
martyrdom, a sacrifice infinitely more dreadful
than of life. The thrushes were singing. There
was no night in the midst of June, and the
birds did without sleep, or slept in the glare of
midday,. The only night was within the girl's
soul. There was no singing or piping there,
but the groaning of a crushed spirit.

She started. She was touched. She put
out her hand and sighed. The horse that
Langford had let them have was in the paddock
; it had become much attached to Honor,
and the beast had come over to her, unperceived,
and was resting his head on her
shoulder and rubbing it against her ear and
cheek. She stroked the nose of the beast with
her left hand without altering her position,
mechanically, and without much diversion of
her thoughts. When poor Diamond was dying
VOL. II. N

ia the gravel pit, Honor had sat by him and
caressed him ; now Diamond's successor had
come to comfort Honor, as best he could, when
her girlhood was dying in anguish, passing into
a womanhood of sorrow.

Chink! chink! chink! a finch was perched
on the topmost twig of an alder that swayed
under its light weight in the wind, repeating
its monotonous cry, chink ! chink ! chink !

The cold about Honor's feet became
stronger, the dew looked whiter, as if it were
passing into frost, the breath of the horse was
as steam. High, far aloft, in the dusky sky
some large bird was winging its way from seato
sea, from the Atlantic boisterous barren
coast about Bute, to the summer, luxuriant
bays of the Channel. What bird it was Honor
could not tell. She would not have seen it but
that the winking of its wings as they caught the
light from the north attracted her attention.
Strange as it may seem, though engrossed in
her own sorrows, she watched the flap of

the wings till they passed beyond range of
vision.

Not a cloud was in the sky. The stars
were but dimly seen in the silvery haze of
summer tw^hght. One glowworm in the hedge
opposite her shone brighter than any star, for
it shone out of darkness deeper than the depths
of heaven.

One long leaf near Honor was as if it had
been varnished, wet with dew, and as the dew
gathered on it, it stooped and the moisture ran
to the lancet end, bowing it further, and
forming a clear drop ; then the drop fell, and
the leaf with a dancing rebound recovered its
first position. Honor's eye rested on the leaf ;
as the dew formed on it, and bent it down, so
were tears forming on her soul and bowing it.
The leaf shook off the drop ; would her spirit
ever recover .^

What wondrous sounds are heard at night I
How mysterious, how undiscoverable in origin I
It seemed to Honor less still in the meadow,

N 2

under the thorn hedge, than in the cottage.
Insect Hfe was stirring all about ; the spiders
were spinning, moths flitting, leaves rustling,
birds piping, the wind playing among the
thorns ; the field mice were running, and the
night birds watching for them on wing.

All was cool, all but Honor's head. Whatever
sounds'were heard were pleasant, whatever
movement was soothing. Through all the
intricate life that stirred there ran a breath of
peace — only not over the heaving soul of
Honor.

Poor Larry ! Honor's thoughts were less
of herself than of others. She was sure to the
ground of her heart that he loved her. She
knew, without riddling out the why and how,
that she could have made him happy and good
at once. There was sterling gold in him ; the
fire would purge away the dross. As in the
cocoon there is an outer shell of worthless web
which must be torn away before the golden
thread is discovered, so was it with him ; the

outer husk of vanity and idleness and inconsiderateness
was coming away, and now all that
was needed was a tender hand to find and take
hold of the end of the thread and spin off the
precious fibre. Another hand, rough and heedless,
might break and confuse and ruin it.

But, though she knew she could have made
Larry's life right and orderly, yet she would
not undertake to do so unless she saw the other
lives committed to her trust cared for and
safe.

Above all, high as the highest star, in her
pure soul shone the duty imposed on her by
her mother. If she could not combine her
duty to the dear ones under the brown thatch
with the charge of Larry's destiny, she would
not undertake the latter.

And now, most horrible gall to her womanly
mind, came the knowledge that she — she whom
Larry loved and looked up to — she, she who
loved the careless lad, even she must step in
between him and his uncle's property, that she

was chosen by old Langford as the weapon of
his revenge on the Nanspians.

The Langford estate must descend to Larry
should his uncle die childless, and she

Her breath came in a gasp. She tore up
the cold dock leaves and pressed them to her
brow to cool the burning there, to take the
sting out of her nettled brain.

There was no rest for Honor anywhere, in
the meadow or in her bed — no rest for her
evermore.

She rose and went back to the house, but
when she reached the door, true to her regular
habits, remembered that she had left the sack
and the bench in the field, and went back,
fetched them, and put each in its proper place.
Nothing was ever left littering about by
Honor. If she had been dying and had seen a
chip on the floor, she would have striven to rise
and remove it.

In the morning the carrier and his two
eldest daughters looked haggard and pale.

The children seemed aware of trouble. Joe
was attentive and helped to quiet and amuse
the youngest, and watched his father, but
especially Honor, to read Avhat was menaced in
their faces. He had not been at home when
Langford came, and his sister Pattie could give
him but the vaguest idea of what had occurred.
All she knew was that it was a trouble connected
with Charles, who had run away. The
carrier had to be ready early to start for
Tavistock market. Honor and Kate prepared
breakfast for him and the children, without a
word passing between them on what was uppermost
in their minds. As they were eating, the
Ashbury postboy passed down the lane and
called at the steps.

The carrier went out.

A letter for you.'

Oliver took and paid for it, then brought it
in and opened it slowly with shaking fingers.
He, Honor, Kate knew that it must have reference
to their trouble. It was in the handwriting

of Charles ; it bore the Plymouth postmark.
The carrier spread it on his plate ; he
did not read it aloud because Joe and the other
children were present ; but Honor and Kate
stood behind him and read over his shoulder
without uttering a word.

This was the letter : —

Dear Father, — I take my pen in hand,
hopping this finds you has it leafs me, with a
bad running at the noah, and a shocking corf,
gripes orful in my inserts, and hakes all over
me. I dersay you've card what I gone and
done, don't judge me harshly, I couldn't do
otherwise, and I'm not so bad to blame as you
may suppose. I didn't intend deliberate to dot,
but I did it off-hand so to speke. Wot's dun
can't be undue. It's no use crying over spilt
milk. Wot can't be cured must be endured.
That's wot Mrs. Yeale would say, and her's a
bad un. I fetched a cold with getting wet
running away, but I shall be all rite soon,
please God when I'm away on the i sees. I'm

V

going to Ameri'kay which is the place to which
the flour of the British aristocracy go when its
ockerd or embarrassing at one. As it is ockerd
and embarrassing to me, I'm ors, and I hope with
the Almighty's aid to do well in the new whirled,
wheel I intend to found a new Coom Park, to
which I shall invite you all to come, when I
can drive you about in a carriage and pare. I
want to know how it is with Larry, whether
he be alive or dead. I came away in such aste
I couldn't stay to know, but I'm very desiring
to know. Don't rite to me by my proper name,
there may be disagreeable in my hereabout
being none, so direct to Mr. Charles, past
rested, Plymouth. — From your loving sun,
Charles Luxmohe.'

of Room Park, Esquire.

Pes. — Don't say nothing to nobody of were
I be, however you do, and kiss the kids for me.
Past answer at Tavistock or Hanson.

Oliver Luxmore refolded the letter, and put

it away in his pocket without a word. Neither
Honor nor Kate spoke or looked at each other.
It was too clear to all that Charles was guilty.
The last doubt of his guilt disappeared.

Oliver went about the horse and van.
Honor did not fail to observe the change
effected in him by one night. He seemed
older by ten years — to have tumbled down
the decline of life, and been shaken by the falL
His clothes did not appear to fit him, his walk
was unsteady, his hand shook, his eye wandered,
his hair had a greyer tinge, and was
lank and moist. Joe ran to help in the harnessing
of the horse. His father was trying to
force on the collar without turning it. He put
on the saddle wrong, and fastened the wrong
buckles. The boy corrected his father's
errors. Then the man brought the van into
the lane, and stood with his hand to his forehead.


I've forgotten 'em all,' he said. ' Whatever
were the commissions I don't know.' The

whip was shaking in his hand as a withy
by a waterproof. 'I shouldn't wonder if I
never came back,' he said, then looked up
the steps at Honor. It was the first time he
had met her eye since Taverner Langford had
left the house. ' I shan't know what is to be
till I come home,' he muttered. ' The cuckoo-clock
has just called seven, and it is three hours
to ten. I think my heart will die within me at
Tavistock. I shan't be home till night. However
I shall bear it and remember my commissions
I do not know. Joe shall come with
me. I can't think. I can't drive. I can do
nothing.'

Then Honor came doAvn the steps with her
scarlet cloak about her shoulders, and her
red stockings on her feet, slowly, looking
deadly pale, and with dark rings about her
eyes.

Where are you going ? ' asked the carrier,
not coming with me to Tavistock ? '

She shook her head.

'Are you — are you going to — to Langford
? ' he asked. ' To say what ? ' — he held
his breath.

'Yes!'

Chapter XXXI.

THE NEW MISTRESS.

Halloo ! Adhere be you off to, Eed Spider ? '
asked Farmer Caspian, who was on Broad-bury,
when he saw Honor Luxmore in her
scarlet cloak coming over the down. ' Stay,
stay ! ' he said, and put his hand to her
chin to raise her face. 'You never come
Chimsworthy road — leastways, you haven't yet.
Where be you going to now ? '

To Langford, sir.'

To Langford, eh ? ' his face clouded. ' I
didn't think you was on good terms with ]mr.
Langford. Take care — take care ! I won't
have he spoke away this Eed Spider from
Chimsworthy.' Then he nodded smiled, and

went on. He little knew, he had no suspicion,
that '\vhat he hinted at was really menaced.

Honor went on to the old, lonely house,
and asked to speak to Mr. Langford. She was
shown into his parlour. Taverner was about
the farm. She had some minutes to wait, and
nerve herself for the interview, before he arrived.

Well,' said he when he came in, ' you are
in good time. You have brought me the
answer.'

Yes,' she replied, looking down.

Do I take that Yes as a reply to this
question or to that I made yesterday ? '

To both.'

There's not another woman in all England
to whom I'd have behaved as I have to you.'

I hope not, sir ! '

I mean,' said Langford, knitting his brows,
and reddening, ' I mean, I would not have
foregone a thousand pounds for any other. I
would not have spared the man who had robbed
me for any other woman's sake.'

I have come here,' she said, ' myself,
instead of sending a message, because I wished
to speak with you, in private.'

There is no one here to overhear you.
I have stopped up the keyhole ; Mrs. Veale
listened, she can catch nothing now.'

Mr. Langford, I was told by my father
that you had promised to do something for my
brother and sisters.'

Oh, do not be afraid — -I will do something
for them.'

I want you to grant me one request, the
only one I will ever make of you. Promise me
some small yearly sum assured to my father,
I do not ask for much. When I am in the
house, I can manage, but it is hard work forme
to do so. When I am gone, Kate will find
it hard, and she may not remain long there ; she
is a pretty girl, and has her admirers, she is
sure to marry soon — then what will become of
my father and the little ones? I do not ask
you to take them in here. That would not be

reasonable — except so far as they can work for
you, and be of use to you — Joe will be a
valuable servant, and Pattie is growing up to
be neat and active and thoughtful.'

How many more ? ' asked Langford.

That is all,' replied Honor quietly. ' If I
ask you to do anything for these two it is only
because they will be worth more than you will
pay them. But I ask for my father. It will
be a loss to him, my leaving the house. He
will not be happy. Kate is very good, but she
does not understand thrift, and she is lighthearted.
Promise me a small sum every year
for my father aud the little ones to relieve
them from the pinch of poverty, and to give
them ease and happiness.'

How many have you ? '

There are Joe, and Pattie, Wile, Martha,
Charity, and Temperance. If I might bring
Temperance with me I should be very thankful
; she is but three, and will miss me.'

In the Proverbs of Solomon we are told

that the horseleech hath three daughters,
which cry Give, give, give ! Here are more,
some seven, all wanting to suck blood. If I
marry you, I don't marry the family.'

Honor was silent, for a moment, recovering
herself ; his rudeness hurt her, angered her.

I make a request. I will ask nothing more.'

Lie looked up at him, and rested her eyes
on his face. He had been observing her ; how
pale she was — how worn ; and it annoyed
him : it seemed to him that It had cost her
much to resolve to take him ; and this was not
flattering to his pride.

I cannot grant it,' he said. ' It is not
reasonable. I am not going to be eaten out
of house and home by a parcel of ravenous
school children. I want you, I do not want all
your tail of brothers and sisters, and, worst of
all, your helpless father. I know very well
what will happen. I shall be thrown to them
like an old horse to Squire Impey's pack — to
have my flesh torn oS", and my bones even

VOL. II.

crunched up. I cut this away in the beginning ;
I will not have it.'

I ask only for a small sum of money for
my father. The van barely sustains him. The
family is so large. I will not bring any of the
children here, except little Temperance, who is
very, very dear to my heart.*

No, I will have none of them.'

I may not have Temperance ? '

No, I said, none of them. Give an inch,
and an ell is taken. Put in the little finger
and the fist follows.'

Then you will grant me an allowance for
my father ? '

He laughed. ' A thousand pounds is what
you have cost me. When that thousand pounds
is made up, or repaid, then we will talk about
an allowance. Not till then — no, no 1 I may
pay too dear for my bargain. A thousand
pounds is ample.'

That is your last word ? '

My last.'

Then Honor, looking steadily at him, said :
Mr. Langford, it is true that you lose money
by me ; but I lose what is infinitely more
precious by you. I lose my whole life's happiness.
When my mother was dying, I promised
her to be a mother to her darlings. Now I am
put in this terrible position, that, to save them
from a great disgrace and an indelible stain,
I must leave them. I have spent the whole
night thinking out what was right for me todo.
If I remain with them, it is with a shame
over our whole family. If I go, I save them
from that, but they lose my care. One way
or other there is something gone. It cannot be
other. I have made my choice. I will come
to you ; but I have strings from my heart to
little Temperance, and Charity, and Martha,
and Willie, and Pattie, and Joe, and Kate, and
father. If they are unhappy, uncomfortable,
I shall suffer in my soul. If ill comes to them,
I shall be in pain. If the little ones grow up
neglected, untidy, untruthful, my heart and my

o2

head will ache night and day. If my father is
uncared for, the distress of knowing it will be
on me ever. I shall be drawn by a hundred
nerves to my own dear ones, and not be able
to do anything for them. You cannot understand
me. You must believe me when I say
that the loss to me is ten thousand times greater
than the loss of a thousand pounds to you.
My happiness is in the well-being and well-bringing
up of my brothers and sisters. You
take all that away from me. Did you ever
hear the tale of the widower who married
again, and his new wife neglected the children
by the dead wife ? — One night the father came
to the nursery door, and saw the dead woman
rocking and soothing the babes. She had come
from her grave. The crying had drawn her.
She could not sleep because they called her.
I do not know that I can bear it, to be separated
from my brothers and sisters — I cannot say — if
they suffered or were neglected — I fancy nothing
could withhold me from going to them.'

Taverner remained silent : her eyes seemed
to burn their way into him. She shifted her
position from one foot to the other ; and went
on, in an earnest tone, with a vibration in it
from the strength of her emotion : ' I am bound
to tell you all. If you are to be my husband,
you must know everything. I cannot love you.
What love I have that is not taken up by
Temperance, and Charity, and Martha, and
Willie, and Pattie, and Joe, and Kate, and

father, and ' still looking frankly, earnestly

at him, ' yes, and by Charles, I have given
elsewhere. I cannot help it. It has been
taken from me in a whirlwind of fire, as Elijah
was caught up into heaven ; it is gone from me ;
I cannot call it down again. If you insist on
knowing to whom I gave it, I will tell you,
but not now, not yet — afterwards. To show
you, Mr. Langford, how I love my home, I
had made up my mind to give him up, to
throw away all that beautiful happiness, to
forget it as one forgets a dream, because I

would not be parted from my dear ones. I
was resolved to give him up whom I love for
them, and now I am required to give them up
for you whom I love not.* She breathed
heavily, her labouring heart beat. She drew
the red cloak about her, lest the heaving
bosom and bounding heart should be noticed.
Langford saw the long drops run down her
brow, but there were no tears in her eyes.

You will never love me ? ' he asked.

I cannot say ; it depends how you treat my
dear ones.*

She took a long breath.

There is one reason why my consent costs
me more when given to you than to another ;
but I cannot tell you that now. I will tell you
later.*

She meant that by marrying him she was
widening the breach between the uncle and
nephew — that she was marrying the former
for the express purpose of depriving the latter
of his inheritance. She could not tell Langford
this now.

I will do my duty by you to the best of my
lights. But I shall have one duty tying me
here, and seven drawing me to the little cottage
in the lane, and I feel — I feel that I shall be torn
to pieces.'

Taverner Langford stood up and paced the
room with his arms folded behind his back.
His head was bowed and his cheeks pale. The
girl said no more. She again shifted her feet,
and rested both hands, under her cloak, on the
table. Langford looked round at her; her
head was bent, her yellow-brown hair was tied
in a knot behind. As her head was stooping,
the back of her neck showed above the red
cloak. It was as though she bent before the
executioner's axe. He turned away.

Sit down,' he said. ' Why have you been
standing ? You look ill. Wliat has ailed you ? '

In body nothing,' she answered.

Who is it ? ' he asked surlily, looking out
of the window, and passing his own fingers
over his face.

She slightly raised her head and eyes
questioningly.

'I mean,' he said, without turning to see
her, but understanding by her silence that she
asked an explanation — ' I allude to what you
were saying just now. Who is it whom you
fancy ? '

If you insist, I will tell. If you have any
pity you will spare me. In time — before the
day, you shall know.'

He passed his hand over his face again.

This is a pleasant prospect,' he said, but
did not explain whether he alluded to the landscape
or to his marriage. He said no more to
force further confidence from her.

Come,' said he, roughly, aud he turned
suddenly round, 'you shall see the house.
You shall be shown what I have in it, all the
rooms and the furniture, also the cow^sheds, and
the dairy — everything. You shall see what
will be yours. You would get no other man
with so much as I have.'

'Not to-day, Mr Langford. Let me go
home. I should see nothing to-day. My eyes
are full, and my heart fuller.'

Then go,' he said, and reseated himself at
the table.

She moved towards the door. He had his
chin on his hand, and was looking at the grate.
She hesitated, holding the handle.

Hah ! ' exclaimed Langford, starting up.
Did you hear that ? a-fluttering down the passage
? That was Mrs. Yeale, trying to listen,
but could hear nothing; trying to peep, but
could see nothing, because I have covered
every chink. Come here! come here, Mrs.
Yeale ! '

As she did not respond, he rang the bell
violently, and the pale woman came.

Come here, Mrs. Veale ! show the future
mistress out of the house ! Not by the kitchen,
woman I Unbar the great door. Show her
out, and curtsey to her, and at the same time
take your own discharge.'

" When one comes in the other goes out,"
as the man said of the woman in the weather-house,'
remarked Mrs. Veale with a sneer.
She curtsied profoundly. ' There's been calm
heretofore. Now comes storm.'

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE CHINA DOG.

No sooner was the scarlet cloak gone than
Mrs. Veale leaned back against the wall in the
passage and laughed. Langford had never
heard her laugh before, and the noise she
made now was unpleasant. Her face was
grey, her pale eyes glimmered in the dark
passage.

Will you be quiet ? ' said Taverner angrily.
Get along with you into the kitchen and don't
stand gulping here like water out of a narrow-necked
bottle.'

So ! — that be the wife you've chosen,
master ! It is ill screwing a big foot into a
small shoe ; best suit your shoe to the size of
your foot.'

'You have received notice to leave. A
month from to-day.'

This is breaking the looking-glass because
you don't like your face,' said the housekeeper.
" Come help me on with the plough," said the
ox to the gadfly. " With the greatest of pleasure,"
answered the fly, and stung the ox.'

Gadfly ! ' shouted Taverner. ' Sheathe
your sting, please, or don't practise on me.'

You marry ! ' scoffed Mrs. Veale ' " I'm
partial to honey," said the fox, and upset the
hive. "You must learn how to take it,"
answered the swarm, and surrounded him.'

I'll turn you out at once,' said Langford,
angrily.

No, you will not,' answered the housekeeper
; ' or you Avill have to pay my wage
and get nothing for it. I've served you faithfully
all these years, and this is my reward.
I am turned away. What has been my pay
whilst here ? What ! compared with my services
? And now I am to make room for the

sister of a thief. What will become of your
earnings when she comes? If her brother
picked a stranger, he will skin a relative.
And the rest of them ! " I am tilling for you,"
said the farmer to the rabbits ; "come into my
field and nibble the turnips." Love in an old
man is like a spark in a backyard. It burns
up everything, even common sense.'

He thrust her down the passage. She kept
her white face towards him, and went along
sliding her hands against the wall, against which
she leaned her back.

'I did suppose you had more sense than
this. I knew you were bit, but not that you
were poisoned. I thought that you would be
too wise to go on with your courting when you
found that you had been robbed by Charles.
Who that is not a fool will give the run of his
house to the man who has plundered him?
Can you keep him out when you have married
his sister? What of the young ones? They
will grow up like their brother. Roguery is

like measles, it runs through a house. Have
not I been faithful ? Have I taken a thread
out of your clothes, or a nail from your shoe ?
Have I relations to pester you for help ? Mine
might have begged, but would not have stolen ;
yours will have their hands in all your pockets.
Now you are everything in the house, and weare
all your slaves. All is yours, your voice
rules, your will governs. Will it be so when
you bring a mistress home — and that Honor
Luxmore ? Everyone knows her ; she governs
the house.' Mrs. Veale laughed again. ' That
will be a fine sight to see Master Taverner
Langford under the slipper. " I'm seen in the
half but lost in the full," said the man in the
moon.'

Langford thrust her through the kitchen
door and shut it, then returned to his parlour,
where he bolted himself in, and paced the
room with his arms folded behind his back.

There was enough of truth in what Mrs.
Veale had said to make him feel uncomfortable.

It was true that now he was absolute in his
house; but would he reign as independently
when married ? Was not the ox inviting the
gadfly to help to draw the plough ? In going
after the honey, Hke the fox, was he not inviting
stings ?

Langford had suffered great loss from
rabbits. They came out of Chimsworthy plantation
and fell on his turnips, nibbled pieces
out of hundreds, spoiling whole rows, which
when touched rotted with the first frost.
Therefore Mrs. Yeale's allusion to them went
home. Yes! — there were a swarm of human
rabbits threatening, the children from the
cottage. They would all prey on him. He
was inviting them to do so. ' I till for you,' said
the farmer. Confound Mrs. Yeale ! Why was
she so full of saws and likenesses that cut like
knives ? And Charles ! — of course he would
return when he knew that he would not be
prosecuted. How could he be prosecuted
when the brother-in-law of the man he had

robbed ? When he returned, how could he be
kept away, how prevented from further rascality
? A thousand pounds gone ! and he was
not to punish the man who had taken the
money. This was inviting him to come and
rob him again. He did not think much of
what Honor had said of an attachment to some
unknown person. Taverner had never loved,
and knew nothing of love as a passion. He
regarded it as an ephemeral fancy. Every girl
thought herself in love, got over it, and bore
no scars. It would be so with Honor. Presently
he rang for his breakfast. Mrs. Yeale
came in. She saw he was disconcerted, but
she said nothing, till the tray was on the table,
and she was leaving ; then, holding the handle
of the door, she said, ' It is a pity.'

'What is a pity?'

'The hare hunt.'

What of that ? ' he asked angrily.

That it was not put off a month , then changed
to a stag hunt,' she replied, and went through the
door quickly, lest he should knock her down.

Mrs. Veale went to her kitchen, and seated
herself by the fire. She was paler than usual,
and her eyelids banked nervously. There
was work to be done that morning, but she
neglected it.

Her scheme had failed. She had endeavoured
to force Charles Luxmore on to steal
of his master, thinking that this must inevitably
break the connection with the Luxmores. Taverner,
she thought, could not possibly pursue
his intentions when he knew he had been
robbed by Charles. She was disappointed.
What next to attempt she knew not. She was
determined to prevent the marriage if she
could. She had not originally intended to
steal the cash-box, nor, indeed, to rob it of any
of its contents, but she had been forced to take
it, as Charles would not. Now she was given
her dismissal, and if she left, she would take
the money with her. But she had no desire
to leave without further punishment of her
ungrateful master. She had spent fifteen years

VOL. II. P.

in his service. She had plotted and worked and
hed dOl gained any of her ends. She had at
first resolved on making him marry her. When
she found it impossible to achieve this, she
determined to make herself so useful to him,
so indispensable, that he would in his old age
fall under her power, and then, he would leave
her by his will well off. She was now to be
driven out into the cold, after all her labour,
disappointments, to make room for a young girl.
This should not be. If she must go, she would
mar the sport behind her back. If Taverner
Langford would not take her, he should take
none other. If she was not to be mistress in
the house, no young chit of a girl should be.

She stood up and took down from the
chimney-piece a china dog blotched red, and
turning; it over, removed from the inside a
packet of yellow paper.

She was so engrossed in her thoughts that
she did not see that someone had entered the
kitchen by the open backdoor.

I declare ! They'd make a pair ! '

Mrs. Veale started, a shiver ran throiicrh
her from head to foot. She turned, still quivering,
and looked at the speaker. Kate Luxmore
had entered, and stood near the table.

Well, now,' said Kate, * this is curious.
We've got a dog just like that, with long curly
ears, and turns his dear old head to the left,
and you've one with the same ears, and same
colour, turns his head to the right. We'd a
pair once, but Joe broke the fellow. I reckon
you'd a pair once, but your fellow is broke.
'Tis a pity they two dogs should be widowers
and lonely.'

Mrs. Veale stared at her ; Kate had never
been there before. What had brought her
there now ? Were all the Luxmores coming'
to make that their home, even before the
marriage ?

And what have you got there .^ ' pursued
Kate, full of liveliness. ' Why, that is one of
the yellow paper rat-poison packets the man

p 2

sold at the fair. I know it. 'Tis a queer
thing you keeping the poison in the body of
the dog. But I suppose you are right ; no one
woukl think to go there for it.'

What do you Avant here ? ' asked Mrs.
Yeale, hastily replacing the packet and the
dog on the niautel-shelf. ' Why have you
come ? We've had enough of you Luxmores
already. Your brother Charles has played usa
pretty tune, and now your sister's like to
lead a dance.'

I have come for Honor. Is she here ? '

She — no ! She's been gone some time.
Ain't she home ? Perhaps she's walking over
the land, and counting the acres that may be
hers, and prizing the fleeces of the sheep.'

She is wanted. As for Charles, there's
naught proved against him, and till there is, I
won't believe it. I've just had a talk with
someone, and he tells me another tale altogether.
So there — not another word against
poor Charles. He wasn't ever sweet on you,

I can tell you. 'Tis a pity, too, about those
clogs. They're both water-spaniels — what intelligent
eyes they have, and what lovely long
curly ears ! They ought to be a pair some
day.'

I tell you,' said Mrs. Yeale, ' your sister
is not here.'

Our dog,' went on Kate, unabashed, ' don't
belong to father. He is Honor's own. She
had the pair, till Joe knocked one of them
over. Her mother gave it her. 'Tis curious
now that her dog should turn his blessed nose
one way, and this dog should turn his nose the
other way. It looks as if they were made for
each other, which is more than is the case with
some that want to be pairing. A mantel-shelf
don't look as well with a spaniel in the middle
as it do with one at each end. That is, I suppose,
why your master is looking out for a wife.
Well ! I think he'd have matched better with
you than with someone else whom I won't
name. A house with one in it is like a mantelshelf

with one odd dog on it. Does this chimney
ornament belong to you or to the house ? '
Never mind, go your ways. Don't you
think ever to pair them two dogs, nor your
sister and the master. There is a third to be
considered. If one be broken, there is no
pairing. Do y' know what the ash said to the
axe?

"Whether coupled or counter is wisht (unlucky) for me,
My wood makes the haft for to fell my tree.'

CHAPTEE Xxxii.

AMONG THE GORSE.

Where be you going to, Larry ? ' asked his
father. ' I've just seen the Eel Spicier running
Langford way. Take care Uncle Taverner
don't spoke that one away as he tried to spoke
t'other.'

Hearing that Honor was gone over the
moor to Langford, Hillary took that direction,
and, as he had expected, encountered her as
she was returning to her cottage, before she
had left the down.

You are going to give me a quarter of an
hour,' said Larry. I dare say you may be
busy, but I can't spare you till we've had it outwith
each other. I've but one arm now that I

can use, but I'll bar the way with that, if you
attempt to escape me.'

Honor looked at him hesitatingly. She was
hardly prepared for the inevitable trial, then.
She would have liked to defer it. But, on
second thoughts, she considered that it was
best to have it over. Sooner or later, an
explanation must be made, so perhaps it would
be as well for her that day to pass through
all the fires. There on Broadbury, when the
gorse is sealed (burnt), the cattle are driven
through the flames. They plunge and resist,
but a ring of men and dogs encloses them,
armed with sharp stakes, and goad them forward,
and at last, with desperation, lowing,
kicking, leaping, angry and terrified, they
plunge through the flames. Honor thought of
this familiar scene, and that she was herself
being driven on. Sooner or later she must
enter the fire, be scorched, and pass through ;
she would traverse it without further resistance
at once.

I am ready, Larry,' lie said iu a low
voice.

My dear, dear Honor, what ails you ?
You are looking ill, and deadly white I What
is it, Honor ? '

'We all have our troubles, Larry. You
have a broken arm, and I have a breakage
somewhere, but never mind where.'

I do mind,' he said vehemently. ' What
is amiss ? '

You told me, Larry, the night your arm
was hurt, that — your pride had sustained a fall
and was broken.'

So it was.'

So also is mine.'

But what has hurt you ? How is it ?
Explain to me all, Honor.'

Lie shook her head. ' It is not my affair
only. I have others to consider beside myself,
and you must forgive me if my lips are
locked.'

He put his left arm roiuid her, to draw her

to him, and kiss her. ' I will keep the key of
those lips,' he said, but she twisted herself from
his grasp.

You must not do that, Larry

Why not ? We understand each other.
Though we did not speak, that night, our
hearts told each other everything.'

'Larry, do you remember what I said to
you when we were together in the paddock ? '

I remember every word.'

I told you that I regarded you — as a
brother.'

I remember every word but that.'

You have been a friend, a dear friend, ever
since we were children. You were always
thoughtful towards us, my sister and me, when
you thought of nothing else. You were always
kind, and as Charles was away, of late, I came
to think of you as a brother.'

But I, Honor, I never have and never will
consent to regard you as a sister. I love you
more dearly than brother ever loved sister.

I never had one of my own, but I am quite
sure I could not think of one in the way I think
of you. I love you, Honor, with all my heart,
and I respect you and look up to you as the
only person who can make me lead a better life
than I have led heretofore.'

Honor shook her head and sighed. It washer
way to answer by nod or shake rather than
by word.

I have good news to tell you,' he went
on ; ' my father is delighted at the prospect,
and he is nearly as impatient as I am to
have your dear self in Chims worthy.'

I cannot go there,' said Honor in a tone
that expressed the desolation of her heart.

Why not ? '

She hesitated.

Why not, Honor ? When I wish it,
when my father is eager to receive you ? '

Dear Larry,' she said sadly, ' it can
never, never be.'

Come here,' he exclaimed impatiently, and

drew her along with Inn. ' What is the 
of this P I will understand.' Before them
for nearly a mile lay a sheet of gold, a dense
mass of unbroken gorse, in full blaze of flower,
exhaling a nectar eons fragrance in the sun, that
filled the air. So dense were the flowers that
no green spines could be seen, only various
shades of orange and gold and pale yellow.
Through it a path had been reaped, for rabbit-shooters,
and along this Hillary drew her.
The gorse reached to their waists. The fragrance
was intoxicating.

Look here. Honor,' said he, ' look at
this furze. It is like my nature. It is said
that there is not a month in the year in which
it docs not blossom. Sometimes there is only
a golden speck here and there — when the
snow is on the round, not more than a few
flowers, and then one stalk sets fire to another,
as spring comes on, and the whole bush burns
and is not consumed, like that in the desert,
when God spoke to Moses from it. It has

been so with me, Honor. I have always loved
you. Sometimes the prickles have been too
thick, and then there have been but few tokens
of love ; but never, never has the bloom died
away altogether. In my heart, Honor, love
has always lived, and now it is all blazing, and
shining, and full of sweetness.'

Larry,' answered Honor slowly, ' look
here ; ' she put her hand to a gorse bush and
plucked a mass of golden bloom.

Honor ! ' he exclaimed, ' what have you
done .^ ' She opened her hand, it was full of
blood.

'I have grasped the glorious flower,' she
said, ' and am covered with wounds, and
pierced with thorns.'

No — no, dear Honor,' he said, taking lier
hand, removing from it the prickles, and
wiping the blood away with the kerchief that
bound his broken arm. ' There shall be no
thorns in our life together. The thorns will
all go from me when I have you to prune me.

I have been wild and rough, and I dare say I
may have given you pain. I know ti'at I
have. I was angry with you and behaved
badly ; but I was angry only because I loved
you.' Then his pleasant sweet smile broke
over his pale face, and he said in an altered
tone, ' You do not harbour anger, Honor ;
you forgive, dien the offender is repentant.'

She raised her eyes to him, and looked
long and steadily into his.

I forgive you for any little wrong you
may have done me, heartily and wholly. But,
Larry ! I must wrong you in a way in
which I can expect to get no forgiveness from
you.'

That is quite impossible,' he said, smiling.

'Larry, you cannot even dream what my
meaning is. When you know — there will not
be a flower on the furze-bush, the last gold bud
of love will fall off.'

Never, never. Honor ! '

You do not know.'

He was perplexed. What could stand in
the way of her ready acceptance of him, except
his own former bad conduct ?

Honor,' he said, ' I have had some sleepless
nights — these have not been' altogether
caused by my arm — and diu-king the dark hours
I have thought over all my past manner of
life, and I have quite resolved to break with
it. I will no longer be idle. I will no more
boast. I will no more let the girls make a
fool of me. I will work hard on the farm as
any labourer — indeed. Honor, I will work
harder and longer than they. If you mistrust
me, prove me. I deserve this trial. My
father would like you to be his daughter-in-law
at once ; but I know that I do not deserve
you. In the old story, Jacob served fourteen
years for Rachel, and I am not a Jacob — I will
wait, though fourteen years is more than my
patience will bear, still — dear Honor, dear
heart ! — I will wait. I will wait your own
time, I will not say another word to you till

you see that I am keeping my promise, and
am becoming in some little way worthy of you.
I know,' he said in a humble tone, ' that
really I can never deserve you — but I shall
be happy to try and gain your approval, and,
if you do not wish me to say more of my love
till I show you I am on the mend, so shall it
be. I am content. Put on the kerchief when
I am to speak again.'

He stopped, and looked at her. She was
trembling, and her eyes cast down. Now, at
last, the tears had come, and were flowing
from her eyes. One, like a crystal, hung on
her red cloak. Knowing that-he awaited an
answer, she raised her head with an effort,
and looked despairingly right and left, but
saw no help anywhere, only the flare of yellow
blossom flickering through a veil of tears.

0, infinitely sweet, infinitely glorious was
this sight and this outpouring of Larry's heart
to her — but infinitely painful as well — piercing,
wounding, drawing forth blood — like the gorse.

Larry ! ' she said earnestly, ' No — no —
not for one moment do I doubt your word.
I believe everything you say. I could trust
you perfectly. I know that with your promise
would come fulfilment, but — it is not that.'

What is it then ? '

She could not tell him. The truth was too
repugnant to her to think, much less to tell —
and tell to him.

I cannot tell you ; my father, my brothers
and sisters.'

I have thought of that, you dear true
soul,' he interrupted. 'I know that you will
not wish to hurt them. But, Honor, there will
be no desertion. I have only to cut a gap
through the hedge of your paddock, and in
three minutes, straight as an arrow, you can go
from one house to the other. Found by the
road is longer, but when you are at Chatsworth
we'll have a path between; then you
can go to and fro as you like, and the little
ones will be always on the run. You can have

VOL. II. Q

them all in with you when and as long as you
like ; and my father will be over-pleased if your
father will come and keep him company on the
Look-out stone. Since Uncle Taverner and he
have quarrelled father has been dull, and felt
the want of some one to talk to. So you see
all will be just right. Everything comes as
though it were fitted to be as we are going
to make it.'

Again he paused, waiting for her answer.
Whilst he had been speaking lie had worked
herself up to the necessary pitch of resolution
to tell him something — not all, no ! all she
could not tell.

Larry ! it cannot be. I am going to marry
another.'

He stood still, motionless, not even breathing,
gazing at her with stupid wonder. What
she said was impossible. Then a puff" of northwest
wind came from the far ocean, rolling over
the down, gathering the fragrance of the yellow
sea, and condensing it ; then poured it as a

breaking wave over the heads of those two
standing in the lane cut through the golden
trees. And with the odour came a humming,
a low thrilling music, as the wind passed
through the myriad spines beneath the foam of
flower, and set them vibrating as the tongues of
soliman harps. The sweetness and the harmony-were
in the air, all around, only not in the
hearts of those two young people, standing
breast deep in the gorse-brake. The wind
passed, and all was still once more. They
stood opposite each other, speechless. Her hand,
which he had let go, had fallen, and the blood
dropped from it. How long they thus stood
neither knew. He was looking at her ; she
had bent her head, and the sun on her hair
was more glorious than on the gorse flowers.
He would have pierced to the depth of her
soul and read it if he could, but he was baffled.
There was an impenetrable veil over it, through
which he could not see.

You do not — you have not loved me,' he

said with an effort. This was the meaning of
her coldness, her reserve. Then he put out
his left hand and touched her, touched her
lightly on the bosom. That light touch was
powerful as the rod of Moses on the rock in
Horeb. Her self-control deserted her. She
clasped her hands on her breast, and bowed,
and burst into convulsive weeping, which was
made worse by her efforts to arrest it and to
speak.

Hillary said nothing. He was too dazed to
ask for any explanation, too stupefied by the
unexpected declaration that cut away for ever
the ground of his happiness.

She waved her hand. 'Leave me alone.
Go, Larry, go ! I can tell you nothing more !
Let me alone ! Oh, leave me alone, Larry ! '

He could not refuse to obey, her distress
was so great, her entreaty so urgent. Silent,
filled with despair, with his eyes on the ground,
he went along the straight-cut path towards
the road, and nearly ran against Kate.

Oh ! you here ! ' exclaimed the lively girl,
then Honor is not far distant. Where is she ?
What, yonder! and I have been to Langford
to look for her. What is the matters Oh,
fiddlestick ! you have been making yourselves
and each other miserable. There is no occasion
for that till all is desperate, and it is not so yet.
Come along, Larry, back to Honor. I must
see her ; I want to tell her something, and you
may as well be by. You are almost one of the
family.'

She made him follow her. Honor had recovered
her composure when left to herself,
unwatched, and she was able to disguise her
emotions from her sister.

'Oh, Honor! ' exclaimed Kate, 'I have something
to tell you. I think you've been a fool,
and too precipitate — I do indeed, and so
does Sam Voaden. A little while ago I chanced
to go down the lane after some water, when,
curiously enough, Sam was coming along it, and
we had a neighbourly word or two between us.

I told Sam all about Charles, and what Mr.
Langford charged him with.'

'Kate — yoii never — !' gasped Honor in
dismay.

'I did. Why not? Where's the hurt?
Sam swore to me he'd tell no one.'

What is this ? ' asked Hillary.

'Don't you know?' retorted Kate. 'What,
has Honor not told you ? Faith ! there never
was another girl like her for padlocking her
tongue. I'm sure I could not keep from telling.
Sam saw I was in trouble and asked the reason,
and my breast was as full as my pitcher, so it
overflowed. Well, Honor, Sam is not such a
fool as some suppose. He has more sense than
all we Luxmores put together — leastways, than
we had last night. He says he don't believe a
word of it, and that you was to blame for acting
on it till you knew it was true.'

'It is true. I know it is true,' said Honor
disconsolately. ' It is no use denying it.'

But, as Sam said, wdiy act on it till it is

proved? Where is Charles? All you know
is from Taverner Langford, and he is an interested
party ; he may be mistaken, or he may
put things wrong way on wilfully.'

Sto, Kate, no ! You should not have
spoken.'

'But I have spoken. If a pitcher is fill,
will it not run over the brim ? I have been
over-full, and have overflowed. That is nature,
my nature, and I can't help it. No hurt is
done. Sam will not talk about it to anyone ; and
what he says shows more sense than is to be
found in all the nine heads that go under our
cottage roof, wise as you consider yourself,
Honor. Sam says nothing ought to be promised
or done till Charles has been seen and
you have heard what account he can give of
himself.'

His letter, Kate ? '

'Well, what of his letter? He says nothing
about stealing in it — stealing a thousand pounds.
What he says may mean no more than his

running away and leaving nine pence a day for
nothing.'

I am sorry you spoke,' said Honor.

I am glad I spoke,' said Kate sharply. ' I
tell you Sam's brain is bigger than all our nine.
He saw the rights of the matter at once, and —
look here ! — he promised me that he would go
and find Charles if he's gone no further than
Plymouth.'

You told him where he was ! ' exclaimed
Honor, aghast.

Of course I did. I wasn't going to send
him off" searching to Lund Isle or Patagonia.
Well, Sam says that he'll go and find him on
certain conditions ? '

'On what conditions? '

Never mind, they don't concern you, they
are private. And he wants to have a talk with
Larry first ; but Sam says he don't believe
Charles took the money. He's too much of
a Luxmore to act dishonourable, he said.'
Honor was still unconvinced. 'Larry,' continued

Kate, ' will you go at once to Swaddle-down
and see Sam ? '

Yes ; but I understand nothing of what
this is about. You must explain it to me.'

No, Larry, go to Sam — he knows all.'

In after years, when the gorse was flowering
full. Honor said to Larry, ' The honey scent
always brings back to my memory one day.'

Yes,' he replied ; ' the furze is like love,
thorns and flowers ; but the flowers grow, and
swell, and burst, and blaze, and swallow up the
thorns, that none are seen.'

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

THE Visitation.

The amazement of Larry was equalled by his
indignation when he heard from Sam Voaden
the whole story of the charge against Charles,
and of Honor consenting to save him at the
cost of herself. He did not share Sam's confidence
in the groundlessness of the charge ; he
thought Charles quite rascal enough to have
robbed his master and bolted with the money.
Nevertheless he thought that the best thing
that could be done was for Sam to go after
Charles, as he himself could not do so, on
account of his arm and collar-bone; and he
urged on Voaden to use his best endeavours,
if he found Charles, which was doubtful, to

persuade him to return the money, through
Mm, to Langford.

When he finds that he is suspected he
may do that, especially if you threaten to hand
him over to the constables should he refuse.'

I don't believe he ever took it,' said Sam.
I know Charles better than you.'

Hillary was coming away from Swaddle-down,
along the road or lane to Broadbury,
when he met his uncle Taverner, in his Sunday
suit, a hat on his head, walking along lustily,
with a stick in his hand.

Larry stood in the way.

Uncle Taverner,' he said.

Stand aside,' said Langford roughly.

One word.'

Not one ! I have nothing to do with you
or yours. Stand aside that I may pass on.'

I cannot ; I will not ! You are in my
path, not I in yours — that is, in the path of my
life's happiness.'

Langford looked at him interrogatively.

Uncle Langford, I must speak to you.'

'I am busy, I have to go to the church.
It is the rural dean's visitation. I am churchwarden.'


I will not detain you long.'

I will not be detained at all.'

I must speak to you, uncle. You are too
too cruel ! you have come between me and
happiness.'

Get along. Don't think anything you say
will make me leave Langford to you.'

It is not that. I have not given that a
thought. But, Honor '

What of Honor .^ ' asked Taverner sharply,
stopping.

I love her, uncle — I love her with my
whole heart. I always have loved her, more
or less, but now I love her as I can love no
one else.'

Oh, that is it ! ' exclaimed the old man,
bending his brows, and disguising his agitation
and annoyance by striking the stones out of

the road with the end of his stick. ' A boy's
fancy, light as thistle-seed ; and a boy's head is
as full of fancies as a thistle is of seed.'

Nothing of the sort,' said the young man
vehemently. ' There is no one but Honor can
make me what I know I ought to become.
I have never had a mother or a sister to guide
me. I have grown up unchecked, unadvised,
and now I want my dear, dear Honor to help
me to be what I should be, and am not.
Uncle ! you sneer at Chimsworthy because it is
full of docks, and thistles, and rushes, but I am
like that — worthy land, and none but Honor
can weed me. Why do you come cruelly
in between us, and kill her happiness as well
as mine ? Her you cannot make other than
noble and true, but me ! — me, without her you
weill ruin. I must have Honor! I cannot live
without her. Oh, uncle, uncle ! what are you
doing? It is unworthy of you to use poor
Honor's necessity to wring from her her consent.
You know she only gives it to save her

brother. Why, because she is generous, would
you take advantage of her generosity ? '

The lad pleaded with earnestness, vehemence,
and with tears in his voice. Taverner
looked at him, and thought, ' How like he is
to his mother! This is Blandina's face and
Blandina's voice. He is not a Caspian, he is
a Langford.' But he said roughly, 'Pshaw!
let me go by. The rural dean is waiting. Do
not you mistake me for a weathercock to be
turned by every breath. You must get over
your fancy — it is a fancy — or change it to
regard for Honor as your aunt. Do not
attempt to move me. What is settled is
settled.'

As Hillary still interposed himself between
Langford and his course the old man raised his
stick.

Come ! must I strike you ? ' he said angrily.
I've spoken to you more freely than you
deserve. Stand aside. I am not to be turned
from my way by you or any other.'

He went forward headlong, striking about
him with his stick, and was not to be further
stayed. He went, as he said, to the church to
meet the rural dean, but not only because
summoned — he went also to see him as surrogate,
and obtain a marriage hence.

A Langford cannot be married by banns
he said. 'And I'm not going to have everyone
in church sniggering when our names are
called;

As he went along the road, head down,
muttering, the face of Hillary haunted him —
pale with sickness, refined, spiritualised by
suffering, not the suffering of the body but of
the mind. He was strangely like Blandina
in her last sickness, and there were tones in his
voice of entreaty that brought back to Langford
memories of his sister and of his mother.

He arrived at the church before the rector
and the rural dean. The latter was taking refreshment
at the parsonage a mile away. Would
Caspian be there .^ He did not wish to meet

him, but lie would not be away lest it should
be said he had feared to meet him. Caspian
was not there. He had forgotten all about the
visitation.

He wants a deal of reminding said the
clerk, who had unlocked the church. ' He
forgets most things worse than ever since his
stroke.'

Langford disengaged himself from the
clerk and entered the church — a noble building,
of unusual beauty. In the nave at his
feet was a long slate stone, and the name
TAVERNER LANGFORD. He knew very well that
the stone was there, with its inscription and
the date 1635 ; but as he stood looking at
it an uncomfortable feeling came over him,
as if he were standing at the edge of his own
grave. He was alone in the church. The
air was chill and damp, and smelt of decay.
The dry-rot was in the pews. The slates were
speckled, showing that the church roof was the
haunt of bats, who flew about in flights when

darkness set in. If it were cold and damp in
the church, what must it be in the vault below ?
He knew what was there — the dust of many
Langford, one or two old lead coffins crushed
down by their own weight. And he knew
that some day he would lie there, and the
Taverner Langford ' on the stone would apply
to him as well as to his ancestor. How horrible
to be there at nicrht, with the cold eating
him, and the smell of mildew about
him, and the bats fleeting above him ! The
thought made him uneasy, and he went out
of the church into the sunlight, thinking that
he would pay a woman to scour the stone
of the bat-stains which befouled it. He had
never dreamed of doing this before, but when
he considered that he must himself he there, he
took a loathing to the bats, and an indignation
at the vault-covering stone being disfigured by
them.

He walked through the coarse grass to where
his sister was laid. She was not buried in the

VOL. II. K

family vault. Caspian had not wished
it.

The clerk came to him.

Mr. Caspian had a double walled grave
made said the clerk, who was also sexton.
'Folks laughed, I mind, when he ordered it,
and said he was sure to marry again — a fine
lusty man like he. But they were wrong. He
never did. He has bided true to her memory.'

I would never have forgiven him had he
done other,' said Langford.

'I reckon you never forgive him, though
he has not,' said the solemn clerk.

Langford frowned and moved his shoulders
uneasily.

'The grave is cared for,' said he in a
churlish tone.

Young Larry Caspian sees to that,'
answered the clerk. ' If there be no other
good in him there is that — he don't forget
what is due to his mother, though she be
dead.'

Langford put this stick to the letters on the
headstone. 'In loving memory of Blandina
Caspian, only daughter of Moses Langford, of
Langford, gent.' 'Oh!' muttered Taverner,
my father could call himself a gentleman
when he had Chimsworthy as well as Langford,
but I suppose I can't call myself
anything but yeoman on my poor farm.
Blandina should never have married, and then
Chimsworthy would not have gone out of the
family.'

But to whom would both have o-one after
your death, Mr. Langford' asked the clerk.
'twould be a pity if an old ancient family
like yours came to an end, and, I reckon,
some day both will be joined again, by Mr.
Larry.'

No, no ! — no, no ! ' growled Taverner, and
walked away. He saw the rural dean and
the rector coming through the churchyard
gate.

An hour later, Taverner was on his way

R 2

home. He had paid the fee, made the necessary
application, and would receive the licence
on the morrow. It was too late for him
to draw back, even had he been inclined.
Taverner was a proud man, and he was obstinate.
He flattered himself that when he had
once resolved on a thing he always went
through with it ; no dissuasion, no impediments
turned him aside. But he was not easy
in mind as he walked home. Never before
had he seen the family likeness so strong in
Larry ; he had caught an occasional look of
his mother in the boy's face before, but now
that he was ill in mind and body the likeness
was striking. Taverner still laid no great
weight on Larry's expressed attachment for
Honor ; he did not know that love was not a
fiction, and was unable to conceive of it as
anything more than a passing fancy. What
really troubled the old man was the prospect
of disarrangement of his accustomed mode of
life. When he was married his wife would

claim entrance into his parlour, and would
meddle with what he had there, would use
his desk, would come in and out when he
was busy, would talk when he wanted quiet.
A housekeeper could be kept in order by
threat of dismissal, but a wife was tied for life.
Then — how about Larry? He might forbid
him the house, but Avould he keep away?
Would not he insist on seeing his old friend
and companion and love. Honor ? That would
be dangerous to his own peace of mind, might
threaten his happiness. He remembered some
words of Mrs. Yeale, and his blood rushed
through his head like a scalding wave.

When he came to his door Mrs. Yeale
was there. She seemed to know by instinct
his purpose in going to Bratton.

Have you got it, master ? ' she asked
with husky voice and fluttering eyelids.

Got what ? '

What you went to get — the licence.'

'It is coming by post tomorrow. Are

you satisfied ? ' he asked, sneering, and with
a glance of dislike.

A corpse4ight came up the lane and
danced on the doorstep last night,' said Mrs.
Yeale. ' And you are thinking of marrying !
I'd better have left things as they were," said
the man who scalded his dog to clear it of
fleas. The spider spread for a fidget and
caught a hornet. " Marry come up," said the
mote (tree-stump), " I Avill wed the flame ; " so

she took him, embraced him, and ' Mrs.

Yeale stooped to the hearth, took up a handful
of light wood-ash, and blew it in her master's
face from her palm, then said, ' Ashes, remain.'

The ensuing night the house was disturbed.
Taverner Langford was ill, complaining of
violent sickness, cramps, and burning in the
throat. He must have a doctor sent for from
Okehampton.

Get a doctor's foot on your floor and he
leaves his shoes,' said Mrs. Yeale. ' No, wait till
morning. If you're no better then we will send.'

Go out of my room,' shouted Taverner to
the farm men and maids who had crowded in.
His calls and hammering with the stick had
roused everyone in the house. ' Do you think
I am going to die because I'm took with
spasms ? Mrs. Yeale is enough. Let her
remain.'

I reckon I caught a chill standing in the
damp church with the smell of the vaults in
my nose,' said Taverner, sitting in this chair
and groaning. ' I felt the cold rise.'

It is waiting,' remarked Mrs. Yeale.

What is waiting .? ' he asked irritably.

The corpse-candle ; I see it on the doorstep.
And you that should be considering to
have the bell tolled ordering a wedding peal !
Those who slide on ice must expect falls,
and elephants mustn't dance on tight-ropes.
Rabbits that burrow in bogs won't have dry
quarters. The fox said, " Instead of eating I
shall be eaten," when, seeking a hen-roost, he
walked into a kennel.'

CHAPTEE Xxxi.

A WARNING.

The day was wet ; a warm south-westerly wind
was breathing, not blowing, and its breath was
steam, a steam that condensed into minute
water-drops. The thatch was dripping. The
window panes were blind with shiny films of
moisture. There had been dry weather for
the haysel, glorious weather, and now, just
when wanted, the earth was bathed in a cloud.
It would be inaccurate to say that it rained.
It rained only under the eaves and beneath the
trees ; the earth was taking a vapour bath.

Honor and Kate were in the cottage, basket-weaving.
The children were at school. No
wet dismays the Devonian, but east wind

throws him on his back, and he shrivels with
frost. Kate had recovered her spirits marvellously
since her interview with Sam Voaden.
She had a buoyant heart ; it was like a cork in
water, that might be pressed under, but came
up with a leap again. She felt keenly for the
time, but wounds speedily healed with her.
It was other with Honor ; she remained depressed,
pale, thin looking, and silent. She
said nothing to her sister about Hillary. Kate
had some glimmering idea that Honor liked
the young man, but did not suppose that there
was more in her heart than a king. But
Kate, though she dearly loved her sister, was
somewhat in awe of her. She never ventured
to peer into her soul, and she understood
nothing of what went on there. Honor was
scrupulous, precise, close ; and Kate, though a
good-hearted, true girl, was not close, but open,
not precise, but careless, and ready to stretch
a point of conscience to suit her pleasure.
Kate, in the presence of Honor, was much like

an mathematical boy set over a problem in
Euclid. She was sure that all was very true
in Honor's mind, but also that the process
by which it arrived at its conclusions was
beyond her understanding. Honor possessed,
what is the prerogative of few women, a just
mind. Forced by her position into dividing
between the children who looked up to her,
obliged to consider their complaints against
each other in petty quarrels from opposite
sides, and of deciding equably, she had acquired
breadth and fairness and self-restraint,
against action upon impulse. Kate was eager
to take side?, and was partial ; Honor never.
She was always disposed to consider that there
was something to be said on the side opposed
to that first presented to her, and was cautious
not to pronounce an opinion till she had heard
both sides. This Kate could not understand,
and she regarded her sister as wanting in
warmth and enthusiasm.

No news yet from Sam,' said Kate. ' That

is odd. I thought we should have known at
once about Charles.'

How could that be ? Plymouth is a large
place, and Sam Oaten will not know Adhere
to look. It is even possible that Charles may
have sailed.'

'If he has sailed you need not be tied to
old Langford — that is, not unless you like.'

I have passed my word. I cannot withdraw.'


Fiddlestick-ends I You only promised on
condition that Mr. Langford would not proceed
against Charles.'

He has not proceeded.'

He can't — if Charles is out of England.'

But he might have done so the day he
discovered his loss, before Cliarles got away.
I gave my word to prevent his taking immediate
action, and so Charles had time to make
his escape from the country.'

Taverner Plan oxford had no rio-ht to ask it
of you.'

He did ask it, and I gave my word. I
cannot withdraw now. That would not be
fair and right.'

Kate shrugged her shoulders. ' I should
pay him out in his own coin.'

Like Charles at the circus .^ '

Kate coloured. ' That was another matter
altogether. Mr. Langford had no right
to put such a price on his forbearance.
Besides, I don't believe in Charles's guilt.
Sam does not, and, thick as some folks think
Sam, he has as much brains as are wanted to
fill a large skull, and these of first quality.
Sam can see into a millstone.'

Yes, Kate, but what is in a millstone ? —
the same as outside.'

Sam says that he knows Charles is innocent.'


What reasons does he give ? '

Oh, none at all. I did not ask for
any. He thinks it, that is enough forme.'


He thinks it, now ; tie knows it, a minute
ago.'

'I am quite sure that Charles never took
the money.'

'Why?'

'There you are again with your "whys."
Because Sam says it.'

'Yes, dear Kate, Sam is a good-hearted
fellow, who will not think badly of anyone,
and he supposes others are as straightforward
as himself.'

You have a dozen splendid reasons for
thinking Charles a thief, and not one of them
convinces me. 1 don't know why, except that
Sam is so positive ; but I will scratch all the
silver off my looking-glass if I am wrong.
Charles did not take the money.'

Honor said no more. It was useless arguing
with Kate, and nothing was gained if she did
convince her. The girls worked on for a few
minutes in silence ; then Kate burst out with,
'After all, I do not see anything so dreadful

in becoming Mrs. Langford. One cannot have
everything. Taverner has not the youth and
looks of — say Sam Voaden, but Sam Voaden
has no money of his own, and Mr. Langford
can roll in money when his back itches. Langford
is a very fine property still, and the
house is first-rate. If I take Sam at any time —
I don't say I shall — I shall have to put up
with poverty. If you take Taverner Langford
you must put up with ugliness. You can't
catch herring and hake at one fishing.' Then
she burst into a ringing laugh.

It will be worth while marrying him only
for the fun of making Larry Caspian call you
aunt.' Honor winced, but Kate was too
tickled by the idea to observe her sister's
face.

When is it to be, Honor .? It is mean of
you to be so secret about the day. I am your
sister, and I ought to know.'

I only do not tell you because you cannot
keep a secret, and I wish no one to know till

all is over. Some morning when nothing is expected,
it ' She shivered and turned her

face to the wall.

I will not blab. I ^vill not, indeed,
dear.'

Some day this week. Well, if you must
know, Thursday. Pray be secret ; you will
only add to my pain, my shame, if it be known,
and a crowd of the curious be assembled to see.
He also wished it to be kept from getting wind.
Indeed, he insisted.'

I don't like a marriage without smart
dresses and bridesmaids. Who is to be best
man ? I don't believe old Taverner has a
friend anywhere. Why — Honor, he'll be my
brother-in-law. That is a strange prospect.
We'll come up to Langford and see you
every day, that you may not be dull. What
are you going to do with Mrs. Veale ? You
are surely not going to keep her ! Do you
know, Honor, in the kitchen is a darling china
spaniel, just like ours yonder on the mantelpiece,

and he turns his head the opposite way
to ours. I'm really glad you are going to
marry Mr. Langford, because then the dogs
will make a pair. They look so desolate, one
here and the other there ; they are ordained to
keep company.' Honor said nothing ; she let
her sister rattle on without paying heed to her
tattle.

Honor,' said Kate, ' do you know whence
Charles got the notion of putting the five-pound
note under the dog ? Guess.'
I cannot guess. It does not matter.'
'Yes, it does matter. Charles got the
notion from sweet Mrs. Yeale. When I was
at Langford looking for you, I saw that she
used the dog as a place for putting things
away that must not lie about. If you turn one
of these china dogs on end, you will see that
they are hollow. Well, Mrs. Veale had
stuffed a packet of rat poison into the dog.
You remember the man at the Eevel who sold
hones and packets of poison for mice and rats ?

Do you not recollect the board above his table
with the picture on it of the vermin tumbling
about as if drunk, and some lying on their
backs dead ? All his packets were in yellow
paper with a picture on them in small like
that on the board. It does not seem right tolet
poison lie about. I should lock it up if I
had it ; but Mrs. Veale is unlike everyone else
in her appearance and in her talk, and, I
suppose, in her actions. She keeps the yellow
paper of rat-poison in the body of the china
spaniel. I saw her take it thence, and stow it
in there again. The place is not amiss. Sto
one would dream of looking there for it.
Who knows? Perhaps Mrs. Veale keeps her
money in the same place. Charles may have
seen that, and when he came here, and wanted
to give us five pounds and escape thanks, he
put it under the dog. That is reasonable, is it
not. Honor ? ' Honor did not answer. *

I declare ! ' exclaimed Kate impatiently.
You have not been attending to what I said.'

VOL IT. • S

Yes, I have. Kate.'

What was 1 saying ? Tell me if you
can.'

You said that Mrs. Yeale kept her money
in a china dog on the chimneypiece.'

No, I did not. I said she kept rat-poison
there in a yellow paper.'

Yes, Kate, so you did. She hides the
poison there lest careless hands should get hold
of it.'

I am glad you have had the civility to
listen. You seemed to me to be in a dream.
I don't think, after all. Honor, but for Sam,
that I should mind being in your place. It
must be an experience as charming as new to
have money at command. After all, an old
man in love is led by the nose, and you, Honor,
he must love, so you can take him about, and
make him do exactly what you want. I
almost envy you. Where is father? '

Gone to see Prize, the shoemaker. I had
a pair of shoes ordered from him two months

ago, and father has gone to see if they are
done. I shall want them on Thursday.'

Father is quite pleased at the idea of your
marriage. I know he is. He makes sure of
getting Coombe Park. He says that Mr. Langford
will lend the money ; and he expects
grand days when we get our own again.
Father don't believe any more in Cliarles being
guilty, after I told him Sam's reasons.'

What reasons ? '

Well, I mean assertions. Does father know
the day on which you are to be married ? '

No, Kate. Mr. Langford wished him not
to be told. Father is so obliging, so good-natured,
that if anyone were to press him to
tell, he could not keep the secret, so we thought
it best not to let him know till just at the last.'

'Won't father be proud when you are at
Langford! Wliy, the van will not contain
all his self-importance. To have his eldest
daughter married into one of the best and
oldest families of the neidibom^iood, to be

planted in the best lions — after Squire
Impey's — in the parish ! My dear Honor !
an idea strikes me. Shall I throw myself at
Squire Impey's head ? Father would go stark
mad with pride if that were so — that is, if I succeeded.
And if he got Coombe back, we three
woidd rule the parish. We might all three
become feoffees of Coryndon's Charity, and pass
the land round among us. That would be
grand ! Honor ! what is to be done with Mrs.
Veale? I cannot abide the woman. It was a
queer idea, was it not, putting the rat-poison
in the china dog ? '

All at once Kate looked up. 'My dear
Honor, talk of somebody that shall be nameless,
and he is sure to appear.' She spoke in a
whisper, as Mrs. Yeale came from the steps in
at the door. She had a dark cloak thrown
over her pale cotton dress. She stood in the
doorway blinking nervously.

Honor stood up, jut her light work aside,
and, with her usual courtesy to all, went

towards her. ' Do you want me, Mrs. Yeale ?
Will you take a clair ? '

No, I will not sit clown. So ' — lie looked
about — ' you will go from a hovel to a mansion
! At least, so you expect. Take care !
Take care, lest, in trying to jump into the
saddle, you jump over the horse.'

Honor moved a chair towards the woman.
Kate looked curiously at her. The pale, faded
creature stood looking about her in an inquisitive
manner. ' I've come with a message,' she
said. 'You are very set on getting into
Langford, eh? Oh, Langford is a palace to
this cottage.'

Honor did not answer. She drew up her
head, and made no further offer of a seat.
What is your message ? ' she asked coldly.
But Kate fired up in her sister's defence, and,
tossing her head, said, 'Don't you suppose,
Mrs. Veale, that Honor, or my father, or I, or
Joe, or any of us think that a prize has been
drawn in your master. Quite the other way —

lie is in luck. He don't deserve what he has
got, for Honor is a treasure.'

What message have you brought ? ' asked
Honor again.

The vindictiveness against the girl seemed
to have disappeared from the woman — at least,
she did not look at Honor with the same malevolent
glance as formerly ; and, indeed, she was
not now so full of hate against her as anger
against Langford — the deadlier passion had obscured
the weaker.

What is the message ? ' she repeated.

Oh, this : You and your father are to
come up to Langford as soon as you can.
Lawyer Physick be there and waiting.' Then,
with quivering voice and eyelids, and trembling
hands thrust through her black cloak,
I — I be sent wi' this message. He had the
face to send me ! Him that I've served true,
and followed as a hound these fifteen years,
turns against me now, and drives me from
his door ! Look here, Miss Honor Luxmore ! '

Lie held up her long white finger before
her face. ' I've snowed a man as had a dog,
and that dog wi' ill-treatment went mad, and
when the dog were mad lie bit her master,
and he died.' She blinked and quivered, and
as she quivered the water-drops flew off her
cloak over the slate floor, almost as if a poodle
had shaken himself. ' Take care ! ' she said
again, ' take care ! The man that kicks at me
won't spare you. Take care, I say again. Be
warned against him. " I've given you his message,
but don't take it. Don't £fo to Labors

' Co

ford. Let Lawyer Physick go away. The
licence has come. Let it oho to li^dit a fire.
Make no use of it. Stay where you are, and let
the master find he's been made a fool of. Best
so ! In the hitting of nails you may hammer
your knuckles. I've served him fifteen years
as if I were his slave, and now he bids me
pack. " I should have thought of my thatch
before I fired my chimney," said the man who
was burnt out of house and home.'

Go back to Langford, and say that my
father and I will be there shortly.'

Then take the consequences.' Mrs. Yeale's
eyes for a moment glittered like steel, then
disappeared under her winking white lashes.
She turned and left the cottage, muttering,
When the owl hoots look out for sorrow.
When the dog bays he smells death, and I am
his dog — and, they say, his blinking owl.'

CHAPTEE Xxxii.

A SETTLEMENT.

Oliver Luxmore entered shortly after Mrs.
Yeale liacl left. ' Prize promises the shoes by
Monday,' he said.

Then Honor told him that he and she
were awaited at Land-ford, and she went
upstairs to get herself ready. In the corner of
her room was an old oak box, in Which
she kept her clothes and few treasures. She
opened it, and took out the red cloak, her best
and brightest pair of red stockings. Then she
touched the paper that contained the kerchief
Larry had given her. Should she wear it?
No ; that she could not wear, and yet she felt
as if to have it crossed over her bosom would

give it v/armtli and strength. She opened the
paper and looked at the white silk, with its
pretty moss-rose buds and sprigs of forget-me-not.
A tear fell from her eye on it. She
folded it up again, and put it away.

Presently she came downstairs, dressed to
go with her father. On Sundays she wore a
straw bonnet with cherry coloured ribbons in
it, but now that the air was full of moisture she
could not risk her pretty bows in the wet.
She would draw the hood of her scarlet cloak
over her head.

Neither she nor her father spoke much on
the way to Langford. He was, as Kate had
said, not ill-pleased at the alliance — indeed, but
for the trouble about Charles, he would have
been exultant.

Honor had been brought to accept what
was best for her and for all the family at last.
Oliver had easily accepted Kate's assertion that
Charles was innocent, but he would not maintain
the innocence of Charles before Honor,

lest it should cause her to draw back from lier
engagement.

Even on a fine day, with the sun streaming
in at the two windows, Langford's parlour was
not cheerful. It was panelled with deal,
painted slate-grey ; the mouldings were coarse
and heavy. There were no curtains to the
windows, only blinds, no carpet on the floor,
and the furniture was stiff, the chairs and sofa
covered with black horsehair. What was in
the room was in sound condition and substantial,
but tasteless. Even the table was bare of
cover. Till Honor entered in her scarlet cloak
there was not a speck of pure colour in the
room. She removed her cloak, and stood in a
dark gown, somewhat short, showing below ita
strip of red petticoat and her red stockings.
Found her neck was a white handkerchief, of
cotton, not of silk.

Mr. Physick and Langford were at the table ;
they were waiting, and had been expecting them.
Both rose to receive her and her father, the

first with effusion, the latter with some embarrassment.


What is the matter with you, sir ? ' asked
the carrier of Taverner Langford. ' You don't
look yourself to-day.'

I've been unwell,' answered the yeoman.
I had to be down at the church t'other day to
meet the rural dean, as I'm churchwarden, and
Caspian is too lazy to act; I heated myself
with walking, and I had an encounter with the
young Merry Andrew on the way.' He glanced
at Honor, but she neither stirred nor raised her
eyes from the table. ' Some words passed. He
was impudent, and I nigh on thrashed him. I
would have chastised him, but that he had a
broken arm. My blood was up, and I had to
stand in the damp church, and I reckon I got
a chill there. I was taken bad in the night,
and thought I must die — burning pains and
cramps, but it passed off. I'm better now. It
was an inflammation, but I'm getting right
again. I have to be careful what I eat, that is

all. Slops — slops. I wouldn't dare touch
that,' said he, pointing to a brandy bottle beside
the lawyer. ' It would feed the fire and kill me.'

My opinion is that the affection is of the
heart, not of the stomach,' laughed Physick,
and when I look at Miss Honor I'm not surprised
at the burning. Enough to set us all inflames,
eh, Langford ? Heartburn, man, heartburn
! — nothing worse than that, and now
you're going to take the best medicine to cure
that disorder.'

Not that at all,' said Taverner surlily. ' J
caught a chill across me standing waiting in
the church at the visitation ; I felt the cold and
damp come up out of the vault to me. I was
taken ill the same night.'

You've a nice house here,' said the lively
Physick, ' a little cold such a day as this, with
the drizzle against the windows, but — love will
keep it warm. What do you think. Miss
Honor, of the nest, eh ? Lined with wool, eh ?
well, money is better than wool.'

Honor measured him with a haughty glance,
and Physick, somewhat disconcerted, turned
to the carrier and Mr. Langford to discuss
business.

Honor remained standing, cold, composed,
and resolute, but with a heart weaker than
her outward appearance betokened. ' Come,'
said Physick, ' next to the parson I'm the
most necessary workman to hammer the chain.
The parson can do something for the present,
I for the future. If you will listen to
the settlement, you won't grumble at my
part. Little as you may think of me, I've
had your interests in eye. I've taken care of
you.'

You have done nothing but what I have
bid you,' said Taverner roughly. ' Oliver
Luxmore and I talked it over before you, and
you have written what we decided.'

Oh, of course, of course ! ' exclaimed
Physick, ' but there are two ways of doing a
thing. A slip of the pen, a turn of expression,

and all is spoiled. I've been careful, and I do
consider it hard that the parson who blesses the
knot should be allowed to claim a kiss, and
the lawyer who plaits it should not be allowed
even to ask for one.' He glanced at Taverner
and Oliver and winked.

Certainly, certainly,' said the carrier.

Come,' said Langford, ' to business. I Avant
her ' — he pointed with his elbow at Honor —
to see what I have done. I'm a fair man, and
I want her to see that I have dealt generously
by her, and to know if she be content.'

I have asked you for one thing, ]Mr.
Langford, and that you have refused. I must
needs be content with whatever you have
decided for me, but I care for nothing else.'

Listen, listen, Honor, before you speak,'
said Oliver Luxmore. 'I have considered your
interests as your father, and I think you will
say that / also have dealt handsomely by
you.'

You, dear father ! ' She wondered what

he could have done, he who had nothing, who
was in delft.

Head,' said Luxmore, and coughed a self-complacent,
important cough.

The settlement was simple. It provided
that in the event of Honor becoming a widow,
in accordance with a settlement made in the
marriage of Moses Langford and Blandina Hill,
the father and mother of Taverner Langford, the
property should be charged to the amount of
seventy-five pounds to be levied annually, and
that, in the event of issue arising from the
contemplated marriage, in accordance with the
afore-mentioned settlement the property was to
go to the eldest son, charged with the seventy-live
pounds for his mother, and that every other
child was, on its coming of age, to receive one
hundred pounds, to be levied out of the estate.
And it was further agreed between Taverner
Langford and OHver Luxmore that, in the event
of the latter receiving the estates of the Lux-more
family, named Coombe Park, in the parish

of Bratton Clovelly and other, lie, the said
Oliver lAixmore, should pay to Taverner Langford,
the husband of his daughter, the sum of
five hundred pounds to be invested in the three
per cents, for the benefit of the said Honor
Langford, alias Luxmore. during her lifetime,
and to her sole use, and with power of disposal
by will. This was the stipulation Oliver had
made ; he insisted on this generous offer beini]^
accepted and inserted in the marriage contract.
Honor listened attentively to every word. She
was indifferent what provision was made for
herself, but she hoped against conviction that
Langford would bind himself to do something
for her father. Instead of that her father had
bound himself to pay five hundred pounds in
the improbable event of his getting Coombe
Park. Poor whither ! poor father !

You have done nothing of what I asked
said Honor.

I have no wish to act ungenerously,'
answered Taverner. ' Your request was .

II. T

reasonable ; however, I have acted fairly, I
have promised to advance your father a hundred
pounds to assist him in the prosecuting of his
claims.'

'There,' said Oliver Luxmore, 'you see.
Honor, that your marriage is about to help
the whole family. We shall come by our
rio-its at last. We shall recover Coombe
Park.'

Then Taverner went to the door and called
down the passage, ' Mrs. Yeale ! Come here !
You are wanted to witness some signatures.'

The housekeeper came, paler, more trembling
than usual, with her eyes fluttering, but
with sharp malignant gleams flashing out of
them from under the white throbbing lashes.

I be that nervous,' she said, ' and my hand
shakes so I can hardly write.'

She stooped, and indeed her hand did
tremble. 'I'm cooking the supper,' she said,
« you must excuse the apron.' As she wrote she
turned her head and looked at her master. He

was not observing her, and the lawyer was indicating
the place where she was to write and was
holding down the sheet, but Honor saw the look
full of deadly hate, a look that made her heart
stand still, and the thought to spring into her
brain, ' That woman ought not to remain in the
house another hour, she is dangerous.'

When Mrs. Veale had done, she rose, put
her hands under her apron, curtsied, and said,
May I make so bold as to ask if that be the
master's weill ? '

No, it is not,' said Langford.

Thank you, sir,' said Mrs. Veale, curtseying
again. ' You'll excuse the liberty, but if it
had been, I'd have said, remember I've served
your honour these fifteen years faithful as a
dog, and now in my old age I'm kicked out,
though not past work.'

She curtsied again, and went backward out
of the room into the passage.

Langford shut, slammed the door in her
face.

'Is the woman a little touched here?'
asked the lawyer, pointing to his forehead.

Oil no, not a bit, only disappointed. She
has spent fifteen years in laying traps forme,
and I have been wise enough to avoid
them all.' Then he opened the door suddenly
and saw her there, in the dark passage,
her face distorted with passion and her fist
raised.

Mrs. Yeale,' said the yeoman, ' lay the
supper and have done with this nonsense.'

I beg your pardon,' she said, changing her
look and making another curtsey, ' was it the
marriage settlement now ? I suppose it was. I
wish you every happiness, and health to enjoy
your new condition. Health and happiness !
I'm to leave, and that young chick to take my
place. May she enjoy herself. And, Mr.
Langford, may you please, as long as you live,
to remember me.'

Go along ! Lay the table, and bring in
supper.'

What will you please to take, master ? '
asked the woman in an altered tone.

Bring me some broth. I'll take no solids.
I'm not right yet. For the rest, the best you
have in the house.'

Mrs. Veale laid the table. The lawyer,
Langford, the carrier, and Honor were seated
round the room, very stiffly, silent, watching
the preparations for the meal.

Presently Honor started up. She was unaccustomed
to be Awaited upon, incapable of
remaining idle.

I will go help to prepare the supper,' she
said, and went into the passage.

This passage led directly from the front
door through the house to the kitchen. It was
dark ; all the light it got was from the front
door, or through the kitchen when one or
other door was left open. Originally the front
door had opened into a hall or reception room
with window and fireplace ; but Taverner had
battened off the passage, and converted the old

hall into a room where lie kept saddles and
bridles and other things connected with the
stables. By shutting off the window by the
partition he had darkened the passage, and
consequently the kitchen door had invariably
to be left open to light it. In this dark passage
stood Honor, looking down it to the kitchen
which was full of light, whilst she pinned up
the skirt of her best gown, so as not to soil it
whilst engaged in serving up the supper. As
she stood thus she saw Mrs. Yeale at the fire
stirring the broth for her master in an iron
saucepan. She put her hand to the mantelshelf,
took down the china dog, and Honor saw her
remove from its inside a packet of yellow
paper, empty the contents into the pan, then
burn the paper and pour the broth into a bowl.
In a moment Kate's story of the rat poison in
the body of the dog recurred to Honor, and
she stood paralysed, unable to resolve what todo.
Then she recalled the look cast at Taverner
by Mrs. Yeale as she was signing the settlement

as witness. Honor reopened the parlour door,
went into the room adam she had just left, and
seated herself, that she might collect her
thoughts and determine what to do. Kate
was not a reliable authority, and it was not
judicious to act on information given by her
sister without having proved it. Honor had
seen Mrs. Veale thrust the yellow paper into
the flames inter the pot. She could not therefore
be sure by examination that it was the
rat-poison packet. Lie remained half in a
dream whilst the supper was laid, and woke
With a start when Taverner said, ' Come to
table all, and we will ask a blessing.'

Honor slowly drew towards the table ; she
looked round. Mrs. Yeale was not there ;
before Taverner stood the steaming bowl of
soup.

Land-ford murmured o-race, then said, ' Fall
to. Oliver Luxmore, you do the honours. I
can't eat, I'm forced to take slops. But I'm
better, only I must be careful' He put his

spoon into the basin, and would have helped
himself, had not Honor snatched the bowl
away and removed it to the mantelshelf.

You must not touch it,' she said. '- 1 am
not sure — I am afraid — I would not accuse
wrongfully — it is poisoned.'

CHAPTER XXXVII.

A BOWL OF BROTH.

The words were hardly out of Honor's mouth
before the party were surprised by a noise
of voices and feet in the kitchen, and a cry as
of dismay or fear. A moment after the tramp
was in the passage the parlour door was flung
open, and Sam Oaten, Hillary Caspian and
his father. Piper, Charles Luxmore, and Mrs.
Veale came in, the latter gripped firmly by
Piper and Charles.

Here I am,' said young Luxmore, with his
usual swagger, and with some elation in his
tone, ' here I am, come to know what the deuce
you mean, Mr. Langford, charging me — a gentleman
— not to the face but behind the back,

with stealing your money ? Look here, Sam,
produce the box. There is your cash — whether
right or not I cannot say. I have taken none
of it. I did not remove the case. Tell 'em
where you found it, Sam.'

I found it in Weldon's Mound,' said the
young man appealed to. ' I've been to
Plymouth after Charles. I didn't believe he
was a thief, but I'd hard matter to find him.
Howsomever, I did in the end, and here hebe.
He came along ready enough. He was
out of money — wanted to go to America, but
had not the means of paying his passage, and
not inclined to work it.'

I've lost a finger,' exclaimed Charles.
How could I work, maimed as I am ? — a
wounded soldier without a pension I That is
shameful of an ungrateful country.'

He took on badly,' continued Sam, ' when
I told him that Mr. Langford said he had
stolen his cashbox with a thousand pounds.'

I'm a Luxmore of Coombe Park,' said

Charles, drawing himself up. ' I'm not one of
your vulgar thieves, not I. Mrs. Veale did her
best to tempt me to take it, but I resisted it
manfully At last I ran away, afraid lest she
should over-persuade me and get me into trouble,
when I saw she had actually got the box. I
ran away from Mrs. Veale, and because nine-pence
a day wasn't sufficient to detain me. I
wasn't over-sure neither that I hadn't, against
my intention, broke the neck of Larry
Caspian. Now 3'ou know my reasons, and
they're good in their way. Mrs. Veale, there,
is a regular bad un.'

As soon as Sam returned with Charles,'
said Larry, ' they came on direct to Chatsworth,
and then Charles told us the whole
tale, how Mrs. Veale had shown him where Mr.
Langford kept his money, then how she'd
enticed him out on the moor to Weldon's Cairn,
and had let him see that she had carried off the
box and had concealed it there. Charles told
us that it was then that he ran away, and

frightened my horse so that I was thrown and
injured.'

There was nothing ungentlemanly or un
soldierlike in my cutting away,' exclaimed
Charles. ' Adam was beguiled by Eve, and I
didn't set myself up to be a better man than
my great forefather. I'd like to know which
of the company would like to be fondled by
Mrs. Veale, and made much of, and coaxed to
run away with hers She's a bad un. It
wasn't like I should reciprocate.'

When we had heard the story,' continued
Larry, ' I persuaded my father and Mr. Piper,
who was at our house, to come along with us
and see the whole matter cleared up. We
went immediately to Weldon's Cairn, and found,
as Charles Luxmore said we should, a stone
box or coffin, hidden in the hill, with bushes of
heather and peat over the hole. That we
cleared away, and were able to put our hands
in, and extracted from the inside this iron case.
It is yours, is it not, Mr. Langford .^ '

He put the caslibox on the table, taking it
into this left hand from his father.

Taverner went to it and examined it.
Yes,' he said slowly, ' this is the stolen box.'

'The lock is uninjured, it is fast,' said
Charles ; ' but I can tell you how to open it.
"Ebal" is the word this year, and "Onam" was
last year's word. Try the letters of the lock and
the box will fly open. I know ; Mrs. Veale
told me. A regular bad un she be, and how
she has corrected me the time I've been here !
at nine pence, and Mrs. Veale not even good-looking.'


How about the five-pound note .^ ' asked
Langford, looking hard at Charles from under
his contracted heavy brows. ' You can't deny
you had that.'

Wliat five-pound notes — what five-pouiid
note have I had from you ? '

The note you gave us, Charles,' explained
his father.

'Oh, that. Did it come from your box?

I did not know it ; Mrs. Veale gave it me.
Now, don't you lower at me that way ! ' This
was to the housekeeper, who had turned her
white, quivering face towards him. 'Now
don't you try to wriggle or shiver yourself out
of my hold, for go you don't ; as you couldn't
catch me, I've caught you, and to justice I'll
bring you ; a designing, harassing, sweethearts
old female, you be ! ' He gripped her so
hard that she exclaimed with pain. ' And to
lay it on me when I was gone ! To make out
I — that am innocent as the anselm in heaven —
was a thief! And I, a Luxmore of Coombe
Park, and a hero of the Afghan War ! — I, that
carried off the sandal-wood gates of Sonata !
I, a thief ! I, indeed ! Mrs. Veale gave me,
off and on, money when I was short — I wasn't
very flush on nine pence a day. A man of my
position and bringing up and military tastes
can't put up well with nine pence. I only
accepted her money as a loan ; and when she
let me have a five-pound note, I gave her a

promise to pay for it when I came into my
property. How was I to know that five pound
was not hers ? I suppose, by the way you ask,
it was not ? '

No,' said Langford, ' it was not ; it was
taken from, my box.'

'That is like her — a bad un down to the
soles of her feet. Wanted to mix me up with
it and have evidence against me. I reckon I've
turned the tables on the old woman — considerably.'


What do you say to this ? ' asked Taverner,
directing his keen eyes on lier face. She was
flickering so that it was impossible to catch her
eyes. Her face was as though seen through
the hot air over a kiln.

'I've been in sour service fifteen years,'
she said, in a voice as vibrating as the muscles
of her countenance. ' I've been treated by you
no better than a dog, and I've followed you,
and been true to you as a dog. Whenever
did I take anything from you before ? I've

watched for you against the mice that eat the
corn, watcliecl like an owl ! '

You acknowledge this ? '

What is the good of denying it ? Let me
go. for my fifteen years' faithful duty.'

Xo, no,' said Taverner with a hard voice.
Not yet ; I've something more to ask. Honor
Luxmore, what did you say when you took
my bowl of broth from me ? ' Honor drew back.

I spoke too hastily,' she said. ' I spoke
without knowing.'

You said that the bowl contained poison.
Why did you say that ? '

It was fancy. Let me throat the broth
away. I am sure of nothing.' Unlike her
usual decision. Honor was now doubtful what
to say and do.

I insist on knowing. I made a charge
against your brother, and it has proved false,
because it has been gone into. You have
made a charge '

'I have charged no one.'

Soli have said that this bowl ' — he took it
from the shelf — 'is poisoned. Why did you
say that ? Iso one touched it, no one mixed it,
but Mrs. Yeale. Therefore, when you said it
was poisoned, you charged her with a dreadful
crime ; you charged her, that is, with an attempted
crime

I heard my sister say that she saw a yellow
packet of rat-poison in the china dog on the
shelf in the kitchen,' said Honor nervously,
which — I do not mean the dog — I mean the
poison, which Mrs. Veale had bought at the
Eevel, and when I was in the passage just now
I saw Mrs. Veale put the contents of this
packet into the broth she was stirring on the
fire, before pouring it out into the basin, in
which it now is. But,' continued Honor,
drawing a long breath, ' but Kate is not very
accurate ; she sometimes thinks she sees a
thing when she has only imagined it, and she
talks at random at times, just because she
likes to talk.'

VOL. II. u

It was mace,' said Mrs. Veale.

Follow me,' ordered Taverner Langford,
taking the basin between his hands, and going
to the door. 'Let her go. She will follow
me.'

I've followed at your heel as a dog these
fifteen years,' muttered Mrs. Veale, ' and now
you know I must follow till you kick me away.'

Charles, however, would not relinquish his
hold.

'Don't let her escape,' entreated Charles;
she's a bad un, and ought to be brought to
justice for falsely charging me.'

Open the door, will you ? ' said Taverner
roughly. 'Mrs. Veale, follow me into the
harness-room ' — this was the room on the other
side of the passage, the room made out of the
entrance hall.

Charles drew the woman through the door,
and did not relax his hold till he had thrust
her into the apartment where Langford wished
to speak to her alone.

Taverner and she were now face to face
without witnesses. The soft warm mist had
changed to rain, that now pattered against the
window. The room was wholly unfurnished.
There was not a chair in it nor a table.
Taverner had originally intended it as an office,
but as he received few visitors he had come to
use the parlour as reception room and office,
and had made this apartment, cut from the
hall, into a receptacle for lumber. A range of
pegs on the wall supported old saddles and the
gear of cart-horses, and branches of bean-stalks,
that had been hung there to dry for the
preservation of seed. An unpleasant, stale
odour him about the room. The grate lead
not been used for many years, and was rusty ;
rain had brought the soot down the chimney,
and, as there was no fender, had spluttered it
over the floor. The window panes were dirty,
and cobwebs hung in the corners of the room
from the ceiling — old cobwebs thick with dust.
Moths had eaten into the stuffing of the saddles.

and, disturbed by the current of air from the
door, fluttered about. In the corner was a
heap of sacks, with nothing in them, smelling
of earth and tar.

I've served you faithful as a dog,' said
Mrs. Veale. ' Faithful as a dog,' she repeated ;
watched for you, wakeful as an owl.'

And like a dog snarl and snap at me with
poisoned fangs,' retorted Mr. Langford. ' Stand
there ! ' He pointed to a place opposite him,
so that the light from the window fell on her,
and his own face was in darkness. ' Tell me
the truth ; what have you done to this broth ? '

If you think there's harm in. it, throw it
away,' said Mrs. Yeale.

No, I will not. I will send it to Okehampton
and have it analysed. Do you know
what that means? Examined whether there
be anything in it but good juice of meat and
water and toast.'

There's mace,' said the woman ; ' I put in
mace to spice it, and pepper and salt.'

Anything else ? What do you keep in
yellow paper, and in the china dog? '

Mace — every cook puts mace in soup. If
you don't like it throw it away, and I will
make you some without.'

Mrs. Veale, so there's nothing further in
the soup ? '

Nothing.'

You warned me that a corpse candle was
coming to the door — nay, you said you had
seen it travel up the road and dance on the
step, and that same night I was taken ill.'

Well, did I bring the corpse-light ? It
came of itself.'

Mrs. Veale, I am not generally accounted
a generous man, but I pride myself on being a
just man. You have told me over and over
again that you have served me faithfully for
fifteen years. Well, you have had your way.
You served me in your own fashion, with your
head full of your own plans. You wanted to
catch me, but the wary bird don't hop on

the limed twig, to use your own expressions.
I don't see that I'm much in your debt ; if
you are disappointed in the faihn^e of your
plans, that's your look-out ; you should have
seen earlier that nothing was to be made out
of me. Now I am ready to stretch a point
with you. You have robbed me. Fortunately
for me, I've got my money and box back before
you have been able to make off nth it. What
where you waiting for ? For my death ? For
my marriage ? Were you going to finish me
because I had not been snared by your
blandishments ? I believe you intended to
poison me.'

It's a He ! ' said Mrs. Veale hoarsely,
trembling in every limb, and with flickering
lips and eyes and nostrils and fluttering hair.

Very well. I am content to believe so.
I can, if I choose, proceed against you at once —
have you locked up this very night for your
theft. But I am willing to deal even generously
with you. It may be I have overlooked

your many services ; I may have repaid them
scantily. You may be bitterly disappointed
because I have not made you mistress of this
house, and I will allow that I didn't keep you
at arm's length as I should, finding you useful.
Very well. The door is open. You shall go
away and none shall follow, on one condition.'

He looked fixedly at her, and her quivering
became more violent. She did not ask what
his condition was. She knew.

Finish this bowl, and convince me you
were not bent on my murder.'

She put out her hands to cover her face,
but they trembled so that she could not hold
them over her eyes.

If you refuse, I shall know the whole depth
of your wickedness, and you shall only leave
this room under arrest. If you accept, the
moor is before you ; go over it where you will.'

He held the bowl to her. Then her trembling
ceased — ceased as by a sudden spasm. She
was still, set in face as if frozen ; and her eyes,

that glared on her master, were like pieces of
ice. She said nothing, but took the bowl and
put it to her lips, and, with her eyes on him, she
drained it to the dregs.

Then the shivering, like a palsy, came over
her again. ' Let me go,' she said huskily. ' Let
none follow. Leave me in peace.' Laugford
opened the door and went back into the parlour.
Mrs. Yeale stole out after him, and those
in the sitting-room heard her going down the
passage like a bird, flapping against the walls
on each side.

Where is she going .? ' asked Charles.
She is not to escape us. She's such a bad un,
trying to involve me.'

I've forgiven her,' answered Langford in a
surly tone. ' I mayn't be over generous, but I'm
just.'

And now, Taverner, one word wi' you,'
said old Caspian. ' I reckon you thought to
spoke away this Eed Spider, as you did the first ;
but there you are mistaken. As I've heard.

you have tried to force her to accept you —
who are old enough to be her whither — shame
be to you ! But this is your own house, and
I'll say no more on what I think. Now,
Taverner, I venture to declare you have no
more hold on the sfirl. Her brother never
took your money ; you were robbed by your
own housekeeper. You say you've forgiven her
because you are just. What the justice is,
in that, I don't see, but I do see one thing
clear as daylight, and that is, you've no right
any more to insist on Honor coming here
as your wife, not unless by her free will and
consent, and that, I reckon, you won't have, as
Larry, my boy, has secured her heart.'

Langford looked at Caspian, then at
Honor and Larry ; at the latter he looked long.

I suppose it is so,' he said. ' Give me the
settlement.' He tore it to pieces. ' I'll have
nothing more to do with women, old or young.
They're all vexatious.'

Hark ! ' They heard a wailing cry.

Go and see what is the matter,' said
Langford to Piper ; then, turning to Oliver, he
said, ' I tear up the settlement, but I'll not
lend the hundred pounds.'

Larry ! ' said old Caspian, ' she shan't be
smoked away any more. Take the maid's hand,
and may the Lord bless and unite you.' Then
to Langford, ' Now look y' here, Taverner. Us
have been quarrelling long enough, I reckon.
You've tried your worst against us, and you've
failed. I've made the first advance on my
side, and uninvited come over your doorstep,
a thing I swore I never would do. Give me
your hand, brother-in-law, and let us forget the
past, or rather let us go back to a past before
we squabbled over a little Eed Spider. You
can't help it now ; Langford and Chatsworth
will be united, but not whilst we old
folk are alive, and Honor will be a queen o'
managers. She'll rake the maidens out of their
beds at five o'clock in the morning to make the
butter, and '

Piper burst into the room. ' Mrs. Yeale ! '
he exclaimed.

Well, what of Mrs. Yeale ? ' asked Land
ford sharply.

She has run out, crying like an owl and
flapping her arms, over the moor, till she came
to Weldon's Hill.'

Let her 2^0,' said Langford.

She went right into the mound,' continued
Piper breathlessly, ' and when I came up
she had crawled into the stone coffin inside,
and had only her arm out, and she was tearing
and scraping at the earth and drawing it down
over the hole by which she'd gone in — burying
herself alive, and wailing like an owl.'

Is there any money still hid there ? ' asked
Langford.

She screamed at me when I came up,
Will you not leave me alone ? I be poisoned !
I be dying ! Let me die in peace ! " Whatever
shall us do ? ' ^

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

THE LOOK-OUT STONE.

One Sunday evening, a year after the events
just related, Taverner Langford and Hillary
Caspian, senior, were seated in the sun on
the Look-out stone, in friendly conversation.
Caspian was looking happier, more hale, and
prosperous than he had appeared since his
stroke. He wore the badger-skin waistcoat,
and his shirt sleeves. The waistcoat had been
refined with brilliant crimson stuff; bright
was the hue of the lining displayed by the
lappets. Taverner Langford had not a cheerful
expression ; his hair was more grizzled than
it was twelve months ago, and his face more

livid. There was, however, a gentler light
in his eyes.

'It is a great change in Larry,' said
Caspian. ' Though I say it, there never
was a steadier and better son. He is at work
from morning to night, and is getting the farm
into first-rate order — you'll allow that ? '

'Yes,' answered Langford, Til allow he
begins well ; I hope it will last. As for first-rate
order, that I will not admit. " One year's

seeds, three years' weeds," as Mrs. Veale '

He checked himself.

That were a queer creature,' observed
Caspian, taking the pipe from his mouth,
and blowing a long puff. ' That was the
queerest thing of all, her burying herself, when
she felt she was dying, in old Weldon's grave.'

It was not his grave. It was a grave of
the old ancient Britons.'

Well, it don't matter exactly whose the
grave was. Mrs. Veale seemed mighty set on
making it her own.' He continued puffing, looking

before him. ' I'm not sure you acted right
about her,' he said after a while. ' I suppose
you didn't really suppose there was any poison
in the broth.'

I'm a just man,' said Langford. ' To do
as you were to be done by is my maxim. And
it's Gospel.'

But you didn't think it would kill her ? '

'I don't know wdiat I thought. I wasn't
sure.'

Another pause.

Swaddledow^n ain't coming to the hammer
after all,' said Caspian.

No, I'm glad the Deadens remain on.'

Ah ! and Sam is a good lad. I reckon
before Michaelmas he and Kate will make a
pair. They'd have done that afore if it had
been settled whether Swaddledown would be
sold, and they have to leave.'

Kate is too giddy to be any use in a
farm.'

Oh, wait till she has responsibilities. See

how well she has managed since Honor has
been here — how she has kept the children,
and made her father comfortable.'

The children are half their time at Chatsworth.'


Well, well, T like to hear their voices.'

'And you see more than you like of
Luxmore.'

Oh, no, I like to see a neighbour. I
allow I'm a bit weary of Coombe Park ; but
bless you, now you and I let him have a trifle,
he spends most of his time when not in the van
rambling about from one parish to another
looking at the registers, and trying to find
whether his grandfather were James, or John,
or Joseph, or Jonah. It amuses him, and it
don't cost much.'

He'll never establish his claim.'

I reckon he won't. But it's an occupation,
and the carrying don't bring him much money —
just enough to keep the children alive on.'

Ha e you heard of Charles lately ? '

Oh, he is on the road. That was a fine
idea, making a carrier of him between
Exeter and Launceston. There are so many
stations on the way — there's Tap House, and
Crockernw^ell, and Sticklepath, and Southampton,
and Morton Down Inn, and Brimstone,
and Lew Down, and Lufton ; and he can talk
to his heart's content at each about what he
did in Afghanistan, and what he might be if
his father could prove his claim to Coombe
Park. Then he's so occupied with his horses
on Sundays at Launceston that he can't possibly
get over here to see his relations, which
is a mercy.'

I've been thinking,' said Langford, ' as
we've got Larry in for third feojQTee in Corydon's
Charity, couldn't we get the baby in for
the fourth now there's a vacancy ? '

But the baby ain't come yet, and I don't
know whether it'll be a boy or a maid.'

It would be a satisfaction, and a further
bond of union,' argued Langford. ' The

Coryndon trust land comes in very fitting with
Langford and Claims worthy, and I thought
that when you and I are gone, Larry might
absorb our feofieeships into himself, as a snail
draws in his horns, and then there'd be only he
and his son, and when he himself goes, his son
would be sole feoffee and responsible to no one.
Coryndon's land comes in very fitly.'

I don't think it can be done,' said Nan-spin,
shaking his head. ' There's such a lot of
ramping and roaring radicalism about. I
thought we'd better put in Sam Voaden. Thus
it will be in the family.'

In the Luxmore, not in ours.'

We can't have everything,' argued ITan-
spin. Then both were silent again. Langford
sighed. Presently he said, 'I'm a just man,
and do like to see the property rounded
shapely on all sides. That is why I proposed
it.'

Then another pause.

Presently Hillary Caspian drew a long

VOL. ir. X

pull at his pipe, and sent two little shoots of
smoke through his nostrils. ' Taverner,' said
he, when all the smoke was expended, ' going
back to that woman, Mrs. Veale, I don't think
you ought to have taken me up so mighty
sharp about her. After all this is sifted and
said, you must allow you stood afraid of her,
and I allow that you had a right to be so. A
woman as would steal your cashbox, and
make attempts on your heart, and poison your
gruel, no man need blush and hang his head to
admit that he was a bit afraid of.'

And, Caspian,' said Langford with
solemnity, 'you will excuse my remarking
that I think you took me up far too testily
when I said you was a long-tailed orange
for it so happens that the orang-outang
is a tailless ape. Consequently, no offence
could have been meant, and should not ha'
been taken.'

'You don't mean to say so?'

It is true. I have it in print in a Nature

History, and, what is more, I've got a picture of
an ourani]^-outang^, liolclincy a torn-ofF boiicrli in
this hand, and showing just enough of his back
to let folks understand he's very like a man.
Well, I've a mind, as the expression I used
about you was repeated in the long room of the
Eing of Bells," to have that picture framed
and hung up there. Besides, under it stands
in print, " The orang-outang, or tailless ape." '
You will ? Well, I always said you where
a just man ; now I will add you're generous
The brothers-in-law shook hands. After a
moment's consideration N'anspian said, ' I don't
like to be outdone in generosity by you, much
as I respect you. If it would be any satisfaction
to the parish of Bratton Clovelly, the
weather being warm, and for the quieting of
minds and setting at rest all disputes, I don't
object to bathing once in the river Thrustle
before the feoffees of Coryndon's Charity, excepting
Larry, whom from motives of delicacy
I exclude.'

'Well,' said Langford, 'I won't deny you're
a liberal-minded man.'

Taverner sprang to his feet, and Caspian
also rose. Over the stile from the lane came
Honor, in her red stockings and scarlet cloak,
the latter drawn closely round her.

Why didn't you call us ? ' said Caspian.
We'd have come and helped you over.'

You shouldn't be climbing about now,'
said Taverner.

Come and sit between us on the Look-out
stone,' said Caspian.

So the two old men reseated themselves on
the granite slab, with Honor between them.

You tried hard to spoke her away,' remarked
Caspian, shaking his head.

Let bygones be bygones,' said Langford.
She may be here at Chimsworthy now, but
she'll be at Langford some day, I'm proud
and happy to think.'

'All!' said Caspian, 'she's made a mighty

change in Larry, and, faith, in me also. I'm a
happier man than I was.' He put his arm round
behind Honor.

I may say that of myself,' said Langford.
I can know that Langford will be made the
most of after I'm gone.' He put his arm round
her, and clasped that of Caspian.

Ah ! ' said Caspian, in his old soft, furry,
pleasant voice, ' if I'd a many score of faces in
front of me, and I were addressing a political
meeting, I'd say the same as I says now.
Never you argue that what we was taught as
children is gammon and superstition, it's no
such thing. It has always been said that he
who lays hold of a red spider secures good
luck, and we've proved it, Taverner and I,
we've proved it. Us have got hold of the very
best and biggest and reddest of money-spinners
between us — us don't try to spoke her away to
this side or to that. Her belongs ekally to
Chimsworthy and to Langford, to myself

and to Taverner, and blessed if there be a
chance for any man all over England of getting
such another treasure as this Eed Spider
which Taverner and I be holding atween us —
ekally belonging to each.'

THE END.

PRINTED BT

SrOTTISWOODE AND CO., KEW-street SQtTABE

London

H A T T D ^ W T y r V ?

jiiiu. '"" a. j3 :'.vii-i, r

Twrwr-Sit-

""-zn: : ~ 5r I.: — ».a^ "Rim, .r

AICBT "-

.t:. V<ir*«GE

A Dc

H ■f-'I^' «.;/*"ta6. .ruiITiii.

iizrr S =c.

;i -t£, - -1.

v ^.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A History of the Chap-books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne, From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Vv'it, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. Withnearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With iSvT Illustrations
from Originals. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s,

Bacteria.— A Synopsis of the
Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
87 Illusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London
; together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F, G. Hilton Price.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.),Wopks by :

Crown Svo., cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

English Surnames: Their Courtesan
Significations. Third Ed., revised.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.


Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp. — Grantley

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post Svo, illust, bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, Mea. Imperial 4+0, cloth
extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

Bechstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bechstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings In

Patagonia ; or. Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1886. — One

Shilling Monthly. Illustrated by P.
Macnab.— The first Chapters of IVIo-
hawl<s, a New Novel by M. E.
Braddon, Author of " Lady Audley's
Secret," appeared in the January
Number, and the Story will be continued
throughout the year. This
Number contained also the Opening
Chapters of a New Novel entitled
That other Person ; and several of
those short stories for which Belgravia
is famous.

\* Now ready, the Volume for March
to June 1886, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Cases for binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Annual for Christmas,
1886. Demy Svo, with Illustrations,
Is. { P re pain g.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England
Songs for Sailors.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post Svo, illust.

boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

each.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
• This Son of Vulcan.
Ivy Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Ali Sorts and Conditions of Men:
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.

All in a Garden Fair. With 6 Illusts.
By H. Furnish.

Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece
By Charles Green.

Uncle Jack, and other Stories,

Children of Gibeon: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo. [Shortly.

Th*? ^v% pf Fiction Demy Svo, Is.

Betham-Edvvards (M.), Novels

by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
each. ; post 8vo, iliust. bds., 2s. each,
Felicia. | Kitty.

Bewick (Thos.) and his Pupils.

By Austin Dobson. With 95 Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d.

Birthday Books: —

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 23. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 63.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1885, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Academy Notes, 1880-84. Complete
n One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1885, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illusts. Is. [New Edit, preparing.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old plasters at the National
Gallery. 128 Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 243
Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 33.

Illustrated Catalogue of the Luxembourg
Gallery. Containing about
250 Reproductions after the Original
Drawings of the Artists. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d.

The Paris Salon, 1885. With about
300 Facsimile Sketches. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy 8vo, Ss.

Art Handbooks, continued —
The Paris Salon, 1886. With about 300

Illusts. Edited by F. G. Dumas.

Demy 8vo, 3s.
The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by

F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page

Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 5s.

Blake (William): Etchings from

his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s. each.
Canters In Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.

Colonel in facsimile of the originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and

Adventure in Asia, Africa, and

America.
Savage Life : Adventures of a Globe-trotter.



Chronicles of No-lVIan'a Land.

Post svo, iliust. boards, 2s.

Braddon {M. E.) — Mohawks,

a Novel, by Miss Braddon, Author
of " Lady Audley's Secret," was begun
in Belgravia for January, and will be
continued throughout the year. Illustrated
by P. Macnab. Is. Monthly.

Brand's Observations on popular

Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulvar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous Illustrations, 73. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

—Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Conroy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, &c.

Bret Harte, continued —

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bret Hate's Complete Poetical
Works. Author's Copyright Edition.
Beautifully printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram. Cr.
8vo, 4s. 6d.

Gabriel Conroy: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Stories. Post Svo, illustrated boards,
2s.

The Twins of Table Mountain. Fcap.
Svo, picture cover. Is.

Luck of Roaring Camp, and other
Sketches. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. Svo,
picture cover, Is.

Flip. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Californian Stories (including The
Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff
Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Maruja: A Novel. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 23. 6d.

The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With
25 original Drawings by Kate
Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours
by Edmund Evans. Small 4to,
boards, 53. [Shortly.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :
The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr, Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Brewster(SirDavld),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brake, and Kepler,
With Portraits. Post Svo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
f . A. Smith. Post Svo, cl. ex., 4s. 6d.

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. Johrt.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Portrait.
Royal 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Brilliant-Savarin.— Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones.

London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems Robert Buchanan.
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbath. Cr, Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab.

Annann Water.

The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Carav an.

The Master of the Mine. With a
Frontispiece by W. H. Covered.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3 s. 6d,

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. Svo, picture cover. Is. each.
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Verney Loveth Cameron,
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2l3.

The Book of the Sword : Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 4CX) Illustrations. Square
8vo, cloth extra, 323.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomisedd : Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Chide Harold. An entirely
New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Illusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of "The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to, 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Caine. — The Shadow of a

Crime: A Novel. By Hall Caine.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s .

Cameron (Comers), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A

Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Verney Loveth
Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps. Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 2l3.
The Cruise of the "Black Prince"
Privateer, Commanded by Robert
Hawkins, Master Mariner. By
Commander V. Loveth Cameron,
Ren., C.B., D.C.L. With Frontispiece
and Vignette by P. Macnab.
Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 5s^ sept, 15.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Loveth),

Novels by:
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Juliet Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

Carlyle (Thomas) :
On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post Svo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.
The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson.
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 183. ; or separately, 63. each.

Chatto & Jackson.— Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatto
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 28s.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.

Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 63. fin the press.

Clodd. — Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S., Author
of "The Childhood of Religions," &c
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Cobban. — The Cure of Souls f.

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Coleman.— Curly: An Actor's

Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman. Crown Svo, Is,
cloth, Is. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; posh
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post Sett,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by :
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Sweet and Twenty.

Frances.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s. 6d each ; post8vo,illustrated bds.,
23. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonina. lust, by SirJoHNGiLBERX.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

byG. DuMAURiERandF. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. lust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. ? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDESand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. FiLDES and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
I Say No^^^

The Evil Genius: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Post 8v o, illustrated bds., 23.

Coleman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
8vo cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Crown 8v o, l3. ; cloth, ls.6 d^

Conway (Concur D.), Works

Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 Illusts., 28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours v/ith the Players. With

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play : A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Copyright. — A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By

Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall. — Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S, New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Craddock. — The Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains By

Charles Egbert Craddock. Post
8vo, illust. bds., 23. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d

Creasy. — Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 73. 6d,

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

Cruikshank (George), continued.
The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Ferrol, Author ot
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruihshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Works

by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s . 6d.

Cussans.— Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Cussans.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cyples.— Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cyples. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Daniel. — Merrie England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown8vo^clothextra^3s^

Daudet. — The Evangelist ; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Covenant. — What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Davknant,
M , A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
One Thousand Medical Maxims.
Nursery Hints: A Mother r's Guide.
Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 2s. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial
Introduction and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre. — A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

De Mille.— A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
^ Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s, 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. I Nicholas Nickleby.
Pickwick Papers. I Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens

1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. — •
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
May fair Library, Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.
About England v/ith Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. a. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook." separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Dictionaries, continued—

Famlllap Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
<■ Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A: Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [Ill preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 53.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot. — Trw Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedian," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.


Dorann. — Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dorann,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Ed., cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 73. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
"Reader's Handbook") Crown gvo,
half-bound, 123. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex., Vignette Portraits, 63. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with IntroductoryEssay
by A.C.Swinburne; Vol. III., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

IVIarlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col,
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk-lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Crown
gvo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Merrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert (Lord) of Cherbury's Poems.

Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Churton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 8 s.

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 2s.
Archie Lovell. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Eggleston.— Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s^ ^

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History,Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 63.

Englishman's House, The: A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
Nearly Goo Illusts. Cr, Svo.cl. ex.,7s.6d.

English Merchants: Memoirs

in Illustrations the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne.
With Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit.
revised. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Evvald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

The Life and Times of Prince
Cliarles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the You-ng Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy 8vo cloth extra, 12s.

Eyes, The. — How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S. , &c. Fourth
Edition. With 55 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth, Is.

Fairholt. — Tobacco: Its History

and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F, W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the

\ like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 43. 6(1. each.
The Chemical History of a Candle :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.
On the Various Forces of Nature,

and their Relations to each other :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.

Farrer. — Military Manners

and Customs. By J. A. Farrer,
Author of "Primitive Manners and
Customs," &c. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Fin-Bee — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
Svo, cloth limp , 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by:

The Recreations of a Literary Manor.
Does Writing Pay? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life, Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
Svo, clot h him p, 23 . 6d.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete

Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. with Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. Svo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post Svo, ill stated boards, 2s.

Francillon (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.each;

post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Co phetua. |

Olympia. Post Svo, illust. boards, 23.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. Svo, Is.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds 73. 6d. each ^

Frere. — Pandurang Hari ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Frere, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Frisked I. — One of Two: A Novel,
By Hair Friswell. Post Svo, illustrated
b o arts, 23 .

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7.

Showing their Name, Date of Founds
Published
Annually. Cr. Svo, cloth, Is, 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Gardening Books:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. Gd. each.

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Glenny.

Soup Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jans
Ferrol. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. ByF.G Heath. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 6s.

Garrett. — The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1886. One Shilling Monthly. In
addition to the Articles upon subjects
in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine has so high a
reputation, " Science Notes," by W.
Mattieuu Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Talk," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
%* Now ready, the Routine foy January

to June, iso, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d. ;

Cases for binding, 2s. eacJi.

Gentleman's Annual (The) for

Christmas, 1886. Containing a Complete
Novel, "Wife or No V/ifeP" by
T. W. Speight, Author of "The
Mysteries oi Heron Dyke." Demy
8vo. Is. preparing.

"German Popular Stories. Collected

by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
v/ithan Introduction, by John Ruskin,
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 63. 6d. ; gilt edges, 73 . 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What v/ill the

World Say?
In HonoupBound.
Queen of the

Meadovi/.

Braes of Yarrow.
The Flower of the
Forest. [hem.
A Heart's .

Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

For the King. | In Pastures Green

In Love and War.

By Mead and Stream.

Heart's Delights [preparing,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Loving a Dream. | A Hard Knot.

Gilbert (William), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains — The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and Galatea
— Charity — The Princess — The
Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains — Broken
Hearts— Engaged— Sweethearts—
Gretchen — Dan'l Druce — Tom Cobb—
H.M.S. Pinafore— The Sorcerer— The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by W. S. Gilbert. Containing:
The Sorcerer— H.M.S. "Pinafore"
the Pirates of Penzance — loathe
Patience — Princess Ida — The
Mikado — Trial by Jury. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Glenny.— A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glenny. Post 8vo, Is.; cloth. Is. 6d.

Godwin. — Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dp. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Live of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Ella. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Ollier.

ri

Golden Library, continued.

Mallory's (Sip Thomas) Mort
d'Arthup: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table, Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes.byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Vv'orks. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems: Lion and
Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the
Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including A
Refutation oi Deism, Zastrozzi, St.
Irvine, &c.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The : An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 73. 6d.

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cove r. Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the. Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 lusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret

Harte.— The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s. shortly.

Greenwood (James),Worl<s by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each,
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found d There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. ci.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Serpent Play.

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 83.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Maclise, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d^

Halliday. — Every-day Papers.

By Andrew Halliday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca a. Post 8v o, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of

Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
l Lusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extras. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Wynter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas.— Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Harwood. — The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Harwood. Post 8vo,
illustra ted boards, 2s.

Hawes (Mrs. H. R.), Works by s

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover. Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts.Ss.'

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, lOs. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. Nor
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. '

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Haweis (Rev. H, R.). — American

Humortets. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward.Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Hawthorne(Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s, 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth. I Sebastian Stroke.

Ellice Quentin. | Dust.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each.

Miss Madonna.

Love — or a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover, Is.

Hays.— Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F, G.), — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author ot
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 53. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pr assure.

Ivan de Biron : A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or. The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8v o, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev, A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Worlds by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, Ss. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
14S. [/« preparation.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Cherbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Churton Collins.
Crown 8vo, bound in parchment, 8s.

Indies (Charles), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: In
eluding the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Hoey. — The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Hoey. With Frontispieces
P. Macnab. New and Cheaper
Edit. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by:

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. — Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Holmes. — The Science of
Voice Production and Voice Preservation
: A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Hood (Tom), Works by:
From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's ArkaaMogical Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 63.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. PostSvo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures, Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illusts. Cr. svo, cl. extra, gilt, 73. 6d.



Hooper.— The House of Raby :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hopkins— " 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Horne.— Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73.

Howell. — Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
ot Great Britain. By Geo. Howell
M.P. Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hugo. — The Hunchback of

Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Hunt.— Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Comer, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Ollier. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thornlcroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Self-Co denned

That other Person. Three Vols.,
crown Svo. \ Shortly.

Indoor Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown Svo, is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Ingelow.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Ingelow. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post Bvo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Irving — Tales of a Traveller.

By Washington Irving. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 23.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

The Dark Colleen. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2-3.

The Queen of Connaught. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post Svo,
illustrated boards. 2s.

Janvier.- Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
I .» .\ ■. her. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s,

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Nature near London.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Jennings (Hargrave). — Thei

Roslcrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers, by
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph-portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth. Is, 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

Jesse. — Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jeux esprit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. PostSvo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred illustrations


Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown Svo,
cloth extra, Miss. : or separately, Gs. each.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Joseph us.TheCompleteWopks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews" and "The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 143.

Kempt. — Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Kershaw. — Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Oakshott Castle. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Knight. — The Patient's Vade

Mecum : How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth. Is. 6d.

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

The Essays of Ella. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Little Essays: Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lares and Penates; orTThe

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:
The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6cl. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c.:

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, "the
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. each.
Arabian Society In the IVliddle Ages:
Studies from "The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Life in London ; or, The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dunham
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord.'
With a silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love!" | lone.

Longfellow:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
"Kavanagh," " The Poets and
Poetry of Europe, "and " Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,

Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 23. 6d,

IS

Lucy. — Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.
By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

Macalpine. — Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery Macalpine.
Crown Svo, bound in canvas,
2s. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin, IVI.P.),Works

by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of iso. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. — Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. Svo, cl. extra, ces. each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Vol., crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 123.
each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon. | Miss Misanthrope.
Liniey Rochford. I Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.

Camiola: A Girl with a Fortune.
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

"The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell - Praed. Three Vols.,
crown Svo.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),

Works by:

An Outline of the History of Ireland,
From the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. ci.

A History of Ireland from the Union
to the Introduction of Mr. Gladstone's
Bill. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
6s. [In the press.

England under Gladstone, 1880-85.
Second Edition, revised and brought
down to the Fall of the Gladstone
Administration. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 63.

McCarthy (Justin H.), continued-doom
! An Atlantic Episode. Crown

Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. McCarthy. Crown Svo,

Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.
Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.

Small Svo, gold cloth, 3s. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
The Princess and Curdle. With 11

Illustrations by James Allen. Small

crown Svo, cloth extra, 53.
Gutta-Percha Willie, the Working

Genius. With 9 Illustrations by

Arthur Hughes. Square Svo, cloth

extra, Ss. 6d.

Works of Fancy and Imagination.

Pocket Edition, Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. Vol. i.
Vv^'iTHiN and Without. The Hidden
Life. — Vol. 2. The Disciple.
The Gospel Women. A Book of
Sonnets. Organ Songs. — Vol. 3.
Violin Songs. Songs of the Days
and Nights. A Book of Dreams.
Roadside Poems. Poems for
Children. Vol. 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs.— Vols.
5 and 6. Phantasies : A Faerie
Romance.— Vol, 7. The Portent.—
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows. —Vol.
9. Cross Purposes. The Golden
Key. The Carson. Little
Daylight. — Vol. 10. The Cruel
Painter. The Wow o' Riven.
The Castle. The Broken Swords.
The Gray Wolf. Uncle Corne
Lies. [Ready

The Volumes are also sold separately
in Grolier-pattern cloth, 23. 6d. each.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d. each; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. MiLLAis.
Thomas WIngfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.

Macdonell. — Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonell.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor, Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

hOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Maclise Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;
with Memoirs — Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal — illustrative
ot the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A, With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Mackay.— Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Macquold (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d. each.

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R,
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.
Through Brittany. With numerous?
Illustrations by T. R. Macqugid,

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. l3. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
e emblazoned in Gold and C colours. 5s,

Mallock (W. H.), Work^biT:

The New Republic ; or. Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or. Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 88.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur ; The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited' by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open ! Sesame !
Written In Fire

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman. — Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or. The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Eraser. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 2X2 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With III Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
—Cheap Edition, post 8vo,illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 28.

iy

Mark Twain's Works, continued —
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Huc(<Ieberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.— Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s,

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Matthews.— A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s : cloth,
2s. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.

A Journey Round iVIy Room. By
Xavier de Maistre, Translated
by Henry Attwell.

Latter-Day Lyrics. Edited by W

Davenport Adams.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.

The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1S70. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Alice Clay.

Melancholy Anatomisedd: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin ,

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by \V. S. Gilbert,
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth — Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan'l Druce— Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and help Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Mayfair Library, continued —

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J, Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Forensic Anecdotes; or. Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men oi
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia. By
W. H. Mallock.

New Republic. By W. H. Mallock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmgnde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Retold. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mayhew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mayhew. With
numerous Illustrations, Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Load. Cr.Svo.lg.; cl.,l8.6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Meppy Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Mexican IVlustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E, Sweet and
J. Ari\ioy Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go.
IVlp.Dorillion.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.
The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin ; with Directions for Diet,

Wines, Soaps, Bath-s, &c.
The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of th e Ski n.

Wordsworth (Mrs.).— Fathers

Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A Model Father.

Joseph's Coat.

Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Vai Strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the World.

A Bit of Human Nature.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
First Person Singular: A Novel.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hopkins.
Cynic Fortune: A Tale of a Man with

a Conscience. With a Frontispiece

by R. Canon Woodvil le.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.

Commons Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moyr Smith. Post 8vo, cl. extra,' 5s,

Nursery Hints: A Mother's
Guide in Health and Disease. By N,
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is
cloth, Is. 6d.

O'Connor. — Lord Beaconsfield

Biography. By T. O'connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

O'Hanlon. — The Unforeseen:

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Cd. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress In England.

Reilly. — Phoebe's fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. each ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage,
strath more.
Chances.
Under Two Flags.
Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrln.
Puck.

Folle Farlne.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascarei.

Signa.

In a Winter City

Ariadne

Friendship.

Moths.

Piplstrello.

A Village Commune.


BImbi.

In Maremma

Wands.

Frescoes.

Princess Naprax-
Fine.



OuiDA, Novels by, continued —

Othman: A Novel. Cheaper Edition.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5s. [shortly.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures ot
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of "Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, with a Frontispiece
coloured by hand, and nearly 100
Illustrations, 16s. One Hundred Large
Paper Copies (each numbered) have
also been prepared, price 32s. each.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s^

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum :

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S., and Edward Knight,
L. R.C.P. Cro wn 8vo. Is.; cloth, ls.6d.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel,
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

Paul. — Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. ci. ; post 8vo,
illust rate d boards, 2s.

Pain (James), Novels by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Lost Sir Massinger.
The Best of Husbands.
Walters Word. | Halves.
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than we're Painted.
By Proxy. I High Spirits.

Under One Roof. | Carlyon's Year.

Pain (James), Novels by, continued—

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

Fop Cash Only. | From Exile.

Kit: A Memory.

The Can on's Ward.

Post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor. 1 Murphy's IVl aster.

Fallen Fortunes.

A County Family. 1 At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The ClyflTards of ClyfTe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendoline's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hun died Pounds R edward.

In Peril and Privation: Stories ot
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, 63.

The Talk of the Town: A Novel.
With Twelve Illustrations by Harry
Furnish. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

The Fly on the Wheel : Humorous
Papers. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
6s. [In the press.

Pears. — The Present~bepr^-

sion in Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas) . By Edwin
GoADBY and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Demy Svo, Is.

Pennell (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by :

Post Bvo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Pe nell.

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars in Paradise. \ Shortly.

Pirkis (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:

Trooping with Crows. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 23. preparing.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1873.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6g.

Plutarch's Lives of illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
Svo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Foe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Worlds, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The IVIystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post Svo. illust.bds.,23.

Pope s Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s.

Praed (Mrs. Campbell) — "The

Right Honourable"' A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Three Vols., crown Svo.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Plan caster's Rival .
Gerald. Post Svo, illust. boards, 23.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by ;

Flowers of the Slay. With 55 lusts.
Small crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Familiar Science Studies. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid: Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
lusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sages and Wants of Science
Work hers. Crown Svo, Is. 6d .

Pyrotechnist's Treasury (The);

or. Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Rambosson. — Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown Svo, cloth gilt,
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by:

Cr. Svo, cloth extra, illustrated,3s.6d.

each ; post Svo, illust. bds., 23. each.
Peg Washington. Illustrated by S. L.

FiLDES, A. R.A.
Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by

William Small.
It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. PiNWELL.
The Course of True Love Never did

run Smooth. illustrated by Helen

Paterson.
The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack

of miltiades; and James Lambert.

Illustrated by Matt Stretch.
Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.
The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir

John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.
The Cloister and the Hearth. Ils

illustrated by Charles Keene.
Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.
Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.

Files, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.
Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.
Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.
A Terrible Temptation. illustrated

by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by

H. Paterson, S. L. Files, A.R.A. ,

C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.
A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate

Crawford.
A Woman-hater. Illustrated by

Thos. Coulter.
Singleheart and Doubleface: A

Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated

by P. Macnab.
Good Stories of Men and other

Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,

Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.
The Jilt, and other Stories. Illustrated

by Joseph Nash.
Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait

of Charles Reade.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.



Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. ci. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Hep Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square Svo, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d each.
Our Old CountryTowns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson Crusoe : A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
3^ Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown Svo, cloth ext ra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Women are Strange.
The Ha ends of Justice.

Robinson (i^hil), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

Poet s' Nature al History. [ P preparing .

Rocliefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post Svo, cloth him p, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profuse ely Illustrated,

Runciman (James), Stories by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each;

cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63. each ; post

Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Round the Galley-Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head : A Collection
of Yarn s and Sea Descry nations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each,
in the Middle Watch.
A Voyage to the C ape .

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight

By George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards. 23.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the

Sanson Family (16S8 to 1S47I. Edited

by HENRvSANSON. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.3s.6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

One Against the World.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Two D r eames.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr, Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The Hi gh Mills.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
Gideon's Rock.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated
Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
63. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXI. (18S5), at 5s. each.
Cases for Binding , Is. 6d. each ^^

Scott (Sir Walter), Poems by :

Marmion. With over 100 new Illustrations
by leading Artists. Small
4to, cloth extra, 16s.

The Lay of the Last Minstrel. With

over 100 new Illustrations by leading
Artists. Sm.4to, cl.ex.,163. IShoiilv.

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.
The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By V/, H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Secret Out " Series, continued—

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or.
Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts,Games,Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belles
300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many lusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior.— By Stream and Sea.

By William Senior. Post 8vo, cloth
1 mp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare:

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623.— A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
pi-cess — ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

Tiie Handbook cf Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
rom the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo, cloth exlr^-Qs,

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c., with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems.the Shelley Papers,
&c. ; Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan: —
Sheridan's Complete Works, wit-h

Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.
Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and 10 full-page Illusts.
Demy S vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Shortcomings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Dem y Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c., by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown Svo, clo th b hard s, 18s.

Signboards": their History.
V/ith Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotten. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
with IPC Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (George R.), Works by :

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illusts.

by Fred. Barnard, Large 4to, Is.
Rogues and Vagabonds. Post Svo,

illust. boards, 23. : cloth limp, 23. 6d.

The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust.

bds., 2s. ; cloth, 2 s. 6d.

Sketchley.— A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketchley. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slarfg Dictionary Tithe : Etymological.

Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by:

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small Svo,
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. Gd.



Smith (J. Moyr), Works by, continued —

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous

Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 63. ■

The Wooing of the Water Witch :

A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cl. ex., 6 3.

Society \v\ London. By A

Foreign Resident. New and Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, 13. 6d.

Spalding.-Eiizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. By T,
A. Spalding, LL.B. Cr . 8 vo, cl.ex., 5 5.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. Middlemost, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 63.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:

The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen

Edwards. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated bds., 2s.

A Barren Title. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cl., ls.6d.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Staunton. — Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. World. New
Edition, small cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Stedman. — The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index. By
Edmund Clarence Stedman, Author
of " Victorian P o sets." Cr. Svo, cl.ex., 93.

Sterndale. — The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
Svo, ill stated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Fifth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Crane. Post Svo, cl. Ip., 23. 6d.
Virginius Puisque, and other

Papers. Crown bvo, cloth extra, 63.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Second Edit. Crown Svo, cl. ex., 63.
New Arabian Nights. Crown Svo,

cl. extra, 63. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 23.
The Silverado Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cheap Edition, post Svo, picture

cover. Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Stevenson (R. Louis), continued —

Prince Otto: A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

The Merry Men, and other Tales and

Fable s. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s. [Short thy.

St. John. — A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illust
rated boards, 2s.

Stoddard. — Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown Svo, cl. extra. 33. 6d.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Zim-
Men. Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; po st Svo, illust. bd s., 23.

St. Pierre. — Paul and Virginia,
and The indian Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, v/ith Life,
by Rev. E. Clarke. PostSvo, cl.lp.,23.

St ruth's Sports and Pastime es

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c.,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by William Hone. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose
and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Swinburne (Algernon C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond

Fcap. Svo, 5s.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown Svo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 7s.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. Svo, 8s. Cr. Svo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s, Cr. Svo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. Svo, Is.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. Svo, 10s.6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

Svo, 73.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. Svo,6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, Ig,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued —
Note on Charlotte Bronze. Cr.Svo,6s.
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. 8vo, 83.
Songs the Springtide. Cr.8vo,6s.
Studies in Song. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. 8vo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 9s.
Century of Roundels. Small 4to, 8s.
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 7s.
Marino Falter: Tragedy. Cr.8vo,6s.
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo,6s.
Miscellanies. Crown 8vo, 12s.

Symonds. — Wine, Women and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small 8vo, parchment, 6s.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tour's :

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Hotten. Med. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Tante's ^H into ry of ETTg I is h

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos. — Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions
of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Pos t Svo, cl. limp, 2s.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by. Crown Svo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each.
The Sagacity and Morality of

Plants : A Sketch of the Life and

Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.

ColouredFrontispiece and loo Illust.
Our Common British Fossils, and

Where to Find Them: A Handbook
^ for Students . Wit h 331 I illustrations.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*** The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lord) : Biographical

Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.

Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud Maisie.

The Violin-Player.

Thomas (M.).— A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W, Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land-Leaguers.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | American Sent or

Trollope(FrancesE.), Novels by

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Mabel's Progress. | Anne Furness.



Trollope. A.). — Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Trowbridge. — Parnell's Folly:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Turgenieff. — Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
33. 6d.; post 8vo, il illustrated boards, 2s.

Tytler (C. C. Fraser). — Mistress
Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bo arts, 2s^

Tytler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Bvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast. With a
Frontispiece b y P. Ma cab.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Noblesse Oblige. With Illustrations

by F. A. Fraser.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Lady Bel l. Front, by R. M macbeth.

Buried Diamonds: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy Bvo, cl. bds., 7s. 6 d. each .

Villari. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
Svo, picture cover, Is.

Walford (Ed w., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-sixth Annual Edition,
for 1886, cloth gilt, 503.

The Shilling Peerage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth. Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1836).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, l3.

Walford's (Edv/.) Works, coiitiniicil—

The Shilling Knightage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of
Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1886). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. New
Edition, embodying the results of
the recent General Election. 32mo,
cloth. Is. Published annually.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1886). In One Volume,
royal sa mo, cloth extra, g wilt edges, 5s.

Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury. Edited by Edv.'ard
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Walton and Cotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, cloth antique, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whitman,~Poems by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by WlILIAM M. ROSSETTI. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram,
6s. ^

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. Gd. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich-Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

IVIerrie England in the Olden Time
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by RoBT. Cruiksiiank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de Hssse-War-
egg. V/ith 22 Illustrations.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued—

The Life and Adventure-es of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman : Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Jilemoirs of the Sanson Family (i638
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mackay.

Warner. — A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, &c. :—

Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-ne
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 23.

Warranto Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 23.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
ot the Original Document m the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours Price 5s.

WeatherTHow to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F W, Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo,'ls. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain; or, History ot
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List ot
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 61.

Whistler's(Mr.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler w. Ruskin:
Ar t and Art Critics." Cr.Svo.l S. [Shortly.

Williams (W. Mattieuu, F.R.A.S.),

Works by ;
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 7s. cii.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

Svo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 23. 6d-.
The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, c loth extra a, 6s.

Watson YDrTAndrew, F.R.S.E.),
Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Third Edition. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. Svo, cl. ex., with Illusts,, 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. [Preparing.

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth
limp.Js.^^

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Cavalry Life. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Regimental Legends. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8 v o, cloth ext r a, 5s.

Wo^^. — Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionaries Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and cheaper issue,
cr. Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 93.

Wright"(Thomas), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, <5cc.

History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated b y Few. Fa irholt.F.S.A.

Y at es^Ed rn u n d ) , N dei s "by":

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.



Three-volume NOVELS

WILKIE COLLINS'S NEW NOVEL.

The Evil Genius: A Novel. By Wilkie
Collins, Author of "The Woman in
White." Three Vols., crown 8vo.

WALTER BESANT'S NEW NOVEL,
Children of Gibeon: A Novel. By
Walter Besant, Author of " All Sorts
and Conditions of Men," "Dorothy
Forster," &c. Three Vols., crown
Svo.

N THE PRESS.

MRS. HUNT'S NEW NOVEL.
That other Person : A Novel. By Mrs.
Alfred Hunt, Author of "Thorns
Model'' "The Leaden Casket,"
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo.

GRANT ALLEN'S NEW NOVEL.
In ail Shades: A Novel. By Grant
Allen, Author of " Strange Stories,"
"Philistia," "Babylon," &c. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

HALL CAINE'S NEW NOVEL.
A Son of Hagar: A Novel. By T. Hall Caine, Author of "The Shadow of a
Crime," &c. Three Vols., crown Svo.

THE PICCAD

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown Svo, cloth
BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Philistia.

BY BASIL.
A Drawn Game,
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money IVIortiboy.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room
All in a Garden Fair
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. H. LOVETT CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

ILLY NOVELS.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS,
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antenna.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles
Hearts of Gold

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J LEITH DERWENT
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua. I A Real Queen.
One by One. |

Prefaced by Sir BARTLE Free.
Pandurang Harl.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Cape! Girls.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. | For Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say P
in Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
TheGoldenShaft.lOf High Degree.
Fancy Free. Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot. I Fancy Free.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. | Ellice Quentin.

Sebastian Stroma.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. I Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.
IVIiss Madonna.
Love— or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy,
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's iVIodei,
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo,
Fated to be Free.

BY HARRIETT JAY.
The Queen of Connaught

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON,
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Weil Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"Inly Love!" I lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fierce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | DonnaQulxoto

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camiola.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas V/ingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! 1 Written In Fire
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. I Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father. I Hearts.
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES PAYN.
Lost Sir Massing 1 A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile,
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
Kit: A Memory.
The Canon's

Ward. [Town.
The Talk of the
PRICE.
The Foreigners

bert.
Best of Husbands
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
Carlyon's Year.

BY E. C.

Valentina. |

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.

It is Never Too Late to Mend.

Hard Cash.

Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnstonee.

Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.

The Double Marriage.

Love Me Little, Love Me Long.

The Cloister and the Hearth.

The Course of True Love.

The Autobiography of a Thief

Put Yourself in His Place.

A Terrible Temptation.

The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton.

A Woman-hater. | Radiant

Singleheart and Doubleface.

The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other*
Animals.
BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.

Her Mother's Darling.

Prince of Wales's Garden-party,

Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.

Bound to the Wheel.

Guy Waterman.

Two Dreamers.

One Against the World.

The Lion In the Path.

ig

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Roche. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Aisle. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through,.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF

Post 8vo, illustrated
BY Edmund ABOUT,
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON Awi.
Carrot Carrion. I Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER,
Maid, Wife, or Widow P
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN,
Strange Stories.
Phiiistia.

BY BASIL.

A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY SH ELS LEY BEAUCHAMP.
Grantley Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena,
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
Ail Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 23. each.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Conroy. | Flip.
Maruja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
The Shadow of | The Martyrdom

the Sword. of Madeline.

A Child of Nature. I Annann Water.
God and the Man. I The New Abelard
Love Me for Ever. | Matt.
Foxglove Manor. I

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. LOVETT CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS,
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonina.

Basil.

Hide and Seek.

The Dead Secret.

Queen of Hearts,
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
WiLKiE Collins, continued.

Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel'sDaughtep
Tiie Black Robe.
Headland Science
I Say No."

Man and V/ife.
Poop Miss Finch.
Miss op Mps. P
New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
Law and the Lady.
TheTwo Destinies

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. I From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight,
A Fight with Fortune.
MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky
Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLS,
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. 1 Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovel

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. I Kitty,

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. I Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. 1 A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir H. BARTLE Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY HA IN FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Capel Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY CHARLES' GIBBON.
Robin Gray. The Flower of the

For Lack of Gold. Forest.
What will the A Heart's Problem

World Say P The Braes of Rapin

Honour Bound. row.
In Love and War. The Golden Shaft
For the King. Of High Degree.

In PasturesGreen Fancy Free.
Queen of the Mea By Mead and

dow. I Stream.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests,
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke,

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW Holiday,
Every-Day Papers.
BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Wynter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree,
BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl,

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Ellice Quentin, | Dust,
Prince Saroni's Misfortune's
Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Iron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Raby.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY HARRIETT JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Lean Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?



Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
Lynn Linton, continued — •
V/ith a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fierce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

Dear LadyDlsdain
Tha Waterdale

Neighbours.
My tinemy's

Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.

Liniey Rochford.
Miss Misanthrope
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a

Season.
Maid of Athens.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas VVingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open! Sesame I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air

Oats. I Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.
BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorilllon.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
ALIfe'sAtonement Val Strange.
A Model Father. Hearts.
Joseph's Coat. The Way of the

Coals of Fire. World.

By the Gate of the A Bit of Human
Sea. Nature.

BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY QUID A.
Held in Bondage. TwoLittleWooden
Shoes.
In a V/i liter City.

Strath more.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
F-Jck.

Folia Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascarel.
Sign a.

Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrello.
A Village Commune.

Bimbi.

In Maremma.
Wands.
Frescoes.

Princess Napraxine.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES PAYN.

Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under No Roof.
High Spii-lts.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Kit : A Memory.
The Canon sWard

Lost Sip Massing

bert.
A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor.
Murphy's Master.
A County Family.
At Her Mercy.
A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.
Clytrards of Clyffe
The FamilyScape-

grace.
Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Best of Husbands.
Walter's Word.
Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.
What He Cost Her
Humorous Stories
Gwendoline's Harvest.

£200 Reward.

BY EDGAR A. POE.

The Mystery of Marie Roget.
BY E. C. PRICE.

Valentina, | The Foreigners."

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.

It is Never Too Late to Mend

Hard Cash. | Peg Washington.

Christie Johnstonee.

Griffith Gaunt.

Put Yourself in His Place.

The Double Marriage.

Love Me Little, Love Me Long.

Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.

The Course of True Love.

Autobiography of a Thief.

A Terrible Temptation.

The Wandering Heir.

A Simpleton. I A Woman-hater.

Readiana. | The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.

Her Mother's Darling.

Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

Weird Stories.

The Uninhabited House.

Fairy Water.

The Mystery in Palace Gardens.
BY F. W. ROBINSON,

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY Chatty S^ WINDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY JAMES RUNCIMAX.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.

BY ]V. CLARK RUSSELL,
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan IVlerryv/eathep.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High IVlills.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.
Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Maisie.

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator".
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate.
By FRANCES ELEANOR TROLLOPE
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE.
Farnell's Folly.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
Huckleberry Finn.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler,
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.

BY y. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrolll.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed his Wife.

POPULAR Shilling BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay Luck, By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowliest''
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Ferrol.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dolman.

Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S.

Phelps.
Burglars In Paradise. ByE.S. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. ^L\cCARTHY, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
The Silverado Squatters. By R.

Louis Ste'toinson.

J. OGDEN and CO., PRINTERS, 29, 30 AND 3I, GREAT SAI From HILL. Eg.

\

3 0112 040259415
