L I E) Rally

OF THE

U N IVLRS City

Of Ill Noise

82.3
B:^38r

VOL. I.

THE LIGHTSHIPMAN

BY THE AUTHOR OF

MEHALAH ' ' JOHN HERRING ' ' COURT ROYAL

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

YOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved]

V, /

CONTENTS

0- Y

THE FIRST VOLUME.

RAGE






















vS

CHAPTEE I.

THE LIGHTSHIP.

In the cabin of a lightship off the Essex coast
sat Richard Cable, knitting a baby's sock or
boot. The sock was small, so small that when
he thrust his great thumb into it, his thumb
filled it.

Thirteenth row,' said Eichard Cable.
One, two, three, four,' he began aloud, and
went from four to forty-seven in decreasing
tone, reaching finally an inaudible whisper.
Then he raised his voice again : ' Two together
; one, two, three, four, five, six. Two
together ; one, two, three, four.' His tones
died away again. He moved his hips ; but no
sound issued from them till he reached forty-seven,
and that he uttered as if it exploded on
his lips. Eichard Cable was a fine, strongly-vol.

I. B

built, well-proportioned man, about half-way
between thirty and forty, with brown curly
hair, and eyes of clear blue. His face was
tanned with exposure ; but the nape of his
neck, as visible, now that his head was bent
over the knitting-needles, was of a nutty
brown, many degrees redder than his face.
He wore a knitted blue worsted jersey, with
a pair of thick warm dark-blue loose trousers
beneath and below the jersey. On his head
was a round, brimless sailor's cap, with ribbons
behind. He had shoes on his feet and
white stockings.

Although he was about thirty-five, he had
all the freshness of youth about him, and nota
trace of care, not the furrow of a trial on
his honest brow. The mouth was firm ; but
as he knitted he smiled with the most pleasant
smile. His face was agreeable, kindly, open ;
however roughened by wind and spray, its
expression was gentle, now especially so, as it
was turned to the baby-sock.

Fourteenth row,' said Cable, ' plain. —
Darn the boy ! I wish he were lack.'

Cable was not on deck ; he was, as already
said, in his cabin, and the light fell on him
from above. When he raised his eyes, he
could see the blue sky through the deck-lights
; and across the strip of blue sky, white

flakes of ck)uds were flying fast, like swans
and Brent geese on their autumnal migration.

Fifteenth row. One, two, three, four
Cable began very loud, but went diminuendo
as he progressed. He also emphasised the
first few numbers ; but he slurred over the
next, and only recovered emphasis at the
last. When he came to forty-seven, he
changed the position of his feet, and said :
Knit two together. One, two, three, four.
Two together — Darn him ! What creatures
boys are to eat ; who'd ever thought of his
gorging all the bread ! 'Tis too provoking to
have to send for more.'

The lightship lay about four miles ofl*
the shore, the low flat shore of Essex, near the
little fishing-port of Hanford, a port so insignificant,
carrying on so little trade, that
Trinity House ignored it, and would do
nothing for it, not even concern itself about
the entrance to the harbour, and take on it
the charge of the lightship. This vessel was
stationed where it was, manned, and supplied
by the Hanfordites. It was a convenience to
them, that is, to the oyster and fishing vessels
which put out from the little place on Monday
and came home on Saturday.

The sea on the Essex coast is shallow, so
shallow that it cannot form a wave on the

B 2

margin large enough to sweep away the frail
dike that has been thrown up to oppose
further invasion.

Through the shallows outside Hanford ran
one deep line of water, and at the entrance
to this lay the lightship. The coast-line was
marked in that random in-and-out course
which prevails in hedge demarcation inland ;
hind was divided from water in a loose and
arbitrary fashion, without the existence of any
physical reason why one patch should be accounted
land and another sea. What was
arable was arable only because it lay behind
the dike ; and on the other side of the bank
were acres of land as good that might have
been reclaimed. There were three sashes in
which the soil stood : for a mile out seaward
were flats on which grew seaweed, overhauled
by every tide ; nearer land, in creeks and
estuaries, were flats of the same soil that grew
thrift and sea-lavender and glasswort, and
where occasionally sheep were sent to browse.
These patches were only covered at very high
tides. Then came the sewell ; and behind
that was pasture and arable land, and the
water only swept over the bank upon it once
in ten, fifteen, or twenty years, when high-tide
coincided with an inshore gale.

The outer flats grew their own crops ; but

the crops were distinctively marine, a long
ribbon weed and winkles. After every gale,
the weed and countless winkles were swept
ashore in black wreaths, and the weed
whitened in the sun to a thin ash-like film.

Sixteenth row, knit plain.'

On the surface of the sewell a strip of
sand and gravel ran the length of the coast,
varying in width from a foot to half a dozen
yards. Between this beach and the clay beds
lay a depression, scooped by the retreating
current as the tide went out, filled with black
slime, formed of decomposed seaweed and
winkles, dead crabs, and all the refuse of the
sea that it washed up and could not withdraw
again. The flats grown over with winkles,
thick as daisies in a meadow, formed a happy
hunting-ground for boys and girls alike, who
went out on them with ' splashes ' on their
feet to gather shellfish. The splashed is a flat
hoard fastened to the foot ; on it the mud can
be traversed by human beings as easily as by
webfooted aquatic birds.

Seventeenth row ! One, two Drat

that boy ! '

Eichard Cable stood up, laid his knitting
down on a locker and went on deck. He
looked landwards. A line of foam marked
where the deep sea broke over the submerged

banks of clay. A glare of sun was on a belt
of willows, that seemed white, against a gloomy
mass of vapour that hung on the horizon.
The trees were live or six miles distant ; but
they were perfectly visible, and looked against
the dark background like tufts of cotton-grass.


<^ Ah ! ' said Eichard Cable, ' there he
conies. I can see the boat. If lie don't look
smart, the squall will be on him and capsized
him before he gets here.'

The lightship was rolling and straining.
The wind was rising. From the bed of
black cloud lines extended, shadow rays
over the sky. The sea seemed to be uneasy,
and had become fretful. The brightness was
gone from the day, the colour from the
water.

Darn the boy ! ' said Cable, looking aloft.
We shall have dirty weather on us in ten
minutes, and he not here. Then he returned
to the cabin and resumed the knitting-pins
and the little sock. He had done the tiny
foi^t ; he put his fingers into it and turned
it about and looked at it. The fellow was
already done, in white wool, and lay on a
polished ash-wood stool. He took it up and
measured the sole of the sock he was knitting
by the other foot. ' Eight you are,' he said ;

then, after a pause : ' By ginger ! it does seem
a time to be away from the little 'uns — a
whole fortnight. I don't know how I should
manage it, if I hadn't the knitting of their
socks and stockings to keep me in mind of
their little pattering feet. What a beauty the
baby is ! That she is, indeed, and nobody can
deny it ! ' Then he sighed. ' Poor Polly ! '
and he griped his eye with the sole of the little
sock he was knitting. ' Drat it ! ' said he ;
I've dropped a stitch. Eighteenth row.
First two together. Lord ! what wonderful
little toes the baby has got. They're like a
row of peas in a pod, only no green about
them, pink instead ; and then, the little nails !
what mites they be, to be sure, not half-quarter
so big as one of my stitches. And to
see the way the baby works his toes, just as
though he'd be as handy with them as with
fingers. This little pig went to market ; this
little pig stayed at home ; this little pig had

roast beef No ! Baby hasn't got to that

pitch of reason and understanding that she
can count her toes and take in all about the
pigs. She's not equal to Pat-a-cake Baker's
man yet. What a pleasure it will be when
she's old enough to la,uo;h at Pat-a-cake ! —
Darn the boy ! Not here yet, and the gale is
on us.'

The ship was struck by a great wave, and
a blast of wind screamed over it.

He's been dawdling, that he has. Tie
ought to have been back with the bread an
hour agone. What a plague boys are ! It's a
mystery how ever reliable, sensible men grow
out of such untrustworthy louts ; but then the
plant and the seedling differ in every particular.'
He put down the sock again. ' I
can't get along of my knitting because of
Trinity House. Why doesn't Trinity House
take the light upon its hands ? Then it would
not be undermined ; I should not be left
here, alone with a hulking, scatterbrained boy.
I must go on deck and have another look
after him.'

He climbed the ladder. The aspect of the
sky and sea was changed. The sky was overcast
with black whirling vapours ; the sea,
from being fretful, was angry ; a shadow as
of an impending woe crept over the face of
nature.

The wind was off shore, so that the waves
were not considerable ; but behind the spit of
land and the willows the coast bent away to
the south, and the wind was able to heap up
the waters there and roll them round in a sort
of race beyond the spit, a line of leaping, shaking,
angry tumblers, dark as ink when not

maned with foam, meeting and driving back
the muddy, churned wavelets that were swept
outwards from the shallow shore and mud-flats.


Blow that boy ! If he gets swamped,
his mother will lay all the blame on me for
certain.' He stood clutching the bulwarks,
looking at the boat. He could not see distinctly
; the wind, charged with foam, drove
in his eyes, and in the dancing water, the boat
was as often hidden as seen. — ' By gorra ! ' he
exclaimed suddenly, ' it ain't Joe after all !
Why — who in the world can it be ? Dashed
if it ain't a gal ! ' He drew his jersey sleeve
across his eyes. ' Joe never can ha' gone and
changed his sex. He can't have bided ashore
and sent his sister. Of all unreliable creatures,
there never was the likes of a boy. Here's a
pretty go ! Sending a gal out with the bread
and me a widower.' Then suddenly his
heart stood still, and a feeling of sickness
came over him. ' There can't have nothing
happened to the little ems — and mother have
sent ! — not to baby ! — and me knitting her
socks.'

The lightship pitched and rolled ; anchored
as she was, she was subject to more violent
and abrupt motions than if she had been free.
Cable went on one knee and held his handover

his eyes, to assist in taking a more steady
observation.

It ain't our boat,' lie said. Then he
shouted. The boat was now near. A girl
was in it, rowing towards the vessel She wore
a glazed, black, sailor's hat ; from under it her
hair, long and dark, flew about in the wind.

Come under the lee ! ' shouted Eichard
Cable. The girl slightly turned her head ;
as she did so the wind covered her face with
her hair. She seemed all but completely exhausted.
She pulled with long and laboured
strokes.

She's a young thing, and looks like a
lady,' m-used Cable. ' However she comes out
here, it is not about the little 'uns. Mother
is no fool.'

The girl, perhaps dazed with the hair and
salt water in her eyes, and overcome with exhaustion,
let go one oar to raise her hand and
brush the hair from her face. The boat
swung about at once.

Hold hard ! ' shouted Cable. ' Don't lose
heart. Here's a rope-end.' He caught up
and cast a rope to her with such true aim
that it fell athwart the boat ; and the girl
seized it with both hands, and in so doing let
go the other oar, which was at once carried
off by the sea.

She's lost her head,' said Eichard. ' It's
lucky she didn't do it afore she came within
reach.' Then he called to her : ' Make fast
round the thwart, and I'll haul you in. Don't
lose your head, whatever you do. Hold together,
if but for a minute.'

The girl was staggering to her feet in the
rolling boat.

Keep hold of the rope ! ' he shouted.
Then the boat touched the side of the lightship,
which rolled at the moment. He caught
the girl's hands, extended imploringly. The
ship swung over, and he managed to raise the
girl to the deck ; but as she sprang from the
boat, the spurn of her foot, or the recoil from
the side of the vessel, sent her little boat adrift.
The next moment it was swept away by the
waves, whither Cable could not see — he had
not the time to look ; the condition of the girl
he had saved engrossed his attention.

She was tall ; in dark-blue navy serge
gown, with a leather belt round lier waist.
She could not speak. Her breast was heaving
; her breath came short and fast. Her
cheeks were on fire, but her eyes were dim.
Her consciousness was deserting her.

You're pretty nigh done,' said Cable ;
let me fetch you a drop of brandy, miss.'

She put out her hand to arrest him, and

held to the bulwark with the other. She
could not keep her feet. The motion of the
vessel was irregular. It rolled, and was
brought up with a jerk.

I see,' said he ; ' you must not be left
alone. Drat it ! — that's a souse ! ' as a wave
went over the deck, covering him and the girl
with a drench of spray . ' Come down with me
or, stay ! let me carry you into the cabin.'

She offered no resistance, so he caught her
in his arms and took her to the ladder. Her
heart, under his hand, was fluttering like a
butterfly at a window. Her breath came in
sobs. He bore her to the ladder with long
strides and descended with her to the outer
cabin ; this was where the coals were stowed
and the "oil stored ; Avhere he cleaned and
trimmed the lamps. Beyond was a low doorway,
that led into the main cabin, which in
shape and relative proportions was like the
toe-half of a boot. At the narrow end was
the fireplace or stove ; round the sides were
lockers for the stowing away of sundries of
every kind. The tops of the lockers served as
seats. There was no table. On each side of
the cabin was an aperture about two feet
square, closed at pleasure with a sliding panel ;
this gave access to the bunk or sleeping-berth.
By crawling in at the hole one found a mattress,

and space, but only just space enough to
lie down, with the nose six inches from the
nether surface of the deck. The smallest trifle
in the cabin had its proper place, and everything
was beautifully clean and orderly.

There, miss,' Cable said. ' I doubt you
won't be able to stow yourself properly into
one of these here bunks without knocking
yourself about ; and if I was to put you on
the locker, with the lurching you might slide
off; so you had better just lie down on the
cabin floor, with your feet to the fire. I'll
spread a mattress for you. Lie down till
you've got your breath again, and recovered
from your fright a bit. You'd better
presently, when you can manage it, whip off
that gown, which is wet, and let me cover you
up with blankets and give you a drop of hot
brandy and water. Then try to get to sleep.
Don't you mind me, miss. I'm the father of
a family. I'm the father of seven little girls,
and two of them twins. When you're able
to look about you, miss, you'll see a pair of
socks I've been knitting for the baby. I've
one done, and t' other's getting on. Excuse
the liberty if I throw my pilot coat over you
your goAvn was wet by that wave, and you
seem so exhausted you might get your death
of a chill. I've got to go aloft after the light,

which will occupy me some time. Then you
can take off your gown. The darned boy has
gorged all the bread, and there was none left ;
and I sent him ashore for more, and he hasn't
come back, or he would act as your lady's-maid.
Very sorry, miss, I can't do better ;
but don't think anything of me. I'm the
father of seven children, and there's ne'er a
boy among them, and two of them are twins,
so there's no occasion to be afraid of me.*

He did not like to leave her in her condition
of exhaustion, so he made an excuse to
remain till he saw her a little recovered. He
put the kettle on the stove. ' We'll have the
water boiling directly. It don't mix well with
the brandy if it isn't boiling.' Then he lit the
pendent lamp, for the cabin was dark, and
poked the fire, and coaxed the kettle, and
groped for the sugar. When he had mixed
her a glass, he brought it to her where she
lay. The light of the lamp was on her face.
Why — I declare, miss ! ' he exclaimed, ' why
surely, you're Miss Josephine Cornelia.'

She slightly nodded.

Lord ! Whatever brought you here ? '
he asked.

I was running away.*

'From what?'

My own thoughts.*

CHAPTER II.

JOSEPHINE.

The storm increased to fury as darkness fell.
Eicliard Cable stood on deck. To the southwest
was no light whatever, only purple
blackness. To the north, however, was a
coppery streak, over which hung a whirling,
spreading mass of angry vapour, casting down
lines of heavy rain in dense bands. Then
rapidly the growing darkness wiped out this
band of light, and left only the east clear, and
the clouds swept overhead like curling waves,
and fell beyond, cutting off all sunlight there
also, till on all sides nothing was visible but
leaping water and shaken foam-heads ; and
above, a wild hunt of tearing, galloping clouds,
lashed by the wind, with now and then a
blinding streak of lightning shot through
them, stinging them to fresh paroxysms of
flying terror. Richard Cable had ascended to
the masthead and kindled the light. The
mast was but low, perhaps fifteen feet above

the deck, topped with a huge glass globe, that
contained a powerful swinging light.

As Cable clung to the mast, he and it and
the light swung, and the light described arcs
and curves in the sky, against the driving
smoky clouds and the gathering night. Now
and again a great wave leaped up, and the
swaying lamp irradiated its crest, and glared
a glittering eye at it, that was reflected by the
angry water, which rushed away under the
keel, and threw it aloft, as if diving to get
away from the blazing eye. The ship reeled
and almost plunged its fire-point in the water;
it tantalised the waves with it ; it heeled
almost to overbalance, and held the light
above some hissing, hungry wave, which
gathered itself together, rose at it to snap,
and suddenly, with a whish and a streak of
fiery ribbon, away went the luminous globe,
and the wave roared and tore itself to ragged
foam in rage at being balked. Then a gull
hovered in the radiancy of the lamp, beating
its long white wings about it, coming out of
the darkness and spray-dust that filled the air,
and disappearing back into it again, as man
comes out of the Unknown, flickers a little
span in the light of Life, and dives back into
the Unknown. The wind had shifted several
points, but it was hard for Cable to make out

from whence it blew ; the hghtship was
anchored, and swung about her anchor, seemingly
describing circles, pitching, tossing,
heading at the wind, running before it,
brought up with a jerk, lurching sullenly at
it. She was moored to a couple of anchors,
one of them a ' mushroom ' (so called from its
shape), for greater security against dragging,
and Cable had paid out more chain to each.
In such a gale, with such rollers, she must be
given room to battle with the sea. Cable
was by no means satisfied that she could hold
where she was. The bank to which she was
anchored was a shifting bank, formed by
the swirl of the water round the ness ; a
treacherous bank, that formed and reformed,
that was now a strip, then a disc, that eased
this way and that, according to the drift of the
sea at equinoctial gales. He looked landwards,
but saw nothing, no blink of light
from behind the willows, where lay Hanford ;
and outside Hanford, near the beach, a little
white cottage with green windows, and under
its brown tile roof seven little fair heads on
white pillows.

As he stood looking through the darkness
in the direction of the sleeping heads, he was
startled by a voice at his elbow.

Captain, is the worst over ? '

VOL. I. C

Miss ! You should not be here

I cannot help myself ; I was suffocating
below. I fancied we must part our anchor.
I have plenty of pluck. My strength, not
my courage, failed me in the boat. I lost
my head because I was losing consciousness.
I am well again. Is the gale spent ? '

There was a lull in the wind, though the
waves were still running. ' You must go below
— you must, indeed,' said Cable. ' No ;
the gale is not over ; it goes as a teetotum
spins, and we're now at the peg. Wait, and
it will be on us harder than ever again.'

Can I be of any assistance ? '

You ! ' Cable laughed. ' Yes, go down
below and be ballast.'

The girl was in his pilot coat, which he
had thrown over her on the floor. She wore
his glazed hat. The hair that had been dispersed
was gathered in a knot again.

If we are likely to drown,' she said, ' I
will not drown in the hold, like a mouse in a

cage.'

Go down at once, whilst you may. You
will be swept overboard if you stay here.'

I will not,' she answered. ' Lash me to
the mast, and let me look death and storm in
the face.'

Cable saw that it was in vain to accrue

with her. There was no time to be lost ; he
heard the roar of the gale again approach

! ' she said ; ' this is my leather
strap. Pass it round the mast and my waist.
It is long and it is strong. Quick ! '

He obeyed with a growl : ' Girls are as
darned unruly as boys.'

The storm was on them again. It had
paused to gather strength, and then rush in
concentrated fury and accumulated force to
destroy the defiant little lightship, that tossed
its glittering head so dauntlessly, even defiantly,
in its teeth.

They could hear it coming far away, in a
roar that waxed in volume, and seemed like
an enveloping thunder when it smote them
with foam and a blast that struck like an
open hand. But the wind was not one-handed,
but as a Briareus, many-armed, tearing
while it bellowed at what it could not
best down. At the stress of the blow, one
of the cables gave way, a link having snapped
somewhere under water. Then the main
anchor, the chain having got foul of it, began
to drag, and at once the lightship was adrift,
at the mercy of wind and sea, swept before
the hurricane. From force of habit Cable
flew to the helm, but as quickly dropped it

c 2

again. He was helpless. The dragging of
the anchor kept the vessel's head to wind,
which was so far in their favour, and also
steadied her to some extent. Now and then
the anchor caught for a moment, and then
let go again, and the ship was driven farther
out, always heading to the wind, like a living
being forced to retreat, but reluctant to yield
an inch to the infuriated assailants.

Cable looked at the girl, on whom the
flicker of the lamp fell ; she did not cry, or,
if she did, he did not hear her. She was fast
bound by the belt, and stood, apparently, as
firm as the mast to which she was strapped.
Cable folded his arms. He could do nothing.
He thought of his little ones. Had they
prayed that night, before going to rest, for
their father ? Never had he more needed
their prayers. He thought he knew the
danger that threatened ; but he did not. He
.saw indeed that shipwreck was imminent ;
but he little imagined that another and very
different shipwreck menaced him. How old
were the seven daughters of Eichard Cable ?
The eldest was just thirteen ; then came the
twins of eleven ; then a child of ten ; and the
pan-pipe descended in a regular fall to the
baby, aged a year. They had come so fast
as to exhaust the strength of the mother.

who had died shortly after giving life to the
youngest.

Eichard Cable raised his eyes, half-blind
with salt, and, through the film of brine,
looked at the swaying lamp, that seemed to
blaze with prismatic colours, and shoot forth
rays and draw them in again, like a fiery porcupine.
And then he thought no more of
the light and the darkness in which it danced,
and saw far away into dreamland. Then
through the cold salt spray on his face, a
warm sweat broke forth.

Poor little ones ! ' he said ; Mf I am
taken, whatever will become of them ! '

At that moment he heard the girl's voice :
Mr. Cable ! Loosen the band — my arms are
frozen.'

Her voice jarred on him at that moment,
he knew not why ; but it called him back
from the consideration of his children to
thoughts about her. He went to her and
did what she required. He didn't speak to
her ; and, when he had complied with her
wishes, he went back to the place where he
had stood before. He tried to think of his
home, of his children, and could not ; her
face, her voice had distracted him, and disturbed
the visions he tried to call up.

How much of the night passed thus he

did not know : he was roused by a grating
sound that made itself felt in every fibre of
his body. The ship was aground ; she had
struck, not on a rock, but on a sandbank.
Cable stood for a moment motionless. Then
a wave came, raised the bows, ran midships,
then to the stern, and carried the vessel farther
on the bank. Thereupon, Cable left his
place and came to the mast. ' Miss Cornellis,'
he said, ' we're aground. I believe
my little ones' prayers have helped me tonight.'
He laid his hand on the mast and
grasped the thong that bound Josephine.
Young lady,' he said, ' in ten minutes we
shall know our fate.' He stood still, holding
the thong. He said no more for full twenty
minutes. The vessel lay over somewhat on
one side, and the water she had shipped
poured out of her lee scuppers.

'I can see the horizon on the south southwest,'
said the girl.

Yes j the worst of the gale is over.'

The waves no longer washed the deck.

The tide is ebbing,' said Cable. He unlashed
Josephine. ' Danger is over. Turn in
and sleep.'

But you ? '

I stay on deck awhile, and then I shall
coil up in the forecastle.'

Good-night,' she said, and held out her
hand.

I wish you sleep,' he said in reply.
Mind the knitting-pins and the little sock in
the cabin. They may be on the floor — anywhere.'


Next morning Cable woke early. The
sun was shining. He descended the ladder
to the outer cabin. Almost at the same
moment the girl threw open the door and
stood in it. She wore her blue serge gown.
Her hair was fairly smoothed, though she
was unprovided with brushes, and the leather
belt was about her waist. She laughed.
Her cheeks were flushed and her eyes sparkled.
' Not in Davy Jones's locker, after all,'
she said. ' I must run on deck and look
around me.'

And I, Miss Cornelia, Avill get the fire
lighted, the kettle boiling, and some breakfast
ready.'

Half an hour later both were together on
deck. The vessel was not so much inclined
that it was difficult to walk the deck. When
she had struck the sand was in motion, and
she had sunk almost upright in it. The
morning was fresh, the sky clear, but for
some lagging, white, fleecy clouds that flew
high aloft after the storm. Except for the

roll of the sea and the foam-wreaths round
the bank, every trace of the terrible hurricane
was gone. That storm had been short
and violent ; it had spun its spiral course
over land and sea, doing damage wherever it
passed ; it had strewn the Essex level land
with up-turned elms ; it had torn the leaves
of the chestnuts to threads, and blackened
the young beech as if a breath from a furnace
had seared them. Here and there it had
taken a rick and sifted it and scattered the
straw over the adjoining fields. It had
ripped roofs, and tossed the brown tiles about
and heaped them like russet autumn leaves.
At sea it had caught and foundered coal-barges
from the North, and sunk fishing-smacks.
It had torn great gaps in seagulls,
like the bites made by children's teeth in
rounds of bread and butter. It had twisted
and turned about old sandbanks, had swept
some away, and torn channels where had
been no road. For some miles out to sea,
for two or three days, there was neither crystalline
purity nor amethyst blue in the water ;
it was cloudy and brown with the mud it
had churned and that it held in suspension.
Along the shore lay wreaths of foam, not
white, but brown ; not evanescent as a bubble,
but drying into a crust.

The lightship lay far away from the zone
of turbid sea, and the ocean about the bank
in which she was wedged was deeply blue,
full of laughter and shake of silver curl, as
though bent on passing off its late fury fit as
an excusable frolic.

Where are we ? ' asked Josephine.

I fancy that I know,' answered Cable ;
but without a chart I cannot make you
understand. Now here Ave must bide till weare
taken off, and you may tell me what
brought you to the lightship.'

I was out rowing yesterday afternoon,'
said the girl, • and I was caught unawares,
the storm came on so suddenly I rowed
against the wind till I could row no more,
and I saw I could do nothing. I was being;
carried out to sea ; and then I felt that my
only chance was to reach your vessel.'

That Alas Avise of you. But your father
should not liaA'e let you come out alone.'

Oh, I go out, and go alone, Avhen I
choose.'

'But — if he had looked at the glass, he
Avould have seen the fall.'

1 did not ask his leave. I Event because
I Avant fresh air, to blow the bad thoughts
out of my head that troubled me.'

Bad thoughts trouble you ! ' exclaimed

Cable, and looked steadily at her out of his
crystalline blue eyes, clear and sparkling as
the sea that surrounded them. ' I should not
have supposed that possible. Where the
head is that of an angel, one does not expect
that it shall hold bad thoughts. No one looks
for explosives in a porcelain vase.'

Josephine laughed a short impatient laugh,
and tossed her chin. The elastic was tight ;
she put her finger under it ; the skin was
compressed and reddened by the band.

She was a handsome dark girl, with transparent
olive skin, and large lustrous eyes like
agates. The lashes were long ; when she
half-closed her lids they gave a languor to the
orbs, dispelled at once when full lifted. Her
cheek flushed not the rose pink, but the ripe
hue of the apricot. She had very dark hair,
a rounded chin, broad temples ; was firmly
built. To anyone experienced in detecting
types, a tinge of Jewish blood would have
been recognised in the features and hue.

'Well,' she said, and laughed again, ' the
hurricane has blown my bad thoughts out of
my head, as it has carried the down from the
willow flowers and scattered them — heaven
knows where. Woe be to him who picks
them up ! — they will desolate and injure his
hands.'

Were they so bad ? '

You said yourself — explosives.'

Miss Cornellis, I made a clumsy comparison.
If I may ask — What were these
thoughts ? '

She fidgeted with her feet and plucked at
the elastic band. In her nervous confusion,
she drew it out, let it slip, and the elastic
snapped on her delicate skin so sharply as to
make her cry out. Then she took off her hat,
and holding her knees, swung the hat from
her finger, and let the wind play with her
hair, and unravel it, and scatter it and toss
about the short growth over her brow.

Were the thoughts like to explode ? '
asked Cable.

The questions you put to me are not fair,
captain,' said the girl. ' My thoughts are my
own.'

!Not a bit. Miss Cornellis : you said yourself
they were blown about for anyone to pick up.'

\Vell — and I am too much indebted to
you to wish you to gather them. They are
dangerous. Hands off! ' She hugged her
knees, and played with the string of her cap,
and looked at the plunging waves on the
sand. Her brow darkened, and her eyes lost
their sparkle. ' Captain, when shall we get
home — I to my worries — you to your babes ?'

Cable shook his head. ' We must wait.
Ah, miss, patience is an article of which a
good cargo is laid in, in a lightship. One
consumes a lot of it in a fortnight — separated
from all one loves at home, and with none to
speak to but a lout of a boy with no more
intelligence than a jelly-fish.'

I should think it pleasant to live in a
lightship. I could be Avell content to stay
where I am now. If I go home, I shall get
into troubles again.'

But — what are your troubles ? '

I'm adrift,' said the girl. ' As I stood
bound to the mast last night, and the wind
and the waves carried the boat and me where
they would, I thought it Alas a picture of
myself morally. You have your seven little
anchors holding you. I have nothing. You
are tied by many little fibres to hearth and
home. I have none of these fibres : if I have,
they hold to nothing.'

She was still looking before her. She put
the elastic band of her hat between her teeth,
and bit and tore till it parted.

There ! ' said Cable. ' Now, how are you
to keep your hat on ? '

She looked at the broken string. ' I did
not know what I was about,' she said ; ' I was
thinking my thoughts again.'

I see,' said Cable. ' These same thoughts
are not wholesome : they hurt her who
harbours them and those they concern.'

'Yes,' she said; ' they drive me mad. I
do not know what to do, where to go. I care
for no tie any more than that of my hat I
have torn. I would tear any one of them that
restrained me.'

I do not understand you,' said the light-sherman,
shaking his head. ' I've seven little
girls at home, and I'd be sorry to think anyone
of them should grow up with such
thoughts as you have in your head.'

They will not. Do not be afraid. They
will always look up to and respect you. Did
you not see how the lantern swung at the
masthead all through the storm ? It never
went out ; it burned all night ; no wave engulphed
it. We could always look up to
that. You are the light to the little vessel of
your family, and your children will look upto
that.'

And you, my dear young lady ? '

I — I have no light above me.'

And what about helm and helmsman,
compass, chart. Miss Cornelia ? '

I have nothing, neither helm nor helmsman,
nor compass, chart, nor anchor, nor
light. I am — drifting: — a derelict.'

CHAPTER III.

A SEA-FETTLE.

Cable went about his work as usual. He
would not have to delight the lamp, as the
boat was not at the station, but a castaway ;
however, he cleaned the lamp as usual and
put the burners in order. Then he went into
the cabin to clear away the breakfast and
make all tidy, after the night. It had not
occurred to Josephine to do anything. She
was not accustomed to put her hand to menial
work ; she expected to be waited upon.

She half sat, half lay on the side of the
vessel that leaned over, nearest the water,
listening to the pleasant lap of the waves, with
the glitter on her face from the sun reflected
in the glassy water. She amused herself with
watching the foam bubbles dance along, with
w^onderinf^r what the dark tliint^s were beneath
the green surface that drifted by. Then she
looked up and let the hot sun burn her face ;
she shut her eyes, and basked, or opened them

to see the gulls and kittiwakes hover and dart
above. Then she put both her hands about
her eyes, and tried to distinguish whether
that faint white patch far away in the blue
were the moon or a ghostly cloud. The tide
had risen, a-nd occasionally the waves came
up so high that her hand over the side dipped
in the water, and she sought to catch the
weeds that were floating on it. With her
fingers hanging over the bulwarks, with salt
drops falling from them, she sang the Mermaid's
air in Oberon :

O wie wont es such scion auf der Flush
Wenn die miide Wellee im Schlummer rust !

She was happy, doing nothing, inhaling the
fresh sea air, basking in the brightest.

Josephine Cornellis was the daughter of a
gentleman of some independent mxcans, who
lived in a villa or cottage near the sea at
Hanford. The house was not beautiful, built
of white brick, and square, but it was comfortable.
It had a glass conservatory to the
south before the drawing-room windows ; and
a pretty garden, inclosed within tarred wooden
boards, that went down to the sewell. Mr.
Cornellis lived in Eose Cottage vrith'. his unmarried
sister and his daughter. lie was a
man of Vvdiose antecedents little v\'as known.

He had boiiglit Eose Cottage some seven or
eight years ago, and had come there with his
sick wife because the doctors ordered her sea
air and the chlorine effluvium from the rotting
seaweed. She had died there, a feeble, dispirited
woman, whom few had got to know ;
and the husband remained on, as widower,
with the little daughter, whom he allowed to
go much her own way.

Mr. Cornellis was suspected of having
Jewish blood in him ; but no one knew anything
about his ancestry. His true history
was this. His great-grandfather, the first of
the name, was an Austrian Jew, who came by
his appellation in this way. The Emperor
Joseph H. issued an order that all Jews in his
dominions were to provide themselves with
fixed surnames. Accordingly, the Hebrew
Levis and Samuels and Isaacs chose for themselves
the most Bowery appellations they could ,
invent, and became a mountain of Roses
(Eosenberg), or a Valley of Lies (Lilienthal),
or affected heraldic distinctions, as Eedshield
(Rothschild), or Golden Star (Goldenstern), or
simply Stag (Hirsch), or Lion (Lowe). But old
Moses Israel had not a Hvely imagination nor
much ambition, and when summoned before
the magistrate to have his name registered, he
was at a loss what to call himself. ' Come, old

skin flint,' said the official, taking the pen from
his ear — ' come— the name.'

The name ! ' stammered Moses IsraeL

The surname. It must be entered on
the protocoL 1 have no time to waste on
you.'

Surname ! ' repeated the Jew, and put up
his hand to his head.

I see,' said the magistrate, * you have a
cornelian ring on your forefinger. Cornelian
shall be your name, or '

Or 1 ' Moses Israel accepted the appellation
given him from his ring rather than risk
the alternative. Austrian officials did not make
many bones of a Jew in those days. So the
son of Moses Israel called himself after his
father, Levi Carols, but came to England,
where he softened the Carols into Cornellis.
He married an Englishwoman, and professed
Christianity. The great-grandson of old
Moses Israel was Justin Cornellis. As his
father was not well off, and he was obliged todo
something for a livelihood, and as he had no
love of hard work, he attached himself to a
missionary society, and was sent about Asia and
Northern Africa in quest of the Lost Tribes.
He drew three hundred a year from this society,
and rambled about, sending home occasional
reports, pure fabrications, based on absolutely

VOL. L D

no facts, spiced with appeals to fanaticism
and piety. This lasted till somewhere in the
Levant he caught the affections of a young
English lady, the daughter of a merchant, and
eloped with her, got married, and then threw
up his position as missionary to the Lost Tribes.

The relations of his wife were very angry
at the marriage, and Cornellis did not get
with her as much money as he had calculated
on securing. Nevertheless, he got something
her mother's portion ; and with her and her
income, he settled in England, where he did
his best to dissipate her fortune on his own
selfish pleasures. He neglected his wife, and
spent much of his time in town. She became
a mother, and then her health gave way. Lie
had not the spirit to bear up against her disappointments.
She had idealised the earnest,
handsome missionary ; and when she found
him a sceptical, selfish man, her disappointment
crushed her spirit. She lived on several
years, till her daughter Josephine was about
twelve, and then died.

Mr. Cornelia was a man who knew human
nature, or prided himself on knowing it ; but he
knew only its weaknesses. He held mankind
in contempt, as something to be preyed on by
the man who had intelligence.

Associated with such a father, void of

principle, it may be understood how Josephine
could speak of herself as a direct, without
anchor, light, or chart. She was a girl with
natural warmth of character and generous
feelings ; but they were blighted by the cold
sarcastic breath of her father's spirit, a spirit
that sneered at kindliness, yet affected it in
public ; that made a mock of enthusiasm, yet
pretended to it when likely to be profitable.

For some time Mr. Cornelia had cut himself
completely adrift from all his old associates ;
but as his means became reduced, he beizan
again to court them, and resumed his cloak of
piety and benevolence, as occasion served,
much as an actor would put on his costume for
the part he was prepared to represent.

There are hypocrites of all sorts in the
world ; the most common kind is that which
deceives itself. Those who belong to this
breed are unconscious hypocrites, and no one
would be more surprised than themselves to
be stripped of their masquerade. But Mr.
Cornellis knew perfectly what he was about.
He wanted something of a certain class of
men, and he dressed his window to catch
them. At home he made no pretence to believe
in the goodness of the articles exposed ;
he scoffed at the fools who were caught by
them.

d2

Josephine respected her father for his
abiht}^, but could not love him. He showed
her little affection ; he ridiculed all exhibition
of feeling.

Her aunt was not an interesting woman.
She was a butt for her brother's jokes. A
woman with a mind essentially commonplace,
without taste, refinement, and ability. She
was stout and plain. There was in her, however,
a certain amount of honesty and kindliness.
Josephine despised Aunt Judith because
she was stupid. There was no one about her
whom she could love.

Richard Cable came up, took a bucket,
turned it over, and seated himself on it, with
his knitting, near Josephine.

I have been watching a violet coloured
jelly-fish,' she said languidly. ' It opens and
shuts like a parasol, and so works its way
along ; but how it can think to do this perplexes
me, as it has no brains.'

There are certain to be jelly-fish where
the water is shallow and warm.'

What an ideally perfect life they lead,
floating when the sun shines, sinking when
storm threatens.'

But, Miss Cornellis, it is not a good life
at all for such as us — we must always keep
up, never sink.'

And, to drift with the tide,' she said.

This makes the difference between us and
jelly-fish,' said the sailor. 'They go with the
current, and we swim against the tide. God
has withdrawn brain from the creature because
it does not deserve one, floating as it
does with the tide. Brain is needed only for
those whose life is made up of effort.'

'Yes,' she answered, and laughed : ' I suppose
it is so. And yet, there is a luxury in
having the consciousness of brain power in
one, and yet — swimming with the tide.'

That is not a luxury — it is a treason,' said
Cable. 'Would you be a jelly-fish. Miss
Cornellis ? Then choose only lukewarm and
shallow water as your element.' There was
a tone of reproach in his voice.

She was displeased at it, and pouted.

'Would you lilac a net, miss, and try to
catch prawns ? ' he asked after a pause.

No. I want to be a jelly-fish for the
nonce — do nothing, think of nothing, but
enjoy the sun and the glitter of the water.'

Ai^ain a silence of some duration.

Did you chance to see my mother and
any of my little ones about, before you
left Hanford ? ' asked Cable. ' Excuse my
asking ; but I have not Sen them for ten
days.'

Xo,' answered Josephine. ' I don't know
them by sight.'

There are seven,' said Cable.

So I have heard. — You have lost your
wife?'

Yes. Poor Polly died ten months ago.'

Tell me something about the children,'
said Josephine. She lacked sympathy to hear
concerning them. She spoke carelessly. She
was vexed in her idle mood at being disturbed.
She was in no way interested in the children ;
if they had been drowned, she would not have
cared.

It's a funny thing for a man to do, to
knit,' she said sleepily.

I knit for my babe ; and I knit the love
of my heart in and out with the wool, to keep
the dear little feet warm.'

I suppose you are fond of it. — I hate
babies.'

Cable said nothing. He looked at Josephine's
handsome face and wondered. He knitted
a round, thinking, and then he said : ' Some
day you may have babes of your own, and
then you Avould like them to have a thousand
feet, and to clothe all the little feet in socks
knitted out of your heart-strings. You would
give them everything you had ; you would
love them so dearly.'

I cannot understand you. Are you talking
Chinese ? '

No — the lanc^uacre of nature.'

Yes ; I suppose it is so. Cats and dogs,
and I have no doubt also jelly-fish, love their
young. As the brain gains, there is less of
this animal affection. My father is a very
clever man. He does not care much for me.
You see, I am of no use to him.'

He not care for you I '

Oh, he cares for me, because he has the
trusteeship of my mother's little fortune.
You must see, Mr. Cable, disinterested affection
is, and must be, irrational. That, I
should think, was obvious to the meanest
capacity.'

Cable continued his knitting. Her words
troubled him, and his hand was unsteady ; he
dropped a stitch.

Josephine had her eyes half-closed, watching
him, and a smile twinkled on her lips.
She was amused at him, he was so simple.
He loved his children, he had little brain.
Then she lao-hed out.

o

Cable raised his bright blue eyes and met
hers. He did not speak ; but he questioned
the occasion of her lauc^h with them. He had
a suspicion that she laughed at him.

I only want one thing to make me quite

happy,' she said. 'I was thinking of some
chocolate creams I left on my dressing-table.
Do you know that when I have been missed,
Aunt Judith will eat my chocolate creams,
and so console herself for my being drowned ?
What is there for dinner to day ? '

Salt pork. I have nothing else.'

It is well Aunt Judith is not here. She
would be more troubled at having salt pork,
than at being cast away on a sandbank.'

'You do not speak respectfully of your
aunt.'

I do not respect her.'

'I wish, miss,' said Cable, 'you would
promise me, when you are on shore, that you
would look at my little ones.'

Oh, yes ; I will carry them bonbons ; but
I give you fair warning that I shall not fall in
love with them.'

Eichard Cable's brow was troubled, and
his hands would not make the stitches right.
He laid the little sock aside, and folded his
rough brown hands round his knee. He was
a man who thought a good deal. Isolated
from all companions for every alternate fortnight,
except only from the tiresome, stupid
boy, who was no associate, he lived much in
his own thoughts. In the lightship he had
time on his hands, time in which to think ; and

perhaps the nature of his occupation, perhaps
natural proclivity, had made of him a man
who lived an inner life, a quiet, serene-souled
man, who had never known a greater trouble
than the death of Polly, his young wife, whom
he had married when she was eighteen, and
he hardly one-and-twenty. At seaside places,
where there is much fishing, the men marry
early. He had loved his Polly warmly,
placidly, not passionately. There had been
no cross-currents in his courting • all had crone
smoothly to marriage ; and since marriage, the
course had also been smooth till the great
breakdown ten months as^o. He was a God-fearing
man, with a simple, childlike trust and
faith ; and he was a kindly man to all around
him. Though he swore at and grumbled
about the boy Joe who was associated with
him, he was considerate of him, and gentle
with him, sparing him hard work, and careful
to speak no unseemly word before him. Joe
looked up to him as a dog to its master, with
a hearty devotion ; and his parents were inclined
to joke him about his references to
Master Cable's opinions, as though they were
infallible.

When Eichard's fortnight was out, and he
came back to Hanford, no man could be
happier than he, as he sat with the baby on

his knee, and put his rough linger into its
mouth and let it try its new tooth on it ; with
the six other little girls round him, all fair-haired,
with clear complexions and blue eyes.
But though he dearly loved them all, and
made most fuss with the baby, the eldest,
Mary, sat nearest his heart. She was called
after his dead wife ; and there was a look
about her eyes and something in all the upper
part of her face that made him think of Polly.
He took her to walk with him, but did not
speak much. He was a silent man, thinking
his own thoughts. These thoughts were of a
simple order, and the revolution in his brain
was by no means eccentric ; but now he was
brought in contact with a young girl who
belonged not only to a different social sphere,
but to a distinct moral and mental order ;
and against his will, she exerted a powerful
disturbing influence on his mind. He did not
understand her ; he was uncertain Vvdiether
she spoke out the real feeling of her heart ;
or whether she dissembled with him, and
affected a callousness which she did not
actually feel. He looked long and steadily at
her, trying to read her character. She felt
his eyes on her, and every now and then half-opened
her lids and looked at him in reply to
his gaze ; then he started and turned his head

away with a sensation as if he had received a
shot.

How long is it since your father died ? '
asked Josephine, sitting up and putting on her
hat.

He paused a while to gather his thoughts
before he replied, then he said quietly, gravely,
without a muscle chanoincr in his face : ' I
have lost him since I was an infant. I do not
remember him.'

What did he die of? Was he drowned
at sea ? '

I do not know that he is dead.'

Not dead ! ' She opened her beautiful
brown eyes in surprise. ' Where is he,
then ? '

I do not know.'

How droll ! Why does he not live with
your mother and you ? '

He paused again — a dark colour mantled
his brow and temples. ' He deserted my
mother.'

And you have never been after him ? '

No.' He moved uneasily.

Nor would I — unless he had money.'

Cable stood up and paced the deck with
his head down. He raised it now and then
and looked over the sea to the horizon. He
was wishing that a sail was visible. He

became uneasy at being cast away on a sandbank
with this girl Her presence disturbed
the equanimity of his mind. He was attracted
by her, yet she repelled him. He pitied her
yet he feared her.

Presently he came up to her, and she
raised her brown eyes to him to ask what he
wanted. He bent his away. ' Look into the
water,' he said a little roughly

water is falling ; I can see through
to the sand.'

Do you see yonder yellow mass floating
by?'

'Yes — like a ghostly sponge.'

Do you know what it is ? '

'A sort of jelly-fish.'

It is a sea-nettle,'

A plant ? '

No ; a living being. If you were to
touch it, it would sting 3'ou, perhaps paralyse
you. I have known bathers in deep water
who have encountered one of these harmless-looking
creatures, and the touch has deadened
their nerves, so that they have sunk as lead
and never came up again alive,'

It is a pretty thing, too, with its long
filaments. You hinted that there were human
beings like jelly-fish.'

There are. What I say, I think. And

there are human beings, even beautiful young
girls, like sea nettles. The jelly-fish have no
heads ; they do not hurt. The sea-nettles
have no hearts ; they sting and kill.'

And I ! ' laughed Josephine, ' I am one of
the latter ! You are not complimentary. I
have not hurt you — at least I have had no
intention of doings

The sea-nettle has no thought of hurting
the bather ; its touch palsies without its having
spiteful purpose, simply because it don't consider
the feelings of those it encounters.'

Her face became grave, and she turned it
abruptly away towards the sea.

He continued his walk. Then he went
into the cabin and fetched his telescope. He
looked intently in one direction ; Josephine
looked over the bulwarks in another ; he at
the far off, she at the near — the ebbing tide
and the drifting weed and living creatures in
the shallows. Then he came across to her.
I am sorry I spoke rudely,' he said.

She turned her face. There were tears in
her eyes, perhaps of mortified vanity. She
put out her hand^to him. ' Do not be afraid
to touch me,' she said with a forced laugh ;
I will not hurt you. I would not do so fora
great deal. I dare say I am hard. I am
unhappy. I trust no one ; believe in nothing ;

have no love, no hope. I will not sting.
Tell me the truth always, however unpalatable.
I hate lies.'

Then he stooped and touched the tips of
her fingers with his lips. ' I pity you infinitely,'
he said. ' You must find some one
or something to love, or you will be lost.'

His voice was so kind, his manner so
deferential, such genuine, ]hearty compassion
streamed out of his honest eyes, that she was
softened. ' I will come and see you sometimes,'
she said ; ' I will see your mother and
the children. I will try to get interested in
them, and get out of myself, and away from
the hateful atmosphere that surrounds meat
home.' Then she laughed. ' Mr. Cable,
throw me a rope now and then, and haul me
out of the shallow water in which I live, and
where I shall become a sea-nettle.'

'With God's help, I will do what I can
he said gravely, and put his hand to his cap,
as ofTerinfT a salute.

CHAPTER lY.

Ease COTTAGE.

Mr. Coenellis was standing at the window
of his drawing-room, looking out into the
conservatory, with his hands in his pockets.
He was a dark, handsome man, with brown
eyes, like those of his daughter, but harder :
polished pebbles without any softness in them.
He wore a moustache, no beard or whisker ;
he affected nothing clerical in his dress, but
he wore black, chiefly because he thought it
suited him. He was particular about his
clothes, always was neat, and with fresh white,
starched cuffs and collar "and shirt-front ; and
his cloth suit fitted him admirably. One
might have supposed that, with his rambling
life in the East, he would have contracted untidy,
careless habits ; but this was not the
case ; he affected to be a well-dressed man.
He knew how important it is for a man in
Europe to maintain a good exterior, if he is to

command the respect of men. Xo one will
believe that the moral character is out at
elbows, when the cloth coat is without creases ;
and everyone mistrusts the uprightness of the
man whose trousers bulge at the knees. Why
not ? Is not a dog with a patchy back out of
sorts ? and a mounting fowl an unprofitable
creature? Hoar are we to judge except by
the exterior ? There are telescopes constructed
by which we can peer under water,
and see what lies far down in the deeps ; but
we have no such apparatus for thrusting down
men's throats and prying into the abysses of
their hearts. Besides, if we had them, our
fellows would decline to allow us to use them.
There are stethoscope by which the doctor
can hear the inhalations of our lungs, the inflation
of its vessels, and can detect which
are sound and which carious ; but there are
no spiritual stethoscope which we can apply
to our neighbours' temples, and hear through
them the operation of the brain, and distinguish
base from healthy thoughts there. I
maintain that we are justified in judging of
a man by his coat and continuations, by his
hat and gloves and his boots ; for there is
congruity in all creatures, and the exterior
does almost invariably correspond with the
interior. The face is the index of the mind.

and the gloves of the souL Who does not
know that the pair of lavender with the
iino-ers showing at the ends indicates radical
shabbiness through all the integuments of the
character ? and the dirty left-hand and clean
right-hand dogskin an ill-balanced spirit ?

Mr. Cornellis was piping low to himself
between his very white front teeth, which
were just so far apart as to allow the breath
to hiss or whistle between them. It was unusual
with him to have this hands in his pockets :
that was a luxury in which he indulged himself
only at home. Abroad, he played with
his o'old watchman, curling it round his forefinger.
He was now looking; at a Mareschal
Noel rose that hung its drops of yellow flowers
from the roof ; the sun streamed in through
its pale green leaves upon the beautiful
blossoms. Then Mr. Cornellis opened the
French window and went into the conservatory,
and still hissing, plucked off the withered
blooms, which he put in a basket kept for the
purpose. He was tidy in that also. Then he
pulled up a weed he saw in an azalea pot ;
then opened his penknife with a threepenny
bit, lest he should break his nail, and carefully
cut a charming bud off the creeping rose. He
came back into the parlour, laid the flower on
the table, and said : ' Put it in water, Judith.'

VOL. I. E

For myself ? ' asked Miss Cornellis, illo
was lounging with lier back to the window in
an arm-chair.

For Gabriel,' answered Mr. Cornellis.

You never give me anything, Justin.'

Because you take what you want, Judith.

I really cannot think how you can have
the heart to be squashing aphis and picking
roses '

I am not, and I have not been, what you
call squashing aphis. If I want to kill the
aphis, I use an infanticide or brushes.'

I don't care how you do it,' said Miss
Cornellis. ' It is heartless of you, whether
done with your fingers, or with brushes
or Ghishurst's Compound. — Poor Josephine !
Who knows where she may be ? Perhaps
floating dead on the surface, perhaps sunk in
the deeps.'

Am not I her father ? ' said Mr. Cornellis
sharply. ' Have I not the feelings proper to
my position ? Of course I am troubled and
anxious ; but I do not forestall evils. If the
worst come to pass, her life is insured for a
thousand pounds. You would not have me
sit moistening handkerchiefs, at the prospect of
an evil which may not have occurred.'

Where is Josephine ? She went out in
the boat, and neither she nor the boat has

turned up since. I don't say that I expect
you to blubber '

Merciful heavens ? Judith, how coarse
you are. I said moisten, and that word is
expressive enough. It is a mark of bad
breeding to use exaggerated terms.'

Justin, I don't care twopence about the
word ; it is the thing concerns me. You don't
seem to half feel Josephine's disappearance,
and then — to talk in that cold-blooded way of
havens insured her life ! '

I did insure her, two years ago ; and if
she be lost, I shall claim the money.'

I never doubted that,' said Judith.
^ You will always view everything from a
monetary point of sight, even your daughter's
death.'

My dear sister, one must live. I do not
wear my heart exposed to all the world,
trailed to the light, spread out, tied to
wires, and call everyone to admire its tears,
like the blossoms of a Mareschal Kiel. What
are you about now with your back to the
light?'

I Nothing, Justin.'

I am positive you are doing something
that affects your speech.'

His sister hesitated a moment, and then
said : ' I have been searching poor dear

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

Josephine's room, in hopes of finding some
clue to her whereabouts.'

And pray, do you suppose she has gone
a cruise in her own bedroom, and has run
aground on the fireraat, or shipped a sea in
the wash-hand basin ? '

I thought I might lind some trace of
where she had gone.'

That is like your wisdom, Judith. Perhaps
you suppose she had gone out meditating
suicide, and had left a note to inform us of
her intentions. You are hardly gifted with
sufficient imagination to conceive of such
nonsense as that. Well — what did you find ? '

Only a box of chocolate creams.'

And you are munching them ! Really
Judith, you are heartless, not I.'

There is no harm in eating chocolate
creams.'

None in the least, only — it is greedy to
munch when you should suck. — Hand the
box to me.'

Mr. Cornellis put a bonbon into his mouth.
Were these tito, the father and the aunt, unfeeling
in consuming the contents of Josephine's
box of chocolate, uncertain of the fate of the
girl ? We have no right to draw such a conclusion.
Miss Cornellis looked at her brother,
and thought him heartless because he sucked ;

and Mr. Cornellis considered his sister callous
because she chewed ; and we regard them
both as lacking in proper feeling because they
ate. Are we not as prejudiced, as unjust to
both, as the one was to the other ? When we
attend the funeral of a dear relative, do we
not partake of the breakfast ? Do we not
expect a well spread table as the necessary
concomitant to hearse and hatband ? Are
we entirely indifferent to the quality of the
sherry? and whether we have the liver wing
or the drumstick of the chicken handed to us ?
and does not gall make itself felt in the
chambers of the heart, if we are balked of one
slice of tongue with the chicken ? The widow
upstairs has her eyes red with tears, but is
quite sensible whether there is sugar enough
with the mint sauce with the lamb ; and
afterwards, in the hush of the evenings, when
the masons have closed up the tomb about
her darling', and the mourners are one, she
will speak to the cook in a broken voice full
of suppressed tears, and bid her mind another
time and stir the sugar in the saucedish before
sending it in, and chop the mint a little finer.
So also the widower, who, with manly self-constraint,
has ]bottled up his tears and talked
of the weather, thrusts the crust of his cold
veal pie impatiently to the margin of his plate.

because the paste is not flaky, and curses this
destiny because now lie has no one to keep
his cook up to the mark.

Then, why should we take offence at Mr.
and Miss Cornellis consuming chocolate creams
when they are not in the least certain that
Josephine is dead ? We are all humbugs and
hypocrites, more or less ; we draw a purely
conventional line, and denounce every transgression
of that hue as evidence of inhumanity
or want of taste ; but within that arbitrary
boundary we are Pharisees, thanking God weare
not as other men are, who eat chocolate
creams in times of family bereavement, but
content ourselves with gooseberry pie and
custard, and blanc-mange and cabinet-pudding.


The lightship is lost,' said Mr. Cornellis,
'and that fellow Cable has gone to the
bottom.'

He leaves a large family.'

Mr. Cornellis shrugged his shoulders.
They will wriggle on. I knew a collier once
who drowned himself because he thought his
family would be well cared for if he were
away, judging by the prosperity of the widows
and orphans of some of his mates.'

No tidings whatever of Josephine's boat?'

Not like to have them, with the gale off

shore. If washed up anywhere, it will be on
the Dutch coast.'

'Do you really flatter yourself she is
alive ? '

I will not believe otherwise till I am
forced to it.'

Gabriel is much fidgeted about her disappearance.
He makes more ado than you.
He has taken greater fancy to her than I
thought possible, considering how she treats
him.'

Judith had hardly said the words, before
the door opened, and a man came in, a gentleman
distinctly, but a feeble, mean creature,
with a thin face, almost transparent nose, a
low brow, and with faded, watery blue eyes.
His face was pale, and the muscles twitched
in it. The head shook on the neck with a
nervous, convulsive tremor. The expression
of his countenance was a curious mixture of
conceit and appeal. He wore a bottle-green
coat with velvet collar. As he entered, a
smell of opium pervaded the room, and neutralised
the fragrance of the tea-rose.

Mr. Gotham ! ' said Aunt Judith, ' we
were just speaking of you.'

Eh, eh ! My left ear was burning. What
was it? No good, no good, of course.'

Certainly not, squire,' said Mr. Cornelia,

going up to him and clasping his hand with
frank and almost boisterous geniality. ' My
sister has been shaking her head over you,
wondering whether you have sowed all your
wild-oats yet ; telling nie what a scapegrace
you are, what a fostering, dashing blade you
.are, and was asking me to deny you access to
our house — and see ! in you walk without
ringing at the front door, or tapping here at
the parlour entrance, just as if you were
hail-fellow-well-met, and had the run of our
house, and a right to the first place atour
table. And, by George ! squire, you
are right ; you are lord of the manor, and I
have to do homage to you annually with a
straw.'

Mr. Gotham's weak eyes twinkled, and a
pink blush suffused his nose. He looked from
one to another and giggled.

Come here, squire,' said Mr. Cornelia,
handing him an arm-chair. ' What sort of
sport have you had with the harriers ? '

Not much. The last meet, killed two.'

'Any nasty jumps?'

• Two or three.'

• Glad to see you alive, squire.'

I don't myself care for a hare-hunt,' said
Mr. Gotham, letting himself stiffly and slowly
down into the chair. ' We run in a circle.

you know. Nothing like a fox-lint ; but no
more of that till next season.'

Who were out ? '

I — I — I can hardly say. I Wasn't there.
I had my neuralgic pains again, and so, at the
last moment, reconsidered my purpose. But
I intended to go, I intended fully. I began
to dress for it, and got on my boots ; but the
neuralgia took me when I stooped, and I was
obliged to have recourse to my drops. So

Judith,! frighten you, do I? No occasion

for that. I am sadly changed, sadly — a
poor broken being now.' He looked eagerly,
questioningly from sister to brother, and back
again.

Broken fiddlestick ! ' exclaimed Mr. Cornellis.
' Do you suppose, if Judith thought
that, lie would have been pulling a Mareschal
Kiel for your button-hole ? Ladies don't lavish
flowers on broken beings and weaklings, but
on boisterous fox-hunters and jolly dogs. I
know women's hearts ; but Lord ! so do you,
you rascal ! '

Mr. Gotham chuckled and blushed.
There,' he said ; ' I have come to hear
about poor Josephine. I am so troubled.
I could not sleep last night thinking about
Iier. The anxiety brought on my neuralgia
— all thinking and worry does — and I should

not have slept last night at all but for my
drops.'

It is really very kind of you, squire, to
give her so much thought. We have been
in sad distress, as you may judge. I am a
father — her father; you must excuse me,
Gabriel. I try to talk of other matters, but
I can only think of my child ; she is my own
flesh and blood.'

Mr. Gotham began to fidget in his chair ;
he put up his hand to his brow, and said in a
tremulous voice : ' Any news of the lightship ?
It is lost, I hear, and — I have not been particular
in inquiries about it ; I was afraid of
seeming too particular.'

'None,' answered Mr. Cornellis with his
hard eyes on the man.

He, feeble creature, looked at Miss Judith,
then at her brother, as if he wanted to say
more, but was afraid to commit himself.

You need not hesitate,' said Mr. Cornellis.
'My sister knows all, and is close as the
grave.'

I am very uneasy, very unhappy. I — I
do not know vvdiat I ouo-ht to do. I could

not possibly — and yet You can hardly

conceive how I have suffered, how the neuralgia
has tortured me in consequence of —
of You can understand me.'

'Let bygones be bygones,' said Mr. Cornellis.
'I knew an old bastion where the dead
had been buried after a siege two hundred
years ago. Lately, a speculative builder ran
up houses over the site, disturbed the earth
for his foundations and kitchens, and the
first inmates of his new houses died of
diphtheria. Never rake up old grave-ground,
squire.'

'No. I suppose you are right.' Mr.
Gotham stood up. ' But I shoukl like to
talk the matter over with you in my house,
when the worst is known. I'm not happy.
I feel the pains coming on again. I think I
must go home.'

Very well. I will come over. Take
something at once to soothe your lacerated
nerves ? '

Mr. Gotham nodded.

Do not forget your rose,' said Cornellis.
My sister picked it expressly for you, but is
too shy to offer it you with her own fair
hands.'

The rose will lose half its charm unless
it be presented by her,' said Gotham with a
bow ; and when he had left the room, he
sniggered. ' He, he ! I can turn a pretty
speech to a lady ! I'm an old buck ! Am I
not, Justin ? '

'Not old. Why, what are your years —
forty-five ? '

Oh, more than that, alas ! '

You don't look it. But it is the hunting,
the fresh air. The back of a horse makes
you, as Polixenes says, to be boy eternal.'

Yes. I subscribe very liberally to both
the Foxhounds and the Harriers.'

And you are out with them continually.'

When I can. I have my horses and my
hunting suit ; but the neuralgia interferes
terribly with my sports. You will come in —
you Avill be sure to come in, after I have had
some rest — say, in three hours. I am so
uneasy. There is really nothing heard of the
lightship ? ' He looked appealingly to Cornellis.


'Nothing. And believe me, Gabriel, it
^vill be best for all if the blue sea covers
him.'

Gotham's hand trembled in that of Cornellis.
' I — I do not know. I am in pain. I
cannot bear my sufferings. I must go home.
You will come to me ? '

You are overdone, squire, with the
hunt.'

I only intended to go.'

But — the exertion, even of that ! And
the drawings on of the boots, to a man so

agonised with pain as yourself. Good
heavens ! the heroism, the self-mastery !
What men there are in the world ! '

He stood in his door, looking after the
squire, who had not far to walk ; his gate
was within a stone's-throw of Eose Cottage.

Not a muscle in his face changed, to show
in what way his thoughts turned. Then he
went back to the sitting-room.

Justin,' said his sister, ' I really think you
might say a word to him. He is killing himself
with opium.'

'My dear Judith, when you see a man on
his way to the devil, let him alone. If you
try to divert him, he will go another way ;
but the destination will be the same, and the
blame of his going will attach to you. — Give
me another of those chocolate creams.'

You know best,' said Judith. ' You are
very clever, and I am dull ; but you might do
something, I think.'

The door suddenly opened, and Josephine
appeared in it, browned from exposure, her
eyes dancing. ' I knew it, I knew it ! I said
as much to Eichard Cable. Eating my chocolate
creams ! '

Josephine ! ' Her father stepped forward ;
her aunt sprang up.

Well, I knew aunt would be at them. I

did not think it of you, papa. Pah ! how the
room smells of opium. I know that cousin
Gotham has been here.'

-'I am very, very glad to see you again,
Josephine,' said her father. ' Give me a kiss.
Where have you been ? What has happened
? '

I — I have been on the lightship with
Dicky Cable.'

He is not dead — not drowned ? '

No more than myself.'

Mr. Cornellis was silent; his brow contracted.


Upon my word ! ' exclaimed Josephine,
what ravages you two have made on my
box of chocolate creams ! '

CHAPTEE Y.

HANFORD HALL.

Mr. Gabriel Gotham lived in what was called
Hanford Hall, but in Essex every farmhouse
is a Hall. It was, however, the manor-house,
and was the best house in the place — a long
rambling building, plastered, and the windows
painted Indian-red ; a house long and shallow.
It was embowered in trees. The grounds
were not extensive, but they were pretty. A
steep slope to the sea, with noble elms on it ;
a set of terraces, where roses grew luxuriantly,
and where, in summer, the beds of cancellaria
and geranium made a gay contrast to the dense
green of the trees and the sweeps of grass.
Here and there on the terraces stood statues
of plaster painted, somewhat spotted with
black and green decay. The terraces were
gravelled from the beach with grit that would
not bind, and was carried about by the boots
of him who walked on it over the grass and
into the rooms. The entrance gates were

somewhat pretensions ; the posts supported
heraldic Bons holding shields ; but these also
were of plaster, not stone, and were painted.

When the tide was in, the view from the
terraces and from the windows of the house
was very beautiful, through peeps among the
elms to the sea, and across Hanford water to
a coast beyond, also studded with trees. The
water was generally enlivened by passing sails,
as Hanford was a colony of fishermen, either
owning their own boats or going shares as a
company in one smack. Barges came to Hanford
with coal from Yorkshire and Newcastle ;
and barges left Hanford piled up on deck with
straw, veritable floating stacks, for London. At
certain seasons, the sprat fishery supplied the
farmers with unctuous dressing for their
fields ; at such times, clouds of gulls fluttered
over the land thus manured, and unless the
fish were quickly ploughed in, rapidly reduced
the supply spread over the surface. At such
times, the inhabitants of Hanford, gifted with
the sense of smell, were heartily glad Avhen
the plough did turn the glebe over the dead
fish ; but there was a worse smell than that
of sprats to which the Hanfordians were periodically
subjected, and that was when a shipload
arrived of what was locally termed
London muck,' that is, the scrapings of the

London streets and the refuse of the London
spits. When such a cargo arrived, it announced
its presence to leeward for two or
three miles ; whereupon the farmers lifted up
their noses, ordered out their wagons, and
distributed the stench broadcast over the
country. The gulls were unattracted by this
dressing ; consequently, the farmers were less
precipitate in working it in.

At all times, daily, throughout the year,
the noses of the Hanfordians were required
to inhale the effluvium of decomposing weed
when the tide went out, and so nature providently
blunted the organ against offence
through the periodical dressings of sprats
and London muck. The smells, if not pleasant,
were salubrious, according to the opinion
of the inhabitants ; and, to judge from their
robust forms and florid complexions, these
odours cannot have been noxious.

The marshes, backwaters, and ditches bred
countless mosquitoes, which lay in wait for
strangers, whom they tortured to madness ;
but they did not touch natives. On a warm
summer evening, the gnats might be seen
hovering in clouds over the elms and oaks, so
dense and so black, that the stranger supposed
the trees were on fire and smoking. The
mosquitoes brought birds, and the trees

VOL. I. F

resounded with the song of nightingale, thrush,
and blackbird. In printer, the water was
covered with gray geese and wild duck, and
the shooting of these occupied the men, when
nothing was to be got by the fishing.

What was it that made Mr. Gotham start
and tremble and shrink back, as he passed
through the side gate for foot-passengers into
the grounds ? Before him stood a woman, old,
with gray hair, holding a baby in her arms,
whilst two Httle children clung to her skirts.
She was a fine woman, commanding, with
bright eyes, and a strongly marked nose.
She held herself very erect, and there were
dignity and sternness in her manner and
attitude as she confronted Gabriel Gotham.
He, quivering and speechless, shrank from
her, as trying to hide himself from her eye.
He had occasion thus to cower before her ;
for if ever a despicable man had done a dastardly
act, that man was Gotham, and the
proud woman before him was the one he had
wronged. Gabriel Gotham's father had been
a solicitor at Newcastle ; but his uncle, Jeremy
Gotham, a successful merchant, had purchased
the manor of Hanford and the Hall. Jeremy
had lived there in his old age, and as he had
no children of his own, invited his nephew,
Gabriel, to stay with him ; also his brother

and his sister-in-law occasionally. As a boy,
Gabriel liked to be with his uncle ; the old
man made much of him, and was liberal in
supplying him with pocket-money. He had a
pony and a boat at Hanford, and was called
by the hangers-on ' the young squire.' But
Gabriel was a weak, lanky boy, badly put
together, without colour in his cheeks, and
with pale blue eyes and fair limp hair — not at
all the ideal young squire that his uncle would
have desired as his successor. He supposed
that the boy had been overworked at school
or overtasked in his father's office, and insisted
that the sea-air of Hanford would set him up.
He urged him to out-of-door pursuits, to ride
with the hounds and to row. But Gabriel
preferred to jog to the meet and then ride
home ; and if he went out in the boat, to sit
in the stern with his hands in his pockets and
let some one else row him.

Jeremy was very proud of his position as
lord of the manor, and made himself disliked
by exacting all kinds of rights which he
believed to be his legally, but which had been
ignored or encroached on by the fishermen of
Hanford. By the shore was a piece of sandy
ground overgrown with coarse turf, occasionally
covered by tides of extraordinary height.
On this the Hanfordian youth were accuse

2

toned to play cricket. Jeremy Gotham
laid claim to it ; as lord of the manor it was
his. If the young men ran over it, they
would establish a precedent, and he would be
unable to inclose and extend his grounds in
that direction. Consequently, he railed it off.
Thereupon the young men tore down his rails.
He retaliated the ground : it was again
assailed. Tlien ensued a lawsuit, which he
gained. But he had accumulated against
himself so much ill-will that he was fain to
accept a compromise, and allow the cricket
club the use of the land for a small annual
acknowledgment. Then, again, as lord of
the manor he had heriot rights over two
farms ; and on the death of one of the farmers,
he demanded the two best horses out of his
stable. He had a right to the horses ; but to
exact his right was unwise, and brought on
him bitter ill-will. There was a copious and
unfailing spring in his stable-yard. The villagers
were badly off for drinking-water, they
were supplied with surface-water collected in
tanks. This failed in dry summers, and they
came with their cans and pails to his pump.
He bore the inconvenience a little while ; but
when a farmer sent a barrel on a cart to be
filled, he put a chain and padlock on the
pump, and refused to remove it, and allow of

water being taken from his well except at an
acknowledgment — every cottager to pay him
a shilling per annum, and every farmer
five.

The dislike felt for the retired merchant
who had set up as squire extended to his
nephew ; and Gabriel was jeered at when he
rode out, and had stones or mud thrown at
him when he showed himself in the village
street. He was conscious of his own deficiencies,
because told of them by his uncle, and
because they were flung contemptuously in
his face by the village lads. At the same
time, his position as heir to the estate and
house made him proud, or rather — for there
is dignity in pride — conceited. Thus he grew
up a mixture of diffidence and vanity. At the
loose lived a woman who had been wife of
the boatman of the former squire, a Cornish
woman, named Cable. She was left with
an only daughter. Her husband had been
drowned one night going out in a punt after
wild-fowl. Mr. Jeremy Gotham kept her asa
lodge keeper, and she did charing in the
house. The daughter was two or three years
older than Gabriel, a strong handsome girl,
determined in character ; and she constituted
herself the protector of the young squire.
When he had been assailed with stones or bad

word?, he would tell her ; and if she knew the
name of the offender, and he was of or near
her age, she would chastise him with her fist
or with a stick. She often rowed him out,
when he had a fancy to be on the sea, and
looked after him — that he had his greatcoat
with him ; that he wore his muffler ; that he
did not wet his feet, or, if they were wet, that
he changed his socks as soon as he came home.
This sort of intimacy had sprung up when
they were children, and continued when they
had grown up. No one thought seriously of
it, as she was older than he, full of sense
and strength of purpose ; and he, a weak,
washed-out creature without manliness. Nevertheless,
she became attached to him. She was
one of those strong characters which do not
look for a support, but to become a support,
and find satisfaction in sustaining the feeble
creeper that pulls itself aloft by its means.
There were several young fishermen in Hanford
who tried to get Bessie Cable to walk out
of a Sunday with them ; but she gave encouragement
to none, and finally left the place
as servant to Mrs. Giles Gotham of Newcastle,
who had taken a fancy to her when on a visit
to her brother-in-law. Mrs. Giles could never
get on with her servants, and laid all the
blame on the Newcastle girls. If she could

induce a young woman to come to her from a
distance, she would be sure of keeping her fora
twelvemonth. Moreover, the mother of
Bessie being in the service of the Gotham
family, the daughter might be reckoned on todo
her utmost to have the interest of the
Gotham at heart. The handiness, the willingness,
the robustness of Bessie, pleased Mrs.
Giles ; and so Bessie, whom her mother relinquished
somewhat reluctantly, departed with
her to Newcastle.

Gabriel remained with his uncle some time
after his mother left. He was now a young
man, who looked as if a good shake would
shake him to pieces. His legs and arms hung
too loosely to his trunk, his back was bent.
He never, apparently, could get a tailor to
master the conformation of his body and
clothe him well. He maundered about, after
Bessie was gone, much at a loss for a companion.
He had clung to her and made an
associate of her, had looked up to her and
trusted her ; and very forlorn he felt when
deprived of her company and protection.

One day, a few months later, Mrs. Cable
died suddenly of a stroke. The distance
from Newcastle was too great for Bessie to
come down to the funeral, and the poor
woman left but a few trifles for Bessie to

inherit. These Gabriel undertook to have
put away safely for her.

Before Christmas, Gabriel went home to
Newcastle, taking with him such things of
her mother's as Bessie wanted. His uncle
was reluctant to let him depart, but could
not dispute the right of his parents to reclaim
him for a while. At Easter, Gabriel was to
return to Hanford Hall. But at Easter,
Gabriel did not appear ; at midsummer,
however, he did, looking the same — a limp
creature without vigour of body or mind.
What had happened in the interim between
him and Bessie, his parents and uncle — only
these interested parties — knew. What had
occurred was this. On his return to Newcastle
with plenty of money, which his uncle
had given him, Gabriel was delighted to
renew his friendship with Bessie. But circumstances
were different. She was servant
in his father's house, and that house was in
the town. She had her duties, and could not
row him on the sea or saunter with him in
the garden. He found his way down into
the kitchen, to complain to her about his
mother's tyrannical ways ; but Mrs. Giles
came after him and pinned a dish clout to his
coat, and warned him not to go below stairs
again.

Gabriel was almost a stranger in Newcastle,
and had no friends there of his own
sex and age. He was not a man to make
friends, except of boys and girls. He was
not muscular enough to feel himself the equal
of those of his own age ; he could not cricket,
or shoot, or play billiards. If he found a
boy before whom he could swagger, he would
take him up for a day or two and patronise
him and give him tartlets ; but boys speedily
found him out, and despised him and deserted
him ; occasionally, he caught them caricaturing
him. Girls did not pay him attention ;
they slighted him ; only Bessie Cable stood
by him, ready to fight his battles and hold
him up, and be to him the tower of strength
he needed. His father despised him ; his
mother bullied him ; but Bessie loved him
with infinite pity and disinterested fidelity.
He was flattered and touched, and in his
loneliness drew towards her the more because
forbidden to associate with her.

One day, both had disappeared from Mr.
Giles Gotham's house. Gabriel had persuaded
Bessie to elope with him over the
Scottish frontier and to be married. Married
they were in Scotland ; and from Scotland,
Gabriel wrote to his father and his uncle
announcing the step he had taken. He received

no answer from eitlicr. He remained
in Scotland with this Bessie for some weeks,
as long as his money lasted, the money
wherewith he had been provided by his
uncle ; and when that was expended, he
wrote for more. Then he heard from Mr.
Jeremy Gotham. His uncle was furious.
He would disinherit him, unless he at once
separated from the low-born maid-of- all work
he had mated with, and whom Mr. Jeremy
absolutely refused to acknowledge. Then,
Gabriel wrote a penitent letter to his father.
Mr. Giles came to Scotland, and discovered
that the marriage could be invalidated. According
to the Act of Parliament on the
subject, one of the parties contracting a
marriage in Scotland must have been resident
there twenty-one days previous to the ceremony.
Gabriel had not resided there with
Bessie the full time : it was short by exactly
five hours ; therefore, the marriage could be
upset. With Gabriel's consent, it was upset.
He was in no position to earn a livelihood ;
he was destitute of private means ; he listened
to reason, as his father said, and deserted
Bessie. Mr. Giles had the marriage cancelled ;
and when Bessie became a mother, her child
was not qualified to bear his father's name.
Three years passed before she reappeared

in Hanford with her boy Eichard. There
she remained. Of her story, nothing was
known : she never spoke of it. She had lost
her character whilst in service, people said ;
but so had many another maid, and the particulars
did not transpire. Gabriel was received
again into favour by his uncle. He
and Bessie never met again to speak ; she
avoided him, as he avoided her. In his base
mind rankled a sense of degradation, of
shame for his desertion of the faithful creature.
Her pride sustained her. She could
not forgive his treachery. So she lived by
herself, and reared her son, and the son did
not know who was his father.

JSTo wonder that now, after a lapse of buta
little short of forty years, Mr. Gabriel
Gotham started and shrank from the woman
he had wronged, when she broke through
her reserve and came to meet him within his
own gates.

CHAPTER yi.

BESSIE.

What — what lias brought you here ? ' asked
Mr. Gabriel in a trembling voice. He had a
walking-stick, and he held it horizontally
with both hands, one at the ferrule, the other
at the handle, and thrust it before him, as
making a barrier between himself and the
woman.

Not myself — my wants and my wrongs,*
she answered sternly. ' For myself I ask
nothing but to be left to myself; I have no
wants. My wrongs are buried in my heart,
known to none but you ; no — not even to
my son — to your son. He has never learnt
who was his father. I should cover my face
with shame, were it known.'

Then, what — what do you want, Bessie'

I say, I want nothing for myself I

have come here not for myself. God forbid !

I would not receive anything of you for

myself No — if I where drowning as my

father drowned, and as my poor son has
drowned, and you held out a hand, I would
clench my fist and smite it away, and sink,
rather than owe my life to you.'

'Then — what is it?' asked Mr. Gotham,
with his knees quaking under him. ' You
agitate me.'

No wonder that I agitate you. The
wonder to me is that the agitation has not
become a Saint Titus's dance that never
leaves you. God forgive me ! I loved you
once. I could tear my flesh off my hand
with my teeth now — after these many years
at the thought that it ever held yours. I
loved you ! ' She reared her proud form ;
in spite of age, it was full of nobility and
reminiscence of grace and beauty. ' I loved
you ! ' She looked at him with scorn. ' I
ask myself, whenever I see you pass along
the road, what could I find in you to
love ? '

'I was rich,' said Gotham; and as he
spoke, he raised his stick level with his face,
as if to ward off the blow that he deserved
for the sneer.

You coward ! ' cried Bessie. ' How dare
you hint at that ! As if I cared for anything
but you. And you I cared for only because
I was your help and support, your nurse

almost ; I cared for you because you were
laughed at, cold-shouldered, delicate, helpless,
and clung to nie as this babe now clings
to my bosom.'

It is of no use, Bessie,' said Gabriel, with
quavering voice — ' it is of no use raking up
old graves — that is what Mr. Cornelia has
just said.'

It is of use,' answered the woman, ' when
the bones do not lie in holy ground. The
ghost will walk and flap its winding-sheet and
scream in the black, still night, and you must
see it and hear it. I — I have not spoken out
my heart all these weary years. I have seen
you, and you have seen me, but we have not
spoken. I, sitting on the hard bench in the
aisle, have looked to the squire's pew in the
chancel, and watched you there during service.
Once, when my seat was taken, I came
over and occupied a bench outside your pew,
and leaned back with my ear to the board,
and heard your shaky pipe whine: " We have
left undone those things which we ought to
have done, and we have done those things we
outfit not to have done, and there is no health
in us." Did you feel the pew shake, that
Sunday morning, Gabriel ? I was not crying ;
I trembled with rage, and the pew trembled
with me. Then you stood up and looked

over ; and when 5^011 saw me there outside,
sitting and lying back with my eyes raised,
you thought you saw a ghost, and sank again
to your knees. For all these many j-ears we
have been no nearer each other than on that
occasion ; and then we neither spoke, but our
eyes met, and I saw that baseness was in yours
still.'

Why do you talk like this, Bessie ? It
can do no good. You are so fierce, you
frighten me. My nerves are unstrung and
sensitive.'

Unstrung and sensitive ! ' scoffed the
woman, her noble face gathering grandeur
and beauty in her passion. ' I will tell you
why I talk. Because, for six-and-thirty years
I have nursed my wrongs in my heart, which
has boiled and boiled, but never been poured
out. To whom could I pour it out? Who
was to hear the story of my wrong ? Was it
one to shout to the parish ? To publish in
the papers ? '

For pity's sake, Bessie, consider me : do
not speak so loud ; neither of us wishes that
story to be known.'

Ah ! on whom fell the shame ? On me,
who was innocent of all wrong, save of having
a wretch without manliness. I could
have the pity of the place if I told my tale ;

but what care I for pity ? I let them think
me a lost woman, because I did not care to
have it thought I had trusted you — you.'

Well, Bessie, the marriage was not legal.
The court annulled it.'

With your consent. Could you not have
made it right, had you chosen ? Have made
me an honest woman, and your son legitimate
? No ; you were mean enough to cast
me over because you could not trouble yourself
to fight through life in poverty. What
if you had been disinherited? You need not
have worked for a living ; I would have
worked for both. You might have sat at
home with your hands in your pockets, and
rocked the cradle with your foot ; but you
would not have had your luxuries then, and
therefore I was thrust aside.'

You cannot say, Bessie, that my father
and uncle did not make you an offer that was
reasonable. They promised you a yearly
allowance.'

I spurned it ; I refused it. I would have
nothing of theirs, nothing of yours any more.
If I knew what drops in my son's veins were
drawn from you, I would wring them forth.
If I thought in his heart were any seeds of
your baseness, I would dig them out with my
nails.'

Even now, after these many years, I will
help you, if you will allow me to do it.'

I do not want your help — not for myself,
I would not take anything of you for myself.
I have gone on all these years alone, and now
I do not need you. I worked and sustained
myself and my son till he was old enough to
work and sustain me. Then he married '

If, Bessie, he had only looked higher. If
you had allowed me to assist — under the rose,
without letting people know the circumstances ;
if he could have been put into some more
respectable situation, say a clerkship — thy, intime
'

If, if, if — and in time ! ' repeated the
woman wrathfully. ' Why should he be other
than my father, who was a plain man of the
people ? If my father had been a gentleman,
perhaps he also would not have been straight
and true and thorough to this wife and his
child, his duties and his God. No ; I would
not have Eichard a gentleman ; he might have
learned falseness and been cruel to me, as you
were cruel. I have kept him in my station.
He is a poor, rough, plain man, with simple
thoughts and simple faith, a simple life, and
simple knowledge of right and wrong. I
would not have him thrown into that tangle
which you call social life, where every duty is

VOL. I. G

blunted with an if and every act is a patchwork
of compromises.'

She paused to take breath, and then
Gabriel Gotham made a movement to shuffle
off.

Stay ! ' she ordered. ' You are sneaking
away from my reproaches ; but I say to you
with loud voice now only what your conscience
says to you nightly in whispers. You
can do nothing for me now. You could do
nothing for me after that one great act of
treachery. Then, then only did I measure to
the bottom of your baseness. If you had
come to me later and said you would remarry
me, I would have refused you, because I knew
you, and I could never have trusted you more.'

What do you mean by bullying me so ? *
whined the miserable man. ' You have no
consideration for my nerves. You do not
know, or if you know, you do not think, what
a martyr I am to them ; and j^ou tear at my
nerves as if you were ripping a harp to pieces.
You used to be more kind and pitiful.'

If you had kept me by your side,' said
the woman with a touch of softness, as the
appeal of weakness always did melt her, ' I
do not think that you would have done amiss
for your own self, Gabriel.' She looked at
him steadily, and the glare went out of her

eyes. 'A poor, pitiful, broken creature you
are, who has slipped into bad ways, because
he has none that love him by his side to check
and rally him. You are killing yourself, not
by inches, but by feet, with opium, Gabriel, as
all Hanford knows.'

I take my drops because I suffer such
pain.'

She disregarded his explanation. ' A
lonely, unhappy man, suspicious of all about
you ; preyed upon by the designing ; clinging
to those that are unscrupulous, who flatter
you because they seek your money. You
have no one near you to bar the way you are
stumbling down ; no one to give you a hand
to help you up ; no one to cheer your spirits
when evil fancies and buried transgressions
start up to frighten you. — I say, Gabriel, that
had you acted as a man and a Christian, you
would not be the God-forsaken wretch you
now are. You would have a faithful woman
at your side to stay you ; and a gallant son,
on whom you could look with pride and love ;
and seven little angels to intercede with heaven
for you. — Look at these ! ' — she turned her
head to the children who were hanging to her
skirts — ' see here ! ' She threw back the shawl
and exposed the sleeping babe she carried.
She feared down with a softened face on the

o

G 2

slumbering infant. ' A dry stick,' she said,
raising her head, and recovering some of her
sternness ; ' that is what you are ; and in my
house is Aaron's rod that budded, and putteth
forth blossoms, and beareth almonds. You,
the wrong-doer, are accursed and barren. J,
the wronged, am blessed, as a bedewed field.'
Then, all at once, her tears burst forth. ' No ! '
she said ; ' my Aaron's rod is cut asunder, and
all the little blossoms will wither. I am like
the prophet who took to him two rods, and he
called the one Beauty, and the other Bands ;
and first was Beauty broken, and then the
strong rod also, — Do you see these three children?
There are four more, and all are
orphans. They have lost their mother eleven
months aro, and now their father is taken
from them. My Eichard is drowned, as was
his grandfather ; and these little ones have
none to look to but me. I am getting on in
years.' She recovered her composure with an
effort ; what she had to say concerned the
children and their welfare, and she would not
allow her own emotion to interfere with her
purpose for their advantage. ' I am getting
on in years. You, Gabriel, are younger than
me ; but I am still the strong one. For a
while I may be able to earn enough to support
the seven ; but one is a babe, and I cannot

leave it and take work. They do not bear
your name, yet they have your blood in them.
Eor myself, I ask nothing ; I would take
nothing ; but I ask you not to forget these
orphans, your own grandchildren.'

I — will do something,' faltered Gotham.
He had lowered his stick when Bessie's rough
tone passed away, and now he leaned one
hand on it and shook his head, and shuffled
his feet on the gravel. ' But, Bessie, I must
do it slyly. I mustn't let it be supposed that
any obligation attaches to me. I particularly
do not wish to have that unfortunate affair
brought up now. I — I dislike to have my
private matters talked about. I am sensitive,
and the least trouble affects my nerves.'

I am not going to speak ; rely on me*'
said Bessie gravely. ' Let all the past be
dead, buried the wrong and the sin. Forgiveness
is a hard plant to grow ; it does not
strike root freely. I cannot say that it grows
lustily in my bosom. There is certain soil in
which it Avill not thrive, nurse it how you
may. — But, as for these children, I can do
much for them. For their sakes I have come
here to-day, for their sakes I plead. I would
not die and leave them destitute in the world,
beautiful little maids — seven of them, fatherless,
motherless, friendless. For their sakes I

will strike my plant Forgiveness once more,
and pray God to make it flourish.'

I will consult with Mr. Cornellis ; I will
take his opinion how best to manage it ; I will
do something.'

Consult with no one but your own conscience,
and on your knees with God,' said
Bessie Cable.

I cannot — I cannot act without advice.'

It has always been so,' said she, half impatiently,
half sadly. ' You never were able
in the old days to do anything by yourself.
Then you came to me. Now you go elsewhere.'

'I assure you that I will do something.
Mr. Cornellis knows all about the matter.'

Just then, Mr. Gotham felt something
touch his hand. Little Susie, attracted by his
ring, had deserted the skirts of her grandmother,
and, unnoticed, had stolen over to
Mr. Gotham, and as his hand hung limply
down, she took his finger in her small hands
and began to pull at the ring.

What — what is it ? ' he asked with a start.
Then lie looked down and saw the fair head,
the sweet face, with blue eyes and delicate
complexion. A lovely little child, with a
truly angel face. Gabriel studied it, nervously
twitching this head from side to side, and
asked : ' What is your name, my dear ? '

Susie.'

Do you want my ring ? You shall have

it ; and keep it as a proof that — that

Bessie, I will do what is right by the little
ones. It is a pretty child, and might — might
do me credit. I think I trace a likeness to
myself, when about the same age ; she has
my hair and my eyes and complexion.'

The little girl still held his finger, and
twisted the golden hoop. The touch of the
tiny fingers was one so strange to Gabriel, the
beauty of the child was so attractive, and its
confidence so engaging, that the feeble man
was moved.

I would like to kiss you, child — Susie,'
he said, ' but I am afraid of stooping. I
might fall ; it would bring on neuralgic pains.
Would you mind, Bessie, holding her up,
that I might kiss her ? '

The woman hesitated. She had the baby
in her arms. She could not do as required
unless she disposed of it. She stooped, laid
the shawl on the gravel at Mr. Gotham's feet,
then placed the sleeping infant gently upon it.
She put her hands to Susie and raised the
child, whilst the other little girl, Lettuce,
stood by, still holding her grandmother's
skirt ; but she now extended the other hand
and grasped Gotham's cane low down, about

two feet from the ferrule. Thus, unconsciously,
the child Lettice linked these two
together ; and at the same moment he pressed
his lips to the cheeks of Susie.

Susie turned her face sharply away — the
smell of opium oppressed her. ' I want the
ring,' she said.

Then, an explosion, followed by a clatter
of bells in the church tower hard at hand,
and a cheer. ' What is the matter ? ' asked
Gotham with a start.

The explosion was caused, as he guessed,
by the discharge of a small cannon on the
shore, hired on grand occasions.

The side-gate opened, and Mr. Cornelia
came in, walking quickly. He drew back
when he saw the group. ' What ! ' he exclaimed,
' attacked by a swarm of mosquitoes,
Gabriel. Drawing your blood, eh? — Mrs.
Cable, you had better run home. Your son
has returned ; and the lads are giving him an
ovation.'

I want my ring,' said little Susie.

'Another time,' answered Gabriel nervously.
I — I — had better not. It would lead to inquiries
; it might rouse suspicion ; and my
nerves must not be shaken. I cannot bear it.
I will send you some sweeties ; but I cannot
part with my ring.'

CHAPTER Iii.

AN Insult.

Gabriel eagerly caught the arm of Mr. Cornelia,
and passing his hand through it, suffered
himself to be led away from the gate through
the winding drive to the house. He did not
look back to see the woman and children ; his
shuffling feet moved hastily, and his arm and
head were jerked forward spasmodically, indicating
eagerness to get away from an interview
that had distressed him.

Mr. Cornellis helped him up the steps and
in at his door, and almost led the way to the
library, a snug little room, where, indeed,
were a few books, but where very little study
was done.

Gabriel let himself down into his easy-chair
with a groan, and held out his stick to
Cornellis, who took it and put it on a rack
where Gotham kept an array of hunting-whips
and walking-sticks and fishing-rods. The
wretched creature was full of small vanities.
He liked to deceive himself and others into

the belief that he was a strong athletic man,
only deterred from showing his powers by his
nervous malady. He talked as if he hunted
and shot and fished ; but he did none of these
things — he never had. He had long given up
boating, because the damp and cold on the
water brought on neuralgia ; and he rarely
mounted his horse, because he was too weak
to endure the jolting. He had his top-boots,
his corduroys, and scarlet coat : but he never
wore them except once, to be painted in them.
He had a sailor's blue jersey, a complete boating
costume, which he put on occasionally,
but wore it about the house and grounds, not
on the sea. His gun was never discharged,
not even at sparrows and starlings, because
the noise so near his ear shocked his highly
strung and irritable nerves.

He was made up of pretence. Now he
was playing with a new assumption, and
Justin Cornellis helped to amuse him with it,
and flatter him into belief that there was
reality in it. This new assumption was that
he was going to contest the county at the
next general election. He never asked himself
whether he seriously contemplated the
expense and effort ; he amused himself with
talking about the campaign, making sketches
of electioneering addresses, and drawing up

lists of voters who must be canvassed. So
little in earnest was Mr. Gotham that he had
not decided on his politics ; he rather thought
of standing as an Independent candidate, but
whether the shade was to be Liberal Conservative
or Conservative Liberal remained undetermined.


Justin Cornellis humoured and flattered
him in all his pretences, affected to regard
them as serious, and obtained great influence
over him accordingly. He never laughed at
Gotham, who was sensitive to ridicule, having
a lurking consciousness of his inability to do
those things to which he pretended. He was
incapable of judging for himself, and felt about
him for some one stronger than himself to
whom he could appeal, and on whom devolve
irksome and perplexing duties.

The management of his property was beyond
his abilities, and he was jealous and
suspicious of every solicitor and agent whom
he employed. He had no power of concentrating
his attention for long on any subject,
or of supervising accounts, or considering the
nature of the leases and agreements he was
required to sign. He invited Mr. Cornelia,
as a disinterested person, to assist him, and
soon delegated everything he could delegate
to him, to save himself the trouble of going

into the matter. He had himself thrust his
neighbour the ex-missionary into the position
of unpaid agent for his property, which consisted
not only of the manor of Hanford, but
of houses in London, and investments in
various securities foreign and domestic. His
uncle had been a shrewd business man, so also
had been his father, and till the death of the
latter, Gabriel had allowed Mr. Giles to manage
his money matters for him, satisfied so
long as he had enough to spend ; but after the
death of his father, he had put his affairs in
several hands, changing out of suspicion that
he was being defrauded, and invariably being
most apprehensive of dishonesty in the more
upright men, because they were straightforward
and did not flatter him.

With his usual inherent meanness, he
played a part with Cornellis. He was related
to Justin Cornellis, whose mother had been a
Gotham; and it was partly for his wife's
health, and chiefly to be near a man of means
to the reversion of whose estate he might lay
claim, that Cornelia had settled at Hanford.
Mr. Gabriel Gotham encouraged the ex-missionary
to think that he would inherit the
property after his, Gabriel's, death — without,
however, having really so by will disposed of
his property. By holding out this hope before

Cornellis, lie secured his fidelity and obtained
his services.

But Gabriel Gotham was only an extreme
instance of that shallow pretence which cloaks
the life of everyone of us who moves in society.
Our very waistcoats are a pretence : they
assume to be all cloth, and are only cloth on ,
the front that shows ; they are calico behind.
And so is it with our manners, our conversation
: it is all only half what it pretends to be ;
the cloth does not go the whole way round
the heart. We have smiles and a squeeze of
the hand for an acquaintance — a front of
cordiality, a back of indifference. We are
liberal in opinion, generous in action, frank in
demeanour, sympathetic in intercourse ; but
the backing is all narrowness, meanness, closeness,
and selfishness. The writer once thus
addressed a little boy : ' Why, Fred, what an
extraordinary fit your nether garments are ! '
' Yes, sir,' answered Fred ; ' they are reversible.
When I've sat out one side, I turn 'em
about and sit out the other.' Which of us
dare reverse our moral garment, that has only
one face good ? Which of us dare expose the
calico and hide the cloth ? Yet let the moralist
growl : there is merit in pretence. The
world would be an unendurable world were it
not for the painted screens, and the disguises

which conceal its ugliness, its waste and
lumber. What pleasure should we reap from
social intercourse, were our acquaintance to
tell us exactly what they thought of us ? Do
they not exercise self-restraint in hiding from
us that we bore them ? Why should the
worst side be thrust to the fore? Every
picture has two sides, every flower has an
ugly sordid root. We show the blossom of
life to our neighbours, and do not thrust the
root into their faces. The man who blurts
out all his mind, and the woman who despises
conventionalities, are shunned — they are agreeable
to no one, not even to themselves. To
a meal belong empty wine-bottles, potato
parings, cabbage stalks, old bones, and fag-ends
of grizzle, together with cinders and dust
from the kitchen fire ; but also very good wine
and toothsome dishes. The ash-heap and the
pig-pail get the first, and we the rest. Weare
not swine, to be given the refuse ; nor
scavengers, to carry off the dust. Life is a
milk-pan ; and to it belong cream and sediment
; we exhibit the cream and cast away
the sediment ; we retain the thin skimmed
milk for our private consumption. Then, nota
word against pretence ! It invests life with
grace ; it saves it from becoming material.
Without it, life is not worth having.

There is even heroic virtue in pretence.
It is generous, it is unselfish. We offer the
best to others ; we keep the thin and poor for
ourselves. Our neighbours know that what
we offer is superficial ; but they are superficial
likewise, and give us back in return their
best — hearty welcome, smiles, cheerful conversation
— in a word, they give us all their
cream. When our faces have vanished, they
sit down to sup ' sky-blue.' The fire blazes in
the drawing-room for the visitor ; but the lady
shivers at her needlework in her fireless room
upstairs. The visitor enjoys the warmth for
ten minutes ; she endures the cold the long
day, because the coal-bill is too heavy to allow
of a second fire. The visitor has hot mutton ;
when he is gone, the family eats the cold
remains. The visitor has the silver candlestick,
and every one else a benzoline lamp.
For the guest, the best Worcester or Swansea
service is produced ; when he is gone, it is put
away, and the household dines off very cheap
chipped ware. The guest, if very young and
green, goes away impressed with the comfortable
circumstances of his late host.

Then, I say again, not a word against
pretence ; it is one of the first of human
virtues.

There are pretences and pretences. Mr.

Gabriel Gotham was contemptible because
his pretences profited no one ; not because
they were in themselves pretence. We are
selfish in our estimate of pretence. We condone,
even applaud that which conduces to
our own comfort, and blame and deprecate
that out of which we reap no advantage.

So, they have been here sponging,' said
Mr. Cornellis. ' I knew it would be so. But
the old woman did not know her man. She
thought you soft, weak, easily moved by the
tale of misery. The whole thing was cleverly
got up, a theatrical effect — the baby, the
twins. But you see through these sort of
things. Not so soft as supposed, eh, Gabriel?'


Mrs. Cable thought her son was drowned,
and was in distress about the children.'

yes — of course. Yet the bells are
rinoinor for the return of Eichard. She knew
he was safe ; but she wanted to wrest a promise
of help from you before the news
reached you. It was ingenious, but not
honest. With another man, it might have
succeeded, but not with you.'

'No,' said Gabriel dispiritedly; 'perhaps
not with me. She said I was weak. Indeed,
she was not polite.'

Tried the domineering dodge, did she ? '

said Cornellis. ' Had no consideration for
your nerves ? '

None in the least,' answered Gabriel.
What I have suffered is more than words
can describe — I will ring the bell. I must
have some Chartreuse ; I am so shaken, so
overcome by the scene. It was very distressing
to me. — You will have some of the liqueur
also. I feel as if I should sink if I did not
take some ; and all my nerves are in a quiver.'

If she comes again, send her to me.'

I will do so, Cornellis ; I cannot endure
another interview.'

You have made no promise.'

I — I only said that if the children were
really left orphans, I would consider what
was to be done. I would not let them starve ;
but I made the condition that nothing was to
transpire ; and I thought it would be wise
for me to manage the matter through you,
so that no suspicion might attach to me, and
because I really am not equal to the fatigue
and excitement. Bessie is a very alarming
woman, so impulsive, threatening.'

That is like you, ever cautious and prudent.
Ah ! what a man you are ! ' exclaimed
Cornellis ; ' always ready at an emergency.
And with those shattered nerves too ! If I
did not see it, it would seem incredible.'

VOL. I. H

The Chartreuse was brought in. Gabriel's
hand shook so that he was unable to
fill the liqueur glasses ; therefore Mr. Cornellis
helped his friend and himself. As he was
sipping his Chartreuse, he laughed, and put
down the glass.

What is it ? ' asked Gotham, with a suspicious
twitch in his mouth. He disliked to
hear laughter ; he thought that he was the
object of derision.

I was thinking of the condition of those
Cables,' said the ex-missionary. ' Supposing
they carried their point, and all the seven
little brats became heiresses of your estate,
what a scramble there would be among the
ragtag of the place for them ! What airs the
young misses would give themselves ! How
they would flout about in fine feathers and
silks, and brag of their grandfather, talking
in their broad vulgar Essex dialect, so close
akin to Cockney, of vessels and vinegar and
point and violets.'

Very funny,' sniggered Gotham. 'But
they have not got my property yet.'

And never will,' said Cornellis. ' If you
wanted to send them to the bad, you could
not better insure their ruin. They make respectable
mudlarks. Dress them in peacock
plumes, and they become vulgar fowl.'

They are pretty,' said Gotham.

As children. But with that cess, good
looks disappear early. Good looks associated
with bad manners, dirty nails, line clothes,
and dropped As, make a hideous muddle.'

I suppose you are right,' said Gabriel
with a sigh. He thought of the little hand
closed about his finger, and the warm sense
that stole from it up his arm to his heart.
Poor little things ! They have my blood in
them — that accounts for their good looks.'

But how diluted with ditch-water ! If
Eichard had married some one of a superior
class, there might have been improvement ;
but as it is, the deterioration is irretrievable.'

You know what I have done, Justin,'
said Mr. Gotham, after a pause. ' Give me
another glass of Chartreuse ; I spilled half
the last, my hand shakes so.'

'I beg your pardon. What have you
done ? '

You know what I have done. I could
not manage in any other way to keep my
memory clear of reproach and to save my
conscience. I have left everything to you,
and you have my secret instructions. Should
Eichard be ever in want of money, you will
let him have it ; and the Httle girls must not
be allowed to need. You will manage all

that for me. I am a poor frail creature, and
may drop off any day.'

'Not a bit — not a bit. You have to become
an M.P. yet, squire. It will do you
good to contest an election. By Jove ! I
would not be the man to stand against you,
known as you are, and respected in the
county, and generally beloved.'

I am respected, I believe.'

And loved. Every one sympathises Avitli
your infirmities.'

They are temporary. I may look to a
time when I shall be able to go out after the
hounds, and speak and take my place in the
House without being subject to these neuralgic
attacks.'

Certainly you may. I believe they have
been brought on by worry. This wretched
affair of the Cable woman has tormented you
for years.'

For near on forty years,' said Gotham.

'You have felt that something must be
done, and yet you could not, with respect for
yourself, your name and position, in any way
countenance a claim. Now you have, with
your usual sagacity, hit on a mode of extrication
out of the dilemma. Rely on me. I
am a plain, straightforward man, and I will
execute your wishes with fidelity, should the

time come when I am called on to do so ;

but ' Cornellis laughed. ' By Jove !

Gotham, which is the most likely to outlive
the other? I have been battered about in
the East and in Africa, and have had fevers
and privations ; whilst you — you tough old
fox-hunting squire, lapped in luxury, have a
constitution like heart of oak, only temporarily
troubled by neuralgia — all brought
about by external worry — produced by that
insinuating woman. Don't tell me the contrary
— she ran away with you She was
half a dozen years older than yourself.

Only two.'

A woman ripens before a man, in wits as
in everything else. She drew you on — it was
a plant ; and uncommonly lucky you were to
get out of your difficulty as you did. I am
not sure, you clever dog, that you had not
prepared the loop-hole beforehand.'

On my honour, it was not so.'

In love, as in war, all is fair,' said Cornellis.
' In this little game the play was first-rate.
It was checkmate after the first two
moves.'

Mr. Gotham held out his glass for more
liqueur. ' As Eichard has returned, it is possible
that Josephine may not be lost,' he said,
as Mr. Cornellis poured out the Chartreuse.

She is not lost ; lie lias come home.'

What — Josephine ! How did she escape ? '

In a some-what singular manner. She
was blown out to sea, and picked up by the
lightship, which also lost its moorings, and
was wrecked on a sandbank.'

What — Eichard and Josephine ? '

Yes, Cable was in the vessel.'

But not the boy. I heard he had come
ashore before the gale, so that Eichard was
alone in the boat.'

No, the boy was not there.'

Only Eichard and Josephine. That was
quite romantic — Paul and Virginia.'

Mr. Cornelia bit his hp. ' Excuse me,
Gabriel; I do not like this joke. You are
clever and witty, but my daughter must not
be made a subject of your satire.'

Ah ! Cornelius said Gabriel with a sigh,
that was a pity, that marriage of Eichard's.
If he had but looked above him. If, for
instance, he could have aspired to your
Josephine.'

He would not have had her,' said Cornelia.

Why not ? I could then, perhaps, have
done something for him through you'"

I would not have suffered it.' The ex-missionary
for a moment lost his temper. ' I
could not allow my daughter to marry a

common sailor, and one who is without a
father.'

Gabriel fidgeted in his chair, with his
elbows on the arms of the seat, and spilt his
Chartreuse down his waistcoat. ' I was but
supposing a case,' he said — ' supposing it for
my own convenience. If I had particularly
wished it, Justin, perhaps you would have
yielded. The fellow has good blood in his
veins, you know, though the world does not
know it.'

Exactly — the world does not ; and we
must consider the opinion of the world. A
man may have the blood of a peer ; but if he
is not in Debrett, he is a commoner to me.
Let us change the subject, Gabriel. Let us
go over together the list of the voters.'

Not now, Justin ; I cannot attend to business.
Do you not see how white, how twitching
my poor cheek is ? There is a nerve
which reaches from the brain down the whole
side of the system to the small toe — that nerve
is just as though pulled and twisted and
nipped with pincers. I am in indescribable
pain. I cannot remain here any longer. You
will allow me to go upstairs ; I must have recourse
to my drops for relief. Take some
more Chartreuse. There is noyau, if you prefer
it, or absinthe. You will not be offended if I

leave you. I have been over-wrought. I
shall not be in a condition to see you till tomorrow
afternoon ; I must have complete rest
after the trials and exertions of to-day.' He
shuffled to the door.

Cornellis did not remain after Gotham retired.
He was angered out of his usual
equanimity ; the suggestion made by the
wretched man had stung him like an insult.
That he should dare — should dare to think
of such a thing ! ' he muttered as he walked
back to Eose Cottage. ' My Josephine and

his ' He clenched his fist, and did not

complete his sentence.

CHAPTER Viii.

PAT-A-CAKE.

The cottage inhabited by Mrs. Cable with her
grandchildren, and by Eichard, her son, when
ashore, was small, built of boards, painted
white, with green windows, and a vivid green
door. A good many houses in this part were
of wood. When a wreck was broken up, the
planks of the deck, sold very cheap, were
bought, and served for the construction of
cottages ; they were laid on, feathered or
weather-boarded, so that no joint could let in
wind and rain. In the west of England such
houses would not last ; the ever moist atmosphere
would bring about rot ; but along the
east coast the sun is hot and the air dry, and
these wooden houses will endure for a century'.
The cottage was tiled ; and over the brown
tiles was laid a trellis of wood, on which a
vine was stretched. The vine was not allowed
to extend over the wooden walls ; but it
rioted on the roof and there ripened its purple

clusters. That was a great day for the elder
of the seven children, when father ascended a
ladder and scrambled over the roof, plucking
the grape bunches, sweet and Avarni from the
sun's kisses, and gave a cluster to each.

Between the road and the cottage was a

o

narrow strip of garden, hedged vv^th sweet-briar.
In this strip grew tulips, narcissi,
polyanthi, and velvety, brown, yellow-eyed
auriculas. The soil suited bulbs, as does that
of Holland.

The principal garden was at the back of
the cottage ; it covered an acre, and extended
to a ditch and a line of willows, fine trees that
whitened in every wind. In those willows the
nio:liting:ale3 built every wear. Near the dike
also grew a large ungainly mulberry ; it had
been originally a branch of an old tree, cut off
by a former inhabitant of the cottage who had
been gardener at the Hall ; and he had stuck
the branch into the soil of his own garden,
where it had taken root and grown into a tree
that bore fruit in due season, but never grew
into a gainly, goodly tree. Nor could the
children enjoy all its fruit, for it leaned towards
the dike, and dropped many of its fleshy
berries into the water, where they floated, nibbled
at by tadpoles and gudgeon. But there
were enough for the little ones shed upon the

gravel and grass, and they picked them up at
the time when they fell, and put them in bottles
with sugar, and ate them as they listed, smearing
their lips and hands With purple.

In the hedge were some sloe bushes
clipped like thorns, and the bitter blue berries
were also eagerly sought by the children ; but
they were not suffered to pick the bull ace, tiny
round plums off a small tree in the angle of
the garden. These grandmother made into
preserves against the season when there was
no fruit.

Now was spring, and there was promise of
yield ; the storm had torn off the petals of the
apples, but the low-growing bullace and the
sloe blossoms had set before the storm.

The children were all out in the sun,
sitting on the bank, with the sloe bushes behind
them. They wore no hats or caps ; the
light air played with their shining yellow hair.
They sat watching their father, who was digging
in the garden ; and Mary, the eldest, had
the baby on her lap. Grandmother Alas within,
engaged on household duties. Numerous
white butterflies were about, chasing each
other, gambolling over the broccoli plants, and
seemed like flickering willow leaves adrift in
the air. Every Essex garden along the coast
has its bed of white poppies. The people

suffering from ague and low fever have faith
in the decoction of the round seed-vessels ;
but there were no poppies in Cable's garden.
Bessie had never approved of the use of the
narcotic, because her mother had insisted that,
in Cornwall, folks got on very well without it.

Eichard had a bundle of pea sticks ; and
after he had earthed up his early potatoes,
he began to stake the delicate trailing peas that
were already bursting into white blossom.
They should have been staked before ; but
his duties on the lightship had prevented his
attending to them earlier.

Little Susie sat nearest the herb-bed, which
was laid out on the slope to the hedge, and
faced the sun. A way to the beach went
behind this hedge ; it had a wall between it
and the garden — a low wall, three feet high,
and from the wall into the garden sloped the
bank. On top of it grew the shoes. The
wall and bank ended at the dike, and thence
the path dissipated itself in strands of gravel
among coarse turf ; a trodden way from the
vilLage led to the expanse of wild ground,
and from the edge of that every one went this
own path.

The herbs grown on this bank were thyme,
marjoram, mint, and rue. Baby, asleep on.
Mary's lap, had a handful of crushed young

leaves of mint in her tiny grasp. She had
been allowed to feel and smell the fresh leaves,
and had grabbed them to thrust them into
her mouth. When plucked away she had
retained a handful, and gone to sleep still
holding it.

The bees were busy over the garden,
searching in the fill sweet flowers ; and Susie
watched a great bumble which was clogging
his hind legs with pollen from the blossoms,
when she was startled to see something like a
big spider creep from under the leafy shoes
and run down among the thyme towards her.
It was a thin white human hand, with the
nerves strongly accentuated, and the blue veins
puffed on the back. On one finger was a gold
ring with a bloodstone in it, engraved with
arms. Susie knew nothing of arms, but she
recognised the ring, and the bottle-green cuff
on the arm to which the hand belong-ed ; and
throwing herself over on her breast, she laid
hold of the hand with both hers, and proceeded
to pull at the ring, which she had
failed to secure two days before in the grounds
of the Hall.

As she lay among the thyme trying to get
the ring off, she saw under the dense foliage
of the shoes, between the stems, the face of
the gentleman who had spoken to granny in

the Hall rounds. Lie could make out that
it was the same ; she saw this pale blue watery
eyes aud his thin nose. The sun shone now on
one side of his nose, and she thought that
she could see crimson on the other side instead
of shadow. He held his finger up to his lips
and nose, and his head nodded.

Susie tugged at the hand and twisted the
rincf, but could not o-et it off.

What are you about, Susie ? — crushing
the thyme?' called her father.

The little child turned her golden head
round, let go the finger, and made some
answer which Eichard did not catch and understand.
When Susie looked again for the
hand, it was withdrawn.

Voices were audible on the path behind the
hedge.

'What! Mr. Gotham, you heres Come
out to solicit votes from the winkles, or to
tally-ho after the crabs ? '

I — I don't like being chaffed,' answered
the gentleman. ' I am glad to see you, dear
Josephine, after your fortunate escape from
the sea.'

To-day is the hist meet of the harriers,'
said the girl. ' Why are you not with them?
Cousin Gotham, are not you something like
the crab and lobster, that assume their scarlet

when their hunting days are over, and they
are boiled and done for ? '

Your peril of life has not improved you,'
complained Gabriel. ' You are very hard and
unkind.'

I ! ' laughed the girl. ' Not a bit ; only
I do not humbug you, like others. Now I
must leave you.'

What are you doing here, so far from
home ? '

I have come to thank my preserver and
see his little ones, for whom I have brought
some sweetmeats.'

You came across the turf, I suppose ? '

Yes. Have I been trespassing ? Will
you prosecute me ? '

Eichard Cable had heard Josephine's voice
and what she said. He stood upright, holding
a pea-stick, and his face became of a warm
colour. He hesitated whether to leave his
work and go to the bank and speak to lier over
the hedge, or remain where he was, and wait
till she came. Whilst he hesitated, he heard
her calling him from behind the dike.

Mr. Cable ! Have you a plank ? I will
come over to you this way, instead of going
round by the street.'

There is a bridge, miss, a little farther
down.'

He threw down the stick, and walked
along the brink of the ditch to the end, and
opened a wicket-gate that closed the passage
over a plank.

She tripped across and came through the
gate. ' Where are the children ? ' she asked ;
then answered herself : ' Oh — there ! sitting
in the sun. What yellow heads they all have,
and blue eyes. How many? Seven did you
say ? I see but six. Ah ! one carries the
baby. What a frightful burden a baby must
be — like an imposition at school.'

Did you ever, when a little child, go out
a walk in spring and dig up a primrose, and
carry it home in the lap of your pinafore? '
asked Cable.

I did not wear pinafores when I went out
of doors.'

Of your frock, then ? '

I dare say I may have done so.'

It was a burden ; but it was a delight. I
have seven little roots of primroses in my
arms, and I carry them gladly wherever I go,
thinking nothing of their weight,' said Eichard
Cable. ' Love lightens burdens.'

If ever I did dig up a flower, you maybe
sure I made the nurse carry it for me.'

I will let no one carry mine for me,' he
said, and caught up the baby and kissed it ;

then Mary, held her to his heart a moment
and set her down adam ; then Susie, Effie,
Jane, Martha, Lettice ; and as he held up
each, he named the child, only the baby he
did not name — that was Bessie, called after
his mother. ' Look here. Miss Cornellis ;
Bessie is wearing the socks I knitted when we
were wrecked. I finished them before I got
home.'

I am not surprised at the children loving
you,' said Josephine. ' I should love any one
who cared for me.'

Have you no one to do that ? '

She shook her head. ' My father — after
his fashion ; my aunt — after hers ; neither,
no one — after yours.'

He looked at her attentively. It seemed
to him indeed a marvellous thing that this
beautiful girl should complain of lack of
love.

Go on,' she said, ' with your gardening.
I will not disturb you. Let me sit on the
bank with the children and talk to them, and
watch you, and I will sing to them a song and
feed them with sweetmeats.'

Then, almost reluctantly, he returned to
the planting of the pea-rods ; and as he worked
he looked across between the alder-sticks at
Josephine, who had taken a place on the

VOL. I. I

sloping bank and thrown off lier hat, as the
shadow of the twmkhng willows fell athwart
the place she had selected. She took out a
cornet from a small basket she carried, and
the children instinctively gathered round her.

It is a duty,' she said to herself — ' a duty
that must be gone through. I promised Cable
to visit and play with his white mice.' Then,
as she held up a candied elval plum, and the
little creatures raised themselves towards it
with wide eyes and open mouths, and their
golden hair rolled back over their shoulders
'After all, the creatures are pretty, and
perhaps less insupportable than most children
are,' she said to herself.

She wore a light dress, with a crimson
ribbon about her throat supporting a gold
locket. There were crimson bows on her
pretty dress, sprigged and spotted with rose.
The red agreed with her dark hair and complexion.


Eichard Cable continued to observe her
as he worked. He was flattered and pleased
that she took notice of his children and sat
down among them to amuse them.

She sang to them. She had a rich, cultivated
voice; she sang the same mermaid's
air that she had sung in the stranded ship —
the som? from Oheron. Richard Cable could

not understand the words, knew nothing of
the origin of the song ; but he recalled the
melody at once — a lovely melody, lovely among
all the beautiful creations of Weber. Josephine
took little Bessie, the baby, in her arms, and
swayed the child as she sang —

O wie wont es such scion auf der Fliitli,
Wenn die slide Wellee im Schlummer rulit !

Cable signed to Mary, who looked round
to her father with a pleased face ; and Mary
started to her feet and ran to him when he
beckoned.

Bring me her hat ; do not let her see,'
whispered Cable.

Then the child rejoined the group, and
presently returned with the straw hat of
Josephine.

Eichard had stooped to the border of red
double daisies and gathered some, and these
he now thrust under the red ribbon that
girded the white straw. Then he resumed
his work ; and when Josephine had ceased
she heard a whistle, soft and sweet, repeating
from among the pea-sticks the air of the
mermaid's song.

Hark, hark ! ' exclaimed Josephine laughing
; 'do you hear the nightingale ? It has
caught my air.'

I 2

No ! ' said little Effie. ' It is dada whistling.'



He knows that tune,' said Mary. ' He
has whistled it since he came home to us.'

Eichard Cable had not known it before he
heard the girl sing it on the stranded lightship
; after that, he could not shake it out of
his head. Why did not Cable leave his work
and go up to the girl and speak to her? Was
his work of so great importance that it could
not be neglected for a few minutes ? Was his
time so precious that he could devote none of
it to her ? No ; he was afraid of her. He
was indeed attracted by her ; but the attraction
she exercised on him alarmed him. He had
thought a crowd deal about her since he had
returned home ; as the tune of the mermaid's
song hung about his memory, so did her face,
so did the words she had said, the intonation
of her voice, the movements of her graceful
body. All the time that she sang and played
with his children, he was aware of a power
exerted to draw him to her through the barrier
he built up between of pea-sticks. Nevertheless,
he would not yield to the force, because
he had an instinctive consciousness that it was
harmful to him, would disturb his peace of
mind, and trouble his relations to his children.
She, also, as she sat with the children, wanted

him to leave his gardening and come to her.
She was drawn to him by his simplicity, his
sympathy, gentleness, and truth — qualities she
did not meet with in her own home, and which
possessed a strange fascination for her. She
had told him to continue his work, but was
vexed that he had taken her at her word.

Then she called out : ' Come here, Mr.
Cable ! I must show you something.'

He could not refuse ; he came slowly towards
her, shyly, with his cap off, and the
sun on his curling hair.

See ! ' she exclaimed gleefully ; ' I have
taught your baby something. It can even
now enjoy Pat-a-cake Baker's man. You told
me on the ship that it had not reached that
pitch of education ; I have carried her over
the Rubicon.'

Cable smiled as he saw Josephine repeat
the infantile verses whilst she struck the
baby's little palms. As the group was intent
on the play, they heard a cough ; and Josephine,
looking round, was surprised to see her
father in the garden. She coloured, rose up,
and gave the baby to Mary.

I have come to see you, Mr. Cable,' said
Cornellis. ' I little supposed that I should
find my daughter here. She ought to be at
home ; it is her practising hour on the

piano ; but her late escapade has unhinged
her : she neither recognises what she ought todo,
nor is aware where she ought not to go.'

How did you come here, papa ? ' asked
Josephine, not at all abashed.

I came by the door of the house. Mrs.
Cable told me I should hind her son in the
garden ; she did not tell me I would find you
here.'

She did not know. I came over the
dike.'

It is indifferent to me how you came ; I
shall take good care to see you back,' he said
coldly. ' I am here to speak not to you, but
to Mr. Cable.' He turned to Eichard, who
looked at him with a puzzled expression.

You were good enough to save Miss
Cornelia from drowning,' said the gentleman
stiffly, with a cold face. ' I have felt it my
duty to come here to offer you a small gratuity
acknowledgment, I mean, for your services.
I cannot in conscience allow your act to pass
unrewarded.'

Cable became very red.

Josephine looked sharply at him.

I expect no acknowledgment,' said the
sailor curtly.

You may not expect it ; but that Avill not
prevent your accepting it — a ten-pound note.'

Cable put this hand behind him. ' I will
receive nothing, sir,' he said. ' What I did for
Miss Josephine was my duty. I would do it
for any one. I refuse an acknowledgment. I
am paid already, over and over, by Miss
Josephine's visit to-day.'

That is right,' said Josephine, with a flash
out of her brown eyes. ' I knew you would
refuse.'

Of course I do. I would do anything in
the world for you, if you were in any danger,
in any trouble ; you know that, I hope ? '

I am sure of it,' said the girl.

Cable was agitated, partly with anger at
the proposal of the father, partly with exultation
at the daughter's recognition of his readiness
to serve her unrewarded.

Papa,' said Josephine, with a wicked light
in her eyes and her lips twitching maliciously,
if you are really grateful to Dicky Cable and
wish to please him, not humiliate him, shall I
tell you what to do ? '

What ? ' he asked frowning.

'Play Pat-a-cake with the baby.' She
stooped, caught up little Bessie, gave her a
kiss, and held the child towards her father.

Mr. Cornellis turned sharply away. ' How
can you be so inconsiderate, so foolish,
Josephine ! Come home instantly with me.'

From behind the sloe hedge sounded a
cackling laugh ; but though Cornellis heard
it, he gave it no heed.

As he left the cottage with Josephine, he
turned to her with an ugly expression on this
mouth, and said : ' You are a fool. Do you
not know what you are exposing yourself to ?
Do you not think that people will talk ? '

Talk— talk about what ? '

I say you are a fool. I've heard sneers
already — about you and that lout.'

AVhat lout ? '

Eichard Cable.'

Dicky ? I do not care.'

CHAPTER IX.

ox THE Terrace.

Josephine lived in a condition of feud with
lier father. In her heart she repented of her
rebelHousness ; but when present with him,
the antagonism broke out again, in spite of
good intentions. She had naturally a good
heart, truthful character, and abhorrence of
meanness, but met at every turn with evidences
of her father's insincerity and self-seeking.
This condition of warfare had embittered
her heart and sharpened her tongue.
We beo'in life as believers, and end it as
sceptics. We begin with trustfulness, and goon
through every store of disillusion into
absolute mistrust. As children, we look upto
everyone ; as old men we look down on all.
We expect this process to take place within
us : to find out one subterfuge after another,
to discover hollowness wherever we tap, and
dust behind every rind ; and we are pleased
at the ingenuousness of the young, who believe

all tidings to be solid and the rind to cover
richness.

Josephine was brought up in an atmosphere
so clear that no illusion was possible in it.
Her father's conversation dispelled all faith in
what is good and noble and real. His example
was level with his opinion. He made
no scruple to let his sister and daughter seethe
strings that controlled his movements, the
hollowness of all his profession. Instead,
therefore, of beginning life as a child with
belief, she began with suspicion and distrust.

She was drawn to Eichard Cable and his
household by the contrast he and it exhibited
to her father and her own home. She stepped
at once from the scenery of a theatre to
natural landscape, from a hothouse to breezy
open air. And as that which is true and
wholesome always exercises attraction on a
nature not wholly depraved, Josephine woke
to consciousness of many fibres in her soul
linking her to the Cable family, and to acknowledge
a fascination which she could not
explain.

Her father did not forbid her to go to the
cottage ; perhaps he so completely disbelieved
in her obedience, that he thought it useless todo
so. Instead, he sneered and threw about
insinuations which offended her, and stirred

in her the spirit of opposition, which always
slumbered in her heart, waiting to be aroused.
His remarks about Cable were so unjust and
ungenerous, that she resented them indignantly
; their injustice spurred her sense of
fairness into assertion. The perverse tactics
of Justin Cornellis recoiled on himself. Had
he forbidden Josephine to go to the cottage,
she would have obeyed sullenly, and admitted
in the end that he had ordered discreetly ;
but as he took the other course, she persisted
in her visits against her better judgment.

Aunt Judith exercised neither authority
nor influence on the wayward girl. She was
a lazy woman, who believed in her brother's
cleverness, and thrust all responsibilities upon
his shoulders. So long as she was comfortable
all was well. The profitable was always
right, and success was the sanction of conduct
however tortuous. She reflected, in this, the
general opinion, took her tone from what prevails.
We heap scorn on Mrs. Grundy when
she shakes her head over the gentleman who
has. a good cellar, and his lady who gives
splendid balls ; she is only listened to when
she utters her doubts about the propriety of
calling on that couple which drives a pony-chaise,
and the grass-widow whose garden
is too circumscribed for lawn-tennis. Those

who have difficulty in making both ends meet
have every one picking at their frayed edges ;
but those whose incomes are double-breasted
are canopied as in armour. When we reckon
our income by hundreds, we scarce dare express
an opinion ; but when by thousands, we
may calculate on our platitudes being regarded
as words to be treasured. We return cold-shoulder
to him, who, when we drop in unexpectedly,
gives us cold leg of mutton at
dinner. A surgeon must put his groom in
livery and drive a dashing turn-out before he
receives a fee. If he walks to see his patients,
no one will give a fig for his opinion. I know
a banker who stopped a run and averted
ruin by putting his footman into red velvet
breeches : no one supposed that the bank was
tottering, when James assumed new carnation
inexpressible.

I wish, Josephine,' said Mr. Cornellis,
you would run across to the Hall and learn
what has become of Mr. Gotham. I have not
seen him these three days. He has not been
here ; and when I went to inquire, he was not
visible; stupefied with oj^ium, I suppose. Tell
him that I will come over and have a game of
billiards with him if he be so inclined. Throw
in a word about Aunt Judith,' he added, with
a scornful lauixh.

Yes and no, papa,' answered Josephine.
I will go, and I will say nothing about my
aunt.' She took her hat and went to the Hall.

Mr. Gotham was in his garden, on the terrace,
and the servant confided her to him. ' I
have had the geraniums bedded out,' he said.
I like to look on. Do you see how my roses
are comines out ? '

Shall I tell papa you do not care for
billiards to-day ? ' asked Josephine, who was
impatient to be gone.

I do not know ; I will consider. Stay
a while, and talk to me. That will be
better than billiards. I am a little easier
to day, and am enjoying the sun. — These are
very lovely grounds, are they not, dear
Josephine ? '

Very lovely.'

Hardly anyone sees them. It will not
do for me to allow people the run of them ;
they would pull off the branches, pluck the
flowers, and trample the grass. Yet, I suppose,
if I am going to stand for the county, I
must do this, allow a free day for the public,
and keep indoors all that day as a prisoner.
I do not mind your walking here whenever you
like.'

Thank you. Cousin Gotham.'

'It has occurred to me,' he said in a shy

manner, twitching his head from side to side,
that those children I saw you with the other
day might like to see the grounds. Who
were they ? What were their names ? '

Oh, the seven Httle daughters of Eichard
Cable, the lightshipman.'

They are pretty children. I peeped
through the hedge as I was passing, and saw
you surrounded by them.'

I thought I saw you peeping before I
went into the garden.'

I peeped twice — once before, once after.
In f\ict, I heard the chatter of little voices,
and sawsomethinnj shining under the leaves and
thorn-boughs : and could not make out what
it was, till I stooped, and then I saw it was
the golden hair of little children sitting on the
bank. Afterwards, I heard you singing to
them, and I peeped again. You like them, I
presume? What are their names?'

Cable.'

I mean their Christian names.'

Mary and Effie and Jane, Martha, Lettice,
Susan, and Bessie. I think that is the order,
but am not sure. Effie and Jane are twins.'

Bessie — Bessie Cable,' murmured the old
man, and he rubbed one trembling hand over
the other. ' I wonder why she is called Bessie. '

'After her grandmother.'

Has she dark hair and dark eyes Uke —
like her ? '

No. All the children are fair, very fair.
They remind me of a group of cherubs' faces
by Sir Joshua Reynolds.'

It is strange to find such beauty among
persons so low in life,' said Gabriel Gotham. —
Sit down, Josephine, on this garden seat by
me — sit and talk. I enjoy the sun ; it does
my neuralgia good, now that the wind is less
cold and without east in it. I suppose that
these children take after their father ? '

I never saw their mother. You know
she is dead.'

I know ! — I know nothing whatever
about them. Is she dead ? Oh, I did hear
about it. She was a maid at the rectory, I
fancy. Eichard might have looked higher.
He is a handsome man. He is not like his
mother.'

She is a very hue old woman, so stately,
with a grand way about her. I think Mr.
Cable derives something in his manner and
his reserved way from her ; but she is dark,
and he is fair. Did you ever know" his
father ? '

His father ! ' Mr. Gotham started.

There is some mystery about him.
Pilchard Cable says he never saw him ; he

deserted Mrs. Cable when he, Eichard, was
an infant.'

Mr. Gotham fidgeted. ' You see those
little children occasionally,' he said evasively.
Perhaps it would please them to come into
these grounds. I — I will have the wicket on
the sewell open, and you can bring them in
some day, and take them about ; and if they
like to pick any of the syringa, or laburnum,
or rhododendron, I shall not mind. It would
be pretty — would it not — to put the laburnum
chains about their little gold heads ? '

No doubt it would please them.'

You will not say anything about this to
Mrs. Cable ; she might object. Take them
out for a stroll on the shore, and you will
find the gate unlocked. Give a push, and it
will opeii ; then bring them in. I shall not
be in the garden ; I shall know nothing about
their being here. No precedent will be
established. But say nothing to Mrs. Cable.'

'Why not? She would have no objections.'


I do not know ; she would think it an
intrusion. She might fear the children
would do damage, and forbid it. I had
rather you said nothing to her either before
or after.'

I will do as you wish.'

When ? This afternoon ? '

No ; tomorrow.'

I — I thmk there are some empty nests
in the Banksian rose trailed against the terrace
walL If you look in, or hold up the
little ones to peep in, they may perhaps find
eggs there — pink and white, almond and
sugar. That would please them — make them
laugh, eh ? '

I am sure it would.'

I shall not be here ; I shall be in my
room. I shall perhaps hear them laugh, and
it will divert me, especially if I am in pain
at the time. But I shall not appear, my
green jalousies will be down. If I appeared,
I might seem to sanction the intrusion, and
there is no knowing where invasion would
stop. I should have all the parish coming
here to pull up my bulbs, and pluck my
roses, and break the statues and vases. I
do not like the public ; it is boisterous, and
leaves traces where it romps of sandwich
papers and empty ginger-beer bottles. When
grounds are thrown open to it, the public is
noisy, and I cannot bear noise. I suffer
acutely in my nerves. There is a long nerve

extending from the temple to the foot

But there ; I will not speak of that. It
begins to twitch and shoot the moment I

VOL. I. K

allude to it. Eicliard Cable is a fine man, a
handsome man. — Look at this standard rose,
Josephine. Do you know what it is ? General
Jacqueminot, a hybrid perennial. It is a
superb rose. Do you know on what it grows ?
On wild-brier stock. It is budded. Below
the bud, the root, the stem, are all wild,
vulgar, hedge dog-rose. I should think
Richard Cable was a budded rose ; we know
the stock is common, but — consider ! What
a man the father must have been, to have
such a tall, stalwart, handsome son ! You
do not knoAV Greek, Josephine, or you would
understand what I mean when I say ana
andros — a king of men.'

I dare say. It is a pity his father does
not see him. Cable is a man to be proud of;
he is not only a fine man, but he is a true
and good man.'

The children are pretty children, are
they not? Like Reynolds's angels, you said.'

They are very pretty, unusually pretty
children.'

'They do not take after their grandmother
; Mrs. Cable is dark.'

But perhaps their mother was fair.'

Oh, their mother was nothing, a very
common sort of creature. If they do not
take after their grandmother, it must be after

their grandfather. He must have been possessed
of great personal beauty when he was
young.'

To this Josephine made no reply ; she
was not interested in the question as to the
appearance of the unknown grandfather.

There is, I hear, a good deal of high
quality, self-respect, and sterling goodness in
Eichard Cable ? '

'He is a thorough man.'

He could not have had that from his
mother, who is only a common woman.'

Why not ? She is a superior person.
I like her ; she is so dignified.'

He has not her eyes and hair. Rely on
it, he draws also his moral and mental qualities
from the other side. What a man that
father must have been ! '

I do not think it or he would not have
deserted him.'

Mr. Gotham kicked the gravel about with
his toes, first with one foot, then with the
other, and worked a hole with his stick
among the shingle that covered the terrace.

What does your father think of Eichard
Cable ? ' he asked at length.

Papa ! Oh, he calls him a lout and a
booby.'

He does not like him ? '

K 2

No — he has taken a prejudice against
him ; why, I cannot telli'

I suppose he lias done something to
testify to Eichard Cable his gratitude for the
services he rendered you ? '

He offered him a ten-pound note, and
Eichard refused it, I am glad to say.'

'You are glad Why?'

Because papa should have given him
either a great deal, or nothing at all.'

Cable deserves something for his goodness
to you, his care and his kindness.'

He deserves a great deal ; but he is too
proud — too much of a gentleman at heart, to
accept anything, offered as my father offered
it.'

Mr. Gotham considered a while, still
working a hole in the ground with the end
of his stick. He looked slyly out of the
corners of his eyes at Josephine, and then
down at the burrow he was making. ' It is
no concern of mine,' said he after a while.
But for the sake of something to talk about,
we will pursue the subject I suppose Cable
has his ambitions. What is he going to do
now? Go on with his duties as lightshipman,
or take to some other line of life?'

Nothing else offers. The ship will be
replaced ; I suppose a better one than that

old cut down tub. But I fancy Echard
would rather take to something Avhicli did
not withdraw him so much from home. I
heard him one day say that if he only had a
boat of his own, he would be a fisherman.'
Why should he not have a boat ? '
'He cannot afford one. Boats are expensive.'


Why should not you give him one ? '
I ! ' Josephine almost started to her
feet, she was so astonished at the proposition.


'Yes, you. Why not? He saved your
life. You feel indebted to him. Give him
what would make him happy. Do not ask
him if he will have it and give him opportunity
of declining ; make it his.'

But, Mr. Gotham ' — her handsome face
was flushed as she turned it to him — ' how
can I ? I have no money — that is to say, of
course I shall have my mother's money some
day; but my father is trustee, and my guardian,
and would not let me have the sum for the
purpose. Nothing would please me better
than to give this surprise and gratification to
a kind, good man. But it is not of any use
proposing it to my father ; he would not hear
of it ; he would cover me with ridicule, jeer
at the suggestion, and dismiss it.'

'But I suppose that, when of age, you
can claim your money to do with it what you
wil?'

I do not know. I am of age next month ;
but it does not follow that I shall get my
money if I ask for it. I am not going to
have a lawsuit with my father for it.'

I will make a suggestion, Josephine,' said
the old man, still working his stick, and working
it faster. ' I have money at my disposal
which I am ready to lend you for this purpose.
You shall borrow it of me, giving
me an acknowledgment, and you shall buy
Eichard a ship. There is a new and beautiful
little cutter being built by Messrs. Grimes
and Newbold. She is very nearly ready for
sea. What do you say to buying her and
fitting her up with everything necessary, and
presenting her to Eichard Cable ? '

My father will never allow it.' Josephine's
face was burning, her dark eyes
sparkling.

Do not say a word about it to him. The
arrangement is between you and me. I think
with you that some fitting acknowledgment
should be made to Eichard. He was right
to refuse ten pounds. The world will cry
shame on your father and you unless something
be done for your preserver. Do not

bring me in. I lend you the money ; I do
nothing more. I am ignorant of the purpose
for which you borrow it — it is a business
transaction.'

But ' Josephine hesitated. She was

pleased with the idea, yet something in her
cautioned her not to close with the proposal.
But, Mr. Gotham ' — she coloured deeply — •
will not people consider it odd ? Will it not
give occasion to talk ? '

People will suppose your father has in
this way recompensed Cable. They need not
know that he has nothing to do with it, anymore
than they need know that I have helped
in the matter. The talk will be that Mr. Justin
Cornellis has done the right thing, and done
it handsomely. Do not let it get wind that
he offered ten pounds ; that would make talk,
and talk not pleasant to hear. Folk would
say he valued you cheaply. You shall buy
the boat of Messrs. Grimes and Newbold, and
name her.'

What shall she be named — the Bessie ? '

The Bessie ! ' Mr. Gotham shrank back.
No — on no account — the Josephine.'

CHAPTER X.
Jacob's ladder.

You have been a long time at the Hall,' said
Mr. Cornellis, when his daughter returned
with a heightened colour.

Have I ? I did not know I had been
absent any considerable time.'

The hour and a half must have passed
very agreeably. You do not usually find the
society of that old imbecile entertaining ; nor
he sours sufficiently pleasant to make him
care to detain you. Perhaps,' he added with
a sneer, ' you have been elsewhere.'

I have not been elsewhere, papa.'

And pray , what has kept you all this while ? '

We have been talking.'

Does he want me to play billiards with
him ? '

Josephine considered a moment, then
laughed, and said : ' Eeally, papa, I do not
know. I forget. If he told me, I do not remember.'


Your conversation must have been
mightily engrossing if you cannot recall an
answer to a message. What was it about ? '

You desire me to tell you ? '

no,' answered Mr. Cornelia in his cold,
contemptuous tone. ' If I were to insist, and
you were indisposed to comply, you would tell
me lies.'

Josephine's cheeks flushed. She had some
difficulty in controlling herself sufficiently to
say in a subdued tone : ' Do I generally tell
you lies, papa ? '

I do not know. I do not care to inquire.
I dare say you do, when asked inconvenient
questions.'

Josephine walked up and down the room.
Why, papa, do you always imagine evil
of me, and — of everyone? It is enough to
make one bad. Is the world full of nothing
but swindlers and liars and hypocrites ? '

Angels do not tenant earth here.'

I^or devils either.'

Perhaps not — a generation which is a
mixture of both ; but the gravitation is downwards.
Did you ever hear of any one flying
off* into angel-tenanted space ? Ko, my dear ;
we keep our feet planted on the earth, and
are insensible to centrifugal action, but alive
to that which is centripetal.'

Papa, do you remember that man on the
pier at Walton with an apparatus by means
of which he pretended he could see through
a brick ? '

'What of that?'

He did nothing of the sort. You explained
it as an optical deception, contrived
by a series of mirrors laid in the apparatus.
Those who peered through the spyglass
thought they saw through a brick, but they
did nothing of the kind.'

Eight : it was a deception.'

Well, I believe you are equally deceived
when you assert that you see through everyone
you come across.'

Mr. Cornellis bit his lip. He turned testily
to his daughter and said : ' You need not pace
the room as if you were still striding the deck
of the lightship.'

She desisted at once, and left the room. She
went out of the house, through the garden gate,
upon the sewell, and walked there. The tide
was out ; a wide expanse of mud showed, and
the mud exhaled its usual unsavoury steam.
Gulls made a clatter over it, collecting food ;
a heron rushed up and flew away as Josephine
approached where it fed. The tears
were in her eyes. She was hurt by her father's
remark that she would answer him with lies.

She knew his ways of thinking and speaking ;
she had rebelled occasionally heretofore ; her
conscience had acquired fresh sensitiveness
of late, and she shook off his ugly scepticism,
as false to human nature. She had seen a
true man, had met with genuine unselfish
love, and had felt the charm it exercised.
She began to suspect that there was a poetry
and picturesqueness and music in the moral
sphere as well as in mere external nature.
She had been taught by her father, or had
gathered from his conversation, scorn for the
weaknesses of humanity, and now, with
genuine surprise, perceived that there was
infinite pathos and beauty in those very weaknesses.


The willows were quivering in the light
wind, the leaves slenderly attached to the stem
fluttered and flickered with a breath — their
vibration exposed their silver lining. At one
moment the trees stood dark against the sky,
then a feeble puff sweeping over the mud-flat,
brushed up the leaves, and converted the
whole tree into a tree of snow exquisitely beautiful,
a very tree for fairyland. Josephine did
not walk up and down the sewell, lest she
should seem to be pacing a deck ; she felt in
her heart her father's sneer. Accordingly,
instead of pacing to and fro, she walked along

it, and came, unintentionally, to the willows
and the dike, and looked into Cable's garden.
Thence she heard children's voices. She went
to the bridge, crossed the water, and entered
the garden. She was drawn on by an invincible
attraction. She saw a ladder set against
the side of the house, a short ladder, for the
cottage was but one storey high, and Eichard
Cable was above the ladder on the roof,
pruning the vine. He had his foot on the
topmost rung, but rested his body on the
trellis ; and as he lopped off a young shoot
with leaves and tendrils, he stooped with it to his
little Mary, who sat just below her father's foot
on a lower bar; and she stooped and handed
the cluster of leaves to Effie, who sat a stage
lower ; Effie handed it to her twin-sister, and
Jane to Martha, and she to Lettice, and Lettice
to Susie, and at the bottom sat Mrs. Cable
with the baby, and insisted on the tiny hands
receiving the cool beautiful leaves from the
little sister. The pretty children were thus
on steps of the ladder one above the other,
with the evening sun on their shining golden
heads and white pinafores, and their smiling
faces and dancing blue eyes.

Presently, Cable called for some tying bast,
and the baby was made to hold it to Susie,
who received it and raised her arms over her

head, when Lettice bowed and took the bast
and passed it in like manner above her head
to Martha, who in similar style delivered the
bast to Jane, and so to Effie, and Effie likewise
to Mary, and Mary to her father. The
children were seated as masons on a ladder,
when loading a scaffold.

Josephine stood where she had crossed,
looking at the picture. It strangely moved
her, it was so beautiful a picture of peaceful
happiness. She did not know whether she had
been observed. She hoped that she had been
unobserved, and drew back. She would not
break the happy chain, disturb the simple
pleasure, by her appearance. She went back
over the plank to the farther side of the moat,
where were the willows, and walked on.

She felt very lonely, more so, after having
witnessed this simple domestic interlude, than
before. She thought of her father. What
would have been his remark on what she had
witnessed ? The thought of him took the
poetry out of the scene. She seated herself
on the wall, built of chalk blocks brought
from Kent by sea. Southernwood sprouted
from the chinks, and fescue-grass ; and sea-lettuce,
now vividly green, pushed up its juicy
fronds. She pulled some blades of grass and
bit the wiry stems. Lie contrasted her life

with that of Cable. His was direct, real, and
transparent. Hers was twisted, artificial, and
clouded. There was not a spark of sincerity
in it. Her whole course of education had
been directed towards making her false. She
had been taught accomplishments, not because,
in music, in history, in knowledge generally,
there was anything worth pursuit, but because
it was necessary for her to be acquainted with
sufficient to fill her place in conversation without
exposing ignorance. She took a sprig of
white southernwood between her hands and
rubbed it, and was suffused with the strong
odour from the bruised leaves.

The tide was running in along a channel
between the sewell and the mudbanks, sweeping
along with it fragments of rectangle, little
green crabs, and various small shells. She
pulled off her stockings and shoes and put her
foot down into the running; fresh water. She
still bit the fescue-grass, musingly, looking
into the tide as it curled about her delicate
foot. It was a pleasure to be alone, and free
to do as she liked ; to sit, if she chose, with
one foot in the water instead of two. She
was startled to hear a step behind her. She
looked round, pulled the grass out of her
mouth, and drew up her foot.

Eichard Cable was there. ' Miss Cornellis,

I saw you pass our gate. As you did
not come to us, I have come to you.'

Mr. Cable ! ' — she always called him
Mr. to his face, only ' Dicky ' when speaking
of him to her father — ' I did not like to interrupt
you whilst you were pruning your
vine.'

I was giving my pets a lesson,' he said.

A lesson ! Of what sort ? '

A double lesson — to take their several
seats and sit there content ; and to form a
part of the great chain of life, each assisting
and assisted by the other.'

What ! ' exclaimed Josephine, with a
tinge of her father's sarcasm in her tone.
Delivering a moral lecture to the infants ! '

^ No,' he answered. — ' May I stay here a
moment by you, miss ? I said nothing to
them. They take in these ideas naturally.
Did you see how they were, all of them, dear
mites ! on the ladder, and me at top, passing
things up and down P It is not necessary forme
to give a lecture on it. They couldn't
understand it now if I did ; but afterwards,
when each takes her place in the social scale,
she'll maybe remember how she sat on the
ladder, and will pass good things down to
those below, and also hand up what is due to
those above. It is a picture of life, miss.'

You are a moralist, Mr. Cable.'

I don't know that, Miss Cornellis ; but I

have time to think aboard my ship, and turn

tidings about in my head, and so I see much

that escapes others who are in active work and

have no leisure for considering. In autumn,

when the grapes are ripe, I shall be on the

trellis again, and all the children on the

ladder. Then I shall pass down the bunches ;

and the first bunch Mary will deliver to Ere,

and Effie to Jane, and so down to baby, and

not one of them will touch a grape. Then the

next will go down like to Susie, untasted by

all those above, and the third to Lettice, and

the fourth to Martha, and the seventh and

last to Mary. I need not give a word of

teaching about it ; they learn of themselves that

the strong and the older, and those high up,

must stoop to help the weak and the young and

the lowly. It comes of itself, without words.'

I do not know that your picture is a true

parable,' said Josephine rather bitterly. 'I

think that on the ladder of life we are all

plundering the grapes and upsetting each

other, to secure our seats and the first touch

of the clusters.'

The children will not do that ; they see
their father above them.' Then Richard Cable
said in a lower tone, with great gentleness in

his voice : ' Excuse me, Miss Cornellis ; I
came to you now because, whilst I was up the
ladder about the vine, I saw at one moment
all the seven pairs of blue eyes looking up tome
— and then I thought of something you
had said aboard the stranded boat, and I
came down after you to tell you about it, for
what you said troubled me.'

What was that ? ' asked Josephine.

Do you remember saying that you had
no trust, no faith ; nothing and no one to
look up to ? '

'I may have said it. T do not remember.'

I do. It hurt me to think it was possible ;
and when I saw all the little eyes on the ladder
looking up to their father — I thought of
a pair of brown eyes that were not uplifted.
Excuse me, miss.' He stood up, and without
another word walked away along the sewell.

Then Josephine let down her foot again
into the water and stirred it in the transparent
stream, and thought. Her face was grave,
and the muscles about her mouth worked,
and every now and then twitched convulsively.
She sat on till the tide, rising higher, drove
her from where she sat ; then she put on her
stockings and shoes again, and walked slowly
along the sewell homewards. As she passed
the garden of the Cables she looked into it

VOL. I. L

without stopping. The children, Eichard,
were no longer there. The shadows of the
great willows fell athwart the garden, cool
and gray. She went on to her own home,
and in and to her own room. There she saw
her jacket thrown on the bed ; her soap,
which after she had last washed her hands,
had slipped off the marble top of her stand,
lay on the floor where it had fallen. Her
comb was on the pincushion, her brush in
the window, one of her walking-boots on the
hearth rug, the other on a chair. She was
angry, and went to the bell to summon the
maid and scold her for neglect. But it
occurred to her, as she had her hand on the
rope, that her father was expecting company
to dinner. The household was not large, and
the few servants were required to bestir themselves
and make a show. Anne was cleaning
the plate ; she was parlour-maid, lady's-maid,
and butler all in one. Anne must lay the
cloth, have the silver and glass in excellent
order, answer the door, dress the table with
flowers, and bring in dinner. How could she
also attend to Josephine's room ?

On the ladder, on occasion, we must stoop
and help each other,' said Josephine, letting go
the bell-pull, half pouting, half smiling, and
bending to gather up the fallen piece of

almond curd soap. ' I know what I will do
I will do more on the ladder. I will go
doAvn and arrange the flowers in the glasses
for the table.'

Whilst she was thus engaged, her father
came into the dining-room.

Papa,' she said, ' will you, or shall I,
decant the wine ? '

I will do it. We must not have the
cheapest. The rector pretends to know good
from bad ; but he is an impostor. His son,
who is in the army, may have a more cultivated
taste, and detect rubbish, so we must have
some decent wine for him.'

Is any one else coming ? '

The rector's wife — that is all. I do not
want a large party to-night. Dress becomingly,
and show your best manners. When
I bring out my inferior wines, you may wear
what you like, and be rude. Behave yourself
to-night ; lay yourself out to please.'

To please whom ? The rector ? '

No ; this son. Captain Ellwood.'

And pray, papa, why should I make an
effort to please him ? '

Because I always thought he admired
you. He is heir to a good fortune ; and it
is important that you should not let him
slip through your fingers.'

Josephine's brow reddened, and lier eyes
sparkled with an angry light.

Mr. Cornelia looked coldly at her, and
said : ' Do not put on stage attitudes and
attempt heroics. I have invited the family
here solely on your account. If you do not
provide for yourself, I will not provide for you.'

I have no particular eagerness to fish for
husbands ; I have no taste for that sport.'

'It is high time, Josephine, that you should
understand your position. I am nearly at the
end of my means.'

There is my mother's fortune,' said the
girl with a shrug of the shoulder and a toss
of her head.

Dissipated, my dear.'

How dissipated ? It is mine.'

I was left trustee with full power to expend
what was necessary on your maintenance
and education.'

'That has not exhausted it.'

'It matters not how it is gone — gone
it is.'

Then,' said Josephine bitterly, ' you misstated
the situation, papa, by the use of a
wrong possessive pronoun, when you said that
you were nearly at the end of }' our means ;
you should have said you had come to the
end of my means.'

I am not going to excuse myself to you,'
Mr. Cornellis said. ' Your education, dress,
and caprices have cost much money. The
little fortune your mother left '

Papa,' exclaimed Josephine, ' I always
heard that my mother was well off.'

Then you heard wrong. Her relations
were displeased with her for marrying me,
and she got nothing but what could not be
kept from her. A good deal of that went
before she died.'

JSTot all — there is surely the principal.'

The principal has been going like old
Stilton. There is not much left ; and before
it is known that you are portionless, you must
secure a husband.'

Under false pretences ? '

'You would not blurt out to everyone that
we are on the eve of a financial collapse ? I
am not going to argue with you. A woman
is usually keen-admitted in such matters.' He
left the room with quick steps to get the
wine.

Josephine had been arranging white lilacs
and forget-me-nots in a little opal glass vase.
Her hand trembled so that she shook out the
flowers, and they fell on the white cloth. She
tried to pick them up and put them in, but
could not do so ; and as Anne then entered.

she held out the flowers and vessel to the
girl, and, with averted face, said : ' Finish
doing this for me, Anne.' Then she ran upstairs.
Her cheeks were burning, her eyeshot,
her temples throbbing. She was angry
as well as distressed. Her father had robbed
her, and had acknowledged it with effrontery.
Not only so, but he told her this coolly just
as company were expected to dinner. She
must bury her wrath and humiliation in her
heart, and appear with a smiling face, affecta
careless spirit, and use her efforts to entrap
a man into an engagement, letting him believe
her to be the mistress of a handsome
fortune.

She leaned her elbows on the window-sill
and looked over the garden out to sea. The
tide was in, the bay was full of blue water.
The sun had set, a still, sweet evening closed
in the day. She saw a flight of white and
brown winged fishing-boats coming in with
the wind and tide. The sailors were returning
to their homes with their spoils, to spend a
quiet Sunday with their wives and children
and parents ; they were returning with light
consciences ; they had earned the bread for
all the mouths that depended on them. It
was otherwise in Eose Cottage. There, thought
Josephine, the father, instead of laying by for

his child, has wasted her fortune, and then
bids her go forth and fish for herself with
the net of fraud.

Her chin rested m her hands ; her brows
were knit ; her lips quivered. No tears came
into her eyes. ' Was there ever,' she said, ' a
more miserable, forlorn girl than I ? What I
said to Eichard Cable is true. I have no one
to whom I can look up. My ladder is lost in
cloud.'

CHAPTER XI

THE Ellwood.

Mr. Cork'ELLIS could make himself an agreeable
host, and he took pans that evening to
make it pass pleasantly to his guests. The
rector was a florid man, a gentleman of good
family, easy-going, generous, never harsh in
judging anyone, perhaps too ready to make
allowances for the shortcomings of his parishioners.
He, like Mr. Cornellis, knew the
weaknesses of human nature, but made a different
use of his knowledge. When his
gardener had been detected selling his pears
and grapes to a fruiterer at Walton, he
shrugged his shoulders and said it was human
nature, lectured him, but did not dismiss him.
When he heard that some of his Sunday-school
teachers had got into moral scrapes, he said :
It is human nature ; wee must lind substitutes
; ' and when Mrs. Sellwood showed him
lumps of alum in the bread, he laughed, and
said : ' Millers and bakers are human beings ! '

and would not take away his custom. On
Christmas Day, his clerk was tipsy, and put in
his Amiens wrong. ' After all,' said the rector,
it is human nature to rejoice on this day :
we will pass it over.'

His son. Captain Sellwood, was home from
India, a handsome, ox-eyed man, with light
hair, but dark eyelashes, a man with an inexpressive
face and solemn inscrutable eyes. He
was not a man of words. He sat listening? to
conversation, twiddlinsf his moustache and
sharpening it to needle-points, with his great
gloomy eyes on the speakers, moving them
from one to the other as they interchanged
talk, but saying nothing himself. Some considered
him stupid. This was not the case ;
he had plenty of intelligence, but he was nota
talker. Ladies condescended to him, and
tried to draw him out on the subject of India ;
but though he could speak on Indian topics,
he felt that he was condescended to when
India was brought on the carpet, and he left
India lying there.

He felt keenly his inability to sparkle in
society ; the consciousness came on him in
spasms. When such a spasm of consciousness
came on, he uncrossed his legs and put
the right leg over the left ; at the next spasm,
he put the left leg over the right. Some

people, as already said, declared that Captain
Sellwood's silence arose from stupidity ; others
said, from liver ; others, again — and these
were in the right — that this father had talked
him down. The rector was a ready man in
conversation, and fond of hearing his own
voice. At his own table he monopolised the
conversation, and this had affected the captain
when he was a boy, and had made of him a
listener, not a speaker. He had a wondering
admiration for light badinage and small joking,
for he was wholly incompetent to attain to
sportiveness.

Mr. Cornellis took in Mrs. Sell wood ; and
the rector gave his arm to Aunt Judith ;
therefore, Josephine fell to the captain. She
screwed up her mouth. She was not pleased,
both because he was a dull partner and she
was not in a humour to talk ; but also, and
chiefly, because she knew her father's intentions,
and her spirit rose in rebellion against
him and his schemes.

It is with dining as with virtue,' said Mr.
Cornellis. ' We shoidd love eating as we love
virtue, for its own sake, not for what it may
advantage us. — You will have sauterne with
your fish, captain — tell me your opinion of it.
I flatter myself it is good.' Captain Sellwood
bowed and said, ' Very nice,' but in such a

toneless way that Cornellis was unable to discover
what his real opinion was. Cornellis
always made much of his wines, talked of
their age, bouquet, and brand, as if he had a
first-rate cellar ; whereas he had no cellar at
all, only a cupboard in the coal-hole where he
kept a few dozen, and got his wine in as he
wanted it. But by talking about his wine,
and telling stories concerning the way in
which he picked up this lot and that lot at
sales or from old friends, he had acquired the
credit of being not only a connoisseur, but of
giving first-rate wine at his table.

The sauterne on this occasion was good.
It was not always so ; but this evening cornelia
did his utmost to catch the captain for
his daughter, and did not withhold his best
either in eating or in drinking. He used to
say that Briny, Ban of Croatia, when he went
against the Turks, put purses full of gold
under his belt, so that if he fell, the enemy
might hold his body in esteem ; thus would
all the world esteem the man who put good
dinners under his waistcoat. The rector and
his son would hardly suspect their host to be
on the verge of bankruptcy when he gave
them so excellent a repast.

But the captain, though he liked a good
dinner, was not a man to lay store by it, and,

perhaps, after the spiced dishes of India, he
preferred plain English roast and boiled joints
to any entremets, however delicate. He would
have preferred a seat opposite Josephine, where
he could have looked at her, instead of a place
at her side, where he was obliged to talk to
her. His observations came at intervals, and
had no connection with each other. He said
something about the weather, then was silent ;
and after ten minutes, asked Josephine if she
painted now ; when she said that she did not,
he fidgeted with his napkin, wiped his moustache,
listened to what his father and Miss
Judith were talking about, and then inquired
whether Josephine's aunt had been well during
the preceding winter.

The jovial rector was in full flov/ of talk
about parish matters. ' I've no right to be
here,' he said ; ' I ought to be in prison with
hard labour for a month. Instead of improving
my parishioners, I demoralise them. What
do you think is my last experience ? I parcelled
out my glebe so that some of the
labourers might have fields and keep cows.
I thought it hard that they should not have
something to supplement their earnings on the
farm. I even lent a couple of them money
to buy covers. John Harvey was one, and he
has got a month for it now.'

How SO, rector ? '

Because he has been steahnc^ manifold and
turnips through the winter to feed his cow
with, from Farmer Barons, with whom he
worked. Barons thought his manifold was
going, and so set a policeman to watch ; then
Harvey was caught. He argued that his cow
must not starve, and that he had not the landor
capital to till root crops for her, and that
I Alas to blame for letting him have the cow.
He was once an honest man ; I had converted
him, with the best intentions, into a thief.'

He is let off pretty easy,' said Aunt
Judith.

That is not all. The farmers who employed
the other men that have cows have
given them notice to leave their service, so
they will be thrown out of situations and lay
the blame on me.'

Is it not usually the case,' said Josephine,
that when we seek to do good we blunder
into mischief? Therefore, it is best to let men
go their own wretched way for themselves.'

Captain Sellwood turned and looked at the
girl fixedly ; his great eyes said nothing, but
he wondered in his heart that one so vouDf>^
should speak with such want of feeling.

I don't agree with you. Miss Josephine,'
said the rector. ' It is human to err. We do

not see things from all sides at once, and so
we make mistakes. Some suffer ; but we learn
lessons, and correct our mistakes.'

We should try our experiments on ourselves,
not on others,' said Josephine. ' You
have been practising on the peasant, and the
result is that the peasant has to suffer, not
you.'

I beg your pardon ; I suffer also. I shall
not see back the twenty pounds I lent for the
cow.'

It seems to me that you good people are
always making plans for the bettering of
others, and all your plans when carried out
aggravate the evil. Leave the poor and suffering
alone, to work out their problems for
themselves.'

The great ox eyes of the captain were
again on Josephine, and they annoyed her.
She was determined, if possible, to bring some
life into them, so she said : ' I believe in living
only for self. Every animal does it. Why not
we ? We involve ourselves in a tangle when
we begin to consider others, and get no thanks
for our pains. Let us all light our own way,
and slap each other in the face if he persists
in encumbering our path. I want help
from no one, and will give no help to anyone.'


My clear Josephine,' said her father in a
tone of sad reproach, but with eyes that expressed
anger, ' you are talking at random.'

'Not a bit. I have well considered the
law of existence. That is my law, simple,
straightforward and successful, like, yes, like
the way of the sea-nettle in the tide.'

I do not think, my dear,' said the rector,
that it is a way that weill draw after it a wake
of love and light.'

I speak what I think and feel,' said
Josephine, disregarding her father's warning
glances, encouraged by perceiving some expression
in the ox eyes of the captain, like a
cat's-paw of wind in a quarry pool.

No, my dear,' said the rector, with a
cheery smile on his red face ; ' I won't allow
that you feel and think this, though you say
it. Neither will I admit for a moment your
likening yourself to a sea-nettle. To a cactus,
if you choose — that has on it needles. A girl
sometimes puts forth a bristle of sharp and
piquant speeches ; but it is not human nature,
any more than it is cactus nature to produce
only stings — the flower bursts out in the end,
large, glorious, beautiful, and we forget all
about the bristles as we stand over and admire
the flower.'

Josephine went on maliciously : ' Mrs. 

lias been most kind to that boy Joe
Cudmore.'

Yes ; he is crippled with rheumatism, and
bedridden.'

She lias spent hours in the dirty cottage
and the insufferable stuffiness of the sickroom
teaching the boy to read.'

Well — yes,' said the rector. ' It was so
sad to see the poor fellow confined to his bed
with nothing to relieve the tedium.'

And — with what result ? '

He can read.'

Exactly. I was in the cottage the other
day. We wanted the mother to come and
char for us, and I found him devouring the
police intelligence. You have roused in him
a hunger for criminal biography.'

He reads his Bible too.'

I saw his Bible ; you gave him one, with
red edo;es, and the edf^es stuck together. It

O ' CD O

had not been read. What chance has the
story of Abraham against that of Rush who
murdered a household ? That boy longs to
recover the use of his limbs that he may emulate
the glorious deeds of burglars, or at least
of pickpockets.'

You paint things in extreme colours,' said
the rector, a little discouraged.

And the schools,' continued Josephine —

I knoAV how enthusiastic you are about them.
The education given there has unfitted all the
young people for the work required of them,
or has given them a distaste for it. The
farmers complain that of the risings generation
not one lad understands hedging ; and their
wives, that the girls will have nothing to do
with milking cows and making butter.'

I remember,' said the rector, in an apologetic
tone — he was unable to deny that there
was truth in Josephine's words — ' I remember
some years ago there was not a man or woman
in my congregation who could use the Prayer-book
and Hymnal.'

And now,' said Josephine, ' that they can
use them, they value them so little that the
fires in the stove are lighted with the torn
pages out of them ; and the road between
the school and church is scattered with
dishevelled sacred literature.'

Then the captain said : ' Am I to understand
that you think no attempt should be
made to do any good to any one ? '

To any one except ourselves — yes,' answered
Josephine.

You would in India allow settles to continue,
and Juggernaut's car to roll on and crush
bones for ever unobstructed ? '

Why not ? Is not India becoming over-vol.

I. M

peopled, and the problem springing up, what
is to be done with the overflow of population ? '

'I think,' said Mr. Cornellis with sup-dressed
wrath, ' I will ask you, rector, to
return thanks.'

No,' said the rector ; ' I am not going to
say grace on such a sentiment. My dear Miss
Josephine, we must not shirk a duty because
it opens the door to a problem. It is the very
fact that we are meeting problems which duty
insists on our solving, that gives a zest and
purpose to life. We make our blunders —
well, that is inevitable ; it is human to err ;
and our sons profit by our experience and
avoid our mistakes. A child makes pothooks
before it draws straight lines, and strums discords
before it finds the way to harmonies.
We must set an ideal before us, and aim for
that ; we may go wrong ways to work, but
with a right heart ; that will excuse our errors.
Now, I will say grace, if you like.'

When the ladies were in the drawings
Mrs. Sellwood took a low chair before
the fire, and in two minutes was asleep. The
rector's wife was an excellent woman, who
rose every morning at five, made her own fire,
did her accounts, read the lessons for the day,
and gardened, before the maid servants appeared.
But it is not possible for the most

energetic person to burn the candle at both
ends with impunity, and she made up for her
wakefulness in the morning by sleepiness at
night, and invariably dozed off after dinner,
wherever she was. This was so well known
by her hosts that she was generally allowed to
go off quietly to sleep and have her nap before
the gentlemen came from their wine.

Aunt Judith made no attempt to keep her
guest awake ; when she saw her nodding, she
drew Josephine into the conservatory, and
said : ' My dear, how came you to speak as you
did at table ? You frightened the captain, and
shocked his father.'

I am glad I produced some effect on the
former, who seems to me to have inherited his
mother's somnolence.'

But, Josephine, you know that Captain
Algernon Sellwood has long been your admirer,
and you are doing your best to drive
him away.'

Let him go. I shall breathe freely when
he withdraws his great dreamy eyes from me.'
My dear niece, I must be serious with you.
He is a man worth having ; he will have about
fifteen thousand a year on the death of his
aunt. Miss Otterbourne. He is a fine man,
and belongs to a family of position. You
could not expect to do better than take him.

M 2

I Speak now as sour aunt, full of interest in
your welfare. I must remark that your extraordinary
and repellent manner this evening is
not one to attract him to your feet. You are
trifling with your opportunities, and before
you are aware, you will be left an old maid.'

I do not care. An old maid can go her
own way, and a married woman cannot.'

No, my dear ; an old maid cannot go her
own way, unless she has a fortune at her
disposal. Can I ? I am helpless, bound to
helplessness. I do not follow a husband ; I
have to follow your father. Remember, you
have not a fortune. Your father has told you
that misfortunes have fallen on us, and your
money is gone. Have you made up your
mind not to take Algernon Sellwood, if he
offers ? '

'I don't know ; I have not thought about it.'

Do not take the matter so lightly. I am
seriously alarmed about you — so is your father.
Sooner or later, we shall have to give up our
establishment, and disappear into some smaller
place, and cut our expenses doAvn to a low
fi o-ure. It is not pleasant to have to pinch
and clip. What stands in your way ? You
have never shown yourself so perverse before.
Upon my word, I believe your head has been

turned ever since that unfortunate affair of the
lightship and Cable.'

Do not mention him,' said Josephine
abruptly.

Who ? Algernon Selhvood ? '

No ; the other, Eichard Cable.'

Why not ? '

Because ^vhen you do, I see what a man
ought to be, and the captain pales into nothing
before him. Whether Algernon Selhvood has
brains and heart, I do not know ; he is to mea
doll that rolls its eyes, not a man with a soul.'

For heaven's sake ! ' gasped poor Aunt
Judith, ' what do you mean, Josephine ?
Gracious powers ! you do not hint at such a
preposterous folly as that '

As that, what ? Speak out ! '

As that I really cannot speak it.'

As that I have lost my heart to Eichard
Cable, the lightshipman, the widower, father
of seven little children ? No ; I have not.
Now, are you satisfied ? I am not such a fool
as you take me for.'

Aunt Judith drew a long breath. 'It
would be impossible for you to marry beneath
you — and to such a man ! '

Beneath me ! — Above me. We are all
being dragged down. It is my fate never to

have one to whom I can look up, whom I can
call my own. — There come the gentlemen.'

As she and Aunt Judith entered the 
through the French window, Mrs.
Sellwood woke up, was wide-awake, and said :
Yes — buttered eggs ! I said so, Miss Cornellis
— buttered eggs ! '

Been asleep, dear ? ' asked the rector,
tapping his wife on the shoulder.

No, Robert. I have been talking to Miss
Cornellis about buttered eggs.'

Not even closed your eyes ? '

I may have closed them to consider better,
but I have northmen asleep. I have been giving
a receipt for buttered eggs.'

CHAPTER Xn.

AN INDISCRETION.

When the guests were gone, Aunt Judith
retired. She was sleepy. She had eaten a
good dinner, and eaten heartily, and wanted
her rest after it.

You are going to bed ? ' said she in the
door to her niece.

Eventually,' answered Josephine. ' I
must play some good music on the piano first,
to dissipate the reminiscence of Strauss and
Waldteufel I have been strumming.'

Why did you not play good music ? '

'Because good music is desecrated if
played to those who don't listen, don't value
it, and prefer what is bad.'

Aunt Judith yawned, said nothing in reply,
and withdrew.

Josephine went to the window and threw
it open. The room was warm and close.
One window unfolded upon the garden ; the
other at right angles into the conservatory.

She opened the garden Avindow and stepped
out to inhale the fresh air ; then, fearful of
catching cold, as the dew might be falling,
and she had on a low dress, she went in again,
and stood in the window, leaning against the
side, looking out. She rested the elbow of
her right arm in the palm of her left, and held
her chin, with the forefinger extended on her
cheek. She was in a pretty rose silk dress,
with lace about the neck, and short sleeves.
The hue suited her admirably ; she had looked
very pretty that evening, especially when her
colour came and her eyes flashed with excitement
during her passage of arms with the
rector. In her hair was a sprig of azalea,
now faded, Madame van Cruyzen, a crimson
azalea ; and another sprig was in her bosom.

Aunt Judith, a frugal woman, had extinguished
all the lights in the drawing-room,
except those on the piano, which she left
because her niece wished to play, and a little
lamp in the conservatory, which she forgot.
This latter was placed among ferns, and was
of red glass, so that it diffused a warm glow
over the plants.

Josephine did not care to play from notes,
so she blew out the candles before she went
to the window. The moon was shining ; just
over the top of the palings at the bottom of

the garden could be seen the sea, a quivering
sheet of silver, under the moon ; the evening
was light, so light that there seemed no blackness
in the shadows, only deep blue ; the sky
was blue, the trees blue, the bushes blue, the
moonlight bluish. It may have been the
contrast to the red light in the conservatory
that gave Josephine this impression, the contrast
of coolness of colour also to her own
warm tints of dress.

She thought of Captain Sellwood. She had
known him as a child, before he went to
India ; and had seen him since, when he
returned on leave. He had hung about her
whenever he came home ; she knew that he
liked her, and yet he never got far in showing
his king. She remembered once making her
father laugh by calling him the ' Morbid Fly.'
She had meant that he clung about, was half
asleep, a little troublesome and not very interesting.
She had used the expression when
she was much younger and did not know the
meaning of words. She had intended to call
him torpid. Ever after, he had gone in the
house by the name of the Morbid Fly.

She knew that he was more gifted than he
seemed. His fellow-officers spoke highly of
him. He had done well in his examinations
before aoins^ out, so that he could not be

deficient in brain ; but he was not an interesting
man. As the Frenchman said of
Truth : it is so precious, ' il faut la bien
economise ; ' so might Captain Sellwood have
said of his wits ; he husbanded them so jealously
that many doubted if he possessed any.
That he was an honourable man, Josephine
could not doubt. The rector was so high-principled,
and sound at core, that a son of
his could hardly fail to inherit something of
his good quality. On occasion, he had shown
that there was energy in him, but only on
occasion. All good qualities were in him, as
heat and its correlative light are in a stick
or a piece of lump-sugar — latent, only to be
made manifest by friction. There are blaze
and bang in a percussion cap, but they are
developed only by a blow ; and when not
beaten, a percussion cap is an uninteresting
object, deficient in self-assertion.

Eeally,' said Josephine, ' I do not want a
husband who will be invaluable in emergencies,
and a cypher at all other times. Besides,
I am not so sure that he would do and say
the right thing when roused. It is a weakness
of such persons often to do just what is
not apropos, and, like his mother, say buttered
eggs, dien no one is thinking about such
things.'

She stepped to the piano and closed it ;
she would not play any more that night. It
might disturb her father and aunt.

She would go out into the pavilion, a
small summer-house in the garden, on raised
ground that commanded a sea view ; in it she
could sit, get cool, and perhaps sleepy. It
was of no use her going to bed now ; she was
far too excited to sleep. Had she spoken her
own opinions in her controversy with the
rector ? She had no opinions. Her moral
sense, her views of life, were inchoate. She
had merely repeated what she had heard fall
from her father, opinions which her mind
received without consenting to them, or rejecting
them. Lie had measured arms with
the rector out of perversity, because she knew
that her father wished her to gain the old
parson's good opinion, and because she owed
her father a grudge for having wasted her
property. That she was cutting off her own
nose to spite herself she was aware, but indifferent
to the consequences. That she would
meet with angry. rebuke, and sneers worse to
bear than rebuke, from her father, she also
knew, and did not care. She was in that
condition of soul most dangerous in a young
person, a spiritual condition analogous to that
of one who in a dark room has lost all his

bearings, does not know where door or window
or table or wardrobe is ; who beats about
with the hands, moves this way, then that,
and at last goes forward desperately, knowing
that a blow or a fall must ensue, and give the
proper bearings of the room. Josephine's
mind was in confusion ; she hardly could distinguish
between right and wrong, and she
was perfectly incapable of judging what washer
proper course.

She did not care about her fortune that
was squandered, because she had made no
scheme, built up no hopes on the future
when she would be her own mistress. She
had one passion — for music, and at one time
she thought of going on the stage ; so she
would escape from home ; but she doubted
whether she had the perseverance to pass
through the drudgery of apprenticeship for
the opera ; and it was to the opera she turned,
with her musical ear and splendid voice.

There had been lonsr simmering in her
heart indignation against her father, and impatience
with Aunt Judith ; and now this
boiled over. The baseness of her father had
never seemed to her so odious as since she
had made the acquaintance of Eichard Cable,
nor the supineness of her aunt less inexcusable.
Her rebellious temper impelled her to

no positive line of action ; it made lier disposed
to quarrel with every one who came in her
way, and oppose everything that was suggested
to her. In nervous disorders the patient is
irritable, and almost insufferable to his nurses ;
and Josephine was spiritually ill ; her moral
tissue was in a state of angry excitation. Weare
her nurses sitting round her, reading her
mind, with our fingers on her pulse, counting
its furious throbbing. We must be patient
with her, and not angry because she seems tous
unreasonable. The moral sickness must be
borne with as tenderly as the sickness that is
physical. Have we not ourselves had our
periods of ethical giddiness, when everything
swam round us and the ground gave way
under our feet ? When we put out our hands
grasping in vacuum we caught at things that
could not stay us up.

Or to vary the simile somewhat, may we
not consider our span of life as a tight rope
on which we have to dance our hour ? We
can do it with the balance-pole in our hands
that we are supplied with — a balance-pole of
some sort or another — moral principle or
social etiquette. How we pirouette, and leap
and fall and rebound, and trip and spin on
tiptoe, with a smiling face ! We have our
pole. And what pranks we play with that same

pole ! Now we bear it horizontally, and then
all the lookers-on know we are safe. Anon
we balance it on onr noses, and folding our arms
across the breast caper a hornpipe ; thereat
every breath is held, for all expect our fall.
Anon we toss the pole from hand to hand,
and sway in our dancing precariously : a gasp
from the spectators ; wee have cast our pole
from us high into the air. We are lost ! No ; a
somersault is turned on the rope, and the
hands grasp the falling pole in time to steady
us again. So we go along our rope to the
end ; and whether we carry our pole off it at
the extremity depends on what the balancing -
sole has been.

Some acrobats are sent along the rope
without any pole at all, to balance themselves
as best they may with outstretched arms ;
and under some nets are spread, which may
receive them if they fall ; but to others are
only the hard stones of the pavement and
sharp flints. When these go down they never
go aloft to dance again ; they cause a talk fora
day, and are then forgotten. The broken
creatures lie all about us ; they can be counted
by the scores. We thank God we are not
as they ; we have our balancing-poles and our
receiving-nets, and have not our spasms of
supreme agony, when our feet totter, our

heads whirl, and we know we are lost. Not
we. We have social etiquette, which can never
fail us, which will always restore our equilibrium,
always remain in our hands and keep
us upright ; always, that is, till we reach the
end of our cord, and then we throat it away
for ever.

As Josephine sat in the summer-house she
was quite in the dark. The house was of
board, painted, with a conical roof, no vv^indow,
only a side door. Through this door she
looked on the quivering silver belt of the sea.
A cloud obscured the moon, but not the rays
that fell on the sea, Which gained in brilliancy
by the obscuration of the moon. Lie knew
that the tide was full. The hour was midnight,
and when the tide was at noonday or
nitric then were the highest tides at Hanford.
She could hear the lap of the water on the
sewell outside the garden palings — a cool,
pleasant murmur that soothed her. Without
thinking of what she was doing, moved
by the sight of the glittering water and
the sound of the tide, she began to sinij^ the
mermaid's air in Oberon. As she sung she
thought lie heard a sweet whistle repeating
the air ; she stopped, and the whistle continued
it. She flushed in the dark. Pdcliard Cable
was without, on the sewell, in the moonlight,

watching the tide, by the garden gate. She
sang another verse and stopped, and adam the
whistle echoed the strain

Then she started up. ' What can have
brought him here? He has been thinking
about me ! I have some crackers for his
children ; I put the box aside in the conservatory.'
She did not stop to consider what she
was about ; she ran to the house, stepped into
the little glass veranda and took the box.
Then she also stooped and carefully raised the
ruby-globed lamp, and went out into the
garden with the box of gilt crackers in one
hand and the ruby lamp in the other. She
took the lamp partly that she might show
Eichard the pretty crackers by its light, as
the moon was hidden ; partly, also, out of a
sense of vanity, because she wished him to see
her in her rose silk evening dress, and artificial
light was necessary to bring out its colour.
Another, a third reason, also influenced her,
as unacknowledged as her vanity ; an instinctive
sense of imprudence in going out of the
garden gate at midnight to speak to a man,
and a fancy that the bearing of a light would
modify the imprudence.

Josephine for her trip along the rope of
life had been given by her father no balancing-pole
whatever, certainly no moral principle.

She walked through the garden, softly singing
the mermaid's song, bearing the coloured
light ; a pretty object, had there been anyone
there to see her. The garden gate could be
opened by the hand from the inside, but only
by a latch-key from without. When she came
to it she put the box of crackers under her
chin, and held it thus whilst her diseno^aired
hand drew back the latch. Then in a moment
she stepped through, and with a merry laugh
stood lamp in hand before Cable, and the
door closed behind her unrewarded. She
raised the lamp and let the rosy light fall
over her face and hair and bare neck and
shoulders.

The boatman took off his cap and stood
as one dumb-founded, holding his cap to his
breast with both hands, looking at her.

Are you not surprised to see me, Mr.
Cable ? '

Very — miss. I thought I saw a fairy, ora
vision.'

And I,' she said smiling, ' I was surprised
too. I sang and heard an echo. I came out
to see whence the echo came, and found you.
How came you here at this time of night ? '

Well, miss,' answered Cable deferentially,
' I am up so much of nights when
aboard the lightship, looking after my lamp ;

VOL. I. N

and now that I am ashore, I can't always
sleep ; and this being a beautiful night and
the tide flowing full, I thought I'd walk on
the wall. But, miss, excuse me, you ought
not to be here

'Oh, I have only come to give you this
box of gilt crackers — it will amuse tli€ children.
Each contains a trifle — a brooch, or a
ring, or an anchor. How they will laugh over
them ! '

Yes,' said Cable ; ' but I had rather you
had not brought them noah.'

I give you them ; take them. I must go
back.'

Yes, miss, at once.'

She put her hand to the garden door ; it
was fast. ' Mr. Cable ! ' she exclaimed, asher
heart stood still.

Hush ! ' He put his finger to his lip.

Both heard voices close at hand, on the
sewell. The wall made a bend at the garden
paling, so that those approaching from one
direction were invisible. On the other side
it extended straight forward for a mile.

The moon burst forth in a flood of light.
Instinctively Cable and Josephine looked along
the wall. No escape was possible in that
direction. Seaward also was no escape ; the
tide was in and washed the base of the dike.

The sailor put his foot against the door ; it
was too strong to be burst open.

Josephine blew out the light, and then
was aware that it was useless for her to do
this ; she could not be hid. She stood in her
evening dress, in the glare of full moon,
against the painted, boarded wall, and Cable
beside her, exposed to the sight of anyone
turning the corner, without possibility of
escape, without a place where she could hide.

Scarce a moment was afforded her to determine
what to do, when round the angle
came the rector and his son, arm in arm.

My dear Algernon,' said Parson Sellwood,
you need not be afraid ; she is right at heart.
It is human nature to be perverse.'

Then, all at once, the two gentlemen saw
those before them.

My dear Josephine ! ' exclaimed the rector.
Good gracious ! what is the meanings of this?'

Josephine looked down, and her voice faltered
as she said : ' I came with crackers for
the children, and the gate closed — and — and
I asked Mr. Cable to take the crackers home
to his little ones.'

The gate fast ? ' asked the rector. ' Locked
out on the wall at midnight. Josephine ! '

In a moment, the captain threw his overcoat
that he had on his arm upon the spikes

If 2

that incrusted the top of the pangs, and
laying both his hands on the coat, Hated himself
over, and in another minute had opened
the door.

We are inconsiderate,' said Captain Sell-wood
; ' we must not keep Miss Cornellis
standing here making explanations.'

No,' said the rector, ' inventing explanations.'
He clicked his tongue in his mouth.
What a pity it is you have lost your mother.
To a young girl nothing can replace a mother
no, not the best of aunts. Shut the gate.
Come on, Ally.' He said nothing to Cable ;
but as he refined his arm in that of his son,
after a few paces in silence, he muttered :
No ; it won't do. I am sorry. There is good
in the girl; but— it won't do, Algernon.
Look elsewhere.'

CHAPTER XIII.

BURNT OUT.

Josephine staggered to the pavilion and threw
herself on a bench in its shadow. She must
get out of the moonlight, retire among the
blackest of shadows to hide her humiliation.
What had she done ? What would the vicar
and his son think of her ! What a talk in the
place would spring out of this ! She could
never hold up her head again, never look
anyone in the face. Was it possible that the
story she had told would be received ? Appearances
were too strongly against her. Fora
moment the temptation came on her to open
the gate again, run out, and throw herself
into the sea.

What a fortunate thing for us if we could
see the consequences of our acts before they
took place. Then we should never wish todo,
certainly never do, foolish things. Judgment
comes late, after the act, as thunder
follows lif^^htninf]^. We do not hear the growl

till it is too late to recall the flash. Josephine
was alive to her indiscretion, now that it was
committed, and would have given half the
fortune her father had cast away to have had
it undone. She was angry with herself for
her want of forethought; angry with the
children for liking crackers ; angry with the
vicar for pottering along the wall after midnight
; angry with Cable for not jumping over
the fence ; and with the captain for jumping
over it. Cable ought to have had the readiness
of wit, at the first sound of the voices, to
have relieved her from the situation at the
cost of his hands ; the captain ought not to
have gone over the paling, for by so doing he
had let her see that he knew she was there
clandestinely, and would be ashamed to goto
the front door of the house to ask admission.


Everyone was in fault, but she most of all.
She resolved never to speak to Eichard Cable
again. He was guilty of insolence in echoing
her song. She would take no more notice of
his odious brats. She would never attempt
to do a good-natured act again. It was all
good-nature which had precipitated her into
this predicament.

She returned slowly to the house without
the lamp ; she had left that on the table in

the summer-louise ; that could be fetched tomorrow.
She entered the drawing-room and
groped for her candle with the matches by it,
usually put on a side table. She would light
her candle, then close the shutters, and exclude
the moonlight. Her candle was indeed
in the usual place, but not the box of lucifers.
This was provoking, as she had none in her
room ; her box there, she remembered, was
exhausted. She considered a moment, and
resolved to go into the kitchen, or into the
pantry, where she was sure to find what she
required. She left the room with the window
hasped, but not barricaded, and put off her
thin shoes, so as to make no noise in the house,
lest she should disturb and alarm anyone.
She had remained up much later than she had
intended. Aunt Judith would be asleep, her
father also, at this time.

When she softly opened the door into the
hall, it struck her that the air was strongly
impregnated with paraffin. A little light
came in from the staircase window, and
by that she was able to find her way to the
pantry. She put down her candle on the hall
table and went in, but stepped back at once.
The floor was wet. Her feet Avere moistened ;
she had trodden in a pool of oil.

'How stupid — how like Anne! She has

upset the can. I must not go in there for
matches.'

She stepped towards the kitchen, very
lightly, with inaudible tread. There she found
fire still smouldering in the grate, and the
oven door open, showing that it was filled
with sticks. Moreover, there was wood on
the hot-plate of the stove.

How careless cook is ! She is drying the
kindles for tomorrow, and has not raked out
the fire first.'

She stooped to remove some of the 'wood
which lay on the ground, and which she felt
as she walked without her shoes ; and again
was conscious of the smell of petroleum.
She was surprised ; but then recalled that she
had stepped in the slopped oil in the pantry,
and concluded that she smelt what she had
brought away with her. Then she put her
hand on the mantel shelf for the lucifers, and
found the box. She had left her candlestick
in the hall, so she returned to it in the dark,
and was about to strike a light, when she
thought she heard a sound as of some one
stirring in the dining-room. She stood perfectly
still, not daring to breathe, listening.
Again she heard the noise. There was certainly
some one in the room. The first impulse
was to cry ; but she controlled herself.

and considered what had better be done. The
noise might proceed from a cat. She stepped
very Lightly to the door, which was ajar,
touched it, and drove it open sufficiently to
admit her, sidelong, and she looked in. The
shutters, which had been fastened, were
open, and the moonlight flowed into the room.
Every trace of dinner had been cleared away
from the table, which now had on its usual
imprinted cover.

Josephine saw something, or — was it someone,
on the floor, moving ? The light through
the French window was so clear that she was
left in doubt only a moment. She saw a profile
against the window-pane and recognised
at once her father. He was on his knees, and
was creeping about with a can, the oil-can,
in his hand. She saw him decanting? it on the
carpet near the window curtains. He was in
his dress suit, as she had last seen him, saying
good-bye to his guests.

Papa,' she said, ' what are you about ? '

He started to his feet with an exclamation,
either of terror or of surprise.

Josephine stepped fully into the room.
What is it, papa ? Have you lost something
? — or What are you doing ? '

He stood back, against the window curtain,
and put his hands behind him, with the

can. The moonlight was strong, and his
position was against it, so that his black
silhouette was sharp, as if cut out of lamp-blacked
paper. She saw the movement of
his lips, and his tongue shot out, like a
serpent's, then drawn in again. He said
nothing.

'Papa, there is a very strong odour of
petroleum ; have you spilled the oil ? '

He replied in a suppressed voice, vibrating
with anger : ' What are you doing here ?
Spying on me, are you ? — Yes, I have spilled
a little oil here.'

But why have you brought the can inhere
? '

Because,' he answered in the same tone,
that fool Anne upset the gravy from the
roast duck on the carpet, and I am trying to
get the grease out.'

Is not that better done by day, papa ? '

I know best when it is to be done ; I
must apply the oil before the grease is trodden
in.'

You have no light.'

Am I a madman to take a candle when I
am using paraffin ? '

'True, papa; I did not think of that.
There is a pool of the oil in the pantry. I
suppose you spilled that. It Avould have been

better, I think, to have left the extraction of
the grease till tomorrow.'

'I know what I am about.' She knew by
the quiver of his voice that he was angry.
Get to bed with you, and do not meddle
with me.'

She was too much afraid of her father to
disobey him. She returned to the hall, struck
a match, lit her candle, and then — to her
surprise saw a heap of wood, and a number
of old newspapers that her father filed in his
study, cast beneath the stairs. What was the
meaning of this ? Why had her father brought
his newspapers there, and wliy had he also
placed with them the sticks that had been cut
and piled up for dahlia supports ? She did not
ask him ; she went up the stairs to her own
room, shut herself in, and undressed. Then
the recollection of what had happened to herself
returned, and displaced the thoughts of
her father's strange proceedings.

When she was in bed, she could not sleep
for some time, thinking of what had taken
place, and blaming herself for her want of
consideration. When at last she did fall into
slumber, it was into a feverish, fantastic dream,
in which she believed herself to be awake and
struggling with sleep. She thought that she was
arraigned before court for having stolen gilt

crackers, and that her father wore a wig, and
was counsel for the prosecution ; and Eichard
Cable also wore a wig, and was counsel for
the defence ; and that the rector sat as judge ;
and under his seat was the captain, looking
dreamily at her, with pen in hand, as clerk,
waiting to take down the evidence for and
against her. On the table stood the ruby
lamp, and the entire court was irradiated by
it. She was annoyed with the lamp because
it diffused so red a glow that it made her look
as if she were blushing. Besides, it diffused
heat as well as light, and the air in the court
became oppressive because of the lamp. Then
she asked to have it turned down ; and the
captain put this hand to the screw and turned
it up so that the flame shot out at the top
above the chimney, and the redness in the
court seemed to deepen, and the heat to
become more intense. The rector's gown,
instead of being black, was scarlet, like the
habit of a criminal court judge, and his face
was as red as his gown. Then lie raised his
hand and pointed to Josephine, and said : ' She
blushes; she convicts herself;' and she was
conscious of beiuG^ suffused with colour and
shame and anger. She could endure no longer
the heat and the glitter of the eyes turned on
her in that red licht, and she cried out and

started up in bed, and in a moment was aware
of a smell of fire, and of unusual heat, and of
a crackling sound. She saw a light strike
along her floor from under the door, and
knew that the house was in flames. She
sprang from bed, slipped on her clothes, and
opened her door. Then she saw that the
lower part of the staircase was in a blaze, that
flames were pouring through the doors of the
dining-room and the pantry, where the petroleum
had been upset. To descend to the hall
was impossible.

She ran to her aunt's door, opened it,
roused Judith Cornellis, and then hastened
to her father. His door was locked. She
knocked long at it before he answered ; then
he was some time before he had lighted a
candle, put on his dressing-gown and slippers,
and unlocked.

Papa,' she cried, ' do be quick ; the
house is in a blaze. We cannot go below.
It is all flaming.'

Indeed. How comes that about ? '

Papa, what is to be done ? '

He smoothed his chin, and said : ' The
gardener has been trimming the Ayrshire
rose, and has left the ladder against the
window on the landing. It is quite providential.'


She looked at him in surprise. He took
the matter with singular coolness.

Now,' he said, ' run and rouse the servants.
If the backstairs are on fire, we must
all escape by the ladder.'

At the same moment a violent hammering
at the front door and ringing of the bell were
heard. The policeman in going his rounds
had observed the fire, and had run up to
rouse the house.

In a few minutes the whole of the inmates
were awake, and had scrambled into their
clothes, and were gathered at the head of the
stairs.

Quick ! ' said Mr. Cornellis. — ' Josephine,
Judith ! save any of your trinkets and trifles.
We must get out as quickly as we can.'

Then a spout of flame rushed up the
stairs. The policeman and some one he had
called to his aid had made their way in
through the conservatory and drawing-room ;
and on opening the door, the air had fanned
the fire into a blaze. Conscious of his mistake,
the policeman hastily closed the door,
went out, and ran round to the back kitchen.
The flames were raging there also. The whole
of the lower storey, except the drawing-room
and study, seemed to be on fire. It was

extraordinary with what rapidity the conflagration
had spread.

Mr. Cornelia retained his composure.
Miss Judith would have remained collecting
the treasures in her bedroom, had not he
precipitated her movements by snatching her
bundle from her and throwing it out of the
window. Then he made her descend the
ladder. All were speedily in safety on the
grass in the garden, looking up at the burning
house. Very little could be saved. A
few pieces of furniture from the drawing-room,
some pictures of no value, bedding, and
the contents of some wardrobes — that was all.
The hire gained hold of the house rapidly ;
the floors of the bedrooms were hot, smouldering,
the smoke thick ; and there was no fire-engine
nearer than nine miles off*. Nevertheless,
a rider was at once despatched for the
engine, which arrived when too late to save anything,
but not too late to spoil with the water
such things as had been spared by the fire.

Mr. Cornellis flew about in his slippers and
dressing-gown. He had not had time to dress
himself completely. Indeed, no man could
have been more taken by surprise ; he had
lost everything, except a pair of trousers,
slippers, a figured Turkish yellow dressing-gown,

and his shirt. He did not lose his
presence of mind. Some place of refuge
must be found for his sister and daughter.
He considered a moment, and then ran to the
Hall and knocked up Mr. Gotham, who, when
brought to understand what had taken place,
consented to receive the family under his roof.
The servants of the Hall were roused ; but,
indeed, the whole village was awake and
out, and the grounds of Eose Cottage and
the road and sewell were crowded ; the
boatmen who appeared were prompt in their
offers of assistance, and formed lines to pass
buckets of water to the burning house, but desisted
when they found that the pailfuls were
unavailing ; the fire had gained too great a
hold on the house. The few goods that had
been rescued were carried by them to the
Hall, and then they drove their hands into
their pockets and stood watching the progress
of the flames.

The rector appeared without his hat. He
caught sight of Josephine, grasped her wrist,
and drew her aside. 'How comes this about?'
he asked bluntly.

The fire ! Oh, Mr. Sellwood, how can I
tell?'

Eh ? Is it the result of your night-wanderings
? After what I saw, I am not

surprised at any act of thoughtlessness. You
had a lamp in your hand. What did you do
with it ? '

It Alas extinguished. I left it in the
summer-house.'

This is not the result of your considers
Eh?'

No, Mr. Sellwood ; indeed, it is not ! '

Then how came it about ? '

I do not know.'

Is the house insured ? '

I do not know.'

What are you going to do ? Where are
you going? You must not stay here.'

Then up came Mr. Cornelia in his dressing-gown.


I say, Cornellis,' said the rector, ' this is
a bad job. How did it come about ? — But
no ; no questions now. We must put the
ladies under shelter. Poor Miss Judith looks
ready to die. My vicarage is at your disposal.'


You are too kind, rector. But I cannot
take the generous offer. Gotham has invited
us to the Hall, and I have accepted. We are
relatives.'

well. You would have been welcome.
I fear this weill be a sad loss to you.'

When Providence '

VOL. I. o

Yes ; exactly. Insured ? '

'Fortunately I am.'

^ Got your policies ? Or are they burnt ? '

They are at the bank.'

Insured well ? '

Middling.'

And the furniture ? '

Insured also.'

The books ? '

Also.'

And the plate ? '

Yes.'

'And the wine?'

Yes.'

Then — anything not insured ? '

Not my clothes, unfortunately.'

I'm glad you were insured ; the loss won't
be ruinous.'

The loss must be heavy, very heavy,
almost crushing.'

I'm glad you were insured. — Now, get
the ladies under cover. They must not be
out any longer. I hope you were heavily
insured ? '

'Middling.'

Insured long ? '

Only a twelvemonth for furniture and
wines, and books and plate. The house was
insured directly I bought it.'

For how much ? '

About its value.'

And your cellar of wines — all your fortunate
purchases. By Jove ! you may recover
their value, but not the wines.'

That is what I feel. Then there are my
oriental books, my Hebrew Bible and Greek
Testament, full of marginal notes. I can
never replace them. But Providence '

Exactly,' interrupted the vicar. He had
an abhorrence of cant, and whenever he suspected
any one with whom he was in conversation
lapsing into it, he cut him short,
and in so doing sometimes acted unjustly,
interrupting expressions of real feeling. But
he was a blunt and downright man. ' I'm
sorry for you — I am, with all my heart.
How came it about? But here is Gotham,
looking out for you. The ladies must betaken
under shelter. I am selfish detaining
you. I am glad join are insured all round.'

o2

CHAPTER Xii.

THE TANGLE.

The Cornellis family settled into the Hall, as
if they had no intention of leaving it. At all
events, neither Mr. Cornellis nor his sister
bestirred themselves to find other quarters.
Mr. Gotham did not care. So long as he was
allowed to move about, and was flattered by
Justin Cornelia, and was undisturbed in his
study, he was content. Cornellis had made
himself indispensable to him, and Gabriel
clung to him. It was in his nature to cling,
and just now his grapple of the ex-missionary
was tenacious, and to another man would
have been embarrassing. But Cornelia understood
Gotham, or thought he did, and
believed that by humouring his vanity and
sloth, and by not standing in the way of his
pleasures, he could twist him about to suit
his own purposes. Mr. Gotham now did,
what he had said he had done, execute a will
in his favour, leaving him his entire estate ;

making him executor and residuary legatee
as well ; but he gave him his private instructions,
which he had made the ex-missionary
solemnly promise to execute. It was in keeping
with the miserable vanity of the man that
he could not endure the prospect that even
after death his conduct should be known ;
that people should be able to point to Bessie
as his wife, whom he had basely deserted,
after having deceived her ; and to Eichard,
the lightship man, the vulgar sailor, as his
son. He was conscious that he had behaved
dishonourably, and he shrank from being
found out, and having his cowardly action
published, to be commented on by the world.

The destruction of Eose Cottage was complete.
Nothing worth preservation remained.
It had been cheaply built, the walls thin, and
when the floors and roof fell in, the gray brick
flanks collapsed as well. All that remained
of it intact was the green boarded summerhouse
in the garden.

The agent of the insurance office came to
Hanford and inspected the ruins. Mr. Cornellis
showed him over the fallen walls, the
charred beams, the trampled garden. He was
frank. There had been a dinner-party that
night. The servants had been hard-worked,
and possibly there had been some neglect.

Servants are careless. He confessed that lie
ought to have gone round the house that
-nisfht after all had retired, and seen that the
fires were extinguished and the house locked
up. He had not done so, having a sick headache.
His daughter had roused him about
two o'clock — he could not tell the hour
exactly, he had been too bewildered to look
at his watch. When he came out on the stairhead,
he saw that the staircase was on fire
and frames rushing from the kitchen. He
had spoken several times to the cook about
putting the wood for the kindling of the fires
in the oven and on the hot-plate. He had
forbidden it ; but servants are not always
obedient any more than they are prudent.
As far as he was able to judge, the fire had
originated in the kitchen, communicated with
the pantry, where the paraffin oil was kept for
the lamps, also a can of benzoline. When the
oils had become ignited, such a volume of
flame gushed forth that the stairs caught fire.
This he suspected was the explanation of the
conflagration ; but he was in too great alarm
and excitement when roused to take accurate
observation ; moreover, he had the women to
look after and save. Every day he felt more
keenly his loss of a wife who would have kept
the maids in order. A man cannot do that

effectually, and a young girl like his daughter
had not grown into the part of housekeeper.
With great candour, he told the agent that it
was after a disturbance with his maids relative
to their reading novels in bed, and going to sleep
with the benzoline light burning on the chair
at the bed-head, close to the pillow, that he
had doubled his insurance, and had taken the
precaution to insure everything he possessed
in the house.

The agent questioned the cook, who admitted
having put the sticks into the oven
and on the hot-plate, because they were damp
and would not ignite. Anne could not remember
whether she had left her cans of oil
in the pantry or in the kitchen, whether they
were corked or not. It was true that master
had spoken to her about reading in bed a year
ago, when she had set fire to and burnt a hole
in the sheet by going to sleep leaving the lamp
aught, and turning over in bed and upsetting
the lamp.

The insurance was allowed. There was no
reason why it should not be. Not the smallest
suspicion was aroused that the fire was occasioned
by any other cause than the carelessness
of the cook, who received her dismissal
and a lecture on disobedience. Mr. Cornellis
refused her a month's wage on the grounds

of her having set fire to the house, and the
woman was so concerned that it had been
burnt down through her inadvertence that
she made no demur to the loss of wage.

Josephine was not present at the visit of
the agent, but she heard about it, and heard
the origin of the fire discussed. It was discussed
by her father at table. She was uneasy.
Not a word was said about his having been up
and about after midnight. Only when she
found that all the blame was laid on the cook
and Anne did she interfere, and then she
spoke to her father when they were alone.

Papa, why is not a word said about your
cleaning up the gravy with petroleum? If
Anne did leave the can in the kitchen, you
must know, as you used it in the dining-room.
The oil was spilled in the pantry — there was
quite a pond there. I trod in it.'

Was there a pond in the pantry ? Then
the can leaked.'

But you had the can, papa.'

I had not. I employed turpentine. I did
not go near the pantry.'

Josephine was not satisfied. She could
not tell her father that she disbelieved what
he said ; she mistrusted him. When she
heard the rector and Mr. Gotham lament the
loss of his wines, she opened her eyes. He

lead no wines — a fear dozen only in the coal-hole
cupboard ; he had no cellar.

The fire had this effect, that it drew her
mind away from the consideration of her own
trouble. She knew it might also distract the
rector, and thought .j.hat he would make no
further allusion to it. But in this she was
mistaken. He called at the Hall a few days
after the fire, and as she was in the garden,
went to her, and took her hand in his, in his
kindly, fatherly way. ' I have a crow to pluck
with you, Josephine. I have left the crow
unpicked for some while, but he has been put
aside, not buried.'

She knew at once what he meant, and
coloured, and sharply withdrew her hand. If
she had trusted him and told him the truth, he
would have been satisfied. The rector was easily
satisfied, because his heart went out to meet
every one who had done wrong and frankly acknowledged
the fault. But she took another
course, a mistaken one, a course she would
not have taken had lie been in a condition to
judge calmly. Her father's conduct on the
night of the fire had been so suspicious that
she was unhappy and uncomfortable, thinking
him guilty of a great act of dishonesty, and
this made her peevish and jealous of interference.
She dare not say what she thought ;

she dreaded lest her suspicions should betray
themselves, were her confidence gained by the
vicar. So she armed herself with reserve,
bound her heart about with pride, and met
his advance without cordiality.

My dear Josephine,' he said, ' I am not
satisfied about two matters — your being on
the sewell at midnight, and the fire following
so soon after. I cannot shake out of my mind
the thought that the two incidents are connected.'


'I told you, rector, that they were not,
when you made the same remark on the
morning of the fire.'

It is strange. You were the last person
up.'

Is it necessary for me to repeat the assertion,
Mr. Sellwood ? I have already said that
there is no connection between the two events.'

He shook his head. He disliked her tone.
He looked in her face ; he was displeased with
the expression there. ' I see, I see ; it is of no
use my speaking to you. You are in an
obstinate, defiant mood. I only sought your
good.'

You sought the good of the labourers
when you gave them cows, and you landed
them in jail.'

Only one — only one. It is my duty to

try to do good, though, God knows, I make
sad bungles in dohig it. I must follow my
nose, though it leads me to flounder in a bog.
I can do no other. — All I wanted to say,
Josephine, was, that if you had thrown down
a match, or upset a lamp, or left a candle
burning, so that the fire broke out, it is your
duty to mention it. You where up after everyone
else was in bed. Have you told your
father that ? If the fire came from the
kitchen, you would have smelt burning wood
when you went into the hall. Not more than
two hours after you retired the house was ina
blaze. Have you told your father you were
up?'

Xo.' She looked down. She could not
say that he knew it, lest the rector should ask
further questions.

Then tell him. — Look here, Josephine.
Follow, as I do, the nose. The nose does not
go far into the future ; it does not turn
corners ; it makes no convolutions. It always
points straight at what is under the eyes. Do
what is a plain duty, and don't consider what
is far ahead. It seems to me that this is a
simple and direct obligation. Tell your father.'

She was silent, unable to answer.

Now, Josephine,' said the vicar, ' I know
what you are considering, and that is, the

question he will ask, why you were up at mid-^
night. Tell him you had gone out into the
garden, and through the gate to the sewell.
Here I arrive at the chief bone I have to pick
with you. If you had said to me on that
night that you had come out to see the full
tide flowing in the moonlight, I would have
believed you. Your interview with Dick Cable
would in my eyes have been accidental. But
you did not say this. You told me that you
came there — at midnight, remember, when
every one else at Eose Cottage was in bed —
to give Dick a box of gilt crackers for his
children. You held out the box, to substantiate
your story. Did you consider what this
implied ? It implied that you knew Cable
was out at the gate at that time. You could
only have known that by making an appointment
with him to be there ; and this — really,
Josephine, with the respect I have always
felt for you, and for Dicky Cable — this is a
thought that troubles me a great deal.'

I had made no appointment.'

I am relieved to hear you say so. Then
how did you know he was there ? '

'Because I heard him whistling on the
wall a tune — the mermaid's song in Oheron.'

Eeally, Josephine ! — God fop-give me ! I
do not wish to entertain evil thoughts of anyone,

least of all of you. But this is most
extraordinary. I have heard of housemaids
arranging? with their swains to whistle for
them when they are outside the back-yard —
and this looks much like the housemaid
practice exalted to parlour tricks.'

I am sorry you think so said the girl
haughtily. ' I cannot help your thoughts,
rector. It was, however, no such thine.'

I believe you. Charity loveth all things,
charity believeth all things. But I am puzzled,
nevertheless.'

I will tell you how it came about,' said
Josephine after a long pause. ' Mr. Cable had
learned the tune from me dien we were
wrecked together. After you left us, and
Aunt Judith had said good-night, instead of
going to bed, I sat out in the summer-house,
and whilst there, I heard Mr. Cable whistle
the air. Then I recollected I had put aside a
box of crackers for his children, and I fetched
them, and took them out to him.'

It was most inconsiderate, Josephine.'

No doubt it was ; but I did not suppose
you would have caught me.'

'Whether I caught you or not is beside
the matter. You should not do such things.

o

You should think.'

I followed my nose,' said Josephine. ' I

did not consider consequences. I acted on
the impulse of the moment — a harmless one.'

A most improper one.'

What ! To give sugar-plums to little
children ! '

To go out in the dead of night to meet a
single man, to whatever class of life he may
belong. My dear, what a pity you have no
mother ! '

'Shall I ask my father to give me
another ? '

'Josephine, this is no joking matter. If
you are not more considerate, you will compromise
yourself past recovery. You may be
thankful no one knew of this escapade except
myself and Algernon. Now, go and tell your
father about it.'

He knows I was up that night.'

What ! Does he know everything ?'

No — only that I was up.'

Tell him all. Never seek to be other
than open. I am glad you told him that. It
will make it easier for you to tell him the
whole truth — the rest that has been kept from
him.'

No, rector,' said Josephine impatiently ;
I will tell him nothing ; I have told him
nothing.'

Yet you say he knows.'

I do not say I told him. He may suspect.
He may have seen me come in.'

No, Josephine ; he went to bed directly
after Ally and I left, as he suffered from a
bilious headache. I thought he was not himself
that evening. So he was asleep long
before you were on the sewell, and he did
not wake till you roused him.'

'Who told you that?'

Himself. I heard him say so several
times — to the insurance agent, for one.'

Then I will say nothing more,' exclaimed
Josephine. ' Think what you will of me. I
cannot clear myself.' She laughed bitterly.
I have a maid-servant mind. I make appointments
to meet my young man on the sly
after midnight ; I bid him whistle when he is
at the trysting-place ; I slink out and meet
him. What a pity you came, rector, and
interfered ; we might have eloped together,
and then been had up and charged with
incendiarism, and sentenced to hard labour
for seven years. What fun ! I should have
liked that amazingly — seven years taken care
of, thought for, with no responsibilities, no
enigmas to puzzle out, no society before which
to wear a mask, no necessity laid on me for
lies and dissimulation.'

Josephine ! Have you lost your head ? '

No, rector, except with excitement at the
prospect of such blessedness as to be in for
seven years. rector ! let me rob you of
your watch and get convicted. I should
dearly like it. To think of knowing exactly
where I was, of having a perfect conviction
that the ground under my feet was solid, of
having all one's world in sharply defined categories
; these men are warders, and not
criminals ; these are criminals, myself included
— I burn down houses, you say — and
are not warders. And this man in a black
coat, with whiskers and white tie, is not a
criminal nor a warder, but a chaplain. Here,
without, no one knows who is who, and what
is what. You, dressed as a parson, may be
my warder ; and Eichard Cable, disguised asa
sailor, may be my chaplain ; and my father,
who carried the gospel to the dispersed Tribes,
may be a lost Israelite, wanting the gospel
more than the rest. Who can tell ? What am
I ? I do not know — a true girl, a liar, honourable,
deceitful — a lady, a maid-servant ? I do
not know myself what I am, much less do I
know others.'

Josephine,' said the rector gravely, ' you
are talking in a random manner. I sought
your confidence, and you have refused it me.
I cannot allow you to act as recklessly as you

talk. I shall be forced — what I wished to
have avoided — to speak to Miss Judith about
you.'

As you will,' said Josephine with a sigh.
'I do not wish, dear rector, to reject your
offer, but I cannot help myself. Do you
understand how sometimes one may be
jDuzzhng with a tangled skein of silk or
common twine, trying to undo the knots and
to find the end ; and how that then, if another
comes up and offers to assist you, you decline
the help, because you are sure the second set
of fingers will complicate the tangle and unravel
nothing ? '

'What is the skein you are engaged in
bringing to order ? '

I do not know — my life, my ideas — the
whole of that vast complexity, social, moral,
religious, in which I find myself. Now, rector,
do you understand me ? '

He shook his head. ' My dear Josephine,
it seems to me that, instead of unravelling
anything, you are involving yourself in a
tangle. As for the moral and religious
orders '

There is no order in them.'

Pardon me — my office is to help-excuse

me, dear Mr. Sellwood. No one,
not even you, can help me. I must work out
VOL. I. p

my puzzle for myself. Say it is not a tangle,
but a cat's cradle.'

That needs two to play at it.'

Yes, but I must choose my own partner.'

Let me say one word, dear Josephine,
and that shall be my last, on this matter.
You speak of a tangle. There always will be,
there always must be, complexity in life. At
the same time, there is one little gold thread
which, if you will hold and follow, will help
you to unlace every loop, and unweave every
knot, which will help to draw out every convolved
thread, and establish complexity where
you have supposed was confusion. Look for
the golden thread, Josephine. — Good-bye.'

The corners of his mouth were working.
He had a kind heart. He had known the
girl from childhood. He pitied her, and lie
was in serious alarm for her.

I have muddled even this,' said Josephine
to herself. ' I have been rude and offended
him, and he is kind ; but he also, with his
kind intentions, is always doing wrong things.
It seems to me as if I were set a task to write
a copy of copperplate penmanship on a sheet
of blotting-paper. Where I want to make
hair-strokes, I make smudges ; and every
flourish I attempt resolves itself into a shapeless
blot. Now, with every desire to do me

good, the rector will make matters worse ; he
will tell Aunt Judith all, and she will speak to
my father. So he complicates the tangle in
which — how wrong he was ! — there is no
golden thread, only base twine and strands of
dirty silk.'

p 2

CHAPTEE XV.

THE 'JOSEPHINE.'

Josephine remained brooding where the rector
had left her, with knitted brows and plaited
fingers and set lips. ' I wish I were out of
this — living a simpler life, where I could see
my way plain before me.'

Then she heard ' Hist ! hist ! ' and looked
about her, but discovered no one. Then
again ' Hist ! hist ! ' and looked up, and beheld
the wan face of Mr. Gabriel Gotham, with
bleached eyes, and faded hair, and weak
trembling lips, looking down on ]her from the
balustrade of the terrace above. She had
been pacing a walk below the terrace — the
verbena walk — with the rector.

The shaking white hand of the squire was
round the base of a plaster vase ; she could
see only his nodding head and his hand, the
fingers of which worked on the vase as if he
were practising on a piano.

Don't come up,' he said, as Josephine
turned to the steps that led to the terrace ;
then he thrust his walking-stick between the
pillars of the balustrade and indicated a spot
below where she was to stand.

Josephine took up the position he required
; and he spoke to her over the stone
rail, with his chin resting; on it and his hands
hanging over it — a picture of imbecility. As
his chin was on the stone, when he spoke the
upper portion of his head moved, instead of
the chin.

What is it? What have you been doing ?
What about Eichard Cable ? '

Josephine's frown deepened. It was too
vexatious to have had her conversation with
the rector overheard. ' Cousin,' she said, ' I
have had a private conversation with Mr.
Sellwood. I did not solicit it. He thrust it
upon me. Neither he nor I desired that it
should have taken place within the hearing of
an eavesdropper.'

How rude you are to me ! '

A privilege of relations.'

I did not intend to listen. I was here,
and you were beneath. I did not hear everything.
I did not suppose that you and the
rector had anything to say to each other
which the world might not hear.'

What did you hear ? ' asked Josephine
shortly.

I — I do not rightly understand. I think
something was said of your meeting Eichard
Cable at night, without your father's knowledge,
on the sewell. But I did not catch
how long these private interviews had been
going on. — Oh ! how improper ! ' then he exploded
in a cackling laugh.

Josephine coloured. ' You have just heard
enough to let your fancy run away with you,
Mr. Gotham,' said she. ' It is true that I did
go out through the gate at night to Mr. Cable,
because I had some bonbons for his children.
It was a brilliant moonlight night, as light as
day, and I never for a moment thought there
was any harm in my doing so. Hon soit qui
mal y pense'

Did I hear that the hour was past midnight
? ' His blear eyes twinkled with
cunning.

Yes ; it was past midnight. The vicar
and Captain Sellwood had been dining with
us. After dinner, I took the box down to
Mr. Cable.'

How did you know he was there ? Had
you appointed that he should be in waiting to
receive the box ? '

'Cousin Gotham,' exclaimed Josephine

angrily, but with tears of mortification rising
into her eyes, ' why am I to be subjected to
catechism by you as well as by the rector,
and go over to you the same story, make to
you the same self-exculpation ? '

Because, my dear, I have heard of the
circumstances. You will have to explain them
and exculpate yourself to everyone who hears
about this midnight meeting, the sweet tete-astute.'


Xo one else will hear of it. It was an
accident. It was a bit of thoughtless imprudence
on my part. I will not do it

adam.

A nine days' wonder to all the parish.
How the old women will talk, and the sailors
joke over their ale about it ! '

Xo one will know anything about it but
yourself, who have surprised the secret — not
that it is a secret. I meant nought by going
out on the wall but what I have said, to carry
a bonbon box to the children. I declare ! '
Josephine burst forth angrily, ' I will never
attempt to do a kind thing again. It is not
often the fancy takes me. When I do a considerate
act, I have to suffer for it. You are
learning that. Cousin Gotham, also. You
have housed us after the five, and cannot
shake us off.'

'I do not want to be rid of you, Josephine.'


And Aunt Judith ? Is the attachment so
great that you cannot part with her ? '

Mr. Gotham laughed, his head wagging
on the balustrade as though it were loose and
rolled on it, and might at any moment roll
off.

Have you read of the Struldbrugs, Cousin
Gotham ? '

^ What— in "Gulliver's Travels?" The
old people who never die ? '

Yes. Papa says that he cannot believe
in Struldbrugs, because they would have all
their juices drawn out of them by their friends
and acquaintances. Friends and acquaintances
become to old people barnacles that
adhere and perforate. They can be shaken
off by those who are young, but not by the
old, and they cover up and corrode the latter.
I think we are barnacles stuck upon you.'

Am I a Struldbrug ? or a drift-log ? Did
your father say that ? Or is this a piece of
your pertness ? '

Oh, he was not particularly alluding to
you,' answered Josephine. ' At least I do not
remember that he was.'

Mr. Gotham got up, and let Josephine see
that he did not consist only of head and hands.

Shall we go a little stroll together ? ' he said.
Will you take ray arm ? '

I shall be delighted,' answered Josephine,
and waited, and held out her arm for him to
take. That was what he meant by her taking
his arm : she was to support him.

He came tottering down the steps. Josephine,
tall and vigorous, full of the bloom of
youth, formed a striking contrast to this mean,
decrepit old man.

Am I a Struldbrug ? ' he asked, leering
up in her face. ' What was your father
talking about that lie should come upon the
Struldbrugs ? '

I really do not remember.'

Or old logs washed up covered with
barnacles ? '

No ; he did not speak of you as a log,
cousin.'

I should not be surprised if he had been
thinking of me. I suspect he speaks one
thing to my face and another to my back. I
may be esteemed a Struldbrug or a log ; but
I am not one or other. I have eyes in the
lobes of my ears, and can see more than some
suspect.' Then he cackled. 'The barnacles
may not find so much to suck out of me as
they reckon upon.'

Where shall we go. Cousin Gotham ? '

Oh, ail' where. I want a change. — Onto
the sewell,' he contmuecl, laughing, shaking
his sides and the hand that rested on
Josephine's arm.

That lire has been a terrible loss to your
father,' lie said, still laiio^hincf. 'His books —
his wine — his plate ! He will save something
in housekeeping by living here, broaching on
me, as you call it. The insurance was heavy.
I really should not have thought your father
had such valuable furniture and wines and
books. But it will not be paid for six months,
I suppose ? '

I know nothing about it,' said Josephine
abruptly.

'Why do you not call me Cousin Gabriel?'
asked Mr. Gotham. 'You know we are relations.
Your father's mother was a Gotham,
sister of my father, and of old Uncle Jeremy,
who bought this place.'

Which way shall we go ? ' asked Josephine,
without answering his question.

He waved his stick in the direction he
desired to walk ; then he went on : ' Your
father no doubt reckons on having the Hall
when I am gone. Has he ever spoken of the
changes he will be making in it? Trees he
will cut down, rooms he will alter?' He
peered up in her face craftily.

Mr. Cornellis had done this. Josephine
would not say lie had not, so she diverted the
attention of the old man to something else,
a thing easily done. ' I suppose now I can
bring the Cable children here any day, as
you desired, to look for sugared almonds in
the wren-nests ? '

'Not for the world!' exclaimed Gabriel
with a start. ' I would not have it done
now, whilst your father is here. It might bethought
a precedent, and he would not like
it ; he who is to inherit the place when that
old Struldbrug, Gotham, is withered and castaway,
when that old log is so barnacle-bored
as to be worthless.'

He could not object, if you wished it.'

'I wish it no longer.'

I am sorry I mentioned the Struldbrugs
to you. You continue referring to them,
as though my father or I had associated
you with them in idea, which is not the
case.'

I do not desire that the children should
be brought to the garden now. It was
another matter before. Then I had nothing
to amuse me, now I have you.'

'I will do what I can for you, Cousin
Gotham. I shall make you skip and wince
with the stings of my sharp tongue.'

'I do not mind that; but I do object to
be riddled by barnacles.'

They were near the willows and the cottage
inhabited by the Cables. Gabriel looked
uneasily about him, as though seeking something,
yet fearing to find it. He started as,
turning the corner of the wall, he came upon
Eichard.

Eichard Cable removed his cap respectfully
to him and to Josephine. The latter
coloured and smiled.

How are the little white mice ?' she asked.
All seven snug and neat and happy ? '

'Thank you, miss; my children are welland
happy, praised be God ! '

Mr. Eichard Cable,' said Gabriel Gotham
with a faltering voice, ' would you do Miss
Cornellis the favour of following us to Messrs.
Grimes and Newbold's dock ? '

Josephine hastily turned and looked at
the old man. She had forgotten all about
the ship in the excitement consequent on the
fire. Gabriel had not again alluded to it ;
and she had concluded, if for a moment she
had considered the proposal, that it had
passed from his feeble memory. Now she was
quite unable to pay for a ship, as her money
was gone ; and since that filii of the night
of the fire, it would not be proper for her to

give the vessel to Eicliard. She tried to
catch Mr. Gotham's eye, to show him that
the suggested visit displeased her ; but lie
studiously averted his face.

Mr. Cable,' said Josephine, ' do not come
with us. Mr. Gotham and I were engaged in
conversation which we must finish. Follow
us in a few minutes in the direction of the
dock. First run in and kiss the little ones
for me. By that time Mr. Gotham and I
will have finished our business together.'

Eichard obeyed. He went over the plank-bridge
to his garden. Then Josephine, dropping
Gabriel's arm, said hastily, eagerly : ' It
won't do. It must not be. I thought you
had forgotten all about the boat, or I would
have spoken earlier.'

Why not ? The vessel is ready ; she is
painted, and named. The orders were given
directly we had made the arrangement.'

Mr. Gotham, what is to be done ? '
gasped Josephine. ' I cannot pay you, neither
now nor in the future.'

Cannot pay now ; but you have your
money coming in shortly.'

Not at all. Papa—that is — there has
been a bad investment. I do not know exactly
how it is, but — papa has been unfortunate
about my money. He put it where

lie thought he had the best security, and —
the money is all gone.'

Your mother's fortune gone ? '

All gone. I have nothing.'

Then he cackled. ' What an unfortunate
fire that was at Eose Cottage ! '

Josephine, in distress and annoyance,
turned sharply away. ' You understand,
Cousin Gotham, I cannot pay for the ship
now — never.'

But it is bought and paid for in your
name, and your name stands in gold letters
on the bows. A pity we did not have a cast
from your face for the figurehead.'

Mr. Gotham ! ' — she clasped her hands
' why did you act with such precipitation ? '

'Why did you not tell me in time that
you were without means ? You can sue your
father, and make him indemnify you out of
the insurance-money.' He laughed.

'I cannot do that,' she said vehemently.
Why do you laugh ? This is no joke. You
have brought me into great difficulties.'

There ; do not be so distressed. I have
risked the money without taking a written
authority from you. I have been incautious.
I must bear the loss.'

But I cannot take advantage of you in
this way.'

Let me take your arm again, and go onto
the yard. Set your mind at rest. You
and your father and aunt are my nearest kindred.
If you cannot pay, it does not greatly
matter. I must leave you something in my
will. I will forgive you the debt in my last
testament ; you shall consider it as the present
of Cousin Gabriel. That will set your
conscience at rest. Eh ? ' He peered up at
her.

Josephine was not satisfied. She was
vexed with Mr. Gotham, who was a man to
talk, but not to act ; and he had sprung a
surprise upon her which increased her difficulties.
' These unreliable men,' she thought,
always do the things which had better be
left alone, and neglect what they ought to
execute promptly. Who would have supposed
he would take me at my vv^ord without
further consultations What will my father
say?'

As they reached the yard, Eichard Cable
caught them up, and walked respectfully behind.


Come on, Mr. Cable ; don't lag,' said
Gabriel. ' Miss Cornellis has come to see this
smack that Messrs. Grimes and Newbold have
been building, and which she has bought — a
yacht, you understand. She is so. fond of the

sea, had such a taste of it when she was out m
the hghtship, that she wants more. She would
like your opinion of the vessel, Mr. Cable. I
am no judge. I have nothing to do with it
except to act for her as her agent in the
matter. If she had ordered me to engage for
her a Newfoundland dog, I would have done so.'

Josephine's face was dark with annoyance
and shame. She would have protested, but
saw that it would avail her nothing. The
mischief was done, the ship was ordered and
paid for in her name. It was hers whether
she wished it or not ; and of course she could
not retain it herself. The little craft was one
to charm a sailor's heart, trim and fresh, beautifully
proportioned from stem to stern. She
had plenty of floor, while her lines aft were
delicately fine, and her long hoist and light
draught promised fast sailing powers. Her
builders, Messrs. Grimes and Newbold, were
proud of her ; and the fishermen and sailors
who studied her as they walked round her,
like dealers about a horse, gave their opinion
in her favour as a model combination of
strength and speed. She was freshly painted,
and her figurehead glittered with the new
gilding put on it.

'Well, Mr. Cable,' said Gabriel Gotham,
what do you say to her ? '

She's a beauty,' answered Eichard — ' no
mistake.'

Ought to be a beauty,' sniggered the
squire ; ' named after Mss CorneUis. You see
she is the " Josephine." '

'Yes,' said Richard. 'And not beautiful
only. She is all spank with paint and gilding
now, and that will be battered away with
wind and wave, and worn with time ; but she
will be good and seaworthy, and obey her
helm.'

Should you like to be captain of the
Josephine " ? ' asked Gotham, looking slyly
first at him, and then round at the builder
and some of the workmen who stood by, and
were listening.

I've not the chance,' said Cable.

If you had the chance ?' asked the squire.

I'd do my duty by her,' answered Cable.

You would do your duty by any trust,'
said Josephine, gathering up the courage to
speak. She was afraid of what Mr. Gotham
might say ; she did not like his tone — it chafed
her. If the announcement must be made, it
were better that it came from her.

Mr. Cable,' she said, and, as she spoke,
she trembled with nervousness, ' you rendered
me a great service when I might have been
lost. I owe you my life. I have not suffi-vol.

I. Q

gently thanked you for your great kindness tome
in my peril and distress.' She spoke so far
with downcast eyes ; but as she remembered
the hghtship and what had passed on it, his
pity, his gentleness towards her, she looked up
into his face. Her olive skin was suffused
with colour ; her large beautiful eyes trembled
with timidity, and she continued : ' You will
not be so unkind now, Mr. Cable, as to refuse
to accept from me this little acknowledgment
of-your goodness to a poor storm-tossed, shipwrecked
girl. It would hurt me inexpressibly
were you to do so. Will you — will you accept
the " Josephine," and be her captain and
owner ? ' • .

She put out her hand — her heart was
full, partly with fear, partly with warm feeling
— and laid it on Cable's arm. He caught
her hand between his rough palms, and said :
'I thank you. I will not refuse. I cannot
refuse. I will do my duty by her, miss.'

CHAPTEE XVI.

IX DOCK, OUT Js^ETTLE.

Ha ! ' said Mr. Gotham, ' there is the rector.
Excuse me, Josephine ; I must leave you
here. I have business with Mr. Selhvood,
and shall be With him a little while. You
must walk home alone, or — or get Mr. Cable
to escort you.' Then he hobbled, wheezing,
to the rector, holding out his hand.

If Miss Cornelia wishes an escort,' said
the captain, who was with his father, ' I offer
myself.'

Thank you. Captain Sellwood ; I accept
it,' answered Josephine, and turned to go back
to the Hall along the shore without another
look or word for Eichard Cable. It would
not do for her further to favour him, after
the gift of the vessel, especially in the presence
of so many bystanders. She walked
slowly along the shore beside the captain. On
the right was the sewell for a little way,
with a ditch behind it full of blushes,

Q 2

waving their red-brown heads. On the left,
the flats of mud, with the tide running in the
channels. Their feet were on the narrow
strip of shingle, made up of flints, fragments
of rolled chalk, and lumps of coral rag. A
film of bleached seaweed and cast crab shells
formed an almost unbroken fringe. A little
further ahead was rising ground, broken
banks covered with old oaks, under which, in
spring, the bluebells abounded ; they were
now in flower, flushing with blue bloom the
little slope. Here there was no sewell ; there
was no need for one. Beneath the bank Alas
a long strip of coarse smooth grass, which
went locally by the name of the Bowling-green.
This was only covered by high spring tides.
It was perfectly level, and may at one time
have been used in the way its name implied.
It was not suitable for cricket, because it was
narrow. Moreover, a spring oozed out of the
bank, and became a swamp on the land side
of the bowing-green. At the extremity of
the green walk this rill discharged itself into
the sea ; and there a few piles had been driven
into the soft soil, on which the feet could rest
whilst passing over to solid ground beyond.
Then the sandy cHfl^ — if cliff* it can be called
where no stone showed — ceased, dying away,
and the sewell began again.

Captain Sellwood walked beside Josephine
without saying much, and she was too much
occupied with her thoughts to desire conversation.
When, however, they came on the
bowing-green, the only picturesque bit of the
coast where utter flatness and mud did not
force themselves on notice. Captain Sellwood
worked himself up to converse.

It is a fine day, to-day.'

Yes ; I perceive it is so.'

I am sorry so many of the old oaks here
have been cut down.'

I also am sorry. We cannot afford, on
this coast, to part with a single element of
beauty. He who pollards a willow or destroys
an oak should be stoned to death.'

We should have to send over to Kent
for the stones, as we produce none on the
spot.'

They walked on a little further in silence ;
then the captain said : ' I may not have such
another opportunity. Miss Cornellis, so I seize
on this for a few private '

Oh, Captain Sellwood ! in pity spare me.
I have had two keelhauls already to-day ;
first by your father, and then by Mr. Gotham.'

I am not going to keelhaul you.'

Then let us have no private and confidential
communications. Do look at the

bluebells, and admire the mixture of red-robin,
also the occasional speckle of stellar.'

I nest speak to you, Miss Cornellis.
The happiness of my life depends on the
answer '

Again she interrupted him ; she was
nervous, annoyed. She suspected at once
what he was about to say, and was unprepared
for it. She had not thought of
Algernon Sellwood except as a butt for her
ridicule, the slow man, who had nothing to
say for himself, the Morbid Fly.

Mr. Sellwood,' she said hastily, ' we are
old acquaintances, I may almost say friends.
You are about to assume the privilege of a
friend, and lecture me for my imprudence the
other niorht. I have committed another imprudence
to-day. I have made a present of
the new boat Messrs. Grimes and Newbold
are building, to Eichard Cable, because he
saved my worthless life ; and — here is the
absurdity of the situation — I have not a
penny wherewith to pay for the vessel. It
was ordered when I thought myself rich, and
I have woke up to the fact that I am a
pauper. I am going out as a governess;
no — I could not endure the children — as a
seamstress or milliner, or something of the
sort, to earn my bread.'

Is this possible, Miss Josephine ? '

It is certain, Captain Selhvood. My father
has had terrible losses ; and my money — I
mean what my mother left — that is all lost
also ; so that we are left as mere barnacles,
clinging to Cousin Gotham.'

Dear Miss Josephine, as this is so, it only
makes me more resolved to proceed.'

Do you know what it is to be a barnacle,
Captain Sellwood ? To have all the faculties
of the mind concentrated on suction ? — No ;
you do not. I have read in some book of
Natural History that the barnacle is a nautilus,
provided with silver wings to sail on the surface
of the summer sea ; but as it gets battered
by winds and upset by waves, it draws in its
glittering sails and sinks and attaches itself to
a stump or a keel ; absorbs its wings, or converts
them into a proboscis or foot, or whatever
it is by which it can adhere, and is
degraded at once utterly and for ever from a
nautilus to a barnacle. Well — we have furled
our wings, doffed our mother-of-pearl lustre,
and have become scaly and purple, and begun
to taste of copperas ; we have lost all our
independence, and are converted into parasites.'


Dear Miss Josephine,' said the captain,
you are throwing me off, trying at least todo

so ; but you shall not divert me from my
purpose. I must speak.'

What about ? My folly the night of the
fire ? Oh, Captain Sellwood, I would not have
believed it, unless convinced by my eyes, that
you could in an emergency be so ready. How
spiritedly you went over the pales ! Was
your light overcoat much torn ? The wood
bristles with hooks like a teasel. And your
sense of les convenances was as much lacerated
as your overcoat by my preposterous behaviour.'


I beg your pardon. Miss Cornellis ; you
explained how you came on the wall, and
that was enough. Neither my father nor I
had the slightest right to ask an explanation.
When you gave us one, we accepted it as
final.'

Not your father — he refused to receive
it. He has done so again to-day.'

I received it ; I have not presumed to
question it.'

You are more charitable than even your
father.'

Towards you there is no call for charity.'

You think better of me than does either
your father or my cousin Gotham.'

I think the very best of you. I know
that you are incapable of doing anything

which could make me regard you otherwise
than with respect, as I do ' — he paused, and
then said in a low tone — ' and with love.'

With friendship,' corrected Josephine. ' I
thank you for your kindly estimate ; it is
more generous than I deserve. Come — what
do you think of my conduct of giving away a
ship to Mr. Cable when I have not the money
to pay for it ? Is not that a swindle ? '

I think, Miss Josephine, that your generosity
outruns your judgment, whether in the
matter of ships or of crackers.'

1 thank you for your kind opinion,' she
said, touched at his consideration. She had
laughed at him as silent and dull, yet now he
spoke well and easily. She might possibly have
yielded to a warmer feeling, had she not recalled
her father's words, and remembered
that he had schemed that she should take the
captain. Her rebellious temper at once rose,
and she said : ' You only half know me. I
am like the palings, full of hooks and spikes ;
those whom I catch I tear ; those who rest a
hand on me, I pierce with wounds.'

Miss Josephine, when you were a child
and played Blind-man's BufF, when caught, you
wriggled, and wrenched, and ducked till you
had corkscrewed your way out of the grasp
of the Blind-man. You are trying the same

game with me now ; but it will not succeed.
I have come here determined to say what I"
have at heart and to know your answer.'

I give you the answer at once, before
you ask the question. It is conditional. —
Does your father hold me in as high esteem
as yourself ? '

He hesitated. ' My father is the most
kind of men.'

And yet,' said Josephine, ' he thinks ill
of me. He does not approve of your speaking
to me to-day. I know he does not. —
Say no more. Your father must think of meas
you profess to think, before I listen to
another word of what you have at heart.'

You will not hear me out ? '

No ; I have ducked and eluded your
grasp. Yonder is the path to the rectory. I
am going home, sir, and need no further
escort.' Then she burst into a merry laugh.

'What is the joke?' asked the captain
with a reproachful look in his great dark
eyes-Is it a joke. Miss Cornellis, that a
man should have laid his heart at your feet
and you should have trodden on it ? '

How serious you are. Captain Algernon ! '
she said, the laugh dying on her lips. ' Excuse
me, if I see droll similitudes. You are
generally so silent, and have so little to say

when we talk on common matters, and now
you are eloquent.'

Because it is not a common matter on
which we speak.'

No ; you are like the gannet. I had a
tame one in the garden for some time. It
could not fly because it was on level ground.
It flapped its short wings against the grass
and waddled. One day I set the bird on the
top of a high wall ; at once it precipitated
itself into the ah and away it flew, and
soared, and was speedily out of sight. The
solan goose is incapable of doing more than
flap and waddle when on a level ; it must
be on high to be able to start for a flight.
Is not that like yourself, Captain Sellwood ?
Have I hurt you ? Gave la neville barbel !
I warned you against the spikes and crooked
nails. — There is your path, and this way lies
mine.'

He obeyed her, and went along the path
through the clover field she indicated. She
looked after him, and at once regretted that
she had spoken about the solan goose. It
was not kind, after his deference to her. They
had known each other for years, and she had
often challenged him with her jokes, and
laughed because he was slow to respond, or,
to speak more truly, incapable of responding.

She lead carried her joke too far ; she had
indeed wounded the man when he had shown
her a good and generous heart. As he opened
it to her, she lead struck it. Did she dislike
him ? No ; she had a regard for him — not a
keen one ; he had never interested her ; but
as a member of a worthy and well-to-do family-she
respected him ; as an old associate of
childhood she liked him. That was all. Eo-ard,
respect, liking, went no further. Only to-day
did she see that there was in him more than
showed in common life. Only now did she
perceive that in him was that which might
convert negative regard into positive affection.
She felt tempted to run after him and say :
I am sorry. Captain Sellwood, that I spoke
about the gannet and made fun of you. I
was in a perverse mood.'

Bat her pride would not suffer her to do
this. If she had done this, he would have
forgiven her immediately, as she well knew,
as also that he would immediately have pursued
this advantage and proposed fully to her.
She did not wish that. She did not know her
own mind. It was true lie did not love him,
but she loved no one. If she must marry,
Captain Sellwood was harmless ; and a husband
who would not be exacting and promised
docility might suit her better than another.

She had made a mistake again. She had
treated a serious offer with levity. She had
met it in an improper spirit ; and she had
insulted the man who had shown her the
most generous trust, in spite of appearances
to her disadvantage.

It was her fate to be always saying and
doing the wrong things. Why was she so
wayward in heart that she revolted against
those who proposed to lead, her and against
anything suggested to her ? The reason she
did not know. The reason was that from
childhood she had seen only falseness, and
had contracted suspicion against her father,
her aunt, against everyone and everything, so
that the natural truthfulness of her nature
was in a chronic condition of hedgehog with
bristles erect. She was perverse because she
wanted to go straight where all was crooked,
and when she came among those who were
sincere and honourable, she was unable at
once to take her direction. There are conditions
of the body in which the eyesight is disturbed,
and sees the air full of floating black
spots. The eye may look into the purest of
skies, but the vision is blurred with these
sailing stains, as clouds of midges. It is so
with the mental vision ; when the spirit is not
in good health, it also sees obscurely, and its

vision is full of deceptive black spots. It was
thus with Josephine. The moment the captain
was gone, she knew that she had behaved
badly ; she had seen only the ridiculous in
him, and that she had thrown away a chance
which she ought not to have cast aside unconsidered.
When we are troubled with floating
black specks, we know at once that we need a
tonic or an alterative dose. We consult a doctor,
and are uncomfortable till these irritating
black spots clear from our sight, and we can
look our neighbours in the face, or into the
silver summer cloud, without seeing that disturbing
drift. But we are not so anxious to
correct the moral vision ; and we are content
to look at all who surround us, and see these
specks, and let them thicken and become
multitudinous, without an effort to dispel
them, and — here is the singularity of the
case — we do not seem aware that the spots
are not where we look, but in ourselves.
It is our own disordered mind which sends
them up as a cloud of midges from a stagnant
pool.

Josepliine was startled out of her brown
study by a hare that dashed over the sewell
and ran splashing through the water athwart
the mudflats towards the sea. Quite small
matters sometimes divert our minds from

great considerations, and it was so noah with
Josephine. She looked round, and saw that
the captain in crossing the clover field had
disturbed the hare, and the creature raced
away towards the open sea.

You poor fool,' she said, ' flying from an
imaginary danger, you are running to your
death.'

The captain had no gun. A race of water,
now shallow, lay between the flats and the
shore. Unless the hare returned immediately,
the rising tide would intercept it before the
flats were flooded.

She looked after the hare till she could
see it no more. Then she walked on to the
willows, and, feeling tired, not so much from
walking as from worry of mind, she seated
herself on the little plank-bridge, with her
feet hanging above the placid water of the
dike. The dike was here broad and deep.
Along the coast, a channel behind the seaw^all
receives the drainage from the land, and at
intervals discharges itself into the sea through
sluices so contrived that the rising tide closes
the doors. When, however, the sea has fallen,
then the pressure of the fresh water behind
opens the sluices, and the stream pours away
down a channel it has cut for itself and also
paved for itself with pebbles, lying between

the clay banks. One such channel extended
from the dike to the open sea at the end of
Cable's garden. Up channels such as this
boats can approach the shore, and in such
channels bathers disport themselves without
fear of sinking in the mud, because of the
pebbly floor. The tide was out, consequently
there was movement in the moat ; all the
blossoming, white, yellow-centred water-plantain
was drifting one way with the current.
By the margin, the pink flowering rush
stooped in the same direction.

Josephine's head was throbbing and hot ;
she removed her hat, and bending down to the
water, gathered a couple of handfuls of plantain,
and filled her hat with it and put it on
her head. The cold wet leaves and flowers
sent freshness into her heated brain ; the
water ran down her cheeks, her hair, andover
her forehead. She sat still, enjoying the
coolness, resolving, when the leaves had spent
their freshness, to replace them with others.
Then Eichard Cable came to the plank end
and said: 'You here, miss! What are you
doing ? ' Then, seeing the moisture on her
cheeks, ' Surely not crying ? '

In dock, out nettle,' answered Josephine.
I am drawing the fire out of my brain with
water-plants.'

Still troubled with bad thoughts, Miss
Cornellis ? '

Always. I cannot get rid of them —
always stinging and burning ; and I am angry
with myself to-day ; I have done so many
foolish things. There ; these plantains give
me no more ease.' She took off her hat and
threw out the crushed herbs. ' Am I in your
path ? Do you want to go by, Mr. Cable ? '

No,' said he. ' Do not let me disturb
you. Is your head very hot ? '

Like a coal of fire.'

Then he put his rough sailor hand on her
head ; but though the hand was rough, the
touch was gentle as if a plantain leaf had
lighted on it.

Hold your hand there,' said Josephine,
it is better than the dripping leaves.'

Do you remember what I said to you a
little while ago ? ' he asked, still with his hand
on her throbbing head.

'What? ' she asked, without stirring.

'It was anent the ladder, miss. You will
never have a cool head and walk with steady
heart till you can do that.'

Do what ? ' she asked again, and did not
move her head.

'Please, miss,' he said, his rough voice
lowered and becoming soft, ' when I was a

VOL. 1. R

little chap, I was sent up the shrouds in a gale
of wind. When I was aloft, I looked downs
and it seemed as if I was lost — the sea was
like as if it was rising to swallow me, and the
ship was heeling over, and I must fall and be
drowned. My head went round like a teetotum,
and my heart sank into my shoes. I
should have let go and gone overboard, and
there'd have been no Dicky Cable alive now ;
but the mate — he saw what was up, and he
shouted to me : " Look aloft lad — look aloft ! "
and I did, miss. You'll excuse if I'm forward.
No impertinence meant, miss.'

He withdrew his hand and the fire came
back into her brain.

I cannot,' she said ; ' indeed, I cannot. I
have not the power.'

CHAPTER Xiii.

AS THE HARE RAN.

Richard Cable entered his cottage quietly ;
his mother was enoracred with the children,
preparing them for bed. Six little white
things sat side by side in their nightshirts,
with their small feet hanging down, on the
bedside, their yellow hair combed out, wet,
and spread over their shoulders. Mrs. Cable
was washing the baby, who was quite naked ;
and she had a thick towel, and was rubbing
the little head, and working the short hair
into curls by doing so. The baby did not
mind the water or the towel ; but the towel
had a fringe, and the tiny fingers tried to
catch the fringe and pull it out, with a view,
doubtless, to ultimately eating it.

Over the bed was cast a blue-and-white
check coverlet ; and the walls were whitewashed.
There were white valance and curtains
to the small window. Above the bed
was a coloured chromo-lithograph of Christ

b2

blessing little children ; and under that, a
photograph of Polly, the mother of the seven.

There is your father,' said Bessie Cable ;
say your prayers to him. — Now — not all of
you at once off the bed. — Sit still, Effie and
Jane ; take care of Lettice and Susie ; they
will tumble. — Mary first ; only the twins shall
say their prayers together, because they are
twins.'

So Mary, as the eldest, descended from the
bed and came over the floor, her little feet,
still wet, printing themselves on the deal-boards.
She knelt down at her father's knees
as he sat on a low chair, and began her
prayers. He removed his hat, and as the
golden evening light poured into his face
through the window, he put his hand over
his eyes. Then, when Mary had done, she
stood up, kissed her father, and scrambled onto
the bed again ; whilst Effie and Jane slid
down and knelt, one at the right foot, the
other at the left, of their father and closed
their little hands on his knees.

When all had done but the baby, then
there were six of the prettiest little heads laid
on white pillows in one bed, three at head
and three at foot, all with twinkling blue
eyes and smiling lips and golden hair. Then
Eichard, with his great rough hand, smoothed

the sheet, turned down at top under all the
little chas, and stood and looked at them.

Do you know,' said he, ' that here on
this flat Essex coast in spring the sea-birds
come and make their nests in the marshes and
on the salting ? Now, if there were to be
high tides then, the poor little fledglings would
be drowned, and the parent birds would fly
about screaming, broken-hearted, unable todo
anything for their young. But God thinks
of the sea-birds, and in spring on this coast,
He sends us the bird-tides — that is, very low
tides — all the while the little ones are in the
nests and unable to escape. When your
father was in the storm, and his boat broke
from her anchors and was swept away and
wrecked, he was not drowned. God thought
of the little birds in their downy nest, and
spared him for their sakes. There are bird-tides
to men as there are to feathered fowl. —
Now, go to sleep.'

His mother said : ' Dick ! do look how
baby has torn out my gray hair ! '

He took the child, and spread out the
tiny hand in his own great palm and sat
studying it. The infant was quite happy
on her father's knee, feeling one strong arm
about her.

What is it, Dick ? ' asked Mrs. Cable.

Nothing,' he replied ; ' only, I was looking
at the little mite of a hand, and thinking if
there were not bird-tides to us, these tiny
fingers and delicate little bones would never
come to be great and strong and hard as
mine.'

'I wish you'd take the bath down forme,'
said Mrs Cable. ' It's heavier than I can
carry.'

I'll give the soapy water to the young
lettuce and broccoli — it mil keep away the
slugs,' said Eichard.

Then he went down the few steps into the
basement, holding the wooden tub, blue-painted,
half-full of soapy water, in which his
seven little children had been bathed. It was
not easy to carry it down without spilling the
contents in splashes on the stair ; but Dick
Cable was steady and sure-footed, as a sailor
need be, and not a drop was upset. Then he
went out with the tub into the garden and
set it down near the bed of young plants that
were to be soused with it. He returned to
the kitchen for a bowl wherewith to ladle the
water out, and found a tin one with a wooden
handle. He knelt down by the tub and
dipped the bowl. The sun was set — set to
the garden ; but some of the light still caught
the willow trees, and the dancing leaves were

as of gold against the blue sky. He scattered
the soapy water over the bed of seedlings ;
then he paused, kneeling on one knee, resting
the bowl on the ground, and lapsed into
thought. His face was troubled ; usually
open as the day, a cloud was on it now, a
cloud that would not disperse. From faraway,
the mutter of the sea could be heard as
the waves broke upon the clay banks ; it
formed a pleasant murmur, a low bass tune,
whilst in the wind the twinkling willow leaves
whispered falsetto. He dipped the bowl again
and distributed some more soapy water.

The evening was very still. A dog was
barking on a farm perhaps a couple of miles
away. Mosquitoes began to hum about his
ears. He paid them no heed ; they would
not molest him.

Presently his mother came out and surprised
him, when he had not half emptied the
tub. ' What, Dick ! Not done this yet ? '

I must not pour it all at once on the bed,
but let it sop in little by little.'

Dick, what is the matter with you ? '

With me, mother ? ' He turned his head
and looked up at her, he, still kneeling, she
standing behind him.

Yes, Dick. There is something. You've
been more silent and thoughtful of late ; and

when you've taken the baby of nights, when
fractious, and walked up and down trying to
soothe it, you've not sung " There's Grog in
the Captain's Cabin — Water down below," as
you always used, but another tune altogether,
that has no words to it.'

I suppose I tired of the old song,' he said,
smiling.

And — " In the Bay of Biscay, ! " you
have not sung that, she said.

I'm tired of that also, perhaps.'

'But the new song has no words to it. —
What is the matter with joie, Dick ? '

Mother,' he answered gravely, ' I'll tell
you straight out. For the first time in my
life, I don't see my way plain before me. That
is it.'

What has come to obscure it, Dick P '

Mother, do you know that Miss Cornellis
has given me a ship — that which has been
building of late in Grimes's yard ; and she has
called it after herself, the " Josephine" ! '

Well ? ' Mrs. Cable asked with a catch in
her breath.

And I don't know whether I ought to
have accepted her, and I don't see how I
could have refused ; and I'm puzzled altogether
— I am.'

Why do you think you ought not to have

accepted the boat?' asked his mother, looking
intently at him.

He hastily ladled out some more soapy
water. ' That's not so easy to answer,' he
said, and considered again.

'Dick, you've been thinking a good deal
of late of this Miss Josephine.'

Yes, mother, I have ; I could not help it.'

You should have fought against the
thought.'

I do not know that. She seems to me
to be just as I seed her that night of the
storm, tossing and distracted, not knowing
whither she is going, or how to row.'

She's nothing to you. You are not her
captain.'

He started ; he remembered the words
addressed to him when he was offered the
boat. ' I'm troubled about her, mother.'

'But you can do nought for her.'

He did not answer at once ; he threw out
some more soapy water. ' If I could help
her, and she called me to help her, I would
be bound to do my best. — Mother, what would
you think of the captain who, in a gale o'
wind, saw another vessel in distress, signalling,
and were to go on his course and give no
heed ? Nelson, when he was engaged in a
naval battle, was told that his admiral had

sicfiialled to retreat. Then Nelson turned his
bled eye in that direction, and vowed he
could not see the summons to run away. But,
mother, you would have me clap a blind eye
to the quarter whence ' a poor little drifting,
helpless, water-logged craft is appealing for
help. 'Taint seamanship that, mother.' Then
he laid aside the bowl, but remained kneeling,
looking down into the tub of soapy water,
where two bubbles were floating, and he
watched these bubbles curiously, as though
their course concerned him. One was a large
bubble, the other small ; the water was in
vibration, and they swung from side to side ;
but also, as it had a circular motion, they
floated near each other, and the little one
drew towards the great bubble, and the great
one seemed about to take the small one in
tow — no — at one moment as if they would
coalesce in one. He was wonderfully taken
up with these soap-bubbles. His mother
stood by, looking at him, and he looked at
these globes.

My dear Dick,' said Mrs. Cable, ' you're
deceiving of your own self. You think you're
acting out of pure charity, and it's no such
thing. There's something more than charity
in your heart — there is love.'

He made no answer ; he was engrossed in

the course of those bubbles ; they were riding
side by side, swinging round the tub.

It is of no use, Dick. You've heard what
the sailors tell of the spirit-ship ; all white
painted, with white sails and gilded prow,
crowding by in the moonlight. When she is
hailed, she makes no answer ; and when you
are drawn on, all at once you are on a rock ora
sandbank, and the spirit-ship has disappeared.
She is this ship. She is very beautiful
and strange, and an alto<::^ether unknown
and un-understood craft to the likes of you.
She belongs to another world to yours — and
woe betide you if you follow her ! She will
lead you to your ruin. The sailors say that
there are troubled souls in the spirit-ship that
will find no rest till she is brought into port
and to anchor. But what are you to board
her and take the helm and conduct her ? That
is not for you — for such as you. It won't do.
The spirits must man and guide the spirit-ship,
and the mortals keep their distance.'

Then Eichard Cable, still following the
bubbles, put his finger to them, to insist on
their uniting ; and instantly they burst, and
no trace remained.

Dick,' continued his mother, ' it is all
folly. She is a born lady, with a fortune and
education, and gentle belongings and tastes

and cultivated thoughts ; and you're nought
but a common sailor lad, with no money and
no learning, and only a vulgar mother, and
seven little children.'

He seized his mother's hand and kissed it,
when she said — a vulgar mother. She took
no notice, but went on : ' Seven little children,
all exacting, and needing much forethought
and patience to rear them aright. Now, how
can you think it possible that such a one as
Miss Josephine Cornellis should stoop so low
as to you ? '

I do not think it,' he said hastily ; ' I never
have dared to think it possible. I would not
ask it. But I cannot help myself. I must do
what I can for her when she comes in her
pleading way to me. She has no thought of
me, nor I of her, other than as one vessel at
sea signals to another, and that other makes
towards her. Mother, when that is so, there
is no thought of lashing the two together.'

If the two vessels were so lashed what
would happen ? '

If the sea were rough, they'd sink each
other, of course.'

They'd sink each other, of course,' repeated
Mrs. Cable. ' Remember that, Dick,
and don't go too near her, nor let her come too
near you. Keep a wide berth between you.'

Mother,' said he, with his fingers in the
soapy water, ' what am I to do about the boat
she's given me ? ' Then he wrote with his
finger in the water, the name ' Josephine.'

I do not know. I must consider. You
will give up liglitship work if you keep her.'

Can I refuse her ? '

If you mind to stick to your present line
of life, you can make that an excuse.'

But I should hurt her, were I to refuse.'

'It may hurt her if you keep the boat.
Folks will talk.'

I might let the craft out and bide on in
the Hanford port service myself as lightship-man.'


It is a bad job either way. I wish you'd
never come across Miss Cornellis.'

Eichard shook his head. ' She was brought
to me ; I did not seek her. I was looking:
away to land over the dark frothing sea, to
the belt of willows, thinking of my babes and
of you, mother, when all at once I saw her,
and that she needed help.'

And she drew you away in thought from
them and from me ? '

Again he shook his head. ' They are never
out of my heart. Mother, it's just like this
house ; sometimes the children are sinmnop
and laughing in it, and sometimes they're coiled

lip and asleep. If I'm still at any moment, I
think I can hear them all seven breathing, "^
deep in me ; and whilst I wait, I see their eyes
open and smile at me. They are always there,
but not always chirping.'

And now you've let a young cuckoo in
who will kick your own out.'

That is not possible,' answered Eichard
Cable. ' If the Lord bade the cuckoo egg
be laid, and the young cuckoo be reared
in the same nest with yellow hammers, is it
for the parent bird and nest-builder to kick
out the es^cf ? The one heart can warm them
all.'

I wish to heaven you'd never seen anything
of her ! I can't wish she were drowned,
but anything short of that ; and I wish you'd
not been called in to save her, and contract
an acquaintance which will do you mischief,
and no good.'

I did not seek it. I keep away from her
now as much as ever I can ; but it comes over
me that she is sent to me, or perhaps that I'm
called to pilot her. I cannot help myself. I
do my duty up to my light. In past times,
there was no difficulty in seeing my way,
and now there is — it begins to be not so
plain. There's something disturbing the compass,
and what that is, I cannot tell ; but I'll

get my bearings all right again shortly, never
fear.'

Dick,' said his mother, ' I've never spoken
to you of your father, because it is no pleasure
to either of us to think of him. He was a
gentleman. I, a poor girl, an orphan. I was
ignorant, and I thought, like you, that I could
be a help and comfort to him. I found out my
error too late. He was false and treacherous,
and forsook me and you. All seemed to me
right and simple before I took him : I could
be of use to him in a thousand ways such as
no lady could ; and he was a man that needed
me and all my little acquirements, homely as
they were. But when we were married, then
we found out that we did not agree together ;
he had his ways, and I mine ; he was out of
heart at once, and left me. You're making
the same mistake that I did. Do you suppose
that the ostrich and the eagle think alike and
have the same tastes ? Why the eagle is all
for flying, and the ostrich for running : and
the latter hides his head in the sand, and the
other looks the sun full in the face without
blinking. Tliey see differently, think differently,
have different pursuits. No, no, Richard,
Miss Cornellis is a soaring, bold, and beautiful
eagle ; and you're nothing but an ungainly
ostrich. Though I'm your mother, I say it.'

ThenRicliard laughed and stood up, holding
the tub in both hands, and as he laughed,
the soapy water danced and splashed in the
tub. He took it to the head of the sloping
bed, and tilted it on one side, and allowed the
water to run down the furrows between the
young plants, not quickly, but slowly, that it
might sink in.

The evening had closed, but there was
light in the sky, that beautiful pearly twilight
which makes the June nights an echo of the
day. As he was thus tilting the bath, he
heard a cry, upset the rest of the water,
sprang up the bank, and looked in the direction
whence he heard it. In another moment
he was over the bank. He had seen someone
a girl — Josephine in the channel, running
in the shallow water, seawards with extended
arms ; then he saw her fall, then pick herself
up and run on. He pursued her. In that
pebble-floored channel, the water deepened,
the cold wavelets ran in from the open sea ; if
any one went on far enough, that person would
be soon out of depth, between the clay banks,
up which there was no climbing. The water
was already deep ; it was above her knees ;
she could no longer run ; she threw herself
down in the waves, and was at once caught
and drawn out and held up by Cable.

Miss Cornellis — Miss Josephine ! \yliat is
it?'

She uttered another cry ; she could not
speak ; but she put her arms round his neck
and clung to him ; and he carried her back,
wading in the water, till he came to the sea-wall,
then he crossed his plank bridge, and
bore her into the cottage. As the hare had
run a few hours before — poor fool ! — so had
she.

VOL. I,

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE YOUNG CUCKOO.

Josephine was wet, shivering, not unconscious,
but as one distracted, unable to answer
questions. A second time Eichard Cable bore
her in his arms ; but before she had been hot,
with throbbing heart and heaving bosom ;
now she was cold, trembling, and her breath
coming in sobs. How she clung — with every
finger as though it were a claw. Eichard
could feel each several finger through his
jersey. Her gasping breath was on his cheek.
She made no attempt to speak, to explain her
conduct, to account for what she had been
doing.

He did not ask anything after the first
hasty query, but carried her in his strong
arms as firmly, as evenly as he had carried
the bath of soapy water previously. He took
her upstairs, and placed her in his mother's
chair in the same room with the seven little
children. There were only two bedrooms in

the cottage — that occupied by the babes and
their grandmother, and his own ; the latter a
lean-to room, into which the stair opened,
and where only on one side was it possible to
stand upright. Mrs. Cable followed him silently.
The first thing to be done was to
change the girl's clothes.

I will run to the Hall for a dry suit,' said
Eichard.

Then Josephine started up and held out
her hands with palms extended, quivering
in remonstrance.

Do you not wish it ? ' he asked gently.
She shook her head. He saw that she tried
to speak, opening her mouth ; the lips were
white, but she could not utter anything. ' Sit
down again in the chair,' he said persuasively ;
my mother will lend you dry things.'

Then he went downstairs and made up the
hire. A second time Josephine had been in
his arms, a second time he had saved her from
a watery death, and this time she was seeking
her death. What had happened at the
Hall ?

Eichard Cable left the room below ; he
could not be quiet ; a restless fit came on
him, and he went into the garden. He walked
about there, found the blue tub empty, and
brought it indoors. He listened, but could

s 2

not hear that Josephine was speaking. His
mother was silently attending on her. He
heard the heavy tread of the old woman on
the boards.

Ouf?lit he to go at once to the Hall and
communicate with Mr. Cornellis ? He did not
know. Josephine evidently disliked the idea
of his going there ; but was it not his duty to
go ? He must wait a while till Josephine
could explain what had occurred, and then he
would know what course to adopt. He could
not see the window of the bedroom from the
garden ; it looked out on the road ; on the
garden side was only roof. He went round
into the highway and walked in the road, and
looked up at the window. There was no light
m it. No candle was needed ; it looked northwest,
and the northern sky was full of silvery
light. Were all the children asleep ? There
was no little voice heard, not even that of the
baby, who, as a privilege, was laid to sleep in
its father's bed, and only taken into its grandmother's
when she retired for the night. How
shrewd little Bessie was ! She would go to
sleep in no other bed. In vain did her grandmother
try to lull her to roost in her own
room ; the blue peepers would not shut. They
looked dazed ; and the heavy eyelids fell over
them, then drew up again, and intelligence

came into the eyes, and, alas, at the same
time a peevish look, and whining began.
Nothing would satisfy the tiny creature but
to be put to sleep in the mean little lean-to
room, on the small hard bed of the father, a
bed he only occupied when off duty from the
lightship. Of light ships, of duty, nine-monthly
Bessie knew nothing ; but lie knew the
lean-to roof and the little bed ; and, by some
mysterious instinct, was aware that it was her
father's, and that she could sleep better in it
than elsewhere.

When Eichard Cable came upstairs for the
night, the baby was gone, but in the pillow
was a dint such as his fist mi^iht have made,
and he knew it was the impress of Bessie's
head.

He had spent thirteen contented years .
with his Polly : he had been much attached to
Polly, whom he respected ; but there had
been no close union of souls in their marriage.
Polly Alas a lusty lass when he married hera
hard-working mrl, much engrossed in her
daily tasks, and able to think and talk of
nothing else. Eichard was a meditative man ;
his mind was always engaged, though his
hands were sometimes idle. His occupation
on the lightship had fostered this habit. He
did not open to many ; he had few friends.

but every one respected him. He had inherited
from his mother the tendency to feel
most interest in those who needed help, to love
those who clung to him. His wife had been
an independent woman, going lier own eminently
practical way, asking for no guidance
and support, because lie needed neither ; but
it was different, of course, with the babes ;
they all were helpless ; they all depended on
their father, and therefore they filled a greater
part of his heart than Polly had done. It is
the place of the elm to sustain the vine ; it is
the privilege of the vine to cling to and ramble

over the elm :

Ulmisque adjimgere Actes,
Convenit —

as every schoolboy reading the ' Georgic'
knows.

Nature has made some plants creepers and
others sustained. The creepers sometimes
strangle their supports, if too embracing, contracting,
exacting. A sustainer can hold up
without hurt a vast amount of parasitic growth
honeysuckle wreaths, exhaling sweetness ;
evergreen, glistening ivy ; crimson and gold
clothed Virginian creeper. It is only when
the clambering plant has thrown its tendrils
over the head of the supporting tree that the
tree breaks down under its burden. It is

wonderful, sometimes, what a glory a commonplace
tree will acquire from the parasite that
clings to it : in itself it is nothing ; as a means
of displaying its mate, it is beautiful. I have
seen an old dead trunk wreathed about with
historia, beautiful with the lilac chains that
hung about it; surrounding it with an atmosphere
of honeyed sweetness ; and I have seen
human wisterias clinging, trailing, embalming,
adorning dead memories. Though what they
envelop and beautify is dead, it matters not ;
it is something about which they can cast
their arms and hang their chains of flowers,
and breathe forth the incense of their innocent
souls.

These same chambers deserve a chapter in
the great gardening manual of human souls.
How indifferent they are to what they lay
hold of, if only they may have a support.
How the delicate little pink hands of the 
grapple a piece of granite, and hold it
that you cannot tear them away, and riot over
it, and wave triumphant wreaths of victory
and rejoicing ! How the jessamine laces with
ribbons of green round the rugged-barked
pine, in preference to the smooth skinned
beech ; and the pure Devoniensis holds to the
common clay garden wall and laughs, leaning
against it, with thousands of delicately blushing

blooms, flowery whispers of happiness
and love and pride ; whereas it scarce shows
a few blossoms, and the buds decay burst
against the stately hewn-stone mansion wall.
Why does the Berkshire prefer a cold and
cheerless aspect to that which is hot with sun ?
Verily, the creepers deserve attention in the
world-garden of humanity.

But, what are we about, rambling concerning
ramblers? when our subject is the
prop up which seven little climbers are throwing
their tendrils, and, at this moment, an
eighth, no seedling, has cast her arms and
asked to be sustained, and lifted high out of
the sordid soil ?

Eichard Cable saw the blind drawn in the
lower cottage window, and then a flush of
light over it ; so he knew that his mother was
below, and had kindled the lamp. Thereupon
he went indoors, and found Josephine in his
mother's Sunday dress, seated by the fire, in
his mother's high-backed leather chair, a
chair that had belonged to her father, who
was drowned. Josephine was very pale and
sallow ; her hands rested on her lap ; she was
looking into the fire, and the flames reflected
themselves in the large dark irises. She did
not seem to observe Eichard's entrance ; she
did not turn her head or raise her eyes.

Mrs. Cable was eiif^ai^ed between the back
and front kitchen, getting some of Josephine's
wet clothes cleaned of the mud that adhered,
wringing them out, and putting them on lines
where they might drip and dry.

Eichard Cable went to the fireplace, and
leaned against the brick jamb, looking at the
girl. In the wooden houses of the coast, the
chimneys are built of brick, and there is a
brick basement on which the wooden walls rest.

Please, Miss CorneUis, I'm sorry to interfere
; but I'm bound to ask — what is to be
done ? '

She folded her hands, slightly raised her
chin, and then her head sank again, and the
eyes remained staring at the fire.

He waited a minute, still observing her,
and then he said again, in a low, gentle voice :
I'm sorry to be disturbing you wi' axing of
questions as may seem impertinent, miss ; but
I'm bound to repeat the same thing — what is
to be done ? '

Again she made a slight movement with
her chin, and unclosed, then clenched her
hands ; but she said nothing.

Presently little Bessie began to cry upstairs,
and Mrs. Cable ran up. It was the child's
hour for supper, and she was exact to her
time in demandiui:^ her bread and milk.

A third time Cable asked the question,
and then Josephine slightly shook her head.

He must extract an answer from her ; he
must do something. She could not remain in
his house without his letting her father know.
He took a step towards her, and laid his hand
upon her head, as he had laid it that same
afternoon, and now, as then, the dark hair
was wet. ' Is the head burning ? ' he asked.

Then she looked up at him without moving
her head ; her eyes were large, and had a
strange far-away look in them.

Now, Miss Cornellis, answer me — what is
to be done ? '

I do not know,' she replied.

But,' he said, ' I must be told. I must
do something about this matter.'

I leave it all to you.'

May I take you back to the Hall ? If
you cannot walk, I will carry you.'

She held her head steady under his hand ;
she did not shake ii, but said : ' No ; I will
not go back there. I will stay here ; if you
will take me in. If not, I will go back into
the sea.'

Miss CorneUis,' he said after a long silence,
I do not understand what has happened.'
Then he took away his hand from her head,
which was not hot, but cold, and knelt down

by the fire on one knee, and stirred up the
logs, and threw on a few small sticks that
crackled and blazed.

I will not go home any more.'

But the Hall is not your home ; it belongs
to Mr. Gotham.'

I will not go home to my father again.'

Has there been a quarrel ? '

He has been angry. I will not go near
him again.'

Did he — did he strike you ? '

Strike me ? — Oh, not with his hands. I
should not mind that.'

What did he do ? I must ask. You
leave me to decide what is to be settled about
you ; and I cannot decide without knowing
the circumstances.'

I am not going back to him.'

Did he — excuse me — drive you out of
the house ? '

I left, because I could not stay.'

Why could you not stay ? '

Her fingers in her lap worked nervously ;
she platted and unplatted them ; she twisted
them on one hand, and then smoothed them
with the other.

I cannot tell you all. Would you take
the lamp away ? The light hurts my eyes.'

He complied with her wish, and placed

the lamp in the back kitchen. Upstairs was
Mrs. Cable getting the baby to sleep. Eichard
heard her singing :

There's grog in the captain's cabin,
Water down below.

He returned to the fireplace and stood against
the jamb, opposite her, and said : ' Tell me
everything. Miss Josephine. I am your friend.
I will advise.'

I know you are my friend,' she answered.
'I will tell , you what I can; but my head
spins, and I cannot think ; I cannot recollect
everything.' She was in no hurry ; she
knitted her brows, trying to recollect the
chain of circumstances. Presently she said :
It was the rector's fault ; he told Aunt
Judith, and she, of course, went at once to
papa and told him.'

Told what ? '

I had seen the rector this morning, and
he took me to task about going on the wall
to you the nif^ht of the fire.'

It was an unwise things

also are against me. I will say no
more. Every one is turned against me.
Everything I say works people up into hatred
of me. I am a miserable, unhappy girl.'

Miss Cornellis, I am not turned against

you. I say \Yliat your own common sense
has told you, that you acted imprudently that
night. — The rector spoke about it to Miss
Judith ? '

And she, blundering, stupid old creature,
went with it at once to papa. I was not in
then. When he did speak to me, I saw he
was angry. He does not turn red, but a
greenish white, and he speaks slowly, but
every word cuts like a razor ; and not only
so, but every word is dipped in venom, so that
when it has cut you, the wound goes on festering
for months, and perhaps never heals at
all.'

Your father ! ' — Eichard spoke in slow
wonder — ' a father hurt, poison the blood of
his child ! ' It was to him inconceivable. He
would have allowed his flesh to be torn ofl
his bones with red-hot hooks and pincers,
rather than wound or bruise one of these
tender, fragile little innocents that looked upto
him in love and trust.

My father as he speaks, when he is very
angry, has a face like a dead man ; but his
eyes bank, and now and then he quivers, just
as though he felt an electric shock ; and then
he is as if he Avould hurt with his hands ; but
he controls himself again, and stabs instead
with his tongue.'

Eichard Cable drew a long breath, and
put Ills hand across his chest to the mantelshelf.


When my papa spoke to me, I knew at
once he was in one of his worst moods. And
I — as I always do — was ready to fire up. I
am not afraid of him ; he does not cow me.
He makes my heart boil and foam over.'

Does he not take you to him, and put his
arm round you, and speak low, and tell sou
that you have pained him, and that he loves
you very, very dearly ? '

Never ! ' said Josephine decisively. She
was recovering herself. As she thought over
the scene she was describing, the heat returned
to her heart and fired her veins.

Then I acknowledged it all when he
charged me ; and when he sneered, I said that
was not all. I told him that I had bought
you the ship, given it my name, and that I
should pay for it out of the insurance-money
for Eose Cottage.'

What is that? ' asked Cable.

She was excited now, and went on, disregarding
his interruption. 'He was trustee
for my little fortune left me by my mother, and
he has made away with that — how, I do not
know. I did not know it was gone when I
ordered the vessel. Now that it is bought,

I thought I should like to pay for it, though
it does not really matter, as my cousin Gotham
will advance — will give me the money. Yet
when my father took this line with me, I was
angry and said I would claim from him some
of my money out of what he would get from
the insurance company. Then he stung me
worse and worse ; and just as a hornet will
drive a horse mad, so did he make me forget
everything but my pain and wrath — and I said

something about the fire ' She paused,

hesitated. ' Even to you, I cannot repeat it.'
She halted again. ' But I believe that Avhat
I said was true.' She stammered. ' Yet, I
ought not to have said it. He is my other.'
Then she drew her feet together, and put her
hands on the elbows of the chair, and raised
herself, and her face flamed crimson, and the
very hair on her brow seemed to bristle with
electric excitation, and sparks to shoot out of
her eyes. ' It was then he used words to me
that I shall never forget — never forgive ! ' She
stood shivering with wrath, looking very tall
in the long black dress of Mrs. Cable, and in
the dark room, with the firelight alone illumining
her. ' After that, I would not stay.' She
spoke slowly, and with intervals between her
sentences, which came forth as the discharge
of minute guns at sea from a foundering vessel.

I could not stay.' She shook so that she
rattled the armchair, which she touched with
one hand. ' I had no home more.'

But,' said Eichard, ' though he angered
you, he was your father, and a father '

She did not allow him to conclude ; she
said harshly : 'Do you not understand ? There
are things which even a father may not s^j.
As there is a blasphemy which has no forgiveness,
neither in this world nor in the world to
come, so is there an insult which cannot be
endured nor be forgotten.' Her face was dark,
and startled Cable with the rage and bitterness
that Alas in it, lit with the glare from the
hire.

Why did you not go to the rector ? ' asked
Eichard.

The rector ! — after I had refused his son,
and lauded at him ? ' She shook her head.
There was no place to which I could go. Eose
Cottage is burnt down. The Hall is no morea
home. The rectory doors I have closed
against myself. To this house I could not
come.'

Why not ? '

She looked at him, then her eyes fell, and
she looked into the fire. ' Because of what
my father had said. There was no place forme
— but the sea.' Then, unable to sustain

herself longer on her feet, she sank back into
the chair.

After considering a while, Eichard Cable
said : ' ]\iiss Cornellis, it was God's doing that
I was the means of saving you before in the
lightship. It is God's doing that I have been
the means of saving you this night. Therefore,
what am I, to oppose His will ? I will goat
once to the Hall and tell Mr. Cornellis that
you are here and will remain here.'

He will insult you.'

I am not afraid of him or of his words.
And when I've told him, miss, that you are
here, then I'll get out my boat and row away
to the new hghtship, and stay there for ten
days or a fortnight.'

Then, as he moved to go, she started to
her feet again, and caught his arm with both
her hands, and quivering with excitement,
said : ' Do not go — do not leave me helpless,
friendless. I cannot bear it. There, there —
I will kneel to you, if need be, and entreat
sou. Be Master, Captain, Pilot— everything
to the " Josephine." '

He took her hand between his own, and
said very gravely : ' As I said before, I say
again — I'll do my duty by her, so help me
God!'

Then Bessie Cable came in, and a brilliant

VOL. I. T

light from the lamp she carried fell over them,
hand in hand.

And now,' said he earnestly, ' I go with
a firm confidence to your father, for I have a
right to speak in your defence and for you.'

But Mrs. Cable looking on, put her hand
to her brow and said : ' The young cuckoo is
in the nest ! '

CHAPTER XIX.

THE ' W I N D S T R E W.'

Gabriel Gotham returned somewhat late to
the Hall ; he was exhausted ; it was not often
that he took so much exercise, and was away
from his house so long ; but he was pleased
with himself ; he chuckled and rubbed his left
hand over the back of the right, which held
the walking-stick. As he came in at his gates,
he met Mr. Cornellis, hardly recovered from
his agitation caused by the interview with his
daughter.

Where is Josephine ? I want her,' said
Gabriel.

I do not know where she is. I have had
a talk with her. I am incensed. I have
had to reprimand her pretty sharply. She is
inconsiderate, aggravating.'

Come with me to the Piatt. I must have
some curator or Chartreuse, or cherry brandy.
I am fagged. You look pale as well.'

T 2

The Piatt was a square platform about
seven feet liigli, built of brick, with a concreted
top, to wliicli a flight of steps led from
the garden. It was said to have been originally
a winnowing-floor, when wheat was grown
where now lay the Hall gardens. Here, advantage
was taken of the breeze from off the
water to clear the corn of the husk. Such
platforms still exist in different parts of England,
and in the west are called ' minstrels.'
They occupy a high situation, exposed to every
breeze. Here, it was near the sea, because
the air always stirred there, even when, at a
rifle-shot inland, it was calm. This windstrew
would probably have been broken down, and
the bricks used for other purposes, had not
the proprietors of the Hall considered it a
pleasant spot on which to sit when the
weather was hot, and enjoy the cool air off
the water, and see the boats coming in or
going out with the tide. It went now by the
name of the Piatt, whatever its former designation
had been, Piatt being perhaps a contraction
for platform. It adjoined the garden
wall, and occupied an angle in it, the wall
rising just high enough above the platform to
serve as a back to benches. On the garden
side it was entailed. The steps ran up the
side of the wall to it. At the bottom of the

steps was the garden wicket-gate, almost invariably
fastened.

Where is Josephine ? I want to speak
to Josephine,' said Gotham again.

I do not know where she is. She has
left me in one of her tantrums. I had to
speak decidedly ; and she dislikes dictation :
she is wayward as an unbroken filly.'

Go into the house, Justin,' said the
squire ; ' tell one of the servants to bring us
glasses and the liqueurs to the Piatt. I cannot
bear up much longer. I am too hot to
go indoors. If you see Josephine, send her
to me.'

Mr. Cornellis bit his lip and obeyed. He
did not like being ordered about by Mr.
Gotham ; but he dared not show that he was
annoyed. At this time he was much ruffled.
His interview with his daughter had disturbed
him more than he showed. He was
a man who hated opposition, and above
opposition, a will as strong as his own, and
a mind above beinix humbucfcred. He knew
that he could not delude his daughter into
submission, and now he was discovering that
he could not browbeat her. Accustomed to
the easy natures of his sister Judith and his
cousin Gotham, he was provoked at encountering
opposition in his own child. He had

made his plans, and these pLans vere disturbed
by the rebelliousness of Josephine.
He wanted her to marry Captain Sellwood,
partly because he desired to be free from
the encumbrance of his child, and partly because
he could rely on Captain Selhvood not
troubling him about Josephine's fortune,
which he had spent. An energetic and
greedy son-in-law might make matters unpleasant
for him. The Ellwood were too
comfortably off to care for a small jointure,
and too gentlemanly and well connected to
have recourse to law, and so expose his conduct
to public notice. If they found he had
behaved badly, they would hush up the
matter in the family interest. His plan was,
as soon as Josephine was settled, to saddle
her with Judith, and himself depart, and do
the best he could for himself with what
money he got out of the insurance company,
till Gabriel Gotham's death put him in possession
of the Hanford estate. This event
could not be far distant ; the wretched squire
was failing rapidly, and as he failed, drank
more, and dosed himself with larger portions
of narcotics. He was now half imbecile, and
his brain would certainly soften, and paralysis
ensue very speedily. For a while, Mr. Cornellis
had been uneasy because Gabriel would

sneak of the past, and revert, especially in ]his
niaiicUin moods, to the wrong he had done to
Bessie and her son.

Pshaw ! ' said Cornellis. ' If every one
of ns took to heart the faults of his youth,
as you do, none of us would come to grey
hairs. Your father and uncle made the
woman a good offer; she refused it, and with
that the matter came to an end. You are
quit.'

But this did not wholly satisfy Gabriel.
The recollection of his treachery haunted
him, and he took to liqueur-drinking and
opiates, as much to still the voice of self-reproach
as to lull the nervous pains he felt.

If Bessie Cable had not lived in the same
place, it would have been better for him.
The occasional sight of her and of her son
renewed in him the stings of conscience. But
though he felt these stings, he was too cowardly
and weak to redress the old wrong.

Bessie had stood in the way of his marrying.
At one time, he had visited a neighbouring
squire and paid attention to his daughter
one of his daughters ; and because the
squire had five sons and six daughters, and
his estate was heavily burdened, he would
have been glad to dispose of one of the girls
to the owner of Hanford. Miss Wykeham

also, knowing herself to be slenderly provided
for, would have accepted him. Gabriel rode
over twice a week to Woodley Park, and
walked and flirted with Miss Wykeham ; but
just as everyone supposed he was about to
declare himself, Bessie Cable reappeared in
Hanford, and Gotham became frightened. He
expected that she would repeat the story of
his conduct to her, if he proceeded : and he
hung back, ceased to visit Woodley, and remained
an old bachelor.

Would Bessie have interfered ? He never
knew. She, perhaps, herself was undecided
how to act. But he resolved not to risk the
unpleasantness such a disclosure would cause.
He was certain that the Wykeham would refuse
the connection, if it came to their ears ;
they were a somewhat pinched but a proud
family.

The conduct of Gabriel to Miss Fanny
Wykeham was commented on, and was the
occasion of some coldness between the Wake-hams
and him ; but when she, after a twelvemonth,
married a Baronet, and became Lady
Brentwood, this coldness disappeared ; the
Wykeham were even grateful to Mr. Gotham
that he had withdrawn his pretensions. The
vanity of the man was enhanced by the marriage
of Miss Fanny, and he liked to boast

to Cornellis and other intimates, of this old
flame, Lady Brentwood, by whom, by George !
he was nearly caught ; but hearing that she
had a deuce of a temper, he had been wise
enough to cry ' Hands off.'

Justin Cornellis had gained his power
over Gabriel Gotham at first by his knowledge
of the secret which embittered the life
of the latter. He knew it, because it was
a family secret ; consequently, Judith also
knew about it. But Cornellis did not know
that there was a son, and that mother and
son lived in Hanford, till he came there and
took and inhabited Eose Cottage. When the
Cornellis family came to Hanford, Gotham
was disturbed in mind lest the story should
get out by their indiscretion. He was just
then desirous of being made a Deputy Lieutenant
for the county, and a Justice of Peace ;
and he knew that it would be fatal to his
chance, where the scandal to get wind ; so he
cringed to Cornellis, and offered him a loan
of money, were he in want of temporary
accommodation, as many a man is when
buying a house and fitting it up. Cornellis
soon got the upper hand of the squire, and
maintained such a hold on him, that, as Justin
supposed, Gotham was unable to act in anyway
without him. He did not refrain from

jesting about the boatman's lass Bessie, the
very old girl who had taken advantage of the
inexperience of the young squire ; and to
sneer at the lout of a son, and his marriage
with the servant from the rectors Cornellis
did not see that he was overshootinor his
mark. His contemptuous jests about the
Cables recoiled on and hurt Gotham. If
Bessie was such a despicable creature, what
a fool Gabriel himself must have been to take
up with her ; if the son were such a booby,
the father must have been a poor creature.
Gotham did not like the jokes of Cornellis ;
they galled him, and wrought in him great
bitterness against his cousin ; and sometimes,
when he was alone, it boiled up, and he
clenched this fists and gnashed his teeth at
the thought of the man who had become
indispensable to him, but whom he hated.
Cornellis did not consider that a weak man is
a man on whom you can never lean ; he is
always devising some meanness whereby he
can deceive those upon whom he fawns and
to whom he clings. In playing a game with
a stupid man, the faculties become lulled ;
wee think we know exactly what moves he
will make, and we are beforehand ready to
counterpoise. But it sometimes happens that
stupidity simulates genius, because it sinks

to depths beyond calculation, and surprises
us by a step for which we were quite unprepared.
Mr. CorneUis overestimated his own
power, and undervalued the parts of the
squire. He had no suspicion that Gabriel
regarded him with mistrust.

Mr. Gotham seated himself on the seat,
with his back to the wall, on the raised wind-strew,
took off his hat, and removing slowly
his handkerchief from his pocket, wiped his
head with a shaking hand. His weak e3^es
were watering, his narrow forehead was
covered with moisture. The evening was
warm, and he was tired. He looked about
him, at his pretty garden and groves and
terraces. What a pretty place it was ! Yet
he hardly enjoyed it. He had a conservatory,
and bought for it rare plants, not that he
cared for them, but that he might boast of
the sum he had paid for this new orchid or
that rare lily. He had a good stable, two
hunters ; but he rarely rode them, never
hunted with them ; all the pleasure he had
from them was to talk about them and what
they cost him. Some of his neighbours
humoured him, but laughed at him in their
sleeves. They humoured him for the sake of
his subscriptions to the hunt and the balls,
and because he have ijood dinners. He was

mean in some things, extravagant in others,
as often happens With weak men.

Now, as he looked about him, he felt uncomfortable.
The idea glimmered in his
cloudy mind that he must before very long
leave this pretty place, his greenhouses, his
pines, his hunters, his cellars, his china. All
would pass from him to another. He could
see the church tower behind the trees. His
walled garden adjoined the graveyard, and
was believed to have been taken out of it ;
certainly, bones were dug up on the north
side of it ; but the strawberries along that
bed were splendid. ' I wish the Chartreuse
would come,' he grumbled. ' What is that
fellow Justin about ? — So : he has been talking
of the changes he Avill make when I am dead,
calculating on the improvements he will effect.
My grapes — my muscatel house ; I have been
particular to have the muscat vines all together
; you can't have the proper flavour
where they are mixed. He'll be eating my
pines dien the worms are eating me ! Shall
he — shall he ! ' He uttered these last words
aloud.

'Shall he! — shall who?' asked Cornellis,
ascending the steps, and taking his place on
the other seat, at right angles to that occupied
by Gotham. He had his back to the sea.

He asked the question with indifference ; lie
had no idea that it concerned himself.

I — I have been unwell to-day ; I have
been thinking that my health is breaking
up.'

Pshaw ! You are in low spirits. Breaking
up ! when you have been trotting about
all the afternoon like a boy of sixteen. It is
I, not you, who have cause to be in the
dumps. I have been irritated past endurance
by that daughter of mine. — Thank you, I will
have green Chartreuse.'

What has she been doings ? '

'Doing! Will you believe it? She has
refused Captain Sellwood ! '

Mr. Gotham's mouth opened, and he
stared at Cornelia with feeble astonishment,
mixed with amusement.

Cornelia remarked the latter, and said
somewhat testily : ' There is nothing so funny
about this. To me it is indescribably mortifying.
He will have eventually fifteen thousand.'


'And she has, from her mother, about
five hundred pounds in all,' said Gotham with
a chuckle.

'Not so much ; no — hardly four.'

You have been very careful of it,' said
Gabriel, crouching with his hands on his

stick. His glass of Chartreuse was so full,
and this hands so shaking, that he did not
venture to raise the glass to his lips ; he
stooped to the table and put his mouth to the
glass and sucked the brimming contents. He
looked so mean and wretched as thus bent,
with his blear eyes on Cornelia, that the
latter had difficulty in checking the expression
of contempt that began to curl his lips.

Yes,' he answered ; ' I have been a careful
trustee.'

So Josephine told me,' said Gabriel.

Mr. Cornellis started, and the colour went
out of his brow, which turned deadly white.
The movement was so sudden that Gabriel
was frightened, and upset the glass with his
nose or chin.

There ! ' said he ; 'I have spilt my glass
before I have half drunk it. It cost me twelve
shillings a bottle, and a bottle don't hold
much ; it is soon gone.'

Mr. Cornellis considered whether he should
ask what Josephine had said. He thought it
best not to pursue the subject.

Pour me out a little more,' said Gotham ;
my hand is unsteady.'

Whilst Mr. Cornellis complied, Gabriel
said to him : ' So, Josephine has refused Captain
Sellwood.'

Lie told me so herself. It is monstrous ! '

'There must be a prior attachment.'

Now the hand of Justin Cornelia shook,
and he spilled some drops on the little table.
Prior attachment ! Of course not. To
whom could she be attached ? Pooh ! It is
absurd.'

What was that I heard about a meeting
on the night of the fire ? '

Meeting ! I know nothing about one.'

Do you know what I have been doing
to-day, Justin ? '

'No, squire.'

I have been to Grimes and Newbold's
dock, to see the vessel Jose2:)liine has
bought, called after her name, and given to
Eichard.'

Josephine cannot buy a boat. She has
not the money ; and I will see her at Jericho
before I advance the requisite sum.'

'I have advanced it, Justin. You — you
can repay me at your leisure out of Josephine's
money.'

You ! ' Mr. Cornellis looked at him with
astonishment. This mean little man had
meddled to make mischief. 'Do you know
what you have done ? '

I think I do know,' chuckled Gotham.

I think you do not,' said Cornelia angrily.

His face was becoming pale, and the lines in
it liard, as if cut with a gouge in stone. ' I
do not think you are aware that you
have compromised my daughter's character.
It was bad enough that she was on the lightship
alone with that fellow ; but this is worse.
She gives him a vessel which she calls after
her own name, and you help her, you encourage
her to do so.'

Why should she not ? '

I say, because she makes the tongues
wao^ about her. Ever since that confounded
affair of the lightship, she has been running
in and out of the man's cottage.'

And,' said Gabriel, ' she has met him at
nio^ht on the sewell.'

People will talk. There will be plenty
of scandal floating. And do you expect me
to put up with it ? '

Let them talk. Something may come of
it that would please me well.'

What is that, Gabriel ? ' Mr. Cornelia's
cheeks blanched, and his hands closed. He
was very angry.

Why should she not take him ? ' said
Gabriel. ' She likes him well ; of that I am
sure, and that would satisfy me.'

It would not suit me,' said Cornelia in a
husky voice.

It would suit me excellently, Justin, as
you may see, for then I could leave what little
I have to Josephine, and so Eichard would
get it. That would be a great satisfaction to
my conscience, and — do not look at me in
that strange way ; I do not like it, Justin — I
say it would just fit in with my wishes ; no
one would know who he was, and my conscience
would be clear.'

Is that what you intend ! ' exclaimed
Cornelia, starting up, and leaning forward,
his face livid, his hips drawn back, showing
his white teeth. 'Is that it? — That you shall
never do ! '

Gotham stacfc^ered to his feet also, and
shrank back ; he was frightened at the ghastly
face and malignant expression of Justin Cornellis.


You dare to utter this to me ! ' said the
ex-missionary, and with his elbows drawn
back. He took a step towards Gotham. ' I'll
throttle you first.'

Gotham, trembling, let fall his glass of
Chartreuse, and backed before the angry
father, who suddenly thrust forth both his
hands to grip him.

At that moment, up the steps of the
wind strew came Eichard Cable.

Gabriel Gotham uttered a feeble cry,

VOL. I. U

whether of terror at the approach of Cornelia,
or of surprise at the apparition of
Cable, neither knew, and in a moment he
fell headlong from the Piatt upon the garden
walk below.

CHAPTER XX.

THE Flowering OP FORGIVENESS.

Josephine was still before the fire in the
cottage when Richard Cable returned. He
came in quietly. Though a solidly built man,
he walked lightly, and his step as he entered
the kitchen was so little audible that Josephine
did not hear it. She was busied in her own
thoughts.

But Mrs. Cable saw and heard her son,
and at once perceived that something had
happened. 'What is it.^' she asked; but
Richard, instead of answering her, went to
the fireplace, took Josephine by the hand,
and raised her.

Look at me, miss,' he said. ' You have
given me a right to exercise some sort of
authority over you, for you have thrown
yourself on my protection and chosen me as
your adviser. I give you my opinion now, and
tell you what I wish you to do, what I am
sure you ought to do.'

V 2

She looked steadily into his face. He
was very grave, even pale. She also saw
that something had happened.

There has been an accident at the Hall.
You must return to it at once.'

Her lips began to move in protest, and a
flicker came into her eyes of reviving opposition.


Listen to me, Miss Josephine. I would
not advise this unless I were sure it was right.
It is right all round — right for yourself, right
for your father, right for your poor cousin,
right for me.'

'My cousin?'

There has been an accident. When I
came to the garden gate, I found it unclasped,
and '

Yes ; I came out that way, and may not
have fastened it behind me.'

And as I heard your father's voice close
by I opened the gate and went in. I did not
wish to see him in the house ; I preferred
meeting him in the garden.'

I can understand that,' said Josephine.
Was he alone ? '

No ; he was on that raised place at the
bottom of the garden, once used, they say,
for winnowing corn.'

Yes, the Piatt.'

He was there with Mr. Gotham.'

Mrs. Cable drew near, a great fear rising
in her heart.

'I came up the steps. I do not quite
know what happened. It seemed to me that
there was an altercation going on ; but I
cannot say. I came in quickly through the
gate and up the steps, and did not listen to
what they were saying, nor see them till I
was right on them. Mr. Cornellis was leaning
forward with his hand towards Mr. Gotham
who stood inwards, so to speak, with his back
to the garden, where there is no wall ; and I
cannot say how it came about, whether he
was surprised at my sudden appearance, or
whether he lost his balance stepping back
from Mr. Cornellis. I say, I cannot tell how
it came about, but he fell backwards off the
Piatt, headlong into the garden.'

Bessie Cable uttered a cry, and stood with
her eyes distended with terror, looking at her
son, her hands clenched, her arms stiff,
stretched out at her sides.

Mr. Cornellis and I ran down to his aid
at once. I raised him in my arms. He was
not conscious. I sent your father to the
house, and when help came he was removed
to his bedroom, and the doctor sent for.'

Cousin Gabriel ! ' exclaimed Josephine, the

tears rising in her eyes. ' poor Cousin
Gabriel ! What did the doctor say ? '

I did not wait to hear.'

Is he — very seriously hurt ? '

'I fear so. He did not speak. The
gardener has pots and other things in the
corner where he fell, and I am afraid he
struck his head on some hard substance. He
was not conscious. He did not know that he
was being moved, and I suspect his spine is
also injured.'

You think he will die ! ' cried Josephine
in terror. She had not realised at first the
seriousness of the accident.

I do not doubt it.'

Josephine stood in hesitation. She put
her knuckles to her lips. ' What am I to do ?
What ought I to do ? '

I have told you,' said Eichard Cable.
You must go to the Hall.'

Then Mrs. Cable closed her strong hand
about Josephine's wrist ; she did not speak,
but she drew her with her. She did not wait
to put anything over her head ; she went
forth as she was, and Josephine unresisting
went with her.

The house was in commotion. Aunt Judith
was useless. She had retired to her own room
and rang for sherry, as she felt faint. The

servants had lost their heads, and were ordering
each other about to do impossible or
useless things. No one attended to Miss
Judith's bell, which rang violently every few
minutes.

Mrs. Cable and Josephine entered unnoticed,
and proceeded at once to the room where the
unfortunate man lay. As they entered, Mr.
Cornelia, who was there, started. He had
been overhauling Gotham's secretaire. He
knew the will was there ; but he wished to
satisfy himself that it had not been destroyed.
It was there, with the date on the envelope
when it was made.

Gabriel Gotham had not been undressed ;
he lay on the bed just as he had been placed
there, and his condition remained unaltered.
His eyes were dull, like those of a man drunk
with sleep, and his breathing was stertorous.
There was certainly pressure on the brain.
The pillow was stained with blood that flowed
from a wound in the back of his head.

Mr. Cornellis took no notice of his daughter.
He had not the smallest suspicion that
she had attempted her life and been saved by
Cable. He looked hard at her dress — she
was in a gown of Mrs. Cable's that did not fit
her — but he asked no question. He supposed
his daughter had been playing some new

vagary, which did not greatly concern him, and
about which he need not inquire. He said to
Bessie Cable ; ' Your son startled Mr. Gotham.
He came in on him unexpectedly. Why Mr.
Gotham should have been so surprised by
seeing him I cannot tell ; he sprang back
as if he had seen a ghost, and though I
put out my hand to save him, I was too
late : he fell off the wind strew, and I fear
has met with a fatal injury. — What do you
want?' This was addressed to a servant-girl
who hovered at the bedroom door with a
frightened face.

Please, sir,' said the girl, ' do you know
where the key of the cigarette is ? Miss
Cornelia seed the master being took upstairs,
and it has upset her so bad that she wants
some sherry, and we don't know where the
key is.'

It is in your master's pocket,' said Mr.
Cornellis. ' She must wait till it can be taken
from him — till he is undressed.'

Steps were heard on the stairs. The
surgeon had come.

I have not ventured to have him touched
till you could see him,' said Mr. Cornellis to
the medical man. ' Poor fellow ! poor fellow ! '
He was agitated ; his voice shook, he turned
his face away that his emotion might not be

seen. ' The whole thing was done so suddenly.
It is a fearful shock to us all.' Then he
repeated the account of how Gabriel fell, ashe
had given it to Bessie, only adding, whilst
his eye was fixed on her : ' Why he started
was no doubt this — he was astonished at the
intrusion. My cousin was very tenacious of
his privacy. Hoar the man got in, I do not
know.'

By the gate,' said Josephine. ' I left it
open.'

Or what he wanted, I cannot conjecture.'
added Mr. Cornellis.

I cannot examine him till he is undressed,'
said the surgeon. ' We must have a nurse.'

I am here,' said Bessie. ' Let Mr. and
Miss Cornellis leave the room.'

The ex-missionary hesitated a moment,
and then complied. As he went through the
door, he saw the maid again, who asked :
Please, sir, have you got the key ? '

Key. What key ? '

Please, sir, ffiss Cornellis has the hysterics
for want of sherry. There goes her bell
again.'

Bother her sherry ! Stand out of the
way.'

Half an hour later, Mr. Cornellis was summoned.


The surgeon was a plain blunt man. ' I've
overhauled hin,' he said. ' It is of no use
giving you false hopes. He can live only a
few hours.'

Mr. Cornellis nodded ; he was sure of this
before the doctor came.

Can you stay ?' he asked.

I will call again later. I can do no good.
If I could I would stay. — Let Mrs. Cable remain
Yfitli him ; he must not be left alone.'
Then he gave a few perfunctory directions and
departed.

Cornellis looked at Bessie Cable with a
sarcastic smile : ' Too late, my good woman.'

Too late for what ? ' she asked, turning
slowly, haughtily towards him. Poor and
ignorant woman though she was, she had a
certain stateliness in all her actions, a dignity
in all she did.

Merely, dear Mrs. Cable, that you are too
late to get anything from him. He vdll not
recover consciousness.'

Too late to get ? ' she asked gravely, raising
her tall form and looking coldly at the ex-missionary.
' To get what ? I want nothing
of him.'

no, my good woman ; of course not.
I know your story. You might, had you
been in time, have secured something ; but

—you are too late. He will never move hand
or tongue again.'

I — / take anything of him ? / ask anything
of him ? ' She shook her head. ' You
may know my story, but you do not know
me. I came, not to get, but to give.'

To give what ? '

What you would neither understand nor
value. Leave me alone with him.'

He did not care to remain. He went over
to the secretaire, locked it, and took away the
key.

You will call me if he is worse, if there is
any change,' he said in a tone of indifference.
He did not care to keep up appearances before
Bessie Cable, who could injure or benefit
him in no way. She slightly bowed her head.
Then, twirling the key on his forefinger, he
went out.

Please, sir,' said the maid, ' is that the
key? Miss Cornellis has pulled down the
bellrope ; she do want her sherry — awful ! '

When Bessie Cable was alone in the room
with Gabriel Gotham, she took the lamp, and
with steady hand carried it to the bedside and
held it up, that the light might fall full on
him. He lay before her a poor broken wretch,
with a bandage round his head, the back of
which was crushed in, and with an injured

spine. Had the skull alone been fractured,
the surgeon would have operated ; with the
broken spine it was useless. His eyelids were
half closed ; the glitter of the white of the
eyes could be seen beneath them. His breathing
was noisy, showing pressure on the brain.
The weak mouth was half open, shoving the
teeth. There was no beauty, no nobility in
the face, nothing to attract love.

Bessie had not so steadily and for long-looked
at him since he had betrayed and left
her. Now, as she studied him, in the bright
circle of light cast by the lamp, she thought
how wonderful it was that, after their long
separation, she should be with him again,
that he should be without a loving hand to
smooth his pillow, a tearful eye to watch for
his last breath.

In that very room, many, many years ago,
she had watched him when he was ill with
scarlet fever. Then she had insisted on being
his nurse, and she had attended him faithfully,
till she herself took the fever. When she was
ill, he did not come near her in the lodge.

She looked round the room. Old times
came back. She tried to trace the features of
the sick boy, laid on that same bed, in the
face of the dying man. The face was much
changed, and yet it was the same : the face is

the hieroglyph of the soul, the picture that
gives expression to the idea. Here, all
through life had been a cowardly, selfish, ignoble
mind ; and it had written its characters
in every line and curve of the commonplace
face.

As Bessie looked at him, her e3'es were dry,
a sternness was in them, and her brows were
set as were her lips. When she knew he was
injured and dying, she went to him. Who
had such a right as she? In the time of his
prosperity, she kept away ; but when he was
cast down and broken, she came to him, as
was natural.

As she stood, considering his face, her
mind ranged over the time they were together,
their childhood, the protection she had extended
to the feeble lad, and the love and
pity, the love that had sprung out of the pity
wherewith she had regarded him. She had
loved him. She had loved none but him, and
it seemed strani2^e to herself now that this
could have been.

Then she thought of the short happiness
of their married life, and then the agony of
her disenchantment. Now the hand that held
the lamp began to tremble, and the lights and
shadows about the sick man's face to dance ;
her hand trembled with wrath at the recollection

of the injustice done lier — done lier by
this man, lying before her.

The hand of God had sought and found
him, and punished him. She believed Cornell
is's story. What more probable than that
the sudden apparition of his son should make
Gabriel Gotham spring back, oblivious of the
gap behind him.^ Could he have seen him
appear and remain seated, unmoved? Her
heart was filled with conflicting emotions —
wrath at her wrong, pity for his condition.

That is true which I said to hun,' she
muttered ; ' the plant Forgiveness is hard to
strike, and difficult to get to flower.'

He had embittered, he had ruined her
whole life. She who had been so strong and
confident, had lost her hope in life after her
betrayal. Without any fault of her own, her
character had been blasted ; and a stain rested
on her son. She had scarce mentioned his
father to Eichard, and Eichard had refrained
from asking about him. He feared to know
all. She was a dishonoured woman in the eyes
of her son ; this wretched man on the bed had
put a barrier of suspicion between her son and
her. Eichard could not regard her with that
holy reverence that a son should have for a
mother whose name is without a spot.

She had had a hard battle to fight for some

years to maintain herself and lier child, too
proud to accept assistance from the Gotham
family. She. who might have been an honest
man's wife, ruling her house, surrounded by
her children, had been for long alone, poor, unhappy.
Indeed, she had a great debt of wrong
written up in her heart against this man she
was now looking at.

In physics, all forces are correlated ; heat
and light are but different phases of the same
force, which manifests itself now in one way,
then in another ; and heat translates itself into
light, and light relapses into mere heat. It is
the same in psychic. The various passions
are correlated, various manifestations of the
same energy. Love becomes momentarily
hate, but then sometimes as momentarily
reverts to love.

For nearly forty years Bessie Cable had
nursed her wrongs, and had eaten out her
heart with rage and gall ; and now, as she
looked at the cause of all her misery, the
bitterness rose up and overflowed her soul ;
but at the same moment, Gabriel opened his
eyes ; for one brief instant they seemed
to gather consciousness, and he muttered,
Bessie ! '

In a minute, all the hate, the wrath, were
gone. In a minute, love, pity, sweetness,

gushed hot and strong through her heart. It
is said that the Amazon is sometimes checked
by bells of weed that form across the river,
and weave into a vegetable felt, upwards,
downwards, athwart, and in and out, making
a dense impenetrable barrier ; and the mighty
stream, the main artery of a continent, is
arrested, and thrown back to inundate vast
tracts of land. Then, all at once it breaks its
chain of green, and the mighty volume sweeps
along its proper channel, carrying with it, in
fragments rolled over and torn to shreds, the
weedy belt. So is it with the human heart, so
was it now with that of gray-haired Bessie
Cable. Everything was forgotten — the wrongs,
resentment, privations, heartaches, the woven
and interlaced hedge of stubborn pride — all
went down and went away in a moment, and the
great natural artery of Love burst and poured
forth and suffused the poor wretch on his
deathbed — a creature as unconscious now of
what he received as he had ever been in-able
of valuing that precious flood.

Wondrous is the generosity, the power of
forgiveness in the human heart ! Mercy, says
Shakespeare, dropped as the gentle rain from
heaven upon the earth beneath ; but forgiveness
wells up from the deeps of the heart
itself It may be stamped down, and choked

and overpavecl, till it seems that it is no more
there ; and yet at last, at an unconsidered
moment, it breaks forth, it dissolves the hardest
crust, and flows in newness, all-embracingness,
purifying and refreshing.

Bessie was on her knees by the bed, and
the tears rolled down her aged cheeks. She
held the hand that had been given her once,
and been withdrawn from her. She looked
longingly at the dull eyes that had recognised
her for a moment, listened to hear again her
name coupled with a word of love from the
lips that had spoken.

The house was still that night. The servants
had gone to bed. Mr. Cornellis was in
his own room ; he was satisfied. In an hour
or two the inheritance would be his, and his
embarrassments at an end. Miss Judith was
quiet ; lie had got her sherry.

Bessie was glad that she was undisturbed,
that she was left alone with Gabriel that night
when he passed away — but did not pass till
the plant Forgiveness had flowered, and been
laid on his dead heart.

VOL. L

CHAPTEE XXI.

THE PILOT.

The funeral of Mr. Gabriel Gotham, J. P. — lie
never gained the distinction of Del. — was
fairly well attended. The coffin was preceded
by a detachment of police, walking two and
two, wearing white gloves ; and was followed
by the Cornellis family and by several of the
gentry of the neighbourhood. The coffin was
of polished oak, with brass mountings. The
church bell tolled ; and the pulpit and altar
and the family pew were in mourning. It
was a funeral so flattering to the vanity of the
dead man, that the wonder was he didn't rub
his hands in his coffin and cackle a pleased
laugh !

After the funeral, a few came back to the
Hall to partake of refreshments whilst their
carriages were being got ready. The rector
speedily took off his surplice and scarf and
curled up his black kid gloves, and came.
The lawyer of the deceased was also there, a

local man, who lived in Hanford, who made
out the leases for Mr. Gotham.

When the guests from a distance were
gone, and only the rector and the solicitor
remained, Justin Cornellis said with a sad
smile : ' It is, I suppose, usual on these
melancholy occasions to produce and read
the will; but Mr. Coxe no doubt is aware
of the arrangement made by my poor cousin.
I have the key of his bureau. The will is in
it, I believe. I will run upstairs and bring
it down, if Mr. Coxe would like to see it.
There is, however, no necessity ; I will have
it proved forthwith at Somerset House.'

I have it, sir,' said the lawyer.

You have it ! ' exclaimed Mr. Cornellis,
stopping short on his way to the door.

'Mr. Gotham made his will at my office
the day he met with his fatal accident ; in
fact, only a few hours before — perhaps not
more than an hour and a half previous.'

I beg your pardon ! Is this possible ?
With what object ? ' Mr. Cornelia looked
very blank.

Well, sir, I suppose he changed his
mind. I have the will here. It is short and
to the point. The rector and my clerk witnessed
it.'

1 came down to the beach,' said the

X 2

rector, ' when poor Gotham was there with
Miss Josephine inspecting a new vessel
just built by Grimes ; and he, poor fellow,
asked me to do him the favour of stepping
with him to the office of his solicitor. It
turned out that he wanted to make his will,
and get me to attest it. I suppose he felt
unwell that day ; had some premonition of
what would happen. I suspect the true explanation
of his fall is that he had a stroke,
and that is what made him lose his balance.
It was an odd coincidence his making a will
the same day he lost his faculties.'

Let me look at it,' said Cornellis, huskily.

Nothing can be simpler,' said the lawyer
Coxe. ' He has left everything to your
daughter, Miss Josephine — that is, to the
rector, myself, and Mr. Cable, in trust for
her, till she is of age, and not under coverture.
— I must ask that Miss Cornellis may be
present whilst I read the will, as it concerns
her more than any one else.'

'And — myself?' stammered the ex-missionary.


There is a hundred pounds apiece left tome,
sir, to the rector, and Cable, as executors
; goethe servants, a small remembrance.
That is all. You are not mentioned.'

Mr. Cornelia said no more. He rang the

bell for his daughter. He remained silent
whilst the will was being; read.

The rector and the solicitor left, and then
he was alone with Josephine. The calmness
he had assumed during the presence of the
two gentlemen deserted him. He became
limp in body and haggard in face. His usual
assurance and self-confidence were gone,
knocked down by this unexpected blow, and
he did not know what line to take. He felt
that his position was critical. The object of
the wretched old squire was clear to him.
Mr. Gotham had made Josephine his heiress
because he believed she Avould marry Eichard
Cable ; and he had so entangled her with
Cable, that it would not be easy for her to
break away without a slur remaining on her
character. This was why he had advanced
the money for the purchase of the boat, why
he had had it called the ' Josephine ' ; and
made the girl give it to Cable. This also
was why he had made him trustee with the
rector and Coxe.

He was no hero to his daughter ; he had
contemptuously flung away his natural opportunities
of gaining her respect and securing
her love ; and now he regretted this mistake,
because he was disappointed of his ambition
and made dependent on her. He had wasted

all the money his wife had brought ; nothing
of it remained, except what he could secure
from the insurance company, in compensation
for his house and goods consumed by
fire.

Well, Josephine,' he said, not looking her
in the face, ' luck smiles on you, and turns
her back on me. Look at poor Gotham's old
will. By it, everything fell to me ; and now,
at the last moment, when he was half-crazed,
lie went and made a fresh disposition of the
property. I might contest the new will ; indeed,
I have a mind to serve a caveat against
its being proved, till I have considered the
matter. The new will is so preposterous that
it cannot stand. Poor fellow ! He was off
his head when he made it. But it will not do
to have quarrels in families. It would bea
scandal if you and I were ranged against
one another in court ; and I propose a compromise.'


I think, papa, you had better settle that
with the trustees — Mr. Sellwood and Mr. Coxe
and Eichard Cable.'

He frowned. ' I can have nothing to do
with Mr. Sellwood, nor you either, since you
have refused his son ! No, Josephine ; I speak
as a father to a child. I want no law; I
want a fair arrangement between us. If you

satisfy me, I will withdraw my opposition to
the will.'

'I do not know what the property of poor
Cousin Gabriel is worth,' said Josephine.

About two thousand five hundred gross ;
but nett, nothing like that sum.'

'Papa, I will talk the matter over with
Eichard '

Richard ! ' he exclaimed. ' What the
deuce do you mean ? '

Pilchard Cable,' answered Josephine. ' I
have put myself in his hands. I did so when
I thought myself a poor girl ; now I am rich,
I cannot twist myself out of his hands.'

Oh, as to that,' said her father, ' give
yourself no concern ; I'll manage it. What
was absurd yesterday is impossible now.'

I did not mean that I could not extricate
myself, papa, but that I would not.'

Then you are a fool,' said he bluntly —
a greater fool than I conceived you to be.
The man is a vulgar sailor, talks broad Essex,
and blows his nose with his fingers.'

I beg your pardon, papa. He is a man
of honour and integrity — a gentleman at
heart.'

I do not profess to know his heart. If
his gentility is within, turn him inside. out,
please, before presenting him to me and the

world.' He langliecl contemptuously. ' I suppose
your mother-in-law will char for you —
nine pence a day with six meals and her beer.'

Josephine coloured.

'As for the snivelling babies,' he said
scornfully — ' insist on a free application of
soap, and the use of a tooth-comb before
introducing them into this house.' Then,
impatiently : ' Pshaw ! The thing is too
absurd. I cannot believe in such a climax
of folly as that my own daughter should
voluntarily set herself up to be the laughingstock
of the neighbourhood. I'll offer the
lout a hundred pounds to marry Betty the
scullery-maid, and get rid of him that way.'

Papa,' said Josephine, with a troubled
face, 'you cannot alter matters by talking
in that way. You drove me mad the other
day, and I tried to drown myself; then
Eichard saved me for the second time from
death. I had no one to whom to look for
succour, advice, comfort, and I turned to
him.'

There— there ! ' said Mr. Cornelia. ' Like
a Newfoundland dog, I suppose, he went into
the water after you. It does not follow that
because a dog draws you out of the water,
you are to worship and obey Ponto ever after ;
a pat and a bone will suffice for him. My

dear Josepliine, it is only in the fairy tale that
Beauty, when she marries the Beast, finds him
transform himself into a glittering Prince. In
real life, when Beauty thus descends, she
finds the Beast become infinitely and degradingly
more beastly.' Then, unable to keep
his temper any longer under semblance of
control, he left the room, took up his hat, and
walked through the garden, out at the gate,
and along the sewell to the Cables' cottage.
He walked in, after having rapped at the
door, with his hat on, and asked Mrs. Cable for
her son. She told him he was in the garden,
and he went through the house to him.

Good evening,' he said, a little roughly,
for his temper was nettled. ' I've come for a
word or two with you. — What is this Miss
Josephine tells me about her trying to drown
herself, and throwing herself on your protection
? '

Eichard stood up, and looked Mr. Cornellis
in the face gravely out of his clear
steady eyes. ' Has she told you aught about
it, sir? ' he asked.

Yes, she has — some rodomontade. I bei?
your pardon ; you probably do not understand
the word, and would be at a loss to
spell it. Some nonsense, I mean. She tumbled
into the mud, and you picked her out.'

Sir, it happened as Miss Josephine said.'

She entered into no particulars. She
was in one of her tall moods, giving herself
tiptoe airs. I do not care for the particulars.
How she got into the mud is naught to me ;
how she got out is more my concern. Did
she scramble out, or did you pull her out ? '

I brought her here, sir. She was in the
water, not in the mud.'

You brought her here ! Why not to her
home ? '

Because she refused to be taken home.'

And then she threw herself on you for
advice and protection — advice as to nothing,
protection against nobody. Not a soul desired
to hurt her, and it is a matter of no
importance what and who advised her, for she
is so headstrong that she will go only her own
way.'

What she asked me, sir,' said the sailor,
and what was said, are between herself and
me.'

You refuse to tell me what passed ? '

Miss Josephine spoke to me in confidence.'


There was something so offensive and
irritating in the tone of Mr. Cornellis, that
Eichard began to see how it was possible for
the poor girl to be worked into a condition of

exasperation by her father, such that she
should try to destroy herself.

The ex-missionary looked hard at the
sailor, who met his eye frankly.

'I do not know what tomfoolery my
daughter has been playing with you, but you
will please to understand that whatever she
said, she said in joke.'

Miss Josephine knows that best, sir. If
she spoke in joke — so ; if in earnest — so.' He
was not to be brow-beaten ; he was calm,
grave, and earnest.

I do not know how she expressed herself;
words are various in their meanings,
and a simple word lightly said may be taken
seriously, and have grave consequences. You
must distinctly understand, my man, that
Miss Cornelia has acted contrary to my wishes
in coming here to play with your brats —
children. There are children to be played
with on her own level of life, without stooping
to yours. — I mean no offence. Your
children may be very nice and dear and all
that sort of thing, but they are as apart from
the sphere in which my daughter moves as if
they belonged to the Dog-star.'

The stars are above,' said Cable coolly.

Mr. Cornellis was beating about the bush.
He did not want to admit that his daughter

had spoken seriously to him about an engagement
with Cable ; he desired to hear Cable's
version of the interview, and then to take his
course. But Eichard was reserved. Mr.
Justin Cornellis could get nothing out of him,
and was himself losing his temper.

Now, look here,' said he. ' My daughter
has made you a present of a boat. I advanced
the money. She gave it to you. I thought
it would seem to come more gracefully from
her ; but don't you build any ambitions on
that transaction. She owed you a debt, and
has paid it ; and she is now quit. I dare say
she has said some nonsense to you since.
Girls have no control over their fancies and
tongues. — Mind you, my good fellow, I object
to her coming here. If she returns, she will
incur my severe displeasure ; and I warn you
that no serious intention lurks behind her
words.'

What words, sir ? '

Any words she may have said.'

Cable considered a moment, then he said
with self-restraint : ' Sir, I have listened to
what you have said ; but I can't make much
out of it. You don't wish the young lady to
come here to see my kids ; very well, sir.
She shall not come if I can help it. I would
not have one of my little gh^ls disobey me ;

and if I led your daughter into disobedience,
I should expect to be punished in like manner
in my own children. — But, sir. Miss Josephine
spoke to me when she was much in earnest
and was very unhappy. I know well we be
of different build. She's a clipper yacht, and
I a coal-barge ; but that is neither here nor
there. She appealed to me, and I answered
her. If she meant naught by it, I am content.
I will go with you to the Hall, sir, and see
her in your presence, and she shall tell me
what she means. Whichever way she decides,
I am content.'

As the two men turned to leave the garden
by the way of the bridge, Josephine herself
appeared from under the willows, crossed the
plank, opened the wicket, and came towards
them.

I knew papa had come here,' she said ;
so I have followed.'

I am glad you are on the spot,' said Mr.
Cornellis — but his looks belied his words — ■
that you may hear what I have been saying
to Mr. Cable. I have told him that you have
used random words to him, the purport of
which I know, though I do not know the
exact expressions used. You were excited at
the time, possibly light-headed. Your words
are not to be taken at the foot of the letter.

What you said in heat you regret in cool. A
lady is always allowed to change her mind ;
and circumstances having altered, you have
altered your purpose. — You will understand,
Mr. Cable, that the girl is not of age.'

Papa,' said Josephine, turning to him,
and then to Cable, ' Eichard — I can now say
to both what must be said. I am not a
weathercock. When I give my word I stick
to it. I put myself in the hands of Eichard
Cable, and asked him to direct the course of
my life, when I felt that I had lost confidence
in you, papa — in every one ; when I believed
myself to be a poor girl without a penny.
Mr. Cable does not know what has happened
to alter my circumstances ; that, however,
does not alter my purpose, but intensifies my
resolution. If before, when I was poor and
without responsibilities, I wanted a help, now
that I am well off, and am likely to have
many responsibilities, I shall need assistance
much more. He is the only man to whom I
can look with perfect trust, and to him I still
turn. I do not wish to reproach you, papa ;
but as you have mismanaged my little fortune
left me by my mother, I do not wish you to
play ducks and drakes with that bequeathed
to me by my cousin. Besides, he did not
appoint you executor and trustee, but he

appointed Eichard Cable. There is no one —
no one to whom I can look up as I look upto
him. I dare say my choice will shock the
neighbourhood ; but I do not care : I must
seek my own happiness and welfare above
everything else. When a poor creature is
drowning, she clings to the spar that is floating
near her, and which she knows will sustain
her, and does not apologise to the hencoops
and empty barrels drifting around that she
does not lay hold of them instead of the spar.'

Mr. Cornellis turned livid. ' Take care,
Josephine ; you almost persuade me that a
lunatic asylum is your proper home.'

I ask Eichard Cable to protect me. He
will see that I am not spirited avfay to a madhouse.
— I am sorry,' she continued, ' very
sorry, not at all glad, that Cousin Gotham has
made me his heiress. I had ten thousand
times rather have been a poor man's wife, in
such a position that the road of duty was
straight and clear before me. Now I fear my
way will be less obvious ; but I shall have
one to steer me who is the best of pilots.'
She extended her hand to Eichard.

End OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Spottisicoode d- Co. Printers, Neic-strcet Square, London.

3 0112 040259373

i>»

fel

I E) R Ari

OF Thou

N Diversity

or Ill Noise

82.3
Ba38r

VOL. II.

THE LIGHTSHIPMAN

BY THE AUTHOR OF

MEHALAH' 'JOHN Heeding ' ' Colet Royal

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON

SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved]

p. 1

'H^

CONTENTS

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER XXn.

HOME !

As Josepliine lead made up lier inind, and
neither her father nor her aunt could move
her to alter it, and the rector, from motives
of delicacy, forbore giving his advice, the
marriage was hurried on, and took place
within three months of the funeral of Gabriel
Gotham. As it must be. argued Mr. Cornellis,
the sooner it was over the better. To the
great astonishment of the neighbourhood, Josephine
was married almost as soon as gossip
got wind that she purposed marriage. No
sooner was she married, than she departed
with her husband in the new boat, the ' Josephine,'
for a cruise to Holland and Heligoland
and the Danish coast.

The neighbourhood was in some com-vol.

II. B

motion, and consulted what was to be done.
Such a case had not occurred before. Miss
Cornell was a hide ; Eichard Cable, a common
man. It was true that not much was
known of the antecedents of Mr. and Miss
Cornelia ; but they were related to Squire
Gotham, and she had inherited the Hanford
estate. What was to be done ? Were Mr.
and Mrs. Cable to be called upon? How
could the acquaintance with Mr. Cornellis be
maintained, if the neighbourhood agreed to
ignore the Cables ? Metaphorically, every one
looked at every one else to know what everyone
else would do ; and what every one else
did, that every one else was prepared to
indorse. What a pack of moral cowards
makes up Society ! It is a herd of timorous
sheep, bleating to one another to know
whether the gap in the hedge is to be passed
or not ; and when the general consensus is
arrived at — heaven knows how — where none
will take the initiative, all run at the hedge-gap
together, and wedge each other, in their
eagerness to be not the last to push through.
Sometimes a whole flock will hover about a
gap, turning their stupid heads about to see
whether they are surrounded by their fellow-sheep,
and baaing queries to them. What is
to be done ? backing a little now, when the

sheep in front are bumped back by others ;
then pushing forward, because the sheep in
front ease away a little nearer the gap. Then
an old ewe conies up and runs through, and
in a moment all follow. The old ewe in the
society round Hanford was Lady Brentwood,
whom formerly Gabriel Gotham had admired.
Bless me ! ' said Lady Brentwood, ' she's
not committed a sin. Lie's a right to please
herself; some like apples, others like onions.
I shall call.'

Then all Hanford society said : ' We will
call.' And Hanford society having decided
to call, went headlong to do so, before the
return of the bride and bridegroom. Society
said that it was its duty to call at the Hall
after the death of Mr. Gotham ; and Society
was mightily inquisitive to know what
Mr. Cornellis thought of his daughter's marriage,
or rather, what sort of a face he put
on it.

Mr. Cornellis had a hold on that section
of society which esteemed itself pious, for he
was perfectly familiar with, all the tricks
whereby well-intentioned, simple, easily persuaded
persons can be taken by the nose and
led to the grindstone. He knew also low to
make them hold their own noses to the grindstone,
and smile sickly smiles, and give the

signal to him to turn the handle. But he
was not without influence with quite another
section. He could tell a good story, was interested
in horses, did not object to a bet,
played billiards well, and was esteemed a
good fellow, without an atom of cant or humbug
in him. Now the sporting men argued
that Cornellis would be sure to influence his
daughter, and it would be the deuce of a pity
if she did not pay to the hunt as liberal a
subscription as the old squire. Then again,
these Cables had a yacht, and it would be
agreeable to be invited for a cruise ; so they
would call, and see to it that their Womankind
did likewise.

In early summer, there is an insect with
eyes out of all proportion to its body, of a
sickly colour, that attacks carnations, pinks,
and other soft-wooded garden plants. It is
provided with a proboscis, which it drives into
the heart of the stalk on which it alights, and
through this proboscis it taps the plant of its
sap. The creature works itself up and down on
its long hind-legs like a pump, and it succeeds
in pumping the vital juices out of the plant,
and throwing them in a mass of froth, like
spittle, around itself. As this so-called Cuckoo-spittle
insect acts on garden-flowers so do our
neighbours act on us, and we in turn act on

them. When anything interesting and gossip-producing
happens in our families, they come
to us, attach themselves, drive their little tubes
down some weak, soft joint, and suck out all
the information they desire, and throw out
what they have abstracted from us in a world
of frothy chatter round them. If we are very
shrewd and on our guard, it is interesting to
watch these aphides trying us with their
j^ipes — tap, tap here, and tap, tap there ; and
if we wince by ever so much, in they go, up
they kick their hind-legs, and work the pump
as if they were extracting for themselves the
elixir of life. But if we present to them an
impenetrable skin, it by no means follows that
they do not make froth-bubbles about us, only,
instead of bleeding us, they extract all the
requisite liquor from their own imaginations.
It is almost incredible how very little liquor
will spread into a very large bubble. An
aphis will in a few minutes surround itself
with a fi^lobe of foam a hundred times its own
diameter, and our social cuckoo-spittle insects
are not behind the insect in their powers of
making mountains out of nothing?.

A good many of these aphides of society
came about the Hall during the time that the
Cables were away, to condole with Mr. and
Miss Cornellis on the death of Gabriel Gotham,

and to congratulate them on the marriage of
Josepliine. How they drove their taps ! How
they Worked at the pumps, how they explored
all the joints of the brother and sister ! What
froth bubbles of gossip they exuded ! Mr.
Cornellis was not easily sucked ; but Aunt
Judith was less impenetrable.

Mr. Cornelia met all With a bonhomie and
assumed frankness which turned every proboscis
up. ' Girls are romantic creatures.
Unfortunately, Gotham left her everything.
That upset completely a head already disturbed
by her nautical adventure. She had a
foolish but generous idea that as she owed her
life to the worthy fellow who had saved her
in the great storm, she must devote that life
to him. I will say this for him : he seemed
overwhelmed With the gift, and half disposed
to run away Avhen it Alas proffered. The
bequest of Gotham emancipated her from my
control. Alas ! girls — children generally, in
this declining nineteenth century, are not
obedient to their parents, but self-filled and
self-determining. It AA^as in Again for me to
remonstrate. The cfirl had her hio^li-soarin^^
ideas, and they carried her away. We must
make the best of a bad job ; and I shall ask
my dear friends and neighbours to assist mein
heightening to Josephine the Humiliation and

disappointment wliicli await her, and to exercise
towards her and Cable that forbearance
which I feel will be necessary.'

There was something grotesque in the way
in which the visitors inquired after the Cables.
They pat their questions, made their remarks
in a tentative manner, as if they did not know
how to approach the subject with delicacy.
It was as though Mr. or Miss Cornellis were
troubled with a boil, and the public mind was
uncertain where the boil was situated, and
whether it was consistent with strict propriety
to inquire as to the condition of the boil ;
whether it were not most judicious to ignore
it, and observe the movements of the party
suspected of suffering from it, what sort of
faces he drew when sitting or standing or
leaning, and" to speak cheerfully on ordinary
subjects, and not seem to observe the anguish
and pallor and twinges of the patient ; but to
be dogmatic upon the situation and condition
of the boil to all the neighbourhood, when out
of the house.

What a pitiful world we live in ! How infinitely
helpful we are to one another in the
burying of family skeletons ! We call on each
other and take afternoon tea with each other,
and know all the while that our hostess is
covering with her skirts the unearthed bones,

which she has been sorting and shivering over
till she heard our carriage-wheels, when she
dropped them all on the floor and kicked
them under the chair. We know they are
there, and we give the table-cover a little pull,
to make it conceal a ghastly hand that is
thrust out, and which our hostess does not
see to be exposed. And we chirp about the
weather, and laugh over some little local
gossip, and go into admiration of the exquisite
flowers on the table, so sweetly fragrant ;
while the smell of mouldering bones rises up
and overwhelms the otto-like scent of the
Jules le Fere in the vase. How daintily we
tread in our conversation among the dead
mtn's bones that strew the ground of our
neighbour; and how, if we happen to touch
one, we stoop and scrape the earth together
over it, laughing and chattering about matters
indifferent, pretending that we are picking
daisies ! How persistently, when we are dining
with cur friend, we turn our back to the
cupboard in which we know the skeleton is,
and put up our eye-glasses to admire the
picture opposite, and the china on the cabinet
en this side and on that side of the one cupboard,
and do not observe the existence of
that cue cupboard ! How quickly, if seme
other incautious guest approaches it With

inquisitive eye, we set our backs against it,
and use every ingenious effort to divert this
attention to other objects ! What a fit of
sneezing takes us, and makes us turn away
our eyes, when our friend, incautiously pulling
out his handkerchief, lets fall a bone ; and
whilst we turn our eyes and noses away into
our own pocket-handkerchiefs, we know he is
picking up and concealing that bone inadvertently
exposed ! Is it said that every man
has a skeleton in his closet? That proverb
but ^ half expresses the truth ; every man has
the bones all about him — in his breast-pocket,
in his fob, in his purse, in the lining of his hat,
in the tails of his coat, in the toes of his boots,
like the Pilgrim in ' Intra.' It were well
for him if he could confine his skeleton to the
cupboard. But skeletons refuse to be so confined
; they come to pieces, however well
wired together the joints maybe, and disperse
their fragments everywhere, playing us grim
practical jokes, turning up from under our
pillow, dropping on us from the ceiling,
tripping us up as we are stepping downstairs,
lying beside our plates when we expect to
take hold of a knife or fork handle. That is
why we are so dependent on the goodwill and
courtesy of others, and have to ask them to
put their feet on our bones, or turn their

heads aside a moment-wlieii they turn up
inadvertently.

Pitiful and considerate though we may be
when in the presence of our friend, our pity
and consideration fall off us the moment we
have left him. Then we run to our other
neighbours and call them together, and peep
and whisper, and point where the bones are
hidden, and tell their nature and condition ;
and put out rakes, and scrape them out of the
earth, or rap at the walls and knock holes
through which we may peep at the grinning
skulls behind. How the nature of these bones
chancres according; as we look at them in the
presence of the owner or of others ! In his
society we scarce see them, and hide our eyes ;
but when we draw them out and turn them
over in social talk with others, what merry-thoughts
and funny-bones they prove to us !
How we titter over them ! What figures we
build up out of them ! how we dress them
with grotesqueness ! How we treasure them !
If we happen to carry off a neighbour's skeleton
bone, we are not like selfish dogs that
run and bury their bones lest others should
bite them also ; but we go generously about
the bone to every kennel Avithin our run,
and show the bone to every dog, and invite
him to snuff at it, and take a nibble and play

with it, rolling it over, pawing it, licking it,
tossing it about. Then snap ! we have caught
our bone, and away Ave go with it to the next
kennel to repeat the same generous sport.

Mr. Cornellis was far too well versed in
the ways of the world to attempt to conceal
his skeleton, to affect ignorance of its existence.
He brought it out ; he dressed it up ; he exposed
it to the full view of every visitor ; he
said as much as : ' Don't content yourselves
with a bone of it. Carry the whole ghastly
thing away with you in your carriages, beside
you ; or perch it on your saddle, if you are
riding ; and sit behind and hold it up, and
show it to every one, pickering and nodding
its hideous head, as you go through] the streets.
Or, if you are walking, unhitch all the joints,
and stow it away about you. Fill your coat-tail
pockets ; stuff your hat with it ; cram it
into your waistcoat ; open your mouth and
choke your cheeks with it ; extend your
hands, and grab all you can of it ; leave none
behind ; take all Avitli you, and be welcome.'
Dom Pedro of Portugal, v/hen he ascended
the throne, dug up Nez de Castro, to whom
he had been secretly married, and had her
skeleton arrayed in royal robes, and crowned
and enthroned in the cathedral choir ; then
summoned all the nobility and clergy and

courtiers to do liomasfe to and kiss the withered
hand of the corpse. And Mr. Cornelia brought
forth his skeleton, and invited every one to see
it, and commiserate him openly on being encumbered
with it, and even to join with him
in a dismal joke over its existence.

His conduct in the matter took the sting
and spice out of it, put the neighbourhood in
good-humour, and prepared it to accept Josephine
as one who had made a blunder, and
must be helped to repent it. Cable would be
quietly snubbed and thrust aside ; his wife
made much of, and pardoned, if she consented
to keep her husband in the background ; or,
what v7ould be better still — at sea.

Mr. Cornellis had considered well what
was best to be done, and by the time the
young couple returned, all the country round
was ripe to receive thei on the terms he
proposed.

The ' Josephine ' arrived at Stanford a day
or two before she was expected. A sailing-yacht
does not come into port to the day like
a steamer, nor can the best of vessels be
punctual to a minute, as a train is supposed
to be. The bride had written to her aunt to
say in what week she would be home ; but
instead of arriving at the end of the week,
as Miss Judith expected, the boat came in

at the beginning. None of the servants of
the Hall were on the beach to receive her ;
her father and aunt were away that day
making purchases at Walton, and did not
know that the vessel had been sighted by the
coastguard. Though her own relations and
servants were not awaiting her, Josephine
found that Eichard had his friends on the
shore, ready to shake hands with him, pat
him on the back, and ask with a ' Halloo !
old chap ! ' how he got along.

There was Joe Marriage, in wading-boots
up to his thighs, and a dirty jersey of faded
blue darned with black and brown, and a
sour-wester hat. His hands were fishy ; he
had been handling oysters. ' Well, Dick !
Brought your missus home ? Look alive, and
introduce us to the lady.' Then, extending a
very dirty flat hand, he grasped and shook
that of Josephine : ' Glad to see ye, ma'am.
Going to make a gentleman of Dick, are ye ?
'Taint possible, say L'

Then up came Sam Bucket, and slapped
Josephine on the shoulder. ' So, missus I
you're back right with your chap. Not
made him look much thinner. Which is it
to be ? Are you a-going to haul Dick Cable
up to your level, or be you a-coming down to
our ? '

A gawky young fisherman, Tom Dowse,
came staggering up with a pail of shrimps
and set it down at Josephine's feet. ' There,
my dear,' he said. ' You may take it home
and sup on it, and be heartily welcome.'

Come, missus,' said Jonas Flinders, who
was half drunk, ' you're one of us now, you
know, and so shake a flapper. No damned
airs ; ' and then he made a broad joke which
brought the colour to Josephine's cheek.
The rest laughed ; Eichard did not hear it ;
he was shaking hands and receiving congratulations
from one of the coastguard, a
few paces off. Jonas meant no offence ; he
would have used the same coarse expression
before his own wife and daughters unrebuked.
It was customary in his class of life
for men and women and lasses to be outspoken,
and not mealy-mouthed and nice
about what was said or heard.

Josephine drew back. She was offended,
and one or two of the others saw she could
not stomach such talk ; so they explained
that Jonas was fresh, and when fresh, a
loose-tongued chap, but good-hearted, and a
fine sailor.

If some of you will carry my traps to the
Hall,' said Josephine stiffly, ' you shall be paid
for it.'

hang it ! ' said one, ' we'll carry your
parcels without payment ; but we'll make so
free as to ask you to give us a glass of grog
in your kitchen to drink your health and success
to your voyage of life with Dick for your
captain.'

Josephine again looked round for her
husband ; but as he did not come to her, she
moved away towards her home. One of the
men had her bundle of rugs ; another hoisted
a portmanteau on his shoulder ; a third carried
a roll of umbrellas, waterproofs, and a
yellow railway novel ; and a fourth tucked a
tin bonnet-box under his arm. The tiresome,
tipsy Jonas would keep near her and talk ina
familiar manner, and diffuse about him an
odour of stale tobacco and beer. Escorted
by these men, sensible that she cut a ridiculous
figure, annoyed by the well-intentioned
importunities of Jonas, vexed that none of
her own servants were at the landing-place
to receive her parcels, Josephine approached
her home not in the best of tempers. As she
entered the grounds, her father and aunt
arrived in an open carriage. He was driving ;
and he drew up and waited, with an amused
expression, till she came near, when Jonas,
tripping on the stone in the entrance gates
that received the bolt of the double doors,

sprawled in lier way at lier feet, and sent the
pail of shrimps he carried over, so that the
creatures were scattered in all directions over
the drive. His accident elicited a general
roar. Josephine turned a deeper colour than
the shrimps.

Where is Mr. Cable ? ' she asked impatiently.


Lor, missus ! ' shouted Jonas, trying in
vain to recover his upright position, ' dang it
he's gone after his kids, o' course, like a
loving father to his poor orphans.'

Come along, my men,' said Mr. Cornellis,
with a laugh which cut Josephine like a knife.
Found to the back-door, please, and I will
order you all out some ale. The front-door
is only for Mr. Cable, by permission of his
wife.'

CHAPTER Xxii.

HOME ?

We dine at half-past seven. The rector and
Mrs. Selhvood are coming. They have that
French Countess staying with them.'

Very well, papa. — Are those dreadful
men gone ? '

Hark ! They are giving you three cheers.
They will have to carry Jonas Fingers away
in a wheelbarrow. He was tipsy when he
came. He's a relation of Eichard's, is he
not ? '

No, papa,' said Josephine, colouring.
Eichard has no relations here.'

I am glad of that. I made a mistake.
He is a kinsman of the first Mrs. Cable —
brother, if I am not misinformed, of the deceased
Polly. I am glad the tie is no more
than that. It would have been awkward to
have a drunken brother-in-law, or something
of that sort, demanding his entree. Even as
it is, I foresee some awkwardness — he will

VOL. II. C

come to visit Eicliard, if lie does not force his
presence on you. It will be as well to let him
understand always to go round to the back
when he calls.'

An hour passed before Eichard Cable came
to the Hall. He hesitated about entering by
the front and without ringing. He suddenly
felt that he was in an awkward position. His
wife was Squires of Hanford, lady of the
manor ; the mansion belonged to her, and he
he would not be master in the house, and in
that great house would probably feel uncomfortable.
Home to him was a cottage with a
big back garden, and a vine running over the
low roof, a kitchen in which the meals were
not only cooked but also eaten, and a little
bedroom with the stairs opening into it ; and
a lean-to roof where all the rafters showed.
He stood in the porch, supported on pillars,
put his hand before his mouth, and coughed.
The glass window was open, and he looked
into the hall ; it had a polished oak floor
inlaid in patterns. There was a billiard-table
in it. There were carved cabinets, with
yellow and blue Japanese vases on them, and
crimson cloth curtains before the staircase
which opened out of the hall. Mr. Cable
ventured a little way within and coughed
again. Then, frightened at his own voice, he

retreated into the porch, and examined the
white jessamine that trailed up it. If he were
to go in — he would not know his way about
the house. It seemed too absurd to ring the
bell, and hardly proper for him to go round
to the kitchen.

Eichard Cable was a shy man when out of
his proper element and among those he did
not know intimately. Brave at sea and in
any peril, he was timid on land when placed
in situations with which he was unacquainted.
He was a humble man, with much self-diffidence,
and only strong when he thought he
was doing his duty. As he stood in the door,
duty was neither before him nor behind him,
on this side, nor on that ; and he was perplexed.
He put his nose to the jessamine,
and thrust his hands into his pockets. He
knitted his brows and considered. Now lie
wished he had come along with Josephine
directly after landing ; then he could have
entered the house at her side and taken his
proper place ; but the strong hunger in his
heart to see and clasp the dear golden heads
]had carried him away, and he had missed his
proper opportunity.

Something must be done, he said, and
drew his nose away from the jessamine. He
pulled his right hand out of his pocket, took

c 2

off this glazed hat, and walked boldly into the
hall, where he began to hnm a tune, and he
hung up his hat on the peg near the door.
He snuffed up a pleasant odour. It is a remarkable
phenomenon that the smell of dinner
invariably goes where it is not wanted, and
where it ought not to be. It is not smelt in
the kitchen, where it is cooked ; but it travels
into the bedrooms ; it pervades the staircases ;
it penetrates to the drawing-room ; and it
meets those who are about to partake of the
dinner, at the entrance of the house. Architects
rack their brains, engineers scheme, to
circumvent the smell of dinner — all in vain.
It will not be circumvented. It has been
known to come out of the house by the
kitchen chimney, scramble down the roof, and
take up a position, from which nothing can
drive it away, a quarter of a mile off at the
lodge gates. Now, if it were only the vanilla
flavouring of the blanc-mange, or the cinnamon
for the stewed pears, or the ratafia for
the trifle, that thus announced itself, no one
would object ; but these delicate essences are
elbowed away and down-trodden by the
coarser savours of boiled cabbage and cauliflower.
Woe betide the householder if he
keeps pigs, and his factotum induces him to
boil potatoes for the sty. The smell of those

potatoes becomes a thick reek in every portion
of his house ; and by that perversity
which orders the events of life, the pig potatoes
are certain to be boiling when distinguished,
even titled, visitors call on us, and
it sends them away after a curtailed call,
impressed with the belief that our sewers are
out of order.

Eichard Cable was hungry ; and the smell
that saluted his nose was grateful. He thought
at once, with a softening of the heart, that
Josephine had considered him, and was doing
a chop or a rasher for him. His mother had
desired to detain him, and had promised him
supper ; but he would not stay with her,
because he thought his duty called him to
the side of Josephine. As he was venturing
hesitatingly across the hall, he heard a door
slam, heard a step, and at once, overwhelmed
with terror, ran back to the porch, but not
before the butler had caught sitdit of him,
and came after him, with a : ' Now, then !
What are you doing here ? Trying to take
off a greatcoat, eh ? One of them drunken
rascals as have been in the kitchen, I'll be
bound.'

I beg your pardon,' said Eichard, standing
still, and becoming red as fire, whilst his
nether limbs shook ; ' I'm — I'm the husband

of Miss Josephine, sir. That is — sir, I'm Mr.
Eichard Cal3le.'

I'm very sorry, sir, very sorry,' said the
butler, this face altering immediately. ' I did
not see at first ; I thought it Alas an intruder,
and I wasn't sure what he might be up to. — -
sir, here come the rector and the ladies.'

The door was darkened by the arrival of
the guests.

There's dinner, sir, immediate, if you'd
run upstairs and dress. I'll tell cook to put
it off five minutes.'

Dress ! ' exclaimed Eichard, startled, and
casting a hasty glance about himself to see if
by accident any portion of his garments had
not been put on.

Upstairs, right-hand side of passage, first
door, is your dressing-room, sir,' said the
butler, covering him from the visitors.

But I don't want a dressing-room, sir ! '
remonstrated Eichard. ' I'm in my togs.'

What ! Cable ! ' called the rector, coming
forward. ' Did not expect you here. Did
not know that you had returned ; wish you
joy and happiness. But — I see just off the
water, and I'm detaining you from dressing.'

Eicliard ascended the stairs in a puzzled
state of mind, and walked on the side, not in
the middle, lest he should dirty the pretty red

carpet that ran down the stairs. When lie
came to the top, he looked about hmi. ' First
door on right hand,' he said, and went to one,
but was doubtful whether it were the rio-ht
door, for the butler had said something about
a passage. He saw no passage. He stood
hesitatingly at the door and coughed. Then
he put his hand on the handle, but doubted
whether he ought to open, fearing this might
be the wrong room, so he coughed again and
tapped faintly at the door. Instantly it flew
open, and Josephine appeared in white satin
with lace and orange flowers, and a few pearl-gray
silk bows, as a compliment to the memory
of Cousin Gabriel, as an acknowledgment
that she was in mourning. She looked very
lovely in her evening dress ; it was her bridal
dress made into one for the evening.

Good gracious, Eichard ! you're not
dressed ! ' she exclaimed, and stepped back.

Not dressed ! ' he said With a stupid stare.
You're the third person who has said this,
and 5^et — I — I can't believe it. I know I amin
my togs.'

Eichard ! how late you are. Be quick
you will keep everyone waiting. Do dress.'

Dress ! ' he exclaimed, becoming desperate.
'What more will you have? Shall I
put on my greatcoat ? '

Good gracious ! ' said Josephine, putting
lier hand to her chin, ' merciful heavens ! I
don't believe 5- ou have got any clothes ! '

Feel me,' said Eichard, ' if you cannot
believe your eyes. I've got my suit on.'

But not your dress suit. Goodness !
what is to be done ! I never thought about
a set of evening clothes for you. I really supposed
you might have provided all that for
yourself.'

I've got the frock coat in which I was
married,' said Cable, ' and the lavender ,
and a yellow nankeen waistcoat.
What more do you want P '

Get into that,' said Josephine hastily ;
there is no help for it. I really must go
down. The rector and Mrs. Sellwood have
come.'

About ten minutes later, Eichard Cable
was heard coughing outside the drawing-room
door. He was shy of entering, and stuck
there hesitating, hearing the voices within, till
the butler came to his aid and precipitated
him into the parlour. Then he stood bewildered,
looking vacantly about him, till the
rector came to his aid and conveyed him into
the middle of the room.

Josephine looked keenly at him, and almost
wished he had come in his dark-blue sailor

suit, which became him, instead of cutting
the preposterous figure he did. In his nautical
dress, he looked so handsome, such a
frank, manly fellow, so every inch one of
nature's gentlemen ; but now — in the black
frock coat and lavender trousers, uncomfortable,
shy, ungainly — and — horror of
horrors! without having chased his shirt,
with the old coarse linen collar and front,

clean but crumpled — and — and Josephine

was in the midst of a conversation in French
with the Countess de Barouche, whom the
Ellwood had brought with them, dien she
lost the thread, forgot what she was saying,
forgot the subject about which she was conversing,
in her consternation at the figure her
husband cut among well-dressed ladies and
gentlemen.

Dinner is served,' said the butler.

She recovered herself at once, and said to
the Countess : ' We are just off the water. Our
yacht only arrived a few hours ago, and we
have to ask your indulgence if we appear in
picnic guise.'

Then she saw Aunt Judith looking at her,
and the rector came over towards her. She
was startled. She had forgotten that she, not
her aunt, was the lady of the house. Her
father turned to Richard Cable, and said : ' It

is your place, Mr. Cable, to take in the
Countess — will you lead the way ? '

Josepliine cast an appealing look at lier
father ; but he took no notice of it.

Eichard was obliged to give his arm to the
French lady and lead the way. He was followed
by Mr. Cornellis with Mrs. Sellwood ;
then came Captain Sellwood and Aunt Judith ;
lastly, the rector and the bride.

Captain Sellwood maintained an imperturbable
face. He would not have come, had he
known that Josephine had returned. Mr.
Cornellis had begged him to make one of the
quiet diner that evening, quite a family party,
no strangers. In the little society of Hanford,
scarce a greek passed without a small dinner
of this sort, cosy little dinners, where old
friends met again and again at each other's
houses. As the Cornellis family were in
mourning, recent mourning, of course they
gave no parties ; but these small unceremonious
dinners did not count.

"When Eichard, with the French lady on
his arm, arrived in the hall, he stood still,
put his hand to his mouth and coughed.
By George,' he said, ' I don't know the
bearings.'

This way, sir,' explained the obsequious
butler, moving at the dining-room door. Then :

Excuse me, sir ; you're at the wrong end of
the table — up the room, sir.'

We shall get right at last, ma'am,' said
Eichard to his companion. ' I hope you're
as ready as I am to play a good knife and
fork.'

Mais ! malheureusement ! monsieur, je ne
parle que fort peu Anglais.'

A goose was in front of Richard. He stood
up to carve it, and turned back his cuffs. ' I
daresay the old lady is hungry,' he said to
himself in his kindly thoughts. ' I'm sure in
her foreign country she don't get such solid
food as in England. We didn't, I know ; ' so
he helped her to the leg of the goose.

'Mais, monsieur, je vous prie ! — c'est un
peu trop ! '

Too much ? ' So he sliced the leg in half,
and served her the drumstick.

There's stuffing, sir,' said the butler confidentially
in his ear.

Is there, sir ? ' answered Eichard. ' How
the blazes am I to get at it ? It is not often
we've had a chance of carving a goose, I can
tell you.'

Josephine looked on in terror, lest he
should splash the gravy about the table,
possibly over the Countess ; but Eichard had
a hand at once too firm and create for that.

Tlioiigli lie had no great experience in carving,
lie managed fairly well, only that he gave
enormous helj^ings to every one, generous helpings,
because he wished all to have enough,
and he measured all appetites by his own.

He made a few attempts at conversation
with the Countess, but could not succeed ; her
knowledge of English was rudimentary, his
knowledge of French was nil.

Josephine was fortunately saved the effort
of making conversation at her end of the table,
because she sat by the rector, who could and
did talk whenever he had a chance. She was
at leisure, whilst half-listening to his voice, to
watch her husband's face. It wore its usual
kind and honest expression, but it was troubled.
He was uncomfortable, willing to do his best,
desirous to do his duty, but ignorant as to
what he ought to do, and bewildered by the
strangeness of the situation in which he found
himself

Even whilst speaking to the rector, Josephine's
eyes became dim with a mixed emotion
— vexation that Eichard should cut such
an absurd figure, and pity for him, because
she knew he was suffering. Then she felt her
brow become warm, for the great solemn eyes
of the captain — after having rested on Eichard
for a moment whilst he finished this gravy with

his knife, putting it into his mouth — turned
and looked at Josephine, and at once dropped.

Dick will need some taking in hand,'
thought Josephine ; ' he is better at sea than
on land.'

If Eichard Cable had been a bumptious
man, one with much self-assurance, he would
have talked and joked and drunk his wine
and felt quite at his ease, and gone to bed
believing that he had made a good impression
on the company ; but Eichard was a
modest man, always mistrustful of himself
where he did not see his way, very sensitive,
and somewhat alive to the ridiculous. He
was, though he did not know it, so thoroughly
a gentleman at heart, that he shrank from
intruding where he was unqualified to take
his place. Now, in society, into which he
was cast headlong, at a dinner, of a sort
with which he was quite unfamiliar, dressed
differently from the other gentlemen, and
knowing that he did not look well in his
clothes, he was troubled and frightened, and
only partly recovered himself when the ladies
had left the room, and the rector took his
glass and came over to the end by Cable, ashe
did not attempt to come to the rector's
herd. The rector was a man of the world,
and could get on with any one. He at once

began to speak about the cruise in the yacht,
and having got Eichard on a familiar subject,
with great forbearance encouraged Cable to
talk, instead of doing all the talking himself.

When Cable spoke of anything that he
understood he spoke well, straightforwardly
and intelligently. The rector kept him in the
dining-room a long time. He was interested
in the cruise of the ' Josephine.' Perhaps he
saw that it was a kindness to keep his host
there, conversing on what he could talk about,
instead of bringing him into the drawing room
and the society of the ladies.

'Shall we rejoin the ladies?' asked Mr.
Cornellis.

No hurry, Cornellis,' answered the rector.
'What capital port this is ! I'll have another
glass. Mrs. Sellwood must be allowed her
nap.'

When, about eleven o'clock, the guests
were gone, and Mr. Cornellis and Aunt Judith
had retired, then for the first time since they
had landed, Josephine and Eichard were alone
together. She closed the piano and blew out
some of the candles and turned down the
lamp. Eichard was standing at the chimney-piece
with one hand on the marble mantelshelf,
looking at the French ormolu clock.
His head was slightly bent ; he was immersed

in thought, just as many a time he lead stood
at ni«^ht restmf^ his hand on the bulwarks of
his hghtship in a dream.

What is it, Eichard ? ' asked Josephine,
going up to him.

I was thinking — it is half-past eleven —
of the little bedroom at home where mother
and all my children are now asleep, and the
angels watch them.'

Home ! ' said Josephine reproachfully.
This now is your home. Is it not beautiful?'


This — home ! ' Ke looked round with
dazed eyes. ' Home ? '

Of course, Eichard.'

Home ? ' He shook his head. ' K I was
dead and gone to another world, I reckon at
first I should feel a bit muddled. In time,
maybe, it will come — not all at once.' And
as he went upstairs, he wondered in his heart
whether he could ever come to feel there — in
that grand house, among those strange people
at home.

CHAPTER Xxii.

A FISH OUT OF WATER.

Warm, sir, or cold ? ' asked the boy who
assisted the butler, cleaned the boots, and
was generally useful about the house.

'Warm or cold what?' asked Richard in
return.

Please, sir, your bath. A can of warm
water, or all cold, sir ? '

I don't want neither. — Bath ! ' exclaimed
Richard — 'bath ! I ain't a baby to be rubbed.
And who are you ? Are you sent to tub
me ? '

Please, sir, every gentleman has his bath
every morning, sir. Mr. Cornellis always do.*

Every morning ! ' gasped Cable. ' Mercy
on us — every morning ! Ell have it neither
hot nor cold. Take that flat pan away.'

Richard Cable's early hours surprised the
household. In England, we are not early
risers ; we prefer the fag-end of the day to
the prime of the morning. We neither rise

with the sun nor set with him. The English

o

day is like the calendar before the near style
was adopted, it is wrong with the sun. The
scullery-maid was startled one morning to
find the master laying and lighting tie fire in
the kitchen, to save her trouble ; nor was the
boy less astonished to find him in the boot-hole
blacking; his own boots.

My dear Eichard,' said Josephine that
same morning, ' what dirty hands you had at
breakfast ! What had you been doing ? '

Cleaning the boots — there are such a lot
for that whipper-snapper of a boy.'

You must not do that. — And, now I amon
the subject, I have put a nail-brush in
your washstand ; would you mind using it ? '

Anything to please you,' answered
Eichard.

And — by the way — you really must not
call the butler, Sir ; nor the housemaid,
Miss.'

'Why not? They are as good as me.'

It won't do ; they only laugh at you behind
your back. And don't address the boy
as Young Shaver ; that also is not quite right.
Do not be angry with me, Eichard.'

'I'm not angry,' he said. 'It's enough to
make me sweat.'

Eichard ! '

VOL. II. D

What is the matter now ? '

Be more choice in your expressions ; say-perspire.'


I only mean that it puts me in a fever
to think what I ought to do and what I ought
not to do. It's like what they do to lunatics
put 'em in strait-waistcoats. I seem to
be in one now, and you a-lacing of me up as
tight as ever you can. I'll get to like it intime,
maybe, but it ain't easy at first.'

If you do not mind my speaking,' pursued
Josephine, ' there is one little matter
more. You managed to cut those ribs of
mutton well enough last night ; but you should
not take the end of the chop in your hand
and pick the bone with your teeth. You cutoff
all the meat with the knife, holding the
bone with your fork.'

But I couldn't get it all off.'

Then send it out, cleared with the knife,
as well as you can.'

It's wicked waste.'

I tell you it won't do. Then you wiped
your fingers on your whiskers.'

'Where else would you have me wipe
them ? Not on the tablecloth, surely ? '

Of course not — on your napkin.'

But that is so beautifully clean, it is a
pity to dirty it.'

It can be washed. — Eichard, it won't do ;
the whiskers were not given to a man to clean
his greasy fingers on. I saw my father laugh,
and my aunt did not know which way to look.
The butler ran out of the room and exploded
in the hall.'

Well,' said Cable cheerfully, ' I gave 'em
a food laugh, and I'm o:lad of that. That
butler chap seems solemn as a Method parson.
He don't seem to me like a proper
human being, but to be a doll moved by
clockwork. I'll try him some evening. He
and I'll have a pipe and grog together, and
I'll tell him some of my good stories, and see
if I can't make him jolly.'

You shall do nothing of the sort, Eichard,'
said Josephine sharply : ' I cannot have you
demean yourself to the level of the servants.'
Then seeing that he was hurt, she regretted
the tone in which she had spoken, went to
him, put a hand on each of his shoulders,
and looking into his troubled face, said :
Eichard, I've been considering about the
little ones. It Avon't do to have them living
away in another house. It will make me
jealous, for you will be always running away
from me to be with them, and you will come
to regard that cottage as your home, not this.
Besides, if you are to break with the past

D 2

mode of life, it will be best to do this altogether
and at once.'

Give up the cottage ? ' exclaimed Eichard,
and his face expressed distress.

You will bring all the dear children here.'

Yes,' said he, musing ; ' they will like the
garden ; it is very pretty ; but it won't quite
be like the old one, neither to them nor to me.'
A look of pain was in his kind face. ' But,
when the grapes are ripe, we'll go there and
picnic whilst I cut the bunches.'

There are better grapes in the houses
here. The sweet-water and muscat '

Ain't equal to the home grapes, I'll swear,'
said Cable. ' Bless me ! it ain't the quality ;
it's the where they grows.'

Where they grow, not grows. " They "
is plural, not singular.'

That's all,' he said in a tone of depression.

I am afraid I interrupted you.'

I was only thinking what larks it was — me
up the ladder cutting the grapes and passing
'em down to the children ; and I don't believe
any other grape could taste as sweet and look
as lovely as did those black Harbors — not to
the children. They grooved '

Grew,' interjected Josephine.

They growed,' Eichard went on, disregarding
the interruption, ' over the roof what

all them little golden heads lay under ; and I
used to say that was how the bunches ripened
on all sides alike. Above was the sun, and
under were those six little sunny heads and
hearts, warming the roof above. The black
Harbors couldn't do other than ripen under
the circumstances, and be sweet as sugar-cane.'

There is only one difficulty in the matter
that occurs to me,' said Josephine, ' and that
is about your mother. She would hardly like
to come and live here with us. She would feel
out of her element at our table and in the
drawing-room ; and yet, she will not like to
leave the children. I have thought of embracing
a nurse and a girl to attend to the children.
But your mother — what is to be done with her?
You see, she would be a difficulty if she associated
with us ; and we could not suffer her
to associate with the servants. I am puzzled
what to do.'

Never think that she will come here,' said
Eichard. ' I don't believe she'd other than
suffocate — not that she's asthmatical ; but I
fancy there's something here might take the
breath away and kill her. I feel it ; and I'm
young. There ain't a room in the house where
I can properly stretch my legs and arms, big
though they be, and I could do it in my little
lean-to bedroom at the cottage.'

What do you say, Eichard, to her going
into the lodge ? She need not open the gate
when carriages come ; she can keep a girl todo
that. There she will be near 'the children,
and yet not in the house. I suggest this because
I think it would suit all of us.'

Don't ask my opinion,' said Eichard sadly ;
it's a queer turnabout. When you came tome,
you asked me to guide and pilot you ; and
now it is I, not you, am in unknown seas, and
I know no more what to do and where to go
than if I was in the desert of Sahara. It is
you are pilot, not I. What you say is to be
done — I must do ; and where you say I am to
turn my bows, there I steer.'

Win your mother consent to come to the
lodge ? '

I dare say, if you wish it. She's a proud
woman, and would not like to intrude where
she is not wanted. She's not been here yet,
and will never come uninvited. She was born
and bred in that lodge, and there her father's
body was brought when he was drowned, and
there her mother died. It will be to her a
home because of all the memories that cling
about it. It is that which makes a home, miss.'

You have forgotten — you must not call
me miss.'

Of course not. You're right, and I'm

wrong. I'm in that state of muddle that I
don't know anything. I was saying that it
is the memories that make a home. It isn't
the sticks of furniture, nor the carpets, nor
the pictures. 'Isn't even the hive beings you
put into the place ; it is all the thoughts and
experiences, the sorrows and the joys that take
a long time a-growing, but which will grow
everywhere, if you allow them the proper
time. Everything here is strange to me. I
don't know my way about the house yet, and
the ways of life are stranger still. I reckon
that even bringing the little ones here will not
make a home of it all at once. But with time
and patience, it Avill come. I remember how
it was with that black Harbor. It was a
little bit of a plant given me by Jonas Flinders
before ever I married Polly, struck off the vine
he had. It was nothing, but it growed '

It grew,' corrected Josephine.

It grew,' said Eichard, and touched his
forelock. ' It grew beautifully, little by little,
first the blade, then the leaf, and then the
tendril and flower, and last of all the fruit ;
and it ran at a gallop when once it had got
upon the roof, as if it could not grow fast
enough. — Grow ? No ; grew.'

'No ; quite right. " It could not grow ;
but, " it oTcw." '

'As if it could not grow fast enough, and
cover enough of warm roof, and I had to pick
off scores of bunches, or it would have made
too many and exhausted itself. But, you
understand, that was after a while, not all at
once. So, perhaps, it is here. There are the
cuttings put in, and we must wait for leaf and
flower and fruit and the clinging tendrils —
all that will come in due time, if it please the
Lord. I'll bide in patience ; I can't expect it
all at once.'

Eichard walked away, to talk the matter
over with his mother. When he was out of
the house and garden, by himself on the sea-wall,
the cloud that had been hovering over
his brow descended and darkened the expression
of his face. Sometimes, whilst we are
watching a glittering snow-wreathed Alpine
peak, on which the sun is blazing, light clouds
drift across the head and disappear ; then
others gather and clinch, and bv degrees the
snows are enveloped in vapour, and what was
fleecy becomes heavy, and what was white
darkens to purple, and the whole sky is
chased : the sun is no more seen, but thunder
and rain riot about the mountain. It was not
quite so with Eichard Cable, but threatening
of a storm appeared. Whilst he was
with Josephine, he had exerted great self-control.

A man sensitive and diffident, he
was hurt by her correction of his mistakes, at
the time that he acknowledged that he was
liable to make mistakes. He wished to do
what was right ; but in the position in which
he found himself, it was not possible for him
to discover Avithin himself the rules by Avhicli
to act.

The rules of social life are to some extent
arbitrary, or they are founded on conditions
which a man of the people does not understand.
They do not spring out of the eternal
principles of right and wrong, but out of
social adjustments and compromises arrived
at by generations of culture. Consequently,
Eichard had as little knowledge of what to do,
as a man who cannot swim knows how to save
himself when out of his depth, with a current
carrying him out to sea. He made mistakes,
floundered about, was aware that lie became
ridiculous, and yet did not know how to avoid
error, and where to find and how to put his
feet on firm ground. To a man with self-respect,
with strong sense of moral dignity?
such a situation is eminently galling. Eichard
had avoided showing how he suffered, whilst
he was with Josephine ; but when he was by
himself, the sense of humiliation, of irritation,
and a brooding anger against no particular

thing and no one in particular began to overshadow
and darken his spirit. Several times
during his conversation with Josephine a flash
had passed through his mind ; but it was like
summer lightning unattended by muttering
thunder. Now his step had lost its even swing ;
he walked hastily and irregularly, as his
humour altered. At one moment he was hot,
and a quiver of anger ran through him ; then
he cooled, and his breast rose as he drew a
long breath. He put up his hand to his
brow. ' I sweat,' he said. ' I mean, I perspire
; and I don't know whether I'm in an
ae^ue or what is on me. I never was like this
afore. Well, 'tis disconcerting, when a tug
that is signalled to, instead of tugging, is taken
in tow.'

Josephine, after he had left, remained with
her hands in her lap, looking out of the
window at nothings, thinking? about Ei chard.
She was sorry that she had said so much to
him about his mistakes ; but really, she did
not know where to begin with his schooling,
there was so much to correct in his lanc^uai^e
and manners and habits. It was strange that
she observed his want of refinement now, and
that she had not noticed it before. Even onboard
the ' Josephine,' it had not been observable
; it was only conspicuous when he

was out of his navy-blue sailor's jacket and
loose trousers and flapping collar, and cap
with the ribbons behind. What a fine fellow
he was walking the deck ! How was it that
he cut such a grotesque figure in the drawing-room
? She was provoked with him that he
did not conform at once to more cultured life,
and accommodate himself instinctively to
the methods and modes of the class into which
she had translated him. Then she beat down
the feeling of vexation that rose in her heart,
and reasoned with herself that she was demanding
of him impossibilities. She was
alive to his good qualities, but they were good
qualities badly set. A diamond is nothing till
it is cut and polished ; the precious metals
must be cleansed of their dross before they
acquire their proper value. The roughness
of surface, the inherent dross in Eichard,
were unpleasantly conspicuous, and the polishing,
the purifying, could not be done all at
once. She began to see that he would be
useless to her as an adviser, and that she
would be thrown back on her father, for lack
of another. Her father had treated her with
great forbearance, even kindness, since her
final battle with him, since he saw that she
was resolved to carry her point. He had not
reproached Iier since ; he had not taken advantage

of the opportunities Eichard had given
him for letting her see that he was out of
place. He did his best to thrust Eichard forward
— to insist on his occupying the principal
position in the house ; he showed deference to
him, and himself kept in the background. This
was a little provoking occasionally, because
Cable was incapable of taking the lead, and
wanted support and direction, which Mr. Cornellis,
with apparent delicacy, refrained from
tendering.

Eichard Cable had but just returned from
the cottage, and had rejoined Josephine in
the garden, to tell her the result of his interview
with his mother, when a handsome carriage
and pair, with liveried coachman and
footman, drove in at the gates and drew up at
the porch.

Good gracious ! ' said Josephine, ' there
is Lady Brentwood. — Eichard, do be on your
Ps and Qs.'

On my what ? '

She had no time to explain, as Lady Brentwood
had seen her and was waving lier parasol
to her.

Josephine ran to the carriage-door, and
was followed by her husband. ' Eichard, help
Lady Brentwood down. — Let me introduce
my husband, dear Lady Brentwood.'

Lady Brentwood was a tall fine woman,
with almost white hair, and dark eyebrows,
which she raised and depressed in a manner
that made the person she Alas speaking with
think she was being stared at and quizzed.
Lady Brentwood was not above taking stock
of the person she conversed with ; but she
was incapable of doing what was rude. The
fact of her eyebrows being very marked and
dark, and of the trick she had of throwing
them up and then bringing them down again,
and screwing up her eyes, gave her the appearance
of being a quiz.

Have you come a long way, ma'am ? '
asked Eichard. ' Would you like some beer?
There's a good cool tap. I'll run and fetch
you some at once. — No, ma'am ? — I'm sure
you look tired.'

Thank you, Mr. Cable,' said Lady Brentwood,
her eyebrows very elevated, and this
time with real amazement. 'I will ask sour
wife for a cup of tea.'

Only make you hotter, ma'am,' said
Eichard. — ' But stay. Your coach and
flunky, I'm sure, won't object to a glass of
beer ; I'll run and fetch it them. They look
to me broiling on the box — and '

He turned sharply round to Josephine.
What is it ? Why are you pinching me ? '

'I am not.'

You were.'

She frowned, and signed with her eyes and
mouth.

Of course the lady will be glad that her
chaps should have a glass. Are you not,
ma'am ? It's kindly meant ; their tongues
are almost hanging out of their mouths with
thirst, like running dogs.'

Josephine sighed. How she then wished
she were cast with Eichard on a desert island.
They might be happy together there, but not
in England. ' Shall I ever be able to get my
cub licked into shape ? ' she asked herself,
and sighed again. ' I believe my father was
right ; I have made a fatal mistake.'

CHAPTER XXV.

LAVENDER.

My dear,' said Lady Brentwood, ' you
know me — you know what I am — the most
obstinate creature in the work, only to be
paralleled with the donkey, especially when
set on wickedness. Nov, I have set my heart
on something tremendously naughty. I'm
going to carry you and your husband off fora
night, at once. I will take you away with
me in my carriage. I've got Admiral Fits
and Mr. Jenkyns. who is one of the
Lords of the Admiralty — and, entre nous.
knows no more about ships than an opossum
coming to dine with me, and I want your
husband to be with us. He knows all about
nautical matters ; lie has them at his lingers'
ends ; and Mr. Jenkyns will be thankful to
meet him. My dear, these public men always
remind me of eating crab. They like to take
a good intelligent and experienced skull and
sit over it, and pick at the flesh and brain,

and mix and put pepper and mustard and
vinegar to it, and stir, and then eat and enjoy.
Mr. Cable will be a perfect crab to the Lord
of the Admiralty. Your husband is a specialist
in his way. You see I am horribly selfish
and savagely frank. I tell you everything.
The fact is, I want to make an agreeable
dinner-party, and I know that your good
dear husband is the dish of dishes for Mr.
Jenkyns and Admiral Fitzgibbon.'

'Where is the wickedness, ma'am? ' asked
EichardjUiuch surprised. 'If I can be of any
use, or agreeable to any one, I'm heartily
willing.'

My dear Mr. Cable — is it not cruel — barbarous
— to drag you and Josephine away just
after your arrival, before you have had time
to turn about and shake down ? — before you
have unpacked all the treasures you have
picked up on your wedding tour ? — before
you have arranged the pretty presents given
you on your marriage ? Upon my word, I
am ashamed of myself; but there — I am the
most selfish woman in the world.' Up went
her eyebrows. ' I have told you my reasons ;
I play with my cards on the table.'

Why, ma'am,' said Eichard Cable, ' I
don't see that this is cruel of you, not barbarous
at all, but very kind. Some folks,

when they do a pretty thing, make a deal of
palaver about it. But you, ma'am, as I judge,
do a kind thing, and try to make it seem as if
it was you who were favoured, and not we.'

Lady Brentwood raised her eyebrows ; lie
was touched with the simplicity of the man :
but Josephine thought the raised brows meant
that she was amused at his simplicity and was
inwardly laughing at it ; so she said hastily :
You are indeed most kind — but you are
always kind.' She cast a look at her husband,
intended to bid him hold his tongue and leave
the conduct of the affair to her. ' But '

I will take no bids,' said Lady Brentwood.
I have Mr. Cable on my side, I am sure.'

Well, ma'am,' he began again ; but Josephine
cut him short.

I shall be very happy, dear Lads Brentwood
' — she looked at her husband indignantly
as she emphasised the title of her
visitor — ' I shall be only too pleased to be
with you ; but, unfortunately, my husband
cannot accompany me.'

Why not ? ' asked Lady Brentwood with
pursed lips and raised brows.

You see, he has so much to attend to
just at present — about the yacht. There are
the men.' An idea flashed through her head.
They are to have their supper to-night, and

VOL. II. E

it would perhaps hurt their feelings if Eichard
did not attend.'

Can you not postpone the supper ? '

Hardly. I suppose the goose is killed
and stuffed. The men will be paid off and
dispersed.'

But, my dear, we have a lawn-tennis
party tomorrow, and Mr. Jenkyns leaves tomorrow
morning. It is such an opportunity.
I really have set my heart on introducing the
Admiral and Mr. Jenkyns to your husband.
You know Admiral Fitzgibbon ? His wife is
a charming woman, the daughter of Lord
Arthur St. Clair.'

A dinner at Brentwood Hall ! Her husband
encircled by an exalted naval officer, a
Lord of the Admiralty, gentlemen of county
position, ladies of high degree and perfect
polish, all quizzing and observing. The idea
to Josephine was intolerable. She thought of
him sitting on the edge of a chair with his
knees wide apart, and his great red hands on
each knee, his elbows stiff, his boots shapeless,
his face brown. She thought of him cutting
his bread, holding the knife at the junction of
the blade and the haft, and cutting the bread
against his thumb. It would never do. If he
were resolved to go, she would stay at home.
The colour mounted to her cheeks.

Impossible, I do assure you, dear Lady
Brentwood. You must really excuse him. Ina
little while it will be different. My husband
will be more free ; now, his hands are tied.
There are ' — she hesitated — ' reasons which
make it necessary for him to stay ; but I will
attend you, if you will put up with poor me.'

My dear,' said Lady Brentwood, laughing,
the lavender will flourish here.'

Lavender ! What do you mean ? '

Do you know, Mr. Cable ? ' asked the
visitor with a mischievous but good-humoured
laugh.

No, ma'am — I mean, my lady.' He caught
his wife's eye. ' I don't see why lavender should
not thrive here ; it likes a sandy soil, and the
sand comes out in the garden. I can't say I've
observed any in the beds ; but I'm partial
myself to lavender, and I'll have some put in ;
leastways ' — he corrected himself — ' I have no
doubt she will, and if she don't care to have
it here, I can plant some in the cottage
garden.'

Oh,' said Lady Brentwood, laughing, and
with elevated eyebrows — ' oh, the lavender
will grow here.'

Josephine winced, and was hot. What
did her visitor mean? Was lie poking fun
at her ?

E -2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

You do not know ? ' asked Lady Brentwood.
' I'll tell you all about it in the carriage.
Well, if it must be — I must swallow
my disappointment. But what shall I do?
These dear fox-hunters and sporting men will
talk of nothing but runs and covers ; and the
Admiral and Mr. Jenkyns will perish with
ennui. I am like the man of Macedonia who
appeared to St. Paul and cried, " Come over
and help us." You won't come — or you won't
let Mr. Cable come to the rescue. I am disposed
to turn sulky ; but there — I will not
press you, though I feel sure, if I appealed to
Mr. Cable, I might carry my point. I can
see it in his face. However, if the lavender
is to grow, I will not interfere with its
planting.'

Josephine's nerves were tingling ; her
finger-ends burnt as though lie had touched
nettles. On one side was Lady Brentwood
torturing her ; on the other her husband with
infinite possibilities of gaucherie in him, and
she did not know what he might say or do
next moment. She started to her feet with a
sense of relief Avhen her father and Aunt
Judith entered the room. ' Dear Lady Brentwood,'
she said, and her voice, in spite of her
efforts to control it, shook slightly, ' you must
not try your powers of persuasion ; you know

that you are irresistible. It is hard of me to
ask you to receive me alone ; but indeed my
husband cannot, must not come. It is hard
for me to attempt to entertain Lords of the
Admiralty ; but I have had my experience of
sandbanks on which one may be cast away —
and I can talk of that.' Then, at once, her
temples flushed, as she thought that Lady
Brentwood might suspect in these words a
covert reference to her unfortunate marriage.
Here is Aunt Judith ! Whilst I get together
my few effects, she will entertain you. Eichard
will come and help me. He is, what I am nota
neat packer. I bundle all my traps into the
box, and sugar them over with pins. Come,
Eichard ! You will excuse us. Lady Brentwood,
I am sure.' Then she whisked out of
the room, followed leisurely by Cable. She
slid her hand up the banister, and clutched it
tightly at every few steps with convulsive
twinges. She was in a state of quivering
nervous excitation.

When she reached her own room, she
threw herself into an armchair and said imperiously
: ' Pack my things. I will point
out what I want.'

Cable, instead of obeying, stood before her
with his head bent, his grave eyes fixed on
her face. His brow was lined. Had tliero

been these furrows there before his marriage?
Josephine had not observed them previously.

What is the meaning of this ? ' he asked.

Take your hands out of your pockets
when addressing me,' she said, and fanned her
hot face with her pocket-handkerchief.

He obeyed, and folded his arms. ' I do
not understand what this means,' he said.

Indeed ! ' — spoken contemptuously.

'Why do you object to my going with
you to the lady's house, Josephine ? '

I will trouble you,' she said with voice
shaking with anger — 'I will trouble you to
call me by my proper name. I am not Josephine,
as you are pleased to designate me.
The patriarch is not, I believe, by the most
illiterate, entitled Joss-eph, and I object to be
called other than Josephine.'

He looked at her with distressed expression
on his face. ' I did not think there was
anything wrong ' — he began, and drew his
kerchief from his pocket.

Then she stamped with her feet together
impatiently on the floor. ' For heaven's sake,'
she exclaimed, 'put away that detestable
spotted blue pocket-handkerchief, as big as a
sail! It is vulgar, it is odious. I hate the
sight of it. It turns me faint. Give it to
Jane for a duster.' She was in that condition

of irritation when every trifle exasperates.
Please, open the window,' she went on. ' I
am suffocating. Your boots have been greased
at sea with rancid tallow ; they will not take
the blacking, and — they are insufferable.'

He went to the window, unclasped the
casement, and threw it wide open, then stood
looking out. He drew a long breath, inhaling
the sea-air, fresh and free, that rushed in and
fluttered the gauze valance of the dressing-table.


You are right,' he said huskily ; 'it is
close in here. One can hardly breathe at
all here — not in this room only, but in the
parlour and the hall, on the terrace, in
the garden, everywhere within the garden
walls.'

In the window hung a brass cage that
contained a bullfinch. Eichard put his hand
to the cage-door, unfastened it, and put in his
hand.

What are you about, Eichard ? ' asked
Josephine petulantly. ' Why do you not goon
with the packing ? '

He did not answer. The imprisoned bird
had hopped on his finger. He drew his hand
from the cage so steadily that the bullfinch
did not attempt to leave his perch. Then he
put his arm out of the window, and the bird

remained, turning its head about and uttering
an astonished or pleased cheep !

'What are you doing?' cried Josephine,
and started to her feet. Her call, or the
vibration, alarmed the little bird; it spread
its wings and flew away. ' What have you
done ! ' burst forth Josephine, throwing herself
again into her chair. ' My Puffles ! my poor
Puffles ! '

The room was close, and the bird could
not breathe,' said Eichard. • I felt for the
poor little wretch — a sort of fellow-feeling, I
suppose.'

Eichard ! ' she said, half crying, ' this is
too unkind, too cruel of you ! You knew that
I was fond of the bird ; that is why you have
deprived me of him. I will never, never
forgive you.' Then the tears came into her
eyes — not tears of sorrow for the loss of her
pet, but of mortified pride and of angry resentment.
Her flushed face, her pouting lips,
her swollen muscles, all proclaimed wrath,
not grief. ' I wish,' she muttered — ' I wish
that we had never '

What do you wish ? ' he asked, facing
her.

I wish ' But she checked herself.

Then, thinking that his feet touched her skirts,
she brushed the latter away and tucked them

under her knees, with passionate scorn in her
action. ' Please, proceed with the packing.
Lady Brentwood (J/a'am, as you call her) is
not to be kept waiting an eternity, whilst you
torment me with letting my pets loose. The
horses have to be considered as well as she.'
When do you return ? To-morrow ? '
I do not know. I do not care if I stay a
week to be free of my troubles.'
What troubles ? '

— troubles I have brought on myself — •
troubles past your comprehension.'

He said no more, but got out her box and
began to pack. Whilst he was thus engaged
he brooded on her words and said : ' I think
I understand you.'

I usually speak so as to be understood,'
she replied.

Josephine,' said he, ' why will you not
allow me to go with you ? I know very well
that I am no company for grand folks. I'm
like a plain horn-handled steel fork that has
lost its way, and got among the silver in the
plate-basket. God knows, I do not desire to
push myself where I am not wanted ; but the
lady did wish to have me.'

Josephine laughed contemptuously. ' Absurd
! She did not want you, except as Samson,
to make sport before the Philistines.'

I do not believe you. The world is not
so bad as you suppose.'

Lady Brentwood was not sincere ; she
was laughing at you all the time she spoke
with us.'

He shook his head. ' She's got a kind face
and a kind ways, and I don't think so bad of
her as that. As for the Lords and Admirals !
I'm not afraid of them. Men, be they ever
so high, always know the wally of a true
man.'

Wally ! ' groaned Josephine. Then in a
tone of bitter mockery she said rapidly : '
generation of wipes ! Pass the vinegar.'

AVhat do you mean ? ' he asked, rising
from her box on which he was engaged, and
standing before her, With his face red, the
veins in his forehead distended and purple.
Are you laughing at me ? Scoffing at me,
Josephine ? '

I merely repeat things I have heard.'

When— where ? '

Oh, the other day I overheard you teaching
the children a text from Scripture that
began, " generation of vipers." '

Well, I did not pronounce a word
right, and so you scorn me? Is that about
it '

She shrugged her shoulders and made no

reply. Her heart was beating furiously. She
linked one foot behind the other and kicked
the footstool from her.

The Lord's own words,' said Ei chard
sternly. ' Even they aren't sacred to you,
not when a father is teaching them to his little
ones. What odds if the pronunciation of the
words be wroncr so contr as the words themselves
be right ? ' He knelt again at her box
and finished packing.

When he had done, she stood up. The
sting of self-reproach made itself felt in lier
heart ; but she was too proud to acknowledge
that she had been in the wrong.

Eichard,' she said, ' you may go. Being
the bell to have the box taken down. I must
dress myself hastily.'

When she descended the stairs a few
minutes later, she looked about for him, but
did not see him. He was not in the hall, nor
in the drawing-room. As she got into the
carriage her eyes wandered in search of him ;
but he was not to be seen.

Where is Eichard ? ' she asked of her
father.

He answered superciliously : ' He went
loafins^ through the garden a minute argo,'

She settled herself beside Lady Brentwood.


My dear,' said the latter, ' I am positive
that lavender will thrive here.'

What do you mean ? '

Do you not know ? Where the wife rules,
there the lavender flourishes.'

CHAPTEE Xxii.

MOSQUITO STINGS.

When Eichard left the house, he did not 2^0 to
the cottage or to the yacht, He passed through
the gate to the sewell, and stood outside the
palisade of the garden, leaning against it, overshadowed
by the boughs and fragrant flowers
of a lime, looking out to sea. He could catch
a glimpse of the drive ; and as he heard the
grind of the carriage-wheels on the gravel, he
turned and looked, and saw Josephine depart
with Lady Brentwood. Mr. Cornellis was also
in the carriage. So, as he, Eichard, was not
suffered to go, Lady Brentwood had carried off
Mr. Cornellis. In the opinion of Josephine,
her father was suited to move in good society,
to entertain Lords of the Admiralty ; but her
husband was not ; he must be kept in the background,
lest he should make himself ridiculous.
For the first time in his life Ei chard's bright
and crystalline humour clouded. Perhaps he
had caught the infection from his wife. He

tried to look up into the deep sky, but his cap
did not shade his eyes ; the brilliancy of the
light dazzled him ; besides, his eyes were burning.
He rested them gloomily on the tufts of
sovereign wood and sea-spinach that sprouted
between the stones at his feet. He had controlled
himself before Josephine with an effort ;
now his chafed temper swelled and tossed
within him like a race of angry sea round
Hanford Point. Flakes of red drove across his
face, like the foam-bows driven by the wind on
the rushing tide. His muscles quivered and
his pulses leaped. He could not go to the
cottage till the first paroxysm of passion had
passed away. A woman is glib with her
tongue both in her mirthful and in her angry
moods ; she shoots out her words without
much consideration. Her tongue is her natural
weapon of defence. We would not blame
her were she to use it only when attacked, in
self-defence. The mosquito also has a sting ;
but it employs the barb not only to protect
itself, but to goad those who sleep, or ignore its
existence, into taking cognisance of its insignificant
self. What a light and feathery being
it is ! how delicately slender, how buoyant on
its transparent wings ! As we he on a bench
in the sweet summer evening and look up into
the skies, full of twilight, like silver resolved

into vapour, and our souls mount to the far-off
stars, whilst the song of the nightingale chanting
among the poplars fills our ears, him —
him — whip ! in an instant our faculties are
drawn away from the ideal and transcendental
to a minute gnat that has perched on us. Our
peace is gone ; the poison has penetrated our
veins ; irritation intolerable ensues ; we tear
with our nails, but cannot tear the irritation
away, though we tear till the blood flows. Does
the sting cease to vex in an hour ? Oh no ! it
lasts for days, and only slowly ceases to worry
and anger us.

Why did the mosquito light on us ? We
offered it no menace ; we were not even thinking
of flies ; we were far away among the stars.
Can it be that it affixes pleasure to the mosquito
to stab and inject an infinitesimally small drop
of the most aggravating of poisons into our
blood ? Can it be that the creature stings us
out of envy, because we were in spirit among
the stars, instead of occupying our minds with
mosquitoes ?

It is said that female poisoners have made
victims out of mere wantonness, not because
they bore spite, but because it afforded them
gratification to display their power. It is
perhaps the same with the mosquito. Was
the Marchioness de Brinvilhers the last of the

female poisoners ? By no means. The poisoners
are as numerous now as ever ; they fly
about in clouds ; they rise up out of every
pool ; they lurk under every green leaf; they
hum in every room. Pshaw ! We hulking
men, what care we for these midges ? Compare
our size, our strength, the texture of our
bones, the toughness of our skins, with theirs.
It is absurd to suppose that we need fear and
avoid them. Pshaw ! What can a microscopic
drop of poison effect in the great rivers
of our blood ? Pshaw ! How can such flimsy,
merry-minded little creatures pierce these tough
hides ? So we argue, and next moment are
writhing and tearing ourselves, and crying
out in pain, like Hercules in the garment of
Deianira. I have been to an apothecary, and
showed him my hands and face covered with
mosquito stings, and asked for something to neutralise
the irritation. He laughed in my face,
and said there was no remedy. So there is no
remedy for the sting of that other mosquito ;
there is no alkali yet found strong enough to
neutralise the drop of venom found at the end
of a woman's tongue, thrust into the blood —
not, maybe, out of virulence at all, but out of
playfulness, out of wantonness. the hours,
the days, the months of tossing, of torment,
even of delirium, caused by one little word at

the point of a soft little red tongue, shot into
the veins and curdling the heart — shot in, ina
moment of vexation, without premeditated
malice. We may run away from the tormentor,
but we carry the poison with us. Perhaps the
mosquito is surprised at the effect of its sting,
and would recall the poison if it could ; but it
cannot ; and it comes whirring its wings and
tossing its plumy head and piping softly in our
ears, asking to be allowed to apply its lips to
the wound ; but we shrink away, the lips
frighten us — behind them lurks the stings'.
ye mosquitoes, I pray you be pitiful towards
us rude men ! We are incapable of protecting
ourselves. We cannot permanently abide behind
mosquito-curtains. But, alas ! what avails
a cry for mercy ? As long as the world lasts,
women must sting, and men must weep ; and
the sooner it's over, the sooner to sleep.

Eichard stood under the flowering lime in
which the bees were busy, leaning against the
palisades, with heaving breast and hands
clenched at his side, and brows that lowered and
dripped with agony. Real physical pain was
at his heart, a pain that affected respiration and
pulsation alike, a pain that numbed his brain
and hindered it from articulate thought. He
had loved Josephine. An uncultured man
looks up to a lady of refinement with reverence

VOL. II. F

and worship, such' as she herself can hardly
understand. To him she is something so
inefFably perfect that he is ready to become her
slave, and ask for nothing in reward for his
fidelity and adoration but a smile. It is the
most unselfish, ethereal, of all love. It is like
that which the Minnesingers felt for princesses
in whose courts, beneath whose footstools they
knelt and sang. To Eichard Cable Josephine
had been such an ideal ; he had looked up to
her with infinite love, as to one unattainable ;
and yet in this looking up was associated a
feeling of vast compassion for the girl in her
loneliness, her ignorance of the highest aims of
life, and a longing to touch her hand with respect
and lead her into the right way. What
a mistake he had made ! He lead her ! She
had bewildered him, and he had lost his knowledge
of the compass-points. He saw that he
could be of no use to her, that he was to her
an encumbrance and a source of daily irritation.
She was out of ease when he was present ; his
voice scalded her ears ; his attitudes offended
her ; his boots made him insupportable in her
room. He set his teeth. A glimmer was in
his eyes, like the light beneath a thunder-cloud.
He would not briu^ his children into the house.
They should remain with their grandmother
at the cottage, and he would spend most of his

time with them, and teach them Gospel maxims
the Sermon on the Mount — without sufferings
her to overhear and scoff at his lessons. No ;
on no account should they be brought to the
Hall, where they might learn to laugh at their
father, for his brogue, his boots, his blue kerchief.
In the cottage they were encircled with
simple and healthy surroundings, and were
taught to look up to and reverence their father.
He would not have them reared to an artificial
life, to be made young ladies of, wincing at his
Fs, and turning away their faces from his boots.
He looked at these boots. They had been
serviceable to him on many a rough night. It
was true that the leather was greased, and perhaps
the grease had not always been fresh. The
boots had kept his feet dry when the waves
washed the deck. Sailors cannot wear patent-leather
dress boots.

Pilchard could endure a great deal ; he was
so humble, that he was ready to accept correction
; he was so forbearing, that he could
allow for the infirmities of the weak ; but his
patience had its limits. He could not endure
the thought of becoming despicable in the eyes
of his children. The notion that such an
eventuality was possible had never before occurred
to him ; now it seemed certain, were
his little ones to be brought into association

p2

with this wife. He put his hand to his head.
His rou(]fh strong hand was shaking as though
he were recovering from a long illness. A
qualm almost like that of sea-sickness came
over his heart ; indeed, everything swayed
about and under him. His knees were weak,
and would hardly support him. He laid a
hand on the top of the palisade and rested his
head on it. In a few moments the giddiness
would pass away. He put out his other hand
on the palisade and shut his eyes. Then he
felt something alight on his finger and press it.
He looked heavily up, and saw that Josephine's
bullfinch had come out of the lime-tree and
had perched on his hand. He shook the bird
ois; but little Puffles, after hovering about
a moment, returned and delighted on his
finger.

What did the bullfinch want? Was it
already weary of its freedom and desired to be
returned to its cache ? Was it frio-tenet at the
vastness and complexity of the world into which
it had been launched, and longed for the narrowness
and simplicity of the world within
bars? With Puffles it was other than with
Eichard. He chafed at the restraints which
encumbered him on all sides, and the bird was
frightened at its freedom. He looked at the
bullfinch some time dreamily, wonderingly.

He held his finger very still, and the bird began
to polish his beak on it. Pupils was pleased
to grip a warm hand instead of cold twigs.
The pressure of the little feet and claws sent a
thrill of pleasure along Eichard's arm to his
heart. In it was an appeal to his protection ;
and like his mother, Eichard's heart at once
responded to the appeal of feebleness. He
raised his head and put his other hand over the
back of the bird. ' Come, Puffles ! ' he said ;
each to his proper element. You, to bondage.
I — I — God alone knows when and how
I shall escape!' Then he went in, through
the garden, very gently, holding the little creature
covered with his right hand, and walking
evenly. The bird made no attempt at
escape.

At the pantry window stood the butler and
the boy, looking out, whilst polishing the silver
and glass ; and they chuckled as they saw him
come along. No doubt he looked absurd,,
walking slowly with one arm extended, and
the other covering the tiny creature that rested
on his finger.

It's o' no use winking at flicks,' said the
butler, ' or trying to disguise 'em. Master
ain't an atom of a gentleman. He don't look
it ; he don't feel it.'

When Cable reached his wife's room, carrying

the little bird, he replaced the creature in
its cage and looked about him. Well, it was
not fair to her for him to give liberty to her
pet without asking her leave. Perhaps he had
aggravated her to speak more sharply than she
intended ; perhaps now she regretted what she
had said.

I'm glad the bird is back,' he said. ' She
will be pleased, and think more kindly of me.'
His angry mood gave way to gentler feelings.
He saw that she had scattered her clothes about
the floor as she had taken them off, and left her
drawers and wardrobe doors open. He took
up and folded her dress, shut the drawers and
closed the wardrobe. ' I'm a porpoise in a
whiting-net,' he said. ' What a different sort
of place this is from my cabin in the lightship
or my room at the cottage ! No nicknames
there. Well, I suppose I must accommodate
myself to my shell, as the chicken said that had
to be hatched. I can't make my shell fit me
like the lobster.'

When a cool leaf is applied to a wound, the
fever ceases for a while, but the relief is only
momentary. Presently the fire makes itself
felt as hot as before. The calmness that had
come over Richard lasted only so long as the
pressure of the little claws remained on his
finger. No sooner had he left the room, than his

pain and heat returned. The poison was in his
blood. Little Puffles could not undo the mischief
done by Josephine. The poison had
penetrated to the heart.

He went out of the house once more, and
through the garden to the sewell. As he
walked he had his hands in his pockets ; but
suddenly recalling the offence he had given
to Josephine by so carrying them, withdrew
his hands and folded them before him. How
many commandments were there, he wondered,
in the social code ? The moral was simple
enough, contained in two tables. How would
he ever master the many and complicated
rules, many and complicated as the hieroglyphics
of the Chinese tongue, where every word has
its special character? A Chinaman learns to
read as he learns to speak ; from infancy, as his
ear catches a sound, it is associated with a symbol
to his eye. So a gentleman or a lady grows
up amidst the intricacies of social life, and all
its symbols and rules become familiar from
early childhood. But was it possible for a manlike
Cable, in manhood, to enter into this
sphere and speak and act according to its regulations
? Was it not as impossible for him as
to acquire Chinese writing and the Chinese
tons^ue.^

Then another current of thought set in

through his brain. Isis hands had strayed
again to his pockets, and in them turned over a
few coins. He was now without a profession.
He earned nothing ; with the exception of a
few pounds in the savings-bank, he lead nothing
of his own ; he would therefore have to apply
to Josephine for money wherewith to feed and
clothe and school his children — ay, and provide
for his mother as well. There were small
bills due to the grocer and dressmaker ; there
was the rent for the house. Must he go to his
wife with these accounts and ask her to settle
them ? The thought was unendurable to a self-reliant,
proud man. It galled him to the quick
to think that his dear little ones, Polly's children,
his mother, should be henceforth dependents,
not on him, but on Josephine.

No ; to this he would not submit. There
was but one mode of escape from the difficulty
he must enter into some profession, in wluch
he could earn sufficient for the support of his
family. But for what profession was he now
qualified ? It must be one that was gentlemanly,
or Josephine would oppose his proposition.
And for a gentlemanly profession he was
unsuited, because he was not by breeding a
gentleman.

As he puzzled his head with these thoughts,
he was roused by a slap on the shoulders from

a heavjOiand. He looked round and saw Jonas
Flinders.

How are you, old boy ? ' asked his brother-in-law.
' By Jakes, I'm glad to come across
you. You're all with the top-sawyers now, and
Ave in the pit ain't fit to be spoken with, I suppose.'


'You are not just,' answered Eichard composedly
; ' I have never shown any pride.'

Well, you're so engaged, we can't get a
sight of you. Now you're comines on to the
"Anchor," I hope? All your chaps from the
Josephine " are there. You're not going to
give them the slip, I hope P '

Cable started. He had forgotten the supper
to the crew. After all, Josephine was in
the right ; he must be present at that. If he
absented himself, he would give offence. Why
did she not simply say so, and not insult and
wound him ?

I fancy you'd forgot about it. My stars !
you've got too grand to remember such little
matters.'

I had been reminded of it. For the sake
of attending the supper, I did not go outwith
my wife ; but it is true that for the moment
I had forgotten. I was busy with my
thoughts.'

I hope they were pleasant. It don't seem

as if they were, judging from your face. By
gorra ! as I came up, your face was a-twitcbiug
and a- wincing as if you'd been stung by some
nasty venomous creature. But there — come
along. Treat things unpleasant like Pharaoh
and his host — drown 'em.'

CHAPTER Xxiii.

The parlour of the ' Anchor ' had a cosy look.
Although the time of year was summer, yet on
the coast the evenings were at times sufficiently
cool to make a fire acceptable. On this evening
a small fire of wreck-timber was smouldering
on the hearth, emitting its peculiar gunpowder
odour, and the glow gave geniality to the
little room, as a smile to a plain face. The
window was small, with red curtains to it ; and
before the supper was over, the curtains were
drawn and a lamp lighted. Some lumps of
coal were put on the fire, bubbled and burst
into puffs of flame.

Richard knew the room very well. He had
often been in it, and had spent there many a
pleasant hour. As he sat in it now, a sensation
of relief came over him. He was once more
among friends, among men of his own educational
stamp, men he coidd understand, and
who understood him : men who were not on

the watch to find fault with him, who respected,
and did not look down on him. Eicliard had
always been a sober man ; but he had been no
teetotaler ; he took a glass with his mates, and
made the slabs last a loner time. He had never
been a sociable man, but had always been
kindly, ready to listen to yarns, and patiently
hear puzzle-headed arguments, and laugh at
jokes, and take interest in the affairs of his
comrades. He was no talker, but a capital
listener. When asked for his advice, he gave
it modestly, and made no remarks if it Avere
not followed. Should the talk take such a turn
as offended him, he showed his disapproval by
rising and leaving the room. On one occasion
only had Eichard occasion to speak out, and
that was when his brother-in-law intercepted
his exit. Then he said gravely : ' I cannot
bear it, mates — because of the little 'uns at
home. When I'm with you smoking, I take
the smell of the 'baccy home with me in my
jacket ; but that don't hurt. But when I hear
you talk this way, I'm feared lest the taint of
it go home to my innocent children in my
clothes. No offence ; I must go. There are
six of 'em, and the youngest is a baby.'

Eichard Cable, as all the men knevv, was a
long-suffering man, slow to take offence, and
never giving it. That fellow must be uncommonly

provoking who roused Dick to anger.
He coiikl bear ranch chaff, taking it good-humouredly,
and he did not resent, thongs
he dished, a practical joke. How his comrades
woukl have marvelled had they been
able on that evening to see into Isis breast, at
the fuming, tossing fever that there worked,
kindled, stirred up by a woman's tongue !

By Gor, Dick,' said Ephraim Marriage,
the mate, when the steaming grog was brought
on the table with the white clay pipes, 'I'm
glad you've come. Jonas said we should see
no more of you, now you'd gone away from us
for ever ; but I didn't think it ; I knew you
better.'

Give us a paw, captain, over the table,'
said a sailor, glowing with affection and animation
at the sight of the spirits and hot water
and sugar.

Every vessel,' said Moses Harvey sententiously,
' is marked with the mark of the port
to which she belongs ; it is Oak. for Colchester,
and C.E. for Chichester, and H.D. for Hanford ;
and wherever she may go, into whatsoever
seas, a-trawling, or a-drudging,^ or a-coasting,
she's known by her marks whence she comes
and to what she belongs. Xow, mates, our

^ ' Dredging ' in the Essex fisherman's vernacular is
drndg-insr.'

c^ood friend Cable was built and launched hereat
Hanford ; and though he may cruise away
into oceans and seas and spheres to us unbeknown,
yet wherever he spreads his sail, there
it will be known he don't belong to no ports
or harbours of them there foreign parts or
spheres, but to us : he's marked H.D. right
over his bows and got it writ in his inmost
heart, in the log o' his good conscience.'

A rapping on the table, a clinking of
spoons, a stamping of feet under the table,
and a ' Hear ! hear ! hear ! Eight you are,
Moses.'

I've heard tell,' continued Harvey, stimulated
by these tokens of approval, ' that in disturbed
and warful times, vessels sail and traffic
under foreign colours. But I don't care what
colours our captain, Dick Cable, may hoist ; we
look to his letters, not his flag ; and we recognise
our old friend and mate by his H.D. on his
bows.'

Renewed applause.

Cable's heart was soothed by these tokens
of welcome and affection and regard. These
men said what they thought, and spoke out the
feelius^s of their hearts. There was no humbug
in them ; they were honest and true throughout.


Perhaps Josepliine was right when she said

that Lady Brentwood had invited him to dinner
only that she might laugh at him. Perhaps
the Admiral, the Lord of the Admiralty, the
Justices of Peace, the Baronet, would have been
civil to him with their lips, to his face, to make
jest of his manners and mode of expressing himself
behind his back. He did not understand
the ways of that class of life, and Josephine
did. She belonged to it.

Then Cable stood up and pulled off his
frock-coat, and put it aside on the cupboard.
I can't bear to sit in it any more,' he said .
It is like as if I were in a strait-waistcoat in
an asylum. I'll sit with you, mates, in my
shirt-sleeves, as I've no blue jersey.'

You put off the gentleman along with the
coat when with us, eh, Dick ? ' asked Jonas
Flinders.

I never was, and never shall be, a gentleman,'
said Eichard with a little warmth. ' The
making of one is not in me — what with my
pockets and my handkerchief and my Owes.
I'm a plain man, always was, and always will
be. — They tried to put my hands into gloves,'
he went on, waxing hotter — ' kid gloves they
were ; and I busted 'em right down the back,
as I've seen a taut sail go in a squall. They
tried to get my feet into fashionable boots, and
I was like a cat in walnut shells, or a Chinese

lady, needing ladies'-maids to hold her up when
she sets her foot to the ground.'

The men laughed. Eichard, with shaking
hand, refilled his glass. He was angry at the
recollection of what he had undergone. He
swallowed half the contents of his tumbler, and
went on irritably ; ' Whatever you do, mates,
keep clear of polite society It is like the
Doldrums, where you never know which way
the tide is running and from what quarter the
wind will catch you.'

Not much chance for any of us to get
into it, captain,' said one of the men ; * the luck
don't come to every one to marry an heiress.'

Leave my wife out of the game,' said
Eichard hastily ; ' I'm not alluding to her in
any way. I'm speaking of polite society in
£general, and them as have the misfortune to
swim in it. I've seen this day a bullfinch that
wasn't content to live outside a cage, and liked
to hop about from one dry stick to another.
There are folks that have been bred and grownup
in social cages, and they are only happy
inside of them. Give them a little red sand,
and a few drops of water and some chickweed
and a lump of white sugar, and they are content.
They don't care for the green trees and
the free wind, and the grass twinkling with
morning: dew. All that is barbarous to them.'

Eicliard had become loquacious. The fire
burned in his heart, an angry resentment
against the new world into which he had been
introduced, and for which he was unsuited ;
and his heated feeling's relieved themselves in
words. His pride, which had been broken
down, reared itself again.

It must be uncommon irksome,' said
Ephraim, ' having to wear a coat to your back
all day, as if you were in church or chapel
eternally.'

It is not only that — you are tied and
encumbered in everything, Eph ! ' answered
Cable. ' When David the shepherd-boy wanted
to fight Goliath, King Saul must needs clap on
his head his helmet, and wrap his breastplate
over his breast, and put greaves of brass on
his legs. Then David could not get along a
step, and he said : "I cannot wear them— I
have not proved them." It is much the same
with me. They're a-girding me and an arming
of me, brass here, brass there, brass everywhere,
and I am nigh on crushed with the
weight.'

It must be terribly inconvenient,' said one
man, ' to have to wear a o^ood cloth coat and
waistcoat and trousers at meal-time, and instead
of enjoying your wattles, to be a- thinking and
a-pondering and a considering all the time, lest

VOL. II. G

a drop of gravy or a bit of butter should come
on the cloth and spoil it. Bless my soul! what
it must be to have the mind a- travelling over
one's person like an invisible cloth-brush cleaning
off the crumbs and specks all the time one
is eating ! '

I suppose,' said another man, ' you've got
to be wonderfully choice wdiat you say ? '

That's another of the wexino^ things in
polite society,' answered Cable. 'Did you ever
hear Tom Catchpole tell of the juggler he saw
in India ? He saw a native conjurer dance
blindfold amons^ knives and razors stuck in the
ground with the blades upmost, where a false
step would have cut him to pieces. He danced
for an hour and did not get a scratch. For
why ? Because he Alas brought up to it from
a baby. It is just the same in polite society :
there every blessed letter of the alphabet sticks
on end, sharp as a razor, and I defy ' — he beat
his fist on the table — ' I defy any man who
has not been brought up to it to get along
among them without getting gashed and spiked
at every turn.'

And,' threw in Moses Harvey, ' the bowels
is the must.'

'I've been aboard a vessel all my life,'
said Cable grimly, ' but I can't pronounce We
aright.'

I suppose you live like a fighting-cock at
the Hall ? ' observed Ephraim.

There is enough there and to spare,' answered
Cable. He emptied his glass. He
flushed hot with the remembrance of the indignities
he had undergone on account of his
mode of eating. ' Polite society knows how to
cook its food, but is mighty particular how you
eat it. But there, mates, we've had enough
about polite society. I've seen at Or ford or
Marlborough or thereabouts — I can't at the
moment mind exactly where it was — a tree
growing that folks say was planted upskle
down, and the roots have grown into branches,
and the boughs have been converted into roots.
That is what polite society is — the honest
world turned topsy-turvy. You have my last
word on it. God save the Queen ! '

When shall you be going another cruise
in the " Josephine," captain ? ' asked Ephraim.

I'll have Jim Cook to repaint the name of
the yacht,' said Cable ; ' she's not to be called
the " Josephine " any more.'

Change her name ! '

Ay, change her name. You see, mates,
it's the name of my — my wife, and I don't care
to have it in every man's mouth. Besides, we
none of us speak it aright. There's properly
no Joss in it at all. — But there ; you need not

G 2

try to give it right. The name shall be altered
tomorrow.'

What will you call her, Dick ? '

The " Bessie "' — that shall be her name
henceforth.'

Then up stood Hezekiah Marriage, captain
of a small oyster smack, and said : ' Fill your
tumblers, gentlemen. I rise on my legs — on
my hind-legs, gentlemen '

He was interrupted by Cable, who exclaimed
roughly : ' We are none of us gentlemen,
I least of all, thanks be. — Call us mates.'

Very well, Captain Dick,' said Marriage.
I rise to my hind-legs, mates ; I accept the
correction with a grateful heart. We are not
gentlemen ; we don't belong to polite society ;
we are rough Skye terriers, every one of us. I

rises' lie paused — he was not a fluent man.

Gentlemen ! — I ask pardon, I mean mates —
you have not all got your glasses brimming,
and the toast I rises to propose is one that
demands the — the flowing bowl.' lie cleared
his throat noisily and looked round. Isis face
was moist, the strain of elocution was enormous.
' I rises on my '

All right. Captain Marriage ; you've been
a-rising on them hind-legs a score o' times ;
keep up on 'em, and don't come down again,'
said Jonas Flinders.

Allow me to o-et louis as I can ' entreated
the speaker, ' or I shan't get along at all. I
propose the full and flowing bowl to be emptied
to the health of Mrs. Captain Cable, the real
old and original Josephine.'

'I object!' shouted Eichard, starting up
and striking the table. ' I have said already
that I will not allow my wife's name to be
brought in. I refuse to permit the toast.'

Having risen to my hind-legs to propose
it,' said Marriage argimientatively, ' I can't
a-draw it in again. Toasts are not like snails
horns.'

I will not have it drunk,' said Cable
angrily. ' Do 3'ou want to offend me and
make me your enemy, Mr. Marriage ? You all ? '

No offence is meant ; the contrary was intended,'
argued Hezekiah. ' How can there be
offence in proposing or in drinking the health
of Mrs. Cable ? '

I have said I will not permit my wife's
name to be introduced here,' cried Eichard.
You have all heard me announce that.' He
looked angrily round the table.

Was this the same Eichard Cable whom
all had known ? — this irritable, touchy man ?
What had transformed his nature, once so
payable ? Only a drop of poison on a tongue-point
introduced into his veins.

Now, look here, mates,' said Marriage.
The toast is out, and it is unconstitutional to
haul it in again ; but I'm a peaceable man, and
I'll tell you how we'll compromise the difficulty'
— we'll drink the health of Mr, Cable and
all his belongings.'

Eichard Alas in that chafed temper that
takes umbrage at trifles ; but he saw that he
had acted unreasonably, and he raised no
further protest. The toast was drunk, but
with an abatement of enthusiasm. Then he
stood up to reply, having first fortified himself
for the effort with his glass. ' Mates,' he said,
leaning over the table, resting on his knuckles,
I'm nought as a speaker, as you all know. I
thank you for the cordiality with which you
have drunk my health. As I said afore, so say
I now ; I'm not a gentleman, and never will
become one. Silk purses are not made out of
sows' ears. I daresay you've all heard of
Mahomet's coffin that hangs betwixt heaven
and earth, held up by a lodestone. The coffin
that contains the corpse is of iron. Well,
mates, I'm not altogether like Mahomet, but I
am in part. I'm lugged up by the feet ; but
my head and heart are down below, and the
position is neither becoming nor comfortable.
Moreover, in the place where my feet now are,
in the elevated region of polite society, my

feet are objected to because my boots have
been greased against sea water, and they will
take no polish, and are otherwise objectionable.
I'd like to draw my feet down to my head,
mates — but — I can't. I thank you alL' Then
he emptied his glass and sat down.

I rise to my hind-legs once more,' said
Marriage, blowing with excitement and nervousness,
' because I have a duty to perform. I
meant no offence before, and I rise now to make
what amends for any mistake I may have made.
I'm a poor hand at speechifying. It is like
running in a boat over the flats when the tide
is setting outwards, and you feel beneath you
the farther you go that the water is a-shallowing
and a-shallowing, every pull that brings you
nearer the shore. I rise, however '

Drat your legs, can't you leave them out ! '
shouted Ephraim.

The toast, my mates, that I rise — that I
rise to propose is one, I'm sure, you will all
drink with the greatest cordiality and with
three cheers. The toast, mates, I rises on — I
mean I rises to propose, is to them dear little
chiltern, seven in all, nestled as doves under
Master Cable's spreading vine. I say, mates,
though we be rousrh old water-doo's, that we've
got tender hearts, and we respects and admires
a lovely sight, such as them seven little innocents,

beginning with Mary down to the baby, all
brought up as they ought to be, in the fear
of God, and in order and love and peace ; and
I do but express the feelings of all here present
when I say — God bless the darlings all.'

Tien the room rang with cheers ; and
Eichard, with the tears rising into his eyes,
leaned over the table and clasped the hand of
Hezekiah Marriage and shook it again and
again and again; but he said not one word;
he did not thank him, for his heart was full and
he could not speak.

Chapter XXVIII.

THE WORKING OF THE Poison.

When Eichard Cable left the 'Anchor' the
hour was not late, but he had drunk more than
his head could bear. He had always been an
abstemious man ; consequently, a glass or two
more than what he usually allowed himself
greatly upset him. On this sole occasion he
had not exercised that self-restraint which was
habitual with him, for on this evening the lire
in his blood had urged him to slake it. But
that was not all. He had felt real pleasure in
being once more in congenial society — in society
which exercised no thraldom over him, in which
he was relieved from the suspicion that he was
being watched and criticised. This sense of
liberty after irksome bondage impelled him to
relax, and for once to forget that there where
limits he had been accustomed to set himself.
He appreciated the kindliness of the men he
was with, and he sought to meet them on their
own ground, to show them good-fellowship.

As the fever in this veins cooled and. this wrath
passed away, lie became cheerful, and for the
first time for many days — happy. The medieval
church was wrong in ruling severe fasting during
Lent, for her dutiful sons, who had wasted
themselves during forty days, broke out in
paroxysms of orgy at Easter. It is said that
children brought up under stern discipline
become dissolute when emancipated from
parental governance. Cable had been for sometime
under discipline peculiarly galling, and
now that for a moment he was free, he forgot
that his liberty was not absolute.

Eichard left the ' Anchor ' on the arm of
Jonas Flinders, his brother-in-law. He was in
good humour. ' Th yacht shall be rechristened
tomorrow,' he said. ' She shall be called
henceforth the " Bessie " — that will please my
mother ; she is Bessie ; and the baby is called
after her. The best of boats shall bear the
name of the best of women and the dearest of
babes.'

The air from the sea was cold ; it fanned
the hot face of Eichard. The sky was without
cloud. There was no moon, and many stars
where visible ; not that the sky Alas crowded
with them, as on a winter night, because there
was twilight in the heavens ; nevertheless, many
showed. The evening star twinkled. Sirius

turned red and green and gold, flashed and
winked like a diamond. The nioiit was so
cool, the breath from the sea so fresh, that
Pilchard's hot head seemed to him to steam.
There is the Big Bear,' said he, leaning heavily
on the arm of Jonas, and pointing to the constellation
known to every child. ' There he is
turning about on the end of his tail. He's o't
his nose high up now — he'll have to bring it
down before morning. Often have I watched
Mm go round like the sails of a windmill, when
I've kept watch on board the lightship. — Jonas I
I think I'm turning about myself, like the Great
Bear; but my head is the point on which I
revolve. It's a wonderful consideration to me,
Jonas, that the Great Bear always knows what
to do with his front-paws. They are the
pointers. Draw a line through them wherever
they may be, and it touches the north star.
And when you consider that the Bear is never
still, always turning about on the tip of his tail,
I say it is marvellous ! There is instinct for
you. I couldn't do it. My paws are never in
place. If I stick them into my pockets, I am
wrong. If I put them down straight and stiff,
one on either side of me, I'm wrong again. If
I plant them on my knees, it is worse than
ever. If I draw the back of one of them across
my nose, it is as bad as murder. Then, Jonas,

whatever shall I say about my hind-feet, as
Hezekiah Marriage calls them ? I can't keep
them anywhere where they do not give offence.
I've curled them in a sort of knot under my
clair where I have been sitting, and I was
told I looked absurd — ill at ease. I've stretched
them out straight before me and I was informed
I was uncouth. I've put one on one
side of my chair, and the other on the other
side, and that was not right neither ; and then
the boots have been so smeared with rancid
tallow, to keep out the water, that they won't
do neither. I'm well aware, Jonas, in the
sphere to which I'm elevated, that I'm looked
on much as a great ungainly Bear ; but I wish
in that same firmament I knew how to dispose
of my extremities. Oh, the agony of mind
those extremities of mine have caused me !
Why is it, Jonas, that no beast or bird or
creeping thing has any thought about or difficulty
with his extremities, but only man ? — •
and we're made to believe he is the lord
of creation. — I tell you what I think, Jonas —
you're not laughing at me. It is in polite
society only we get laughed at and sneered at.
It is not my feet, but her eyes that are the
pointers ; they are for ever pointing out my
extremities, turn them about and put them
where I may. Take her bright brown eyes

and draw a line through them ' lie

checked himself, and said hastily : ' I'm not
speaking of my wife ; I'm not going to have
her alluded to in this company, nor her name
named, because your mouths have not been
fashioned to pronounce it right, nor can your
heads understand her ways of going on, and
I won't have any commenting on and criticising
of what you do not understand. We'll
turn the conversation to the '' Bessie." '

The cold night-air was affecting him. He
who was usually so little of a talker had become
loquacious ; but then for many days he had
been afraid to speak lest he should commit a
solecism, and now that the fear was removed,
he talked a great deal.

There is the light out yonder — or two, is
it ? — where I used to be in the boat. They
have put another vessel there now, and another
man is in it. Lord ! Jonas, I almost wish I
were back at the old work, cleaning of the
lamp, instead of al\va3's being a-snu(iing and
cleaning and polishing of myself — and never
able to get myself right, always smudges somewhere,
and rust-marks, and smoke and smut.
Out yonder, one day passed much like another,
and all peaceable. True enough, we had stones,
and I was tossed about ; but there never was
any storm and tossing about inside of me ; and

now it is all inward, and none without. I'd
rather the billows ran mountains high and the
breakers foamed over my head, than have the
seas so heavy within. — What creatures we are,
Jonas ! When I was on the boat, I was always
longing to be ashore with my little ones ; and
when I was ashore — somehow, I wasn't altogether
sorry when my time came to return to
the ship. So, I guess, when a man's a bachelor,
he longs to be married ; and when he's married,
he looks back on his singleness with great
longing. We always wally what we haven't
got. Man is a perverse animal, Jonas.'

'Polly was a good wife. You think of herat
times still — though she wasn't rich and accomplished.'


Polly ! ' — Eichard tried to recover himself;
he was lurching against his brother-in-law.
Polly was an excellent wife. — But, Jonas, I
will have no comparisons drawn. If you mean
to insinuate anything against my present wife,
you make me your enemy for life. Polly was
everything that was right and good in her way ;
and I have no doubt that — that she — her name
is more than we can pronounce right, we uneducated
folk — she What was I saying ?

She also is all that is excellent in her way.
We do not compare them ; they are different.
Let us turn the conversation. The Great

Bear stands in the sky, always a-turning on the
end of his tail, ^vhich is a moral lesson to ns
always to keep the conversation a-turning.'

The two had nearly reached the cottage.
Eichard's talk became more disjointed, his walk
less steady. The cold air ensuing on the
heated atmosphere of the tavern parlour exercised
its usual effect. He lead left the ' Anchor '
exhilarated ; he was now intoxicated.

Was this the same Eichard Cable who was
wont to return home with raised head and even
step, and whistling, to let his little ones know
that their father was comines to them to kiss

o

them ere they closed their eyes in sleep ? Was
this the same Eichard Cable now reeling alomj^
the road maundering; nonsense ? What had
occasioned this change ? Only a drop of poison
infused into his blood. The boys in sop's
fable threw stones at the frogs, whereon one of
the tribe raised his head out of the water and
said : ' What is fun to you is death to us ; '
and so may many a man croak in his pain,
when merry creatures pelt him with hard
words : ' What is fun to them demoralises me.'
Eichard was already demoralised. His self-respect
had met with a mortal wound. This
self-respect was the stay which had held up all
his other virtues. Strong in his manly dignity,
he had been gentle, patient, self-controlled,

modest, and temperate. Josephine had struck
at his sense of moral dignity, and when that
gave way, every grace that had leaned on it
went into the dust at the same time.

A Spanish bull-fight is by no means the
even conflict of equally opposed antagonists
that we supposed in childhood. The bulls
have no inclination to fight ; their disposition
is peaceable. It is only after persistent and
prolonged flirts that the mat adores can goad
them into pugnacity. They endure without
resistance the stab of knife and the prog of
lance. They turn their heads away, so as not
to see the fluttered scarlet cloaks. And we
men are much the same — placable, indisposed
to gore, ready to rub our noses against the
hands of our gaily tricked-out tormentors,
a "gainst hands wet with our blood. We thrust
our stupid heads against their breasts, asking
to be patted on our flanks or rubbed between
the horns. We do not want to fight, not we !
We would not tear away a ribbon or a lace, or
trample on a bugle off the frippery that adorns
our tormentors. We have been stabbed, but
we submit to wounds, and when next goaded,
limit our protest to a subdued bellow. Possibly,
we shake our heads in threat, but we mean no
harm. When at length, with cruel ingenuity,
our pretty persecutors drive barbs into the

open wounds, and these barbs are armed with
crackers and squibs and Catherine-wheels ; and
when they dribble Greek-fire and flaming sulphur
into our sores, then, in our agony, we
toss our heads and paw the ground, and strike
the barriers of plank with our horns, ripping
them like rushes, and we race, bellowing
mad, round the arena — then woe to
those who stand in our way ; we are no longer
responsible for our actions.

Bessie Cable was sitting in the cottage by the
table, in the front kitchen. Lie had been cuttings
a dress for baby, a little pink dress with
white sprigs on it, a very small pattern ; and
Mary sat on a stool beside her, hemming the
pieces together. The cut-out scraps lay on the
table, some ready for Mrs. Cable to sew together.
Near her feet was the cradle, in which
baby lay asleep.

grannie ! ' said Mary, ' will she not look
sweet in this pink dress ? And she will have a
red sash and red bows on her little shoulders.
She will be a sweet little rosebud, will she notes '
Then Mary stooped over the sleeping child.
Do, grannie ! look at her,' she said. ' Was
there ever such a darling ! What a pretty
little dimple she has ! She is laughing in her
sleep. I do believe she is dreaming about her
new frock. — Do you think, grand mamma, that

VOL. II. II

babies know what is going to happen? I
suppose the angels do, because they are so near
God, who knows everything that is to be. I
daresay little baby-souls that have just comedown
from God can see a little way into what
is going to happen, and that is why Bessie is
laughing now — she sees the pink frock in which
she will be so smart on Sunday.'

I do not suppose babies see into the future,
dear Mary, not even little pink frocks with
carnation bows. I do not think it would be
well for them. They would see many sorrows
and pains ; and then, instead of smiling in their
sleep, their tears would trickle over their cheeks.
They are happy because they are blind to what
is to be.'

Grannie,' pursued Mary, ' how do babies'
souls come to them ? Father took me outside
one night and let me see the falling stars, and
he said they were baby-souls coming down out
of heaven from the hand of God. Why do the
falling stars always go out when they come
near the earth ? '

'Because, I suppose, they enter into the
little bodies.'

But — grannie,' Mary went on — she was a
thoughtful child, and asked more questions
than Bessie Cable had the wit to answer —
'how is it that there are no rising stars? They

are all falling, and none flying up. It ought
not to be so. If we see the little bright souls
come down when babies are born, then, when
good people die, we should see their souls like
bright stars mount up to heaven. — Have you
seen them do that ? '

No, dear, never.'

But why not, grannie P '

Because the souls get so dust-clogged and
darkened and stained with their sojourn on
earth, that the brightness is dimmed, and God
must clean them again before they shine.'

Mary considered a while, and then said :
I don't think father's soul will need much
cleaning, it shines so bright now.'

Hark ! ' said Mrs. Cable. ' There is his
tread. — No ; it is not his tread.'

A hand on the door ; it was thrown open,
and Eichard Cable staggered in, without his
coat, wdaicli he had forgotten, and left on the
cupboard in the ' Anchor ' parlour. His face
was red, his hair disordered, his eyes wandering.


Mary looked up, sprang to her feet with
a cry of delight, and with open arms prepared
to run to him. His mother laid her work on
her lap, and looked at him with doubt and
alarm. Mary was arrested by something in
his appearance so unusual as to frighten her.

H 2

Eicliarcl ! ' said Mrs. Cable, ' what has
happened ? '

She shall be christened tomorrow,' he
replied ; ' re-christened tomorrow — and called
henceforth the " Bessie." '

His mother knew wdiat had occurred. The
tone of his voice, the drawl in his speech, his
position lurching from one foot to the other,
declared it.

Father dear,' said little Mary, 'how strange
you look ! '

Mary,' said Mrs. Cable hastily, ' go away.
Eun upstairs at once.'

Stay a bit,' ordered Eichard. ' Say your
prayers first. Repeat your Scripture lesson,
generation of wipes," but be very scrupulous
about the We. Polite society lays great
weight on it. I won't have it laugh at my
Mary because she can't say the We right. I
can't do it myself '

Go upstairs immediately,' said Mrs. Cable,
rising and catching Mary by the hand. ' Your
father is — is unwell. You must go instantly
to your room. Say your prayers by yourself,
and pray for him.' She hurried the child to
the stairs.

Mary went reluctantly ; but she was a
docile child, and did not venture to disobey'.
On the stairs she stood and blew a kiss to her

father from her little pain. ' Grannie,' she
said, ' he is not very unwell, is he ? He will
be well tomorrow. — Dear father, try to be
quite well soon.'

'Halloo!' said Eichard, staiZfyerinc^ to the
table, ' what have we here ? A new frock for
little Bessie ! Ha, ha ! Shall we have the
yacht new christened tomorrow ? No disrespect
meant to my wife. Into slur cast. But
wee can't pronounce the name right, so had
better not pronounce it at all.' Then he went
to the cradle. ' Bessie ! ' he said, ' come along
and crow over giving your name to the yacht.
A fine boat that answers her helm, as a racer
does a touch on the bridle.' He stooped, put
his hands into the cradle under the child, and
raised it out of its crib. ' " There's grog in the
captain's cabin," ' he said, swinging the sleeping
child aloft, ' " there's water down below." —
Halloo ! at sea already — life on the ocean wave
and on the rolling deep ! Up we go ! Down
we go ! ' He lurched over.

For heaven's sake, Eichard,' cried his
mother from the staircase, where she stood
holding Mary's hand — ' Eichard, let the baby
alone ! Put her back in the cradle.'

Don't you fear ! The " Bessie " shall rake
the stars with her topmast, and dance in the
foam of the ocean. Shan't she, my baby ?

Up lie swings with straining timbers, down
she goes ! ' He lost his balance, fell over the
cradle ; and the child dropped from his hands
on the stone floor, before Mrs. Cable had time
to unlock her hand from Mary's clutch and
fly to catch the babe from his uncertain hold.
The little creature uttered a cry and was still.
But oh ! — with a shriek, piercing, tearing
through the house, frightening the children in
their beds, the father picked himself up on his
knees and clasped his hands, one on each side
of his head, sobered in one moment of supreme
agony and remorse. He knelt as one turned
to stone, with his eyes riveted to the white
motionless child, lying on the pavement, his
face turned to the hue of death. Was the
little one killed ? Was it severely injured ?

Eun, run for the doctor ! ' again ordered
Mrs. Cable.

Then Eichard staggered to his feet like one
suddenly roused from sleep, and yet under the
influence of a dream. Still in his shirt-sleeves,
and without thought to put on his hat, he went
to the door, and ran. He stayed at the doctor's
door, but he did not wait for him and return
with him to the cottage. He ran on, ran for
an hour without stopping in one direction —
towards Brentwood Hall.

CHAPTEE XXIX.

CUTTING THE CABLE.

Josephine's spirits went up like a cork in
water when she left Hanford. She liked Lady
Brentwood. She was fond of society, and the
society met at Brentwood Hall was usually
agreeable. Lady Brentwood was an admirable
hostess ; the baronet, a cheery, kind man, who
rather ■ petted and flattered Josephine. But
these where not the prime causes of her exhilaration.
She was rejoiced for a few hours
to be free of Eichard, who was to her a constant
cause of anxiety and annoyance. She,
in her way, was feeling the same reaction that
swept over Eichard when he came among his
friends at the 'Anchor.' She asked herself
now why she had married him, and was notable
at once to find the true answer. She had,
in fact, taken him for several reasons. She
never had really loved him ; but she had been
grateful to him, and she had been attracted by
his simplicity, integrity, and manliness — by the

contrast he presented to her father. But perversity
had had its part in bringing her to
rnarry Eichard. She knew that by so doing
she would anger her father and offend her
aunt ; and having lost all respect for both, she
went headlong in a coiu'sc which, because disapproved
by them, she argued must be right.
Without any fixed standards of right, she was
swayed by her impulses, often good, but sometimes
exaggerated, till all the goodness was
lost. She had felt her need of a guide ; but
Eichard was useless to her ; he was a drag, an
encumbrance, a cause of perplexity. Now,
she recognised the justice of her father's opposition,
and regretted that she had not received
it with respect. In her self-condemnation she
was drawn towards her father as she had never
been drawn before. Lie had revolted against
his contemptuous disregard for truth and cynical
disparagement of sincerity. Now she began
to see that he was not wholly in the wrong.
Truth, sincerity, are raw and rude virtues,
not to be taken up in their natural state in the
lump, but to be minced, and spiced, and rolled
into forced meat balls, or tucked into pates,
and garnished and glossed over, and served
round as a hors-d'a?uvre. Life is not to be
sustained thereon ; they are to be picked at
and taken in small portions at the end of a fork.

Naked truth is a savage virtue fit only for
naked savages, suitable to an age when men
ate acorns and beechraast. Civilisation from
its first initiation was a covering up and disguising
of truth. No cultured man speaks the
bare truth to his neighbour, but rubs off its
edges and smooths and polishes it. The bare
truth blinds like the sun, and must be looked at
through smoked glass. The perfectly true man
is insufferable to every man he comes in contact
with. Aristotle may have called the perfect
man tetragonos, four-square, but such a man is
full of angles, which impinge on and bruise his
neighbours. Everything in life is full of disguise
; truth is enveloped in as many coverings
as a Chinese ivory carved puzzle ball — the
charm lies in the sculpture of the coats, not in
the pip within. Our clothing, from the first
apron of leaves, is disguise ; our speech is the
veil we throw over our thoughts ; the courtesies
of life are the figments which interpose between
us and our fellows, to prevent our coming to
blows. These thoughts passed through Josephine's
brain ; and she began to admit that her
father was not so much in fault as she had supposed,
and that she was premature in condemning
him. She gravitated towards him, now
that she was in this humour; and his quick
observation showed him that he had acquired

an ascendency over ]her he had not previously
possessed.

When they were at Brentwood Hall, sometime
elapsed before dinner, whilst their hostess
was engaged. Then Josephine took her father's
arm, and they wandered together into the conservatory.
He saw that she desired to speak
with him on what was uppermost in her breast,
yet was shy of opening the subject. ' Do you
care for begonias, papa ? ' she asked. ' I think
they are not attractive plants. They have
nothing but their colour in their favour. — Oh,
do look at the maiden-hair fern. How prettily
it is i^rown in cork alone; the Avails ; and see ! it
springs up luxuriantly in every cranny between
the joints of the pavement. It will not flourish
thus with us.'

It wants warmth, and hates a draught. To
every plant a proper climate is needed that it
may thrive. Bring the coarse bracken in here,
and it will spindle; put a maiden hair out of
doors, and it will languish.'

'What a pity it is, papa, that there is no
managing a fernery at our place. The pipes
heat the vines and flowers ; and if another
house were added on, there would not be heat
enough to warm it. It is a pity Consul Gabriel
contrived his greenhouse so badly that there is

no enlarging them without complete reconstruction.'


My dear, Ave slioulcl build our houses and
shape our futures without corners for pities to
lodge.'

What do you mean, papa ? '
I mean, that we should well consider what
we are about to do ; and then, when we have
acted, we shall not be exclaiming : " What a
pity ! what a pity ! I did not see this before."
In all our plans, we should contrive to let the
pities be outside, like the vents for sewage gas.'
Josephine knew that her father was thinking
of her and what she had done. ^ We cannot
always help ourselves ; the pities will come.'

They may come, where forethought has
been exercised ; where it has not, ihejicill come.'
And when they are there ? '
We must get rid of them if we can.'
That is easier said than done,' observed
Josephine.

To which her father remarked in answer :
Where there is a will there is a way.'

They walked on together for some little
way without speaking ; but presently, Mr.
Cornellis said with a tone of voice that conveyed
a sneer : ' Among the many pities that occur,
there is one strikes me with peculiar force at

this moment — that the Wacli el Arabah is
dry.'

'Why so?'

Because, if there were water-communication
between the Gulf of Akbar and the Dead
Sea, that intelligent and venturesome sailor,
your good husband, might be sent in the yacht
to Jericho.'

Papa ! ' Josephine sighed.

'As there is not,' pursued Mr. Cornellis,
might lie not be induced to attempt the Northwest
Passage ? There would be, to be sure, the
chance of his getting crystallised in an iceberg
like a mastodon.'

Josephine shrank from her father ; she unlocked
her arm from his ; his tone offended her.

One thing is certain,' said he. ' Eichard is
reduced to abject misery ; he is weary of life
amoncT us. I sive him his due. He knows he
is out of his element. He wants but a touch
to convert his rotary orbit about you into a
parabola, with a perihelion at remote intervals.*

He waited a few minutes for her to speak,
but she said nothing, her face was troubled.

It is said,' continued Mr. Cornelia, ' that
if you give a man rope enough he will hang
himself. You, my dear ' — he looked at her out
of the corners of this eyes — ' you have been
given plenty of Cable, and are beginning to

throttle — in self-defence you must cut your
Cable:

This was all that passed between them, but
it sufficed. Her father had shown Josephine
the only way out of her present difficulties.
The alienation must be made complete ; she
and her husband must separate without scandal,
with mutual consent. Each was in a wrong-position,
and felt uncomfortable. But would
Eichard as readily agree to this arrangement as
herself? He loved her, and she did not love
him. He had his nice notions of duty, which
might keep him dangling about her. But
there was a greater impediment than this — his
children. Would he be induced to leave them ?
Would he be persuaded to depart with them ?
How could she even suggest to him that he
should do thisbe For the first time she felt
an impatience of the children boil up in lier.
Little cumbersome pests ! ' she said, as she put
on her bracelets, but lie did not allude to the
bracelets.

She was beautifully dressed at dinner — a
creamy white silk with orange flowers and lace ;
round her neck was a chain of pearls. She
looked strikingly beautiful. Her clear olive
cheek was flushed with excitement, and her larfje
brown eyes were full of light. By day the
white would not have suited her complexion ;

but it was otherwise at night. She was taken
into dinner by the baronet, and she exerted
herself to be agreeable. Sir John was a very
old friend, whom she had known since she was
a child, one who had humoured and encouraged
her, and laughed at her sharp speeches. Not a
word did he say about Eichard. He expressed
no regret that he was not present. He asked
her about her voyage, about Hehgoland and
Bremerhaven, and Hamburg and the Danish
Isles, which she had visited on her wedding
tour. He had a yacht of his own, and at one
time had gone about in it a good deal ; but of
late years he had felt his age and given up the
boat to his son. As we get old, we do not lose
our love of the amusements of our youth ; but
we feel the labour that attends them., and the
effort we make in taking our pleasure neutralises
the pleasure itself.

On the other side of Josephine sat Captain
Sellwood, who had taken into dinner a heavy
young lady. The captain made a few cumbrous
attempts at conversation, which fell dead,
and were followed by periods of silence.

I hear the discharge of minute-guns,' said
Josephine in a low tone to him. ' You and
your convoy make no way. I am a fast clipper,
and have come to the rescue.'

She was in good spirits. She was sorry for

the captain, whom she had affronted when he
proposed to her, and she was eager now to
make all the amends in her power. Accordingly,
when not engaged with Sir John, she
threw herself with energy into the difficult task
of waking up and maintaining a conversation
with Captain Sellwood and his partner. She
was only partially successful. She was like a
boy trying to fly a kite when there is little
wind. When he runs and lugs at the string,
up goes the kite ; when he desists, it heads
downward and lies inert upon the grass. As
the captain was at her side, Josephine was not
subjected to the gaze of his solemn ox-like
eyes. This was a relief to her ; she could not
have endured the scrutiny. With some, when
they look at you, you can see in their eyes
what ideas they have formed, favourable or
otherwise, concerning you. There is a certain
amount of satisfaction in that ; but with Captain
Sellwood it was not possible to do so ; there
was no reading anything in them.

Josephine was playing an unreal part. At
the bottom of her heart lay a leaden burden of
care and mortification, but she gave no token
of it in her conduct. Her face was full of
smiles, her eyes of humour.

When are you going back to India ? ' she
asked of the captain.

He did not know exactly — he had a long
leave of absence, on account of ill health.

General torpidity ? ' asked Josephine.

A torpid liver — yes. Perhaps I may have
to leave the army.'

Then she turned to Sir John Brentwood,
and noticed Lady Brentwood bowing ; so she
rose, and the ladies followed her into the .
As she passed her father, she caught
his eye ; it said plainly : ' You are queen here
now only because Eichard is absent.'

The drawing-room of Brentwood Hall was
a long room, occupying the entire garden front
of the mansion. It was lit with tall Queen
Anne windows, now covered with pea-green
curtains embroidered with yellow and brown
heart's-eases. The room was panelled and
'painted creamy white, the mouldings picked
out with gold. All the furniture was in white
and gold and pea-green. The ceiling was remarkably
rich with wreaths of plaster-work
flowers and fruits in the style of Grinding
Gibbons. Between the windows were full-length
family portraits, some of great beauty —
giving colour and depth of tone to a room
otherwise pale in its decorations. There was
one famous painting there, by Gainsborough,
of a Lady seated by the seashore under a tree,
listening to the murmur of the waves in a shell

that she held to her ear. She was in white
satin, with a black lace scarf thrown lightly
over her head. Blue bows adorned her dress.
Gulls flitted over the deep-blue sea in the background.
The expression ot the sweet face was
one of melancholy ; and a look of yearning for
something far away was cleverly depicted in
the eyes. That something far away was her
husband, Sir Beauties Brentwood, who hung
between another pair of windows — a gorgeous
figure in crimson satin. He went by the name
of Eed Euin in the family, because of the
disasters he had brought on it. The picture
had been painted in Italy. The dress was
fantastic, worn at a masquerade, borrowed or
hired from the garde-role of some theatre — red
stockings, slashed trunk-hose and jacket, a hat
with a crimson feather.

You are looking at Eed Euin,' said Lady
Brentwood. ' Fortunately for the family, he
fell abroad in a duel. He had eloped with a
Eoman princess, and was run through the body
by the husband. If he had lived a year or
two longer, the Brentwood would now be
nowhere, the estate sold, the family irretrievably
impoverished.'

Josephine studied the Gainsborough.

His poor wife,' said Lady Brentwood,
looks like Patience on a monument, smiling

VOL. II. I

at grief. He deserted lier, treated lier shamefully,
hardly allowed her enough to live upon ;
and yet she forgave everything, and was, I
believe, the only person who wept true tears at
his death. I do not think I should sigh, and
look so longingly for his return, had Sir John
played me these tricks. I am cast in another
mould. Some folks would be glad enough to
be rid of their husbands. You, my dear, have
not been married longs; enough to know Avhat a
relief it is to be quit of them for a while. Bless
me! what is all that noise in the hall? What
a clatter the servants are making.' Just then a
footman entered. ' Thompson,' she said, ' what
is the meaning of this ? Are you all gone
mad ? '

'Please, my lady might I speak to your
ladyship a moment outside ? '

What is it ? I insist on knowing. What
has happened ? Speak out, Thompson.'

My lady, there's — a man, a fellow got into
the house in Ins shirt-sleeves and without his
hat.'

Well, turn him out. Is he drunk ? '

We can't make out, my lady, exactly.
The butler has had a deal of work getting him
into the housekeeper's room.'

How vexing ; send for the gamekeepers,
and have him expelled. Is he insane ? '

We don't knovv^ ^vliat to make of him, my
lady. He says he's come after his-wife.'

Wife — wife ! She's not here. He must
be drunk.'

He's very hot and excited, my lady ; he
says as his name is Cable.'

Lady Brentwood started.

Josephine's blood rushed in a wave to her
heart, and then poured through all lier veins,
like the bore in the Severn. For a moment
the room spun round and she saw nothing distinctly
; but she speedily recovered herself, and
with crimson brow and eyes that flamed with
anger, she said : ' Let me go, dear Lady Brentwood.
I will see him.' Then she left the
room, with firm foot but bounding heart, and
pulses in her temples that smote like hammers.
Lead the way, Thompson ! ' she said haughtily.
The man desires, possibly, to speak hath me.'

The footman conducted het* along a passage
and down steps to the parlour of the housekeeper,
a room that smelt of preserves. She
was followed by lier hostess, ready to retire if
need be, but desirous to be at hand to prevent
scandal.

In the housekeeper's room was Eichard
Cable in an arm-chair, the butler and the
housekeeper by him endeavouring to compose
him. He was in a condition of 2^reat agitation.

1 2

His face hot, his hair wet, he was panting for
breath ; his sleeves were unbuttoned at the
wrist, his tie twisted to one side of his neck.
His collar was limp and crumpled.

If you will kindly leave me alone with
him,' said Josephine, controlling herself, and
turning to the housekeeper and butler, ' I will
send him away.' Turning round, she saw Lady
Brentwood in the doorway. 'Dear Lady
Brentwood,' she said, going a step towards her.
I am ashamed and grieved that you should
have been disturbed. Let me manage this
matter. I will dismiss him very speedily.'

Her hostess at once withdrew and the
servants disappeared. When she was left alone
in the room with Eichard, she stood opposite
him, looking at him with angry brow and eyes
that darted flashes of fire. Her teeth, her hips,
her hands were clenched. Her eyebrows were
contracted, so that they met above her nose.
His breast was heaving ; drops of sweat stood
on his brow and rolled down his face like raindrops.


Well,' she said at length, ' are you going
to speak and inform me as to the reason of this
new outrage ? Are you bent on driving me to
curse the day that I ever took your hand to
raise you out of the gutter P '

He did not answer ; he could not ; his

breath was spent ; the blood boiled and sang
in his ears. Perhaps he did not hear her.

Why had he come ? He did not ask himself
this question. It did not occur to him to
ask it. He had come, impelled by a natural
instinct, not by any articulate reason. She was
his wife, the one who stood nearest to him in
the whole ^vorld. He had committed a crime ;
he was conscious of an agony of remorse and
terror which filled him. To whom should he
lily in such an hour of supreme pain but to his
wife, to pour into her ear the story of his
trouble, to ask her sympathy, her assistance ?

He had not stopped to consider ; had he
done so, he might have hesitated ; he might
have doubted whether she was a person ready
to meet him with open arms and comfort
him in his sorrow. But he did not stay to
think ; he ran straight forward, thrust on by
remorse. His mind was dazed with despair,
incapable of thinking, and so he acted upon
natural, unreasoning instinct. To whom other
than a wife should he turn — the refuge of a
tortured soul, the proper sharer in every sorrow,
the only one who with a ray of love could
enlighten the darkness which enveloped his
brain and heart ? Xow his wife stood before
him, with bare bust and arms, in white silk and
lace and flowers, wearing pearls about her neck

and sparkling bracelets on her arms, with long
white gloves, neatly buttoned, and a fan in one
hand.

Eichard Cable looked at her ; and now, for
the first time since he had started on his run, did
the thought emerge out of the confusion and
pain in him, that this beautiful, dazzling, stately
creature was not one to solace, advise, and help
him.

'What is it?' she asked in a hard tone;
and as she spoke there sprung up in her mind
the recollection of her father's words, ' Cut
your Cable,' and she saw that the desired
opportunity had arrived.

She waited a moment, and then said again :
I have asked you twice, wdiat is the meaning
of this insult ? ' Then with concentrated bitterness
: ' Are you too drunk to speak ? '

He raised his hands and clasped his head :
I have killed— or hurt .'

'Whom?'

Little Bessie ! I let her foil — on the stone
floor — little Bessie ! ' Then he broke down,
covered his face with his hands, and sobbed.

She stood unmoved before him. Shew^aited
a moment for him to recover himself, then in
the same hard tone she asked : ' What have
you come here for ? '

For you.'

For me ? Why P Bessie is no child of
mine. Go back ! '

Will you not come with me ? '

I — I go with you ! ' She laughed contemptuously.
' Ici je amuse parfaitement
bien. You do not understand French. It
does not matter—you can gather the sense.'
She turned her back on him and left the room.

Chapter XXX.

NOT TO BE Replaced.

Ox the modern stage, when persons have to
disappear or properties to be removed without
interruption of scenes, a steam or smoke is
raised, or veils of imperceptible gauze are let
down, behind which the requisite operations
can be performed unobserved by the spectators.
Similar appliances have been in use on the
social stage for many generations to disguise
what we do not wish to be seen. It was so on
this occasion. The movement of social entertainment
went on uninterrupted ; the gentlemen
came from their wine ; the tea was handed
round ; ladies sang and performed on the piano ;
Lady Brentwood had agreeable things to say
to all her guests ; the smoke of small-talk and
the veil of etiquette screened the unpleasant
episode which had just been enacted, and
which had created some disturbance.

The hostess herself knew no particulars,
and she was careful to ask no questions.

When Josephine reappeared, she covered her
embarrassment cleverly by thanking her for
having fetched her music, and insisting on her
taking her place at the piano and giving the
company one of her charming songs. Josephine
went to her portfolio and took out the
first piece that met her hand without particularly
noticing what it was. She knew perfectly
all the pieces she had put together, and there
needed no choosing where music is used not asa
delectation, but as a cover to the voices of
talkers. \Yhen she took her place on the stool
and unfolded the paper, she found that she had
selected the Mermaid's song from Oberon. She
struck the first chords listlessly, and then regretted
that she had taken this piece, for with
the air came over her the recollection of the
lightship and of Dicky Cable's whistle. ' I will
never, never since it ac^ain,' she thought as she
closed it. ' That is the last of the Mermaid.'

Next day, I^ady Brentwood persuaded Josephine
and her father to prolong their visit over
another night. There was a garden-party that
afternoon and another dinner in the evening,
when a very musical acquaintance, a man who
wrote critiques in some of the papers, a man
steeped in Wagner to the chin, was coming;
and Josephine, said her host, would be sure
to like to meet him and discuss Waiter with

him and the merits of her favourite Weber.
Josephine was a heretic ; she despised Mendelssohn,
thought him a great prophet of musical
commonplace, and had shocked Lady Brentwood.
' My dear,' she said, ' we will refer the
matter to Mr. Wayland Smith ; you must stop
for dinner, and hear what he has to say about
Mendelssohn. I daresay you may be right
about these Songs without Words, but none
but a master could have written the Scotch
Symphony.'

So Josephine and her father remained ; and
at table her hostess managed to set Mr. Wayland
Smith next to the bride, though he did
not take her in to dinner. Josephine was
passionately fond of music, but she had not
had extended opportunities of hearing much.
Her father took her to town occasionally to
concerts and the opera : but, after all, the circle
of operas performed in town is a small one —
Trovatore, Iioherio, the Pnyphete, Rigoletto — ■
now and then Lohengrin Trovatore again,
toujours Trovatore. Mr. Wayland Smith had
gone through a German course, hated Italian
music, and had niuch to say about composers
of whom the English musical world knew

o

nothing, and whom, therefore, it despised —
Marschner, Losing, Nicolai, &c.

Josephine spent a very enjoyable evening.

She sang for Mr. Way land Smith, and very
goodliumoaredly and frankly accepted his criticisms.
He looked over her portfolio, and with
a blue pencil scored some of her pieces.
Ashen you get home,' he said, ' tear these to
fragments and strew them to the winds ; it is
worse than Avast of time to play rubbish.'

Josephine quite forgot about Richard Cable
and his injured child in the interest she felt in
the conversation of the musical critic. She
made him write down a list of pieces for her
to get and learn.

I knew,' said Lady Brentwood, ' that you
would enjoy yourself when I persuaded you to
stay.'

Dear Lady Brentwood, I have not spent
such a pleasant evening for a long time. I
forgot all my worries.'

You have worries ? '

Like every one else. But — I am glad
now to learn that I am not alone iu my heresy.
Mr. Wayland Smith shrugged his shoulders
over Mendelssohn, and said the Songs without
Words were fit only for school-girls.'

Josephine had banished her worries from
her thoughts while at Brentwood Hall ; but
when she returned to Hanford they returned
with renewed force to disturb her peace. Her
conscience, which had slept whilst away from

home, now uncoiled and stretched itself. She
felt qualms at the recollection of her treatment
of Eicliard.

Her whither had asked no questions about
what had happened ; he seemed to have divined
all. As she descended from the carriage,
and he gave her his hand, he said : ' Take care
no replacing of cut Cables.' In no other
way did he alice to what had occurred.

Eichard was not at the house when they
arrived. He did not come out into the porch
to meet her. She hardly expected to see him,
yet she felt disappointed that he was not there.

Is Mr. Cable about the garden ? ' she asked
of the butler.

No, ma'am ; he's not been here for sometime.
— There's been an accident, ma'am.'

Is the child much hurt ? ' she inquired
with a slight tremor in her voice.

I do not know, ma'am, for certain. Shall
I send the boy down to inquire how the young
lady is ? '

Young lady ! Tiny Bessie a young lady !
What condescension of John Thomas to call
the poor little child, the sailor's babe, a young
lady !

'Never mind,' she answered. 'I daresay
I shall step down myself and ask. The case is
not serious ? '

The butler bowed, put his hand to his
mouth to cover a cough, and said in an apologetic
tone : ' Certainly not, ma'am — only the
spine is injured, and the child will be a cripple
for Use.'

Josephine shuddered and turned white.
Then she went upstairs ; her hands shook as
she removed her bonnet. What should she do ?
Ought she not to go at once to the cottage ?
She and her father had lunched at Brentwood,
and did not return till the afternoon. As she
sat and thought what line of conduct she should
pursue, the first bell rang for dinner. She
dressed hastily. It was too late for her to go
then. Perhaps she would run down after
dinner.

Josephine could not eat anything at dinner ;
she picked the food in her plate, and sent it
away. She could not talk ; she had lost her
interest in Wagner, and her prejudice against
Mendelssohn. Her aunt asked whom she had
met at Brentwood, and how she had amused
herself; and her father watched her; she
changed colour during dinner several times,
and complained of the heat, though the evening
was cold. She was thinking of Bessie, the poor
little blue-eyed, fair-haired child, that had put
its little fingers to her mouth, and whose palm
she had kissed. This little creature crippled

for life — a whole future darkened ! How had
the accident happened ? Eichard was so
careful, how came he to let the child
fall ? Josephine knew how his heart was
wrapped about his little ones, how especially
dear to him was that innocent babe, and she
knew that he must be suffering acutely. He
had been suffering whilst she had been enjoying
herself. Whilst she had been discussing
Mendelssohn with Mr. Wayland Smith, he had
been eagerly questioning the surgeon as to the
life of the sufferer. Eichard would never
forgive her for her want of sympathy. She had
cut her Cable indeed — through and thrush,
with sharp knife and remorseless hand.

She could not remain with her aunt in the
drawing-room after dinner ; she went into the
hall and threw a shawl over her head and
wrapped it round her neck. Now she was
cold, shivering. A moment ago she was hardly
able to breathe, and was fanning herself because
of the heat.

Her father came out of the dining-room.
'Whither are you wandering, my pretty maid?*
he asked. ' After poppies and nightingales ? '

Papa,' she said, ' I must go. It is wicked
not to make inquiries. I cannot send ; I must
go myself. Eichard will never forgive me.'

Well,' said he coldly, ' it is best as it is.

Good words will not mend broken bones. You
have missed the chance, if you sought reconciliation.
It is too late now. I will go to the
cottage and make inquiries. Let matters take
their course. Penelope stitched at night
wdiat she had sewn in the day. Do not you
try to sew up what you have unravelled.' He
took her shawl off her shoulders. She submitted,
and went back into the parlour to her
aunt. He was rio'ht ; it was too late.

Josephine retired early to bed ; she was
too uneasy to talk or settle to anything. When
in bed, she could not sleep. Her mind became
restlessly active ; every trouble doubled itself
in bulk. Wrongs done her grew in grievousness,
her own faults darkened in colour.
When she thought of the annoyance Richard
had caused her by his ill-considered action incoming
to Brentwood, her veins glowed, her
head throbbed, and her eyes burnt in their
sockets. She could not forgive this — this
humiliation, to which he had subjected her
before her hostess and the servants of the
house. If he took offence at her conduct, it
Alas unreasonable of him ; the aggravation had
been excessive. If he refused to be reconciled,
it-was well that it should be so ; she
could be happy without him ; it was abundantly
proved that she could not be happy

With him. JN'ext moment, she thought of
Eichard running to seek her, to pour out his
grief into her bosom. She saw him, under the
start sky, in his shirt-sleeves, running with the
sweat streaming from his face, and his breath
issuing in snorts through his nostrils. Why
had he come for her, instead of going straight
home to his child ? He had run to her in perfect
reliance on her goodness of heart and
ready sympathy. She was ashamed of herself;
she had wounded his heart where it was most
susceptible. She resolved, in spite of her
father's advice, to go to the cottage next
morning, acknowledge her fault, and make her
peace with Eichard. Then she saw rise up before
her in the darkness of her room the white form
of Gainsborough's Lady Brentwood, with the
shell to her ear, listening to the roar of the
sea, with a far-off, wistful, longing look in her
eyes. Would she — Josephine — ever feel such
a longing for her husband as Lady Brentwood
had for Eed Euin? No — that was not possible.
A woman might lose her heart to a rake
in satin and velvet, might forgive infidelities ;
but she could not love a common sailor, and
pardon a lapse in grammar. Eed Euin had
deserted his wife, but he did not put his knife
in his mouth ; he had eloped with a princess,
but he had held fast to the letters h and v.

Therefore, it was quite permissible and possible
that Lady Brentwood should feel tenderness
for Sir Beauties ; but she, Josephine,
could never experience such a yearning of the
soul for her husband, were he to be absent and
become indifferent. The clock struck four
before she fell asleep.

When she woke, she had come round to
her father's opinion — that the breach having
once been made, it must not be filled in. She
regretted that she had appeared unfeeling in
the matter of little Bessie ; but we cannot pick
our occasions, and if Eichard came to interrupt
her with unwelcome news when she was
engaged — she very naturally lost her temper
and spoke unsympathetically. A rupture with
Eichard was inevitable; the occasion had come;
it was not quite such as she would have chosen,
but having come, she must take advantage of
it. It would pave the way to a separation,
and Eichard might be induced to leave Hanford.
If he would not go, she was resolved to
depart herself; they could not live together in
the same place in different houses and moving
in different social spheres.

In this mood she abode the whole forenoon
; but after lunch, she sat in the garden
by herself. Aunt Judith had gone upstairs to
take a nap ; her father was away with the

VOL. II. K

agent who had called. Then a reaction set
in, and she felt that she had been heartless.
Her better self prevailed. Her pride stood in
the way for some while, but went down at last.
She tried to stay it up with the thought that
Eichard could not care much for her, or he
would have returned to the Hall ; but her
efforts availed nothing.

She rose from the garden-seat, went through
the gate, and walked to the cottage, without
saying a word to any one.

The elder children were at school, to be
out of the way. Mrs. Cable had gone to the
surgery for medicine ; and when Josephine entered
the house, Eichard was there alone in
the kitchen, watching and soothing the baby.

He looked up as she entered. He was on
one knee by the cradle ; the afternoon sun
streamed in at the little window on his face
and dazzled him, so that at first he was unable
to distinguish his visitor. Josephine noticed a
change in him. His cheeks seemed to have
fallen in ; his eyes were hollow, and his hair
had lost its spring and curl. The temples
stood out, but the flesh had sunk into pits
beneath them. He looked ten years older.
But she saw that there was change of another
sort in his face as well. The expression was
altered. The light, the trust had vanished

from it ; its frank kindliness had disappeared.
Across the brows lay deep furrows, and the
mouth was contracted. The man was not so
much ordered as embittered.

'Eichard!' said Josephine, 'I have come
to know the truth about dear little Bessie.'

He started at her voice ; the furrows on his
brow became deeper, and his teeth clenched,
giving his jaw a heavy look it never had worn
before. He put up his hand to shade his eyes
front the sun, and he looked steadily at her fora
minute without answering. In the shadow
of his hand, his eyes looked large and threatening.
Presently, in a strangely altered voice
he said : ' Bessie is no child of yours, and concerns
you not.'

I beg your pardon, Eichard,' said Josephine,
after a constrained pause. She was hurt
by his rebuff, though she acknowledged to her
heart that it was deserved. ' I am sorry that I
spoke petulantly the other night ; but you
must acknowledge that you did a very unwise
thing — certain to exasperate me. You put mein
a most awkward dilemma.'

She waited for a reply. None came. ' Tell
me, Eichard, is poor dear Bessie gravely injured
? I have heard no particulars. Tell me
IiOAv it happened.'

How it happened ! ' he repeated hoarsely,

K 2

and rose to this feet, because he could not bear
the sun on his face as he spoke with her. • Ay !
I will tell you how it happened. — Stand off!
Do not come near the child. Away from this
side. The shadow of you has fallen on her
and fallen on me already. Your shadow
blights.'

In truth, she had stepped into the sunbeam
and had intercepted it. Now she moved on
one side ; she was humbled, not greatly, nor
had she changed her determination, bred of
her father's advice, to separate from Cable ;
but she was touched and pained by the sight
of the suffering child, and its equally suffering
father.

I will tell you all,' he said in a tone
charged with suppressed thunder. ' You were
right when you said at Brentwood that I was
drunk. It is true I was drunk dien I did it.
It was because I was drunk that I let my
Bessie fall. I had rather, ten thousand times,
have broken my own back and lain a crippled,
tortured creature thus — through an eternity —
than have hurt her. That God knows — if — if
He knows and cares for aught that goes on
below.' He did not salute, as he named the
Almighty, as in the former times.

I am very, very sorry, Eichard.'

'I do not want your compassion,' he retorted

fiercely. ' I loathe it — I despise it.
It was your doing that my poor baby lies
here '

Eichard,' interrupted Josephine, with a
flash of adorer at what she conceived his injustice,
' because you forgot your self-respect and
drank, and let Bessie fall, am I to be blamed ?
This is too much.'

'I do blame you,' he said. 'It is all your
doing. Was I ever drunk before? Never —
never ! My mother can tell you that. And
Why did I drink at the " Anchor," but because
you had stung and insulted me past endurance !
I forgot my self-respect ! I had none. You
had kicked it and trampled it in the dirt. You
had killed it. I always held up my head and
could check myself. I never did anything that
could bring shame on my face, and tears in my
mother's eyes before, because I respected myself.
But you would not rest till you had
beaten my self-respect down and ground it into
dust. I drank because of the pain in my heart,
and to forget what you had done to me. Then
after poor Bessie was hurt: — I ran to find you.
Now, I see I was mad or drunk to run to one
so heartless, so cruel ; but in the moment of my
despair, I forgot all the wrong you had dealt
me, and remembered only the tie that bound
us. I ran to you, because I was burning with

thirst, as a man in a desert runs when he sees
far away green leaves that promise a well. I
ran to you for pity and love, and you mocked
and beat me from you.' His breath came with
a hoarse rattle from his labouring lungs. *And
now you have come to see the w^i'eck you have
made ; not of my sweet baby only — but of me
of me.' He came up to her with every
muscle in his face and throat distended, and
with clenched hands and nerves that stood as
knots in his wrists and arms.

Josephine stepped back. ' Are you going
to strike me, Eichard? '

No,' he said, ' I do not touch women. I
almost wish I could seize you by the throat and
wring your venomous tongue out, as I might
tear out the sting of a wasp. I love you no
more. T loved you once, loved you ! — you
stood far above me as the silver moon. I
thought you the most beautiful and holy and
pure of beings ; and now I see your soul is full
of ugly pits and scars and blemishes ; and your
light has no warmth in it — it chills, it drives a
poor stupid man like me crazed — so crazed
that I have crushed and nigh killed my child.
So crazed am I, that I have lost all I head once
that made me happy — my content, my peace
of mind, my trust. I have looked up at you,
and been blasted ; and now — I cannot look up

at all.' He clasped his hands over his head,
and stood with widespread feet and elbows,
glaring at her.

I pitied yon with all my heart,' he continued,
' when you once told me that you could
not look up — and then, in my folly, I thought
I would take you by the hand and hold you,
and put my finger under your chin, and speak
to you of love and faith and the trust of a little
child to a loving Father, till your tossed heart
grew still, and its fret passed away, and you
raised your eyes to wdiat is above us all. But I
never, never supposed that you would drag
me down and blind me, so that my power of
looking up should be taken from me.'

He trembled with vehemence as he spoke,
and Josephine was silent ; she quailed before his
indignation. Then he was silent, standing looking
at her ; and she glanced at him, to see if
there was any softening in his face, any forgiveness
in his stern eyes.

Can you not see, Eichard,' she said, ' that
you tried me beyond endurance ? I may have
lacked consideration for you, but you also failed
in thought for me. Forgive me.'

ISO,' he answered ; ' never — never ! '

Then,' she said, ' if that be so, it is best for
us to part — to separate. We both of us made
a mistake. I did not know what I was about

when I took you ; and you over-estimated your
powers when you accepted me.'

Very well he said. ' We part ; we see
each other no more. But the past can never be
undone ; it can no more be repaired and made
straight than the back of my poor baby, who is
crippled for ever.'

You blame me unreasonably,' remonstrated
Josephine ; ' you are blind to the wrongs done
to me. Nothing is easier for a man who has
made a mistake, than to toss the responsibility
on to the back of another who is too
weak to defend herself. Let me kiss little
Bessie, and then I will leave you.'

No,' he answered, ' you shall not touch lier
nor go near her.'

Then in at the door came his little troop of
girls, returning from school — six, and as they
entered, the sunbeam lit one golden crown after
another. The sun's ray lay along the floor.
Eichard pointed it to his children. ' Mary
lead the way ; all of you follow her ; keep along
in the sunbeam, and so come to me. Leave the
lady in the shadow, in the dark ; do not step
out of the sunbeam to her — do not let her come
near you.'

The docile children obeyed, walking in line,
bathed in pure light, taking care not to put one
little foot into the shadow.

Eicliarcl waited till they had all come to him
and were gathered round the cradle, looking
lovingly, expectantly, somewhat wonderingly,
up at him. Then he waved his hand to Josephine,
and said : 'Go out ! Hanford Hall is
your home, and this cottage my home. I
banish you from my roof, as you have driven
me from under yours. — Go ! — Would to God,
when I shut the door on you, I could drive the
thought of you out as well, and be rid of the
evil you have brought on me and mine, as I
rid myself of your presence ! '

CHAPTER XXXI.

GHOSTS.

A WEEK passed, and Cable did not reappear at
the Hall. Josephine hardly expected that he
would, but sIk? half — more than half — wished
that he would. He had loved her ; she knew
that, and it mortified her to think that his love
had died so easily. She did not wish to live with
him on the first footing ; but she did not desire
to part from him in anger and forgiveness.
She made no second attempt to see him. She
nursed her resentment at the injustice she conceived
he had shown, and hui^^o-ed herself in
her pride. It was not for her to step down to
him. She had asked his pardon, and he had
refused it. Now, he must come to her, and
acknowledge that there had been flight on his
part.

Mr. Cornellis said not a word. Everything
was progressing as best accorded with his
wishes. He might spoil, he could not mend,
matters by putting his finger to them. Josephine's

indiscreet marriage and this speedy
separation were most convenient to him. She
was married to a man who could not interfere
with him. He was left with the Hall as his
home, and Josephine's fortune pretty well at his
disposal. A husband of her own class of life
would have taken the management of her affairs
into his own hands, and would have required
him and Judith to find some other home.

He did not understand Cable. He had
visited him without mentioning it to his daughter,
and had made him a handsome offer, to
induce him to leave the place. His offer had
been indignantly rejected. Why, Mr. Cornellis
could not see. He supposed that Eichard
wanted to make better terms, and he was ready
to offer them, but waited to see whether, on
reconsideration, Cable would not come to his
terms. Like all unprincipled men, he was
incapable of admitting the existence of noble
springs of action in others.

One morning, he came into the parlour with
real surprise and perplexity in his face. ' Josephine,'
he said, ' what do you think has happened
? That Poor Eichard of yours has given
us the slip ; he has gone off with all his chattels,
living and inanimate.'

Gone, papa ! '

Gone, and joy go with him — gone in the

yacht. He has kept the pain to himself. Last
night, he cleared out, Hvestock and all, his
mother and all the litter ; and the vessel sailed
this morning early ; she went out with the tide.'

Papa ! — you do not mean this ! Gone !
Gone whittier r '

That is more than I can say ; let us hope,
to explore the North-west Passage. We will
send no expeditions after them. If the polar
bears eat them, may they find the Cables great
and small to their taste ; they are not to ours.'

Josephine made no response. She was too
surprised to speak, and not a little distressed.
Eichard gone, and gone without a farewell —
gone for how long ? Gone, possibly, for ever.
Something rose in her throat and choked her.
It was well, perhaps, that he had departed ; but
it was not well that he had gone without taking
her hand in both his, looking into her eyes,
and then, with broken voices, asking each other's
mutual forgiveness for the past mistakes and
estrangement.

After remaining for some time silent, thinking,
and half disposed to cry, Josephine said :
Papa, do make inquiries. I must know
whither he has gone ; I cannot endure uncertainty.'


You will not charter a vessel and sail after
him ? '

No, papa ; but I want to know where he
is. Has lie left no niessac^e, not a note, forme



Not a word, which is perhaps fortunate : a
word would have been pronounced, and a letter
spelled, wrong.'

'Don't speak like that, papa — it — it pains
me.'

Indeed ! You have become sensitive very
suddenly.'

There is a kind of woman widely dispersed
throughout the civilised world who not only
eats nothing but veal, but looks upon it as her
proper destiny to bleed calves and reduce their
flesh to a condition of veal. To their minds,
veal is the only allowable food : the woman who
touches beef is to be shunned as a dangerous
person. To suit the taste of these women,
everything must be reduced to a condition of
veal — the lifeblood, the colour, the warmth, be
bled out of it. These women precipitate themselves,
as by natural gravitation, into the arms
of ministers of religion, because they find in
their minds the nearest approach to intellectual
veal, and listen in sweet complacency to their
sermons, which are elocutionary veal. Their
favourite reading consists of insipid and harmless
novels, in which is neither fire of passion
nor spark of originality. To feel deeply, to think

independently, are to them tokens of a beefy
nature, demanding the lancet and the letting of
blood. They delight in pale colours, half-tints,
■sveak morality, milk-puddings, and afternoon
teas. If they could get their tea to draw without
the water being raised to a boil, it would
please them well.

A century ago, every man went to the
barber in spring and was ' let blood ; ' and our
grandmothers all underwent a similar veal-producing
process, morally, spiritually, mentally ;
nowadays, a few dashing calves kick up their
heels and frisk about the field and refuse to
submit to have their jugular cut.

All respect to the good women who go
about with their lancets and little measures for
blood ; veal is an excellent meat ; we must be
thankful to them for producing it ; but they
exceed their province, they excite our remonstrance,
when they insist on our eating nothing
but veal. The best meat may pall on us, when
we have no variety, and to some stomachs, veal
is positively indigestible. But these veal-eating
women are apt to be censorious, and to damn
but hush ! the word is too strong — to condemn
everything that contains all but a modicum
of blood.

Aunt Judith was a veal eater : she was a
worthy woman, of narrow intellect and commonplace

mind. Her brother was somewhat
of a trial to her ; her niece, a very grievous
one. The boldness of character, the independence
of thought in Josephine, frightened her.
She could not understand her brother. More
than half his sarcasms glinted off the surface
of her mind, incapable of receiving them and
feeling their point.

Josephine sat with her aunt in the afternoon,
but was scarce conscious of her presence.
Her mind was away on the sea, following the
yacht over the blue waves and the foaming
white horses. In which direction were the
bows turned ? What was the plan in Richard's
brain ?

It is a strange fact that a woman rarely appreciates
the force of her own stabs. She
regards the wounds she deals as light matters,
to be easily patched over and quickly healed.
That they should go down to the bone, be
liable to fester — that they should leave permanent
scars, never enters her head. So now,
Josephine laid little weight on the provocation
she had given ; and she-resented the conduct
of Eichard in leaving her without an interview,
as an undeserved injury.

Aunt Judith broke in on her reverie by
saying : ' I wonder when Mr. Cable will return.
Perhaps he has taken the children a sail for

change of air. I feel a avant of a change my .^
self;'

I do not think he will return,' said Josephine.
' He has taken the furniture of the
cottage with him.'

What has made him do that ? '

He is no doubt going to make a home
elsewhere.'

Why should he leave Hanford ? ' asked
Judith.

He has been uncomfortable in this house ;
he is not accustomed to the restraints of our
mode of life,' replied Josephine.

Uncomfortable ! The dinner has always
been well cooked. What more can he desire ? '

It was not the food which disagreed with
him.'

It is a pity that he should go, considering
who he is,' muttered Judith Cornellis.

'Who he is? He has been a fish out of
water.'

I do not mean that,' said Aunt Judith.
Considering who he is, he ought to be here.
Of course he has told you about himself and
his origin ? '

I do not understand. Of course I
know '

Then you know that in common justice he
ought to be in this house. I think Gabriel

believed very badly in the matter. I know I
have not much cleverness ; but I can see that
Mr. Cable has been hardly treated. Your
father says that man is an intelligent animal,
and woman also — intermittently. I suppose I
have an intermittent interval of intelligence
now and then ; and it does seem to me very
hard on Eichard Cable that he, being the son
of Gabriel Gotham, should not have this house
and estate as his own ; or, at all events, that
he should not have been provided for independently.'


Eichard — Gabriel Gotham's son ? '

'Yes, of course. He must have told you
the story. Your either did not wish you to
know it before you were married ; but now
that you are Mrs. Cable, there is no objection
to our talking about it.'

Eichard never said a word about this tome.
I am quite sure he did not know who
was his father. Yes — I am positive — he told
me that himself; and he never said what was
false.'

He did not know ? Nonsense, my dear ;
of course his mother told him.'

Aunt, I am convinced to the contrary.
You do not understand Mrs. Cable. She is
very proud, as proud as if she were a lady. And

VOL. II. L

Eichard feels so delicately, that I know he
\voiild ask her nothing.'

*Mrs. Cable always was a proud and reserved
woman. She refused a very handsome
allowance that was offered her by the family,
when the marriage was annulled.'

Gabriel and she were married ? '

Yes ; they were married in Scotland. He
ran away with her from Newcastle. It was an
unusual course, and therefore very wrong, and
it brought after it the natural consequences o '
all wrong-doing.'

But, aunt, how is it, if they were married,
that Mrs. Cable did not live with Cousin Gotham,
and bear his name ? '

Because the marriage was annulled. By
Scottish law, those who are married must have
resided a certain number of days in the country.
They had not been the full time by five hours,
so that the marriage was declared illegal.'

<• But — how monstrous ! — why did not
Cousin Gabriel come with her to England and
get married again ? That would have made all
light.'

He found that he had made a mistake ;
and he took advantage of the legal flaw to slip
out of the marriage.'

But — Aunt Judith — the child — I mean
Eichard ? '

My dear, of course, as the marriage was
invalidated, Eichard was illegitimate. The
marriage was annulled before he was born.'

Josephine started from her chair and went
to the window.

When Gabriel married Bessie Cable, lie
was young and inconsiderate, and soon discovered
they were an ill-assorted pair. His
father and uncle used their influence, and he
made no objection to a separation.'

Josephine's face flamed. She stood at the
window looking out.

'You see now what I mean,' pursued Judith
Cornellis. ' If it had not been for that slip of
eye hours, Eichard Cable would be Eichard
Gotham, and Squire of Hanford.'

It was infamous — infamous ! ' muttered
Josephine.

I cannot say that it was right of Gabriel
not to acknowledge him, or at least to leave
him a provision in his will. But then — as
you married Eichard, all seemed to settle itself
practically, and the injustice to rectify itself;
but now, all is wrong again. You perceive,
my dear, how wrong it is to take a course
which is unusual ; it lands in all kinds of difficulties.'


It was infamous — infamous ! ' repeated
Josephine.

I Avoid hardly use so strong a term,' said
Miss Cornellis. ' It was inconsiderate, perhaps,
of Gabriel Gotham, and a little failing in justice
to Eichard Cable. But perhaps Gabriel considered
that as Bessie Cable refused everything
that was offered her, she might influence her
son to adopt the same obstinate and unreasonable
conduct.'

She comes out best — far, far the best in
the whole ugly story,' said Josephine vehemently.
' How coidd Cousin Gabriel be so
base — so shabby ? '

My dear, it was a most unsuitable match.
If you and Richard had been married in Scotland,
and there was a flaw of five hours, would
you not be glad now t(3 seize the occasion ? '

No, no ! It was despicable ; it was taking
advantage of the poor woman's ignorance.'

I am sure that Gabriel was equally ignorant
at first. It was only when the matter was
looked into that the flaw was found.'

Aunt,' said Josephine, crossing the room,
pulling a withered flower out of a vase, the
ofoins to the window again, and then to the
table to arrange the books — ' aunt, I feel like a
robber. I have driven Eichard away out of
this house. I have taken all the money, all the
land, everything to myself, which by equity
belongs to him.'

I wish you would not dash about in the
room like a bird that has got in and cannot
find its way out. Sit down, and talk of this
matter easily

I cannot. I cannot keep my hands or my
feet quiet. I am tingling in all my nerves. I
feel as if I had committed a dreadful crime.
If I tease you, I will go out. I must speak
about this to papa.'

My dear — on no account ! ' exclaimed
Miss Cornellis, in a tone of alarm. ' He would
be very angry with me for mentioning it to
you.'

But why was I not told before ? How
long have you known this ? '

Oh, for many years. It has been a family
scandal, that has been hushed up.'

I ought to have been informed of the
circumstances. I would never have accepted
Cousin Gabriel's estate.'

'You could not help yourself. It was left,
not directly to you, but to trustees for your
use.'

It was wrong in you, in my father, not to
tell me everything. I cannot remain still. I
irritate you with my pacing about. I cannot
help myself. I must see papa.'

He is out now, and will not be in for some
hours.'

That is as well. I will go to the windstrew
and sit there. I am so agitated, so angry, so
surprised. This is sprung on me. I have been
shamefully treated. I ought not to have been
kept in ignorance.'

She swept out of the room. She felt the
necessity for being alone. This strange revelation
was fraught with consequences not to be
gauged in a minute. What was that which
Mrs. Cable had said about the cuckoo turning
the little birds out of their parent's nest ? She
was the cuckoo ; she had taken to herself the
nest that of redit belonged to Eichard ; she had
done more — she had driven him, his mother,
and children, out of their own modest cottage
as well Could she sit still and ruffle her
plumes, and spread her feathers, and occupy
the nest that was not hers by right, leaving them
outcasts ?

Why had her father kept the secret so
closely from her ? She shrank from the conclusion.
Why, knowing what he did, had he
counselled her to insult her husband and drive
him away ? She shrank from the answer she
made to herself. At once, with great determination,
she resolved not any more to ask
advice of and be guided by her father's opinion.
She must think out the situation for herself,
form her own resolution, and act on it, in

defiance of every remonstrance from him or
Aunt Judith. He would stand in the way of
her doing what was just, and she would object to
what was unusual. Josephine sat on the wind-strew,
her head spinning, hot rushes of anger
sweeping through her arteries, followed by cold
qualms of heart-sickness. As she thus sat, her
fingers plucked at the breasting of bricks,
peeled away flakes of velvety moss, scratched
out scraps of mortar, picked away chips of
brick, and flung them over the unprotected side
among the broken potsherds. She looked over
and saw a mouldering collection of garden
refuse — old geranium roots turned out of their
pots, and half decayed flower-sticks, the fragments
of a shattered garden vase of terra-cotta,
the accumulation of years of broken flowerpots
— a home for the slug and the centipede
and the wood-louse. This was the bed on
which Gabriel Gotham had fallen, a bed that
truly symbolised his mind.

Josephine could not shake the thought of
Gabriel out of her head, now that she had
looked on the place where he had fallen and
met his death. As she sat on the windstrew,
with the smell of decay steaming up from the
refuse-heap, his feeble, shivering ghost seemed
to rise out of it and shake its hands deprecatingly,
and jabber an appeal for pitiful consideration.

She had been throwing the bits
of mortar and brick down where he had fallen,
and with them had cast hard and reproachful
thoughts at the dead man. She could not
thank him for what he had done for her ; he
had enriched her at the cost of a gross injustice
committed on his son. What an utterly mean,
selfish creature Gotham had been ! His roundabout
way of compensating Eichard through
her had been on a par with all his tortuous
methods through life.

She could not endure to remain on the
wind strew surrounded with sights that brought
Cousin Gotham before her ; she would go to
the cottage, to a healthier atmosphere, and
satisfy herself whether her father had spoken
the truth. It was possible that Mr. Cornellis,
in all things false, had deceived her in this
particular also. So she went out at the garden
gate and along the sewell. This was her
shortest way, and it suited her best. She did
not wash to be seen in the road ; she thought
that everyone she passed would look reproachfully
at her. She could not endure to encounter
their eyes. She went along the wall
to the sandy path that led from the village to the
shore, then by the moat to the bridge, and over
the bridge into the garden. All was there as
if nothing: had occurred. The beds were in

beautiful order ; the vine on the roof showed
a hundred little bunches of swelling berries.
This year no little children would sit upon the
stages of the ladder, looking for the purple
fruit their father would pass down to them.
She had spoiled that pleasure for them. There
was the slope with the bed of thyme and
marjoram and mint, where the little ones satin
the sun, and baby Bessie went to sleep
with fragrant herbs crushed in her little hands.
She had spoiled that pleasure for them
likewise. The scarlet-runners that Eichard
had staked were in bloom, in scarlet, and
there where no little eyes to admire the lovely
flowers.

She went to the house and tried the door.
It was fast. But she know how that there was
a loose pane in the scullery window beside the
back door, which could be removed, and the
hand thrust in and the bolt drawn back. Cable
had told her of this contrivance, by means of
which he could enter into his house at all
times without disturbing the inmates. She removed
the pane, and easily unfastened the
door. Then she entered. The house was deserted,
and almost wholly cleared of its contents
; but it was unlike most abandoned dwellings,
for it had been cleaned and tidied before
it was left. The few things that remained,

hardly worth removal, had been placed in
order. There was a plain solid deal table in
the centre of the kitchen that had not been
removed. Against the wall, in the corner,
was the cradle, reversed, the rockers upwards.
How like Eichard,' thought Josephine. ' He
has turned the little crib over, that the dust
may not fall into it.'

He had not taken the cradle away. Bessie
was grown almost too big for a cradle, and he
would never have another baby. A slight
quiver passed from Josephine's heart to her
finger-ends.

The brick floor had been swept, the hearth
tidied, the cinders were brushed into a little
heap. Something white showed among them.
Josephine knelt on the dead hearth, put her
hand to the ashes, and extracted some scraps
of card. They were her mounted cabinet photograph,
torn twice across, downwards and
stewards, with a firm hand. So had Richard
taken the thought, the memory of Josephine
out of his heart and cast it from him for ever.
A pang shot through the breast of Josephine,
as though his hand were on her heart and were
tearing it twice across, downwards and laterally.
She threw the scraps of the despised portrait on
the ground, then stooped and picked them up.
He would not v^'isli any scraps — even these —

to litter about ;' and she replaced them among
the cinders.

There was no resentment in her bosom
now : all her wrath against Eichard had died
away ; her sense of wrong was swallowed up
in the thought of the great injustice done to
him.

She wondered whether she could find anywhere
in the house a photograph of himself.
She had never seen one. He was too modest
to think of being taken ; but it was not improbable
that his mother had insisted on his
being photographed when he was younger,
and there was a chance, a poor chance, of a
copy being left behind. She ascended the staircase
and looked about the bedrooms. There
were nails in the walls where little looking-glasses
and pictures and texts had hung ; but
there were no photographs ; nothing left but
the nails and one illuminated text, ' When all
these things come upon you — then look up.'

The bedrooms were quite empty ; the floor
had been recently washed, and had not a footmark
on it. The blinds had been removed
from the windows. The rooms looked utterly
forlorn. She came sadly downstairs again.

In a corner of the kitchen was a shelf withdrawers
let into the v/all — a fixture, therefore
not removed. On the slices was a bundle of

old clothes of the children, neatly pinned together
— rags, no longer fit for wear by them ;
and in the drawers was a small straw hat, tied
up in Eichard's blue pocket-handkerchief — that
handkerchief at which she had sneered. The
little hat had perhaps been forgotten ; perhaps
it was not wanted, and Eichard had left
purposely the handkerchief, which would remind
him of one of his wife's sarcasms. She
unknotted the ends of the kerchief and took it
in her hand.

From the ceiling in the kitchen, depending
from a crook, hung a fresh bunch of everlastings,
pink-and-white flowers of that summer,
not yet dried, hung head downwards, that they
might dry expanded. Then Josephine's heart
swelled up, and she choked. Hastily she drew
the inverted cradle from the wall and put it
near the table, under the tuft of fading everlastings,
and sat down on the cradle, between
the rockers, and put her face into her hands
and cried. It was as though the spirit of
Eichard Cable rose before her out of the cold
ashes on the hearth, from among the torn
fragments of her own likeness — not the spirit
of the wounded, angry, unforgiving, despairing
man, as she had last seen him, but as of old,
gentle, humble, full of divine trust and love.

She cried long ; her own little white handkerchief

was soaked, and she wept tears of
bitter self-reproach into the great blue dish-clout
she had so scorned ; and when the fountain
of her tears dried, then she held the
kerchief to her aching heart, and presently
again buried her face in it. There was nought
ridiculous to her now in the blue handkerchief
with its white spots.

CHAPTEE XXXII. •

BENEATH THE EVERLASTINGS.

The night had closed in, and still Josephine,
sat on the overturned cradle. The tears had
dried up ; but she continued to occupy the
same place, holding Eichard's handkerchief
clasped in both her hands on her lap, looking
straight before her into vacancy — lost in
thought. A soft, yellowish-grey light filled
the little window ; but within the cottage
kitchen all was dark — or, at best, was in deep
twilight. Josephine had not moved for an
hour. Her face was away from the window,
in complete shadow. All at once a flash fell
on her. She looked heavily up, with half consciousness,
to see her father and the rector
before her.

I knew she would be here,' said the latter.

I did not suppose her such a fool,' muttered
Mr. Cornellis.

Then you see I knew her best,' said the
rector. ' Josephine.' He put out his hand, and

she listlessly put her own into it. She liked
and trusted Mr. Sellwood, who had known her
from infancy.

'My dear child,' he said, 'your hand is cold
and wet.'

I have been crying,' she answered simply.

You must need your dinner,' said her
father. ' We have put it off, and off, awaiting
you, and the soles will be burned to chips.'

She said nothing in reply to her father, but
her fingers closed on the rector's hand as he
was withdrawing it. ' I want to speak to you,
Mr. Sellwood — alone,' she said. 'Would you
mind remaining here with me a little vvhile ? '

But, Josephine,' said her father, ' dinner
is spoiling ; consider the soles.'

Please go home, papa, and eat the soles ;
I will not detain you. The matter about
which I wish to speak is one I desire to speak
about to the rector alone.'

Mr. Cornellis considered for a moment.
Josephine was fretting at the departure of her
husband. Girls never know their own minds.
It was perhaps natural that she should feel for
awhile his sudden disappearance. In a day
or two this chagrin would pass and the sense
of relief prevail. It might relieve Josephine's
mind to talk the affair over with Mr. Sellwood ;
it could do no possible harm. She was a girl

who acted on her own impulses and took no
advice which did not agree with her own
wishes. The rector might, and probably
would, advise that she should open communication
with Eicliard Cable and urge him. to
return. This evening she might agree with
him ; tomorrow she would come to a better
mind.

Mr. Cornelia shrugged his shoulders. ' I
will leave the lantern with you,' he said, ' to
help and lighten your consultation.'

When he was gone the rector set the lantern
on the floor, and said : ' Well, Josephine,
you want my advice ? '

'0 no, Mr. Sell wood ; I have made up my
mind. I want you to tell me how I can carry
out my own intentions.'

Well done, young woman ! This is
frankly put. It is not always that your sex
is so outspoken. They ask advice, and follow
it only if agreeable to their own fancies.'

I want to tell you everything, rector,' she
said. ' I have acted very foolishly — I mean
very wrongly. I have worked a vast amount
of mischief, and now I have been trying to find
out how I may undo it.'

What have you done ? Tell me that first ;
and secondly, what you are going to do to
mend it. Then I will give you my advice.'

I do not ask your advice.'

'Oh, I beg pardon ; I forgot,' said the old
parson somewhat testily. ' I give you fair
warning I Avill not lend my hand to any
star scraping, scatterbrained scheme. You may
not seek my advice — you may not value it ;
but the experience of a man of over sixty is
worth something.'

'Indeed, indeed, dear Mr. Sellwood, I value
your opinion, your advice, most highly ; but
this is a case in which I must decide for
myself. I have done one wrong after another,
an injustice in ignorance, a wrong wilfully ;
and it appears to me clear as the day that I,
and I alone, can work out my course for the
future so as to amend the mischief. If you
approve, I am very glad ; but if not, I cannot
help it. I must go my own way, or sin
against my conscience. I know very well that
my father will not approve — he and I see
everything differently ; and Aunt Judith will
be indignant, and call my conduct wicked,
because it is not commonplace.'

'Never mind about Aunt Judith. You are
too severe.'

Mr. Sellwood,' said Josephine, ' would you
mind sit tin o: on the table whilst I talk to

you ^

'I swill sit anywhere, my dear, to please
VOL. n. M

you — anywhere but in a Iji.shop's throne, and
that — no — not for any one.'

'Then I will remain here on poor little
Bessie's cradle, at your feet.'

But not in a childlike spirit and in the
mental attitude of a disciple, you headstrong
piece of goods. You have made up your mind
—to what pray ? How long have you taken
forming it? A solid judgment is a first requisite
in the making up of minds, and that —
excuse me —-you lack.'

I have been very unhappy. I have cried
till I have wet dear Eichard's handkerchief
through.'

'So at last there is some community established
between you. Both use the same pocket-handkerchief.'


Mr. Sellwood, I will tell you everything ;
but please not to interrupt me in my story.'

The rector, who loved to hear his own
voice, was nettled. ' I am to pass no comments,
as I am to tender no advice. Well, I will do
my best ; but I cannot promise silence.'

And yet you expect us to sit quiet when
you preach, whether we agree with you or not.'

The rector winced. ' Go on,' he said. ' After
that I must be silent.'

Then she told him the whole story of
Gabriel Gotham and Bessie, as she had heard

it from her aunt ; and it filled the rector with
astonishment. He had not heard anything of
it before. ' Bless me ! ' he exclaimed, ' Mrs.
Cable is a wonderful woman to keep her mouth
shut ! Proud — proud as Beelzebub.'

A noble pride ; not devilish,' said Josephine.
Yes,' he said ; ' I admit the correction— a
proud-hearted woman, a grand woman ! There
are not many like her.'

Then Josephine told him how she had only
come to a knowledge of this a few hours ago.
And already made up your mind upon it ! '
exclaimed the parson. He could not refrain
from making his comments.

Mr. Sellwood,' Josephine went on — she
withdrew her hand from his and folded her
arms over her bosom, but did not let go her
hold of the blue handkerchief — ' Mr. Sellwood,
I have acted very wickedly. I daresay I acted
without a wise discretion in marrying Eichard.
I was not in love with him.'

Then why in the world did you marry
him ? That was your sole excuse for committing
an act of folly, and you have cast it from you.'
It was this which drove me to it. Papa
was so disagreeable with me about him ; he
said such things that I was angry, and became
defiant. Aunt Judith was stupid — as she always
is — and I felt an inclination to fly in her face -

M 2

and thoroughly shock her. Tlien I got into
that awkward predicament on the sewell at
midnight, when you and Captain Sellwood came
upon me-with Eichard. After that matters
Avere complicated by Cousin Gotham ; I believe
he did it purposely. He gave Eichard the boat
in my name, and had the boat called by my
name, and encouraged talk in the place about
me and Eichard, which made me very uncomfortable
and my father very angry, and I did
not see how I could get out of the hobble, into
which I had been partly thrust and had partly
slipped, in any other way. I was nearly mad
with annoyance and wounded vanity and irritated
self-weill. But that was not all. I saw
that Eichard was so natural, open, good, and
true, and I felt so utterly at a loss where to
look for a guide. My father '

'Never mind about your father,'

'I could not follow his advice, and I did not
feel that I was secure in my own opinion of
right and wrong. I suppose all women look
for someone to idiom to cling.'

My advice you never thought of asking
lor,' said the rector in a tone fraught with
mortified pride. ' You seek me only to tell you
how you may be enabled to follow your own
whims without inconvenience.'

Do not be cross with me, Mr. Sellwood,'

pleaded Josephine. 'I cannot explain to you
exactly liov»' I was situated at home. Somehow
papa and I never had much in common, and
we did not share confidences. I was driven to
battle out my own way, sometimes going wrong,
and sometimes right.'

'Man times wromx, and sometimes rio^ht,'
sua'2:ested the rector.

Possibly so.' She paused, considered, and
then said : ' No ; I do not think it. Wlien I
have cone wrongs I have been influenced from
without. As ibr marrying Eichard — that was
not wrong, except in Aunt Judith's table of
commandments, in which all that is not usual
is wrong. Xo ' — she spoke with the earnestness
of sincerity — ' I really believe that the
prevailing thought in me was that in Eichard I
should find an ideal man of truth and honour,
and that is why I took him.'

Mercy on me I ' exclaimed the rector.
Because a man can drive a donkey-cart that
does not qualify him to drive a locomotive.
Eichard was all very well m his o^vn sphere,
but you transferred him to one he knew
nothing about, in which he could not possibly
assist you.'

I see that clearly enough now,' said Josephine
humbly. ' I did not see it till too late ;
and then when I became aware of it I aot impatient

Avitli him ; I lost my temper because lie
could not accommodate himself immediately to
his new position. I exacted of him the impossible.'


To be sure you did.'

I made no allowances for him. 1 was
irritated and spoke rudely, insultingly to him.
I even ridiculed this dear old blue handkerchief,
which ' — the tears began to trickle down
her cheeks again — ' which is now wet with my
contrite tears.'

The kind old rector took her hand and
patted it between this own. ' My dear,' he
said, ' all will come right in the end now ;
you have begun at the right end — with repentance.'


But he is gone away — gone with all his
children and his mother, without even saying a
good-b3'e. I have driven him out of his home.
That is not all. You know his story now ; you
sec that the Hall and the manor ought in common
fairness to be his. What an injustice —
what a wicked injustice I have done him ! '

I am glad you acknowledge your faults,
Josephine; that is the first step towards making
all well again.'

This is nothing like all I have done, rector.
I have spoiled the goodness that was in Eichard.
I have made him morose, bitter, and mistrust-fill.

Even that is not all. It was through my
fault that the poor little child Alas hurt. I had
so angered him that when he went to the " Anchor
" he drank too much and then '

Yes, I know the rest.' Mr. Sellwood said no
more ; for once he was silent. He was touched
by the self-accusation of the girl, and he did
not know, for once also, what to advise.

Eichard was so gentle, so full of thought
for others, and pity for those who suffered in
any way, so helpful to all who were weak ; and
now he is quite changed. He is sullen at one
moment, fierce at the next. He no longer loves
me — he told me so ; and I know, I do know,
that only a little vrhile ago he loved me with
his whole honest, noble heart. He has torn up
my picture and thrown it among the ashes.'

He cannot tear you out of his memory.'

But he can remember me only as the
murderess of his happiness, as the one person
who maimed his child. He can remember
me only as an offender who is past being forgiven.'


I do not think it,' said the rector. ' Love
is not killed so quickly. It may sink into the
ground and disappear, like a spring in drought ;
but it Avill break up again, and flow as before.'

No, Mr. Sellwood ; he will never love me
again till I am quite changed from what I have

been. I have been sitting here for a long time
how long' I do not know — considering what
is to be done. Things must not remain as they
are.'

Exactly ; and if you ask my advice '

I do not ; I have made up my mind.'

I beg your pardon ; I forgot.' He was a
little huffed, and took away his hand from Josephine.


Do not let me go,' she pleaded. ' I do
not want to offend you ; I have no one else to
whom I can open my heart.'

He took her hand again and pressed it, in
assurance of his regard.

Well, Mr. Sellwood, I have been turning
the whole miserable muddle out, and arranging
my thoughts and putting them hi order, just as
Eichard would tidy everything into its proper
place. There are a lot of things mixed together,
and these I have sorted into their
several lockers. First come Cousin Gotham's
money and estate. I have no right to them.
They belong in all fairness to Eichard ; that I
see clearly ; so I will have nothing more to do
with them.'

The rector started.

'Tell me,' she asked — 'tell me, frankly,
what you think ? '

'In law '

That is like my Aunt Judith. Because
Cousin Gotham was five hours short of his legal
time in Scotland, therefore what is wrong is
right;

It is you now, Josephine, who interrupt.
By law, you have a perfect, unassailable right
to everything left by Mr. Gotham. Whether r
you are justice in accepting and keeping
his bequest, under the circumstances, morally
and in honour, is another matter.'

There ! there I ' she exclaimed almost
evidently. ' You see I riddled out that conundrum
right. The property belongs to Eichard.
He shall have it. I will not touch a penny of
it more.'

But what of your father ? '

My father must manage for himself. I
see my course plain before me. I go straight
my own way, and put wax in my ears, so as
not to hear any voice from outside, however
sweetly singing.'

Go on, then. "What next.^ '

In the next place, I acknowledge that I
did wrong in requiring Eichard to shape himself
to fit a position for which he was unsuited.'

Eio'ht airain,' said the rector.

At his age it is not possible for him to
adapt himself, in every external, to what is required
of him. In heart and mind, rector —

oh, lie is the truest gentleman! a Bayard, sans
jyeur et sans reproche.'

Mr. Sell wood smiled at lier enthusiasm.

It would have been different, had he been
quite a young man ; but he is past the age
when all the mental bones are flexible,' said
Josephine.

I do not know that — with patience and intime
'

No, rector ; he must not again be subjected
to the restraint and torture. He must
be allowed to go his own simple way, unhampered
by artificial checks and untasted by conventional
regulations.'

Then what do you propose ? '

If we are to be reconciled, if he is ever to
be happy with me, the disparity between us
must disappear.'

But how ? You have just said he is too
old to learn our social habits.'

Precisely ; but I can go down to his level.'

My dear ! — What do you mean ? '

Do you not see that the only chance of
our living happily together is for us to be on an
equal footing? He has tried my level, and
cannot sustain himself on it. I must take his.'

That is not practicable.'

Pardon me — it is. Do you not see that
one step in this course I have mapped out leads

to another ? I have said that I will not have
his money. Therefore, I have nothing of my
own. What I had has been dissipated. I
have not a penny. What must I do, then?
I must earn my livelihood.'

Good gracious, Josephine ! ' The rector
sprang from the table on which he had been
seated.

I must learn to think and feel and see
things as Richard does, through eyes on the
same plane as his — so only shall we be able to
understand each other. That is not alL He
is very angry with me now, and nothing else
that I can do will convince him of my repentance
and of my desire for reconciliation.'

Earn your living ! Goodness gracious
me ! '

All fits together perfectly, rector. I shall
earn his esteem at the same time that I am acquiring
the modes of thought and habits of a
lower grade in life.'

• Upon my word I ' exclaimed Mr. Sellwood,
you are a person who always rushes into extremes.'
He was astonished beyond measure.

Extreme measures alone suit the occasion,'
answered Josepliine. ' As I utterly renounce
my claim on the property, I can do no other
than earn my bread, and by so doing I gain
my chief end.'

But how will you earn your broad ? '

I will go into service. His first wife was
a maid in your house, and he was happy with
her.'

You must not do this — it will be degradation.'


I must doit. It will be no degradation,
morally, for I have a right end in view.'

The rector was greatly shaken. ' I would
never have advised this ; I would never have
thought of this.'

I knew that ; therefore I did not ask
your advice.'

Mr. Selhvood remained silent. He could
not grasp her bold proposal all at once. Josephine
waited. She had become calm as she
spoke of her resolution. She waited for him
to say something. Presently, he said in a
choking voice: 'I retract what I let fall just
now. There will be, there can be no degradation.
On the contrary, there will be a rise of
your better self. My dear, this is very wonderful
to me. Your female instinct is a better
guide than my masculine sense. I should
never have thought of this. Even now, I
cannot say whether it commends itself to my
reason ; to my heart, it does at once, at once ! '
He was much moved. ' Josephine, in such a
daring venture, guidance and help are needed.'

Then he par. seel again. Presently he went on :
Josephine, perhaps you have read that, in old
times, pearls were found in the Severn, and
British pearls were much esteemed. Do you
know how they were found? Horses and
cattle were driven across the fords in the
Severn, and they trampled on, bruised, and
broke the mussel shells that lay there ; then
the crushed mussels in their pain exuded the
matter that formed the pearls. Xow that
bridges have been built to span the Severn,
no more pearls are found in it ; for, though
there are mussels still in the shallow water,
they remain only mussels ; they produce no
longer pearls, because no longer bruised and
broken. My dear Josephine, I think — I believe,
that the pearl of a nobler and a truer life is
beginning to grow in you, because the feet are
passing over you and treading you down.'

Rector,' said Josephine after a long silence,
what are you looking at above me — the everlastings
? '

He paused, he did not answer at once, he
recovered himself slowly, and said softly : ' The
Everlasting ! Yes.'

CHAPTEE XXXIII.

Pentagon.

The Exhorting broke after a stormy night, broke
wild and lia2!'g;ard. On the horizon a white
schemer under heavy clouds that would not
rise, from which fell lashes of dark rain over
the light — a shimmer cold and ghastly as that
of the half-closed eye of a dead man. The sea
raced inland, m rolling piled-up billows, shaking
itself, roaring, spluttering, raging, bent on tearing'
itself to shreds on the cutlass-like reefs, and
beating itself to liquid dust on the cuirass-like
cliffs that defended the north Cornish coast.
The wind had been blowing a hurricane all
night, shifting a few points from south to north,
but always with a main drive from the west,
like the dogged determination of a madman
making feints to throw his victim off his ofuard,
but never swerving from his murderous purpose.
The sea, heaped together, jostling
billows, was caught and compressed between
the horns of Pastor Point and Portland. In

that vast half-moon, walled up to the sky with
perpendicular iron-bound precipices, the white
horses bounded and tumbled over each other,
and rolled and were beaten down in the conflict.
Tlie}' plunged at the barriers and leaped
lii^h into the air, snorting foam, shaking their
manes, and fell back broken, torn, to be
trampled into the deeps by other billows, likewise
rushing on their destruction. A vessel
that enters within the bow of that vast arc,
when the wind is on shore, is infallibly lost, and
the ' Bessie ' on the morning in question had
been driven within the fateful limits.

As already mentioned, Mrs. Cable's mother
was a Irishwoman. Bessie Cable had never
visited her mother's native county ; but an
occasional letter, perhaps once a year, had
kept up a link between her and an old mining
uncle, Zackie Gendarmes, at St. Kerian. The
man was now dead, and he had left his small
savings and cottage to his only known relative,
his niece Bessie, whom he had never seen. The'
bequest came opportunely ; for when Eichard
told his mother of his intention to leave Hanford,
she was able to propose that they should
migrate to Cornwall and take up their residence
in Uncle Zackie's house. What the size of
that house was, how much land went with it,
in what condition of repair the house was, that

Alas all unknown. Nevertheless, it was a freehold,
their own ; and the cottage at Hanford
was held on a half-yearly tenancy. Eichard at
once agreed to his mother's proposal. At St.
Kerian they would begin a new life, leaving
behind them all disturbing recollections.

So Eichard manned the yacht, and without
allowing his purpose to transpire, shipped his
family and goods away, sailed down Channel,
doubled the Land's End, and was at once
can't in a sudden storm. He had never been
in these seas before ; he knew nothing of the
coast save what he could gather from his chart ;
but he saw that his only chance was to keep
out to sea ; and all night he struggled to make
head against the gale. When the day broke,
he saw that his efforts had been fruitless — the
yacht had been driven within the threatening
horns, terrible as Scyha and Charybdis. Neither
Eichard nor one of the crew had closed an eye
all night ; every man's energies had been at
full strain. Cable had not been down into the
cabin. Whether his mother slept or watched,
he knew not ; but she was probably aware of
the danger. His dear little ones slumbered,
confident of their safety whilst the father was
in command on deck. They were not afraid
of the water ; the tossing of the sea did not
trouble them. They were accustomed to it, as

troy water-birds. Often, one or other had been
taken to the hghtship, and had been inured to
the roll and pitch of a vessel, and they minded
it no more than the baby minded the sway of
the cradle. Why should they fear, any more
than the baby that was rocked to sleep by
grannie's foot? This was their father's great
cradle, and the motion soothed their little
brains.

All night long, hope had been strong in
Cable's breast; he trusted that he had been
able to tack against the wind and gain deep
sea ; but when morning dawned, he saw that
their fate was sealed. From the sea, the coast,
towards which wind and wave remorselessly
impelled the boat, appeared as one sheer wall
of rock, nowhere scooped out into harbours,
nowhere retreating sufficiently to allow of
beach at the feet of the mighty crags. Here
and there on the top of the cliffs he could
distinguish towers, the belfries of storm-beaten
churches, cutting the dawning eastern light.
And here and there a sea-mark, a turret, that
indicated, perhaps, the entrance to some tortuous
channel cleft in the precipices, up which
a boat might wriggle in calm weather, but
utterly impracticable in a storm.

The base of the cliffs was everywhere
hidden in foam, and the spray was caught and

VOL. ir. N

whirled about and churned up with the wind,
so that nowhere could be distinguished a line
of demarcation between sea and land. Water
and air were shaken together into a belt of salt
mist, impenetrable to the eye. Thus the head
of the coast-wall stood up against the dawning
light like a mountain ride whose roots lie
buried in curclv morning mists. If he could
have distinguished anywhere a sandy cove, he
would have run the ' Bessie ' towards it ; but,
apparently, there was nothing before her but
to be dashed against upright cliffs and go to
pieces in deep water.

As Eichard stood considering the prospect,
and thinking whether it were advisable to run
for a circular tower which seemed to indicate
the entrance to a port, the mate and the rest of
the crew came to him and insisted on takins to
the boat. There was no chance for the vessel,
none possible ; there was one for a small boat,
which could feel the shore for a landing-place.
If there were a cleft where the tower stood —
then a row-boat might be run in ; it was more
under control than a ship. They wanted Cable
to bring up his mother and children and take
them along with them. The only prospect of
life lay in deserting the ' Bessie.'

Eichard Cable heard them out with a frown
and set teeth. Then he bade them take the

boat and begone. He and his would abide in
the yacht and drown together in her. ' You
drown your way — and I and mine will go
down together our way,' he answered.

Jonas Flinders was one of the crew, and he
urged Eichard not to commit such a folly, that
where there Alas a chance, he was bound to
grasp it ; but Eichard was not to be moved.
He took the wheel and signed the men away.

He watched the crew knowing the boat, get
in, and leave the ' Bessie.' He watched them
rowing, danced about on the waves, lashed
by the spray, and then lost them in the drift.
What became of them he could not tell. It
Alas well that they were gone. If he must die
with his darlings, let them die all together,
without others by.

That boat never reached the land with its
load. It came ashore in chips, and the menin
scraps of flesh and bone, literally sliced to
pieces on the razor-like blades of slate that
ran out from the cliffs into the water.

Eichard noticed that a flagstaff stood on
a rock near the tower, and he suspected that
if there were a channel, it lay between these ;
but the entrance was masked by an insulated
rock standing out of the water like a gigantic
meal-sack. He took a piece of rope and lashed
the tiller fast, so that the bows were turned

N 2

directly towards the supposed entrance to a
port. Then he went to the ladder leading to
the cabin and descended slowly. He was in
his dreadnought, dripping with sea-water, this
pilot hat drawn over his brows, and the lappets
covered his ears. Wlien he came into the
cabin, it was still dark there ; only now and
then, through a side-light, came a cold white
gleam, and then it was blurred over by gray
water. The pendent lamp, however, was still
burning ; but the oil was almost exhausted,
and the wick was much charred, so that the
light it gave was not bright. It had burned
all night. Mrs. Cable had not slept all night ;
she knew the peril, and she kept watch. Now,
all the children but tiny Bessie were awake,
and their grandmother was dressing and washing
them. Owing to the pitch of the vessel,
the operation was conducted with difficulty.
Eichard Cable stood at the cabin entrance,
holding the posts, and looking on. His mother
was then combing out and smoothing; on either
side of her ears Mary's golden hair. Little
Susie stood with her hands and face wet,
asking to have them wiped. Did Mrs. Cable
know that they were all about to die ? She
thought it very likely, but she washed and
dressed the children as carefully as if they
Avere going to a school-feast. If they must

go in an hour before the throne of God, they
should go with their hair tidy, with white
stockings and clean bibs, and Mary with the
coral necklace round her throat that had belonged
to her mother.

Eichard looked steadily at the group, and
said : ' Mother, when we strike, come on deck
with all of them, and give me Bessie into my
arms. You shall not drown down here, like
mice in a cage.' Then with a deep frown he
added : ' This also comes of her.'

'Eichard,' said Mrs. Cable gravely, as slice
bound Mary's hair behind her head, ' it is not
so. Forgive her now.'

-' It cannot be ; ' in a louder tone — ' I will
not.'

What ! Eichard ? Not dien we are about
to appear before the great God ? '

He shook his head. ' Jut for her, this
Avould not have come itpon us. Our death will
lie at her door ; all the miseries I have suffered
through her are not enough. She must kill me
and mine.'

Eichard, do not be unforgiving? ! '

I thought to wipe out the curse that comes
with her name when I changed the title of the
vessel ; but the evil clings to us and drags us
down.'

Eichard, I once had a bitter Avroncr done

me, worse than any that has touched you ; but
I forgave.'

Mother, if this brought me alone to destruction,
I could freely pardon ; but when it
carries along with me you and all — all that I
love — I cannot ; I will not. If I go to the
judgment-seat above I will take all the seven
with me and denounce her ; and if there be
justice in heaven, she shall suffer.' He gripped
the rail as he turned and reascended the ladder,
muttering as he went : ' I cannot — I will not.'

On deck again, he resumed his place at the
tiller, and unlashed it. The ' Bessie ' was
running near the meal-sack rock, at which the
waves raced as in frolic, or savagely bent on
tlirowim? it over, but instead of effecting: this,
were themselves whirled as waterspouts high
into the air. The rocks in front seemed to
tower two or three hundred feet out of the sea.
Above them, the sky was brightening and the
clouds parting. All at once, Richard saw a
fissure in the face of the cliff, a mere rift, impossible
for him to strike and pass through.
As easily might a man thread a needle on
horseback when hunting and the hounds are in
full cry. On the left of the ness crowned by
the flagstaff, the wall of rock sheered away
inland and the cliffs seemed to be scooped out.
Cable, with a tremendous eflbrt, wrenched the

helm hard down, and broiiglit the bowsprit
with a swing round, so that the ' Bessie,' instead
of running into the cleft, turned, cleared the
flagstaff rock, and went on the ridii^e of a roller
into a caldron or cove north of it. He drew
his hand over his eyes and wiped the spray out
of them, and saw that he had dived into a
semicircular bay, walled up to heaven on every
side but that by which he had entered, and in
which the mad waves were thundering tumultuously.
One side of the cove ended seaward
in a mighty black headland, that overhung,
without a lesse on it where seaofull could nestor
samphire take root. In the lap of the bay,
where the rocks were not quite so high, a
waterfall leaped down, and was lost below in
the spondrift that filled the air. One moment
more and all would be over. He left the
wheel and went to the cabin door, and called :
Come on deck.'

Then up came the children, Mary leading
the way, clinging to the rail vrith one hand,
and with the other helping little Martha to
mount the brass-laid steps. Last of all appeared
Mrs. Cable, carrying the baby. As
each little head appeared, Eichard, who knelt
on one knee by the cabin hatchway, helped the
child up, and put his arms round it, and gave
it a long embrace and kiss — the last, he

thought, ill tills world. He suit nothing; he
could not speak. Bitter in his heart, bitter as
the sabine, tossed the anger against Josephine,
who had brought this about.

Without a word, he took the babe from his
mother, and then Mrs. Cable gave a hand to
each of the youngest. So they stood, a little
group on deck, looking at the remorseless,
cruel shore, at the sweep of iron cliffs that
encircled them, about to hug them to death.
Though so near, they could not see their feet,
hidden in foam and spray. Around them
shrieked and laughed the seamen. The wind
whistled in the cordage. The water roared and
hissed around.

Then Mrs. Cable stooped to the children's
ears and said something; that Eichard could not
hear ; but at once, above the boom of the sea
and the piping of the wind, he heard the little
voices raised in song :

Shall wo meet beyond the river,

Where the surges cease to roll,
"Where in all the bright For-ever,

Sorrow ne'er shall vex the soul ?

It was a song the children had learned at their
Sunday school, a song of which their father
was very fond, and which he had often made
them warble to him. The poor, feeble, quavering
voices were now out of tune and faint, with

the wonder and fear that fell on them at the
sight of what was before ; but they knew that
their song would please their whither, so they
girded up their faltering courage and sang as
loud and strong as they could :

Shall we meet in that blessed harbour,
When our stormy voyage is o'er 1

Shall we meet and cast the anchor
By the far celestial shore ?

And — see ! above the head of the waterfall,
towards which they were driving, through the
rift it had sawn in the rocky wall, flashed the
rising sun — it turned the head of the stream,
as it took its final leap, into liquid gold, and
the river seemed to pour from the very heart
of the sun, bringing fire and life and hope
down into the wild, gloomy abyss below.

Shall we meet with many loved ones
Who were torn from our embrace 1

sang the little voices, and stopped — for, from
out of the haze that hung between the sea and
cliffs, leaped a fiery streak, like a fish of lightning,
and something flaring, roaring, screaming,
rushed over their heads ; and a moment
after, with a sharp crack like the report of a
pistol, a rope fell athwart the deck. Those on
shore had seen the wreck and had discharged a
rocket over her. Eichard knew at once that

all was not lost. He flew to the rope and
made it fast.

In another moment the vessel struck, not
on a reef, but on a shingly beach, and at the
same moment a great sea struck her on stern
and went up in spiral whirl, like a shaving
before a plane, and washed the deck. Eichard
seized his little ones and drew them to him.
The wave passed, and none was lost. Then he
gave the baby to his mother, and took up
Mary in his arms ; she clung round his neck,
lacing her hands behind, fastening herself to
him as a ferret holds to his prey. She was a
shrewd child, and she knew what her father
was about to do. He needed not to tell her.
She put her lips to his cold wet cheek. Then
he grasped the rocket-rope, and went over the
side with her into the boiiino- foam.

o

Whilst he was away, Mrs. Cable drew the
children half down the cabin ladder, where
they might be safe from the seas which struck
the vessel and swept the deck. Every sea
drove the ' Bessie ' deeper into the shingle and
farther up the shore ; she was steadied, but exposed
to the full force of the waves.

Presently, from out of the leaping Vater,
with the froth dripping from him, came Cable
again, clinging to the rope, followed by two
men from the shore : and the rest of the

children and Mrs. Cable were conveyed in
safety to land. Most difficulty was found with
the babe, as little Bessie could not be relied onto
cong. She must be held in one arm, and
the rope grasped with the other. Richard
would let no one take her but himself, and he
succeeded in brinmno- her tlu^ouo^h. He was
now much exhausted, numbed with cold, and
his limbs shook. He would not yield up the
child. The danger was yet not over.

The cove into which the yacht had been
run Alas that of Pentargon. It has a small
rubble strand, which can only be reached from
the top of the chills by an aixluous path, which,
as it nears the base, passes over shale that lies
upon slate-shelves steeply inclined downwards,
over which water dribbles. By this perilous
way alone could the little party ascend ; by
this, with great difficulty, had the coastguard
brought the rocket apparatus, when from the
look-out they saw the little vessel driven into
the cove.

The sturdy coastguardmen gave their hands
to the children, to help them to ascend the
steep slope over the treacherous shelf, where a
fall might precipitate them over a ledge upon
the shingle-beach or into the water.

I will come last, with the baby,' said
Cable. So the procession formed. Each must

moniit singly, staying up a child. There was
nothing to cling to ; every step inst be taken
with precaution in the loose and sliding shale.

Eichard held the smallest child well wrapped
under his dreadnought. She was awake, frightened,
cold and fretful, and her sobs and impatience
at being covered up harassed Eichard,
already spent with his watchful night and
struggles through the waves with the children.
He raised the Hap of his coat, put down his
head, and spoke soothingly to the infant. His
voice usually had o-reat effect in lulling her
cries when in pain ; but it was not so novv\
Little Bessie did not know wdiat was going on,
was drenched with sea-water, and greatly terrified.
She could not understand her father, or
would not be satisfied.

It is dada who has you in his arms, Bessie,'
lie said, with his mouth under his dreadnought.
Baby will soon be snug in a warm bed, and
have hot milk to drink.'

But she strove fretfully in his arms to bea t
a way by which she might peer out of the
wraps, and broke out into shrill screams of pain
and anger.

Eichard stood still on the shelf, to readjust
her in his arms ; perhaps, as he held her, her
little back suffered, so he altered her position
under his oilskin coat. Her cries went through

his heart and iiunerved him, already shaken
and exhausted ; cold though he was, he felt hot
for a moment with distress and perturbation of
spirit.

Bessie, darling ! do be still. Trust your
dada a few minutes more, and all will be
well ! '

But hardly had the words escaped him,
when the rubble under his feet slid away on the
shelty strata of slate. He fell heavily on his
side. He had just presence of mind to fold
both his arms round the baby, when he rolled
over, and went down the slope and steps of
rock. If he were hurt, he felt no pain ; his
whole attention was engrossed in the child he
bore, his whole effort to ward it from blows
with his elbows and hands.

In another moment one of the coastguard-men
came down to him.

Bessie is unhurt ! ' exclaimed Eichard,
lying among the stones.

Any harm done ? ' asked the man. ' Give
us a hand. Stand up, mate.'

Cable waited a moment, and moved his
elbows, and then said : ' Take her. I cannot
rise.'

He had dislocated hi ^ ':•'•]).

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

THE ' MAGPIE.'

There stood a humble iiiii — a tavern, rather —
called the ' Magpie,' on the downs ; its door
opened on no high rond, but it stood where
lanes or side parish roads converged. In the
olden days, it had been a resort of smugglers
who had run their goods into Pentargon
Cove. The taverner had then always maintained
half-a-dozen donkeys, and these were
employed in transporting the smuggled goods
up the cliffs by the precarious path which alone
gave access to the cove, and enabled goods
brought there to be carried away. The smugglers
knew well enough how to surmount the
most difficult portion of the ascent : they
stretched a rope along it from a crowbar
driven into the turf above. As for the donkeys,
they were unshod and sure-footed, they
would run almost where a squirrel went.

But the smuggling times were past, so were
the days when a lively trade in wrecks was

earned on ; and the ' Magpie ' would have
perished of inanition, had not the milord begun
to enclose the doAMis and annex a farm to
his alehouse. The place was so exposed, so
wind-swept, that only r3'e would grow there ;
but he kept plenty of sheep and several pigs,
and reared, though he could not fatten, cattle.
As none of the roads that met at the ' Maso



pie ' were market-roads, the host could only
count on stray passengers, fagged with laborious
scrambles up the stony and steep coast-road,
to drop in for refreshment. His most
regular customers were the coastguard, who, in
their nocturnal tramps along the cliffs, passed
his door twice every night, and never passed
without a halt and a drop of comfort.

Partly because the coastguard wished to do
Jacob Corye a good turn, and partly because
the 'Magpie 'was the nearest inn, they conveyed
the Cable family beneath its sheltering
roof. Eichard was put to bed, a surgeon sent
for ; and Mrs. Cable undressed the children,
borrowed dry clothes of the landlady for them,
and set to work to wash the salt out of their
garments and hang them up to dry.

Scarcely had the Cables been housed, before
a swarm of men came down the cliff to the
beach, from which the tide was recreations
waded the ' Bessie,' and began to ransack and

strip lier, as the ants ^vill attack and strip a
dead bird cast near their mound. Sails, shrouds,
anchor, binnacle, the fittings of the cabin, the
contents of the galley, the mattresses of the
berths, the benches, stools, the chests, everything
they could remove was carried away.
They heeded neither cold nor wet ; they disregarded
the peril to their lives from the waves
that still swept the wreck, so eager, so ravenous
were they for spoil.

The days of the wreckers are long over —
that is to say, the days when wrecking was
called wrecking ; it is now called salving, from
the Latin word salvage, to save ; but this does
not imply that those who have been wrecked
get much more than if they had fallen into the
hands of wreckers. Those whose fathers went
wrecking, now go salving ; and very consoling
it is to us to kno^v that we have made such an
advance in civilisation. As a matter of fact,
the thing is pretty nuich the same. All salvage
is supposed to be given up to an official
Receiver of Wreck — on the coast sphere the
'Bessie 'was cast, this was the head coastguard.
But it is by no means certain that all that is
salved is thus delivered over. When the Receiver
has got what the salvers have chosen to
deliver up, then the Board of Trade investigates,
and decides between the respective claims

of the owner and the salver, retaining, however,
a share for the Crown. Usually the
wreckage is sold by auction first ; and it is the
proceeds which are divided, the Crown taking
a third, and the salvers a third ; and a third is
left to the owner. To the last-named the
salving looks very like wrecking ; to Eichard
Cable, very much so on this occasion ; for the
things were sold when he was unable to attend,
and the amount raised to be divided by three
was not nuich, and his receipt infinitesimal
compared with the value he set on his property.
Moreover, things he valued highly sold
for pence and farthings. Eichard was irritated,
and not at all in a frame of mind to be comforted
by the thought that everything he treasured
had gone under the category of salvage,
and was therefore clean away from him forever.


It is her doing — it all comes of her ! ' he
muttered, and tossed in fever and rage on his
bed. He was unreasonable in his anger. The
thought of Josephine as one who brought evil
on him and pursued him remorselessly, had
taken hold of his fancy, and he attributed every
misfortune to her ; not altogether without a
cause, for had she not made Hanford unendurable
to him, he would not have left it ;
had he not left it, he would not have been

VOL. II. o

wrecked ; Imcl lie not been wrecked, he would
not have been crippled ; and had he not been
crippled, he would have returned to his ship
the moment he saw his children safe, and then
no wreckers or salvers could have meddled
with its contents.

His very ship was no longer his own ; it
had passed into the hands of the salvers. Fortunately,
all his money Alas safe ; before leaving,
he had secured it about him. But the amount
was small, after he had paid his rent and all
the little bills at Hanford.

Presently, Mrs. Cable came up and took his

hand. It was hot, and his cheeks were flushed.

The surgeon is a long time coming,' she said.

'0 Eichard, this accident to you is worst of

all.'

That is as it should be,' he answered. ' I

threw little Bessie down and injured her ; now

she has cast me down and lamed me. If in

like manner as She at Hanford Hall' — he'would

not name Josephine — ' has brought misery and

ruin on me and mine, misery and ruin might

befall her, I were well content.'

Eichard,' said Mrs. Cable sorrowfully, ' I

do not recognise you, with these bitter feelings

in your heart.'

I do not recognise myself. Do you know

how, if a little gall falls into a pot, it spoils the

whole mess ? She has spilt wormwood into my
life ; and the world, everything I taste and
smell and see and hear and feel, is bitterness tome.'


The doctor arrived ; and with the help of
the innkeeper, Eichard's leg was got in place
again ; but the surgeon shook his head, and
said that there was more injury than mere displacement
done — that the recovery would be
slow ; the leg must be given perfect rest ; and
that, unfortunately, it was likely Eichard would
always have a stiff joint.

'That also,' muttered Cable, clenching his
hands in the bed — 'that I shall owe to her,
and bear ever about, as a lasting record against
her, a warning against my ever forgiving her.'

He was restless whilst confined to his bed,
and his restlessness interfered with his convalescence.
He was impatient to get away, to
be at his future home. The pain he suffered
made him irritable ; but disappointment chafed
him more than physical pain. What wrong
had he done that he should be thus pursued
with misfortune ? He had done his utmost for
his children ; he had discharged his duties asa
hghtshipman, as a son, as a husband, conscientiously
; and yet — Providence laid on his
back lash after lash, as if he were one who
needed chastisement to be brought out of evil



courses into the right way. He murmured at
the ways of Providence ; he accused it of injustice,
of cruelty, of blindness. He was wroth
with the crew for deserting the ' Bessie.' If
they where all drowned, it served them right.
Had they remained, one could have continued
in command of the vessel, and delivered it from
becoming a prey to the salvers. He was angry
with those who had despoiled his ship, though
he knew that they had acted with legal right.
He was incensed with his hostess, who had
come up to his sickroom and demanded whether
he were prepared to pay for all the food and
care and housing he and his family received.

We 're poor folk,' said the woman, ' and
can't afford to keep eight people for nothing.
The children eat a lot o' bread and butter, and
drink a gallon of milk. My man is a hardworking
chap ; but he don't calculate to maintain
a family as ain't his own.'

Eichard had promised to pay ; but the
demand of the woman, though reasonable,
appeared selfish and hard to him.

You know,' said she, ' I've heard that
folks be going about with a brief to get together
a few shillings, maybe a couple o' sovereigns
or even more, for you ; and when you've
got the money, you can pay me out of that.'
Then Eichard was very hot with indignation.

' Tell those busybodies who have begun
the collection, to return every penny. Not one
coin of it will Ave touch. I am not a be^^o-ar.
I will take nothing from any one but what I
have earned with my hands.'

He knew that his scanty fund would soon
be exhausted ; but he would not stoop to receive
a gift. He was a proud man — he had
inherited pride from his mother.

Til en he thought of Josephine, always with
a simmering? rao-e in his heart. He counted
over all the insults she had heaped on him.
He recalled lier look, the flash of her eye,
the distended nostril, the curled lip, the contemptuous
shrug of the beautiful shoulders,
the intonation of her flexible voice. He could
not yet shake off the fascination, the admiration
shee produced in him ; but he thought of
her without love. What was she now doing ?
How had she borne the news of his departure ?
He knew but too surely. She had laughed,
and clapped her hands, and tossed her beautiful
head, and said : ' I am well rid of him.' Now
she was free, and enjoying herself, going about
to all the tennis-parties and picnics and dinners
in the neighbourhood, courted, making herself
agreeable, saying sharp and witty things, singing
and playing, forgetting him utterly, and
only now and then, when forced to recall him,

recollecting him ^vitli a sneer. As he thus
thought, he ground his teeth and tore at the
sheet till he had ripped it into rags; and he
bit at the rays and tore them smaller and threw
them about him, in impotent fury. Verily, he
hated Josephine with deadly hate.

Jacob Corye, his host, was a good-natured
man, and he came up with his pipe occasionally,
and with a jug of ale in one hand, and
sat and talked with him ; but his talk did
not much interest Cable — it was all about bullocks.


You see, capon, this is how we're beat.
We can raise just about any amount of young
stock, here ; but we can't fit 'em . There's no rich
pasture to make 'em fat ; or it may be the salt
that is over all the land, carried by the wind
and air for a score o' miles inland, takes the
goodness and the fatting properties out o* the
grass. I can't say ; I'm no scholar. But we
can raise 'em ; wee can raise 'em in any numbers.
We can raise and rear 'em ; but we can't sell
'em to good advantage, all because we can't fat
'em. If, now, we could fat 'em as well as raise
and rear 'em, then it's pounds on pounds we
would make ; but we can't do it. I've turned
it over and over in my mind, and I don't see
how it can be altered. You may take my
Tv^ord for it, capon, rearing is one thing, raising

is another, and fatting is a third. It is just as
with milk — there's milking, and creaming, and
buttering. Now, we can rear and raise, but
we can't fatten ; which is all the same as if in a
dairy they milked and made cream, but nohow
could turn the cream into butter. Consider
the loss that would be, if they couldn't make
butter out of the cream ! Or, put it another
way, with wool — there's the shearing, and then
the weaving, and then the tailoring, before the
coat of a sheep comes on my back. There's a
profit goes in the shearing, another in the
weaving, and again in the tailoring. Just reckon

Co O

it up in your mind what a fortunate thing it
would be for me if I could shear the wool off
my sheep and clap it straight on to your carcase
without any intervention of weaver and tailor.
It would not be keeping of the " Magpie " I'd
be then, and getting a few coppers out of the
coastguard of a night, when they're prowling
about looking' for each other. It do rile
me uncommon, thinking how I'm beat about
the fatting.'

I'm not surprised at your house bearing
the sign of the " Magpie," ' said Eichard impatiently.


Ain't you? ' answered Jacob. ' Well, now,
that's a curious coincidence ; nor am I. I
found it called the " Magpie" when I was born

into it. But — as I was saying about the young
cattle.'

Oh — the cattle.' Eichard turned Ins head
irritably from side to side on the pillow. ' I
thought you'd fatted 'em off and done with
them.'

On the contrary,' said Jacob eagerly, ' that's
just what I can't do. There come the rascally
readers about, and pick up our calves or
3^oung stock ; and they take 'em to Camelford
or Launceston or Bideford, poor and thin,
naught but skin and bone, because we can't
fatten. If we could fatten as we can rear and
raise, we'd get better prices ; but we can't.
Its like your seven little maids — just as if you
could rear 'em and educate 'em, and couldn't
marry 'em, because you'd no money to lay on
'em thick as slabs o' yellow fat. There'd be a
cruel case, to have the bringing up of all them
maidens and not to be able to marry 'em. I
say it's all the same with our young stock.
The readers make a profit at the market ;
and then others take the cattle, and when
they've fatted 'em, they sells 'em to the butchers ;
and they kill 'em, and there's a profit again.
There's two profits goes out of my pocket, and
I'm beat if I know how to compass it to secure
'em to myself.'

I want to go to sleep,' growled Eichard,

driven desperate by the incessant chatter of
the host about raising and rearing and fattening.


Put it to yourself,' continued the landlord
placidly. ' It would be a vexing thing for a
father like you to have raised seven little maids
and I will say they're as promising young
stock of the human kind as I've seen many a
day — and been to pains and expense rearing
and educating of 'em ; but you never get no
farther — never can fatten 'em. You toil and
you contrive and pinch yourself every way for
'em ; but they remain like Pharaoh's lean kine.
You can't do nothing with 'em ; no buyer will
take 'em off your hands ; all your labour and
care is so much waste, because you can't fatten.
That would be an ac^grravatincr sicrht for a father
in his old age to have all these seven as bout',
lean okl maids browsing about him, because he
was unable to dispose of 'em in the marriage
market ! You can understand that ; then you
can understand the feelings of a farmer herewith
his calves. There is nothing like bringing
a situation home to a man personally by personal
application,' said Jacob sententiously —
My pipe is out.'

I'm not surprised,' sneered Eichard. —
Hark I what is that? Who is downstairs ? I
hear a voice I know ! '

All exclamation in the doorway from Mrs.
Cable : ' Oh, Mr. Sellwood ! You here ! '

Come all the way from Hanford on purpose,'
vas the answer. ' We heard there of
the wreck. It was in the papers ; and I came
to gather information about those who were
lost — poor fellows ! — for their relations. I
thought it would ease their minds. But most
of all, I've come to see Eichard — I have a
message for him.'

From whom, rector ? '

From his wife — from poor Josephine.'

Poor Josephine? Eichard laughed scornfully
in his bed.

A brief paragraph in the papers was all that
informed Hanford people of the loss of the
Bessie.' When a ship is wrecked and sailors'
or passengers' lives are lost, depositions are
taken as to the facts, and the names are entered
in an official record ; but very little information
gets about. When a man-of-war or a passenger
vessel sinks, then full lists of those who go
down in her are published. When a railway
accident occurs, then we know who were killed,
who had bones broken, who were bruised, and
who had only their hats battered and their
shirts crumpled. But when a sailing-vessel, a
trader, a collier, a fishing-smack is lost, the

matter is dismissed in a line of the daily paper;
there is no sensational writing done about it ;
no details of the tragedy are given. The loss
is too insignificant, too ranch in the common
run of events, to demand much attention.
When, in the post-office, a letter goes astray,
especially if that letter contains half-a-dozen
postage stamps, a great stir is made ; the
General Post-office sends down an official to investigate
the matter, to track the course of these
six Queen's-heads, and to bring to justice the
postman through whose dishonesty they have
been made away with. But when a ship, not
an envelope, and six living human heads are
lost — not six little paper portraits worth a
penny each — then a perfunctory inquiry suffices ;
no one concerns himself to see whether blame
attaches to anyone ; scarcely is the trouble
taken to count the lost heads and ascertain
whether it where half a dozen, or twelve, or a
baker's dozen. So, when the scanty tidings of
the loss of the ' Bessie ' reached Hanford, no
one knew the particulars.

In such cases, on the seacoast, the parson
is the one dio collects the requisite information.
He writes to the parson of the parish where the
wreck took place, and the latter is almost sure
to supply the desired particulars. But if the
parson be like Baal, either talking or hunting

or on a journey, or pera venture sleeping, then
there is neither voice nor any tlmt answered,
and the trembling, anxious wives and mothers
must remain in suspense.

The importance of the tidings of the loss of
the ' Bessie ' did not strike either Josephine or
her father at first, for neither Alas aware of the
change of name ; but the rector soon knew,
and came to the Hall to break the news to
Josephine. He at once volunteered to run
down by express to Bideford and take the North
Cornwall coach on, and learn all that was
needed to be known, and telegraph what he
heard to Hanford. Josephine wanted to accompany
him, but he dissuaded her from so
doinj]^.

Mr. Cornellis brightened at the news.
Really, Josephine,' he said, ' luck is on your
side.'

Lie did not answer him, but went into the
garden after the rector, caught his arm, and
said : ' Tell him — tell him, if he be alive, that
I send him my humble love. He lias only to
hold np his finger, and I will come to him.
Tell him all — he must now know all.'

Say nothing to your whither about your
resolution till my return.'

Thus it came about that the good, kind old
man arrived at the ' Magpie.'

On his way from Bideford he had occupied
the box-seat, and the coachman had been able
to tell him about the wreck. The crew were
all lost — how many they were, he did not
know ; but the captain and a woman, his
mother, and six or seven little children, were
saved, and were all at the ' Magpie.' ' And
look' here, sir,' said the driver ; ' whatever
you do, don't drink none of Jacob Corye's beer ;
it's bad. I reckon it be brewed with Epsom
salts. I took a couple o' glasses once, and I
couldn't drive the coach next day, I were that
pulled down. None of the quality, sir, patronises
the "Magpie'" only them coastguard — a
low lot, sir ; and Jacob's beer and Epsom salts
agrees wi' them, happen.' He drew his lash
across the leader. — ' You don't happen to know
Jacob, sir ? '

I have not had the honour.'

You'll please to mind what I have said
about his beer, sir. Jacob is always going on
upon his young stock because he can't fatten.
He begrudges the money picked up by they
who take them off him and put them in ri^li
pastures for a few weeks and then sell them at
a great profit. It is all very well for Jacob to
grumble that way ; but it is my belief that he
drenches his bullocks with his beer. I'd be
glad to know what becomes of his beer, if he

don't give it to the cattle. No Christian — only
coastguards — will drink it ; and you can't fatten
young stock on Epsom salts. I put it to you,
sir, as a man of the world and a Church of
England minister — can you ? ' Again he wiped
the back of his leader, as tenderly as a fly-fisher
wiping the glassy surface of a pool for a
trout. ' Look' here, sir ! Them coastguard
men took the capon of the w^^eck to the
Magpie " because they drinks there, what no
one else in his senses would do, not if he has
any respect for his vitals. It do seem a cruel
pity that the party there should run the risk of
being poisoned, just to oblige the coastguard
and Jacob Corye. — you're going to see the
capon you say, sir. Well, I think — you'll
excuse the freedom I take— that you'd be acting
as a true minister of religion if you'd caution
the capon against the " Magpie " beer. It's that
lowering, sir, that you, sir, whom I take to bean
archdeacon '

dear, no ! — nothing of the sort — a
simple rector.'

Even if you was an archdeacon, sir, after
a week of that " Magpie " beer you would be
a-teetotaling all over the county.'

When Mr. Sellwood descended from the
coach, he tipped the driver so generously,
that the coachman drew close to him with

a radiant smile and said, behind his hand :
You'll not touch a drop o' that beer, sir ;
and say a word in season to the capon.' Ashe
strolled away towards the tap of the
inn where the coach stopped for the night,
he said to himself : ' If he was to take half-a-dozen
glasses of that beer, it would so lower
him altogether, that, for the return journey,
he'd give me a sixpence instead o' half-a-crown.
A man can't come to greater degradation than
that, I reckon.'

Forewarned in this way, the rector of
Hanford, after having deposited his portmanteau
at the inn where the coach stopped,
walked off to the 'Magpie.'

CHAPTER XXXV.
'magpie' been.

When the rector appeared at the 'Magpie'
Mrs. Cable was pleased to see his genial face,
but uncertain how her son would take his
visit. She had no doubt that the message
of which he spoke was one that would irritate
him. In all probability, Josephine asked his
pardon ; but he was in no humour to grant
it. Bessie Cable had ceased to speak to him
about his wife. Any allusion to her, however
slight, roused his anger ; and the only way in
which she could keep him quiet was to talk
of future plans, or of what the children were
doing — how they picked mushrooms on the
downs and blackberries in the hedges.

She put her finger to her lips when the
rector blurted out his purpose in coming, and
beckoned to him to come in with her to the
parlour. Then, when he had complied, she
asked him to be seated, and standing herself
respectfully, told him, with a distressed face

and with the tears trembling in her eyes, how
matters stood.

The rector listened to her, interrupting
every now and then, because he could not
keep his tongue quiet ; and when she had
done, he began to talk. He told her that
her whole past history was known to him ;
and that in his opinion the time had arrived
when Eichard must be told who was his father,
and what the wrong was that had been done
to his mother. ' Leave it to me,' said Mr.
Sell wood ; ' I will tell Eichard ; but when I
stamp on the floor thrice, you must come up ;
I shall want you.'

Please, sir, say as little to him as you can
about his wife. It has become a craze with
him that she is the occasion of every misfortune
and trouble that has come upon him.
He is an altered man — altered for the worse.
I scarce know my gentle, loving Dick anymore.
I do even believe he has left off saying
his prayers.'

Let me alone,' said Mr. Sellwood. ' I
have mixed with all kinds of men and seen
all sorts of humours, and I will deal with him
discreetly. Now, I will go up, or he will be
suspecting that you have been priming me.'

'Will you take anything, sir, after your
long journey ? Shall I order you — some beer ? '

VOL. II. P

Beer ! ' exclaimed Mr. Sellwood. ' On no
account.' He dashed up the stars. 'magpie"
beer — and in a week be lowered to
teetotalise the county ! '

How are you ? ' exclaimed the rector,
bursting into the room occupied by Eichard.
The stairs were very steep, almost like a ladder.
He had gone up them fast, and precipitated
himself against the frail door, that flew open
before his weight. He came in like a blast of
healthy cool wind, that drives fogs and miasma
away. His hearty red face, his cheery spirits,
his crisp manner, had a momentarily salubrious
effect on the sick man, whose brain was clouded
with the fever-fogs that rose from his festering
heart. He put out his hand, and the rector
shook it.

The rector was one of those men who carry
with them wherever they go a sense of substantiality.
Men in an uncertain position,
pecuniary or social, have ever a crack in them.
They cannot help it — it is inevitable. But the
rector was a gentleman by birth, a man of
private means, an incumbent in an established
church, of hereditary orthodoxy, who no more
changed his opinions than he changed his
banker ; who no more dreamed of insecurity
in his position than he dreamed of giving up
the ' Guardian ' or of Eying through a course of

Zola. A man with un uncertain position is a
man with a very thin skin, and he is always
supposing that he is being tickled, or pinched,
or impinged upon by those about him, wilfully,
and he resents these touches as personal affronts.
But a man who has been a gentleman since he
fed out of a silver spoon as a baby, and who
has never overdrawn his account at the bank ;
who, like certain Alpine plants, knows perfectly
his own level, and that he will get frozen if he
creeps above it, or stifled if he descends beneath
it, is confident, thick-skinned, never imagines
and resents a slight. He pities the unfortunates
who do not appreciate his worth, and would
help them freely out of his purse, however
grossly they might have insulted him, should
they need assistance. Such a man is a rhinoceros
as to hide ; not arrows or spears, only
conical rifle bullets, pierce his skin. But the
triple-hided rhinoceros is the gentleman incumbent
in an established church, who knows
that his tithes must be paid, and that nothing
short of a revolutionary explosion can shake
the establishment. Such a man imposes by his
presence, by his confidence in himself; and
when the rector burst into Eichard's room,
Eichard, who was disposed to be angry at
having been pursued from the east to the west
by one of Hanford, was unable to look surly

p 2

and turn this face to the wall and keep his hand
in bed.

'Parson Sellwood,' said Eichard Cable, 'I
won't say that I'm not glad to see you ; but if
you come with a message to me, I must ask
you not to deliver it. I can have no more
communication With one who has hurt me past
the power of forgiveness. I don't want ever to
hear her name again. I wish I may never see
her face. I curse the day that we met. She
came to me in storm, and I put out my arms
and took her into my vessel. And in return
she has pursued me till she has thrown me and
my little ones out of our house, our home, cast
us up, shipwrecked waifs, on a strange shore,
and me Hung out with an injury that will never
be got over. That she has hurt my body,
matters little — I could have forgiven that ; but
she has crushed and crippled also my child.
Little Bessie and I are both wrecks ; may home
is wrecked, my happiness is wrecked, my faith
is wrecked — and she has done it— she alone ! '
He turned his head away.

Cable, my good fellow,' said the rector,
taking a chair and seating himself in it a little
way from the bed, Avhere he could watch
Eichard, ' the message I bring you must be
told.'

I will not hear it.'

The person who gave it me urged it on me
before we parted.'

Take it back to her unuttered. I throw
it in her face.'

'I beg your pardon. The person is not a
she.'

What ! — the message is not from my —
from her ? '

Mr. Sellwood evaded a direct answer. ' As
I came along on the coach, I had a most earnest
message imparted to me to convey to you.'

She has come ! ■ She is here ! She is
below ! ' almost screamed Cable. ' Let her not
come near me, or touch one of my children ! '

The coachman was very particular that I
should remember to advise you on no account
to touch the " Magpie " beer. It is made with
Epsom salts.'

Richard turned his head sharply round and
stared at the rector.

Mr. Sellwood maintained a face of the
utmost c^ravitv. ' Poor fellow,' he continued.
It has disagreed with him ; and havinf]r a warm
heart, he pities you, and repeatedly sent this
message to you by me : ' Don't drink any
Magpie " beer.'

Richard drew a loiio- breath. This was all,
was it?

The " Magpie " beer,' proceeded the rector.

throwing one leg over the other and folding
his hands and twirling his thumbs, ' is reported
to be lowering ; and my good friend the coachman
believed that no one but a coastguardman
could drink it long without becoming a teetotaler.'


Richard still stared at his visitor.

The " Magpie " beer,' said the imperturbable
rector, 'is held to be the real cause
why Jacob Corye cannot fatten his young stock.
Has he said anything to you about his calves
and bullocks that he raises '

And rears,' interjected Eichard. and sank
flat on the bed. ' Too much. In mercy — I
have had enough of that. I did not expect this
from you, sir. My head turns. I pray you,
none of tins seesaw about raising and rearing
and fattening.'

You wish me to change the topic ? '

By all means, sir, or I shall go mad.
That Jacob Corye comes in here with his pipe
and his jug of beer '

Sever touch it,' interrupted the rector.

And talks of naught else but the raising
and rearing and the fattening of young stock,
till, in spite of my thigh, I think I must jump
out of bed and run away.'

Is it a fact that he feeds his young stock
on beer ? '

I don't believe a word of it, sir.'

Or that there is Epsom salts in his beer r '

I've not tried it ; I can't say.'

When I heard of the properties of that
beer — I was so troubled in mind at the danger
you ran, that I came at once to see, to bring
you the message and warn you of your danger.'

Eichard raised himself in the bed slightly.
Sir,' he said, ' I do not understand. You did
not come all the way from Hanford to caution
me against the " Magpie " beer — did you ? '

'No. I cannot say that. The coachman
spoke to me about it ; but — as you ask ivhat
the real motive of my journey was, I do not
object to tell you.'

Then Eichard became agitated. ' 1 heard
you speak down stairs. You have a message
to me from — from her. I will not receive it.'

You need not,' answered the rector with
placidity. ' But it does my heart good to hear
you have not touched the "Magpie" beer. I
have come here to talk to you about your
father.'

My father ! ' Again Eichard stared at his
visitor.

You ran away from Hanford in such a
hurry,' continued the rector, ' that those who
desired to communicate with you after your
father's death '

My father is dead ! '

And were at liberty to do so,' proceeded
Mr. Sellwood, ' had not the opportunity. I
may tell you candidly that I have only recently
learned the circumstances of your parentage —
only since your abrupt departure. In the
matter of his estate, which you may justly
claim '

He was rich ! — left money ! ' gasped
Eichard.

Excuse me. Cable, but you are rather given
to interrupt. When you turn a tap, a stream
flows out ; but if you put your finger in the
way, an even flow is diverted into spirits and
splashes. If you will allow me to tsU the story
in my own quiet way, without breaks, it will
be more consequent, and easier for me to tell
and you to follow.' Then lie stamped thrice
on the floor ; and immediately Mrs. Cable came
up. ' I desire you to be present,' said Mr.
Sellwood, 'whilst I tell Eichard your story,
and concerning his own father, that you may
confirm me when I am right and correct me
when wrong.'

Eichard looked luicasily at his mother. ' I
do not wish to hear the story,' he said bluntly.

The rector understood him, and looking
him steadily in the eye, said, ' It is a story
which, though it tells of wrong done to sour

mother, tells of nothing but what makes for
her honour. She is a woman ' — he rose and
bow-ed to Bessie — ' I could almost envy you to
be able to call her your mother — a woman I
always respected, one whom now I revere.'
Then he sat down again.

Cable was touched, softened ; he put out
his hand to his mother and clasped hers.
Their eyes met. The little cloud of doubt
which had always hung on his mind was gone.
His mother was irreproachable. He had felt
it must be so, and yet he was not sure. Then
he turned to the rector and said : ' Thank you
sir — thank you for that.'

'Now, Cable, you must listen to me patiently
and without interruption — I hate interruptions
— whilst 1 tell you the entire truth.'

Then he told Eichard what he knew It
was the merest outline of a life-story, which
Bessie could have filled in with a thousand
particulars, but which where nov unnecessary.
Mr. Selhvood told the story with delicacy,
avoiding the slightest reproach on the memory
of the dead man, casting the blame on his
relations, perhaps exaggerating the pressure
that was brought upon him to induce him to
consent to the annulling of the marriage.

As Eichard listened, his eyes were fixed on
his mother, and his thought throughout was.

what she had endured, and with what silent
dignity she had borne her wrong.

And now, Cable,' continued the rector —
'now I come to speak about Josephine.'

Instantly, at the sound of her name the
man's face altered. He let go his mother's
hand, and gathered up the sheet about his ears
and shouted : ' I will not hear about her ; I
will receive no message from her. I would to
God I could forget her ! '

Do not act like a child. Cable,' remonstrated
Mr. Sellwood. ' I must speak '

But I will not listen,' retorted the maimed
man.

The rector looked at Bessie, and she at him.
What was to be done ?

Just then, up the stair came the host with
a jug of beer in his hand. ' Well, I never ! '
exclaimed Jacob Corye. ' A parson in the
"Magpie!" This is the first time this has
happened. Well, sure, this is an honour ; and,
sir — if I may make so bold — you'll drink
the " Magpie " beer, and no better was ever
brewed, to the good-luck of the house ; and to
the mending of the capon, you shall drink a
second, and no charge for either.'

My good friend ' protested the rector,

backing.

Nav ; 111 take no refusal,' insisted Jacob.

My beer is famous, and you shan't have to pay
for it. First time a parson has come over my
drexil [threshold] and stood between my terns
[jambs]. Drink, sir! — Nay, parson! Drain
it to the bottom, to the good-kick o' the
Magpie ; " and I'll fill it again to the mending
of the capon's thigh. Now, sir ! — Nay, drink
away, to the last drop ; there's more coming.
Now, sir, what do you say to ' Mao-pie "
beer ? '

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

YET.

Mr. Sell wood walked back to his inn, carrying
within him two jugs of ' Magpie ' beer, and the
equally salt and sour conviction that he had
foiled with Eichard. He had not been able to
convey to him Josephine's message ; he had not
been able to tell him of her resolution to make
over Gotham's property to him. Cable was in
that touchy and obstinate state of mind that he
refused to allow the smallest reference to his
wife.

How the characteristics of the mother came
out in the son under similar provocation! Asunder
the influence of pleasure or pain, of
strong passion, of death-faint, likenesses never
before noted appear on a face, so is it with
mental and spiritual characteristics. Long
years may pass without any resemblances having
been traced, and then, all at once, the son,
under exeitinf^j conditions or numbing sorrow,

reproduces the modes of thought, follows the
lines of his parents' conduct in similar situations.
Bessie Cable had been silent for many
years, burying her grievance in her heart,
brooding over it, showing it to none ; and now,
her son, staggering under a blow, fell into the
same course, and doggedly refused to allow her
who had struck him to be mentioned in his
presence.

The rector was a sanguine man. He buoyed
himself in the confidence that everything would
come right in the end ; but he was forced to
admit to himself that this end was a lons^ way
off in the case of Cable and Josephine. Those
qualities in the man which had. made him
estimable before — his steadiness of purpose, his
reserve, his self-respect, his patience in the
midst of difficulties — combined now to impede
a reconciliation. He had taken his resolution,
and would adhere to it with iron tenacity. He
would confide his wrongs to no one ; take
counsel from no one, be swayed by no one.
His galled dignity would harden into stubborn
pride ; his patience would make him endure
every extremity without a murmm-, rather than
yield. Mr. Sellwood saw that the task he had
set before himself, and which had presented
itself to him at first as easy, was one beyond
his powers of performing. He went in a meditative

mood to the telegraph office, and sent a
communication to his wife at Hanford concerning
those who had been lost in the wreck ; but
he sent none to Josephine. He did not know
how to couch his message in a few words. He
Walked home to the inn and called for a drop
of brandy, to correct the influences of the
'Magpie' beer, and looked about for wanting
materials. He would send Josephine a letter.
He speedily disposed of the brandy ; but the
letter was not so easily managed. What was
he to say ? That the Cables were safe, but that
Eichard had injured his thigh; that they had
lost everything except a small sum of money
that Eichard had carried on his person, and
which, therefore, had not fallen into the hands
of the salvers. He might white this, but it
would have the effect of bringing the impetuous
Josepliine there ; he was sure of that ; and the
result would be to aggravate the estrangement.
He had his pen in his mouth, biting the end of
the quill and ripping the feathers off it with his
teeth, with a puzzled and distressed look on
his honest face, when the waiter opened the
door and said that Mrs. Cable wished to speak
with him.

'Show her in,' said the rector, drawing a
sigh of relief Perhaps she could help him out
of his difficulty : anyhow, her interview with

him would delay the execution of his embarrassing
task.

Sit down, Mrs. Cable — sit down. Just
wired to Mrs. Sellwood about the poor fellows.
She will go round and see their families and
break the news to them. She is a wonderful
woman — wonderful in these painful cases — has
such tact ; I do not know what I should do
without her. Sit down, do. I've ' — apologetically
— ' been taking just a drop, only a drop of
brandy, neat ; did not feel c[uite myself within.
Had a good deal to upset me of late.' He
pointed with the end of his pen at the little
bottle and glass, A long curl of ripped feather
hung from the quill. He had pulled it off with
his teeth, in his perplexity, as if the solution to
his difficulty was to be found under the outer
cortical, as a woodpecker seeks its food under
bark and moss on tree-boughs.

I have been writing; — that is, I have bef?un
a letter. No. Upon my word, I have only
begun to think about beginning one, and have
got no further into it than "My dear Josephine."
If it were a sermon I should have goton
famously by this time ; but — I am pulled
up at the very outstart. I can't get on. I
hope you have brought me something satisfactory,
which I can say.'

Mrs. Cable's handsome face was troubled.

I suppose, sir, I did wrong, harbouring my
resentment against Gabriel for so many, many
years ; and now the chastisement has come on
me. Ei chard said that as lie lead maimed little
Bessie, she had maimed him, and that this is a
law. As I was unforgiving, so now is my son
unforgiving. I was hardened for more years
than I like to say, and I doubt if he wall yield
sooner. I am a w^oraan, with a woman's weakness
; and he a man, with a man's strength.'

But then,' resumed the rector, ' it makes
all the difference that your resentment was
against a man, and his is against a weak girl.'

Bessie shook her head. ' Gabriel, heaven
knows, was weak enough.'

He never sought to make amends to you.
Josephine is full of self-reproach, and is thoroughly
in earnest in her desire for reconciliation.'


It cannot be,' said Mrs. Cable, after a
moment's consideration. ' If he forgave her
to-day, they would be apart again tomorrow.
They have nothing in common ; with the
best wishes to be happy together, they could
not unite. There's a way of the weft and a
Away of the woof in everything — in human
natures, as in brown holland or silk velvet.
If you join two pieces of the same material
with the weft of one across the woof of the

other, there'll be puckers for ever. You may
wash and pull and iron to get them smooth ;
but you wash into fresh puckers, and you pull
apart and iron into creases. I leave you to
judge how it must be when you stitch together
sailcloth and satin across each other's grain.'

What am I to say ? ' asked the rector
despairingly. ' I must write to Josephine.
She is in great trouble As for your theory, I
don't hold it. There is give and take in all
married life. Bless me ! do you think Mrs.
Selhvood and I agreed together from the first
like bread and butter ? Cable and Josephine
have not been together three months, and are
they to fly apart at the first tiff ! '

There is give and take where the joining
is between two cut the same way, weft or woof.
Then when one pulls, the other gives.'

Mrs. Sellwood and I had our tiffs. Why
I remember distinctly the second week of

our marriage, she — that is, I Well, never

mind particulars ; we were both in the wrong.
It was a rainy day, and horribly cold, at
MUrren, several thousand feet above the sea,
and in close proximity to glaciers. Nothing todo
; no books but odd volumes of Tauchnitz ;
no heating apparatus in our room. I wrapped
myself up in a duvet and stood at one Avindow
looking out into the rain ; and she wrapped

VOL. II. Q

herself up in a duvet and looked out at the rain
from another Avindow ; and we would not
speak to each other. We were both cold, both
cross, and both in the wrong, and ashamed, or
too proud to own it. I thought then I had
made a mistake in marrying her, and I believe
a very similar idea lodged in her head. It was
wet and clammy and cold in our room, that
detestable day at the Hotel du Silberhorn at
MUrren. I know that I used my pocket-handkerchief,
and so did she. We were all right
again next day, when the sun shone. I got up
early and picked her a bunch of Edelweiss and
gentians ; and she — she mended one of my
braces for me which I had broken out. We
made it up then — I have no patience with
Cable ; he must come round. Why, he can't
be in a more miserably uncomfortable condition
than I was that morning at Mlirren,
scrambling about after Alpine flowers — wearing
one suspender ! '

Bessie shook her head. The cases were
hardly analogous.

Josephine is humbled,' he went on.
There is infinite good in the dear girl ; but
she has been mismanaged — I will not say by
whom. She has — she always has had a true
and sound heart ; but she has been allowed
her own way too much, and permitted to exercise

her temper without check. She is headstrong,
because she has been almost forced by
circumstances-to decide on her own course for
herself; but she is a true woman — a true
woman,' repeated the old rector, standing up.
I'm the last to conceal, to deny her faults ;
but — there is sterling stuff in her. She's a dear
girl, a good girl.' He walked to the window
and looked out. Presently he came back to
the table. ' Look here, Mrs. Cable. Do you
suppose that I have not had crows to pluck
with Josephine ? I do not mind confiding to
you — but let it go no further — that I have had
a crow as big as an albatross and as black as
pitch to pluck with her. She hurt me where I
am most sensitive to pain. Are you aware
that my boy proposed to her, and that she
refused him — threw him over for your Eichard ?
A father has feelings. He is proud of his son,
when that son is good and has not cost him an
hour cf uneasiness ; and a father turns somewhat
rusty against a young hussy who snaps
her fingers in his face. But I forgive her.
Indeed, I may say that I value her infinitely
higher' now than I did before. — Do you know
those horrible little pieces of money one gets in
Austria — ten and twenty kreutzer bits, of base
metal washed over with silver? They look
very well when new ; but with use, the silver

q2

rapidly rubs off, and you get the tarnished
brass beneath. A lot of women are like that ;
and the rub and turn about, the daily friction
of married life, brushes away all the external
gloss and plate. With Josephine, it is just the
reverse — the brass is the outer work, and the
sterling silver below. Why, is Cable to be
angry and cast her away because of the brass ?
Let him take her and try her, and he will soon
come on the precious metal.' He rang the
bell. 'Excuse me; I must have another glass
of cognac. That "Magpie" beer — two pints
was too much. I shall be quite upset. — But,
Mrs. Cable, I leave it to you to reason with
your son. He rolls himself up like a hedgehogs
when I come near and breathe a word
about Josephine. He does not know what a
treasure he has got in her. Tell him that I
envy him his possession. I should be glad if m}^
son had her instead. —-bless my soul ! does he
want this wife to be a turnip or a manhood ? I
suppose you never heard of Eubezahl, the
mountain spirit, did you? who carried off a
princess, and to supply her with companions
and ladies-inviting, transformed turnips into
young damsels. Let me tell you, and tell
Caljle through you, that the manufacture continues
at a brisk rate. I have met scores of
young ladies who I could swear were nothing

but transformed turnips. Josephine is not one
of these ; she has character — she is a real
woman. — I am warm — it is not the brandy, it
is my feelings which heat me.'

You see, sir, the difficulty is that both of
them are strong-willed in their own ways.'

But Josephine is bent now on doing what
is right. — Judge for yourself, Mrs. Cable,
When she learned who Eichard really was, at
once, without consulting me or Mrs. Sellwood
or anyone, she made up her mind that she had
no right to Mr. Gotham's property She would
not have Eichard enriched through her, but be
herself enriched through him. She makes over
everything absolutely to him. Is not that a
proof of determination and of right principle ? '

In the first place,' answered Mrs. Cable,
let me say that I am quite sure Eichard
will not accept the property. I would not
myself touch a penny of it ; nd he shares my
pride. If his father did not choose to acknowledge
him, Eichard will accept nothing of what
he has left. I am as sure of that as if I heard
Eichard say so.'

But — will not Josephine's disinterestedness
touch him? He must see how right-minded
she is.'

Bessie shook her head. ' Mr. Sellwood,'
she said, after thinking deeply for a few

minutes, ' I allow she must be strong to decide
to do this. But strength in her will never
touch Eichard and bring him to take her in
his arms again. It is weakness, and not
strength, that appeals to him. He is a man
^vith the heart of a mother. You do not
understand. A mother will let herself be cut
to pieces rather than that the feeblest child
she bears should be hurt. The feebler the
child, the more she loves it — the more she will
endure for it. The more the child frets and
cries, the greater her devotion to it. There
are men with mothers' hearts, men who may-admire
what is strong, but are touched, and
who love only what is weak.' She shook
her head again. ' No ; only in weakness can
Josephine recover him. When Gabriel Gotham
Alas rich and at his ease, I nursed my pride
and my resentment ; but when he was dying
with no one that loved him by, no one even to
care for him, to stay his head and wipe the
sweat from his brow — then I could not hold
out any longer ; all my pride went down like
a tent when the pole gives way. I know
Eichard, and I see my own nature in him.
He is purposeful, and will not be turned when
he has set his head in one direction.'

At all events said Mr. Sellwood, ' you
will let him know what Josephine has done.

Impress on lira that she has made over everything
to him. Whether he chooses to take it
or not, all that Mr. Gotham bequeathed to her
is now your son's. If he refuses to take it — it
accumulates for his children. Josephine only
delays to hear what I have to tell her about
Eichard Cable, before executing the requisite
deeds. Tell your son that he must appoint
some one as his agent, to look after the estate,
and care-keepers to take charge of the house,
for Josephine will vacate the Hall and leave
Han ford.'

Mrs. Cable remained thinking, with composed
face and a stern look, usual with her, on
her brow. ' I will tell him the main matter,'
she said after a long consideration ; ' but all
the particulars you must tell him tomorrow.
I will go to him now and prepare him. You
come, sir, if you will be so good, in the morning
and see him.' She rose in her dignified
manner, made an old-fashioned courtesy and
left the room.

AVhcn she had gone, the rector put his
hands under his coat-tails and walked about
the room. ' After having been bitten by a
mad-dog,' he said to himself, ' the best thing todo
is to run or walk till one drops, so as to work
off the poison from the veins. I'll do the same
with that " Magpie " ale. I feel it in me still.

I'll go out. And, by the way, I'll see if there
be any toyshops in the ]place where I can get
some twopenny trifles to amuse the little Cables
tomorrow.'

On reaching the ' Magpie,' Bessie Cable went
directly to her son's room and discharged the
obligation she had taken on herself. She told
what she had to say plainly without comment,
confining herself to the bare narration.

Eichard listened without interrupting her.
His face had acquired some of the sternness
which hers had gathered during years of
trouble and self-compression. It was now very
stern. When she had done, he spoke in reply
with a firm voice : ' Mother, I will have none
of my father's possessions, because he never
called me son. It is indifferent to me what
She may decide, how She may dispose of them.
Neither she nor his possessions concerns me.'

Mrs. Cable breathed freely. Her son
thouj^fht in the matter of the Hanford estate
like herself. She had felt convinced he would
so think ; but it was a satisfaction to her to
hear him so express himself.

After a short pause, he went on : ' Mother,
I will not stay another day here. Whilst you
have been absent, I have called up Jacob Corye,
and I have told him that we would all leave
tomorrow.'

It is impossible.'

We all leave tomorrow for St. Kerian.
I will not stay here. The parson has followed
and found us, and She will be coming next. I
know she will. She only waits to hear that he
has seen us, that she may come and see us also.'

She is very sorry, thoroughly repentant.
She sends you her humble love.'

I refuse her love, as I refuse the Hanford
estate. I will not see her again. I cannot
forgive her. I will not forgive her. I should
hate her as much if she came kneeling to meas
if she came scoffing at me. She is false and
cruel. I always thought that was a queer
passage in Scripture about the unpardonable
sin. I can understand it now. She has sinned
the sin unto death against me, and I will never
forgive her in this world or the next.' His
eyes began to flame with wrath again ; the
mention of Josephine was like the poking of
the fire in a forge — it made the glare and heat
break forth iu spurts and sparks.

'Eichard,' said his mother, 'you cannot go
tomorrow.'

Go, I will,' he said, moving impatiently in
his bed. ' I have ordered Jacob Corye to get
me a waggon with trusses of straw ; and I will
lie on them, and the children can sit about me
and in the corners. I shall go mad if I stay

here, thinking every moment that I hear her
hand on the door, her foot on the stair, and
that next moment I should see her come into
my room. If she came — lame though I be, I
would leap out of the window to escape her.'

'Eichard!'

I cannot stay here. I must go to St.
Kerian to the house that belongs to us. That
at least will be my own home ; there I can be
master, and shut the door in her face, if she
dares to pursue me thither. Here I am in an
inn, and an inn-door is open to every one.'

Eichard,' said Bessie Cable gravely, ' are
you afraid of her ? '

He did not answer for a moment, but at
last lie said : ' I always was afraid of her, from
the moment I saw her when we were cast on
the sandbank.'

No, Eichard,' said Mrs. Cable suddenly ' it
is not true. You are not afraid of her. You
are afraid of sour own self. You love her still,
as much as ever ; and I say — she weill conquer
you — yet. I cannot see into the future ; God
knows how. Perhaps, as your father conquered
me, through weakness ; but the time
will come, as it came to me. She will conquer
you, in spite of all you set up between you, all
your turning away, all your anger and resentment
; she will conquer you — yet.'

CHAPTEE Xxxiii.

THE Diver.

My dear Josephine said Mrs. Sellwood, ' I
can't quite follow you. Why should 3'ou not
become a governess, if you really are bent on
earning your livelihood ? I cannot endure the
thought of you taking a menial position.'

Is not that of a governess menial ? '

Hardly so. At least, a lady can maintain
her . position as a governess ; but when she
becomes'' — she hesitated — 'something else, I
mean something lower, it makes all the difference
in the world.'

'But, dear Mrs. Sellwood, I want to step
down into that inferior class, to be able to see
with their eyes, hear with their ears, think with
their brains, and throb with their passions.'

'It is quite unnecessary,' said Mrs. Sell-wood.
' I can do that. You can do it without
any quixotism. With them, it is as with all
satellites — they reflect the light of their sun ;
that is, of the social sun, the lady of the house,

or the gentleman, round whom they move.
The butler always assimilates himself to the
manners and modes of thought and expression
of his master ; and the lady's maid to those of
her mistress. Of course, they never reach their
glory ; they are, so to speak, pitched in a lower
key. They repeat their superiors in an inferior
sphere. It is like the echo to the human voice.
The same words repeated, but a tone or a semitone,
and broken — reflected back. I have
known butlers who really might have been
mistaken for gentlemen, and ladies'-maids with
really very pretty manners.'

Josephine shook her head meditatively.
'Don't you think, Mrs. Sellwood, that the
similarity may be external only? I have
heard parrots speak like Christians ; indeed, 1
have been told by my father of one which
said : " Neo primogeniture ! Down with the
House of Lords ! Tichborne for ever ! " But
it had a parrot's mind, for all that '

Well,' said' the rector's wife, ' more than
half the people in the world have practical
minds, if I may so express myself; they merely
repeat what they hear, without attaching sense
to the words. It is exceptional to find a person
who thinks as well as speaks. Servants are
nothing but human parrots ; they repeat more
than the words ; they repeat the ideas, prejudices,

manners, even voices of their superiors,
in an exaggerated and somewhat grotesque
form. Why, half the words they use they do
not understand ; I mean those of Latin and
Greek origin — perambuhitor, afFidavit, telegraph,
bicycle, and so on.'

They understand what these words mean,
but not their derivation.'

We know both. The words convey more
to our minds than to theirs. Surely you can
imagine yourself ten degrees stupider than
you are, and you at once descend to the menial
mind.'

Josephine was still unsatisfied. ' I do not
know that,' she objected. 'I fancy we who
are cultured can no more understand the mind
of the uneducated, than a man can follow the
thread of ideas that traverses the brahe of a
horse.'

They have no threads of ideas — only
thread-ends which they pick up from us. We,
who are educated, have our ideas and our
reason ; and we work out problems, and
we throw down our thread-ends and conclusions
; and the uneducated take them up
and tangle them together into a ball in their
brains.'

I do not believe it, Mrs. Sellwood,' said
Josephine. ' Have you ever seen those mats

and rugs made by cottagers out of bits of
coloured cloth and list? They Aveave them
into some kind of pattern, but the main fabric
of the mat is strong hempen twine. This twine
is made into loops, and the i^ig-ends of coloured
cloth are slipped through the loops and gripped
and drawn together. These mats have wonderful
wear in them, because of the strength and
tenacity of the hempen substructure. I quite
allow that the lower order of men have not
broadcloth minds, have minds made up, as you
say, of scraps of culture cast aside by their
superiors ; but they do weave them into some
sort of pattern, and make them into serviceable
textures. What I want to learn is, what is the
substructure of hemp, what is the grasping,
assimilating, organising faculty in the minds of
the uneducated? I can never find that out
without going among them.'

You will not find it out if you do go
among them ; there is no such substructure as
you imagine.'

But, Mrs. Sell wood, how do you know ?
How can you know, never having been inside
the circle of the uneducated ? '

I can judge by wdiat I see,' answered the
old lady touchily. ' You are like those Australian
explorers dio went into the heart of the
island expecting to find mountains and lakes,

pastures, gold mines, and nearly perished in the
infinite monotony of desert they traversed.'

I am not going to make any discoveries ;
I do not anticipate finding a land flowing with
milk and honey, or hope to induce colonists
from the upper classes to come doAvn and camp
in it. I go because my husband belongs to
that rough and stony land, and I wish to inhabit
it with him, to share his privations and
pleasures.'

The rector's wife said nothing. She was
doing some woodwork, a group — Faith and
Boaz.

'Mrs. Sellwood,' said Josephine, 'I am not
sure that I shall not find an agreeable freedom
from formality in the life below the line. Are
we not all, wdao are above it, set to work our
lives out like that piece of wool embroidery on
which you are engaged ? We have to make our
stitches exactly according to pattern, and put in
exactly the regulated number, and the proper
tints. The result is extremely unsatisfactory
when the miserable piece of work is done. —
Do look at Boaz ! His eyes are square ; and
Ruth's face in profile has a nose resembling a
flight of steps. Because the social pattern set
before us requires us to make square eyes and
staircase noses, are we to do so servilely in defiance
of all the canons of art and truth ? '

The nature of the woodwork stitch will not
allow of any other arrangement. Allowance
is made for the exigencies of canvas.'

But why should wee go on making steppe
noses and square lustreless eyes, because the
canvas and stitch require it ? When you have
done your Boaz and Ruth, what is it? It is
not a picture — it is a caricature.'

It is a banner-screen, and will shelter many
a face from the fire, and perhaps recall me to
the thoughts of my grandchildren, when I am
dead and turned to dust.'

You have run off with the illustration away
from what we were discussing, and which this
embroidery was meant only to illustrate.'

I know perfectly what you mean, and I
am thinking of that. Suppose our lives are
formal, worked out patiently in little squares ;
first a stitch from right to left, and then another
from left to right ; now with wool of one tint,
then With wool of another — well, it makes a
complete whole. There is system in it ; there
is forethought. It is a work of great patience
and perseverance, and it will always tell that
tale to generations to come. But the lives you
speak of are not so systematised ; they are like
the needlework of one colour-blind — a jumble,
with no idea in the worker's mind how to make
a stitch, how to keep in line, to strain his wool.

to iiiatcli his shades. When, ho^Yeve^, the untaught
and undisciplined comes into service, is
brought into contact with the highly civilised
and educated and disciplined, then he or she
begins — involuntarily, may be — to copy what
is seen; just as the barbarians who invaded the
Empire copied the civilisation of Some. The
menial begins at once to sort the wools and to
practise stitches ; and the result is a copy —
sometimes a copy in ill-matched colours, and
with irregular lines — of the work of the master
or mistress. As far as it is a copy, it is interesting.
Where it is not — it is void of everything
attractive ; it repels.'

I am not convinced,' said Josephine. ' I
will tell you whether I am wrong and you
right, after I have made the experiment. — Mrs.
Sell wood, have you ever read " The Devil on
Taro Sticks ? " '

Good gracious, no ! It is not proper for
one to read.'

There is no harm in it. Asmodeus takes
the student through the air over Madrid, and
removes the roofs of all the houses, so that he
can see what goes on within : the story of life
in every house, in every room, is revealed to
him. Do you know I often think of that when
I am with people ? I consider what mysteries,
what romances, what workings are within these

VOL. II. E

little chambers, with the two eyes as windows ;
and I long infinitely for a devil to remove the
scalp and let me see what is within. Neither
you nor I, nor any member of our order,
knows in the least what is going on in the great
city of the commonalty below us. We want to
have the roofs lifted, that we may look in and
see the stirring in the brains, and then only
shall we understand the thoughts and prejudices,
the beliefs, the doubts, and the poetry of
Demos.'

And the commonplace,' added Mrs. Sell-wood.


I will tell you all, when I have seen,' exclaimed
Josephine vehemently. — 'Dear Mrs:
Sellwood, I have been brought in contact with
one — the best of men — belonging to that city
of mystery. He could not understand me, and
I could not understand him. It was as if I
belonged to the flying island Laputa, and he to
the country of the Houyhnhnms.'

My dear, you are referring to '* Gulliver's
Travels." '

Of course, Mrs. Sellwood.'

'But — ladies never read further than the
voyage to Lilliput.'

I believe they are supposed to limit themselves
to the infinitely little.'

Neither spoke for a few moments after this.

Mrs. Sell wood was ofFended. She, as well asher
husband, allowed, and always had allowed,
Josephine to speak freely before them. They
knew, or suspected, that the influences at home
were unsatisfactory ; and they had encouraged
frankness in her, that they might get to understand
her mind, and be able to give some direction
to lier thoughts, and exercise some check
on her inconsiderate impulses. But in permitting
this freedom, they had to endure the sharpness
of her tongue, which sometimes cut the old
people unpleasantly, drawn athwart old prejudices
and traditional principles.

Did you ever read Schiller's " Diver," Mrs.
Sellwood?' asked Josephine.

Yes, dear — long ago. I do not remember
much about it, except that a king threw a
goblet of gold into Charybdis, and sent down a
page after it.'

Exactly. And the page, when he came
up, was to tell the Sicilian king what he had
seen in the depths of the sea. This is what he
related :

Now the purple darkness of the deep

Lay under my feet like a precipice,
And though here the ear must in deafness sleep,

The eye could look down the sheer abyss,
And see how the depths of these waters dark
Are alive with the dragon, the snake, and the shark.

I am quoting an English version of the poem,

R 2

Mrs. Selhvood, and I daresay my German maybe
inexact :

In horrible consciousness there I stayed,
One soul with feeling and thought endued,

'Mid monsters, afar from earthly aid,
Alone in that ghastly solitude !

Far, far from the sound of a human tone,

In depths which the sea-snake hath called her own.

I am the diver. I am o'oinc^ down into the
mysterious depths where the whirlpool swirls,
and where, as Schiller says, " a new sea springs
from the old sea's breast." But I do not go
down because I like the abyss, or think it a
habitable place, or particularly desire to cultivate
the acquaintance of the dogfish, dragon,
and octopus, but to recover the golden chalice
of my husband's esteem.'

My dear Josephine,' answered the rector's
wife, ' if I remember the story aright, the page
recovered the goblet only because it lodged,
on a shelf above the abyss tenanted by these
monsters. The king cast in the goblet a
second time, and. then it fell into the uttermost
depth, and from thence the lad never
rose.'

It was so. And so, under water there is
the shelf, and below it the vast profound. My
husband does not belong to that region of
horrors. His golden heart has never sunk to

that. As there are stages in our flying island
Laputa, so are there shelves below the sea.'

Very well,' said Mrs. Sellwood. ' You go
down under water to the first terrace, and you
will find — you yourself admit it, no monsters
there — only respectables. I can tell you what
you will see — because the dredge brings them
up — winkles, cockles, and oysters.'

Josephine began with her sweet pure voice
to sing the Mermaid's song in Oberon —

wie wont es such scion auf der Flush,
"Wenn die miide Wellee im Schlummer rust !

Then, for the first time since Eichard had gone,
she laughed, not with her old bright, ringing
tones, but with a tinge of sadness, and said :
Oh, Mrs. Sellwood, I shall come up a mermaid,
belonging to both realms, that above, and that
below, understanding both, and at home in both.
What experiences I shall have gone through ! '
Mrs. Sellwood threw down her work and
put her arms round Josephine, drew her to her
bosom, and kissed her. ' You belong to a
different order of souls from me, dear child,'
she said. ' I am not heroic. I see that you
have generous and true impulses, and go your
own way. In that you differ from me and such
as me. I understand that, by an ingenious contrivance,
locomotives are constructed for use in

war-time wliicli lay down their own rails as they
go along — of comes, travelling very slowly, and
always running on rails of their own laying.
That is like me, and persons so constituted as I
am ; we always travel on rails — rails of our
own laying. You are not like that ; you make
furrows.'

'Yes,' said Josephine sorrowfully ; ' I tear
up the road, throw about stones, and wound
passers-by, and upset myself.'

As you are bent on this experiment — of
which I do not quite approve, it is so foreign
to anything that I should have considered proper
— I am resolved that you shall take a shelf
in very shallow water. You must allow me to
determine that for you. I have a sister. Miss
Otterbourne, who lives near Bath, a very kind
old lady, has her prejudices, as is usual with
old maids — good, wholesome, well-established
prejudices, that hurt no one. She has written
to me for a lady's maid. If that situation will
do, take it. You will have dived, but we hold
you by a hair.'

Josephine thanked Mrs. Sellwood.

Then the rector came in, and with his fresh
face a waft of cool bracing air. He squeezed
Josephine's hand and kissed his wife.

My dear Charlotte,' said he to the latter,
we old fogies have antiquated notions, routine

courses, that are insulted to extraordinary
emergencies. Josepliine has been right. Her
heart has told her from the beginning what was
to be done. — My child, I have seen him; I
have spoken with him I know all the circumstances.
I have had my finger on his pulse.
Josephine must come down to his level.'

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

ST. KERIAN.

The village of St. Kerian. in Cornwall, lies
about ten miles inland from the north-west
coast. It lies in a hollow, a valley down which
flows a little stream, that has its source in the
granite moors that form the backbone of the
long peninsula that constitutes the county of
the Cornu-British. Up the valley, clothing its
sides, where steep, are backwoods, copse for the
most part ; and above the copse rise the bald
moors, sprinkled with gorse, and in July, pink
with heather, and purple shot with heath.
The granite tower of the church peeps above
some old lime-trees that form an avenue to the
porch, and some Scotch firs that rise with flaky
boughs from the churchyard boundary. There
the rooks build and burden the velvety green
foiiaQ;e with their rousrh nests. The tower of
the church is square, with the pinnacles cut to
lean outwards, as the foliation of a crown — a
Cornish peculiarity. Near the churchyard,

communicating with it by a side door, is the
rectory garden, apparently one great pillow
of evergreens, laurel and rhododendron, and
myrtle and laurentius ; and out of this green
pillow appears the slate roof of the parsonage,
sunk so deep in the evergreens that only roof
and chimneys appear.

The cottages of St. Kerian are for the most
part of kneaded clay — locally called cob — the
warmest, snuij^est, driest material of which a
house can be built ; a material, which when
used as a garden wall, ripens peaches, grapes,
apricots on its warm surface. It sucks in the
sun's rays as a sponge, and gives out the heat
all night. Stand by a cob-wall after a bright
day, when white-frost is forming on the grass,
and you feel a warm exhalation streaming from
the dry clay. Fruit-trees must blossom when
nailed against it; and the blossom cannot do
other than set, and having set, must glow and
swell and mellow and flush with sweetness.
The flower-bed under the cob-wall is one that
is rampant, luxuriant, always beautiful. In the
winter months it is not bare ; it has Christmas
roses and aconites ; it is throwing up and opening
flowers at extraordinary times, and ripening
strawberries at periods when no one dreams of
strawberries.

A few houses are of stone, and the stonelike

the cob, is whitewashed. These houses
have slate roofs, and on the slate are orange
and white patches of Hchen ; and on very old
slate even masses of golden stonecrop. But the
most subdued slate never reaches the softness
and sweetness of tone of thatch — the thatch
that covers the cob cottages. That is brown
and furry and cosy. Verily, the cottage must
be princes and princesses to cover their houses
with sealskin !

One of the stone houses is the village inn,
with the sign of the ' Silver Bowl.' Why this
sign ? Because the legend told how Si. Kerian
had gone to sea in a basin of pure silver, and
in it had rowed over vast and trackless waters
till he reached the land of Paradise. And all
the time he was away, a wolf kept watch over
his wallet and psalter, that lay on the beach of
India.

St. Kerian was, truly, none other than the
man in the moon, and the moon was his coracle
of silver in which he traversed the dark-blue
heavenly seas. But of this the villagers knew
nothing. They dimly recollected the old Catholic
legend of the miraculous cruise of the patron
saint of the parish, and knew that the great
silver bowl on the sign-board over the inn referred
to the story.

Another stone house belouo^ed to the blacksmith,

George Penrose, a plain worthy man,
hard working in his foro-e and out of it : in it,
hammering and moulding iron ; out of it,
digging and growing vegetables in his garden ;
and especially fond of carnations.

Outside the village, a rifle-shot from the last
house that could claim to be in Avhat was locally
called the Church-town, stood a poor cottage,
built of cob, with a thatched roof. This cottage
was but one story high. You could have
touched the eaves when standing by it. The
door of the cottage opened on the road ; but
beside it, at one end, was a garden in the shape
of an extremely acute triangle ; one side was
hedged against the road, and the back was
hedged against the field. It was obvious at the
first glance that this was the cottage of a
squatter, who, in times past, when land was of
little value, had squatted on a bit of waste
ground beside the road, turned it into a garden,
and erected the cottage for himself. No one
had objected. If the lord of the manor had
been told of it, he had laughed and shrugged
his shoulders and asked no head-rent. No
attempt had been made to dispossess the squatter
; and as years passed and he had made no
acknowledgment to any man for his house and
bit of land, in time he became absolute proprietor
of cottage and triangular garden, with

as good a right to it, to hold, to devise, to sell,
as the best squire in the neighbourhood and the
most substantial yeoman in the parish had to
their lands. The cottage lead been dug out of
a pit at the vertex of the garden, where was
now a puddle, and a shivering white willow by
it ; and the triangle of ground had been reclaimed
from the roadside by old Jonathan, the
father of Zackie and of Bessie Cable's mother.
This was the estate — this, and seventy-eight
pounds five shillings and sentence — which fell
as an inheritance to Bessie Cable on the death
of her uncle ; and to this freehold estate Eichard
moved with his mother and little children, and
into it he settled; Bessie Cable being its sole
and undisputed, and, indeed, indisputable possessor.
Not another relative in Corn w^ all, nay,
in the wade world, had Uncle Zackie. I am
sorry to say it, but it is true, and must be said
the people of St. Kerian did not hail the
arrival of the Cables with enthusiasm, were by
no means inclined to show them much hospitality
St. Kerian's people were Cornish Kelts
to the ends of their fingers and toes, without
one drop of Saxon blood in their veins. They
were a people who shut themselves up in their
exclusiveness, as they were shut in by nature
by their moors. It might be true that Bessie
Cable was linked to the place by her mother ;

but her mother had chosen to desert the house
of her childhood and ' go foreign ; ' and. Mrs.
Cable was foreign born and bred ; she did not
even speak like a Cornish woman. All England,
even Devon, most of all the eastern counties,
was foreign to the Cornishman, foreign as 
and Alaska.

The St. Kerian's people did not come out to
meet and welcome the new landed proprietor
and his family who came into their midst ; they
looked on him with suspicion and jealousy.
Eichard. Cable, grown peculiarly sensitive and.
irritable, felt thus, and resented it. He would
have as little to do as was possible with the St.
Kerian's folk. Besides, he was disappointed.
The cottage and the land were much smaller
than he had expected. Omne ignotum pro
magnifico. He had imagined a roomy house,
with gardens and paddock, and perhaps some
out-buildings. He was woefully downcast when
he arrived at the hovel in the waggon on the
straw. The cottage was plainly furnished, and
in tolerable repair. It was obvious that a hard
time was before him. He was poor, though a
landed proprietor. His estate, like that of so
many squires in the present day, would not
maintain him. He would have to work, and
work hard, to feed the seven little maiden
mouths at home, as well as his own and his

mother's. Potatoes, as he knew by experience,
would go like wildfire ; bread would vanish as
moisture in the east wind. The three-cornered
garden would not grow cabbages and turnips
enough for all these little stomachs that demanded
of it food daily. Think ! Three hundred and
sixty-five days make up the year. Multiplied
by eight, that makes two thousand nine hundred
and twenty meals — only one per diem — to begot
out of that little garden ; and that, moreover,
without making any count of food for
Eicliard himself. But they must have supper
as Avell as dinner. For dinner, potatoes ; for
supper, kail ; so that in reality the demands on
the triangular patch reclaimed from the roadside
would amount — if the father was to eat
anything out of it except earth and stones — •
to six thousand five hundred and seventy
meals.

Ei chard Cable had always been a reserved
man. He was now more reserved than of old.
At Hanford, he had associated with his mates
without ever becoming what they would call
one of themselves.' At St. Kerian he associated
with no one. The Cornish people are
inveterate talkers. It is said that a loquacious
person can talk the hind-legs off a horse ; if soit
is a wonder that any legs remain on the horses
in the West. Everything is made to give way

to talk — the most pressing business, the most
urgent duties. Indeed, the most imperious call
of a Cornishman's nature is to talk. It is said
that in the navy the officers are shy of West-country
sailors, because they are such talkers.
The Cornish are a kindly people, who like their
neighbours to be ' free ' with them — that is, to
run into their houses at all hours for a talk and
allow them to reciprocate.

Dicky Cable went near none of the villagers
of St. Kerian, hardly spoke to them ; when he
did, it was on necessary matters. He let them
understand that he objected to have his kitchen,
invaded at all times, and to have his proceedings
scrutinised and canvassed. He was a busy
man. He had to work for seven little children,
and had not time to talk. With him, every
minute was precious ; it meant a patch on
Mary's shoe, threescore stitches in Martha's
stocking that he was knitting ; the shaping of a
wooden head to Bessie's doll ; a bit of tilling
of the garden that fed them all. Every idle
minute sows a weed, said Eichard.

The villagers, who grudged the invasion of
the parish by foreigners, were not conciliated
by Cable's manner ; they could not understand
that he had other crops to cultivate than good-fellowship.


Mrs. Cable also, in spite of her Cornish

blood, was no talker. Had she been a gossip,
all would have been well. When you come
across a Frenchman, in a railway carriage orin
a cafe, he tells you the history of this love,
the circumstances of his marriage, and the ages
and temperaments of his children ; and expects
similar confidences on your part. The Frenchman
has a pleasure in turning himself inside out
before you, like a glove. This is because he is
a Kelt, and craves for sympathy. The Cornish
are Kelts also, and they overflow with frankness,
and exact reciprocity in candour. The
St. Kerian people wanted to know the complete
history of the Cable family, and demanded it
as a redit. Bessie would tell nothing. The
mother of the children was dead — that was
enough for them to know. Of Eichard's second
marriage not a word was breathed ; no suspicion
of it entered a St. Kerian imagination, and the
Cornish imagination is no sterile faculty. Ascertain
soils will grow all kinds of plants
although nothing is sown in them, so with the
imaginative faculty : it will produce crops of
most varied weeds, growing where you could
swear not a seed of fact had been dropped.

The times were hard for Eichard. He had
recovered so as to walk about ; but he walked
lamely and could not go far. Work for which
he was suited was not easy to be got. Work

by means of which he could hive at ease was
not to be got at alL

The little patrimony that had come to
Bessie Cable melted away. The necessary
things to be bought, the doctor's bill, the bill
hit the ' Magpie,' the feeding and clothing of
the little ones — all ate into seventy-eight pounds
Rve shillings and sentence. Uncle Zackie had
but a single bed. Now, several were needed,
and they had to be purchased. One cup and
saucer, and a single plate, a gridiron and a
frying-pan, had sufficed for Uncle Zackie ; this
would not meet the requirements of nine
persons, and had to be supplemented.

Then, again, all the clothes of Eichard, his
mother, and his children had been ' salved ' in
the wreck, and where therefore lost to him. It
was necessary to buy fresh clothes. What had
been ' salved ' was past recovery.

Seven little girls ! Was not that enough to
break a poor man's heart ? Was it not selfish
and cruel of Polly to spread her wings and fly
to a better world and there enter into rest, and
leave him alone in this rough Avorld to battle
with hunger and cold — with seven little maidens
on his back ? No wonder that his back began
to bend ; no wonder that his flesh fell away,
and he looked thin and transparent ; no wonder
Ms clothes were so poor and patched. But his

VOL. II. s

seven little girls were plump and upright and
sturdy and neat. He stinted himself of everything
that they might lack nothing. It was a
desperate battle, and only strong love could
have nerved him to fioiit it. If Eichard Cable
could have gone to sea, he might have earned
something better than what he could pick up at
St. Kerian ; but he lead either taken a distaste
to the sea since his last voyage, or he could not
bring himself to leave his children any more.

He went about the parish to the farmers,
limping on his stiff leg, and asked for work.
Could he hedge ? He had never learned the
art, and let me tell the reader that hedging is
an art, an art which School Boards are killing ;
it is an art to be acquired in boyhood, and
there is hardly a young man nowadays who can
hedge. Did he know anything about cattle?
He had bad no experience, and not a farmer
would entrust his cattle to him, that he might
acquire experience on them. Could he plough ?
He had never tried ; and ploughing is not to be
acquired at any year after fifteen. A walking
postman was needed for five parishes, the pay
six-ands sixpence per week ; the distance to be
walked, fair weather or foul, twenty miles —
but then, Eichard was lame ; so he refused the
i^ix-and-six.

The parish authorities, the whole neighbourhood,

that is, all live parishes — took it ill
that he rejected the office of walking postman
so liberally offered him. That he was lame,
was his concern, not theirs. He rejected the
office because he was proud ; he was puffed up
with pride because he was a foreigner. What
could be expected of a man who had begotten
seven little girls and not a boy? Seven Housemaids
! What was to become of them if their
father died? They and their grandmother
would have to go to the workhouse ; and who
would have to pay for them there, for feeding,
for fattening of them, for clothing, and educating
them ? Who but the ratepayers ? Into
wonder that, with such a prospect, the ratepayers
looked on Eichard Cable with a resentful
eye.

He got work at last — work for the time
being — lie took it resentfully, surlily, Vvdth gall
in his heart — work on the roads.

Since Eichard had crossed the threshold,
not once had Josephine been named. One
might heave supposed that, as far as Eichard
was concerned, no such person existed.

Since he had entered that cottage, no allusion
had been made by him or his mother to
the fortune of Gabriel Gotham. They had but
to make their necessities known, and they
could have as much money as they needed.

But Eicliard would have died, his mother
would have died, one and other would have sat
silent, and watched the seven little girls die of
starvation rather than touch a penny of that
fortune. They were proud, were these Cables,
mother and son ; their pride was inflexible as
iron.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

A SPIKE IN THE Nest.

The mind of Mr. Cornellis was at ease. So
completely satisfied was he that nothing was to
be apprehended which could annoy him, that
he went to town ' on business,' as he told his
sister and daughter ; really that he might
amuse himself, and he remained away from
Han ford a fortnight.

When his affairs were in an unsatisfactory
condition, and he saw that only desperate
measures could avail, not to recover him, but
to stave off a complete break-up, he had begun
to draw towards his old associates and dupes.
His conversation had acquired a sanctimonious
savour, and the cut of his coat had something
clerical about it. He laid aside his rather
highly coloured ties, and adopted black. A
moustache he had been cultivating disappeared.
But when Josephine had acquired the fortune
of Gabriel Gotham, all necessity for picking up
the old threads of this former life passed away,

and he dropped once more the acquaintances,
and the formalities and restraints he had with
a bad grace reassumed under the cogency of
adverse circumstances. He was an exceedingly
shrewd man, as shrewd as he was unprincipled
; he knew the foibles, the follies, the
weaknesses of men ; but wdiat he did not
know, and made no allowance for, were the
noble and generous impulses of the heart. He
traced all action in life to springs — but these
springs where always mean and selfish ; consequently
he was occasionally foiled in his calculations.


He did not understand his daughter's
nature, because he was unable to understand
that she could be actuated by any motives
involving self-sacrifice. He respected her intelligence,
and he relied on her wdt saving her
from doing anything injurious to her prospects.
Her marriage with Cable had been a puzzle to
him ; but he supposed that it was due to an
unreasoning passion for a time blinding her
eyes to her interests. That she regretted lier
marriage, he had no doubt ; that she no longer
loved Eichard, he was aware, and he Alas consequently
well assured that she would take no
steps to bring about a reconciliation, and a
repetition of the ridiculous and disagreeable
incidents of the past month, which must follow

in the train of a reconciliation. As there are
two hemispheres in the brain, and we can
therefore simultaneously think of two matters
at once — as, for instance, wee can read aloud,
and be meditating at the same time on something
different, or we can converse with a
visitor, and whilst so doing take an estimate of
her dress, and note where the braid is off and
a glove is burst — so are there double, and even
more than double springs in every heart, and
none can tell at once which is in the ascendent.
There is always, and there always must be, an
element of uncertainty in the determinations,
and consequent actions, of every man, for this
reason. We cannot tell at once which of the
springs, even if we recognise their existence, is
the strongest, and what the correcting; and
controlling force of the other that is acting in
opposition. Indeed, it is not usual that anyone
of the springs asserts itself as a mainspring
till late on in life, and in no inconsiderable
number of persons none ever does so assert
itself

Mr. Cornellis regarded his fellow-men much
as billiard-balls ; he had only to Avalk round
the table, level his cue, rest the end between
his thumb and forefinger, and strike, calculating
to a nicety the angle at which the balls would
fly apart ; the canning and pocketing would

follow as a matter of course. All went by rule
of dynamics. And Mr. Cornellis would have
been right had all his balls been perfectly
round, and absolutely solid, and his table nicely
levelled. But these were elements in the game
that did not enter into his calculation.

It is said that the Englishman rushes into
war thoroughly despising his enemy, and that
this is the cause of the majority of the disasters
which mark the initiation of a campaign. Mr.
Cornellis shared the Englishman's contempt for
an enemy — that is, for every one With whom
he had dealings. He undervalued his powers ;
he disbelieved in moral force, and consequently
made no provision to counteract its effects.
Stupidity he could allow for ; and when he
encountered strong principle, he misjudged it,
and eschewed it as stupidity deeper than what
he had allowed.

Mr. Cornellis and the rector viewed the
world of men from opposed points. The latter
was surprised and troubled when he found that
other motives swayed men's conduct than truth
and honour and love ; and Mr. Cornellis Alas
perplexed and angry when he came across those
who were not either intensely stupid or wholly
self-seeking. Neither liked the other. Mr. Sell-wood
was forced to mistrust Cornellis ; but he
never could persuade himself that Josephine's

father was as devoid of principle as this clear
common-sense obliged him to suspect.

When Mr. Cornellis went to town ' on business,'
he gave no address where he might be
found ; he did not desire to be worried by his
sister's letters concerning the trivialities of Hanford
life ; consequently, his daughter was unable
to communicate her intention to him till he was
pleased to emerge from the seclusion in which
he had kept himself and shrouded his acts
whilst in town. When, after a visit to London
that lasted somewhat over a fortnight, and had
cost him a considerable sum of money, Mr.
Cornellis reappeared at Hanford, not much
fogged with his business, in a completely new
suit, in the latest fashion, from the best tailor,
and with a new diamond pin in his tie, he
was not in the smallest degree prepared for
the surprise his daughter had in store for
him.

Mr. Cornellis had never taken pains to gain
his daughter's affections ; he was aware that he
had not her esteem ; there was always present
between them an invisible barrier. When two
intellects are set in opposition, and the male and
elder is aware that the other is its match, there
ensues a sense of injury and aversion. It dreads
a contest, lest it should sustain a fall. Mr.
Cornellis had seen his daughter's mind and

character from under his eye with an independence
that annoyed him. He had not
moulded them — they had shaped themselves.
Where he had interfered, his interference had
brought about results the opposite to what he
designed. The chronic antagonism between
them had not broken out into civil war till
Josephine had declared her intention to her
father of taking Eichard as her husband. After
one savage passage-of- arms, a truce ensued ; the
father knew he had gone too far, and he used
all his arts to recover the lost ground. The
marriage of Josephine lead brought her closer
to him than she had been in her previous life.
She had been forced to acknowledge that he
was right in his opposition, and to submit to
his guidance. He had acquired an ascendency
that satisfied him, and he rashly supposed that
this ascendency was final and secure. Mr.
Cornellis had written to announce his return,
and to order the carriage to meet him at the
station. He was surprised to see Josepliine on
the platform ready to receive him, when he
arrived from town by the train he had mentioned.
This was an attention he had not
anticipated. She was dressed very quietly in
her blue serge, and with a close straw bonnet
trimmed with navy-blue ribbons.

Wliy — Josephine,' said he, taking her arm

as he stepped out of the carriage, ' what new
fad is this — dressing like a superior domestic?'

'I am glad you have arrived as appointed,'
said she, without answering his question. ' Had
you come by a later train, I might have
missed you. I am going off by the next up-train.'


'Indeed? Whither?'

'Will you come with me into the ladies'
waiting-room — there is no one there — or walk
with me on the platform, whilst I tell you what
I have to say ? '

Well — be sharp. I want to get home, and
cannot detain the horses.*

They walked together out of the station
along the platform, where there was no one to
overhear their conversation.

You are looking well, papa. I hope you
have enjoyed your visit to town ? '

I have been steeped to the ears in business,'
he replied. ' I got into Letter's occasionally,
and had something really good to eat, neither
over-salted nor under-spiced. When I am a
little out of sorts, I run in there and have a
bowl of bisque. It sets my stomach right when
nothing else does — light and nourishing. I am
fond of Letter's, quiet — and good wines. The
waiter there knows me, and is attentive.'

Papa, I am going.'

So 3'0ii have told nie ; but I have not been
informed whither.'

I am going into Somersetshire — near Bath.'

'What for?'

Lie hesitated. She was a bi ave girl, but
she shrank from the scene that must occur.
The rector, aware that the interview would be
unpleasant, had volunteered to relieve Josephine
of the duty of telling her father what had been
determined and done. But she had declined
his offer, and had resolved — it must be admitted,
with a spice of craft — to break the intelligence
to her father almost in public and a minute
before she departed. After that quarrel with
him which had driven her desperate and made
her plunge into the sea, she shrank from a
private interview ; and she knew that if he
were told what she had decided on whilst she
remained at Hanford, the house would be insupportable.
Whatever he might say, he could
not alter her mind. His absence had enabled
her to dispose of everything, undisturbed ; and
now all that remained to be done was to inform
him of arrangements already completed ; and
as soon as this was done and she were away,
the better for both.

For the life of me,' said Mr. Cornellis, ' I
cannot see wdiy that precious idiot of a cook of
ours should never make bisque to my fancy.

No great difficulty in pounding prawns, I should
have thought. — By the way, Josephine — artichoke
soup with crushed almonds is worth
living for.'

Papa, I have something very important to
tell you. — Never mind about soups now. I am
afraid' — with a touch of her old self — 'I am
going to salt and flavour your soup not at all to
your taste.'

Go on with what you have to say ; I
am impatient to be on my way in the carriage.'


My train will start in five minutes. I
have my ticket, and my boxes are labelled.
But I have only five minutes in which to tell
you something that will surprise and, I fear,
annoy you greatly.'

Upon my word,' said Mr. Cornellis,
irritably, ' you have the knack of making one
uncomfortable. You treat me as the boys
treat the plovers. When they have found a
nest on the downs, they drive a spiked stick
into the ground at the bottom, so that the
poor bird cannot sit on her eggs comfortably,
and she goes on laying till she has heaped her
eggs over the spike, so as to make her seat
tolerable. What new stake have you been
driving into my home? My whole time and
energies are taken up with covering the

prickles and goads 3^011 fabricate for my torment.'


You have been from home, papa, so it
has not been possible for me to consult you
since the rector returned from Cornwall.'

What did he find there ? '

The yacht was wrecked ; but Eichard and
the children and his mother are saved ; the
other poor fellows are lost.'

Things might have been managed better,'
growled Mr. Cornellis.

Poor Eichard has injured this thigh, and is
likely to be lamed for life.'

If he be tied by the leg to the Cornish
rocks, so much the better. Are you going as
the eagle to tear the entrails of your Prometheus
? '

'Papa, I have been considering about Cousin
Gabriel's legacy. You let me accept it; you
let me marry Eichard without telling me who
Eichard was. I have learned that now; and
I knov\^ that Cousin Gabriel performed an act
of gross injustice in not recognising his son
and leaving; his estate to him.'

That was Gotham's concern.'

'I have inherited what ought to belong to
Eichard. I have considered the situation, and
I have resolved not to take the legacy.'

You have taken it.'

I am going to — no, to be correct — I have
already — sur rendered it.'

I do not understand you.'

I have no right to the estate. When the
rector went to Cornwall, I told him to offer it
to Eichard. You know, papa, that Cousin
Gabriel left everything in trust till I married,
and that at marriage I became sole possessor,
with entire liberty to do what I liked with the
property. I was so sure, vrhen I came to consider
matters, that Cousin Gabriel meant the
estate to pass to his son, through me, that I
could in conscience do no other than transfer it
to Eicliard. I have striven to do what is
right, and I have made the transfer.'

You do not mean ' Mr. Cornellis

could not finish the sentence ; he had turned
the colour of a Jerusalem artichoke.

I do indeed mean what I say, papa. I
have been with the lawyer, and Mr. Sellwood
has helped me, and it is all done. The difficulty
we have had to contend with is, that Eichard
absolutely refuses to accept what I offer. I did
]iot think myself justified in retaining any
share, and I wanted to make over every penny
unreservedly to Eichard ; but Mr. Sellwood
and the solicitor have advised me otherwise,
and I have retained an annuity of two hundred
and fifty pounds for my separate use as long as

I live. But, papa, I had already made up
my mind to touch nothing of Cousin Gotham's
money — so long as I do not share it with
Eicliard, I mean — till I can receive it from
him. So I will not have this annuity for my
own self; I give it to you. You shall enjoy
that ; and, unless Eichard objects, which is
not likely, you can live at the Hall '

On two hundred and fifty ! '

Of course the place must be kept up, and
the maintenance of the house and estate will
be paid out of the estate. I do not see why
you . should not continue to live at the Hall ;
you will have the two hundred and fifty in
addition to jour own private income, and have
the house and garden rent free.'

He turned his face towards her and opened
his mouth to speak. The face was livid and
quivering with evil passion. Every veil of
disguise had fallen ; the ugly villainy of the
man's soul glared at her out of his eyes. She
shuddered. He looked, with his mouth open,
as if he could have flown at her and bitten
her. He could not speak ; he was too greatly
agitated to utter a word.

Shall we turn back towards the station ? '
continued Josephine. ' I see it is time for me
to be getting into my carriage. I have not
much more to say. If I have forgotten anything,

Mr. Sellwood will supply the deficiency,
Eichard is angry with me, and he has cause to
be angry. I shall never rest till he forgives me
and takes me to his heart again. I have been
unworthy of him. I was not well advised ;
but my own heart was rebellious. I have been
proud, and now I am going into the world to
learn humility. Papa, Mr. Sellwood will explain
to you the course I have elected. I have
told Aunt Judith ; but she cannot understand.
I intend to earn my own livelihood, and earn
Eichard's respect. There — the bell is ringing ;
1 really must be off. I have taken a third-class
ticket. Let my arm go, papa. Say goodbye
; we shall not meet again for some time.
If I have been unlike a daughter to you and
failed in love — I ask your pardon. I fear — I
fear that I have driven a spike into the nest
that wounds you.'

That impales me,' groaned Mr. Cornellis.

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE XL.

THE FIRST SHELF.

Miss Otterbourne lived in a handsome old
square Queen Anne mansion near Bath. It
was built of Bath stone, with rusticated quoins
to the angles, with pillars to the grand entrance.
A stiff, stately house, with large park-like
grounds and beautiful terraced gardens.
The house, Bewdley Manor, was about four
miles from the station ; and when Josephine
arrived, a private omnibus was in waiting to
receive her and her boxes. The coachman
was in half livery, the boy out of it. They
had come to fetch a servant, so they wore
as little of the bads^e of servitude as mio^ht
bo, just as the officers of Her Majesty throw
off their uniform the moment they are off
parade.

Be you the young lady as is coming to
our place ? ' asked the boy, addressing Josephine.


If you will explain to me what your place

is,' answered Josephine, ' I may perhaps be
able to answer your question.'

Miss Otterbourne is our old lady,' said the
boy. ' You take a hold of that end of the box,
and we'll give it a hoist and heave it up on the
roof. Look' here; stand on the axle, and
you'll get it up.'

I will Gall the porter to help you,' observed
Josephine coldly.

As you like, young woman ; but mind
you — you tip him if he comes and helps.'

Josephine considered a moment ; then,
without summoning the porter, stepped on the
axle, and assisted in lifting her box upon the
roof of the omnibus. If she tipped the porter,
it would be with Eichard's money. She had
come to Bewdley to be a servant ; she must
begin to work at once.

When she sat by herself in the conveyance
with her small parcels, she began to realise for
the first time the complete change in her circumstances.
In the train she had thought of
her father, of Hanford, of Aunt Judith, of the
Ellwood, with a tenderness and melting of
the heart which ever and anon filled her eyes.
She had spent a happy youth at dear Hanford,
following her own whims, going out in her
boat as she liked, playing on her piano when
she liked, amusing herself in the garden or in

T 2

the house, undirected, uncontrolled by any one.
Now, she was about to pass into a position
where she would not be able to call her time
her own, where she might follow her own
desires in nothing. At Hanford, she had been
surrounded with friends — the kind, good Sell-woods
; Lady Brentwood ; old Sir John ; her
affectionate but stupid aunt. Every one knew
her there. Now, she was entering the society
of total strangers. If she were about to associate
with strangers of her own station, it Avould
have been less disquieting ; but she was plunging
into a social stratum which was to her as
strange as the persons composing it, who were
about to become her daily companions.

It was already evening and dusk as she
entered the private omnibus at the station ; and
she was tired with her journey by train, and
with the strain on her mind through which she
had passed. Through the square windows of
the carriage she saw dimly the meadows, the
high hedges, the trees, the cottages, where the
lamps were being lighted. She heard the coachman
and the boy salute and cast jokes at passing
labourers. She saw and heard all, and
without taking notice of anything. What she
saw and heard mixed with what passed in her
head, and formed a conglomerate of conflicting
and new experiences and ideas, that left her

bewildered and frightened. Presently, the coachman
shouted and drew up ; then, through the
windows, Josephine saw a lodge, and a girl
came out and threw apart the iron gates into a
park. In another moment the carriage passed
through, and the wheels rolled over the smooth
drive to the house. Josephine saw that the
grounds were extensive, wide lawns over which
white mist was settling, out of which rose grand
clumps of beech and elm, and here and there a
solitary cedar. Then the omnibus turned out
of the main drive, and in another moment was
rattling over the pavement of the court behind
the house. The carriage stopped. The boy
came to the door and opened it.

Here you are, miss,' he said. ' Step upon
the axle and help me down with your box ;
unless you'd like to get on the roof yourself
and pass it down to me.'

I am afraid I shall not be strong enough
to support it. Cannot a groom or some other
man help ? '

'Oh, I don't know. I reckon if you want
anything done here, you must do it yourself.
Every one here is so frightfully engaged over
his own work, and it is no one's place to help
another.' However, the boy condescended to
shout, and a footman came to the kitchen door.
'The young lady wants to be helped with her

box,' said the boy ; whereupon the footman
came leisurely across the yard and took a
good survey of Josephine, especially of her
face.

Come,' said he graciously, ' as you're so
good-looking, I don't mind helping you. A
little wanting in style, perhaps. I am Mr.
Polkinghorn, and you are Miss — Miss '

Cable is my name,' answered Josephine
curtly.

No particular objection to alter it, I
repose ? ' said the footman, who laughed at
his joke. ' But it takes two to effect that —
don't it, miss?' And he lavished ao-ain. 'You'll
excuse my sportiveness, miss,' said he, taking
the box on his shoulder as the boy let it down
from the roof of the carriage ; ' I'm generally
considered a wit.'

When the box was on the oTound, he
dusted his shoulders and arms, and asked :
'And pray, what sort of people were you with
last ? Any style about 'em ? People of rank
and position and fortune P '

'This is my first place,' answered Josephine.

You don't mean to say so ! How on
earth did our old woman come to take you,
miss ? Oh, I remember — you was recommended
by the Ellwood. I knew them—
not exactly intimately, but off" and on ; they

come here to stay with our party. You see,
they are relatives ; and the capon will inherit
our little place after the old bird hops.'

Hops ? ' repeated Josephine, not understanding
him.

Ay — kicks.'

'Kicks? I don't understand.'

Hops the twig, kicks the bucket. How
dull you are ! I fear your education has
been neglected. I observe there is something
countrified and gawky about you. Don't
be uneasy; we'll put you to rights soon. Now,
my dear, take this handle, and Charley shall
hold the other, and we'll soon have the box
into the kitchen. You'll excuse me lending
a hand — a weight on the muscles of my arm
makes them shake, and I have to be very
particular that the" are not unsteady. I have
to carry the glass and plate, and the candles.
I wouldn't spill the wax on the carpet not
for works. So you know old Sellwood, do
you ? A worthy old chap. Pity he's a parson
; he ought to be squire. I know his elder
brother, and don't think much of him. There's
not the true ring about him, that I like to
find in the British aristocracy. The grand
old English gentleman — you know the sono-the
young man will inherit this property,
you know — it's a tidy estate. One can live on

it without any of your dirty, sneaking, underhand
pinching. Look here, pretty ! Don't
encourage no familiarities on the part of Mr.
Vickary, the butler. He and I differ in politics.
He's an out-and-out Radical, and it is
asserted he has got a wife stowed away somewhere.
You can always fall back on me, if he
makes advances. My name is Mr. Polling
There is a village in the west of
England that takes its name from our family.
Cable is your name, is it.^ Father ckmisy
work tying a true-lover's knot in a cable.
You'll excuse my fun, dear ; I'm always considered
a wag.'

Josephine's face was dark with indignation
and with heat, when she reached the kitchen.
Mr. Polkinghorn had made her carry one side
of the box, whilst he walked behind advising
steadiness, as she and the stable-boy ascended
the steps to the kitchen, carrying the box.

At the door, Mr. PoJkinghorn .gave Josephine
an aside : ' Mind you give yourself
no airs, miss. Airs ain't tolerated in our little
place. It's the one thing wee can't swallow.
Airs are, so to speak, fatal.'

He stepped nimbly over the box into the
middle of the kitchen, and addressed a portly
woman there, wearing an apron, and a flaming
red face : ' Mrs. Purvis, allow me to introduce

Miss Cable to you — a young lady introduced tous
by our mutual friends the Ellwood. She
solicits your kind patronage. This, Miss Cable,
is our artist, Mrs. Purvis ; ' aside, behind his
hand, ' Cook.'

Then to a maid-servant : ' Miss Woods,
permit me — Miss Cable, Miss Woods. Where
is Miss Eaffles ? Oh, attending to duties upstairs
; very well. Sorry not to be able to
introduce you to Miss Eaffles. She is drawing
the blinds, I presume. But here is our sprightly
Miss Wagstaff, a host in herself. Miss Wagstaff,
Miss Cable ; Miss Cable, Miss Wagstaff.' Then,
aside, ' Scullery-maid.'

What is the meanings of this ? ' asked Mrs.
Purvis, without noticing Josephine. ' Is my
kitchen a back hall, is it a lumber-room ?
What have you dared for to bring a box inhere
for, and — preserve us, a cage with a bird
in it ? Is this an aviary and zoological garden ?
Take 'em all away at once. Mr. Polkinghorn,
Charley, what do you means Take 'em away
instantly into the back hall. I'm not going to
have my kitchen made into a rummage, not for
any Cables or Tables or what you may call
'em.'

It's the curry,' whispered Mr. Polkinghorn
to Josephine. 'When there's anything for
dinner requiring cayenne, or chilli, or anything

spicy aucl hot — it gets into her temper. She'll
be right enough when she's slept it off. Come
along. I'll show you the way with the box
into the back halL Charley ! help the lady.
Miss Woods, is it asking too much of you that
you should step up to Mrs. Grundy and inform
her of the arrival of the lady recommended tous
by the Ellwood ? ' Then aside, ' Housekeeper,
Grundy is.'

Halloa ! ' exclaimed the butler, stepping
in, a man with white head, red blotched face,
and yellow, watery eyes — a man with, a sour
and dogged look. ' Our new arrival. Humph !
Had a long journey. You shall have a glass
of cherry brandy with your supper.'

He approves of you,' whispered Mr. Polk-inkhorn,
' or he would not have offered cherry
brandy. Beware ! He don't offer mistress's
cherry brandy to everyone. Miss Eaffles has
never wetted her lips to it, I believe. Mr.
Vickary doesn't like her. Her nose is badly
shaped.'

Josephine was taken to the housekeeper's
room. Mrs. Grundy gave orders for her box
to be taken upstairs, and who was to do it ?
Without orders, no one did anything ; and with
orders, did extra work sfrumblinc^.

CO

Josephine was shown her room by the
second housemaid, Jane. She would not have

a room to herself ; she must share that of Jane
that is, of Miss Eaffles. The room was at
the top of the house ; it was lighted through a
small window, concealed from sight without
by a stone parapet. The window, therefore,
looked upon a blank wall three feet off. Nota
ray of sun could penetrate the room ; all
the light it received was reflected from this
parapet, that was covered with mildew and
lichen. In Queen Anne's time, mansions were
erected with strict adherence to proportion ;
and if servants' rooms were needed, they were
crowded into the roof and hidden from sight.
The tall windows belonged to state-rooms and
the dwelling-rooms of the gentry. Those who
ministered to their wants where stowed away in
out-of-the-way corners, lighted through passages,
from staircases, by panes of glass let into
the roof. Anything vas good enough for
them.

You see,' said Miss Eaffles, ' the window is
nailed up. That's Mrs. Grundy's doings. The
servants' windows all look out on the leads, the
gutter that runs round the parapet, and they
could get in and out and run round and pay
each other visits just as they liked — and there
was some goings on, I can tell you. So Mrs.
Grundy had the carpenter up, and he screwed
up all the windows that they don't open anymore.

Lor' bless you, it don't Matter so far as
air goes ; we are at the top of the louise, and
that ought to be the airiest.'

Josephine seated herself on her bed and
leaned her head in her hand. This was the
hardest trial of all — not to have a room to herself
If she could have been given the smallest
garret chamber, in which she could at times be
alone, it would have been endurable ; but she
felt that this was more than she could bear, to
have no privacy day or night.

I hope,' said Miss Eaffles, ' you'll get on
with our mistress. Lie ain't bad if you get the
right side of her. But, mind you, keep en
terms with Mr. Yickary, the butler ; he well-nigh
rules the mistress. She thinks him the
most dutiful and faithful and excellent man.
She takes his advice on everything ; and if he
don't like -a servant, it ain't long that servant
remains in the house. I don't think much of
Mr. Vickary myself. Tliey say he has two or
three wives, and has them still stowed away in
different parts of the country unbeknown to
each other. Mr. Vickary is that deep in the
mistress's confidence that she lets him manage
her money matters for her — leastways, in
household expenses. Hark ! There's the bell
ringing for us. Mrs. Grundy has a wire to the
top of the house, and calls us, if we go up just

now and then to lie down and read a novel.
She thinks now we've been too long ; or perhaps
the mistress wants to see you. We won't
go down at once. Let them wait. You haven't
unpacked your box yet, nor I seen what you
have got, I say, have you a photograph of
your young man ? Drat it ! there's the bell
again. I suppose it is missus, so we must go
down ; or — I say — if you give me your key, I
will unpack your box for you.'

Josephine went slowly downstairs without
answering the loquacious Jane. Her heart
sank within her. Would she be able to endure
this association with chattering, empty-headed
housemaids, conceited and pert footmen, and a
tyrannous, unprincipled butlers Mrs. Grundy
struck her as a formal, dull woman whose
chief ambition was to stand well with her
mistress and retain her place. If Isle. Vickary
lorded it in the house Mrs. Grundy would shut
one eye to his misdeeds. »

Josephine had taken off her wedding rino-
when she left Hanford. She carried it huno-
round her neck by a small silk ribbon. It
would not do for her to wear it. The slight of
the ring would provoke questions which it
would be difficult for her to answer.

The housekeeper was at the foot of the
backstairs. ' Miss Otterbourne desires to see

the new lady's-maid. — You have no need to
-wear a cap. A lady's-maid is not required to
have one. Follow me, Miss Cable.'

Mrs. Grundy led Josephine out through a
side-door upon the main staircase. The backstairs
were exceedingly tortuous and steep, so
tortuous and steep that it was difficult to
descend them quickly without a fall. The
grand staircase occupied a well in the middle
of the house ; the flight was broad, the steps
deep, the rise slight. The steps were carpeted
with rich pile purple and crimson and maroon.

Miss Otterbourne sat in the great drawing-room,
a lofty and very stately room, that at
first glance reminded Josephine of the parlour
at Brentwood. It had in the centre a glass
chandelier, encased in yellow gauze, which
looked like a gigantic silkworm's cocoon suspended
from the ceiling. Large and handsome
oil-paintings covered the walls. The furniture
was gilt ; curtains and chairs and sofa-covers
were of crimson satin.

At the end of the room was a fireplace with
a wood-fire burning cheerfully in it, and near
the fire, at a small table, on which was a lamp,
sat a very little lady, with white hair done into
barrel-curls about her brow ; dressed in slate-gray
rich silk, and wearing a Barge handsome
shawl over her shoulders.

Grundy,' said Miss Otterbourne, ' may I
trouble you to ring the bell for William? I
want another log putting on the fire, and the
pieces of half-burnt wood heaping together
with the tongs.'

Certainly, miss,' answered the housekeeper,
and rang the bell.

Oh,' said Miss Otterbourne, ' is this the
young person recommended to me by my
sister ? ' She put on her glasses and looked at
Josephine. The room was so vast, the light
from the lamp so slight, that she could not see
much of Josephine. ' Oh — you look rather
young and inexperienced. But of course my
sister — that is, Mrs. Sellwood — knows. I rely
on her. I hope you will conduct yourself
satisfactorily. — Oh, William, another log, please.
I believe there are some still in the wood-basket.
— Mrs. Grundy, you will see that this
young person has refreshment. She need not
enter on her duties till tomorrow. She is
probably tired with her journey from Hanford.
I have never been to Hanford myself. I do
not care to leave Bewdley, as the vibration of
a railway upsets me. — Dear me ! Grundy, will
you touch the bell again? I want to tell
William to make quite sure the fire is out
before he goes to bed. I suppose, Grundy, the
horses can hardly be taken out so as to give

me a drive tomorrow ? they have been to the
station to-day for this young person. — That will
do, Grundy. — I hope you will conduct yourself
well, Cable. My servants are tried and trusty.
You can always refer in all matters to Mrs.
Grundy or to Mr. Vickary ; they know my
tastes and opinions.'

When the housekeeper left the room with
Josephine, she signed to her to attend her in
the little parlour which she occupied herself.

'You may sit here,' she said graciously,
for a while. I will talk to you, and you can
listen. I will tell you what you have to do. —
Miss Otterbourne is a very kind mistress, if
you conduct yourself properly ; that is, if you
satisfy Mr. Vickary and me. Miss Otterbourne
has the greatest regard for my opinion and for
that of Mr. Vickary. Stow, mind, you never
complain to me of anything Mr. Vickary says
or does ; nor of anything that goes on in the
kitchen, about broken meat or so on ; nor about
the dairy. The dairymaid manages that and it
is no concern of yours. You are lady's-maid,
and it is no concern of yours what goes on outside
your department. All that is my affair
and Mr. Vickary 's. Live and let live, say I. —
Now, mind, you don't try to disturb the mistress's
confidence in Mr. Vickary or me ; for if
you do, it will be so much the worse for you.

You will very likely have to leave without a
character.'

Josephine's head was sinking on her bosom ;
a feeling as if she had been struck on the head
and stunned deprived ]her of the power of
speech.

'A lady's-maid,' pursued Mrs. Grundy,
has a place so near her mistress's ear that she
can make herself very unpleasant, or the reverse,
to her fellow-servants. — Now, please to
remember that all will go pleasant if you don't
say anything but good to the mistress about
Mr. Vickary and me. If, however, you attempt
any insinuating and countermining, it will
be yourself as will suffer. You understand
that ? '

May I have a post-card, Mrs. Grundy? '

Certainly, if you have a halfpenny to pay
for it. What do you want it for ? '

I promised to send a line to — to Mrs. Sell-wood,
when I reached this place.'

The housekeeper produced the card, and
indicated ink and a pen.

Then Josephine took the pen, dipped it,
wrote the address dreamily, turned the card,
and on the other side inscribed these words
only:

Yes — winkles, cockles, oysters. — J. C

VOL. n. u

CHAPTER XLI.

SEVEN RED WINDOWS.

A CURIOUS sight it was to see Cable breaking
stones on an early summer day, with his children
about him, sitting on the heap, playing in
the road, crouching into the hedge, and at
noon clustering around him whilst he divided
among them the cold potato-pasty that constituted
the family dinner. But it was on
Saturday only that this little conclave assembled,
when there was no school. On all
other days the elder children were learning
their letters and the art of sewing in the
National School. The winter had passed
hardly for Eichard' Cable, and for his mother,
who had become infirm with age and trouble.
She did not complain ; but her face was paler
and more sharp in feature, her movements were
less rapid, her hair had become grayer. A
tree ill bears transplantation, and Bessie had
been uprooted from a comfortable home, from
associations sad, painful, and yet cherished as

associations, and carried away to a strange
corner of Britain, where she was subjected to
hardships to which she was unaccustomed.
The work Eichard got was not such as to bring
in much pay, and it ^v-as not work for an able-bodied
man. Sometimes he sat on the side of
the road against the hedge and broke stones
with a long hammer ; at others he hobbled
about the road scraping it and cleaning the
water table. He got very wet over his work,
and then rheumatism made itself felt in his
weak thigh.

One consideration troubled Richard Cable
night and day, and the trouble grew as the
children ordered. How could the cottage be
made to accommodate them all when they
were grown up ? How could his scanty earnings
be made to sustain the whole family when
the children were young women, and exacted
more of him ? Would he be constrained to
send his daughters into service ? The notion
galled him. He racked his brains to discover
what situations would be suitable for them,
and how they could be guarded from harm
when in them away from their grandmother's
watchful eye and his protecting arm. He
could not endure the thought of his darlings
separated from himself and from one another,
dispersed among farmhouses, surrounded by

TJ 2

coarse associates, hearing loose talk, seeing
unbecoming sights. He dreamed of his Mary
or his Martha or Effie in such associations, and
woke, flinging his arms about, crying out, leap-ins
from his bed, to throttle those who thus
offended his little ones.

As he sat breaking stones, sometimes the
mica in the stones glittered in the sun ; he
wondered whether he should chance on a
nugget of gold or a thread of silver, and so
make his fortune. But such an idea, when it
rose, embittered him the more. No ; there
was no chance of his finding gold thus ; for
that he must go to California, and that he
could not do, because he might not leave his
helpless children. Silver ! If he lit on a vein,
what would it profit him ? Others would enter
in and quarry the precious metal ; the mining
captain, the men, the lord of the manor, the
shareholders, would reap the silver ; not a coin
minted out of it would come to his pocket who
discovered the lode.

All at once Richard Cable left the parish
church of St. Kerian and attended the Wesleyan
meeting-house. What was his reason ? It was
no other than this. The rector had a large
family, growing up ; they sat in a pew near the
beautiful old carved and gilt oak screen ; and
Cable could not endure to see them there on

Sunday, and to listen to the voice of a pastor
who was able to retain his eldest daughter,
aged twenty-three, in the parsonage ; also his
second, aged twenty ; and his third, aged
eighteen. Why should the rector be thus
privileged, and he himself be without the means
of making a home for his children when they
were grown up ? The ways of Providence were
not equal. He gave up going to chapel after
a few months, because he was at war with
Providence, after which the chapel was named.
He beat the stones to pieces with a vindictive
hate, as though he were breaking up the social
order and reducing all men to one size and ruggedness.
The farmer who was principal shareholder
and mainstay of Providence Chapel had
built himself a new house. Why should hebe
capable of adding three new rooms to his
dwelling, and he, Dicky Cable, be unable to
enlarge his cob cottage without encroaching on
his garden ?

Then his mind turned back to Hanford. He
thought of the Hall that might have been his,
had Gabriel Gotham behaved rightly to his
mother. He knew that house well now, and
he took a grim pleasure in considering how he
would have disposed of the rooms for the
accommodation of his dears. The little Eose
Pioom, that would have done for the twins ;

and Mary, sweet Mary, should have had the
Hie Eoom looking out on the terrace, with the
widow over the door. The Yellow Eoom
would have gone to his mother and baby
Bessie. Lettice and Susie could have revelled
in the Lavender Eoom, so called because it
always smelt of lavender. How happy the
children would have been there ! How sweet
would have been the sound of their voices as
they played among the bushes of laburnum and
syringa ! The idea was enticing ; ]put Eichard
never for a moment regretted having refused
the offer made him.

His brief life in the Hall had left an indelible
mark on him other than that which has been
mentioned. In spite of himself, he had been
forced to contrast the habits of the cultured with
those of the class to which he belonged ; and
his clear good sense showed him that there
were vulgarities and roughnesses that might
be sloughed away with advantage; that there
where merits as well as demerits in civilisation.
Involuntarily, his mind was caught by these
points, and hung on them, and he began to
correct in himself little uncouthnesses, and to
insist on attention to these matters in his
children. In Bessie Cable there had ever been
a refinement and grace of manner above her
position, due to her early association wdtli

Gabriel and the rest of the Gotham family ;
but Eichard had not regarded this or sought
to acquire it. No^v^ he appreciated it, and
was painfully anxious that his children should
acquire it. Indeed, with them there was no
difficulty ; they had instinctive delicacy and
refinement. They had the look of little ladies,
with their transparent skins, fine bones, and
graceful shapes.

'You're swelling out of your clothes,' said
Farmer Tregurtlia one day as he came on
Eichard sittings on the bench at his cottage
door, looking at his children.

What do you mean ? ' asked Cable.

So proud,' answered Tregurtha laughing —
'proud wi' contemplating them seven little mites.'

And I've a cause,' said Eichard, holding up
his head.

He could not get over his difficulty about
housing the little girls as they grew older. He
could not raise the roof and add a storey, as the
clay walls would not bear the superstructure ;
and to add to the cottage laterally was to sob
his garden.

One night, after Cable had been fuming in
mind over this trouble all day, he had a remarkable
dream. From his bedroom he could look
through a tiny window away to a green sloping
hillside, which had its head clothed with dense

oak coppice. He had often looked out at this
hill and thought nothing of the prospect. This
night, however, he dreamed that, as he lay in
bed, he was gazing through the window, and
although it was night, he saw the whole of that
slope and the wood, and the granite tors and
the moor clothed in heather and gorse behind
it, bathed in glorious sunlight. But what was
new and remarkable in the landscape was that
on the slope, where now lay a grass field, standing
with its back to the coppice stood Hanford
Hall. There was no mistaking the house, with
its white walls, and windows painted Indian-red,
and the great door opening on to the
terrace. There it stood, with its flight of stone
steps down the slope in three stages. Moreover,
he saw himself standing in the doorway,
and one of his children's heads peeping out of
each window. There was Mary looking from
the Blue Eoom, and Effie from the Eose Eoom,
and Susan from the Lavender Eoom, and Martha
from the Yellow Eoom. Only he could not
make out whether little Bessie were there, and
from which window her dear innocent little
face, with its look of pain ever on it, was
visible. The house had an air of comfort about
it, and a freshness, such as Hanford Hall lacked.
It had lawn and flower-garden before it, and

gravelled walks ; and a summer-bouse whereat
Hanford stood the wind strew, a summerhouse
with a conical roof and a gilt ball at the
top. This was the only completely novel feature
in the scene. He knew the St. Kerian
landscape. He knew the front of the house at
Hanford, and of course his children's faces were
familiar to him. Why, then, was a perfectly
new feature introduced, and how was it that
such a jumble of disconnected objects and
scenery should occur to him ?

When Eichard awoke, the dream had made
such an impression on his mind that he Alas
unable to shake it off. Only one point puzzled
him — the arrangement of the windows. How
were they set in front of the house so that
there should be seven windows ? If he had
two on the right, and two above, also two on
the left and two above, and one over the door,
that would make nine. If he had four on one
side and two on the other, and one above the
door, that indeed would be seven ; but the
house would be lopsided. He tried to recall
how the windows were at Hanford, and was
unable to recollect. All day he puzzled over
the problem. As he went through the village,
he met the mason.

Mr. Spry,' said he, ' how could I build a

house on Summeiieaze with seven red windows
in the front and a door ? '

Siimmerleaze ! ' exclaimed the mason.
Why, sure, that belongs to Farmer Tregurtha.
You're surely not a-going to build there ? '

Never mind about that,' said Cable hastily.
All I ask is, how can I have seven red windows
in the front of a house with a door to go
in at ? '

You about to build ? ' exclaimed Spry.
Wonders will never cease ! Where is the
money to come from ? Show me that, and I'll
consider the question how to build with it.'

I want to know how there could be seven
red windows in the front of a house as Apelles
a door, and the front of the house not look
crooked and queer.'

What be the good of puzzling over that,
when the land ain't your, nor the money itself
wherewith to build ? ' Then he pushed on his
way, and left Cable unanswered.

That same day Cable was seated by the
roadside. He had broken his pasty into eight
pieces ; but little Lettice had cried for more,
and he had given her his portion, contenting
himself with the crumbs. He was hungry and
irritable, teased with his dream, and angry at
the mason for the contemptuous way in which
he had left him with his problem unsolved. All

at once he heard a voice above him, and looking
up, saw Farmer Tregurtha standing in his
field behind the hedge, gazing down on him
and on the little shining heads on which the
sun was blazing.

'Halloo! Dick,' shouted the farmer, 'what
is the meaning of this I hear ? Spry has been
talking all over the village that you are about
to buy my land of me, whether I want to sell or
no. I did not know you were flush of money and
Ravished to extend your acres ! ' Tregurtha had
dined ; he was in a jovial mood. Cable was
empty, and an empty stomach makes a bitter
soul.

'I'll tell' what,' said the farmer; 'your
little ones will come to a workhouse sooner
than to a mansion on Summerleaze.'

Then Cable beo^an to tremble. With difficulty
he rose to his feet, and looked hard at the
face of Tregurtha — a red, good-natured, rough
face. He looked beyond, and saw the green
meadow that readied up to the oak coppice,
and beyond the coppice rose the heathy moor
to the granite tors. Then his eyes fell, and he
saw his seven little girls looking up at him,
wondering, not understanding what Alas going
on — six pairs of blue eyes, only those of Bessie
brown like her mother's. Spots of red came
on his temple, and sparks danced in his eyes.

With an effort he controlled himself, and
reseated himself at the stone-heap. He was
trembling. He was in no mood now to speak
with his children. 'Eun home,' he said to
them. ' Mary, take them away ; I must return
to my work.'

Then Mary held out her hand to Bessie,
who could just toddle, and Effie held Bessie by
the other hand. Martha took the hand of Effie
that was disengaged, and Lettice the free hand of
Martha, and Jane that of Susie ; and so the seven
little creatures walked away, casting seven little
shadows on the white road ; and Richard Cable
looked after them, and when they had turned a
corner, covered his face and wept like a woman.
When he came home in the evening, he was
whistling a tune, to let the little ones suppose
that he was in good spirits. He turned out a
caldron of boiled turnips and Essex dough-nuts
into seven little soup-plates, and seven little
stools were set at the table. Cable sat by the
fire with his dish on his knees and a spoon in
his hand, eating a mouthful, and then watching
the children ; but all the while his mind was on
the house with seven red windows.

When they had finished their supper, Mrs.
Cable undressed and washed the children ; and
Eichard took them one after the other on his
knee and combed their hair and kissed their

cherry lips, and made them all kneel together
round him and fold their hands and close their
eyes and say ' Our Father.' But his heart was
not with them when they prayed ; it was sealed.
When they had finished ' Amen,' he carried
each in his arms, clinging to his neck, and put
them one by one to bed. Little Bessie would
not go to sleep that night unless he sat by her
and let her hold his hand. He submitted, and
watched the closing eyes of the child.

When all the seven were breathing softly
in sleep, Cable mended some shoes and knitted
some stockings, and carpentered at a broken
stool. Then he went up to his bedroom. The
moon was shining through the window. He
opened it, and leaning on the sill, looked out.
The moon floated like a silver bowl on the
indigo-blue heaven sea. Here was the very
bowl in which St. Kerian had rowed to the
earthly Paradise ; there, dusky, in it was discernible
the form of the rowing saint. Below
lay the village, bathed in pearly light. The
granite church tower, with its pinnacles turned
outwards, glittered against the bank of black
yews between it and the parsonage. The only
other light was that from the forge, red, palpitating.
Why was the smith working so late ?
Ah ! he could earn money, a good deal of
money, by hammering and turning his iron after

usual louis I'lit iDucli was not to be got out of
breaking stones for the road.

Eichard Cable wiped the perspiration from
his brow. A great struggle was going on in
his breast. There was money, abundance of
money to be had for the asldng, money that, lie
was told, was now lying idle and accumulating.
Should he put out his hand and accept some of
it ? He would not be obliged to communicate
with Josephine, only with the Hanford lawyer.
What was before him if he remained at St.
Kerian ? Only privations and cares, the parting
with his children. His soul was full of sores ;
and this day a rough hand had brushed over
the quivering nerves, and brought the sweat of
agony to his brow, and the tears of humiliation
over his cheeks. But for all that, he could not
resolve to touch the money offered him. It
would be a condoning of the wrongs offered by
Gabriel Gotham to his mother, and of those
offered him by Josephine.

It must be somehow, but not that way,' he
said. ' I weill have the house, like Hanford
Hall, of my own building, with the seven red
Windows, as in my dream. I will think of
nothing now but how I may come at it.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

SjwftisHOOile <(• Co. Pointe /■■■<, Xetr-^tnet S'/>i(tre, Loiulnx.

THE GAVEROCKS. 3 vols, crown 8vo. •

Marked by the vigour of style, the freshness of invention, and the dramatic power
which have gained this talented writer his reputation.' — The Scotsman.

A tale of vivid and well-sustained interest.' — The Guardian.

The story is one of deep human interest, while the intensity of its local colouring
enhances its intrinsic merit.' — The Morning Post.

Fep. 8vo. Pictorial Boards. 2s. each.
INIEHALAH : a Story of the Salt Marshes.

Full of indication of more than ordinary talent, and one of the most promising works
fiction that the present season has produced.' — The Athenaeum.

The book is one of the most powerful that has, so far as we know, appeared for many
years. It will remind many readers of Emily Bronte's wonderful story, " Wuthering
Heights," and indeed in some respects it is even more powerful.' — The Scotsman.

The book is full of sm.irt epigrammatic writing, and has also a good deal of humour.
The strange vyild poetry of the locality is well brought out, and the characters are well
sustained. The book is by no means a commonplace one, and will suggest as well as
amuse.' — The Queen.

"Mehalah" is far above the ordinary level of novels. The writer possesses strength,
and strength is one of the rarest qualities in modern fiction.' — Daily News.

A bit of real romance : original, violent, powerful, novel both in place and circumstance,
and peculiarly impressive.' — Truth.

JOHN HERRING: aWestof England Romance.

'Among most novels of the day "John Herring" is a very considerable work indeed,
and both deserves and will receive proportionate attention'— Pall Mall Gazette.

'Far, very far, above the level of ordinary novels.' — Academy

A powerful and interesting novel. The English is admirable ; there is great freshness
and vigour in the descriptions of scenery and character, and in the narrative there

is abundance of invention, and many of the situations are extremely dramatic But

the most original, and, perhaps, the most successful part of the book, is that which deals

with the Dartmoor savages, Joyce Cobbledick and her father How Joyce is

reclaimed through her affections, and old Cobbledick still further degraded by contact
with the " beer and baccy" side of civilisation, is told in a manner which of itself ought
to mark out "John Herring" as a book of unusual originality and power.' — The Times.

COURT ROYAL.

'' Court Royal ' ' Is among the few novels of our time that deserve, and will probably
obtain, life beyond its day. Intellect, knowledge, fancy, and humour have gone to its
making, and thought besides'— The Graphic.

'The story holds the reader under a .spell which is unbroken from first to last'—
Morning Post.

It is difficult to say which is the most striking feature of this remarkable and welcome
novel— the quaint humour, the consummate power, or the freshness.' — Vanity Fair.

It is a book endowed with the quality of real vitality ; unlike most of the novels of
the day, it will not be merely read and forgotten.' — The Scotsmen.

'There are a great many clever thugs in it, and one scene in particular so remarkably
good that it can be compared only to some of the best bits of Moliere. The plot, moreover
is very ably constructed and the incidents are ably managed. '-the Guardian. '

London: SMITH, ELDER, ^\: CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Works by the Author of 'MOLLY Sawn,' 'GREEN PLEASURE
^ AND GREY GRIEF,' &c. &c.

In Pictorial Covers, fcp. %vo. 2s.; or, in limp red cloth, fcp. %vo. 2s. dd. each.

PHYLLIS : a Novel.

'A clever and interesting novel ; the author possesses refinement and humour.'

Spectator.
'Very pleasant writing. " Phyllis" is eminently a readable book.' — Queen.

MOLLY Sawn.

Really an attractive novel, idealising human life without departing from the truth,
and depicting the love of a tender, feminine, yet high-spirited girl in a most touching
manner. Full of wit, spirit, and gaiety, the book contains, nevertheless, touches of the
most exquisite pathos ; and the insight into the human heart shows the author has studied
the subject closely and well. There is plenty of fun and humour, which never degenerate
into vulgarity. We advise all to order " Molly Bawn " from the circulating library. All
women will envy and all men will fall in love with her. Higher praise we surely cannot
give.' — Athenaeum.

*AIRY FAIRY LILIAN.'

'Readers of "Phyllis" and "Molly Bawn" will hear with much pleasure of disappearance
of a new story by the same author, "Airy Fairy Lilian,' a delightful story,
cast in the same mould as its predecessors. The characters are cleverly drawn, the
dialogue is terse and pointed.' — Court Journal.

MRS. GEOFFREY.

" Mrs. Geoffrey " is a most delightful work, and ought to be very popular.'

Court Journal.
'A prettier or more readable story than " Mrs. Geoffrey" nobody need wish to meet
with'— Scotsman.

ROSSMOYNE.

Monica Beresford is a very pretty example of Irish naivete dissociated from shillelaghs
; and there is true humour in the conception of Kit, her sister.' — Academy.

DORIS.

"Doris " is a clever story of a marriage of convenience The dialogue is good ;

that of "Dicky Browne," a kind of licensed jester, being really bright and lively. The
heroine is well drawn, and so is a terrible aunt of hers, whose encounters with the
Marquise (himself a clever portrait) are diverting'— Academy.

GREEN PLEASURE AND GREY GRIEF.

'green Pleasure and Grey Grief" is what many of its readers will be inclined to
call a sweetly pretty story's'— Athen.i=:um.

PORTIA.

"Portia, or by Passions Rocked," is of the category of novels to which may fairly
be applied the epithet of " charming." 'morning Post.

BEAUTY'S DAUGHTERS.

'Another triumph for an authoress who st 11 prefers to remain unknown. Of the
success of the story there can hardly be any doubt.' — Court Journal.

One of the most delightful novels of the present season.' — Whitehall Review.

FAITH AND UNFAITH.

'A singularly bright, vivacious, readable story.' — Illustrated London News.

" Faith and Unfaith" is distinctly superior to three-fourths of the fiction published.
The incidents are of a most painfully exciting kind, and the narrative is bright
and lively throughout'— Academy.

LADY Grasmere.

The plot is capital, and the details are so cleverly and gradually worked out that the
real denouement is never suspected. . . . The book is sufficiently sensational to suit the
most ardent admirers of fiction, and vet contains much that is worthy of admiration. We
feel sure that all libraries will do well to secure such a well-written novel.'

Court Journal.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

8:2.3

B2,38r
v-3

VOL. III.

THE LIGHTSHIPMAN

BY THE AUTHOR OF

^MEHALAH' 'JOHN Herein ' 'COURT ROYAL

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. m.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights /'esei'ved]

CONTENTS

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAP-lei!

XLII. A GOLDEN PLUM .

XLIII. A LOW LOT

XLIV. A ROLLING STONE .

XLV. MISS Otterburn .

XLVI. A CHUM

XLVII. DISMISSAL

XLVIII. A REPETITION

XLIX. A DROPPED ' S ' .

L. BOOTS AGAIN .

LI. ISHTAR

LII. THE SECOND SHELF

LIII. RED WINDOWS AGAIN .

LIV. ' NO FOOL LIKE AN OLD FOOL

LV. TO THE GALLOPERS

LVI. A LAST TRIAL

LVII. THE FOUNDATION

LVIII. Piny-LED

LIX. AGAIN : JACOB'S LADDER

LX. TWICE MARRIED

'AGE























CHAPTEE XLII.

A GOLDEN PLUM.

soothing is more simple. Fortune sits on a
cloud and lets down golden plums suspended
by a hair into this nether world of ours. Those
of us who are wide-awake and on the look-out
for plums, the moment we see the golden drop
descend, dash past our neighbours, kick their
shins to make them step aside, tread them down
if they obstruct our course, jostle them apart,
and before they have pulled their hands out of
their pockets and rubbed their eyes or their
bruised shins, and have asked all round, Where
is the plum ? we have it in our mouths, have
sucked it, and spit the stone out at their feet.

No sooner is one golden plum snatched and
carried off, than Fortune, with a good-humoured
smile, attaches another to her thread, and lets

VOL. III. B

it down through the clear air into our midst.
AVhat a busy, swarming world ours is, and all
the millions that run about are looking for the
plums in the wrong places. It is said that the
safest place in a thunder-storm is a spot where
lightning has already fallen, because it is ten
thousand chances to one against the electric
bolt descending in the same place again. With
Fortune's plums we may be sure that the un-likeliest
corner in which to come across one is
that where a plum has already been let down.
]^o man dien he fishes whips the stream precisely
where he whipped last. But this is what
few ■ consider. The moment one of us has
caught and bolted a plum, there is a rush to
the spot, and even a scramble for the stone we
have thrown away — and see ! all the while
behind the backs of the scramblers a golden
fruit is dangling, and Fortune shakes her sides
with laughter to observe the swarm tossing and
heading at the sucked stone, whilst a single
knowing one quietly comes up and takes her
newly offered plum. The eyes of all the rest
are turned in the opposite direction till the
opportunity is lost.

In this chapter I am going to relate how
Eichard Cable caught sight of and got hold of
one of Fortune's golden plums ; not, indeed, a
very large one, but one large enough to satisfy

his requirements. It came about in the simplest
way, and it came about also in the way least
expected.

HuUooh ! '

Whilst Cable was breaking stones on the
roadside, Jacob Corye stood before him. He
had not seen the host of the ' Magpie ' since lie
had left his roof, nearly a year ago. Since his
departure, Eichard had occasionally spoken to
his mother about Corye, and had told her that
the sufferings he had undergone from the
weariful talk of the landlord had almost
equalled those he endured from his injured
thigh. Now that he heard the saw-like voice
of Jacob, he looked up and answered ungraciously.
He was ill-pleased to renew acquaintance
with the man, and be subjected again to
his tedious prosing about the rearing and raising
and fattening of young stock. Yet that
moment was a critical one ; on it hung Eichard's
fortune. Jacob himself had caught a glimpse
of the golden plum, and with rare generosity,
or rather with by no means singular stupidity,
was about to put it into Eichard Cable's mouth,
and Eichard was like a child offered a rare
fruit, that bites cautiously, and turns the piece
about in the mouth, considering its flavour, and
then, at once, having satisfied itself that the
quality is excellent, takes the plum at a gulp.

B 2

Hullooli ! ' said Jacob Corye, standing
before Ei chard, with his hands in his pockets
and his legs wide apart, with a pipe in his
mouth, and speaking with difficulty and indistinctly
because of the pipe, which he was too
lazy to remove. ' How be you a-getting on in
the world, eh ? I needn't ask that, capon, when
I sees you come down to stone-knocking for a
living.'

If you see that, why do you ask ? ' inquired
Cable irritably.

Jacob continued, imperturbably : ' I reckon
you're a bit disappointed with your house.
The garden ain't much for the raising and
fattening of seven little maids.'

Eichard did not answer. He frowned and
continued hammering.

'I reckon you're pretty well on wi' the
stone-breaking,' said Corye. ' That'll you be
on to next ? '

Whatever turns up,' replied Cable curtly.

That's just it,' the host of the ' Magpie '
said ; ' and I've come here to look you up and
make you an offer. I've been a-troubling and
a-courting my head ever since I came to
think at all, about the rearing and the raising
of young stock, and how to get rid of the
readers' profits. I don't mean to get rid of
'em either ; I mean to get the profits for myself

and do without the readers. Well, capon,
I've figured it out on a bit' paper. I couldn't
get my ideas into order no other way. Doy'
look here. There's manganese in St. Kerian,
ain't there ? '

Yes,' answered Cable. ' You can see that
for yourself.'

So I have. I seed the washing-floors, and
the water running red as ridden [ferruginous
water] away from them. There be three or
four washing-floors, ain't there ? '

Yes. You can count them if you are
curious ; I am not.'

Oh, I've nothing to do wi' manganese,'
continued Jacob, ' more than this — that my
meaning is, just as the manganese has to be
washed in this tank, and then in thick [that
one], and every time it is washed you get rid of
the rummage and get more o' the metal, so is
it with ideas. I've got an idea or two in my
head, and I've been a-stirring and a-scouring of
it over and over for years ; but I can't get rid
o' the rummage ; there must be another floor
on which to give it a second wash before we
get at the pure metal. So my meaning is, I
want you to take into consideration what I've
a- said about the raisins and rearing and fattening
of young stock, and give it a second washin
your brain ; and then, I reckon, something'll

come of it. It be them darned readers as
has to be got rid of — washed out of the cattle,
so to speak.'

'Go on,' said Eichard. He knew his man
that there woukl be no getting rid of him
till he had talked himself out.

Doy' look here,' continued Jacob, leisurely
taking one hand out of his pocket, tapping the
ashes from his pipe, replacing his pipe between
his hips, in the corner of his mouth, and then
his hand in his pocket. 'When one of the
quarriers or masons goes on to the tors after
granite, it ain't every piece as will serve his
purpose. He may spend a day over what
seems a fifty [fitting] piece ; and then may
discover, when he's half cut it, that it's biddy
[liable to split], or so full of foreteeth [spar]
that he can make nothing out of it, and all his
labour is thrown away. Now, I want you to
lay hold of my idea, and turn it out with a
crowbar from where it lies in the bog — that is,
my head — and split it up and see whether it is
biddy or horsetoothy, or whether there's good
stuff in it for use. I can't do it myself; I've
not had the education. I can show you a score
of ideas bogged in my brains ; but I can't tell
you whether they're workable and saleable.
Now, I ax you to do that ; and I'll send you a
kilderkin of " Magpie " ale for your trouble, if

you can find what is usable in my ideas ; and,
for a beginning, the rearing, and the raising,
and the fattening of young cattle.'

I should have supposed that was the only
idea in the bog you call your intellect.'

There, you're wrong,' said Corye, by no
means affronted. ' It is the most remarkable
and conspicuous idea, that's all. My mind is
like Caravan Moor. If you go over it, you seethe
Long Man, a great old ancient stone about
twenty feet high, standing upright, that they
tell was an idol in the times of the Romans
[that is, Eoman Catholics]. When you go over
the moor, you can see nought but the Long-man
; but blow you ! toy' suppose there be no
more granite there than thick great stone ?
If it were took away, you'd find scores on
scores of pieces lying about, more than half
covered wi' peat and furze and heather.'

Go on, then, with your Long Man.'

I'm a-going along as quick as I can ; but
I can't go faster. I've the pipe in my mouth.'

Jacob smoked leisurely for some minutes,
contemplating Cable, who worked on without
regarding him.

It's all very well saying '• Go on," Vvdien
one has an idea, but it ain't possible. If I
hadn't an idea I could gallop. It is just the
same With the miller's donkey ; when the boys

get a sack of flour over the donkey's back, the
donkey goes at a walk and cautiously. What
toy' mean by hollering " Go on ! " to him
then ? He can't gallop his donkey, because of
the sack o' flour across it. So is it with me.
I must go along quietly and cautiously, at a
footpace, because I've got this idea over the
back of my intellect ; if there were none there,
I'd go on at a gallop.'

Then go on at your own pace,' said Cable,
and don't zigzag.'

Eichard sat breaking the stones and listening
at first inattentively to the prosing of the
host of the ' Magpie ; ' but little by little his
interest was aroused, and when it was, then he
forgot his work. The breaking of the stones
became less vigorous, till at last Eichard sat
looking dreamily before him with the haft of
the hammer in his hands and the head resting
on a stone. He no more rose the hammer over
the stones that day, but hobbled home in a
brown study. The thoughts of Jacob Corye,
when washed on the floor of his brain, proved
to be sterling metal ; or, to take another of the
landlord's similes, the Long Man of his boggy
mind when chipped by Cable's tool proved to
be sound stone.

I need not give my readers the turbid talk
of Jacob for them to wash, but will let them

have the scheme of the innkeeper after it had
been sifted and arranged by Cable.

St. Kerian lies eleven miles from Launceston,
which is its nearest town. Thither the farmers
have to drive their bullocks and sheep for sale.
It is even worse for those near the coast ; they
have to send them some fifteen or twenty
miles. At Launceston market the cattle are
sold to jobbers, who drive them along the great
highroad called Old Street — ancient, no doubt,
in Eoman times — to Exeter, a distance of
thirty-eight or forty miles, where they are
resold to dealers from Somersetshire, Gloucestershire,
and even Berkshire. Of late years the
South Western line has run to Plymouth by
Exeter and Okehampton, so that cattle have
been trucked at Bedford, Brimstone, or Okehampton.
Quite recently, in 1886, the Southwestern
has carried a line into Launceston ;
but at the time of which I write, the line had
not come nearer than Exeter, thirty-eight miles
from Launceston, and fifty from St. Kerian, and
some sixty from the coast.

Now, Jacob Corye had picked up scraps of
information from the coastguard, some of whom
came from Gloucestershire and Somersetshire.
From them he learned that the farming done
there was dairv-farmini?. Butter and cheese
were made and sold at Bath, Bristol, and in

London. The land was good, the pastures
ricci : no stock was raised there — it did not
pay to raise stock, or it did not pay so well as
dairy-farming. Along the north coast of Cornwall
the land was poor, and exposed to the
western sea-gales. Only in the bottoms of the
valleys was good pasture and rich alluvial soil.
There was a great deal of white clay about,
lying in bars from east to west on the hillsides,
sometimes filling the valley bottoms ; and
where that was, nothing vv^ould grow but scant
grass and rushes, and sheep put on it were
certain to rot. This land did well euouodi for
young stock, and was worth from five to ten
shillings an acre ; but it was fit for nothing
else. Corye considered that when the farmers
sold their cattle at Launceston, the jobbers
who drove them to Okehampton or to Exeter
and resold them made a tidy profit ; so did the
dealers who bought them at Okehampton or
Exeter and trucked them on into Somerset, or
Gloucester, or Berks. There were at least
two profits made out of the bullocks and heifers
before they reached their ultimate destination.

Then, again, the dairy-farmers, after that
their cows had calved, wanted to i^et rid of the
calves ; it did not pays them to rear them on
their dairy-land. On the other hand, the North
Cornish farmers could not get calves enough to

rear on their poor land. When it came to
fattening the young stock, they could not do it ;
they had not good pasturage for that ; therefore,
they were forced to sell, and sell cheap. In
precisely the same manner, the farmers in the
dairy counties sold their calves cheap. The
bullocks they did not want at all, and the
heifers they wanted after they were grown into
cows, but not before. So sometimes calves
from Somerset travelled down into Cornwall,
and travelled back again, after a lapse of a
couple of years, into Somerset ; and as they
went down, they passed through two or three
dealers' hands, leaving coin in their several
palms ; and as they went up, they passed
through the same hands, and again left coin in
their several palms.

Now Corye saw this confusedly. He had
tried his utmost to clear the matter by using
a stump of a pencil and a bit of paper, but had
only succeeded in further bewildering himself.
Cable saw his way at once. There flashed on
his eyes the gold of the plum, and he pnt out
his hand for it. He did not take long to consider.
He at once offered Corye to drive his
stock to Exeter, to truck them there, and go up
country with them, and dispose of them in
Somersetshire or Gloucestershire. By this means
he would save the profits of at least two ir.ter-

diaries. He proposed that one of these
profits should go to Corye, the other to himself.
Jacob Corye was to provide Infra with a cob on
which to ride, and was to advance Lin a small
sum sufficient for the maintenance of his children
during his absence. Whatever Corye advanced
to him, he was to deduct from Cable's share of
the profits on his return. The scheme was so
simple and practicable that the host of the
Magpie ' closed with the offer at once. It
was a relief to him to find that his ideas were
being put into practical shape. This pleased
him more than the prospect of making money.

You see,' said he, shaking hands again and
again with Cable, 'I've ideas, but they're
bogged.'

Do more,' said Eichard, ' than send your
own stock ; buy of your neighbours, that I
may have a large drove. The larger the drove,
so long as it is manageable, the more the money
that will come in.'

Doy' look here,' said Jacob. ' I'm a liberal
man wi' them as deals liberal wi' me. I'll
keep all your little maids on "Magpie" ale
as long as you're away, and no charge. I said
a kilderkin, I say two.'

Thank you,' answered Eichard. ' The
little girls drink only water and milk.'

Cable finished the work he had to do for

I

the Avaywardens on the road ; he said nothing
to anyone in St. Kerian, except his mother,
about his projected journey; but he went over
to the ' Magpie ' once before starting, to concert
plans, and see a coastguardman who came
out of Somersetshire, and who, Corye thought,
might be of use to him. The man was anxious
to send a message home, and with the message
some Cornish crystals set in bog oak as a brooch
for his sister, who kept an inn near Bath ; also
some specimens of peacock copper, and spar
with tin ore in it, and mundi. These samples
of the riches of Cornwall would interest the
Somersetshire folk of his native village of
Bewdley. Cable took the names of some of the
farmers about the place, and promised to lodge
at the inn and give the specimens and the brooch.

My sister,' said the coastguardman, 'has a
lot o' little chiltern

Very well,' said Eichard. ' I'm certain to
put up with her. What is her inn ? '

The " Otterbourne Arms." It belongs to
an old lady who is squires of the place, called
Otterbourne.'

Eichard received his instructions from Jacob ;
they were confused and unintelligible. He
almost offended him and brought the agreement
to a condition of rupture by declining
Magpie ' beer.

I've a notion of taking the pledge he
said.

'More's the reason you should drink now,
afore you does argued Corye.

The night before his departure, Eichard
Cable could not sleep. He saw that the golden
plum was let down within his reach, and he
lead this hand on it. There remained to him
only to bite into the rich fruit. But in this
case, as in all other in this world, every good
thing brings with it something bad — there is
no gain without loss. If he were about to
rise from want to plenty, he must consent to
be much parted from his children. What this
meant to him, few can understand. We all
have our interests, our friends, our studies, and
although we love our children, they do not
engross our whole thoughts, occupy our hearts
to the exclusion of everything else. With
Eichard Cable it was otherwise. He had no
friends, no acquaintances, no pursuits, no interests
apart from his children. He lived for
nothing else, he thought of nothing else. He
worked for nothing else ; he loved nothing
else, except his mother. The wrench to him
was almost unendurable. He had given up
the thought of going to sea after his accident,
because he could not bear to be parted from
them ; and now he only left them because he

had resolved to make his dream come true,
and in no other way that he could see was that
dream to be realised.

Eichard kept a little lamp alight all the
night before he left home, because he left his
bed every hour to look at one after another
of the seven little sleeping heads, and to
wonder which he could best spare, should it
please that sullen Providence, which so ill-used
him, to take one away whilst he was absent.
He found that he could not part with dearest
Mary, so thoughtful and forbearing with others,
so full of love and kindness to the younger ones
so like a little mother to them, though she
was only fourteen years old ; nor with Effie, so
sprightly, With her twinkling e^^es. and that
dimple in her ever-laughing cheek ; nor With
Jane, who clung to Efhe, being her twin-sister,
and who must go if EiRe went ; nor with
Martha, who had such endearing, coaxing
ways ; nor with Lettice, with a voice like a
lark, so shrill, yet withal so clear and sweet ;
nor with Susie the pickle, who already knew
her letters, and could say BA — Ba, and one
and two makes three ; no — she said BA spells
sheep, and one and two makes four; no, not
with Bessie the baby, Bessie, idiom after all
it would be best that God should take. — No,
no, no — ten thousand times no !

CHAPTER XLIII.

A LOW LOT.

When the morning broke, Eichard Cable did
not dare to kiss the white brows or the rosy-cheeks
of his sleeping children ; but he took
little locks of their shining hair between his
fingers and put his lips to them, and dropped
over each alike a clear tear-drop, and then
went away before the seven pairs of bright
eyes opened, and the little voices began to
chirp and laugh and chatter.

Eichard Cable drove his herd of young
cattle all the way from St. Kerian to Exeter,
some fifty miles. There he trucked them on
the Bristol and Exeter line, and travelled with
them into Somersetshire, where he disposed of
til em to such advantage that he was well content.
But he would not return with only
money in his pocket. He had a van constructed,
very light, on four wheels, for his
cob, and he thought as many calves, a week or
ten days old, as he could convey in this van.

He made Beadle this headquarters, and
stayed at the ' Otterburn Arms,' where was
the landlady, Mrs. Stokes, the sister of the
coastguardman at Pentargon. To lier he remitted
the spar, and the mundi, and the
brooch of bog-oak with Cornish crystals in it.
She was a. tidy, red-cheeked woman, with
many children.

Cable was a temperate man. He remembered
that terrible night when he let little
Bessie fall. He never got that experience out
of his mind ; consequently, he was on his guard
against the temptations of a cattle-jobber's life
the sealing of every bargain with a drink.
So he drank cold toast and water when he
could, but he had taken no pledge. ' What's
the good of a pledge to me ? ' he asked himself.
I've only to think of Bessie's back, and if I
had the best spirits in the world before me,
I would not touch it.'

Have you any relatives this way ? ' asked
Mrs. Stokes one Saturday evening. ' There's a
young woman of your name at the Hall, a
lady's-maid to Miss Otterbourne.'

I have no relatives,' answered Eichard,
but the seven and my mother who are under
my roof at St. Kerian, in Cornwall.'

'Tis a curious and outlandish sort of a
name, too,' said Mrs. Stokes. ' I mean, it ain't

VOL. III. c

a name one expects to come across twice in a
lifetime.'

Eichard shrugged his shoulders.

Here comes Mr. Polkinghorn the footman
said the landlady. 'He does come here at
times to see if there be any one to have a talk
with. He can tell you all about your namesake.'


I am not interested about her,' answered
Eichard. ' I have none that belong to me save
the seven and my mother, and they — I know
where they are, under my own roof.'

Good-evening, Mr. Polkinghorn ; how do
you find yourself — And how is Miss Otter-bourne
? '

We are both of us pretty well. She's
been suffering a little from settlers, that has
made her fractious, and she has rung the bell
outrageous ; but she's better now, and I'm middling,
thank you. Corrected with her settlers
and the constant ringing of the bell caused by
the irritation. First, it was the blinds were not
drawn to her fancy ; then it was she wanted a
lump of coal with the wood in the grate ; and
then the Venetian blinds must come down, orbe
turned, or pulled up; and then the geranium
or pelargonium on the table — I'm blessed, Mrs.
Stokes, if I know \vhat is the difference between
a geranium and a pelargonium — wanted water ;

or she desired another book from the library.
It really is wonderful, Mrs. Stokes — I'll have a
glass of beer, thank you — how a little matter
upsets a whole household. It comes of lobster
mayonaise or cucumber, one or t'other, which
don't agree with the old woman. If she takes
either of them and she's roaring fond of them,
she gets eruptions, generally settlers ; and
when she's got eruptions, it disturbs us all,
keeps the whole household capering : one has
to go for the doctor, another has to get cooling
fomentations, and her temper is that awful, it
is a wonder we stand it. But we know her,
and put it down to disorder of the system. We
must bear and forbear ; must we not, Mrs.
Stokes? so we pass over all the aggravations,
as good Christians and philanthropists.'

You've not been introduced,' said the
hostess. 'You don't know this gentleman, Mr.
Cable of Cornwall.'

Cornwall ! ' exclaimed the footman. ' You
don't happen to have come across the manor
and mansion of Polkinghorn anywhere thereabouts,
do you? Our family come from the
West of England, and have a lordship called
after us ; but I don't exactly know where it is.
Still, it's traditional in the family that there is
one. We've come down in life; but so have
many great folks ; and lord ! sir — what are our

c 2

British aristocracy now ? Mushrooms, sir, creatures
of to-day. Bankers and brewers and civil
engineers, who were not even known, who had
not lifted their heads out of the dust, when the
Polkinghorns were lords of manors and drove
their coach-and-four.'

Mrs. Stokes produced the ale.

I'll take a mouthful of bread and cheese
with it,' said the footman, who was not now in
livery. — ' So you, sir, are called Cable. We've
a Cable among us.'

'Do you mean among the Polkinghorns P '

Polkinghorns, sir ! ' said the footman,
bridling up. ' I do not, sir, think such a
name as Cable has found its way among us,
into our tree, sir. I alluded to an inmate of
the Hall, sir, a lady's-maid there, who is a
Hope or a Cable, or something of that sort —
possibly, as she is not stout, merely a twine.'
Then as he finished his glass of ale : ' Excuse
my freedom, sir ; I am generally accounted a
wit. I once sent a trifle to Punch'

Was it inserted ? '

I sent it, sir ; that suffices. I do not
myself suppose that our Cable does belong to
you. There is a lack of style — a want of
finish — you understand me, which proclaims
inferiority. Not bad-looking, either, is Miss
Josephine.'

'What!' shouted Cable, springing to his feet
and striking the table. ' What did you say ? '

Mr. Polkinghorn stared at him and backed
his chair from the table. He did not like the
expression on the stranger's face ; he thought
the man might be a lunatic ; therefore, with
great presence of mind, he drew the cheese-knife
from his plate and secreted it in the
pocket of his short coat.

I asked you a question,' cried Eichard.
What did you say ? '

Merely, dear sir, merely that — that we
have a lady's-maid attending on our old woman
who is good-looking, but wanting in what I
should consider — breeding. If sie be a relative,
I am sorry '

What is her name ? '

Josephine Cable.'

How long has she been with you ? '

Since last September. She was well recommended
; she brought excellent testimonials.
Her character quite irreproachable — from some
good friends of ours, the Sell woods of Essex, a
respectable family, unfortunate in having gone
into the Church. I should have preferred the
Army for them.'

Why is she ' Cable stopped ; he was

trembling. He put his hand to the table to
steady himself ' I mean — who is she ? '

I do not know,' answered Mr. Polkingliorn.
She is uncommunicative ; that is what I mean
when I say she has not the breed of a lady.
She ain't at her ease and familiar with us. She
is reserved, as she might call it ; awkward, as I
should say. If we ask her questions, she don't
answer. She's maybe frightened at finding herself
in such high society ; and I'm not surprised.
I don't fancy she was in other than a third-class
situation before — with some people in business
or profession — not real aristocrats. That does
make a person feel out of her element when she
rises to our walk of life. It is just the same as
if you were to invite a common sailor to a 
among millionaires and aristocrats —
how would he feel ? He'd look this way and
that and be without power of speech. He
wouldn't know where to put his feet and how
to behave himself It is much the same with
Miss Cable. She's not been brought up to our
line of life, and don't understand it, and is as
miserable among us as a common sailor would
be among gentlemen and ladies.'

Did you say Miss Cable ? '

To be sure I did. I don't suppose she's a
married woman. She wears no gold wedding

ring.'

And her Christian name is ? '

Josephine. But then we always call her

Miss Cable, and our old woman calls her
Cable.'

She has never said a word to you of her
family ? '

'Not a word. Better not, I suspect. I
don't fancy there's anything very high about it.
Judging by her manners, I should say she was
• — excuse my saying it — a low lot.'

Nor whence she comes ? '

Mum as a mummy — excuse the joke. I
am said to be witty. Humour runs in the
Polkiughorn blood.'

Nor what brought her to take service ? '

Necessity — of course. No lady would so
demean herself unless forced. — Will you take a
glass of ale with me ? '

With pleasure,' answered Cable ; ' and I'll
ask you not to mention my name at your place
not to the young lady you speak of

I understand,' said Mr. Polkinghorn with a
wink and a tap of his nose with his linger.
Poor relations are nuisances ; they come a-
sucking and a-sponging, and are a drag on a
man who is making his way. No, sir, I'll not
say a word. — May I ask if she is a relative ? '

I have not seen her. I cannot say.'

Does the name Josephine run in the
family, as John Thomas does in that of Polk-inkhorn
? '

We never lead one baptised by that name.'

I myself,' said the footman, ' intend to
marry some day, so as to perpetuate John
Thomas. I'm not sure that I may not take
Miss Eaffles. I won't deny that I had a tenderness
towards the Cable at first ; she is good-looking,
has fine eyes, splendid hair ; a brunette,
you understand, with olive skin, and such a
figure ! But I could not stand the want of
polish and ease which go with the true lady, and
that she will never get among us.'

Eichard left the room abruptly. He was
greatly moved, partly with surprise at finding
Josephine in such a position, partly with anger
at the insolence of the footman.

This latter looked after him contemptuously.
'Well, Mrs. Stokes,' he said, ' I've only come on
two Cables in the course of my experience, and,
dash me, if there be not a twist in them both.' -

Eichard went forth, and did not return to
the inn till late. He walked by the river. He
was disturbed in mind. Mr. Sellwood had told
him nothing of Josephine's plan of going into
service ; he had not felt himself authorised to do
this ; and at the time he saw Cable, he doubted
whether Josephine's resolution might not be
overcome. All that Cable knew was that she
had surrendered the estate and left the Hall.
She was proud, and would have nothing to do

with a property that came to her, as she concluded,
unjustly ; and he was proud, he would
accept no property that was offered to him by
her. But that she had been so reduced in circumstances
by this voluntary surrender as to
oblige her to earn her bread by menial work,
seemed to him impossible. Her father was a
man of some fortune. It was not possible that
he would consent to her leaving him for such a
purpose. Yet how else could he account for
Josephine's being at Bewdley Manor in the
capacity represented ?

There was a mistake. This could not be
she. Some one else was in the house who had
assumed her name. He could not be satisfied
till he had seen her. But he would not allow
himself to be seen by her. He hobbled along
the river-path leaning on his stick, racking his
brain over the questions that arose, seeking
solutions which always escaped him. To ^vhom
at Hanford could he apply for information concerning
the affairs and movements of his wife ?
There was no one but Mr. Sellwood, and to
him he would not Avrite. His brother-in-law,
Jonas Flinders, was dead, and he shrank from
corresponding on the subject with any of his
old mates.

Then he suddenly burst into a bitter laugh.
Was this his Josephine, this servant-girl, whom

the vulgar flunky, and with hin her fellow-servants,
despised as not up to their level,
wanting in style — a low lot ? Josephine, who
had scorned his lack of breeding, was herself
looked down on by the ignoble tribe of pariahs
on civilisation ! It was a just judgment on
her. How she must toss and writhe, what
colonies of rasje and humiliation she must endure
in such association ! ' A low lot ! ' shouted
Cable, slashing at the bulrush-heads on the
bank, and laughed savagely — 'a low lot!'
But then a gentler feeling came over him a
wave of his old kindness and pity, so long
suppressed or beaten back. He saw his
haughty, splendid, wilful Josephine surrounded
by these common minded, swaggering, vain, unintelligent,
and debased creatures — alone, cold,
stern, eating out her heart rather than show
her disgust and shame. If it had been misery
to him to be transferred to a condition of life
above him to which he was unfitted, it must
be misery to her to be flung down into a
sphere to her infinitely distasteful and repellent.
He was a man, who could hold his own or
retire with dignity. She was a girl, helpless.
His heart began to flutter, and he turned his
steps into the path by a wicket gate. The
evening was still, the sky clear. The great
trees stood against the silver-gray sky as blots.

The clew was falling heavily ; the gra.'^s Alas
charged with water. He might as well have
been wading in a stream as walkiiii:^ throiidi
it. So heavily was the dew falling that the
leaves of the trees were laden with the moisture,
and braved under the weight, and dripped
as with rain. The glowworms shone in the
damp banks and among the grass inter the
tree trunks. The stars were twinkling in the
sky, looking golden in contrast with the bluish
light of the glowworms ; an auroral haze hung
over the set sun, fringed with a faint tinge of
ruddy brown before it died into the deep gray
blue of the night-sky.

He drew near to the house, and a watchdog
in the back court began to bark. It had heard
his steps on the gravel of the drive. Richard
stepped off the carriage-way upon the turf and
remained still. The dog hearing no further
noise presently desisted from barking. Then
Eichard moved on through the grass till he
came where he could see the front of Bewdley
Manor-house. Three tall windows were lighted,
one somewhat brilliantly, the next less so, the
third least of all. It was clear that all three
belonged to one room, perhaps a drawing-room,
and that the lamp that illumined it was at one
end. The window which was at the further
end was half open, the blind was drawn np.

and Eichard could make out gilt frames to
large pictures on a dark "wall. He stood,
looking at the three windows, wondering
whether a shadow .would pass, and by the
shadow he could tell who it was that passed.
Did he desire to see Josephine again ? He
shrank from so doing ; but he was uneasy at
the thought that she was in this great house a
servant, with fellows like Polkindiorn about
her. As he stood thus looking up, he heard
the notes of a piano issue from the open
window. The first chords that were struck
made him start and a shiver pass through his
limbs. Then he heard a clear voice, rich and
sweet, sing :

O wie wont es such scion auf der Flutli
Wenn die miide Well im Schlummer rust !

It was the familiar sono from Oheron, When
Eichard heard this, he put his hands to his ears
to slit out the sound, and ran as hard as he
could run with his faulty thigh along the road ;
and the dog heard his retreating steps and barked
furiously. Cable heeded nothing, but ran on,
with the sweat breaking out on his brow and
dripping from his face, as it had dripped on
that night when he ran to Brentwood Hall, and
as now the dew was dripping from the leaves
of the trees in the park. Only when he

readied the river-bank outside the park gate,
away from the sight of the house and the
sound of the song, did he halt and strike his
stick angrily, passionately, into the oozy soil,
and cry out, half sobbingly, half savagely ; ' A
low lot ! A low lot ! '

CrixiPTEE XLIV.

A ROLLING STONE.

Richard Cable started homewards. He had
ridden his col) to Exeter, and brought him on
thence with the cattle by train. Now he drove
him all the ^vay back from Somersetshire to St.
Kerian, but not with the van full of calves the
whole way, for he sold them all before he had
reached Launceston. Then, instead of going
on, he bought up young cattle in Devon, to the
north of the road, where is also a wide tract of
very poor clay soil, worthless except for rearing
stock. In the north of Devon the soil varies
to such an extent, that one field may let for
five times the price of the field next to it.
Where the red soil runs, there anything will
grow ; where the white clay lies, there nothing
will thrive. Now, after the old Eoman road
from Exeter to Launceston passes North Tawton,
it leaves the red soil for ever. On the south
of the road is good land — crops wave, and trees
o-row to stately dimensions ; for there limestone

and volcanic tufa break out and warm and
enrich the soil above. To the north of the
road is clay, and clay only, to the ocean, where
crops are meagre and trees are stunted. Cable's
eye had been sharpened, and he learned and
took in much as he went along the road.
Having bought young stock from the poor
land, he turned his back on the west, and drove
them to Exeter, and trucked them on to Somers
again ; but not this time to Bewdley
and Bath, but to the neighbourhood of Wells.
He sold these readily enough ; and then he
bought more calves and trucked them to
Exeter, where on this occasion he had left his
cob and van ; and then drove them to Launceston,
disposing of most of them before reaching
home.

From Exeter he brought with him seven
pairs of new shoes, with perfectly clean smooth
soles, of a pleasant brown ; and ever and anon,
as he drove in his van, with the calves bleating
behind him, he opened the bag that contained
the shoes, and took them out and counted
them, and kissed the soles, thinking of the little
feet they would clothe when brought to St.
Kerian. Eicliard had to halt continually on
the road and buy milk for his calves, dip his
fu]2^ers in the milk and let the calves suck
them. It Vv'as tedious work ; but it would have

2 rjcrLVRu cable

been less tedious to another, for no other was
drawn homewards by such strong fibres from
his heart. At length he arrived within sight of
St. Kerian, and drove through the village street.
The innkeeper came out to ask what luck lie
had had. ' Middling,' answered Dick ; but he
did not halt at the inn-door. Then out of his
smithy came Penrose, the blacksmith, with a
cheery salute and his big black hand extended.

'Well, Cable, glad to see' back. The
little 'uns be all peart [bright.'

Eichard nodded. He held the reins in one
hand and the whip in the other ; he did not
accept the offered hand, but drove on.

What, "Mr. Cable ! ' exclaimed the parson,
who was on his rounds. ' You're home again !
I'm glad to see you have a carriage. Your
mother is fairly well, and the children — blooming
rosebuds.'

Thanks', sir ! ' Eichard put the handle of
his whip to his cap, and drove on.

Dicky ! ' shouted Farmer Tregurtha over
the hedge, ' so you're home with sour pockets
lined with money. I must look out for
Summerleaze, or you'll snap it away from
under my feet'

I take nothing for which I cannot pay,'
answered Eichard ; then he turned a corner
and stopped the van, whereat the calves, thinking

it meant milk and a suck at his hands,
began to bleat. But he was not thinking at
that moment of the calves. He saw before him
the cob cottage, the whitewashed walls gleaming
white in the sun, and before the door stood
Mrs. Cable with little Bessie in her arms, and
about her the rest, looking down the road with
eager eyes.

What a happy evening that was, with his
children clustering round the calves, dipping
their hands in the milk and laughing, but first
shrinking at the mouths of the young creatures
sucking their hands. Little Bessie must pat the
calves, and she quite fell in love with a young
dappled Guernsey. What a pleasant supper
when they all sat round the table, but not
before there had been a slight scuffle which
should sit beside their father. Was there ever
so dainty a dish served up at Han ford Hall
whilst Eichard dined there, as that great bowl
of potatoes and turnips that now steamed in the
midst of the table round which the bright and
happy faces smiled and shone ! Then, when
supper was over, came the trying on of the
new shoes ; and each in turn sat on her grandmother's
lap, whilst Eichard knelt on the slate
floor and fitted the covers on to the dear little
feet he loved so well. For Bessie there was a
pair of glazed patent leather that shone like

VOL. in. D

sticking-plaster, and they had rosettes with steel
buckles and beads over the instep. Bessie
laughed and danced in her grandmother's arms,
and then cried to be held by her dada ; and
clung fast to him, and would not be put down,
or go to bed till he undertook to undress her,
wash her, comb her hair, hear her prayers, and
sit by her till she fell asleep.

The happiness was of short duration. Next
morning, Eichard went farther with his van
and cob and calves, to the ' Magpie,' to give an
account of what he had done, how he had
succeeded, and what he proposed to do, to
Jacob Corye.

There, now,' said the landlord of the
Magpie,' when he heard the results and saw
his money, ' I be glad, I be, to handle the cash ;
but I be main better pleased to know that what
some say are the maggots in my head have
turned into butterflies, and not blue-bottles.'

After that, of course a second venture was
agreed upon. Eichard was to remain a week
at home, make what arrangements he thought
necessary for the children, and then start again
on the road by Launceston to Exeter, driving-young
cattle before him. He was now eager
to be gone. Not that he desired to be away
from his family, but that his ambition was fired.
He was resolved at no very distant date to

secure Summerleaze, and build thereon the
house which he had seen in a dream.

Throughout the week he was at home
Eichard was silent concerning one matter. He
was ready to talk to his little ones about what
he had seen — concerning the children of Mrs.
Stokes, the whirligig he had come across at
Okehampton, and the grand cathedral at Exeter,
and the piebald horses of a circus that had
passed him on the road, and the militia reviewed
at Wells, and the hot springs with foul
smell at Bath ; and he had told his mother of
his difficulties and of his successes, of his mistakes
and of his gained experiences, of his
prospects for the future, of the certainty of his
insuring a small fortune ; but he said not a
word about the discovery he had made at
Bewdley. Nevertheless, that discovery troubled
his mind and kept him wakeful at night. It
was a discovery that perplexed him beyond
power of setting to rights. Why was Josephine
in service ? If in service, how came she
to be singing and playing in the drawing-room
that night ? He knew so much of the ways of
good houses as this, that a lady's-maid is not
expected to sit down to the piano in the room
with her mistress. He also knew so much of
Josephine as this, that for her to associate with
such creatures as Mr. Polkinghorn would be

d2

unendurable. lie thought of his own Polly ;
perhaps the maids at Bewdley were like her.
Polly was a good girl, fond of work, and fond
also of finery when she could get it. Polly had
not been blessed by heaven with much mind,
and what little mind she had was uncultivated.
She could read, but read only trash — police
intelligence and novels. She could write, but
not spell. She could talk, but not of anything
beyond visage gossip. Could Josephine have
borne the daily society of Polly, could she
breathe in such an atmosphere of vulgar
interests ?

Either Josephine was very much other than
what he had supposed, or she was now completely
out of her proper element, and suffering
accordingly. It was possible that her pride,
her headlong self-will, coupled with pride, had
made her throw up all the advantages she had
got by the will of Gabriel Gotham. Pilchard
recollected now that she had told him her
mother's fortune, which ought to have come to
her, had been mismanaged and lost. It was
by no means impossible that Mr. Cornelia, for
whom Eichard entertained the greatest aversion,
mio'ht have met with a reverse and be ruined.
Then how was it that Josephine, being so close
a friend of the Ellwood, was allowed by them
to drop into a menial situation ? They were

well off, always ready to do what was kind,
and be helpful to those in distress. Yet it was
the Ellwood who, according; to Mr. Polkino-
horn, had recommended Josephine to her
present place.

I wish I could have seen her,' mused
Eichard. ' It would be painful to me — but for
all that, I wish I had seen her ; and when I go
back again to Bewdley, I must try and see her
without letting her see me. I'd like to know
how she bears the change. I'd like to see how
she looks — as a servant.' He laughed. ' And
to be considered a low lot I '

Dicky Cable did not go near Bath on his
second expedition ; he went into another part
of Somerset. He was away for some time.
After this he was able to stand unsupported by
Jacob Corse. He became a cattle-jobber on
his own bottom ; but he always dealt for Corye
whilst dealing for himself, and to Corye he
always gave double profits, for it was the landlord
of the ' Magpie ' who had put the plum into
his mouth. He began to turn over money very
fast. He had a good deal of expense on his
journeys : he had to lodge himself and his
horse, and feed his young stock and give
skimmed milk to his calves ; and the railway
carriage ran away with money ; and the seven
little mouths at home cost more every day, for

appetites grew with their bodies, and their
clothing and shoeing cost more also. Nevertheless,
Cable put away money.

But we are looking too far ahead. He had
not started on his own foundation when Christmas
came ; he did so with the Kew Year.

The opinions of the St. Kerian people underwent
a change respecting him. Some were
glad at the improvement in his circumstances ;
but others begrudged it. Most wondered that
he should have done what was now obvious to
all ; they were uneasy at his having got his feet
on Luck's road, when there were so many
worthier men, such as themselves, who wandered
in Poverty Lane. Now, those who
formerly had not noticed him, nodded when
he passed ; and those who in former days had
nodded shook hands ; and those who had in the
time when he broke stones shaken hands, now
asked him to lend them money, which was the
greatest mark of esteem they could show him.
The St. Kerian folk were in that transition
mood in which it would take very little on his
part to bring them into the most cordial relationship,
and make them forget that on one
side he was not a true-blooded Cornishman.
The women were specially disposed in his favour,
because he had proved himself so tender and.
true a father to his orphan girls ; and some

were most especially so disposed because they
considered him to be a widower. But Eicliard
Cable took no notice of the revolution. He
called at none of the houses of the villagers ; he
scarcely spoke to those whom he passed; he
returned their salutations without cordiality ;
and he never went to the public-house, which
was the more to be marvelled at, because,
whilst from home, he lived entirely in taverns.
Perhaps that was why he cared for none when
at St. Kerian, and spent all his available time
in his cob cottage among his seven little maids.

Christmas came — the second since Eichard
Cable and his family had been at St. Kerian.
The first saw him in great poverty, without
prospect of betterment ; the second shone on
him with a future opening before him ; but it
did not find him, for all that, with a more
softened and Christmas-like spirit. He arrived
at home on the eve.

Over the great fire that burned on what
is locally termed the ' heath-grate ' hung a
caldron, in which was boiling the plum-pudding
for the morrow. Cable sat in the
armchair by the fire, with little Bessie on one
knee and Susie on the other with Lettice standing
in the chair behind him, scrambling up his
back, and the four other children sitting on
their stools in a semicircle round the fire.

They were in neat stuff frocks, with clean
white pinafores over them. The father was
full of joy and fun, when a tap came at the
door, and some neighbours entered to congratulate
him on his return and to hear the
news.

They stood before the fire, thrusting the
little girls aside, talking, asking questions, hinting
pretty broadly their desire to know how
his affairs went — well-intentioned visitors, with
kindly meant inquiries, but vexing to Cable,
who did not care to be disturbed. He
answered shortly, with gravity ; he showed
no pleasure at their visit ; he put aside their
questions unanswered. He did not ask the
intruders to be seated and take a pipe ; so that,
after a few minutes, somewhat disconcerted,
they retired. An opportunity for conciliation
had been offered and rejected.

Richard Cable had never cared for the
society of his fellow-men, even in the old
days, but then he had not shunned it. Now
that he had entered on a business which took
him among men, he valued his privacy more
than formerly. He was not at home for very
long, and whilst there he desired to be left
alone with his precious ones. The St. Keriau
people were not travellers ; they remained stationary
where their fathers had stood, and

their grandfathers before them. Richard Cable
had become a roUmg stone, after having fallen
among them with every promise of becoming
a fixture. The proverb says that a rolling
stone gathers no moss ; but the St. Kerian
stones collected very little, and Cable at every
roll came back with the gold moss clinging to
him. A rolling stone he was, stony to all he
encountered, hard, unyielding, but with his
centre of gravity never displaced, always drawing
him towards the cob cottage ; and when
he was there, there was nothing stony about
him, there he was soft, soft as moss.

Scarce had the visitors gone, when another
rap came at the door, and before he had called
to enter, the door flew open, and in danced
several mummers. St. George, with a tin pot
and a cock's feather for helmet and plume, and
a fishpond-lid for shield, and a red shawl for
mantle ; the dragon of pasteboard overlaid with
tinfoil. King Herod with a gold-paper crown
and corked moustache and beard. Beelzebub
with a black sweep's suit and complexion to
match. Some of the smallest of the children
began to cry — Bessie and Susie, who where on
his knees ; Lettice stood behind him, peering
over his shoulder, feeling herself safe behind
such a bulwark; but the others laughed,
jumped about like kids, and clapped their

hands. Cable would have driven the mummers
out ; he threatened them ; but Mary and
Martha interposed and entreated him to let them
see the show. Then ensued the old-fashioned
masque of St. George and the Dragon in doggerel
rhyme. The mummers where all boys,
and they had learnt the traditional play by
heart. Tliey recited their parts without much
animation and action, as though saying their
collects in Sunday school. It was dull fun to
Cable ; but it delighted the little maidens, their
delight reaching its climax when Mary cried
out : ' Oh ! I know who St. George is ! You
are Walter Penrose.' Thereat St. George interrupted
the performance to pull a huge, retreated
apple, a clarendon, out of his trousers-pocket,
and present it to Mary with a bow and
a lauo;h: 'And this is St. George's Christmas
present to little Mary Cable.'

Then the demon brandished his club, made
of sacking, enclosing hay, and, banging the performers
with it right and left, shouted at the top
of his voice :

Up and Cometh Beelzebub,

And knocked them all down with his club.

Whereupon the mummers danced out of the
door. Then Eichard Cable stood up, put down
Bessie and Susie, and shook off Lettice, and

went to the door and put the bolt across it
and turned the lock.

father ! ' cried Mary, ' wasn't that kind
of Walter ? He is so good I He always gives
me sugar-plums whenever I see him.'

My dear Mary,' said her father, ' I object
to your receiving any presents from any St.
Kerian people. Walter . Is he the blacksmith's
son P Well, the time will come when
you will hold up your heads too high to take
apples from and play with the sons of common
village blacksmiths. Throw that apple away ! '

father ! ' cried all the little girls together.

Don't say that,' pleaded Mary. ' Take out
your knife, father, and cut the apple into seven.'

Very well,' he said moodily*; 'this time, but
this only. Let it be the last ; and understand,
Mary, that you take nothing again from Walter
Penrose or from any other St. Kerian child.'

But, papa,' said little Mary, ' Walter is so
kind, and when we get old, I am going to be
his little wife.'

Never,' said Cable angrily — ' never.'

Then, all at once, outside burst forth the
song of the Christmas carollers :

Hark ! the herald angels sing
Glory to the new-born King,
Peace on earth, and mercy mild,
God and sinners reconciled.

But Eichard Cable did not open the door
and look forth and wish the singers a glad Noel,
and offer them plumage and a jug of cider.
In all his children's eyes looking at him was
trembling entreaty, but he heeded it not. He
sat by the fire, looking gloomily into it.

Then the seven little girls raised their voices,
and sang inside the cottage, along with the choir
without :

Joyful, all ye nations rise,

Join the triumph of the skies ;

With the angelic host proclaim,

Christ is born in Bethlehem.

My children sing better than the trained
choristers outside,' said Cable to himself. He
sat motionless, though the carollers waited without
for their Christmas greeting. They did not
get it. The rolling stone was stone indeed ;
and the more it rolled, and the more the prospect
of gathering gold-moss opened before it, the
more flinty it became.

Then the choir went away, and the hushed
children and their silent father heard the
singers carolling before another house half a
mile away. The music came to them faint and
sad. There was no peace, no mercy mild and
reconciliation in the heart of Eichard Cable that
Christmas Eve.

CHAPTER XLV.

MISS Otterburn.

Josephine's position in Bewdley Manor had
gone through a change, a change advantageous
in one way, but bringing with it great vexations.
Miss Otterbourne was a small old lady of
delicate bones and mind, of small ideas and
petty interests. She lived in her great house
without a companion, made calls in her grand
carriage when the coachman allowed her to use
the fat horses, pottered in her conservatories
about her flowers, and picked them only when
suffered to do so by the head-gardener. She
kept a great many servants, and was badly
served by them. She spent a great deal of
money and had little pleasure out of it.
Josephine was shocked to see how the old lady
was pillaged by all her attendants. She kept
cows, and bought her butter ; poultry, and
purchased her eggs ; had gamekeepers, but ate
very little game. Her pheasants cost her about
their weight in silver. She grew grapes and

apricots and nectarines and peaches, which the
gardener sold in Bath, and put the money into
his own pocket. Her porcelain was broken,
and had to be replaced incessantly, because the
china shopkeeper tipped the breakers for every
breakage. Every tradesman who attended the
house put money into the servants' pockets, on
the understanding that they made Avork for
artisans there. Every shopkeeper who dealt
with the house gave a percentage to the servants
to encourage waste. Coal-waggons were
incessantly bringing their loads to the house,
Which apparently consumed as much as a glass-furnace
; but the coal-cellar door was left
always open for all the cottagers to supply
themselves from it, and a sack was deposited
every turn of the waggon at the gardener's, or
the gamekeeper's, or at the lodge, or at the
coachman's, or at the house of the mother of
the boy who cleaned the knives. The gardener
was annually carrying off prizes at flower-shows
; but the greenhouses were never properly
stocked, and fresh supplies, enough to
fill every stage, had to be ordered from the
nurserymen every autumn and spring. Fifteen
hogsheads of ale were got lid of in that house
in the twelvemonths, by a household of teetotalers
; the wine cellar needed the laying
down of expensive wines every year, although

Miss Otterboiirne no longer gave dinner-parties.
A milliner and her assistant from Bath were
engaged in Bewdley House half their time, yet
Miss Otterbourne only had two new gowns in
the year. Bewick's ' British Birds ' and ' Fishes '
and ' Quadrupeds ' deserted the shelves of the
library, as if they were leaving the Ark of
Noah, and turned up in a second-hand bookseller's
at Bath. Valuable pieces of old Worcester
china, fine Chelsea figures, unaccountably
got mislaid ; but certain dealers in London
would have been happy to sell them back to
the good lady.

My servants,' said Miss Otterbourne, ' are
perfectly trusty. I have left my purse about ;
I have allowed coppers to remain on my
chimney-piece, and I have never lost a farthing.'

It is a curious fact that the conscience of
many domestic servants draws a line at money.
It is most rare to find one who will purloin a
coin ; but beyond that line, in far too many
cases, all scruple ceases.

Josephine soon discovered how her mistress
was being plundered. The housekeeper winked
at the petty robberies ; she shut her eyes to a
good deal more that filled Josephine with horror
and disgust. John Thomas Polkinghorn was
vain and foolish, but he was not vicious.
Among the many men attached to the house

ill one capacity or another, lie was the most
respectable ; but the old butler, Yickary, on
whom Miss Otterboiirne chiefly relied as a trusty
servant who had the interests of the family at
heart, was a prime source of evil in the place.
Josephine made him keep this distance. She
behaved towards him with such proud reserve
and scarce veiled abhorrence, that he scowled
at her and prophesied her speedy dismissal.
The other servants, all cringing to the butler,
took his tone, and behaved to Josephine with
insolence, at least in his presence. Yet, behind
his back they were ready to speak to her with
kindness, and show her little attentions. They
let her understand that they groaned under his
tyranny, but were too timorous to revolt. The
house was, moreover, too good to be left,
except for some extraordinary chance of betterment
; and servants who came there well-intentioned
gradually swallowed their scruples
and sank to the general level.

That Josephine was not more with them
was due to the forethought of Mrs. Sellwood,
who wrote confidentially to her sister to tell
her that Josephine had known better days, was
well educated, and by birth a lady, forced by
circumstances she was not at liberty to disclose,
to go into menial service. Miss Otterbourne
was the kindest-hearted of old maids, a generally

kind-hearted race, but she was weak. She
had fallen a prey to several unscrupulous ladies'-maids
m succession. Girls well recommended
had come to her, and the general bad tone of
the house had lowered them ; she herself had
contributed to their deterioration by ill-judged
kindness, by making of them confidantes, and
almost friends. She had trusted them, when
they were neither by education nor character
worthy to be trusted. They had abused Iier
kindness. One after another had taken to
drink. Miss Otterbourne would not believe it ;
she supposed poor Jane or Marianne or Emily
was subject to fits, or had a weak heart; and
Mrs. Sellwood had sometimes to come down from
Essex to rout a disagreeable and disreputable
companion from her sister's house. The old
lady, perhaps feeling her loneliness, and with
her heart craving for love, was so liable to fall
under the dominion of her servants, that Mrs.
Sellwood was glad to be able to assist Josephine
and her own sister at once, to put the former
with one who would be kind to her, and to
give the latter a companion who was perfectly
reliable.

Miss Otterbourne at once perceived that
her new attendant was what her sister had
described her — a lady, and with her natural

VOL. III. E

kindness, did what lay in lier power to soften
to her the hardship of her lot.

On the morning after her arrival at Bentley,
Josephine rose with a weight on her heart.
She had not slept well. She was pale, and her
eyes looked large and sad when she appeared
before Miss Otterbourne to assist her in dressing.
The old lady spoke gently to her. She
told her that she had heard from Mrs. Selhvood
that Josephine had met with troubles which had
forced her into a situation for which she was
not born, and assured her that she would be a
good mistress to her, and not exact from her
more than was really needed.

'My servants are all so honest and so respectable,
and so devoted to me, that I am sure
you weill like them. They never give me any
trouble, and set a good example to the entire
parish. But as you belong by birth to a
superior class, you will not mix with them
much. I shall expect you to be chiefly about
my person, and when not engaged in dressing
me to attend to my wardrobe. I should be
glad if you could read to me in the evenings.
I cannot use my eyes by lamplight — at least
not much, and the evenings are tedious to me.
I play patience, but one tires in time even of
patience.'

Later on Miss Otterbourne made overtures

to get into Josephine's confidence, but without
avail. Josephine's secret was not one she cared
to share. She soon fell into her work ; it was
not difficult, and the old lady was uot exacting.
She felt how considerate towards her Miss
Otterbourne was, and she was grateful for it,
but not inclined to open her heart to her.
Miss Otterbourne was not one who could understand
her course of conduct or appreciate her
motives.

The monotonous life that Josephine was
now leading; the constant restraint, the necessity
for reserve, the tediousness of listening to
the weak talk of the old lady, and the repugnance
she felt for the society of her fellow-servants,
were almost more than Josephine
could bear, and only her strong resolution to
go through with what she had undertaken kept
her at Bewdley. As she began to see how
completely Miss Otterbourne was deceived in
her servants, how she was cheated, and what a
demoralising influence in the place the trusty
butler was, she became uneasy in mind. She
did not like to allow her mistress to continue
in her delusion, and yet she was averse from
telling tales of her fellow-domestics.

The king which Miss Otterbourne showed
for her excited the jealousy of the female
servants and the suspicion of Mr. Yickary.

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

This latter saw that he Avould not be able to
influence Josephine and get her under his
power. He was irritated at the contempt she
showed him, and aware that she saw through
and mistrusted him. He also saw that she
was acquiring a preponderating influence over
the mistress, which threatened his supremacy.

Josephine had more to think about than
her own past troubles ; but, unfortunately, those
concerns which now occupied her thoughts were
in themselves troubles. She missed her old
freedom. She was shy of asking a favour of
Miss Otterbourne, or she would have entreated
to be given a bedroom to herself The old
lady did not know that she had not one. The
domestic arrangements were left to the housekeeper,
and those maids where given separate
rooms who stood highest in her favour. At
night Josephine hardly. enjoyed refreshing sleep ;
she was not so much tired out with her work
as fagged — her nerves were overwrought, not
her muscles. What would she not now have
given for a row on the sea or a stroll by herself
in the garden. Sometimes the oppressiveness
of her life threatened to drive her mad, and
she made efforts to think of the sea, the gulls,
the passing ships, to give breath and space to
her mind, that was becoming cramped in
Bewdley life.

While she read in the evenings to Miss
Otterbourne her mind was absent, for the books
which the old lady selected were uninteresting
to Josephine. She, like Aunt Judith, was a
veal-eater, and must have her mental diet
devoid of the blood of ideas and the firmness
of intellectual growth, Josephine had been so
independent hitherto that the constraint of
having in all things to submit to the will of
another, to hear inaptitude without replying,
to go through a mechanical round of duties that
led to nothing, were an especial trial to her.
But she had the clear sense to see that it was
a schooling; she needed. She was learning; self-restraint.


One evening the old lady was tired of the
reading, did not care for patience, and as she
had a little of the fretfulness induced by nettle-rash
still about her, she ' began to grumble at
never being able to hear a bit of nuisic. With
diffidence, and yet eagerness, Josephine volunteered
to play and sing. She was diffident
because she did not know how her mistress
would take the offer ; she wos eager because
she had not touched the piano since she left
Hanford, and her soul was one that hungered
and thirsted for music — a soul that could only
find its full expression in pain or pleasure
through music. Thus it came about that

Eicharcl Cable heard lier sing on the night he
was lingering under the trees of the park.

The little old lady was not without that
atmosphere of romance hanging about her heart
that enlarged and transformed common objects
and gave them ephemeral and fantastic values
and shapes. She thought about what Mrs.
Sellwood had told her of Josephine, and as she
had taken a great fancy for Josephine she
wanted to learn more. She wrote for particulars
to her sister, but unsuccessfully, aud every
attempt to wrest her story from the girl equally
failed. As she had so few facts on which to
build, she fell back on conjecture, and speedily
came to treat her conjectures as assured realities.
There could be no question that Josephine
was a lady, the child of gentlefolks,
who had been suddenly ruined — so she supposed
by the failure of the great Coast of Guinea
Bank, which had recently brought down so
many families. She was an orphan, and had
lost everything, and she had fled her old home
and its associations owing to a love affair with
a gentleman of position to whom she had been
engaged, but who, having no resources himself,
had broken off the match on her losing her
fortune. Miss Otterbourne had in former days
had several offers ; but as she never could
assure herself that the suitors were not in love

with her estate rather than herself, she had
refused them all ; and now, in her old age,
had a longing for a little romance, and a desire
to take some part in the great conceit of love
that bursts from all creation, if she were only
to play a little feeble accompaniment to the
song of another. What a flutter it produces in
an old heart on which hopes and loves have
flashed and flickered and died out to white dust,
to be able, before the last death chill falls, to
assist at the kindling, or to fan when lighted,
or to sit by and hearken to the roar of a love-fire
! So poor old Miss Otterbourne, having
made out to her own satisfaction and sincere
conviction that Josephine was in love and had
been badly treated, turned the matter about in
her mind, and schemed whether it were possible
for her to take up the broken engagement and
hammer and weld it together again. How she
was to do this she did not know. She did not
even know the gentleman. But again imagination
went to work, and showed her that he
was endeavouring to get into a Government
situation. Miss Otterbourne knew and was
connected with persons of position and influence,
and might possibly induce them to get
him a secretaryship or a colonial appointment.
The kind little heart made its plans. The letters
were thought out, and the list of those to whom

application was to be made was drawn up. All
that Miss Otterbourne needed to know to put
all her engines in play was the name and
position of the man. But when she approached
the subject, however delicately, Josephine
winced, changed colour, trembled, and entreated
permission to leave the room.

• There is no help for it,' said Miss Otter-bourne
to herself ; ' I must wait till I have
gained her confidence. Poor young people!
poor dear girl ! She is growing thin and pale
here. I can see the change in her. Hope
deferred maketh the heart sick. It is only
hope deferred, not extinguished. I am clever in
these matters ; I will make all right in time.'

Miss Otterbourne was warmly attached to
her nephew. Captain Sell wood, who would
succeed to Bevv^dley after her decease, when he
would assume by royal license the name and
arms of Otterbourne in addition to Sellwood.
The old lady had much family pride in her,
and loved to talk of the family greatness, its
achievements and its matches in the past. It
was a sad thing that Cholmonclely Otterbourne,
her brother, had died early, and that tuis the
direct male representation ceased. As the old
lady loved to talk, and loved especially to talk
of her nephew, on whom her ambition concentrated,
she was not silent with Josephine.

I suppose you have see him, Cable ? ' she
said. ' If you know Mrs. Sellwood, you have
no doubt seen the captain. He is a very fine
man, and has such splendid eyes, like those of
an ox. I wish he would marry. I am getting
to be an old Avoman and I want to see the
young generations settled and another rising
about it. I should be happy, I think, quite
happy, with little grand-nephews and nieces,
nephews especially, trotting about these passages
and up and down the stairs. I am afraid that
Captain Sellwood must have met with disappointment.
You have not heard of such a
rumour, have you, Cable ? '

There has been no such tale, Miss Otter-bourne,
as far as I am aware.'

I cannot conceive of a girl refusing him ;
he is so handsome, so dignified, and has such
eyes, such ox-like eyes ! If he has been refused,
it must have been by some great heiress, who
thinks overweening of herself, or by a duke's
daughter, or a baroness in her own right. You
have seen Captain Sellwood, I suppose, Cable ? '

Yes, ma'am, I have seen him.' She always
spoke respectfully to Miss Otterbourne, as a
servant to a mistress.

What do you think of him ? Have you

ever seen his equal? — Except ' The old

lady laughed. ' That is not quite a fair question.'

She assumed a roguish air. ' Every girl
thinks oue man the ideal of what man should
be, but after — after that one, eh, Cable ? '

Josephine hesitated ; then evaded the answer
by saying : ' I spoke the exact truth, Miss Otter-bourne,
about there being no reports circulating
concerning Captain Sellwood ; but I believe it
is true, and Mr. and Mrs. Sellwood know it,
that he was refused.'

Who was she ? ' asked Miss Otterbourne.

A very unworthy person,' answered Josephine.


That the captain was certain to visit Bentley,
and that she would have to meet him— she
in the capacity of a servant — occurred to Josephine,
and made her uneasy. But on further
consideration this uneasiness passed away ; it
was bred of pride, and her pride was much
broken. The prospect that he would come to
Bewdley gave her courage and hope. Before
he arrived he would have been prepared to see
her ; his father or mother would be certain todo
that.

She thought a good deal about him, as Miss
Otterbourne spoke of him so frequently, and
she trusted that his arrival wT)uld relieve her
from one of her great distresses. She could
mention to him the condition of affairs in the
house. As heir to the estate, as the person

responsible next to her mistress, he ought to be
told everything. Then he could act as he saw
fit. She would have fulfilled her duty, and
the responsibility would rest on the proper
shoulders.

Captain Sellwood comes on Tuesday.' said
Miss Otterbourne one day. ' Tell Mrs. Grundy
to have the Blue Eoom ready.'

Josephine drew a long breath. 'I am so
glad ! ' she said. The exclamation escaped her
unintentionally. Miss Otterbourne looked surprised,
and then annoyed, and said no more to
her that evening.

CHAPTER XLVI.

A CHUM.

Once, annually, whilst he was in England, did
Captain Sellwood pay his aunt a visit. He
stayed with her a fortnight ; and she took him
round to show him to her old friends, and show
him the young ladies of the neighbourhood
among whom lie was at liberty to pick and
choose — ladies by birth and breeding, and with
at least something to bring with them. As yet
he had not picked and chosen in the region
round Bewdley ; he had contented himself with
exciting the admiration of the old ladies, to
whom he devoted himself with more eagerness
than to the young. They Avere his aunt's
cronies, and he made an effort to please his
aunt by showing courtesy to her friends.

The family coach went to the station to
meet the captain, and Miss Otterbourne awaited
this arrival impatiently. Josephine's heart was
in a flutter. ' Shall I leave the room ? ' she
asked, suddenly rising from her needlework in

the window. Miss Otterboiirne had got into
the way of making her sit in the same room
with her much of her time.

•No, Cable,' answered the old lady — 'no
need for that. You have, I daresay, seen the
captain, and he will probably know you.'

In fact. Miss Otterbourne was curious to
observe how they met ; for she knew nothing
for certain about Josephine's origin, nor of the
extent of her acquaintance, nor of its character,
with the Ellwood.

Josephine remained, but stood silent, in the
window, withdrawn as much as possible from
sight. Captain Sellwood came in, and was
greeted with love and pride by his aunt. ' My
dear fellow ! How you have grown ! But — I
do believe I see a careworn expression in your
face, as if the course of something — something
had not run smooth.'

He turned abruptly from her and came
directly to Josephine, who, in spite of her
efforts to remain composed, coloured and trembled.
' We have met before — at Hanford,' he
said, With a bow and extended hand ; but
whether he spoke to explain his conduct to his
aunt, or to introduce himself to Josephine, who
might not recollect him. Miss Otterbourne could
not discover.

You will be pleased to hear that the rector

and my mother are in flourishing condition,' he
went on. ' I hope I may be able to inform
them, when I write, that you are well and
happy.' He spoke civilly, formally, yet kindly ;
and what he said might have been addressed
indiscriminately to a lady or a lady's-maid.

The rogue ! ' said Miss Otterbourne to
Herself. ' He, also, wants to keep me in the
dark. There is some mystery ; but I shall
worm it out.'

Josephine kept away from the drawing-room
whilst the captain was there ; her mistress
did not need her when she had her nephew to
talk to. She hoped to have an opportunity of
speaking with him in private before long, that
she might relieve her mind, after which it washer
intention to leave the service of Miss Otter-bourne.
It did not advantage her to remain
there longer. Her mistress had drawn her into
association with herself, and she could associate
with ladies as at Hanford. As for the servants
at Bewdley, she did not wish to be on terms of
familiarity with them. They did not represent
the class to which Eichard belonged. She
must seek representatives of his order elsewhere.


One evening, the housemaid who shared
her room told her that a sister and cousin had
come to Bewdley and had asked her to meet

them and walk with them to the station. She
had, however, her duties in the house, and
could not ceo out, leavings these neglected. As
for the under-housemaid, she was engaged with
her own work, and could not be trusted to
arrange the rooms — would Josephine mind relieving
her of this for an hour or two. ' It's the
captain's two rooms have to be looked after,'
said the young woman. ' If you'll do this forme
to-day, Cable, 1*11 help you what I can
another time.'

Josephine at once, good-naturedly, consented.


Captain Sellwood occupied the best bedroom,
with a small sitting-room adjoining, and
on the other side a dressing-room. He did not
care for a fire in his bedroom ; but there was
one in the sitting-room, and there his aunt
allowed hin to smoke. He had no valet with
him to attend to his clothes ; and after he was
dressed for dinner, the housemaid folded those
he had taken off and put them away, and got
the room ready for the night. The sitting-room
had to be made tidy : the scraps of letters and
envelopes to be picked up ; his newspaper to be
folded and placed on the table ; his cigar end,
left on the mantelshelf, to be buried in the red
depths of the fire ; a flower-glass upset on the
side-table, to be refilled, the blossoms rearranged,

and the water to be wiped up. How
untidy men are ! — No, not all men — not
Eichard. And had not Josephine been just as
careless when in her own house ?

She put everything together in the sitting-room.
Captain Sellwood had worn gloves
lined with swansdown, which his mother had
insisted on his wearing whilst on the journey ;
but either the moth had got into them, or the
down was badly put on at first, and, as he
found the wool coming off, whilst he was smoking
he amused himself with picking it off the
inside of his gloves and throwing little tufts on
the floor, where it adhered to the pile of the
Brussels carpet. The collecting of this down
engaged Josephine some time, and she said to
herself : ' If people only knew the trouble they
give by their want of consideration ! ' and then
remembered she would have done the same informer
years. Lie was engaged picking the
particles out of the carpet pile, when the bedroom
door opened and Captain Sellwood came
in, with one patent leather boot on his foot and
the other in his hand. Josephine looked up as
the door opened, and rose.

Oh,' said he, ' I am sorry. There is a peg
in the sole that hurts me, and I have come for
the poker to drive it down.'

Josephine rose from her knees, colouring.

Do not let me disturb you,' lie said. ' I
will go away.' He lead a crimson silk stocking
on his unshod foot.

Shall I knock down the peg for you,
Captain Selhvood ? ' asked Josephine. ' There
is a hammer in the housemaid's cupboard.'

Not on any consideration ; but if you will
kindly fetch me the hammer, I shall be grateful.
I do not know the whereabouts of the
said cupboard.' He held out his hand to help
her up.

What have you been about ? ' he asked.

Collecting all these particles of swansdown.
They are difficult to get out of the carpet.'

I threw them there,' he said ; ' but I am
glad it has given me the opportunity of speaking
to you alone, which I have desired, and
failed to get.'

I also,' said Josephine, ' wish to have a

little private talk with yon ; but ' She

looked round, and seeing that some one was in
the corridor, and that the door of the sittings
was open, she added : ' I will get the
hammer for your boot at once.' Then she
went out at the door and closed it behind her.
She had a candle in her hand, and saw standing
before her the butler, with a mocking expression
on his sinister face.

VOL. III. p

What are you doing there, Cable ? You
have no business in these rooms.'

She would rather not have answered him,
and have passed on without a reply ; but she
considered that she had to return, and
that the butler must be got rid of, so she
answered with as much indifference as she
could assume, that the housemaid was froinor to
the station with her friends, and had asked her
to see to the bedrooms.

'And to chat with the captain, who slipped
away from table before his usual time.'

Josephine coloured at his insolence. She
had taken Captain Sellwood's boot in her hand,
and whether advisable or not, she must return
with it. She went her way without appearing
to notice the remark made by the butler. In
ten minutes she returned with the boot ; she
had succeeded in knocking down the peg. As
she came to the captain's door she looked
round to see that the coast was clear, and then
tapped lightly. He opened at once, and she
went in.

She was nervous and agitated. The situation
was not a pleasant one ; and if she had
not made up her mind to speak to him, she
would have given him the boot at the door
and not have gone in. But three or four days
of his visit to his aunt had elapsed without her

obtaining the opportunity she sought, and she
did not see how she could obtain the desired
interview Without attracting attention and
arousing curiosity.

Mr. Vickary was probably satisfied with the
explanation she had given. If he doubted it,
he could satisfy himself in the kitchen that it
was genuine. Notwithstanding Tier bringing-up,
Josephine had much guilelessness in her.
She knew Captain Sellwood well, had known
him since she was a child, and was aware that
he was an honourable man, who would never
forget the respect due to her. He knew her
story — that she v>^as married ; and that she had
met with trouble. That he knew why she had
gone into service, she did not suppose. He
was aware that she had resigned her redit to
the inheritance of Gabriel Gotham — all Hanford
knew that ; but the reasons for her so
doing were not divulged. The captain, she
presumed, thought she had been forced to take
service because she was left penniless. That
he would not press her to tell him any thing-she
kept to herself, she was well satisfied. He
was a gentleman, if a somewhat heavy one.

She closed the door behind her. and went
towards Captain Sellwood with something of
her old frankness, holdings his boot in her hand.
I must have a little talk with you,' she said.

F 2

And there is no time like trio present. I hold
you arrested by one foot. You shall not have
your boot till you have listened to me.'

'I am not likely to run away from you,
Mrs. Cable, unless you draw out of your quiver
some of your old arrows; then, knowing their
sharpness, I might in self-defence take to
fiidit.'

No ; I have broken off all their heads. I
will never hurt any one again — at least not
with them.'

Take a chair, Mrs. Cable.'

I had rather stand.'

And I insist on your being seated.'

She obeyed, taking a small armchair near
the fire. He had lighted the candles on the
mantelpiece, and stood by the fire, with his
elbow on the shelf, resting on his shod foot,
with the red-stockinged foot crossed over the
other.

The matter about which I desire to speak
to you,' she said, going at once to her point,
concerns Miss Otterbourne. You and your
mother ought to know how she is treated by
her servants. She is robbed on all sides. She
is surrounded by perfectly unscrupulous persons,
who are in league against her. There
are valuables in this house, heirlooms ; nothing
is safe from their rapacity. Dear Miss Otter-bourne

is so confiding that she leaves everything
about — her keys, her cheque-book ; her
drawers are not locked, and anyone can get at
her jewellery. The plate is entrusted to Mr.
Vickary, and — some one ought to be entrusted
with the looking after of Mr. Vickary. Is
there a list of the plate ? Do you think Miss
Otterbourne herself knows what family jewels
she has ? I have ventured to entreat her to
keep her bureau locked where she has some
securities — she ought to send them to her
banker's ; but she likes to retain them in her
own hands. I am sure the butler has been to
that bureau, though I will not say he has
abstracted anything. What I fear is — were
anything to happen to your aunt — suppose a
stroke, which is not impossible or improbable
at her age, then — this house would be at the
disposal of her servants. They might take
what they liked, and who would stop them ?
An old lady ought never to be left as Miss
Otterbourne is — without a relative by her to
guard her interests.'

'Dear Mrs. Cable,' said Captain Sellwood,
my mother cannot be here. It is also out of
the question that I should. We had hoped —
when you came '

Exactly, that I was to be life and bodyguard
to her Majesty. I do not feel disposed

to be that. I tell you the state of affairs, aud
then I go. I cannot remain here. Miss
Otterbourne is very kind, and I like her ; but
I cannot remain. You can see that for yourself.
Having revealed the misdemeanours of
my fellow-servants, I must go as well as they.'

I do not see that.'

I do. I could not stay. There are other
matters behind all this that I have told you ;
but you knoAv enough.'

What is to be done ? '

What is to be done ? ' repeated Josephine,
with a return to her old contemptuous manner.
You are a man, a soldier, and ask me that ! '

Precisely ; because I am a man and a
soldier, I know nothing about domestic matters;
I cannot en^a^i^e a new set of servants.'

But you can induce your aunt to dismiss
these.'

And I know very well that with a new
supply she would fare no better. She has had
relays of ladies'-maids, and has demoralised
them all — made very decent girls my mother
has sent her, dishonest and given to drink.'

Well, I have discharged my duty. It is
for you to act on the information you have
received. This house not only demoralises the
ladies'-maids, but the entire parish. Your good
old aunt, with a mind full of religion and kindliness,

is poisoning every man, woman, and
child who comes near her. Trust is a very
good thing when well applied ; but trust given
to the untrustworthy aggravates the evil. Why,
what will become of the servant-girls of this
establishment when they marry ? They have
learned here to be dainty, thriftless, and dishonest
; to take to themselves whatever comes
to hand, and to use everything without consideration
what it costs. They will make their
husbands and families wretched and wicked.'
Josephine spoke A\'ith vehemence, because she
felt strongly, and had been bottling up her
indication ever since she had beo'un to see into
the condition of affairs in the house, without
the opportunity of giving it vent.

Captain Sellwood stood looking down at
this unbolted foot, meditating. His face was
troubled. 'It would be conferring on us the
greatest favour, it would be laying us under a
life long obligation, if you would consent to
stay as companion to my aunt.'

'I cannot. The captain who applies the
match to the powder-room does not blow up
the crew and provide for his own safety — they
all go up into the air together. I cannot do
what seems mean.'

We have no claim whatever on you ; but
you are here on the spot — if '

1^0, Captain Sellwoocl — no ! How slow
you are to take a no ! '

Then ensued another silence.

I have said what I had to say, and now I
must go.' She made a motion to rise. He
waved his hand.

I pray you, one moment longer. About
yourself. If you insist on leaving this house,
where will you go ? '

I do not know. I have not considered.'

'Excuse me, Mrs. Cable. I do not want
to touch on matters that I have no right to
put my finger on, but — we are old acquaintances
of many, many years' standing. I cannot
bear to think of your being in positions to
which you were not born. Do not be offended.
I am a clumsy man with my tongue, as you
know very well.' He spoke with such truth
and kindness, such real feeling in his voice,
that Josephine's heart grew soft. ' I ask no
questions ; I want to know nothing about any
of these matters that have occurred and that
have affected you ; but I do pray you — I
pray you — do nothing without consulting my
mother ; and do not — do not be too proud
to take lier helping hand. Indeed, you can
do my mother no greater favour than ask her
to help you in any and every way.'

Josephine did not answer at once. It was

not possible for her to answer with frankness
without entering into an explanation of her
circumstances, which she could not do to him.
After thinking, and turning his boot about in
her hand, she said : ' I am very sensible. Captain
Sellwood, of your kindness ; and I know
how good and generous your dear mother is,
and how I can rely as well on your father.
He approves of all I have done. You must
not think me wanting in generosity if I change
the subject. You have drawn the conversation
away from your aunt to me, and I had rather
not have it turn about myself, but revert to
what we spoke of at first.'

As you will, Mrs. Cable.'

I think that you must get a gentlewoman
to hive here as companion to Miss Otterbourne,
and strike at once at Mr. Yickary. The housekeeper
and the maid-servants are not bad-hearted
; but no one in the household has
the moral courage to withstand him. Try
to induce your aunt to part with him and
take a suitable companion. Tlien the servants'
hall can be weeded leisurely.'

A tap at the door. The captain called out
to come in, and Josephine looked round to see
who asked admission. She was thinking only
of what she was saying, and had forgotten
where she was, and how strange it would

seem to any one opening the door for her to
be seated by Captain Sellwood's fire in his
private sitting and smoking room talking confidentially
With him.

In the doorway stood Miss Otterbourne ;
and Josephine caught a glimpse of the butler
gliding away from behind her. ' Eeally ! ' exclaimed
the old lady — ' really — I am surprised
—I— I '

'There is your boot, Captain Sellwood,'
said Josephine, starting up, suddenly conscious
of her situation, and hurriedly left the room.

He took the boot, and slowly and clumsily
drew it on. He also saw what an awkward
position they had been in.

Can you allow me a tete-astute ? ' asked the
old lady, somewhat stiffly ; ' or — do you prefer
younger society ? '

It was,' he stammered — ' my — my boot
that Ave were engaged upon. We are old
chums ; we were humming, aunt, only humming.'


CHAPTEE Xliii.

DISMISSAL.

After Mr. Yickary had seen Josephine leave
Captain Sellwood's room ^vith his boot, he
waited about, keeping himself concealed, till
she returned with the boot and shut the door,
whereupon he went to Miss Otterbourne in the
drawing-room, whither she had retired after
dinner, and was waiting for her nephew to
rejoin her, when he had sat sufficiently long
over the wine and dessert.

I beg your pardon, ma'am,' said the
butler ; 'I do hope I'm not taking a liberty,
ma'am ; but may I ask if you told Cable to
go in and out as she liked of the captain's
apartments ? '

Of course not, Yickary.'

'I'm sorry to trouble you, ma'am. I see
her running in there a score of times — it's
remarked by the servants, and rather unpleasant,
and Mrs. Grundy says she has given
no such orders ; so we thought it best, ma'am.

if I were to ask if you, ma'am, had empowered
her so to do. You will excuse me, ma'am,
but when there is talk — and when the young
woman tells les about it '

Lies, Vickary ? '

'Well, ma'am, just now I see her go in
there, and the captain there too. I said to her
that I didn't consider it quite right — it was not
her place; and she told me that the housekeeper
had set her to attend to the room, which,
ma'am, I knew not to be true.'

The captain is in the dining-room.'

I'm sorry to differ from you, ma'am ; but
he went up very quickly to his rooms, and
Cable was in after him directly. It must be
very unpleasant, ma'am, for a young gentleman
to be so run after, and it' makes talk in the
house.'

Miss Otterbourne was much astonished and
greatly indignant. 'Do you mean to tell me,
Vickary, that she is there now ? '

I believe so, madam.'

And the captain is there ? '

I saw him by the fire ; and Cable shut the
door after her when she went in.'

Go and fetch her at once. — No. I will go
myself I really — upon my word — to say the
least — how inconsiderate.'

The old lady was very angry. She raised

herself with difficulty from her armchair, drew
a silk handkerchief over her shoulders, as a
protection against damp or draught outside
the room, and walked in the direction of her
nephew's suite of apartments. When she
opened the door and saw Josephine seated in
an armchair on one side of the fire and the
captain standing near her, in earnest conversation,
she was as irritated as if her nettle crash had
suddenly come out over her temper.

As soon as Josephine had left the room,
Miss Otterbourne said — she Alas panting from
having ascended a flight, and walked fast —
I — I am surprised. These may be Indian
barrack habits, but — but '

Captain Sellwood managed to get his boot
on ; his face was nearly the colour of his stocking.


And only partly dressed too,' gasped Miss
Otterbourne, ' half shod, and — and, with a
hole in your stocking sole. Good heavens, how
indelicate ! '

There was a peg in the boot,' explained
Captain Sellwood.

My dear Algernon, there generally are
pegs in boots.'

I mean — it hurt me, and I asked Josephine
'

Josephine ! '

My dear aunt, we have known each other
since chikh^en.'

Oh ! ' The settlers was alleviated. But
presently it came out adam. ' That does not
explain her coming to visit you in your private
room, sitting in your armchair.'

Where would you have had her sit, aunt ? '

Ali^ernon — she is a servant.'

Aunt — she is a lady.'

A real lady would never have run after
you ito your private apartments.'

She did not run after me. She did not
know I was there. She was picking up the
swansdown I had inconsiderately strewed on the
carpet, when I came in.'

Then she should considerately have gone
out.'

I asked her for a hammer.'

She had no right here. — And are you
aware, Algernon, that you have had a hole the
size of a threepenny piece in the sole of your
foot, at the — heel, exposed ? If you had had
any sense of decency, you would have kept
your foot Hat on the carpet, instead of turning
it up. — I don't care whether she is a lady by
birth and breeding ; she is no lady at heart, or
she would never have sat here half an hour or
three-quarters, staring at a bit of your heel
exposed, the size of a threepenny piece. That

alone stamps her. She has a nasty mind, and
must go.'

My dear aunt — surely you are hard in
judging. There was a peg in my boot that
stood up, and that hurt my foot, and no doubt
at the same time worked the hole in my
stocking.'

That is very probable,' said Miss Otter-bourne.
' But I should like to know, were
you aware it was there ? '

jSTo ; I felt my heel painful ; I do not
think I noticed that my stocking was rent.'

That excuses you, but not her.'

Perhaps she did not see it.'

Nonsense ; of course she saw it.'

Aunt, do sit down '

In that armchair vacated ])y her ! — No !
She has been looking at the hole in your stocking
from that armchair.— I couldn't do it.'

Do what, aunt ? '

Sit in the chair after that ' — the old lady
was now very angry, and very convinced that
Josephine was no lady — 'gloating on it —
positively gloating on it.'

If any blame attaches to any one, it is tome,'
said Captain Sellwood. ' I came in here
out of my bedroom, with my boot in my hand,
for the poker, with which '

Why did you not ring for John Thomas ? '

It was not worth while. Wlien I came in,
I found her on her knees picking up the bits
of down, and I asked her for a hammer, or she
offered one, I do not recollect which ; and then
she whipped the boot out of my hand and went
off with it. It was most good-natured of her.'

'I object to young women being good-natured
with young men. Good-nature may
go too far.'

And then I asked her to sit down. I
wanted to talk to her about Hanford, and my
mother, and mutual acquaintances. I was
awfully sorry for her, to see her in such circumstances.'


I disapprove of young men being, as you
call it, " awfully sorry " for distressed damsels ;
there is no knowing to what this awful sorry
may lead.'

My dear aunt, it was natural. I have
known her, and she was my playmate since we
were children. I do like her ; I always have
liked her. Why, if I were in reduced circumstances,
you, aunt, would not cut met

]^o ' — slightly mollified. ' But I am your
aunt, and not a young creature. That makes
mountains of difference. — And pray, is it only
her reduced circumstances that stirs up in you
such awful sorrow ? She has had some other
trouble, I know. Are you acquainted ^\ith her

intended? Have you brought her a message
from him ? '

She has no intended.'

Then it is broken off! I was sure she has
had an affair of the heart, she has looked so
peaky and pale since she has been here.'

'I do not know anything about her heart
affairs,' said Captain Sellwood. ' I know that
one or two fellows have been awfully fond of
her.'

Indeed ! Is it possible that one who has
confessed to awful sorrow should also allow
awful fondness? That it leads to awful humming,
I have seen with my eyes.'

Captain Sellwood did not answer. He had
spoken inconsiderately, and his aunt had taken
advantage of his mistake.

Good gracious, Algernon ! You don't
mean to tell me that there has been an attachment
in this quarter ? '

No attachment,' he said, looking down
and knitting his brows. ' For an attachment,
the chain must hold at both ends.'

Merciful powers, Algernon ! Can your
mother have sent this chum of yours here to be
out of your way! — You were so infatuated,
there was no knowing what lengths you would
go, and my dear sister hoped that by putting a
distance between you '

VOL. III. G

No, aunt — nothing of the sort.'

'But I must get to the bottom of this.
There is something kept from me. Is it true
that you have — that you have — harboured an
unfortunate passion for this young person —
this chum, as you call her ? '

I did love the young lady. We have
known each other since we were children — at
least since she was a little girl and I a big
boy. She was so lively, so daring, so witty,
I could not help loving her. But that is over
now.'

I should hope so — I should hope so indeed.
A servant-maid — a servant-maid in my house !
Lord have mercy on us ! It is a wonder to me
you did not turn Mohammedan in India, and
put your neck under Juggernaut's car.'

My dear aunt, what have Juggernaut and
his car, and Mohammedanism and Josephine,
to do with each other ? '

What a world we live in ! ' groaned Miss
Otterbourne. ' Radicalism everywhere ! '

You forget, aunt, that she belonged to the
class of life to which I belong. I may tell you
this — that she has inherited a very handsome
estate, but has conscientious scruples, which I
do not understand, because I do not know the
circumstances, against her enjoying it ; and
rather than violate her conscience, she has

come into service to you. I honour and respect
lier for it, aunt ! '

But — she is a servant. She is my lady's-maid.
It does not matter one hair whether she
be heiress to untold millions or be a household
drudge, the moral indelicacy is the same. She
ought never to have sat here in your chair,
talking to you when you had a hole in your
stocking. — Xo, Algernon, you may say wdiat
you ^vill — you may try to throw dust in my
old eyes, but I shall never get over that hole
in your stocking.' She had said enough and
heard enough, and she left the room. — ' Smoke
your cigar,' she said as she left, ' and then
come down to me. I presume you can light it
without the assistance of your chum.'

When the old lady reached her drawing-room,
she was so hot that she sank into her
chair and fanned herself for several minutes
without getting any cooler. She rang the bell,
and bade John Thomas send her Cable at
once; and in two minutes Josephine came to
her.

Gable,' said Miss Otterbourne, fanning
herself vigorously, ' I am surprised and offended.
I did suppose you knew your place
better, and had more delicacy than to sit in a
room with a gentleman who had a hole in his
stocking.'

G 2

Had lie ? I did not know it, ma'am.'

Did not know it ? Of course you knew
it ! I saw by the direction of your eyes, the
instant I came in, that you were examining
it.'

I did not give it a thought, even if I saw
it, and I do not believe I did that. But,
surely, ma'am, there is no harm in that.'

'No harm in sittings in an armchair in the
same room with a gentleman, a captain in Her
Majesty's service, who has been in India, when
he is in a condition of partial undress ! In
such a house as this, such transgressions cannot
be passed over. My nephew informs me that
you have been old acquaintances ; but old
acquaintanceship does not remove all the barriers
of female delicacy, and give a woman
liberty to look at a man's foot without his boot
covering it. It is perhaps allovv^ed us to know
that the other sex has feet, because they are
mentioned in the Bible ; but we know it as we
know that we have antipodes, by faith, not by
sight.' She fanned herself with a vehemence
which made her hot, and fluttered the little
silver barrels on both sides of her brow.
Cable — it does not please me to have simultaneously
unde]' my roof a nephew as a visitor
and an old acquaintance of his — chu)/i he called
you — as a lady's-maid. The situation is incongruous,

and leads, as I have seen to-night, to
injudicious conduct, which may, which has
occasioned scandal ; and such a house as this
must be maintained in its dignity and irre-
probability. Either the captain, my nephew,
or you, my servant, must leave, and leave
without delay.'

Of course, Miss Otterbourne, I will go.'

If you can make it convenient to depart
tomorrow, you will oblige. I am sorry to say
this, but — it is quite impossible for me to have
my nephew and you under the same roof
together. I have the greatest reliance on his
discretion ; I wish I could say the same of
yours. You shall receive, as is your due, a
month's wage, because you leave to suit my
convenience. There is an excellent Refuge
for domestics and governesses out of place at
Bath, to Which I subscribe, and you can go
there till you hear of a situation.'

Thank you, Miss Otterbourne, but I shall
not stay in Bath.'

Will you go back to Hanford ? '

Josephine shook her head.

I am sorry — I am sincerely sorry. There
is so much good about you, so much that I have
liked ; but, under the circumstances, I cannot
retain you. It would not be right ; and in this
house — from myself down, I believe, to the

scullery-maid and the boy who cleans the
knives — I trust we all try to do that which is
right. Mr. Yickary is a burning and a shining
light, and Mrs. Grundy, hardly less so — a moon
beside the sun. But I v/ill not speak of this.
I never dismiss a servant except for some gross
offence — and I really do not believe such has
occurred — without some little testimonial of my
regard ; so you must allow me to present you
with a five-pound note in addition to your
wage. You have been guilty of an indiscretion
I firmly trust, unpremeditated.'

Miss Otterbourne ! '

Where do you purpose going ? ' asked the
old lady. ' I cannot possibly permit you to
depart without some knowledge that you are
going to a place where you will be cared
for.'

I am going ' — Josephine looked down,
then up — ' yes, I am going down into Cornwall'


Into Cornwall ! Where to ? '

To my husband.'

Cable — what ? Husband ! I do not understand.'


^ To my husband, madam.'

You are a married woman ? '

Josephine bowed.

Goodness gracious me ! — But that somewhat

alters the complexion of affairs. A married
woman ! Does my nephew know that ? '

Josephine bowed again.

A married woman ! — But where is your
wedding-ring ? '

In my bosom.'

Miss Otterbourne fanned herself lastly, not
Avitli wrath, but with the agitation occasioned
by amazement. ' Merciful powers ! — you
married ! Who would have thought it ! And
so young, and so pretty ! It hardly seems
possible. But — if you are married — it is not so
dreadfully improper that you should know men
have feet under their boots. I do not say it is
right ; but it is not so very wrong that — that
you should have seen a hole in my nephew's
stocking, because married women do know that
such things occur.'

Josephine smiled ; she thought Miss Otter-bourne
was about to retract her discharge, so
she said : ' Madam, I cannot stay here. I have
explained my reasons to Captain Sellwood,
who will tell you after I am gone. Now I
have made my resolve, I go direct to my
husband.'

The door of the drawing-room opened and
the butler came in. He advanced deferentially
towards Miss Otterbourne, and stood awaiting
her permission to speak.

What is it, Hickory ? Do you want anything?'


It is Cable, madam.'

Well— what of Cable, Yickary ? '

'Please, madam, Cable's husband have come
to fetch her away.'

CHAPTEE Xlviii.

A Repetition.

One Sunday when Eicliard Cable was at home
after he and his children and mother had
dined, he said : ' Now, my dears, we will all
go out and walk together, and see the place
where my new house shall stand with seven red
windows.'

Then the little maids had their straw hat?,
trimmed with blue ribbons, put on, and their
pinafores taken off, and they marched forth with
their father on the road towards Eosscarrock.
It was winter, but mild and warm ; and the sun
shone ; red beech and oak leaves lay thick in the
furrows and sides of the road, and under the
ash-trees the way was strewn as with scraps of
black string. The leaves had rotted, leaving
the mid-ribs bare. The starlings were about
in droves, holding parliament, or church, or
gossiping parties. The holly, grown to trees
in the hedges and woods, was covered in the
hedges with scarlet berries ; but bare of fruit

ill the wood, where the shadow of the oaks and
beech had interfered with the setting of the
flower.

When Cable came to the coveted spot, whom
should he see but Farmer Tregurtha ! In fact,
from his house, Tregurtha had heard the chattering
of the little voices in the clear adjust
like the chattering of the starlings, and someone
had said to him : ' Uncle Dick be coming
along wi' all his maidens.' Then Tregurtha
had walked across the fields to meet him.

Among the Cornish, any old man, or man
past the middle age, is entitled Uncle. Now,
Eichard had not attained the middle point of
life ; but the St. Kerian folk did not know his
age, and thought him older than he really was,
partly because he had so large a family, but
chiefly because his trouble and his gloomy
temper had given a look of age beyond his
years.

Things had not gone well with Tregurtha.
He had been enf^ac^ed in a lonf]^ lawsuit with
Farmer Hamlin about a right of way, and had
lost, it was whispered, several hundreds of
pounds, because he was so obstinate that he
carried his case by appeal from court to court.
Cable knew this very well, and would not have
been the Cable he had become if unready to
profit by it.

Hullo, uncle ! ' called Tregurtlia. ' Glad
to see you home again, and in the midst of
your stars, as the sun among the seven planets.
Ah ! folks always say that children bring luck,
and a seventh maid is born with hands that
scatter gold. Luck has hopped off my shoulders
and lighted on yours. — Have you still a fancy
for Summerleaze ? '

'Where law is handled, luck leaks out,'
answered Packard Cable. ' Come into the
road, and we'll have a word together.' Then
he bade the seven little girls hold hands and
walk on beyond earshot.

They were some time together ; but before
they parted. Cable had agreed to purchase
Summerleaze and to give for it a hundred and
fifty pounds. Tregurtlia was glad to get that
price for it. Thus it was that the land became
Cable's, and the first step was taken towards
the fulfilment of his dream and the realisation
of his ambitious scheme. But he was not yet
prepared to build ; for that he needed more
money.

Once again he was at Bewdley, and he
went there with the determination of seeing
Josephine, without allowing her to see him but
when he was there, some indistinct feeling held
him back, and he went away without having
caught sight of her ; but he had made inquiries

concerning her of this landlady, Mrs. Stokes,
without appearing to interest himself especially
about her. No sooner was he away, with his
face turned homewards, than he regretted his
lack of courage, and made a fresh resolve to
see her.

And now that he was possessed of land, he
became more eager after money and more adventurous
in his speculations. He was never
at rest. He denied himself the supreme
pleasure life had for him — the pleasure of
being at home with his children. He travelled
over the north of Cornwall, from Bodmin and
Camelford to Stratton, and through the poor
land from the Tamar to Noteworthy and
Hatherleigh, buying stock and sending it off.
He purchased all the calves he could m the
dairy country and sold them to the stock-rearing
farmers, and the money was never idle in
his pocket ; he turned it and turned it, and it
multiplied in his hands.

Then Cable went to Mr. Spry, the mason,
and ordered him to build the house. ' I will
have it a long house,' he said. ' The ground
rises so sharp behind, that it cannot be more
than one room deep, and so I will have seven
red windows upstairs — three on one side and
three on the other, and two below to right and
two to left and two shams, and over the door

in the middle a window. That will make seven
windows in the front upstairs and four below ;
and on one side of the door shall be the dwelling
part for me and my children ; and on the
other side of the door shall be the kitchen and
back-kitchen ; and there shall be a great sort
of lobby and hall in the middle, where the
children can romp of a rainy day ; and because
the land falls away so rapidly in front, there
must be a flight of stone steps up to the main
entrance.'

When this was settled, away went Eichard
Cable again, and now he went to Bewdley, and
as he travelled he thought : ' I should like her
to see my land and my house that I am building,
and how I am"going to make myself a gentleman
and all my maidens to be ladies, with no help
from her, all out of my own work with my head
and hands.'

In this frame of mind he arrived at Bewdley,
but without having come to a decision whether
he would see her or not. Perhaps, some day,
when Eed Windows was finished, he would
have a large photograph taken of it, with the
colours put in, green for the trees, and red for
the windows, and send it to lier by post. When
she saw the picture and read under it, ' Eed
Windows, the property of Llr. Eichard Cable,'
then she would learn how o-reat and rich a man

he had become, and how he throve when
separated from her.

He was at the Bewdley tavern again, and
he looked at Mary Stokes, and toil her mother
that the girl was growing into a fine little
woman. ' Down in the west where I am,' said
he, ' there are no girls, only maidens. If you
speak of a girl, they either don't know what
you mean, or think you mean something insulting.
I suppose, now, in a little while you'll bethinking
of getting Mary a situation in the
great house ? What will she take to ? — housemaids'
work or the kitchen ? The nursery is
out of the question where a baby's voice has
not been heard for over half a century.'

Mrs. Stokes shook her head. 'No, Mr.
Cable, my little girl don't go there.'

But why not ? You're a tenant under the
lady.'

I shouldn't wish it,' said Mrs. Stokes,
mysteriously. ' I don't mind saying as much
to you, as you're a stranger, and can't or
wouldn't hurt me with Mr. Vickary or the old
lady — but, I can't afford to send my Mary
there.'

Can't afford ! Is it like an appointment
in the army, more cost than gain ? '

Mrs. Stokes again shook her head. ' You
see, Mr. Cable, things in that house ain't as

they ought to be ; and I wouldn't have my
child there not for a score of pounds. The old
lady, she's good and innocent, and thinks she'll
make all the world about her into Christians ;
but, Lord love you ! that house is not a
Christian household outside of her sitting-room.'

What do you mean ? ' asked Richard, uneasily
working on his chair.

I don't mind saying it before you, because
you're a stranger, and Wouldn't hurt a fly, let
alone me ; but Mr. Vickary is a bad lot, and
he leads the old madam by the nose. Bless
you ! if it was only picking and stealing, I'd
shut my mouth and say nothing, for what is
riches given to some for, but that those who
haven't may help themselves out of their
abundance ? But ' — she began to scrub the
table — ' there be things go on there, or is said
to go on, that would make decent mothers shy
of sending their servants into that house.'

Eichard's face became red as blood, and his
hair bristled on his head. If Mrs. Stokes had
looked at him instead of looking at the table
she was scouring, she would have been startled
by his face.

Lord, Mr. Cable, when you come to think
of it, it is wonderful what a lot of evil is done
in the world by them as intend to do good — I
do in truth believe, more than by the out-and-out

wicked ones. And I take it the reason is,
your well-intending people begin their bettering
of others by taking leave of common sense
themselves. — There comes Mr. Polkinghorn ;
don't say nothing of all this to him.'

How do you do, Mr. Cable P How are
we, Mrs. Stokes ? ' asked the pleasant footman
entering, rubbing his hands. ' A little frosty
to-night. I shall be glad of brandy-and-water
hot, please, and sugar. — How go the calves in
the van, sir, and the kids at home ? '

And how is my namesake, Mr. Polling
? '

Oh, the lovely Cable ! ' He shrugged his
shoulders. ' I don't think she'll be much
longer with us.'

What — dying ? ' The colour deserted
Eichard's brow.

dear, no ! Very far from that — a little
too much alive — that is all.'

I do not take your meaning, Mr. Polling


'I have a tendency to cloudiness,' answered
the flunky. ' I have generally been thought a
^YQg, — Thank you, Mrs. Stokes. This is real
cognac, I hope, and the water boiling ? ' Having
been satisfied on this score, Mr. Polkinghorn
poured himself out a stiff glass. ' The cold
settles in the stomach, Mr. Cable,' he explained.

What about my namesake P ' again asked
Eichard, whose face was serious, and who sat
with his hand to his head, looking across the
table at the footman.

'Oh, as to Miss C. — we'll use initials, and
that obviates the chance of giving offence —
she's a high-flyer.'

She is proud and disdainful, you mean ? '

That she is. But that is not what I allude
to.' He took a pipe and filled it with tobacco.
You see, my dear sir, we've had our captain
staying with us.'

Who is your captain ? '

The old woman's nephew, Captain Sell-wood.'


Cable's fingers twitched ; the nails went into
his brow.

I don't myself give credence to all I hear ;
but there's a talk that the lovely C. is setting
her cap at the captain. That's a pun, you will
understand.'

Cable did not laugh.

The flunky explained : ' I am a joker. — I
don't pretend to say where fact ends and
fiction begins,' Mr. Polkinghorn went on to say,
because what I have heard has come from the
lips of old v., and old Mr. V. can colour
matters to suit himself, just as a blancmange
can be made pink with a drop of cochineal ;

VOL. in. H

or, if you prefer another similitude, lie can
flavour his facts to his taste, as you can any
pudding with ratafia or vanilla. There must
be something to go upon, or you can't colour
or flavour at all. That stands to reason. — Are
you particularly interested in Miss Cable ? '

She bears my name,' said Eichard sternly.

Ah, quite so ! I understand the feeling.
I myself could not endure the thought of a
Polkinghorn doing a dirty act ; but — I don't
believe a Polkinghorn could so demean himself
the name would hold him up.'

What is the fact, coloured or clear P '

Oh, I can't say. V. will have it that Miss
C. has been carrying it on with the captain,
and there has been a rumpus accordingly ; and
the old woman has had to interfere, and — I do
not believe that she will let the beautiful and
fascinating C. remain much longer with us —
that is Avhat V. says ; but V. has never taken
warmly to the C. ; she has been short with
him.'

Then Cable stood up, and without another
word, went out of the inn — he went out forgetful
that he had not his hat upon his head, and
he walked hastily in the direction of Bewdley
Manor.

How wonderful is man's life ! It turns
about like a wheel, and he does those things

to-day wliicli he did some time agone. But no
not those things exactly. They differ in
particulars, but in direction they are the same.
His life moves in spirals, ever reverting to
where it ran before, but never quite going over
the same around. On one memorable evenings

O D

Josephine had been in Brentwood Hall, and
Eichard had run to bring her thence, hatless,
coates, breathless. Now he went, by night,
to another great house, also through a park,
hatless, breathless, but not on this occasion
coates — there was the difference. On that
former occasion, Josephine was the most
honoured guest in the great house ; now she was
the least esteemed servant in this great house.

For many thousands of years men believed
that storms blew over their heads, tearing up
trees, unroofino' houses, flashing' with electric
bolts, pursuing a direct course. They held
that storms never swerved to one side or the
other till they had expended their violence.
Now we are told that no storm travels thus —
they ail move in a rotary course ; they whirl
across the earth and sea like aerial spinning-tops.
We have supposed, and wee still suppose,
that men go straight courses from birth to
death ; but is it so ? Is not the spirit of mana
blast of the Great Spirit that sweeps along-through
life in a succession of revolutions ? Do

II 2

we not find, when we look back at. our own
past history, that we do again and yet again
the same things — that again and yet again we
drive in the same direction one day, and in the
opposite on the morrow ? I myself, when I
shut my eyes and hold my face in my hands,
can hear the spirit within me whirling and
humming, and eager to sweep me away into
some folly that I committed a few months ago,
and vowed then I would never commit again.

We think the same thoughts, as we speak
the same words, and, alas, tell the same old
stories, and crack the same old jokes, day after
day, in our little teetotum spin. What an
amount of impetus there is in our movement !
what a whir, what a hum we make ! — but what
a little movement forward in the straight line
there is for the vast amount of rotary hurry
and noise ! On this evening, Eichard Cable
was doing very much the same thing he had
done on another evening, the memory of which
still scorched his brain ; and he was doing that
which he had resolved never to do again. He
did it with a difference. We all do our little
rounds with a difference. He went this time
with his coat on his back ; but he was as hot,
and as agitated, and as breathless as before.

See what an advance the man had made !
He went in his coat ; though, I grant, he went

this time in this coat chiefly because he had his
coat on his back when the impulse started him
to go. Still this was an advance, a distinct
advance.

Eichard Cable stood still when he came to
the house. He tried to collect his thoughts
and resolve what to do. But the dos in the
backyard began to bark furiously, and its bark
distracted him ; he could not gather his ideas.
He knew that Josephine was in a place which
she could not remain in without some taint
adhering to her. She was under the same
roof with the man who had loved her and had
proposed to her ; a man of her own class, a
man whom she had known for long. Eichard
put from him at once the thought that she
was, what the footman said, consciously
making up to ' the captain ; but he was by
no means sure that unconsciously she might be
drawn towards him.

On that other evening when he had run to
Brentwood, he had been unable to gather his
thoughts ; but he had seen clearly one thing —
that his wife ought to be with him in his great
trouble ; so now, his mind was confused, yet
one idea shone out clear through the fo"^ of
thoughts — that his wife must not be allowed to
remain another night in Bewdley Manor. On
that other evening, he thought of himself; on

this, he thought of her. Then, lie it was who
needed a stay ; now, it was not he, but she.
So, With this one idea fixed in his mind, with
his ears full of the noise of the dog-barking,
and with the throb of the blood in the pulses
in his ears, he went into the house. But how
he encountered the butler, and where and how
he made known what he needed, and how he
was brought upstairs and confronted with
Josephine and Miss Otterbourne in the great
state drawing-room, that he never was able
to remember distinctly. He saw everything
about him through a haze, as though smoke
were rising, or the carpet steamed like a
ploughed field in the morning sun. He saw
his wife, but she seemed to him as afar ofi'— as
if he saw her through a 2[lass. He made no
effort to collect his thoughts ; he formed no
resolution as to the course he would pursue,
but he said : ' I have come for my wife.
Give her up to me. This is no place for her.
I insist on her coming with me — at once —
wherever I choose to take her.'

Then Josephine said: 'Eichard— I will
follow you wherever you go.'

CHAPTER XLIX.

A Dropped ' S.'

Richard Cable wheeling a barrow that he had
borrowed from the stables, laden with Josephine's
box, went out of the grounds of
Bewdley Manor, and Josephine walked at his
side.

Eichard,' she said, ' how comes it that
you are lame ? '

You have lamed me.'

Eichard,' she said, ' how ordered you are.'

You have ordered me.'

'And bent.'

'You have bowed my back.'

Do not speak unkindly to me,' she pleaded.
I know I have done wrong, and am sorry
for it.'

When you break china, can you mend it
that the cracks do not show and that it will
hold as before ? '

She did not answer this question.

And man's heart, when it is broken, can it

be patched up ? If you pour love into it again,
does not the love run out at all sides and leave
the vessel dry ? '

You do not forgive me, Eichard ? '

I do not — I cannot.'

Then why have you come for me now ? '

Because you bear my name, and, to my
woe, are my wife, and — I would not have you
there, where a stain may come on the name,
and where my wife may be — nay, is, lightly
spoken of. Mind you continued Cable, bending
between the handles of the barrow, ' I do
not mistrust your conduct. Though he is thereunder
the same roof with you who loved you,
and perhaps loves you still, I have no doubt
about your conduct. God spare me that ! I
know you to be proud and cruel, but I know
also that you are not light. You have brought
me down, but not to such baseness as to think
that.'

I thank you for that, Eichard, at all events
for that. — Where am I going now? What will
you do with me ? '

'You are going now to the inn, to Mrs.
Stokes. Where you go next, what I do with
you after this night, I cannot tell ; you shall
know tomorrow. My head is like the old
lightship in a chopping sea.'

As soon as they reached the tavern, Eichard

brought Josephine in, and said to the malady :
This is my wife ; take her in for the night ;
give her my room. I am going out, and shall
not be back before morning. If she needs anything,
let her have it, and stint her not.' He
said no farewell to Josephine, but went out at
the door, wiping his brow on his sleeve.

He walked by the river. He had not got
his stick, and lie cut himself one from the
hedge ; and as the night was dark and he had
to grope among them for a suitable stick, he
tore his hands, and they were covered with
blood, and when he wiped his brow the smears
came on his face. He obtained a good stout
stick at last on which he could lean, and he
stood resting on it by the river, looking over the
slowly flowing water to the dark horizon, and
the red glare in the sky beyond over Bath.

The season was autumn, the time when, at
the rising of the sun, the whole face of a field
and every hedge are seen to be covered with
cobwebs strung with dew. And now, in the
night, the air was full of these cobwebs ; one
might have thought they were spun in heaven,
and came down charged with water. They
drifted in the light air, and the dew that rose
settled on the minute fibres and weir-hed them
down, that they came leisurely down — down
through the raw night-air. They settled over

Eicliard's head — they fell on this face — they
CAine on his hands, and he was forced to brush
them away, because they teased him. There
"were other cobwebs, in this brain, confusing,
teasing that, charged also with drops, bitter and
salt ; but these he could not sweep away — he
thrust them aside, and they spread again ; he
squeezed them together and wrung out the
brine and gall, and they unfurled and fell again
over his brain. They obscured his sight of the
future ; they troubled his thought of the present
; and they all rose, thick, teasing, even
torturing out of the past ; and all the myriad
threads went back to one root — Josephine.
But as in a web there are fibres and cross-fibres,
so was it with this inner cobweb — there were
some revengeful and others pitiful ; some hard
and others soft ; some of hate and some of love ;
yet by night, as he stood by the water, striking
now with his hand, then with his stick, at the
falling cobwebs, he could not distinguish one
thread from another ; so one feeling was interlaced
and intermingled with another, that they
were not to be unravelled.

There still lurked in his mind that fear of
Josephine which he had first entertained when
he saw her on the stranded lightship and heard
her sing the Mermaid's song ; that fear which
his mother had detected in him when he lay

crippled at the ' Magpie,' and which lie at oiice
brought back to its true source — love. Eichard
Cable did not know that there remained any
trace of his old love there ; he thought that all
his feeling for Josephine was anger and resentment
; but he was not a man given to self-analysis.
He was aware of the ever-presence
of pain in his soul, and he knew who had hurt
him, but hardly the nature of that pain. We
carry about with us for many sears, may bea
something in us that never allows us to forget
that all is not well — a spasm of the heart, a
gnawing pain in the chest, a shooting-needle in
the brain, a racking cough, and we do not consult
a physician : we may soon outgrow it ; it
came on after an overstrain, a chill, and a long
rest will recover us of it. What it is we do
not know ; we generally attribute it to a wrong-cause,
and regard it as that which it is not.
It is so also with our mental aches — we have
them ; we go on enduring them, and often
wholly misinterpret them. Eichard supposed
that he had acted out of regard for his own
name, that the fever and alarm he had felt was
occasioned by no other dread ; but when he
sprang up from Mrs. Stokes' table and hurried
to the manor-house to fetch away Josephine,
he had not thought about the preservation of
the name of Cable from a slur, only of her — of

lier in bad moral surroundings, of lier exposed
to slights, and perhaps temptations. On this
night, the sight of her in her quiet servant's
dress, with her face pale, the eyes deep, the
lines of her countenance sharp drawn, had
strangely affected him. He thought that it
had roused in him his full fierceness of resentment
for wrong done ; but he was mistaken —
the deepest bell in the rugged belfry of his
heart had never ceased thnllinc^ from the first
stroke dealt it ; and now it was touched again
by the sight of her face and the sound of her
voice, and the whole mass quivered with its
renewed vibrations. Though the dew fell
heavily, Eichard Cable did not feel the moisture
; and though there was frost, he was
not cold. The night vas long, but he was
unaware of its length.

He did not return to the inn till morning,
and then he had formed a plan, and he had
gained the mastery over himself. Early though
the hour was when he arrived, he found
Josephine already down. Contrary to his
former frank ways, he did not look her full in
the face ; he felt his weakness and would not
venture to do so. He spoke to her only when
necessary, and Avitli restraint in his tone. The
voice was liard and his face drawn and cold.

I truck my young calves to Exeter,' he

said. 'We will go thither by train. After
that, you will have to come the rest of the way
in my conveyance, unless you prefer the coach.'

No,' answered Josephine ; ' I will go with
you.'

He drew a weary breath ; he would have
preferred to send her by the coach. The
oppressiveness of a journey with her was not
to be contemplated with composure.

Then,' said he, ' we will start at once ;
that is, when I have got my calves in truck.
The train is at ten-fifteen. You will be at the
station. I will speak to a man to fetch your
box, and I will pay him. Have it ready
labelled for the Clarendon Hotel at Exeter.'

The Clarendon ! Is that where you stay
when there ? '

The Clarendon is where you shall be.
You will be well cared for there ; it is a good
hotel, the best in Exeter ; it looks out on the
close, and is very respectable.'

Shall you be there, Eichard ? '

No ; I go elsewhere. Calves are not
taken in at first-class hotels.'

But I had rather, a thousand times rather,
be with you.'

I have my calves to suckle. I must go
where I am accustomed to go, and where I can
get milk for them.'

But wliy slioukl I not go there too ? I
will help you with your calves.'

He lauded harshly. ' You are a lady.'

I am a servant-girl out of place,' she said
with a faint smile.

They drink and swear and curse and fight,
where I go,' he growled.

No, Eichard — you go to no place that is
bad. Where you go I will go also.'

He did not look in her face ; he could
hardly have resisted the appeal, had he done
so, her face was so full of earnestness, so pale
and anxious, so humble, and the eyes so full of
tears. Perhaps he knew that he could not
resist, were he to meet her eyes, so he kept his
own averted. But the tones of her voice
thrilled him, and made his head spin. He bit
the end of his whip, with his brows knitted.
He knew her great eyes, those lovely eyes that
went through him when he met them, were
fixed on him ; but he would not turn towards
them ; his face became more frozen and drawn.
'You,' he said — by her Christian name he
would not call her — you — understand me. I
am not Eichard to you. You must speak of
me and address me as Mr. Cable.'

But — I am your wife.'

No,' he said ; ' that is all past and for ever
done with. For a little while, and then the

tie was torn away by yourself. You are coming
with me into Cornwall, to St. Kerian. There
you will live as you like. If you want money,
you shall have it ; but you shall not live there
as my wife, but as Miss Cornellis, or by any
other name you like to assume. My mother
will see you want nothing ; you shall not live
in my house ; you will be a stranger there ;
but my mother — and I, yes, and I, will know
how you are, what you do, and that you do
not again fall into evil company, and run the
risk of '

Of what ? I ran no risk.'

No,' he said ; ' you ran no risk. 'No. You
are proud, proud as Satan ; and yet Satan, for
all his pride, fell.'

The tears which had formed in her eyes
rolled over her cheeks. The disappointment
was very great. She had hoped that he was
going to take her back to himself. ' You need
have no fear for me,' she said in a voice half
choked with her tears ; ' I have that in mee
which will always hold me true and upright.
Not pride ; no, not pride — that is broken
long ago, ever since I found I had driven you
away.'

What is it ? ' Still he did not look at her,
but he turned his ear attentively towards her.
She might have seen, had not her eyes been so

dim with salt, that a nerve down the side of
his face from the temple was twitching.

It is, that I love you,' she answered in a
low, faint voice, but little above a whisper.

Then he stamped on the sanded floor of the
village inn parlour, and clenched his hands, and
stood up, and shook himself, like a great
hairy dog when it leaves the water. ' Ha,
ha ! ' he laughed ; ' as of old, to patronise and
play with, and then break to pieces, as a child
loves its doll. I will have none of your love.
I have tasted it, and it is sour.'

Eichard ! '

He struck the table. ' I am not Eichard —
to you. That is part of your grand condescending
ways. You shall call me Mr.
Cable. Who knows ! — in time you may come
to look up to me, when I am rich and esteemed.
Mr. Cable of Eed Windows, Esquire.' Then
he went forth tossing his shoulders, and he put
on his hat in a hot and impatient way.

A struggle ensued in Josephine's bosom.
It was hard for her to go down into a strange
country and there live, in the same village with
her husband, without being acknowledged by
him, divided by all England fi-om her own
friends. He was asking too much of her,
putting her through too sharp an ordeal ; and
yet, after a little boil up of her old pride and

wilfulness, she bent to his decision. It was not
for her to rebel. She had wTOudit the dish



union that had subsisted between them ; she
had made the great change in him ; and she
must submit, and suffer and wait, till he took
her back. She must accept his terms, not
impose terms of her own.

She was at the station at the thine appointed,
and Eichard handed her a second-class ticket
to Exeter. He travelled in the van with his
calves, and she saw nothing of him till their
arrival. Then he came to the carriage door,
called a cab, shouldered her box himself, and
limped with it to the carriage. ' To the
Clarendon,' he said, shut the door, and climbed
on the box.

On reaching the inn, an old-fashioned
hotel, looking out on the close with its great
trees and gray cathedral, he descended, let her
out of the cab, and preceding her, ordered the
waiter to let her have a room. ' The lady —
she is, mind you, a real lady — she must have a
good room, and a capital supper, and a fire, and
be made comfortable. — Don't you stare at meas
if I had aught of concern with her. I'm a
common man, a cattle-jobber ; but I'm charged
to see after her, and that she be well attended
to, as a real well-born lady, full of education
and high-class manners. As for me, I put up

VOL. III. I

elsewhere — at the " Goat and Compasses,"
down by the iron bridge. I'll come in the
morning and fetch her away. It is my duty,
set me by them as are responsible for her, to
see that she be cared for and made comfortable.'
Then he went away.

Josephine was given a well-furnished bedroom,
with a large window, looking out on the
elms and grass and old towers. Her box was
in the room ; and she opened it, and drew from
it some little things she needed. Then she
bathed her face, and seated herself by the window,
looking out into the quiet close. The
bells of the cathedral were ringing for afternoon
service, deep-toned musical bells. The autumn
had touched the leaves and turned them. The
swallows were clustering on the gray lead roof
of the minster, arranging for migration. There
was coolness in the air ; but it was not too
chilly for Josephine to sit at the open window,
looking at the trees and listening to the bells.
She felt very lonely, more lonely than at
Bewdley. There she had the association
with old Miss Otterbourne to take off the
edo-e of her sense of solitude ; but now she
had no one. She was with her husband, yet
far removed from him. She was associated
with him without association. It was better to
be separated altogether, than to be in his presence

daily without reciprocation. She drew
her wedding-ring from her bosom and looked
at it. The night before she had put it
on, and had hesitated whether to wear it again ;
but had rehung it round her neck, determined
to wait another day and see what her husband's
wishes and intentions and behaviour to her
were, before she did so. And now, as she
looked sorrowfully at the golden hoop, lie
knew that it must continue to hang as before ;
he had forbidden her to acknowledge her tie to
him and to wear his name.

How strange is the perversity of the human
heart ! She lead married Eichard Without loving
him ; and now that she had lost him, she
loved him. Her love had started up out of
her anguish over her Avrong done him. He
had loved her when she had only highly
esteemed him ; and now she loved him when he
despised her.

She knelt by her box, and looked over her
little treasures. They were few. Her bullfinch
she had not brought away ; she had given
it to the housemaid who had cleaned her room.
She turned over her few clothes in the box and
unfolded Eichard's blue handkerchief In a
cardboard box was the bunch of everlasting.
They were now very dry, but they retained
their shape and colour. ' Everlastings ! ' she

I 2

said, and recalled the night in the deserted cottage,
when lie asked the rector whether he was
looking up at the everlastings. ' To the Everlasting,'
he had answered, and she had not understood
him ; but she remembered the scene
and the words he had used.

The cathedral bells had ceased, and across
the close came the sounds of music —-the roll of
the organ and the voices of the choir. Josephine
closed her box and locked it, and went
back to the window and listened to the soothing
strains. Then, drawn as by an irresistible
attraction, she went downstairs, and crossed the
close, and entered the side door of the cathedral.
She did not go far ; she made no attempt
to enter the choir, but seated herself in the
aisle on the stone seat that ran along the wall.
The evening light shone thorough the great west
window, and filled the upper portion of the
nave with a soft yellow glow. Below were the
gray pillars and cool gray shadow. There were
few loungers in the nave, and she was quite
unnoticed. Her love of music made her always
susceptible to its influence. The effect of the
sacred music in the great Gothic minster on
Josephine, in her then state of depression, was
great : it soothed her mind ; it was like a
breath on a wound, lulling the pain and cooling
the fever.

For long there had been in Josephine a
craving for help, for something, or rather someone
whom she could lay hold of and lean on.
It was this want in her which had driven her
to take Eichard Cable, in defiance of her
father's wishes and of the opinion of the world.
Eichard had failed her, and she had cast herself
into a sphere in which she was as solitary and
lacking assistance as much as in that she lead
occupied before. And now, once again, she
was torn out of that sphere, and was about to
be cast — she knew not where, among — she
knew not wdiat companions — and again she was
without support.

She sat With her head bowed and her
hands clasping her bosom, listening to the
music. Her soul was bruised and aching, like
the body that has been jolted and beaten.
But the hurt body is cast on a bed and sleeps
away its pains. Where is the bed of repose
on Which the weary suffering spirit can stretch
itself and be recruited ? Josephine was not
thinking at all ; she was feeling, conscious of
want and weariness, of a void and pain. The
aisle in which she was, was on the north side
of the church ; and quite in shadow, only in
the beautiful vault of the nave, with its reed-ike
spreading ribs, hung a halo of golden haze;
and in that golden haze the sweet music seemed

to thrill and throb, aud send down waves of
aerial balm.

The pain in Josephine's heart became more
acute, and she bent on one side and rested her
elbow on the stone seat and put Iier hand to
her heart and breathed laboriously. The attitude
gave her some ease ; and as she half
reclined thus, the waves of golden light and
angelic music swept over her, softly, gently,
as the warm sea-waves used to glide in over
the low Essex coast. Presently, Josephine slid
down on her knees and laid her head on the
cold stone seat. Then only did the meaning
of the rector come clear to her, when he
dropped an s as she spoke of the everlastings,
and he answered her, that he looked to the
Everlasting.

CHAPTER L.

BOOTS Again.

IJs'ext morning, Josephine found a cab awaiting
her. Cable had paid her bill and sent the conveyance
for her. He had given instructions to
the driver to convey her along the Okeliamp-
ton and Launceston road beyond the town to
a point where, at the head of the first hill,
stood a fragment of an old stone cross. She
had fancied that he would have come with his
van of calves into the cathedral yard, drawn
up before the Clarendon Hotel, and had her
box laden on the van there ; but Eichard
Cable had too much delicacy under his roughness
of manner to subject her to such a
humiliation ; she was to leave the Clarendon
as she had come to it, in a hired conveyance,
and as a lady ; only when beyond the town
would he receive her box and her on his van.

She reached the cross before him, and dismounted.
When she opened her purse, the
driver objected — he had already received his

fare. The man who had ordered him had
paid. Josephine had her box placed by the
side of the road. A little inn stood near the
cross, and the landlady good-naturedly asked
her to step in — if she were waiting for the
coach. ' Xo charge, miss ; you needn't take
anything.'

Thank you,' said Josephine modestly ;
you are very kind ; but I am not going by
the coach. A gentleman — I mean a man
who drives a van of calves, is going to pick
me up.'

Oh, you mean Dicky Cable. He often
goes by our way.'

Yes ; I am going on with Mr. Cable.' As
she spoke, she saw the cob, and Cable limping
at its side, ascending the red road cut between
banks of red sandstone hung with ferns and
overarched with rich limes.

He looks very greatly changed,' said Josephine
to herself — ' ordered, hardened, and
somewhat lame.'

Presently he came up. Vain had fallen in
the night, and the red mud was splashed about
his boots and the wheels of the van. The
calves within put their noses between the bars
and lowed ; they were frightened by the motion
of the vehicle ; but they were not hungry, for
they had been fed by Cable before starting.

He scarcely said good-morning to Josephine ;
it was mumbled, but he touched his hat to her.
Then he shouldered her travelling-box and put
it on the top of the van. This van consisted
of a sort of pen or cage on wheels ; the sides
and top were constructed like a cage, with
bars of wood, and between the bars the air
got to the calves, and the calves were visible.
There was a seat in front, and the door into
the pen was behind — it let down so as to form
an inclined plane, up and down which the
calves could Avalk, when driven into or out of
the cage.

How was Josephine to be accommodated
in such a contrivance? Was she to o^o into
the cage among the calves, or to be slung
under the conveyance between the wheels, or
to be perched on the top, as in an omnibus ?
Richard pointed with this whip to the driver's
seat.

Am I to sit there?' she asked. — He nodded.

Then where do you sit ? '

He got upon the shaft, as a carter perches
himself.

'I do not like to take your place,' said
Josephine. ' You will be very uncomfortable
there.'

It is not the first time you have made me
uncomfortable. Sit where I have put you. I

must be off every few minutes when we come
to a hill ; then I walk.'

That was — he limped. His thigh was well,
but he never could walk Avitli it as formerly.
It gave him no pain, and his movements were
not ungainly, but there was a decided limp ashe
walked.

He was not in a mood for conversation.
Josephine could touch him as he sat at her
feet on the shaft with his back to her. He did
not once look round : he went about his work,
driving, walking, attending to the calves, as if
he were quite alone. Nevertheless, he must
have thought of her, for when he came to a
piece of road newly stoned, he went leisurely,
and glanced furtively behind — not at her face
to see that the jolting did not hurt her ; and
when a shower came on, without a word he
threw his waterproof coat over her knees.
Presently they came to a long ascent. He got
down and walked. She also descended and
walked on the other side from him. She
wondered whether his silence would continue
the whole way, whether he would relax his
sternness.

The journey was tedious ; the cob travelled
slowly, and the stoppages were long, whilst
farmers haggled with Eichard over the price of
the calves. The sale of these latter did not,

however, begin till the road left the red sandstone
and approached Dartmoor. The yeomen
and farmers in proximity to the moor were a
thriving race ; they could send any number of
young cattle to run on the moor at a nominal
fee to the ' moore ' — that is, to ceram fellows
who had the privilege to guard the vast
waste of rock and down, of mountain and
valley, under the Prince of Wales as Duke of
Cornwall ; for Dartmoor forest is duchy property
though situated in Devon, and indeed
occupying its licart. To the present day, it is
about the borders of the moor that the old
yeoman is still to be found, occupying in n^any
cases his ancestral farm, the buildings of which
date back three or four hundred years. They
consist of a large quadrangle ; one side is occupied
by the dwelling-house, that looks into the
yard, but is divided from it by a small raised
garden. The major portion of the yard or
court is a pen for the half wild cattle driven in
from the moor ; and about it are the stables
and cow-houses, the ' shipped,' and the ' linnets '
the ' shipped ' for sheep, and the ' linnets '
for waggons and carts and the farmer's gig.

The worst seasons do not affect the yeomen
round the moor ; they must thrive, when they
have free run for any number of sheep and
cattle and horses over the downs, where the

grass is always sweet, the water pure, and
where disease never makes its appearance. All
they have to concern themselves about is a
supply of winter-food for the stock. Elsewhere,
the depression in agriculture, the repeal
of the corn-laws, killed off the yeomen ; only
on the moor fringes do they thrive to this day
as sturdy, as well-to-do, and as independent,
and, it must be added, as delighting in law as
of old. Dartmoor lay on the south and east,
and the cold clay land of North Devon on the
west ; land also, as already said, that is excellent
running: and rearing o-round for young
cattle. Consequently, Eichard Cable, as soon
as he reached the frontiers of these two poor
lands — one peat, and the other clay — found
buyers, but not buyers who were ready to part
with their money without a haggle over coppers.
It was not Eichard who went after the
farmers with his goods, as a chapman goes
about among farmhouses with his wares ; but
the yeomen and farmers came to him. But
when they came, they made poor pretences
that they had chanced on him when bound
elsewhere, or were at the tavern for some other
purpose. The times of Eichard's arrival where
pretty well known. The van travelled slower
than the news, as the thunder rolls after the
flesh. The men who came after calves were

all alike in this — they had very red faces, and
all filled their clothes to overflow. They had
all loud and cheery voices, and a breezy good-humour
not unmixed with bluster, bred of the
consciousness that their pockets were well lined,
and that they were petty lords on their own
domains. In one thing, they, moreover, were
all deficient— in the knowledge of the value of
time. Josephine looked on with wonder at
the business Eichard did and at the way in which
it was done. The scenery was lovely, so lovely
that she enjoyed it in spite of the trouble in
which she was. The ranges of tors, or granite
peaks of the moor, its wildness and barrenness,
contrasted with the richness of the country at
its feet ; now clothed in the many-tinted garment
of autumn, gray desolation towering above
pillowy woods of gold and amber, of copper
and of green. What could be more beautiful?
In her present weariness of expectation and
disappointment, she longed to fly to the recesses
of the moor, build herself a cell there of
lichened granite stones, and there spend the
rest of her days away from the sight and
sounds of men.

At noon on the first day, the van halted at
a small wayside inn, and Eichard ordered dinner.
There is but ham and eggs,' he said. ' Your
ladyship must put up with that to-day. The

ale is bad, but you shall have tolerable ginger-beer.'


The night was spent at an old coaching-inn,
a large, rambling place with vast stables. There
she was treated to an excellent supper and to
the best of rooms ; but Eichard did not sup
with her, or indeed see her after their arrival
at the inn.

Next morning he paid the account, and they
started on their further course. Her boots had
been well cleaned ; not so those of Cable,
which still bore the red mud splashes that
had come on them when they were in the sandstone
district.

It was now clear to Josephine that Eichard
would not agree to a reconciliation ; she must
abandon the hopes she had entertained that he
would unbend and yield. She also had made
up her mind ; and when they came to a hill,
up which both walked, she went to him on
his side of the horse. ' Mr. Cable,' she said,
you are at once kind and cruel. You provide
for me very differently than for yourself, and
make provision that I shall lack no comfort ;
but you do not give me a good word, and nota
look good or bad.'

Well,' said he, ' of whom have I learned
to be cruel ? You were scornful and offensive
because I did not in a few weeks acquire your

ways ; and now I am better, I have learned
something — that you have taught me — to be
unfeeling and seek my own self-interest.'

No ; I was never either one or the other.'

He laughed contemptuously. 'Not unfeeling
! '

No, Eichard — I mean, Mr. Cable — I was
thoughtless, but not unfeeling. I was not self-seeking,
or I would not have married you.'

'You married me to suit a whim; and
when you had me, the whim came to slap mein
the face and sneer at my manners.'

She drew a long sigh ; there was truth in
this, and she did not contradict it.

But we will not cry over spilt milk and
strive to patch up broken eggs. The thing is
done and sealed up and stowed away in the
lockers of the past.'

Tell me this, Eichard : are you so set against
me in your own mind that you will not take me
to your side again? Are we never to come
nearer each other than as I sit on the box, and
you on the shaft, with your back turned to me ?
Is your face always to look away from me ? '

For ever and for ever. It is your doing.'

I have trespassed against you, I know ; but
I suppose to all who trespass, forgiveness is due
when sought with tears.'

No,' he said ; ' your trespass was too deep.'

And I am to be for ever separated from
you ? '

For ever.'

Then — Mr. Cable, if I am not to be regarded
as a wife, I will owe you nothing. I
have money, and I will pay for my lodging and
food at the inns. I will not be indebted to
you for anything. What had you determined
on for me at St. Kerian ? '

I also have money ; I will not let you
want. You shall have all you need to live like
a lady ; you shall have a house and a servant ;
and you shall have half of all the money I earn,
and I earn now a great deal.'

I will not touch it — no, not a penny of it.'

You are proud,' he said, scowling — ' proud
and wilful ; headstrong always.'

And you are proud, Mr. Cable. There is
the fortune of Cousin Gabriel Gotham, your
father, lying untouched; the rents and dividends
are accumulating. You wull not have
them, and I weill not. Yes, you are proud, and
I am proud also. I have some spirit left in me,
though much is gone. I will live at St. Kerian,
as that is your wish ; but I will not share your
earnings — I will not touch any of it. I will
work for my own bread, and not eat that of
charity. I have a little money. Good Miss
Otterbourne forced a five-pound note on me,

and I have saved my wages. I will buy myself
a sewing-machine, and live at St. Kerian by my
own hands and feet. I suppose there is sufficient
vanity among the girls there to make them desire
to dress beyond their station ; and that the
Government schools have done their work
effectually in giving them a distaste for doing
their own needlework. So there will be an
opportunity for me to pick up a livelihood, and
to be indebted to none — to you, least of all.*

Proud,' he muttered — ' proud and wayward,
as of old. I feed my calves. Why should
not I feed you ? '

Because I am not a calf

They walked on in silence some way.
Josephine's blood was roused. After reaching
the top of the hill, before mounting, she said ina
less excited and resolute tone : ' Do not call
me wrong-headed. I have my self-respect to
sustain, and I cannot live on your charity if I
may not bear your name.'

again they drove on some little way — now
over a down that commanded a glorious view

o

of rolling land stretching far away to the west
and north-west, and of rugged granite peaks ;
their sides strewn with overturned rocks,
divided from each other by clefts, out of which
rushed brawling torrents, coffee coloured with

VOL. III. K

the dye of the peat-bogs out of ■\^lncli they
sprung.

When they came to another lise, Josephine
dismounted again and walked up the hill beside
her husband. The hill was steep, and lie
walked bent forward, looking at the ground.
Mr. Cable,' lie said, ' at the inn where we
speait the night, my boots were cleaned, but
not yours.'

iso,' he answered, with a short laugh. ' I
was not there as a grand gentleman traveller,
but as a plain trading wayfarer. They don't
black the boots of such as me.'

They are plastered Avitli mud of many
colours.'

Does it offend you that your driver has
dirty boots, my lady ? '

No, Mr. Cable ; but I think it would be
pleasant for yourself, if your boots were
cleaned.'

My boots ! I remember what offence they
gave you once. They would not take a polish.
They where so steeped in oil that they might
not come into your ladyship's boudoir ! Are
you sneering at my boots again ? '

No, Eichard ; I never sneer now.' Lie
put her delicate hand over her brow and wiped
it, and then got up into her place again.

Presently they came to a spring that gushed

into a granite trough — a spring of such crystalline
brightness, that looking down through the
water was like looking through a .
There was a button at the bottom of
the trough, and one could distinguish the four
holes in it.

This water is very good and fresh ; shall I
give yon some ? ' asked Eichard Cable.

No,' answered Josephine. ' I will take
nothing from you, not even a cup of cold water.
I will help myself. I will take nothing till it
is offered in love.'

He looked hastily at her, and saw that her
eyes were full of tears. He trembled, and
lashed his horse savagely, and uttered something
much like an oath. He was angry with
the cob — it was going to sleep over its journey ;
and a horse that goes to sleep whilst walking is
liable to fall and cut his knees. Eichard Cable
detected, or fancied he detected, somnolency in
the horse, and he Worried it With whip and jerk
of rein till he had roused it to full activity and
a trot, whereat all the calves began to low and
plead not to be so severely shaken ; but Cable
had no compassion on the calves ; he lashed
into the horse, and made him run along as he
had not run that day or last.

It is all pride and wilfulness,' he said to
himself.

k2

From sitting on the shaft with his legs
hanging down, they were much splashed with
mud by the horse, as he went through every wet
and dirty place in the road ; this was especially
the case when lie was trotting; and Eichard,
looking down at his boots, saw them caked
with mud, layer on layer, or clot on clot ;
below was the red, then the white mud of the
pounded granite, then the brown of loamy land,
then black from peat-water, where the road
traversed the down.

They are a bit unsightly,' he said to himself.
' And when I come to Sticklepath, where
I put up for the night, I'll mind and have them
dried over the fire in the kitchen ; and I'll clean
them myself in the morning. She's right — one
ought to keep one's-self respectable.'

When they reached the place called Stickle-path,
a hamlet with an inn, and a chapel whitewashed
and thatched with straw, and looking
like a cottage, he ordered supper, and then
went after his cob, to rub him down with
straw. He was careful of his beast, and always
attended to his comforts and necessities himself.
Then he got milk for the calves ; but when he
came out into the yard, he found Josephine
there with a pan of skimmed milk, dipping in
her hand and holding it to the hungry creatures,
who opened their pink wet mouths and

mumbled her hand till they had sucked off it
all the milk.

How proud she is ! ' muttered Cable. ' She
does this out of wickedness — to pay me for
having given her a lift in my van. She will
owe me nothing.'

Before he went to bed, he took his boots
to the kitchen and asked that they might be
put where they would dry before morning,
when he would brush them over himself. He
slept soundly that night ; and on waking, dressed
himself, brushed the mud off the bottoms of his
trousers, and then descended in his stocking-soles
in quest of his boots. As he came down
the back-stairs, he could look into and across
the kitchen, and he saw behind it, in the back-shed
that served the purpose of loophole and
back kitchen, the figure of Josephine. She
stood near the door, with the fresh morning
light streaming in on her, and white pigeons
flying about outside, and perching near the
door, expecting the morning largess of crumbs.
She had her sleeves turned back, exposing her
beautiful arms, and — she was blackening his
boots.

CHAPTEE LI.

ISHTAR.

EiciiARD Cable reascenclecl the stairs hilliard
and unseen. He was irritated at what he had
observed. ' How proud she is ! ' he said. ' There
is no breaking her stubborn spirit. She does
this to pay me for her carriage.'

It is a curious fact that we are prone to note
and condemn in others the vice that mars our
own selves. We are always keen-sighted with
respect to the mote in our brother's eye,
especially when it is a chip off the beam in our
own eye. I have known a woman, who was a
mischief-maker with her tongue throughout a
neighbourhood, declare that of all things she
abhorred was gossip, and that, therefore, she
avoided So-and-so as a scandal-monger. The
conceited man turns up his already cocked nose
at another prig ; and the talker is impatient of
the love of chatter in his friend. I once knew
two exceedingly talkative men who monopolised
the whole conversation at table. The one

invited the other to make a walking expedition
with him of a month ; but they returned in
three days. ' I coukl not stand B,' said A ; ' I
was stunned with his tongue.' — ' I refused to goon
with A,' said B ; Mie talked me lame.' The
girl who sings flat, criticises the lack of tune ina
companion ; and the man who paints badly is
the first to detect the blemishes in another's picture
; and I am quite sure my most severe
critics will be those who have written the worst
novels.

Eichard Cable was convinced that Josephine
was proud and self-willed ; and everything she
did, every act of submission, every gentle appeal
for forgiveness, was viewed by him through the
distorted medium of his own pride. Indistinctly,
he perceived that she was asking him to be
received back on his terms— that she was ready
to make every sacrifice for this end ; but he
could not or would not believe that she was
acting from any other motive than caprice. Her
pride was hurt because he had left her, and she
sought to recover him, not because she cared
for him, certainly not because she would be
more considerate of him, but to salve over her
wounded self-love.

An uneducated man, when he gets an idea
into his head, will not let it go. He hugs it, as
the Spartan lad hugged the fox though it bit

into Lis vitals. There is no rotation of crops in
his brain. The idea once planted there, grows
and spreads, and eats up all the nutriment, and
overshadows the whole surface, and allows
nothing to grow under it, like the beech, which
poisons the soil beneath its shadow with its dead
leaves and mast cases. A man who has undergone
culture puts into his head one idea, and as
soon as it is ripe, reaps and garners it, ploughs
up the soil, puts ia another of a different nature
never lets his brain be idle, and never gives
it up permanently to one idea or set of ideas.
Or rather — his head is an allotment garden, in
which no single idea occupies the entire field,
but every lobe is used for a different crop, precisely
as in an allotment every variety of vegetable
is grown.

Now, Eichard Cable had had the idea of
Josephine's haughtiness so ploughed into his
mind that he could harbour no other idea. It
grew and spread like a weed, and poisoned the
soil of his mind, so that no wholesome plants,
no sweet herbs could flourish there. It overmastered,
it outgrew, it strangled all the fragrant
and nutritious plants that once occupied
that garden-plot. Its roots ran like those of an
ash through every portion, and spread over the
entire subsoil, that nothing else could grow
there, or could only grow in a stunted and

starved condition. So, with singular perversity,
Cable resented the conduct of Josephine in cleaning
his boots, and he attributed her act to unworthy
motives. He said not a word about his
boots till the van was in motion, and he started
up the steep hill. Then he exclaimed : ' Whatever
have these folk at the inn been about with
my boots, that they shine like those of a dance
? ' Then he went through a puddle,
and came out with them tarnished and begrimed.
He did not look round at Josephine, who made
no remark, but next morning cleaned his boots
again. After that. Cable kept them in his bedroom.
He would not have them cleaned by
Josephine.

All the calves were disposed of before
Launceston was reached ; and as the load was
light, the horse rattled on with the van at a
better rate. When they drew near to St.
Kerian, Cable said : ' I have written beforehand
to my mother, and told her my intentions.
She will have arranged lodgings for you, where
you may stay on your arrival. After that, as
you are wilful, you must suit yourself; but I
could not drop you from the van in the street
with nowhere to go to. Even the calves are
not treated thus ; each goes to its allotted cow-house.
I have told my mother to engage the
lodging as for an acquaintance of hers —

acquaintance, understand, not friend — and to
pay a month in advance.'

'That,' said Josephine, 'I will not allow.*
She opened her purse. ' What has been spent,
I will refund.'

• I do not know what the sum is,' said
Cable angrily. ' I insist on paying this. afterwards,
pay as you will.'

I will not allow it,' said Josephine vehemently.
' Xo ; indeed, indeed I will not. If
you choose to acknowledge me, then I will
take anything from you, and be thankful for
every crumb of bread and drop of water ; but
if you will not, then I will set my teeth and
lips, and not a crumb of bread or drop of water
of your providing shall pass between them.'

Yourself — yourself still ; wilful, defiant,
proud ! ' he said, with a frown and a furtive
chance at her over his shoulder. Then he
shouted rather than spoke : ' Why will you not
enjoy the estate and money bequeathed to you?
It is yours ; no one will dispute it with you.'

I will not touch it,' answered Josephine,
because I have no right to it.'

You have every right : it was left to you.'

But it ought never to have come to me.
It was properly, justly yours.'

I will not have it ! ' shouted Eichard.
You know that. I am too proud to take it.'

And I also ; lam too proud to take it.'

'We are both proud, are we? Flint and
steel, Ave strike, and the sparks fly. It will be
ever so — strike, strike, and the sparks fly.'

When I reach St. Kerian,' said Josephine,
1 suppose, if you continue in this unforgiving
mind, I shall see nothing of you? ' '

Nothing.'

It is hard to put me there alone, without
friends, a stranger.'

I came there a stranger, and have now no
friends there.'

But you have your children. With them
you need no outsiders ; but I am quite alone.
You will let me see the dear little ones ? '

No,' he answered ; ' I will not let them
come near you lest they take the infection.'

Eichard,' said Josephine very sadh^, and
in a low despondent voice, ' it seems to me
that we have exactly altered our positions ; I
was once full of cruel speeches and unkind
acts, and you bore them with singular patience.
Now, it is you who are cruel and unkind, and
I do not cry out, though you cause me great
pain.'

He did not answer her ; but he said : ' I
will not be seen driving you into St. Kerian,
as I would not be seen driving you out of
Exeter. You shall set out at this next inn.

It is respectable and clean. You shall stay the
night there, and tomorrow come on with the
carriers waf^o^on.'

DO

Will there be no one to receive me and
show me where I am to go ? Eichard ! you
are treating me very cruelly.'

'I am treating you as you deserve,' he
answered. ' My mother shall await your
arrival and show you to your lodging.'

He drew up before the tavern that stood by
itself where roads crossed. He took down her
box and then something else from the inside of
the van.

What is this ? ' asked Josephine. ' It is
not mine ; but it has " Cornelia, passenger, St.
Kerian," on it ; and — it — it looks like a sewing-machine.'


It is a sewing-machine.'

She stood and looked at him. ' You mean
it as a present for me. You bought it in Launceston,
because I said I would work as a dressmaker
and so earn my livelihood. — No ; I will
not take anything you give me : send it back.'

He stamped with impatience. ' How perverse
and proud you are ! — You do not alter ;
you are always the same. I do not give you
the sewing-machine. My poor little crippled
Bessie shall give it you. Each of my children
has a savings-bank book, and for every journey

I make, some of the profits go into their little
stores. Bessie shall pay for the sewiiig-machiue
out of her money. It shall be withdrawn from
the bank for the purpose. — Will that content
you?'

Josephine thought a moment, and then,
raising her great full eyes on him, she said :
Yes ; I will take it from Bessie — Eichard ! if,
as you assert, I was the cause of her being
injured, yet I am very sure her gentle little
heart bears me no malice. You have told her
that I crippled her, you have taught her to
hate me '

No,' answered Cable hurriedly ; ' I have
not spoken of you, not uttered your name since
I left Hanford. The children have forgotten
your existence.'

Let little Bessie come to me and I will
tell her all. I will take to myself the full
blame, and then — she will put her dear arms
round my neck and kiss me and forgive me.
But you '

But I,' interrupted Cable, ' am not a child.
Bessie does not know the consequences, cannot
measure the full amount of injury done her.
If she could, she would never, never forgive
you ; no ' — he broke his stick in his vehemence
' never ! If she had a head to understand,
she would say : " There are hours every day

that I sifter pain. I cannot sleep at night
because of my back. That woman is the cause.
I cannot run about and play with my sisters.
That woman did it. I shall grow up deformed,
and people will turn and laugh at me, and rude
children point and mock me. That woman
brought this upon me. I shall see my sisters
as young maidens, beautiful and admired, only
I shall not be admired. That woman is the
cause. I shall love with all the fire of my
heart, that grows Whilst ray body remains
stunted, my woman's heart in a child's frame
but no one will love me ; he whom I love
will turn from me in disgust and take another
in his arms. I owe that also to this woman."
If she foresaw all this, would Bessie forgive
you and love you, and put her arms about you
and kiss you ? No ; she would get up on her
knees on your lap and beat your two great
eyes with her little fists till you could not see
out of them any more, but Avert out of them
brine and blood.' Then he mounted the
driver's seat in front of his van, lashed the
horse, and left her standing in the road before
the inn with her box and the sewing-machine.
Thereupon, a strong temptation arose and
beset Josephine. Why should she go on to
St. Kerian ? — why sojourn there as a stranger,
ignored by her own husband ? Why should

lie bow to a life of privation of the most tr3'iDg
kind, intellectual privation, if nothing was to be
gained by it ? She had reached the first shelf
in her plunge, and the golden cup was not
there. Now, she was diving to a second and
lower shelf, and she saw no prospect of retrieving
what she sought on it. The shelf on which
she had first lodged was in shallow water,
within the licht of the sun ; it was not so far
removed from the social and spiritual life of the
cultured class to which she belonged, as that
into which she was now called to descend. On
that other shelf there was ebb and flow, and
now and then she could enjoy the society of
her social equals, if not to converse with them,
to hear their cultured voices, see their ease of
manner, and enjoy the thousand little amenities
of civilisation which hang about the mansion of
a lady of position. She had been there as a
mermaid belonging to both regions, half lady,
half servant ; and very unpleasant, not to say
repugnant to lier cultured instincts and moral
sense, as she lead found the lower element
which had half encircled her, there was still an
upper region in which she could breathe. Now
she was to be wholly submerged, to go down
to the depth where only the unlettered and
undisciplined svv'im, where only broad dialect is
spoken, coarse manners are in vogue, and life

is without any of the polish and adornment
found in the Avorld above the water-hne. In
the upper air, when she Heated, she could hear
the birds sing and see the flowers, and smell
the fragrance of the clover and bean fields ;
below, she would hear nothing but strident
tones, see nothing but forms uncouth, smell
nothing but what is rank. Why should she
make this second plunge? Why — when she
clearly saw that on tins lower platform the
golden goblet did not lie ? Would it be a final
leap ? Would it necessitate a further descent
into gulfs of darkness and horror? No ; hardly
that. Intellectually, there was no further dive.
She could hardly find a ledge below that of the
unreasoning, unread, untrained. 'Neath that
was the abyss of moral defect, into which she
could not fall.

In the old Assyrian poem of ' Ishtar,' the
goddess is represented descending through several
houses into Hades, and as she approaches
each, the gamekeepers divest her of some of her
clothing, till she reaches Abandon, where she is
denuded of everything. Josephine was something
like Ishtar — she was forced in her downward
pilgrimage, at every mansion of the nether
world, to lay aside some of her ornaments acquired
above. She had set forth with her
mind richly clothed ; lie was a refined and

accomplished girl, passionately fond of music,
with a delicate artistic taste, a love of literature,
and an eager mind for the revelations of science.
If she had an interest that came second to
music, it was love of history — that faculty
which, like music and colour, is inherent in
some, is wholly deficient in others. To some,
the present is but a cut flower, of fleeting
charm, unless it have its root in the past, when
at once it acquires interest, and is tenderly
watched and cultivated. The historic faculty
is closely allied to the imagination. It peoples
a solitude with forms, of beauty and interest ;
it builds up walls, and unrolls before the fancy
the volume of time, full of pictures. The possessor
of these gifts is never alone, for the
past is always about him, a past so infinitely
purer and better than the present, because sublimated
in the crucible of the mind.

Now, what struck Josephine above everything
in the inter-water world into which she
stepped was the inability of its denizens to
appreciate what is historical They seemed to
her like people who have no perspective, like
half-blind men, who see men as trees walking.
They had no clear ideas as to time or as to
distance. Brussels and Pekin, foreign cities
about equidistant, and Iceland and Tierra del
Fuego, foreign islands in the same hemisphere.

VOL. III. L

The Eomans built the village churches ; but
Whether the classic Eomans or the Eomaii
Catholics, was not at all known : nor was
it certain when Oliver Cromwell stabled his
horses in the churches, whether in the time of
the Eomans, or in the Chartist rows ; neither
whether Oliver Cromwell were a French republican
or an Irish papist. Turkeys came of
course from Turkey, of which, probably, Dorking
is the capital, because thence came also
some big fowls ; and necessarily Jerusalem
artichokes are derived from the holy city, or
else why are they called Jerusalem artichokes ?
In literature it was the same. Below the water,
the denizens had heard of Shakspeare, but
didn't think much of him ; he didn't come
near Miss Brandon. Swift — yes, he wrote
children's stories — ' Gulliver's Travels ' and the
'Robins.' Thackeray! he was nowhere — not
fit to hold a candle to Mrs. Henry Wood ;
there were no murders in his tales. In this
subaqueous world, music was not ; if there had
been stillness it would have been well ; but in
place of the exquisite creations of the great tone
masters, sprang a fungoid, scabrous growth of
comic song, ' Yillikens and his Dinah,' ' Pop
goes the Weasel,' and revivalist hjmms. Josephine
in descending so low left behind her
everything that to her made life worth having.

She must cast aside her books, lay down her
music, her painting ; and be cut away from all
communion with the class in which all the roots
of her inner life where planted. Was she calledon
to do this ? What would come of the
venture ?

But then came another question : Could she
go back ? To Hanford Hall and to her father ?
No ; she had taken her course with full determination
of pursuing it to the end. She
would not return. She must follow what her
heart told her was the right thing to do, at
whatever cost to herself. Ishtar would lay
aside every adornment, only not the pure white
robe of her moral dignity. Before the last
house, she would stand and wait, and not tap
at that door, wait, and lie down there and die,
rather than return except at the call of Eichard.

L 2

CHAPTEE LII.

THE SECOND SHELF.

Mrs. Cable was waiting before the door of the
St. Kerian inn, where hung the sign of the
'Silver Bowl,' when Josephine arrived. She
received her with stately gravity and some cold -
ness. The old woman saw that her daughter-in-law
was greatly altered. Her girlishness
was gone ; womanhood had set in, stamping
and characterising her features. She was thin
and pale, and did not look strong.

Mrs. Cable led her to the village grocer and
postmistress, a Miss Penruddock, and showed
Josephine a couple of neat plain rooms, one
above-stairs, a bedroom, and the other below
as a sitting-room. Everything was scrupulously
clean ; the walls were whitewashed, the bed and
■svindow-farniture white, the china white, and
the deal boards of the floor scrubbed as white
as they could be got. Josephine's box was
moved upstairs, and the sewing-machine put in
the parlour below. Her landlady was in and

out for some little while, to make sure that all
was comfortable, till the sorting-time for the
letters engaged her in the shop. The atmosphere
of the house was impregnated with the
odour of soap, tea, and candles — a wholesome
and not unpleasant savour.

Bessie Cable remained standing in the bedroom
; her tall form looked unnaturally tall in
the low room, of which the white ceiling was
only seven feet above the white floor. ' Is there
anything further you require ? ' she asked. ' I
promised my son that I would see that you were
supplied with every requisite.'

Josephine looked at her, and drew beseechingly
towards her, with her arms out, pleading
to be taken to the old woman's heart. But
Bessie Cable's first thought was for her son, and
she could not show tenderness where he refused

recognition.

'I am sorry to receive you thus,' said Mrs.
Cable ; ' but I cannot forget how that you have
embittered my son's life, not only to himself,
but also to me, his mother. I had looked forward
to a peaceful old age, with him happy,
after the storms and sorrows of a rouo'h life.
But he shipwrecked his peace and mine when
he took you. I dare say you are repentant.
The rector told me as much ; but the wrong
done remains working. One year's seeds make

five years' weeds, and the weeds are growing
out of the sowing of your cruel lips.'

You also ! ' cried Josephine. ' Is no one
to be kind to me — all to reproach me ? '

You must make friends here.'

But you — will you not be my mother, and
my friend ? '

Your mother — no. Your friend ! — not
openly. That I cannot be, because of my son ;
but I will not refuse you an inner friendship.
I believe that now you intend to do right, and
that you have acted well in coming here.'

You think so ? '

Yes ; I am sure you have. You could in
no other way have shown that you wished to
undo the past.'

I am glad you say that ; oh, I am glad !
Yesterday. I had a terrible moment of struggle ;
I was almost about to go away, and not come
on here. Now you have repaid me for my
fight by these words.'

Bessie looked steadily and searchingly at
her. ' I have had years of waiting for what
could never come. I had ever an anguish at
my heart, like a cancer eating it out. But that
is over. It was torn out by the roots in one
hour of great struggle and pain, and since then
I have been at ease Avithin. You have now
your pain. Mine was different from yours.

Mine grew out of a blow dealt me. Yours
comes because you have dealt blows. There
is nothing for it but to bear the pain and wait.
Some day the pain will be over ; but how it
will be taken away God only knows. I thought
that mine would never go ; but it went, and
went suddenly, and I have felt nothing since.
No medicine can heal you — only patience. Wait
and suffer ; and in God's good time and in His
way, the pain will be taken away.'

Josephine suddenly caught the old woman's
hand and kissed it.

Do not — do not ! ' exclaimed Bessie, as if
frightened.

Mrs. Cable,' said Josephine, ' I will
wait. — And now, tell me another thing, I
have said that I will receive nothing of Eichard
till he will acknowledge me. I know I have
acted very wrongly, but I think he is too unforgiving.'


It is not for me to judge my son, nor to
hear any words of condemnation from you.'

I do not wish to condemn him ; but I
feel that his justice is prevailing over his
mercy.'

Who hardened him ? '

I — I did it ; and I am reaping what I
sowed. I own that. But, as he will not receive
me, will not season anything; he offers me

with love, am I wrong to refuse to accept
aught of him ? '

Mrs. Cable did not answer immediately,
but presently lie said : ' No — you do right.
I did the same. I would not touch anything ;
but then my case was different ; I was the
wronged, not the wrongdoer

More the reason that I should refuse,' said
Josephine with vehemence.

Again Mrs. Cable considered ; then said :
Yes, that stands to reason ; the wrongdoer
gives to the wronged one to expiate the wrong,
the wrongdoer does not receive from the one
wronged — that would aggravate the offence.'

I am glad you see this,' said Josephine. —
Now — what have you paid for my lodgings ?
He said you had given a month's rent in advance.'


Mrs. Cable coloured. ' You shall not pay
that ; indeed you shall not. I engaged the
rooms.'

Because he asked you. I will not stand
in his debt.'

I cannot receive money from you,' exclaimed
Mrs. Cable. ' It would burn my
fingers.'

Then Josephine knelt by her box and
opened it. ' We will come to an agreement
another way,' she said. ' There is something

in the bottom of my trunk — the only poor
remains of my finery I have brought with me.
You shall take that, and some day it can be
cut up or adapted for Mary. Perhaps Mary
may be married, and then she shall have my
old wedding dress. I brought it from Hanford
with me, not that I intended ever again to
wear it, but it served me as a remembrancer.
In it I was married, and in it I gave the last
offence to my husband. In it I gained him,
and in it I lost him. But I shall require it
now no more. Take it, and do with it what
you like. The silk is very good ; it was a
costly dress. Eichard is building a new house ;
the driver pointed it out to me as I came along
do not think he had any notion how nearly
I was interested in it — he said that Eichard
Cable came poor to the place, and will soon bethe
wealthiest man in it. When he has his
grand new house, his little girls must dress well
as little ladies ; and Mary, when she is married
from it, may wear my wedding dress. I trust
she will be happier than I have been or am
likely to be.' She looked up from the box.
How large her eyes were, full of expression and
intelligence — beautiful eyes, and now looking
unusually bright and large because she was
tired and thin and sunken about the sockets of
the eyes.

Have you been unwell ? * asked Mrs.
Cable.

No — only unhappy.'

'It takes a great deal of unhappiness to
kill,' said Bessie meditatively. 'I thought sometimes
I could not live, so great were my sorrow
and shame.'

I do not care much whether I live or die,'
said Josephine. 'Life is very full of trouble
and disappointment, of humiliation and self-reproach
to me.' — Then, in an altered voice :
Will you take the dress ? '

Yes,' answered Mrs. Cable, still studying
her fiice — ' yes — Josephine.'

A smile played over the face of the still
kneeling girl. ' It does me good to hear my
Christian name again,' she said. ' At Bewdley,
I was only " Cable." I should be thankful
now for Joss-e-phine, though once I scorned to
be so named.' She replaced her clothes in the
trunk and laid the white silk dress on the
bed.

What is that ? That is one of Eicliard's
old handkerchiefs,' said Mrs. Cable.

Yes,' answered Josephine, lowering lier
head. ' I found it in the cottage after you
were all gone. I will do up the dress in it, if
you will promise to let me have the old blue
handkerchief asian. I — I value it. I once

laughed at it — just as I laughed at my name
pronounced incorrectly, and at his boots ; and
now — it is otherwise. I value the handkerchief;
let me have it again.'

Then Mrs. Cable took Josephine's head
between her hands and drew it towards lier ;
then checked herself, and thrust her off, and
said : ' I cannot, till my son acknowledges you ;
it would not be just to him.'

Josephine sighed. The colour had fluttered
to her cheek and her eyes had laughed ;
and now the colour faded and the laugh rent
out of her eyes. ' Am I not to see the children?
' she asked.

I cannot forbid you seeing them,' answered
Bessie Cable ; ' but you are not to make their
acquaintance and be friendly with them. You
shall make them all a new set of governs and
frocks ; you shall have their old ones as patterns,
but must make them a size larger, as the
children are growing — that is, all but Bessie.
I suppose that the dresses will have to be fitted ;
then you may touch them, and speak to them ;
but you must not kiss them or be friendly with
them. Speak to them only about the lit of
their clothes.'

I am very hardly treated,' said Josephine.

You must consider — you have brought it
on yourself.'

Yes, I have done that, and I must bear
my pain. — I shall see little or nothing of
Eichard ? '

Little or nothing, and he will not speak
to you. He is away a great deal now. We
see him only at intervals ; and when he is at
home, he wishes to be left undisturbed with
his children.' Then, once more, Mrs. Cable
asked if Josephine had all that she needed ;
and left, with the white silk dress tied up
in Eichard's blue handkerchief, when assured
that nothing further was required except that
which she was not empowered to give.

Many days passed, and Josephine sat in
her little parlour working at the frocks for
the seven girls — frocks ! — gowns for the elder
children, who grew apace. Through her
window she saw them pass, tall, beautiful
maidens with fair hair, like corn, as yellow
and as shining, and eyes blue, and cheeks like
wild-roses. Among the dark-haired, dark-eyed,
and sallow-skinned natives, they were
hooked at with surprise and a little envy. They
kept themselves aloof from the village children
not that they were proud, not that they
shared their father's prejudices, but that they
had enough of companions among themselves.
They were an attached family ; they had been
nurtured in love, and the love their father had

poured into their infant hearts had filled them
and overflowed towards each other. They had,
indeed, their little quarrels, but they passed
like April gusts, leaving the sunshine brighter
after the cloud, and the landscape fresher for
the shower.

Then, at times, Josephine's work fell from
her fingers, and she sat with the needle in her
hand, poised and motionless, looking before
her. It was not the historic muse who then
visited her and raised a mirage picture of
castles and knights jousting, and gay ladies
looking on in the most picturesque of costume ;
or of tapestried chambers, in which walked
Van Deck figures with long hair and Steen-kirks,
and rapiers clinking and spurs jingling,
and lapdogs of King Charles's breed snapping
it was a muse who is nameless, a Cinderella
muse, thrust aside by her sisters, and clean
forgotten, the Muse of Unfulfilled aspirations,
clothed in white with a hawthorn crown, and
eyes filled with tears, and bare feet dripping
blood.

What were the visions raised before the
brooding mind of Josephine, sitting at ease in
the enchanted palace, sent to sleep and made
motionless in the midst of work ? The picture
brought up by the magic wand of the muse
was a humble one — of a little cradle, in which

lay a sleeping babe, with one small hand out,
and a coral resting on the quilt ; of a baby
snuggling into her bosom at night, and sobbing,
and being patted, patted, patted by the hour,
and talked to half-pitifully, half-wearily, to
coax it to sleep ; of a child growing up, standing
at her knee and learning to thread beads,
and whilst threading, repeating, • Once upon a
time, dien Jenny Wren was young ; ' of a
young maiden — like Mary in growth and beauty
and sweetness and innocence, looked up to and
loved by all the village, and adored by her
mother, who only lived and thought for her.
Her day-dream went no further. Oh, if she
could have had a child to love and labour for,
to cherish and talk to, to kiss and laugh to
and weep over ! — her solitude would not have
been so depressing, her pain not so unrelieved.
Bessie Cable had endured years of suffering,
yet what was hers to that of Josephine, for
Bessie had her child to love ? She looked for
the time when the fair faces of Eichard's daughters
passed her window, and her ear was alert
to catch every tone and inflection of their
sweet voices, whenever they came into the
shop to buy the groceries needed for their
home.

When they came to be fitted on, her sHm
white fingers trembled, and she could not well

see what were the defects to be remedied,
because her eyes were clouded. Finally, the
seven dresses where finished and sent to the
cottage, and then each lead a little packet of
sweet things neatly wrapped up in the pocket ;
for that the children came and thanked j\iiss
Penruddock, for they supposed the kind shopkeeper
had put them there.

With such dear children about him, Eichard
had a home complete in joys, and he needed
not another inmate. He could dispense with
his wife, who was not the mother of these
lambs ; surely, he did not imagine the solitude
of the girl dio was without an associate of any
kind.

After Josephine had done the frocks, other
work came in. The servant-maids at the
parsonage wanted this and that ; and then
some of the farmers' wives sent for her to come
and work at their houses. She found that
thus only could she obtain continuous work.
At the farms she was well treated, given plenty
of food, somewhat coarse, but wholesome,
served in a rough way, and partaken with the
labouring men from the land. There was also
plenty of conversation going on, but it was
wholly confined to local gossip — the misdoings
of this young woman, the shameful conduct of
the parson in preaching at So-and-so, and the

favouritism of the schoolmaster among the
children. The maladies of the family, of the
cattle, of the ducks and hens, were discussed
with intolerable prolixity, and with a breadth
of language unsuitable to the narrowness of
the subject. The costume of the continental
peasant is a century behind the fashion of the
present. The Black Forester wears the knee-breeches
and long coat and waistcoat that were
the dress of gentlemen in the time of our great-grandfathers
; and the Tyrolean peasants
wears the short bodice of our great grandmothers.
We have no costume in England —
slop shops everywhere kill costume — but we
have social habits, and the habits of our lower
middle class, of the yeomen and the tenant-farmer,
are those of our great-grandfathers ;
they crack the same free jokes, and their wives
laugh at them, as our great-grandmothers
laughed ; and they drink till they are merry,
and upset their light carts coming home from
market; and fall into the ditch, just as our
great-grandfathers tumbled under their tables.
The wives are thrifty, and great at cordials and
supplies of linen ; and they as girls had worked
samplers, which they retain in married life
framed on their walls, to be tokens of their
skill with the needle ; just as did these ancient
ladies in our dining-room who look down on

lis out of their tarnished frames and throuo'li

o

cracked varnish.

In the Eastern counties, the old race of
small farmers and yeomen have well-ni(?h disappeared,
or rather they bid fair to disappear,
before the gentleman farmer with his thousand
acres ; but the agricultural depression which
has cut down these big men has spared the
little, and they are reappearing again. In the
West of England there are very few mammoths,
only small men, and the small men make the
money and stand the stress of hard times.

The class among which Josephine went was
quite different from that in the servants' hall at
Bewdley. That class was one of the spoiled
tools of luxury, young men and girls transplanted
from cottages where they had lacked
everything but the barely necessary, to a house
where they lacked nothing, but rioted and surfeited
on abundance. In their homes they had
been subjected to the rough moral control of
village opinion ; in the hall, they were a law
unto themselves. They had been brought up
in freedom and fi-rankness ; and they found
themselves in a region where they must practise
dissimulation as part of their qualification.
They resembled wild flowers brought into a
forcing-house, treated with strong manures and
much bottom heat. But where Josephine

VOL. in. M

now went, it was among wild flowers in
their natural element ; they were fresh, strong,
rough-stemmed ; not brilliant or choice, but
natural. In the servants' hall, an atmosphere
of absurd affectation had prevailed : Mr. Polk-inkhorn
talked of his ancestors ; and the maids
languished, minced their words, and imitated
the easy motions of the ladies they saw. In
the farmhouse, the fresh air blew — all was
natural and hearty — but the fresh air was
somewhat charged with the reek of stable and
townhouse. From the farmer down to the
servant, all were blunt, dull, noisy, ignorant,
free in their talk, but with a healthy downright
sense of the just and moral, and with great
kindliness of heart and readiness to assist one
another. Josephine was obliged to carry her
sewing-machine when she went to the farmhouses,
scattered at considerable distances from
the ' church-town ' where was the post-office
where she lived. As the winter drew on, the
nights were dark and the weather stormy.
She was often wet through and tired, and the
burden of the sewing-machine was almost more
than she could bear. She did not like to ask
to be assisted with it ; the sturdy country girls
thought nothing of such a weight, and did not
mind a wet through and a trudge in the mud,
BO that she was not volunteered assistance.

When she reached her lodgings, she Alas
sometimes so exhausted that she flung herself
on her bed, too fagged to take off her wet
things ; and thus she would have lain and
fallen asleep, had not the kindly postmistress
looked after her, and insisted on her getting
up and putting on dry clothes. Every Sunday
morning early, she went to the cob cottage in
the lane that led to Eosscarrock, with a little
basket in her hand, and laid on the window-ledge
of the children's room seven little bunches
of flowers — rosemary and mignonette, a monthly
rose and marigold, such simple flowers as she
could beg of the farmers' Vives where she
worked on the Saturday. And every Sunday
the seven girls went to church with these flower-posies
in their bosoms — ' the pity present,' they
called them, and always wondered whence they
came ; and little thought that they came from
the strange young woman with the wonderful
voice, that the vicar's wife had lately taken
into the choir. Did Eichard guess ? He asked
no questions ; but his mother said to him, when
he happened to be home on Sundays: 'Do you
see these pretty posies ? The little maids found
them again this morning on their window-sill.
Smell them, Eichard ; how sweet they are —
they scent the room.'

We shall have grand flowers when we

M 2

come to Eed Windows,' he said. — ' No ; I will
not smell them : they give me a headache ;
take them away.'

Then winter-frost killed most flowers ; but
the feathery seed-heads of the traveller's joys
with blackberry leaves of carmine and orange
and gamboge and sap-green, with a rose-hip
or two, made nosegays as beautiful and rich as
any made of flowers, and these where laid as
had been the bunches of blossom.

Christmas morning came, and Josephine
started from her bed as the day began to
break. She had made seven of the prettiest
little posies of white chrysanthemums, which
had flowered on untouched by frost, and they
were surrounded by the green fronds of the
cranes-bill.

What was that? Her heart stood still, as,
undressed, in her night attire, with a white
bunch in each hand, and her dark hair down
her back, she stood listening. What was that ?
A sound she knew well, but had not heard for
long'. Again ! What was it ? In the room
or outside ? Then a cry of joy. My Puffles !
my Puffles ! You dear one ! Who has brought
you here ? '

Her bullfinch, in the cage, that she had
sorrowfully parted with at Bew^lley, was in her
window. Who had brought it her ? Who had

thoiiglit of lier sorrowing to be without her
bird ? Who but he who had let it go and
caught it again ?

That Christmas Day, clear and sweet rang
out the voice of Josephine in the song of the
angels, and her heart beat with hope.

CHAPTEE LIII.

RED WINDOWS AGAIN.

The house progressed. By Christmas, the roof
was on ; then the whisperers and the carpenters
went to work, not fast, but leisurely. They
kept holiday on Christmas Day, and on Old
Christmas and at New Year ; and they knocked
off work early on Saturdays, and came to work
late on Mondays. They had much information
to impart to each other, and all were
called together to consult on every detail.
When it was wet weather, they came and
looked at the work and went away ; and
charged half a day's work for looking on the
work and deciding to do nothing. When the
masons were ready to build, the stones were
not ready for them to build with, or the mortar
was not mixed; so they waited and talked,
and charged for having been on the spot with
nothing to do. When it came to plastering,
they were short of laths or short of nails, or
short of sand or short of lime — short of everything

except reasons for doing nothing. So
with the carpenters. They went to work to do
the thing the wrong way ; and when it was
done, and they were convinced it was wrong,
they went to work and pulled it to pieces again ;
and recommenced doing it in another way.
When the rain fell, or there was frost, masons,
plasterers, carpenters, plumbers, and painters
wanted to work outside, and saw clear reasons
why it was impossible to do anything inside ;
and as the rain hindered or the frost prevented,
they went away with their hands in their
pockets and sat under a shed, looking at the
front of the house and the rain or the frost ; and
charged for their desire to work when it was
not possible to work. When the sun shone
and the air was warm, they wanted to work indoors,
and there were unanswerable reasons
why the work out of doors could not be got on
with. However, in spite of all these difficulties,
the house progressed, but progressed so slowly
as to astonish even the masons and carpenters
and plumbers and plasterers and painters themselves,
and to comfort them greatly. They
where not going to kill the goose off-hand that
laid the golden egg, but pick him to pieces
feather by feather.

The plumbers laid the lead, and the masons
walked over it with hobnailed shoes, making

holes in it, ^vliicli required a revision and a
patching Avitli solder of the lead which was
quite new ; and when the glass was put into
the windows, the carpenters drove planks
through the panes, necessitating new glazing.
And the ironmonger brought grates that would
not fit the chimney-pieces, and invoked the
masons to pull out the mantel-pieces again and
put them in afresh. Then he made holes in
the plaster for the bell-wires so ragged and
so big that the pLasterers must needs come and
mend them up again. Lastly, the glazier put
his hand into putty or white paint and smeared
a circle in the midst of every pane, to give
Avork to a woman to clean the windows.

The painter performed wonders ; he
coloured all the wood-work of the house
flesh-colour, and called that priming. Why
it should be primed flesh colour, he did not
say. I remember how that there stood over
the market hall in Launceston — and it stands
there still — a clock on which are two figures
with hammers, that strike the hours and the
quarters. Many years ago, the civic authorities
ordered the reprinting of these automata.
Then a painter went up on a scaffold and
primed them, after the manner of painters,
flesh-colour. The mayor issuing from the
Guild Hall saw this, and was frightened, or

shocked, and with moral mantle and gold
chain of office about his shoulders, ran up the
ladder and said : ' What are j^ou about ? We
don't want to have Adam and Eve here.'

I'm priming, your Worship,' answered the
painter, ' as you were primed afore you drew
on your clothes and insignia.'

Now, it is reasonable enough that figures
representing human beings should be coloured
pink first, and painted with clothing to taste,
afterwards ; but wliy windows ? Why doors ?
Why skirting-boards ?

A recent writer on Natural Law and the
Moral Order holds up to scorn the hermit
lobster, which does not build its own shell, but
seeks a ready-built house into which to slip.
The writer of that book never had to do with
the erection of a manse for himself, I presume,
or he would have taken off his hat and bowed
to the hermit lobster, and pointed him out as
an example of instinct so acute that it reached
wisdom.

Eichard Cable had accepted the builder's
rough estimate of cost and of time the house
would take in building, and had left a margin ;
but soon found that the martin should Have

o

been as wide as that in an edition de hue book
or of a modern funeral card. A builder can
always discover reasons for spinning out the

time, and especially the expense. Cable found,
before the house was done, that he lead spent
all the money put by for it, and was obliged to
borrow for its completion and for the furnishing
; and this did not improve his humour.
lie had not allowed the house to be built by
contract, because he knew very well that what
is built by contract is badly built ; and that if
he were to pay an overlooker to see to his
interests, the masons and the carpenters, and
the plumbers and glaziers, and slaters and
painters, would give the man an acknowledgment
to overlook their bad work. So he had
his house built by day-work, and then it was
to the interest of the men to do their work in
the most substantial and thorough manner,
because that is also the most slow and costly
manner.

When Cable was on his way back from
each journey, he thought within himself: 'Xow
I shall see a great advance in the work ; I
have been away three weeks.' But on his
arrival he required good-nature and faith to
see that a proper amount of work had been
done; and good-nature and faith hail when
disappointed repeatedly. However, the house
was finished at length and furnished — furnished
quietly and scantily, because the money ran
short. Eichard was not alarmed. He kncAV

he would earn the necessary sum, but he was
sore at having to borrow. The consciousness
of beings in debt was new to him, and fretted
his already sore spirit. It took the zest off the
pleasure of having a grand new house of his
own. He had no difficulty in getting the
money advanced by the bank ; he was pretty
well known to be a man who made gold by
turning it about in his hands. It flattered his
pride to be able to borrow so easily, and yet it
galled him to know that the house was not
absolutely his own till the debt was cleared
away.

The house was finished ; and it had seven
red windows in the upper storey, and three on
each side of the door below. To the door leda
flight of slate steps, and the door opened into
a spacious hall. The house looked larger than
it really was, because it was shallow. The hill
rose too rapidly in the rear to allow of much
back premises. In the garden was a summerhouse,
as he had seen in his dream, painted
green, with a gilt knob at the top, very fresh
and shining.

When the house was complete, and ready
for him, he arrived from Somersetshire ; and in
the evening, when the children were in bed,
his mother put the key on the table. ' There ! '
siiid she. To-morrow we leave this old cottage

for the new house. Eichard, why not take
possession of it with a new heart? You are in
the wrong now. She has been here many
months, and all speak well of her. She works
for her livings and works hard. There are no
pride and stubbornness left in her ; all that has
passed from her into you ; and the gentleness
and pity and meekness are cone from you into
her.'

He moved impatiently. He took up the
key and threw it down ; then he pushed it from
one side of the table to the other, and his face
was sullen. ' Mother,' he said, ' I would not
allow another to speak to me of her. It is
enough. You have said your say. I have
suffered too much from her. I have said it.
We are parted for ever.'

You have not seen her.'

I do not choose to see her.'

But you should. She is greatly changed,
and looks weak and frail. You do not think
that the great alteration in her mode of life
must hurt her. She is like a flower taken out
of a garden and put on the moor, where every
wind blows her about, and every animal that
goes by tramples on her.'

AVho has dared to touch her ? ' asked
Cable, flaring up.

I do not mean that an}^ one has purposely

"wronged her ; but she is in a place and among
people who do not understand her, and she
cannot endure rough handing. She is too
delicate, and it will kill her.'

What do you want, then ? If I give her
money, she will not take it.'

Not if it be given churlishly.'

Churlishly ! Are you also turned against
me?'

You are acting wrongly. I would not say
so to another ; I would not let her suppose that
I reproached you ; but in my heart I think it.
I also went on for years harbouring my wrong,
and believing that I could never forgive it ; but
the time came when I was forced to forgive ;
and you, Eichard, you also must do the same.'

'You have said this before. I cannot listen.
I shall go away again ; ' and he put his hat on
his head and went forth.

Next day, the few things required to be
removed from the cottage were carted to the
new house ; but Eichard would not move into
it till evening, when no one would be about to
observe the migration.

The sun had set when they all started for
Eed Windows, the father leading, then Mrs.
Cable and little Bessie, and the rest two and
two, the twins of course together. The
youngest carried their toys, a battered doll, a

wooden horse ; and the elder, sundry treasures
that could not be intrusted to other hands to
transport. The evening was still, soft, and
summery ; bats flew about and screamed ear-piercingly.
The hedges were full of foxgloves
and wreathed with honeysuckle. Glowworms
shone in the banks, jewelhng the way, as pity
lamp-bearers welcoming them to their new
home. The procession moved slowly, because
Bessie was heavy to carry, and because Susie
could not walk fast. It moved silently, because
the children were depressed in spirits, sorry to
leave their little rooms and garden — the known
for the new, the loved for strange.

Cable spoke ; but his voice startled him and
the rest. He felt not as if he were being advanced
in position, but as if he were going to
execution. He turned and looked at his
mother. ' Let me can Bessie now,' he said.
What are you whispering ? '

I was not whispering.'

I saw your lips moving.'

I was repeating to myself some words
that kept coming up in my mind, like a cork
in water.'

What words ? '

Merely a text, and I cannot say why they
rise.'

'What is the text'

" He shall lay the foundation in his firstborn,
and in his youngest shall he set np the
gates." '

What do you mean by that ? '

I mean nothing ; but I cannot get the text
out of my head. It seems to point '

Cable laughed. ' This is mere superstition,
mother. You have Cornish blood in you.
Besides, the foundations are laid and the gates
set up, and nothing has occurred.'

She said no more, nor did he ; but the
words she had spoken did not help to cheer
him. Presently he found his own lips moving ;
he was repeating the ominous words ; and a
fear fell on him lest they might apply not to
the bare walls and wooden gates, but to the
domestic life in the new mansion — a new life to
be built up amid new surroundings and in a
new sphere. For, indeed, Eichard by this
move mounted the social scale. In the cottage,
lie was but a cottager ; in the grand new house,
he was transferred to the middle class. As
Josephine went down, he went up.

He opened the garden gates, and the feet of
the little procession trod the newly gravelled
path. There were flower-beds, but no flowers ;
a lawn, but the grass was battered and cut up
with the traffic of the builders. They came to
the flight of steps, and Cable went up, put the

key in the door, and tried to open it ; but the
wood was swollen, and the door stuck. lie
put his knee to it and forced it open, and
the noise reverberated through the empty
house like thunder. Then the children came
in. The air within smelt of lime and paint.
He struck a match and lighted a paraffin lamp.
The children looked round in astonishment, but
expressed no pleasure ; they shivered ; the
night air had been cold, but the interior of this
new house seemed colder still.

In the dining-room, a cold supper was laid —
lamb and salad, whortleberry tart, and cream,
blancmange — ' Shaky trade, that is bluemange,'
the woman called it who had cooked the
supper, an old cook from the parsonage,
married in the place.

Sit down,' said Eichard. ' Eat heartily
your first meal in Eed Windows.'

But the children were not hungry ; his
mother did not care to eat, and he himself had
no appetite. He forced himself to take lamb,
but he could hardly swallow it. The children
were silent, looking about them at the walls
and ceiling, and chimney-piece with the mirror
over it.

• Well,' said Cable, 'as no one seems hungry,
the sooner to bed the better.'

So they parted for the night.

Next morning, he was in this garden. The
blacksmith appeared at the gate.

Neighbour,' said he, ' glad to see you well
quartered. I'm sorry I haven't been over the
house ; the iron work was not given to me, but
to a Camelford man. I'd have served you
better. However, I bear no malice. I should
like to see over the box, if you've no objections.'

Box ! What box ? Do you call a mansion
with seven windows on the front in the
upper storey and six below — a box ? I have
objections to show my box, as you call it.'

Oh, I meant no offence,' said Penrose.
I'll come another day.'

This is not a show place,' said Cable curtly.

The next to come was the innkeeper.
Halloa ! Mr. Cable ! Shake hands. Glad to
see you. We've lost our guardian — died the
other day ; so we've had a vestry meeting and
elected you guardian of the poor, unanimous.'

I — guardian of the poor ! the poor of
St. Kerian ? ' He laughed bitterly. ' No one
cared for me and watched over me when I was
poor and ill. Why should I care for your
poor and be their guardian, now I am rich ? '

Come, Cable, don't be sour. Give a sovereign,
and we'll have the bells rung for your
h ouse warming . '

Not one penny. It concerns no one but

VOL. III. N

myself and my family that I enter Eed Windows.'


The taverner shook his head and went
away. Then his mother came to him and said:
Eichard, why do you not meet the St. Kerian
people in a friendly "say, dien they make the
first step towards good-fellowship ? Why do
you refuse the hand that is held out for yours ?
Why should you be angered that they look on
you now with other eyes than those with which
they saw you enter the parish ? When you
jjroke stones on the road, what was there in
you to attract their esteem ? When they saw
your love and care for your children, they
respected you ; and when they found you were
making money, they acknowledged that you had
brains. Was not that natural and reasonable
and right ? When you were poor, with seven
hungry mouths crying for food, there were
others worse off than yourself, and what sympathy
did you show them ? When a crippled
beggar came through the village, did you rush
after him, take off your hat, and offer him
hospitality? Wh}^, then, are you angry with
the St. Kerian people because they only begin
to touch their hats and notice you, now that
you are \vell off? You are well off because you
have talents above their level, and this they

I wonder what she thinks, now that weare
in our house, when she sees the smoke
rising from the chimneys, and the windows
lighted up ? '

She thinks that a cottage where love is, is
better than a thirteen-windowed mansion where
there is hardness of heart and pride.'

Eichard did not answer ; he walked away,
and went about his grounds and planned improvements,
and seated himself in his garden-house,
and tried to believe he was happy. At
night, when alone, he sat again in his summerhouse
with the door open, and looked down at
St. Kerian, which lay in the valley, with a
gossamer veil hanging over it, the vapour in
the air condensing above the stream. The
church tower stood out like ivory against the
black yews. He could see the chimneys of the
parsonage, and the glitter of the tiny conservatory
flashing the moonbeams back. He heard
the soothing rush of the water in the mill 'leat'
running the waste water into the river. In the
wood behind, the owls were hooting. On
such a night as this he had stood at ]his cottage
window there below, two years ago, and resolved
to realise his dream. He had accomplished
what he had determined, and was he
satisfied ? He strained his eyes to see the old
cottage ; but it was dark ; but, through the soft

haze, he saw one golden pin-point, from where
the post-office stood. Was that her light?
Was she sitting there, at the window, looking
lip, out of the valley, at his grand house, on
which the moonlight shone ? What were her
thoughts F

Eichard Cable's breast heaved, and a choke
came in his breath. He turned his face away
and looked at the hills, at the gray moor frosted
with moonlight, at the deep sky, and tried to
spell stars in it, but could not, because of the
suffused light. Then his eyes went back to the
golden speck, the one spangle of yellow in the
cold scene of white and gray and black. Then
he stood up, and sat with his back to the door,
and looked into the gloom of the interior, and
down at the rectangular oblong patch of white,
like snow on the floor, laid there by the moon.
But he could not long study that. He turned
on Jns seat, and once again the golden speck
shot into his brain and down into his heart,
where it fell like a spark and burnt him, that
he uttered a suppressed cry.

It is all stubbornness and pride,' he said,
rubbing the bench With his hand, as if to polish
it. ' She is determined to show me that she
can do without me. What does my mother
mean by saying the rough life is killing her ?
She has chosen it out of obstinacy, to spite me.

If I were to give her five pounds a week, she
would throw them down at my feet. I can do
nothing?. If she is determined to kill herself,
she must do so. She is proud. Why is her
light burnings now? She is working on late,
that she may earn money and do without help.
It is flint and steel striking, and the spark —
there it is, and it is burning; me.'

CHAPTER LIV.

':sO Foot LIKE AX OLD FOOL.'

I SUPPOSE,' said Eicliarcl Cable to his mother,
that site would not live in our cottage ? lot
if I offered it her rent free ? '

The cottage is mine, Richard, not yours.
Perhaps from me she would take it, but not
from you.'

Then you may offer it her.' He had his
hands in his pockets; he drew them sharply
forth and began to hum a tune — it was
the Mermaid's song from Oheron. When he
thought of her, that tune came up with the
thought. 'Mother,' he said, breaking off in
the midst of the tune, ' now that we are in this
house, we are in a different position, and the
little girls must be suited to it. I've heard
them talking just like the St. Kerian children
with a Cornish twang, and I won't have it.
They must have better schooling than they can
get at the national school.'

*Will you send them away?' asked Mrs.

Cable in dismay, as her heart failed hei' at the
thought of parting with her grandchildren.

JSTo ; they must not leave home ; they must
learn better here. They should be able to play
on the piano, and to sing, and read French, and
know something of all those concerns which
young ladies are expected to be acquainted
with.'

What ! Are you going to bring a governess
into the house to them ? ' asked Mrs. Cable
with dismay almost equal to the first at the
prospect of parting with the children.

No ; I'll have no stranger here,' he
answered.

Then, how are they to learn ? '

Is there no one in the village who could
teach them ? I do not mean that they should
be ignorant, or know no more than the
labourers' children, because they will have
money, and if they marry, they shall marry
well'

There is a long time to that,' said Mrs.
Cable.

Alio can teach them ? ' asked Eichard.

There is but one person who can do this,'
answered she, after a pause.

She must be well paid for her trouble.
You must arrange all that. Only, I will not
have this teacher come here ; the children mu-t

go to her. Pay lier what you like, and take
her, whoever she may be. I do not ask her
name ; I want to know nothing about her ; but
if she teaches them, I will not have her too free
with them : she must undertake not to kiss
them, and coax them to love her. Do not tell
me who she is ; I do not want to know. I
leave all that to you, but I make my stipulations
beforehand.'

You mean this, Eichard ? '

I leave it to you. I ask no questions. I
want no names named. If the children are to
learn the piano, this lady dio is to teach them
must have one on which they may be taught.
I will order one at Launceston to be sent to
the cottage.'

Very well, Eichard.'

'I have hit on a great idea,' said he with a
sudden change of tone. 'There is always a
trouble about feeding the calves with the hand.
I have ordered at Bridgewater a lot of stone
bottles, like those for ginger-beer, but as large
as foot-farmers for bed. And I've had a board
put along each side of the calves' van, with
holes in it, into which the bottles can befitted.
And then, mother, I've had tubes
and nipples made for the bottles ; and I pass
these into the calves through the bars, and
they can all suck comfortably as they ride

along. I might take a patent for it, I fancy, if
I chose.'

But, Eichard, to go back to the subject
'

He interrupted her hastily. ' I'm going to
engage a boy ; and when we come to a hill,
he'll walk round the van, and if any of the
calves, which are as weak in their intellects as
babies, let the nipples out of their mouths,
which they may do through the joggling of the
van when the roads are fresh stoned, or they
may do it out of sheer stupidity — then, I say,
the boy will put them back in their mouths
again, and fill up the bottles with skim-milk atour
halting-places. I've always found the calves
get very much pulled down by a journey, and
now, with this contrivance, I reckon they will
be very much pulled up.'

But about the girls ? '

I'm going to work on a grander scale altogether,
and have a set of vans. I'm quite
sure I can carry on the business wholesale, and
with this idea of the calves' sucking-bottles
carried out into execution, I must succeed.'

There was no getting anything more out
of him relative to the education of the children.
He was apparently now engrossed in the perfecting
of his arrangements for feeding the
calves out of bottles.

'It is wearing and exhausting to the hand,'
he said. 'It gets like tl^at of a washerwoman
who uses soda — all cockled and soft, what with
being in the milk and in the calves' mouths.
I've tried the butt-end of the driving-whip, but
it don't draw up milk, and the calves don't like
the taste of the brass mount ; so I've had to
come back to the hand again. It is possible they
may object to the vulcanised india-rubber at
first, whilst it is fresh.' Then, abruptly he reverted
to what he had spoken of before. ' Don't
let her think that there's any favour shown in
letting her have the cottage. It is done to suit
my convenience. Last night, as I sat in my
summer - house, I could see down into the
village, and, I suppose to annoy me, she had
her lamp burning till late, and there is not a
wall or a tree between the post-office and my
garden, so that the light of her lamp shone
right up in at my door, and sit how I would,
I could not get away from it. It aggravated
me, and I know I shall get no pleasure out of
my summer-house like that. By day, she'll do
something to annoy me if she has that window
perhaps put red geraniums in it.'
But, Eichard — it is a mile away.'
I don't know what the distance is ; it aggravates
and provokes me past endurance. ,1
shan't be able to sit there of a dav, because of

the pelargoniums ; nor at night, because of lier
lamp. I shall have to move the summer-house,
and the expense and trouble of that — the having
masons and carpenters and painters about the
place again, will be so vexing, that I'd. rather
she went into our old cottage. It would be
best for me, and she'd save money herself, for
I don't mind the rent, as it is an accommodation
to me. I couldn't move the summer-house
under ten pounds.'

And with regard to the matter of the
children '

There is no favour there, either,' interrupted
Eichard ; ' and I beg you will let her
understand that. I want them instructed, and
there is no one here but the young ladies at the
parsonage and herself fit to teach them ; and
you can ask the forfeit undertake the task ;
if they refuse, then you can offer it to the other
one ; she gets the job only because there is no
one else available. Let her understand that.
And mind, tell her, if I send a piano there— I
mean to the cottage — it is not that I give it her
or lend it her ; it is for my daughters to practise
on ; but I don't object to her playing on it
at any other time, because I've always heard
that a piano ought to be played on continually
to keep it in tune. It would go badly out
of tune if it were only used for the children's

schooling, and that would spoil their ear. —
Also,' continued Cable, ' there are some sticks
of furniture, and some bedding and other stuff,
and some crockery down there, which must be
used to keep the damp out of them, and the
moth and the wood-worm. There's no room
up here for all these things, and they don't
suit this new house ; they are left down thereto
accommodate me ; and if she does not pay
rent, it is because we find it convenient to put
someone in to keep the cottage dr3% the mildew
out of the furniture, and the moths from the
bedding, and to keep the crockery from being-chipped.
Make her understand that ; and if
she spoils things, she'll have to pay damages.
I do not know that I shan't put some more
things into the cottage just to run the chance
of their being injured by her, and so deduct
the cost of the things spoiled from her wages.'
Then, without looking at this mother to see
what she thought of his ideas, whether relating
to the feeding-bottles for his calves, or the
education of his children, he went down into
the valley to his old cob cottage.

He had put the key in a secret place — a
hole in the thatch, that none but he knew of.
He opened the door and went in and locked
himself in. The cottage was in the same condition
in which it had been left. The stools

were round the j^oor little table, the armchair
by the fire, and the ashes of the peat white on
the hearth. Then he took off his coat, and
went into the back kitchen and fetched a
broom and a pail and a pau, and set to work
to clean the house. He did not return to Eed
Windows all day. He was busy at the cottage.
He scrubbed the floors and the little stairs ; he
brushed down the walls ; then he jot whitings
the grocer's and whitewashed ceiling and
walls. He cleaned up the hearth, and laid
fresh kindling-wood on it, and hung a kettle to
the crook over it. He paid repeated visits to
the shop that day, and bought glazed calico and
tacks, and chintz and muslin ; and he nailed
up curtains to the windows, and put blinds
where there were none — ' lest,' as he said to
himself, ' the lamp should shine out of those
windows and torment me.' Afterwards, he got
a spade and dug up and tidied the garden. He
did not desist from his self-imposed task till late
at night, not till everything was done to his
satisfaction. He was a man who loved tidiness.
Next morning early, he left St. Kerian. This
time he went to Bewdley, where he had to
bestow some cattle he had contracted to bring

o

to the farmer on the home-farm of the manor.

When he came to the inn, he found Mr.
Polkinghorn there, who sprang up, and saluted

him with urbanity. ' IIow are we ? ' asked the
footman ; ' bobbisli or not ? And low is the
missus ? '

I am well,' answered Cable gravely. He
passed over the second query.

You haven't come in your travels yet on
the manor of Polkinghorn, have you ? ' inquired
the flunk}^ ' Because, if we could hit on that,
there'd be some chance of our recovering the
title-deeds, and being reinstalled in our manorial
rights. But — you see — till wee know where
it is, the Polkinghorns can take no step.'

How go matters Avitli you ? ' asked
Cable.

'Well, queerish,' answered the footman.
You've heard the news, of course ? '

News P I've heard nothing.'

Not of our appointment to a bishopric ? '

'You. No, certainly.'

Yes, we are.'

'What? The old lady?'
' Not exactly ; but her brother-in-law, old
Sellwood. I know him well; he's a nice old
shaver. He's going to be a bishop down your
way, at Bodmin. That is in Cornwall, is it
not?'

Yes. He to be bishop ! I do not look at
the papers.'

Yes ; he'll be bishop. I don't know that

we care much about it. You see the families
of Sellwood and Otterbourne don't need it.
They've lots of money, and a twopenny-halfpenny
bishopric ain't much to them ; especially
a new affair, such as this. Why, I don't believe
there's even a cathedral there, not a dean
and chapter ; and — I wouldn't take a bishopric
myself where there wasn't a dean and chapter
to sit upon. If you don't sit upon somebody,
you're nobody. It isn't a man's headpiece that
gives him estimation ; it is his capacity elsewhere
for sitting upon people. What is it that
makes Mr. Vickary so much respected in our
place ? It is that he sits upon us all. If he
only sat on the button-boy, Avould he be held
in such high honour? I put it to you, as a
man of the world.'

Cable made no reply.

I think if I may volunteer a suggestion,'
said Polkinghorn, ' that I could give you one
to improve your business.'

Indeed ? '

I suppose you've curates down your way ? '

yes, there are some.'

When the bishop comes into quarters,
there will be a demand for more — for lots.'

You think so ? '

I'm sure of it,' said the flunky. - Xow,
add to your van of calves another of curates,

and dispose of them down in Cornwall. —
You'll excuse me ; I am accounted a joker.'
Then looking round, and seeing that Mrs.
Stokes was not in the room, he said in a low
tone : ' There is worse behind. We're about
to have a regular revolution.'

Of what sort ? ' •

You'd never guess ; and you're somehow
mixed up in it.'

How is that ? '

About that affair of — your wife.'

What about her ? ' sharply

It seems she has a stylish sort of a father,
called Cornelia.'

Yes, what then ? '

He came here after you took her away.
He didn't appear whilst she was in our place.
He's a gentleman, you know, and I suppose
disapproved of her being in a situation ;
though, for the matter of that, I'm a Pol-inkhorn,
and I'm in a situation. What a
Polkingliorn can do, a Cable may.'

Never mind about that ; go on.'

Some folks have vulgar objections to situations.
If they do object to them, they're not
gentlemen ; as I take it, it is low.'

What has Mr. Cornelia done ? '

Done ! You should ask, what is he going
to do?'

Tlieii I do ask that. He has not been to
see his daughter where she is now.'

'Oh, I don't flxncy he's particularly interested
about lier. I fancy she was made the
excuse for his first componere and making
our okl girl's acquaintance. He's been here
off and on a good deal since — a great deal too
much for the liking of some of us ; and if
Miss Otterbourne had taken our opinion, she'd
have sent him about his business lone? ao'o. — I
beg pardon if I offend. He is your father-in-law.'


You do not offend at all.'

It was a bit of a come-down his girl
marrying you, no doubt, and he cut her off and
disowned her for it ; but he seemed mighty
interested about her after she was gone.'

He had not sufficient interest to pursue her,
and see that she was well and comfortable and
in good hands.'

In good hands ! She was in yours, I
suppose, comfortable ! It seems to me you're
not badly off. Besides, as you married her,
she was your charge, not his.'

What further has Mr. Cornellis done ? '

He has made himself a great favourite

with the old lady ; he humours her, and

But here comes Mrs. Stokes, and I don't like to
talk state secrets before her. I'll tell you later.

VOL. III. O

We were speaking of t]:ie bishop. Do 3'ou
know Sell wood ? '

T have spoken to our rector at Hanford.'

'I can't say I'm intimate with him,' said
Mr. Polkinghorn. ' There are some people one
can't be intimate with ; though one may put
out as many feelers as an octopus, there is no
laying hold of them. I've taken his shaving-water
to him, too.'

This did not seem to interest Cable ; he
was anxious to hear the rest about Josephine's
father. Presently, Mrs. Stokes left the room,
and then Mr. Polkinghorn resumed the subject.

He's an insinuating man is your father-in-law
; and when he found that the old woman
was keen on the lost Tribes, bless you, he led
her such a tally-ho ! after them, it was just like
as you play with a kitten, drawing a ball, or a
cork along the floor, and whisk and away went
the old creature purring and frisking and
snapping and clawing. It was quite pretty to
see her. And I do believe that he persuaded
her that he was the concentration of the Ten
Tribes in himself, a sort of a mixed pickle-bottle
of capsicum and gherkin, and cauliflower
and onion — only put Benjamin and Manassas,
and Gad and the rest of 'em, for the vegetables,
and a general Judaic flavour for the vinegar.'

'Go on. What next?'

I should like to know what are the circumstances
of your father-in-law? Is he a
man of substance or a soap-bubble — which ? '

I cannot say ; I suspect the latter.'

So do I ; and I fancy he will take care to
make himself a comfortable nest somewhere.
There was a goose and a gander on intimate
terms, that I knew, and the latter set to ripping
the down ofi' the breast of the goose to line a
nest. He persuaded her to it, and the fond
creature helped to strip her own breast ; and
the two birds smoothed the down into a very
snug sort of nest. Well, will you believe me?
there came a late fall of snow and some very
sharp weather, and through it all, the gander
sat in the downy nest, and let the goose walk
about and shiver in the snow, with her plucked
breast quite bare.'

What do you mean by this ? '

Oh, I'm a wag, and I mean more than I
put in plain words. There are parables to be
read, and the moral is easy understood by
them as lias brains. I don't feel sure that
your father-in-law his not the nature of that
gander, and I'm pretty sure our old woman
has that of the goose that helped to pluck
herself.'

Do you mean to say that he is helping himself
to her money ? '



I won't say that. But I believe before
long he'll persuade her to pay for a marriage
license, and then he'll take up his quarters in
Bewdley and begin the plucking process. We
won't stand it — none of us. We will go.'

But — she is old enough to be his mother.'
There is no fool like an old fool.'

CHAPTEE LY.

TO THE GALLOPERS.

Captain Edward G., my paternal ,
was a notable horseman in his day.
Ashley, the founder of the equestrian theatre
that was the delight of boys in my youth, but
which has passed away with Sadler's Wells,
Vauxhall, and the Colosseum, Regent's Park,
was in his troop, and from him acquired
his skill in horsemanship. Among Captain
Edward's feats was one in which the pupil
never equalled his master. He threw down
the several gold links of a chain at irregular
intervals along a high-road, and then, striking
spurs into his horse, galloped over the course,
and as he came to a link, swung himself down,
picked it off the ground, recovered his position
in the saddle, and so along the whole road, till
he had collected in his left hand without exception
all the scattered links.

The modern novel-reader emulates the
achievements of Captain Q., and the novel-writer

is expected to distribute the several
links of connection of his story along the
ground at such regular intervals and in such
conspicuous places as shall facilitate the reader's
picking them up. The author must, moreover,
well water and roll the way, and make it very
straight, and be content if the gallopers over
his course succeed in picking up some, though
not all, of his story-links. The reader is
essentially a Galloper. He, or more generally,
she, goes at the novel with dug-in spur and
slashing whip and jerk of rein. The words are
flown over as blades of grass, the chapter heads
are passed as telegraph poles ; away goes the
galloper through page after page, faster, ever
faster ; there is no time for breathing or looking
about ; the descriptions are splashed through,
the conversations skimmed, the moralising
skipped, the less important incidents are
jumped ; nothing is considered but how to
reach the end as fast as possible, with a fair
sample of links in the hand.

Now, consider ! The writer has to write
for these Gallopers. Is not the thought sufficient
to take all heart out of him ? An experienced
writer who for a lifetime has catered
for the reading public, and knows their proclivities
as Sir John Lubbock knows earthworms,
and Miss Ormcrod knows blight, said tome

: ' You will never become a popular novelist
until you alter your style. You set before the
novel-reader moral problems hard to unravel,
and make your terminations sad. The novel-reader
wants neither to he made to think nor to
be made to feel' In a word, I must lay myself
out for the Gallopers. Lay myself out for the
Gallopers ! Is there a form of degradation
deeper to which a literary man can descend ?
I must let myself be watered and rolled as a
tennis-ground, to be raced over by the hundred
thousand with voided brains, vapid hearts,
mule-witted, caprice-led, the purposeless, pulseless,
nerveless, characterless, without a noble
aim or a high ambition, without having felt the
needle-point, and had an arc begun about their
sheep-heads of the golden nimbus of self-abnegation.


No ; I will not lay myself out to be
trampled by the idle feet of the ignoble herd
of Gallopers. Let them turn aside when they
note my ruggedness. I will throw up ridges
and sink pitfalls, and be humpy and lumpy.
Let them take the profanation of their tread off
earnest work.

It is not the thoughtful and those with pursuits
in life who are the novel readers ; it is the
vast multitude of the do-nothing, whose whole
aim is distraction, who read to kill thought, to kill

healthy feeling, serious purpose, good resolution,
generous impulse — to kill God's precious gift of
Time. Shall I lay myself out for such as they ?
I can understand Faust selling his soul to the
devil for youth ; or the architect of Cologne
Minster for fame, or many another for wealth.
But there is an infamy worse than that, and
that is the sale to the Galloping novel-reader.
Asmodeus, Mephistopheles, Satan, call him
what you will, is an Intelligence, but the
modern novel-reader, Gwendolen or Edith, or
Mabel or Florence, whatever her name be, is a
soap-bubble, void of everything but an evanescent
exterior in iridescence. Lay myself out
as a rolling-ground for these bubbles, blown
along by the wind ! God forbid ! I would tear
myself to pieces with my own hands rather
than stoop to such baseness.

So — if I choose to force uncomfortable
thoughts on my readers' minds — I will. If I
choose to end my story unhappily — I will. I
consider my own standards, and measure my
work by them.

In the ' Compere Matliieu,' a French story
of last century, the penultimate chapter shows
us the hero in prison, brought there by a logical
sequence of events, chained hand and foot, with
the gallows preparing for him outside the jail.
In the final chapter we are abruptly introduced

to the compere at large, opulent, esteemed, and
wealthy. The reader asks naturally, ' But how-has
this sudden transformation come about?'
The author answers : ' I know no more than do
you. My publisher told me that readers desire
a novel to end happily, so I have ended mine
happy. If the termination does not fit on to
the events that go before, that is your affair, not
mine.'

I will not say that my publishers and my
readers are so exacting as to force me to do this ;
but they hit me very hard on another point.
Both insist on a story being three volumes
in length, or sixty chapters. Xow, when
Richardson wrote, he was allowed to occupy
seven volumes with the affairs of Sir Charles
Grandison, and of Clarissa Harlowe, and so
leisurely to unfold his story and develop his
characters. We authors now have not this
liberty, and we are forced to crush our story
into less than half that lenoih. To do this, weare
obliged to do our work imperfectly ; we
cannot follow the thread of the story evenly to
the end, and show every stage in the history of
our heroes and heroines. As characters are
moulded and 2^row, we want time and leisure to
exhibit the growth and indicate the process of
modelling ; but wee have our hands tied by the
inexorable system of three volumes. My

readers — T am not addressing the Gallopers,
whom I have scared away, and who are
careering wildly, purposelessly elsewhere, kicking
up their heels at me, as the ass at the
sick lion — my readers — my few left, who are
also my special friends — must excuse me if I
am forced to carry them hastily over a twelvemonth,
and to put into their hands some of the
links of the chain, without many words.

Mr. Sellwood has been consecrated Bishop
of Bodmin ; and Mr. Cornellis has married the
old lady, Miss Otterbourne, and is engaged
plucking his goose, and lining his nest with her
feathers. Mary Cable is growing up into a tall,
beautiful girl, with eyes so blue and full of sun
that when she looks into the face of a man, he
is dazzled, as if looking into the summer sky.
The children are all grown, and they are all,
moreover, vastly improved by the teaching they
have received at the cottage from Josephine.
But as to any approximation between their
father and Josephine, there was none apparent ;
in that particular all was where it was.

Mary was the pride and joy of her father's
heart. He loved all his children, but he was
most proud of Mary, and justly ; her equal
was not to be found thereabouts. That the
young men looked after her and admired her,
was right; it was her due, but, thought

Eicliard, lie shall be given to none of them.
ingot one of them deserves such a treasure.
Cable continued at his business. With seven
girls to provide for. he must make a good deal
of money, and all the money he made he put
away in the Duchy Bank, paying off in instalments
his debt on the house. His improved
position brought him more in contact Avitli the
people of St. Kerian than before, when he was
a poor stone-breaker on the roadside. His
sourness disappeared, but in its place came
pride. He spoke with the farmers and tradesmen,
and they respected him, his talents, his
practical good sense ; but the barrier between
them was not wholly broken down. He had
no intention that it should be. Towards his
own children, he had always been kind, and
indeed indulgent ; but the change in his temper,
his hardness, sternness, bitterness towards
those without, had gradually and imperceptibly
affected his conduct towards his own within his
household. He was kind, indeed, and indulgent
still ; but he lacked now what he had possessed
of old, when he had had a childlike spirit, that
perception of the requirements of joyous children's
souls, full of exuberant life, which is that
which endears elders to their children. If he
would have made his daughters happy in his
society, he should have sought happiness in

himself, laid up there a store of it, from which
to distribute to all who sought it at his hands.
But instead, in the granary of his heart was a
harvest of ixiueh ill seed.

One day, Mrs. Cable said to him when he
was alone : ' I don't know what you think
about it, Eichard, but it is right that you should
knows that young Walter Penrose is mightily
taken up with Mary. He's a fine fellow, and
nobody can say a bad w^oid of him. He has
been some few years in Launceston, and now
he is home again, and is likely to follow in his
father's shop, after the old blacksmith gives up.
As children, they have always had a liking
to each other, and now he is here, I see he is
after Mary. In church it seems as though he
could not keep his eyes off her ; and whenever
she goes into the village he is sure to be in
front of the blacksmith's shop to have a talk
with her. She is very young yet, only seventeen
; but — she must marry some day ; and if
you see no reasons against it, they might come
to an understanding, and wait a twelvemonth.'

Then Cable's wrath foamed up. ' I do see
reasons against it,' he said. ' I see wdiat this
means. Because I have worked and made
money, and the St. Kerian people can't break
into the bank and rob me of my money there,
they set their sons on to follow my girls. I

suppose the saddler's son, and the cobbler's boy,
and the miller's, and the chimney sweep's, if
there were one, would all be looking for a
seventh of my earnings, by snapping up one of
my daughters, and so T should have boiled and
toiled for St. Kerian folk, that they might
spend.'

But if the girls should like the lads. There
is nothing against Walter Penrose ; and I believe
that Mary '

It is enough that I will not have it,' said
Cable impatiently. ' She likes what I like,
and has no desire beyond my will.'

One Sunday afternoon, after church service,
old Penrose the blacksmith came out
through the graveyard alongside of Cable.
The girls walked behind, Mary with Martha ;
then the twins Effie and Jane, who were in •
separable ; and then the rest. The blacksmith
was a fine man, broad-shouldered, big-handed,
with very black eyes, but soft as velvet, and
black hair the colour of the culm in his smithy
now, however, dusted with gray, as though
ash had got among it. Instead of turning away
at the gate to go to his home, he walked on
with Cable. He did not live adjoining his
smithy. The shop was on the road to Eed
Windows. Penrose talked a good deal ; Cable
answered, but was not a great speaker. All

the better company — he was a good listener.
Penrose talked about this and about that, and
Cable nodded. He was wondering why the
blacksmith accompanied him beyond his own
house.

Presently Penrose said : ' Well, Mr. Cable,
T reckon we're getting on in life, and want to
see the young people settled. I know my
missus be mad set on it, and I should be glad
to have my son fixed here. He knows his
trade, and there's plenty of work to keep both
him and me.'

Cable jerked his head impatiently.

My Walter is a proper lad ; though I'm
his father, I say it. You may look round St.
Kerian and you'll hardly find a better ; and
the maiden he fancies '

Then Cable stood still and turned, and
looked down the road ; he saw the little group
that followed had been invaded. Young Walter
Penrose was there, between Martha and Mary ;
but his eyes and his words were directed only
to Mary. All the blood in Cable's body
spurted to his face, and his eyes glared like the
blacksmith's forge when the bellows were in
full blast. ' What do you mean ? ' he asked
hoarsely.

I mean this,' answered Penrose, ' that my
Walter has set his heart on your Mary, and I

reckon the maiden is not contrary. I'm
agreeable.'

The colour went out of Cable's face ; his
lips assumed a livid and bitter appearance.
Indeed,' he said, * you are agreeable, are you ?
Im not'' He turned ; he had reached the gate
to his garden ; and he beckoned the girls to
come on. He saw the blacksmith shake his
head as he met his son ; then he saw the colour
disappear from Mary's cheek, and when she
came to the gate her head was drooping, and,
if he could have seen her eyes, he would have
seen them full of tears.

After that, it seemed as though a bar of
ice had formed between him and his eldest
daughter — a bar which no sunday of love could
melt. The gentle Mary said not a word. She
was meek, obedient, docile as ever ; but she
did not meet her father's eye with her former
frank smile, nor seek his society unsolicited.

Martha became petulant, pouted, and
seemed to harbour a wrong, and resent it.
Effie and Jane, the twins, looked on him with
shyness, and when he came upon them laughing
and talking, they became silent, and
answered his questions with manifest timidity.
Had his children ceased to love him ? No ;
but they had begun to think of him as one who
might stand between them and perfect happiness,

one who might spoil their brightest
schemes.

Cable became more morose. He watched
Mary. He saw that she was unhappy ; that
she was becoming pale and thin ; the joy of
her life seemed withered, her eyes had lost
their sparkle, and the dimple rarely formed
now about her lips. ' I see what it is,' said
Cable to himself. ' She will not forget that
young Penrose, till she has found some one
else to regard. I'll talk to Jacob Corye.' So
he rode over to the ' Magpie ' at Pentargon.

Mr. Corye was a prosperous man. Cable,
who had had such close dealings with him,
knew that he had put by a good deal of money.
Moreover, Cable could not forget the debt he
owed to Corye for having put him on the road
to make his fortune. Corye owned a very
considerable farm, as well as the ' Magpie ' inn.
Of late, he had purchased a second form, and
helped by Cable, he was fast becoming the
most prosperous yeoman of his district. He
kept on the inn more out of habit than for
necessity. Shortly after this visit to the ' Magpie,'
Jacob Coiye and his son Joshua were
invited to supper at Eed Windows, and then
Cable and his two elder daughters were invited
to spend an evening at Pentargon. Little
Bessie had been failing of late, complaining of

her back, looking pinched in face, white and
frail

I have asked Mr. and Mrs. Corye,' said
Eichard Cable, ' to let Bessie go to them for a
bit. Do you not think, mother, that the sea
air may brace her up ? You see here we have
our backs to the winds that blow over the
Atlantic ; but at Pentargon she will draw them
into her lungs, fresh off the water.'

No doubt it will do her good,' answered
Mrs. Cable. ' But who is to be there with
her ? '

Mary or Martha.'

'But Mary or Martha cannot stay there
long, and I think you should give Bessie six
weeks, or, better, a couple of months by the
sea, before the winter sets in.'

Mary cannot remain at Pentargon above a
fortnight.'

'Then,' said Mrs. Cable, and looked her
son hard in the eyes, ' let her go with the
child. She will care for her — as a mother ;
and it will do her good also. She is looking
weak and frail, as if she were wasting away.
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick, and the
body breaks down under a sick heart.'

'Make what arrangements you will, but do
not consult me,' said Eichard. ' Jacob and I
have a fine scheme on hand. It was his notion,

VOL. m. p

but lie did not see this way to getting it
clearly worked out till I helped him. It is to
build a large hotel on the cliffs, and to advertise
it well ; and then there will be streams of
people come there all the summer and autumn
for the splendid air and scenery. There is to
be a flight of steps cut in the rock down to the
bay, where there will then be a first-class
bathing-place. Jacob will make many thousand
pounds by the speculation, see if he does
not, and I shall venture my savings in the
same. It is sure to answer.'

You think of nothing save making money,'
sighed Mrs. Cable.

Now, occasionally, on Sundays, young
Joshua Corye came over to church at St.
Kerian, and walked back with the Cable girls
as far as the gate, when Eichard asked him to
step in and have tea with the party before
riding home to the ' Magpie.' Joshua carne
over ostensibly to bring Eichard tidings of his
little Bessie, who was at Pentargon, and to beg
she might stay on there. The child was not
well, weak, but ceased to complain, and enjoyed
the fresh air. The young person who
was with her was most attentive and gentle
with the feeble child.

I don't want to hear about her,' said
Cable. ' Tell me about Bessie : and what your

father has clone further about the hoteL I've a
notion, tell him, that it must be called "Hotel
Champagne Air," because the an you breathe
on those cliffs goes sparkling and effervescing
down your throat into your lungs. And, I
fancy, the name would draw.'

Young Joshua Corye was a steady, decent
young man, with a very fresh-coloured round
face and small brown eyes. So fresh-coloured
were his cheeks that if they had been skinned,
they could not have been redder. He was a
dull young man ; he could talk of harriers and
badger-hunting, and rat-catching and rabbit-shooting,
and boating, but of nothing else. He
always wore very tight half-trousers, half-breech,
buttoned over the calf from the knee
to the ankle.

Cable was very keen on the idea of the
Champagne Air Hotel, and he had pitched on
Joshua Corye for Mary, because he was quite
sure the hotel would prove a vast success. Old
Jacob would pocket a great deal of money, and
the fortunes of the young people would be
made. Of late, batches of knapsacks young
men and gangs of athletic old maids had taken
to walking along the north-west coast of Devon
and Cornwall, and the accommodation was
scant for visitors. Cable schemed a coach in
connection with the Exeter and Launceston

p 2

coach, wliicli would carry passengers right onto
Champagne Air HoteL It might be meade
a sanatorium, a great bathing establishment.
The possibilities of making money out of it
were numerous. Jacob Corye had his own
farms, and could supply his hotel from his
farms, and so create a market in his midst.

Now that Bessie was at the ' Magpie,'
Eichard did not go over and see her ; but he
was eager to hear tidings of her. Before she
went there, he frequently rode over ; now, not
at all.

Cable was sitting in his summer-house one
warm day, when he observed young Walter
Penrose coming up the hill with some iron
staples he had been lengthening for a farmer
beyond Eed Windows. At the same time,
Mary was coming down the road with a pitcher
for water to a spring where the water was
softer than that of the well, and better suited
for her flowers. Eichard Cable watched them
with some curiosity. They were both unaware
that his eye was on them. They passed each
other very close to him. He could see Walter's
dark eyes full of entreaty, fixed on Mary, and
that he let fall some of the staples. Mary
hung her head ; she did not speak, she did not
look at him ; but she went on to the spring. A
moment after, when Walter had turned the

corner and was out of sight, Cable heard her
sink upon the step of his summer-house and
burst into sobs. She had laid her head against
the doorpost with her hands over her eyes, and
she wept there for a quarter of an hour ; her
father listening, agitated within, unwilling to
come forth and reveal that he had witnessed
her sorrow.

He was troubled for some days after that ;
he was half-tempted to relent, but his pride
stood in the way. He would not go to old
Penrose, cap in hand, and ask him to accept
Mary as his daughter-in-law. Besides, he and
old Corye had settled between them that Joshua
and Mary were to be installed together in Champagne
Air Hotel.

Mother,' he said, ' there's going to be a
confirmation in St Kerian's Church, and the
bishop — our old parson at Hanford — is coming.
There is not one of my girls as yet confirmed ;
they shall be confirmed together, all seven. —
Don't tell me that Mary is too old, nor Bessie
too young. It is my wish. And, mind you
send to that person who does the needlework,
and tell her to get ready seven white dresses for
the seven girls, before the bishop comes. I
don't know, but perhaps he'll be pleased to
confirm the seven little maids, all of whom he
baptised at Hanford ; and I'm not sure but I

shall be pleased to see him — if he's not forgotten
me.'

'Eichard,' said Bessie Cable, 'there is a
white silk dress that she wore at her wedding.
She gave it to me to do what I wished with, to
cut it up for the children if I liked. Shall I use
that for one of them ? '

Then Eichard Cable's face became red as
blood.

No ! ' he said. ' Do not touch it. Seven
white robes, and this — an edith.'

CHAPTER Lii.

A LAST TRIAL.

Josephine sat on a bench behind the ' ]magpie '
with little Bessie in her arms, looking out seaward.
There was a good deal of cloud in the
sky, but torn, with intervals of sky, through
which the sun poured a rain of white light
over the water. Seen from the great height of
the cliffs, the Atlantic looked like a silvery-gray
quivering sheet of satin, with folds of gray, and
flashes and flakes and furls of brilliant white.
About the headland of Pentargon, or King
Arthur's Head, the breakers tossed, and the
water was converted into milk. In the bay,
under the cliffs, the gulls were noisy, and their
voices, in laughter or objurgation, were reechoed
by the black precipices, multiplied and
magnified, till, looking on, one wondered that
so much and such strange sound should come
from the flying flakes of white that glanced here
and there. The wind was from the west ; it
had not brushed land since it left Labrador ;

but it lead lost its chill and harshness in passing
over these endless tracts of ocean ; though it
blew so strongly that it lifted and would have
carried away an unsecured hat, there was a
warmth and mellowness in it that divested it of
all severity. It was like the reproof of a mother,
charged with love and working betterment.

The horizon was full of change and mystery,
now dark as a mourning-ribbon, now clear and
white as that of a bride ; now it was a broad
belt, then a single thread ; now melting into the
sky, then sharp against it. Far away, it was
blotted out by a blur of falling rain, or shadow
from a cloud ; and here again by a veil of sunlight
that was let down between the clouds,
hiding all behind.

The air was full of music — the roar of the
sea, in varied pulsations, and the pipe and flute
among the grass and seamen on the down, and
the hiss of the sand-grains that were caught and
turned over and rolled along in the bare patches.
Near the extreme verge of the precipice, where
the soil was crumbly, and a false step hould
plunge into destruction, the sheep Avere lying at
ease, dozing, waking now and then, and approaching
the sweet grass to nibble, then going
back to the edge of the precipice to sleep again ;
for the sheep have ascertained that, with a wind
on shore, the edge of the cliiT is the most sheltered

spot ; the wind, hurling itself against the
crag, is beaten upwards and curls over, and falls
further inland, just as might a wave. Consequently,
in a heavy gale, partial stillness of air
is found at the cliff edge.

Josephine wore a dark-blue dress, and over
her head was a handkerchief, pinned beneath
lier chin. Bessie lay, silent in her lap, with her
head on Josephine's bosom, and her thin-drawn
face looking seaward. Josephine also was silent ;
she also was looking seaward. Her face was
greatly changed since wee first saw her on the
lightship. Then she was girlish, with mischief
and defiance in her splendid eyes, and life glowing
in her veins, showing through her olive skin.
Then, there was promise in her of a handsome
woman, full of spirit and self-will ; of a clever
woman, who could keep a circle of men about
her, charmed, yet wincing, at her wit and
humour. But the Josephine dio sat on the
bench of the ' Magpie ' Alas not the same. The
promise was unfulfilled. The girlishness was
gone. The self-confidence had made way for
timidity ; the defiance in her great dark eyes
was exchanged for appeal. There was no more
mischief lurking anywhere, in the eyes, in the
dimples of the cheek, in the curve of the lips ;
but there was an amount of nobleness, and
mixed with gentleness, great resolution, marked

in all the features. It was like the nature of
that west wind that she inhaled — strong yet
tender, direct yet infinitely soft, soothing, healing,
loving, strengthening — and pure.

Josephine had gone through a long ordeal,
to which she had subjected herself, and from
which there seemed no issue. Spiritually,
morally, it had done her good ; but it had not
advanced her towards that end which she
sought — at least so it seemed to her. She was
no nearer to Eichard Cable than she had been.
If he conferred on her a boon, it was in such a
manner as to rob it of all the grace of a gift,
and of all the hope it might carry.

What a fascination there is in looking at
the sea ! Even the most vulgar soul is affected
by it. On the sea-border we are on the frontier
of the infinite. The sight of the ocean is like
the sound of music calling forth the soul from
the thoughts of to-day, from its cage-life to
freedom, and an unutterable yearning after what
is not — the Perfect. At the sight of the sea, all
the aspirations long down-trodden, long forgotten,
lift up their hands again, and stretch out of
the dust of sordid life. All the sorrows of the
past, scarred over, break out and bleed again,
the blood running down, drop by drop, warm,
soothing, yet painful. All the generous thoughts
that have been pared down and disfigured into

mean acts, shake off their disguise, reassume
their original dignity, and master us. All the
entreaties, the affectations, which have bound
us about, break away, and we stand forth fresh
aud natural and true. All the selfishness, the
contraction of interest to one miserable point,
discovers its unworthiness, and the heart swells
with a charity that has no bounds.

I have seen those who have taken novels
out on the downs to read, sit hour by hour
looking seaward, with the novel unread on the
lap. The sea was the great reality, the infinite
truth waking up in their minds a thousand
thoughts and emotions, drawing them out,
withering the base, and bracing the true. It
showed them in their own selves all the elements
of the noblest romance ; it revealed to
them the true hero or heroine, in themselves,
in the ideal, towards which they should ever
strive, and in the pursuit of which work out the
grandest of romances, which is not a romance,
but a o-reat reality.

So Josephine sat looking seaward, and thinking
without knowing that she thought, and on
her lap lay little Bessie thinking, as her eyes
looked seaward, and not knowing that she
was thinking. In Goethe's ballad the Erie-king
calls to the child, uttering promises ; and the
father who boars the child does not hear the

voice, and shudders at the thought that his
child may be lured away. The sea — the infinite
sea, called to the child and to her who held
the child with a voice that both heard — a voice
full of promise, but full of mystery as to what
it promised.

The bench on which Josephine sat was made
of old wreck-timber, and at the sides stood the
curved ribs of a ship or boat, meeting overhead,
and boarded in, so as to form a rude arbour.
The sides cut off the wind, when it did not blow
directly on shore, and the seat was a meeting-place
for the coastguard. As Josephine sat
here, a man came round the corner of the house
and approached the place videre she sat. She
did not see him because of the planks that
framed in the seat. Five minutes after, another
man appeared in like manner round the other
angle of the house, and came towards her
arbour, and he also was unseen as he drew nigh,
for the same reason. The first who came was
Eichard Cable, and he came to see Bessie. As
already said, he had not been to the 'Magpie'
since she had been there ; but of late a great
uneasiness had come over him. He remembered
wdiat his mother had said, as he moved to Eed
"Windows — that he laid his foundations in his
hast-born, and set up the gates in his youngest.
In his troubled mind the fancy rose that he had

lost his first-born — her love, at least, by thwarting
her, and ruined her happiness ; and that he
was about to lose his poor little Bessie in another
way. He had struggled against this impression,
against his desire to see her, how she was progressing,
to assure himself that the fear that
weighed on him was unfounded. At length he
had ridden over ; and having heard of Mrs.
Corye that Josephine was with the child on the
bench, he went in search of lier ; very reluctant
to meet Josephine, and very desirous to see his
child. He stood screened by the side of the
bench, gray wooden wreck-timber planks,
carved over with initials, listening for Bessie's
voice, waiting for her to run out on the down,
when he would go after her, catch her up in his
arms, and carry her off, without having to face
Josephine.

At first he doubted whether those he sought
were there ; but there was a round knot-hole
in one of the planks, and on looking through
that, he saw Josephine, and the little girl leaning
on her bosom. Josephine's profile was
clean cut against the sky, noble, fine, and
beautiful ; but he could not see from that
silhouette how changed the face was. As he
thus stood now looking through the hole at
Josephine and Bessie, then, caught by the
fascination of the sea, looking out seaward,

rJCIIARD CABLE

losing himself in dreams full of trouble and
pain and froth and brine, there passed a flicker
of siinliglit over the rolling ocean, like a skein
of floss-silk of the purest white blown along
the gray surface, and caught and spread by the
inequalities, and then lifted and carried on
again by the wind. He looked at this till it
disappeared, and as he looked, his sense of
time passed away, and he knew not how longe
had been standing there, liable to muster
courage to present himself before those who
sat so near him and 3'et were parted from him.
As he thus stood, leaning back against the wall,
another man came round the house, from the
opposite side, and ensconced himself on the
other side of the arbour. This was Mr.
Cornellis. He had driven up to the ' Magpie '
five minutes after the arrival of Cable, and had
inquired for Josephine, not by name, but as
the young person staying here with one of
Cable's children.' He had been to St. Kerian,
and had there learned where she was and
what she was doing ; and had come on to
the ' Magpie ' after her. But as he had heard
from Mrs. Corye that Eichard had himself gone
in tie same direction a few minutes before, he
contented himself with slipping round the
corner and planting himself beside the bench,
screened by the side, where he thought he

might stand unobserved and Lear what took
place before he showed himself.

So Josephine sat on the old bench with the
ribs of a wreck arching over her, planked in
on both sides, and the sick child on her lap,
both silent, both lost in a day-dream ; and on
each side of her, unknown to her, stood a man
with whom she was intimately allied, and yet
from both of whom she was widely parted
her father and her husband. She knew
nothing of their proximity ; she had not heard
their steps on the turf; and the wind that blew
into the arbour, filled it and whirled about in
it, and hummed and piped and broke out into
song, and sank into sobs, and pulled at the
timbers, making them creak, and sought out
their rifts, to whistle through them, so that she
could hear no slight sound outside that rude
orchestral shell.

Mr. Cornellis leaned back against the wall,
with his hands behind him, as a protection to
his coat, and looked out to sea ; but on him, on
him alone of the four, the fascination had no
power. The same wondrous expanse, the same
travelling glories and obscurities, the same
mysterious depths and distances, and glimpses
into further far-away, and screens veiling the
far off, the same call of the many-voiced ocean
in one great harmonious song — passing over

the mind of Mr. Cornellis, not even as a breath
over a minor that leaves a momentary trace —
it affected him not at all, for the faculty was
dead in him, if it had ever existed — the faculty
of responding to the hidden things of nature.
One deep calleth to another deep, sang David,
sitting on the hill slope of Bethlehem, looking
away west to the Mediterranean, as the sight
of the sea woke in his soul a consciousness of
the Divine, of the Eternal ; and the deep sea
still calls to the deep in every human soul that
has depth ; only to the shallow puddles does it
call in vain.

Where the planks were joined on the side
where stood Mr. Cornelia, a little rift remained.
The planks had not fitted originally, or had
warped after having been nailed to the stanchions.
Through this cleft he looked, and he
could see his daughter. He could not see the
face of the child on her bosom ; but he saw
the head over her arm, and the golden hair
in dimpled waves flowing down upon Josephine's
dark-blue dress, and the parting on the top of
the head, and just a strip of white brow.

Then both men heard the clear, beautiful
voice of Josephine raised in song :

wie wont es, wie wont es, so scion aiif der Flush !

and looking in, saw her swaying the sick Bessie
in her eris to the rhythm of the melody.

Cable saw more — tie saw the delicate,
transparent hand of his child raised, stroking
the cheek of her nurse, and then — the song of
the Mermaid was interrupted as Josephine
turned her hips and kissed the little hand.

Josephine did not continue the song, but
said : ' Bessie, can you kneel up on my lap,
and let me tell you something ? '

The child did not answer in words ; she
had become very silent of late — the closeness,
the reserve of her father was showing itself asa



an inherited characteristic in her. But though
she did not speak, she acted ; she raised her
head, put her hands on Josephine's shoulders,
and knelt on her lap, opposite her, still resting
a hand on each shoulder of her nurse. The
wind blew in, took her golden hair and swept
it forward towards the face of Josephine ; and
Josephine was obliged to make her hold her
head away, lest the hair should spread itself
over her face and obscure her eyes and prevent
her from speaking.

My dear Bessie,' she said in a voice full of
gentleness and sweetness, and with a tremble
in it that now never left it, ' I must tell you
something, I cannot let you coax me. and pat
my cheek and kiss me, as you so often do, without
your knowing to whom you show this
love.'

VOL. in. Q

Then Cable's brows knitted. Josephine was
going to betray the trust imposed on her,
to tell the child that she was her stepmother,
and to implant in Bessie's mind the suspicion
that her father had been unjust to one who was
kind and good. He took a step forward to
leave his hiding-place and prevent the disclosure
; but he thought better of his resolution,
and desisted. He must not provoke a scene
which would agitate his child.

Bessie,' said Josephine, ' I do not think
your father would wish you to be so dear and
sweet to me, to let me think you loved me, and
remain in ignorance of what should be told.'

She is false also,' thought Cable ; ' she
knows I do not wish it.'

My darling,' continued Josephine, ' look
me full in the face — look with your blue eyes
straight into mine, whilst I tell you something,
and I shall be able to read in your eyes what
you think.' She paused, and drew a long
breath. ' You know, my pretty pet,' said
Josephine, ' how you suffer in your back, how
that you have always — that is, since you can
remember — been a sickly child ; that you have
not been able to play with your sisters like
those who are strong ; that you have had much
pain to bear, and many sleepless nights. You
know that now you are very weak and soon

tired, and you do not care to talk much or take
exercise, but to lie quiet on my breast and look
at the sea. My dear, I also like to look at the
sea ; and the sea has been talking to me, and
telling me to be true — always true, and deal
openly, and never hide what should be known,
and reap wdiat has not been sown by me. That
is why I want to tell you this thing now, which
has been kept secret from you. Do you know
why you are infirm and in pain, with a suffering
life instead of a life joyous and painless ? '

I do not know,' said Bessie.

JSTo one has told you ? '

The child shook her head, and as she did
so, the wind caught her yellow hair and
wrapped it about her face, so that she was
obliged to let go her hold of Josephine's
shoulder with one hand, to thrust back her
curls behind her ears.

'May I have your blue kerchief with the
white spots,' asked Bessie, ' to tie over my
head ? The hair blows into my eyes, and I
cannot see you.'

Then Josephine unknotted the kerchief
from her own head — the knot was under her
chin — and tied it over the golden head of little
Bessie. How was it that, in some dim way,
the sight of that blue white-spotted kerchief
was familiar to Eichard ? ' It is an old pocket-handkerchief

of your father's,' said Josephine,
and covers you best, as his love is spread over
your head — not over mine.'

Then Eichard remembered the handkerchief,
and the mockery with which once
Josephine had spoken of it.

When your father left Hanford, where he
once lived — that was when you were quite a
baby, and you remember nothing about it —
then he left this kerchief behind, and I have
kept it ever since.'

Were you there then ? '

'Yes.'

'Why did papa leave that place for St.
Kerian ? '

Because, in the first place, the cottage at
St. Kerian came to him from your great-uncle ;
and in the next, he had very painful associations
with Hanford.'

You knew him there ? '

Yes — and it was there that happened the
sad accident which has made you a sufferer.'

Cruel, cruel Josephine ! always wounding !
She was about now to tell his daughter how
he had let her fall when he was drunk, and so
to turn away the child's heart from him. Thus
were his mother's words likely to come true ;
he had thrown away the heart of his eldest,
and the heart of his youngest was to be

plucked from him. He set his elbow against
the wall, and his fingers he thrust through his
hair, and he looked with eyes that gleamed
with remorse and anger through the knot-hole
at Josephine.

Then she went on, in her low voice, that
quivered as sunlight on the surface of water :
Look me well in the face, dear Bessie, and
do not take your eyes off mine. You shall
know the truth now, from my lips. The
reason why you have a bad back and an unhappy
life is this — that you were let fall on
a hard stone floor, when you were a baby, and
your bones soft and not full set. That is the
secret that has not been told you. You were
born sound and strong as Mary and Jane and
Effie and Martha, and the rest ; and now you
would be able to run about like the rest, and
be strong, and have no pain, but for that fall.
Well ? ' The great brown eyes of Josephine
looked into the blue eyes of the child, inquiringly.
' Have you nothing to ask ? Do you
not want to know where the guilt lies of ruining
all your sweet and precious life ? '

Bessie shook her head, and her golden
hair did not flutter, but the end of the blue,
white-spotted kerchief, with E. C. marked on
it, flapped in the wind.

The brow of Cable was drawn and corded

like rope, and this knees shook under him with
convulsive agitation. Should he now step forth
at this supreme moment, and arrest the word
on the heartless, venomous woman's mouth ?

Then in the same low, quivering tones, but
yet so clear that Eichard lost not one word,
Josephine Vv^ent on : ' It was my doing, Bessie.
I — and I alone am to blame for all your suffering
; and that is also why your father left Hanford
— to take you away from me.'

Not a wink, not a contraction of the iris in
the child's blue orbs.

Some one,' said Josephine, ' said to me
that when you were told this you would hate
me, and raise your little fists and beat my eyes
till they were blind with blood and tears.'

Then little Bessie let go her hold of Josephine's
shoulders, and threw her arms about
her neck, and platted the white fingers in her
dark hair, and kissed her passionately on the
eyes, and then laid her little head on one of
Josephine's shoulders, and looked up into her
eyes and said : ' But — I am glad it was you,
and I love you a thousand times better.'

Out seaward was a long, hard-edged, black
roller coming on to the shore, looking as black
and hard as the iron rocks against which it
Tis about to fling itself But at one point the
crest broke and turned into foam ; at another

point fur away in the same wave-crest, another
white foam-head appeared ; and from each side
the foam ran inward, and it seemed as if they
must meet and turn the whole long wave into
one white breaker. But no ! There heaved up
between the approaching lines of foam a yeasty
heap of water, into which the advancing wave
dissolved, and lost its continuity. Ei chard
looked seaward at this roller. Little matters
determine our actions in moments of indecision.
Had the foam-lines met, he would have stepped
forward, and an immediate reconciliation might
have ensued. But the failure in the wave
broke down the dawning desire for reunion, and
he stole away back to the inn without a word.

As he left, Mr. Gornellis stood forth, and
saw him go, and in another moment confronted
his daughter and Bessie. But Cable went into
the ' Magpie ' and ordered his horse. Then
said Mrs. Corye to him : ' I suppose you can't
carry a parcel ? The young woman has done
all the seven confirmation dresses, and they
are tied up in a parcel, ready to be sent to
St. Kerian.'

Give them to me,' said Cable ; ' I will
take them in front of my saddle.'

When Josephine caught sight of her father,
she sprang up with a cry of pleasure, and with
a flushed face, placed Bessie on the seat and

ran to him with outstretched arms. She was
so poverty-stricken in love, that she hailed
with delight the appearance of one to whom
she was tied with the tenderest bands. '
papa ! how kind of you to come and see me !
Oh! how is dear Aunt Judith? I have not
seen her for so long, and I do love her so !
papa ! this is a pleasure.' She held his hand in
both hers and wrung it, and kissed it and wept
with delight.

I have come to fetch you home,' said Mr.
Cornellis. ' Your Aunt Judith is expecting you,
and I want you.'

Papa I ' exclaimed Josephine suddenly
you are in mourning — deep mourning. What
has happened ? '

My dear, I have lost my wife. You know
that I married Miss Otterbourne, who was
twenty years older than myself. She has not
lived long. The complete change in the modes
of life, after she had settled into old-maidish
ways, broke her up very quickly.'

papa, papa ! And where are you now ? '

At Bewdley, my dear.'

But that goes to Captain Sellwood.'

Not at all. She had free disposal of her
property, and she has left everything to me.'

But — it is not fair.'

I do not ask your opinion in this matter,'

he said coldly ; ' I have come to fetch you
home. Judith is getting old and failing, and I
want you to manage the house.'

But — papa — I cannot leave.'

'Why not? Eichard Cable will have
nothing to say to you. Has he given you the
least encouragement ? '

She was silent.

Do you know that he overheard all that
passed between you and the child just now ?
Had he desired a reconciliation he would have
sought it. He did not. He never will. Give
up this absurd and hopeless Don Quixote pursuit,
and come with me. I am now very well
off. You were at Bewdley as a servant ; you
come back as mistress. I have packed off the
worthless crew of domestics and hangers-on
who preyed on the old lady. Come back with
me. You have done more than was necessary
to satisfy that fellow Cable ; and as he still
rejects you, show him proper pride, and leave
him to himself.'

Papa ! ' — she breathed fast — ' you are rich
now ? '

Yes, very.'

Then, oh, do repay the insurance.'

He gave her a look, so evil, so full of rage
and malice, that she turned sharply about to
see Bessie.

He did not steak again ; die went away
without another word or look, and left without
a parting message through the hostess.

Not so Cable.

When Josephine came in, Mrs. Corye
pointed to the table, on which something was
scrawled in chalk. 'Look there,' she said.
He — I mean Cable — wrote that for you, and
when you've read it, wipe it out.'

On the table was inscribed : ' Thursday —
bring Bessie. Friday — confirmation.' That
was all.

CHAPTEE Evil

THE Foundation.

EiciiAED Cable scarcely slept all night. He
thought of many things. He thought of what
he lead seen and overheard at Pentargon. He
save in the darkness the arms of his child round
the neck, interlaced with the hair of Josephine,
her head tied up in his blue white-spotted kerchief,
lying on her shoulder, looking up into
the pale face of her nurse, with a soit of love
and forgiveness streaming out of those blue
eyes. But he thought of something beside — of
the plan he had made for Mary ; and he was by
no means sure that she would be v/ell content
with the arrangement. One circumstance had,
however, occurred to make his way easier.
When a young man has been refused, his self-love
receives a wound more severe than his
heart, and he is then impelled to do some act
which will retrieve his lost self-respect. A
man who has been refused, or jilted, is ready
to propose to the next girl he sees ; and no

sooner was Walter Penrose aware that his suit
for Mary Cable was unacceptable, than he
offered himself to Sarah Jones. He did not
care particularly for Sarah ; but he did not
choose to have it thought in the place that he
was a rejected lover ; and he did not choose
that the Cables should consider him as inconsolable.
As this engagement was hurried, the
wedding was also hurried ; Sarah Jones had no
desire to let Walter slip through her fingers
by delay, and Walter wished to have his fate
settled irrevocably as speedily as possible, out
of defiance to the Cables, who had slighted his
pretensions.

After breakfast one morning, Eichard Cable
said to Mary : ' Child, when you have cleared
away, come to me into the summer-house ; I
have a word to say to you of some importance.'


Father, I hear the bishop arrives tomorrow.'


Yes ; but I am not going to speak to you
about the bishop.'

And the confirmation is on Friday.'

'Yes; I suppose so; but that is not the
matter.'

He saw her and Martha exchange looks.
Martha put up her lip and looked sulky.
Martha had inherited her father's stubbornness.

She and Mary clung to each other, as the
twins who intervened between Mary and her
were fast friends and inseparable. Martha
looked up to Mary with passionate love, regarded
her as the most beautiful and perfect
girl in the world ; fought her battles, resented
every slight shown her, or supposed slight, as
she would bridle with pride and pleasure at
every acknowledgment of her sister's excellence.


Cable went to his summer-house and smoked
a pipe. Before he had finished it, he heard a
timid foot on the gravel, and in another moment
Mary stood in the open door.

Come in,' said Cable. ' What is the matter
? Upset because you have broken a plate ?
Bah ! Fourpence will set that to rights. Come
inside, Mary dear ; I must have a serious word
with you.'

She entered, trembling, and with changing
colour, changing as fast as the flushes in the
evening clouds. Tears sparkled on her eyelashes,
as raindrops on fern-leaves in the li edges at
morn.

What is the matter, child ? Why are you
frightened ? Your father will never do anything
to displease you. You can rely on that.
His whole care is for your happiness, and it is
for your happiness that he is now arranging.'

She raised her blue eyes ; they were swimming'
with tears, so full of tears that he could
not read through the watery veil what they
said. He could not say for a moment anymore.
His pipe did not draw as it should ; he
unscrewed it and blew through the nozzle.
His blood throbbed in his temples. He was
vexed with his mother because she had refused
to speak to Mary about his purpose, and relieve
him of the irksome obligation. ^ Mary,' he
said, after a long pause, during which she stood
before him with folded hands and lowered
eyes — ' Mary, I suppose you have formed
a rough guess what my business is with
you ? '

She made no answer with her lips. Had
he looked up, he might have read the reply in
the pain-twitching lips of his child and in her
shifting colour.

Can you give a guess of what I have to

sny?'

Then she held up her head, looked full
through her tears in her father's face, and
answered : ' Yes, dear father, I know — I can
guess what you want to — to say. But —
father ! father dearest — spare me this time — do
not say it.'

'Spare you this time?' echoed Cable.
What is the meaning of these words ? Y/hen

have I not been considerate and kind to you —
to you above the rest ? '

No answer.

He waited ; but as he received no reply,
without looking in her face, he began again :
Mary.'

Father,' she said, ' let me ' But her

voice foiled her, and she put her hands over
her eyes.

You do not know what is good for you,
my child,' he said. ' You are indeed still very

young, scarcely eighteen, and yet But

never mind ; your mother was married early.
If I have doubted for a moment whether I
acted rightly on a former occasion, my doubts
have vanished to-day. That young fellow, who
once took a fancy to you, is now Hark ! '

At that moment the bells of the parish
church began a glad peal. The wedding service
was over that united Walter Penrose with
Sarah Jones, and the ringers Avere sending the
welcome from the church tower.

Then Mary raised her hands, clasped them
over her head, uttering a piercing cry, and
sank at her father's feet : ' Father ! my
father ! you have killed me ! '

Cable caught her, and tried to raise her ;
but she twisted herself from his hands, and on
her knees staggered round the summer-house,

clasping her ears, to shut out the reverberation
of the wedding bells.

Cable went after lier ; lie caught her in his
arms and held her ; but she slipped down on
the floor again and lay her length on it, beating
the floor with her head, as one mad, and then
scrambling up on her knees and throwing herself
in a heap in the corner. ' father ! my
father ! ' she cried, ' this is your doing ! Walter
does not love any one but me ; and I — I love,
and can love none other. 1 shall never, never
marry now ! You have made me miserable —
you have broken my heart.'

Eichard Cable was as a man turned to stone.
He could not speak ; he tried, but Ins voice
failed. He put his hand to his brow, and a
deep groan escaped his breast. All at once he
stood up ; he could not breathe in the summerhouse.
He was stunned by the reverberation
of those St. Kerian bells, beating in upon his
brain, from all the eight sides of his wooden
house. He left Mary kneeling on the ground ;
he rushed forth. He opened his gate and hobbled
down the road. He could not bear to
face his children. He did not feel the ground
under his feet ; he was like a dreamer, falling,
falling, touching nothing. The birds sang in
the bushes, the holly leaves reflected the sun
from their shining leaves on the hedge. Everything

swam about him. He could not run
because of this thigh, and lie had not his stick,
so he went painfully, lurching like a drunken
man. He had pierced his best loved daughter's
heart; he had robbed her of her happiness,
alienated her from him for ever — he had laid
the foundation in his first-born.

Whither was he going ? He did not know
himself. He wanted to be away from Eed
Windows, somewhere out of the sound of
Mary's sobs, away from the reproachful eyes
of her sisters ; somewhere where he might be
alone in his misery. There was one spot to
which instinctively he gravitated — the old cob
cottage. He did not consider that it had been
given up to Josephine, or if he thought of
that, he remembered she was away, and that,
though she dwelt in it, it was now vacant. He
did not rest till he reached it. The key was
kept in the same secret place, the hole in the
thatch, and when he put his hand there, he
found the key. He opened the door and went
in. He did not look about him ; he saw the
old armchair in the old place, and the table
and the seven stools. The hearth was cold ;
the room was still, only a few flies humming in
it. There were a few trifles that belonged to
Josephine on the chimney-shelf and on the
table ; and to a crook in the ceiling hung a

VOL. III. R

biincli of pink everlastings, head downward.
He thread himself into the old chair, and folded
his arms on his knees, and laid his head on his
arms and wept.

How long; he sat there he did not know ;
thoughts hot as molten metal flowed white and
glaring through his brain. Had he been happy
in Eed Windows ? Was he not more miserable
in his wealth than he had been in his poverty P
What had his money done for him but steal his
children's hearts from him, and seal up his perception
of what was for their welfare ? There,
round the table, were the stools of his children,
on which they had sat as little things, and eaten
their frugal meals. How much better they had
tasted seasoned with love, than the richer repasts
at Red Windows strewn with verjuice.

Those bells ! Those wedding bells were still
ringing ! Oh, what a happy day for him, had
they rung for Mary's wedding ! How content
he midst have been with her down in St.
Kerian, near the smithy. Then every day he
would have strolled into the villa i^e to see her
and talk with the smith, his son-in-law. Now
that was over. More's heart was broken. The
bright future of the dearest beings he loved had
been dashed to pieces by his hand. Could she
ever forgive him — him who had spoiled her
entire future, blighted her whole life ? How

could lie live in the same house with her whose
happiness he had wrecked ?

Then he remembered what he had witnessed
on the cliff behind the ' Magpie ' — he saw again
the little head boiuid up in his blue kerchief,
resting on Josephine's shoulder, looking up into
her face, and saying : ' I am glad it was you,
and I love you a thousand times better ! '

wondrous beauty of forgiveness ! St.
Luke's summer in the moral world, when a soft
glory illumines the fading leaves and drooping
vegetation, and makes the touch of decay and
death seem the touch of perfect loveliness.

What was the worm at the root of all Cable's
happiness, that which had robbed all his successes
of satisfaction ? Was it not the bitterness
with which he had thought of Josephine,
the savage determination with which he had
stamped out every spark of relenting love, that
had for a moment twinkled in his gloomy-heart
?

As he thus thought, he groaned. Then,
suddenly, he was roused and touched by a hand.
He looked up, bewildered. Jacob Corye the
innkeeper stood before him with agitated,
mottled face.

You've heard it ? It is true ! We are all
done for.'

Cable could not collect his senses at first.

b2

I came over at once, the moment the news
reached me. I went np to Eed Windows.
Then I heard you had gone down the Lane.
Some one saw you come on here. I followed.
Is it true? Tell me wdiat you have heard.
My God ! this is frightful'

I do not understand you.*

The Duchy Bank lias failed — stopped payment.
I had three thousand five hundred
pounds in it. And you ? '

Everything,' answered Cable.

Just heard it. Could hardly believe it. I
came over here. It is a frighted loss to me.
Three thousand five hundred pounds ! Why,
I can never start the " Champagne Air
Hotel." '

It is my ruin,' said Cable. ' I owe money
for Eed Windows, and I have put my savings
into shares in the bank as portions for my
girls.' He put his hands over his brow and
laughed fiercely. ' Naked came I into the
world, and naked I shall go out. The Lord
gave and the Lord hath taken away ; but I
cannot and I will not say, Blessed be the name
of the Lord.'

Three thousand five hundred pounds ! '
groaned Corye. ' That takes pints of blood
out of one's veins.'

I am bled to death,' said Cable.

Look here ! What will become of Eed
Windows ? '

It will be sold over my head. I have not
paid off; and I am a shareholder.'

Soli have everything in the bank ? '

Every penny.'

Look here, Uncle Dick,' said Corye.
Under these circumstances, we must give up
the " Champagne Air Hotel." '

Yes.'

And we must think no more of mating my
Joshua and your Mary.'

That is past,' said Cable.

Three thousand five hundred pounds ! '
groaned Jacob. 'Well, I pity you. I can
feel. I am cruel badly bitten.' Then he went
away.

Eichard Cable remained in the same position
and in the same place. He did not return
to Eed Windows for his dinner. He sat,
stunned with despair, rocking himself in his
armchair, looking upon the white ashes of his
first life, and the ashes of his second life. His
first ambition had been realised, and had turned
to dust when he grasped it. The second had
been realised, and had failed him also. What
was done could not be undone. He must return
with his daughters to the poor cob cottage.
The wealth was gone as a dream — nota

happy dream — a dream of disappointed ambition,
of pride unsatisfied. It would have
been better for him and his children if he had
never left his stone-breaking, never separated
himself from them. That episode of prosperity,
like the episode of marriage with Josephine,
had done nothing for him except unfit him for
the life he had been accustomed to lead. He
felt inclined in his misery to take his stone-breaker's
hammer and break his daughters'
hearts with it, one after another, and then die
himself Eed Windows must be abandoned,
and they must all accommodate themselves as
best they could to the cottage, and cultivate
again the three-cornered garden ; and he must
go along his rounds with the van of calves and
droves of young stock, rebuilding slowly his
broken-down fortune.

Cursed be the day,' muttered Cable, ' that
ever I dreamed that daring dream ! '

His head was burning. He could not weep
now ; his eyes were fireballs. The fountain of
tears in his heart was dry as an old cistern, and
nothing lay at the bottom but grit and canker.
One thing that embittered his misfortune most
of all to him was the thought of how the St.
Kerian folk, whom he had held aloof from,
would rejoice over his misfortune. Those who
had most fawned on him in his prosperity would

now turn their heel upon him. How Penrose
the blacksmith that clay would laugh over his
ill-luck, and bless his stars that his Walter had
escaped union with one whom misfortune followed
! How Tregurtha, from whom he had
purchased Summerleaze, would rub his hands,
and vow that the day had now come which he
had long foretold, when Uncle Dick's pride
would be brought lovv^ !

Then the strength of Eichard Cable's character
began to manifest itself again, as these
galling visions presented themselves before him.
It was true that he was a ruined man ; but he
had still the brahe and the skill to make a new
fortune by following the same course he had
already pursued. As he began to 'think of the
future, the present lost its intensity of bitterness.
He felt that he still had in him sufficient
energy to begin life for the third time ; but he
was shaken, and he could never hope to recover
all that was now taken from him. There were
other competitors stepping in where he had
shown the way.

Whilst thus thinking, he heard the door
open, and the blacksmith, Penrose, came in.
Well, Uncle Dicky,' said the smith, ' what be
this bad news I've heard .^ The Duchy Bank
gone scott [broken] and all your savings lost ? '

Cable nodded and wished.

Bless me,' said Penrose, ' that's a bad lookout
for you. Have you laid nothing by elsewhere
? '

Cable shook his head.

By the powers ! ' said the blacksmith, ' I'm
mighty sorry for you. I've been at the wedding
of my boy, and I'm only sorry he weren't
spliced to the other one. Your Mary would
have suited me better than Sarah Jones. But
it was not to be ; so let the past lie covered
with leaves. Sarah Jones brings some money
with her ; but she has a shrewish temper, if
what folks say be true. I'd rather have had
your Mary without a penny than Sarah with all
her brass. But there ! what is done is done,
and to-day the parson has hammered them together
on the anvil, and there'll be no parting
after that, whether they agree or not. As for
her sharp tongue, he must learn to put up with
it and turn its point with gentleness.'

Cable sighed and thought of his marriage
with Josephine.

Well, Uncle Dick,' continued Penrose,
I've just seen Jacob Corye, who is badly hit.
But he says you are worse bitten than he, and
that there was nothing left for you and your
maidens but the workhouse.'

Cable looked up ironically and said : ' No,
not that.'

No,' pursued the blacksmith ; ' I knew it
could not be so bad as that. Still, I thought
I'd come on and see — Corye said you were
here taking on dreadfully about your loss, and
like to do yourself an injury. Then an idea
came into my head ; it flashed up like a spark
on red-hot iron. I came on, and here I find
you.'

Yes,' said Cable, ' here you find me.' He
was not angry With Penrose for his intrusion.
He felt that it was kindly meant, and the sympathy
of the blacksmith touched him.

Now, harry' to me,' said the blacksmith,
lowering his voice. ' I know you well enough
a straight man as ever was. I reckon I'm a
straight man too ; and where I'm crooked, may
God Almighty hammer me out of my crookedness
with the hammer of adversity, straight
again! But there — I've come to say that I've
a matter of a couple of hundred pounds lying
idle — thank heaven, not in a bank, but in my
old woman's nightcap, and stuffed up the
chimney in our bedroom. — all in gold, and
you're heartily welcome to the loan of it as
long as you like. You leave this door unlocked
to-night, and I'll come along as if I were out
to smoke and blow off the drink I've had to
take because of all the toasts and well-wishing,
being my son's wedding day ; and I'll come inhere,

nobody seeing, and I'll put the old
woman's nightcap and its contents into thick
[yonder] oven where youth find it tomorrow
morning, and nobody the wiser. — No words,'
said Penrose, starting up. ' I reckon I hear
steps coming. I'm Avant because the young
people are off.'

Before Cable could recover his speech, for
moved to the loss of words he Alas, Penrose
was gone. At the same moment in came three
other men, Tregurtha the farmer, Bonithon the
saddler, and Hoskins the miller. Each looked
at his fellow to speak. Tregurtha, nudged by
the saddler and the miller, after a few ineffectual
whispered remonstrances, came sheepishly
forward. ' You're in the old nest again. Uncle
Dicky,' he began, then coughed. ' Us three
chaps were in the "Silver BoavI " just nov,
Avhen Jacob Corye came, mighty took on about
the loss of his money through the break of the
Duchy Bank. He told us as Iioav you had lost
everything — as you'd put all the fortune you
had into the Duchy, and took it out of calves
and bullocks. I reckon it Avere a mistake.
Keep your money in flesh, say I. 1 once lost
a poAver of money in I.iav. I ncA^er Event to lav
again after that. It taught me a lesson, and
I've profited by it. That is Why I've money
nov. You may Ice a calf here or a coat thereof

milk-fever, or a horse with the glanders, ora
pig with the measles — and talking of that, my
wife's cruel bad wi' erysipelas — but you've
other things to fall back on. It is not so with
a bank ; that's like the bridge in the nursery
story, which when it bended, there the story
ended. lyell, old friend, we — that is, Ephraim
Bonithou, and Tony Hoskins, and I — was very
troubled when we heard you had got pity-led
in Queer Lane ; so, when Corye was gone, we
put oin^ heads together. Xow, us three — that's
Tony Hoskins, and Ephraim Bonithon, and I —
have all of us got money laid by, are warmish
men in our way — the thermometer in us don't
go down to zero. So we've come to say, if you
want to get on in the cattle business and are
pinched to start with again, we three — that is
to say, me, and Ephraim Bonithon, and Tony
Hoskins — be ready to stand security for you to
any sum in reason that you like to name. —
And,' continued Tregurtha, ' don't you never
go for to think and suppose of selling Eed
Windows. Us of St. Kerian be proud of that
house standing up above the town, and us shows
it to the little 'uns as a visible lesson to 'em of
what uprightness and energy and perseverance
may perform. Moreover — and besides ' — he
took breath after this word — sus three menthe
afore-unmentioned Tony Hoskins, and me,

and Ephraim Boiiithon, can't bear to think of
them seven shining and adorning beauties, your
sweet maidens, God bless 'em ! should not be
housed in a nest worthy of such treasures.
Then therefore and because' — another long
breath — ' if the creditors dare to sell that there
house over your head, then we three — that is,
Ephraim Bonithon, Tony Hoskins, and I, say
damn their eyes ! And we'll buy the house
and make it over to you, to repay us as you
earn the money.' Then he drew a long breath
and said ' There ! ' and the other two drew the
backs of their hands across their noses and
grunted ' There ! '

Then suddenly, panting, in the doorway,
stood little Lettice, who cried : ' father !
come, come quick ! Who do you think is come
to Eed Windows ? The Bishop and Mrs. Sell-wood
; and they say they are old friends of
yours ; and want to see you and us all — and
are asking after little Bessie. — And,' after panting
a while, ' the bishop has brought a to-day's
paper, from Launceston, and he says it's all a
parcel of lies about the Duchy Bank ; it's the
other bank, the name I can't call to mind, is
broken, and not the Duchy.'

Then Eichard Cable held out his hands and
clasped and shook those of Ephraim Bonithon,
William Tregurtha, and Anthony Hoskins,

shook and squeezed them, but said nothing ;
yet, as lie hurried away, his body shook, and
his breast heaved convulsively, and sounds
issued from his mouth, that made Tregurtha
say : ' By George, he is pleased — how he is
laughing ! '

But Lettice, looking up in her father's face
as she ran at his side, asked : ' Papa, why are
you crying?'

Then he said in a choking voice : ' Eun,
Lettice, run after Mr. Corye, and tell him not
to fail to send little Bessie and — her who is
with Bessie, in his gig, to Eed Windows, tomorrow.'


CHAPTEE LYiri.

Piny-LED.

Look' here, Josliim,' said Mr. Jacob Corye,
as Lis son was getting the trap ready on Thursday,
in which to take Josephine and Bessie to
St. Kerian. ' As the Duchy Bank isn't broke,
you make yourself uncommon svv^eet to Mary
Cable, and tell the father that I'm game to goon
with " Champagne Air Hotel'' — Lord! what
a shock it gave me when I heard the news; and
however it got about is a wonder. If folks tell
news, why do they always twist it so as to stick
in your ribs? I've heard one of the coastguard
tell, who was in Burma, how the natives there
run amuck. They get a sword or a spike, or
something unpleasant, and they run along as
hard as a racer, skewering every one they meet
with it. It be just the same in England with
folks; if only they get hold of a nasty, sharp,
spiky bit of news, they run amuck with that
out of pure wickedness.'

Father, the sky looks ugly.'

Dancing Jenny.'

'Why Dancing Jenny? She cuts capers in
the shafts.'

You had Derby yesterday to ride over to
St. Kerian on ; and Dancing Jenny wants a run
to take the tin ode out of her toes.'

If you was going alone ; but with tv\^o fragile
bits o' womankind, I should say put in
Whiteface.'

Whiteface has no life in him. Leave me
alone. Do you think I can't drive .^ Why,
you might set me to manage an Australian
buck-jumper, and I'd do it.'

His father shrua^'ed his shoulders. 'Well,
put on a honey-face yourself to Mary Cable,
mind you, now that the Duchy Bank is not
broke. Get your mother to look at your face
before you start, to see that it wears a proper
amiable smile.'

There was no parish or other road to St.
Kerian from Pentargon, because Pentargon was
a bay, and not a village ; and the road along
the cliffs as far as where the artery of commun

A * Northern Nanny ' is a cold storm of hail and ^Yind
from the north.

nation between St. Kerian and the coast entered
it, nearly doubled the (stance. As the
crow flew, and as the track ran for foot-passengers
and horsemen, the distance was seven
miles; but this lay across moor and between
bogs, and only those who knew it could venture
along it. The neighbourhood was sparsely
populated, and the traffic was small, except
along the main turnpike roads. Near the coast,
the slate rocks, laden with carboniferous particles
that give them a black colour, rise abruptly,
but much contorted from the sea ; they fall
away inland, forming dips, in which are swamps,
where rise numerous affluents of the Tamar ;
and beyond this boggy district extend granite
ridges and moors in a chain, forming the spine
of the Cornish peninsula. Such population as
exists clusters in the valleys and by the sea ;
the moors are left to solitude and desolation.
The short-cut to St. Kerian lay across one of
the sedgy marshy basins in the slate, and then
over a spur of granite moor, beneath which
nestled St. Kerian in verdure and shelter from
the sea-gales.

Mr. Joshua Corye had no idea of going
round by the road ; the ugly look of the sky
made him desirous of getting the journey over
as quickly as possible; and Dancing Jenny
would be less likely to cut her capers among

ruts and swamps than on a broad, macadamised
highway.

Wien the gig was ready, Dancing Jenny
began to paw and spring and show the antics
that gave her her name ; and little Bessie was
frightened, and shrank to the side of Josephine.

'Are you wise, Joshua,' said his father,
'putting Jenny in that cart? The shafts are
too short for so big a mare.'

She'll do,' answered Joshua ; ' there's no
great weight behind.'

'I've put in a keg of-magpie" ale,' said
the landlord. ' There's a confirmation at St.
Kerian tomorrow, and perhaps the bishop
might like it. He was very partial to it, I mind,
when he was here once before — that is, before
ever he was a bishop.'

I didn't reckon on that extra weight,' said
Joshua ; ' I'll tighten the breeching another
hole.'

You can't do it,' answered his father, ' the
buckle is at its furthest.'

Then take out the keg of ale.'

It would nigh kill the bishop with disappointment.
I know for sure he's got this here
confirmation at St. Kerian just to be near Avhere
he can taste "Magpie" ale. Whoever heard of
one at that place before ? I knew by the look
of his face, when he was here, that he never

VOL. III. s

enjoyed himself so heartily as tasting "Magpie"
ale ; and when he'd done, he was off like a long
dog [greyhound] home to his missus, t'other
side of England, to tell her what stuff we
brewed down here. — And now, blowed if he
ain't brought his missus to St. Kerian ! What
for? I ask. Does a bishop want his missus to
help him to confirm ? I know better ; he's
brought her into the neighbourhood to taste
the "Magpie" ale. And, by George! they
shall not be disappointed.'

The old innkeeper helped Josephine into the
cart — a tax-cart, that was convertible in many
ways, by ingenious arrangement of the seats —
and then heaved up Bessie into Josephine's arms.
Bessie would sit between the driver and her
nurse ; or, if she were cramped in that way, on
Josephine's lap. Bessie was uneasy at the prancing
of the mare, and looked timidly in Josephine's
face for reassurance. The latter smiled
and appeared to be without alarm, and indeed
she had been accustomed to ride and drive since
she was a young girl, and was not afraid of a
skittish horse.

Now, then, you kangaroo ! ' shouted Joshua,
standing up, leaning forward, and lashing into
Jenny, who bounded away at the touch of the
whip, docile, conscious, by the feel of the reins,
that they were in the hands of one who understood

lier and would put up with no nonsense.


'It's a wonderful thing to consider,' said
Joshua, ' that there are men who can't see the
points in a horse. You show them a good beast
and a bad one, and they can't choose between
them. It is like Jiavi ng no ear for music ; and
not knowing whether a chord is in tune or not.
Now then, Jenny, none of your tricks ! Father
is rarely taken up with bullocks and heifers ; sois
Cable ; and I don't deny there's money to be
made out of them ; but so is there money to be
made out of horses. Why should we not go in
for horses here? To me, there's something
mean in always growing bullocks and heifers ;
there's no science, no art, no interest about it.
But a horse is another thing; alton-ether. You
can throw your soul into that. — Do you know
this way to St. Kerian, miss ? '

No,' answered Josephine. ' When I came
to the " Magpie," I came along the road.'

'That's a distance of twelve miles, or twelve
and a half — two sides of a triangle. — I hope
you're well provided against wet weather, miss?
There's a storm coming on, and wee shall be out
of all shelter on the moor.'

We have wraps,' answered Josephine.

The Wheels of the trap went noiselessly over
turf, and occasionally bounced over a tuft of

s 2

gorse. There were Avheel-tracks here and there,
and in some places boggy holes full of black
water. The tracks radiated away in different directions
— it was hard to say in which they most predominated
and indicated the existence of a way.

One might easily be pity-led on the moors.'
said Joshua, ' and wander for days without fuid-
mg a house. I've been pity-led myself round
a field. Father had in a fresh brew of " Magpie "
ale, and I drank a good deal of it, and then
went off to look after a gray I had at grass.
The evening was dark ; and after I hed got
into the meadow, I wandered round and about,
and about and round, for an hour, and could
not find the gate. At last, when I was thoroughly
stupid and mad with vexation, I stripped
off niy coat and turned it inside out, put it on
again — and there was the gate before me ! — If
ever j^ou get pity-led, mind and turn your jacket.
I've heard it spoken of by the old people, often,
but never heeded it till that evening, and then
I proved it. — Drat it ! there comes the storm.'

A roaring, blinding rush of icy wind, laden
with hail, and rain as cold as hail, came past.
It was so fierce, so loud, so stinging, that Dancing
Jenny was frightened or angry, and leaped
and backed from it, and then stood stock still.

Get along, you crocodile ! ' shouted Joshua,
lashing at the mare.

But a stubborn lit had come on Jenny.
They Avere on an exposed moor, without roclv
or tree or hedge to brealv the force of the gale.
The hail swept by them in sheets — it spun along
the ground ; it cut them as if the ice-particles
Avere small-shot. To slice the wind would have
been impossible. It shook the cart, and threatened
to throw it over.

By Jove ! ' said Joshua, ' after all, father
was right to ballast ns with the " Magpie " ale.
There's a dip yonder in the moor ; we'll down
into that, and get under the lee of the hill. — Gj
on, you blackguards ! ' And raising his whip
over his head, he lashed Jenny with all the force
of his arm. The mare, alarmed at the roar and
force of the storm, stung with the hail on her
skin, then tender, as she had been clipped and
singed the day before, reared at the blow, and
with a snort of anger, dashed away with the
trap down the slope. Joshua put the whip
between his teeth, and held the reins with both
hands ; the decline became sharp, the wheels
danced over the tufts of gorse, tore through
brakes of heather, sprang into the air over a
node of quartz rock. ' Just like an Australian
buck jumper,' laughed Joshua — then Jenny was
floundering in a bog, and snap — something must
have given way. What then ensued, neither
Josephine nor Joshua nor Bessie remembered.

Tlic}^ had a recollection of a hammering at the
splash board, of a crash ; and when Josephine
collected her scattered senses, she, cling-incr' to
Bessie, and Bessie clinging to her, lay in the
marsh, and Joshua some way off, motionless ;
and Dancing Jenny had kicked the gig to pieces,
and was tearing away with the broken shafts
dangling at her sides. But Josephine only
caught one glimpse of her in a lull of the storm,
and then down the moor-gully rushed the hail
and rain again, like water pouring out of a sluice
in a canal-lock. About her were thousands of
white cotton-grass heads lying prostrate before
the wind, shivering, bobbing, as though the
whole surface were covered with froth from the
sea in flakes, or clots of snow. The cart was
kicked to merest fragments— a wheel here,
another with the axle there, the splashboard
torn to shreds, the seat flung into the midst of
the swamp, back-rail downwards, and the bottom
and sides of the cart as though hacked to
pieces with an axe for firewood. The breeching
had given way, and the cart had touched the
hocks of Jenny, driving the mare, already
frightened, into a paroxysm of mad terror.

Josephine's first thought was for Bessie.
The child was unhurt though shaken; and when
Josephine rose to her feet, she found that she
also had been jarred by the fall, though no

bones were broken or cuts inflicted. Her limbs
trembled as with bitter cold, and a sickly faintness
came over her, that prevented her from
gathering together her wits and deciding what
was to be done in the emergency. The effort
to stand against the wind and hail was more
than she could make, and she sank to her knees.
'Lie still,' she said to Bessie, and drew her
shawl over the child, to shelter her from the
icy blast and needle-pricking hail. Even kneeling,
with her side to the wind, she had hard ado
to keep herself from being blown over, and she
held to some rushes for support that were tufted
with a coarse flower. The gale spent itself, at
all events momentarily, and the driving hail
seemed to be lifted, as a muslin veil, and beneath
it Josephine could see Joshua lying motionless,
as she had seen him in the first moment of
returning consciousness.

Will you remain here, Bessie, whilst I goto
poor Mr. Joshua? He is hurt badly.' The
child gave a sign of consent ; and Josephine,
half standing, half kneeling, staggered along to
the prostrate man. He was unconscious ; he
had fallen on hard ground, not in the marsh.
No blood flowed ; therefore, he had not been
cut ; but she was unable to guess the extent of
his injuries. The hail was over his face, thawing
with the rain into long trickles ; his waistcoat,

arms, and legs, were capped ^vitli an incrustation
of ice.

What was to be done ? She coukl not leave
him. She could not leave Bessie to run for aid.
She did not know whence aid was obtainable.
The utmost she could do was to get the cushions
of the gig and lay one under his head. Tlien
she went back to Bessie.

My darling,' she said. ' can you walk ? '

Yes ; but not far.'

We must do our best. The worst of the
hailstorm is over. Come with me ; we must
find some men who can remove Mr. Joshua.'

But where are they to be found ? '

Josephine considered for a moment, standing
with her back to the Avind, with her hand to
her head. She could not go down the valley,
because it seemed to be nothing but a wide
spreading swamp. To return over the way she
had come would be to face the tearing wind,
and would be ineffectual, because in coming sofar
they had not passed a house. The only
chance of meetings with human beings was in
going forward. Bessie must come with her.
She could not leave the child to shiver in the
cold beside the prostrate man, who might, for
all she knew, be a corpse. So she took Bessie's
hand, and encouraged her to step out bravely.
The child was frightened, cold, shaken by the

fall ; but she had a stout heart, and promised
to walk and keep up as much as she was able.

She returned up the slope, following the
wheel-tracks the trap had made in the spongy
soil, to where it had diverged from a direct
course. Then she followed what she believed
to be the traces of former traffic, in the presumed
direction of St. Kerian. She looked about her.
On all sides where she could see, where the passage
of the storm had not made a blot over sky
and horizon, was undulating moor, with here
and there a hump of granite standing up through
the moss and turf Not a sign of the horse ;
not a trace of human industry. The curlews
were screaming, and a flight of gulls overhead
winged their way inland. Here and there, some
sheep stood, clustered on the lee side of a granite
block.

Halloo, there ! '

Before Josephine had seen a man, she was
startled by his salutation. Xow she saw him,
cowering against a piece of rock, gray habited,
of the colour of the stone.

She went to him at once. ' There has been
an accident. Only a few yards away, down that
hollow, a man has been thrown from his gig
and hurt. He is insensible. Mr. Joshua Corye
I dare say you know him.'

What !— of the '' Magpie " ? '

Yes, of the ' Magpie," '

I know him. Is he killed ? '

I do not know. Do go at once to him.'

I must get help. Where is it ? '

She indicated the exact spot. ' I will go
with you and show you.'

No,' said the shepherd ; ' you go on with
the child to my cot. You can't miss it. Keep
right forward ; and when you come to the Long
Man '

'The Long Man?'

Ay, the Long Man — turn sharp to the
right, and a hundred paces off you'll find some
]peat-works ; skirt them, and you'll come on my
cabin. There's a turf-fire in it. Warm yourself
and the child, till we've got Mr. Joshua right.
I must go after help, and may be some time
away.'

But— the Long Man ? '

Of course — you know the Long Man of
Cainvean. Every fool knows that. Turn to
the right at the Long Man — you can't fail. A
blind jackass would find the way.' Then the
shepherd strode away in quest of help.

That Mail was the Cornish for stone ; and
that the Long Man was a stone pillar, a rude
primeval granite obelisk, never for a moment
occurred to Josephine. She supposed that the
shepherd pointed out the way to a fellow-shepherd

who would give her the requisite directions,
if she forgot those already communicated. So
she went on, holding Bessie's hand, in the course
pointed out by the shepherd. Whether she
came to the month or not, she did not remember
afterwards ; she was not looking out
for one, but for a tall shepherd, and she was
not at that moment possessed with keen enthusiasm
for prehistoric antiquities. She went on,
feeling Bessie drao-ginc^ more and more at her
hand, till the little girl burst into a flood of
tears.

What is the matter, Bessie dear? '

1 cannot go another step — my back hurts
me.'

Josephine stood still. What was to be done
now ? ' The distance cannot be great. We
shall find the Long Man soon, and he will carry
you. Stay! Will you let me take you in my
arms ? There ; throw your arms round my
neck, and cling tightly ; lay your head on my
shoulder, and I will carry you. It is not forfar.
We are sure to come to the tall shepherd
in a minute.'

But no man was visible, tall or short. Josephine's
knees gave way under the weight. She
Alas not strong, and was herself tired and bruised
and shaken, and was ill-suited to carry an additional
burden to her own weary body. Then,

suddenly, they were wrapt in dense mist; it
came rolling down on them like a solid wall of
white wool ; and in a moment they were enveloped,
and could not see two paces before them.
With the descent of the vapour, every idea of
direction was swept away. Xo distance could
be seen on any side ; no sky, only a little circle
of earth, and that through a drift of whirling
particles. The sense first produced was
one of suffocation, then of chill penetrating to
the marrow.

Bessie,' said Josephine, ' I do not know
where to go whilst this fog lasts. I will lay the
rug on the ground and wrap you round in it,
and wait.'

The child was too frightened and weary to
object. Josephine wrapped her round and laid
her on the wet moss, and then threw herself
down beside her. It was impossible for her to
find her way. She would only over-exert herself
and fall fainting with her load, if she tried
to go on. There was nothing for her to do but
wait. The ground was frosted with hailstones
that showed no token of melting. The earth
was black as soot, peaty, full of water, that oozed
up under their weight — black water, smelling of
bog. A stunted growth of whortleberry grew
over it, and rushes ; every blade of vegetation
dripped with water, where not weighed down

with hailstones cemented together. The mist
penetrated everywhere ; nothing could keep it
out. Josephine was wet to the skin ; her hands
were numbed and aching with cold ; her teeth
chattered. She rose.

My dear Bessie,' she said, ' we must make
another attempt. There is no token of the fog
dispersing. If I coidd only make out the direction
of the wind, it would be some guide.
Nothing can be worse than this. Let us make
a push on. Now I will try to carry you on my
back. I can manage that better than in tiny
arms, at least it Avill be a change.'

So they struggled on. Josephine was warmed
by the exertion ; but she soon felt that her
strength was not equal to more ; and she halted
with shaking knees, and looked about her.

Then Bessie uttered a cry of terror. What
was it ? Through the vapour loomed a gigantic
figure, huge as an elephant. It moved — and in
another moment Bessie and her bearer saw a
sheep run past them. The fog had marvellous
powers of magnifying objects seen through its
veil.

There — there is the cabin ! ' exclaimed Josephine,
and hurried forward — to disappointment.
She found a huge pile of granite rocks,
weathered into layers like strata of aqueous
deposits, moss covered, split into fragments

vertically, and with fallen masses, like tables
thrown over and leaning on one another. At
all events some shelter was to be had among
these rocks, and Josephine scrambled into a cleft,
and took Bessie on her lap and laid her head on
her bosom. Her bosom was wet, bnt it was
warm. The little girl moaned but did not speak.
Josephine looked at her face. The eyes were
closed. ' Bessie dear ? ' Then the eyes opened,
and shut wearily again.

Josephine sat m the rocky cleft and looked
out. The mist drove by like smoke, smoke
thick as though the moor were on fire, and the
mist had a peaty smell. Where she was, Josephine
did not know in the least. Lest she should
have gone along westward and strayed far from
St. Kerian, farther than when she started, washer
fear.

The day was closing in, and closing rapidly.
She had a watch, and looked at it,
but found that it had stopped when she was
thrown from the gig. She was too tired to
speak to Bessie. She could not give her hopes, for
she could not frame them herself. If the shepherd
came to his hut and found that she Wasn't
there, he would look for her ; but where was
he to look ? How to find her in such a vapour ?
She had been hot with carrying Bessie ; now,
adam, she was cold, bitterly cold, and cramp

came in her feet and arms. She tried to move ;
but Bessie uttered a fretful cry, and Josephine,
on looking at her, found that she had fallen
asleep. She sat on, leaning back on the rock,
looking out with stagnant mind at the driving
shuddering convulsively at intervals with
cold and exhaustion, listening to the sob and
wail of the wet wind that played about the rocks
and blew through its crevices. The ground fell
away below the rocks rapidly, but whither she
did not know, and conjectured into a ' clatter '
that is, a ruin of granite masses difficult to
thread in open day, impossible in fog and dusk.
With every wave of vapour a fresh fold of
darkness came on. Night was setting in rapidly.

Many hours had elapsed since either Josephine
or the child had eaten anything. Bessie
fortunately slept. Josephine was not hungry,
but faint. She ached in every limb. So great
was her exhaustion, that she had difficulty in
keeping her senses from sliding away into unconsciousness.
The cold weighed on her like a
crown of ice, and she had to summon all lier
resolution not to fall asleep or faint — she knew
not which would ensue.

What would happen if they spent the night
on the moor ? Would they be alive by morning?
For herself, she did not care. All her
concern was for Bessie, who was intrusted to

hei and for whom she felt herself responsible.
She had sinned against Eichard Cable so heavily,
that if lie failed to keep safe and restore sound
to him his dear little child, the chance of his
forgiving her would be gone for ever. Then
she remembered how that often when at St.
Kerian she had seen the moor covered with
cloud when the air was clear in the valley.
The only prospect of life lay in escape from the
vapour, and the only possibility of doing that
was to descend from the moor.

She was so spent with cold and hunger and
weariness, that she was obliged to do battle with
herself before she could muster resolution to
rise and recommence her wanderings. Her
joints were so stiff that she cried with pain as
she got out of her sitting posture, in which she
had, as it were, hardened ; she hardly knew if
Bessie were awake or asleep, she was so silent.
Found her neck, Josephine had tied Eichard's
blue handkerchief, as a protection from the cold,
and it hung down in a point behind. She had
laid Bessie on the ground before her, between
her and the entrance to the rift. She knelt up,
and unknotted the kerchief.

I have been pity-led,' she said, and sobbed
with cold as she spoke ; ' I will turn the kerchief.'
She held it out above her head, unfolded
it, gave it a toss, and reversed it, and replaced

it about her shoulders. At that moment the
cloud veil parted before the rocks, and through
the falling night she looked down as into a lower
world, and in the blackness of a valley that
seemed without bottom, saw a twinkle of many
points of light. ' One — two — three — four — five
six — seven ! ' She uttered a gasp of relief,
she could not cry. ' Bessie ! dearest ! Eed
Windows.'

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE LIX.
Again: Jacob's ladder.

To Eichard Cable, broken and softened, the
arrival of Bishop Sellwood was welcome. The
bishop was staying at the parsonage, and had
walked up to Eed Windows to see Cable.
When Eichard arrived at his gate, he saw the
bishop in the garden talking to the girls and
Mrs. Cable, his kind face beaming with pleasure.
He came forward at once to meet Eichard, and
seeing; that something had affected Eichard,
asked to have a talk with him in the garden-house,
instead of going indoors. Then Eichard
told him frankly all his story, laying most stress
on his trouble about Mary, and his fear that he
had broken her heart and turned away her
affection from him.

'For the matter of that,' said the bishop,
do not be downcast. The girl is little over
seventeen, and though she feels acutely at that
age, the feeling is transitory ; and before the
year is out she will have recovered. It will all

turn out for the best. Troubles come on us all,
and deepen, where without them there might be
shallowness. — And now — about Josephine ? '

Then Eichard Cable was silent for a few
minutes, looking out of the door of his summerhouse
; but presently he drew a long sigh and
said : ' My lord, will you and Mrs. Sellwood be
with us tomorrow evening ? '

I will answer for her and myself.' Then,
seeing that Cable did not desire further to pursue
the subject, the bishop said : ' By the way,
Mr. Cornellis has played us a nasty trick. He
got introduced somehow to Mrs. Sellwood's sister.
Miss Otterbourne, quite an old lady, and
married her. She was pretty nearly twenty
years his senior, and did not survive her marriage
long. My boy was to have been her heir ; but
lie had the disposal of her property, and she
has bequeathed it all to Cornellis, so my son is
left out in the cold. It is of course a bitter
disappointment to us, to my vvdfe especially ;
but — it is all for the best. I hate reckoning on
dead folk's shoes ; it always leads to disappointment
; and in this case I really believe it likely
to do good, for Captain Sellwood has been
somewhat inert, as he had this Bewdley estate
to fall back on. Now, he is thrown on his own
resources, and roused to action. Cable — do
you remember once how he went over the

palings like a greyhound ? Wlien roused, he is
energetic, but only ^vhen roused. This failure
of his hopes has woke him up, and he has
returned to India, and I believe will distinguish
himself there, for he has famous abilities, which
only need calling forth.' Then he stood up.
'All right, my friend. Mrs. Sellwood and I
will be with you tomorrow evening, honour
bright. Wring my neck, if I forget it ! '

All next day the Cable girls were busy with
the house, decorating it. Their father, full of
excitement, vn^ged them on. The bishop was
coming to spend the evening with them, and so
Welcome ' must be written up in letters of
green leaves and flowers in the hall. Pots of
red pelargoniums and variegated geraniums
must be set about to decorate the entrance. A
good supper must be prepared, and plenty of
lights got ready.

Let us have all the lamps and candles that
can be spared set round the entrance hall,' said
Eichard ; 'and then, with the flowers and green
leaves, it will look bright and welcoming. And
girls, mind you all put on your white confirmation
dresses. You are to be confirmed
tomorrow ; but you must wear them also this
evening.'

Bessie is not here.'

Bessie will be here. — Mother, mind that

her white dress be laid out for her ready, and
also that other white dress of satin you spoke tome
about.'

When will Bessie be here ? '

I cannot say. — Do you hear what a storm
is raging ? Mr. Joshua Corye is going to drive
her over, and you do not suppose that he will
bring her till the worst of the weather is past.
If she arrives in the afternoon, it will be well.'

The afternoon passed, and she did not arrive.
Towards nightfall, a boy arrived on a moor-pony,
without saddle, with a message. ' Please — Mr.
Joshua was thrown out of the tax-cart, and took
up insensible. He's better, and eating and
drinking hearty-like now.'

Well — and is there no further message ? '

The boy looked stupid. ' Can't mind what
it was,' he said. 'I lost my cap; I couldn't
hold the pony in.' He was hapless, with his
hair flying as shaggy as the mane of the pony.
The rest of the message had been blown away
with his cap.

Then Eichard Cable, impatient, but hardly
uneasy, went to his stable and harnessed his cob
into a trap he had, and just as he was about to
start, the bishop came up. After a hasty explanation
Dr. Sellwood said : ' Give me a hand,
Cable ; I will come with you ; I Avant to tell of
a plan my wife and I have formed.'

Cable helped the bishop in. 'There will be
room for all,' he said, and whipped the horse.

I want you to let Mrs. Sell wood carry Mary
oiT,' said the bishop. ' She is a dear sweet girl;
and just now is better away from St. Kerian.
I hinted something of the sort to her, and a
twinkle came into her face. There is nothing
like change of scene and association for curing
a heartache. Bless me ! Cable, troubles are
like stiles — made to be got over. She shall
spend a month or six weeks with us ; and you
will see, when we send her home to you, she
will have freshened up like roses after rain.'
The same good considerate man as bishop as he
had been as rector.

'You are very kind,' said Cable, readily
touched in his present mood — ' every one, indeed,
is kind ; I alone seem the one who has been
hard and harsh.'

Eichard Cable drove by the road, because
he could spin along it at a fast trot ; whereas
over the moor, with night closin^]^ in and with a
fog gathering, he would not venture. By the
time he reached the 'Magpie,' night had set in;
but the effects of the storm were dispersing, the
mists were clearing, and the sky shining, with
its many stars.

Well,' said Cable, drawing up at the ' Magpie
' door, ' where are they ? '

What ? ' asked Corye, coming out. ' Are
they not With you ? '

Then only did Cable learn the whole story
of the accident. Joshua was better ; he was
put to bed, but vowed he would be up and take
a ride next day.

He's got such a constitution ! ' explained his
father. ' He's been brought up on " Magpie ''
ale.'

But — where are Bessie and the other
one ? '

That is more than I can tell. They sent
Zackie Martin the shepherd after my Joshua,
and Walked on themselves towards St. Kerian.'

But they have not arrived.'

Lord bless you ! they are there by this
time. Did you not pass them? Which way
did you come ? '

By the road.'

Well, that accounts for your missing them.
They went the short way over the moor.'

But Bessie could not walk so far. Where
did the accident take place ? '

This side of the Long Man. Zackie told
them the way and how to reach his hut, where
there was a fire ; but, I reckon, they tired of
waiting and went on.'

They have not arrived. Bessie could not
walk so far.'

Go home over the moor ; you'll find them
at Eed Windows, sure as boys go to stables. —
It's a mercy my Joshua wasn't more hurt. He
■\vas quite stupid for an hour.'

Nothings more was to be o't out of the innkeeper.
Cable became seriously alarmed. He
asked for a light for his lamps, and started over
Caravan Down. He knew the way ; he had
ridden it and driven it scores of times. He was
silent now, and the bishop respected his anxiety.
Trails of fog still drifted over the high moorland,
but they were speedily passed through ; they
were lifting in the cold night-air. Occasionally,
Cable shouted, but received no answer.

There is the Long Man,' he said, pointing
with his whip to the stone, that rose about
sixteen feet above the turf. ' If they are wandering
anywhere about, they will see the lamps;
we must not go too fast.' Nevertheless, ever
and anon Eichard urged on the horse. He was
nervous ; he did not know what to think,
whether they were lost on the down, or had
pressed on. ' You see,' he said, ' Bessie could
not go fast. She — that other — must tarry for
her ; so we may find them at home. I should
have wished to have been there to meet them.'

They were an hour crossing. the moor.' As
they came to the descent—' Look ! ' said Eichard.
Before I started, I told them to light a candle

in every window upstairs. One, two, three, four,
five, six — seven lights.'

Yes, I see ; quite an illumination,' said
Dr. Sellwood.

And I told them to have a blaze of lamps
and candles in the hall, that when they came in
and out of the dark, it would be to welcome
light and warmth. Please God they are safe ! '

Amen ! ' responded the bishop.

When they came to the gate, which-was
open, Cable fastened his horse to it. ' I will
not take him out till I know they have arrived,'
he said, and walked on over the gravel path to
the foot of the flight of stone steps that led to
the front door. Then, all at once, he, going
before the bishop, uttered a cry, and stood still.

What is the matter ? ' asked Dr. Sellwood,
pressing forward.

They saw in the dark a black heap at the
foot of the steps.

It is they — it is they ! They are dead ! '
cried Eichard, quite unmanned and beside himself.


Then the bishop ran back to the tax-cart,
and removed one of the lanterns, and came with
it hastily to where the heap lap. Cable was as
one frozen to the ground, unable to act through
overwhelming terror and sorrow. The bishop
knelt, and drew back a thick shawl ; then the

light of the lamp fell on the face of a child, and
the child moved, uttered a moan, opened its
eyes, and turned them away again.

It is Bessie ! ' groaned Cable.

She is alive,' said the bishop. He gently
disengaged her from the arms of Josephine, and
for a moment laid her on the ground, then he
felt the pulse and looked at Josephine. Then
he took up Bessie again, and said in a low,
shaking voice : ' Cable — I will carry the child
in. She is in no immediate danger. It is other
with Josephine — your wife. I must get your
mother to bring her a cordial at once. There
is hardly any pulse, scarcely breath left. She
is sinking from over exhaustion ; and I do not
know whether she v/ill live or not. You stay
by her ; you alone can save her. The soul is
fluttering on her lips to depart ; try to stay it.
I will send for a doctor ; but her fate will be
settled one way or the other before he comes.'
He had set the carriage lantern against the first
step ; the end, uu perceived by him, was on the
shawl, and as he lifted Bessie, he drew the shawl
away and upset the lantern, which was extinguished.
Holding the little crippled girl in his
arms, he ascended the flight of steps and struck
at the front door, that flew open ; and he was
dazzled with the blaze of many lights, and the
sight of the young girls standing there all in

white. ' My dears,' he said, ' I have Bessie ;
she is safe. Your father is below ; he wants
Hight. — Quick ! Go to him, and — and kiss
your mother'' Then he pushed past them with
his burden, calling for Mrs. Cable.

Below, in the darkness, at the foot of the
flight of stone steps that led up to the house,
was Eichard Cable, half kneeling, half-sitting,
staying up Josephine in his arms, holding her to
his heart, trembling, sobbing, crying out of the
depths of his heart to God to help him. Then,
in choking voice, with a struggle to force the
tones, as he held the hardly conscious form
in his arms, he began to sing the melody — not
the words, which he did not know, but the air
of the Mermaid's song, swaying her to the cadence
of the tune, as if she were a babe he was
hushing to sleep. Was he lulling her to her
eternal sleep? Was she dying in his arms?
Infinitely precious, unspeakably dear Alas
she to him now, that he seemed about to lose
her. All the suppressed love for her, the love
driven back by his iron will, returned and rolled
through heart and veins as the bore in the
Severn. Still he sang on, with broken voice, the
Mermaid's air. And as he thus sang and swayed
her, down the stairs from the brilliantly illumined
hall came the six girls, all in white, and each
carried a light — Mary first, then Effie, then Jane,

Martha next, and Lettuce, lastly Susie. In their
haste to obey the bishop and to assist their father,
each had caught up a light ; and so, each carrying
a light in the still air, under the stars of
night, the six girls in white came down the steps
to where their father held the exhausted Josephine.
They came round her, each holding her
light. Josephine opened her eyes feebly, scarce
conscious that she saw aught ; then Mary stepped
timidly up to her and kissed her, and passed on ;
then Effie and she went by ; and Jane kissed
her, stooping, and holding her light ; and Martha
next ; and after her Lettice ; and last of all,
little Susie.

Did Josephine recall an evening in the cottage
at Hanford, when Cable had bidden his
children — the same six— walk round her in the
sunlight, and not approach, not touch her?
No ; her mind was too dead with exhaustion to
remember aught.

But Josephine's eyes opened wide ; the soft
warm kisses of the children and the light roused
her failing spirit, and the open eyes looked, no
longer with the glaze of death on them, but
with a far-away, searching, earnest longing —
upwards into the dark sky, set with ten thousand
points of light.

Josephine ! ' said Eichard Cable — ' Josephine
! ' It was the first — the only time he had

uttered her name since they parted on the night
that he sought her at Brentwood Hall.

She did not answer. She had not strength
to answer ; but a slight movement was visible
on her lips ; and as the children stood with the
circle of light round her, and Cable looked
down into her Avhite upturned face, he saw
water rise in the eyes that had been dry, and
brim them, and run over the long lower lashes,
but they never fell, for he stooped and received
them on his lips.

Then the bishop appeared with something
Mrs. Cable had given him for Josephine to take,
whilst she attended to little Bessie. ' She maybe
carried in now,' said Dr. Sell wood-richard
has brought her back from the brink of the
grave.'

CHAPTER LX.

TWICE MARRIED.

And now, sir — I mean, my lord — I shall venture
to ask you to marry me again,' said Eicliard
Cable to the bishop, the evening after the confirmation.


Good gracious. Cable ! ' Dr. Sellwood
started.

Well,' said Cable, in his leisurely, resolute
way, ' now that Josephine is recovering, I should
like to be married again.'

Married again ! ' Dr. Sellwood's rosy face
became mottled.

Well, my lord,' said Cable, ' you see —
before, it was Josephine married me; and now,
Jw^ant to marry Iter.'

But you are married. It can't be done.'

Why not ? It is not bigamy, is it, to be
married twice to the same woman ? '

Bigamy — good gracious ! — it looks something
like it ; and etymologically— — '

I beg your pardon, sir — I mean, m}^ lord
< — I do not understand.'

'According to the derivation of the word
from the original Greek, it does make it a case
of bigamy.'

But I cannot be punished for it — can I ? ' ^

No ; hardly that.'

Or you for marrying me again ? '

'No ; hardly.'

Then bigamy or no bigamy, I wish to be
remarried. — You see, it will be good several
ways. Folks at St. Kerian never knew that
Josephine was my wife ; and they would ask
questions and talk, and want to sorry out all
our past troubles and differences, if I were simply
to declare we had been married, but separated.
Whereas, if we get married here, in the church,
publicly, no one vv^ill think to ask any questions,
and there will be no nose-poking into the past,
to cause Josephine and me annoyance.'

There is something in this. — I will turn it
over in my head. Of course the registers could
not be used, but the ceremony. — I will write
and ask my lawyer. — How is little Bessie ? '

Failing,' said Cable. ' I am about, I suppose,
now to build up anew my domestic life,
and I have laid the foundation in my first-born,
and shall set up the gates in my youngest.'
As for Mary,' said the bishop confidently

' no such thing. She'll get over this matter
much more speedily than you imagine, and nota
bit of her love to you Avill be lost. Take my
word for it, all will come right in the end. You
are going to lend her to us for six weeks.'

Why ! ' exclaimed Eichard ; ' Good gracious
me ! it must be for another reason.'

What must be ? '

'My bigamy.'

Why ? What is the second reason ? '

All is prepared for it — to the bridesmaids'
dresses. My daughters have their confirmation
garments, and Josephine her white satin wedding-gown,
laid out upstairs all ready.'

Two years have passed. Richard Cable is
the Eichard Cable of old in gentleness, tenderness
; all the sullenness and bitterness have passed
away completely. But he is not the Eichard
Cable of old altogether, for there is a refinement
of manner about him which he lacked when our
story began and we first encountered him.
But Josephine is very much altered from the
Josephine with whom we made acquaintance
on the lightship, noah full of love and forbearance,
and that ineffable sweetness and charm which
only self-conquest and suffering can give.

Eichard,' said she one morning at breakfast,
'what is to be done? — Now that my poor father

is dead, and the death was very sudden, Bentley
comes to me. I am continually coming in
for estates to which I have no riffht.'

Do you remember how the bishop told us
we were to cease knocking our heads together
about Hanford ! Now we have that, we do not
want more.'

Xo ; I have no right to Bewdley. I shall
make it over to Captain Sellwood, just as I
made over Hanford to you.'

Perhaps he will act as I did.'

Josephine sat dreamily opening the letter
just arrived by post. All at once her interest
was aroused, her colour mounted, and her eye
sparkled.

What is it, Josephine ? '

This difficulty settles itself.'

'How so?'

Look, Eichard !* Here is a letter from
Mrs. Sellwood.'

How is Mary? When is she coming back?
She spends half her time with the Ellwood.'

'Look, Eichard ! — Mrs. Sellwood But

do read, dear Eichard.' She sat looking eagerly
in this face as he deciphered the not very intelligible
writing of the bishop's wife. Then his
colour came, and his eyes sparkled.

Well,' said Josephine, ' does it not settle
itself? '

VOL. III. U

'Not at all. Bewdley is yours, and Mary is
my daughter.'

Nonsense, Eicliard. There is no mine and
thine between us, but all things are in common.
What do you say ? '

The bishop was right. Mary is consoled
for the loss of Walter Penrose.'

He is right. He always said : All will
turn out well in the end.'

And what can be better than that Captain
Sellwood, who has come back from India, should
have our dear Mary, and with her, that ive
should give him Bewdley ? '

THE END.

rniNTED BY

SrOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-STREET Square

LONDON

Vanity Fair,

The magazine reader will find no better investment for his sixpence.'

Pall Mall Gazette.

The Cornwall still holds its place as the best of the Sixpenny monthlies,
and deservedly so.' — Scottish Review,

PRICE SIXPENCE MONTHLY,

THE

Cornwall MAGAZINE

Edited by JAMES Pain.

Each number contains, in addition to instalments of
Serial Stories by Popular Authors,

SHORT STORIES AND ARTICLES

BY THE BEST WRITERS.

A. Jew SJEMIAl^ STOJtY

By GEORGE Missing, Author of ' Demos,' ' Thyrza,' &c.

ENTITLED

'A LIFE'S MORNING,'

Was commenced in the January number, and ivill be continued
throughout the year.

Volumes I. to IX. of the New Series (July 1883 to December 1887),
price 4J'. (id. each, bound in cloth, are kept in stock,

AND FORM

VERY SUITABLE VOLUMES

FOR

PRESENTATION OR LIBRARY PURPOSES.

*:^ Cases for binding the Volumes may be haa, price One Shilling each.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Each Work complete in One Volume, price Six Shillings,

JESS. By H. Rider Haggard, Author of * King Solomon's
Mines' &c. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 6^.

THE HEIR OF THE Ages, By James Pain,

Author of 'By Proxy,' 'Lost Sir Massinger,' 'The Canon's
Ward, ' &c. Crown 8vo. 6s.

DEMOS. A Story of Socialist Life in England. Crown

8vo. 6s.
THE Giant's ROBE. By F. Anstey, Author of

Vice Versa ' &c. Crown 8vo. 6s.

OLD KENSIlSrGTOlSr. By Miss Thackeray. Crown
Svo. 6s.

THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG

PRINCE. By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

TO ESTHER, and other Sketches. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

BLUE BEARD'S KEYS, and other Stories.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH; TWO HOURS;

FROM AN ISLAND. By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS, and other Essays.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6j-.

MISS ANGEL; FULHAM LAWN. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MISS WILLIAMSON'S Divinations. By

Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.
MRS. DYMOND. By Miss Thackeray. Cr. Svo. 6s.
Blandly REEFS. By Lady Varney, Author of

♦ Stone Edge ' &c. Crown Svo. 6s.

Letting LISLE. By Lady Varney. With 3 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. 6s.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

OF

POPULAR Storks

Handsomely bound in cloth gilt, each volume containing
Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3J-. dd.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington.

By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE.

By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering.

By Anthony Trollope.

TRANSFORMATION : a Romance.
By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

DOMESTIC STORIES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman.'

NO NAME.

By Wilkie Collins.

ARMADALE.

By Wilkie Collins.

AFTER DARK.

By Wilkie Collins.

THE MOORS AND THE FENS.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

Carta.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

FOR PERCIVAL.

By Margaret Veley.

NO NEW THING.

By W. E. Norris.

LOVE THE DEBT

By Basil.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

FcJ>. Sz'o. Limp Cloth.

By the Sisters Bronze.

2s. 6d. each.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronte.

SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronte.

VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronte.

THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronte.

WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. AGNES GREY. By Anne Bronte.

With Preface and jNIemoir of the Sisters, by Charlotte Bronte.
THE PROFESSOR. By Charlotte Bronte. To which are added the Poems of

Charlotte, Emily, and Anne Bronte.

By Mrs. GASKELL.

2s. 6d. each.

WIVES AND DAUGHTERS. MARY BARTON, and other Tales.

NORTH AND SOUTH. RUTH, and other Tales.

SYLVIA'S LOVERS. i LIZZIE LEIGH, and other Tales.

CRANFORD, and other Tales. | LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze

By LEIGH HUNT.

2s. 6d. each.

IMAGINATION AND FANCY ; or, Selections from the English Poets.

THE TOWN : Its Memorable Characters and Events. Illustrated.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LEIGH HUNT.

MEN, Women, AND BOOKS ; a Selection of Sketches, Essays, and Critical

Memoirs.
WIT AND HUMOUR: Selected from the English Poets.
A JAR OF HONEY FROM MOUNT HYBLA ; or. Sweets from Sicily in Particular,

and Pastoral Poetry in General.
TABLE TALK. To which are added IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS OF

POPE AND SWIFT.

Uniform zuith the above, 2s. 6d. each.
THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington. By Anthony Trollope.
THE Clavering. By Anthony Trollope.
Frame PARSONAGE. By Anthony Trollope.
ROMOLA. By George Eliot.

TRANSFORMATION. By Nathaniel Hawthorne.
DEERBROOK. By Harriet Martineau.
HOUSEHOLD EDUCATION. By Harriet Martineau.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LUTFULLAH.
LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH Humorist OF THE EIGHTEENTH

CENTURY. By W. M. Thackeray.
THE FOUR GEORGES. With Illustrations by the Author. By W. M. Thackeray.
PAUL THE POPE AND PAUL THE FRIAR. By T. A. Trollope.
THE Rose-garden. By the Author of 'Unawares.'
CHRONICLES OF DUSTYPORE. A Tale of Modern Anglo-Indian Society. By

the Author of ' Wheat and Tares.'
IN THE SILVER AGE. By Holme Lee.
Carta. By Mrs. Oliphant.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS. By Mrs Oliphant.
SOME LITERARY RECOLLECTIONS. By James Pain.
Extracts FROM THE WRITINGS OF W. M. THACKERAY.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Portal Covers, price Two Skilluigs each.

By WILKIE COLLINS.

NO NAME. AFTER DARK. ARMADALE.

*^* The above may also be had m Limp Cloth, price 2.s. 6d. each.

By the Author of

'JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.'

Romantic TALES. 1 DOMESTIC STORIES.

By HOLME LEE.

AGAINST WIND AND TIDE. BASIL GODFREY'S CAPRICE.

SYLVAN HOLT'S DAUGHTER. MAUDE TALBOT.

wl™f N^^OOT. COUNTRY STORIES.

Annie Harleigh's FORTUNES. KATHERINE'S TRIAL.

THE WORTLEBANK DIARY. MR. WYXYARD's WARD.

THE BEAUTIFUL MISS BARRINGTON.

Uniform with the above.
RECOLLECTIONS AND ANECDOTES OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS. By Captain Gronow.
GRASP YOUR NETTLE. By E. Lynn Linton.
AGNES OF SORRENTO. By Mrs. H. B. Stove.

TALES OF THE COLONIES; or. Adventures of an Emigrant. By C. Rowcroft.
Latina. By the Author of ' Dr. Antonio ' and ' Lorenzo Benoni.'
HESTER KIRTON. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
BY THE SEA. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
THE HOTEL DU PETIT ST. JEAN.
VERA. By the Author of 'The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'
IN THAT STATE OF LIFE. By Hamilton Aide.
MORALS AND MYSTERIES. By Hamilton Aide'.
MR. AND MRS. FAULCONBRIDGE. By Hamilton Aide'.
SIX MONTHS HENCE. By the Author of 'Behind the Veil,'&c.
THE STORY OF THE PLfiBISCITE. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.
GABRIEL DENVER. By Oliver Maddox Brown.
TAKE CARE WHOM YOU TRUST. By Compton Reade.
PEARL AND EMERALD. By R. E. Francisco.
Seule. By the Author of 'The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'
PENRUDDOCKE. By Hamilton Aide'.
A GARDEN OF WOMEN. By Sarah Ty tier.
BRIGADIER FREDERIC. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.
-MOLLY Sawn. By the Author of ' Phyllis,' &c.
MATRIMONY. By W. E. Norris.
-PHYLLIS. By the Author of ' Molly Ba\vn,' &c.
MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC. By W. E. Norris.
mrs. GEOFFREY. By the Author of ' Molly Bau.'

BEN Miller's WOOING. By Holme Lee.
fairy FAIRY LILIAN. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

FOR PERCIVAL. By Margaret Velev.
-ROSSMOVNE. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

MEHALAH. By the Author of ' John Herring.'
*DORIS. By the Author of ' Molly Ba\vn.'
JOHN HERRING. By the Author of ' Mehalah.'
NO NEW THING. By W. E. Norris.
RAINBOW GOLD. By D. Christie Murray.
-PORTIA. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

-GREEN PLEASURE AND GREY GRIEF. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'
-BEAUTY's DAUGHTERS. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'
*FAITH AND UNFAITH. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn ' &c.
LOVE THE DEBT. By Richard Ashe King (' Basil ').
-LADY Grasmere. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn ' &c.
COURT ROYAL. By the Author of ' Mehalah,' ' John Herring,' &c.

These Volumes can also be had in Limp Cloth, fop. 8vo. -2$. 6d. each.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

LIFE AND WORKS OF CHARLOTTE Bronze

(CURRER BELL and her sisters),

EMILY and Distaste Bronze

(ELLIS AND ACTON BELL).
In Seven Volumes, large crown 8vo. handsomely bound in cloth, price 5^. per volume.

The descriptions in 'Jane Eyre' and the other fictions by Charlotte Bronte and her
Sisters being mostly of actual places, the Publishers considered that Views are the most
suitable Illustrations for the novels. They are indebted for a clue to the real names of
the most interesting scenes to a friend of the Bronte family, who enabled the artist, Mr.
G. M. Imperii, to identify the places described. He made faithful sketches of them on
the spot, and drew them on wood. It is hoped that these views will add fresh interest to
the reading of the stories.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
Villette. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
THE PROFESSOR, and POEMS. By Charlotte Bronte. With Poems by her

Sisters and Father. With Five Illustrations.
WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. And AGNES GREY. By Anne

Bronte. With a Preface and Biographical Notice of both Authors by Charlotte

Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronte. With Five Illustrations,
LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze. By Mrs. Gaskell. With Seven Illustrations.
.* The tonnes are also to be had iiifcp, Svo. livid cloth, price ■zs. 6d. each.

UNIFORM EDITION OF

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES.

In Seven Volumes, each containing Four Illustrations.

Price 3^. (>d. each, boioid z« cloth; or in Sets of Seven Tonnes, Handsomely boiatd
171 half-morocco, price £2. xos.

CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES:
Vol. I. WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.
Vol. II. NORTH AND SOUTH.
Vol. III. SYLVIA'S LOVERS.
Vol. IV. CRANFORD.
Company Manners— The Well of Pen-morphia— The Heart of John Middleton— Traits
and Stories of the Huguenots — Six Weeks at Heppenheim — The Squire's Story —
Libbie Marsh's Three Eras— Curious if True— The Moorland Cottage— The Sexton's
Hero — Disappearances — Right at last — The Manchester Marriage — Lois the Witch — The
Crooked Branch. y^^. V. MARY BARTON.

Cousin Phillips— My French Master— The Old Nurse's Story— Bess's Troubles at Home
—Christmas Storms and Sunshine.

Vol. VI. ruth.
The Grey Woman— Morton Hall— IMr. Harrison's Confessions — Hand and Heart.

Vol. VII. LIZZIE LEIGH.
A Dark Night's Work — Round the Sofa — My Lady Ludlow— An Accursed Race— The
Doom of the Griffiths— Haifa Lifetime Ago — The Poor Clare — The Half Brothers**
The Volumes are also to be had infcp. 8r'^. lint cloth, price is. 6d. each.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

3 0112040259399

.■,',V»M

'■■■mm

»w>!

m

■^'^m.

!>!>:«

mi

mim

1^

m
