Hir



\

^*«

*JL>

^ 1

OF THE

U University

OF ILLINOIS



B238co
vel

VOL. I.

A STORY OF CROSS CURRENTS

BY THE

AUTHOR OF 'MEHALAH' 'JOHN HERRING' &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON-smith,
ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved]

Preface

When in 1880 the author published ' Mehalah,'
his critics, public and private, attacked him or
remonstrated with him because there was no
moral to the story — because ' Mehalah ' was
not, as the Germans would say, a Tendency
No doubt that life is but an acted
aesop's Fables, in which the actors are human,
but it is surely allowable in an author to take
wings occasionally, and rly away from the
stings and goads of moral applications which
prog one in everyday life, into the region of
demoralising fancy. However, in his second
attempt, ' John Herring,' he did have a moral
purpose throughout his story, and his critics,
public and private, with one accord — only
excepting a couple of Scottish reviewers — failed
to see it. He complained of this one day to

one of his critics, who replied, ' We have no
time to dive for purposes, we skim for story.'
That is true generally of the English reader,
specially of the novel reader, who dips but does
not plunge. Therefore the author acknowledges
that he made a mistake. A purpose, a
moral, must not be sunk in the depths like a
pearl, but tossed up on the margin as the amber,
conspicuous to the first passer-by.

His object in 'John Herring' was to show
that man's character is only moulded by mistakes.
His reviewers objected that his hero was
characterless : that was his purpose — to show an
amiable, well-intentioned man, shaped by his
misfortunes. There was another, and deeper,
purpose in the story, which was to show how
a noble character can only be formed which
has before it an ideal, and that the ideal which
elevates character is ever, and ever must be,
unattainable. The man without an ideal
sinks ; the man with one rises ; but in so rising
passes through agonies. This life is his purgatory.
Only the man without an ideal is
happy — brutally happy.

And now the author will correct his previous

error, and expose the purpose of this new
story at the outset. To do this, he will tell the
story of its inception.

In the summer of 1883, as he was returning
from his holiday in Tyrol, he came across
an account of a Croatian mother who, in a state
of absolute destitution, pawned her child to
save its life and prolong her own. He occupied
and amused himself, during his railway
journey home, in trying to work out what
would be the moral and mental result in such
an instance, supposing the child to be a girl
endowed by nature with generous emotions
and considerable shrewdness. It struck him
that such a character, so developed, would be
typical of the individualism and impatience of
restraint, social, moral, and religious, combined
with impulsive generosity, which is the feature
of the new civilisation, about also to be the
motive force of the future, that is coming everywhere
to the front.

He had read recently a Polish story, entitled
4 Morituri,' which depicted the decay of a
Polish princely race, and it occurred to the
author to take such a family, steeped in

traditional culture, infused with feudal-Christian
morality, as the representative of the old civilisation
which is melting and disappearing everywhere,
as the other becomes concrete and asserts
itself.

Again, the author asked himself, What
would be the result, what the mutual action
and reaction, if such a line of life as that
which he had ideally traced in one of his
heroines — the representative of the Coming
Age — were run athwart the threads of old
culture and ethics ? Would each act on the
other at all, to modify its peculiarities and
broaden its view of life ? To take another
simile, would such a vein of molten, fiery, 
individuality, operating vertically,
do other than shatter the superincumbent,
horizontal social beds ? Would it be itself at
all metamorphosed in the process?

The author was teased by the problem that
rose continually in his brain. He felt that he
could only work it out by calling his representative
characters out of the vasty deep of conjecture,
and setting them on the table, giving
them souls, and letting them move and act towards

each other automatically, and work out
the problem for themselves. Such, then, is the
history of the genesis of this story, and the
reader is requested to bear its purpose in mind
as he skims it. Two types in two groups are
opposed to each other ; each group represents a
set of ideas, social and moral, the one coming
on, conquering, overwhelming, the other disappearing
and likely soon to be looked back upon
as having become extinct in the moral world
like asceticism and mysticism. There are two
heroines each the focusing of the good qualities
of the two groups, and two heroes each the
concentration of the infirmities of the same.

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER

I. A LITTLE DEVIL .

II. PAWNED

III. LAZARUS

iv. Joanna's school

V. Grudge, SOLICITOR

VI. THE DUCAL FAMILY .

VII. Bevis

VIII. THE MARQUESS

IX. LORD RONALD

X. THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER .

XI. WHO WAS RACHEL?

XII. CHARLIE CHEEK

XIII. THE EMS WATER .

XIV. THE MONOKERATIC PRINCIPLE

XV. WANTED, A HOUSEMAID

XVI. VENITE

XVII. STOCK-TAKING

XVIII. LADY GRACE

XIX. SLEEPY HOLLOW .

PAGE



19
33
45
59
• 77
103
124
137
154
177
191
206
220
233
243
256
273
291

A STORY OF CROSS Currents.

CHAPTER I.

A LITTLE DEVIL.

At the top or at the bottom ? At which
shall we begin ? Sediment to-day is scum tomorrow.
That which is on the surface sinks.
Therefore, does it matter ? The universe is in
revolution, so is the social order. We will
begin at the bottom, as most philosophical.
Only the builders of Lagado began their edifices
at the apex. The Barbican is the oldest portion .
of ancient Plymouth. It consists of a collection
of crazy houses built along the quay of
Sutton Pool, which was the ancient port of
Plymouth. The houses are tall, with slated
fronts and bow windows, much out of the perpendicular,
of various dates. In these houses
VOL. i. B

dwelt the old merchants of Plymouth, who
equipped vessels against the Spaniards and
carried Tavistock friezes to all the ports of
Europe. From Sutton Pool Drake sailed
against the Armada. The grand merchant-houses
have become the habitations of dealers
in marine stores, drinking-shops and eating-houses.


Sic transit gloria mundi.

The houses on the Barbican are so crowded
that they are devoid of back yards, and when
the inhabitants have a washing they thrust their
garments from their windows on poles to dry in
the sea-breeze and the sun. Some ingenious
dwellers in these old houses contrive a system
of rigging between their poles whereby a much
larger wash can be exposed. On every day
that lends itself to drying, the Barbican mutters
its flags and streamers. The flags vary in shape,
more than in colour, and most of all in their
heraldic achievements. Some are ' enhanced '
with launches, others with endless, frets,
bordures, even with bars sinister. Certain
bifurcated pennons show a leaning towards
escutcheons.' The banners are for the most
part white, tawny as old Tiber, or Isabelle.
Some few are azure of a deep and dingy blue.

Frown one window a circular mass of drapery,
gules, bulges in the wind. It is the petticoat
of the lady of the ham and sausage shop.

One corner house, standing between two
thoroughfares, never displayed its bunting.
Apparently, no washing was ever done in it.
Over the door of this house hung three golden
balls, and in scaling paint over the window was
inscribed the name — ' Lazarus. 5

The Barbican is not a savoury place. Here
the fish are unladen and sold, and here the
little fish that fall out of the baskets get
trampled out of shape, and rot in the mire.

When the tide is out, the ooze in Sutton
Pool sends up its complement of effluvium.
Providentially, the sea-tangles, hanging from
the wharf in fringes of dull green, exhale
chlorine, and the sea-breeze brings in ozone, to
disinfect and disperse the pestilential odours.

The Barbican is a busy place all day, and
late into the night ; but at noon, for an hour, it
drops into quiet. Then all the sound that
habitually pervades it is sucked in at the doors
of the taverns and eating-houses, and fills them
to repletion.

It was precisely at this hour, one hot day in
early June, that the stillness of the Barbican

B 2

quay was broken by piercing and protracted
shrieks.

Two persons and a cat alone occupied the
wharf at that time : the one was the pier-guard,
who was then lounging on the wall looking; seaward
; the other was an old woman sitting under
a large umbrella with her back to sun and sea,
fast asleep before the table of gmgerbeer-bottles
of which she disposed. The cat took no notice
of the screams, nor did the old woman, who
only woke when the quay became repeopled
and business looked alive. The guard turned
leisurely round, drew his hands out of his
pockets, walked to the steps by which passengers
disembarked from the Preston steamer,
descended them, cast off a boat, and, stepping
in, shouted, ' Hold hard, you little devil ! '

Some faces, attracted by the cries, appeared
at the windows, but the view was obscured by
fluttering drapery. The lady over the ham and
sausage shop, Thresher by name, saw what was
the matter ; her visual ray was not cut off
by the washing. She shouted some practical
advice, then turned and scolded her husband,
who lay on the bed with his boots upon the
pillow, reading a Eadical paper. After that
she drew on a jacket and descended to the quay.

Some men, moreover, who Lad finished
their dinner, issued from the eating-houses to
ascertain what was the matter, and those who
had not done bolted the rest of their food, fearful
of being too late for an accident, yet unwilling
to leave unconsumed good victuals for which
they had paid.

The screams became louder, shriller. Then
they were interrupted for a minute, again to
ring forth as loudly as before.

The cries issued from the lungs of a child —
a girl — of twelve, who was in the arms of a
wretched-looking woman. They were near
the edge of the quay when the screams began.
The woman was attempting to fling herself and
the child into the water. The girl had her arms
about an old cannon, planted in the granite
coping as a hold for hawsers, and clung to it
desperately. Finally, the superior strength of
the woman prevailed, and she precipitated herself
and the child over the edge into the Pool.
Then, for a moment, the cries were silenced, fora
moment only, while the child was under water.
Both rose to the surface, covered with mud,
near a chain. In a moment, the child saw her
opportunity, grasped the chain, and crawled up
it, with the water streaming from her, looking

like a drowning rat, and again she shrieked as
loud as her lungs would allow.

In a moment, also, the innkeeper was at
hand in the boat. He lifted the woman out of
the water, and then laid hold of the child. The
latter, unable at first to distinguish that the hands
grasping her were not those of her mother, and
that the object for which she was grasped was
not to drown her, clung frantically to the chain,
and yelled with such force and penetration in
the tones, that the guard lost patience, and said
angrily, ' Let go, you squalling cat, will you ? '

Instantly the child relaxed her hold, and
allowed herself to be lifted into the boat. She
knew, by the voice, that she was in the hands
of a man, come to save her. When she was in
the boat, she dipped her palms in the water, and
washed the mud from her eyes and mouth and
nose. After that she set herself to clean the
face of her mother with the skirt of her frock.

What is the meaning of this ? ' said the man.

I wouldn't be drownded,' answered the child.
6 I told mother as much, but her paid no heed
to what I said.'

Now then, missus,' said he, addressing the
woman with rough kindness, ' what did you doit
for ? '

The poor creature made no reply. She sat,
cuddled into a heap in the bottom, hugging her
knees, with the water pouring off her. Her
head was bowed on her bosom.

Did y ' hear, now ? ' shouted the child, raising
the sodden hair off the mother's ear. ' The
german asked you a civil question, and you
must answer him civil too. He asked you what
made you do it.'

I am wretched,' she replied in a faint voice ;
4 my husband is dead. We have been starving.
I can find no situation because of Joanna, and
get no work. I did not know what to do with
myself and her, and as us couldn't find a situation
on earth, I thought we'd go and o- e t one in
heaven.'

But I wouldn't,' put in the girl, emphatically,
looking the boatman level in the eyes.
I told mother plain I was not agreeable.
I don't want to go to heaven — and,' with a
stamp on the bottom of the boat, 'I won't
so.'

You've a will of your own, apparently,'
said the man, smiling.

I don't choose to be drownded,' answered
the girl. Then she thrust her wet and dirty hair
out of her face, and tried to knot it behind her

head, c and I don't choose as mother shall be,
neither.'

1 I'll tell you what, ma'am,' said the pier-keeper
; ' two good things have combined for
the saving of you to-day. First comes I. I
was on the spot handy. Secondly, the tide was
running out and leaving the Pool dry ; so there
was no depth available for drowning purposes.'
The boat touched the steps. ; Up with yon,
both he said, ; and mind, no more of these
games.'

The wretched woman obeyed meekly. The
child strode up the stone stairs full of confidence,
saying, but hardly in a tone of apology, 4 You
know, mother. I was not agreeable.'

The woman staggered after her daughter
to the pier, and then stood there help
dazed, looking about her without light in her
eyes.

The water ran off her and formed a pond at
her feet ; the slime was smeared over her hair
and face and hands. Her soaked garments
cluncr to her. revealing at once how few and thin
they were.

By this time several persons had assembled.
They surrounded the little group and eyed them
curiously. These were mostly men, still chewing

the remains of their dinner or picking their
teeth. Mrs. Thresher, from the ham-shop, was
there in a black bod' over a red petticoat, very
short, exposing dirty stockings and slippers
down at heel.

Questions showered on the poor creature.
which she did not answer, perhaps did not
catch. She clutched her child's hand convulsively,
and with disengaged hand wiped the
water from her eyes.

Xow look you here,' said the pier-guard.
6 you oughtn't to have done it, or if you did
ought to do it, you ought to have done it in a
less dirty place. Sutton Pool is not a palatable
place in which to end existence. Wait till the
tide is out, and have a look for yourself. I
reckon further acquaintance won't make you
more friendly. It will rince all taste of felo-dense
out of your mouth. Dead cats, rotten
cabbage, decayed potatoes, cracked cloak
(crockery), old tobacco pipes, kettles and pans
full of holes, boots bursted, and solele^s shoes,
scatter (broken) bottles, anything, everything
that £does to make filth is chucked in there, and
rots away into black paste which is proper consolidated
speech (smell). I reckon that Sutton
Pool bottom is made of the dirtiest drew's of

civilisation. That is what we've hauled you
and your brat out of. If you've any sense of
decency in you, keep out of Sutton Pool. The
blue sea is a different crib altogether.'

I won't be drownded neither in the blue
sea, nor in Sutton Pool, nor in a pickling-tub,'
said the child resolutely ; ' I'm damned if I
be.'

The circle of lookers-on burst out laughing.

'Oh, you wicked child!' exclaimed Mrs.
Thresher, of the ham-shop. ' Where do you
expect to go, using them swearing words ? '

Father said it when he meant a thing —
much,' answered the child.

'Your father smoked, I reckon.'

'Yes, he did.'

But you don't see ladies smoke.'

'No.'

Well,' said Mrs. Thresher, ' pipes and
cusses are nat'ral in a man's mouth, but nature'
herself protests when you see either in the mouth
of a woman.'

'Did you hear how the little creature
squealed ? ' asked the innkeeper.

Her cries drew me from my dinner, and
lost me the picking of my rabbit-bones,' said one
of the men.

'I'd have had another glass of ale,' said
a second, c but I thought two foreigners was
fighting and sticking knives into each other. I
wouldn't ha' missed that. I was always a bit of
a sportsman since I was a boy.'

I cried,' said the girl, ' because I would not
let mother drown me.'

■ And cry tha' did, by jiggers ! ' exclaimed
a skipper, a large man from Yorkshire. ' I was
down in my cabin when tha' piped.'

Look here,' said the pier guard ; c if us
stand here in a knot, the police will be suspecting
something and turn their beaks this way.
Then they'll have this unfortunate female up
before the magistrates on the double charge of
felo-dense and felo-de-child, and transport her
for it to Dartmoor. So let us be moving. Now
then, ma'am ! ' — he spoke to the woman, planting
himself before her, legs apart, and his
hands on his hips — c if you will pass your word
that you won't play no more of these pranks,
I'll let you go ; if not, I'll tow you into custody
myself.'

No, sir, I wasn't do it no more,' said the
miserable creature.

Her shan't ! ' protested the child.

6 What is to be done with them ? ' asked

the pierian. ' They are both wet to the marrow
of their bones

No one was prepared with an answer.
One man, suspecting a subscription, tailed
a way.

4 You must go home and have a chang .
said the pierian kindly. ' And let me counsel
a drop of hot grog. It will drive the chill out
of you and the squalor.'

*I have no home — I have no chang !
I have nowhere and nothing,' answered the
woman mournfully.

• There is that blessed institution, the
Workers. always open." said one man in a tone
of sarcasm.

• I'd rather drown than go there answered
she ; 'there they'd take my Joanna from me.'

-V ^Tunt of assent.

• Her's got the proper principles of a christians
said the woman in the red petticoat. ■ I'd
go into Sutton Pool myself rather than into the
House. I reckon in the matter of dirt tfa
about equal, only in the House it's moral, and in
the Pool its physical

• Either, lass.' said the skipper, in strong
Yorkshire accent, 'how didst a come here?
Tell us all about it.'

• My husband died she 1 timid" ;
■ I s Id everything I had, bit by bit, till all was

I couldn't pay roy rent, and I couldn't
buy no food. I went from place to place after
work, but I could get none. No one would
give me a situation till I got rid of the child.
All were in one song — "Send her t the Union 1
I couldn't do that ; so I thought we'd both goto
heaven together.'

Have you no change of clothes any when :
lskc I Mrs. Thresher: 'because, if you have,
you may change in my room, and I'll turn my
old man out while you do it. 5

• I've naught but what I stand up in,' said
the poor creature, 'nor has Joanna, neither.

• Nc >w, then, my lads said the pierian,
casting his eye round, ' I propose we raise a
Few si billings among us to rig out the pair afresh.'

• I reckon Mr. Lazarus can fit them out,'
one of the by stand e

• O' course he can,' said the skipper ; ' but
he'll not do 'twi'out brass. Here's half a crown

start wi Who'll give something upon that?
Here's my cap as collecting-box 3

• It '11 come expensive,' remarked a bargeman
in sepulchral tones : * I know what the
rig-out of my missus costs me.'

'A gown can be had secondhand for a
trifle.'

'A gown ain't all,' said the bargeman
mysteriously.

< What else, then ? '

What else ? Why, there's stays,' growled
the bargeman. 'Them figures — new — seven
and eighteen three-farthings ! '

Then there's a petticoat,' suggested a pilot
timidly ; ' if you doubt my word look around
at all the fluttering bunting. Women must wear
them things somehow, and they don't use 'em
as caps.'

A petticoat ! ' exclaimed the north-country
skipper. ' Every respectable lass has two — one
coloured, t'other white.'

Must the little maid have stays, too ! '
asked the innkeeper.

All females has stays,' answered the bargeman.
'Girls has 'em without bones. The
bones come later in life.'

What more ? ' asked the skipper.

A dead silence. The men were thinking
and looking inquiringly at the dripping woman,
who was too bewildered to reply.

Where is Mrs. Thresher ? her can tell us,'
said the pilot.

But Mrs. Thresher was gone to her room
to turn her old man out of it, and prepare for
the contingency of receiving the poor woman
into it.

Still silence. The men's brows were wrinkled
with hard thought. It was broken by
the rumbling bass of the bargeman. ' Dress-improver
! '

Must the little maid have one ? '

Of course. All females have dress-improvers,'
said the bargeman, puffing and swelling
with consciousness of superior knowledge.
'Four-and-ten is about the figure.'

8 That makes five articles apiece, mates,' said
the innkeeper, checking them off on his fingers :
1 thumb for sown, fore and middle fingers stand
for petticoats, the last but one for stays, and the
little chap is dress-improver. Xow, then, mates,
see what we can raise among us for the poor
creatures.'

The party moved along the quay towards
the pawnshop, the Yorkshire skipper revolving,
cap in hand, among the members.

I've been considering,' said he, after a
while, * as how I might find the lass a berth
aboard my vessel if she could get shut (rid) of
the bairn. We could do wi' a woman to cook

and wash for us ; and shoo might addle (earn)
a few shillings that road. What do you think
o' that, mates? And what dost 'a say to it
thyself', lass ? '

The dazed woman looked at the Yorkshire-man
without understanding his proposal. He
repeated it in more intelligible form ; then she
comprehended it, and her wan face lighted up,
only to dull again.

May I take my Joanna ? '

c That's the scratch,' said the skipper.
'Sligo's wick as a scoprill (lively as a teetotum),
and I'd be glad if I could; but we can't find
room for little bairns.'

The pilot explained : ' Can't find room onboard
for little maidens.'

What is to become of my Joanna ? ' asked
the bewildered woman, looking with blank eyes
about her.

The man with a vein of sarcasm in him,
who had before suggested the Union, threw
out another suggestion, likewise ironical. ' As
you're about to get clothes of Mr. Lazarus,
perhaps you can pawn the child to him, and
raise a few shillings on her ! '

The suggestion elicited a general laugh.
The woman, however, took it seriously, and

walked towards the pawnbroker's shop, drawing
the child along with her.

'Here is brass i've gotten together for
thee,' said the skipper, pouring the coin from
his cap into her hand. ' Take it, and get the
ten articles thyself.'

Then he signed to the others to withdraw,
and they, with great delicacy, did so, whilst the
woman entered the pawnbroker's shop.

Mates,' said the skipper, ' leave the lass
to do the shopping alone. It's more decent.
She'll get the ten articles. Trust a woman to
bargain. And whilst shoo's about it we'll put
heads together and consider what is to be done
wi' the little bairn.'

Did you hear her scream ? ' asked the
pilot.

Her 'd do as a syren (steam whistle) to an
ironclad, and rouse the Three Towns (Plymouth,
Stonehouse, and Devonport) when coming into
harbour.'

Scream ! ' exclaimed another man, ' I
should like to know what man or woman but
the old lady under the umbrella by the ginger-beer
could fail to hear her. Mark my words !
That little maid ain't born to be drowned. How
vol. i. c

her worked lier way up the chain out o' the
slime ! Well,' sententiously, ' there be other
chains than that in this world ; and may she
work herself up the next she catches as well as
she went up that ! '

CHAPTEE II.

PAWNED.

The woman entered the shop of Mr. Lazarus.
When there she stood trembling and looking
down, confused or frightened, whilst the child
at her side peered about with eager eyes at the
articles with which the shop was crowded.

Mr. Lazarus was a dark man, of distinct
Israelitish type, his hair cut short, like moleskin,
but his jaws and chin covered with a bristly
scrub. He was wont to shave once a week,
and went bristly and black between times.
His eye ran over the customer, and took stock
of what she wore. He soon satisfied himself
that she had nothing about her in his way,
except a gold wedding-ring.

Mr. Lazarus looked suspiciously and threateningly
at the child. He detested children.
They played marbles, ball, tipcat on the pavement,
and broke his windows. They shouted

after him, ' Ears and bones ! ' or ' Old clo' ! '
through their noses, or put their heads into his
shop, and asked how he was off for soap, or
Any black puddings or bacon rashers today.'



The pawnbroker was frequently engaged,
behind his counter, whittling at a stick, lying
in wait to rush forth with it upon the urchins
who offended him. It was rarely, however,
that he caught the delinquents. He more often
fell upon, or fell over, an inoffensive and unoffending
child, and rattled his stick about its
sides. Then the parents — the mother certainly
would appear on the scene and join in the
noise, belabouring Mr. Lazarus with her tongue.
When matters reached this point, Mr. Lazarus
would return to his shop, with the stick tucked
under his arm, growling Levitical imprecations.

4 What do you want?' asked Mr. Lazarus,
looking up from an account-book, and laying
the stick on the table.

1 Please, sir,' answered the woman in a faint,
frightened voice, ' I want a set of dry clothes
for myself and Joanna.'

Certainly,' answered the Jew with alacrity.
'Tumbled into the Pool, eh? About what
figure, pray ? '

This is all I have,' answered she, extending
her hand and opening it.

One half-crown, two shillings, one ' — he rang
it — 'bad, two sixpences, and eight threepenny
bits, also one French halfpenny, which don't
pass current. I return you the shilling. You
may be able to get others to take it, less wide-awake.
That makes six-and-six. Can't do
much for you at that price.'

Then the poor creature said, 'Please, sir,
you'll be liberal, I hope. I've nothing else, and
am wet to the marrow. I have brought the
child. I thought to raise a few shillings on her.'

1 The child ! What do you mean ? '

My darling, my Joanna.'

Mr. Lazarus turned a green hue.

You're trying to make sport of me ! ' he
exclaimed, clutching at his stick. ' You've been
put up to it. I wont stand this sort of game.
Get out at once.'

Please, sir,' said the woman, trembling
with cold and alarm, 'the gentleman outside
as fished me from the Pool got up a subscription
for me, that I might have dry clothes.
I've no more, but if you'd consent to take the
child '

'I take the child — I — I!' screamed Mr.

Lazarus. ' Children are the plague of my life.

I wouldn't have one if offered for nothing.'

Then, sir, I must take the money elsewhere.'


Oh ! ' said the pawnbroker, ' six-and-six is
it ? Pity it should be lost. Do you think the
gentlemen would subscribe a little more ? The
charitable feelings, when well worked, are very
yielding. If you'd make believe to be desperate,
and about to fall or throw yourself in
again, may be the collecting cap would go
round again, and the sum disposable mount to
eleven-and-six. At eleven-and-six I might
consider you. I can't so much as look at you
for six-and-six. Just cast your eyes over this
myrtle-green trimmed with cream lace ! Don't
it make your mouth water ? '

I'm watering all over,' sighed the woman.

I I only want ordinary dry clothes.'

Or this Dolly Warden with panniers, a
little passed in style, and a kiss-me-quick
bonnet. Make you quite irresistible, miss —
beg pardon — ma'am, I mean.'

I have no more. I can get no more. I
need only a cotton dress and underclothing.'

Lor' bless you ! ' exclaimed the Jew,
f what does that latter signify so long as the

gown is gorgeous ? Try to screw sore more
from the gents outside. If you cried, now, ina
proper heart-rending way ? '

The woman shook her head despairingly.
'I did not ask for this. I want only necessaries.
Why did they not let me drown, and
be at rest ? '

What, ma'am ? ' said the Jew. ' Drown
with an available six-and-six on the quay
awaiting you ! The thing is ridiculous ! '

6 Please, sir, will you take the child ? '

What do you mean ? ' asked Lazarus
testily, turning green again.

I mean my Joanna,' answered the woman,
pointing to the little girl at her side.

Mr. Lazarus waxed wroth. ' Do I take
little girls ? Eh ! look round and see what are
the articles in my shop. Dolls ; yes, they don't
eat. China figures ; yes, they don't wear out
clothes. I'm not a cannibal. Can't make
butcher's meat out of children. I wish I
might. I'd set up shambles and reduce their
numbers.'

'I don't want to sell Joanna,' said the
woman in a dull, distressed voice, ' I wouldn't
sell her for a thousand guineas. But I thought,
no offence, I might pawn her for a time, so as

to make up the difference, and get a fit out of
dry clothe? for both of us.'

Be off with you ! This is no foundling
hospital where every troublesome child maybe
left. Get out of this, or I'll rattle my stick
about the bones of the monkey.'

1 I have nowhere to ^o to, sir. I have
passed my word not to fling myself into the
sea again. You shall have Joanna, sir, for lialf-
a-sovereign.'

1 Half-a-sovereign ! ' cried Mr. Lazarus,
starting back. • Have I human ears to hear
such a proposition? Half-a-sovereign for a
little maggot that'll eat her own weight of
nourishing victuals every day ! I won't have
her at any price. Chuck her into Sutton
Pool. 1

• I won't 1 e drownded ."-aid the child resolutely.


c I throned her in once, and her crawled
out like a spider running along its cobweb.'

1 Do with her what you will. I'll have
nothing to say to her,' cried the angry pawns
.roger. Then working himself into fury, ; Will
you be off? Look what a pond you two have
made in my shop. The floor is swimming.
A mop won't take it up in a week ; and all the

iron-ware, and the forks and knives, will be
rusted, and the cloth and leather mildewed.'

Well, sir,' sighed the woman, ' give me
back the money and I'll go.'

6 Six-and-six ! ' said Mr. Lazarus in a softer
tone, ' six-and-six is six-and-six. Can't we
deal reasonably and quietly ? What is the advantage
of your working yourself up into fever
and fury ? '

Please, sir,' said the woman with pertinacity,
such as could hardly be looked for in
one so timid and dazed, ' I can have a situation
if I set rid of the child.'

1 Well, what is that to me ? '

I won't sell her, sir ! and I won't send her
to the Union. If you'll be so kind as to take
her, and lend me half a sovereign on her, I'll
throw in my wedding-ring beside.'

Let me look at it. I dare be sworn it is
brass.'

We were well off when us married, and
could afford it,' explained the woman. Then,
whilst the Jew was examining the ring and
testing it with acid, she said, ' ]\Iy Joanna is
of pure gold. You'd better take her, sir.
You'd never repent, I reckon she can do most
things. Her can wash '

I have no washing done here,' said Lazarus,
shortly. ' Never found the need. The Barbican
is poisoned with the smell of yellow soap and
the reek of drying linen.'

'Then, sir, her can cook you a rasher of
bacon '

I never eat of the pig,' screamed Lazarus,
and spat on the floor.

Her can kindle a fire '

And waste tons of coal.'

6 Her can nurse the babies '

'I've no babies. I don't want 'em. I
wouldn't have 'em.'

Her can run messages like a greyhound,
and mind the shop when you are out ; and
should burglars try to break in, her would
scream, and scream, and scream.'

Eh ! ' said Lazarus, looking up interested.
Was that she screaming half-an-hour ago ? '

It was. Her can scream when proper.
Other times she's as still as a mouse.'

Mr. Lazarus considered for a few moments.
He rubbed his bristly chin, blew his nose in a
fashion almost lost in this age of refinement.
Then he leaned both elbows on the counter and
stared at the girl. Mr. Lazarus was nervous
about burglars. Unwittingly the mother had

touched a fibre in his soul that quivered.
Report credited horn with vast wealth, with
money, plate, jewellery, stored in the crazy old
house. More than once he had been alarmed
by attempts to break in. He had an infirmity
which he could not master. He slept so soundly
that nothing woke him. The Barbican was a
noisy place by night as well as by day. Tipsy
sailors rambled about it, drunken women
squabbled, foreign sailors fought on the quay.
The ear in time became so accustomed to
noises that they ceased to disturb. Lazarus
had resolved to get a dog, but begrudged the
food it would consume. Following this train
of thought, he said to himself, ' Half-a-sov. ! I
could get a mongrel pup for less.'

Sir,' argued the woman, ' with a pup you
wouldn't get a gold wedding-ring.'

4 That is true, but a clog eats bones, and
girls eat meat.'

c Oh ! my Joanna hasn't much of that. A
crust of bread and some dripping — her never
gets beyond that. Besides, you'd have to pay
tax on a dog, not on a girl.'

That also is true, but a clog grows his own
coat, and a girl grows out of every suit you put
her into.'

The girl is a golden girl, gold through and
through,' said the mother. ' She wakes early,
and has her hand in work all day ; is never idle,
never plays, never neglects a duty ; try her.'

Mr. Lazarus came from behind the counter,
put his hand under Joanna's chin and thrust the
wet hair from her brow. He pursed up his lips,
half closed his eyes, and studied her critically.

Then Joanna, surmising that Mr. Lazarus was
about to relent, put forth her full powers of
resistance. She clawed at his coat, which
being rusty gave way ; she bit at his hands,
and made them bleed ; she kicked his shins,
and forced him to caper ; and she yelled, as
surely no mortal lungs had yelled before.

The men outside drew near the shop,
flattened their noses against the window-panes
and looked in, then grinned, rubbed their
hands, laughed in each other's faces, and said :
'Her's born to make a noise in the world, no
mistake — an irrepressible. Then they backed.
The screams pierced the drums of their ears like
bradawls.

Joanna danced and tore, and shrieked and
writhed. ' I am not good,' she cried ; ' I am
not golden. I am bad, and brazen. I'm a
little devil. Don't buy me. I'm worth nothing

at all. I scream all day. All night as well.
No one can sleep in the house where I am. I
never work. I scat (break) all the cloak
(crockery). I smash the windows. I set a
house on fire. I'm a devil ; I'm a devil.'

In vain did the poor mother reason with,
and try to pacify the child. The little creature
was as one possessed. She shook herself in
convulsions of rage, so that the water spirted
off her, as from a poodle drying itself after a
bath.

Mr. Lazarus was fain to put the counter
between himself and the child. He was not
angry ; he looked on approvingly.

With burglars,' said he, nodding to the
mother, ' this would be first-rate.'

Then the girl tore round the shop, kicking
the counter, and dashing against the goods piled
in the corners.

Look here ! ' said Mr. Lazarus. ' Do you
see all these walking-sticks? Thorn and bamboo
they are. I'll try their respective merits on
your ribs, you wild cat, unless you desist.'
Then to the mother, ' She will do. I take her.
You shall have the money. I must stop the
noise first ; there is no dealing because of it.'

Then, feebly assisted by the woman, the

pawnbroker carried the child, kicking, tearing,
howling, into the kitchen, to the coalhole, into
which he thrust her. Then he tried to lock
her in, but she dashed herself against the door,
and beat the lock when he attempted to fasten
it. After many efforts he succeeded in turning
the key.

There,' said he, ' squall yourself hoarse.
Bang your hands and knees raw. No one will
heed.'

He returned to the shop with the mother,
who was trembling and crying.

He shut the kitchen door, and the shop
door leading into the house likewise ; nevertheless
the cries and thumping from the coalhole
were still audible, though distant and muffled.

Mr. Lazarus wiped his brow. ' There is life
in the child. There are will and pertinacity,'
he said. ' She knows her own mind, which is
more than do many. Here is the half-sovereign.'


6 Thank you, sir. You understand, I don't
sell her.'

6 Of course not, of course not.'

8 I only pawn her,' said the woman timidly.

8 To be sure, to be sure.'

8 And, sir, I want my ticket.'

What ticket ? '

The pawn-ticket, sir, so that when I bring
the money I may have my child back out of
pawn.'

By all means,' said Mr. Lazarus. ' And
when shall we say the time is up ? '

'Well, sir, if I may make it seven years,
I'll take it as a favour. Joanna is now twelve,
and in seven she'll be nineteen. I may be able
to redeem her in a few months, but I cannot
tell. I'm going away in a ship, and I don't
know where to. I should like a margin, so as
to give me plenty of time to look about, and
scrape.'

Certainly,' said Mr. Lazarus. ' Seven years
let it be. The interest will be ten per cent. A
shilling a year. In seven years that will be
seven shillings for interest. I'll write you out
the ticket at once. Hand me over the wedding-ring
again. You took it up just now. The
half-sovereign and six-and-six — less twopence
for the ticket, that makes sixteen-and-four.
This is what you want to lay out in dry clothes.
We will see if we can suit you. The myrtle-green
and cream lace won't do. Style unbecoming.
Something warm and useful. I
understand. Here is the ticket. Number six

COURT ROYAL

hundred and seventeen your daughter is.
ma'arn. Six hundred and seventeen. Now
your name, please ? '

'Marianne Severe.'

And my little maid is '

'Six hundred and seventeen. 1

LAZARUS.

When the mother was gone, with dry and
decent garments, and the drumming and roaring

at the cellar door had ceased, Mr. Lazarus
went to the coalhole and unlocked it.

Then Joanna walked forth. She had gone
in wet ; she emerged caked in coal-dust, black
as a sweep. Clothing, hands, race, hair, were
all black. Nothing was clean about her but
the white of her eyes, her red lips and shining
teeth.

Mr. Lazarus held the door and stood back.
He expected her to fly forth, snapping and
snarling like a spiteful; clog. He feared for his
shins, and therefore held a stick for protection.
But Joanna came forth composedly, without a
word.

I must confess,' said the pawnbroker, reassured,
'you do look like a little devil.' I

VOL. I. D

don't think you could come it more natural,
got up for the occasion with theatrical properties.'


I am not a little devil,' said the girl, standing
in the midst of the kitchen, and looking at
Mr. Lazarus. ' I am a girl ; I am not bad, I
am good ; I am gold, not brass ; I am not idle,
I work hard ; I rise early ; I break nothing ; I
knit ; I sew ; I cook ; I scream. Where is
my mother ? Is she gone ? '

Gone, gone right away on end. She has
pawned you to me for seven years ; raised ten
shillings on you — more than you are worth, if
coined.'

I am worth more than ten shillings ; I
am worth ten pounds.'

You understand you can't go to mother ;
you are pawned. If your mother does not
come back in seven years, then you fall to me
altogether as my own. Do you understand? '

Yes,' said the girl. ; Mother has pawned
everything else she had down to me. Now is
my turn. I will stay.'

Your number is six hundred and seventeen.
Look in my ledger ; there you are till cancelled.
Why did you scream so horribly ? '

Because I wanted to be with mother

And now you are content to remain with
me?'

I am pawned ; I can't help myself. Mother
has raised the money on me. I must stay
till she returns with the ticket and the half-sovereign.'


And the interest — the interest at ten per
cent,' insisted Mr. Lazarus.

I know nothing about that,' said the girl.
4 1 will stay till mother brings the money. I
cannot help myself.'

Come along, you squalling cockatoo,' said
the pawnbroker; 'I will show you over the
place, and tell you what your work will be.
This is the kitchen.'

{ And that is your nose. I have eyes. You
wouldn't make me believe this a parlour if you
swore to it.'

4 You are a queer imp.'

4 I am good,' said the girl. 4 I will cook
the dinner, and then you will say the same.'

4 No waste of coals here,' observed Lazarus
gravely. 4 To think of the profligate waste
among the rich ! The tons of coal they burn ;
nothing to show for it but smoke and ashes !
I never turned a penny by coals in all my life,
never.'

D 2

4 1 have,' said Joanna.

1 I shall be glad to hear how } r ou managed
that.'

It was this way. We'd a little garden ran
down to the water, where the coal barges went
by. I corked an empty soda-water bottle and
hung it to the branch of an apple-tree. When
the bargemen went by they couldn't hold off
having a shy at the bottle, and they shied
lumps of coal. I went out every day with a
shovel. We kept the kitchen fire with that
bottle, and the beauty was she never broke.
Couldn't, you understand, because her swung
when hit.'

Lazarus looked at the child with admiration.
'Beautiful! upon my word, beautiful!
You are a genius, Six hundred and seventeen.
Follow me.'

He led her into the shop. 'There,' he
said, ' you sleep under the counter. There are
blankets about to make a bed of. Only mind
everything goes back into place in the morning ;
nothing torn, and no tickets off.'

4 1 understand.'

4 Look at me. You see I hold a stick that I've
been whittling. Not out of ornament, I tell you,
but for use. Now rack your brains for a reason.'

To lick me with,' said the girl.

Hit it, Six hundred and seventeen. If you
tear, break, or waste anything, this stick will
be a paintbrush to your back, making you like
an ancient Briton, blue and yellow. Now
look at this stick. You don't suppose I whittle
and shape it for such as you ; you ain't worth
the exertion.'

You thought me worth ten bob, or you
wouldn't have given it,' said the child.

c You worth ten shillings ! ' sneered the Jew ;
not a bit. Your mother gave her gold ring
as well ; that was worth six.'

1 "Well, then, I'm valued at four.'

Four ! You're worth nothing. I reckoned
on your clothes and boots.'

8 My boots are scat at the sides, and wore
out at the soles. They are fit for nothing but
making soup. My clothes are that dirty with
mud and coals that they'll never wash clean

again.

What, given to arguing, are you ? ' exclaimed
the pawnbroker. 'No more of that
with me. Hook up the steps, if you please,
you black beetle. I must find you a change
somehow.'

He made her ascend a set of dark steps

into an upper story. There they went through
three rooms, full as they could hold of various
goods, old furniture, clocks, china, mattresses,
looking-glasses, military accoutrements, uniforms,
muffs, jackets, gowns, nautical instruments,
books, tools.

There,' said he, pointing above him with
his stick, ' you see all these garments. This is
the uniform of a general, that of an admiral.
Here are sable and sealskin jackets, rabbitskin
ermine opera cloaks, silk dresses for servant
maids, and cotton prints for ladies, linen jackets
of workmen, worsted jerseys of sailors. These
must all be hung on yokes. They accumulate.
Unless exposed they don't attract attention. I
fashion the yokes and pegs on which they
hang. That is what I was whittling at. I
always have one in hand. I have one great
enemy with which to battle. These clothes
don't eat, but they get eaten. The moth is my
enemy. I said he was a great one, but really
he's a very little one. Bless me ! what valuable
time is wasted at whack, whack, whack ! with
a bamboo to drive the moth out of the cloth
and fur. I've tried camphor ; I've tried bitter
apple; I've tried pepper. Nothing answers
but the bamboo. Now you know what will be

one of your regular duties — duties ! pleasures,
exercises. You will have to beat the clothes
every clay for a couple of hours. If after this
I find a moth I'll beat you, whack, whack,
whack, with the bamboo, till I've beat the
laziness out of you. You are intelligent. You
can understand plain English, I suppose ? '

Joanna nodded.

4 You will have to work hard in this house,'
said Mr. Lazarus further. He had beaten a
carpet to illustrate his meaning, and raised a
cloud of dust that made him couo-h. ' No idleness
is tolerated here. No spare hours are
given during which you may slip into mischief.
Not much food to fire the blood and make you
want it. You will rise at five and get me a
cup of coffee. No lighting of fires, mind. The
coffee is made in an Etna. Then you beat the
clothes in the back yard till the shop opens.
About noon the fire is kindled and dinner is
cooked for me. You can eat what I leave.
There is often gravy in which to sop bread.
Gravy is nourishing. I don't consume it all
myself. I am not greedy. Children only are
greedy. In the afternoon you mind the shop,
and mend what clothes are torn. About five
o'clock I shall want a cup of tea. I take bread

and cheese for supper at nine. My teeth are
bad. I don't eat the crusts and rinds ; you may
have them, and be grateful. There are many
poor children with less. I had forgotten. You
must have a change of clothes.' He looked carefully
about among the female garments . ' There,'
said he, ' I don't think I could dispose of these
traps ; the 7 are much worn. I bought 'em
cheap ; came off a girl as died of scarlet fever.
Look sharp ; go behind a heap of furniture, off
with your wet and coal rags, and tumble into
these beauties. Then, if you like, you may
wash your face and hands at the pump. Water
costs no money. I allow no soap.'

Joanna did not take many minutes in changing.
She went into the back yard — this house
had one — and soused her head and arms well.
Then she returned with the utmost promptitude
to her master.

I couldn't find a comb,' she said, ' so I
used a broken kitchen fork.'

1 That's right,' answered the Jew approvingly
; ' never ask for two things when one
will suffice.'

Mr. Lazarus relaxed into amiability. He
was pleased with the ready instinct of the child
to meet his views.

Let nie tell you,' lie said, ' when you've been
a good girl, and worked hard and eaten next
to nothing, I'll allow you, as a treat, to put on
the general's uniform, sword, epaulette, and all ;
or the admiral's, with his cocked hat ; or my
lady's silk and ermine, bare arms and low body.
It will be as good as going to the play, and it
will air the suits also, and prevent them getting
mouldy.'

Joanna clapped her hands and laughed.

8 There is one thing further ' said Lazarus.
You'll have to go to bed in the dark, winter
and summer. I never allow waste of candle.
Who knows ? you might take to reading in bed
under the counter — and set everything in a
blaze. Why, bless me ! if this establishment
caught, the fire would run through it. Nothing
in the world would arrest the flames. Now
you may go down-stairs. No — stay. There is
one point more to particularise. I spend a
penny every week in getting shaved, and fourpence
a quarter in having my hair cut. That
amounts to five-and-fourpence in the twelvemonth
— clear waste, nothing to show for it. You
will have to learn to shave me and cut my hair.
Here is an old muff that the moth has played
the mischief with. I don't think it will sell.

Practise on that. Lather it first, and then
work along it gently with a razor. You'll soon
get into the way, and save me five-and-four per
annum. Only — mind ! Don't waste the soap ! '

In all the many years that Emmanuel
Lazarus had done business he had never made
so good a bargain as when he took Joanna in
pawn. Ten shillings ! She was worth to him
over ten pounds a year, that is two thousand
per cent, interest. He soon discovered her
worth, and congratulated himself on having
secured her.

Joanna worked from grey dawn to late at
night harder than any day-labourer. She slept
under the counter, and slept so lightly that
at the least alarm of burglars she woke and
screamed loud enough to scare away the rogues,
arouse the neighbours, and collect the police.

She dusted the weevils out of their lurking-places
; not a grub could conceal itself under
the felling; the bamboo reduced it to pulp.
Not a moth could spread wing ; it was clapped
to dust between her palms. Wherever, in
cloth, dress, or fur cloak, she spied a rent, her
dexterous needle mended it so neatly that it
remained unperceived by purchasers. She

never forgot to lock the doors, bar and bell the
windows, at night. Her clothing cost nothing,
and was always neat, so well was it washed, so
neatly was it mended, darned and patched. As
she was denied coals, she washed the house
linen and her own garments in cold water.

When winter set in, Joanna found means of
economising that had not entered the brain of
Lazarus. Charitable people had instituted a
soup-kitchen. The girl had gone thither with
her mother in their abject poverty. She went
there now clothed in rags, and brought away
sufficient nourishing broth to form the staple
of her own and her master's dinner. Some
potatoes and bread completed the meal. No
one supposed that the wretched girl with worn
face and appealing eyes was the maid-of-all-work
to the rich Jew pawnbroker and moneylender
of the Barbican.

Joanna had dark hair and large shining
dark eyes too big for her face ; the face was
thin and sharp, but well cut. She was but
twelve years old, therefore only a child ; but
the face was full of precocious shrewdness.
The eyes twinkled, gleamed, flashed. Wonderful
eyes, knowing eyes, without softness in
them ; eyes that saw everything, measured and

valued everything, that went into those she encountered
and found out their weakness. Her
face was without colour, but the skin was clear
and transparent.

Who and what are you, my child ? ' asked
a charitable woman once at the soup-kitchen.

I'm a pawn — Six hundred and seventeen ! '
she replied, and disappeared.

CHAPTEE IV.
joanna's school.

Seven months after Joanna had been left in
pawn with Mr. Lazarus, the Yorkshire skipper
was again in Plymouth with a load of coals
from Groove. He came to the shop to see the
girl, and tell her about her mother. Captain
Hull — that was his name — had bad news to
communicate. Mrs. Eosevere had probably
caught cold from her immersion, when she
tried to drown herself, and on her voyage
northward had been taken ill. On reaching
Goole, she was carried on shore and sent to
the nearest hospital, where she had been pronounced
ill with rheumatic fever.

After that Mr. Hull had been to Belgium
for iron. There had been a strike at Middles-borough,
and the furnaces had been let out
and the ironmasters had executed their contracts
by purchasing their iron at Terriers.

When next Captain Hull came to Goole and
inquired after the woman, he learned that she
had been discharged, but whither she had gone,
and what was her present address, he was
unable to ascertain. Joanna was much troubled.
She had a tender spot in her heart. She was
passionately devoted to her mother. Not a
line had reached her from Mrs. Eosevere.
Whether she were alive or dead she could not
tell. She cried bitterly at night under the
counter, and could not sleep for sobs. But she
did not allow the skipper to see her tears.
She shook and turned white when he told his
tale, and then fled to the kitchen to conceal
her emotion.

Ah ! ' said the pawnbroker, when she had
disappeared, c this is my fate. I advanced ten
shillings on the child, and now she is thrown on
my hands. This is the second time this sort of
thing has occurred — before it was white mice.'

4 What about the white mice ? '

'I advanced money on a couple of white
mice to a schoolboy, and was not repaid. I
had to feed those mice for weeks, and they cost
me a fortune. I put them in the window, but,
though it brought all the Barbican children to

the glass, there came no buyer. At last I was
forced to drown them, to be rid of the daily
burden of their maintenance. The law won't
let me deal like that with children. I'll never
advance money on live animals again — never.
I've been bitten twice, once by the mice, now
by the girl. Ten shillings ! I gave a half-sovereign
in gold. I shall never see the colour
of the coin again.'

'Now, Mr. Lazarus, speak nobut the truth.
You gave ne'er a penny in cash. It was all
took out in clothes.'

6 Was it ? Dear me, I had forgot. Well,
it does not matter. I made a bad bargain.
The creature eats with a voracity perfectly appalling.
Did you ever see a cow or a horse ina
meadow, how it goes on, never stopping?
It is just the same with this child. The cost of
her food is frightful, the cost of her clothes
sickening. She outgrows her dresses as fast as
they are fitted on her. Why did I take her ?
Why was I such a fool ? This is what comes
of having a feeling heart. Take her away,
Mr. Hull, take her away, chuck her as ballast
into the bilge-water in your hold. I've had her
seven months, now it is your turn.'

I — I ! ' stammered the good-natured skipper,
I am nae responsible for t' little lass.'

You are. You sent her here. You
persuaded the mother to put her with me, and
offered her a place in your vessel. As you took
the mother, you're part bound for the child.
Now I've had enough of her gorging herself on
butcher's meat, and swilling bottled ale, and
burning candles at both ends, and flaunting in
silks and satins.'

8 None so much o' t' latter, I take it, Mr.
Lazarus.'

Only on Sundays, I allow. But, consider,
Mr. Hull, a child can neither be clothed in nor
on nothing. You, by the cut of you, I take to
be a married man, and know what the cost of
dressing children comes to.'

1 This is but one bairn.'

1 I know that ; but this child is a girl, and
girls cost more in clothes than boys

Shoo works for you.'

Works ! Not she — loiters about the Barbican
playing with the boys and girls at hop-scotch
and prisoners' base. Works ! I've paid
for her schooling.'

1 Does she go to t' National school ? '

National school ! ' jeered the Jew. ' A

first-rate private school. She is slow at learning.
I wish I could extract from her sufficient work
to pay for her schooling. Take her away. I'll
turn her out of doors if you don't. Not under
half-a-sovereign would I consent to retain her.'

Mr. Hull considered for a while, then thrust
his hand into his pocket and drew forth some
money. ' If this be but a matter o' brass,' he
said, ' take it. But I tell thee, I don't acknowledge
the responsibility.'

Very well,' said the Jew, ' I've a feeling
heart, and I accept the trifle. It don't cover
her breakages. I had as beautiful a pair of
Oriental jars as you might wish to see. They
were worth fifty pounds. The child knocked
one over with a broom. What did she have a
broom in her hand for ? Cobwebs ! Cobwebs
don't hurt. Spiders break no china. Brooms
does. Stow there is but one jar remaining, and
that is worth seven-and-six, because the pair is
broken. That is a loss to a poor man. Take
seven-and-six from fifty pounds, and it leaves
forty - nine pounds twelve-and-six. You wouldn't
like to lose forty nine pounds twelve-and-six of
a morning, would you, Mr. Hull? You see
what sacrifices one makes through having a
feeling heart. Mr. Hull, I'll take the money,

VOL. I. E

and set it off against the breakages : you contribute
ten shillings and I forty-nine pounds
twelve-and-six.'

Mr. Hull grew red, and fumbled in his
pocket. ' Dang it ! ' said he, ' here's another
half-sovereign.'

Thank you, captain, thank you. You
understand, it don't release her from pawn. The
mother pawned her, and has the ticket.'

Oh, I don't want t' bairn out. Keep her
till her mother redeems her. I'm almost feared
though t' old lass is dead. Shoo were but a
weakly creature' at best.'

6 I'll keep her till then,' said Lazarus, and
added to himself, ' I wouldn't do without her
for five-and-twenty pounds.'

As Mr. Lazarus said, Joanna was at school,
and the school was the private establishment of
Mr. Lazarus, in which he was head and second
master and usher rolled into one, and in which
she was the only scholar. Consequently on her
was concentrated the full teaching power of the
academy. She knew her letters and could sum
when she came there, but her knowledge of
men and the world was rudimentary. This was
the speciality of Mr. Lazarus's teaching. Under
his tuition she rapidly acquired an insight into

the shady ways of the world, and acquaintance
with the skeletons in the cupboards of a good
many houses in Plymouth.

Joanna also gained insight into her master's
business, and unfolded a remarkable aptitude
for it. The business was one that ramified
in all directions, a fungous, cancerous growth
with fibres extracting nutriment from every
social bed.

Mr. Lazarus visited extravagant ladies at
their homes, and lent them money on their diamonds.
He gave out coppers on the flat-irons
of drunken washerwomen. He took the gold
repeaters of officers and the tools of artisans.
He lent money on bills of sale, notes of
hand, and post-obits. He was yielding about
renewals.

The house was crowded from garret to
cellar with articles of every description on which
money had been advanced, or which had been
seized in default of payment. A retentive
memory was in demand to recollect where anything
was, when wanted by a depositor, who
came, money in hand, to release it ; to know
what pledges had lapsed, and when, without
hunting; them out of the ledger.

Dealers of various kinds visited Mr. Lazarus :

.^ITYOFILLir.010

slop-shop men to purchase a lot of secondhand
clothing, curiosity dealers to overhaul his china
and engravings, jewellers for his watches and
rings and bracelets, furniture-makers to buy up
cracked mahogany veneered chests of drawers
for conversion into Florentine antiques by coating
them with Dutch marquetry.

Thus the goods in Mr. Lazarus's establishment
went into circulation. Old things went
and new came. But there always remained
some deposit which no tide swept away, and
which lay as a burden on the Jew's mind. The
articles occupied space and were unsaleable.
Joanna applied her mind to the solution of
this difficulty, and showed a rare sagacity in
converting them into usable, and therefore saleable
goods, and thus launching them.

As Joanna grew up and grew into the business,
she exhibited a rare talent in negotiating
with both sellers and purchasers. She did not
become the right hand of Lazarus, only because
he had no right hand. Even he, with
his long experience, was unable to surpass her
in disparagement of articles offered, in shaming
a poor pledge into yielding them for a trifle.
The expressions she threw into her face, the
scorn that quivered in her finger-tips, the keenness

of eyesight that overlooked no defect,
cowed the spirit of the pledge, and took the
value out of the piece of goods before a word
was spoken. On the other hand, in treating
with dealers, her genius was equally conspicuous.
She praised the articles, dexterously disguised
their defects, flattered and cajoled the
purchasers, and sent them away to find that they
had been overreached. But what delighted
Joanna especially was to have to do with an
amateur antiquary or china fancier : then she
became simplicity itself, profoundly ignorant of
the real value of rare articles, and she sent the
greenhorns off deluding themselves that they
had secured treasures ' in a poky out-of-the-way
odds-ancients shop,' when they had paid heavy
gold for utter rubbish.

Joanna, as has been said, developed admirable
skill in turning unsaleable goods into
articles of commerce. We give one instance.
Lazarus was unable to resist the temptation
of purchasing, at a low figure, a large number
of scarlet uniforms slightly damaged and discoloured.
No one would buy the red-cloth
jackets. Joanna unpicked them, sent them into
the dye vat, and with a pair of scissors and a
needle and black thread converted them into

fashionable short coats. The breast of one
made the tail of another.

The demand for Mr. Lazarus's Sinking,
Lome, and Brighton suits, at a price with
which the ready-made dealers could not compete,
soon exceeded the supply.

When one of H.M.'s vessels was put in
commission the mess was furnished with new
linen, plate, china, glass. When discharged —
sometimes at the end of a few months — everything
was sold off at miserably low prices.
Mr. Lazarus was a large and constant purchaser
at these sales. Sometimes he took the entire
lot in a lump, by negotiation, without auction.
Then he and Joanna went over all the acquisitions
with care. The markings were removed
from the linen. If the table-cloths were much
cut, they were converted into napkins ; if
slightly injured, Joanna darned and disguised
the cuts. The plate was subjected to much
polishing, till it bore the appearance of new,
or was dipped and sold as new — possibly to
the same vessel when recommissioned. The
glass was sorted into complete lots ; the knives
and china found their way among the poor.

In their views of life Joanna and her
master agreed perfectly ; but then Joanna's

mind had been formed by Mr. Lazarus, and
she drank in his doctrines as freely as he let
her drink water.

Mr. Lazarus was a conscientious man in a
way. He instructed Joanna in morals. He
taught her that great sin would lie at her door
if she acted towards himself dishonestly, and
untruthfully and wastefully.

They had ample opportunity for exchanging
ideas whilst feather-picking.

The pawnbroker received many pillows and
bed-tyes as pledges. When he did so he slit
them at a seam, put in his hand and extracted
feathers ; from a pillow he withdrew one handful,
from a bed four. In their place he put
hay, so as not to alter their weight. Then
Joanna sewed up the seams so neatly that it
could not be told they had been opened ; and
the feathers were stored in chests to be sold at
sentence per pound. Whilst thus engaged
Joanna and her master discussed the world, the
profligacy of the rich, the meanness of the poor,
the greed of rival pawnbrokers, the universal
corruption of men and morals.

What was the world coming to, when
debtors bolted to America, and when those on
whose furniture Mr. Lazarus had made advances

' flitted ' by moonlight, leaving him out
of pocket, without power of recovery ? What
was the world coming to, when the police
poked their noses into his shop, and found there
stolen goods, which they carried off, in spite of
his having paid hard cash for them, or were extortionate
in their demand for palm-greasing,
to overlook the purchases? What was the
world coming to, when charitable institutions
were allowed to come to the aid of the distressed
— clothing-clubs, coal-clubs, savings'
banks — and hold them back from flying to their
proper refuge, the Golden Balls ? What was
the world coming to, when the Jews were
becoming so numerous and so unscrupulous as
to interfere with one another's business ? And
what was the world coming to, when Gentiles
were becoming a match for Jews in plucking
the geese, and shearing the silly sheep, that
asked to be plucked and shorn ?

Thus Joanna grew up under this schooling,
and the teaching became the grain of her mind.
There was natural aptitude to receive it, but
the aptitude was that of an active, eager, intelligent
mind, ready to assimilate any instruction
given it, with daily opportunity for testing
and exercising it.

She was entirely without sympathy with
her fellows. She looked upon men as the
prey on which the clever lived ; they were fair
game when brought within reach through necessity
or imbecility. Of human nature she
had a low opinion, but she was brought into
contact with no noble specimens.

Lazarus was without tenderness towards
her ; she grew up with no one to love, no one
to love her, consequently there was no sympathy,
pity, softness about her. The one
leading motive of Lazarus's life seemed to be
Individualism. He thought, worked only for
himself. He concerned himself about no one ;
he was indifferent to the sufferings of mankind.
His code of ethics was based on self. That
was right which did him good, that was wrong
which did him harm. He insisted to Joanna
that the secret of success lay in rigidly attending
to self-interest ; that the failures of men
were due to their yielding to their good-nature,
to their vibration between self-interest and the
care for others.

Thus passed several years. Joanna grew
in stature, and her mind accommodated itself to
what was exacted of it. She became indispensable
to her master, but he was too shrewd

to let her see how highly he appreciated her.
No further news reached the Barbican about
her mother. The skipper no more returned to
Plymouth.

Still Joanna clung to the belief that her
mother lived, and would return and redeem
her before the lapse of the seven years.

CHAPTEE V.

Grudge, SOLICITOR.

One evening, after Mr. Lazarus had shut up
shop, his private door-bell was wrung sharply.
Joanna answered it, but opened only so much
of the door as allowed a portion of her face to
appear, whilst she inquired the name and business
of the visitor at so unwonted an hour.

Crudge,' answered the caller ; c Crudge,
solicitor. Come, open, and let me in. Here
is my card.'

Crudge, is it ? ' exclaimed Lazarus, who
was behind the girl. ' Let in Mr. Crudge,
Joanna, and don't keep him there under the
drip of the door. Can't you see that it is raining,
and that he has on his best hat? Joanna,
be careful, lock and chain after the gentleman.'

Lazarus backed, bowing before his visitor,
till he backed against a wall ; then he stood
hesitating, looking about him, doubtful whither
to conduct Mr. Crudge.

Keally, sir,' said the Jew, ' I am sorry to
see you in so unworthy a den ; but a shop is
not the rose-garden of Glisten, and the seat
of business is not the lap of luxury. Where
shall we go? Will you condescend to step
into the kitchen ? '

Anywhere you like,' answered the lawyer.
6 No ceremony with me. Give me a chair to
sit on, and a light by which to find one. I
want no more

There is a nice easy arm-chair, leather
covered, with springs in the seat ; but it is upstairs.
It would take a quarter of an hour
to get it down. Besides, Inchbairs 'British
Theatre,' in twenty-five vols, half-bound, the
rest in paper parts, occupy the seat. Time,
Mr. Grudge, is too precious a commodity with
you to let us think of that thin buoj-ant-seated
chair.'

6 1 will content myself with one that is
cane-bottomed,' said Mr. Crudge.

I'm afraid I must ask you to take one
that teas cane-bottomed, but is now sat through,
but will be re-caned in a fortnight,' said the
Jew apologetically. ' If you don't mind taking
a place between the preterite and the future
tenses, nothing can be better. It is not so far

gone that you will slip through. I will put a
baking-tray from the oven over the hole, aud
then you will run no risk. Don't be afraid of
grease. Nothing fatty ever goes into my oven.
If you shirk it, take the dustpan.'

Mr. Crudge did not, however, relish the
appearance of the chair offered him, or the
kitchen into which he was introduced. He remained
standing. Joanna entered after barring
the door.

I want to see you in private,' he said ; ' I
have come on business. We may need a table,
and pens and ink. Besides,' he added, ' the
place is full of feathers, and I don't want my
coat covered with down.'

Mr. Lazarus laughed. ' Joanna has been
plucking geese. East goose for dinner tomorrow.
I would invite you to partake, Mr.
Crudge, but your time is precious, and my
house ill-suited as a place of entertainment.
Plenty of goose-plucking done in this establishment,
my dear sir, I assure you.'

No goose was visible, not even a fowl, but
bolsters and pillows strewed the floor, and
Mr. Crudge had to step over them by the
light of a tallow candle stuck in the neck of a
broken brandy bottle.

If I might be allowed to propose,' said
Lazarus, 'I would suggest your following me
into my sanctum sanatorium. There we can
talk together alone. Not that Joanna is to
be considered. Step this w T ay, Mr. Grudge.
Joanna, let me have the light. You must sit
in the dark, and pluck the goose after the
gentleman is gone. Take care, Mr. Crudge,
solicitor, there is a broken slate in the floor.
Kick that bolster aside, it lies in your way.
Don't strike your head against this butcher's
steel-yard. Mind the floor ; there is a dozen
of mineral water ranged along the wall. You
may notice an unpleasant savour. It is occasioned
by nothing more than a dead rat.
Overrun with them ; so near the water ; and I
have poisoned them. They die in their holes,
and under floors and behind wainscots. In a
fortnight the smell will be gone. Here, sir, is
my little room. You will excuse the bed
being in it. Here is a seat for you, Mr. Crudge.
It may be peculiar, but it is not uncomfortable.
In fact, it is an old sedan-chair with the front
knocked out. If you will look round the
room you will see sedan-chairs let in between
the presses. I got a stock of them, when they
went out of fashion, and lay rotting in a yard.

They cane in handy, fitted with shelves for
keeping sundries, my papers, and poor valuables.
One I use as a chair. I sit on it at the table.
The sides cut off draughts. I'll turn it round.
I can seat myself on the bed, if you will
condescend to occupy the sedan-chair.'

Mr. Crudge looked about him. The room
was small, lighted by day through a window,
half of which was blocked up. Under the
window was a table strewn with strips of
paper, numbered — tickets to be affixed to
pledges. Ink was in a broken liqueur-glass
stuck into a cup full of shot. In an old dirty
marmalade-pot was paste, and a brush. The
paste was sour and watery. Against the wallon
one side was a bedstead with a straw mattress
on it, and a feather-bed to which hung
a ticket. The bolster was labelled 145, the
coverlet 374. Probably there were tickets to
the blankets, but these Mr. Crudge did not see.
Apparently no sheets were on the bed. Out
of economy Lazarus used pledged goods ; it
saved the wear of what was his own. In the
recesses on each side of the chimney were
sedan-chairs, converted into cupboards. One
was filled with bottles — laudanum, ipecacuanha,
castor-oil, &c.

All ! ' said Lazarus, marking the direction
of his guest's eye. ' That was a bad bargain.
Never able to dispose of this lot. Taken from
a chemist. If either Joanna or I had been ill,
and could have used some of them, the loss
would not have been so dead. I keep 'em
here, safe, as some of the lot may be poison.'

On the tops of the presses and sedan-chairs
were boots, bottles, and crockery. On the
chimney piece were Chelsea figures. On a stool
beside the table lay a scrap of newspaper, in
which were a couple of onions and some salt.

Mr. Lazarus put the candle on the table,
turned the chair about, and insisted on ensconcing
the solicitor in it, Then he seated himself
on the bed opposite his visitor.

Mr. Grudge was a tall, well-dressed man, of
middle age, with reddish-brown hair. He wore
whiskers and a moustache, but had his chin
and jaw shaven below the moustache. He had
grey eyes and a pair of bushy reddish eyebrows.
His face expressed intelligence without imagination
; it was a strong, practical, business face.
His manner was that of a gentleman, easy and
possessed. He took his place in the sedan-chair
without a twitch of the muscles of his
mouth. He was as insensible to the ludicrous

as he was to poetry. Yet the situation was
eminently grotesque. The sedan-chair had a
roof and glass windows at the sides. It was
open only in front, and Mr. Crudge was planted,
as in a sentry-box, face to face with the Jew,
sitting on the bed, with his legs folded like
those of a Turk.

k Now, 5 said Mr. Lazarus, ' let us proceed to
business. Something of importance must have
occurred to bring you here at such a time.'

Xot at all,' answered Mx. Crudge. ' Xothing
of vital importance that I am aware.'

Then why have you come ? ' exclaimed
Lazarus, dropping his legs over the side of the
bed. ' Surely a letter would have sufficed. I
could have run up to town to see you. You have
travelled first class ; I would have gone third.
You are not going to charge me for your time
and drainage ? '

4 Make yourself easy,' said the lawyer. ' I
had to come to Plymouth on other business than
yours, and as I was here, I thought best to give
you a call at a time when I knew you would
be disengaged. I am staying at the Royal. I
did my business during the afternoon, had my
dinner, and then strolled down here.'

Lazarus breathed freely. ' You gave me a

VOL. I. f

scare,' he said. ' What an expense I should
have been put to ! Staying at the Royal !
wouldn't a commercial inn have done as well ?
However, the other client pays, so it does not
matter.'

Not at all to you,' said Mr. Crudge with
composure. ' I know your idiosyncrasies, and
accommodate myself to them.'

Quite so. When you act for bloated plutocrats,
make them pay. Letting off blood does
them good. When you act for poor hard-working
labourers like myself, cut the expenses down.
Our blood is watery.'

Enough on a topic that leads to nothing,'
said Mr. Crudge. ' You can guess what has
brought me hither.'

I am afraid to guess. Is it the affairs of the
Duke ? '

Crudge nodded.

How do matters stand ? '

That depends on the point of view from
which the coup cVoeil is taken. From yours,
excellent ; from theirs, desperate. The family
are constantly in want of money — renewing,
mortgaging, and there must be a crash shortly.
Now they want about five thousand towards
finishing them.'

1 Finishing them ! Finishing for ever the
great Kingsbridge family ! Breaking down
his most noble and exalted mightiness the Marquess
of Saltcombe ! Sweeping away, clearing
away, and utterly effacing ' — he jumped off the
bed, and with the tail of his dirty coat brushed
the table — s clearing away and utterly effacing
the most gracious and ancient Eveleighs ! '

Mr. Lazarus,' said the solicitor coldly,
craning his neck out of the box to watch the
proceedings of the pawnbroker, ' pray observe
that you have upset the ink and paste over
the table in your effort to clean it. Instead
of mending, you have messed the table.'

4 I do not care. My fancy ran away with
me. I am an Oriental, a child of the sun, with
a rich imagination that flashes into poetry.
What care I about these noble mushrooms ?
They date from the Conquest, but what is the
Conquest to us? An affair of yesterday. I
have done. Go on. They want more money,
do they ? ' He reascended the bed, and sat
on it with legs depending over the side.

1 The end must come ; it is inevitable,' said
the solicitor. ' Everything is in your hands.
You may bring the walls about their ears when
you will. If you choose we can proceed tor

2

extremities at once. Nothing can save them.
Yon are practically the sole creditor, for yon
have got the home mortgages into your own
hands. You have no rivals to contend against.
The estate must be sold, and if you choose to
become possessor of Court Royal you may.'

Lazarus rubbed his hands, and crowed, rather
than laughed.

1 — I have the estates ! What good would
they do to me ? I set up as a grand English
squire ! Not I. That is not my ambition. I
have Court Royal ! I could not keep it up.'

Well, there is no accounting for tastes. For
the coup che grace we must have five thousand
pounds. As usual, I suppose, the money is to
go through a third party, so that your name
may not appear ? I will manage that. I suppose
some debts are pressing, and the usual
annual expense is becoming burdensome — that
is the occasion of this fresh demand. '

Mr. Crudge,' said the Jew, c you seem confident
tli at the end is near. I do not share
your confidence. A great house like that of
the Duke of Kingsbridge will not go to pieces
all at once. It has its supports, on all sides, inrich
and powerful families. When the rumour
spreads that the Kingsbridge house is trembling,

the noble relations from all parts will hasten to
uphold it. There are a thousand means to
which such a family may have recourse, inaccessible
to such as us. They are like a tent
pegged all round into the soil, and if this or that
guy snaps what does it matter ? — the rest will
hold.'

Who are to help them ? The central pole
of your tent is sawn through, and the guys will
not uphold a fallen and flapping mass of rag.
They stay it while upright, but are worthless
when it is down.'

But the house is not down yet. Why,
Lord Edward is rector of a fat Somersetshire
living, an archdeacon, and Canon of Glastonbury.'


6 He may be worth some twelve hundred at
the outside. He cannot help. Besides, he is
already in debt. Lord Eonald, the general,
has only his half pay.'

But the family of the late Duchess ? '

They will do nothing. However, I do
not see in what way their fall can concern you,
so long as you save your sheets. Whether
the survivors of the wreck come to land or
sink — that is nothing to you or me.'

Nothing to me ! ' exclaimed the Jew, jumping

off the bed and pacing the room. ' Nothing
to me ! It is everything to me. What do I
care for money except as a means whereby I
may lever them over, and throw them in the
dirt under my feet ? ' He stopped abruptly,
thinking he had said too much, and looked at
the solicitor out of the corners of his eyes ; but
Mr. Grudge was leaning back in the sedan-chair,
and Lazarus could see only his profile in shadow
through the glass side.

You speak as though you entertained a
spite against the family,' he said — c as though
you were moving in this matter, actuated by
revenge for some personal wrong. But that is
impossible. What can you, the mole that
burrows at the root of the social tree, have
against the purple emperor butterfly who flutters
about its very top on shining wing ? The distance
between you is too great for you ever to
have come in contact.'

To be sure, I have expressed myself over-strongly.
My feeling is not personal, it is
political.'

4 Oh ! ' said the lawyer. ' Now I understand.'

6 Of course you understand. Political feelings
fire the passions as surely as personal
wrongs.'

To be sure they do,' said Crudge, with indifference.


After a pause, Lazarus got off his bed and
said, ' If five thousand more is necessary, you
shall have the sum. I have waded too deep
into the morass to think of retreat ; I must
wade on. Tell me candidly : in your opinion,
is there no salvation for them ? '

That I will not say. There is a desperate
resource. The Marquess may marry an heiress,
and with her fortune disencumber the property.'


He is capable of doing it,' cried Lazarus
in great excitement. ' He will do it ; curses
be upon him ! Why, any American plutocrat,
or Liverpool merchant, or London corn-factor
would throw his millions into the Kin^sbrid^e
chat-moss to make a way over it for his
daughter to win a coronet. The Marquess is
only forty, is a handsome man — that will bethe
checkmate they will play ! '

The Marquess is forty, as you say, or
thereabouts. He has been languidly looking
out for heiresses these ten years, but heiresses
don't fly into your mouth like roast partridges
in the land of Cockaigne. He must stalk them .
He must make efforts to find them. However,

that is no concern of mine. All I have to look
to is your pecuniary interest in the Kingsbridge
estates.'

Five thousand will nigh upon finish them
up, will it ? ' said the Jew. ; They take a deal
of finishing, like a painting by Messenger. I
thought the last loan would have done that.
What is the property worth ? Have you an
idea P What are the old mortgages on the
other estates ? '

4 That is more than I can say. I know
what is owing to you. You have the mortgage
on the manor of Court Royal, the sun and centre

of the whole system.'

«/

Lazarus considered, then drew a key from
his pocket, opened an iron box walled into the
side of the house, and drew from it an account-book
and his cheque-book.

Now,' said Mr. Grudge, ' see the result of
getting excited. Yon upset the ink, and now
you want to use it.'

1 If you do not mind being left a moment
in the dark, I will fetch some ink,' answered
the Jew. ' I see that what lies on the table is
useless ; it is a flux of calash, ink, and paste ;
a picture of our social system, eh. Mr. Crudge !
a mixture of messes.'

Lazarus withdrew with the candle.

Mr. Grudge sat back in his chair and crossed
his legs. A very little grey light stole in
through the upper part of the window.

■* Bah ! ' said he to himself. ' This sort of
people object to fresh air. What with the
onions, and the sour paste, and the dead rats,
and the pervading Levitical savour, I am asphyxiated.
No washing apparatus in the room,
I perceive. I should have perceived it without
a light.' Then he heard soft steps approach.
The door was thrown open and feet entered
the room. In another moment a match was
struck and flared. Mr. Crudge, who had turned
his head, saw through the window of the sedan-chair
that the girl stood in the room. Joanna
came forward and held the match before his
face, studying him intently. She said nothing.
Mr. Crudge was too surprised to speak. He
looked at her. She was a girl of about seventeen,
tall, slightly built, with olive complexion,
very dark hair, and large shrewd eyes. The
match flame repeated itself in them as red stars.
She had outgrown her garments, which were
too tight and too short. Her arms were bare.
She was in her stocking-soles. Her lips were
compressed ; she remained immovable till the

match burnt to her fingers ; then, instead of
throwing the red end on the ground, she extinguished
it in her mouth. She said not a
word, but turned in the dark and went away
as softly as she had come.

Presently Lazarus came back with the
candle in one hand and a bottle of ink in the
other.

I could not remember where I had put it,'
he said ; ' at last I found the ink in the howdah.'

'In the what?'

c There was an elephant brought over from
India for a showman a few years back, and the
howdah was brought over with it. Sixpence a
ride, children half price, would soon have recouped
the howdah and the beast. But it was
not to be. It was to be dead loss. Such is life !
The elephant died on board ship, and the howdah
was sold. I bought it, but have not yet
been able to dispose of it. Do you happen to
want a howdah ? '

Certainly not ! '

c You needn't pay cash down,' said the Jew.
'You'd deduct the howdah from your bill.
Perhaps you'll consult your missus about it
when you get home.'

The Jew put candle and ink on the table.

I've been considering,' lie said, ' that it
would be well for you to go down to Court
Royal and have a look at the place and the
people. Then you will be able to give me an
account of how the land lies. I can't go myself
; I have my loan office, as well as the shop,
and I can't leave the girl to manage both.'

c A queer piece of goods she seems,' said
the lawyer.

That she is ; queer here,' said the Jew,
touching his head ; ' an idle minx with an egregious
appetite. Eats everything, even the
candle-ends. But enough of her ; she has
nothing to do with Court Royal, and never will
have. What do you say to my proposal ? '

1 can't travel and spend valuable time
without proper remuneration.'

You shall be paid,' answered the Jew. 6 1
will not grudge a small sum in this instance. I
shall be easier in my mind when you have been
down to the place and taken stock of what is
there. You see, I've had myself to lean on
friends to find all the money I wanted ; if they
pay me — they at Court Royal — it is not all
profit. I have to pay interest also for what I
took up to help me to get hold of the main
mortgages. There,' he continued, ' is the difference

between us Jews and you Christians. We
hang together like a swarm of bees, one holding
on by another ; and you are like a hive of
wasps, stinging each other, and when one
gathers honey the other eats it, so that their
combs are always empty. Will you go to Court
Royal ? '

I will. Indeed, it is as well that I should
have a personal interview with the steward, as
the negotiations are carried on through him.'

You will travel second class, not first,' entreated
Lazarus. c Money spent on the railway
in comfort is waste. From Kingsbridge Road
there is a coach. You will travel outside. The
inside places are secured several days in advance.
If you return the next day you need not tip the
driver two shillings ; eighteen pence will suffice.'

6 Very well ; I will go to morrow.'

CHAPTEE VI.

THE DUCAL FAMILY.

In the afternoon of the next day the coach
deposited Mr. Crndge at the principal inn of
Kingsbridge, ' The Duke's Arms.' After depositing
his valise and securing a room, he
ordered a lily to take him to the steward, who,
he ascertained, lived out of the town, near the
park gates. 'An open carriage,' said Mr.
Grudge ; ' it don't seem likely to rain, and I like
to look about me.'

The drive was not a long one, through a
pleasant wooded vale, commanding glimpses of
the inlet of sea, now that the tide was flowing,
flushed with water. The hills and moors over
which the coach had run from the station had
been bare, and the contrast of the luxuriant
vegetation and stately growth of trees in the
hollows was therefore the more striking and
agreeable.

The carriage drew up before a neat white
house, with a green veranda, and roses and
western trained over it. Here lived Mr.
Christopher Worthivale, steward of the Duke
of Kingsbridge.

A maid answered the bell, and informed
Mr. Crudge that the steward was at home and
disengaged. She showed him into a drawing-room
which, though well furnished, looked as
if it were never used. The walls were white,
with gold sprigs ; the carpet very green, the
table cover and the covering of the chairs
greener still. The window-curtains lace, stiff
with starch, and smelling of it. On the wall,
over the fireplace, was a proof engraving of
his Grace, Beavis, seventh Duke of Kings-bridge
; against the fireplace — there was no
fire, and no appearance of there ever having
been one — a banner screen of needlework, glazed,
representing the ducal arms, with supporters
and coronet. On the table was an album, containing
photographs, at which Mr. Crudge
looked whilst waiting. First came his Grace,
in cabinet size; then one of Lord Edward,
Rector of Sleepy Hollow, Canon of Glastonbury,
and Archdeacon of Wellington ; one of General
Lord Eonald Eveleigh, K.C.B. ; one of Lady

Grace Eveleigh, and one of the Marquess of
Saltcombe. Then two blank pages, with
places never occupied, and after that, at a respectful
distance, photographs taken from faded
daguerreotypes of the late Mr. and Mrs. Worthily,
parents of the present steward. The late
Mr. Worthivale had been steward to the last,
and penultimate, and the present Duke ; a stout,
grey-haired old gentleman, in a white beaver,
with high collar, and a plaid waistcoat. The
old gentleman had probably possessed blue
eyes. They had not taken in the daguerreotype,
and consequently had not reappeared in the
carte, but both insisted emphatically on the
plaid of the waistcoat, as if this was, taken all
in all, the thing about Mr. Worthivale, senior,
which demanded perpetuation. Judging from
her photograph, Mrs. Worthivale must have
been a cast-iron woman, in black silk that also
looked like iron, with twisted iron wire for
curls. After these portraits followed those of
Mr. Christopher Worthivale ; of his deceased
wife, a sweet, patient-looking woman ; of his
son Beavis, called after the Duke, who had
graciously condescended to stand godfather ;
and of his daughter Lucy. On a cabinet stood
a beautiful carved alabaster vase, with swans,

forming the handles, drinking out of it, under
a glass bell. Into the pedestal of ebony was
let a silver plate, on which was engraved a
notice that this vase was presented to Mr.
Christopher Worthivale by his Grace, Beavis,
seventh Duke of Kingsbridge, G.C.B., as a
small testimonial of esteem, on the twenty-fifth
anniversary of his stewardship. Above this
hung a painting in oils, by a local artist, of
Court Royal ; and on each side of it a portrait,
also in oils, the one of a favourite horse of the
late Duke, the other of a favourite dog of the
late Dowager Duchess.

Mr. Christopher Worthivale entered, whilst
Mr. Crudge was studying these pictures. He
was a hale, fresh-coloured man of about five-and-fifty,
in a light grey coat and a white
waistcoat. He entered briskly, rubbing his
hands. Judging by his appearance and manner,
one would have supposed that the property
of the Duke was in a flourishing and unencumbered
condition, and that the steward's management
of it had been most successful. Not a
shadow lay on his cheerful face. His manner
was perfectly easy. On his left-hand little
finger he wore a ring with a red cornelian, on
which were cut the three pigeons of Worthivale

of AYorthivale, an old respectable Cornish family
which he claimed to represent.

6 Allow me to introduce myself,' said Mr.
Crudge. ' My name is familiar to you — Crudge,
solicitor, Exeter. I have come on business
about which we have had some correspondence.'

4 Ah! Mr. Crudge, to be sure. The maid
got hold of your name wrong. I did not anticipate
the pleasure. Gooch was what she
said. Pray take a seat. Neither your name
nor business are strange to me. Mutual accommodation,
eh ? Do sit down. Really, I am
delighted to see you. You could not have
done me a greater pleasure.'

The expression of Mr. Worthivale's face
belied his words. On hearing the name of ibis
visitor some of his cheerfulness had faded from
his countenance and his lips twitched.

4 1 entreat you to be seated,' he went on,
nervously offering one chair, then another, then,
noticing an arm-chair, rolling that up, then
falling back on a fourth, a low light seat of
papier moche. ' You have come a long way.
By coach r May I offer you refreshments ? '

Thank you, I will not take anything. My
time is precious. If you have no objection, I
would like at once to proceed to business.'

VOL. I. G

Oh ! business,' echoed Mr. Worthivale,
taking out his pocket handkerchief, and dusting
the books on the table. ' Dear me ! how provoking
the servants are. They take advantage
of there being no lady in the house to neglect
the primary obligations of domestic service.
1 cannot see to everything — his Grace's affairs
and the dusting of my drawing-room. I beg
your pardon, what was the business on which
you wished to consult now ? '

That mortgage held by the Messrs.
Stephens. It must be paid, I understand. It
is called up. There is a little difficulty, I am
led to suppose, some tightness '

8 Nothing to speak of, nothing at all,' interrupted
the steward airily. ' Of course we
can find the money. We can offer such
excellent security, that it can always be got.
You are certain you will take nothing? Not
some claret ? '

c Excuse me, I should like to settle this
matter at once. I believe the interest has been
falling in arrear. I have called on Messrs.
Stephens. They do not wish any scandal ; the
sum is, comparatively, not large. All Messrs.
Stephens want is their money, and I have a
client who will advance it, the mortgage to be
transferred to him.'

That is exactly what I should propose,
said the steward, drawing a long breath. ' All
we require to clear off these encumbrances is
delay. A calling in of the sums standing on
the estates would be inconvenient just at
present. The seasons have been bad of late —
five detestable years ; several farms are thrown
on our hands, and we have no tenants offering ;
others we have had to reduce to keep them
occupied. The old-fashioned seasons must return
eventually — a matter of time only. Then
we shall be afloat again. That little sum about
which I wrote ? '

Five thousand. That will also be lent by
my client on note of hand at five per cent.'

Who is this client, may I ask ? '

A Mr. Emmanuel.'

6 Emmanuel ! ' echoed the steward, moving
uneasily on his chair. ' I must say I do not
relish the idea of being so deeply indebted to
Jews. Unfortunately we are already somewhat
teased with them. The Marquess, when
he was in the army, was rather reckless. It
lasted a few years, and then he learned discretion
; but when sowing wild oats he bought
his grain of bad herdsmen.'

8 Indeed, are the debts serious ? '

6 Oh, no ! not at all — not for a marquess,
heir to a ducal estate. We only want him to
clear these off. Emmanuel! Who is this
Emmanuel ? He seems to be getting a much
tighter grip on us than I like. First one thing,
then another, goes to Mr. Emmanuel. You see
this present mortgage is a very important one,
it is on the manor of Kingsbridge. He holds
that on Court Royal already. Who is this
Emmanuel ? '

c A client who wants safe investment inland.
He is trustee to an orphan, and must
put the money where it can be secure. What
security better than his Grace's property ? '

Mr. Worthivale considered a moment; then
he said, ' You will allow me to talk the matter
over first with the Marquess. You are aware,
no doubt, that his Grace is getting on for eighty
years, and unable to devote his attention to business
— except quite subsidiary matters — partly
on account of his advanced age, partly because
he suffers from heart complaint, and must be
spared excitement. The Marquess looks after
things for him — that is, he is supposed to do
so, and he does sometimes. I am in his confidence.
Indeed, I am his most trusted adviser.
I act for the best, always in the interests of the

family, but I cod suit the Marquess in everything,
and he does me the honour, sometimes,
of listening to me, and quite devoting his mind
to what I suggest.'

Crudge nodded, but said nothing.

Your time, I think you said, was precious.
You will probably be returning to Exeter tomorrow
? '

To-morrow afternoon.'

Then the business will have to be settled

as soon as may be. Let me see Have

you a dress coat with you ? '

8 In my portmanteau at the inn.'

Mr. Worthivale drew a sigh of relief.
4 That simplifies matters. If you see no reason
against it, I will send a note up to the Marquess
' (really it was down hill all the way to
Court Royal, nevertheless with Mr. Worthivale
it was up). ' I will ask if I may take you
there to dine to-night, quite en famille, you
understand. There are only Lord Eonald, and
Lord Edward, and the Vicar, and a neighbour
or two there. Half-past seven is the hour.
Will you return to Kingsbridge, and get on
your evening dress, and drive back ? You can
come here, pick me up, and we will go on together.
You are positive you have a dress

suit with you ? — I couldn't, you understand —
without '

Set your mind at rest. I have dress
clothes with me.'

I am so thankful to hear it ; I thought it
possible you had not. When travelling on
business we don't always care to cumber ourselves
with superfluous luggage, you understand.
To-day is his Grace's birthday, and Lord Edward
has come from Somersetshire to see the Duke
and to dine with him. Lord Ronald lives at
Court Royal. There are no others, but the
Vicar and a neighbouring squire or two. I
was invited as a devoted adherent to the family.
Very kind. Also my son Beavis, who has the
honour of being his Grace's godchild. My
daughter, Lucy, is companion to Lady Grace.
They were brought up together, and Lucy lives
at the Court. Dear me ! Bless my soul !
The housemaid has left the duster in the room,
stuffed it under the fender, and thinks it out of
sight. As I am alive, there are the stove
brushes also. Under the circumstances, you
understand, if you had been without a dress
coat ' — he looked clown at Mr. Crudge's feet —
6 and patent-leather boots ? :

1 1 have slippers and red silk stockings.'

They will do. Quite the thing. I feel so
light of heart. You are supplied in every other
particular ? I should be so proud ? '

I always take about with me paper collars,
cuffs, and dickies.'

Paper ! Dickies ! ' echoed Mr. Worthivale.
'You will excuse me, I know — but I hardly
like to — that is, I hardly think that — in a word,
I would not for the world show any disrespect
to his Grace, especially on his birthday. You
see a duke stands at the very summit of the
social scale — next to Loyalty. Archbishops
only go before by order of precedence, but that
is a relic of pre-reformation priestcraft which
set the Church above the State. An archbishop
may be any Jack or Tom. You will not take
it amiss if I offer to lend you one of my shirts ? '

1 Not at all ; not at all.'

1 And you will not fail to be here at seven ? '

I will not fail.'

Mr. Crudge, as a lawyer, was punctual.
Precisely at seven his fly drew up at Mr.
Worthivale's door, and the steward joined him.

Do you see,' asked the steward, as a woman
in a scarlet cloak opened the gates of the drive,
all the females who appear in the grounds are
expected to wear old-fashioned red cloth cloaks

and hoods ? His Grace supplies them at Christmas.
The effect is charming among the green
shrubs and on the shaven lawns. Do look about
you at the trees. Are not these araucarias
superb ? I believe these were the first planted
in England. The mildness of the climate and
the fertility of the soil have made them thrive.
Look at the hydrangeas. Did you ever see
anything like them ? Blue, all blue, owing to
the iron in the soil. The rhododendron and
azalea season is the time to see this place to
perfection. The two-mile drive between banks
of flowering shrubs is scarcely to be surpassed.
I should have liked to take you through the
vineries, orchard-houses, pinery, and conservatories.
The Duke and the Lady Grace are
passionately fond of flowers. He grudges no
money on his gardens and glass-houses. You
like this gravelled road, do you not ? We have
to send to the Tamar copper-mines for the
gravel. It comes in barges from Morwellham
to Kingsbridge. It is so charged with mundi
and arsenic as to poison the weeds for seven
years. It comes rather costly, but there is no
gravel like it, a beautiful white spar. His Grace
can endure no other gravel. We have some six
miles of gravelled walks and drives done with

it in the park and gardens. Yon have a pair
of gloves with yon, I hope? I myself wear
them until I enter the room, lest my fingers
should get dirty. Are your hands moist ? Hold
them against the glass to cool them. I do not
myself like shaking hands when my hands are
warm. There, from this point you get a lovely
glimpse of the estuary and the beautiful hills
behind, with the tower of Stokenham on the
height. It is too dark for you to distinguish
the tower, but you can see the water. I call
the creek an estuary, but, as a fact, no rivers
run into it. The Avon flows away behind that
bank of hill. There is the Court : a fine pile of
buildings, is it not ? all built of Yealmton limestone.
I call it limestone, but, in fact, it is
marble. By this light you cannot see how
prettily it is veined. The late Duke began the
mansion, and the present Duke completed it,
about forty three years ago. It is in the Doric
order.'

It must have cost a pot of money,' observed
Mr. Crudge.

It cost a great deal of money,' said the
steward coldly. ' Dukes do not keep their
money in pots, like old women.'

1 Is it paid for ? ' asked the lawyer.

Well It is rather unfortunate that

their Graces were obliged to build, but, really,
they could not help themselves. The old
house was Elizabethan, very suitable for a
country squire or for a baronet. I am not sure
that even a baron might not have put up with
it, but it was not of a scale — of a sort — it had
not the height ' (Mr. Worthivale spread his
hands illustrative of its dimensions) { you understand.
A duke is a duke, and must be ducally
lodged. If you have a sun, you must have
a firmament to contain it. Even the dome
of St. Paul's would be ridiculous. You understand.'


The fly drew up under the Doric portico,
and the steward and his companion were
received into the house by men in the ducal
livery of buff and scarlet.

An expression of humility and of piety
diffused itself over the face of Mr. Worthivale
as he ascended the broad marble staircase,
thickly carpeted, towards the drawing-room.
Crudge was not oppressed nor surprised at
what he saw. He looked round him with
curiosity. The entrance-hall was stately, with
polished marble pillars and pilasters. It was
lighted by a chandelier. Beautiful paintings

adorned the walls. Footmen in buff and
scarlet flitted about like moths on a hot day.

Mr. Worthivale whispered, ' Yonder is a
Gainsborough, of Lady Selena Eveleigh, afterwards
Countess of Grampound. This is a
Eubens — splendid colouring. But you should
see those at Kingsbridge House, Piccadilly. Pity
they are so fleshy that really a curtain over themis
needed. The subject of this I do not understand.
It is allegorical. Hush ! here we are.'

They were conducted through the state
drawing-room, which was lighted, but empty,
into a smaller room, whence they heard the
sound of voices. This was a charming boudoir,
white and gold, with rose silk curtains and
rose satin coverings to the sofas and chairs. Ina
large easy chair by the fire sat his Grace the
Duke of Kingsbridge, a tall, white-haired,
noble-looking man, with a high ivory forehead,
a pale transparent complexion, caused by the
disease from which he suffered, his eyes dark
and piercing. His face was oval, his features
finely modelled, the nose aquiline, but not so
much as to give the idea of strength to his face.
The face was refined, dignified, and cold. It
wanted vigour, but was modelled with inflexible
obstinacy.

Lord Ronald, the general, was like him,
but richer in colour, and his features were
bolder. He was erect, decided in his movements,
and looked what he was, a soldier.
His hair was grey, and he wore grey whiskers
and moustache. Lord Edward, the Archdeacon
of Wellington, was a smaller man than
his brother, grey headed, with a sallow complexion,
much wrinkled. His eyes were
wanting in brilliancy, and his face bore an
expression of nervous timidity. He had lost
his front teeth, and this had altered the shape of
his mouth, and given him a look less aristocratic
than his brothers.

The Marquess of Saltcombe, who was also
in the room, was a handsome man of about
forty, with dark hair, dark eye, and military
moustache. The rest of his face was shaven.
His eyes were fine, but wanting in fire ; indeed,
the general expression of his face lacked
animation. He was grave, dignified, with a
pleasant smile, which he put on when spoken
to, but the smile never mounted to his face
spontaneously. He had laughed without merriment,
argued without enthusiasm, pitied without
sympathy, and acted without impulse. He
had been in the army. but had left it ; not

caring for political life he had not attempted
to enter Parliament. He lived at home, was
too inert to go to town, and entered without
eagerness into country pursuits.

Other gentlemen were present, but Mr.
Crudge did not notice them particularly.
Among the ladies present the only one who
was conspicuous was Lady Grace Eveleigh.
the daughter of the Duke. She was tall,
like the rest of the family, and had the family
refinement and nobility of type ; but to this
was added great purity and sweetness, and a
very gentle, almost pleading manner. Mr,
Worthivale introduced the lawyer to the
Marquess, who was nearest to the door, and
was apparently expecting their arrival. Then
Lord Saltcombe took on himself the task of
introducing Mr. Crudge to his father and
uncles and sister. The Duke slightly
from his seat and bowed with courtesy, but
without encouragement; Lord Edward held
out his hand, and made some general remark,
his kind face relaxing into a friendly ex -
Lord Ronald shook hands and said a
words. The lawyer felt that, although he had
moved in all sorts of society, he was as a fish
out of water here. T this looked on

him as a stranger from another sphere, whose
presence must be tolerated, who would never
rise even to the level of acquaintanceship.
The Duke exchanged a few words with him
on the weather, and the drive from the
station, and on the prospect of a branch line
being made to Kingsbridge, ' which,' said
he, 'I shall oppose,' and then turned to
the Vicar and Sir Edward Sheep wash, and
continued with them a conversation which
had been interrupted by the introduction of
Mr. Crudge.

The Marquess and Worthivale engaged
him in desultory talk, and after a while shook
him off. Then Lady Grace, seeing that the
lawyer looked ill at ease, drew towards him,
and provoked a conversation as lively as
was possible under the conditions of their
having no points in common.

Let me introduce you to my dearest
friend, my almost sister, Miss Lucy Worthivale,'
said Lady Grace ; ' and perhaps you will take
her in to dinner ? '

Miss Worthivale was a pretty young lady
with bright colour and large, soft, dark eyes.
Her face brimmed with good-nature. It was,
perhaps, a little flat and moon-shaped, but its

effect was sunny. Her eyes were everywhere.
Mr. Grudge saw that she was made useful in
the house in many ways to relieve Lady Grace
of irksome duties, and stand between her and
annoyances.

Crudge observed that her attention was
generally directed to Lady Grace, whom she
evidently admired and loved with her whole
soul. Lady Grace occasionally caught her
friend's eye during dinner, smiled, and then a
flush of pleasure kindled the honest face of
Lucy. Because his companion looked so much
towards the end of the table, the solicitor found
his eyes also wandering in the same direction.
Lady Grace was clearly not very young. / Mr.
Crudge conjectured that her age was about
five-and-twenty ; but though not a girl, her
pure lace was luminous with the light of a
child's innocence. The complexion was transparently
white, with a little colour that came
and went as a flicker in her cheek, and yet it
was so faint and doubtful that it was difficult
to say whether what flickered there was colour
or a smile. There was something almost sad
and appealing to pity in her eye and mouth ;
yet Lady Grace had known no sorrow, had met
with no contradiction. Her life had been unclouded

and unvexed. Her mouth was flexible,
fine, and tremulous ; her voice soft, low, and
sweet.

Mr. Grudge was a man utterly without
idealism. He could read no poetry except
Crabbe. Yet he could hardly withdraw his
eyes from her face. She fascinated even the
commonplace man of business. She puzzled
him. He thought within his mind how he
should get on with her if he had business
transactions with her. Women's minds, as he
believed, were made up of so much care about
servants, so much about dress, so much solicitude
about the goings on of their neighbours,
a. shrewdness about money, a pinch of good
nature, and a spice of spite, all stirred up
together till well mixed. But there was nothing
of this in the face before him. He shook his
head ; it was like the dish before him, made up
of unknown ingredients.

Beside her on one side sat the Vicar, an
elderly and gentlemanly man, with views like
a rose of wax, to be moulded by any man who
put his hand to it and thumbed it. He was
so much of a gentleman that he would differ
with no one. Next him sat a young man who
was speaking to no one, and was only occasionally

addressed by Lady Grace, who, with,
ready tact, saw that he was out of the
conversation.

That is my brother,' said Lucy, in answer
to a query of the solicitor. c There was no lady
for him to take in to dinner. He has been
in a lawyer's office. Papa thought it a good
training for him. Of course he will be steward
after papa. His Grace did us the favour of
standing as his godfather. I fancy he would
rather not have been here this evening, though
he is quite at home in Court Royal, but my
father pressed him to come.'

Grudge looked across at him with interest.
Here, at all events, was a man who belonged to
his world — who felt uncomfortable, out of place,
in the sphere in which he found himself

When the ladies withdrew, he moved his
glass, so as to be opposite him and enter into
conversation, but found the steward come up
beside him and engage him.

4 The Lady Grace,' said Mr. Worthivale, ' is
very lovely. Do you not think so ? We are
all her worshippers here — from a distance,
looking up at her as an unapproachable star.'

A little passee, eh ? '

VOL. I. II

'Not at all, not at all,' said Worthivale
colouring. ' She is a most charming person.'

I should suppose so,' answered the solicitor.

And the Duke ? You have had some
conversation with him. I heard the weather
and the branch spoken of. A commanding
intellect. A most charming person ; wonderful
man for his age. Seventy-six to-day, and in
full command of his faculties.'

'Obstinate, eh?'

Not at all — firm,' said Worthivale with a
frown. ' When he says a thing he sticks to it.
You see that Lord Edward is a delicate man.
He had not the physique of the rest, that was
why he was put into the Church. Yet it
was a pity, as his intellectual powers are considerable,
and he might have done well in the
diplomatic service. A most charming man.
Lord Eonald is a fine old soldier ; was in the
Crimean war, where he distinguished himself.
A man full of information on all military
matters — perfectly charming. You have, I
believe, had a chat or two with the Marquess ;
he is now talking to my son. They have known
each other since boyhood, and there is almost
the attachment of friendship between them —
as far as friendship can subsist between two so

widely removed in the social scale. I hope
that eventually my son will succeed to the
stewardship. Of course he is young now, and

the affairs demand an old head ' He

paused, and moved uneasily. 'Altogether the
Marquess is a most charming man.'

Quite so,' said Mr. Crudge.

There is our Vicar,' pursued the steward.
1 An agreeable person, but tiresome. To-morrow
he will dine with a gentleman of means, but no
birth, in the town, and be quite Liberal, if not
Radical, when his feet are beneath his mahogany.
He leads a life of it ; he is pulled this
way and that by the ladies of his congregation,
who have their various and discordant
views.'

That,' said Mr. Crudge, ' strikes me as the
weakness of the Church of England. She
is trying to balance herself between two stools,
a position neither dignified nor secure.'

8 Still,' said the steward, 'with this abatement
he is a charming man.' Then he held up his
finger : ' His Grace is speaking.'

c I do not myself see how we can escape a
complete political and social revolution,' said
the Duke to the Vicar, Sir Edward Sheep wash,
and the Archdeacon of Wellington. ' If the

franchise is entrusted to the Have-not, the Haves
must go down. They must go down for this
reason '

4 Which is the Ducal family ? ' whispered
Grudge. ' Haves or Have-not, or Have and
Have-not in one ? '

Hush,' said Worthivale.

4 They must go down for this reason, that
the appeal to the electors will be an appeal to
Cerberus, and Cerberus must be given cakes.
Now, it is absurd to affect indignation against
bribery and corruption in boroughs, and yet
extend the franchise to the needy. If the needy
have the franchise, you must appeal to their
cupidity. It is the only appeal they can understand.
The new class of electors are earthworms,
all stomach. "Whichever party desires
to get into power must appeal to their cupidity,
or for evermore stand out of power. Hitherto
bribery has meant the candidate throwing away
his own money ; henceforth he will throw away
that of others, and that will not be bribery. I
bribe the electors of Kin^sbrido-e if I allow them
to shoot rabbits over my preserves. I do not
bribe if I promise them the land of the aristocracy
and the tithes of the Church.'

Already,' said the Archdeacon, ' the farmers

are crying out that they are crushed by the
rates.'

6 Very well,' said the Duke ; let the Liberals
go to the country with the offer of disestablishment
and disendowment, the tithe to go to
cover the rates and relieve the farmers, and
you will see the farmers to a man will turn
Eadical.'

If the Church Acre disestablished we
should have to become definite,' said the Vicar,
a white-haired, round, red faced, good-natured
man. ' I cannot imagine anything more disastrous
to the Church than to become definite.'

'The House of Lords will never pass disestablishment,'
said the Archdeacon.

1 The House may go too,' said the Duke.

The country is gone crazed,' said the
General, ' or it would not have endured the
short-service system. What should you say to
those who trained men to be carpenters, or
engineers, or lawyers, and, as soon as they had
mastered their professions, told them to get
about their business and take to something else ?'

The Duke sighed : ' I may not live to see
it, but the House of Lords will go.'

And with it the Church will fall,' said the
Archdeacon.

'The army is gone to the clogs already,' said
the General.

Mr. Crudge leaned across the table, and said
to Beavis Worthivale : c I see by the direction
of your eyes you are trying to decipher an
inscription over the chimney-piece that has been
puzzling me. I am too shortsighted to read it
from where I sit.'

It is the motto of the family,' said the
young man, ' written all over the house —
"Quod antiquated et benefit, i^rope interim
est" '

6 Scripture, eh ? '

Yes, Scripture. " That which decay eth
and waxeth old is ready to vanish away." '

4 Very good — very appropriate. " Projye
interim est" '

CHAPTER VII.

BEAYIS.

6 I really think,' said Mr. Crudge, as he stood
in the hall, being helped into his overcoat, and
while the fly was at the door to take him to his
inn — ' I really think, as it is dry underfoot,
that I will walk to Kingsbridge. The night is
lovely, the moon is full, and I have a pair of
goloshes in my greatcoat pocket.'

1 1 will accompany you, if you have no objection,'
said Beavis Worthivale. ' I also would
enjoy the walk. My father can return in your
fly. He is without an overcoat, and he will not
lock up till I reappear.'

6 Is Miss Worthivale coining ? '

'Lucy? Oh, no! She lives at the Court,
and only visits at the Lodge,' answered Mr.
Worthivale. ' We see little of her. She is
always with the Lady Grace.'

If you are ready,' said Mr. Grudge to the
young man, ' I am at your service.'

The night was indeed lovely. The moon
hung unclouded over the sea, which gleamed
in vistas opened among the trees of the park.
Myrtles, magnolia, geraniums luxuriated in the
warm, equable climate of the south coast, uncut
by east winds, unchecked by late frosts. Above,
the silver moon, walking in brightness ; below,
Mr. Crudge, walking in his goloshes. Mr.
Grudge turned and looked back at Court Royal.
The moon was on the front of the mansion. It
was a noble pile of buildings, worthy of the
residence of a duke. Behind rose hills covered
with oak and beech woods, interspersed with
Scottish fir and silver pines. In the moonlight.
with the lighted windows, and the bank of park
trees behind, it resembled a beautiful ivory
sculpture, studded with golden points, reposing
in a bed of black velvet.

But Mr. Crudge had no thought of the
loveliness of the scene. ' To live in a place like
this,' said he, ' and in this style, a man should
have forty or fifty thousand, and the family have
not that — clear. It is the poorest ducal
house in England. You seem tome down hereto
go by contraries. You have an estuary without

a river, a Kingsbridge without a bridge, a
ducal state kept up without a ducal estate on
which to keep it up.'

Beavis did not reply. Grudge turned and
looked at him. The moon was full on the
young man's face ; it was clouded, and his eyes
were on the ground.

You and I belong to the law alike,' said
Crudge ; ' you are peeling your potato and I am
eating at the floury ball, that is the difference.
Hope you'll soon get your teeth in.'

4 1 am in the office of the Duke's lawyer in
town ; but I am not to continue in a solicitor's
office.'

4 Why not ? The affairs of the family will
give you plenty of occupation. Believe me,
my boy, there are more pickings to be got out
of tottering than standing houses.'

Young Worthivale walked on without answering.
He struck a match and lighted a
cigar.

The parrots in Jamaica used to eat nuts,'
said Crudge, 4 in the days of their ignorance.
They have learned to do better for themselves
now. They put their claws into the wool of a
sheep and swing themselves, bob. bob, bob,
against the side of the creature, till with their

beaks they get at the fat about the kidney, and
they make their repast off that. Better than
nuts that, eh? You've your hold on a fat
wether ; I wish I had your place. All I can
say is, bob, bob, bob, till you get at the fat ! '

Beavis said nothing, but set his lips tight on
his cigar and puffed rapidly.

I must confess,' said Grudge, c that what I
have seen to-day will remain with me as long
as I live. What a remarkable family ! The
dignity, stateliness, old-worldliness of the lot
makes them interesting. They belong to the
past. I seem to have come out of Madame
Tussaud's, and to have seen wax work notabilities.
I hope you are not offended ; I mean
no offence. Do you remember the story in the
"Arabian Nights" of the man — a Kalendar, I
dare say — who got into a palace where everyone
was petrified except a prince, who was
semi-petrified? I feel like that Kalendar. I
am not sure that you are not half-fossilised also.
I do not see how anyone can live in this enchanted
atmosphere and not be enchanted.'

e I see what you mean,' said young Worthily.
' You are right, the atmosphere in Court
Royal is not that of the nineteenth century, but
of the last,'

4 There are different atmospheres at different
levels,' said Crudge. ' Theirs is too exalted for
rne. At the top of Mont Blanc men's ears and
noses bleed ; and I have had great oppression
there aloft. I breathe freer now I am down
again with you. But you — you belong to the
upper crust, after a fashion ! '

Yes,' said Beavis laughing, s after the
fashion of the pigeon in the pie ; it has its feet
there, but the feet only. I was at table to-day,
but not one of the family. My father and sister
belong to this exclusive world ; they have been
like sponges, they have sucked in the surrounding
element. They share the views, the prejudices,
the delusions of the family and class.
To you, what you have seen this day is amusing ;
to me it is depressing.'

Exactly so. I am reminded to-day of what
is said in Scripture of the world before the
Flood. They were eating and drinking, marrying
and giving in marriage, until the flood came
and swept them all away.'

You are not far wrong. The flood is
surely rising which will sweep them all away.
According to popular tradition, the inlet where
now the blue waters roll up to Kingsbridge was
once a fertile valley, with towns and churches

and mansions. The ocean broke in one stormy
night and swept them clean away — no, I am
wrong — buried them deep, deep in mud. Where
was once waving corn is now mud — nothing
but mud, and mud that stinks. First the age
of gold, then of silver, then of iron, then of clay
mingled with iron, and now we are on the
threshold of the age of vulgar mud. Sea-wrack
for corn, barnacles for men, winkle-shells for
palaces ! '

1 I see you also have a hankering after what
is death-doomed ! '

I regret the decay of what is noble and
generous ; but it is inevitable. Out of the clay
God made men, and out of the coming mud He
will mould a new order. When the flat-fish
are in the deep sea they have their deep-sea
flavour. When they come into our creek their
flesh assimilates itself to the flavour of our slime.
We shall have to accommodate ourselves to be
vulgar, commonplace, to think mud, to taste
mud, to have muddy aspirations.'

6 I see,' said Crudge impatiently, ' you belong
to the upper crust more fully than by the feet.
I don't, and I don't want to ! However, the
upper crust will have to go under shortly and
get sodden in the gravy.'

8 Yes,' said Beavis sadly, 8 it will go down .
Everyone outside can tell the time better than
the man in the clock-case. I am in the office
of the Duke's lawyer, and am son of his
steward ; I have plenty of opportunity of
noting the tendency of affairs. What, I ask
myself, will become of these people, accustomed
to the state of a ducal mansion, to the respect
and consideration that surrounds them, when
cast out, encumbered with a title and a history,
reared in one world, hurled into another ?
Tome the scene to day was one of infinite pathos.'

8 The end is not so near as you suppose,'
said Crudge.

8 It cannot be very distant,' exclaimed Beavis.
8 1 would give my best heart's blood to save
them from ruin, for they are the worthiest
people in the world. But I am not blind to
their faults. Look there ' — he pointed to a
row of handsome almshouses in the 8 cottage-gothic
' style, each with its pretty garden before
it — ' Here live superannuated servants of the
family rent-free, on pensions. Yonder is the
school, entirely supported by his Grace.'

8 Almshouses are mischievous institutions ;
they superinduce a habit of improvidence.'

8 That may be true. According to modern

doctrine, charity impoverishes. To give to the
poor is to harm them, and should be made
penal. The survivals of the old world do not
see this.'

Why should the Duke maintain a school ?
He should throw the cost on the rates and have
a Board.'

c So he should ; but he thinks it his duty
and privilege to provide the children of all who
live on his land with education free of cost, and
with religious instruction on the principles of
the Established Church. He belongs to a past
order of ideas, and that is his view. We who
belong to the new order object to gratuitous
and to denominational education. The Duke is
a patriarch, full of patriarchal notions of obligation
to and care for all who belong to him.
He would provide for everyone born on his
estates if he were able, like the Incas of old
Peru.'

That interferes with individualism,' said
Crudge.

Of course it does ; but he belongs to the
old school of moral responsibilities. The
General, Lord Eonald, belongs to the old school
in military ideas ; and the Archdeacon, Lord
Edward, belongs to the old school in theology.

The Marquess has an honourable soul, but he
belongs to the old school of Laissez faire.
Lady Grace belongs to the old school of sweet
womanly culture. Not one of them has any
idea how near the edge of the precipice they
stand. They look on political dangers as the
rocks in their course, and not on financial breakers
among which they are running and in which
they will go to pieces. It is true that they
know they have not the wealth which once belonged
to the family ; but they sigh over the
past without bestirring themselves for the present.
What is to be done for these blind
people ? To rob them of their illusion is
impossible. It circulates in their blood. To
save them in spite of themselves — how is that
to be done ? '

The solicitor listened attentively. He said,
with a smile, ' Before the Flood they married,
and that did not arrest the tide. Before this
flood it may do wonders. The Marquess may
make a marriage which will save the property.'

4 He may do so,' answered Beavis, ' but then
he must go about the country heiress-hunting,
and this he will not do. He is too proud.
Heiresses will not come in troops to be marched
past him, as were maidens in the days of

Ahasuerus the king. The Marquess postpones
marriage to the Greek Kalends. He reads,
smokes, hunts, fishes, yachts, shoots, plants
rare pines, believes in his family, and is glued
to Court Royal.'

But has not your father done something
to rouse them to a sense of their danger ? '

6 My father sees with their eyes, hears with
their ears, thinks with their brains. To him,
the ruin of the Kingsbridge family is impossible ;
Providence cannot allow it and reign above
the spheres as a moral power.' He turned
sharply round to Mr. Crudge, and said, in a
voice that trembled with emotion, ' Why are
you here ? No doubt you have not come here
for change of scene, and air, and society ? '

Oh dear no,' answered Mr. Crudge ; ' I
cannot afford that. I am here on business —
Kingsbridge business. Here we are at my inn.
Good-night.'

May I come in ? I will detain you from
your bed only a few minutes longer ; but I
cannot return till I am satisfied.'

'Satisfied!' echoed Mr. Crudge. 'What
satisfaction can I give you ? However, come
in, and take a glass of something.'

'You' must excuse me that,' said Beavis,

entering the coffee-room with the solicitor.
'You understand my position, my relation to
the family. I hope I am committing no indiscretion
when I ask you for light on your object
in coming here. You say that the end is not
so near at hand as I anticipate. You speak,
then, with some authority. You know the
circumstances. I am warmly attached to the
whole family. I have been reared in the
tradition and reverence for it. My father and
grandfather have been stewards for more years
than I can tell. If the Kingsbb ridge family goes
to pieces, some of the blame will attach to my
father. Is it not possible that something can
be done to save them? I have no right to
appeal to your sympathy, but I cannot bring
myself to believe that you desire the ruin of
one of the grandest names among the English
aristocracy.'

I really care little or nothing about them ;
the name of Eveleigh has no more merit with
me that than of Smith,' answered Mr. Grudge.
But you must not expect of me to confide to
you matters concerning my clients, and to
assist you with advice which may thwart their
interests, which I am here to advance.'

vol. I. r

Of course not. I merely ask your purpose
in coming here,' said Beavis.

4 That is no secret,' answered the solicitor.
c Among other debts weighing on the property
is a mortgage on the Kiugsbridge estate, held by
the Stephens Brothers, which has been called
in. The Duke finds a difficulty in raising the
money, and he further wishes to raise a trifle
of a few thousand. I have a client who will
advance the entire sum. There is nothing
extraordinary in this, nor is the Duke threatened
in any way.'

Beavis considered.

What is the name of your client ? '

Emmanuel. The transfer of the mortgage
will not affect the Duke in the least. The debt
remains, and the interest will be paid to Mr.
Emmanuel instead of to Messrs. Stephens.'

I do not like this,' said Beavis. ' An
Emmanuel, I suppose the same man, has the
mortgage on the home estate, with park and
mansions. Does this fellow, Emmanuel, know
the condition we are in ? '

I know his thoughts as little as yourself,'
answered Crudge, who wished to bring this
conversation to an end.

c This is the third time the name of

Emmanuel has turned up in the affairs of the
Duke.'

It is possible.'

I see,' said Beavis ; ' you will say no more.
Well, good-night. At what time will you bat
my father's office tomorrow ? '

At half-past ten or eleven.'

c Say eleven. Allow me time to have an
interview first with the Marquess. Good night.'

When Beavis was gone, Grudge shrugged
his shoulders. ' No good in that fellow.
Bitten with the aristocratic craze. Wouldn't
I only like to have my claws as firm as himself
in the wool ! Bob, bob, bob — till I fed on the
fat of the dying wether.'

On Beavis's return, he saw that there was a
light in the study. His father had not gone to
bed. Beavis was glad of it, as he felt in no
mood for sleep, so he knocked at the door and
went in.

Mr. Worthivale was sitting over the fire,
with a supperless foot against each jamb of the
mantelpiece, smoking and looking dreamily into
the coals.

'Well, Beavis, seen your friend tucked in
between the sheets ? '

No friend of mine,' answered the son. ? I

never saw him before you introduced him to
Court Royal.'

Look here,' said Mr. Worthivale, pointing
with the mouthpiece of his pipe at a book that
lay open on the table, page downwards, to
mark the place. ' I've been reading Ouida's
last. What do you think of the story, Beavis ?
I rather like it.'

Never read anything of Ouida's in my
life,' answered the young man. 'Don't care if
I never do. Now I want a word with you on
business, father, if you can spare me ten
minutes.'

c Business ! ' sighed the steward. ' Eternally
business. After I had done my work for the
day, as I hoped, in dropped that solicitor, Crudge,
to badger me ; and now that I thought to
drowse over my pipe and Ouida, in 3-011 come,
blowing a blast of business cold in my face to
rouse me. No, I'll talk no business to-night.
Pour yourself out a glass of cold whisky and
water, and smoke a cigar, and then to bed.
You will have to find a tumbler for yourself.
There are plenty in the pantry, with thumb-marks
imprinted on their rims. I told Emily
to put out two whilst you are here, but the girl's
head is like a sieve. She is courting, I presume.

The sugar-bowl is empty ; the housekeeper
has forgotten to fill that. When I say-empty,
I am wrong ; there is a cake of brown
moist sugar at the bottom, solid as pie-crust.
The lumps of white had been tumbled iu on
top — to save trouble, I suppose.'

8 1 really must have a word on business
with you to-night, father. The solicitor from
Exeter will be here tomorrow morning.'

8 Well, what of that ? '

8 He will come about the mortgage ; and
what I want to say concerns the family we
alike love, and would save from ruin.'

8 Ruin ! Fiddlestick's ends ! '

'My dear father, the situation is desperate.'

8 My dear Beavis,' answered Mr. Worthily
testily, * I am steward, and I ought to
know the state of affairs better than any one
else, and I refuse to have it spoken of as
desperate.'

8 You may refuse, father, to allow their
affairs to be called desperate, but desperate
they are.'

8 You forget yourself, Beavis. You take
too much upon you. A raw hand lays on the
paint too thick.'

8 Their affairs have o't into such a condition

that nothing save a miracle can stave off ruin ;
and the age of miracles is past.'

Now, Beavis, yon impeach my administration
of their property. If they come to ruin,
I shall be blamed.'

c Of course yon will, father,' said the young
man. ' I do not for a moment dispute your
devotion to the Duke, your readiness to do all
you can to promote his interests ; you have
looked at the sun so long, father, that you are
dazzled, and cannot see the specks — specks ! —
the total eclipse that is stealing on.'

Mr. Worthivale was both surprised and offended
at his son's plain speaking. He who is
dissatisfied with himself is readiest offended.
He smoked without speaking, then took a sip
at his cold whisky and water.

Who asked you to interfere ? What right
have you to meddle ? ' he asked grumblingly.

No one has asked me to interfere ; but my
love for the family, and the long chain of obligations
which binds me to it, forces me to break
silence, and bark when burglars menace the
house.'

Menace ! What cock-and-bull story have
you got hold of now ? '

8 For heaven's sake, father, be serious. I

am down here for a short while, and I cannot
in conscience allow matters to proceed without
raising my voice to arrest them.'

fc Go on ! • said his father ill-humoured.
Lord bless me. It seems to me that yon were
in petticoats only a few days ago, and I whipped
yon over my knee with the back of the hairbrush,
and now yon are grown so old that you
stand up in judgment against your father, and
put me on the rack.'

I entreat you to listen to me,' said the
young man. ' No one will free you from blame
when the crash comes.'

What crash ? ' asked his father doggedly.

Open your eyes, your ears. I am not
steward, but for all that, I can perceive the
ripple and the run of the water before Niagara.
Consider, what are the estates valued at ? '

8 That is more than I can say now. With
these bad years the land has depreciated one-half.
In some places there is no sale at all
for it.'

Guess.'

Let me see — no, hang it, I can't tell.
We only value for succession duty, and, thank
God, the Duke is still alive.'

1 What are the annual receipts ? '

'There I can meet you. In good years
forty thousand ; now about thirty, perhaps not
as much — but this is temporary, temporary depression,
only. The seasons have been against
us, and American competition. Farmers,
again, will not now put up with the outbuildings
and the dwelling-houses that contented
their fathers. Everything must be new. I
assure you we have been forced, literally
forced, to spend some thirteen or fourteen
thousand on the property of late.'

1 What are the debts ? '

'You know that the old Duke was an
extravagant man. He spent a great deal on
the turf — more on the green baize. When
the present Duke came of age, he consented
to a mortgage on the Loddiswell estate and on
the Aston property, to relieve his father from
pressing difficulties, to the tune of four hundred
thousand pounds. I know we have to pay sixteen
thousand per annum on it, which is an awful
pull. Then there was the house, which was
begun by Duke Frederick Augustus. Ton my
word, what with building, and new furniture,
and ornamental laying out of the grounds, I
believe seventy thousand would be under the
mark. Then, when the Duke's three sisters

were married, they were given fifteen thousand
each, which was little enough. That had to
be raised by a mortgage on the Kingsbridge
manor. The Marquess got among a wild set
when he was in the army, and was thrown on
the Jews. I wish we could clear off his embarrassments.
The sum is not, in itself, much ; say
ten thousand, but the interest is extortionate.'

8 Stay,' said Beavis ; 8 the items you have
mentioned come to nigh on five hundred
thousand.'

8 Yes,' said his father, ; you won't be under
the mark when you say six hundred thousand.
There is the mortgage on Court Royal to Mr,
Emmanuel, and there are other matters. You
understate at six hundred thousand.'

8 Why, that makes an outlet of twenty-four
thousand per annum on a nominal income
of forty thousand.'

8 1 dare say. Then the charities of the
Duke — subscriptions, pensions, and the like —
come to something under twelve hundred.
And Lady Grace has her pin-money, and the
Marquess his allowance, and both the General
and the Archdeacon have something — no, I
wrong Lord Edward, he has abandoned his
claim.'

What is the expenditure on the house
and grounds, the household expenses, wages,
and the like ? '

I cannot tell you, offhand, the items are
so many.'

4 Now, father, if, as you say, thirty thousand
be nearer the present income of the Duke than
forty thousand, and twenty-four thousand goes
out in mortgages, that leaves but six thousand
for everything.'

These are exceptionally bad times ; forty
thousand is the true income.'

1 The rate at which they are living is beyond
even sixteen thousand. You have deducted
nothing for all the outs that bleed a property inland.
For five or six years the income has not
been forty thousand, but there has been no
reduction in the style of expenditure. Whence
comes the money? Not a burden has been
shaken off, fresh are annually heaped on. Let
but one of the larger mortgages be called up,
and the crisis has arrived.'

His father put his hands to his head.
6 You exaggerate. Things are not as bad as
you represent them.'

They are as bad as they well can be. Is
there a single estate that is not mortgaged ?

There must be a sale of some of the property.
On the death of the Duke it will not be
possible.'

Sell ! ' exclaimed the steward, ' sell the
estates ! Impossible. Neither the Duke nor
the Marquess will consent. One would not
dare to make the suggestion to his Grace, it
would kill him.'

6 If not done voluntarily, it will be done
compulsorily.'

'The Marquess will marry an heiress, and
clear the property with her money. That is
simple enough. How can you be so pigheaded,
Beavis ? Do you not see that all we
want is time? With time everything will come
right.'

Beavis sighed.

4 What have you to say to this ? ' asked his
father triumphantly. ' Have I the last trump ? '

1 1 have nothing, nothing more to say,'
answered the young man ; ' I will trouble you
no further, father.'

CHAPTEE VIII.

THE MARQUESS.

Next morning Beavis Worthivale walked to
Court Royal. He had access to the house at
all times. His sister was there permanently,
and he had been about it since he was a boy.

The house was large, forming a quadrangle,
with the state rooms on the garden side. The
Duke had his own suite of apartments ; so had
the Marquess, so also Lady Grace, and so also
Lord Eonalcl. Indeed, the Archdeacon had his
own rooms there kept for him, to which he
could come when he liked, and be at home.
He was a married man without a family, and he
found life dull at his Somersetshire parsonage,
with only three hundred people to instruct in
honour and obedience to the powers that be. He
had an admirable, managing wife, and a safe
curate, very ladylike, absolutely transparent,
whom he could trust to do nothing to surprise or

shock anyone, so perfectly good and colourless
was he. The Archdeacon's health suffered in
Somersetshire, and he was nowhere so well as
at Court Royal, where the sea air and the
society and good entertainment agreed with
him. Moreover, he was the man whom the
whole family consulted in every difficulty, and
he was thought and believed himself indispensable
to his brothers.

The Marquess had his own valet and groom,
and sitting-room, and bed room, and smoking
cabinet. He was a man of considerable taste,
and he and his sister had amused themselves in
fitting up his apartments in the most perfect
modern style. The walls of the sitting-room
were gilt, with peacocks' plumes, spread,
painted on the gold. The curtains were peacock
blue, sprinkled with forget-me-nots.

The carpet was an figured olive drugget
with blue, green, and gold-coloured mats and
jugs cast about it. He had a fancy for old Chelsea
figures, and for Plymouth ware, and his cabinets
and chimney-piece were crowded with
specimens bought at a time when Chelsea was
run up by the dealers, and fetched fancy
prices. His sister kept his room gay with
flowers. That was her special care, and she

fulfilled her self-imposed task well. The Marquess
always pretended to distinguish between
her bouquets and those arranged by other
hands during Lady Grace's absence. He told
her so privately, that he might not hurt poor
Lucy Worthivale, on whom the obligation
devolved when her friend was from home.

Lord Saltcombe's cabinet was not invaded
or interfered with. There he kept his hunting-whips,
his guns, his fishing-rods and the walls
were adorned with the heads and brushes of
foxes, tiger skins, and antlers of red deer. In
one corner was an easel, for he sometimes
painted. Against the wall a cottage piano,
which he sometimes played. Also a rack of
budding-knives and grafting tools, for he
sometimes gardened. In the window hung a
cage with a canary, which he sometimes fed,
sometimes starved, and sometimes overfed.
One wall was occupied by his library, a mixed
collection of books: Rabelais, S. Thomas a
Kempis, Jean Paul, Spielhagen, Herbert
Spencer, ' The Lyra Messianic ' and Algerian
Swinburne, Victor Hugo, Emile Souvestre,
Zola, The Duke of Argyll, Thackeray, 'Explorations
of Africa,' and Smith's ' Dictionary
of the Bible,' with ' Cometh up as a Flower '

and ' Is Life worth Living ? ' thrust in between
the volumes, and a pamphlet on Poultry upon
the top of it.

Beavis Worthivale had known the Marquess
from childhood, but it cannot be said that he
understood him. In fact, no one understood
Inn, yet everyone liked him. He resembled
an audience chamber, accessible to all, containing
a closet of which no one possessed the key.
He spent his time in reading or in out-door
pursuits, yet he had no favourite study and no
darling occupation. He was accomplished,
knew several languages, was a fair classic, fond
of history, and liked books of travel. He read
whatever came in his way, changing his style,
and subject, and language for the sake of
contrast. He skimmed the work he took in
hand, but never studied it. Heading with him
was a distraction, not a pursuit ; a narcotic
which enabled him to forget life and its
burdens.

The Marquess was already forty, was full of
the vigour and beauty of manhood, but it was
easy to see that life was to him without object ;
that he exacted of it little, and cared little for
it. Always amiable, cheerful, agreeable, with
plenty of conversation and pleasant humour, he

was attractive in society, but was unattracted by
it. He could enter into an argument, but was
indifferent to the side on which he argued. He
argued to kill an hour, not to convince an
opponent. His uncle, the Archdeacon, was
sometimes alarmed about him, lest he should
become a sceptic ; but he was deficient in the
earnestness of purpose which would make him
take a line. He accepted traditional creeds,
religious and political, and customs social and
domestic, without consideration, with an undercurrent
of doubt. He never hurt anyone's
feelings, never transgressed a canon of good
taste. His eyes were open to the errors and
follies of men, and to the virtues of humanity,
but the former roused in him no indignation,
the latter no admiration. Although lie was
cheerful in society, this cheerfulness carried with
it an appearance of artificiality, and when he
was alone he lapsed into melancholy or indifference.


He now and then made an excursion to
Brittany or Switzerland ; he had even been to
Brazil and South Africa. He came back with
embroidered kerchiefs and carved spoons, lion
skins and stuffed humming birds, and a good
deal to say about what he had seen, but

with no ambition to ascend peaks or explore
wildernesses. In politics he took no interest.
He rarely visited relatives and acquaintances,
disliking the trouble. He professed, and no
one doubted his sincerity, that he was happier
at home than anywhere else ; and more content
lounging out a purposeless existence than making
an effort to observe and please among strangers
and in strange places.

This had not always been the case. He
had been in the army, though never on active
service. The few years in which he was in
the-army formed the one epoch in his life in
which he had been lost to the sight of his
family. The young Marquess, who had been
somewhat spoiled at home, with great personal
beauty, fascinating manners, a kindly disposition,
little knowledge of the world, and a ducal
coronet hanging over his head, had suddenly
been transferred from the quiet of Court Royal
to the vortex of the whirlpool of life. The
Duke, owing to his heart disease and advancing
years, had been obliged gradually to withdraw
from town, and to retire from an active part
in the social and political spheres to which
he belonged. Lady Grace was always with
him ; she would not leave her father for long,

VOL. I. K

consequently the world of Court Royal had
become a very quiet and a very small world.
The temptations to which a young man like the
Marquess would be exposed on entering the
army were hardly realised by his father and by
the Archdeacon. His sister had not the vaguest
suspicion of them. 'He is a Christian and a
gentleman,' said the Duke, ' and a Christian
and a gentleman, put him where you will, does
nothing unbecoming.'

At Court Royal none knew how he fared,
whether he fought or whether he fell. His
father heard, indeed, that lie was greatly admired
by the ladies and liked by his brother officers,
and accepted this as his due. Then the Duke
found that his son was unable to live on the
annual sum allowed him. He heard that the
Marquess was in debt, and he wrote him a
stately reprimand, but he said to Lord Eonald,
It is natural. He must live up to his name
and title. It is unfortunate that the property
is so burdened and shrunk.'

After that, rumours got abroad that Lord
Saltcombe had been entangled in an intrigue
which was not creditable — with an actress according
to one version, with a married woman
according to another. Xo thing very definite

was known, and it was sedulously kept from
the ears of the Duke, Lord Edward, and Lady
Grace.

Lord Eonald alone knew the particulars,
but he was reserved. He never mentioned the
matter to anyone.

Presently the news came that the Marquess
was ill at Palermo. 1 1 did not know
that he had gone abroad,' said the Duke.
6 Ah ! I see there have been signs of activity
in Etna ; no doubt he went to witness an
eruption.'

A few months after, Saltcombe returned
home, with the General, who had gone out to
him.

Lord Saltcombe was greatly altered, apparently
a broken man.

He had been brought to the edo-e of the
grave by typhoid fever, c owing,' explained the
Duke, ' to the absence of sanitary arrangements,
which are indeed deficient in the best Continental
hotels. I sent out our own medical attendant,
otherwise Saltcombe would have been bled to
death by those Italian Sangrados.'

Gradually the Marquess recovered from his
illness, but though his physical health was
restored, his elasticity of spirit, his energy

k2

of character, were gone. He remained a prey
to apathy, and, as he made no effort to shake
this off, habit made it permanent. No one
inquired into the truth of the rumours that had
circulated, the best-disposed persons rejected
them as slanderous gossip.

The Marquess left the army, remained at
Court Royal. and settled into the uniform existence
of a country gentleman.

When Mr. Worthivale told his son that the
marriage of the Marquess was to solve the family
difficulties, he expressed his hope and conviction
of the entire Kingsbridge family. The Duke
was desirous of seeing his son settled before he
died, and both the General and the Archdeacon
urged him to bestir himself and find a wife.
Lady Grace also, in her sweet, fondling manner,
approached the subject and endeavoured to
arouse him to the duty of marrying. Lord
Saltcombe listened with a smile, turned aside
the advice of his uncles with a jest, the entreaty
of his sister with a compliment and a kiss, and
his father's injunction with a promise to lay it
to heart. There it ended. He took no step to
find a wife, and though Lady Grace invited
friends to Court Royal with the hope that one
of them might arrest the attention of her

brother, the heart of Lord Saltcombe remained
invulnerable.

He saw through his sister's schemes and
laughed at them. He was warmly attached to
her, indeed she was his closest companion. She
loved him with equal sincerity and with even
greater tenderness. When his foot paced the
terraced garden she heard it, came down, linked
her hand in his arm, and walked up and down
with him as he smoked.

They had plenty to say to each other, but
he never allowed her to sound the depths of
his soul. The conversation between them concerned
the outer life, the events and interests of
every day. This association with his sister had
a refining and a purifying effect on Lord Salt-combe.
She was ignorant of what had occurred
during his brief career in the army, and did not
inquire. whatever it was, it had troubled and
stained his mind and conscience, and daily intercourse
with his sister restored the purity to the
mind and the sensitiveness of the conscience,
but it did not give him energy and ambition.

Beavis Worthivale was very little younger
than the Marquess ; they had known each other
from childhood, and had always been on familiar
and friendly terms. Beavis, as a boy, had

shared tutors with Lord Saltcombe, and had
been his companion in play. Of late, the friendship
had been interrupted ; Beavis had been
from home, and Saltcombe in the army. Since
the illness of the Marquess, Beavis had been
unable to recover his place in the intimacy of
the young nobleman that he had occupied as a
boy.

Mr. Worthivale, in his devotion to the
Kingsbridge family, had readily given up his
daughter to be the companion of Lady Grace,
without considering whether it was to his, her,
and his son's advantage. By surrendering Lucy
he had deprived his widowed old age of its
chief comfort, his house of its proper mistress,
and his son of his best companion. Lucy,
moreover, was reared in the lap of luxury,
which she could not expect elsewhere ; she was
not likely to marry anyone of rank, and she
was withdrawn from the sphere where she
might have found a husband suitable in birth
and fortune. She would grow up at Court
Royal to be an old maid, a hanger-on of the
ducal house, unable to endure the roughs and
chills of life outside its walls.

In social intercourse men and women act
and react on one another unconsciously. Men's

hinds give to those of women the impulse they
require, and women's minds afford a corrective
and softening influence to those of men. By
daily association women are stimulated to mental
activity, and men's opinions are rounded and
smoothed. From the clash of minds, male and
female, the latter take body, the former acquire
temper. Woman stimulates man's imagination,
man awakes her reason.

Through the Straits of Gibraltar flow two
currents — one, setting outward, is warm, and
light, and sweet ; the other, setting inward, is
cold, and heavy, and salt. It is the presence
of these opposed currents gliding past each
other that saves the Mediterranean from stagnating
into a Dead Sea. It is the constant
movement of the male and female currents, one
giving warmth, the other salt, which preserves
civilisation in purity and health. Lucy had
suffered by her separation from her brother and
father. She had lost mental and moral independence,
and Worth i vale and his son had lost
the comforts of home and the polish which the
presence of a lady can alone impart. The
steward was unconscious of the sacrifice he had
made, but his son saw and regretted it.

As Beavis was walking alon the corridor

towards Lord Saltcombe's apartments, the
General's door opened and Lord Ronald appeared
in bis dressing-gown, a fez on his grey
hair, and a pipe in his hand.

What, Beavis, you here this morning ? No
use going on to Saltcombe ; he is not out of bed.
Here, step into my room and have a chat till
the lazy fellow is ready to receive you.'

CHAPTEE IX.

LORD Ronald.

Lord Eonald Eveleigh, K.C.B., was a widower.
He had lost both his wife and his children. His
wife, a very sweet and beautiful woman, whom
he had tenderly loved, had died of consumption,
after having given him two children, a boy and a
girl. He, as a soldier, had tried to harden his little
ones by exposure, convinced that all delicacy is
due to c molly-coddling.' The consequence was
that just as he was congratulating himself that
his theory was successful, his children died of
congestion of the lungs. They had inherited
their mother's delicacy, and injudicious treatment
precipitated the inevitable end. Left a
widower, and childless, the old General had accepted
his brother's invitation, and had settled
for the rest of his days at Court Eo)\al, a spot
dear to him as no other spot on earth, because
associated with his childhood.

He had inherited all the Eveleigh pride of
birth, and though he cared nothing for his comfort,
and despised luxury, yet he believed the
state maintained at Court Royal to be indispensable
to the dignity of the family, and respected
it accordingly. His own rooms were
plainly furnished. Their arrangements were
stiff and tasteless. Over the chimney hung his
sabre ; at the side, on a level with his eye, as he
sat in his arm-chair, were three medallion portraits
of his wife and his two children.

In manner he somewhat lacked the polish
of his brothers and nephew, and in features he
was more rugged. His mind was simple and
his heart tender. The ambition of his life ended
when the earth fell on his boy's coffin, but not
its pride : that would remain as long as the
family lasted. When Lord Eonald came to
settle at Court Royal, he had no idea of the
financial conditions of the Duke. There had
been hitches in the payment of his annuity,
which was charged on the estates; eventually
the money had come, though it came irregularly.
He recollected the splendour of the house when
he was a boy, under the splendid Duke Frederick
Augustus, his father — the annual season
in town at Kingsbridge House, Piccadilly, the

balls, the round of dinners, the whirl of entertainments,
the drawing-rooms, the concerts, the
carriages, the stables, the army of domestics.
Now the Duke never went to town. The doctors
forbade his travelling by rail. Lord Eonald
chafed at this banishment to the country, not
because he liked a season in town, but because
he thought the presence of the family in London
during the season comported with its dignity
and duty to society. The retirement of the
Duke had synchronised with the entry of the
Marquess into the army. A residence in town
was requisite only for Lady Grace, and Lady
Grace least of all desired it. At Court Royal
the customary state was kept up, but then, a
palace on the south coast of Devon, ten miles
from a railway, is not the place where many
people can be found to be impressed by that
state.

After a while his eyes opened to the real
condition of affairs, and he was fain to admit to
himself that it was a happy thing for the family
it had an excuse for not spending the season in
town. The General tried to shut his eyes to
the truth, tried to disbelieve what he could
hardly credit. Without being remarkably sharp-sighted,
Lord Eonald had a sound judgment.

The future began to alarm him. He was much
attached to his nephew, but he was angry with
him.

'Why the deuce does he not marry an
heiress ? ' he muttered to himself, as he sat
smoking, oppressed with low spirits. s It is
high time that the wretched affair which came
to an end at Palermo should be forgotten, and
the consequences effaced. The creature was
not worth fretting over. It was a bad job, but
it is done with, and the volume containing that
romance should be shut and put away. Is the
title to become extinct, the family to die out,
because of that piece of damaged goods ? What
is Saltcombe waiting for ? There is nothing to
expect. Why is he not man enough to shake
himself free of the recollection as he shook himself
free of the entanglement ? The hope of the
family hangs on him. Upon my soul, Salt-combe
is enough to drive one mad.'

Heated by his reflections, Lord Eonald had
attacked his nephew on the subject more than
once, and had been repelled with such coldness
that he had retired each time without effecting
anything, and thoroughly disconcerted. He
lost patience, but did not know what to do.
He spoke to the Duke, and his Grace once or

twice addressed his son on the advisability of
his marrying. But that led to no alteration in
his conduct.

Lord Eonald suspected more than he knew.
As there was a constantly recurring difficulty
about the payment of his annuity, he allowed it
to fall into arrears, content if he had enough
to defray his ordinary trifling expenses. The
Marquess, who was supposed to see to business
for his father, apologised to him for the delay,
but the General always passed the matter over
with a joke about his having no wants in a
house where his wishes were forestalled. As
his annuity was in arrear he forbore making inquiries,
lest he should seem wanting in delicacy.
He was told by the steward that the years were
bad, the value of land was depreciated, rents
were reduced twenty per cent., the farmers could
not pay, farms were thrown on hand. He was,
moreover, not a man of business, had no idea of
balancing accounts, and never could distinguish
between creditor and debtor in a ledger. The
uneasiness of the steward, his running to and
fro to consult with the Marquess, the periodical
invocations of the Archdeacon to advise, the
troubled face of Lord Saltcombe at times, the
difficulty in meeting pressing payments, the

appearance, finally, of that hard, practical-looking
lawyer at dinner on the Duke's birthday,
like Banquo's spectre at the table, had made
him very uneasy.

'What the devil keeps Saltcornbe from
marrying, and relieving the situation? It is
his duty. Sometimes we go at the enemy indirect
charge, at others sweep round and take
them in rear. We can't dislodge those who
hold the mortgages with the bayonet. Salt-combe
must execute a flank movement, with
an heiress. Years slip away, the cloud grows
denser, debts become heavier, creditors more
pressing. Saltcornbe is forty, the age is passing
at which he can pick and choose. He will
soon have to take whom he can get.'

The General was thinking this, when he
heard the steps of Beavis, and opened the door.

Come in, my boy, come in,' he said. ' Salt-corne
will not be ready to see you for another
hour. What do you want with him ? '

Beavis hesitated. He did not know what to
say. His heart was full, he could think of
nothing but what troubled him. He considered
a moment, and then resolved to be plain with
the General. It could do no harm, it might do
good.

'I want to see Lord Saltcombe on business.'

What ? — connected with that lawyer fellow
here last night ? '

Yes, Lord Eonald. I have no message
from him, but I have asked him to postpone
meeting my father and the Marquess till I have
had an interview with the latter.'

What is the matter ? Is there a secret ? '

No secret — at least, none to be kept from
you, my Lord. It concerns the family affairs.'

Family affairs ! ' groaned the General ;
then I want to hear nothing about them. I
am an old soldier, and not a steward, or a
lawyer, or an accountant.'

For all that,' said the young man, ' I wish
greatly to talk the matter over with you. It
seems to me that you, Lord Eonald, may do
here that which no one else can effect.'

What is that ? I can do nothing. I am
the last in the house.'

You can do much if you will make the
attempt, my Lord. Excuse me if I am presumptuous,
but I am in earnest.'

I am sure you are. You are a good boy.
Go on. Speak out.'

It is a very unpleasant thing to speak
words that cut the ear they enter ; however, in

this case it is a duty. I suppose you know that,
what with bad years, and the heavy burdens
on the property that have been accumulating,
and with the inaction of the Marquess, the state
of affairs is about as bad as it can be ? My dear
father will not realise it. His Grace knows,
and, I suppose, must know nothing of it. The
Marquess is aware, but does not take the initiative,
and you, Lord Eonald '

I shut my eyes,' interrupted the General.
No, that is not altogether the case. I see, and
am bewildered. I cannot move in the matter.
I am awkwardly situated. In fact, the Duke is
behindhand with me — not that I want the money,
I have my half-pay, but the fact ties my hands,
I cannot interfere. I have touched on the subject
indeed to the Duke, but he supposes I refer
to the losses sustained by the family in my
grandfather's time. He was a sad rake. I do
not like speaking about it to Saltcombe, for
certain reasons of my own. He is reserved
with me ; he never invites my confidence. So
we go on in faith. Times will mend. Something
will turn up. Legacies will rain gold.
We don't eat our soup as scalding as it is served.'

6 Expenses ought to be cut down in every
way at once.'

It has been clone. The Duke no longer
goes to town for the season. How any further
economy is to be practised here I do not see.
The house must be kept up, the gardens and
grounds maintained in order — the stables —
where would you begin ? A duke cannot live
like a curate in furnished lodgings, on chops
alternating with cutlets and steaks, and a maid-of-all-work
to cook and dust, and make the beds

Would it not be advisable,' asked Beavis
in a low tone, with his eyes on the carpet —
would it not be well to make an effort, and
put up with inconveniences, rather than allow
the avalanche to rush down on your heads ? '

Lord Eonald took Beavis by the arm, and
paced the room with him, before he replied.
The old General's face was pale, and his lips
quivered.

My dear boy, you imagine matters worse
than they really are. You have allowed your
mind to prey on your fears, and they have assumed
the appearance and weight of a nightmare.
It is impossible for such a catastrophe
to overtake us. Think what we are, what our
family is, and has been ! Think what magnificent
estates we have owned — and, indeed, weare
not denuded yet.'

VOL. i. l

Beavis looked up, and saw that the old
man was trying to silence his own convictions.
Beavis was pained to have made him
suffer, but it was necessary for every individual
member of the family to be roused to face the
danger.

Dear Lord Bonald, T am not frightened
by fancied dangers. The danger is knocking
at the door. Would to God it were not so,
but I cannot deceive myself. It is. I see you
all here lulled in unconsciousness, losing time,
letting slip opportunities of recovery which may
never return, and delaying retrenchment, whilst
retrenchment is availing.'

The General sighed. ' There is a God overall,'
he said ; ' we must trust to Providence.'
And do nothing ? ' asked Beavis.
What is to be done ? I dare not speak to
the Duke. Saltcombe would not listen to me,
or, if he did listen, would shrug his shoulders
and go his way.' After a pause, during which
he smoked hard, he asked, ' What was that
lawyer lugged in here for yesterday? What
has he come to Court Royal about ? '

He has come concerning a transfer of the
mortgage held by the Messrs. Stephens to a
certain Emmanuel, who lias already his hand

on the home estate, with park and house, and
has negotiated a loan or two besides.'

What of that ? '

4 And there is to be another loan of five
thousand.'

That is not much. A trifle.'

A trifle ! but there have been so many of
these trifles accumulated, and now they are an
intolerable burden. A pound of feathers weighs
as much as a pound of lead. Lord Saltcombe
should be roused to look into the debts of the
family, and form some decision as to what is
to be done.'

You want me to stir him up ? I do not
relish the task, and I doubt my ability to wake
him.'

He must be shaken out of his apathy.'

I do not believe it is possible.'

Then everything remains in statu quo —
captain, pilot, crew, all must have their sleep
out whilst the vessel fills. It is cruel to wake
them. They need repose. It is impossible to
rouse some, they sleep so sound. All at once
the ship gives a lurch, and the waves engulf
her, as all wake up and rub their eyes, and ask
where they are ? '

The General's pipe was out. He turned his

L 2

face to the window to hide the emotion painted
on it. Beavis had spoken strongly — possibly
too strongly ; the words had poured scalding
from his heart. He was a young man. He
was not called in by the family to consult on
its affairs. He had assumed the office unsolicited.
Perhaps he was troubling the old man
in vain.

The silence remained unbroken for some
while.

Lord Eonald struck a match, but could not
delight his pipe ; his hand shook, so did the
pipe between his lips. He threw the match
away, and laid his pipe on the chimney-piece.
Then he held out his hand to Beavis, without
looking him in the face, and said, ' God bless
you, dear boy ! You are acting as your
honourable and kind heart prompts. At a
time when everyone thinks of self, it is pleasant
to meet with one who cares for the fortunes
of others.' He sighed. ' You are all of
you good, true, all of you — your worthy father,
your dear sister, whom we love as our own
child, and yourself. You have spoken to me
sharply, and I know what it has cost you to do
so — you who have been reared in reverence
for the family. You have acted as a man of

principle should act, but then, what is the
good ? The transfer will be executed, the fresh
loan contracted, in another hour. It is too late
to prevent that.'

Yes,' answered Eeavis, ' it is too late to
prevent that, but it is not too late to say, " This
shall be the last. We have let matters slide
their downward way, now we will put on the
drag. And the first step towards stopping will
be to find out where we stand." '

6 You are quite right, but I am no accountant.
Your father has the books. Salt-combe
is supposed to audit them.'

Lord Saltcombe must not only look over
the accounts, but take an interest in them.'

'Beavis,' said the old General, 'my debt
against the estate shall be cancelled ; but that
is nothing, as it would not be exacted. Let it
go. What is this five thousand for? '

Current household expenses, I presume ;
but I do not know for certain.'

6 Let me find the money. Decline this five
thousand. It will be a relief to my mind that
I have stopped one additional loan. I have
my half-pay, and am able to put aside some
money. I have more than I want. If I drop
this into the gulf it is only a drop. I know I

• ii. Si:: :ii. ~ ~ ~;.i-;- -. ::";;> li: .
nil.

My dear nude, I am a: Mi ^oitiflnvaie's

nil fury ::;::;::. —inn ii i*i if.
to sign leases, audit accounts, and consent to

if iii :::'fi I ii: Lii :: i 1:1: .
I cannot allow more time than that. The

:i:-:--riv:;.— ". snip :.iiiri:-f : i it
brain. 3

Tai It.' i his: i >ii:i Yiiif .:-.
~i in T: tai in:™ :::: :. T— 71 :=
::iiii ill :pii in ;, iijff: -

1 Well ? a transfer is not a mitro^lycerine
bomb. I am impatient to make iL I am
1:1 :: lii i: i :.i". Lit :i: i i-f iii
" . I- . in • . .

i . ; ifs: "if : : I;:ii:ii "i n iii
:':: liin-f.'

• iii :i v. t : i I ; i ; : ki ; ~ i : — — 7 1: -
1:5: Z i.iii i-: T:-:::,' . 1 fin: ti
to stay. I have much to talk to yon about* and
:.ii i-ie 11 1 if '

Yin ^:iii —15 v-iv-.i Ii :i
in nii ::.::. I.I i- "i fin liii:

n-n :5 :::z.: ii i. -1. L:ri Si:-
iii "i-.11:5 :.-ii ;:' n-iii :■: 11

the office-dust out of his lungs, and blow the
cobwebs from his brain.'

Beavis seized the opportunity to turn the
conversation. He saw that the General irritated
his nephew, without advancing the cause
he had at heart. But the old man could not
understand his tactics.

What a man you are, Worthivale ! ' he
said. ' Two minutes ago you were crying,
House on fire ! " and now you are agog to be
junketing with the girls. I will not be put off
like this. You have stirred me up. I will
have it out with Saltcombe.'

6 My time, then, is yours,' said the Marquess
stiffly.

Very well,' said the General hotly. ' You
must marry.'

Whom ? '

Lord Eonald did not answer ; the question
was not an easy one to answer.

You remind me of the magistrates of the
old German towns, who had the bachelors before
them on attaining their majority, and bade
them marry within six weeks, or forfeit their
rights of citizenship.'

There was sense in that. You must marry,
Saltcombe.'

4 Uncle, I will contemplate the five Misses
Sheepwash to-day with that view

'Do not be absurd. You must marry
money.'

Beavis,' said the Marquess aside, ' you
will be at the pier at half-past twelve.'

The General was angered by his nephew's
coolness.

Saltcombe,' he said, * time enough has
elapsed since that Palermo affair '

'For you to have learned, Uncle Ronald,
that I will endure no allusion to it,' said the
Marquess gravely, whilst his colour went.

The old man looked him full in the face,
and Lord Saltcombe met his eye firmly. He
said not another word, but turned with a sigh
to the window. The Marquess beckoned to
Beavis, and they left the room together.

CHAPTER X.

THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER.

The Fifth of November was a great day at the
Barbican. Was, it no longer is. The reason
why it is so no longer may be gathered from
what follows.

The Barbican offered about the only open
space in old Plymouth where a bonfire might
blaze, and fireworks explode without certainty
of setting the houses round in flames, or of
frightening horses and impeding traffic. Moreover,
about the Barbican swarm and multiply
indefinitely the urchins who most love to celebrate
the anniversary of the Gunpowder Plot.
They are deterred by no dread of injuring good
clothes, are restrained by no respectable parents.
They burn Guy Fawkes out of no deep-seated
enthusiasm for the Crown and the Bible, but out
of pure love of a blaze.

Now, stillness reigns on that momentous

anniversary at the Barbican ; no crackers spurt,
no pyre burns, for the police are there in force
on the evening to prevent a repetition of such
an event as that which took place on the occasion
we are about to record.

The broad quay, the proximity of the waters
and the coal barges, the good open space before
the houses, had impressed the youth for many
generations that no place was fitter for the fiery
celebration than the Barbican. There were bits
of old timber to be had for the asking or for the
taking. The owners of the tar and tow and
tallow store always contributed a cask, and
some black fluid highly combustible. The colliers
that lay in Sutton Pool were ready to give
baskets of coal.

The adult population of the neighbourhood
was in sympathy with the exhibition, turned out
to see it, and contributed howls, cheers, and
groans.

The Barbicanites had no pronounced political
or religious antipathies. It was one to them
whose effigy was burnt, they hooted and howled
with equal enthusiasm whether the object represented
' Old Boney,' Pius IX., or a Puseyite.
All they bargained for was that some one should
be burned — who mattered little.

On the last occasion when the Barbican was
illuminated by a bonfire, the guy represented a
local celebrity. Before that evening closed in,
what the guy was to be was known to every in -
habitant of the Barbican, except the individual
himself. Never had contributions flowed in
more copiously, and been given with greater
alacrity. Not a householder refused when solicited,
except only Lazarus, who, when solicited,
responded with an oath, a lunge, and a whirl of
his stick.

Darkness fell. Joanna put up the shutters
as usual, and locked and barred the doors.
Lazarus looked with evil eye on the Fifth of
November celebrations as a criminal waste of
excellent fuel, and he made or pretended business
for the evening which would take him to
the other end of the town.

Lazarus had come to entrust the care of the
house and the business of the shop very much
to Joanna, whilst he carried on business of an
analogous but more respectable kind elsewhere.
He could place perfect confidence in Joanna.
She took as keen a relish as himself in driving a
bargain, and in ' doing ' a purchaser. He suspected
her, indeed, of secreting for her own use
some of the money she received, but this was

solely because he suspected everybody ; and in
this case his suspicions were unjust, for Joanna
was scrupulously conscientious in accounting to
him for every farthing she spent and received.
It was part of her duty to screw down the poor
and bleed them of their last drop of blood ; it
was part of her duty to throw dust into the eyes
of a buyer, and deceive him with lies and disguises
; it was her duty to be true to her master.
Joanna was conscientious.

During the day Joanna had observed the
growth of a pile of combustible materials before
the house, and had engaged in many passages
of arms about it. She had remonstrated as to
its size and position ; and, finally, she had pillaged
it. She had, by watching her opportunities,
succeeded in carrying off from it a quarter
of a ton of coals which she had stowed in the
closet under the staircase, till detected, and then
the urchins engaged on the erection of the pyre
kept a guard against further pilfering.

When she found that she could no longer
plunder the pile, she stormed against the pile-builders,
she invoked the aid of a policeman to
demolish it. It was in dangerous proximity to
the Golden Balls. What if the wind set that
way ? When the policeman failed to give her

redress, she appealed to the bystanders, the inhabitants
of the houses on the quay, but they
were all participators in the pyre, had subscribed
coin or contributed fuel for its erection.

After she had locked up the house, Joanna
retired to a window of the first floor, whence
she could follow the proceedings. The Barbican
was alive with people, and heads were protruded
from all the windows. The evening was fine,
no rain fell, no fog hung over the water and
wharf. Joanna was girl enough to enjoy a
blaze ; though old beyond her years in her
views of life and of men, she had not lost
childlike pleasure m what is beautiful and what
is exciting.

Presently Joanna heard the bray of a horn,
and the hubbub of voices mingled with jeers,
laughter, and whoops. A moment after a crowd
of boys, young men, and girls poured down the
narrow street that debouches on the quay, carrying
in their midst, supported on their shoulders,
seated on a chair above their heads, the Guy
Fawkes. Torches were borne and waved about
the figure, and on its reaching the open space a
Bengal light blazed up.

Joanna saw at a glance whom the effigy
was designed to represent, and why the celebration

had evoked so much interest on this
occasion.

The figure was that of Mr. Lazarus. There
could be no mistaking it. His peculiarities of
costume and attitude had been hit off with real
genius. A mask had been made or obtained
with a sausage nose, like his, and a smirk on
the thick lips, like his. His old fur cap, with
flaps to cover the ears, which he wore in the
shop, was faithfully reproduced ; so also his long-tailed
great coat ; his black tie, which would
turn with the knot under the ear, without a
vestige of linen collar. The effigy was represented
holding a ham-bone, which it was
gnawing.

The crowd flowed from the street, and spread
over the Barbican open space. The figure was
planted in front of the Golden Balls, and three
groans were given for Lazarus the Jew.

Joanna withdrew from the window that the
people might not have the satisfaction of seeing
that they were observed. Her face flamed with
indignation and desire of revenge. She ascended
a chest of drawers in the store chamber nearest
the face of the house, whence she could watch
proceedings unobserved. After the groans for
Lazarus, a silence fell on the mob, and expectant

looks were cast at his door. They supposed
that the Jew, frenzied with rage, would rush
forth, cudgel in hand, to belabour all whom he
could reach. Disappointed in this anticipation,
they removed the guy to the bonfire, and planted
the figure, in its chair, on the top. Torches were
applied, and amid huzzahs and capers, and a ring
of urchins dancing round the pile, the bonfire
burst into lurid blaze.

Joanna saw the faces of the crowd illuminated
by the fire. She saw T those who lounged
out of their windows looking on, laughing and
applauding. She gnashed her teeth with impotent
rage, and clenched her hands. She sat
crouched, frog-like, on the top of a chest of
drawers, with her lists closed, and her chin
resting on them.

Ah ! ' she muttered, ' you come to Lazarus,
all of you, when in need ; you can't do without
him, and yet this is the reward he gets for helping
you in trouble. Never mind, he has you all
in his grip. He will not scruple now to give a
squeeze, and your blood will run between his
fingers. You also ! How dare you ! ' she exclaimed,
and pointed to an attic window from
which peered a woman's face. The flames lit
up the room, and cast Joanna's shadow against

the wall, distorting and exaggerating the length
of her extended arm. Her finger indicated the
woman leaning forth from the garret window,
watching what went on below, and enjoying the
scene. That woman was the mother of two
children. She pawned the blankets every morning
that had covered her and her sons by night,
for three-halfpence, and redeemed the children's
clothes for the clay. At night she pawned their
rags and released the blankets. Six per cent, is
the legal rate of usury, but Lazarus obtained
from this widow ^xe hundred per cent. And
this woman dared to applaud his being burnt in
effigy ? Whither is gratitude flown ?

Suddenly a report, a roar, then a burst of
cheers, followed by a crash, and dead silence !

The ham-bone had gone off! That ham-bone
was a rocket disguised in coloured paper.
The designer of this exquisite piece of humour
had planned that the rocket, on exploding,
should shoot out to sea and extinguish itself
innocuously in the water ; but in the haste and
excitement of planting Lazarus on the pyre no
thought had been given to the pointing of the
head of the ham-bone. The only idea prominent
in the minds of the urchins was to set the
figure opposite the door of the Golden Balls.
VOL. i. m

The rocket was from the Government coastguard
stores, liberally contributed by the man
invested with charge of them.

When the flame ignited the rocket it went
off with a rush and roar in quite the opposite
direction to the sea, crashed through a window,
and disappeared in the tow, tallow, and tar
warehouse.

One precious gift of nature is accorded
freely to Englishmen of all ranks and ages — the
aptitude of doing the right thing at the right
moment ; in a word, presence of mind. Those
present, the whole crowd of men and boys —
instantly realised the gravity of the situation,
and did that which was best to be done — they
took to their heels. The first to go was the
storekeeper who had contributed the rocket,
and he went home as fast as the rocket had
gone into the tow and tallow shop, slipped into
bed, and called his wife's attention to the clock
to enable her to swear that he had been laid
up at that time of the evening with a bronchial
catarrh. He was followed by everyone who
had lent a hand or given a halfpenny towards
the celebration. Thus the explosion of the
ham-bone cleared the quay in five minutes.

The bargemen looked on from their boats

in complacent expectation of a bonfire bigger
than that on which Lazarus was burning.
Only a few men stood about the pyre, and
endeavoured with rakes to thrust it over the
edge of the wharf into the Pool before the
police appeared.

Joanna had not observed what had taken
place. She had indeed seen the flash of the
rocket and heard the cheers, but from her
chest of drawers she could not see the tow and
tallow store.

Why had the crowd dispersed so suddenly
? Why was the bonfire being put out,
and the half-consumed Lazarus in his flaming
chair toppled into Sutton Pool ?

Joanna was roused by the sound of her
master's key in the side door. She remembered
that she had bolted the door, so she descended
to withdraw the bar and admit him. Then her
pent-up wrath found vent, and she told him of
the outrage.

Well,' said Lazarus, without signs of discomposure,
' it won't cost me a penny. Have
they singed one of my coats ? burnt my cap ?
Not a bit ! so it don't matter to me. Bun out,
Joanna, with your shovel, and see if you cannot
rescue some of the coals which are being

M 2

wasted, and then look sharp and get me my
supper ready. Dear, dear ! The figure was
dressed like me, and all the beautiful clothes
burning. Don't you think we might fish him
out of the water and see what can be done
with the garments — they cannot be utterly
spoiled ! So they are raking out the fire, are
they ? Scared by the police, I suppose. It is
wicked, inconsiderate waste to toss coals and
sticks into the Pool. The supper can wait;
the apple won't get cold, and it may ripen by
delay.'

4 What is that?' exclaimed the girl, as a
flash of vivid yellow light smote in at the window.
'They're surely never gone and lighted
the bonfire again.'

They are burning what remains of the
coal. Oh, the wicked waste ! '

No ! ' said Joanna excitedly ; 'the light
strikes from the wrong side of the street.'

She ran to the door, threw it open, and uttered
an exclamation of dismay.

The tow and tallow store was in flames ; it
had burst into blaze at once ; all the windows
on the second floor were vividly illuminated,
and from one a spout of fire issued and ran up
the walls. No one lived in the storehouse ;

but an old woman, very deaf, occupied an attic,
and she was wont to retire early to bed.

A light wind was blowing, likely to carry
the flames across the street upon the house of
the Jew.

Lazarus stood in the doorway behind the
girl. He shared her dismay, but gave louder
and more violent expression to it. He swore
and stamped.

8 The fire will catch me ! The fire will
burn me and all my pretty, pretty things !
Where are the police? Where are the fire-engines?
What can I do to save myself? '

Master,' said Joanna, recovering herself,
the shutters are up below, so that the basement
is safe. There is not much danger to be
apprehended till the flames issue from the roof ;
then it is possible they may be carried our way,
or that sparks will be dropped on our roof
and make the slates so hot that they will snap
and the rafters ignite.'

1 Oh, Joanna ! run, run with all your legs
after the fire-engine ! ' cried the Jew, wringing
his hands. ' If my house catches I am lost —
ruined past recovery ! I may as well die in it.
I could not survive its destruction. I cannot
bring my pretty things down ; I have no place

where to store them. If they are taken into
the street they will be stolen. There are thousands
of beautiful things here no money can
replace. It would take an army of men to
clear them all out in twenty-four hours ; and
the wicked flames allow no time. Bun, Joanna,
run for the engines ! I'll give a sovereign if
they will save my place.'

Master,' said Joanna, ' lock the door and
admit no one. The fire-engines will be here
before long. Come with me to the roof ; we
must protect that. We must carry up carpets,
and spread them over the slates.'

6 Carpets ! ' exclaimed Lazarus. ' They will
be burnt.'

The carpets rather than the whole house.'

Not number 247, that is a lovable old
Persian, worth a lot of money, not much worn.
Don't take that.'

Not if we can do without. We will carry
up the worst, and I will scramble on to the
ridge, and spread the carpets over the roof.
Then you must pass me water, and I will keep
them moist. I'll take a mop, and when sparks
fall I'll mop them out.'

Oh, Joanna, you are a clever girl ! Bun !
This is better than the engines ; I shan't have

to pay for salvage if they send a little squirt
over me.'

Joanna made no answer, but fetched
buckets. At the top of the house was an
open lead rain-water tank.

You must help me with the carpets,' said
she hastily. ; Come, this is not the time to
stand bewildered and irresolute.'

The light shone fiercely, brilliantly illumining
the room where they stood, like sunlight.
Everything in it was distinctly visible.

4 Not that Brussels ! ' cried the Jew ; ' it is
worth four shillings a yard, and there are a
hundred in it, that makes twenty pounds. I
cannot afford it ; I will not throw away such a
lot of money. Here, if it must be, take this old
bedroom Kidderminster, it is full of holes. No,
Joanna, keep your hands off the Axminster, it
is good as new, and has a border round it.'

Give me the Axminster. I must have it —
it is thick and will keep sopped with water.
longest. Help me up with it.'

Joanna went out upon the roof dragging
the heavy carpets after her by means of a rope
which she had looped about them, assisted by
Lazarus from below, who thrust the bundles up
the ladder and through the trap-door. He

assisted, but tempered his assistance with pre-tests
and groans. The girl scrambled, cat-like,
up the low-pitched roof, and flung the carpets
across the ridge, or fastened two together, and
spread one on each side upon the slates.

Give me another,' she shouted. ' Time is
precious ; I must, I will, have both the Persian
and the Brussels.'

The Persian is not to be parted with under
fifteen guineas,' moaned Lazarus, and then half
to himself, ' Guineas are an institution ; say
pounds when a purchaser asks the price, and
when he comes to pay swear to guineas. Will
you have this Kidder. ? '

4 It is too thin,' answered the girl. ' See !
The fire is in the upper story, and in ten minutes
will be through the roof. When that gives
way we shall be buried under a rain of fire.
Hark ! '

6 You hear the engine coming,' said the Jew,
and the squealing of the old woman in the
garret. Joanna, take the Persian, take everything,
but save my house.'

In a brief time Joanna had covered the
roof on both sides with carpets and rugs of all
sorts and values, and had soused them well with
water. The Jew stood in the tank, up to his

waist, and filled the pails. The girl drew them
up to her by the rope attached to their handles.
She was seated astride on the apex of the
roof, and poured the contents of the pails
over the carpets.

Whilst Joanna and her master were taking
these precautions for the protection of the house
of the Golden Balls, great excitement prevailed
below. The street and the quay were crowded ;
the fire-engine played on the roofs adjoining
the burning house. At a window high up stood
the deaf old housekeeper, wringing her hands
and shrieking for help. The crowd roared,
women sobbed. The ladder was fixed, and a
fireman mounted to the rescue. The mob was
silent ; then cheered as the man put his arm
round the poor creature, and endeavoured to
bring her down. But she was too frightened
by the aspect of the depth she had to descend
to yield, and she struggled, and cried, and escaped
back into the room filled with smoke and
twinkling with fire, bewildered, and in her
mazed mind unable to decide whether to risk
a fall or to perish in flames. The struggle was
of engrossing interest to those in the street ;
neither Joanna nor the Jew wasted a thought
on it. They were concerned only with the

precious house of the Golden Balls, and were
supremely indifferent to the fate of a stupid old
woman of seventy-three.

The firemen and the mob had eyes only for
the tow and tallow shop, and the rescue of the
housekeeper. When, at length, in spite of her
resistance, she was carried down the fire-escape,
and received unhurt at the bottom, then only
did they observe the proceedings on the roof
opposite.

A gush of vivid flame rushed up into the
air, over the pawnbroker's house. Joanna saw
the peril, and slipped down the opposite incline
of roof into the tank. Directly the danger was
over, she rose, scrambled again to her perch,
drawing a pail of water after her, which she
emptied over some fire-flakes that had fallen on
the roof. The spectators had held their breath,
believing that the flame had swept her away
and cast her down, broken and burnt. When
she reappeared she was greeted by a cheer,
of which she took no notice, not supposing it
was given to her.

There is a hole burnt in the Axminster,'
she called to Lazarus.

The Jew, standing in the tank, streaming
with water, held up his arm and answered, ' Oh,

Joanna, don't say so ! If that occurs again I'll
whack you.'

6 I cannot help it. I will mend the hole
after, if I can.'

Ah,' said Lazarus, dipping a bucket, ' mend
it, mend it ! '

Id the meantime a consultation had taken
place in the street. ' That girl must come off
the roof,' said the Captain. ' We must throw
our water over it. We can't send the jet till
she removes ; it would knock her down. Lord !
she is like a monkey cutting about up there.'

Joanna had seen a spark resting on the
roof beyond her reach, and had gone after it
with a mop and extinguished it. The firemen
knocked at the house-door, but met with no
reply. They tried to force it open, but it was
so firmly barred that it resisted their efforts.

6 Let be ! ' shouted a gentleman in evening
dress. ' Captain James, let me run up and dislodge
her.'

If you like, Mr. Cheek. It must be done
at once.'

A ladder was applied to the Jew's house,
and the gentleman mounted, armed with an axe,
broke one of the windows, and swung himself
into the house. Joanna and Lazarus, who had

observed nothing that went on below, were
amazed to see him emerge from the attic door
upon the roof.

Robbers ! burglars ! ' screamed the Jew.
4 111 call the police and have you taken into
custody. I'll shoot you ! What is it that you
want here ? '

Come down at once ! ' shouted the gentleman
in evening dress to the girl. ' Come down
from the roof immediately.'

1 She is protecting my house from fire ! ' said
the Jew. 4 She shall 'bide where she is.'

1 Come down ! ' called Mr. Cheek, disregarding
Lazarus. ' The roof of the house opposite
will give way in a minute, and you will be overwhelmed
with fire. The engine must play upon
this roof.'

8 I'll have no squirting here,' said the Jew.
1 Joanna and I can manage beautifully.'

She will be killed if she stays there,' said
the gentleman.

Not she ; she'll slip into the tank and duck,
as before.'

The engine cannot play till she descends, 1
remonstrated Mr. Cheek.

She shan't stir. You only want an excuse
to make me pay. Mark my protest. Squirt

as you will, you'll pump no money out of my
pocket. Joanna and I can manage first-rate
without you.'

"Without wasting another word on the Jew,
Mr. Cheek crept up the slope of the roof, and
seated himself on the ridge, astride, opposite
Joanna. The girl was wet through and through.
Her dark hair was loose, flapping about her
neck and shoulders, dank with moisture. The
yellow glare of the binning house was on her
face, the flames leaping in her dark eyes ; she
held the mop in one hand, and the empty pail
dangled from the other. Opposite her was Mr.
Cheek, in fine black cloth evening suit, patent
leather boots, white tie, and diamond studs.

Come down, you wild cat ! The roof
yonder will be in with a crash directly. Comedown
at once, and let the engines play over
this house.'

Who are you ? Go your way, or I will
knock you into the street with my mop.'

1 Come down, you fool ! do you not realise
the danger ? You will be burned in a wave of
flame in another moment. Down at once, or I
give the signal, and a jet of water will knock
you over as sure as if you were shot

Joanna looked down into the street, and

realised the position. ' I will come,' she said
quietly ; ' you are right.'

She threw her foot over the ridge, and
slipped down. Mr. Cheek followed.

Oh dear ! ' exclaimed the Jew. ' Young
gent ! you've done for your dress suit ; but I've
some second-hand articles below you shall have
cheap.'

4 Come out of the tank,' said Mr. Cheek.
Come under cover at once, before the fire-shower
falls. Come in, as you value your life.'

Mr. Charles Cheek ! ' exclaimed Lazarus.
4 Bless me ! I did not recognise you at first.
We've done business together already, and, I
hope, not for the last time. I beg your pardon,
if I addressed you without proper respect.'

Come in ; come in at once. The hose is
playing.'

He drew the Jew after him clown the step,
and fastened the door. Joanna had already
descended. They heard the rush of the water
above their heads on the slates.

5 Upon my word,' said the young man, ' that
was a clever idea of yours, covering the roof
with wet carpet.'

My Joanna suggested it,' answered the Jew.

8 A girl that, with the head of a man on her
shoulders — but eats like rust, and grows like a
debt

Well done, you girl ! ' said the young man.
I must have a look at you.'

He turned, and saw Joanna, hanging behind,
in shadow. He caught her by the shoulders,
and drew her to the window, where the glare of
the burning warehouse would fall over her face.
She was self-composed, and thrust her wet hair
back behind her ears, and then, full of confidence,
raised her eyes and encountered his.

Upon my word, a fine girl. Of course
there are wits behind such great clever eyes.
By Jove ! there is devilry there as well.'

He dropped his hands, as with a crash the
roof of the house opposite fell, and they seemed
to be entrapped in flame and light as of the sun.
Then they heard the rattle of falling ashes on
the slates above them, and the redoubled roar
of the water extinguishing the fire that had
lodged overhead.

None of them spoke for some minutes.

Presently Mr. Cheek said, ' I believe the
girl's expedient has saved your house, Mr.
Lazarus. I must have a look at her again by

daylight. Now I am off. You did not know
me as an amateur fireman, Lazarus, did you ?
I am hand-and-glove with Captain James. Often
help. What is the name of the little devil ?
Joanna ? Farewell for the present, Joanna, we
shall see each other again. Au revoir ! '

CHAPTER XI.

WHO WAS RACHEL?

Ox the morrow of the fire, Lazarus ascended to
the roof and wailed over the spoilt carpets.
Joanna consoled him as best she could ; she
pointed out to him the masses of charcoal that
had fallen on them, and which, naming or
glowing, would infallibly have split the slates
had they fallen on them. 'Then, even if the
timbers did not burn, you would have had to
call in the masons to mend the roof, and tradesmen,
as you well know, are shameless. They
would put their nails through the lead gutters
to make work for the plumbers, and break
additional slates to run up their own bills, and
smash windows to force you to call in the
glazier, and let the water in on the rafters to
rot them, and necessitate the coming of the
carpenter.'

4 That is true, very true, Joanna ; tradesmen

VOL. I. N

are scoundrels. Nevertheless, I must lament
over my loss ; it is terrible, it goes to my soul,
it corrodes it like canker. The Persian was a
real beauty, and the tapestry Brussels was a joy
to contemplate. Such colours, such posies of
flowers, and no defect anywhere, except an oil-stain
in one spot where a lamp had been spilt,
and that might have been cleaned for a few
shillings. We must have the carpets down as
soon as they are dry, and go over them carefully.
With a darning needle and some coloured
wools, and little patches put in from old carpets,
I dare say you m ty disguise the worst blemishes.
Then, my dear, when you unroll them before
purchasers take care to expose the uninjured
end. There is a great deal, Joanna, in the rolling
of fabrics. Always look well which end is
most damaged, and begin rolling with that ;
then, when you show your goods you show to
advantage.'

When they redescended to the storeroom,
Mr. Lazarus said, ' Dear me ! a window broken !
That was done last night by Mr. Charles Cheek.
He meant well, no doubt, but he has done us a
damage that will cost many shillings to repair.
Not only are the panes broken, but the woodwork
is cut away. lie is a gentleman, and

when he returns, as he said he would, you had
better point out the damage, and make out a
case to him that I hold you responsible, and that
you will have to repair it from your own pocket.
If you manage matters well you may get twice
the value of the repairs from him, and I think
I can patch up the window myself. I am skilful
with my knife, and I have diamonds by the
dozen wherewith to cut glass. Putty is easily
made with white lead and boiled oil. I don't
want any tradesmen in my repository. Light-fingered
gents they.' He looked round his
storeroom and rubbed his hands. ' What a
mighty piece of good luck it was that the tow
and tallow shop burnt instead of this emporium
of beauty and utility ! I am sure, Joanna,' he
added, with unction in his tones, ' we ought to
be truly thankful for mercies ; and I hope, my
child, you will take this to heart, and be thankful
that the old housekeeper over the way was
burnt instead of me and you.'

6 She escaped,' said the girl. ' She was saved
by the fire-escape.'

That modifies the case,' observed the Jew.
Still, though things did not go as far as they
might have gone, we shan't do wrong to be
thankful. At least, you can.' The Jew looked

x 2

with complacence at Ms collections of glass,
china, furniture, and clothing, and sighed.
1 What a quantity of beautiful things we have
here ! ' he exclaimed. * I could sit by the
hour looking at them, watching the play ol
light over the cupboards and washhandstands,
and in and out among the old clothes. It is
lovely. Don't talk to me about landscape ! I've
seen folks sit on the Hoe and look out over
Plymouth Sound, and the Mount Edgeumbe
woods, and Maker Point, and say it was all a
lovely, ever-varying scene. I can make nothing
of it ; but I do see a feast of beauty in these
storeroom. This is the sort of landscape to
gratify the healthy eye. Dear! dear! dear!
how could Rachel ever make up her mind to
leave this :

• Rachel ! ' exclaimed the girl. 'Who was
she :

Lazarus shook his head. 4 This is a vale of
tears,' he said, ; full of moths. There is one
yonder, Joanna ; kill it.'

• Ratio was Rachel ? ' asked Joanna.

I wish you would go sharp after that moth,'
said the Jew. ; Dear alive ! the mischief these
moths do is awful.'

6 Who was I: ciel? 1 asked Joanna as

I will till you have satisfied

me.'

I will tell you by-and-by.' The Jew sighed.
'Ah ! Joanna, I am not the ungrateful old master
may have supposed me. You have done
me many a service, but noDe greater than that
of last night. I know I am indebted to ;
less the value of the carpets spoilt by the fire.
Deduct them from the total and still something

ains, not much, but a alan: •;• —-mall

balance. It is pleasant to have a balance in

one's favour, is it not, Joanna: I ill show

mv gratitude. We will have a regular

ici for sup per. I have some tinned

tomatoes. Tomatoes are said to be nutritious,

and clear the complexion. I had half a dozen

tins and one over from a broken grocer in

Street. We'll debauch on the odd

tin. I am double your . Jo . ad there-require

twice as much nutriment as you, so
I shall tomatoes to your one. You,

however, may enjoy the gravy. S y : or bread
in that, and close your eyes whilst it lies on

r tongue. A tin of tomato is sold for one-ands
threepence at the grocers and ten pec
the stores H the expense; we will :
od things for once ; and we will wash down

the tomatoes with water. That, Joanna, is the
drink of the Quality. No more tawny old port,
its clay is done. Not nutty sherry any more.
Not claret, nor Burgundy ; not even champagne.
They are all played out. Now the Quality are
teetotal. Let us be of the Quality also, and
teetotal too. Fashions change in drinks as in
dress. Now it is cardinal red and marsala, then
crushed strawberries and water. Prepare the
table, Joanna.'

The girl obeyed without enthusiasm. She
placed bread on the table in the kitchen, lighted
the fire in the stove to heat some vegetables, and
threw a ragged but clean cloth over the table.
One candle and the fire in the stove illumined
the wretched kitchen.

4 1 take a little whisky with my water,' said
the Jew, pouring some spirits into his glass,
but I do not approve of alcohol for the yoimg.
It stunts their growth, and sows the seeds of a
craving for strong liquor which may in after-life
bring them to D. T.'

Who was Rachel ? ' asked Joanna.

1 Upon my word, Joanna ! What persistency
you have ! When you have set your head on
doing a thing you do it, and when you have set

your head on knowing a thing you give a body
no peace till you know it.'

You promised to tell me.'

I must keep my promise ; I am a conscientious
man, and when I say a word I hold by it.
That is the principle of business. Only at the
last moment give your word a twist in your
direction, if you can. When you have agreed
to sell for three sovereigns don't make out the
bill for four, but for three guineas.'

'Who wasEachel?'

Snuff the candle, Joanna, with your fingers,
and — there — don't throw the snuff on the floor
lest you set it on fire ; and don't wipe your fingers
in your apron where the smut will show,
but in your hair, where it will not be seen.'

c Who was Rachel?'

4 1 will tell you, child, but really you irritate
me with your pertinacity. I will first light a
pipe. I don't offer you one, as it is not decent
for a woman to smoke. The habit might grow
and interfere with your matrimonial prospects.
Some women take cigarettes on the grounds that
they suffer from asthma or bronchitis. You are
sound in throat and lung, Joanna, sound as a
bell. Never knew anything the matter with

you except inordinate appetite. Let me have
that chair, Joanna. It is the only one with a seat.
You can accommodate yourself on the fender.'

An old flour-barrel stood in the corner.
Joanna sprang on it and seated herself thereon.
Then, fixing the Jew with her keen eyes, she
asked again, ' Who was Rachel ? '

6 Really, Joanna,' said the pawnbroker, 'your
ways are inhuman, and give one a cold shiver.
You squat there on the cask like a goblin in an
illustrated fairy-tale. You are not a bit like an
ordinary girl. There is no buoyancy and freshness
in you. Yet — I'll tell you what — I'll do
something splendid to show you my gratitude,
and wipe off my indebtedness. I'll learn you
to dance.

6 What ! ' exclaimed the girl, starting.

I have a bad debt with a dancing-master,'
said the Jew ; ' and the only way in which I
can recover my money is to take it out in lessons.
You want refinement and deportment,
and I will do what is magnanimous, and have
you instructed by Mr. Deuxtemps in what becomes
a lady. You shall learn to polk and jig
and curtsey like a blue-blooded born marchioness.'


That's grand,' said Joanna.

8 1 thought I should please you,' said the
Jew ; ' I'm not a master to be served without
reward. Now I w T ill do something more for
you. I will show you the jewels I have, and
perhaps let you put some on. I have diamonds,
carbuncles, and sapphires fit to make a cat
scream. Put out the fire, give me the candle,
and follow me to my room.'

He led the way into his private chamber,
where was his bed, and where he kept his most
precious articles, his money, and his account-books.
He set the candle on the table, and
unlocked one of the sedan chairs. At the bottom
was an iron chest. He opened it and took
out some jewel cases. 'No, my daughter,' he
said, ' you cannot appreciate the darlings by
this light. See this necklace, Joanna, it is made
of pearls, and this brooch is of diamonds, so is
the circlet for the hair. Get along with you ;
light another candle, curse the expense ! and
put the rose silk dress on you. Do up your hair
as if for a ball, and I will try the jewels on you.
I allow you a quarter of an hour for rigging
yourself out. Take whatever you require, but
mind and replace all when you have done ; also?
don't remove the tickets.'

In about twenty minutes Joanna returned.

When she entered she found a brass chandelier
huno- from the ceiling full of candles and alight,
filling the room with unwonted splendour. The
Jew sat on his bed rubbing his hands, and when
she came in he laughed aloud and clapped his
palms on his knees, and kicked his heels against
the board at his bedside.

Joanna looked taller in her dress of rose
silk. Her neck, bosom, and arms were bare.
She had edged the breast and sleeves with rich
old lace. Her raven hair was brushed back
and rolled over her head, exposing her ears.
Thinking her boots too heavy, she had thrown
them off, and came in her stocking soles, but as
the gown was long her lack of shoes was unperceived.
She entered the room of Lazarus
without a blush or a smile, perfectly composed
in manner, and stood before him under the
chandelier.

Give me the diamonds,' she said.

No,' he answered, ' you shall have the
pearls. An unmarried woman does not wear
diamonds. I have a chain of Eoman pearls for
your hair, and another for your pretty throat.'

Lazarus looked at her with amazed admiration.
She was extraordinarily beautiful ; her
neck long and graceful, her hair rich and lustrous,

her features finely cut, and her magnificent

eyes full of intelligence. The grub had developed
into a gorgeous butterfly.

The Jew contemplated her in silence for some
minutes, and then he screamed with laughter.

Joanna ! your hands, your hands ! '

She put her hands behind her, and coloured.
i I could find no gloves,' she said, looking down.

c A pair of dirty hands is a badge of honour,'
said the pawnbroker. ' Don't be ashamed of
them.'

They are not dirty,' answered the girl, sullenly,
' but grimy from work. I have washed
and washed, but the black grain will not out.'

'Work, work, work ! ' said the Jew ; ' now
dance.'

6 1 cannot. I do not know how,' answered
Joanna. ' Give me the jewels.'

He offered her the cases, and she put the
pearls about her throat, then w r ove a chain in
and out among her black hair.

You are very beautiful,' said the Jew. ' If
j T our hands were gloved you would do famously.'

6 For what ? ' asked Joanna.

For showing off dresses and jewels. When
the ladies saw T you they'd buy, thinking everything
was sure to become them as they suit you.'

Then Joanna said quietly and determinedly,
Who was Each el ? '

'Kachel, my dear! Bless me, for the moment
I had forgotten her. I doubt if even
she was as splendid a beauty as yourself, and
you are handsome enough. She hadn't your
pertinacity. How you do fasten on one,
and stick till you have extracted what you
require ! '

I want to know who Each el was.'

There, sit down in the sedan, and I will
tell you.'

I prefer to stand.'

Then stand, if you will. It costs less ; you
are not wearing out the leather of the seat.
Besides, I like to look at you. I could sell that
rose silk for half as much again if I could show
you in it to a purchaser. Well, I'm sorry I said
a word about Kachel. Her name slipped off
my tongue, when my mouth was ajar. Kachel,
my dear — Kachel was my wife.'

Your wife ! — is she dead ? '

'No, Joanna, I believe not.'

Where is she ? '

I do not know.'

Did she leave you ? '

She was young, only seventeen, when I
married her — one of my own faith and race,

and beautiful — superbly beautiful. She did not
fancy the business. She did not take to the
house. Her taste lay in stage plays and dances,
and gallivanting. We couldn't agree, and after
we had been married about a year she took
herself off. How ever she could have the heart
to leave all this furniture, and the carpets, and
the second-hand plate, and the red coats, and a
sweet Florentine marqueterie cabinet I then had,
and afterwards sold for twenty-seven guineas, is
amazing.'

Whither did she go ? '

I do not know.'

6 And you do not know where she is now ? '

I do not know.'

Has she ever shown a desire to return
home ? '

Never, never ! '

8 Would you receive her if she did return ? '

'I would not.'

< Why not ? '

The Jew was silent. Joanna looked hard
at him and asked, ' Did she go alone ? '

He sprang from the bed, and paced the
room. His face was changed, and Joanna, who
watched him, w r as startled and drew back ; the
expression of his features w r as so threatening and
repulsive.

I have told you enough,' he said hoarsely.
I will tell you no more.'

He continued to pace the room. His face
was livid, his eyes glared, his thick coarse lips
were tightly drawn, and his fleshy cheeks were
lined and shrunk.

Presently he turned his head towards her,
but he seemed scarcely to observe her. ' Let
me have him firm here, in the hollow of my
hand,' he said in hard tones vibrating with
passion, ' and I will squeeze and squeeze till
the life is squeezed out of him. Let me grasp
him, and I will tear him down, him and all his
family. I will not spare him, and then I will
caper over him, and you shall dance with
me up and down and in and out over their
broken bones and crushed flesh, and beat out
their brains with our feet, and stamp their marrow
into the mire.' Then the doorbell rang.

Lazarus stood still, looking about him confusedly.
He put his hand to his brow, to help
his brain to recover its thoughts. Again the
bell rang. Joanna moved to the door to
answer the summons.

No, no,' said the Jew, i not in silk attire,
not bedecked with pearls. I will go and see
who rings.'

CHAPTEE XII.

CHARLIE CHEEK.

Joaxka remained standing under the lustre,
awaiting her master's return. She heard him
in the passage speaking with some one, and
then his feet sounded, shuffling in his slippers
towards the door, followed by a firmer footfall.
Then the door was thrown open, and he
stood back, and bowed, to admit Mr. Charles
Cheek.

1 Good heavens ! ' exclaimed the young man,
1 a lady here ! '

Look at her ! Look at her well ! ' exclaimed
Lazarus, crowing and rubbing his
hands. ■ I'll bet you a foreign coin that you
don't recognise my Joanna.'

Charles Cheek looked at the tall, beautiful
girl with astonishment, and then broke into a
merry laugh.

1 Excuse me,' he said, l but I cannot help

myself. One night we meet on the roof of the
house, I in evening dress and you in working
clothes ; and to-night we meet again, under the
roof, I in my morning dress and paletot, and
you dressed for a ball, and certain to be its
belle. Whither are you going, Miss Joanna, for
positively I must go there also, and secure you
for half a dozen dances ? '

1 am going nowhere,' answered the girl
coldly ; ' I cannot dance. I am merely dressed,
like the block in the milliner's, for the display
of the goods.'

Joanna is going to learn to dance,' said the
Jew. ' I intend indulging her in that expensive
luxury. She behaved herself, on the whole,
well last night, and I must show her my satisfaction.
I am a free-handed, liberal-hearted
man, as all who have dealings with me can
testify.'

Going to learn to dance, are you ? ' asked
Charles Cheek, looking at the girl with amused
curiosity. ' What next — French and the pianoforte?'


Joanna was nettled, and flashed an angry
glance at him.

Now don't she look well ? ' asked Lazarus.
'Who'd think, seeing her now, that she was

drawn out of Laira mud, like a drowned rat,
and pawned for ten shillings ? '

The girl coloured and her brow darkened.

Never mind whence she came. I was discovered
in a box of preserved figs. She looks
as if the rose silk and the pearls belonged to
her, and she was born to wear them. Why, if
Joanna were to appear at the hunt or the subscription
ball, the gentlemen would swarm round
her, and the ladies die of envy.'

8 She shall go,' laughed the Jew. ' I will
send her there.'

Charles Cheek shook his head and laughed.

Why do you shake your head ? ' asked
Joanna, looking hard at him.

It wouldn't do,' he answered.

Why not ? ' she asked.

6 There are reasons that make it impossible.'

• What reasons ? '

There are none,' broke in the Jew. ' If I
choose to send her to the subscription ball, who
is to say me nay ? '

You could not send her alone. A lady
must chaperon her,' explained the young man
hesitatingly. He did not wish to hurt Joanna's
feelings by entering into particulars.

Why not ? ' shouted Lazarus. ' If I will
vol. i. o

that she go, I can find plenty of ladies to take
her, who must take her because I desire it.
Ladies of good position will do me a favour if
I ask it, They dare not refuse.'

i I do not dispute your power, Father
Lazarus ; I say the thing is impossible, because
Joanna has too much common sense to venture
where she does not know her ground.'

Joanna fired to her temples and said nothing
more.

The Jew was more obtuse ; he said, 'What !
don't she look every inch a lady? It is the dress
the dress that makes the lady.'

'Put that rose silk on one of the rowdy
women or girls quarrelling or rollicking in the
street now, and she will look a bedizened monkey,
or something worse. No, Mr. Lazarus ;
it is not the dress that makes the lady, it is the
lady that makes the dress. When are you going
to learn dancing, Joanna ? '

I do not know.'

'Where?'

Here.'

Who are going to dance with you ? '

No one.'

Then you will never learn. I will come
and be your partner. Lazarus ! sweep together

some of your Mosaic girls, and I'll bring a friend
or two, and we will have the j oldest dancing
lessons imaginable.'

The pawnbroker frowned. 'Mr. Cheek, I
am not going to turn this house into a casino.
I promised Joanna she should learn to dance,
and I stick to my word. I can't get my money
out of the dancing-master, so I may as well get
its worth. That is better than nothing.'

May I come and help ? I am an accomplished
dancer.'

That is as you choose,' answered the Jew ;
only I won't have any of your fast friends here.
If you will come in a quiet way, come ; only,
don't expect to find Joanna dressed up like tonight.'


Of course she must be in proper attire.
No one can dance in working clothes.'

She has no other.'

< What I— not Sunday clothes ?'

Sunday is nothing to us.'

What ! no go-tormenting clothes ? '

She never goes to meeting.'

Nor to church ? '

'No.'

4 Nor synagogue, nor chapel ? '

'No.' *

o2

Good heavens ! ' exclaimed Charles Cheek,
what is Sunday instituted for ? What are
churches and chapels built for, but the display
of smart clothes? Lazarus, what a heathen of
a Jew you are, not to allow the girl a day on
which to shake off her rags and put on fine
feathers ! Lazarus, we have a little account
together ; put down the rose silk to it, and let
me present it and that necklet of Woman pearls
to Miss Joanna. Will you accept the present,
my lady Joan, and wear them at our dance
rehearsals ? '

I don't know,' answered the girl, looking
down.

4 Of course she will,' said the Jew, nudging
Joanna.

I said, I did not know.' The girl spoke
firmly. * I will tell you some other time.'

Will you stop and have a bite of supper ? '
asked the Jew. ' The festive board is spread.
The tin of tomatoes is on the table, so is the
bread. True, we have had our light refection,
but we will share the remains with you. Water,
sparkling and pure off Dartmoor, brought all
the way by the great Sir Francis Drake in a
conduit. Who'd have thought the great navigator
such a fine engineer ! '

c Lazarus,' exclaimed the young man, ' I
know you can play a fiddle ; you tried once to
sell rne a violin for twice its worth, and played
me something on it. Get down an instrument
at once, and let me put Joanna into the way of
waltzing. She has it in her ; a hint, and away
she goes. I bet you a sovereign, in a quarter
of an hour she will be able to step in a waltz
as well as an experienced dancer of seven
seasons. Look here, Mr. Lazarus, you whispered
the word " supper." I don't like your suggestion
of cold tomatoes and cooling draughts.
What do you say to pigeon or beefsteak pie and
a bottle of champagne ? '

The Jew's eyes twinkled. ' Very well,' said
he, c so let it be. I'll run down the street and
get what you desire — I cannot send Joanna in
her present costume — and be back in three
seconds. Then I'll give you a scrape on my
fiddle — Strauss or Waldteufel — and do what
you can with Joanna. I know her. She don't
want twice telling to learn a thing, not she. Of
course you pay for the pie and the champagne.
I am not responsible.'

Certainly. Tell me what I have to pay,
and I will refund the outlay.'

1 Would you mind advancing half a sovereign

? ' said Lazarus. ' I have only three halfpence
in my purse.'

Mr. Cheek tossed him the money. Lazarus
caught it as sharply as a dog snaps at a bit of
meat. When Lazarus had disappeared, Joanna
looked steadily at the young man, and asked,
Why is it impossible for me to go to a
ball?'

I did not say that you could not go to a
ball.'

1 No, you implied that I had too much sense
to appear in the society of gentlemen and ladies.'

Charles Cheek slightly coloured, stammered,
and said, ' Well, I did mean that.'

'Why?'

You ask me ? Do you not yourself understand?'


No.'

He thought for a moment, and then he said,
My girl, you would not think of going to a
grand ball, as I saw you last night, astride on
a gable, a pail in one hand and a mop in the
other, clothes and hair streaming with water,
and a black smirch of soot across your ,
moreover, a smock in holes, and
one slipper on, the other off.'

No, I would not.'

6 Very well. You would appear as you are
now?'

< Yes.'

4 But more dress than this is expected.
Your mind must be in rose silk and pearls.
Your tongue must be in full dress ; your manner
must be the same. Let me tell you that, among
ladies, their tongues and their minds are never
with one slipper off, the other on, never with
sooty smears across them, but always wreathed
with pearls and rustling in rose silk. They
have never known anything else. Do you
understand me ? '

Joanna put her ringer to her lips and considered.
As she thought, she put forward one
of her feet ; Charles Cheek noticed it at once.
Joanna,' he said, ' you are dressed like a
princess, but you betray yourself by your stocking.
You are not only hopeless, but you have
a hole in your sock.'

The girl started, and drew back her foot.

6 I do not want to hurt you,' he said good-naturedly
; ' I use this only as an illustration of
what I mean. If you were in the society of
gentlemen and ladies, you would betray yourself
by your stocking holes.'

1 would not wear ' She stopped.

8 No. I do not mean stockings. I mean the
gaps and shortcomings in speech and culture.'

She looked intently at him for a minute.

8 1 have never seen real ladies and gentlemen
— never, that is, except on business. Are
you a real, proper gentleman ? '

Charles laughed. ; That is a cruel question,
Joanna ; I cannot answer it. You must inquire
of others.'

Joanna considered again. Presently she
said, ' Here I see nothing but raggedness,
wretchedness, and care. I know nothing of a
richly clothed, happy, and careless world. Here
I am surrounded by poverty, and the air is
charged with the dust of old clothes and the
reek of Laira mud ; the light that comes
through these windows is never clean ; the air
is always stale. Why should not I sometimes
spring up into the region of light and liveliness ?
Lazarus often tells me I am a maggot, but a
maggot becomes a moth with wings of silver.
Am I to be always a grub — never to rise ? If
Lazarus offers me the chance to have a short
flutter, may I not accept it ? '

8 You are a queer girl,' answered the young
man. ' Take care not to leave your proper
element. Have you ever heard of the flying

fish ? The fish have fins so long that they can
rise on them a little way out of the waves, and
the silly creatures think they are birds ; so they
spring above the water, and are immediately
snapped up by gulls.'

Joanna laughed. ' I am not afraid of that ;
I am more likely to snap the gulls than the
gulls snap me.'

You are a comical girl,' said Charles. ' It
is a pleasure to hear you talk. Are you happy
in this den ? '

How can I be ? Lock about at the den.
I will show you where I sleep, on a sack full of
shavings under the counter. My food consists
of crumbs of bread, rinds of cheese, and apple
parings, which Lazarus cannot eat. My playground
is a backyard in which the only green
thing is the slime on the pavement. Lazarus
has no Sundays and I no Sabbaths, so I never
have a holiday.'

Then why do you not leave P '

Because I cannot. I am pawned.'

Pawned ! '

Pawned by my mother. I cannot leave.
She expects me to remain till she redeems me.
There is no help for it. I must abide where I
am till she returns.'

Where is your mother ? '

4 1 do not know.'

6 Good heavens ! and you are enslaved all
this while, without power of obtaining your
freedom ! — Till when ? '

Till I am nineteen years old — that is, seven
years since my mother pawned me. If she
does not bring the ticket and release me before
then ' She did not finish the sentence.

'Well then ?'

I will kill myself.'

Nonsense, Joanna. You are a little goose.
I can't follow your scruples. I see no right and
wrong in the matter — no such obligations as you
fancy.'

I do not suppose you can. You belong to
the gentry.'

< Well ! ' Charles Cheek laughed. < Have
gentlefolks no consciences ? '

No, none at all,' she replied.

How do you know that ? '

'Because I know them through Lazarus'
books and the society papers.'

And you have no other sources of information?'


'I want no other. Lazarus deals with
gentlefolks of all kinds, and through his account

books and what he tells me I know about
most of the officers and officers' wives and
gentlefolks of every sort here, and the society
papers tell us what the rest are like in London.'

Every picture has two sides, Joanna. You
see only the back.'

Has society another side ? '

6 Of course it has.'

I cannot believe it. The world of men is
cut into two halves — the rich and happy and
vicious, and the poor and miserable and deserving.
I will not say that the poor are good — I
see too much of them to assert that, but they
deserve what is better than they have. They
cannot be good because they are wretched. No
one can be good under a hundred and fifty per
annum.'

Mr. Cheek laughed. ' Or with an income
above that limit.'

Below that sum come gnawing care, and
grasping for coin, and biting and eating one
another. Above that sum, idleness and waste
and luxury.'

6 And so, you comical socialist, you take as
gospel all you read in the society papers, and believe
in the utter corruption of the aristocracy ? '

It is in print. What I read is read by

tens of thousands. The old woman who sells
shrimps and ginger-beer, the barge-man in the
coal-boat, the men in Eddystone, the board-school
children, all read the society papers, and
gather from them convictions that the upper
ranks of life are corrupt to the core, and burn
with desire to tear them down in the interests
of morality, and cast them in the gutter. Why
should we lie on sacks of shavings and eat
cheese rinds, and never leave the Barbican and
escape the smell of Sutton Pool, and they bed
in down and fare sumptuously, and go to opera
and ball in the season and to their parks or to
the sea out of season ? I would I had the remaking
of the world. I would cut the rich
down to a hundred and fifty, and pull up the
poor to the same figure. Then we should have
an equalisation of happiness. Hark ! here
comes Lazarus ; I hear his key'*

Joanna, it is rare fun to hear you talk !
Tell me, will you accept my present of the dress
and chain ? '

I will,' she answered. c I would not at
first, because I doubted whether you laughed
at me or pitied me.'

I certainly pity you

4 Then I take your present, and thank you.'

The Jew entered, a basket on one arm, a
bottle under the other. He was elated and
chuckling.

4 1 have been absent some time,' he said ;
I found the wine merchants closed, and I
would not have bad gooseberry at the tavern.
Here is the pie ' — he opened the basket — ' and.
a dozen raspberry tartlets, and a pound of
clotted cream. I understood you to say tartlets,
Mr. Cheek.'

6 As you will.'

1 1 am positive you desired me to buy them ;
I particularly remember that you specified
raspberry. Also cream at one-and-four. The
pot I can return, so it will not be charged. I
had to carry the cream very tenderly, so as not
to spill a drop. Then,' he added, c I have added
my own contributions to the feast, one apiece.
Blow the expense ! " said I, " oranges are
now at a price within the reach of the poor — -
twenty-one for a shilling." '

You will produce your violin ? '

Certainly. I hope Joanna has entertained
you whilst I have been away.'

1 Famously. She is a comical girl, and I
enjoy a talk with her — the first of many, I
trust.'

CHAPTEE XIII.

THE EMS WATER.

Joanna was unable to sleep that night, The
champagne had excited her brain, and she lay
watchful under the counter in the shop, tossing
on the sack of shavings. The night was cold,
so she had thrown a military greatcoat over
her, and a black rug across her feet. She mused
on what had taken place — the wonder in the
eyes of the young man when he saw her in the
silk attire, the interest she had awakened in
him by her conversation and her good looks.
She had a cool head, and was able to weigh
the value of his admiration. She had measured
the man. She knew him to be amiable, with
fair abilities, but shallow. He was good-natured
and weak. He had promised to return, but she
placed no reliance on his promises. If he had
nothing better to amuse him, he would come,
not otherwise. But though she was aware that

his liking for her was not deep, easy to be
effaced, she was pleased with having aroused a
transient fancy. A light had flashed into her
dull life. She was unaccustomed to amusement
of any sort. She had not associated with the
children of the Barbican, nor shared in their
games. Her master's unpopularity had affected
her ; the exigencies of his service had cut her
off from social pleasures.

She had spoken to Mr. Cheek with force
and freedom on the distinction between the
lots of rich and poor. She had spoken more
strongly than she felt. Her ideas formulated
on her tongue as she spoke. She had no
sympathy with the poor ; they were the proper
prey of a usurer. That they brought wretchedness
on themselves by their own recklessness,
improvidence, and idleness, she knew very
well. She took advantage of their necessities
without compunction. But she felt keenly her
own condition and her powerlessness to escape
from it. The enigmas of life, that lie unperceived
in savagedom, rise into prominence with civilisation,
and as culture advances become more
perplexing and insoluble.

Joanna sat up under the counter. Lazarus
was asleep. She could hear his snoring. He

was a noisy sleeper, and though his door was
shut and locked, his nasal trumpeting were
audible in the shop, and annoyed the girl.
On the counter above her was a tin case containing
a ball of twine ; the end of the twine
hung down over the edge, and as she tossed on
her sack touched and tickled her face. She
laid hold of the end of string and threw it up,
but it fell back on her face. Then she began
to pull at it, and unwind the ball, and remind
it on her fingers. The ball seemed interminable.
She was engaged on it half an hour, running the
twine out and rolling it again. She did it for a
distraction, and as she did it the thought came
on her that it was thus with her life ; she was
drawing out yard after yard of existence, all
alike, with a knot here and there, all much the
same, and then, suddenly — there was an end.
It mattered nothing when the end came, the
entire string was so utterly uninteresting.

As sleep would not come to her, she shook
off the rug and crawled from her bed. The
night was cold, and she was partially undressed.
Therefore she drew on the military greatcoat.
Thus attired, in her stocking soles, she stole out
of the shop to the stairs. She had a favourite
retreat on the" roof, where she could be quiet

and think. There she had a few pots of
flowers and a little stool. Perhaps the night air
would bring drowsiness to her lids. A problem
was perplexing her restless mind ; she could
not sleep with that unsolved. The problem
was this : Why were artisans and domestic
servants dissatisfied, and why were shopkeepers
content with their lot? All were workers
alike. Lazarus worked harder than most day
labourers ; the man at the ham and pork shop
worked like a slave, so did the greengrocer,
so did the paper anger next door but one.
These were cheery folk, and did not grumble
at their condition. It was otherwise with the
journeyman plumber, and carpenter, and the
factory hand, and the maid-of-all work. These
were impatient of their position and hated
their labour.

Joanna traversed the storeroom. The gas-lamp
in the street threw in sufficient light for
her to see the furniture, and to thread her way
without touching and upsetting anything. [Had
the lamp indeed been extinguished she would
have found her way noiselessly about those
rooms, and brought from them whatever was
required. She went to the window, and looked
across the way at the ruin of the house that

vol. I. p

had been consumed the night before. Every
pane of glass was broken ; the entire roof had
fallen in. Then Joanna went into the room
from which the carpets had been removed to
protect the roof, and which still covered it.
Here alone was an empty space. Joanna castoff
the thick coat, and sprang lightly into the
middle, stood on tiptoe and threw about her
arms and twirled as she had seen in pictures of
ballet-dancers. Then she hummed to herself
a waltz of Strauss, and began to dance, with
fantastic gesture, the step she had acquired
that evening from Charles Cheek.

Presently, fearing lest her tread should
disturb the Jew, she reinvested herself in the
long grey overcoat, and ascended the ladder to
the roof.

The cold air made her shiver, but it was
fresh after the close, dust-laden atmosphere of
the house. The stars were burning brightly
overhead.

She looked at her plants ; several of the
pots were knocked down. One was broken,
and the earth had fallen from the roots. She
had the ball of twine in the pocket of the coat,
and she took from it sufficient to bind together
the broken sheds. She cut the string with her

teeth. ; then she put in the earth again. The
geranium in the spotless teapot must come in,
and sleep for the winter. The fuchsia must
have fresh earth about the roots ; the Guernsey
lily needed to be divided. All this would have
to be done by daylight on the morrow. Then
she took up a pot in which was heather, a little
heather in peat she had taken up wild and
carried home on one rare occasion when she
had been in the country for a holiday, on
Borough Down. She loved the heather
above every flower she had, yet it was sickly in
confinement. Perhaps it was cold up there on
the slates. So she took the pot in her arms,
seated herself, hugging it, with the greatcoat
wrapped round her and the heather, and began
to think. She could not see into the streets
from where she sat, as the parapet cut them off,
but she saw the yellow haze that hung over
Plymouth, the reflection of the lights in the fine
vapour that overarched it. The taverns were
shut ; no drunken men were about the Barbican.
The outline of the citadel stood dark above the
harbour. She could see the lighthouse at the
pier-head, and far out, reflected in the quivering
water, the spark of Mount Batten light. Joanna
thought first of her flowers, and then, last of all,

p 2

of the problem she had climbed to the roof to
solve : Why did the labouring class hate work,
and the trading class love it greedily? The
girls from the country streamed into Plymouth,
because they had been taught to read and write

to read novels and write, love-letters — and

therefore counted themselves superior to feeding
pigs and making butter. They went into
service, and when they found that there they
were expected to dust chairs and wash up
breakfast things they went on the streets.
That was an everyday story. They fled work
because work was hateful. The young men
poured into town from the country to escape
the plough and the spade, and when they found
that they were expected to work at a trade,
they earned their bread with resentment at
their hearts, because brava necessity insisted on
labour ; and they blasphemed God and dreamed
of upsetting the social order because forced to
work. Why was this? The moment, however,
that the parlour-maid became a married woman
and had a home to care for, she toiled without
grudging time or labour. The moment the
artisan opened a shop and worked for himself,
he was reconciled with Providence and the
social system. Why was this ? Unconsciously,

Joanna had struck the solution. Content came
when man and woman worked for self.
Discontent was consequent on working for
others. ' This is it,' she exclaimed ; 'to be
happy and good one must care only for self,
and not a brass farthing for anyone besides.'
That was Joanna's philosophy of life, hammered
out of her experience and observation.

Having arrived at this conclusion she stood
up. 'I am cold,' she said, 'so is the pot of
heath. We must go in.' Then she stole
downstairs.

Joanna descended very softly, lest she should
rouse Lazarus. She listened on the stair for
his snore. If that were inaudible, it would behove
her to walk warily. He might be lurking
in a corner or behind a door, ready to leap
forth with his stick and batter her. No — she
did not hear it. She put foot after foot before
her most cautiously, listening and peering about
her in the dark. Then — she heard a sound, an
unusual sound, which made her heart standstill
; she stood with poised foot and uplifted
hand to her ear.

The sound came from the back kitchen,
and simultaneously she heard the choking snort
of Mr. Lazarus in his bedroom.

She crept so noiselessly down the last steps
that she would not have scared a mouse, and
craned her neck to see who or what was in the
back kitchen. In that back kitchen was alow,
square window over the sink. Her eyes were
sufficiently accustomed to the dark for her to
see that the window was obscured by a dark
body. She made out that the sash had been
thrown up, and that a man was crawling in at
the narrow opening. She saw also, by a feeble
glimmer, that a second man stood in the outer
kitchen, holding a dark lantern, waiting for his
fellow to enter as he had come in.

Joanna did not scream. Her lungs were
more powerful than when, as a child, her
mother had commended her powers of screaming.
She knew that if she set up an alarm the
first impulse of the burglar would be to stop
her voice, and that he would have no scruples
as to the manner in which he attained his object.
Joanna had matches within reach, but she did
not strike a light. She was too wise to expose
herself to observation. She preferred observing
unseen. She considered what she had better
do, and, having rapidly determined, proceeded
to take her course with celerity, circumspection,
and silence. She stepped, unobserved, from

the stair into the passage leading to the chamber
of her master and to the shop. She was sure
that the burglars would not ascend to the store-rooms,
to burden themselves with sets of
bedroom crockery or chests of drawers. They
would look for what was most valuable in the
smallest portable form, money and jewels and
plate ; and all these were in the bedroom of
Lazarus. This was the point of attack that
must be defended.

Now the thought crossed the mind of Joanna
that she might slip into the shop, close the door
between and open the shop door, run into the
street and give the alarm ; but her blood was
up. She was a brave girl, she was also a girl
quickly roused to anger, and she was now, not
afraid, but furious. If men had dared to break
into her master's house, she w T as determined
they should not leave it without a lasting lesson
not to do so again, at least while she was thereto
protect it.

Joanna was unprovided with firearms.
Lazarus had a revolver in his room, always
loaded ; but he took time to rouse, being a
heavy sleeper. Against the wall ranged in the
passage were the bottles of Ems water. Above,
on nails, hung a large locked saw. She took it

do wd, and removed the wooden cover to the
teeth. Then she crouched on the ground,
waiting, watching, like a terrier at a rat-hole.
Her eyes were on the back kitchen
door.

Presently she saw the faint light of the
closed lantern in the front kitchen, and heard
the fall of bare feet on the floor. She raised
her arm with deliberation, with eyes riveted on
her object, and flung a bottle of Ems water, not
under hand, as a girl casts, but as a boy hurls.
A gasp, a crash, and a smothered cry ! The
lantern fell on the kitchen floor. At once
Joanna glided forward, secured the lantern, and
retired whence she had crept, and covered the
light with her coat. The kitchen was dark as
pitch. She heard a spluttering and grumbling,
then a whispered query from the second burglar
what was the matter ? where was the light ?
Suddenly she sent a ray across the space ; it fell
on a face with staring eyes, a coarse ragged
beard, and a great cut across the brow from
which blood was running. That was all. With
a click the lantern was closed, the light cut off,
and with level directness another bottle struck
the same mark.

Then came a scuffle, a cry, and curses. She

listened, holding the light under the flap of her
greatcoat, and did not stir till she was sure that
the burglars, hurt, frightened, bewildered, were
scrambling back through the outer kitchen, one
falling over or clinging to the other. Then,
once again, she sent a beam of light upon them.
She let it travel from one to the other. She
marked both faces. One man had his hand to
his head, and hand and face were smeared with
blood. Again she flung a bottle, and the man
went down. Then she retired to the shop and
put on her shoes. She drew on her shoes
because the floor of the kitchen was strewn with
broken bottles, and she did not choose to cut
her feet. Then she took the saw r and pursued
the burglars. One was already through the
window over the sink, the other was making his
way through. With that generosity which is
found even among criminals, the uninjured
burglar had helped his wounded companion
through before he attempted escape himself.
Joanna attacked this man with the saw.

Hitherto the only sounds to which they had
given vent were muffled cries and groans. Xow
this second burglar uttered screams terrible to
hear.

Presently Lazarus appeared in his nightgown,

holding a candle, white with fear, with a
pistol in his trembling hand.

Put down the revolver,' called Joanna.
I've done the job without you.'

I What is the matter ? What is it ? Joanna !
Lord ! Lord ! Whose are these horrible
shrieks ? '

6 He is like to shriek,' said the girl, wiping
her brow with the left hand ; ' you'd shriek, I
reckon, if sawed at whilst crawling through a
little window.'

What are you doing? ' asked the bewildered,
frightened Jew.

Sawing, I tell you,' answered the girl.
Don't come forward ; you'll cut your feet on
the broken bottles. There ! we are clear of
them.'

'Clear of what?'

Joanna quietly shut the sash of the window
over the sink.

I I see how it was done,' she said ; ' they
removed a pane, and so got their hands in to
turn the hasp.'

'Who, child, who?'

Burglars, of course. Who else ? '

Burglars in my house ? '

They won't come again,' said the girl dryly.

1 Stay where you are, and let them get away
through the back-yard door. They came over
the wall, but neither of them is in a fit condition
for scrambling now.'

But, Joanna ! '

When my mother pawned me,' said the
girl, ' she said I could scream enough to scare
away robbers. I'm older now. I make the
robbers scream.'

So Joanna was false to her philosophy ten
minutes after having formulated her view of
life.

CHAPTEE XIV.

THE MOXOKERATIC PRINCIPLE.

You are a capital girl,' said Lazarus, ' and I
will not forget what you have done. The Ems
water was no loss to cry over, as the demand
for it is slack. I am grateful, and to show you
my gratitude I will give sound advice.'

4 Advice ! ' echoed Joanna contemptuously.
e That costs nothing. Take mine, and get into
your clothes.'

4 To be sure I will,' said the Jew. ' Whilst
I am getting on my garments, do you, Joanna,
see that the backyard is clear, and bolt and
bar the door. I'll provide that the sink window
is fastened up tomorrow. Every down-stair
window but that has iron bars. That, I
suppose, was neglected because it looked into the
yard. How did they get the window open? '

Go to your room and get on your clothes,
and I'll find out.'

4 To be sure. I am shivery, and might
catch cold, and be forced to send for a doctor.
Look here, Joanna ; after this affair there will
be no more sleep to-night for either of us, so I
will allow you to light the fire. We will sit
up and talk matters over till daybreak.' Then
he retired to his room, taking the candle with
him, and locking his door behind him.

Joanna took the lantern. She examined
the window that had been entered. The
burglars had affixed a diachylum heart-plaster
to a pane of glass, and cut the pane out. By
this means it had been removed noiselessly, and
was laid outside against the wall, unbroken.
She found the door in the yard open, as she
expected. The burglars had come in over the
wall, but had escaped by means of the door.

She made all the doors fast, and put a tray
before the careless window to exclude the
cold. Then she lighted a cheerful fire in the
stove. By this time Lazarus was clothed and
came out of his room.

I think,' said he, c as there is a good fire,
we might get the Persian carpet down from
the roof and dry it. Always kill two birds
with one stone, if they will stand for it.'

Assisted by the Jew, the carpet was brought
down and hung on a horse in the kitchen.

Then Lazarus drew his chair to the fire and
warmed his palms at the blaze.

When I consider,' said he, ' the deliberation
and coolness with which you worked off
those burglars, all I can say is you ought to
have been a Jew.'

The girl made no reply. It was a matter
of indifference to her whether she were a Jew
or a Gentile. She collected the broken stone
bottle sheds from the floor and mopped up the
slop of mineral water.

I have been counting the Ems water,' said
Lazarus ; ' there are but six bottles left.'

You arc not going to make me drink the
remainder, are you,' asked Joanna, standing upto
show that you are grateful because I saved
your house from being burnt and your throat
from being cut ? '

No, I am not,' answered Lazarus.

Whatever you do won't cost you much,'
said Joanna.

Now, don't say that,' Lazarus remonstrated,
nettled with the truth of the observation ; ' I
am not bound to do anything for you.'

6 Nor was I bound to save your roof from
flames and your throat from the knife.'

How coarsely you speak ! ' said Lazarus.
Then he was silent, looking into the fire and
then at Joanna, with something trembling on
his tongue, yet doubtful whether to utter it.
Probably he had resolved not to speak, for he
merely said to himself, c Ems ain't bad ; but its
day is over. Double dahlias one day, single
next. Such is the world. So the pendulum
swings.'

Joanna continued her work without a
reply.

'You are a good girl,' he added, looking
into the fire ; ' there is a splendid future in
store for you, only you don't know it. When
that does break on you you will cry out, "
Lazarus ! Lazarus ! " and swoon away for
delight.'

I'd rather have something now,' said
Joanna ; ' the gift of a sheet in winter is better
than the promise of a blanket in summer.'

You are fed, clothed, shod at my expense,'
said the Jew. ' Your mind has been formed
and your morals moulded by me. You have
no cause to grumble.'

Fed on scraps, clothed in rags, and educated
to keep your accounts,' muttered the girl.

You are discontented, peevish, and don't
know when you are well off.'

Every man knows the warmth of his own
jacket,' said Joanna.

'Hw I've stored your mind with knowledge
! ' exclaimed the Jew. ' You know the
value of an article as well as I, whether furniture,
plate, clothing, china. I've taught you a
lot of useful information, summing, bookkeeping.'


8 What is the good of striking matches for
those who don't want light ? ' asked the girl
sullenly.

What has put you out of temper to-night,
Joanna ? '

I have good reason to be in bad humour.

What have I done for Mr. Cheek that he should

give me the silk dress and the necklace ? Novo


thing but amuse him for an hour. What have
I done for you ? Everything. I have saved
your house from fire and your throat from the
razor. What do I set in return ? Nothing.'

4 1 am not ungrateful,' said Lazarus, seriously.
' Wait a bit longer, my girl, and I will
show you that I am not. I cannot tell you

now what I will do for you, but I will in time.
I promise you this — you shall have a reward
such as you have not dreamed to possess. Have
I ever failed to keep my word, Joanna ? No,
never ; it don't pay in business to be shifty
about promises. Now you have alluded to
Mr. Charles Cheek, I wish to speak to you
about him, and to give you a word of advice.'

Which again will cost you nothing,' threw
in the girl.

It is clear to me, Joanna, that Mr. Charles
Cheek is interested in you. Now, you are no
longer a child. You have swelled on my good
fare into a big, handsome girl, not at all of the
ordinary type. If Mr. Cheek continues to come
here, you are the attraction. I am well pleased
that he should come here, and provide beefsteak
pie and champagne, and if you behave
discreetly all is well. He is weak and careless,
and you may entangle him in a w T eb whilst I
suck his blood ; but let it be understood between
us that I will not have you entangled
in any thread of his spinning — not caught by
finger or toe, Joanna. Keep your head clear
and your heart cool. Be very careful of yourself,
not to allow the smallest feeling of regard

VOL. I. Q

to lodge in your bosom ; if yon do yon lose all
control over yourself.'

What is the advantage of offering a wig
to one with a head of hair ? ' asked the girl
contemptuously. ' I know how to take care
of myself. Tell me now, who is this Charles
Cheek?'

'He is the offspring of the Monokeratic
principle.'

< Of what ? '

4 Of the Monokeratic system of business,'
answered Lazarus.

I do not understand.'

I will explain to you. Sit down, child, on
the other side of the fire. Old Joe Cheek —
Lord! I knew him well, years ago, with a
little shop and a long head. He was in Devon-port
when he began, but Devonport wasn't a
sphere for one like him, so he moved up country.
Not content with a small retail shop, he opened
a store of combined grocery, haberdashery,
stationery, hosiery, wines, drugs, and oriental
goods, and sold everything for ready money.
Others have done the same, but not on the
Monokeratic system . '

6 What is that ? '

'Well, he advertised all over England,

"Try Cheek's Monokeratic system." "Mono-heretic
" is a Greek word, and means " the
unicorn." Cheek's system is the unicorn system.
That is the principle on which, he does business
and realises a great fortune.'

What is the unicorn system ? '

1 The system of ready money. Most tradesmen
have two systems — the cash system and
the credit system, and they do business on
both. Cheek does solely ready-money business.'


4 So do others, but they don't call it by so
wonderful a name.'

Exactly, and that is why they don't make
it answer so well. It is because Cheek calls a
simple thing by a sounding name that he does
a roaring trade. You know nothing, Joanna,
worth calling knowledge if you do not know
this, that English people love humbug as Italians
love oil and Spaniards love garlic. Nothing goes
down with them in politics, religion, business,
unless it be seasoned to rankness with humbug.
Mr. Cheek is sufficiently man of the world
to know that, and sufficiently clever to take
advantage of it. If old Joe Cheek did as
others, and sold for sentence cash what his
neighbours sold for a shilling credit, he would

Q 2

not have many customers, but he has managed
very cleverly. Every article is priced at credit
value, and when a customer leaves his shop he
is given a cheque for the discount. He pays full
credit price as cash, and receives the discount
back as a cheque to be deducted from his bill
when next he purchases at Cheek's. Do you
understand? By this means he secures the
return of the customer, who thinks he must
come back and buy something more so as to
recover the money on his cheque.'

But if he does not go back ? '

'Then he forfeits it. He has paid credit
price in cash. This is the Monokeratic principle
of business. You have no idea what a
fascination the name and the cheque exercise
on simple people.'

'But what has this to do with the unicorn
? '

Nothing whatever. The unicorn has one
horn, and Cheek one way of doing business.
That is the connection of ideas. The great
charm lies in the word " Monokeratic," of the
meaning of which the purchasers have not the
smallest idea.'

'And he does a good business? ' asked Joanna
interested.

A roaring business. I wish I did one-half
as good. I lent him money when starting ; but
I knew my man. He slipped out of my fingers
very quickly.'

'He must have brains,' said Joanna with
admiration.

8 He has indeed.'

Then Mr. Charles is his son ? '

k Yes — without the brains.'

Is he in the business ? '

Oh dear no ! Charlie is far too fine a
gentleman to soil his fingers with trade. He
can spend money, but cannot make it. Old Joe
Cheek was very anxious to have his son in the
concern. His idea is not bad. The old man
is a Dissenter and a Eadical, and lie wanted
Charlie to become a Churchman and Tory.
Then he calculated each could milk his own
cow. But Charlie had not the pluck and
energy for it. There is where we Jews have
the pull over you Christians. Now and then you
have among you a man of genius who makes a
business, but the son has not his ability or perseverance,
and lets it fall. With us the faculty
of business is transmitted hereditarily, like our
features ; it never fails, leaps a generation, dies
out.'

And Mr. Charles-what does lie do with his
time?'

Throws it away. Faculties ? Throws them
away. Money? Throws it away. He has
come to me for money, and I have helped
him. The old man turns rusty at times ; but
everything must go to Charlie in the end, as he
is the only son ; and then the business also will
be thrown away.'

I suppose,' said Joanna, ' if he be such
a fool, he may even throw himself away? '

Lazarus looked at her in surprise. ' You are
clever,' said he, ' but not clever enough to
manage that. The thing you must consider is,
to keep yourself secure. I don't want to lose
you as I lost '

Lost what ? '

< Rachel.'

6 Who ran away with Rachel ? '

Never mind. No one you ever heard

of.

8 Where is she now ? '

8 I have told you I do not know.'

Is she alone ? '

8 I do not know.'

'Is he with her?'

8 No.'

I suppose,' said the girl, c if the burglar
had cut your throat to-night, that Rachel
would have heard of it, and come and claimed
everything — your money, your jewels, your
plate — and turned me out penniless.'

The Jew was startled, and looked at Joanna
speechlessly.

You have never been legally divorced ? '

6 Xo. I don't fling money among lawyers.
We are separated for ever practically, though
perhaps not legally.'

6 Then she could take everything you have
or had, supposing your throat cut ? '

I suppose so,' was his slowly uttered reply,
and he rubbed his legs before the fire, frowning
and studying the coals.

'Joanna,' he said, after consideration of
some minutes, which she did not interrupt,
that shall never be. Rather than that I will
bequeath everything to you, every stick in the
storeroom, and crumb in the larder, and farthing
in my chest.'

That is your most sensible course,' said
Joanna ; ' that suits me better than stale advice
and flat Ems.'

I will do it,' said the Jew. ' I will write to
Grudge.'

I will bring the pen and ink at once.'

Not now — there is time. I'll do it sometime.'


That will not suit me,' said Joanna. ' What
has to be done must be done on the spot. Do
you not see that your interests are at stake ? You
secure me in the shop, ensuring my caring for
everything as if it were my own, protect yourself
against peculation by me,' she laughed
mockingly. ; You tie me to you as a faithful
servant for ever. I shall no mere grumble. I
shall be active, and on the alert to drive hard
bargains. I shall be bound to you Monokera-
totally.'

1 What do you mean ? How Monokerati-
call?'

1 By one principle, the strongest of all — self
interest.'

CHAPTER XV.

WANTED, A HOUSEMAID.

A few clays after the events related in the foregoing
chapters, Lazarus plunged into the kitchen
with the newspaper in his hand, in hot excitement.


■ Joanna ! ' he exclaimed, ' my dear Joanna,
put down the saucepan at once, and follow me
into my room. I have something very particular
to say. Providence is playing into our
hands. Look at the paper, read that ! '

He thrust it towards her.

My hands are wet,' she said ; ' I cannot
take the paper without reducing it to pulp.
Head what you want me to know ; I can listen
and scour the saucepan.'

You cannot. I want your close attention.
Put down the pan. Here, come into my room,
away from the distractions of a kitchen. Take
a seat. I have much to explain to you. Now,
at last, you may render me valuable service.'

I have rendered you that for many years.
I have recently saved your house from fire and
your throat '

Do leave my throat alone ; you are continually
making allusions to it which are painful.'

Joanna followed him into his room, and
wiped her hands on her apron. He held the
sheet to her, and indicated the lines she was to
read. The paper was a Plymouth daily newspaper
of local circulation, widely distributed in
the West of England. The Jew had indicated
the advertisement columns.

'Well,' said Joanna, 'this does not concern
me. " Wanted, a housemaid, immediately, ina
gentleman's family ; steady, experienced, not
under twenty, a church woman ; must have good
recommendations. Wages, 16/. Apply, Mr.
C. Worthivale, Court Royal Lodge, Kings-bridge."
'

It does concern you.'

Only so far as to show me how little I get
working for you. I am not going into service
elsewhere — no such luck.'

But I do want you to go into service with
the advertiser.'

What ! Leave you ? '

Yes, for three months ; then to return.'

Why so ? '

1 1 will give you niy reasons presently.'

Joanna looked again at the advertisement
with a puzzled face.

'lama maid-of-all-work. I am not an
experienced housemaid, fit to go into a gentleman's
family.'

That does not matter. There is no mistress
no lady in the house to see if you do your
work well or badly. Gentlemen do not care
how they pig.'

4 Steady,' said Joanna thoughtfully ; 'lam
steady as the Eddystone, but I am not more
than seventeen, and the advertiser requires a
servant to be over twenty.'

That does not matter. Gentlemen are no
judges of the ages of ladies. Besides, you look
old for your years.'

6 A churchman,' mused Joanna ; ' I am
nothing ; I have not been to any place of
worship except the board school, and there we
worshipped the inspector. How can I say I
am a churchman when I've been neither to
church nor chapel ? '

8 That does not matter,' answered the Jew.
It is all a matter of sitting and standing.
When church does one thing chapel does contrary.

Go to church for a Sunday or two, and
you'll get enough scrape of ideas to pass muster.'

'Then, how about references? I do not
suppose a character from you will count heavy.'

4 1 do not suppose it will,' answered the
Jew. ' I'll get Mrs. Delany to give you one,
the wife of Colonel Delany — a tip-top respectable
party that.'

She has never seen me.'

4 That don't matter. I have lent her money.'

Presently Lazarus said, ' Go to the table,
Joanna, and we will rough out a character for
Mrs. Delany to put in form and write in her
best hand.'

Joanna took a pen, dipped it in the ink,
and drew a sheet of old dirty letter-paper before
her. ' Go ahead,' she said, somewhat sulkily.

" Mrs. Delany presents her compliments to
Mr. C. Worthivale, and begs to recommend a
strong, healthy young woman who has been in
her service three years, with whom she would
not have parted on any consideration had not
the girl been called to nurse a dying mother." '

No,' said Joanna, putting down her pen,
4 1 will not write that.'

'It is as true as the rest.'

That is not what I scruple about. I will

not have my mother mentioned. She maybe
back any day with my ticket and ten
shillings.'

c Very well,' said the Jew, ' then we will
make it " white swelling." No — that won't do.
Say, " domestic affliction." '

Domestic affliction,' repeated Joanna after
her dictator.

" When released," continued Lazarus,
" Mrs. Delany had supplied her place, and
could not in conscience dismiss her new housemaid."
'

Go on,' said the girl. ' I have written as
far as " housemaid." '

'Full stop after "maid"' said the Jew.
6 Begin again with a capital. " Mrs. Delany
has always found the girl Joanna steady,
conscientious, and hard-working ; very clean,
both in her person and her work ; and, though
young-looking for her age, is turned twenty." '

This is the first time you've said a good
word for me,' muttered the girl, ' and now it is
half lies. Shall I add " eats voraciously and
grows at a gallop " ? '

6 On no account, my dear child. Continue
writing from my dictation,' said the Jew ;
" Joanna is unable to read or w r rite." '

Joanna laid down her pen. ' Why do you
say that ? '

< Because it is the best recommendation that
can be given. It is as much as saying that you
are a good servant. Besides, Mr. C. Worthivale
will be less afraid of leaving about letters and
account-books if he thinks they are unintelligible

to you.'

I have written after your dictation that I
cannot write. Is that all ? '

Yes, that will suffice. I will take the letter
to Mrs. Delany, and get her to transcribe and
post it — and put the penny stamp on also. You
are sure of the situation.'

You have not told me yet why I am to
take it.'

I will tell you now. Mr. Christopher
Worthivale is steward to the Duke of Kings-bridge.
I have advanced a great deal of money
on the property of the Duke — more money
than was prudent to put in one bag. The
estate is so hampered with mortgages, and the
requirements of the Duke are so great, that
Court Royal must come to the hammer. The
family is pretty well in my hands. I have the
mortgage on the home estate, which is the same
as a grip on their very heart. Now I want

you to ascertain for me how matters really
stand there. You must pry and discover. I
want to know when to close the trap on the
noble Duke, and whether I should leave it open
a little longer. All the requisite information
can be had at the steward's. You will have
access to his office, and must look at his books.
You are keen of wit as myself, and cunning at
accounts as a banker's clerk.'

I must give up my dancing lessons for
this ! ' exclaimed the girl, pouting and disposed
to cry.

The dancing lessons ! I had forgotten
them.'

4 1 have not ; nor Mr. Charles Cheek, and his
suppers, and the rose silk dress, and the Roman
pearls.'

1 You shall have the lessons on your return.'

By that time Mr. Cheek will have forgotten

me.

go.

6 That is possible.'

1 But that does not suit me. I will not

I have my plans, Joanna.'
And I have mine, Lazarus.'
He looked at her for some minutes, irresolutely.
Her brow was clouded, her eyes dull ;

the tears were filling them, and her lips quivered.
She restrained the fall of the rain with
effort.

Joanna, I am sending you where you may
observe the manners of the gentry. You are
sharp enough, and can use your knowledge.
You must study their habits of action and their
modes of speech. Some day you may have to
assume a position in which this knowledge will
be of service to you. Eemember, you are my
heiress.' He opened a locked drawer, and drew
forth his will. ' Look ! I have kept my word.
I have left everything to you. Now, in your
own interest it behoves you to see after my
investments at Court Royal. Look well at the
place. It may be yours some day. Such is
the way of the world. That which is at the
top comes down, and that which is at the
bottom mounts. It is so in every saucepan, in
every stew, and the world is but a boiling
cauldron where the currents cross one another
unceasingly.'

Joanna's face flushed, and the tears disappeared
from her eyes, which waxed bright
and eager. ' I will go,' she said ; ' I will do
everything you desire ; I will find out everything.'


Very well,' said Lazarus laughing. ' Now
hunt up the sort of clothes you will need to
wear, and let me see how you look in the
rig-out of a respectable, sober-minded, and
stupid English housemaid.'

After a few minutes she returned.

She had assumed a dark, quiet gown, with
a white apron. She had brushed back her
hair, and put on her a pretty white cap.

Oh ho ! on my word ! ' exclaimed the Jew.
What sweet simplicity ! Holloa, my pert
Betsy Jane ! ' He chucked her under the chin
insolently.

Joanna flushed crimson, and, striking him in
the chest, sent him staggering back, to tumble
over a stool and sprawl on the ground.

8 I will do what you bid,' she said angrily,
'but touch me if you dare.'

Then the shop-door rang, and Joanna heard
a voice calling her. She left Lazarus on the
floor, rubbing his shin, and went into the shop.
There stood Charles Cheek.

Well now ! ' exclaimed the young man,
4 this is a transformation scene in a pantomime.
What is the meaning of this ? '

Mr. Cheek,' said Joanna, ' I have been
considering what you said to me the other day.

VOL. I. R

I am going into another element, to learn the
manners of the gulls. It is a voyage of discovery.
I know no more of the habits and
speech and thoughts of those I am going to
see than if I were about to visit Esquimaux.'

CHAPTEE Xii.

Ventre.

On the last day of November Joanna was deposited
with her box at the gate of Court Royal
Lodge. A servant came out, and helped her to
carry the box round by the back door into the
house. She was taken to her room, where she
rapidly divested herself of her travelling clothes
and assumed apron and cap. The fellow-servant
looked critically at her, and said, ' Oh my !
how young you be ! How many sweethearts
have you had ? Among them a redcoat, I
reckon, if you've been in Plymouth. I should
dearly like to have a redcoat. They be beautiful
creatures.'

I have no sweetheart,' answered Joanna.

Then I reckon yon won't be long without
one here. There be gamekeepers here and the
footmen. But of that another time. I tell you
this is an easy place. There is no missus. There

R 2

ought to be proper-ly, but the young lady is
swallowed up by the folks at the Court, so she
is never here. All the better for us. Master
is a good sort of a man — very soft. Lets us
have our own way, and believes all the crams
we tell. As soon as you're ready the master '11
want to see you.'

I am ready now.'

And,' continued the servant, ' I'll bet you
a shilling I know what he '11 say to y'.'

I never bet. Shillings are too hardly
earned to be cast away.'

1 1 didn't mean naught, really. I'll tell y'
exactly what master '11 say. He '11 begin like
the minister in church : " come, let us worship,
and fall down." He always does with
every lady who comes into service here for the
first time. There is his bell. I reckon he won't
think you can be old enough, judging by your
looks. I shouldn't believe you was twenty, if
you swore it till black in the face.'

Joanna was shown into the drawing-room,
where Mr. Worthivale stood on the mat, with
his back to the fire, moving his feet uneasily.
He disliked an interview with servants, not from
pride, but from consciousness that he was helpless
in their hands — a defenceless fort.

c Good day,' he said ; ' please shut the door.
Miss Worthivale is not here at present, so I must
tell you what you have to do. Your name is
Joanna P '

1 Yes, sir.'

4 And your age is twenty ? '

So I am told, sir. I don't remember my
birth.'

6 1 suppose not. Of course not. You are
highly recommended to me. Mrs. Delany is the
wife of Colonel Delany, of the Royal Engineers,
I presume. One cannot make too sure. I turned
up the name in the Directory. I understand
you have suffered a domestic affliction. I see
you wear a black gown. I am sorry. I hope
you have not lost a very near relative — not a
father or a mother ? ' He spoke in a kind,
sympathetic tone.

1 My father is dead, sir,' she answered, looking
down and slightly colouring.

Dear me — how sad ! and your poor mother
is alone in the world — a rough world for a
fresh-bleeding heart to battle with. Have you
brothers and sisters ? '

Joanna answered, in a low voice, ' None,
.sir.'

It must have been a hard matter for your

poor widowed mother to make up her mind to
part with you. Sad also for you to have to
leave her in her bereavement and desolation.
Well, you have the comfort of knowing that a
Hand is extended over the widow and the
fatherless. Don't cry, child.'

Joanna was strangely agitated. The kind
tone touched her, conscious of, and beginning
to be ashamed of, her false position. Her
cheeks darkened and her eyes clouded. She
hung her head to conceal her face.

'You must write to your mother by this
evening's post. Tell her you have arrived, here
quite safely, and — I think you may add you
are in a house where you will be treated with
consideration. Oh ! I forgot — you cannot
write. I beg you a thousand pardons ; it had
escaped me. Shall I drop your mother a line ?
It would comfort her. Or, if you prefer it, get
your fellow-servant, Emily, to write. I will
let you have paper and envelope and stamp
from the office shortly.'

6 Thank you, sir,' said Joanna, looking up.
She had recovered herself. ' My mother — I
do not know where she is. She is not dead,
but lost ! '

Good God ! — poor child ! — Lord bless

me ! — what tragedies are played in the depths
below the surface on which we swim serene |
But, for the matter of that.' he added with a
sigh, ' there are sad enough stories, cares, and
break downs about and above us. I suppose
happiness and sorrow are pretty equally distributed
through all the strata of life — only
differing in kind, hardly in intensity. You look
very young, my child ; I should not have
thought you as old as Mrs. Delany affirms.'

1 I have had more experience than many
who are much older.'

8 1 have no doubt about that. Trouble and
responsibility ripen the character prematurely.
Sit down, Joanna ; you must be tired with
your long journey. I hope Emily has given
you something to eat. The drive from the
station is long and cold, over exposed moor.
Lord bless me ! when shall we have a junction
line ? '

Thank you kindly, sir, I am not hungry.
The cook is going to give me some dinner
presently.'

1 That is right. I will not detain you long.
I must put you in the way of things at the
outset, and then all will go smoothly afterwards.
I dare say your attention was called

to a wall for nearly two miles along the

roadside ? '

1 Yes, sir.'

'Very fine trees on the other side. Unfortunately,
the trees are not now in leaf, so
that they do not show to advantage. I always
think that a park tree in winter is like a man
of family without a landed estate. You know
he is great, but he does not look it.'

I saw the trees, sir.'

Well, Joan. That is your name, is it not ?
The wall encloses the park, and the trees you
saw grow in the park enclosed by that wall.'

8 Yes, sir, I understand.'

6 The park covers nearly — not quite — a
thousand acres, and some of the timber is
magnificent.' After a pause, to allow of the
absorption and assimilation of what he had
communicated, Mr. Worthivale said slowly,
4 That park is Court Royal'

8 Does it belong to this house, sir ? ' asked
Joanna, with affected simplicity.

Mr. AVorthivale fell back against the
mantelshelf, dropped his coat-tails, which must
have touched the bars of the grate, as an odour
of singed wool pervaded the room. ' Good
heavens ! what are you thinking of? You

must indeed be ignorant, very ignorant, to suppose
that so magnificent a park could belonged
this humble residence. This house is Court
Koyal Lodge. Not, you understand, the lodge
at the park gates, but an ornate cottage situated
on a patch of ground cut out from the
park, where was once an overgrown, ragged,
and unsightly bed of laurels. His Grace was
pleased to erect the lodge for my late father.
It is the house of the steward. I am the
steward.'

Yes, sir.'

And the park and the land as far as you
can see — that is to say, almost all, not quite all
belongs to his Grace the Duke of Kings-bridge.
I am the steward of his Grace. Now
you understand my position.'

Yes, sir, and I am to be housemaid to the
steward of his Grace the Duke of Kingsbridge ? '

4 Quite so,' said Mr. Worthivale ; ' you have
grasped the situation. Bless my soul ! I have
burnt my tail. I thought I smelt something.
How can I have done that ? Now, what I
want you particularly to understand, Joan,
from the outset is this — the proper manner in
which to address those of the ducal family who
do me the honour of calling. As it happens,

one or other comes here nearly every day.
You, of course, have not had to do with people
of title at Mrs. Delany's ? '

Mrs. Delany's husband is a colonel, sir.'

A colonel ! ' echoed Mr. Worthivale,
looking offended and disgusted. 'What is a
colonel ? Nothing.'

'Then,' continued Joanna, running over the
uniforms in Mr. Lazarus's store with a mental
eye, ' there was a field marshal, and an admiral
of the Blue, and half a dozen generals, and a
silk cassock, red hood, and college cap.'

The steward silenced her with a wave of
the hand.

What I particularly wish you to understand,
Joan, from the beginning is how you are
to comport yourself at the door should his
Grace, or Lord Edward, or Lord Eonald, or the
Marquess, or Lady Grace ring the bell. Emily
and you will have alternate afternoons at home.
She likes to go out every other clay, and I daresay
you will be glad to do the same ; exercise
and fresh air are good for health. When Emily
is out you will answer the bell. Open that
photographic album on the table, and look at
the first carte-de-visite — no, cabinet-size portrait.
You perceive a venerable gentleman

with white hair and fine aristocratic countenance.
That is the Duke. He does not come
here often. He cannot walk so far. If he
comes, the carriage brings him. You cannot
mistake him if you observe his warlike complexion,
and if you notice that the carriage
stands at the gate. It is essential that you
make no mistake in addressing him. I could
pardon a lapse with the others, but not with
him ; so impress his features on your memory.
When you open the door to him, mind you
curtsey. Can you curtsey ? The art is dying
out. Ask Emily to put you in the way, and
practise it till you are proficient. You must
address the Duke as " your Grace." He will
probably say, " My child, is Mr. Worthivale at
home ? " Then you curtsey a second time and
say, " Yes, your Grace." If I am out — which
God forbid ! — then say, " No, your Grace."
If you are uncertain, say, " Will it please your
Grace to step in, and I will inquire." You
understand ? '

'Yes, sir.'

8 Turn the page, and you will see two
dignified gentlemen. One is Lord Eonald, the
other Lord Edward. Look at them well.
They are like the Duke, but have not quite his

presence and beauty. They are his brothers —
younger brothers, of course — which accounts for
their slight inferiority ; of course, I mean relative
— relative only to his Grace. You address
them each as " my lord." " Is Mr. Worthivale
at home? " " Yes, my lord," or " No, my lord,"
as the case may be. Here, Joan, I will go
into the passage and knock at the door. Then
you open and curtsey, and I will represent — I
am ashamed to do it — the Duke of Kings-bridge,
and you will receive me according as I
have instructed you. Let me see if you have
taken the lesson to heart. After that I will
represent Lord Eonald or Lord Edward. Let
me have the satisfaction of knowing that you
have apprehended my instructions.'

So Mr. Worthivale rehearsed with Joanna
what he had taught her. He was void of
all sense of humour, and unconscious of the
absurdity of his conduct, and that the girl was
laughing in her sleeve.

6 Turn the page again,' said the steward.
You see the Marquess. You address him also
as " my lord." You understand ? '

'l r es, sir,' said Joanna distractedly. She
was looking at the next portrait with interest.
6 Oh, sir ! please, sir, who is this beautiful lady?'

8 That lady is as perfect and sweet in
mind and soul as she is in feature answered
Mr. Worthivale. ' That is the Lady Grace
Eveleigh. And, remember, she is not Lady
Grace, but the Lady Grace. A Knight's
wife is a Lady, you know. The makes all
the difference in the world. Everyone who
knows that lady loves her, she is so good, so
kind.'

I am sure they do,' said Joanna eagerly.
1 I am certain I shall love her, too.'

The steward was pleased ; he smiled and
nodded. ' You will address her as " my lady,"
you understand ? '

< Yes.'

8 Turn the page again, and you will see a
photograph of Court Royal.'

That house ? ' inquired the girl ; ' why, it
has got pillars before the door just like the
Royal Hotel at Plymouth.'

Mr. Worthivale shuddered and drew back.

My good girl ! For heaven's sake don't
liken a ducal mansion to — an — an — inn, however
respectable and old-established. It is
possible that the Royal Hotel may have a
portico '

4 It has two,' said Joan, eager for the credit

of the Plymouth house. ' Has this place got
two ? I only see one in the picture.'

Mr. Worthivale was silenced ; he coloured,
and looked down on the rug, frowning. Court
Royal had but one portico. Presently he said
in an embarrassed tone, ' It may be true — I do
not dispute it — that the inn in question has two
porticos. But there is a difference, my girl,
between porticos. Some are shams, shabby,
and stucco ; two, even five, porticos would be
insignificant beside one real portico, such as
that which graces the front of Court Eo T al.
The pillars are of granite, red granite from
Exmoor. When your eyes rest on the mansion
you will feel at once the temerity of drawing
comparisons between it and — and — an inn.
Upon my word, I think you had better go
there at once — that is, after you have had
something to eat and drink. By the way, do
not speak of the mansion as " the house ; "
that is scarcely respectful, and is contrary to
usage. You mention it always as " the Court."
You shall go down, Joan, to the Court after
you have partaken of some refreshment. I
will write a note which will serve as an excuse
for sending you. When there, ask to see the
housekeeper, Mrs. Probus, a most admirable

woman. She will show you over the state
apartments. His Grace is out. He has gone
for a drive. I saw the carriage pass half an
hour ago, and unquestionably the Lady Grace
is with him. Lord Edward is away, back at
his Somersetshire living, superintending the
preparations for Christmas and the charities.
The Marquess, I have no doubt, is out shooting,
and you are not likely to come across Lord
Eonald. Mrs. Probus knows what to do and
where to take you. Rely upon her. Do not
put off your walk too late. The da 7 s close in
rapidly, and I want you to see the Court to
advantage, and to be impressed by the influences
of the Place and the Family.'

CHAPTEE XVII.

STOCK-TAKING.

Joanna was given the letter by Mr. Worthivale,
and walked through the park to Court Royal.
The evergreen shrubs on both sides of the drive
relieved the monotony of winter bleakness.
The pines were clothed ; of them there was
great variety. The oak, though turned brown,
was not divested of all its leaves. The day was
fine and the air mild. Joanna knew nothing of
the country ; she was surprised at and delighted
with all she saw. She stood watching the
fallow deer, till she was frightened by the rush
past her, on wing, of a pheasant. The wood-pigeons
were flying in hundreds from one beech
clump to another, rejoicing over the fallen
masts. The afternoon sun shone yellow over
the front of Court Royal, making the windows
glitter like sheets of gold leaf. Joanna went
round to the back of the house, and delivered

her letter and message. She was taken into the
servants' hall, where some of the maids were
receiving visitors from Kingsbridge, and stuffing
them with veal pie, ham, tarts and clotted
cream. They ate cream with their ham, heaped
it on their bread, and jam on top of the
cream equally deep ; they drank it with their
tea, and filled the cups with lump sugar till the
lumps stood out of the tea like Ararat above
the flood. Some of the servants' friends had
brought their children with them ; these overate
themselves, were unwell, retired, and came
back to repeat the process.

Joanna looked on in amazement. She was
invited to take her place with the rest, but declined,
as she had dined recently.

Then the housekeeper came in, smiled benevolently
on the visitors, bade them enjoy
themselves, and called Joanna away to see round
the Court.

The housekeeper had been bred in the traditions
of the knowledge and love and fear of
the great Kingsbridge family. Her father had
been a footman, her mother a lady's maid in
the service of the late Duke, who had married
and kept the lodge. The first recollection of
her infant mind was being noticed as a healthy,

vol. i. S

pretty child, by the late Dowager Duchess.
She had been educated, gratis, at the school
supported by his Grace, a school which had in
its window the ducal arms and supporters in
stained glass, and outside, in the gable, the
ducal coronet and initials of Beavis, seventh
Duke of Kingsbridge. At an early age she had
served the family by opening the gates of the
drive, and had worshipped the family with
curtsies before she had been found old enough
to go to church and worship God. Then she
had been taken into the Court, and been a servant
there all her life, first in one capacity, then
in another, till she married the red-faced coachman,
who wore a white wig and sat on a
hammersmith emblazoned with the ducal arms.
Upon the death of the coachman, Mrs. Probus
returned to the great house as housekeeper. It
was unnecessary for her to do so. She had
saved, during her long service, a good deal of
money. The pickings had been considerable.
But the pickings were too considerable, the
living too good, the work too light to be resigned
hastily, and Mrs. Probus felt that it
would be banishment to hyperborean night to
be consigned to an almshouse for the rest of her
days, away from the splendour of the ducal

system, illumined only by the flicker of consciousness
that the almshouses had been founded
for the reception of worn-out ducal retainers.
So, though Mrs. Probus often spoke of retiring,
she postponed the evil day.

Her little sitting-room, into which she introduced
Joanna, was furnished with memorials
of the Eveleighs. Over the chimney-piece, of
course, was the portrait of the present Duke ;
over the sideboard, the picture of the late Duke.
On the cheffonier were the silver tea-kettle given
her by the Duke on her marriage, and a silver
salver with a long inscription, presented to the
late lamented coachman on his completion of the
fiftieth year of service. On all sides were presents
— remembrances of the Dowager Duchess
Anna Maria, of the late Duchess Sophia. On
her bosom she bore a brooch containing the
hair of the Marquess and Lady Grace, whom
she had nursed as infants ; and about her finger
was a white ring woven of silver hair, cut from
the head of Frederick Augustus, sixth Duke of
Kingsbridge, Marquess of Saltcombe, Viscount
Churchstowe, Baron Portsmouth, Baronet,
Grand Commander of the Bath, Knight of the
Garter, of Saint Patrick, of the Black Eagles

2

etc. etc. etc., cut off his head when she had laid
him out for burial.

Mrs. Probus was proud to show the house
to Joanna. When she learned that Joanna
was the new servant come to the lodge, she
understood at once that she had been sent down
there to be impressed, and Mrs. Probus was
never happier than when stamping the ducal
family on young minds. A reverent fear and
love of the family was the best preservative
youth could have against the trials and temptations
of life. It would save a girl from flightiness.
Every one who moved in the Kingsbridge
system was respectable to the tips of little finger
and little toe. Imprudence was impossible to
one nurtured in the Kingsbridge atmosphere.
When the butler heard of a young man who
had taken to drinking and gone to the bad,
Poor fellow,' he said, ' if only he could have
been received as a stableboy here ! ' When
the housekeeper was told of a young woman
who had lost her character, ' How dreadful ! '
she exclaimed ; ' would that she had been
kitchen-maid at Court Royal ! ' As the monks
and nuns of old believed that salvation was
hardly possible outside the cloister, the domestics
in the Kino-sbrid«"e constellation held that

no one went to hell from Court Royal or Kings-bridge
House, Piccadilly. The same feeling
pervaded the entire estate. The tenants were
steeped in it. They were all respectable ; the
farmers Conservative, churchgoers, and temperate
; their wives clean and rosy-cheeked,
attending to their dairies themselves, and curtseying
like schoolgirls, and standing with their
hands under their aprons, when visited by one
of the family. The cottagers reared their
children to abstain from evil and do that which
is good, because there was a great Duke far
above them who knew everything that went on
upon his estates, and who, if the children were
clean and respectable, would take them up into
service in the Great House, and provide for
them and make them happy for ever.

Xo more moral, respectable, orderly, religious
people were to be found in the West
of England than those on the Kingsbb ridge
estate ; but all this morality, respectability,
order, and religion rested on the foundation
of the love and fear of the Duke. One Sunday,
when the Rector's wife was catechising
the school children, she inquired who were
the elect people of God,' whereupon they
responded, as with one voice, ' The tenants of

the Duke, ma'am.' And what they said they
believed.

Mrs. Probus took Joanna up the grand
staircase, turning and glancing at her face at
the landings, to see that the proper expression
of wondering awe was there. She bade her
look at the pictures, and narrated the hackneyed
story of their acquisition on the continent by
the great Duke who was a general in the reign
of George I. The keen eyes of the girl were
in every corner, not on the pictures, which she
did not understand, but on the cabinets, the
Chinese vases, the pile carpet, the exotic ferns.
In the state drawing-room she made a halt, and
caught her breath.

my goodness ! ' she gasped ; ' the Chippendale
! '

'The what?'

1 The Chippendale ! ' exclaimed Joanna,
What first quality chairs and tables and cabinets.
Why, they ore worth a pot of money,
just now that the fashion runs on Chippendale.'

Of course the furniture is valuable,' said
Mrs. Probus with dignity. ' But pray do not
speak of it as though it were about to be soldat
an auction.'

1 And the china ! ' cried Joanna excitedly.

That pair of Sevres vases any dealer would
give a hundred pounds for, and ask for them
two hundred and fifty, and take two hundred.'

8 No doubt the vases are precious. They
were given to the late Duke by King Charles X.
from the royal manufactory.'

That nude figure of a woman seated on a
dolphin is fine,' said Joanna. ' Oh, please may
I look at the mark ? Double C crowned —
Ludwigsburg, modelled by Single. Look at
the glaze. Observe the moulding ! '

It is scarcely delicate,' said Mrs. Robust

On the contrary, it is most delicate, and
considering the delicacy, in admirable condition.
Only some of the flowers on the pedestal are
chipped.'

'I did not allude to the fragility of the
china, but to the impropriety of a lady going
about with only a scarf over her. However,
the subject must be right, or it would not be
here.'

4 Of course it is right,' said Joanna excitedly.
1 It is splendid ; worth thirty pounds to a
dealer, double to a purchaser. That is a pretty
First Empire clock.'

It don't go,' said Mrs. Probus.

Who cares for that ? ' answered Joanna.

< The shape is the thing. The ornaments are
very chaste. There yon have some old Ply-month.'


Yon seem to know a great deal about
porcelain.'

I do know something.'

Ah, yon ought to see the collection the
Marquess has in his room. He is a fancier,
and does not care what he pays to secure a
piece to his taste.' The housekeeper was
gratified at the enthusiasm and delight of the
girl.

■ May I — oh, may I see it ? '

6 Let me see — the Marquess has gone out.
I think it would be possible, though not allowed.
We may not show strangers over the private
apartments inhabited by the family. Still, this
is a different case ; you are a servant, almost, I
may say, of the family, as you are in the house
of the steward. Follow me through the diningroom.
I must show you the Eubens and
States and Van Decks, and the Murillo bought
by the late Duke Frederick Augustus ; he gave
for it seven thousand pounds.'

Joanna sighed. C I am ashamed to say I
know nothing of the value of pictures. That
requires a special education, which I have not

had. It is a branch of the business ' She

stopped abruptly, and then said, ' I dare say you
have a catalogue of the paintings, which you
could let me have. I should so much like to
know what you have here ; what to admire.
Then, on another occasion, I shall be better
able to enter into the merits of the pictures.
You see, ma'am, with so much that is wonderful
about one, the mind becomes bewildered.
I will not look at the paintings to-day, I will
look only at the china and the furniture.'

6 Certainly,' said the housekeeper, ' what
you say is just, I will give you a printed
catalogue — privately printed, you understand.'

That is a magnificent inlaid Florentine
cabinet,' said Joanna ; ■ worth a hundred
guineas. Oh, what treasures you have here ! '

Treasures indeed,' said Mrs. Probus ; ' you
see their Graces the Dukes of Kingsbridge have
always been patrons of art, and have collected
beautiful things in their travels through Europe.'

6 If only there were to be a sale here '

Sale ! ' exclaimed the housekeeper ; ' good
heavens above ! What do you mean ? Sale !
sale in a ducal mansion ! Young woman,
restrain your tongue. The word is indecent.'

She tossed her head, frowned, and walked

forward stiffly, expressing disgust in every
rustle of her silk gown and in the very creak
of her shoes.

I beg your pardon, ma'am. I was dazzled,
and did not know what I was talking about.'

Oh,' said Mrs. Probus, ' that alters the
case. Now we are in the wing containing the
private apartments. Here everything is more
modern and comfortable. You admire the
flowers, I perceive. Yes, there are camellia and
ferns in the corridor. If you like it, I will
conduct you over the conservatories — not now
presently. His Grace sets great store on
the green-houses and winter garden.'

Dear ma'am, I should so greatly like to
see them. I love flowers above everything in the
world. I have only fine little pots at home, on
the roof, and one of them contains a bit of wild
heather I dug up with my scissors, on the rare
occasion of a holiday. Now that I am aw r ay, I
do not know who will attend to my poor plants,
and whether I shall find them alive when I
return. I have no one in the world idiom I
can ask to do a thing for me.'

This is the apartment of Lord Eon aid,'
said the housekeeper. ' I will not show you in
there. It contains nothing of interest — that is,

nothing very extraordinary. His lordship was
a soldier, and loves to have everything plain.
No doubt it contains much that would interest
military men, but such as you and me don't
understand those pursuits. Here is the
Marquess's door. Wait a moment, whilst I
tap and peep in to make sure he is out. I am
sure he went out shooting, I saw him with the
keeper and the dogs — that is,' she corrected
herself, ' I saw the keeper and the dogs with
him.'

Mrs. Probus tapped timidly, and then
opened. ' Look about you,' she said, ' at the
costly china. He is out, as I supposed. It is
very bold of me to enter and introduce you.
See what abundance of porcelain there is here.
The Marquess is most particular. He will not
allow the housemaids to touch it. When
dusty, Lady Grace takes it down and cleans it.
He allows no other fingers than hers to touch
his valuable collection.'

1 How pretty the flowers are,' said Joanna,
looking at the bouquets on the table and on
the chimney-piece. ' So many posies — and
specimen glasses everywhere.'

1 Lady Grace always arranges them for her
brother,' answered the housekeeper.

No wonder that they are lovely,' said the
girl. ' I should so much like to see Lady
Grace.'

You will do so some day. Yes,' she
said, as she saw that Joanna was looking at a
miniature on the wall over the fireplace, \ that
is her ladyship when she was younger — when
she was about eighteen.'

Joanna looked at the portrait with interest
for a long while. Reluctantly, at last, she
turned away and began to examine the china.

c This is Chelsea,' she said contemptuously,
bad of its kind.'

It cannot be bad,' protested Mrs. Probus,
or it would not be here.'

This group ' began Joanna, putting

forth her finder.

Mrs. Probus arrested her hand. ' For
heaven's sake do not touch. You might break
and then — dear life ! I should sink through
the floor in shame and sorrow.'

8 I shall not break anything,' answered
Joanna. ' I could walk like a cat among Dresden
figures, or a best Swansea service, and not
upset or injure one article. Besides, if that
group were broken, what odds ! It is a modern
imitation.'

What ! a connoisseur among my china !
Condemning it, moreover ! '

Mrs. Probus turned, shivered through all
the gathers of her silk gown, raised her hands
deprecatingly, and turned pale.

Joanna looked round at the speaker and
recognised the Marquess from the photograph
she had been shown. She said, with perfect
composure, ' Yes, my lord, this piece is not
genuine. I can tell it by the colour of the
glaze.'

Indeed ! I gave a long price for it.'

'You were taken in, my lord. It is not
worth fifteen shillings.'

Oh, my lord,' gasped Mrs. Probus, 6 1 beg
your pardon ten thousand times. I thought
you was out, and I dared take the liberty — the
inexcusable liberty — of bringing this young
person in, who pretended to be interested in
porcelain — and her to dare and say your lordship
was taken in ! You'll excuse my audacity,
my lord, I pray, and her ignorance and impertinence.'


8 My dear Probus,' said the Marquess smiling,
' I am overheated to have my collection
shown to one who has taste and knowledge,
and discrimination.' Turning to Joanna, he

added, C I believe, to my cost, that you are
right. Doctor Jenkyn, who knows more about
china than anyone else in this county, has
pronounced unhesitatingly against this piece.
You are of the same opinion ? '

1 1 know it, my lord. I know where it
was made. There is a manufactory of these
sham antiques. I can tell their articles at a
glance.'

4 You seem to have an accurate eye and
considerable knowledge.'

4 In my former situation I was with a
master who collected china, and so I learned
all about it — if I broke any, I got whacks.'

4 Don't be so familiar,' whispered Mrs. Pro-bus,
greatly shocked.

4 And,' continued Joanna, c my master, after
a while, so trusted my judgment, that he would
let me spend pounds on pounds on porcelain
for him.'

4 Were you never taken in ? '

Joanna laughed. She taken in ! ' Never,
my lord.'

4 1 should like to know your opinion of
these bits of Chelsea.'

4 1 have already given it,' said Joanna, disregarding
the monitions of the housekeeper.
4 1 told Mrs. Probus it was a lot of rubbish.'

The Marquess laughed.
c Eight again. That is exactly Dr. Jenkyn's
opinion, not expressed quite as forcibly as by
yon.'

1 Here, my lord, yon have a charming little
Dresden cup and saucer ; really good ; canary
yellow, with the cherubs in pink. It is well
painted, and good of its kind.'

1 Keep it,' said the Marquess. ' I make you
a present of it as a remembrance of my den
which you have invaded.'

Thank you ! thank you ! this is kind,' said
Joanna, with sparkling eye. ' I will never part
with my little cup, never ; and I beg pardon,
my lord, for having persuaded Mrs. Probus to
bring me in here, against her better judgment.
It was not her fault, it was mine. I entreated
her to let me see your china.'

1 Not another word ; you are heartily welcome.
If I want to buy china again, I will
consult you.'

Joanna withdrew with a curtsey. Lord
Saltcombe signed to the housekeeper to remain
behind.

1 Who is the little china-fancier ? ' he asked,
in a low tone.

1 Oh, my lord ! I am so ashamed. Only the
new housemaid at the lodge.'

6 Indeed ! bow education advances ! ' laughed
the Marquess. 'In the march of culture weare
being overtaken. Who would have supposed
to find a housemaid so thorough a connoisseur ?
Well, she looks brimming over with brains, she
has plenty of assurance, and is deucedly pretty.'

Chapter XVIII.

LADY GRACE.

The words of commendation spoken by the
Marquess were sufficient to make Mrs. Probus
think of Joanna with more favour than before.
She had recovered from her panic, Joanna had
cleverly taken all the blame on herself, so the
old woman's face was wreathed with smiles, and
she professed her readiness to show the girl
whatever she desired. The Marquess had pronounced
on her abilities — a word of commendation
from him was enough for Mrs. Robust

dare say, my dear,' said she confidentially,
6 that Mr. Blomfield, the butler, will let you seethe
plate.'

c I am a judge of plate,' said Joanna gravely.
I know the hall marks on silver as I do those
on china,'

You do ? Lord bless me ! ' exclaimed the
housekeeper. Well, what is education coming

VOL. I. T

to ? That shows his lordship was right. He
said you had brains.'

4 Did he ? Then he can judge people as I
judge china. I should very much like to seethe
plate.'

Mr. Blomfield did not require much pressing;
he was proud to show the splendour of the house
in his department. He allowed Joanna to enter
the plate room, and he opened for her the iron
doors of the cupboards in the wall, and exhibited
the shelves, lined with green cloth, on
which shone centre-pieces, goblets, urns, tea
and coffee pots, spoons and forks, salvers large
and small, candlesticks and candelabra. All
were in perfect order, shining brilliantly.

This,' said Mr. Blomfield, opening another
case, ' contains very old family plate. It is only
brought out on the grandest state occasions.
Here is a silver gilt ewer, magnificently chased,
said to be three hundred years old ; the present
Duke was baptized out of it, but I believe it
was a punch bowl formerly. Much of this is
admired, but I cannot say I like it. The forks
have but two prongs, and the spoons are attained.
There is no accounting for the taste that
can admire such things as these.'

I suppose, sir, you have an inventory of all

the plate,' said Joanna timidly, raising her large
dark eyes to those of the butler.

6 Of course, miss, I have ; and I go over it
with the steward on occasions. Very proper it
should be so, though a mere matter of form.
Yon will not find many mansions where there
is such choice of plate. There is a great salver
which was presented to Field-marshal John,
Duke of Kingsbridge, when he was Lord Salt-combe,
in King George's reign, by the mayor
and citizens of Ghent. I've heard,' continued
the butler, ' that in some of your parvenu
families there is a lot of plate, a great and
vulgar display — but the quality is not there.
All this is old and fine, and in good style. The
new plate looks to-danish ; there is not the
character about it that our ancestral store
possesses.'

Do you know, sir, what you have got in
each cupboard ? '

Of course I do, miss. Do you not see that
a list of the contents of each is pasted against
the iron door, inside ? And with the list is the
weight in silver and gold.'

What is the weight of the whole amount
of silver, Mr. Blomfield? ' asked the housekeeper.

4 1 have never counted,' was bis reply. ' It

T 2

is easily done ; sum the totals affixed to each liston
the doors.'

I should dearly like to know,' said Joanna.
Where I was before I came here there was a
good deal of plate ; but nothing like this, oh,
nothing ! '

'I suppose not,' said Mr. Blomfield with
dignity. ' No one with a title, I suppose ? '

Oh dear no. What about now, do you
think, sir, is the weight ? '

I will take the numbers down and add them
up,' said Mrs. Probus good-naturedly.

Excuse me, sir,' said Joanna ; ' you have a
very beautiful bread-basket there. Might I look
at it more closely, and see the hall-mark ? '

Certainly.' He handed the basket to her.
Joanna looked at the handle. ' It belongs to
the reign of William and Mary. The year I
cannot say without a book.'

Dear, now ! To think you have found
that out ! I have had to do with plate all my
life, and know nothing more of the marks than
to look for the lion and the head.'

'Here is the sum of the weight of plate,'
said Mrs. Probus. ' The silver in this column,
the gold in that.'

c All that ? ' exclaimed Joanna. ' Why, the

silver at six-ancl-six an ounce, without allowing
anything for workmanship, is — five thousand
ounces — sixteen hundred and twenty-five
pounds ; but it would sell at a pound an ounce.
Five thousand pounds' worth of plate at the
lowest.'

You can calculate pretty quickly,' laughed
the butler.

'The Marquess said she had brains,' said
Mrs. Probus aside to Mr. Blomfield ; c he was
quite taken with her cleverness.' Then to
Joanna, 'Now I will show you over the conservatories.
You may keep the sum of the
plate if you like.'

'Thank you,' answered Joanna. 'I shall
like it very much.'

Joanna was one of those children of this
century, and of town civilisation, in whom
shrewdness and simplicity, precocity and childishness,
are strangely mixed together. When
in the house among the furniture, china, and
plate, she was reserved, observant, calculating,
storing her observations in her retentive memory,
prizing everything she saw ; but when she entered
the greenhouses, that calculating spirit
left her, and she was an unspoiled girl, overflowing
with fresh delight, full of exuberant

spirits. In the house, amidst the artistic valuables,
she was in a world with which she was
acquainted ; in the conservatories she had passed
to another and unfamiliar sphere. She had been
reared in the midst of manufactured goods, apart
from nature ; now she was'introduced to nature's

ill

best creations. Mrs. Probus was amused at the
girl's expressions of rapture at the beauty of
what she saw. Grapes she saw for the first
time hanging from the vines, and oranges shining
among the glossy leaves of the trees, side by
side with silvery flowers. The dwarf apricots
and nectarines were still burdened with fruit.

When she saw the flowers her excitement
was unbounded. She laughed and cried at once.
Her cheeks Unshed, her eyes sparkled, hands
and feet were in incessant agitation. The primus,
the cyclamen, were in full, delicate bloom.
The wax-like camellias, white and crimson, were
in flower; chrysanthemums, screened from frost,
were in tufts of every colour. The air was
scented with white Eoman hyacinths.

4 Oh ! ' cried Joanna, with hands uplifted, ' I
would that the Barbican and all the world would
sink into the ocean, and leave me alone hereto
be happy with the flowers, for ever.'

At that moment the door from the next, the

orchid house, opened, and Lady Grace Eveleigh
appeared, dressed in silvery grey, with a quiet,
close bonnet on her head. She looked at the
excited girl with a sweet, confidence-inspiring
smile, and came forward.

Dear alive, my lady ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Probus, ' I am a most unfortunate body to-day.
I took the liberty of taking this young woman
through the conservatories, without a thought
that your ladyship was here. I have been unfortunate,
indeed, this afternoon.'

Not at all, not at all, Probus,' said Lady
Grace. ' I am always delighted that others
should enjoy our pretty flowers. You like
flowers,' she added, turning to Joanna, her voice
soft as the cooing of a dove.

I love them,' said the girl, clasping her
hands together.

What were you saying as I came in ? ' asked
Lady Grace.

Joanna answered, half laughing, half crying,
'I said that I wished the world would sink
under the sea and leave me alone with the
flowers.'

4 That was rather a selfish wish,' said Lady
Grace. ' Do you not care that others should
share your pleasure ? '

Ko, not at all,' answered Joanna bluntly.

6 Excuse her, my lady,' put in Mrs. Probus,
with a frightened look, ' she doesn't mean really
to differ from your ladyship ; she doesn't understand
what she says.'

I do ! hold your tongue,' said Joanna, turning
sharply on the housekeeper.

Do not trouble yourself, dear Probus.
Whoever loves flowers has a kindred feeling
with me. I love them with all my heart.'
She looked at Joanna, who stood undecided
what to say or do. Then, turning to Mrs. Pro-bus,
she said, ' Will you do me a favour, and
yield your place to me, nurse ? Let me take
her round the houses. You do not know
the pleasure it gives me to show the flowers
to one who can feel towards them like myself.'


Very well, my lady,' said the old woman,
but you must not take it amiss — if this young
person '

I shall take it greatly amiss,' interrupted
the lady, ' if she does not admire what I admire.
I can see in her bright eyes that she is happy
with my pets. Leave us alone together ; we
shall perfectly understand each other. We
flower fanciers have a language of our own,

understandable among ourselves, sealed to outsiders.'


When Mrs. Probus was gone, Lady Grace,
looking kindly into the girl's excited face, asked,
Will you tell me what is your name ? '

Joanna.'

Joanna ! ' repeated Lady Grace. ' That
name is uncommon. It is pretty, very pretty,
and quaint. I like it.'

The girl flushed with pleasure and pride.

I am glad you like it,' she said ; ' I never
thought a button about my name before. Now
I shall like it.'

I hope you like Probus,' said the lady.
She was my nurse long, long ago. She used
to scold me a little and caress me a great deal.'

1 Please, my lady,' Joanna spoke timidly,
c may I go very, very slowly along, because all
this is so new and so beautiful that I cannot bear
to miss anything ? Mrs. Probus walked so fast,
and was afraid of staying long anywhere.'

4 1 will go as slow as you like, and stop as
long as suits you beside any flower. That is a
yellow primula ; look, under the leaves is white
flour, it comes off on your finger, and that gives
the plant its Latin name. It has a sweet scent.
Whence do you come from, Joanna ? '

The girl pointed downwards.

The questioner looked at her with surprise,
not understanding the significance of the indication.


< Out of the depths. Picked out of the mud
true as my word unvarnished,' explained
Joanna.

'So is it with the water-lily,' said Lady
Grace, 6 one of the purest and most glorious of
flowers. Its roots are in the basest slime, its
flowers in the sunshine without soil. I am sure,
Joanna, you will grow up as the water-lily.'

The girl shook her head. ' You don't understand.
I am not a flower, but a grub.'

And the grub becomes a butterfly, that
soars far above the garbage on which it crawled
and fed.'

c I can never be a butterfly.'

You can rise.'

I am rising,' said Joanna firmly ; 'I intend
to rise. But you think your way, and I think
mine. You rise your way, which I cannot
understand or copy, and I rise mine as I may,
in whatever direction chance gives me an
opening.'

Lady Grace looked into the girl's face and
tried to decipher its language. She saw that

the mind was full of intelligence, precociously
developed. She saw that ideas were working
which Joanna was powerless to express. The
girl misunderstood the intent look of the lady,
and said, ' I have made you angry. Everyone
here is taught to agree with you. I say what
I think. Whether it jumps or jars with the
opinions of others matters little to me.'

I like you to speak out of your heart freshly
what you think.'

4 Then,' said Joanna eagerly, c I think there
is not a flower in all this place so sweet and so
beautiful as you, lady.'

You must not say that.' Lady Grace
coloured.

'Why not? It is true.'

1 No, it is not true.'

1 think it,'

8 Never mind. Do not speak such things. I
do not like them, and they will make me distrust
you.'

Both were silent for a few minutes, and then
Joanna said, ' How very, very happy you must
be here, my lady.'

6 Yes,' answered the lady, in her soft, sweet
voice, in which was a tone of sadness, ' I am
happy.'

Joanna noticed the omission.

Why do you not say very happy ?

6 I am indeed happy and thankful.'

Joanna now looked at her as intently as
Lady Grace had previously observed her. The
expression on Joanna's face was one of perplexity.
At last she said, ' I don't understand,
and I can't understand.'

8 What, Joanna ? '

4 My lady, you do not and you cannot understand
me, and I do not, and try as I may I
cannot, understand yon. We belong to different
worlds.'

8 And are forgetting the bond between us —
the flowers.'

Presently Lady Grace pointed to an arcade,
where, against the wall, oranges, limes, and
citrons were growing.

8 Do you notice these trees ? ' she said ; ' they
are very ancient, one or two of them are as much
as two hundred years old.'

8 What a pity ! ' answered Joanna ; 8 they
must be worn out. You should stub them out
and plant new, improved sorts.'

Lady Grace went into the vinery, and
brought thence a large bunch of green Mn

cat el grapes on a leaf. She presented it, smiling,
to Joanna.

It is a pleasure,' she said, ' to have grapes
for the sick and those who have no vineries of
their own. They do enjoy them so greatly.'

Do you give grapes away ? '

Yes, of course we do.'

'But you might sell them and make a lot
of money — enough to pay the gardener's wage.'

Lady Grace coloured and laughed. ' We
couldn't possibly do that.'

Why not ? '

For one reason, because then we should
have no grapes to give away.'

But you are not obliged to give them
away ? '

To the sick, of course we are.'

1 Why of course ? '

Why, because they are sick.'

1 They should buy grapes for themselves if
they require them.'

They are poor, and cannot do so.'

Then let them do without. You are not
bound to them, nor they to you.'

Lady Grace, with a little sadness on her
brow, but a smile on her lips, said, observing
her, 'It is a pleasure to give them what they

cannot get themselves. There, it is a greater
pleasure to me to watch you enjoying that
bunch of Muscatel than if I were eating it
myself.'

Joanna shook her head. 6 We belong to
different worlds,' she said. ' If these greenhouses
were mine I would keep everyone out
but myself, and I would spend my life in them,
looking at the flowers and eating the grapes.'

4 You would not spare me a bunch ? '

4 1 would give you every tiling,' said Joanna
vehemently.

'Why?'

'Because I love you, and would want to
make you love me.'

You ought to love the sick, the suffering,
and the needy, and be ready to relieve them.'

They are nothing to me. They can do
nothing for me.'

We are all one family, tied together by common
blood, bound by mutual duties, members
of one body ; and the hand cannot say to the
foot, " I have no need of you," nor the head to
the hand, " I have no need of you."

We are individuals,' answered Joanna. ' To
look out for self is the law of life and of progress.
I have heard Las — I mean my late master — say

that this it is which makes the United States so
great and prosperous, that every man lives as an
unit, cares nothing for his fellows, and beats his
way through and over all who stand in his path.
This it is which makes the old order fail, that
every man under it was entangled in responsibilities
to every man around him, above, below,
and on his level, and was not free. The old
order must give way to the new. That is what
my master said.'

4 1 do not like your theory, Joanna. It grates
with my notions of right and wrong.'

c I dare say not, my lady. You have been
reared under the old principle of social life, I
under the new. Each man for himself, my
master said, is the motto of the coming age, and
those who are hampered with the old doctrines
of mutual responsibilities must go down.'

You are a very extraordinary girl.'

No, my lady, I am not. I am merely the
child of the period, a representative of the coming
age ; there are thousands and ten of thousands
like me, trained in the same school. Tous
belongs the future.'

Lady Grace Eveleigh sighed, and put her
hand to her brow, unconsciously. ' I have no
doubt you are right,' she said ; t I feel rather

than see that it is so. Yes — perhaps it is well.
I do not know. I suppose I am prejudiced. I
like the old order best.'

Joanna was frightened. She had spoken
too boldly ; not insolently, but confidently.
She feared she had hurt her guide. When
Lady Grace put her hand to her brow, it was
as though she had received a blow. Joanna
touched her.

• Was I rude ? Have I pained you P I am
very, very sony. I would die rather than hurt
you.' She caught Lady Grace's hand and
kissed it.

Xo, not a bit,' answered the lady. ' It
does one £good to know the truth. Sooner or
later it must be brought home to us, and rather
from your lips than from a ruder tongue. We
go on in a dream, with the poor always about
and with us, and will wake up with surprise to
find them above us. I hear my father and
uncles forecasting the future, with dismal faces ;
I did not expect to hear the same forecast animating
the rising power. Do not let us talk
of that longer. Let us consider the flowers.
By the way, I suppose you will be at our
Christmas tenants' ball. We give one in the
winter to the farmers and their families, and to

-.ants and their friend. Of co
I
Oh, what a pity, what a pity, what a pity I '
Lady Gb ice was unable to refrain a laugh
at the gi libations and droll consternation.



• What is such a pity : ' she asked.

I was to have learned to dance, but my
corning here interfered with my lessons, so I
can only look on and not be able to tak
parr

• You shall have some lessons said Lady
:e Eveleigh, with a sweet, kind smile. -I

will see to that. Miss Worthivale will arrange

o

what times iii suit best, and you shall be
taught by me. in my own room. Miss Worthily
is so good and sweet that she will help mec
Oh, thank you, thank you exclaimed
Joanna ; ; :hat is prime ! '

• There is one thing more.' said the lady ;
you are fond of flowers, I suppose y

must have something like a garden at home.'
4 1 have five pots — one cracked, and an old
without a spout.'

• What grow in them : '

Fuchsias, Guernsey lilies, geranium, and
wild heath.'

i. u

Will you accept this from me ? It is
nothing to look at now ; only a crowd of little
horns poking out of the earth ; but they will
expand in time into lilies of the valley, full of
beauty and fragrance. Keep them as a remembrance
of me.'

'I will never, never part with them,' said
Joanna. ' This is the second present I have
had to-day. Look here ! Your brother gave
me this.' She showed the porcelain cup and
saucer.

Lord Saltcombe gave you that ! What —
have you been talking to and astonishing him ? '

6 Yes,' said the girl, ' I did astonish him a
bit. He gave me this ; but I like your flowers
best.'

I must leave you now ; I saw my father
return in the carriage.' Lady Grace hesitated
a moment, looked questioningly at Joanna, and
then touched her, drew her to her, and pressed
a light kiss on her brow. ' We are travellers
over one pass. Some ascend as others go
down ; as they meet and pass, they salute,' she
said, and slipped away.

CHAPTER XIX.

SLEEPY HOLLOW.

The Venerable the Archdeacon of Wellington,
Bachelor of Divinity, Canon of Glastonbury,
Sector of Sleepy Hollow, and Chaplain to his
Grace the Duke of Kingsbridge, was sitting in
his study with his wife one morning in November,
discussing the list of poor people to whom
Christmas benefactions were to be given.

The Archdeacon regarded himself, and was
regarded, as a man of business. He was secretary
to several diocesan societies ; he was a stay
to the Kingsbridge family. Whenever a spasm
recurred in the financial condition of the Eve-weighs,
a telegram summoned him to South
Devon, and he spent some hours in consultation
with the steward at Court Royal. When
he returned to Somersetshire he felt that his
presence had been of use. So it had on more
occasions than one, for he had advanced money
to relieve the strain.

v 2

Keally,' said Lady Elizabeth Eveleigli —

the Venerable the Archdeaconess, and Grey

Mare of Sleepy Hollow — ' I think we do a
great deal more than is necessary. There are
the coal club, and the clothing club, and the
blanket club, and the shoe club, and the Sunday
school club, and the widows' alms, and the
three yards of flannel to every married woman
in the place, and the Christmas largess and the
Christmas beef. This comes very heavy. You
cannot put our charities at a less figure than
sixty pounds per annum ; then that great imposture,
Queen Anne's Bounty, absorbs sixty
pounds more, and the rates come to eighty,
and the curate gets one hundred and twenty-five.
Church expenses amount to ten pounds ;
the living is worth three hundred and forty
pounds — that leaves us just five pounds on
which to keep house, pay five servants, and
entertain all the neighbourhood, subscribe to
every church restoration, and contribute to
every bazaar.'

4 My dear Elizabeth, I have my canonry.'
Worth eight hundred pounds, which goes
into that Goodwin Sand, the KiD^sbridge debt.
I know it does. Do not pull a face ; I know
it. I never finger the money.'

6 Then there is my archdeaconry, worth two
hundred.'

1 Out of which we pay the servants and
keep the carriage. Edward, it is really too
bad ; you ought to have been a bishop.'

6 Elizabeth, how is that possible, with the
Liberals in power ? '

I am sure that ought to be no hindrance
to your promotion. You have never offered an
opinion decidedly on any topic, political or
ecclesiastical, that could be objected to by anyone.
You have been most tolerant. Your
charities have been given indiscriminately to
Dissenters and Church people. You never
have taken a side. You have been scrupulously
via media.'

I do not want to be a bishop. I have not
the physical strength.'

4 1 do. A bishopric means a good deal
more than the four thousand set down in
Whitaker " — it means getting a haul out of
Queen Anne, and some pickings, may be, from
the Ecclesiastical Commissioners.'

6 Let us return to the lists, Elizabeth. Weare
considering Betty Perkins, not me.'

Betty Perkins puts me out of patience,
said the Venerable the Grey Mare. ' She has

only just paid into the clubs one lump sum. I
cannot see the good of clubs and rules, if she is
to be allowed to reap the benefit of the former
whilst violating the latter. She has sent in
four-and-fourpence for the coal club, 
for the clothing club, 
for the shoe club, four-and-fourpence for
the blanket club, and twenty-one shillings and
eighteen for her five children, who only attend
Sunday school now and then —-just before
the treat and the Christmas tree. I have her
money in my pocket now — listen how it rattles
thirty-nine shillings in all. She will get her
cards with seventy-eight shillings on them, just
thirty-nine shillings allowed her for putting in
her money to-day, to receive it out with interest
tomorrow. It is preposterous. I believe
she borrowed the sum for the occasion. I
refuse to be treasurer and secretary to the
charitable clubs if you wink at such flagrant
cases.'

My dear Elizabeth, there is no one else in
the parish capable of managing the clubs. As
to Betty Perkins, consider how poor she is,
with a husband irfven to drink, and five children.'


Rules are rules,' said Lady Elizabeth.

1 Yes, my dear, but justice must be tempered
with mercy.'

I do not think the clubs and alms do good
The people take what is given them as a right.
They are not grateful, they do not come to
church a bit the better for being bribed at the
rate of five pounds per house to come.'

We cannot give up the clubs, Elizabeth.
They really are a great comfort to the people.'

4 You pauperise them, Edward. Well ? ' to
the man-servant who appeared at the door ;
what is it, Thomas? '

Please, my lady, there is a gentleman in
the drawing-room who wants to see his lordship.'


'Let me look at the card,' said the Archdeaconess.
( Eigsby ! Eigsby — I do not know
the name. Some traveller for a wine merchant,
I suppose.'

1 Bless me ! ' exclaimed Lord Edward Eve-lei
gh, when, by his wife's kind permission,
he was allowed to look at the card ; ' my
old college friend Eigsby. I thought he was
in Ceylon, coffee-growing. I heard he had
realised a great fortune. Excuse me, my dear
Elizabeth. Settle Betty Perkins as you like —
that is, no, let her off this time, and I will have

a talk with her. She will be more regular
next year. Elizabeth, I must ask Rigsby to
lunch.'

There is cold mutton and mince,' answered
Lady Elizabeth. ' Also tapioca pudding.'

I haven't seen Rigsby for forty years — no,
not for forty years. I must insist on his paying
us a visit. You can manage it, Elizabeth P '

4 The sheets in the best bedroom are aired.'

The Archdeacon hastened into the parlour,
where he found a tall brown man, with grey
hair, seated, awaiting him.

1 1 am so glad — so delighted to see you
again,' said Lord Edward, extending both hands.

I have come,' said Mr. Eigsby, 4 on my
daughter's account. "We have been visiting
Glastonbury, and she has been taken ill there,
whether with neuralgia or toothache it is not forme
to determine. She is a sad sufferer — and I
thought, being in a strange place, that I might
venture on calling, trusting you might not have
quite forgotten me '

1 My dear Eigsby ' interrupted the Archdeacon,
with overflowing cordiality.

8 Excuse me,' said the visitor, putting up his
hand to stop him, ' I will say what I desire first,
and then shall be thankful for your remarks on

it. I was observing that I relied on your kindness,
which I well remembered, to help me
with your advice. I am a stranger in Glastonbury,
indeed a stranger in England. You have
a local dentist here — that is, at Glastonbury. I
want to know '

Yigurs is the man for you,' said Lord
Edward.

6 One moment, and I have done,' continued
Mr. Eigsby, looking with impatience at the
Archdeacon. 1 1 have no confidence, myself,
in local practitioners ; if there be real genius it
will unquestionably gravitate to town, and the
dregs of the profession be left in the country.'

1 beg your pardon '

You will allow me to finish what I was
saying Eigsby looked Lord Edward down.
8 One hears atrocious stories of the misdeeds of
these men — breaking jaws, drawing the wrong
teeth, and so on. I could not suffer Dulcina to
run such a risk unless I were perfectly satisfied
that the man was really first-rate.'

4 Yigurs is a splendid fellow ; a thorough
Churchman, and always stays

Excuse me if I say that this is neither here
nor there. I do not care a snap for the religion
and politics of Mr. Yigurs, but I do care for his

being a first-class dentist. It is a long way to
town, and Dulcina's sufferings are so intense
that I am inclined to place my sweet child in
the hands of a man, even if in the country,
if he may be trusted. I suppose that in Bath
or in Bristol a dentist of some experience and

i intelligence '

I can assure you '

I shall have done directly. I was observing,
when interrupted, that in Bath or Bristol a
dentist of experience may be found, but that
would entail a journey to Bath or Bristol.
Dulcina, poor child, is so prostrated by her
pains last night that I hardly like to move her
so far. If you saw the sweet flower, you would
say the same — so fragile, so fair, so languishing.'

You may rely on Vigurs,' said the Archdeacon.
' He has drawn many of my teeth and
stopped others. Vigurs is quite a first-rate man.'

If the tooth be drawn, ether or nitrous
oxide must be used. Can I trust this man to
employ such means ? My child's life is too
precious to be played with. She is my only
child, heiress to all the fortune I have toiled for
forty years to gain. She will be worth ten
thousand a year after I am gone. Judge if the
world can do without one so gifted. As forme,

I live only for Dulcina, Were she to
expire under nitrous oxide I should blow out
my brains.'

Have perfect confidence in Vigurs. He is
a man of note. This neighbourhood is well
peopled with county families, and they all goto
Vigurs in preference to London dentists.
Where is your daughter now ? '

'She is at the White Hart. Miss Stokes,
her aunt, is with her. She has administered
soothing drops, and Dulcina is asleep. Poor
soul, she needs repose after the torture of
toothache or neuralgia. I do not pretend to
determine which it is, but she has a carious
molar. I have seen it. You are positive that
Mr. Vigurs may be allowed to look at my
daughter's jaw ? '

Positive. First-rate man, gentle as a lamb
with ladies. Now Eigsby, as your daughter is
asleep, spare me a few minutes to tell me something
about yourself. You look well burnt like
a coffee berry, but hearty — more so than myself,
who am but a creaking gate. Have you
definitely left Ceylon ? '

6 Yes ; Dulcina and I came here to look at a
house and park that is for sale. Dulcina and I
intend to settle in the country. I have sold my

- jylon, providentially before the coffee

-e invaded the island, so that I sold them

well, and the purchaser, not L has been ruined,

for which I cannot be too thankful. We like

end this part of the country,
rich, well wooded, and there seem to be many
gentlemen's seats bout I can that

Shotley Park is quite to our taste, but we will
think over it, and discuss it together when
Dulcina's tooth ses strict her. Poor

dear, she can drive her attention to nothing now



but her tooth and the nerve that runs up into
the head across the cheek from the jV

• Will you take anvthi:

• I should not object to a glass of s md
a biscuit Nervousness about my daughter has
rather shaken me.'

• Now look here, Bigsby. I will not hear of
your - at the White Hart. Y
positively come to my house and stay a fortnight.
Under that time I will not let you
off: stay over it as long

Thi!ik you. I do not mind if I accept.

If anything has to be done to my dear Dulcinea

jaw, it would be more satisfactory to be in your

pry than in an inn. One cannot secure all

the comforts requisite for an invalid at an hotel.

Should the tooth be extracted or the n
destroyed, my daughter will be so shattered
that further travel will be impossible for some
days. The people at the White Hart are good

kin i ; still an inn is not a place for ape:
with a carious tooth. Dulcina is made uncomfortable
by the scream of the engines. Glastonbury
is a terminus, and every :,gine that comes in
shrieks to announce its arrival, and every one
that leaves shrieks to proclaim its departure.
Dulcinea nerves are in that quivering state of
irritation that the least noise upsets her.'

'SI ah 11 come here at once ill send

rri ;-

• We will come in the afternoon. I must go
and see the dentist myself. I shall be able to
judge by his looks whether he is intelligent —
as for his experience, of that I cannot form an
opinion. Has studied in America!

ikees are far ahead of us in dentistry. They
trail Beth as we do trees. 5

• Wi nt.' - ; :Lc A:; ; . ; a : 'I
will fel a Lady Elizabeth '

He rai o;;t o: :::e roe:::. a::l -
still engaged over the club accounts

•My dt she, • I will meet

your wishes 1 ; I can do no more.

Betty Perkins shall have two-ands twopence
instead of four-and-fourpence in each club.'

4 Elizabeth,' exclaimed the Archdeacon,
come into the drawing-room and see Kigsby.
But stay — first give me the telegraph forms ; I
must send off at once for Saltcombe.'
Why so ? What has occurred ? '
My dear Elizabeth, Rigsby has an only
daughter, worth ten thousand a year. That
represents about two hundred and. fifty to three
hundred thousand pounds. Oh, Elizabeth ! if
only some of the Kingsbridge estates might be
cleared with this sum, how happy we should all
be!'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

Fcp. Svo. Limp Cloth.

By the Sisters Bronze.

2s. 6d. each.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronze.

SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronze.

VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronze.

THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronze.

WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. AGNES GREY.

With Preface and Memoir of the Sisters, by Charlotte Bronte.
THE PROFESSOR. By Charlotte Bronte. To which are added the Poems of

Charlotte, Emily, and Anne Bronte.

By Anne Bronte.

By Mrs. GASKELL.
2s. 6d. each.

WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.
NORTH AND SOUTH.
SYLVIA'S LOVERS.
CRANFORD, and other Tales.

MARY BARTON, and other Tales.
RUTH, and other Tales.
LIZZIE LEIGH, and other Tales.
LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze.

By LEIGH HUNT.

2s. 6d. each.

IMAGINATION AND FANCY ; or, Selections from the English Poets.

THE TOWN : Its Memorable Characters and Events. Illustrated.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LEIGH HUNT.

MEN, WOMEN, AND BOOKS ; a Selection of Sketches, Essays, and Critical

Memoirs.
WIT AND HUMOUR: Selected from the English Poets.
A JAR OF HONEY FROM MOUNT HYBLA ; or, Sweets from Sicily in Particular,

and Pastoral Poetry in General.
TABLE TALK. To which are added IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS OF

POPE AND SWIFT.

Uniform with the above, 2s. 6d. each.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington. By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering. By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE. By Anthony Trollope.

ROMOLA. By George Eliot.

BELOW THE SURFACE. By Sir A. H. Elton, Bart.

TRANSFORMATION. By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

DEERBROOK. By Harriet Martineau.

HOUSEHOLD EDUCATION. By Harriet Martineau.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LUTFULLAH.

LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH Humorist OF THE EIGHTEENTH

CENTURY. By W. M. Thackeray.
THE FOUR GEORGES. With Illustrations by the Author. By W. M. Thackeray.
PAUL THE POPE AND PAUL THE FRIAR By T. A. Trollope.
THE Rose-garden. By the Author of 'Unawares.'
CHRONICLES OF DUSTYPORE. A Tale of Modern Anglo-Indian Society. By

the Author of ' Wheat and Tares.'
IN THE SILVER AGE. By Holme Lee.
Carta. By Mrs. Oliphant.
WITHIN THE PRECINCTS. By Mrs. Oliphant.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Pictorial Covers, price Two Shillings each.

NO NAME.

By

WILKIE COLLINS.

AFTER DARK.

The above may also be had in Limp Cloth, price-zs. 6d. each.

By the Author of
'JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.'
ROMANTIC TALES. | DOMESTIC STORIES.

By HOLME LEE.

ARMADALE.

AGAINST WIND AND TIDE.

SYLVAN HOLTS DAUGHTER.

Katie BRANDE.

WARP AND WOOF.

Annie Harleigh's FORTUNES.

THE WORTLEBANK DIARY.

BASIL GODFREY'S CAPRICE.
MAUDE TALBOT.
COUNTRY STORIES.
KATHERINE'S TRIAL.
MR. WYNYARD's WARD.

THE BEAUTIFUL MISS BARRINGTON.

By Captain GRONOW.

RECOLLECTIONS AND ANECDOTES OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.
ANECDOTES OF CELEBRITIES OF LONDON AND PARIS. To which are

added LAST RECOLLECTIONS OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS.

Uniform with the above.

GRASP YOUR NETTLE. By E. Lynn Linton.

AGNES OF SORRENTO. By Mrs. H. B. Stowe.

TALES OF THE COLONIES ; or, Adventures of an Emigrant. By C. Rowcroft.

Latina. By the Author of ' Dr. Antonio ' and ' Lorenzo Benoni.'

THE MOORS AND THE FENS. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

HESTER KIRTON. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

BY THE SEA. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

THE HOTEL DU PETIT ST. JEAN.

VERA. By the Author of 'The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'

IN THAT STATE OF LIFE. By Hamilton Aide'.

MORALS AND MYSTERIES. By Hamilton Aide'.

MR. AND MRS. FAULCONBRIDGE. By Hamilton Aide'.

SIX MONTHS HENCE. By the Author of 'Behind the Veil,' &c.

THE STORY OF THE PLEBISCITE. By MM Erckmann-Chatrian.

THE CONSCRIPT, and WATERLOO. By Mem. Erckmanr. Chairman In One
volume.

GABRIEL DENVER. Bv Oliver Maddox Brown.

TAKE CARE WHOM YOU TRUST. By Compton Reade.

PEARL AND EMERALD. Bv R. E. Francisco.

Seule. By the Author of 'The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'

PENRUDDOCKE. By Hamilton Aide.

A GARDEN OF WOMEN. By Sarah Tatler.

BRIGADIER FREDERIC. Bv MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.
*MOLLY Sawn. By the Author of ' Phyllis,' &c.

MATRIMONY. By W. E. Norris.
"PHYLLIS. Bv the Author of ' Molly Bawn ' &c.

MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC. B V W. E. Norris.
*MRS. GEOFFREY. Bv the Abhor of Molly Bau.'

BEV MILKER'S WOOING. Bv Holme Lee.
*AIRY FAIRY LILIAN. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

FOR PERCIVAL. By Margaret Veley.
*ROSSMOYNE. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

M EHALAH. By the Author of ' John Herring.'
doris. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

JOHN HERRING. By the Author of ' Mehalah/

These Volumes can also be had in Limp Cloth, fcp. Svo. 2S. Sd. each.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

"^;fe^

K^-

S^lfvfMitlilil

OF THE
University
or ILLINOIS

baasco

VOL. II.

A Story OF CROSS Clements

BY THE

AUTHOR OF 'MEHALAH' 'JOHN Heeding ' etc

IN There VOLUMES

VOL. IL

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



hall rights reserved]

CONTENTS

THE SECOND VOLUME.

A STORY OF CROSS CURRENTS.

CHAPTEE XX.

Dulcinea.

Ix the afternoon Lord and Lady Edward Eve-leigh
called on the Eigsbys. The Archdeaconess
was full of civility. She was a pleasant, fine-looking
woman, with grey hair, and very clear
eyes. She spoke in a decided manner. She
had ruled her house, her husband — almost the
Archdeaconry — for many years. She had ruled
society — at least clerical society — for a wide
radius. This had given decision to her character
and a determination to be obeyed which
few were strong enough to stand against.

Miss Eigsby was seated on a sofa. She had
expected the visit, and was prepared for it.
She wore a crude blue shawl thrown over her

VOL. ir. B

shoulders, and a mauve handkerchief was tied
round her aching jaws. She had bracelets on
both arms, and her fingers were encrusted with
rings. She was a pale, freckled young lady, not
ugly, and not pretty, with very light eyebrows,
and hair thick and coarse. She was proud of
her red hair, and had it frizzed into a mass.
Her grey eyes were dull, but the pain she had
endured had perhaps quenched their light.

I am going to carry you off to the Rectory,'
said Lady Elizabeth. ' It is of no use your
protesting. What I have made up my mind
to I carry out, as the diocese well knows. I
restored Sleepy Hollow church myself. I said
to the Archdeacon, '' It must be done,' and ashe
would not put his shoulder to the wheel, I
begged, got up a bazaar, and did it. I am
going to make much of you. You want the
quiet and comfort of an English home. We'll
soon set you on your feet again, and screw up
the relaxed nerves. I know exactly what you
want.'

Mr. Eigsby looked entreatingly at his daughter.
He had made up his mind to spend a fortnight
at Sleepy Hollow, but he did not dare to
accept the invitation without the consent of his
spoiled child.

Dulcina answered, in a condescending toii3,
I am afraid we shall be in your way.'

Xot at all, or I would not have asked you.'

Mr. Eigsby brightened. His daughter was
yielding.

The invitation is kind,' said Dulcina, ' and
if I did not fear trespassing on your goodness
I should like to accept.'

Then accept,' said Lady Elizabeth. ' There
the matter is concluded. I gave orders for
the rooms to be got ready before I left the
Rectory.'

You are perhaps expecting visitors ? '

Only Lord Saltcombe — he could be stowed
anywhere if we were hard put to, but we are
not. Our predecessor at Sleepy Hollow had
fourteen children, and added to the Rectory to
accommodate them. We have no family, and
so there are any number of spare rooms.'

I am not in a visiting condition,' protested
Miss Eigsby ; ' my nerves are shaken ; I have
suffered a great deal.'

We will put you to rights,' said Lady Elizabeth
; ' I understand all that is needed. I doctor
the parish — I may almost say I feed it ; my
opinion is that most maladies proceed from overfeeding
or underfeeding. With the poor it is

over and underfeeding simultaneously ; they
overfeed themselves with heavy, lumpy pastry
without much nutriment in it, that weighs like
lead in them, and they underbred themselves by
not taking good blood and tissue-making diet.
You understand me?'

I think so,' answered Miss Rigsby listlessly.
The poor interested her little or nothing
she occupied her own entire horizon. ' But
I,' she said, ' eat neither what is lumpy, nor
what is insufficient.'

My dear,' said the Archdeaconess, ' here in
an inn you cannot have the requisite comforts.
There is no house in the world like an English
house for a person who is sick or convalescent.
So it is settled that you come.'

I really am not up to meeting strangers
and making conversation,' said Dulcina.

Strangers ! Oh, Saltcombe ! He is my
nephew ; a nice young man, very agreeable.
He will talk, and I can always talk. Besides,
Miss Rigsby, if you are going to buy Shotley
and settle among us, we must introduce you to
the neighbours, when you are well.'

I do not think papa has settled about
Shotley yet.'

'I'll go over the place with him. I will

manage everything. I know the quality of the
soil on which it is built, the nature of the drainage,
and the water supply. I can tell you all
the advantages and disadvantages of the place,
and I should wish to have a word about the
price. I do not choose to have you taken in
and pay a fancy price. There is not a glut of
country-houses in the market. Leave it to me.'

'Lady Elizabeth is a most knowing and
business-ike person, you will find,' said the
Archdeacon. ' Dear young lady, be persuaded,
and spend at least a fortnight with us.'

Besides,' said the Venerable the Archdeacons,
' I should like to have Yigurs under my
eye. You have no conception what a stimulus
it gives to activity and genius when I overlook
the workmen. Yigurs, the dentist, has a great
respect for me. He would take infinite pains
over you if he knew I was watching him.
Yigurs is a good man — still, the best need supervision.'


There's something in that,' said Mr. Eigsby.

Then, again,' said Lady Elizabeth, ' I am
bent on getting my niece, Lady Grace Eveleigh,
to us after Christmas, and I am eager that you.
Miss Eigsby, should knows her, and see, if that
could possibly be contrived, the Duke's beautiful

place, Court Royal, which I assure you is one
of the finest residences in the West of England.
The Duke would be so interested to hear from
your father all about Indian affairs ; his Grace
is particularly interested in India, and, of course,
also Ceylon. It would be a treat to him to talk
them over with your father, and you — you
will be enraptured with the beauty and comfort
of Court Royal. Leave this to me : I am a
manager. I will get Lady Grace to visit us, and
she will invite you there. You are sure to get
on well together.'

Lady Elizabeth played to her husband's bat,
but the Eigsbys did not see her play. Father
and diiuahter were flattered. The invitation
was accepted.

As the Archdeacon and his wife drove home
in their brougham, Lord Edward said to his
better half —

What do you think of her ? She is not

Not pronounced ugly, certainly. She is
simply uninteresting. I do not think that Salt-combe
will care for her.'

He must take her,' said the Archdeacon
agitated, putting his hand on that of his wife,
and it slicok. ' If he does not, the whole house

of Kingsbiidge will collapse. My dear Elizabeth,
the crash is imminent. I cannot see how it
can be averted except by Saltcombe's marriage.'

But he is so inert. He will not realise the
state of affairs.'

That is true. But I take on myself to
make him realise it, and that excellent young
fellow, Beavis Worthivale, who regards him asa
brother, will help me.'

Lady Elizabeth shook her head. ' The time
is past when men sacrificed themselves~for their
families. I do not believe that Saltcombe cares
sufficiently for his position, and the family dignity,
to saddle himself with a wretched, selfish,
inane, pasty-faced East Indian, so that he may
redeem the family from ruin and give his position
a new lease of splendour.'
' I will write to him directly I get home,'
said Lord Edward. ' I have sent a premonitory
telegram. He is not so dead to duty as to reject
a solemn appeal from me.'

So the Archdeacon, on his return, took up
his pen and wrote his nephew the following
letter :

My Dear Saltcombe, — I particularly want
you to come here at once. Pack your portmanteau

and start as soon as you possibly can after
the receipt of this letter. There are reasons
which make me desire your presence here. My
dear fellow, you must allow an old man like me
to give you a word of advice. You are supposed
to know that the property of your dear father,
which will one day be yours, is so involved as
to be almost past recovery. I say almost, not
altogether. It depends on you whether a grand
family of historic renown shall sink and disappear.
I have no family, your luicle Eonald lost
his wife and children. You are unmarried. If
you die a bachelor the ducal title goes, the
family becomes extinct. You are bound to
continue a race which has been illustrious aud
honourable. I cannot bear to think of dear
Court Royal ]passing into other hands. Now,
if you marry, you must marry so as to recover
the property from its embarrassments. Such an
opportunity presents itself. I will speak to you
more fully on this when we meet. I pray you,
as an old man, your uncle — one who has your
welfare, and that of dear Grace, at heart — do
not shrug your shoulders and write to say you
cannot come. Come at once. House yourself
to the emergencies of the case. House yourself
to your duty. An Eveleigh has never hitherto

wanted goading to perform a duty ; never —
when required — to commit an act of self-sacrifice.


Till we meet — which will be tomorrow,
Yours most affectionately,
'Edward Eveleigh.

Pes. — Elizabeth sends her tenderest love to
dear Grace. Kiss her sweet f^ice for me.'

CHAPTER XXI.

HOME-THRUSTS.

The Marquess of Saltcombe sat in this pretty
room of gold and peacock blue and green, in
an easy-chair, holding a book in his hand,
without reading it. On the table was a either.
Every now and then he put the book down and
struck a few chords on the instrument, but he
could not play a melody through. The either
demands much practice, and Lord Saltcombe
could not or would not devote time to mastering
the instrument.

At his side was a desk, open. He put his
hand into one of the drawers, from which issued
a scent of rose-leaves, and drew forth a red
miniature case. He touched the spring with a
sigh, and exposed a portrait on ivory. The
portrait represented a young and beautiful
woman, with large lustrous dark eyes, full of
dreamy idealism. The ivory lent the face a

pearly whiteness, and gave brilliance to the
coral of the lips. The painter had succeeded
in giving to the countenance an expression of
tender yearning, tinged with melancholy ; it
was one of those exquisitely expressive faces
which is sometimes given by nature to angels,
but sometimes also, in irony, to beings with
little of heaven in their souls. The picture, asa
work of art, was a masterpiece ; the original,
unless greatly idealised, must have been irresistible.
The face combined in it the simplicity of
the child and the earnest of an eager mind, the
charm of perfect beauty and the promise of a
gifted soul, liveliness and pathos blent together.

Lord Saltcombe looked long at the lovely
picture, and his brow clouded. Then he closed
the morocco case, laid it on his knee in his hand,
and looked dreamily before him into space. The
past rose before him, full of pleasure and of
pain. Presently he sighed, put his hand to his
brow, made a motion of again opening the case,
refrained from doing so, and replaced it in the
drawer of his desk, which he closed and locked.

He was removing the key from the lock
when Beavis came in.

Lord Saltcombe was sufficiently man of the
world to have control over his features. Every

trace of his late sadness departed, and this face
cleared to meet Beavis' eye. No one would
have supposed that, a moment earlier, he had
been a prey to the most mournful recollections.

Well, Beavis,' he exclaimed ; ' what has
brought you here ? '

Have you seen the paper ? '

No — there can be nothing in it to interest
me.'

Our member is dead.'

« What, Woodley ! My father will feel this.
Does he know it ? '

I think so. He reads his daily paper. Besides,
the telegraph boy was up here last night,
and no doubt '

no, that was with a message for me from
Uncle Edward. He wants me immediately at
Sleepy Hollow.'

Are you going ? '

I don't know ; I may. I have nothing to
detain me here,'

Saltcombe, will you not go into Parliament?
Now that Woodley is dead, we must have a new
election.'

The Marquess made a gesture of impatience.

There will be no opposition.'

I do not see why I should go into the

House. I have no opinions. I have not made
up my mind on any question that now agitates
the political world, and I do not want the
trouble of thinking and studying these questions.
'This is unworthy of you.'
You shall be our new member.'
'Xo, I have no ambition that way. You
are the proper person to represent our pocket
borough of Kingsbb ridge. Of course you have
principles. You have inherited those of the
family. You are Conservative.'

I will open my breast to you, dear Beavis.
I know that my father's and uncles' opinions
are all right, but then I have no doubt that the
opinions of the other side are all equally right.
My father's views are exaggerated, and the
Radicals are exaggerated in their views, and
with Aristotle I hold that in equilibrium is
safety.'

Both cannot be right,' said young Worthily.


'Yes, they can be, and they are. There
are two sides to every question, and he who
only sees and becomes hot and vehement on
one side is a bigot, narrow-minded and purblind.
I am sure that in politics, and in religion,
and in ethics — in everything, in fact —

much is to be said on each side, quite as much
on one side as on the other ; so I make up my
mind to have no fixed opinions on anything. I
shrug my shoulders, and let the world go on
and muddle its way from one blunder into
another. There now, Beavis, you have my
creed. How can I go into Parliament with
such doctrine in my heart ? '

That is not a creed at all ; it is the confession
of a mind that is too lazy to think.'

You are very rude.'

I speak the truth, Saltcombe. You know it.'

Lord Saltcombe laughed. ' Of course you
are right, Beavis. It is not pleasant, however,
to hear the truth put so plainly. Nevertheless,
I maintain that my position is a right one. No
man can be a partisan in any cause unless he is
ignorant of what is to be said on the opposite
side. To be an enthusiast you must be narrow.
The man of culture is an all-round man ; he sees
good everywhere, is tolerant of every form of
faith, religious and political, because he believes
that no party holds a monopoly of the right.
The man of culture, then, must be indifferent
to all parties.'

With your abilities, and your position, it is
wicked to waste your life over shooting partridges

and pheasants, collecting china, and reading-ephemeral
literature.'

'Upon my word, Beavis, you are sharp
on me.'

I am plain-s23oken,Saltcombe, because you
must be roused. You are throwing away life
in that most miserable of all follies — killing time.'

Lord Saltcombe was annoyed. He raised
his eyebrows, and lit a cigar.

You are striving to deaden the impulses of
your nobler nature, which would force you into
active life.'

Indeed,' said the Marquess coldly, ' I do
not contradict you. You feel strongly, speak
over-vehemently, because you know only one
side.'

I know what is right, what your own conscience
tells you is right ; and I say it at the
risk of forfeiting your friendship.'

You strain the relation between us, Beavis,'
said Lord Saltcombe.

Young Worthivale was silent a moment.
Lord Saltcombe crossed his legs and leaned
back in his chair. He did not look at Beavis,
whom he allowed to stand. He was annoyed,
and wanted the young man to go. Presently,
as Beavis did not move, he said : ' Life is cither

a blank or a torture chamber. If we act in it,
we involve ourselves in annoyances ; if we aim
at anything, we bring on ourselves disappointment
; if we take a part in politics, we are
covered with obloquy by our opponents — that
is, by the press of the opposite party ; if we
appear in society we are subjected to the insulting
inquisitorial eyes of the Society papers ; if
we attempt anything in literature, we are cut to
pieces by critics who knoAv nothing of the subject
to which we have devoted our lives. No,
Beavis, a man with self-respect should shut himself
up in a Availed garden and never leave it,
but die there of ennui.'

And the enthusiasm of youth is given us
only to drive us to disenchantment and disbelief.'

'That is all'

You look on life, really, from this point of
view ? '

Yes, ever since my disenchantment. Let
me alone, Beavis. It may be pleasure to you
to anatomise me, but I have no desire to be the
subject of your vivisection.'

It is no pleasure to me to vivisect you,'
answered Beavis Worthivale. ' I speak strongly
because I feel strongly. Here is Kingsbridge
vacant, and you are the right person to represent

it. I speak out what everyone thinks.
The Duke, I am sure, wishes it.'

I have toil you, I am no politician.'

But, surely, you coukl master the subjects
of debate as well as another. Where there is
a will there is a way.'

Exactly — but I have not the will

Beavis sighed.

You are not the only man who has been
at me to-day. Look at my Uncle Edward's
letter, if you like ; it les on the table.'

Beavis took it up, and read it with growing
interest. wylie he came to the end a slight
agitation overcame him.

What is it ? ' asked the Marquess, who had
been watching him. The young man coloured.

Oh, Saltcombe,' he said, ' the chance has
come at last. You must not delay. Why are
you now here smoking and reading a book?
Have you told Eobert to pack your portmanteau
? You must catch the next train.'

I do not like to be brought up to Glastonbury
to have my uncle and aunt show me an
heiress, and say, " There, look at her coat, how
glossy ; her hoofs are sound, so is her wind, and
she is worth her weight in money." She knows
she is on show. I know I am there to criticise.

VOL. II. C

The situation is detestable. We both look absurd,
and the natural result is, we dislike each
other, and fly in opposite directions. Besides,
I do not want to marry.

You must accept Lord Edward's invitation.
He would not write so pressingly unless he had
found the right person for you.'

But I should prefer to find the right person
myself

Where ? In the walled garden in which,
as you say, a man of self-respect immures himself
No woman with self-respect will come
over the wall to you ; you must go about to see
women.'

I do not want to see any, much less to
have one hang herself round my neck. The
more she is weighted with gold the more burdensome
she will be to me. Besides, here I
have the society of the best and sweetest women
that ever bloomed outside Paradise, Grace and
Lucy ! they have spoiled me for others.'

You cannot decline Lord Edward's invitation.
It is too urgent to be neglected, couched
in too tender a tone to be denied. You must go.'

I shall return as I go. I want rest ; to be
left alone.'

You cannot be left alone. Go out of the

world if you want rest. You are building yourself,
like a child, a sand castle against the advancing
tide ; the waves will sweep your walls
away and overwhelm you. You desire the impossible.
As your uncle says, you have duties
to perform, and you will not be the coward to
shirk them. You may have to sacrifice much
that is dear to 3^x1, but every man is made
better by self-sacrifice. You are not happy as
you are, wasting your days in reading books
that do not interest you, following sports that
do not amuse you, and collecting cups and
saucers that are valueless to you. The books
weary you because they are books, and your
proper study is life. Your sports fail to distract
you because you pursue such poor and wretched

game, and the cups and saucers ' Beavis did

not finish his sentence ; his brow was red, he
was excited, angry — his face expressed contempt.


Lord Saltcombe did not interrupt him.
Beavis went on : ' My whither and I devote our
lives to your affairs, which are desperate ; but
we are met at every turn by your inactivity.
We cannot save you because you will not put
out a finger by which you can be caught. For
the sake of your father, your uncles, your sister,

c 2

throw aside this paralysing indifFerence and bestir
yourself. You must marry, and many an
heiress, such as your uncle has found for you
because you would not put your head outside
your Availed garden to find one for yourself.
You — you must save the family. You alone
can do it. Your father — all — look to you, and
you take no step proprio moth, but have to be
driven on with sharp, perhaps cruel, reproaches.
Your father does not know the desperate state
of your affairs. You ought to know, but will
not face it, though the books have been shown
you. Your uncles know it, but you repel them
when they offer you advice. Lady Grace suspects
it, but is too gentle to speak what may
give pain. There is absolutely no hope of salvation
anywhere else, except in your marriage.
If I urged you into political life, it was in the expectation
of your being thrown in the way of
choosing for yourself. If you stood alone, I
would say, sacrifice the estate, sell Court Royal,
and begin life on straitened means, working-hard,
and working your way upward. Seek a
regeneration of your family by work. Work
makes happy. But you are not alone. Salt-combe,
and love for your family forces you to
make some sacrifice to maintain it in its proper

position. You have no choice. Be a man,
brace your heart, and face the necessity.'

Lord Saltcombe became deadly pale. He
stood up and looked at Beavis, who spoke
with flushed brow and sparkling eye. After a
moment's silence he held out his hand and
caught that of Beavis.

My dear fellow,' he said, pressing his hand,
and speaking in a choking voice, ' I honour and
love you more than ever. I know what it has
cost you to speak to me thus. I feel your
reproaches. I will not make a promise to — •

to ' he looked down. ' Beavis, ring the bell

for Eobert. He shall pack my traps at once,
and to-night I shall be at Sleepy Hollow.
There, give me Uncle Edward's letter. I will
go see my father at once.'

CHAPTER Xxii

A F A ^1 1 L Y C U .\ C 1 L .

Mr. Wortiiivale had suminoiicd Lucy from
the Court. Bcavis was there. A consuhatioii
was to be held on family affairs. The fire was
lighted in the drawing-room, and father and son
were there awaiting the arrival of Lucy.

Father,' said Beavis, ' I do not like that new
maid you have got.'

Why not ? She is very respectable and
respectful.'

She puzzles me. There is a shrewd look
about her face that one does not generally meet
with in a slavey.'

And you dislike her because she is not an
unthinking machine ? '

'No, father, that is not it. I expressed
myself too strongly when I said that I did not
like her ; I should rather have said that I mistrusted
her.'

Why mistrust her ? '

Because I am continually lighting upon
her in the office.'

What of that ? Is not that the most used
room in the house ? Because it is so much
used, and so many people come in there to see
one, it requires more sweeping than any other
part of the establishment. Besides, I make a
litter there with my papers. No other maid
has arranged the papers so well before. Joanna
puts everything where I can lay my hand on it
at once.'

You leave books and papers about, without
locking them up, more than I think wise.'

My dear Beavis, who is there to read
them? Do you suppose a chambermaid cares
one farthing for the accounts, and is greedy to
know the clauses of a lease ? Besides, Joanna
cannot read. Here comes Lucy.'

'I suppose she has heard the news,' said
Beavis.

I don't know. Lady Grace would be told
it last of all.'

Lucy entered. She did not look herself that
morning. Generally bright and smiling, with
a brilliant colour in her cheeks, she was on this
occasion dispirited and somewhat pale.

Why, Lucy, what is the matter ? ' asked
her father.

I have had a headache,' she answered.
But I am better now. I could not sleep last
night.' She brightened with an effort, came to
her father and kissed him tenderly.

'How are all at the Court?' asked Mr.
Worthivale. (Here be it noted that he asked
this question, however often he met his daughter
during the day, before he approached affairs of
private interest. The health and welfare of the
family stood before everything.)

The Duke is not so well this morning,'
answered Lucy. ' He has heard news which
has excited him, and excitement always upsets
his heart.'

'The news is of a joyful nature,' said the
steward.

Yes, I suppose so,' answered Lucy faintly,
and her eyes fell involuntarily before the observant
look of her brother.

Stay a bit,' said the steward; 'I had clean
forgotten old Barberry, who is in the kitchen
waiting to speak to me. My memory is going,
I believe. It was high time for me to recall
Beavis to assist me. I shall be back directly.'

Mr. Worthivale left the room.

^f)

You have heard, Lucy ? ' said Beavis in a
low tone.

Yes, dear, I have heard what I presume
you alice to — that the Marquess is engaged.'

It is both his father's wish and that of his
uncles. I urged it strongly on him.'

I am very glad,' said Lucy ; ' I hope she
is worthy of him. Grace is startled, and does
not know what to make of the tidings. She
ought to rejoice, but cannot till she knows the
lady.'

Beavis took his sister's head between his
hands and kissed her on the forehead. ' What
is for the good of the House gives us the greatest
happiness,' he said.

She looked him frankly in the eyes and
smiled, but there was moisture in her eyes and
her hips quivered. She saw that Beavis had
read the secret of her heart, which she had
never confessed even to herself. She pressed
his hand to her bosom. Then Mr. Worthivale
came in.

Tiresome old man ! ' said the steward.
Like all the rest. Barberry wants something.
The farmer must have a new calves' house, and
the cotter a fresh pigsty. No one is content
with the accommodation that suited his forefathers.

Barberry came here with a box for
Joan, which he had brought in his cart from
the station, and being here thought he might
as well make a demand on his Grace's pocket.
I have said I would look to the linnet. He
wants to have one for his carrier's cart. I can't
see that the Duke is bound to build him one.
If a man buys a donkey his Grace must build a
shed for it; and if a woman catches a bullfinch
the Duke must provide her with a cage. Hark !
Good Lord, what is the matter ? ' He ran to
the door and opened it.

What is that noise ? Who is squalling ? '
Please, sir,' said Emily, ' it is only Joanna.'
Only Joanna ! Has she scalded herself?
What is the noise about ? Send her down tome.
Why are you laughing ? '

Yes, sir,' said the maid ; ' I'll tell her you
want to see her, sir.'

Presently Joanna came down, her face
flushed, in great excitement.

'What was that row about?' asked Mr.
Worthivale, still in the hall. ' Were you and
Emily having romps or tickling each other ? Or
have you hurt yourself? I care not. I will not
have a caterwauling in my house. Why, bless
my soul ! the Duke or one of their lordships

might Lave been here, and then — what would
have been thought of my house, I should
like to know? Wliat made you scream, or
laugh, or cry, or whatever was the noise I
heard ? '

Please, sir,' said Joanna, half crying, ' it is
too bad ! I lead set my heart on it, and now it
is utterly spoiled.'

What is spoiled ? '

The pmk silk.'

Pink silk ! What pink silk ? '

Oh, sir ! I had a beautified pink silk dress,
and as there was to be a dance at Court Royal
for the tenants and servants, I sent to Plymouth
to have it forwarded.'

Pink silk ! Wliat next ! You come out in
pink silk ! '

'Lady Grace has been teaching me to
dance. Miss Lucy can tell you, sir ; she has
helped.'

But — that does not justify pink silk.'

I can't wear it ; it is spoiled,' said Joanna
in a doleful voice. ' The Ems Water has run
all over it.'

Ems Water ! ' gasped Mr. Worthivale.
What have you to do with Ems Water ? '

Please, sir, the master put in three bottles

with the pink silk, because, he said, the change
of diet here might have heated my blood, and
something cooling and lowering '

The master ! — What master ? — Colonel
Delany?'

No, sir, not Colonel Delany ; another
master. '

What, a doctor ? I did not know you had
been with a doctor.'

He was not exactly a doctor — but he did
.bleed people pretty freely.'

Oh, a surgeon. Eight. Only the ignorant
call surgeons by the title of doctor.'

And one of the bottles of Ems Water is
broken. I found it broken in the box, and the
water has wetted and stained my dear, beautiful
dress. I shall never be able to wear it now —
never ! '

That is what you cried out about, is it ? '

'Yes.'

Go upstairs, and thank your stars the Ems
Water did spoil your pink silk; you would
only have made yourself ridiculous had you
appeared in it.'

Then Mr. Worthivale returned to the .
There was no need for him to repeat
the story. The door had been left open, and

this son and daughter had heard, and were
laughing over, Joanna's misadventure.

Joanna went to her room, half in wrath,
half in sorrow. She opened the window and
dashed from it the two remaining bottles, casting
them into a large bank of rhododendrons.

That is the end of you,' she said. ' Now
there are but three left at the Golden Balls. I
wonder what will become of them.'

Sit down,' said Mr. Worthivale. ' I have
sent for you, Lucy, and you, Beavis, to meet
me here, because a crisis has arrived in the
affairs of the Kingsbridge house — because an
emergency has arisen which we shall have to
meet, and I do not see how it can be met —
except in one way.' He paused and looked at
his daughter, then at his son. ' I suppose you
know that the Marquess is engaged to be married
to a young lady of immense fortune, a lady not
in his position, a commoner, but of respectable
family. Her father belongs to a Norfolk house ;
he was a younger son, and sought his fortune
in Ceylon, coffee-planting. What he sought
he found. He has returned to England worth
enough to extinguish some of the charges on
the Kingsbridge estate. Now we may look to
the ducal House flourishing and putting forth

leaves in old style once more. I am glad. I
confess I was despondent at one time. But one
should not despair. I have learnt a lesson.
There is a special Providence which Watches
over our great and glorious Aristocracy.'

Mr. Worthivale drew a sigh of relief and
touched his breast with his right hand, much
as though he were crying ' Peccavi, I have
sinned, in that for a season my faith in the
English Aristocracy was shaken. I have now
passed through the trial ; my faith is restored
to me.'

There is one thing I must mention,' continued
the steward. ' I have called you together,
not only to announce to you that a turn in the
affairs of the House has been reached, but also to
impress on you the fact that a supreme effort
is needed to bring these affairs to a conclusion.
Of course the father of the young lady, and the
young lady herself, have been invited to Court
Royal for Christmas. Their reception must be
splendid. It will never do to allow Mr. Pigsty
to see that the family is pinched. Now Christmas
is one of the most distressing seasons to a
well-ordered mind. It means the influx of
bills, the demand for boxes, the payment of
annuities, and what is due on mortgages and

loans of various sorts ; add to these the very
copious customary charities. I know that,
theoretically and theologically, Christmas is all
right, and a festival, and a time of rejoicing, but
practically it is the contrary, even to those in
affluent circumstances. They cannot escape
the annoyances if they are not sensible of the
suffering caused by Christmas. I am sorry to
say that the closing year will find us in a worse
predicament than last. I have strained every
nerve to meet our liabilities, but have not been
as successful as I could have desired — indeed,
to be plain, I have been very unsuccessful.
Very heavy charges have to be met, and I do
not know where to thurn to find the money.
The older mortgages are held by insurance
offices, and I am afraid to fall in arrear to
them. The newer mortgages I do not see how
I can meet, and find the money that is wanted
for current expenditure. Just now the expenses
of the house cannot be reduced. The
Eigsbys are coming, and we must find a good
deal of money for their entertainment; balls
and dinner-parties must be given on a large
scale. The old gentleman must be impressed
with the greatness of the family into which he
is to be received. I do not see how we can

press payment from the farmers ; their sheep
have been diseased, and they have lost entire
flocks. The Americans have beaten the wheat
they grow below the cost of growing. The
importation of foreign cattle has reduced the
price of home-grown meat. I have sounded
the tenants, and they give me no hope of paying
arrears. Now all we want is time The
marriage of the Marquess will relieve the pressure,
if not remove it altogether. We must
manage somehow to tide over the time till that
takes place. Lord Eonald very generously
placed three thousand pounds at our disposal,
but we want at least as much more. We must
prevent the evil from coming to a head before
the marriage takes place. As I said before,
we have only one thing to consider — how to
gain time.'

Mr. Worthivale looked at his son, then at
his daughter, questioning, entreatingly.

I apprehend your meaning,' said Beavis.
You ask me to sanction what you have already
resolved on in your own heart, the sinking our
little savings — I mean yours : I have nothing —
in the Kingsbridge debt. The money is yours.
It is what you have laid by. Do with it wdiat
you will. I will not reproach you.'

It is not that exactly,' said Mr. Wortliivale,
rubbing his hands nervously together. ' Most
providentially, most providentially, I say,' with
great emphasis on the word, ' I took my money
out of Argentine bonds in time — before they
went to zero.'

Well, father, and then.'

Then — I looked about for a safe investment,
and really, upon my word, I saw none
better than a small morto-aefe on the Charles
estate of the Duke's.'

Very well. It is there. What then do
you Avant ? '

If I had left it in the Argentine,' argued
Mr. Worthivale, ' I should have had nothing
for it.'

And have you drawn your interest since ? '

Not of late,' answered the steward. ' There
have been other and more pressing demands.'

Then what do you want us to consent to,
father ? '

Mr. Worthivale fidgeted with his hands and
feet, then, whilst feeling the button of his collar,
which he pretended was coming off, he said,
shyly, ' There is Lucy's four thousand pounds,
left her by her mother.'

VOL. II. D

Xo,' said Beavis sharply ; ' they shall not
be touched.'

Beavis,' exclaimed his sister, ' I entreat
you, do not deprive me of the pleasure, the
pride, of contributing my little share.'

No,' said her brother hotly, ' I will never
consent to this.'

Then you will deprive me of a great happiness.
I have spent my life, so far, at Court
Royal, lived on the kindness of the dear people
there. They have loved me as if I were of
their blood. The Duke makes no distinction
between me and his own daughter. Lord
Eonald is kindness itself. I would give my
heart's blood for Lady Grace. Oh, Beavis !
you are cruel. Do you not understand that it
is a privilege and a pleasure to do something,
to sacrifice something, for those one loves ? Let
the money ao. Who cares ? '

'Xo, Lucy, emphatically no,' said Beavis
firmly.

The money is now in the Consols at three
per cent,' said Mr. Worthivale. ' Really,
Beavis, I think you unreasonable. I can get
four-and-a-half for Lucy if I lend it to the
Duke — on security of course. There is absolutely
no risk. Lord Saltcombe will be married

within six months, and at once, if you desire
it, the money can be replied in the Funds.'

It shall not be taken out.'

Beavis,' said the steward testily, ' I am not
responsible to you. I am trustee of my
daughter's money, and she is old enough to
know her own mind. I did not wish to do
anything without your knowledge, but I am
not bound to follow your advice. If I thought
there was the smallest doubt about the safety
of the money, I would not make this proposal ;
but I have not a shadow of doubt. All I want
is time ; with time everything will come right.'

I protest,' said Beavis.

Beavis ! ' exclaimed Lucy, throwing her
arms round his neck, and hiding hei face on
his shoulder, to conceal the tears that were
gathering in her eyes ; ' Beavis, it goes to my
heart to oppose you in anything, but in this
I am as resolute as yourself Father, you have
my full consent. Do not listen to my brother.
Oh, Beavis ! I am ready to do all I can — for
dear Lady Grace's sake.'

Then Beavis sighed.

It is as you will, Lucy. I am powerless todo
more than protest. When a great ship
founders, it draws down all the vessels round
it into the abyss.' d 2

CHAPTER XXIII.

Efflorescence.

Court Royal resumed its old appearance. Invitations
were sent round, and the whole of
South Devon was thrilled with expectation.
There was to be a succession of dinner-parties
and a splendid ball, which would be attended
by the officers from Plymouth and Exeter, and
by all the young ladies of position in the neighbourhood.
For some years the Duke had given
no teat entertainments. His health furnished
the excuse ; now, in spite of his health. Court
Royal was to become the scene of festivities on
a large scale.

Not only were the gentry to be entertained,
but the tenants were to have a dance as well —
the usual Christmas dance, greatly magnified.
So all classes were pleased, all looked forward
with eagerness to the arrival of the Marquess,
which was to be the signal for the commencement
of the gaieties.

The secret was well kept. None knew of
the engagement except the Worthivales, and
their lips were sealed. The Duke and Lord
Eonald confided nothing to their acquaintances,
and yet it was clear to all that something of
importance had occasioned this divergence
from the routine of retirement. The servants
suspected it, and were eager to make Court
Royal as splendid and hospitable as it should
be. They spared themselves no pains, and
they invited all their friends and friends' most
distant acquaintances to partake of the profusion.


The Eigsbys would arrive a few days after
the Marquess, from Plymouth, where they had
taken a house for the winter. Mr. Eigsby
thought Torquay too relaxing, yet the proximity
to the sea advisable for his daughter.

Lord and Lady Poverty and their daughter,
the Earl of Strath on and the Ladies Evelyn and
Augusta Barrington, Lord and Lady Danish,
Sir Henry Hillersdon of Membrane and his
party, were expected to stay in the Court over
the ball. The house was so large, it could
contain a regiment. New liveries were ordered
for the servants. The paper-hangers, the
painters of Kingsbridge were occupied in re-decorating

several of the rooms. Supplies of
every sort were ordered from local grocers,
wine-merchants, butchers, fishmongers. The
Duke patronised local tradesmen. He disliked
co-operative stores. He would rather pay
than break a tradition. The carriages were
re-lined, new carriages and additional horses
purchased. The only person who did not
seem to share in the general excitement was
Lady Grace. She moved about the house ^vitli
her usual composure, looked after the flowers,
sav that everyone had a sweet and well-assorted
bouquet in his room, had a kind word for the
servants whom she passed or came on engaged
on dusting and polishing, and was interested in
the work of the tradesmen, watched them and
asked them questions. There was not a person
who came within the circle of her influence,
and that was everyone to whom she spoke,
who would not have sprung into the fire had
she desired it.

She was glad that at last her brother was
engaged. She had been his close companion
for some years, and she felt an ache in her
heart that they were now to be parted, but she
had never become her brother's confidante, and
she knew that it was well for him to find a

sympathetic woman's soul to which lie could
open his inmost thoughts. Such a woman she
trusted Dulcina Eigsby would prove. She was
ready to receive her with love because she
was Sahcombe's ideal, and his ideal must be
perfect.

Lucy was not as much with her as usual.
Lucy was a ready, intelligent, active manager ;
she saw to everything. Mrs. Probus was old
and slow. At her father's request, Lucy took
on her own shoulders the care of preparing for
the visitors and the entertainments. She was
pleased to be occupied, she worked restlessly,
she was not quiet for one moment in the day.
Lady Grace reproached her for doing everything
herself, without imposing any task on
her.

Yours will come when the house is full,
and you have to entertain,' answered Lucy ;
leave me to make preparations.'

Lucy was the inseparable companion of
Lady Grace, her right hand ; she loved her
with an adoring devotion, received all her
thoughts, and devoted herself to ward off all
unpleasantness from her friend.

Lady Grace was in the room prepared for
Miss Eigsby, adjoining which was another for

her aunt, Miss Stokes. She was arraiiG^inc^ the
flowers on the dressing-table, some white jessamine
and pink geranium, and a spray of maidenhair
fern. She only touched them With the
points of her taper fingers, and they fell into
place.

'Do you know, dearest,' she said to Lucy,
I believe that this ensfao^ement will make me
perfectly happ3\ It has been a trouble to me
that Saltcombe has been here so long without
pursuits, squandering his life and his brilliant
talents. T have never understood him, though
he has stood nearer to me than anyone else.
He is melancholy, as though lamenting something,
but he has nothing to regret ; or as
longing for something, but he has made no
effort to attain what he honors for. Which is
it ? That has been a puzzle to me, and it has
distressed me to be enable to unriddle it.
Now he has found some one after his own
heart, and now real life will open to him. He
will put forth his energies, he will wake out of
a dream, and we shall find that he will make
for himself a place in the history of the present
time. All our ancestors have been men of
note, though one or two noted only as spendthrifts
; yet all have taken some part in politics,

or as patrons of literature or art, aud I cannot
believe my brother will be content to reckon
as a cipher. He seenis to me to be one who
has either been wrecked when first starting, or
as one who has never yet started on the great
voyage of adventure — which is life. He cannot
have undergone shipwreck — that is impossible,
or I should have heard of his disaster ; now he
is about to start. He has been waiting: for the
precious lading to fill the empty hold of his
heart. Xow that is in, the anchor will be
weighed, the pennant run to mast-top, the
white sails be spread ; and with a cheer from
all of us who stand on the shore, the gallant
vessel will start.'

I believe you are right, Grace,' said Lucy.

I do long' so to see mv future sister-in-law
; my heart yearns to love her. Do not be
jealous, daring, nothing will ever make me
love another as I love you. No one can ever
be to me the sweet, serous, enduring friend —
the sister that you have been. Do you know,
I have been teasing Uncle Eonald about Dulcinea.
I don't like the name, do you? He
has seen her. When he heard they were at
Plymouth, he went down to call on them in
Saltcombe's yacht. I have asked him a thousand

questions about her, but I cannot get
much out of the GeneraL Men are so funny ;
they have no descriptive faculty. All he can
say is that she is amiable. Well, amiable is
one of those unpleasant words which mean nothing
— worse than nothing. When you don't
want to say an unkind thing about persons, and
you know no good of them, you describe them
as amiable. I am sure Uncle Eonald does not
mean that. It is only his clumsy man's way of
describing a lady. She has auburn hair and a
pale face. I managed to extract that from
him, and the father is tall and burnt brown.
Uncle Eonald can tell me much more about
Mr. Eigsby than he can about Dulcina.'

The Archdeacon and Lady Elizabeth arrived.
The excellent curate could be trusted
to manage the parish, feed all the fledglings on
sop, and the adults on wind. Lord Edward
hastened at once to the Duke's room before he
went to his own apartments. The Duke was
expecting him, excited, but disguising his excitement.
For the last hour he had been looking
at his watch every five minutes. The
brothers greeted each other with great cordiality.


Have I not managed well ? ' asked the

Archdeacon. ' Who Avill deny that I am a
man of business ? '

I am much indebted to you, Edward.
Without your help we should never have got
Saltcombe away from this place. I hope she is
a suitable person.'

She has plenty of money,' answered the
Archdeacon, looking down abashed.

But, Edward ! money is a \'ery small consideration.
I am sorry he has not chosen one
in his own position. Still — if she is a lady, and
one likely to make him happy, I shall not
object, What attracted him to her? Is she
very beautiful ? Fair, I understand. I cannot
get much out of Eonald ; he is either unobservant
or reticent.'

Fair, fair of course,' answered Lord Edward.
' I should not call her exactly a beauty,
but then men's tastes differ. I really am no
judge of women's faces, I have other things to
look at — the Fathers, and the Diocesan Charity
accounts.'

But you can surely tell me something more
than Eonald. I should like particulars. Are
her manners easy and polished ? '

I should not say exactly polished in the
old acceptation of the word. Easy they are,

I suppose. She makes herself at home in your
house at once, and is rather exacting. But
then her father spoils her. She turns him
round her finger. It is really a study to see
how she manas^eshim. That is Good ; she will
exert herself to direct Saltcombe, and make
something of him.'

I hope so,' said the Duke.

I am sure of it. I am sanguine that the
marriage will be a happy one.'

I have seen little of Saltcombe since he
returned the day before yesterday. He is shy,
as you may understand, of speaking on such a
topic to me. He always was a reserved man,
and now his reserve is intensified.'

I will go and see him myself,' said Lord
Edward . ' I suppose the Eigsby s will be here
to-day.'

I expect them by the next train. They
will be here for dinner. We have invited no
one for to-day, but every other day of their
visit is provided for.'

The Archdeacon hurried to his nephew's
apartments. He was a man of business, and
before he attended to himself he was determined
to have everyone else in order. He
found Lord Saltcombe by himself in his sitting-room,

pretending to read. He shook him
warmly by the hand. ' Sahcombe,' he said,
remember what is expected of you. I have
done all that I can, so has Elizabeth. Upon my
word, I believe the girl is in love with you, overhead
and ears. Now, for heaven's sake, do
not spoil everything by faintheartedness at the
last. Keep your spirits up. Show a good face
before your father. There is a great deal in
the girl. It only wants drawing out. Her
father has spoiled her, and her natural excellence
is a little obscured, that is all. I like
her, and think she will make a first-rate wife.
Lord Edward saw everything in rosy light.

A couple of hours later the carriages arrived.
Two had been sent to Kingsbridge
Road station. Mr. Rigsby, his daughter, and
Miss Stokes were in the first, a fine new
carriage with splendid appointments ; Miss
Rigsby 's maid alone in the second with the
parcels, and the boxes on the roof. Mr.
Rigsby dispensed with a valet.

The evening was fine, the sun cast his
last golden rays over the house, and the park
looked its best to greet its future mistress.

Lady Grace and Lucy came to the entrance
hall ; Lord Edward and the Marquess were

there as well, to receive the guests. Dulcina
looked about her with surprise and admiration
which lent vivacity to her face ; unfortunately
the setting sun sent its saffron rays over her ;
her complexion was naturally pasty: in the
sunlight she looked sallow. Lucy Worthivale
stood back, unnoticed, watching Dulcina attentively.
Then she hastened to Miss Stokes, and
offered to relieve her of some of her wraps.

Dulcina wore a tall hat, boat-shaped, with
a great dancing plume in it. She could not
have chosen a head-dress less suitable to her
style. Colour came into Lady Grace's cheeks
for a moment when she met and saw her
future sister-in-law for the first time, but nota
muscle of her features moved. She greeted
her with gentle cordiality that won Dulcina's
confidence immediately. The Marquess turned
pale when he saw the young lady in her
hideous hat, standing in the yellow blaze,
looking plain, almost vulgar, but he speedily
recovered himself and behaved with courtesy
and geniality.

Upon my word ! ' exclaimed Mr. Eigsby,
looking round, ' what a place you have !
Why, you English nobles are princes indeed.'

Mr. Eigsby and his daughter were received

by the Duke in the drawing-room ; the
audience was very short. Dulcina was carried
off almost before the Duke coukl make out
what she was like, and conveyed by Lady
Grace and Lucy to her apartments. She
looked about her eagerly : on the stairs, in
the corridors ; she said little, she was oppressed
by the stateliness and splendour about
her, to Which she was wholly unaccustomed,
brought up in a wooden bungalow in the
coffee plantations of Ceylon, far from society
and from settled habitations.

When she had been taken to her rooms
the Marquess went to his own. He was
followed by Beavis, dio had kept in the
background. He had observed Miss Eigsby
as attentively as had his sister. He was
unnoticed, and able to study her unrestrainedly.
From his love for Lord Salt-combe,
and because he had himself urged
him to this engagement, he was eager to judge
favourably of Dulcina ; but in spite of this prepossession
he was unfavourably impressed. It
was not merely her complexion and tasteless
dress which displeased his critical eye. He
thought he saw in her a selfish, querulous
spirit, and a lack of womanly tenderness

The geniality of her father, his eagerness to
forestall her wishes, to screen her from all
vexations, met with no recognition, were accepted
as a right, and awoke no gratitude.

When he came into Lord Saltcombe's room
he found his friend in the arm-chair by the
fire, his head resting in his hand, seeming pale
and dispirited. The Marquess looked up, and
with a faint smile said, ' Well, old fellow, come
to congratulate me ? Satisfied with what you
have done? Now, tell me, on your honour,
your opinion oi ma fiancee.'

Beavis was confused. He felt some self-reproach.
He could not expect that his friend
would find happiness at the side of such a dry
stick as Dulcina.

What do you think of her ? ' asked Lord
Saltcombe again.

I have had only a glimpse. I have not
as yet exchanged a word with her.'

Tell me frankly, are you struck with her ? '

I will speak to you frankly. She is not
bad-looking at all. We are so accustomed
here to see lovely complexions, that one spoilt
by the sun of the south seems to us strange.
She has a profusion of Alarm-coloured hair and
good teeth.'

This is not fair, Beavis. You are cataloguing
what I am competent to catalogue myself.
She has a nose, and eyes, and fingers and
feet. The latter small, the ankles good.'

What do you want ? '

What do you think of her character P '

Now you are unreasonable with me. Salt-combe.
I have seen her for a few moments
only, and you demand what you have no right
to expect, and what would be unfair to her.
I will tell you more after I have had a talk
with her.'

'You are evading my question. I want
your first impressions.'

Then you shall have them. I think she
has been spoiled. What has been spoiled it
will be your place to restore. What lies
below the surface, what has been crippled
and what stunted by mismanagement, I cannot
tell. I never will believe in any woman being
other than an angel.'

'Is it possible to make good what is
broken ? '

There are crippled hearts as well as
crippled limbs. Miss Kigsby is young : kindness
and firmness may put the crippled heart

VOL. II. E

to rights ; it is only warped by having been
allowed to twist as it liked, unrestrained.'

Thank you, Beavis. You set me a task.
You are determined to make me work against
my will. I am marrying without love,
without regard even, because it is a family
necessity. Perhaps the union will turn out
well in spite of its being loveless. The French
system of mariage de convenance is not so bad
as novelists would have us suppose, and the
love matches these misleads of youth extol
are generally disastrous. Young folks idealise
each other, and their marriage is a miserable
disenchantment. Where two take each other
without any expectation of finding any treasure,
every discovery of a good quality, every peaceful
pleasure in marriage, comes on them as a
surprise, and they are delighted in the end to
find each other worth having.'

The Marquess laughed, but constrainedly.
Beavis looked at him sadly, sympathetically.
He was afraid to speak. He doubted what to say.

Mr. Eigsby gave his key to a manservant,
who unpacked his portmanteau for him. He
had been accustomed to attend on himself, and
was impatient of having this taken from him.
He stood with his hands in his pockets, looking

on. Then he went to his daughter's room,
tapped, and walked in.

Well, Dullie, what do you think of this ?
Is not the house magnificent? Did you ever
see such livery before, and such a lot of it?
Buff and scarlet, red plush breeches '

Really, James,' exclaimed Miss Stokes,
would you — would you be more constrained
in tongue before ladies ? '

Lord bless me ! ' exclaimed the old
planter, ' what is wrong ? If they wear 'em,
mayn't one speak of them ? '

Papa! ' cried Dulcina, ' you must observe
the decencies of speech, if not before me,
before the great folks here.'

Great folks,' said Mr. Eigsby ; ' I believe
you, Dullie. They are great folks indeed !
Tell me, now, is not everything here magnificent?'


Oh, all is very nice.'

Mce ! Superb ! You do not employ
proper expressions. You never saw the like
in your wildest dreams, because the like is not
to be found out of old England.'

I suppose there are the courts of the
native princes in India '

Native fiddlestick ! ' exclaimed Mr. Eigsby.

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

Really, really, James,' interposed Miss
Stokes, 'would you allow my niece to finish
her sentences ? She cannot endure interruptions
: you shake her nerves. Moreover, the
expression is burlesque and improper.'

I was only about to remark,' said the
abashed Sigsby, ' that Dulcina has seen no native
princes. There are none in Ceylon, and she
has not been on a visit to Maharajah on the
continent.'

'If she has not, she has read of their
palaces and heard of their state.'

They are nothing to the mansions of our
nobility. And, Dulce, my dear, the beauty
is that you will one day be mistress here.
Listen ! Don't it sound well, Dulcina, Duchess
of Kingsbridge ? Upon my word, I will have
you painted in a ducal coronet and red velvet
mantle turned up with ermine. My dear, look
round here on everything as your own. The
old cock can't last long.'

What old cock, papa ? '

I mean the Duke.'

^ Really, James, really ! ' exclaimed Miss
Stokes.

Chapter Xxii.

CAUGHT NAPPING.

Never within man's memory had there been
such a succession of gaieties at Court Royal as
at this Christmas season. The weather was
favourable, bright and mild, as is so frequent
in these days, when the seasons, as the world
of men and manners, are out of joint. The
climate of the south coast of Devon, especially
of that favoured portion about the Kingsbridge
estuary and the mouths of the Erne, the
Avon, and the Realm, is like that of Penzance.
Oranges, myrtles, geraniums grow in the open
air, and frosts do not fall sharply on the vegetation
in winter.

With an ebbing tide the Marquess took a
party down the creek in his yacht to Bolt
Head. The sun was brilliant, and under the
rocks on the sands the air was so soft and
summery that luncheon was spread and taken

out of doors. They returned by moonlight.
The yacht was illuminated with coloured
lanterns ; an awning was spread on deck to cutoff
the falling dews ; a band played, and the
party danced. The villagers along the shore
turned out to watch the glittering vessel as she
ran up with the flowing tide, and listen to the
strains of music wafted over the water.

Miss Pigsty caught cold on this expedition,
and could not appear for a few days. Lord
Saltcombc inquired after her health formally
two or three times every day, and secretly felt
relieved that he was off duty for a while.

When Dulcina reappeared in public her
nose was red and oiistenino^ — red because it
had been much rubbed, glistening because
glycerine had been applied to reduce the soreness
of the organ. Miss Eigsby's temper had
not been at its prime whilst she was unwell,
and Miss Stokes's patience and good nature
were tried. Dulcina was not even pleased
with the Marquess. The trip in the yacht had
been planned by him. ' Who ever heard of
such nonsense,' she said, ' as a picnic and a
dance fresco at Christmas ! Did the creature
want to kill me ? Is he tired of me already ? '

'Oh, dearest Dullie,' answered the aunt,

'forgive him. He lias become delirious with'
love. He cannot do enough to please you. He
is always inventing some excuse to be with you.
If he acted foolishly, forgive ; 3'ou have driven
the wits out of him. I never saw devotion so
delicate, and at the same time so passionate, in
all ray experience.'

That is not saying much,' snapped Dulcina.
'You haven't had much experience of love,
aunt, I will be bound.'

Never was Mr. Eigsby in finer feather than
at Court Royal. At dinner he worked the conversation
into the groove of coffee-planting, in
which he could run for hours. Then, when he
had got it on his subject, he poured forth his
experience on coffee, and absorbed the entire
conversation till coffee itself came in on a silver
tray and stopped his mouth. He talked also
a good deal on Indian affairs, and pretended
intimacy with all the viceroys, lieutenant-governors,
chief commissioners, and British
Residents and native princes for the last
quarter of a century. He knew the secret
history of all that had been done and neglected.
He had in his hands the clue to all the tangles,
financial and political, of the empire. What
might he not expect, when father-in-law to a

Marquess, with the influence of a great Duke
to back him ? Surely, he might aspire to the
viceroyalty ! He would take nothing less. So
he talked long and loud, and made himself a
general bore, in the firm belief that he was
stamping on the minds of the Duke, the Earl of
Stratton, Lord Danish, Lord Poverty, and all
the distinguished guests at the table, that he,
Eigsby, was the man England wanted to do in
India everything that ought to be done, and to
undo every muddle made by every preceding
governor. Mr. Eigsby was not a vulgar man,
but he was a man without tact ; preoccupied
with his own ideas, he regarded no one else.
This was the secret of his success in life. He
had gone forward with the one idea of making
money, and he had made it. 'Now he had got
hold of the notion that he was about to make
himself a name in Eastern politics, and he therefore
talked down and contradicted everyone
dio attempted to turn the conversation or to
dispute his views.

The Marquess played his part in the
Comedy of Love with resolution and patience.
He was devoted in his attention to Miss Eigsby ;
he did his utmost to draw out her better
qualities. These were few ; she had read little.

observed little, associated little with superior
persons. She regarded her father, though she
tyrannised over him. She ruled as a despot
over her feeble aunt, a person of inferior
culture, and no mind. There was some kindness
of heart in her, but most of her thoughts
were on herself. Her taste was detestable,
uncultivated and originally defective. Here
Lady Grace came to the aid of her brother ;
she ingratiated herself into the confidence of
Dulcina, and advised her how to dress ; she did
so with such delicate adroitness that Miss Eigsby
had no idea she was receiving and obeying
advice.

Mr. Worthivale was radiant. The cloud
that had hung over the house was rolling
away ; the golden age was returning. His
spirits bounded With the hopeful prospects.
Not within his memory could Beavis recall a
time when he was so extravagantly magnificent
in his building of cloud-castles and in throwing
golden bridges over Sloughs of Despond. Court
Royal was itself again. The old splendour revived
; the old hospitality extended on all sides.
Not for one moment did the thought cross the
steward's horizon and trouble it, that this revival
was due to Lucy's fortune. Nor was his

daughter more concerned than he. Generous,
self-sacrificing, devoted heart and soul to the
family, she was ready to give everything without
demanding a return, without grudging if it
were lost.

It was other with Beavis. He knew exactly
how matters stood. He knew the extent of the
peril. He knew whose money paid for all
these gaieties and stopped the mouths of the
clamorous creditors. For himself he did not
care, but for his sister he cared a great deal. A
sense of uneasiness that he could not shake off'
oppressed his spirits. He looked on at the
festivities ; he partook of them with perception
of their hollowness and without enjoying them.

On the evening of the ball he was present,
standing in a recessed window, half screened by
the blue silk curtains, looking on in a dreamy
state — the cloud of apprehension hanging over
him — conscious at the moment, however, only
of irritation at the dance strains of Strauss,
which seemed to his fastidious ear as music full
of unclean double-entendre unsuitable for such a
place and such company.

The ball-room, built by Frederick Augustus,
Duke of Kingsbridge, was a noble hall, lighted
by two cut-glass lustres of great size. It was

painted in panels with pastoral subjects, divided
by pilasters of white and gold. The ceiling was
of plaster flower-work containing paintings ;
walls and ceiling were the work of French
artists, brought over for the purpose by the art-and
splendour-loving Frederick Augustus.

The Duke appeared for a short while, but
his delicate condition of health did not permit a
long stay. He was surrounded on his appearance
by a cluster of ladies, eager for a word
and one of his charming speeches full of old-world
courtesy and wit.

Beavis did not go to him. For a while, on
his appearance, the music ceased, then the
doors where flung open, and two Highland
pipers entered, one an immense man with sandy
hair. They strode up the ball-room to the
Duke's chair, stood there a moment playing,
then turned sharply and strode down the room
still playing, made a second circuit, and disappeared.
They were the pipers of a Highland
regiment stationed at Exeter.

After this diversion the Duke retired with
an apology, and the dancing recommenced
with vigour. Then it was, whilst teased by a
waltz of Strauss, that Beavis was startled by a
voice at his elbow — a soft, low voice, a voice

not to be mistaken. He turned and saw Lady
Grace.

'Mr. Beavis,'slie said, 'how have I offended
yon ? Yon have not asked me to dance with
yon once to-night ; but see ' — she held ont her
tablet to him — ' 1 have j^nt yon down, unsolicited,
for the next quadrille.'

His eye caught a single B on the place
indicated. He coloured with pleasure, and
looked his gratitude without speaking.

'We have not had a confidential talk together
for an age,' she said in her gentle tones,
so soft, yet quite distinct ; ' and I want it.
Dear Lucy has been engaged night and day,
and could spare me none of her precious time.
Besides, she is reserved with me on the subject
of all others that occupies my thoughts. I have
no one to speak to but yourself, and I can only
speak with you in the midst of a ball. You
will be candid with me, will you not ? You area
crystal moor stream, and when I look in I seethe
spars and the sparkling mica, even the
grains of black hornblende. Stow I want to
look in and find what is the OTavel over which
your clear thoughts run.'

She smiled. The look of her sweet eyes,
the dimple on her delicate cheek, the flutter of

the throat, the intonation of the voice, were full
of pleading.

Dear Lady Grace,' answered Beavis, ' you
know that I am devoted to your service. I
can deny you nothing.'

'Then, Mr. Beavis, be frank with me. I
know how kind and good you and all your
family are. You are too kind, if I may daresay
that. I mean that to spare me a moment's
pain you would cover up from my eyes all the
little black grains. But, I pray you, let me
have the very truth. Hide nothing ; let me see
all I ask to see. Will you not trust me ? Am
I a coward to turn pale and fly at the sight of
a spider? I am stronger than you think. I
can bear more than you give me credit for.
That which tortures me most of all is uncertainty.
You will trust me — do, pray ! '

She put her fingers to her fan beseechingly,
and looked at him.

What do you desire to know. Lady
Grace ? ' he asked with restraint. There were
things he could not tell her, however suppliantly
and sweetly she might plead.

I cannot understand my brother's engagement.
Does he love her ? Does he admire
her ? I have tried my best. I have done all

I can to find out what there is admirable in
her, and I cannot like her ; I can only endure
her, and that only for a little while. I thought
that I knew Herbert so well ; what he likes I
like, and what I fancy he fancies ; in that weare
almost as tied as twins, but in this one
matter I have no sympathy with him. You do
not know, Mr. Beavis, how I have striven to
reo-ard her as a sister. I cannot ; I cannot doit!
But it is not that that troubles me. I
would never let her suppose I could not love
her, but I am not sure that Herbert loves her.
I cannot think they will be happy together.
What is the attraction in her ? '

She looked round to make sure that she was
not overheard.

I had a battle with myself ; at last I
plucked up sufficient courage to approach the
subject with him. You know that she has had
a bad cold, and has kept her room. During
this time I have been able to talk to my brother
and walk with him, with my hand through his
arm, on the terrace, whilst he smokes, just as
before this — this affair. I have crept very
near to the question that perplexes me, but he
will not allow me to touch it. He glances
aside and bids me keep at arm's length. He

turns the conversation to indifferent subjects,
and then my heart sinks. Only once did I
wring anything like an answer from him, and
that was " Beavis approves." That was referring
me to you, was it not ? That is why I speak
now. prithee tell me the truth I Why do
you approve ? '

Beavis looked down. What could he
answer ?

I have not had much conversation with
Saltcombe since his engagement,' he answered
in a low tone. He blushed as he spoke, for it
was an evasion, but he could not help himself.

Oh, Mr. Beavis ! ' she exclaimed, with pain
and discouragement in her expressive voice,
'you are playing with me. I asked for the
truth, and you throw up a soap-bubble ! '

Lady Grace,' he said gravely, ' this is not
the place, nor have we now the time, for speaking
on this matter. I must, unworthy as I
may seem, ask you to do that which I appear
unwilling to do to you. I must ask you to
trust me. I do approve of Saltcombe's engagement
— I may add, I advised it. This latter
was a responsibility — a terrible one ; nevertheless,
I took it upon me. I did advise this
engagement.'

So did Uncle Edward, I know, and Aunt
Elizabeth as well,' said Lady Grace sadly. ' I
am treated like a child. I am given no reasons.
I can hardly bear it. I am no longer a child ;
I am growing into the old woman.'

Never, never, Lady Grace ! with a heart
as fresh and a spirit as bright as a May morning.'


She smiled very faintly, almost imperceptibly,
slight dimples forming at the corners of
her mouth. The tears were very near the surface.


I must trust you,' she said. Then, thinking
she had spoken grudgingly and ungenerously,
she looked up and said, ' I trust you frankly,
freely, from the bottom of my soul. Excuse
my petulance, my curiosity. From the days
of Eve woman has wanted to know what she
had better not know ! '

Beavis was uneasy. He felt that she was
hurt by his want of confidence — hurt and disappointed.
He knew that this disappointment
would cost her tears when alone. He could not
do otherwise. He could not tell her that this
marriage was de convenance, one for money,
and money only. Her healthy, pure mind
would recoil from such a truth. She would

think such a union unholy, dishonouring.
But it was necessary. She did not know the
bankrupt condition of the family. If told it,
she would not realise it. If she did realise
it, she would refuse to sanction escape from it
by such means. Beavis knew this. He could
see into that transparent soul better far than
she could look into his.

The quadrille is forming,' she said ; ' let us
take our places.'

They did so under one of the great chandeliers.


How beautiful was the scene : the background
of old paintings and white and gold,
the brilliant light from above, the brightly
polished floor of inlaid woods, the figures in gay
colours — the turquoise blue, the eschscholtzia
yellow, the carnation pink, the lily white —
flickering in and out like pieces in a kaleidoscope.
The beautiful faces, bright eyes, the
various hairs — golden, chestnut brown, black —
the flash of diamonds, the flowers — how lovely
was the scene ! Yet, lovely above every person
and every object there, incomparable in
every way, Beavis thought Lady Grace — not
wrongly, not with any exaggeration. Incomparable
she was in white and the palest blue

VOL. II. P

satin, so pale as to be scarcely blue at all, with
aquamarine parure, and a cross of the same
hano-ino" from her necklet and resting on her
pure bosom. The delicate blue veins in her
temples and on her throat and bosom showed
through her transparent skin. Her eyes were
of deep violet blue — the only dark colour about
her. In her cheeks was the faintest tinge of
rose. Lady Grace, as has been said before,
was not a young girl ; she was sliding out of
youth. But age, as it drew on, added sweetness
to her face ; it gave expression where it
withdrew bloom.

Miss Rigsby flared by in yellow and red ;
the Misses Sheepwash were in the same quadrille,
hot with dancing, their cheeks aflame, and
their fans working vigorously ; they were bouncing
girls.

Beavis turned his eyes away. He looked at
his partner, moving easily, without exertion,
full of grace in every undulation. It was a
delight to the eye to rest on her.

She did not look at Beavis during the dance.
When he had the chance he said, ' I have
offended you '

No, you cannot do that ; only disappointed
me.'

'I cannot help myself. I am obliged to
say, Trust me. I can do no other. Rely on
me that I advise nothing' which is not best for
yom brother and your family ; best attainable,
I mean, not ideally best.'

He had to lead her across in the dance.
She slightly pressed his hand. It was to say, ' I
trust.'

When she returned to his side she said, ' Dome
a favour. Poor Miss Stokes is sitting
yonder, the picture of woebegonedness. Please
me by dancing once with her. You do not
know how dreadful the world seems to a
yoimg lady who has been a wallflower one
whole night. A single round alters the aspect
of life.'

In the country there is generally a preponderance
of ladies at a ball. It was not so on
this occasion at Court Royal. Officers had been
invited from Plymouth and Exeter, so that
every young lady — except Miss Stokes, who
was not young, but refused to consider herself
old — found a partner, and every young lady
said afterwards that this was the most perfect
ball she had ever attended. Even Miss Stokes
said it was a nice ball. She danced twice with
Beavis. Beavis was not obliged to dance. He

preferred looking on. He watched Miss Eigsby,
and he saw that she was flattered with the
attentions of the Marquess, and that, so far asher
cold nature could feel affection, she loved
him. Her eyes followed him when he danced
with another, with an expression in them much
like jealousy. Lucy had been compulsorily
relieved of her superintendentship of preparations
for, and conduct of the ball, by Lady
Elizabeth Eveleigh, who on her arrival took
everything upon herself. Lady Elizabeth was
full of system, and Lucy was obliged to admit
that everything went more smoothly ; the servants
became more prompt under the rule of
Lady Elizabeth than under herself. She would
have kept in the background in the' ball-room
had she been allowed, but she who had thought
of Others was thought of by them. The Marquess
insisted on her dancing with him, then
Lady Grace introduced officers to her. Lord
Eonald would not be refused her hand in the
lancers. Lord Edward, the Archdeacon, did
not dance, but he drew Lucy into a window
and talked with her for half an hour in an
affectionate manner. Whenever Lady Grace
passed in her valse, or quadrille, or cotillon,
she smiled, and if possible gave her a kindly

word. In spite of her efforts to escape, for she
was not in good spirits, Lucy was not allowed
to retire. She danced as often as any young
girl in the room. Her partners liked her. She
was unaffected, full of good sense and modesty.
About three o'clock in the morning Beavis told
his sister he Alas going home.

Papa has the key,' said she. ' Our maid,
Emily, is here helping. She and that other,
Joanna, could not both come tomorrow, so
they arranged between them that one should
be here to-night and the other be at the
tenants' ball. Papa said she was to go to
bed, and that he and you would let yourselves
in.'

I'll get the key,' answered Beavis ; ' then
I weill sit and smoke in the study till our father
comes. I do not suppose he wil leave yet.'

Oh dear no I not till the last moment ; he
enjoys the ball as much as a girl does her first
coming out.'

Beavis got the key and walked home.

When he left the house, and was in the
park, he turned and looked back at the illuminated
mansion ; the strains of music came to
him faintly through the trees. Then the sense
of oppression, which had hung over him aU

the evening in the gutter of the ball-room,
descended heavily on his spirits.

Was it possible that the Marquess would
continue in the same resolution and marry Miss
Eigsby ? If he did not, then the earthquake
would follow, and engulf not only the Kings-bridge
family, but his own. As yet Lord
Saltcombe had shown no token of wavering.
He was too honourable a man to shrink from
an engagement when once he had passed his
word. On this Beavis assured himself that he
could rely. As far as he could see, the marriage
would certainly take place. That which
troubled him was not the doubt of its accomplishment,
but the probable result afterwards.
Was there any prospect of happiness to the
Marquess in such an union ? There was none — ■
none at all. The characters were incompatible.
The marriage must lead to mutual
estrangement. It would end Saltcombe's friendship
for Beavis, whom he would always regard
as the evil adviser who had brought him into
hateful bonds. Beavis opened his house door
noiselessly, and as noiselessly entered the hall.
He wore goloshes over his patent leather boots,
and his steps were soundless on the kamptulicon
floorclotli. To his surprise he saw that the

office door was ajar, and that there was a light
within.

He walked down the passage and entered.

He saw the girl Joanna at his father's
writing-desk, seated on the stool asleep, her
head reposing on her arm upon the desk. A
candle was burning beside her. The book-cupboard
or press, in which the ledgers were
kept, was unlocked and open. The bunch of
his father's keys was there, hanging in the lock.
On the desk were some of the ledgers, open.

Beavis stepped up to the girl in great surprise,
and saw that under her hand was a small
account-book, in which, as far as he could see,
without removing her hand, was a series of
extracts from the ledger ; of particulars of
rents, payments, incumbrances, neatly written,
not in his father's hand.

Joanna ! ' he called, and laid his hand on
her shoulder. Instantly she sprang to her feet,
looked at him in a bewildered manner, gathering
her senses with difficulty, put her hard
firmly on the account-book, and with the other
knocked the candle over. It was instantly
extinguished on the floor.

What is the meaning of this ? ' asked
Beavis, confronting her in the dark.

I beg your pardon, sir,' answered the girl ;
I am sorry. I fell asleep whilst sitting up to
open when you came home. I thought you
might want some hot water and sugar and the
whisky. I'm sorry the light has gone out. If
you'll please to excuse me a moment, I Avill
fetch a candle from the kitchen.'

She was fumbling with her hands whilst
speaking.

What are you about ? ' asked Beavis
sharply.

'Please, sir, I can't find the candle where
it has fallen.'

Never mind the candle. Go fetch an •
other.'

She slipped away, but not at once, as
bidden. Presently she returned, holding a
bedroom candle alight. She looked sleepy,
her eyes Avere dull, her hair tangled.

Joanna,' said Beavis, looking at the desk,
I must know the meaning of this.'

I told you I was sitting up,' she answered.
In the kitchen I might not have heard, and I
made so bold as to come in here, where I'd be
ture, I thought, to hear when you were at the
front door. I'm sorry I was that bold todo
so.'

What has become of the note-book I saw
on the desk a moment ao^o ? '

What note-book, sir ? '

One I saw beneath your hand as you lay
asleep.'

Joanna shrugged her shoulders. ' There
are a power of books of all sorts here,' she
answered. ' Which would you please to want,
sir?'

I insist on your producing the book.'

'I have none to produce,' she answered,
stupidly or doggedly.

Joanna, how came the cabinet open, and
the books about ? '

I suppose the master left them so.'

And the cabinet unlocked ? '

She shrugged her shoulders, then yawned.
'I beg pardon, sir, but I am that sleepy
I can neither think nor speak. Do you want
some hot water and tumblers, and the sugar,
and the whisky ? '

Go along — to bed at once,' said Beavis.
I'll inquire into this tomorrow.'

And the whisky, and the sugar, and the
hot water ? '

Go along,' said Beavis stamping. ' I
want nothing but an explanation of your conduct,

and that I ,will ]save from you tomorrow.'
•' ^^

'Yes, sir.' She looked at him. In that
qmck glance there was neither stupidity n^

^^^Before he could speak again she had stolen

CHAPTEE XXV.

WITHOUT WARNING.

Beayis remained up, smoking and musing in
the study till this father returned. He did not
speak to him about Joanna that night, as the
old man looked tired. He gave him his candle,
made a joke about a midday breakfast and
lunch rolled into one, at which they would
meet, and retired to rest.

Neither Beavis nor his father came down
till late next morning, and then only, over
their breakfast, was Joanna's behaviour discussed.


'I never take tea with meat. What is it
this morning ? Kidneys ? Kidneys above all.
No tea, Beavis, coffee for me ; less tannin in it.
Can you conceive anything more calculated to
give dyspepsia than to immerse meat in a fluid
charged with tannin ? You convert it at one
stroke into leather, and make demands on the

gastric juice which it is not qualified to perform.
No, tea is poison ; give me coffee.'

Certainly, my dear father,' said Beavis
with a smile. ' I fear I have something to
communicate which will disagree with you
more than tea.'

Then reserve it.'

I must not. We must act upon it at
once.'

Mr. Worthivale sighed. ' I enjoyed myself
so greatly last night. Indeed, I do not
think I have spent such a happy ten days as
these last since I was a boy. Well, what is
it?'

Then Beavis told his father what he had
seen that morning early on his return from
Court Royal. Mr. Worthivale was annoyed.
'One cannot get along a week without unpleasantness,'
he said peevishly. ' Really, at
my time of life I expect relief from worries.'

Where did you leave your keys ? '

I cannot say for certain. Yes, I can. I
am positive : that is, I think I locked everything
up as usual, and put the keys in my
trousers pocket. I generally — I may say
always — do so on principle. But yesterday I
was in such a hurry about the ball. My time

and thoughts were in such requisition that I
may have committed the oversight of leaving
them in the bookcase. I was not at the office
at all after half-past three, and then I was
there for an hour only. There was no money
in the drawers.'

No, but there was information concerning
the Duke's affairs worth to some people a good
deal of money.'

'It would certainly be annoying if stupid
gossip got about concerning the family embarrassments.'


I do not allude to gossip.'

I'll tell you what I will do, Beards. I'll
ring for the girl, and then we will examine her
together. I see no cause for alarm. She can
neither read nor write.'

Who told you so ? '

A Mrs. Delany, in whose service she was
before she came to us. Touch the bell,
Beavis.'

In response to the summons Emily appeared.


'Look here,' said the steward; 'send the
other girl to me. I mean Joan or Joanna,
whichever she is called, I cannot remember. I
want a word with her.'

'Please, sir,' answered Emily, ' she is
gone.'

Gone ! ' exclaimed father and son in a
breath.

Yes, sir. She went by the first coach this
morning, when you were asleep. She said as
how the young master had given her notice to
be off at once. She took her box out into the
road herself. She was in a pretty take-on too,
sir, because, as she said — to use her very words
she was chiselled out of a dance. She'd set
her heart on going to the tenants' ball to-night.
Her and I had a regular breeze because we
could not both go, and it ended in the usual
way. She got her way, and made me go last
night just to look on and help. She was
crying with vexation because she could not beat
the dance. When she went away she said.
What would Lady Grace think, who had been
so kind to her, and Miss Lucy, who'd taught
her to dance ! '

I did not give her notice,' said Beavis in a
low tone to his father.

She has not had her wage,' said the
steward aloud to Beavis and Emily.

Well, now, that is queer,' began the maid,
when the young man cut her short with

You may go.'

As soon as the girl was gone Beavis said,
This makes matters more suspicious. I told
Joanna that I would examine her with you
to-day, and rather than subject herself to interrogation
she takes herself off without warning.'

She forfeits her wages,' said Mr. Worthily.
'But I dare be bound she misunderstood
you. Beavis, you speak rather sharp
with servants. I dare say Emily would have
talked on for half an hour if you had not cut
her over the knuckles so sharp.'

I have no doubt whatever she would.'

She might have told us a good deal,' said
his father. ' I have no doubt in my mind that
a misapprehension lies at the bottom of this
unfortunate affair. Of course, Joan had no
right to be in the office, but perhaps she was
dusting and tidying. You know yourself how
neat she keeps that room, which of old was always
in a litter. Once I never knew where to lay
my hand on anything. I shall miss her ; she
had her good points. I dare say you snapped
off her head when you came in and found
the poor creature dozing over her work. No
doubt she was tired. You are too hasty,
Beavis, too hasty by far. No question she has

left her address with Emily. J. will ring and
inquire.'

Beavis stayed Lis father. ' I am sure she
has not. This is a more serious matter than
you suppose. I never liked the looks of the
girl ; she was too clever.'

That comes of education ; the over education
of this nineteenth century.'

But she can neither read nor write.'

Oh ! I beg your pardon. I mean the
reverse. She is clever because not overtaxed
by Board School masters straining poor, underfed
brains to reach standards that are far above
their level.'

Whence did she come ? '

From Plymouth, from Colonel Delany's —
a very respectable family. He is connected by
marriage with the Pomeroys. I do not know
who Mrs. Delany was, but of course she is a
lady, and she ^vi^ote in highest commendation
of the girl.'

Let me see the letter.'

It is somewhere in the office ; I think I
can find it ; follow me. But mind, Beavis,'
said the steward, stopping at the door, and
holding up his finger ; ' remember what I have
said about drinking tea with meat. You deliberately

tan your food, and yet you expect to
digest it. As well eat sole-leather.'

The old man fumbled in his drawers.

I thought I had put it in this pigeon-hole,
among sundries. It seems to have made itself
wings and gone.'

I have little doubt Joanna has taken it.'

'She could not read or write,' said Mr.
Worthivale.

If she does not read, why did she pull
out the ledgers ? If she does not write, who
made a precis of the debts and income of the
family in the little note-book I saw ? '

It may have been in my handwriting. I
often take odd scraps of paper and figure on
them the revenue of the Kingsbridge estates,
and the outgoings, and try to extract some
comfort from them. I dare say you will find
a score of such balances in the waste-paper
basket.'

They ought not to be there.'

Who is the wiser ? I put initials to the
debts.'

What I saw was not in your handwriting,
and was done very clearly and systematically.
It was done by some one experienced in book-vol.

II. G

keeping — that is the only point that shakes
my conviction that the girl has bled your
books.'

What was the back of the account-book
like?'

I did not see it. Joanna knocked the
candle over, as I am convinced, deliberately,
and in the dark secreted the notes and put
away the ledgers. I heard her do the latter,
and when she returned with the candle, everything
was in place, and the account-book
nowhere that I could see.'

'We will overhaul the cabinet.'

I should like to overhaul her room.'

I will call Emily.'

The maid conducted Beavis upstairs.

He looked round. The bed had not been
slept in. Some scraps of paper lay scattered
on the floor ; a saucer with water in it stood
in the window.

Ah ! ' said Emily, ' never was nobody so
stuck up as Joanna over nothing as she was
over the pot of lily of the valley her ladyship
gave her. She went off on the top of the coach,
hugging it like a baby, and I seed her kiss her
hand and wave it, right away over the woods
towards Court Royal ; and she was crying. I

reckon she was sorry to go. She was so taken
with Lady Grace, lie nigh worshipped the
ground she trod on ; and the last thing I heard
her say was, " Oh, what will Lady Grace think ! "
Why, sir, I reckon her ladyship won't cast a
thought after her.'

Beavis shook his head.

'Joanna has not left a pin that was her
own. She looked about the room a score of
times to make sure she had everything. She
carried away her pink silk as she minded to
have worn at the tenants' ball, had it not been
spoiled with mineral water.'

Did she give you her address ? '

'K'o, sir, her and me wasn't over-good
friends. She was one that would have all her
own way, she was that over-bearing. I did
think it was not fak that she should go to the
dance to-night and not I, who am the longest
in the place, but she was that set on it, I
reckon there was no withstanding her. Lady
Grace and Miss Lucy had taught her to dance
for the purpose — she brought this up on me,
and what was I to say ? '

That will do,' said Beavis. • I asked a
simple question and required a simple answer.'

And after all, sir,' said the unabashed

Emily, ' lie won't go to the ball neither.
That's sweet comfort.'

The tenants' ball began at seven, and by
tacit understanding was to be over at two in
the morning. The hours were very much
earlier than at the grand ball of the evening*
before. Mr. Worthivale and Beavis were there,
as a matter of course, and all the ducal family
appeared. His Grace remained in the ballroom
longer than on the former occasion,
talking to the young farmers' sons and
daughters, showing that he knew them all byname,
took an interest in their welfare, and
was delighted to have them about him enjoying
themselves. He was obstinate on this evening,
he would not go when his daughter thought
advisable.

No, dear,' he said, ' it refreshes me to see
all their happy faces. How hearty they are ;
how well they behave ; they are so courteous
and kindly ! I do like our English peasantry ;
there is a gentility of feeling about them I
meet with nowhere else — good hearts and clear
heads.'

The Duke knew nearly everyone. He had
the happy faculty of never forgetting a face,
and of remembering the circumstances of every

family. He had the tact of inquiring after
absent members, by name, with such real or
well-simulated interest, as to gratify those he
addressed, and convince them of his sincerity
and friendship.

What ! Mrs. Prose ! You here ? This
is an unexpected pleasure. How many years
ago was it that you were pretty Mary Eastlake,
with whom I opened the ball ? The belle of
Aveton Gifford,'

Well, your Grace, my daughter has come
for her first dance, and as I've no other children
— you'll excuse me, your Grace — I thought
I'd come with her and see her safe home.'

'Bring her to me. If she is like you
in old days, she will kill many hearts this
evening.'

Well, Richard Palmer ! I hope you have
brought your voice and will favour us with a
song, when the dancers give over for a moment.
How is poor Jane ? Is she still suffering from
her spine P I was so grieved to hear of her
accident — I had counted on her presence this
evening.'

How are you, Mr. Xewberry? Last time
I saw you, your wife was bent on the great ash
being cut down in front of the gate. It went

to my heart to deny her, the tree was so fine,
but I learnt a lesson ; the gale of last October
tore the tree to pieces and pelted your roof with
the boughs.'

Broke the roof through and through, your
Grace.'

That is a lesson never to deny the ladies
anything ; I dare say your own experience
teaches you the same.'

How do you do, Mr, Nesbitt ? ' to a schoolmaster
; ' glad I secured your services for the
new school at Woodley. I read your account of
your misadventures — that you sent to Blackwood
— with great amusement. Never laughed
so much in my life. It Alas smartly Written —
very. You will do something with your pen
some day.'

Oh, Lucy, dear,' said Lady Grace, ' do goto
papa and persuade him to retire. He is so
happy when he gets with the young people
that he will stay on here longer than is judicious.
He will suffer for it tomorrow, and I am sure
that they will dance with more ease when the
restraint of his presence is removed. Look !
there are only three circling round the room
now, to the strains of the whole marine band,
and they are blushing and disposed to give it

up. Where is JoaDiia ? What has become of
that odd gM ? I see her nowhere.'

I do not know ; I will ask my father, or
Beavis.'

Do, Lucy, go to the Duke. He will listen
to you when he will not obey me or Uncle
Eonald — not even the Archdeacon. You have
such a coaxing way, and yet you are so resolute,
he will not refuse to go. Dear old man ! it is
always "Where is Lucy?" with him. Nothing
goes right unless under sour hands.'

Then Lady Grace caught the eye of Beavis,
and beckoned him to her. ' Where is your
maid Joanna ? ' she asked. ' Do see how shy
the young folk are. These couples are only
dancing because I have set them spinning, and
they do it out of duty, not because they enjoy
themselves. Joanna has no shyness, I will get
her a partner and set her off.'

She is not here. Lady Grace.'

Not here ! But how is this ? Could you
not spare her ? I am sorry ; Lucy and I have
been teaching her to dance, and she had so set
her heart on this evening.'

She is a perplexing, queer girl.'

She is a girl worth studying, a girl from
whom a great deal may be learnt ; delightfully

fresh and yet terribly Adorn out, if you can
understand such a compound of opposites. Is
not that the sum of Hegel's philosophy, the
conciliation of antagonisms? Well, that is
Joanna. I am so sorry she is not here. I
should have delighted to see how she profited
by my teaching.'

She is gone, Lady Grace.'

Gone ! '

Yes, gone without warnings.'

CHAPTEE XXVI.

UxVSTABLE AS WATER.

Three days after the grand ball the Eigsbys
left. Miss Eigsby had not appeared at the
tenants' ball ; she was tired, and did not feel
well. The rumour of the projected marriage
had got about, and the tenants would have liked
to have seen their future Duchess, but she was
ungracious ; she disliked vulgar people and
would not appear, to the disappointment of the
tenants and of the Duke, who thought that, in
this matter, she did not act with the consideration
proper to her position.

The Marquess and she had seen a good deal
of each other, and everything seemed favourable
to a marriage. Mr. Eigsby held long conferences
with the Duke, and came away greatly
impressed with his urbanity, and still more impressed
with the conviction that he had made
his own wisdom and importance clear to the

Duke. Miss Eigsby had convinced herself that
she was in love with the Marquess. Miss
Stokes assured her of the passion that consumed
the bosom of her lover. Lord Saltcombe did
not in any way vary in his behaviour ; always
courteous and considerate, ready to be with heron
every occasion, conversing on her reminiscences
of Ceylon, and attracting her attention
to what was interesting in the country that was
shortly to be her home. She had no appreciation
of what was good in art, and he amused
himself and her in endeavouring to instil into
her some of the first principles of taste.

The day after the departure of the Eigsbys,
Beavis went to his friend's rooms. He found
the Marquess in his arm-chair among a heap of
papers that he had torn up and cast about him
on the floor. He was so deep in his thoughts,
which were of a painful nature, that he did not
notice the entrance of Beavis. At his first word
he started and sprang up bewildered, liable at
once to recognise the speaker.

You are, I hear, going to Plymouth, Salt-combe
? '

I — Plymouth ! — oh yes, I forgot. To be
sure, yes, Beavis, I am going there for a while.
How hot it is in the room ! '

The Marquess went to the window and
threw it open, drew a long breath, passed his
red silk handkerchief over his brow, and then
returning to his chair, said, ' Oh, Beavis ! you
have no conception of the strain on one's
powers to keep up the appearance of being a
lover.'

Good heavens ! ' exclaimed Beavis ; ' speak
lower, or say nothing on the matter.'

I must speak. T have no one but yourself
to whom I can give vent to my feelings. This
is your doing ; you have put me on the rack.'

I have advised for the best.'

I know you have,' answered the Marquess
with a bitter laugh. ' I will go through with it
now, my honour is engaged, so do not fear.
Tout est pour le mieux dans le meilleur des
mondes. You must excuse me if, at times, my
courage gives way.'

Beavis had never before seen Lord Salt-combe
so excited. He was usually composed
and cool.

The Duke wants a word with you,' said
Beavis. ' I have come to tell you that he wishes
to speak to you in the rose boudoir.'

The Marquess nodded. 'One moment,
Beavis, before I go.'

I am at your service.'

Tell me, how is it that we are spending
money right and left just now, and that there
is not the ever-recurring worry of a deficit ? '

Beavis hesitated.

I insist on knowing,' said Lord Saltcombe.

The necessary sums have been lent.'

What ! a fresh loan to crush us ! At what
rate of interest now? Who is the lender?
Another Jew ? '

Sto Jew,' answered Beavis. ' No merest
is asked, as all will be repaid as soon as your
marriage takes place.'

Who is the Good Samaritan that has flown
to the rescue ? '

There is nothing of the Good Samaritan in
this. It is but a temporary accommodation.'

'But who is this most accommodating
party?'

My father.'

The Marquess stood still and looked at
Beavis. He put his hand to his chin ; it shook.
Good God ! ' he exclaimed. ' You — you dear
good friends! You again helping us!' He
was greatly moved. He took Beavis' hand and
held it tightly in his whilst he looked out of the
window. ' Oh, Beavis ! how kind, how noble

you are ! I insist on the whole truth. What
is the sum advanced ? '

Four thousand.'

Is that your father's money ? '

No.'

'Whose is it then?'

Beavis did not reply. He looked down.

I insist on being told.'

Lucy's.'

What ! ' exclaimed the Marquess colouring
; ' indebted to dear Lucy more deeply still.
Oh, Beavis! never, never, can we repay the
debt we owe to your house. So Lucy finds
the money to wreath the ox for the sacrifice.'
He was silent, he let go his friend's hand and
stood before the fire, looking down and kicking
the hearth. ' It shall all be repaid,' he said
at last ; ' I mean the money. The good intent,
the sep-sacrifice, that can only be treasured in
our hearts, a priceless possession. Beavis, do
not fear. The marriage will take place, and
that speedily. I cannot bear to be indebted so
deeply to you.'

Your father is awaiting you,' said Beavis,
anxious to cut short a scene painful to both.

The Marquess left the room, and sought
his father.

The Duke led a very regular life, regulated
to the smallest details. He suffered from
sleeplessness, and therefore did not rise till
late. He breakfasted at half-past ten, after
which he was visited by his son and daughter,
and occasionally by Lord Eonald. The
General was up at half-past six, and took a
constitutional till eight, when he came in and
had a cup of coffee. He breakfasted with the
rest at nine. The Duke read his letters whilst
dressing, and arranged them in three piles ;
those he must himself reply to, those that
might be answered by his daughter or son,
and those on business, which he passed over
to the steward. Mr. Worthivale called daily
or almost daily — at noon, and sat with him
for an hour. The Duke partook of a light
luncheon at half-past one, and when the
weather permitted he took a drive : if the
weather was unfavourable he walked in his
conservatories.

He generally dined with the family, and
sat with them for a couple of hours after
dinner. Then he retired for the night. On
Sundays he breakfasted half an hour earlier, in
order that he might attend church.

Sometimes after dinner he took a hand at

whist, or played chess with the Vicar, who was
frequently invited to Court Royal. In former
years he had spent the season in town, but his
health no longer permitted his travelling by
rail, and his children had accommodated themselves
to a country life.

The Duke had pretended to pass over the
care of the property to his son, and he no
longer inquired into the balance ; that the
Marquess was expected to see to ; but he
amused himself with details, the complaints
of the farmers, their demands for fresh buildings,
their applications for drainage operations.
These he took up, and it gave a zest to his
drives to inspect the farms and see the proposed
improvements. This was a little vexatious
to the steward, who endeavoured to cut
down expenses. The tenants knew that they
were sure of a favourable answer from his
Grace, and therefore applied direct to him.

The Duke had his private account at the
bank ; a modest sum of a thousand pounds
was always paid in to this account, on which
he drew independently of the house. The
cost of keeping up Court Royal, the wages,
the housekeeping, the gardens, belonged to a
separate account, with which he did not

concern himself. That was under the control
of Lucy and her father; subject, of course, to
Lady Grace, if she chose to supervise it, but
this she never did.

The general accounts, the rent roll, the
receipts, the outlay on the estates, the charges
on the property, the interest on the mortgages
and loans, these the Marquess was supposed
to examine every half-year ; but he did so in a
careless, impatient manner, and refused to take
an interest in the property. Time enough, he
thought, when forced to do so, on his succession
to the estates.

Sit down, Herbert,' said the Duke, Ashen
Lord Saltcombe entered. ' We must have a
little quiet conversation together. You are
going to Plymouth ; it is well, you must be
with your fiancee as much as you can to learn
each other's characters and habits. I confess
to a little surprise. I had thought you Avould
have been guided in your choice less by
caprice. Still — you are the judge of what
is best for yourself. In the matter of fortune
everything is satisfactory, and perhaps that is
not a point to be disregarded, as our fortunes
are not exactly what they were. The property
was heavily burdened when it came to me ;

still, I have lived very quietly of late, and a
margin must be left to turn over and extinguish'
such debts as were formerly contracted.'

The Marquess looked down.

'You have been shut out from the world
for some years, Herbert. That has not met
with my approval. Your place was in London,
and you ought to have been in Parliament.
Now that you are about to be married I expect
you will take your proper position in the social
and political constellations. I hope this union
is one of genuine affection.'

I trust it meets with your approval.'

I have nothing against it. The young
lady has been properly educated, the family is
respectable. The Eigsbys of Lincolnshire are
known ; they have been settled in that most
dismal of counties for several centuries. They
have a baronet in the family — a late creation.
Well, in these days one must not be too nice.'
After a pause, the Duke went on : ' You are
quite right to go to Plymouth . I wish you
there to take a good suite of rooms in the
Royal Hotel, and live up to your station. Take
some of your own servants with you ; your
valet, and your own riding and driving horses,
and your groom. I should advise a dog-cart

VOL. II. H

and a drag. I am not one to encourage extravagance,
indeed I hate display, it is vulgar ;
but your position demands a certain amount of
appearance. You are the representative of the
House, now that I am a poor broken creature,
and cannot show in public. An Eveleigh must
always maintain his dignity. I beg you to
remember this. Never let yourself down.'

Lord Saltcombe, not knowing Avhat answer
to make, bowed. His father accepted this
movement as a sign of submission to his will.

One thing more. I believe you have not
as yet made your fiancee a present. This, of
course, you must do. I have looked through
the family jewels, but see nothing that quite
answers the purpose. I should like you to spare
no expense ; run up to town and choose out a
suitable present, a diamond necklet or tiara. It is
possible you may not have the sum sufficient at
your command. I have therefore drawn you
a blank cheque on my private account. Fill
in the sum when you know what you want.'

I cannot — my father.'

You must, Herbert. It is my desire. I
shall be annoyed if you give your betrothed a
present unworthy of a future Duchess of Kings-bridge.'


Lord Saltcombe was too agitated to speak.

Herbert,' continued the old Duke, ' I give
my full consent to this union, and I ask the
Almighty on my knees to shower His richest
blessing upon it. May you be happy as I was
happy with your dear, never-to-be-forgotten
mother. You deserve it. A blessing is attached
to filial obedience, and you have always
been a dutiful and loving son ; you have never
caused me an hour's pain, never given me
occasion to blush to think that a son of mine
has stained the hereditary honour.'

Lord Saltcombe returned to his apartments
in a condition of confusion and distress that
made him thankful Beavis was not there to see
him. He threw himself in his chair, covered
his face with his hands, and a sob broke from
his bosom and relieved the immediate tension.

He sat thus thinking, hiding his face from
no one, for he was alone, for a quarter of an
hour. Then, as though fired by a sudden resolution,
he took a key from his pocket and
opened his cabinet. He drew forth a drawer
and took from it a bundle of faded letters. He
set his lips closely, and his brows were contracted.


The fire was low. He took the tongs and

raked it together, and put on a billet of wood.
Then, to brisk it up, cast on it the scraps of
paper from the floor. Now the fire flamed,
and the dry wood caught and crackled.

Lord Saltcombe leaned back in his chair,
and untied the bundle of letters. He drew the
notes from their envelopes, and looked at one,
then another. His face relaxed ; an expression
of pain of a different sort settled on it. He
made an effort to recover his firmness and to
carry out his resolution. He threw one, two,
three envelopes on the flames, and sighed as
they flared. He knelt down, and placed the
letters on the hearth. Then he drew from the
cabinet the little miniature already described,
and looked at it long, with face that twitched
with suffering. He put it towards his hips — as
about to kiss it, then recovered himself, and
placed it on the little pyre of old letters.

They must all go together now,' he said,
and put his hand to the billet of wood to bring
it to the little pile. But the wood was hot and
burnt his fingers. Then he took the tongs, and
picked up a coal, and laid it on one of the
papers. The coal died out, and Lord Salt-combe
took the paper, and brushed away the
charred fragments. He struck a vesta match,

but Ms hand trembled and he was unable to
fire with it the old letters.

Then he stood up, and leaning his elbow on
the chimney-piece, rested his head against his
hand, and looked down on the miniature on
the hearth. How lovely that face was ! The
great dark eyes seemed to plead for pity.
Why should I ? ' asked the Marquess. ' It
must be done before I am married. Then I
must utterly destroy all memories of the past —
but not yet ! surely not yet ! ' He stooped,
picked up the miniature, tied the letters together
again, and replaced them and the picture
in their old drawer.

The resolution of Lord Saltcombe had led
him to burn three envelopes.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

REVOLT.

Mr. Lazarus was engaged on his dinner. He
sat on the chair without a bottom, ^vith a plate
on his knees. In that plate were three cold
Jerusalem artichokes. He had a fourth on the
end of an iron fork, and he held it between his
eye and the window. ' It is deadly grey in
flesh,' he said, ' and sits cold on the stomach.
I wish Joanna were back to warm my victuals.
It is not the quality I object to, it's the coldness.
There is a sort of damp chill about these
cold artichokes, like grey November fog solidified
into vegetable pills. Joanna is a long time
about her business. I knows what it is — the
great dinners she gets there, goose and sage
stuffing, roast beef and Yorkshire pudding, the
beef with little white curls of horse-radish on it,
like the first locks on the head of an innocent
babe, that a mother loves to play with. One

of the first things that ever I can remember,
when I turn my eyes lovingly back upon childhood,
is tapioca pudding ; how delicious it was,
golden on top like cream, and browned here
and there, made with good milk and an egg.
There is a deal of difference between the
tapioca now and what it was then. IS^ow best
Eio is eighteen-halfpenny, Penang is five-pence
; then it cost me nothing. Those childish
days were lovely. I paid for nothing, I
consumed everything gratis. They will never
return, never ! I wish Joanna were back ; I
can't stomach these artichokes. I'd make hereat
them, it is a. sin to waste them, and I'd get-myself
a cheesecake.' The door was thrown
open, and Joanna appeared, thrusting her box
before her with one hand and both knees, whilst
with the left hand she clasped a flower-pot.

There ! ' said she, ' I'm back, Mr. Lazarus.
The man outside is waiting to be paid for
carrying my box. He wants a shilling, but he
can be forced to be content with ninepence
if you refuse to give more. I want some
dinner.'

Here, take it,' said Lazarus, handing her
the plate; 'do as you always have done — tear
the very food from my mouth. You long-necked

cormorant ! You've clone growing and
ought to be ashamed of yourself.'

The porter is waiting to be paid,' said
Joanna.

I suppose eighteen and a French sou
will do, if I sip it among the English coppers.
Take this ; you shall get no more. With a
little effort you might have carried the box
yourself.'

An altercation was heard outside when the
girl offered the porter the eighteen and sou.
Lazarus put his hands in his pockets and
listened with composure. To put his hands in
his pockets he was forced to stand up ; then he
sat down in the bottomless chair, and clenched
them in the position where he had thrust them.
Not another halfpenny would he give, but if
the porter were inclined to deal, that was
another matter.

Joanna returned triumphant. 'He went
away cursing all Jews,' she said.

Let him curse,' answered Lazarus ; ' that
relieves temper and don't hurt. There are
your victuals, Joanna. I hope you've not been
so pampered as to have your stomach spoiled.
I suppose geese have been as thick as quails in
Kibroth-hataavah. I don't like goose, it is.

greasy food. Mutton, boiled, with caper sauce,
roast with currant jelly — bah ! you are puffy
about the face, laying on fat in flakes. Tapioca,
I suppose, every day, gorging yourself on it —
guzzling green gage trifle, making a beast of
yourself on meringues. I had a meringue
once, the day I was married, that ended in gall
and bitterness. I don't mean the meringue, I
mean the marriage. The meringue cost me
foi-pence.'

Joanna took the plate of cold artichokes,
turned them contemptuously over, and ate
them.

I'll tell you what it is, master,' she said ;
I've toiled and lied for you, and done a deal of
dirty work. I've done dirty work here, mending
old clothes, and patching and darning carpets,
but the dirtiest work you ever set me to do is
what I have done at Court Royal. What has
come of it all ? I am cheated out of two dances.
You sent me there, just when I was about to
get a little amusement and learn dancing, and
when I got there, and did learn, you gave me
work to do that forced me to run away and
miss the tenants' ball. It is not fair.'

Eun away ! ' echoed Lazarus. ' You
haven't run away, and not done what you

was sent after ? You can't have been so
wicked ? '

I've done it,' said Joanna, ' and truly
ashamed of myself I am. I tell you what it is,
Mr. Lazarus, unless I was pawned to you and
couldn't do otherwise, I'd strike. But you
know you've got me, and can drive me where
you will. I give you fair warning, I'll kill myself
rather than do more of that sort of dirty
work ; then you may whistle for your half a
sovereign, and the interest — seven shillings. I
reckon you'll be careful not to drive me to extremities,
lest you are left seventeen shillings to
the bad.' Joanna looked round the kitchen.
'What a proper mess you've got everything
into whilst I have been away ! It is a piggery.
No wonder Moses forbade you eating swine's
flesh, it would be sheer cannibalism. Everything
was bad before, but it is bad and rusty
and dirty now. I will not have it. Take yourself
out of that restless chair ; you're sinking
through it so low that in another minute you'll
be sitting on the floor. Get out ; I'll bring you
down a sound chair from upstairs.'

The chair is good, Joanna, it only wants
the oven tray across it.'

I will not have it here. I have been in

kitchens that were a pleasure to live in. There
every bit of wood was white, and every bit of
metal shone. I could have been happy there,
but for what you'd set me at, and that took the
pleasure out of everything. Look at that
window-pane, cracked where the boys threw
a stone eighteen months ago. A dab of putty
holds it together, and stops the hole where the
stone went through. It must be mended. I
will not bear it left like this.'

Go along, Joanna ; now you have glutted
your appetite, go and get on your old clothes.
Those you have on are too good for this shop.'

No — I will not put on such mean, miserable
rags again. I have worn what are neat
and clean, and neat and clean I shall dress
henceforth. Unless I have my own way, I
won't light the fire and boil the kettle, I won't
peel the potatoes, nor turn uniforms, nor sell
anything. I'll lie in bed, and you won't get me
out except with dynamite.'

You've been spoiled,' said the pawnbroker.
Oh, the wickedness of the world ! I had you
here, sheltered under my wing from every harm,
and when I send you out a little way, you become
a prey to all kinds of vice and corruption
of morals. You're too grand now to do anything.

Why wasn't yon a Jewess born, and
then nothing yon went through would have
taken the love of economy out of you ! I suppose
you've seen such grand things that nothing
here seems good. Perhaps you'd like plate
glass in the kitchen window, and a silver stewpan
for the potatoes, and an eider-down petticoat,
and a dado round the walls of the
scullery ! '

He who has seen the sea doesn't call every
puddle a lake,' said Joanna. I'd rather live in
one of the Duke's cottages with deal tables and
clean plates than among your valuables, allowed
only to use what is worthless. No, master,'
added Joanna, looking round, ' it has done me
good to go away. I've seen a bit of a new
world, and I'm wiser than I was. You can't
get a shirt off a naked man, nor feathers off a
toad, so I do not expect of you to let me have
everything new and bright, but I will have
things sound and clean.'

Whither are you going now ? ' he asked, as
she made a movement towards the stairs.

I am going after my flowers,' she answered ;
I want to see how they are. I've thought of
them and longed to see them again, and they
are about the only things here I have cared to

see once more. I'll tell you another tiling.
Get the sack of shavings from under the counter,
and empty it in the cupboard under the stairs,
where I keep my kindling. I'll sleep in the
shop no more. I'll have a proper bed and a
room to myself. I am eighteen ; in another
year mother will redeem me ; if not, I shall redeem
myself, my own way.' Then she ascended
the stairs.

Lazarus struggled out of his chair. Having
his hands in his pockets, and sinking deeper
through the place where the seat had been, he
was nipped, and could not extricate himself
with ease. He shook his head, and, when his
hands were free, withdrew them from his
pockets, and rubbed his frowsy chin. ' What
democratic ideas are afloat ! ' he said. ' What
will the world come to ? '

Then he seated himself on the hour-barreL
She'll be too proud to occupy this place of
honour,' said he, ' where she's squatted time
out of mind. I made a sad mistake plunging
her in the whirlpool ; now, she'll never be tome
what she was — she'll be exacting in her
foods for one thing. That reminds me, I have
not had my dinner. I'll go and get something
at the shop over the way.'

TTLen Joanna came down, to her surprise
she saw that the Jew had put a beefsteak pie
and a plate of cheesecakes on the table, as well
as a jug of porter. He had been across the
street, and procured these delicacies. After a
struggle with himself, he made the purchases,
both because he was hurry himself and
because he was afraid of losing Joanna's
services unless he treated her better. The
contrast between her life at Court Royal lodge
and the Golden Balls, Barbican, was too
dreadful not to shock her ; he resolved to
bridge the chasm with beefsteak pie and cheesecakes


There, there, my child.' he said ; ' you see
how I love you. and how glad I am to have you
home. If you had given me earlier notice I
would have had better fare ready for you : as
it is. I have nm out and spared no expense to
provide you with dainties. Sit down, bring a
chair from upstairs — two, one for me. I can
endure that bottomless affair no longer, and tel
me what of mv business you have done at Court
Oval"

Joanna was mollified by what she saw. ' I
thank you,* she said : • you have watered my
plants whilst I have been away. I thank you.'

Don't mention it answered the Jew ;
the water cost nothing. What have you
ascertained ? '

Here is the account,' said the gH,
extending to him the note-book Beavis had
observed under her hand in the office. * I
was caught taking my extracts, and I got
away with difficulty. I lost my dance by it.'

The Jew clutched the book eagerly.

To-night,' she said, ' was the tenants' ball,
and I was to have been there. Lady Grace
and Miss Lucy taught me to dance, and I
should have been happy — but I was caught
over the accounts and had to make off.'

The Jew was immei-sed in the accounts. He
chuckled and rubbed his knees.

Past all recovery,' he said, and laughed.

I do not know that,' said Joanna, helping
herself to some pie. ' The Marquess is going to
maiTv an heiress, tremendously wealthy, and
that will set the property afloat again.'

What — what is that ? ' exclaimed the Jew,
starting up with almost a scream.

There is a leathery coffee-planter come
home from Ceylon with a pale daughter. Their
name is Eigsby. A match has been made up
between the Marquess of Saltcombe and Miss

Eigsby. I don't suppose he cares much for
her ; but she is worth a vast sum of money,
and the steward, Mr. Worthivale, calculates to
clear the property with her fortune. If you've
got some of the mortgages, it is all right. You'll
have the money.'

I do not want the money. I will not be
paid off! ' cried the Jew, dashing his hands against
his forehead.

Joanna took some more beefsteak pie.
That is the first time I have heard you decline
money,' she said dryly. ' What do you want ?
Not the property ? Not to be a great landlord ?
Not to pig in Court Royal ? '

I will refuse the money. I will keep my
grip on them.'

Joanna poured herself out some stout.

If they choose to clear you off they can.
I believe it is Mr. Worthivale's intention to do
so immediately after the marriage has taken
place,' she said.

Who are these Eigsby s ? Where are
they ? '

'I have told you what Mr. Eigsby is.
They have taken a house in Plymouth or
Stoke. They have taken a house there for the
winter.'

Do they know the state of affairs ? '

I cannot tell. I have not talked with them.
I have found out a great deal. You cannot
expect me to see into people's heads as if
they were water-bottles. It is only cheap-jacks
who expose all their contents to the
public'

Is this Rigsby a fool to sink his fortune in
redeeming land which is daily depreciating in
value ? '

I do not think he is a fool. He does not
look like it.'

Joanna ! this spoils all my schemes. I have
toiled and spun to get my web round them ;
and now are they to escape me ? I could
knock my brains out against the wall to think
it.'

Why should you wish the family harm ?
They are good people, a long way above
such goodness as you or I could aspire to.
They are loved and respected by all who
know them. They hurt no one and bless
many. I am glad that there is a chance of
their recovery.'

I do not care for my money. I want to have
them down, down under my feet.'

VOL. II. I

Then I will help you no more. What harm
have they done you? '

« The worst, the deadliest harm of all.'

And you are moving against them out of
personal revenge ? I thought all you wanted was
to be sure of your money.'

I will tell you all — then you may judge if
I have cause to love them ; if I desire to spare
them.'

Joanna laid aside her knife and fork ; she
was interested now, and alarmed. She was afraid
to think that she had been working for the
downfall of that dear Lady Grace whom she
regarded above every mortal being.

As you say, you are no longer a child.
You are a woman, so you can hear the Avhole
story. I was married eight years ago to Rachel ;
she was seventeen, and beautiful. She was very
fond of theatrical performances ; her mother
had been on the stage, and it ran in the blood.
Our people, leastways our Jewish girls, take to
the stage as ducks to water, and as Jewish men
to business. I married her on that day I
spoke of, when I ate a meringue that cost fourpence.
At that time the Marquess of Saltcombe
was in the army, and with his regiment at
Plymouth. He and some other officers got up

amateur theatricals, for some charitable purpose
nominally, really for their own entertainment.
There was difficulty about filling the
ladies' parts. They tried a professional, but
she was not good-looking enough, or a stick, I
do not recollect which, and so my wife was
asked to assist. I objected, and we had a
quarrel. She was headstrong and took her
own way. We did not run smoothly together.
It was with us broad and narrow gauge running
over the same line ; constant hitches, nothing
to time, an occasional smash, and then a block.
I suppose the performances went off to general
satisfaction. I believe a hundred pounds were
cleared for the charitable institution, but that
did not concern me. What did concern me
was the conduct of my wife ; she got more
estranged from me than before, and the end
was she left me and went abroad with the
Marquess.'

Did you go after her ? ' asked Joanna.

Xot I. They went to the Island of Sicily
to Palermo. It would not have cost me a
halfpenny less than fifty pounds to have gone
in pursuit. My business would have suffered.
In the time I would have been absent I might
have turned over three hundred pounds. 

2

sides, what was the good ? I couldn't take her
back. Was not that a dreadful thing, Joanna ? '

'I am not surprised at anyone running
away from you. I suppose you fed her on cold
artichokes, and made her drink Ems water.'

I did not,' said Lazarus angrily. ' I treated
her as I ought. I know my duty. A queen is
a queen ; a pawn is a pawn.'

'Go on with your story,' said the girl.
What happened after that ? '

'Tome?'

I know without your telling me what
happened to you. You settled deeper into dirt
and drudgery.'

As for her and the Marquess,' Lazarus
continued, ' they were soon separated. His
uncle, the Lord Eonald Eveleigh, went out
after them as hard as he could. What took
place between them I do not know ; but I know
the end was that the Marquess returned to
England, left the army, and settled at Court
Royal. What became of Rachel I never heard.
She took care not to communicate with me,
and I did not trouble myself to inquire after
her. Whether she is on the stage or at the
bottom of the sea is one to me. We have not
met since, but I have a sort of idea she has

taken to the theatre as her profession. It suited
her tastes ; she was fond of dress and display
and excitement, and was van of her beauty.
The Golden Balls did not agree with her ; the
Barbican, and the smell of Sutton Pool, and
the life in a shop were all distasteful ; besides,
she never took keenly to me.'

Did you love her very much ? '

Of course I did. She was young and
beautiful, and I had never cared for any woman
before. We might have been so happy,' sighed
the Jew, ' and had a family to attend to the
business ; a girl to mind the kitchen, another
to turn the old coats ; and a boy would have
been mighty useful to me in the shop and at
my office up in town.'

Do you love her still ? '

I know this : I hate the Marquess mortally,'
he said. ' He lias spoiled my life, he has taken
from me my wife, has made a home to be no
home at all, and has robbed me of every hope
in the future.'

But why do you try to drag down those
who have never offended you — the Duke, and
Lady Grace, and Lord Eonald ? '

I cannot touch him apart from them.
They are all tied in one bundle, and must go

together. You can see that, I suppose, by the
light of reason.'

Joanna was silent.

Then the J ew looked round at the table and
growled. ' A precious big hole you've eaten
in the beefsteak pie, and gobbled up three
quarters of the cheesecakes. I hope you are
satisfied at last, eh ? '

No, I am not.'

What more do you want, next ? ' he asked
sneeringly.

I want to go to a dance, and till I have
been at a ball I shall not be satisfied — there

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

A PLAYBILL.

Me. Lazarus left the house in the afternoon,
and Joanna was alone. She at once set to
work to make the kitchen tidy. She scoured
the grease and rust from the pans, she washed
the table, she sandpiper the fire-irons, she
carried all the broken crockery to the ash-heap
and smashed it up there, then replaced
the pieces with sound articles from the stores
above. She knew where there was a glazier's
diamond, with it she cut a pane, she made her
own putty, and related the broken Window.

Then she went upstairs to an attic room,
with a pail of water, soap, and a scrubbing-brush,
and Abashed the floor. She took up,
piece by piece, a small iron bed, and put it
together in the room ; she fitted it With mattress,
blankets, sheets, and coverlet. She dragged up
a washhand-stand, and hung a looking-glass

against the wall. Lie carried up a chair and
a towel-horse, and then looked round with
triumph. She had made for herself a very
decent bedroom. One article of furniture was
wanting — a chest of drawers. This she did
not convey to her room, partly because she had
nothing of her own to put in the drawers, and
partly because it was too heavy for her to
move unassisted. In the window she set her
precious pot of lilies of the valley.

Then, tired with lier journey and exertion,
she seated herself on the bed, rested her head in
both hands, and her elbows on her knees, and
gave way to tears.

The contrast between the cleanliness and
comfort of the lodge and the dirt and disorder
of the Golden Balls was too great not to make
itself felt. She had gone on in one weary round
of drudgery before because she knew of nothing
different ; now she had seen a better mode of
life, and the old was insupportable ; a return toit,
unaltered, impossible. This she let Lazarus
understand. She would Avork for him as hard
as before, but she would insist on being treated
properly.

But her own condition was not that which
disturbed Joanna ; that which troubled her was

the knowledge that she had been made use of
by her master to work mischief against a family
she had learned to respect. Of the Duke,
indeed, she knew little, except what she had
heard, but that had impressed her more than
she acknowledged to herself. His greatness, the
deference with which all regarded him — the
way in which he was looked to as the source
of ail benefits, as the one who was the mainstay
of the social order, as the one to whom, in cases
of dispute, the ultimate appeal lay — this had
formed an atmosphere of public opinion which
she had inhaled, and which had nourished in
her respect. She had seen little of Lord Eonald,
but she had heard him spoken of as a man of
strict integrity and perfect guilelessness. She
had seen and spoken with the Marquess. Her
box was unpacked. On the chimney-piece
stood the canary yellow Dresden cup and saucer
he had given her. Once he had come to his
sister's room whilst she was having a dancing
lesson, had recognised and spoken kindly to
her. She could not feel towards him other
than friendly regard.

As for running away with Rachel,' she
mused, 'I dare swear Rachel wanted to be runaway
with. If I had been the wife of Lazarus

I'd have clone the same, have run with him to
Palermo or Hong Kong — anywhere to be rid
of Lazarus and the Barbican. To be married
and to be pawned are two totally different
cases,' argued the girL ' To be married one
gives consent, and if the situation don't suit,
you leave it ; but pawned is another matter —
mother did that, and I can't run away. She
must come with the ticket and release me.
One would be wickedness, the other would not.'

Lady Grace she knew and loved as she
loved no one else. She was miserable at the
thought that she had been acting towards her
with ingratitude, that Lady Grace might be
able with justice one day to reproach her for
having ill-repaid the kindness shown her. What
would Lady Grace think of her now — of the
way in which she had left her situation ?
Would she be told that she was detected at the
account books ? Joanna's bosom heaved, her
face was crimson, her cheeks stained with tears.
She could not, she would not, leave the dear,
good lady troubled with thoughts that she was
ungrateful.

Joanna stood up, washed her face, and went
downstairs. She entered the shop, and looked
about for a little wooden box. When she had

found one to her mind, she lined it with
cotton-wool, and placed in it her necklace of
Eoman pearls. Then she wrote a letter in
wdiat she knew was servant-maid English,
which she folded and fastened up in the box with
the pearls. This was the letter :

For dear Lady Grace, — This is a present
from her devoted, loving, faithful servant,
Joanna. Joanna knows very well that it is not
worthy of her acceptance (it cost only 2/. 18<s. Qd.
second-hand), but nevertheless she hopes Lady
Grace Eveleigh weill condescend to accept it,
as Joanna has nothing in the world else except
what she stands up in, and the pink
silk dress which is spoiled. Joanna takes this
opportunity of informing your ladyship that I
didn't run away from my place, nor misbehave
myself any way, but was summoned home on
urgent business. Joanna will never, never,
never forget and cease to love dear, sweet Lady
Grace, and she begs to inform her ladyship
that I value my pot of lily of the valley above
every treasure the world contains.'

The girl's mind was relieved when she had
written and fastened up this letter in the box.
Then she directed the case, and as she had a
few coppers still in her pocket, she was able to

post and register it. Whilst she ran to the
post-office, she left the shop locked. On her
return she found a bill sticker at the door, trying
to get in.

All right,' he said, ' I don't want to pawn
nothing. Will y' take a bill and place it in
the winder, please ? '

He handed Joanna a bill, and went his
way.

Lazarus was accommodating in the matter
of bills of this description. Notices of Missionary
Meetings, Harvest Festivals, a Circus,
Services of Song, Ethiopian Serenaders, Prayer
Meetings, Dramatic Performances, all Event into
his window promiscuously. He argued that
folks might be attracted to read the bills and
then see and fancy an article lying adjacent exposed
for sale, a watch, a china figure, a church-service,
a pair of opera-glasses, Baxter's 'Saints'
Best,' a Methodist hymnal, some old lace, a
bicycle, or the portrait of an ancestor. Accordingly
Joanna accepted the bill, and, before
placing it in the window, spread it on the counter,
and read it.

The bill was a theatrical notice. It announced
the distinguished Polish actress Mille.
Palma Kaminski, of the Court Theatre, Warsaw,

who had created such enthusiasm in London
by her abilities, was about to favour Plymouth
with her presence, assisted by a corps of artists,
all of eminence only inferior to her own.

The first performance would be a revival of
Shakespeare's tragedy of 'Eomeo and Juliet,'
to be performed the ensuing week.

Joanna had never been to a play, but she
was a greedy devourer of playbills. To her
imagination, nothing — hardly a ball — could
sui-pass the delight of a dramatic performance.
She had read plays that had come into the
shop — old comedies, tragedies, modern farces,
and had formed an idea of what a theatre
was, but Lazarus had never allowed her the
pleasure of seeing a performance, even from
the gallery.

Whilst she was studying the bill, suddenly
Lazarus burst into the shop with livid face.
He saw what she was reading, seized it, and
crumpled it in his hands.

Why do you do that ? ' asked Joanna.

I have seen her,' gasped the Jew. ' She is
here — in Plymouth.'

^ Seen whom — Lady Grace ? '

I have seen her — Rachel. She has dared
to come here ! '

'What has she come here for? Does
she want to return to you? If so, she's a
fool'

This is she,' he said, opening out the bill
he had crushed, and with trembling finger he
pointed to the name. ' She calls herself Palma
Kaminski, but she is Rachel Lazarus. A Pole !
She is nothing of the sort ; she was born on
EatclifF Highway, and bred in Princes Street,
Leicester Square.'

Are you going to reclaim her, or kill yourself,
like Eomeo, because she is lost to you ? '

I do not know what I shall do. I am ina
maze,' gasped the Jew. ' I'd serve her bad
if I knew how. I'd beat her brains out if it
weren't against the law. Where is the liberty
of the subject, I'd like to know, as is so boasted
of in this precious British empire ? Ah !
Joanna, I wish I could get her here and put
her to sleep in the press-bed, and shut it up
when she was sound. The coroner and jury
would be sure to find '' accidental death," and
one could have a raffle of half a crown a share
for the press-bed afterwards, and make a lot of
money. I've known five pounds got out of a
rope a man hanged himself with. The English
lower orders are passionately attached to crime ;

they like to read about it, and talk about it,
and think about it, and relish it in every way.
If you come to consider, Joanna, what a dreary
world this would be without crime to season it !
It would be like a dinner of cold beef without
pickles. There'd be no yellow novels on the
railway bookstalls, no sensational dramas on the
boards ; nothing but politics in the papers. I
believe there wouldn't be any pawn shops. I'd
like to know where we should be, we Jews,
Joanna, in such a world as that. There would
be no place for us at all. We must be thankful
for things as we find them. The world without
wickedness in it, and one with it, would be, to
my taste, the difference between still hock and
sparkling Moselle.'

I reckon,' said Joanna, ' that in such a
place as Kingsbridge, where all is goodness and
kindness, and thought of one another, you'd be
out of place like a rook on a frosty morning
when the worms are in their holes.'

They've hoodwinked you, like all those
who come near them,' said Lazarus. ' But I
can't talk of them. I must think of Rachel.
Give me the paper.' He drew the bill from
Joanna, who had smoothed it out on the counter.
Kaminski ! What a name ! to change the

beautiful Lazarus for an outlandish name like
that, and she was Moses before I married her.
To my mind, Joanna, our British aristocracy is
like a scene on a stage, very beautiful to look
at, but there is a lot hid away behind very
shabby and very bad, of which most folk see
and know nothing. You've looked on the grand
Kingsbridge House like a young player ; allis
beautiful, and innocence, and splendour. I
know the other side. There is the great burden
of debt, fresh loans, that scandal of the Marquess
and Rachel. The world knows nothing of all
this, but there it is.'

I should like so much to go to a theatre,'
said Joanna with a sigh.

Lazarus considered a moment, then his face
lightened ; he passed his fingers through his hair,
ruffling it on end, giving him a wild look. ' You
shall, Joanna ; I promise you.'

The gallery is only sixpence.'

You shan't go in the gallery.'

What ? Stand outside, where a place costs
nothing P '

No, Joanna, you shall have the most
expensive place in the whole theatre, that will
cost two or three pounds.'

The girl stared at him. Then he smoothed

down his hair, and elaborately and noisily blew
his nose. He was excited.

Yes, you shall. I will go also.'

When ? At doomsday ? '

'Xo, wee will go together, and sit in the
stage-box, and see Eomeo and Juliet.' Joanna
clapped her hands.

You shall see Rachel — Kaminski indeed !
If she didn't like Moses, wdiy not condense it to
Moss ; if she didn't like Lazarus, wdiy not pull
it out into St. Lazar ? I've known some of
our names turned about till you can't recognise
them. Levi and Lesson, for instance, who'd
know them again as Lewis and Lawson ? Even
Cohen I've known altered into Colquhoun, and
but for his nose you'd have thought the man a
Scotchman.'

You will really let me go ? '

I will take you myself. We shall be right
above her, face her, and see if we do not spoil
her play. Joanna, I'll heap on you all the
jewelry in the shop, and you shall blaze in her
eyes with diamonds and rubies and sapphires,
and you shall have the most splendid dress of
silk or satin money can buy ; an old second-hand
affair won't do. The best — if I have to send
to Worth at Paris for it.'

VOL. II. K

Joanna looked at him in amazement. Had
he lost his senses?

'Then she'll see you and me behind, and,
sure as she is a daughter of Israel, it will cut
her to the heart to think she has forfeited all
that heap of jewelry.'

But what will she think of me ? '

I do not know, nor care ; she'll never
suppose you are my maid of all work, a pawned
piece of goods.'

I don't believe a proper lady would pile on
jewelry that way,' mused Joanna. ' I heard
Lady Grace and Miss Lucy say something about
real ladies being known by their quiet dressing.
I can't imagine Lady Grace dressed like that,
even at a play.'

But you are not Lady Grace,' argued the
Jew. ' That makes all the difference. She is
at the top, and can afford to dress quietly.
You are at the bottom, and must dress extravagantly,
or you remain what you are — nothing.'

The girl considered ; then she said, ' Miss
Eigsby will be there, I am sure she will. She
will be all of a blaze. It will be killing fun just
to outblaze her. I'll put on everything I can,
and I wish I'd two necks like an Austrian eagle
to be able to put on more still.'

CHAPTEE XXIX.

TWO STAGE BOXES.

It is impossible in words to describe the tumult
of excitement, pride, admiration, in Joanna's
bosom, as she took her place in the left stage
box at the Plymouth Theatre Royal. She had
never been in a theatre before. Her highest
ambition had been to battle for herself a way
to the front in the gallery. She occupied the
most luxurious and expensive place in the
theatre. She was dressed so beautifully that
her head was turned. The pink silk was
nothing to the dress she now wore, crimson
velvet and cream-coloured silk, the latter exquisitely
hand-embroidered. Her neck, her
bosom, her head, were profusely adorned with
diamonds. It was a marvel to Joanna whence
the Jew had got them all. She wore rings on
all her fingers ; if the rings were too large, a
little silk wound inside enabled her to wear

k2

them. She looked with astonishment at the
foothghts, at the orchestra where the players
were tuning, at that great mystery, the curtain.
Then she turned to examine the audience.
The gallery and the pit were packed ; in the
dress circle were about twenty persons, and in
the stalls perhaps a dozen. A poor house; a
house to take the heart out of an actor.
Joanna could not understand it. The rich have
money, why do they not come? The poor
do not grudge their shillings and sixpences.

Joanna attracted the attention of the house.
Opera-glasses were directed towards her. She
saw those in the stalls put their heads together,
and she knew they where asking each other who
she was. She was conscious that she was
being admired, and to enable the people to see
her better she stood up.

Lazarus was in evening' dress, sitting back,
facing the stage, so that he was invisible ; it
was hardly likely he would have been recognised.
An evening suit had completely transformed
him. Besides, those who attended the
theatre where not his clients. He did not shrink
from being seen ; he was indifferent.

Sit down, Joanna. How can you behave
so strangely ? ' he said.

No one could see my velvet bag with old
Dutch silver clasps and chain and belt unless I
stood up,' she answered.

Perhaps you would like to stand up on
the breasting of the box, to let folks see your
red shoes ? '

I shouldn't mind,' said Joanna.

But I do. Sit down and be quiet. The
orchestra are going to begin. I did not bring
you here to make a fool of yourself.'

Very well, master. I'll fan myself, and
then they can see my bracelets.'

Joanna was like a child with a box of new
toys. She looked at herself in the little strip
of mirror in the box, she played with and
admired her jewelry, she took peeps at her feet
shod in crimson satin shoes, she pressed back
her chin to be able to see the glitter of a
diamond brooch on her bosom. One bitter
disappointment she had been forced to endure.
She had desired to appear in low dress, but on
trying one on, it was found that the contrast in
colour between her face and one half of her
neck and her bosom, and the other half of her
neck, was too startling to allow of her thus
appearing.

A tap at the door behind, and a gentleman

entered the box. Joanna uttered a cry ot
delight, and took several steps to meet him.
The gentleman was Charles Cheek.

Why, Joanna ! ' he exclaimed, ' you herein
the royal box, as queen of beauty, wearing
all the Crown jewels stolen by Lazarus from
the Tower ! '

I am glad to see you again,' she said
heartily. ' Here is a chair, sit down beside me
and talk till the play begins, and then be mum.'

I was in the stalls. I could hardly believe
my eyes,' he said, ' but I looked and looked
through my glasses till I had nearly satisfied
myself you were my little friend of the rooftree,
when Lazarus's nose came round the
corner, and a bit of a cheek-bone, and then I
was sure. What has induced you. Father
Abraham, to come here dressed like a Christian
? Have you brought the girl to show offa
set of diamonds you want to sell ? '

I've brought her here,' answered the Jew,
'because I am a generous and indulgent
master. She saved my house from fire and
from burglars, and has deserved a treat for
other services she has rendered me, so I have
stepped out of my usual course of life to indulge
her.'

Do you often come to the play ? ' asked
Joanna.

Very often. I would come always if I
thought you would be here.'

Sit down, and don't throw foolish speeches
at me which you do not mean. I am so glad
to see you again. Do you know, I have learned
to dance since I saw you last — waltz, and
cotillon, and lancers, and quadrille — these last
very imperfectly for want of enough to makeup
sets ; for want of persons wee danced with
chairs.'

Where have you been ? Who taught you ? '

Those are secrets which even you may
not know.'

Why are you not in the pink silk and
pearls I gave you ? '

I am more splendid now ; do look at me
well. What do you think of this gown —
puffed and slashed at the sleeves? is it not
lovely, like a lady in an old painting ? Look
down at my shoes. They are sweet. Once,
do you recollect, you laughed at me because I
was in my stocking-soles, and there were holes
in the stockings. Now there is not even a
thread wrong in my stockings, and the shoes
are simply lovely.'

Have you worn out the pink silk ? '

Into. Mr. Lazarus spilt salt water over it,
and it is spoiled. He was forced to give me
this instead.'

I ! ' cried the Jew. ' I have not given
you this. Do not believe the girl, it is not
true. The gown is hired for the night, at one
guinea.'

Hold your tongues, both of you ! ' said
Joanna. 'The overture has begun.'

The Jew was not particularly pleased at
Charles Cheek appearing in the box and remaining
there, but he could not tell him to
leave. He drew back among; the folds of the
coloured hangings, with his eyes on the curtain,
and looked sulky. Charles Cheek and Joanna
entirely disregarded him.

I say,' whispered the girl during the overture,
' why are there so few persons in the
more expensive seats ? '

Because,' answered the young man, ' the
better-class people despise provincial theatres ;
it is chic to do so. It means that they have
seen things so much better done in London
that they cannot endure what is inferior.'

But they lose great enjoyment by this
nonsense.'

Of course they do, but ' He shrugged

his shoulders.

Hush ! Oh, do hush ! ' exclaimed Joanna.
'See! see!'

The curtain rose. Then she had eyes and
ears only for the stage. In the third scene
Juliet makes her first appearance. Lazarus
had been moving uneasily through the two
former. He bit his nails, wiped his brow, and
became every moment paler. Then he put
his hand forward, touched Mr. Cheek, and said
somewhat roughly, ' Excuse me, I want the
front chair.' The young man started, looked
surprised, and at once surrendered the seat.
I am short-sighted,' explained the Jew. Mr.
Cheek bowed, and withdrew to his place in the
stalls.

Joanna was annoyed, not so much at losing
her companion as at the disturbance, distracting
her attention from the play. She frowned, and
tapped her fan impatiently on the cushion.

Lazarus sat beside her, his face turned
towards the stage ; she saw thai it was cadaverous,
and that his muscles twitched with
nervousness.

Next moment she lead forgotten-him to
observe Juliet. At the appearance of Mille.

Palma Kaminski, the famous Polish actress
from the Imperial Theatre, Warsaw, the gallery
burst into applause. The pit took up the applause
; the clapping of hands, thumping of
heels and umbrella ferrules on the floor for a
minute brought the play to a standstill. The
dress circle languidly patted its hands, the
stalls remained unmoved.

In recognition of this reception, Mille.
Palma stepped forward to the footlights and
curtseyed ; as she did so, she raised her eyes
and looked at the boxes for a moment ; her
eyes remained fixed on the stage box on her
right only for a moment, and then she turned
her head away without a token of emotion.
Lazarus leaned back, his face quivering, his
hands clenched. Their eyes had met.

Joanna observed the famous actress with
the closest attention. This was Pacliel — the
beautiful Rachel whom Lazarus had loved,
and who had wrecked his life. This was she
who had so bewitched the Marquess that he
had forgotten honour and right, and had runaway
with her to Sicily. Joanna was sufficiently
near to see the make-up in her face, the paint,
the powder, the antimony about the eyes, the
rouge on the cheeks. She saw that Rachel

was lovely, had been very lovely, but — fatal
but — she was becoming stout.

Joanna laughed. The consciousness was
borne in on her that she was herself more
beautiful than this woman who had made two
men miserable — who had broken two lives.
The applause had just ceased, and a short
silence succeeded before the performers resumed
their dialogue. On that short interval
of silence Joanna's laugh broke, and instantly
the beautiful actress looked at her. She looked
intently, questioningly ; then turned her eyes
for a moment, only for a moment, on Lazarus.

None observed this but Joanna, not even
Lazarus, who had drawn back and covered his
eyes. There was something in the look that
startled Joanna. The colour mounted and suffused
her face and throat. Her pleasure in the
play was gone ; she wished she where away.
She hid her arms lest the bracelets should be
seen ; she threw a kerchief round her neck to
hide the chains. With a look the actress had
revenged the laugh.

Joanna was not able to recover her interest
in the play. She looked on, but her thoughts
were elsewhere. She was glad that Lazarus
had withdrawn and concealed himself in the

shadows leaning against the side of the
box.

When the first act was over, she signed with
her fan to Charles Cheek, and he came up from
the stalls.

A poor company,' said he, taking the seat
she indicated. ' I hold that the educated are
quite right in staying away ; in the provinces
the star system is reduced to absurdity. What
a stiff Lady Capulet ! and a nurse without
humour. Eomeo is a stick. We have not seen
yet what La Palma is made of. She is beautiful,
but plump. A few years ago, may be, she
was irresistible. Hollo, some vis-advise I see.'

The box-keeper was introducing a party of
two gentlemen and two ladies into the stage-box
immediately opposite. Joanna at once
recognised the Marquess of Saltcombc, the
Eigsbys and Miss Stokes Lazarus, leaning
back with this face to the curtain, did not notice
the arrivals ; Joanna glanced over her shoulder
at him, and saw that he was too preoccupied
with his own thoughts to look about him.

She fixed her eyes very attentively on the
Marquess. He Alas serene, polite to Miss
Eigsby, contending with the aunt which should
hold the niece's scarf of woven blue and

crimson silk and gold fibre — an Indian manufacture.


The certain rose ; Eomeo proceeded to
climb the wall into Capulet's garden. The
lights were tmiied down, and a ray was cast,
purporting to be that of the moon, on Juliet's
window. There was not sufficient light in the
stage-box opposite for Joanna to see the face of
Lord Saltcombe. The moonbeam was unsteady
on Juliet's window, and badly focussed. But
when Juliet sighed ' Ah me ! ' she thought she
saw him start. Joanna watched the box opposite
throughout the scene far more closely than
the stage.

The foothghts were turned up for the next
scene, that in Friar Laurence's cell, and then
Joanna was able to see the face of the Marquess.
It was pale as death. Miss Eigsby leaned back
in her chair and spoke to him as he was standing
behind her, and he stooped and replied.
He handed her a playbill, and pointed with his
finger to something on it. Perhaps she had
asked him who was the Eomeo making such
hot love to Juliet. Joanna saw that he maintained
his composure outwardly. Only his
deadly pallor showed how stirred he was within.
He had come to the theatre with the Eigsbys,

with whom he had dined, in complete ignorance
of the fact that the Polish actress from Warsaw
was Rachel Lazarus. Joanna turned to her
master ; she saw at a glance that he had recognised
his enemy. His face was convulsed ; he
drew further back into the shadows, that he
might not be seen.

Joanna looked from one man to the other.
Here were two men, one at the head of the
scale, the other at the foot — both the victims
of one beautiful woman. ' What power there
is in woman for good or bad ! ' thought
Joanna. ' For my part,' she added to herself,
'I would hurt no one — unless he got in my
way.'

It amused the girl to notice the slightly
foreign intonation in Juliet's voice as she spoke.
Knowing what she did of her origin, she was
sure that this was put on to keep up the part
of Pole Rachel had assumed. ' She is clever,'
thought Joanna ; ' clever to control herself under
the eyes of the two men she has ruined. But
perhaps she has not as yet recognised the
Marquess.' The light was on her face, and he
was in darkness. ' I wonder what she will do
when she does see him ? '

Joanna,' said the Jew, in a whisper that was

hoarse and constrained, ' I want to go. Get
ready.'

She answered, ' I am not going. I came
for one play, and I am in for two.'

I am not welL'

Then get better. I am not going.'

During the scene in Capulet's garden between
Juliet and the nurse, Joanna watched the
actress, but was unable to detect whether she
had seen the Marquess or not. Once her eyes
travelled in the direction of the stage box on
her left, but the glance was quick and passing,
and no muscle of her face, no failure of her
voice, gave sign that she had perceived her
former lover.

The curtain fell on the second act ; as it fell,
one of the footlights flared and snapped the
glass chimney that screened it. No one paid
particular attention to it ; the broken glass was
not removed, a fresh chimney not added.

Charles Cheek brought Joanna an ice : he
offered one to Lazarus, who refused with a
shake of the head.

He is not well,' said Joanna. ' Leave him
alone ; he wants to go away, but I will not
hear of it till the play is out. Don't notice him.
He will be better presently.'

I'll get you a drop of brandy, Mr. Lazarus.'

The Jew nodded, and the good-natured
young man hurried away to fetch a glass of
spirits.

Do you know dio those are opposite
us ? ' asked Mr. Charles Cheek, on his return.
I've heard one is the Marquess of Saltcombe,
son of the Duke of Kingsbridge, and the other
people are called Eigsbys. I don't know anything
about them.'

The Marquess is engaged to Miss Rigsby —
that pasty young lady in magenta silk and
pink roses in her hair. The person at her side
is her aunt, and the brown man is her father.
They are worth great deal of money.'

How do you know all this ? '

In the way of business,' answered the girl,
with an air of indifference.

I have heard inquiries on all sides as to
who you are. People have been lost in wonder
and admiration. What is your name ? I must
satisfy those who ask. I have been unable todo
so out of ignorance.'

I am Miss Severe, an heiress,' answered
Joanna.

An heiress ? ' echoed Charles Cheek with
a lauijjh.

Yes, sole heiress, executrix, and residuary
legatee to Mr. Lazarus.' She turned round to
her master with a mischievous face. He was
in no mood to answer.

'How are you?' asked the young man.
Better ? Has the brandy revived you P '

Lazarus nodded.

So I may answer to inquiries that you area
]\Iiss Eosevere.'

Yes. That is my name, though I don't
often have it mentioned. You may add — an
orphan. Go back to your place in the stalls
and tell those who ask who I am. You need
not add — slave to a Jew pawnbroker — pawned
for ten shillings. Don't say that, as you value my
friendship.' So she dismissed him, then leaned
on the red velvet cushion, playing with her fan,
looking: about her, and watching what went on
in the stage box opposite. Mr. Eigsby was in
conversation with Lord Saltcombe : his voice
was loud and harsh, and Joanna could almost
catch what he said. He was talking about an
amateur dramatic performance got up by the
officers at Colombo. Some delay ensued before
the curtain rose. The orchestra performed a
selection from ' H Trovatore.' A smell of
oranges pervaded the theatre. The gods were

VOL. II. L

devouring them in great quantities in the
gallery, and throwing the peel over into the
pit. A bald-headed gentleman was the object
they particularly aimed at, and when an urchin
succeeded in casting an entire ingeniously removed
peel so as to light in a ring on his glossy
skull, like a cap, the feat was uproariously
applauded.

The noise only ceased when the curtain rose
son a public place, and attention was arrested
by the fight between Mercuric and Tybalt :
those in the gallery were greatly disappointed
that the former died off the stage, and only
reconciled when Tybalt was killed by Eomeo
under their eyes.

The scene that followed gave less promise
of amusement. Juliet appeared in her room,
invoking the approach of night :

Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
Towards Phoebus' lodging.'

As she spoke her passionate monologue she
-came forward, and as she did so, the draught
from her skirts made the jet of the broken
fortnight flare up.

There should be a wire net about eighteen
inches off the lamps,' said Mr. Eigsby. ' I see

none here but in town it is so, is it not,
Saltcombe ? '

Lord Saltcombe bowed, he could not speak.
Rachel's eyes had met his at the exclamation,
Give me my Eomeo.' The nurse entered,
bringing the rope-ladder and the news of the
death of Tybalt, which she delivers so badly
that Juliet for the moment supposes she is told
of the loss of her lover. This is the first
occasion on which an actress of any power can
show passion. Palma rose to it. With a
piercing cry that rang through the house she
rushed forward, threw up her arms, and was
convulsed with agony.

break, my heart ! — poor bankrupt, break at once ! '

Then dashing her hands over her eyes —

To prison, eyes ! ne'er look on liberty.'

Stooping, gathering up the dust, then throwing
it down, as into a grave at a funeral —

Vile earth, to earth resign ; end motion here :
And thou, and Romeo '

She did not finish the sentence, the whole
theatre rose with a cry of horror. The flame
from the exposed jet had caught the white

L 2

gauze of Juliet's dress and danced up her
skirt.

The agitation was indescribable. Women
shrieked, men shouted. The curtain fell, and
a smell of fire pervaded the atmosphere lately
impregnated with the odour of oranges.

Miss Eigsby looked round.

The Marquess had uttered a cry of agony
and had fallen against the partition, with his
hand to his brow. In another moment he
dashed from the box and ran behind the
scenes.

Tor mercy's sake,' he cried, 'how is she?
Where is she ? '

The stage manager brushed past him. The
roar of voices mingled with cries beyond the
curtain drowned his voice. The actors were in
agitation. The commotion in the house ceased
instantly when the manager appeared before
the curtain.

Ladies and gentlemen, a most unfortunate
accident has happened. I believe and trust
there is no occasion for alarm.' A burst of
cheers. 'Mille. Palma Kaminski is not as
seriously hurt as might have been anticipated.'
Renewed cheers, ' I have to ask your kind
indulgence ; the performance must cease.' He

was himself so excited that he could hardly
:speak. His face was white, and his voice shook.
Where is she ? ' asked the Marquess as the
stage-manager stepped back.

She has been conveyed to her lodgings.'

CHAPTEE XXX.

PALMA.

Palma was driven at once to the house in
which she had secured lodgings ; one of the
ladies of the company attended her. She was
in great pain. A couple of surgeons were
promptly summoned. The rumour of what had
occurred spread, and people collected in the
streets and about the door. The medical men
said the case was grave, and that a nurse must
be in constant attendance.

Lord bless me ! ' said the old woman
whose lodgings Avere taken by Palma. ' Where
am I to get a nurse ? '

Her relations must be telegraphed for.'

Blessings on me ! What do I know about
her relations? '

We will see about a nurse. Perhaps one
can be spared from the hospital.'

A rap at the door, and ring of the bell.

The woman opened it and said a girl standing
outside in a plain stuff gown, and a shawl
over her head.

Who are you ? ' she asked. ' What do you
please to want ? '

I'm come to offer to nurse her,' was the
reply. ' I've been sent ; that is, I've come from
him who stands nighest and yet furthest from her
in the world.'

Who is that ? '

Her husband.'

If that be the case, come in. You are
young. Can you nurse ? '

I can do what the doctor orders, and I hope
I have my wits about me.'

What is your name ? '

Eosevere.'

Very well,' said the lodging-house keeper.
•I reckon you'll do as well as another. — Please,
sir,' to the surgeon, ' give the young woman
orders what she is to do.'

When the accident had taken place Joanna
had turned home and stripped off her grand
dress and donned a plain one ; then she came
down into the kitchen, where Lazarus was
crouching over the fire.

It is a judgment,' said the Jew. ' Heaven is

just, and has cast its tliimclerbolt at lier. I am
glad of it. No one hurts me without suffering

for it;

Joanna turned on him. ' I am going to
her,' she said. ' I shall nurse her if they will
let me. Shall 1 say you sent me ? '

No,' answered the Jew ; ' don't mention
my name.' He had assumed a hardness which
ill concealed his inward emotion. In his breast
was a tumult of mingled feeling — old love
revived, sorrow, revenge, hate — so mixed
that he did not himself know wdiat he desired.


You may go, Joanna,' he said. ' If she
needs anything — that is, in moderation — let me
know, but I will not see her, I will not see her,
remember that.'

So Joanna went. The girl was greatly
affected. Tears came into her eyes, but she
drove them back. She had made up her mind
to be with Palma. She went first to the theatre
to ascertain where the actress lived ; the house
was not far distant. She hastened thither. On
her way down the street she passed Lord Salt-combe.
His face was raised, he was looking
at a window whence a yellow light shone
through a drawn blind. Shadows passed over

the surface of the blind. A gas lamp was near,
and the face of Lord Saltcombe was inclined.
It was full of agony — it was the face of a man
in despair. She walked by, then turned and
came back to him ; his suffering face filled her
with pity. She said in a low tone, ' Lord Salt-combe,
I am going in to nurse her. Ask no
questions at the door. I will give you signs at
the window : when I hold up my hands, have
hope ; when I hold them down, her case is
very bad ; when I hold them out, and you see
against the blind the black shadow of a cross
she is dead.'

He nodded. He did not recognise her, he
did not look at her. He did not wonder who
she was that knew him by name. He tried to
thank her. He could not.

Then she went on. If she had been refused
admission she would have thrust herself in.
Joanna was not one to take a refusal.

She was conducted to the room where lay
the poor woman. Cotton wool and oil covered
her wounds. The face was uninjured. She
moaned and tossed her head from side to side
on the pillow. The paint was on the cheeks,
the antimony darkened the eyes, but tears had
washed the white powder away in long furrows.

Beneath the paint the flame of fever burnt in
her cheeks. Joanna took a sponge and washed
her face. The cool water soothed the sufferer
for a moment, then she began again to moan
and turn her head with a mechanical regularity
from side to side. She seemed imperfectly
conscious. Her fellow actress was at her side ;
the honest sympathetic tears had washed her
face into a strange motte. She had hold of
Palma's hand, and patted and kissed it, and
spoke to her cheering words of promise of
health.

You'll be all right tomorrow. You know
you are going to take the world by storm with
your Lady of Lyons. There ! don't be down.
It is only a trifle. You did Juliet regular
splendid — first-class to-night.'

You may go,' said Joanna. ' You are
out of place here and do not understand the
management of the sick. Leave her to me.
I am sent to her.'

Are you experienced, girl ? ' asked the
surgeon.

I know what is what,' answered Joanna,
looking him full in the face.

You have plenty of natural cleverness, I
can see,' said the surgeon. ' Now attend to me.

I will give you instructions that must be closely
followed.'

'Hadn't that lady better go first? she
bothers me and Ea 1 mean the sick woman.'

I agree with you.' The surgeon dismissed
the actress.

Now,' said Joanna, ' say what you will, I
will not go from it a hair's-breadth.'

After receiving her instructions she said
gravely, ' Tell me frankly : is there hope ? '

Where there is life there is hope,' he
answered.

She looked at him with her shrewd eyes,
and standing between the light and the window,
held up one arm.

Lord Saltcom.be paced the street hour after
hour throughout the night. He could not leave it.
Best was impossible. One by one the lights in the
houses were extinguished, but the window of
Palma's room remained illumined. Within lay
the woman — the solew^oman — he had ever loved,
and he had loved her with all the passion in his
nature. Carried away by that passion he had
committed a great wrong, a A^^:ong which rankled
in his heart. His conscience never acquitted
him ; it judged and condemned him daily. If
he had loved innocently he might have shaken

off bis passion, or been spared by it to make himself
a name, to become great and good among
his fellow-men. But this guilty incident had
morally maimed him. He had not the energy,
the courage, after that, to face his fellow-men.
There are some who rise after a fall, stronger
than they were before. Their fall has taught
them caution, has deepened their character, has
inspired them with earnestness. There are
others who, when once tripped up, lie prostrate
the rest of their days. Such was Lord Salt-combe.
He had not the moral vigour to efface
the past by active well-doing.

The clock of St. Andrew's Church chimed
after the stroke of three, and still the Marquess
was in the street. He was cold and tired. An
icy perspiration covered his brow. He had
seen the sign at the window three or four hours
before ; it had not given him much hope. A
gnawing pain was at his heart. Was this the
first manifestation in him of that disease which
sapped the Hfe and activity of his father ? Had
his present great emotion provoked it to warn
him of its presence ?

The chimes had scarce done playing ' The
Last Rose of Summer' when the blind was
drawn aside, and Lord Saltcombe saw the girl

beckoning to him. In another nioinent the
house door Alas opened gently, and she appeared
at it. She held her finger to her lips, came
outside, and said, ' Rachel is conscious. Come,
and see her, but promise to go ^vhen I give
the word.' He nodded. ' Follow me softly,
make no noise. Everyone else in the house is
asleep.'

He obeyed. He was in his patent-leather
boots, in his dress suit, with a light overcoat.
He stepped softly after Joanna. If anyone
heard the steps, that person supposed it was
the footfall of the doctor, turned in bed, and
slept again. Joanna thrust open the chamber
door and let the Marquess in. She did not
enter herself, she closed the door and stood on
the landing with her hands to her ears that
she might not hear what was said. As Lord
Saltcombe passed her into the room she looked
in his face ; it was older by many years, white,
lined, hollow about the eyes, and sunken at
the cheeks. Her heart came into her mouth,
she put her hands to her white apron, and
raising it wiped her eyes, then shook her head
defiantly, and clasped her hands over her ears.

Lord Saltcombe stepped up to the bed,
looking with his whole soul into the burning

face of the poor woman. Tien lie sobbed,
sank on his knees by her side, and hid his face
in the bedclothes.

Herbert ! ' she said in a low tone, and put
out her hand for his, ' I wanted to see you — to
say good-bye.'

Rachel ! ' He could utter no more.

It is now seven years since — since Sicily.'

Rachel,' he said, ' God forgive me. If it
were possible in any way to undo the past, if it
were within my power to make compensation, to
expiate the wrong done, I would do my utmost.
Rachel, I ruined your life, and I destroyed the
honour and happiness of another man's home.'

She shook her head. 'You do not know
Lazarus.'

It matters nothing who or what he be ; I
wronged him past undoing, and the knowledge
of this has lamed my life. You — you above
all '

Do not speak of me,' she said. ' I forgive
you — but you were not in fault. I had set my
heart on the stage ; I ran away for the love of
art — not for love of you.'

Is that true ? '

She slightly moved her head. 'The consciousness
of power burned in me, and life with

Lazarus and his sordid belongings was unendurable.
I ran away ; you know I forced
myself on you, I asked you to free me. It was
not that I cared for you— forgive me that I say
so ; if I pain you it is for your good — I used
you but as a means of escape. I hungered for
art ; I knew that the stage was my proper
sphere ; and now — and now — I am consumed
in the element I elected.' Her head began to
turn from side to side uneasily.

He did not speak, he watched her in silent
remorse and agony. She had shut her eyes.
He was not sure whether she were conscious.
He held her hand ; it was a hand of fire.
Presently she stayed the rocking of her head,
and opened her eyes. ' It was I,' she said —
it was I who spoiled your life, not you mine.
I have nothing to forgive. I must ask pardon
of you.'

Of me ! Oh, Rachel ! '

I used you but as a means to an end.
Who were you with in the stage box to-night
yesterday — when was it ? '

He told her.

You are not married ? ' she asked, and
looked at him.

He shook his head.

You must marry, and forget me,' lie said.
It was I — sit was I who was in the wrong.'
Presently she added, ' Beware of Lazarus ; he
will never forget, never forgive,' Then she
shut her eyes, and began again to sway her
head and moan.

He watched her without speaking ; she let
go his hand, and held her fingers up as feeling
for something in the air.

What do you want, Rachel ? '

She turned her face and opened her eyes ;
the light of reason had gone from them. She
put her arm out of the bedclothes, and waved
it:

Farewell ! God knows when we shall meet again.
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my Reins,
That almost freezes up the heat of life.
Nurse ! what should she do here ?
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.'

She thought herself on the stas^e. She tried
to rise, and moaned and fell back.

Joanna entered ; she did not raise her eyes
to the face of Lord Saltcombe. She signed to
him to go ; he stood a moment longer looking
at the poor woman, now unconscious, and stole
away.

Then Joanna seated herself by the bed, and

watched the sufferer. Her face, generally
brimming with intelligence and full of self-assurance,
was now kindled with an expression
of tenderness and pity such as it had not borne
before. She knew the whole story of this
dying woman. She had been brought to look
upon a heart — a man's heart — enduring unutterable
agony. She put out her finger and touched
the bedclothes where moistened ; she knew
what had moistened them — tears of contrition
and humiliation wrung from the heart of
an honourable man. She bent her head to
the ear of Palma, and whispered, ' Will you
send a message to Emmanuel Lazarus ? '

The eyes opened and looked dimly at her,
but no answer came.

Lord Saltcombe lingered in the street. He
would not leave the neighbourhood of the
house. The night was cold, and the wind raw ;
a fog blew up from the sea, and stole in filmy
coils along the street, drifting past the lamps
and forming halos about them. He walked
faster, up and down, up and down, turning his
eyes ever at the lighted window. The clock
struck four — it struck five, and he was still
there. Before dawn the cold became keener,
eating into the marrow. Then the chimes of

VOL. II. M

St. Andrew's played ' Home, sweet Home,' and
as they played, against the lighted window
appeared the shadow of a black cross.

Lord Saltcombe removed his hat, and stood
with folded hands looking at the cross ; then
np, with dim eyes, through the fog above.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

A SPOKE IX THE WHEEL.

Mr. Eigsby had taken a handsome house for
the winter at Stoke, above Devonport, or rather
between Devonport and Plymouth. The house
commanded a view over the entire harbour,
with Maker Point and Mount Edg^cumbe. A
more beautiful bay is not to be foimd the
world over. The hills are bold, some bare,
others richly wooded ; the creeks are numerous,
the beautiful Amaze opening into the bay is
like a hand, every finger of which is a lovely
blue estuary, and this fair hand is full of vessels.
Far away to the head of the water rise the
peaks of Dartmoor above rolling woods and
hills, studded with white houses and grey
church towers. Mr. Eigsby was not easily
satisfied ; he was determined to have a good
house, and he got the best, with large
gardens sloping down the hill, lawns, tennis

2

ground enclosed within yew Ledges, and
terraces with roses.

He had roughed it in Ceylon m old days ;
the bungalow in which Dulcina had been
brought up was plain, and slenderly furnished.
In England Mr. Eigsby was exacting. Dulcina
would be a duchess, and he must show the
world that he had a fortune that allowed him
to live like a prince. He bought carriages
and horses, and engaged servants, put the menin
the Eigsby livery of buff and blue, made his
coachman powder his hair and sit on a hammer-cloth.
He sent orders to town for pictures,
and had the house put into the hands of a decorative
adviser.

I know nothing about art furniture,' he
said. ' So long as I have a chair to sit on, it is
all one to me what is the shape, but — one must
be in fashion, or risk being thought a boor.'

He had his own rooms plainly furnished —
a hard bed, and no carpets on the floors. ' I
like to spit,' he said, ' and carpets get in the
way of spitting.' He had his Cingalese manservant,
who understood his wants, and none
of the other men were allowed near him. He
lived very much to himself, smoking and reading
Indian papers in his snuggery, and it was

with difficulty that he could be drawn from it
to entertain guests in the drawing-room.

He was sitting in his room, with a fire in
the grate, and his feet against the marble jambs,
when he was told that a visitor was desirous of
speaking to him on urgent business.

Who is it? a gentleman or a lady? A
gentleman ! Show him in here. Confound it
all, can I not be left an hour in peace ? In the
drawing-room, is he ? Has he not given you
his card ? No ! Deuce take it, I suppose I
must go in to him. Here, take off my smoking
jacket, and help me into my coat. I can't go
in my slippers. Give me my boots. What a
life I lead here ? I wish I were back in Ceylon ! '

As soon as he was presentable Mr. Eigsby
went to the drawing-room. He saw there a
stoutly built man with grey black hair, and
dark eyes like shoes. There was no mistaking
his nationality. Rose and eyes and cheekbones
proclaimed it. He was well dressed.
As Mr. Eigsby entered he rose and bowed.

I beg your pardon,' said Mr. Eigsby, with
some stiffness, ' I did not learn your name.
Perhaps my man forgot it, perhaps you did not
give it. You said you had business with me.'

My name is of little importance,' said the

stranger. ' It is quite true that I have calledon
business. I have heard, sir, that you are
desirous of furnishing this most charming residence
with everything that taste and luxury
demands. My name, sir, is Lazarus — Emmanuel
Lazarus, of the " Golden Balls," Barbican. I
happen to have, sir, a very choice collection
of artistic odds and ends, which I offer at a
ridiculously low price. I am a collector of objects
of art and antiquity, and it is my pleasure
to furnish gentlemen of taste and means with
the best treasures of the past. I have also some
very nice old Spanish lace, which your beautiful
young lady might like to see. I got the spoils
of several churches at a bargain, the lace is from
the altars, and I shall be proud to think that
one whom I hear on all sides spoken of as an
Oriental star should wear it. Old china, sir !
no man can call himself a gentleman, whatever
his birth and fortune, or invite friends to his
house without a blush, if he has not his cheffo-
piers and side tables and walls covered with
old china. Old silver also, sir, is greatly in
request. I happen to have some very choice
apostle spoons. No one can hold up his head
in society without at least a couple of apostle
spoons in Dutch silver sugar basins.'

Thank you,' said ]mr. Eigsby ; ' I understand
none of these things. I have put myself
into the hands of a decorator.'

Would you mind telling me, sir, the style
in which the decorator is going to do you up ?
Louis Quatorze, Queen Anne, Chippendale, or
Victorian ? Are you going to be painted over
with cranes and sunflowers ? I've known a lady
dated round, with a skirting of Japanese rush
mats, all gilt, and very effective it was. If
you'll allow me to suggest you that, sir, you
would find it neat and warm. I happen to have
a quantity of these rush mats all plaited in different
patterns. Or are you going into Chippendale,
and have your legs curved, and turned
fine, and fluted ? I don't hold to having your
legs made too spindly. There is a loss of
strength. Still, fashion is for it. I have some
of the very finest Chippendale ever seen in
stock : I can give you legs that are in the first
style, and yet are not spindly. Or — if I may
make so bold as to ask — are you going to be
Eococo ? '

Mr. Eigsby stared. ' I do not understand '

A combination of rock and shell. Are
they going to encrust you with rock work and
^hellwork, and scoop out curves in you and fill

in with flowers, and not leave you a straight line
anywhere, and gild you from top to toe ? The
effect is <yomeous rather than classic. The First
Empire is a reaction against that, severe, subdued
— nude. Are you going in for that ? If
so, I have some choice little articles, clocks and
side-tables and mirrors.'

Mr. Eigsby stood up. ' Sir, I am very busy ;
I leave all this to the decorator. I am incompetent
to judge for myself One thing you maybe
quite sure of : I will never go in for the
nude. The climate don't admit of it. It is
different altogether in Ceylon. I wish you
good morning.'

Stay, stay ! ' exclaimed the Jew, alarmed
at the prospect of losing his opportunity in his
over-eagerness to deal. ' Might I ask one thing
more, sir ? I have matter of the utmost importance
to communicate. I cannot speak of the
matter in this room. I am afraid of bcino;
overheard. It is not about Louis Quatorze,
or Eococo, or First Empire.'

There is no one here. We are quite alone,
but I cannot imagine you can have anything to
communicate that will interest me. I have put
myself into the hands of a decorator, and given
him carte Blanche'

If you wish it. Will you hear me patiently
for five minutes ? '

Mr. Eigsby looked at the French clock. It
had stopped. He took out his watch. ' I can
only spare you three. I am most busy.'

I will crush all I have to say into three
minutes. Only I entreat you, my dear sir, to
have patience with me, and allow me fully to
explain the circumstances to you. In your presence,
sir, in the presence, sir, of a man of your
colossal fortune, I feel myself so agitated, so unable
to gather my thoughts, that '

I am ready to listen to you during three
minutes. I cannot allow more. My time is
of exceeding value, I am pressed With business
which may not be postponed. I see by my
watch that only two minutes remain.'

I will make haste, sir, but the presence of
a Goliath of wealth overawes me. I have heard,
sir, of the immensity of your fortune, and
I know that such a fortune could not be
accumulated without great genius.'

]mr. Eigsby spread his breast by putting his
thumbs through his waistcoat armholes. Peacocks,
when vain, spread their tails ; men,
when proud, their bosoms.

I admit that I am not a fool, if that satisfies

you,' said Mr. Eigsby, ' but please proceed
to business.'

You will excuse me when I say that your
fortune, acquired by hard labour and racking
of brain, must not be thrown away
blindly.'

Set your mind quite at ease, Mr. Lazarus ;
my property is safe, and its security in no way
concerns you.'

You must excuse me if I dispute this ; I
see you on the point of throwing everything
away.'

Mr. Eigsby assumed a stare of disgust and
indignation.

'You are presuming. One minute more.'

I understand that you are about to see
your most beautiful, talented, and fascinating
daughter married to the Marquess of Salt-combe.'


Mr. Eigsby rose. ' Really, Mr. Lazarus, I
must decline to have my private affairs discussed
by you.'

I am not discussing them, sir ; I am hereto
warn you.'

To warn me of what ? of sitting on
spindle-legged Chippendale. Five seconds
more.'

Of marrying your daughter to a bankrupt
profligate ! ' exclaimed Lazarus rising.

Wliat do you mean ? The words are insulting.'


The epithets describe him exactly. Bankrupt
he and all his family are ; and he is only
seeking the hand of your daughter to save himself
and his whole house from utter, irretrievable
ruin.'

Good God ! ' exclaimed the planter. ' What
do you mean ? '

I mean what I say. If you want proof, I
have it. I have it by me here.'

Mr. Eigsby burst out laughing. ' Preposterous
! The Duke has an enormous fortune,
to which mine is a fleabite. I have seen how
he lives.'

The Duke is over head and ears in debt.
He cannot pay interest on his mortgages. He
has borrowed money right and left, and lives
from hand to mouth. In a month, I — that is,
the creditors — will take steps to foreclose ; it is
because the Marquess and his family hope to
stave off ruin with your money that they stoop
to accept your daughter into the family.'

Stoop ! stoop to Dulcina ! ' exclaimed Mr.
Eigsby. ' Come into my smoking-room. This

matter must not be discussed here. Miss Eigsby
or Miss Stokes, or one of the flunkeys, might be
dropping in — visitors calling — heaven knows
what. Follow me into my study. I have
plenty of time at my disposal. I have nothing
to do, and will hear you patiently. Good
heavens ! Bankrupt ! Ruined ! Dulcina
snapped at for her money ! Thunder and
blazes ! Follow me.'

He led the way into his smoking-room,
which he called his study, though no books
were in it.

Excuse me,' he said, ' I cannot think in
this coat. My ideas won't move in boots.
Allow me to put on my smoking jacket and
slippers : my time is at your disposal.'

I have here,' said the Jew, taking a chair
by the table — ' I have in this little book a precis
of the income and expenditure and debts of
the family. I have got more ; I have here a
packet of notes of hand, and a couple of mortgages,
one on Court Royal manor and estate,
which will convince you that I am not exaggerating
when I say that the family is on the
verge of ruin. Please cast your eye over these
accounts ; they were extracted by a confidential
agent from the books in the steward's office.

without his knowledge. In love and war and
business, everything is fair.'

]mr. Eigsby sat down. His face became
mottled, he could not sit comfortably on his
chair ; he turned it, then turned it again.
Good heavens ! ' he said, ' who would have
thought it ? It is impossible.'

It is true, absolutely true.'

Mr. Eigsby stood up and walked to the
window, where he stood for some minutes
drumming on the glass with his fingers.

I was not told this,' he said.

Of course you were kept in the dark.'

I shall tie everything up to my daughter's
sole use.'

Then they will not say " Thank you " for
your daughter. They only want her because
they expect through her to get at your purse.'

Mr. Eigsby came back to the table, and
took up the schedule of debts, bills, and mortgages.


Some of these are for enormous sums, of
old standing, never redeemed.'

Never likely to be redeemed, unless you
find the money.'

But I cannot find the amount. I should
sink everything.'

Tills is the state of affairs : I have felt it
my duty to inform you of it. If the young
people love each other so dearly that your
daughter is ready to make the sacrifice, then I
have nothing to say against the marriage ; but
I think it well that both she and you should be
made aware of the character of the man to
whom she is about to entrust the happiness of
her life. I have shown you that there is reason
to believe that the marriage is desired by the
family for the sake of your money. You are
not perhaps aware why it is that the Marquess
has not been married already.'

No, I do not know.'

I will tell you. Because of a scandal. He
ran away with a beautiful woman, the wife of a
respectable man of business. The woman is now
an actress. You have seen her, Palma Kaminski.'

Mr. Eigsby looked at him with pale face and
open mouth.

He fell in love with her a few years ago,
and carried her away with him to Sicily. After
a while they parted, but whether the scandal
has stood in the way of a woman of character
accepting him as husband, or whether he has
never ceased to love her, I cannot say. She
disappeared for a while ; where she has been

living, whether under his protection or not, I
do not know. You saw her yesterday. You
noticed his agitation when an accident happened
to her.'

Merciful heaven ! ' exclaimed Mr. Eigsby,
putting his hands to his brow, and leaning his
elbows on the table. ' What a mocked world
this is ! I wish I were back in Ceylon ! '

'He visited the house where she lodged,
after the accident. Let us hope it was only to
say good-bye for ever, before marrying your
daughter.'

'If this be true he never shall marry my
daughter. Oh dear, oh dear ! Wliat misery
might have ensued had lie become his — and
this not have come out till after ! Poor Dulcinea
! But — ' he raised himself on one elbow
■ — ' I cannot understand your motive coming
here and telling me this. What is the happiness
of Dulcina to you ? What concern is it of yours
whether I lose my fortune among titled adventurers
? '

None at all,' answered the Jew dryly.

I don't believe a word about the actress,'
exclaimed the planter desperately. ' Why should
I not use my money, if I please, to extricate the
estate ? It will come to my daughter in the

end. I shall not lose my money. Whatever I
do is for my child. As for this scandalous story,
I don't and I won't believe it. I will ask Salt-combe
the truth about it myself.'

Do so ; he will not deny what occurred.'

I should like to know, sir, what your motive
is in coming here and troubling me with these
stories. If you hold one or two of the mortgages
you ought not to regret the chance of
having them paid off. Why do you seek to set
me against the Marquess ? '

The woman he ran away with was my wife.'
When Lazarus said this he rose. *snow you
understand why I put a spoke in his wheel ! Is
he to be happy, released from his cares, and I
to be miserable, Weighed down with trouble ?
Is he to have a wife and home, and children on
his knees, and I to have a cold and solitary
hearth ? ' Lazarus stood in the door. ' I have
said my say. Act as you think best for the
happiness of your child.'

He bowed and left the room Mr. Eigsby
laid his brow on the table, groaned, and said, ' I
wish I were back in Ceylon ! '

CHAPTEE XXXII.

A DROP OF Comfort.

Mr. Eigsby started from his seat, threw on his"
overcoat, pulled on his boots, took his hat and
stick, and sallied forth. He had a vague hope
of coming to some decision if he walked. He
could come to none seated in his nursery. Atone
moment he flared up with anger and resentment,
then he grew cold with apprehension.
How would his dear Dulcina bear to be parted
from the Marquess with whom she was so much
in love ? It would break her heart, which was
as frail as her constitution. It would brandon
an attack of jaundice. Strong emotion, a great
shock, congested the liver ; the breaking off of
her engagement would certainly contest her
liver. Would it be wise to prepare her for the
news with calomel ? He would consult a doctor.
Podophylhn ! since he had come to England he
had been told that podophyllin touched the liver,

VOL. II. N

and was milder than calomel. He did not believe
in podophyllin. He knew better ; as an old
Indian lie ouo'ht to know what the liver is, and
what touches it. No podophyllin for him ; no,
thank you. He had heard of a spectre who,
when fired at, opened his hand and showed the
bullets that had been innocuously discharged
at him. His liver would, so to speak, open its
hand and scoffingly roll back the podophyllin
pills shot at it. But before calomel its powers
Avould quail, it would shake in its shoes and
beat a retreat. Still podophyllin might answer
for Dulcina, whose liver was not as enlarged as
his own. He would consult a doctor.

So lie swung his stick and marched into
Plymouth, * Good heavens ! ' he muttered.
The rascal about to take my daughter for her
money and then cast her aside, treat her with
indifference and insult ! I won't have it.'

When he came to the bridge leading to
Plymouth, and halted to change a sovereign to
pay the halfpenny toll, he was confronted by
a gentleman in a light grey suit, with a white
hat.

Bless my soul ! ' exclaimed the gentleman,
Eigsby ! you here ? Let me lend you a halfpenny
for old lang syne.'

Eigsby stared. ' What, Captain Ottley !
sever ! Very glad to see you.'

A little louder, I am deaf of au ear, this
confounded relaxing climate. The bands always
find a difficulty with their drums, the parchment
becomes limp in the Devonshire damp ; it is
ditto with the drums of my ears. You must
thump to be heard.'

'Come on the Hoe,' said 'Mr. Eigsby. 'It
is a pleasure to meet an old Indian. So well
preserved, too ! You look as j'oung as ever.'

Spirits does it,' answered Captain Ottley.
I mean natural spirits. I have a cheerful disposition,
which even the vapour-bath atmosphere
of Devon don't damp. Take my arm,
old boy. Lord bless me ! time flies ! It seems
only the other day we met, and it must be five
years ago. Brown and tanned you are with
Oriental suns. Never mind, look at me.
Autumn roses come blooming in my cheeks.
This Devonshire climate is like a bath in Jordan
You go in sunburnt with all the blazes of India,
and you' flesh comes out as the flesh of a little
child.'

What are you doing here P ' asked ]\L'.
Eigsby.

Doing ! doing nothing. Nobody ever does

X 2

anything but talk in this enervating Devonshire
dilate. It relaxes everything, the moral stamina
and the tongue. I eat lotus. I have come like
Ulysses to the land of the lotus-eaters, where,
according to the Laureate, it always seems afternoon.
I lounge about on the seats of the Hoe,,
looking out at the Breakwater ; it always seems
after dinner here.'

Do you know many people ? ' asked the
planter.

Heaps — women mostly. They swarm here.
Here in Plymouth there are very few others to
know. You see their husbands and brothers
are away at sea, or in the army abroad, and the
place simply swarms with women.'

Are you married ? '

Oh, dear me, no ! I Wouldn't be so well
preserved if I were. I can't afford it. Besides,
the climate is against it. You want more ozone
in the air to stimulate the resolution to proposing
point.'

I should like to know your opinion upon
podophyllin.'

I beg your pardon.'

^ Podophylhn,' shouted Bigsby ; he had
lowered his voice to a confidential tone, forgetful
of his friend's infirmity.

Captain Ottley stood still, put the silver
head of his cane to his mouth, which he pursed,
contracted his brows, and then shook his head.
I don't think much of it,' he said. ' I've tried
it ; but I don't give my faith to it. Half-measures
don't suit us old Indians. Give me calomel.'

Calomel — ah ! ' The sun came out on both
terraces, they laughed like children. ' Calomel,
old boy ! '

Blue pill, old fellow, shake hands.' In
their mutual enthusiasm they clasped fists.

But it may do for women ? ' suggested
Eigsby.

Vii^ginibuspuerisqiie, yes,' answered Captain
Ottley. ' Let us sit down here. One's limbs
fail one in this damned Devonshire air.'

Have you been long here ? '

Four or five years soaking in this steam,
and expanding. It suits us Indians. We come
here dry and shrivelled, and swell, taking in
moisture at every pore.'

Then you know about the country people,
the nobility and so on ? '

Of course I do. I know everything about
everybody.'

Do you kno^v the Kingsbridge family ? '

I can't say I do. I know of them ; no one

meets them. I have a grievance. There was
a superb ball at Court Royal the other day, and
a special train full of officers went down. I was
not invited. A plague upon them, say I. Why
was not I invited ? I am on half pay, was that
the reason ? I hear it was a splendid affair.'

I was there,' said Mr. Eigsby. ' So was
my daughter, Dulcina. Did you not see our
names in the paper ? '

I may have done so, but did not notice
them. Mine was not there, and that stirred
my bile. Talking of bile, what do you drink,
Bigsby ? '

I have been so long out of England that I
cannot satiate myself on bottled ale.'

You must not do it. Beer is bilious ; fatal
in this confounded climate, where the liver
simply goes to sleep. You have to goad it todo
its work. It is like Pickwick's fat boy. I
don't approve of claret. Sherry is poison.
Whisky and water is what I recommend.'

We must talk of something else,' said the
planter.

Well, I suppose you are right, but somehow
the liver is common ground on which all
old Indians meet for a cosy gossip ; old asperities
are rubbed off, old grudges forgotten. It

is a sort of bond, binding us into brotherhood.
Tear us away to other scenes and pastures new,
sweep us along in the eddy of politics, or any
other eddy you like to mention, we always
come back to liver, touch ground there, and
are thankful. We may differ in politics, religion,
in pursuits, we are one in liver.'

I should like a word with you in the
strictest confidence.'

Certainly, no one is here to overhear us.
Eemember ; let whisky and water be your
drink-^— cold, and no sugar.'

'^h\ Pugsby looked about him ; no one was
within earshot. ' We must not sit longer
here,' he said, ' it is chilly ; let us stroll up
and down, and I will speak to you about my
affairs, with the understanding that it goes no
further.'

Good heavens ! ' gasped Captain Ottley.
Not money ! Don't say you want to borrow
money. My liver will not stand it. Anything
but that ! '

I am abundantly well off,' said the planter.
I am, I may say, in affluent circumstances. It
is precisely my wealth which has drawn me into
an filii from which I do not see my way out.
By some fatality I have been brought into rather

intimate relations with the Duke of Knigsbricige
and his family.'

Does he want to borrow money ? I have
heard that his head is under water.'

I knew his brother, Lord Edward Eve-leigh,
at college. I happened to be in Somers
at Glastonbury, and I called on hmi.
He and Lady Elizabeth were very kind, they
invited me and my daughter to their house, and
there we met Lord Saltcombe, the eldest — no,
the only son of the Duke. He seemed to take
a fancy to my child, and she, poor thing, completely
lost her heart to him. Of course I gave
my consent. I was proud to think that my
Dulcina would be a marchioness, and eventually
a duchess. One loves title ; it is born in one,
I suppose ; it is a weakness, but it is a weakness
common to the whole human race.'

I congratulate you with all my heart.
What can a father desire for his daughter better
than the eight strawberry leaves ? '

But — I consented in all simplicity, believing
that a ducal coronet was a rock on which sure

prosperity could be built, and now I find '

He sighed, took off his hat, brushed his brow,
and said, ' My dear Ottley, for God's sake tell
me the truth about the family. Give me your

advice. I am so perplexed, I do not know
what to do.'

AYliat am I to tell you ? I have not my
Peerage with me. I have it at home, and will
lend it you, or we will put our heads together
over it. The Marquess is here, in Plymouth,
at the " Royal." '

I know that. I want to know nothing
that the Peerage can tell me. I have learned
that by heart. I want to know about their
circumstances.'

Oh, they are dipped, but so is every respectable
old family. Have you ever been at
Saint Jean de Lus ? There the bathers spend
hours in the water, oily their heads emerging,
and take their meals and their naps bathing.
I have seen the whole bay full of heads, and
heads only. It is so with all the landed gentry
with most families of distinction — they are
all under water, only their heads out, but they
do not drown.'

The Kingsbridge family are utterly ruined.'

I do not believe that. It takes gigantic
efforts to ruin a duke. The great nobility stick
in the social jaw in spite of ache and decay ;
they are fast by four or five fangs. As for you
or me, we are only one fang people, out, and

our places taken by porcelain imitations, and
no one cares. But your four and five-fan get
people are different.'

You do not think the Duke ruined ? '
'I know nothing about him, more than that
he lives quietly, never goes to town, and does
good on all sides.'

You think that he is not in overwhelming
difficulties ? '

I should not suppose so, but I cannot tell.'
There is one thing more. What do you
know about the Marquess of Saltcombe, who is
engaged to my daughter ? '

'Not much either ; of late nothing at all.'
Of late ? Did you hear much of him formerly
? '

I heard something.'
'What was it? I want to know.'
Young men will be young men,' said Captain
Ottley. ' It is not till their livers have
grown that they become sedate and reliable.
You may depend upon it, my dear old fellow,
the liver is the fly-wheel of the system.'

My daughter is engaged to the Marquess.
I have heard a story about him which has made
me very uneasy.'

Fiddlestick ! I tell you what it is, Eigsby :

this cursed depressing Devonshire climate has
begun to act on your Her and make it torpid.
Why, bless my soul ! any man out of Devonshire
would be shrieking with delight at the
prospect of marrying his daughter to a marquess,
and here you are looking as blue over it
as a calomel pill.'

My daughter's happiness is dearer to me
than life. Unless I am assured that she will
be treated with kindness and respect, be made
much of and valued, I shall not consent to the
union. What I have heard affects the Marquess's
moral character.'

I heard something about him when first
I came to Plymouth. He had been wild
and extravagant, and had run away with a
Jewess.'

The wife of another.'

Yes, I remember that. But all that is past,
and he has been sober since ; not a scandal
about him for many years. Besides, consider
the temptations which beset a young man here,
and that young man the heir to a dukedom.
Unless he had a very old head on young
shoulders he would be certain to get into a
scrape. You must not make too much of this
old scandal. It is with the dead. I dare say

there are incidents in your pact which you are
thankful are buried.'

I do not know any said Mr. Eigsby. ' I
have always been steady. You see I have made
a fortune. That is the seal of approval heaven
has set on my conduct. Always respectable,
always. That is why I have no sympathy with
a man who has sown his wild oats. I never
sowed anything but coffee.'

How have you come to hear this now ? '

Mr. Eiofsbv told his friend of the visit of
>— «.■

Lazarus.

'Lazarus,' exclaimed Captain Ottley, and
pulled a long face. ' Confound the man, he
has his fingers in every pie and pocket. He
has even dipped into mine.'

Wliat is to be done ? ' asked Mr. Eigsby.

Nothing,' answered Captain Ottley. ' Let
matters take their course. Things are never as
black as they are painted. The Jew exaggerated
the financial condition of the family. He
does not want to have the mortgage paid
because the investment is too profitable for him
to care to lose it. Do not excite yourself about
the Marquess, either. I have always heard that
he is a man of honour, and if he did transgress
once, it was for the only and the last time.'

The Captain succeeded in calming Eigsby's
agitation. The planter began to hope that
matters had been presented to him in a worse
aspect than they really Avere. He was resolved
to question Lord Saltcombe on them, on both,
and to hear the truth from him. The Marquess
was expected to dinner that evening. Scarce a
day passed without his visiting the house, and
driving or walking with his betrothed. This
day he did not call, nor did he appear at dinner.
]\Ii\ Eigsby became uneasy. He rose early from
his A^ine, lit a cigar, and walked into Plymouth
to inquire after the Marquess.

He was told that Lord Saltcombe was at
home, but not well, and desired that he might
not be disturbed. Mr. Eigsby was dissatisfied
with the answer. He sent up his name, and
asked if lie might see the Marquess for a moment.
Then only was he shown to his room. He found
him seated in his arm-chair, without a light.

Shall I bring candles, my lord ? ' asked the
servant.

Thank you. — Sit down, Mr. Eigsby. I am
out of sorts.'

Amen the candles came in, Eigsby saw that
his face was deadly pale, his eyes sunken and
bright.

'You desired to see me particularly?' he
asked.

Yes ; but you seem hardly well enough for
what I wish to discuss.'

I also wanted to see you. I must speak
openly with you,' said the Marquess.

My dear Saltcombe,' said Mr. Eigsby, ' I
am a blunt man, and I ask questions in a blunt
way. You must excuse me.'

The Marquess bowed.

You must understand that what I live for
is the happiness of my daughter. I have toiled
for her. My fortune is hers, and I am desirous
that it should be secured to her, to be inalienably
hers. Again, I would not have her
marry anyone, however high his position in the
social scale, unless I were sure that he would
love her.'

Do not distress yourself,' said the Marquess
quietly. ' I will spare you the pain of asking
questions. You are quite right in desiring
to secure the happiness of your daughter. I
obeyed the wishes of my family, and proposed
to Miss Eigsby, satisfied in my mind that, having
taken on me sacred responsibilities, I should
honourably fulfil them. Of this you may be
certain : if Miss Eigsby become my wife, never

will I show her the slightest want of courtesy
and deference.'

She must have more than that. Do 5^ou
love her ? '

Mr. Eigsby,' said the Marquess, ' I do not
press my pretensions to your daughter's hand.
I tell you that I am resolved to do my duty ;
there is no other living woman who has any
share in my affections, always excepting my
sister.'

The planter was uneasy. He did not know
how to approach the delicate questions he
wanted to put. He fumbled with his hat and
grew dark red in the face.

I beg your pardon, Saltcombe,' he said,
'if I touch on subjects that are tender. I am
very much shocked — very, so is Dulcina, by
the dreadful incident at the theatre. I thought
at the time you seemed overcome. I was not
then aware of the — of the '

Lord Saltcombe could hardly become paler
than he was before, but the shadows in his face
became deeper. He rose from his chair, and
said with the greatest composure, ' Mr. Eigsby,
I will not require you to continue. If you
doubt me, we had better part. I am returning
to Court Royal. Pray excuse the abruptness

of my departure to Miss Eigsby and Miss
Stokes. I offer them the humblest apologies.'

Mr. Eigsby could hardly believe this ears.
He was still sitting. He got up without his
hat, then stooped, picked it up, let it fall, and
picked it up again. Instead of taking ibis
future son-in-law to task, he was being shown
the door with cool politeness. The Marquess
was proud and dignified ; he shook Dulcina ofl'
as if she were not worth having. Mr. Eigsby
had not intended to quarrel with the Marquess,
he had desired the allaying of his own anxieties.
A word of regret for past follies, an assurance
that the fortunes of the family were not completely
wrecked, would have sufficed. He believed
that Dulcina was so much in love With
Lord Saltcombe that a disappointment would
half kill her. He was ready to meet the Marquess
half-way, to accept an assurance of repentance,
and to pay off one or two of the
mortgages at once, and secure the rest of his
property to his daughter.

But Lord Saltcombe would make no advance.
He took umbrage at the implied suspicions.
Father and daughter must accept him
on his own terms, or not at all.

Am I to understand,' said he, ' that you

refuse to give me any explanations as to your
conduct with regard to that actress, and to relieve
my mind with reference to the embarrassments
of the Duke ? '

Lord Saltcombe bowed.

Then I suppose your engagement to my
daughter is at an end ? '

I allow no liberties to be taken with me,'
said Lord Saltcombe. ' I have rung for a cab.'

When Mr. Eigsby was out of the hotel,
driving home to Stoke, ' Lord bless me ! ' he
exclaimed, ' how testy these aristocrats are !
Impracticable people. Time the country were
rid of them. I wish I were back in Ceylon ! '

VOL. 11.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Broker OFF.

Ox reaching home, Mr. Eigsby told his man to
ask Miss Stokes to do him the civility of speaking
with him in the study.

Miss Stokes came sailing in with great dignity,
wondering what Mr. Eigsby could want
to say to her at that time of the evening in
private. Sisters-in-law cannot be kept for ever
in the cold, she argued with herself.

Would you mind shutting the door behind
you ? ' asked Mr. Eigsby, as Miss Stokes had
left it modestly ajar, and stood near it herself.

Please come nearer. I have something I
want very particularly to say to you.'

I am at your service, James,' said Miss
Stokes, shutting the door and advancing one
step.

My dear Eliza,' began the planter, standing
on the hearth with his back to the fire, ' the

matter I wish to speak to yon upon is a delicate
one ; between you and me, a very delicate one.'
Indeed, James ! '

I have been a widower for some years
Oh, James, you have, you have ! '
And I have had only my daughter to
solace me in my loneliness. And now that

daughter. '

Is about to be translated to a loftier sphere.'
In matters of the heart, Eliza — in matters
of the heart — I mean — I am confused. I have
had much to think of. I did not intend to
speak now, but I thought it best to do so tonight
instead of delaying longer.' Miss Stokes
looked down. 'Won't you take a chair, my
dear Eliza?' She gracefully sank into one
near the table. ' You have been so good and
devoted to Dulcina, my dear Eliza, that I have
considered I could not do better than take you

ahem? — take you '

'Oh, James! I never, never dreamed of
the happiness.'

Take you into confidence before breaking
the news to Dulcina. How she will bear it I
tremble to think.'

Do not tremble, dear James. She is cordially
attached to me, I may say she regards

me — lie has regarded me, tbougli om respective
ages hardly admit it, as a second
mother.'

Then I can trust you to break the painful
news to her, can I not ? '

Not painful — do not say painful, James.'

Indeed, I hope and trust it will not be
painful, but I greatly fear. Such deception,
such heartlessness.'

What deception ? What heartlessness,
James? Not on my side; I have been all
frankness — too much heart.'

I have been horribly deceived. It is all up
with the engagement.'

Up ! which engagement ? '

Which ? There has been only one. Dulcinea
must forget Lord Saltcombe.'

What — what ? ' exclaimed Miss Stokes,
pushing her chair back and looking blank.
I thought, James — but never mind what I
thought.'

If you thought anything else you thought
wrong,' said he. ' It is all up with the engagement.
We have been grossly imposed upon.
The Marquess was hunting Dulcina for her
money ; the family of the Duke are in desperate
straits, and at any moment the creditors maybe

clown on them, turn them out of Court
Royal and sell house and lands.'

Miss Stokes stared.

They were reckoning on paying their debts
with my money — a pack of coroneted beggars !
liOvd Saltcombe does not care a snap of the
lingers for Dulcina — he wanted only her money,
and then when he had got that he would have
deserted her. Bless my soul ! Did I plant
coffee, and slave for all these years away from
my native land, sacrificing my life and disorganising
my liver, to find money for a parcel
of needy noblemen ? Am I to send my dear
Dulcina among wolves, who will tear from her
the flesh and leave only the bones ? '

This is not possible, James.'

It not only is possible, but it is so. I
charged Lord Saltcombe with the beggarly
trick to his face, and he was unable to answer
me. He slunk from my presence like a whipped
dog. Now, Eliza, how do you think my darling
will bear the disappointment P '

My dear James, you need not fear. That
sweet Dulcina possesses so sound a judgment
and so cool a head that I am sure, when all the
circumstances have been placed before her, she
will bear the loss like a martyr.'

My poor dear ! like a martyr. my child !
my child ! '

Do not be uneasy, James. I exercise
great influence over Dulcina. I will break to
her the news you have so graciously favoured
me with. Perhaps you will talk to her yourself
about it tomorrow, after breakfast.'

• I fear it will be a cruel disappointment.'

Disappointments meet us poor women
wherever we tread,' said Miss Stokes, with a
sigh.

Next day at breakfast Mr. Eigsby was
uncomfortable. He had not slept much,
troubled with the thought of the distressing-duty
awaiting execution. At breakfast he
crumbled his toast, upset his egg and dawdled
over his coffee. Dulcina looked limp and
lachrymose.

When breakfast was over Miss Stokes went
into the conservatory, so as to be out of hearing,
yet near at hand. The time had arrived
for the dreaded disclosure. How much had
Miss Stokes already told Dulcina ? The father
wished he knew.

Come and sit by me on the sofa, darling
child,' he said. ' You are not looking well, I
am sure you have been sufferings. And now I

have to increase your trouble by speaking on a
most unsatisfactory subject.' He looked round
at his daughter. Her face expressed no emotion.
' I am not a father who would stand in
the way if his child desired something very
much ; the happiness of you, Dulcina, is paramount
to every consideration. I do not know
to what extent your affections have been
engaged, whether your heart would break
should Lord Saltcombe not — not — excuse the
expression — come to the scratch. I have
favoured your acquaintance with him because
I have believed him an admirable match. But,
my dear, all is not gold that glitters. It is, as
the Latin grammar tells us, human to err. I
have learned circumstances which have altered
my view of Lord Saltcombe's character, and
made me doubt whether the engagement is to
your advantage. I am a plain business man,
and I look to the business side of everything.
I have made inquiries, and my inquiries have
dissatisfied me. The connection with the Kings-bridge
family, the title, the position, that seemed
so splendid that I Alas dazzled. But there are
spots in the sun, craters in the moon, blots on
ducal escutcheons.'

Miss Eigsby became uneasy ; she looked at

her father, then at the breakfast-table, then on
the floor.

I have learned, to my surprise, that the
Kingsbiidge family are bankrupt ; they are
having on the very verge of ruin. Only
the hesitation of their creditors saves from
a fall which will be a scandal throughout
England.'

Papa ! I cannot think it.'

*I assure you, my darling, it is true. I have
seen the list of mortgages. I know precisely
the condition of their affairs. They are in the
hands of the Jews. You saw the splendour in
which they live. That is all paid for out of
other people's money. They put on a glittering
mask to cover ruin. The Marquess is
penniless. If you marry him he will look to
you for his pocket-money, for cigars, and tailor's
bill — go to you whenever he wants a new pair
of boots or a handkerchief. It is true you will
receive his title, but in return you will maintain
him like a poor relation.'

Mr. Eigsby kept his eyes fixed on his daughter
whilst he spoke. He was afraid of her
fainting, and he was ready to call Miss Stokes
to his aid. But Dulcina listened to him with
composure; she bit her lip and frowned, and

ripped the binding of a cushion on the sofa, but
said nothing.

A handsome sum which I was prepared to
pay over on your marriage would have gone at
once to the Jews, to stop their greedy jaws and
stave off the fall of the house. The Duke, the
Marquess, Lord Eonald, and Lord Edward are
calculating on my death, when they may use up
the whole of my — that is, your fortune in washing
clean the family estates. What those estates
are likely to be worth in a few years, with bad
seasons, and American corn and frozen meat
coming in on all sides, I cannot say. I suppose
about two per cent. You have now five or six
on yom' capital. If your money goes into the
land you are likely to lose half your income.'

He was silent. Presently Miss Rigsby said,
Did they tell you this ? '

Bless my soul, no ! The fine thing is that
they are all so cavalier in their aristocratic ideas,
that they regard the marriage of Saltcombe with
you as a great condescension on their part.
They will pocket your money and tolerate you.'

Then they wanted to swindle us ? ' said
Dulcina.

'I wouldn't call it exactly a swindle. I
believe they are far too grand to go into

accounts. I dare say they do not know their
desperate situation, but have a vague idea that
they must have money to make them comfortable,
and as you have money they will take you
for the sake of your gold.'

Dulcina's lips became pasty. She drew them
together, and her hard eyes glittered like steel
beads in the sun.

Lord Saltcombe has never shown me much
love. He has been civil, that is all. But Aunt
Eliza said that in high society great people
loved stiffly. It was against etiquette to be
ardent.'

Lord Saltcombe has not loved you. I asked
him point blank if he did, only last night, and
he could not say he did.'

Lord Saltcombe has not loved me ! ' exclaimed
Dulcina, with a vicious flash in her face.
'Do you mean to tell me he has not cared forme
— that he has not admired me — that he has
not courted me — that he has been peering into
my pocket instead of my face all this while,
thinking of my money, not of myself ? '

It is so.'

Then I will have nothing to do with him.'
Instead of Dulcina fainting the tears sprang to

her eyes, tears of offended vanity, not of pain.
I'll have it out with Aunt Eliza, I will ; she
vowed he was frantic with love, and hardly
knew how to control his passion. Oh, what a
liar she is ! '

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

lyCUEABLES.

At Court Eojal everything had settled down to
the ordinary routine after the Eigsbys had gone.
The Duke was glad that the stir was over, he
liked to be quiet. Lord Edward had returned
to his living in Somersetshire, to relieve the
exemplary curate in the labour of blowing
bubbles, and insisting on the via media as the
way of salvation. Lord Eonald resumed his
early walks and his simple amusements. He
had a turning lathe at which he took exercise
on rainy days, and turned out hideous wooden
candlesticks and boxes covered with spirals.
Of late he had taken to turning flower-pot stands
for all his friends, stands that started and split
and had to be thrown away after having been
in use a week. His grandest achievement was
hat-stands, frightful objects that stood six feet
high, and bristled with sticks endings iu knobs.

These list-stands were to be seen and were soldat
all bazaars in the neighbourhood, and were
bought by people out of consideration for the
General — it would hurt his feelings, it was
thought, if his hat-stands remained undisposed
of. Every door leading to the open air in Court
Royal, every bedroom, was provided with one
of these erections. In the rooms they were
serviceable, he argued, for ladies to hang their
gowns on, for gentlemen to suspend their coats.

Lady Grace had one, of course, in her room,
and used it with great conscientiousness. * It is
not pretty,' she said to Lucy, ' but it is well-intentioned.
It must be good — dear Uncle
Donald made it. Things get rather dusty on it,
though.'

Do you not think, dear, that if chintz were
hiui^ roimd it like a tent, the ugliness might be
disguised, and the dust kept off .^ '

Acting on Lucy's suggestion the hat-stand
was enclosed in a structure desio-ned and executed
for it by the General himself, who turned
the head and turned the foot, and tacked the
chintz on it himself. Then Lady Grace took
his grey head between her hands and kissed
both his cheeks.

That,' said Lord Ronald, ' is over-payment.'

Lord Eonald was vigorously engaged at his
lathe turning two such hat and cloak stands out
of rosewood, as a present for his nephew on his
marriage. Each required twelve knobs for the
bristles and four knobs for the feet, and a big
knob for the top, seventeen knobs in all ; two
stands, therefore, demanded thirty-four knobs.
Lord Eonald had turned nineteen, which were
ranged on the floor in strict order like cannonballs
; he was engaged on knob number twenty
when he heard a tap at the door, and, before he
could answer, in came Mr. Worthivale, hot and
frightened looking.

What is the matter, Worthivale ? Is Court
Royal a-fire ? '

Oh, my lord, what is to be done ? Weare
in a worse predicament than ever,'

It would be difficult to reach that.'

Really,' exclaimed the excited steward, ' I
am driven wild. Has any news come from
the Marquess ? When will the marriage take
place ? '

I do not think the day is fixed.'

Has he written ? '

He wrote once after reaching Plymouth. I
have not seen the Duke this morning, so I cannot
say whether his Grace has received a letter

to-day. It is all right, don't alarm yourself.
The wedding must not be pressed on too hastily.
My niece has had a note or two from Miss Eigsby,
but they contained no news.'

I wish the wedding were to take place at
once. I do not see how we are to hold on
much longer without it.'

Wliat is the matter now ? '

The creditors and mortgagees are unreasonable.
The Court Royal and Kingsbridge mortgages
held by Mr. Emmanuel are called in. He
will file a bill against us. We cannot possibly
meet the call. It is as much as we can do to
meet current expenses. Where are we to raise
a penny ? Bless my heart,' said the steward,
throwing himself into a chair, ' here we were so
happy and content, with the prospect before us
of getting everything squared at our leisure, the
Marquess marrying, and the more pressing calls
stilled, when down on our heads comes this
thunderbolt. File a bill against us in Chancery !
Merciful heavens ! What is the world coming
to, with Radicalism, and democracy, and socialism,
and American competition, cutting the
throats of our farmers, and Fenian plots, and
Nihilist desperadoes — and actually a request
from Farmer Thomas V9^ build him a silo that

will contain sixty tons of ensilage. TTliv. my
lord, it can't be done under three to four hundred
pounds, even if we use galvanised iron for
the roof Where are the foiu- hundred pounds
to come from at the present moment, I should
like to know r I have said we will think of it
after the Marquess is married.'

Who has threatened a bill in Chancery r '

Crudge — Crudge, solicitor. He acts, apparently,
for all those holding our mortgages.
It is a plot, a wicked plot as desperate as any
devised by Fenians.'

Do not alarm yourself, Worthivale. The
people have heard that Saltcombe is going to
be married, and they are putting in their claims
so as to be sure of their money.'

• But we must pay. The time is Limited —
three months — six months. Before a certain
day the money must be forthcoming.'

Well, Saltcombe will be married before
that, and then he can easily get help from old
Ei^rsbv. There is no occasion for alarm. For
heaven's sake don't rush in on the Duke in the
way you tumbled in upon me. Don't frighten
him. He has no idea of the state of affairs.
He is under the impression that a great deal of
money has been saved by the quiet life we have

been leading here for the last seven or eight
years.'

Mo money whatever has been saved. Before
that the fiiniily was in a galloping consumption,
now it is suffering from slow paralysis.
When the Duke went to town every year the
outlay was enormous, and debts accumulated
annually at a rate that makes my head spin.
'S'jvr we live up to our income — that is, to an
i:::::::e iin''iirde!2'?'^. on every shoulder and joint
c: : V I re is nothing saved. You

cl: 1 : - I deficit.'

• Well, whatever you do, take care not to
tr: :1 : 1::= Grace. He cannot bear it
B ;:. my lord, what am I to do ? '

nothing : wait, and keep your counsel.
Let the i: ::: : e take place, and all will be
right. lii manage matters with Mr. Eigsby.'

But,' said the steward — ' you will excuse
the question — does Mr. Eigsby know the state
of affaks?'

I believe a word was said about some
money being forthcoming at the marriage. I
can't say that he was told everything. I did
not have much talk with him. He saw a good
deal of the Duke, but then the Duke knows
nothing about this unfortunate matter. Leave

VOL. II. P

the affair to arrange itself. If you like I will
write to Saltcombe to press on the marriage.'

The confidence of the General partly reassured
Mr. Worthivale.

'You think, then, that we need not be
anxious ? '

Not in the least. I will manage matters
with Eigsby. The old fellow will be flattered
and proud to let us have the money. What
are the mortgages called in ? '

All — all without exception. What can
have taken the people I cannot conceive ; what
can they all want their money for simultaneously?
It looks like a plot. If only two or
three had given notice I should not have
minded, but all — and all together ! I cannot
get over it. And Grudge acting for the lot —
that is strange, is it not ? '

Well, never mind,' answered the General ;
we know the worst. It is best to swallow a
pill whole, not to take it in bits.'

But what is the sum to be paid over with
Miss Eigsby ? Will it suffice ? '

No matter if it does not. It will stop a
gap. I tell you the old fellow will be pleased
to be asked to let us have the money we want.
Those sort of people are flattered by having

favours asked of tlieni. Besides, it will be for
his own daughter. He cannot refuse. I will
make it all right with him.'

If 1 may offer a suggestion, my lord, I
would propose that you should see Mr. Eigsby
at once. It is true we have been remiss about
the payment of interest on the mortgages, and
that may have frightened the holders. If we
could pay off one or two at once it might allay
the alarm of the rest, and they could be brought
to withdraw their demands.'

There is three months' grace,' said Lord
Eonald — ' plenty of time. Put the matter in
the hands of our solicitor, let him write to this
Crudge.'

'Xo solicitor in the world can save us. We
must have money.'

It really is too bad ! ' exclaimed Lord
Eonald, losing his temper. ' It is your fault.
Worthivale. You should not have allowed
things to come to this pass. You have had
the management of the estates ; they are extensive.
You should have drawn the purse-strings
tighter.'

'My lord,' said the steward, hurt, 'I beg
you to remember that I have preached retrenchment
to deaf ears.'

p2

We have retrenched. We no longer go to
town.'

That was not enough.'

Good heaven ! What would you have
had us do, then ? '

Could not his Grace have gone abroad and
shut up the Court ? '

Gone abroad ! — to Bologna, and herded
with all the clipped and pinched wretches dio
hover there, like the spirits on the banks of
Lethe, unable to come over because short of an
obolus. No, thank you. There are limits below
which wee cannot descend.'

'What is to be done? Nothing can be
done now. It is too late. Some years ago —
perhaps. Now all is hopeless.'

This is rank nonsense. Mr. Eigsby is
rolling in money.'

But can wee be sure of getting him to apply
it to our necessity ? '

Of course we can. I know we can.'

What is he worth ? We want a very large
sum.'

I do not know his income. Be at ease.
He has plenty.'

Mr. Worthivale put his hands to his head.
If it where not wicked and cowardly,' he said,
I would blow out my brains.'

If there is immediate pressure,' said the
General, ' I will write to Edward — to Lord
Edward; he is canon and archdeacon, and proctor
in Convocation, and enjoys a fat rectory. I
have no doubt he will help.'

He has helped us already.'

When ? How ? '

Over and over again, but he wished me
not to mention it to any of the family.'

Bless my soul ! ' exclaimed Lord Eonald,
I had no idea of that. Can I sell my interest
in anything — my annuity ? '

If you sell your annuity, my lord, it must
be paid, and now it is not.'

I can sell my half-pay of General.'

A drop into a bottomless gulf.'

Then we must wait in patience for the
marriage-bells. ]Now — not another word. I
am going to the Duke.'

The steward sighed and withdrew.

Stay a moment,' called the General as he
was passing through the door. ' I hope, I trust,
not a word of this has reached the ears of Lady
Grace. I do suppose that you have not spoken
of these, painful matters to Lucy.'

She does know something,' said Mr.
Worthivale.

Who ? Lucy or Grace ? '

Lucy lias been told that no unnecessary
expense must be incurred. Eemember she
manages the housekeeping, and has the accounts
in her charge. But, as she says, it is impossible
to keep down the enormous outlay. The servants
think it their duty to blaze abroad the
splendour of the house by lavish waste. The
requirements of the establishment are very
great.'

I do hope Lucy will not by hint even let
Grace suppose that there is trouble in the air.'

Rely on her.'

Then no one need know of this confounded
worry except myself and Saltcombe. There,
there, be of good cheer, the cloud is passing.'

Lord Eonald went to the Make's apartments.
He found his brother disturbed, his face was
wanting in its wonted serenity.

Eonald,' said the Duke, ' no letter again
this morning from that provoking boy. I cannot
understand it. In my day no son would
have dreamed of leaving his father without
notice of his proceedings. Can it be that love
has turned his head ? If so, the sooner he is
married and brought to a sober mind and sense
of his obligations, the better.'

You see, brother,' said the General, ' ladies

are exacting'. No doubt Miss Dulcina is not
happy without Herbert about her, and love-making'
is one of the labours of Hercules. When

o

he comes home he is fagged, and fain to throw
himself in a chair and go to sleep. Take my
word for it — that is it. Miss Eigsby has only
written twice to Grace, once a line of thanks for
her reception here, the other a mere half-page
of nothing, that took her one minute by the
clock to write.'

Nothing can excuse neglect of dut" to a
parent,' said the Duke. ' When I was young
I was taught to discharge duty first, and take
pleasure after. The spirit of this age is other ;
duties are blown away as feathered seeds, and
only pleasure is regarded. I thought better of
Herbert.'

My dear Duke, you must excuse him.
Love-making demoralises a man. It is like an
election, it upsets everything. No doubt, now
that Saltcombe has emerged from his chrysalis,
he is flying about.'

It would not take him ten minutes to write
me a line. I am not exacting. I do not require
four sides crossed, but I expect the recognition
of what is due from a son to a father. I
am put out.'

Lord Eonald had nothing to say to this.

Hitherto,' continued the Duke, ' I have had
no reason to complain of Herbert ; he has been
a respectful, obedient son. He was extravagant
some years ago, and I have no doubt spent more
money than was judicious, but it runs in the
family. I was extravagant at one time ; my
father — as you may remember, EonaJd — never
stopped to consider what a thing cost if it took
his fancy ; and my grandfather went to extremes
in munificence. I should have been pained to
see a mean, calculating spirit in Herbert. A
gentleman must be openhanded.'

He has lived too quietly for some years. I
am glad to see our comet run into sunlight
again.'

Yes. Because I am too poorly to take my
proper place in society, that is no reason why
Saltcombe should live as a hermit. I shall insist,
when he is married, on his being in town
for the season.'

His wife will take care of that.'

I trust she will. I have been considering
that he must have a residence of his own.'

Will he not live here ? '

Certainly not. I should like it, but it
would hardly do. The Marquess and Marchioness

must have their own country house, with
no divided authority in it. I would not have
Grace the guest of my daughter-in-law, nor my
daughter-in-law the guest of Grace in Court
Royal. No, Eonald, I have been thinking of
Fowelscombe. The house is out of repair, but
it is a fine place. The grounds are delightful,
that glorious drive down through an avenue of
beeches for over a mile, and then the charming
old house below, nestling among trees — what
can be more suitable for the young couple?
The house has been uninhabited for so long,
and the grounds so neglected, that it will want
a great deal doing to it. Still, some ten thousand
pounds spent judiciously would make it comfortable.'


I am sure that Saltcombe would not wish

it;

Eonald,' said the Duke, with some indignation,
' unless the poisonous spirit of the age has
infected Saltcombe more deeply than I anticipate,
he will approve of whatever I ordain. I have
written to an architect to examine and report
on the condition of Fowelscombe, and I have
requested a distinguished landscape gardener to
look over the grounds and suggest improvements.'


But — my dear Duke.'

There is no hut in the case — that is, no but
is admissible. I wish it. That suffices.'

Lord Eonald looked down at his boots.

There is another thing,' continued the Duke,
I wished to consult you about. I hear that the
Eevelstoke estates of the Stretchleighs are to be
sold. Our great-grandmother was a stretching,
and it is unendurable to me to think that
some brewer, or builder, or successful army
tailor should come down and buy the property,
and inhabit the house once the home of gentlemen.
I am thinking of buying it.'

Merciful powers ! ' exclaimed Lord Eonald.

Why do you exclaim in this way P Is
there anything exaggerated in this sentiment of
respect for the home of our ancestors on the
female side? Surely, Eonald, you are not
touched with the utilitarian spirit of the age ? '

But — Adhere is the money to come from ? '

Money can always be found for what is
needful.'

But this is hardly a necessity, brother.'

Not a necessity, exactly, but almost a duty.
All the country is invaded by rich tradesmen,
and engineers who have been knighted for building
bridges, and manufacturers out of the North.

Our old country gentry are becoming extinct.
I do my best to keep our neighbourhood select.
There is no knowing what mischief a new man
might do coming into our proximity. He would
flood the country with nineteenth century ideas,
and subvert our tenants.'

Have you spoken to Worthivale about this ?'

Not yet. I saw no need. He would combat
it, of course. He is a good man, but narrow ;
pettifogging in his ideas, no breadth of view,
always after reduction of outlay ; never disposed
to deal Liberally with the tenants.'

You have taken no step in the matter, I
trust .?'

I cannot say that I have taken no step, but
I have not yet bought the property. I have
opened negotiations.'

Do nothing, I entreat you — do nothing till
after the marriage.'

It may then be too late. The property
may have passed into most objectionable hands.'

Consult Saltcombe. Consult Edward. For
heaven's sake move no further without consideration.'


I have considered. You are very strange
this morning, Eonald. I do not understand
your manner or your mood.'

I am out of sorts. I am bewildered. Spend
ten thousand on Fowelscombe and buy Revels
Lord bless me ! ' He recovered his
composure. ' Excuse me, Duke, you take me
by surprise. Do nothing till I have had another
talk with you about it.'

My dear Eon aid, what does it concern you
whether I buy Eevelstoke or not ? I am buying
to suit my own notions, and, though I value
your opinions, I am not bound to submit to
them. Now I really must attack my letters. I
will detain you no longer. My conscience reproaches
me for having taken up so much of
your precious time ; pray return to your turning
of knobs.'

CHAPTER XXXV.

A Caen CASTLE.

Lord Ronald returned to his room and spent
the rest of the day in turning. The days were
short, and he made the most of the little light.
His hand wanted its usual steadiness, or his
mind wandered to other matters ; for he spoiled
several of the knobs he worked at that afternoon.

He was engaged on the twenty-sixth in the
gathering dusk Ashen he heard a step behind
him, and looked round. 'Mercy on me ! ' he
exclaimed, and cut into and spoiled the twenty-sixth
knob. ' What is the meaning of this ? '

He saw the Marquess before him, worn,
white, hollow-eyed. ' Good heavens, Saltcombe !
How come you here? What has happened?
What is the matter with you ? Have you been
ill?'

'Do not overwhelm me with questions,
uncle,' answered Lord Saltcombe. ' I can answer
but one at a time.'

But this is amazing. Why have you not
written ? What do you mean by dropping on
one from the sky without warning ? '

There, uncle, leave the lathe. I want a
word with you. I have matters of importance
to communicate. Come out of your workshop
into the other room.'

I am at your service. Merciful powers !
what a pack of troubles and bewilderment
come upon one all at once ! First, Worthivale
bursts in on me, then the Duke drops down on
me, and now you spring on me like a ghost —
my senses are stupefied or scared away. No
bad news, I hope ? Take that chair by the fire.
How pale, how ill you look ! Tell me the truth,
Herbert, have you been sick ? '

Lord Saltcombe shook his head.

Your father is put out at your not writing.
I thought that sickness might account for the
neglect.'

I have not been ill.'

Then why have you not written ? I found
the Duke this morning in a tantrum about it.
He will call you sharply to task. What have
you been doing with yourself? '

I am sorry if I have given my father pain.
I would spare him every annoyance. What I

have to communicate now is likely to disturb
him. Miss Eigsby and I have not succeeded in
liking each other more, the more we have seen
of each other.'

'What? How? You don't mean to say
you ! — you surely are not going to tell

me-that

the engagement is at an end.'

Lord Eonald started. ' At an end ! Herbert,
you are out of your senses, or I am dreaming.'

It is true. The engagement has been
broken off. Mr. Eigsby must have picked up
exaggerated reports of the state of our pecuniary
affairs, and he began impertinently to catechise
me about them. I could do no other than refuse
to answer his questions.'

The General clasped his hands on his knees,
wrung them, and groaned. ' Saltcombe ! do
you know that we have been building on your
marriage ? Do you know that without it weare
hopelessly lost ? Your marriage was the one
cord to which we clung. That gone, we sink.
There is no salvation anywhere.'

I know it,' answered the Marquess
gloomily. ' I knoAV more than that. We drag-others
who have trusted us into ruin along with
us. But it cannot be helped. I have done my

utmost. I am not to blame — not in this matter,
at least. I did what was required of me. I
constrained myself to be civil and play the
lover to a girl I could not like, to one with
whom I could not associate with any pleasure.
I proposed to her. I never betrayed my feelings
by a look, a gesture, or a word. I was
prepared to make her my wife, and when she
was my wife you may rely on me I would liavc
failed in no duty towards her. But I could
not endure to be treated with impertinence —
not by such as Eigsby.'

Eigsby treat you with impertinence ! It
is inconceivable, you have misunderstood him.
I will go post-haste to Plymouth and explain
matters, and effect a reconciliation. You must
marry the girl, you must.'

I cannot do so. Mr. Eigsby does not wish
it. He has been frightened by gossip about our
difficulties, and he thinks we will involve him
and throw away his daughter's fortune.'

But he ought to be proud, happy to contribute
'

Perhaps he ought, but he is not. On the
contrary, he declines the honour.'

Heaven help us, we are lost ! Do you
know, Saltcombe, that some of the mortgages

are called up, and unless we find the money
we shall be compelled to sell? It is too
dreadful!'

I have done what I could. To bear to betaken
to task by that Mr. Eigsby exceeded my
endurance.'

'Did you break with him, or he with you.^'

He came to me, as I believe, with the

express purpose of bringing about a rupture.

He charged us with beincr ruined, and wanting

to stave off ruin with his money.'

That is true.'

It may be true, but it is impertinence to
say it.'

So you flared up and upset the salt ? '
I declined to be cross-questioned.'
What is to be done about conveying this
news to the Duke? It must be done gently,
lest it excite him and affect his heart.'

If you think best, uncle, that I should take
all the blame on myself, I will do so. Let my
father suppose me capricious, he will be annoyed,
but it will pass. He did not look
cordially on this engagement. He did not care
for the connection. If he thinks that the planter
broke it off his pride will be hurt, he will feel

VOL. II. Q

it as an insult, and that will agitate him profoundly.
No ; best let me bear the blame.'

Lord Eonald put his hand to his head. He
was too bewildered to think ; he looked at the
Marquess, then at the fire, almost stupidly.
Both were silent for some time.

I came in quietly, without being observed,'
said Lord Saltcombe. ' I wished to have a word
with you before I saw anyone else. I had rather
not meet Grace to-night.'

The Duke must be prepared for this. You
have shaken me. I cannot collect my thoughts.
We must telegraph for the Archdeacon. We
shall want his advice. What a card castle wee
have been erecting, Saltcombe ! and now with
a puff it is down in ruins.'

I will go and sleep at the lodge. Beavis
will give me a shakedown. I do not wish to
meet Grace till I am more composed, and I do
not want the news of my return to be carried
to my father till you have prepared him.'

What am I to say ? What can I say ? '

Tell him that you have heard unpleasant
tidings from Plymouth, and that you expect me
to be back tomorrow.'

I will do so. Good heavens, Saltcombe !
will you believe it ? the Duke, in sublime unconsciousness,

is planning the outlay of ten
thousand pounds on Fowelscombe and the purchase
of Eevelstoke. The only possible good
I see in your return is that it will render the
outlay on Fowelscombe unnecessary, and you
must dissuade him from buying an acre at
Eevelstoke. There is no money — not one
penny ; and the mortgages on Court Royal and
Kingsbridge are called up. What are we todo
? !Now go quietly and get Beavis to telegraph
to the Archdeacon. My head is not clear
enough in this whirl. He is a business man,
and always knows what should be done.'

He paced the room. ' There is the first
bell,' he said ; ' I must dress for dinner. I will
do what I can to prepare the Duke. Merciful
powers ! how much is demanded of me ! I
would rather command in an engagement with
Afghans.'

When Lord Saltcombe had gone he dressed
hastily, but was late when he came down. The
second bell had rung. The Duke disliked un-punctuality.
The General had never failed in
this particular before.

Why, Eonald,' he said, ' is the weather
going to change ? Are the heavens about to fall,
that you come lagging after the time? Will

you give your arm to Grace ? I take in my
little friend Lucy. What a small party we are !
How is it the vicar and Mrs. Townley have not
been invited, or Beavis, or the Sheepwashes, or
some one? I dislike an empty table. Now
Saltcombe is away the party is reduced so low
that conversation flags. With the best intentions
and the most brilliant wits we must suffer from
exhaustion of topics. Grace, have you heard
from that tiresome brother of yours who is too
enamoured to write ? '

The brilliantly lighted dining-room, the fire
of oak on the hearth burning merrily, the glittering
silver and glass on the table, the flowers
that adorned it, yellow salamanca and maidenhair
fern laid on the white cloth ; the buff and
scarlet footmen — the general brightness, comfort,
beauty, struck the General as it had never
struck him before, conscious as he was of the
desperate situation of affairs. He was out of
spirits. He had not dressed with his usual care,
his tie was twisted, one of his cuffs was minus
a stud, and slipped over his hand. The Duke
observed his troubled looks, but said nothing.
He thought he had been too short with his
brother in the forenoon, and regretted it. This,
no doubt, was distressing Lord Eonald. Lady

Grace was always quiet ; she could talk pleasantly,
but lacked the power of originating and
keeping up a conversation. Lucy threw herself
into the gap ; she was skilful to maintain a conversation,
and give it a fillip when it flagged.
An invaluable person at table when spirits were
low.

You good little maid,' said the Duke, ' you
are to me an unfailing source of admiration.
Always lively, with your dark eyes sparkling,
and your fresh cheek blooming, and your tongue
never lacking a happy speech.'

It could not be otherwise, your Grace,
when you are always flattering,' said Lucy.

When Lady Grace and Miss Worthivale retired
the Duke passed the port to his brother.
You never touch claret, I think ? ' Then, noticing
that Lord Eonald's hand shook as he
filled his glass, he asked, ' What ails you, Eonald,
to-day ? You look out of sorts.'

I have received unpleasant news from Plymouth.'


From Plymouth ! ' repeated the Duke. ' Nota
letter from Saltcombe, surely ? '

'No, Saltcombe has not written to me, but
I have heard something; affecting: him which I
do not like.'

What do you mean ? Is lie ill ? '

No, not that.'

'What is it, then?'

I don't fancy his love-making is proceeding
smoothly.'

The course of true love never did run
smooth,' said the Duke. 'Lovers always fall
out, and make up their quarrels next day. That
is a commonplace in Cupid's maxims.'

I don't mean that,' said the General. He
was uneasy: strict in his ideas of right and
wrong, he was unskilled to act a part and speak
half the truth. He turned hot, then cold.

'What is it, then?'

I believe Dulcina Eigsby dresses very
badly.'

I did not like her taste here, but that is a
matter for ladies to consider, not men. For my
part, I think the modern fashions detestable.'

I hear she makes herself ridiculous by her
outrageous style.'

The Duke frowned.

Of course Saltcombe does not like his
future wife to become the laughing-stock of
Plymouth.'

The Duke pushed his glass from him. ' Eonald,'
he said, ' this is intolerable. A future

Marchioness of Saltcomte the — the laughingstock
— do you know what you are saying ? '

The General crossed his legs, then uncrossed
them, leaned back in his chair, filled his glass
again, took some candied angelica, and said,
looking uncomfortable and nervous, ' Saltcombe
is sensitive. He cannot stand that sort of thino\
I hear he will be home tomorrow.'

Saltcombe — here ! Do you mean to hint
that the engagement is off ? '

'I know nothing definitely. I can't say
absolutely oJBT, past all patching up. You can
understand that if Miss Dulcina Eigsby gives
herself airs unbecoming a lady, Saltcombe will
feel it. The old father, too, the coffee-planter,
is a rough stick, and perhaps does not know
how far liberties are allowed on the footing on
which he stands.'

The Duke looked grave. He picked some
grapes and ate them. Then he said, * Saltcombe
knows what befits his position. She who is to
be Duchess of Kingsbridge when I am gone
must not be an object of ridicule. If she were
a princess of blood royal, and failed in tact, she
would be unworthy to wear our strawberries.
Not for the world would I do what is wrote,
not for ten thousand worlds would I excite a

jeer.' He paused. 'You think Herbert will
return. Very well. He will do what is right.
I shall be glad to see him. You think the
match is broken off. I am content. The house
of KingsbridgG does not want Eigsbys to prop
it up. Let us rejoin the ladies.'

In the meantime Lady Grace and Lucy were
sitting side by side on the sofa in the drawing-room.
Grace had her arm round Lucy's waist,
and Lucy held a screen to cut off the red firelight
from her friend's face.

'How lively you are to-day, Lucy!' said
Lady Grace. ' 1 do not know what it was at
dinner that put my father and uncle out of
spirits, and observing them I lost the desire to
talk ; but you Hew to the rescue, and rattled
on, and forced us all to laugh ; and now I feel
your heart ; you are qui veil ng with animation.
What is it, Lucy? I have not found you in
such buoyant humour for many a day.'

Shall I tell you a secret P '

If pleasant.'

It is excellent. I am sure it will rejoice
you.'

Then do tell me.'

What will you pay me for it ? '

I will give you a kiss.'

I will pour out my whole heart's contents
for that.'

Then do not tantalise me. What is it? '

What do you wish best of all ? '

Lady Grace slightly coloured.

You do not like Miss Eigsby, do you P '
asked Lucy.

Oh, Lucy ! don't ask such a question.'

I do not. I detest her. a nasty, spoiled,
conceited piece of goods, without fresh feeling,
without good taste, without healthy brains.'

You must not say that,' said Lady Grace.

I must and I will. I could not do so
before. I can now.' Her eyes danced, the
dimples came in her pretty rosy cheeks, and her
lips quivered. ' Only think ! Lord Saltcombe
is home. It is all off.'

Herbert home ! ' exclaimed Lady Grace.
'What is off?'

The engagement. Broken off, and a good
thing too. I am heartily glad, and could dance
for joy. So could you. You never liked her.
You never thought her worthy of Lord Salt-combe.'


Oh, Lucy ! ' Lady Grace stood up. She
was nervous with excitement. ' Oh, dear Lucy,
is this so ? How do you know it ? '

- not behave

'DidLosdSdtccnibeirritetofaim? Herbert
h^ not: deigned to said me a line since he left.'

Lc^ Saltoombe i$ at oar house.'

'CMuLncy!'

^ Qe dad not like to appear here till Lord
Bonald had prepared the Duke's mind.'

- Oh, Jjocy ! I wider how he bears it. Do
jem tank he was food of her? '

« I cannot behereiL'

'Jjaejt Morton What is the meaning rf
this f I am like a deaf person at a p^, or as
one who comes in at the second act and sees

much mo^emeiiLt, bott m unable lo lay hold of
the tlii€9ds €^ file plot. Uiidb Edward, Aumlt
Elizabeth, Unde Bonald, all seemed to me benton
this marriage. Beavis advised iL What;
made it so desirable? I asked Bevis at the
baD, but he would tell me nothing. lama&aid
this rnqptme will disappoint them. TJndie
Bonald s fuse and unfit at dinner showed me he
was disturbed. Why is he disturbed? What is
there so attractive in Doldna Ei^by ? '

Instead of answering these qoesit: : :i5 - : "
said, 'My other says that Lord SaL:
locking wretchedly ill, so white, ai

quickly, and when she reached the steward's
lodge a little colour was in her delicate cheeks.

Emily,' she said to the maid who opened
the door, ' is Lord Saltcombe here ? '

Yes, my lady. He is in the study with Mr.
Beavis.'

They will excuse my interrupting them,'
she said, passed down the passage, lightly tapped
at the door, and in another moment was in her
brother's arms. Beavis withdrew, but not before
Lady Grace, who never forgot what was due to
every one, had put her hand into his and thanked
him with her eyes. Her heart was too full to
speak. The fine lips were quivering, and tears
were trembling in her eyes like dew in the
calyx of a flower.

She made her brother stand away from herat
arm's length and looked at him.

Oh, Herbert ! ' she said, in a low plaintive
voice, 'you have suffered. Oh, my dear, dear
brother, I must know all. You cannot conceive
the pain it is to me to be shut out from all the
mysteries that surround you. You have no one
but me, I none but you, who can perfectly
understand and feel for each other. Tell me
everything. You have not been ill in body.
You have been ill in mind. Lucy will not be

A CARD CASTLE 237

candid Avitli me, and lie knows more than I.
Beavis only bids me trust him. My Uncle
Eonald is unapproachable. I must come to
sou. I cannot bear it. I cannot. Dear Herbert!
as you love me, tell me everything.'

Sit down, Grace.'

Xo, I cannot ; I must not stay. I can rest
neither here nor anywhere, not on my bed, till
the key is put in my hands. I lie awake thinking
and puzzling till I fear I shall go mad.
Anything is better than this uncertainty. Why
are you unhappy ? Why have you all made such
a point of this marriage ? Why is Uncle Eonald
so upset because it is broken off? What did
Beavis see in her to urge you to make her your
wife ? '

I cannot tell you, Grace.'

You must, Herbert. I weill no longer be
left in doubt.'

Even the Duke does not know.'

So I perceive. He alone has been indifferent.'


You must be spared what would give you
pain.'

I do not ask to be spared. If you have a
cross laid on your shoulder which is weiRhinof
you down, shift one arm to my shoulder and

give me your hand, we will carry it together.
I am brave, Herbert. I can bear anything.
Only one thing at a time, Herbert : first tell me
did you love Dulcina ? '

I was determined to do so ; I did my best,
but I could not. Love will not be forced.'

I am glad to hear you say that. Your
conduct is made doubly inexplicable now. Why
did you propose to her ? '

Lord Saltcombe hesitated. After a while,
during which she waited with patience, he said,
looking down, ' Very well, Grace, know all.
We are ruined. The marriage was arranged in
the hopes of saving us from going to pieces.
The Eigsbys are very rich.'

Is that all ? ' asked Lady Grace, with a
sigh of relief.

All ! ' echoed Lord Saltcombe. ' Ruin —
our ruin proclaimed by every newspaper
throughout England, the loss of our property,
the sale of Court Royal.'

It will kill papa.'

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

THE Council OF COURT ROYAL.

The first council of which we have ofiven the
acts was of a private nature. It had no pretensions
to CBCumenicity. It was a synod, nota
council. It had been convoked in the interests
of the Kingsbridge house, but had been attended
by the Worthivale family only.

The aspect of affairs was now so desperate
that a council was summoned to meet as soon
as Lord Edward arrived from Sleepy Hollow.

The steward had called his son to his aid,
and Beavis had gone carefully through the
accounts — not an easy task, for his father was
unsystematic.

What we want,' said Mr. Wortliivale, ' is
to gain time. Give us a little space in which
to look about, and we will find another wealthy
heiress for Lord Salt combe. There are as good
fish in the sea as they that come out of it.' He
clung to this forlorn hope.

Beavis spent several clays over the accounts.
He examined all the mortgages, the notes of
hand ; he investigated the expenditure in its
several branches, and brought all into form.
His time in a lawyer's office stood him in good
stead. He had acquired system, and a power
of analysis lacking in his father.

Lord Edward arrived. To her great regret,
Lady Elizabeth was unable to accompany him.
Lent was approaching, and she had to arrange
the services and appoint the preachers. Moreover,
it was thought unadvisable for her to be
away just then. A faint and hectic tinge of
opinion had manifested itself in the pellucid
brain of the excellent curate.

Whilst Beavis was at work his father continually
interrupted him with explanations that
where unnecessary, apologies for his own conduct
that were uncalled for, and proposals that Avere
inadmissible.

Lord Eonald spoke rather sharply to me
the other day,' he said. ' He almost laid the
blame on me for having got the family into
such a condition.'

You have no occasion for self-reproach,'
said Beavis. ' If it had been possible to effect
anything, you would have done it. You have,

indeed, done for them more than you should.
Lucy's money '

Now, no more on that point,' interrupted
his father. ' We shall have it again, certainly.'

The only thing that could have saved the
family was a plain and bald statement of its
difficulties and desperate condition, and that
they Avould have refused to listen to. They
buoy themselves up on hopes that are fallacious,
and trust to a Providence to save them that expects
every man to take the first steps towards
saving himself.'

Heaven knows I have preached retrenchment,
but my words have been unheeded.
Now take the books under your arm and come
with me. They will be assembled bj/ this time.'

Father and son walked through the park to
Court Royal. Neither spoke ; their thoughts
depressed them. They entered the General's
private sitting-room, and saw there Lord
Edward, Lord Eonald, and the Marquess. At
the door was Lady Grace. She put up her
hand to stay Beavis. ' Please let me in also.
Saltcombe has told me a little, I want now to
know all.'

He hesitated, but without waiting for a refusal
she passed in.

VOL. II. R

• Grace ! ' exclaimed Lord Eonald, ' this
may not be. It is rude to show a lady the
door, but I cannot help myself when business
is in consideration.'

I know what the business is,' she answered,
and I am interested in it as well as you.' She
ran to the Archdeacon, and nestled on a stool
at his side, took his right arm and put it over
her shoulder. ' Uncle Edward, speak a word
for me.'

Let her stay,' said the Archdeacon. ' A
woman's wit is sometimes worth more than a
man's wisdom.'

Thank you, uncle ! ' She pressed his hand.

The General occupied a hard chair with a
straight back. He had crossed his legs and
folded his arms. His face was grave and set.
The Archdeacon sat in a lounging chair and
kept his arm round his niece, sometimes raising
his wrinkled hand to stroke her smooth hair.
Lord Saltcombe stood in the window looking
out. The steward opened proceedings by describing
the condition of the finances. Two
mortgages had been already called up, and
another he feared every day would be so.
Those already noted were on Court Royal and
Kingsbridge. Humour had no doubt been

- busy with their name, for bills had poured ia
from all quarters, tradesmen's bills pressing for
immediate payment. Probably the bad times,
the fall in the value of land, and threatened
legislation menacing land, had alarmed the
mortgagees. As he went on he became confused,
repeated himself, appealed to figures and
read them wrong, and involved the case to such
an extent that when he sat down none who had
heard him were wiser than when he stood up.

Beavis had his chair near his father. He
was distressed at the old man's inability to put
clearly what he had to say, due to his inability
to think clearly. He listened with patience,
and when he had done he said, ' I have gone
most carefully through all the accounts, have
drawn up a table of debts, and a list of the
mortgages and bills. I know exactly what the
expenditure has been in every department during
the last three years, also what the assets
have been. Everything is here, en precis, on
the table, in so simple a form that a child can
understand it. The situation is one from which
extrication is only possible by having recourse
to heroic methods. If the family difficulties
had been considered in time, salvation might
not have been so difficult as it is now.'

K 2

Come, come ! ' said the Archdeacon
sharply, ' don't exaggerate.'

I am not exaggerating, my lord. May I
pass these papers to you ? You can convince
yourself that I am speaking within the mark.'

'What is the amount absolutely necessary ? '
asked Lady Grace in a cain, low tone.

Oh, Lady Grace,' said Beavis hastily,
you ought not to be here. You unnerve me.'

Let my presence rather brace you to
declare the whole truth. Deal plainly with us.
The surgeon's hand must not tremble when he
touches the wound.'

I need not enumerate all the mortgages,'
continued Beavis. 'The heaviest is that of
four hundred thousand on the Loddiswell
property, the annual interest on which is sixteen
thousand. That is just six thousand above
what we are now drawing from the estates thus
charged. This is in the hands of an Assurance
Company, and is not called in. Seventy
thousand was raised for the building of Court
Royal. We have a little mortgage on Charles
Neither of these is notified.'

Of course not,' interrupted the steward.

There is a smaller, much smaller mortgage
on the manor of Kingsbb ridge of four thousand

five hundred. As you may know, though his
Grace is Lord of the Manor of Kmo'sbrids^e, he
has very little property in the place itself A
horner morto-afre could not be "sot on that.

Dc o

This is at four and three-quarters. So is that
for forty-six thousand pounds on Court Royal
itself. These two are in the hands of a Mr.
Emmanuel, and he has given notice that they
must be paid within three months. There is
another, on Alvington, which we fear will also
have to be met. It is not in the same hands,
but in those of another Jew.'

Well,' said Lord Ronald, ' fifty-five thousand
pounds is not so prodigious a sum. I
suppose these two mortgages can be transferred.'

I do not think it. Eemember that Court
Royal is nearly all park — park and pleasure-ground
bring in no rents.'

Then some other mortgages must be imposed.
If Court Royal and Kingsbridge be
relieved, what matter ? '

We cannot afford to do that ; besides,
investments of this sort are looked shyly at
now.'

What is the total of the annual charges on
the property ? ' asked the Archdeacon.

Twenty-four to twenty-five thousand.'

And the income ? '

At present under thirty-five thousand.'

Tien — having on ten thousand.'

'No — dying on it, my lord.'

A dead silence ensued. Lady Grace's eyes
were fixed on Beavis. Lord Saltcombe looked
through the glass into the park, where the rooks
were wheeling and dancing round their nests,
which they were repairing with twigs, and
stopping with tufts of pine shoots.

I have net deducted the annual cost of the
property, the rates, taxes — nor the Duke's
thousand.'

It is the deuce of a mischief that the
niarriao'e has fallen through,' said the General.
That would have set us on our feet again.'

Lord Saltcombe still said nothing.

If no one has a suggestion to make,' said
Beavis, ' I will venture to make one. No one
can doubt that I am heart and soul devoted to
the cause of your illustrious house. I beg you
to listen to me with patience if I am forced to
say what is unpleasant. I know the pride, the
legitimate pride, of the family. It is this pride
which has allowed it to slip into such straits.
With a little more readiness to look at facts,
and accommodate itself to circumstances, the

financial position of the family would have been
convalescent, and we should not now be
wondering whether life or death is heavier in
the scale of fate. Love of splendour, reckless
improvidence, have made the deficit grow in
geometrical proportions. Firmness — excuse my
saying it — courage to grapple with the evil,
have been wanting, and the evil has grown to
such a head that it is almost past grappling
with.'

'Really, Mr. Beavis Worthivale,' said the
General, testily, ' you forget our grey hairs.
You are a young man, and you are lecturing
men old enough to be your grandfathers.'

I think, Mr. Beavis, you are too strong in
your expressions,' said the Archdeacon.

His father, shocked beyond power of speech,
seized him by the arms, and held up his hand
in warnings to be cautious.

'He is right,' said Lady Grace. 'Uncle
Eonald, do not be angry. He speaks the truth
because he is too true a friend to withhold it
from us.'

Beavis slightly bowed to her, and went on.
Safety may yet be had, but at a price. The
only possible way out of the labyrinth of debt
is for the Duke and the Marquess to resolve on

the sale of some of the estates. Unfortunately,
a worse time for the sale of land could not have
befallen his. I believe that good properties do
not now fetch five-and-twenty years' purchase,
and some are put up to auction and find no
buyers. Still, let us hope for the best.
Fowelscombe is worth two thousand a year ; at
thirty years" purchase that would be sixty
thousand : add another ten thousand for the
house and timber and exceptionally beautiful
situation, that makes seventy thousand. With
that you can pay off mr. Emmanuel and one of
the other smaller mortgages. I should advise,
sell also the manorial rights in Kinasbrid^e.
The town ^^-ill buy those, and give a good price
for them.'

'Really! really!' exclaimed the General,
• I cannot endure this. Sell the manor from
which the Duke takes his title ! ^\liat next r '

Expenses vn\l have to be cut down at least
a half, the number of servants reduced, and the
Marquess must make up his mind to continue
living in the country, and keeping Kingsbridge
Hotise, Piccadilly, closed.'

Put a bill in the window, " To be let
furnished'' and so make a few guineas,' gasped
the General.

Lii ly Grace got up from her stool and put
her arm through that of Lord Eonald, and
remained at his side, holding his hand. Her
touch soothed him and allayed his imitation.

The Duke will never consent to this said
Lord Edward.

It win not do even to suorcrest it to him.

CO

So much of the family property has been
throve away by our ancestors, that he is particularly
tenacious on this point. Nothing will
induce him to part with an acre.'

He is talking of buying Eevelstoke. not of
selling.' said Lo:\l Eonald.

'E ::.' said Beavis, 'if he will not

v:' : iy /: with Fowelscombe, he will
liavv L ;.r: E.yal taken from under his feet
and over his head. There is a power of sale
in all mortgages.'

They will not dare to do it,' exclaimed the
General ; ' the whole country would rise up
and cry shame.'

What do a parcel of Jew money-lenders
care about the feelings of the country?' said
Beavis. 'Besides, you mistake. The country
would approve. It would cry shame on the
house of Eveleigh for not making a voluntary
eflbrt to pay its debts.'

Lord Eonald's fingers nipped the hand of
Lady Grace convulsively, and so sharply as to
cause her pain. His face quivered, and he
prepared to say an angry word, when she laid
her other hand on his lips.

Mr. Beavis is quite right,' she said ; ' I
feel that he is. We should do everything in
our power to pay our debts, and not lie, curled
up in our pride like hedgehogs, for the dogs to
worry.'

The General turned to his brother. ' Edward,'
he said, ' we look to you for advice.
These hot-headed, rash young folk would fire
the stack to expel the mice. You are a man
of experience, with a business head. What do
you propose ? '

There is nothing like moderation,' said the
Archdeacon. ' I object to all extremes, doctrinal
or practical. Let us be via media in all
we do and propose. I agree with you, Mr.
Beavis, that something must be done. I think
with you, Eonald, that his proposal is too
drastic. My suggestion is quite other. Let
Mr. Worthivale write to the mortgagees or
their agents — I mean those who are pressing,
and those likely to be troublesome — and ask
for delay. It would not be wise to sell land

just now. Mr. Bcavis said as much. The
present depression cannot last. The wheat-producing
area in America is rapidly being
taken up, and the soil is becoming exhausted,
at the same time that the population of America
is increasing, and therefore the home consumption
is greater. We want nothing but delay.
Invite the two or three disagreeable mortgagees
to a meeting at the lodge, and we shall
see what will be the result. I shall make a
point of being there.'

Beavis gathered the papers together. His
cheeks were flushed.

Saltcombe has not spoken,' exclaimed Lord
Eonald, ' yet he is the one most concerned.'

I bow to the superior wisdom of my
uncles,' answered the Marquess, ' though I
agree with Beavis. I do not, however, see any
chance of persuading the Duke to a sale.'

I think with you, Herbert, in this as in all
tidings,' said Lady Grace. ' Let us have amputation
before mortification sets in.'

At that moment a tap at the door, and the
Duke's valet entered hastily, looking frightened.


My lords,' he said, ' his Grace is not well !
Something has happened ! '

CHAPTER Xxxiii.

A SISTER OF MERCY.

The brothers of the Duke, his son and
daughter, hurried to this apartment in alarm.
The Worthivales, father and son, remained
where they were, anxious to know the cause of
alarm, but unwilling to intrude.

The Archdeacon turned faint ; he also
suffered from the heart, and the Marquess was
obliged to lend him an arm. The General and
Lady Grace were the first to enter the Duke's
morning; sittings-room.

We must explain the cause of the Duke's
excitement.

He had been taking his breakfast when the
valet informed him that a lady — a Sister of
Mercy — had called and desired very particularly
to see his Grace, if he would generously
allow her an interview of five minutes.

A Sister of Mercy ! ' exclaimed the Duke.

What — Thompson, m the hall ! Kept her
waiting ? — Excellent people — most certainly I
will see her. Some subscription wanted to an
orphanage, or a refuge, or a laundry. Show
her up at once — of course, of coin-se.'

A lady entered in black, closely veiled.

Take a chair, my dear madam,' said the
Duke rising. ' Thompson, put a chair. That
will do. Pray be seated, madam.'

'Thank your Grace,' said the Sister, waiting
till the valet had left the room ; * I had
rather stand. I will not detain you five
minutes.'

'No detention at all, except as a pleased
captive,' said the Duke. ' It does an old
Worthless fellow like me, shelved from all useful
work, good to see one whose life is devoted
to doing deeds of charity, to care and toil for
others. The Sister of Mercy sums up in her
little self the whole duty of man, as a proverb
condenses the experience of ages.'

'Your Grace must excuse me. I do no
deeds of charity. I owe no duties to my
fellows. I am not a Sister. I am a nobody.
I am only Joanna.' She threw back her veil.
The Duke looked at her with mingled surprise
and admiration ; surprise, because he did not

understand lier words, admiration at lier
beauty.

You have not heard of me,' said Joanna.
I do not suppose you have ; but I know about
you, and I know more concerning your affairs
than do you yourself. I dressed in this disguise
to come here, because I did not wish the
servants to recognise and stop me. I determined
to see your Grace. I am only a small
mouse, and you a great lion, but you are
fallen into a net, and I can bite the threads
and free you.'

You must excuse me. Miss Joanna — but I
really do not see your drift and understand to
what I owe the honour of this visit The
Duke put his hand to his head.

Your Grace is in the hands of Jews.'
Joanna opened a little handbag, and threw
some deeds on the table. ' Look there — the
mortgages my master holds. I have taken
them. I bring them to you. Tear them up
and burn them, and Lazarus cannot touch you.
I am With Lazarus. I would have allowed
myself to be hacked to pieces rather than hurt
him, but he dealt falsely by me. He sent me
here to pry into and discover for him your
affairs. Lord Saltcombe and Lady Grace have

been kind to me. I will not help to bring
them down. I will show them that I am
grateful. I love — I dearly love Lady Grace.'

My good Miss Joanna,' said the Duke, ' I
am perplexed beyond measure. I cannot
understand '

Those deeds will explain all,' said Joanna,
interrupting him,. ' I have not many minutes
to spare. I have come here from Plymouth,
and must return whilst my master is absent.
All lies in a nutshell. There are your mortgages.
Destroy them.'

I cannot touch them,' said the Duke.
Do you mean to tell me that you have
abstracted them from the holder ? '

Yes, I took them from his strong box.'

You have acted very wrongly. You have
committed a crime. You are liable to be
tried for this and imprisoned. This is robbery.'

'I do not care. I want to do something
for Lady Grace. I am the Jew's heir, and if I
steal the money I rob myself. There is no
harm in that. Besides, he used me unfairly in
sending me here, and I will pay him out for
it.'

'You must go back at once and replace
these documents where you found them.'

You will not destroy them ? '
'Most certainly not.'
But I will tear them to shreds.'
That will not relieve me. I am morally
bound by them. I should meet my liabilities
just the same whether the deeds existed or
were destroyed. I hold their counterparts,
and will act on them. There — child — take
them back, and never, never again act in
so rash a manner. Your motives may be
good, but your conduct has been most reprehensible.'


'Your Grace does not know all. The
truth is kept from you. Ask Lord Saltcombe,
ask Lord Eonald, to tell you the truth. Or
there — look at this Society paper. There is a
paragraph in it about you. My master put it
in, and was paid for the information. No — do
not look at it till I am gone. I tell you that
you are ruined, and the world knows it now.
Your last hope was in the marriage of Lord
Saltcombe, and that is taken from you. AVill
you have the mortgages ? '

'Certainly, certainly not,' said the Duke,
uneasy, offended, bewildered. He could not
understand who Joanna was, why she addressed
him, what her interest in him was, and his

pride was hurt at her offer, at her daring to
talk of his embarrassments to his face.

And really,' he continued, after a pause,
I am at a loss to explain this visit ; though I
feel flattered that my family, or any members
in it, should have inspired '

Joanna again interrupted him. ' Your
Grace, my time is precious. I must be off. I
have made you the offer, and you have refused
it. I can do no more. There is the paper.
I have marked the paragraph with blue pencil.'

She thrust the deeds back in her bag, and,
before the Duke had put his hand to the bell,
left the room.

The Duke sat for some moments rubbing
his brow, trying to gather his thoughts. The
visit was so short, Joanna's manner so extraordinary,
her offer so outrageous, that the old
man was completely thrown out of his usual
train by it. He shook his head and took up
the Society paper. His eye was caught at
once by the paragraph Joanna had pencilled.
It was to the effect that the projected marriage

between the Marquess of S , heir to the

most embarrassed Duke in the three kingdoms,
and the daughter of a wealthy planter from
the East Indies, was broken off owing to the

VOL. II. S

ruinous condition of the Duke's affairs, and to
the fact that the father of the lady declined
to allow his hard-won savings to be thrown
away in washing the Duke's hands. The
editor added that it was satisfactory to know
that some birds were sufficiently old not to be
caught with Salt \

The state of excitement into which reading
this threw the Duke alarmed Thompson, and
he ran to summon aid. Mrs. Probus, on hearing
that the Duke was ill, ordered one of the
grooms to ride for the doctor, a hot bath to begot
ready, a couple of bricks to be put into the
kitchen fire for application to his Gmce's soles,
and to direct that spirits and cordials should
be taken at once to the Duke's apartment.

When the General entered, followed by
Lady Grace, he found Lucy already by the
chair of the old man, vainly endeavouring to
pacify him. The Duke tried to speak, but
words failed him. He held the newspaper and
waved it impatiently, and pointed to it, with
the other hand. Lucy had a glass of water,
and entreated him to drink it, but he shook his
head angrily.

Then the Archdeacon came in, leaning on
Lord Saltcombe's arm.

A\naat is it ? What is the matter ? Is ita
fit ? ' he asked. ' Bathe his temples with
vinegar, give him sal volatile. The action of
the heart must be stimulated.'

The Duke was irritated at the attempts to
doctor him with cold water and compresses,
with vinegar and cordials. After a moment of
struggle he gasped forth, ' Take this trash
away. I am not ill. I am insulted. Get
along with you, Thompson. Turn the servants
out. I don't want all the world here. — Please
leave my chair, Lucy. — Grace, I had rather
you were not in the room. What have you all
come tumbling in on me for in this fashions
I am not dying. The room is not in flames.
I pray you — leave me alone with my brothers.'

Please let me stay by you, papa,' said
Lady Grace.

He made an impatient gesture with his
head, but she would take no denial. She
stepped back behind his chair, and Lucy left
the room.

When the Duke saw that he had only his
son and brothers before him, he recovered
himself, and, holding out the paper, exclaimed,
I have been insulted — grossly insulted. Look
at this ! '

s 2

The Archdeacon took the paper from his
hand, and read it.

What is it, Edward ? ' asked the General

Hand him the paper, Edward, when you have
done reading the precious production. What
do you think it dares — actually dares to say?
Upon my word, the temerity of the press is inconceivable.
It has the audacity to declare
that we are ruined ; that I — I, the Duke of
Kingsbridge, am living on the forbearance of
my creditors. Bless my soul ! where are the
lightnings of heaven, that they do not flash on
heads that dare think, and tongues and hands
that dare speak and write, such outrages ? '

The General turned white and looked down.
The Archdeacon folded the paper with trembling
hands, and laid it on the table.

I wish,' said Lord Eonald, ' that the old
times were back, when I might call the
editor out and put a pistol-shot through his
head,'

That cannot be. It is impossible now.
A gentleman cannot redress a wrong,' said the
Duke. ' If he takes a horsewhip and touches
a dog that lias snarled at him, he has to endure
the indignity of being summoned for assault.
You have not read the paragraph, Eonald.

You had better not. It will fire your blood,
and you will be committing some indiscretion.
It dares to insinuate that we sent the Marquess
hunting that girl for her money wherewith to
buy off our creditors and secure prolongation
of days to ourselves.'

Lord Eonald was too confused to speak, his
temples became spotted red. He took the
paper and read it.

What has occasioned this ? ' asked his
Grace. ' Is it possible that gossip is at work
upon us — groundless gossip ? Who has started
it? How far has it gone? I know well
enough that our fortunes are not as magnificent
as they were in the reigns of the first Georges,
and that the property is encumbered, but that
is all. What is the meaning of this calumny
starting to life ? '

The Archdeacon looked at the Marquess,
but as the General and Lord Saltcombe looked
at him — the mainstay of the family — he answered,
' Do not put yourself out, Duke. There
is no accounting for the origin and progress of
tittle-tattle. It springs out of nothing, and
swells to portentous size on nothing.'

But, Edward, it kills like the fluke in the
sheep. That also springs from an imperceptible

nothing, but its effects are felt, not by the
sheep only, but by the farmer, the landowner,
and the parson. A germ of microscopic smallness
disturbs the social system ; no rents, no
tithe, no trade.'

Of course there are mortgages and debts,'
said the Archdeacon.

Of course there are,' exclaimed the Duke.
There always have been, What landed estate
is unencumbered ? But what of that ? Every
oak bears oak-apples as well as acorns.'

Put the paper in the fire,' said Lord
Eonald, ' and its contents out of your mind.'

The one is done more easily than the
other,' answered the Duke, ' Indeed, the one
is possible, the other is not ; a bullet may be
extracted, but the wound remains to ache and
fester. But are things in a bad state here — so
bad, I mean ? ' He turned to the Marquess.
Saltcombe,' he said, ' since I have been ill you
have had the charge of everything. I hope
you have done your duty, and can answer to
the point when I ask, is there occasion for this
impertinence ? ' The Marquess hesitated. He
was afraid of alarming his father ; he could not
dissemble. Whilst he hesitated Lady Grace
stepped forward, knelt down at her father's

feet, and leaning her hands on his knees, whilst
she looked up fearlessly into his eyes, said,
Papa, we are quite wrong in regarding you as
too weak to bear bad news. You are a rock, and
can stand the storm as well as the sunshine, is
it not so ? Well, dearest papa, it is quite true
we are ruined. We do not know where to
turn for money. The mortgagees are calling in
their morto'ao'es. There is nothing for it but to
sell some of the property.' She paused, then
turned with a smile to her uncles. ' There,'
she said, ' see hoar brave the dear old man is !
how erect the silver head is held ! He is no
coward ; he is not afraid to hear the truth,
however dreadful the truth may be.'

The Duke was flattered. He bent forward
and kissed his daughter on her brow. Then he
leaned back in his chair, and looked from one
to another. ' She exaggerates, no doubt.'

It is too true, father,' said the Marquess,
we have got into almost inextricable confusion.
Still — there is hope. Worthivale is going to
write to the troublesome mortgagees, and arrange
for a delay.'

'Worthivale should never have allowed
things to come to this pass. But I see exactly
how it is. Worthivale is an alarmist, excellent

fellow though he be. He is always crying
out that there is no money for anything, and it
has become a habit with him to hold up his
hands and eyes in despair. He has persuaded
himself that we are ruined, and you have been
weak enough to listen to him and believe all he
says. I know why he is crying out now. He
is scared at the idea of my buying Eevelstoke.
You may tell him that I give it up ; thereupon
his sky will be set with a triple rainbow.'

I agree With you,' said Lord Edward.
Mr. Worthivale has taken his son Beavis into
confidence, and the new broom sweeps up a
dust. In a little while the dust will settle, and
all go on as before.'

'Oh, Beavis!' exclaimed the Duke, 'this
is Beavis's cry of wolf, is it ? '

'Papa,' said Lady Grace in urgent tones,
when the wolf did come the cry was disregarded.'


'Do not you meddle in these matters, my
pretty,' said the Duke. * It was cruel of them to
disturb your mind with these false alarms.
You should live above all sordid money cares.
Go back to your flowers.' Then turning to the
others : ' Worthivale is a good man of business,
he will manage all.'

'But, papa,' said Lady Grace, 'how came
you to get this wicked paper? vas it sent
you by post ? '

Xo, dear. I received a call this morning
from a lady, a Sister of Mercy, and she left it.'

What ! a Sister of Mercy read a Society
paper ! '

'Yes — I suppose so — even a Sister of
Mercy — that is — but, upon my word, I am so
bewildered ; I hardly know who she really
was. I rather incline to think she was a
maniac'

CHAPTEE Xxxviii.

Reformation.

Since Joanna's return from Court Royal lodge
a change for the better had been effected in the
House of the Golden Balls. She had been firm
with Lazarus, and he had yielded. She kept
everything in good order ; she refused peremptorily
to have the kitchen and what belonged
to the housekeeping department untidy and
broken. She got white hie, mixed it herself,
and with a pawned mason's brush whitewashed
the kitchen, the back kitchen, and her own
attic bedroom. She mixed yellow ochre with
the wash and coloured the walls. Where the
slates in the floor were broken, she repaid them
herself in cement of her own mixing. She
stitched some muslin and made a blind for her
window. She scrubbed the shelves and table
in the kitchen with pumice-stone and soda, till
the white deal shone like nev. When work

for the day was over, she laid a rug before the
kitchen fire, brought the tea-table before it,
threw over it a cloth, and put on it her lamp.
She seated herself beside the stove, with the
door open, so that the red light flickered over
her knees and skirt, and white stockings and
neat shoes, whilst the lamp irradiated her face
and hands, intent and engaged on needlework.

Joanna had always been an energetic
worker, never idle, but her work hitherto had
been systematic, undirected, desultory ; it
was like her conscience, unsystematic, undirected,
spasmodic in action. She had done
what came to hand, and done it as the hight of
nature taught her. At Court Royal lodge she
had seen order, cleanliness, reduced to clockwork.
She had learned that comfort was inseparable
from both. Her feminine instinct for
what is seemly and right was satisfied, and she
was resolved, with the whole strength of her
strong will, to reform the domestic arrangements
at the Golden Balls.

She had several battles with Lazarus, but
she was victorious along the line. The meals
were better. He had made himself ill by the
nastiness of the food he had eaten whilst she
was away, and he was ready to yield a point

in this particular, on her return, for his own
health's sake. She did not openly oppose him
when she found she could carry her purpose by
quiet persistence.

When in Plymouth — at his private money-lending
office, at which he was present for some
hours in the day, an office without name on the
door or window, quite a private lodging, to all
appearance — he was well dressed, that is, in
respectable clothes, without patches, without
splits, not discoloured. On his return he dived
at once into his bedroom, and re-emerged, the
wretchedness of old ragmen. ' It is in eating,
Joanna, that clothes get spoiled. If we were
angels, neither eating nor drinking, our clothes
woidd never wear out. With the utmost care wee
cannot avoid speckling and splashing the cloth.'

Where are my house clothes ? ' he asked
one day, putting his head — only his head — out
at the door. ' I can't find them anywhere,
and I've been hunting for them high and low.
I'll catch my death of cold. Have you taken
them to darn? Tell me. I am all of a shiver.'

I did take them,' said Joanna ; ' but they
are not fit for you to put on.'

Oh, for the matter of that, this is home,
sweet home, and anything will do there.

Joanna, be a dearie, and walk backwards with
them, and pass them in at the door whilst I
howl it ajar.'

I can't— I've soul them.'

'Soul them!' cried the Jew. 'Soul the
very skin off my back ! Oh, Joanna, I hope you
had a good offer for them.'

I soul them as old rags, three pounds fora
penny. There was not many pounds in
them ; you had worn them threadbare.'

Oh, Joanna ! what am I to do ? Where
is the money ? '

She came towards the door.

I have it in my hand.'

He uttered a little scream, and drew in his
head and shut the door. ' Pass it under.
Burr ! it is dreadfully raw ! What am I to do
for clothes ? '

She stood outside, and heard him counting
the coppers.

Very little, wretchedly little,' he muttered.
You might almost as well have thrown the
things away.'

That would have been against the principles
on which I have been reared — never do
anything for nothing.'

True doctrine,' said the Jew, ' I was speaking

poetically. I strew flowers sometimes. It
is my mind — ornate.'

Presently lie called very loud, ' Joanna ! I
say, Joanna ! '

Well,' she answered, ' what do you want ? '

I'm quivering like gold-leaf,' he said plaintively
through the door ; ' I can't come out as
I am.'

Put on again the suit you went out in.'

But I want my tea.'

What of that P '

It may drip. And bread and butter.'

'Well'

The little bits with butter on them may
fall on my knees butter downwards, and stain
me.'

I've made you a sort of blouse said
Joanna through the keyhole, ' in which you
can be respectable. You can sip it over your
suit when you come in.'

But the seat, Joanna ; the wear and tear
there is sickening.'

'I've cushioned your chair,' sib replied
through the keyhole.

After a while Lazarus appeared, respectably
dressed. Then the gh'l produced a smock she
had made, and he drew it over his head.

I look rustic in it,' he said ; ' but I seethe
idea — it will save clothes. I approve.'

The kitchen looked cosy with the lamp and
fire, the hearth-rug, the table-cloth, and the
tea-things, and with the curtain drawn.

It is beautiful, but expensive'' said Lazarus.
Dear heart ave ! you are burning the coals
very fast.'

I've reckoned up, and find it cheapest to
have a good fire,' answered Joanna, ' cheaper
by sentence three farthings per night.'

How do you make that out ? ' asked the
Jew. ' I'd be proud to know how sp ending-can
be converted ito saving.'

'I worked one night without fire,' said
Joanna in reply. ' I worked at the coat-turning,
and my fingers were so cold I could
hardly hold the needle, and had to put them
in my mouth to bring the feeling into them.
The next evening I worked with fire, the
same number of hours, at the same sort of
work, and did half as much again v/ith warm
fingers'* Then I ciphered it all up — so much
done at so many hours, and coals, by measure,
at^fourteen shillings per ton, and I reckon I
cleared sentence three farthings.'

Seven times eight makes fifty six. Twelves

in fifty-six, four-and-eiglit over. Seven farthings,
one-and-tliree over. Penny three
farthings from four-and-eight makes a total
of four-and-sixpence farthing. Say twelve
weeks of firing, that makes — twelve times four,
forty-eight ; twelve times six, six shillings ;
forty eight and six make fifty-four. Why,
Joanna, that is the clearing of two pounds
twelve and threepence per annum. At that
rate you may burn coals and I \vill not grumble.'

There is nothing like thrift, is there,
master ? '

'Ah,' said the Jew 'talk of the beauties' of
nature ! What I look to is the moral lessons it
preaches. How many of your holiday-takers,
who run over the sea cliffs, look at the thrift
that covers them, and lay the flowers to heart ?
I'm not one who approves of hoarding. Hoarding
is a low and savage virtue, but Turning-over
is the cultured virtue. Turn your eggs
and they don't addle, but they won't set. It is
better with moneys. You can always restore
the vital heat to them in your pocket, turn them
over, and hatch out of them a pretty brood.'

Lazarus spread his hands before the fire,
and the light played over his face. He smiled
with satisfaction

The domestic circle,' said lie to himself,
or Joanna, or both, ' is a very pleasant circle
to him who is its centre. I only passed
through it as the man in the circus goes
through a hoop, and mine was on fire, and
singed me. Nevertheless, I Avon't say but '

He did not finish his sentence, and Joanna
did not trouble herself to inquire what he intended
to say.

'I think a shave wouldn't do you harm,'
she observed. ' There is a frowsy growth on
your upper lip like a neglected plantation.'

I'm going to grow a moustache,' said the
Jew. 'I'm about to mark an epoch with it.'

You — you going to make yourself ridiculous
? '

Not at all ridiculous. I've come to that
period of life when a judicious growth of hair
disguises the ravages of time.'

Pray, what is the epoch to be marked by
a moustache ? ' asked the girl.

Instead of answering the question directly,
he sighed, stretched his legs and arms, and
said, ' I'm a lone, lorn widower.'

That ought not to trouble you much,'
observed Joanna. 'You've been a grass
widower long enough.'

VOL. II. T

That is just it, Joanna said the Jew ;
I've been in grass so long that I should like
now to get into clover.'

Do you think of retiring from business ? '
asked the girl.

Oh dear, no ! I couldn't live without it.'

Then you will allow me to spend more
on housekeeping ? '

He shook his head and hitched his shoulders
uneasily. ' I'm not inclined to launch out far
yet,' he said, with an intonation on the last
word. ' The time will soon come when it will
be otherwise. I am going to foreclose on those
Kingsbridge people. What is more, I've been
about and seen some of the other mortgagees,
and given them such a scare that I've no doubt
they will do the same. I've got it into the
Society papers, Joanna — published to the world
that the great ironclad Duke is foundering.
The beauty of my position is that I strike at
the heart. I have my hold on Court Royal
itself. They will sell anything rather than
that ; and if they once begin to sell, it will go
like a forest on fire — there will be no stopping
it.'

They will be beyond your reach when the
marriage takes place,' said Joanna.

I have put a spoke in that wheeL The
marriage is broken off.'

Joanna was sincerely distressed. ' I wish I
had done nothing for you. I wish — I wish I
had not ! '

You have done everything for me,' said
Lazarus. * Through you I have ascertained
who are the mortgagees, and who hold the
bills, and I have been able to see and scare
them all. Even the Insurance Company, that
has the heaviest mortgage of all, is made
uneasy. You may depend upon it, I have
taken the pillars between my arms, and brought
down the house upon the Philistines.'

Joanna burst into tears.

There, there,' said the Jew, ' you have
been dazzled and bewitched by those aristocrats,
like so many others. It is a short enchantment
that will soon pass. Joanna, we
will have a bloater for supper. Eh? soft roe !
eh?'

Joanna held down her head, and the tears
dropped on the work on which she was engaged.
Lazarus looked at her with a peculiar
expression in his eyes. Then he began to
whistle plaintively to himself Azucena's song

T 2

in 'Trovatore,' 'Homeward returning to our
green mountain.'

Presently the girl looked up, saw him
watching her, and something in his expression
offended her, for she coloured, and said, ' I did
not know you were musical.'

I'm what you may call a many-sided
man,' answered the Jew, full of prismatic
twinkle and colour. ' You've only seen me
under one aspect, and that the business one —
appraising goods, whacking little boys, and
scolding you. But there is more in me than
you suppose. You've thought me hard, maybe,
but I'm like a sirloin of beef — I have my
tender undercut. You've thought me cold,
because I'm not given to blaze and crackle
-with emotion and sentiment, but I'm a sIoav
-combustion stove, lined with fire brick, and
when alight I give out a lot of heat for my
size. There are some men like the greengage

all sweetness without, but the heart within

is stony. There are others like the walnut,
rugged and hard as to their exterior, but
nutty and white and delicious when you get at
their insides. Such, Joanna, am I.'

I've never tasted the nastiness yet.' said
the girl.

'But it is there.' He shook his head.
'Wait till my moustache is grown, and that
Kingsbridge pack of cards is tossed about, and
you'll see wonders.'

I want to see no more of you than I am
forced to,' she muttered.

Oh, Joanna, don't say that ! I suppose
now, taking all in all, that you have got a
certain amount of liking for me.'

'What do you mean by "taking all in all.?
Do you mean taking your heap of greasy,
patched clothes, and your frowsy face, and
your long and dirty finger-nails, and sour
stingy habits, and the way you smack your
lips over food that is palatable, and the way in
which you are ogling me now — taking all this
together I have a liking for you ? No, nothing
of the kind.'

'Why do you say these offensive things,
Joanna ? We belong to each other like a pair
of stockings; one can't go on without the
other.'

'I think I could shift without you,' said
Joanna. ' There is the bell ; some one is at
the door.'

A moment after Charles Cheek's voice was
heard in the passage.

Is the boss in ? I want to see him. Not
but what I wanted to see you also, Joanna ;
but that is a permanent craving.'

Here is Mr. Lazarus,' said the girl,
ushering the young man into the kitchen.
I've put him on a smock to keep him respectable.'


What do you want with me ? ' asked
Lazarus, with lowering brow and without a
salutation.

'This is a civil reception, is it not?' exclaimed
the young man. ' What else can I
want of you but money ? I am cleaned out,
and desire accommodation till my father relaxes.
He is out of humour just now, and will send
me no more than my allowance. As if a
young fellow of spirit could hive within his
allowance.'

Why did you not come to my office at a
proper time ? ' asked Lazarus, almost rudely.

Because money-lending and money-taking
are proper to you at all times.'

I can let you have no more. You have
had abundance, and I shall lose what I have
lent already.'

How much is that ? '

I cannot tell till I have looked.'

Well, go and see.'

Lazarus rose reluctantly from Lis chair,
and, taking a candle, lit it at the fire and vient
to his room. When Joanna saw that he was
gone she drew near to Charles Cheek, and
looking up in his face with a grave expression
said, ' Do not come here after money. Lazarus
will ruin you.'

'But I must have money. If my father
will not find it, I must obtain it elsewhere.'

When did you see your father last ? '

'A century ago.'

Why do you see him so seldom ? '

Because I am not partial to lectures on
extravagance.'

You deserve them. Go to your father ;
tell him the truth; promise him to be more
prudent.'

'No use, Joanna. I cannot be prudent.
It is not in me. I must spend, just as the sun
emits light and the musk fragrance.'

'Neither of these exhausts itself. You
must not, you must not, indeed, come to
Lazarus. I know how this works. In seven
years I ought to know. It brings inevitably
to ruin, and I would not have you come to
that.'

Why not, Joey ? '

Because I like you, Charlie.'

Both laughed. His impertinence had been
met and cast back in his face.

Upon my word, Joanna, I wish you could
take me in hand and manage me ; then something
might be made out of me.'

I cannot take that responsibility on me.
I turn coats, not those who wear them. But I
can advise sou. I do entreat you to listen tome.
I speak because you have been kind tome,
and I do not meet with so much kindness
as to be indifferent to those who show it me.
I would like to see you out of Lazarus's books.
You can give him no security — only your note
of hand. Do you consider what interest he
takes on that ? There — go home, see your
father, tell him what you want ; make no
promises if you are too v/eak to keep them.'

I wish you would let me come here sometimes
and ask you what I am to do when in a
hobble. You have brains.'

Do what I ask you now, and you may.
It is vain to expect help if you will not follow
advice.'

Upon my word,' said the young man, ' I
wish it were possible for me to make you Mrs.

Charlie Cheek, and then, maybe, you would be
able to make a man of me.'

Not possible,' said Joanna.

Why not ? '

The material is not present out of which to
make a man.'

Then both laughed, but Charles Cheek
laughed constrainedly, and coloured. She had
cut him to the quick, but the cut did him good.
He was a kindly, easy disposed young man,
without guile, marred by bad bringing up.
He had one rare and excellent quality : he
was humble and knew his own shortcomings.
Joanna was wrong. With that, the making of
a man was in him. Had he been conceited, it
would not.

How much do you want ? ' asked Lazarus
entering. He had heard them laugh, and supposed
they had made a joke about him.

Nothing,' answered the young man. ' I
have changed my mind. I'll try my father
again before I come to you, Bloodsucker! '

CHAPTEE XXXIX.

OVER A Snail.

Well, Joe, flourishing ? '

Middling, Charlie.'

Joanna was seated in the shop of the Golden
Balls next day behind the counter, engaged on
her needlework, when Charles Cheek came in,
and swung the door behind him, so that it
clashed and jarred the glass.

You must not be violent,' said Joanna,
or the breakages will go down to your bill
along with the silk gown and the necklace.
Why have you not gone to your father as you
promised ? '

I am ashamed to appear before him,'
answered young Cheek. ' If I tell him the
truth he will kick me out of the house, and
not pay my return ticket.'

Do you want a large sum ? '

I lost my m one in a way I aren't confess.

My governor is a man of a practical
turn of mind, and will insist on particulars. I
am bad. at invention, and if I begin to tell
lies lie will find me out, and. be down on me
like the steam-hammer at the docks ! '

'Then tell him the truth. That always
answers, for no one believes it.'

I cannot. The case is too gross. This
did it.' He drew a snail shell from his pocket,
and set it on the counter. ' Will you deal
with me for this article ? It is a curiosity, and
a costly one. It cost me a hundred pounds.'

Joanna took up the snail-shell, and turned
it about, then put it down contemptuously.
There is nothing particular about this shell
except its size.'

Yes, there is. She is a racer. I lost a
hundred pounds on her. I cannot tell my
father that. I was proud of my snail, too,
and now she is either dead or sulky. She has
not put out her head since I lost my money on
her.'

How did you manage that ? '

By racing, I tell you.' Charles Cheek
jumped on the counter and seated himself on
it, close to Joanna.

Will you take a chair ? ' she asked.

Xo, thank you. This is my only chance
of getting you to look up to me. I am going
to tell you about my snail." He thrust the
shell before her. ' Do look at this beast. She
has lost me a hundred pounds.'

Joanna continued sewing, without looking
off her work.

Joe,' he said, ' what do you think of
that?'

I had rather be the snail than you.'

I will tell you how it was. Captain
Finch and I laye played a good deal together
of late at billiards, and we have also raced our
snails. His is a very good runner. His regiment
is under orders for India ; so we resolved
to laye a final trial between our snails for
double or quits. Mine started right enough,
but became lazy, and I touched her. When
I did that, the snail, instead of running the
faster, retreated within her shell. I was
frightened, and applied the lighted end of my
cigar to the shell. She ought to laye rushed
out, but, instead, went into sulks. She has
]iot put out her horns since. Joe, you ought
to sympathise with me and help me ; I had
christened my racer after you.'

My name is not Joe.'

]\Iy snail was called Joanna.'

Why did you name a snail after me ? It
vas no compliment.'

I called her after the j oldest girl I knew.
I had to o-ive her a name, and I could think
only of you at the time. I can't tell my
governor the story of the snail, can I? Livest
me something to take its place.'

Joanna shook her head. ' I cannot do that,'
she said gravely ; ' I never tell a lie to Lazarus.
If ever I see my mother again, I drill be true
to her in every word I utter. You must be
true to your father. Whom can we be true
to except our own parents? As for the
public ' — her lips curled with scorn — ' there
is no sin in Ivino- to them. The love lies as
rats love aniseed. Put your snail in water, and
she'll put out her head.'

I never thought of that. Give me a
saucer and water, and we will try. I daresay
she is as dry as a sermon.'

Joanna complied with his request. Xo
customer came into the shop just then : had
one come, he would have seen two roundheads
bowed over a saucer with a little water
in it, watching a snail. The one head was
fair, the other dark ; the one face crowds

feeble, the other full of character
and intelligence. Both pleasant in appearance
; the young man good-looking, the girl
beautiful ; he with almost boyish simplicity,
she with womanly shrewdness.

She is stirring, by Jove ! ' exclaimed
Charlie Cheek.

'I said she would. I am never mistaken.'


It was a case of double or quits,' explained
the young man ; ' that is how I came to lose
so much. There was a matter of fifty pounds
between us, so when Finch proposed double or
quits on a snail race, I said " Done ! " '

And done you are,' said Joanna. ' The
snail was wiser than you. When learnt, she
retired from the contest, and you persevered.'

There comes her head,' exclaimed Cheek.

Yours is to come,' said Joanna.

Don't be hard on me, Joe ; I shall get
bad words enough from my father. lie is a
rough man, and lets his tongue play, and his
tongue is a lash of iron. I confess to you — I
would to no one else — I am ashamed of myself;
I am too weak. I can't say Xo to a
fellow.'

'You are like the jelly-fish, carried ashore

by the tide ; where the tide leaves them they
he, and dissolve away into nothing.'

You are hard on me.'

Is it not so ? A man should have backbone
or he is nothing. I was cast up by the
tide, but I am solid.'

It is easy for you to talk. You have a
head. I only wish you were my sister, to be
always at my elbow.'

Last night you lamented that I was not
your wife. Which do you mean ? '

The young man coloured and fidgeted. He
drew his head away ; it had been in close
proximity to hers, over the saucer.

Of course I am joking,' he said.

What, now, or last night ? ' She laugh J,
then said, ' See ! I have frightened you by
pretending to take your words as earnest. Do
not be alarmed. I do not desire responsibility
for a man, in either capacity, who is unable to
care for himself.'

But — Joanna ! this shall be my last folly.
I solemnly swear it. You are the only person
I know who has spoken plainly to me — except
my father, and he makes me mad, he hurts me.
If ever I am disposed to give way when I
ought to be firm, I'll remember the jelly-fish,'

He spoke in a tone of hurt pride and real
distress. Joanna put forth her hand and
grasped his, whilst her face shone with pleasure.
' That is right,' she said cheerily. ' It
does my heart good to hear you speak thus.
If you want to give me the greatest of pleasures,
it will be to let me know that you have
kept your word, for, in spite of your weakness,
I do like you. Moreover, to prove to you that
I have confidence in you, I will lielpyou now.
You shall have the hundred pounds in a week.'

How will you get it ? ' asked the young
man. '^Kot from Lazarus surely.'

Xo,' she replied, looking grave. ' I would
not for the world apply to him to lend it to me.'

Whence is it to come ? Not from your
wages, saved ? '

I receive no wages, I am a pawn.'

A hundred pounds ! You will obtain
that for me ? '

You shall know about it tomorrow. Tomorrow
you go to your father.'

I will go, certainly. How will you find
the hundred pounds ? '

Never mind. It shall be done to restore
the credit of my name, as the snail bears it.'

I wish you would tell me how it is to be got.'

No, you will find out in time. I am not
doing this for you, bat for the sake of the snail
that bears my name.'

Thank you. Joanna ; you said something
different when you made the offer. I must
pay Captain Finch before he sails ; a debt of
honour is binding and must be paid, a debt to
a tradesman may. If I had been unable to
find the money, I think I should have destroyed
myself.'

No,' said the girl, shaking her head. ' Todo
that demands a firmer character than you
have got. How would you have done it,
pray ? '

I do not know. I dare say I should have
jumped into the sea.'

'That is bad,' said Joanna. 'I have tried
it.'

'What is goods'

There must be some easy way of slipping
out of life when life becomes unendurable.'

'Oh yes. The simplest of all is laudanum.
That sends you to sleep, and you sleep away
into the never-ending slumber.'

Repeat the name.'

What on earth can you want with lauda-vol.

II. u

num ? You are not tired of existence, I suppose
? '

Joanna said nothing.

Oh, look at the snail ! ' exclaimed the
young man. ' She is getting out of the saucer,
she is lively again. I might race her again
and win back my hundred pounds.'

No,' said Joanna, 'you have done with these
follies. Life is serious, Mr. Cheek. It is a
time for making money, not of throwing it
away. I wish you had some of the monkey
principle in you.'

The young man started from the counter,
and coloured to the roots of his hair. ' What
do you know of that ? ' he asked sharply. ' I
hate the sound, and now it issues from your
lips.'

Why should you hate it ? It has been
the means of making a fortune.'

'It is a trouble to me. I suppose the
officers I associate with know about my father,
or I suspect they do, and every allusion to a
unicorn cuts into me as if the beast itself were
driving its horn between my ribs. There it is,
plastered on every hoarding, with the inscription
" Try Cheek's Monokeratic System." '

I am sorry to have offended you. I do

not see why you should dislike to hear of that
which has made you.'

Wait, Joanna, till you are near the top of
the tree, and then the words Golden Balls will
drive you frantic'

Maybe,' said Joanna, ' though I do not see
why it should. But to return to what I was
speaking about before you interrupted me.
To my thinking you are leading an altogether
unworthy life. Life is a time for making
money.'

'Only for those born without it,' said the
young man. ' My father has amassed a large
fortune. It will be mine some day, no doubt.
It is hard that I should be limited to a beggarly
four hundred per annum. You would
not have me make more money. That would
indeed be carrying coals to Newcastle.'

No, but life has other objects for which a
man may strive. There is position. Push for
that. Your father is not a gentleman, but you
can be one.'

Well, I am working in that direction,' said
Charles. ' I associate with officers, play billiards
and cards, and ride and smoke and eat
with them.'

And lose money to them on snails.'

V 2

Yes, all conduces to good fellowship. I
am friends with those v/ho would not meet my
father. I have stepped from the counter to
one of the shelves.'

I am glad your life is not aimless,' said
the girl. ' If you are striving for position I
can respect you ; an aimless life is to me
despicable.'

I cannot say that I have ever thought
much about a purpose,' said Charles Cheek, ' still
I like to be with those who are my social
superiors.'

And sometimes to have a chat with such
as me — your social inferior.'

No doubt about that, Joe.'

'Well, Mr. Cheek, form a purpose and
drive hard after it.'

'Joe!' The young man reseated himself
on the counter, in a graver, more meditative
mood than was common with him. 'Joe, I
should like to have a photograph taken of
you. Have you been photographed at anytime
? '

She shook her head and laughed.

You are a girl to make a fellow think and
try to do better. I should like to have your
picture.'

'I have bad neither the time nor the money
to waste on one,' she answered.

The money is nothing. Will you shut up
shop for half an hour and come with me to the
photographer? I will pay the damage.'

I can close. It is now noon, and no business
will be done at dinner-time. But I will
consent on one condition only.'

Any condition you like to make.'

Let us three be taken in a group.'

What three ? You, Lazarus, and I ? '

'No, certainly not. You, I, and the
snail.'

'By all means. Immortalise ray folly. I
also will make a stipulation : will you grant
it?'

'What is it? I am not like you. I do
not offer blank cheques.'

Let us be taken holding hands. Just now,
when I promised to amend, you flashed outwith
such a smile, and took my hand and said,
That is right ! " It sent a rush of blood to
my heart, and I felt as if I had conquered the
world. Let us be taken together, holding
hands over the snail, and then I shall be
nerved to keep my resolution. If disposed to
break it, I shall look on the picture and blush

I consent. Promise me,' said Joanna,
looking down and speaking slowly, ' that you
will not be angry with me whatever you may
hear tomorrow. If you are in trouble yourself,
do not doubt but that I also shall have to
go through humiliation before I can get the
money.'

From whom will you get it ? '

Never mind.'

But I do mind. You won't do anything
wrong, Joe, even for me ? '

For the snail, you mean.'

I should never forgive myself if you got
into trouble. I <:/o respect you. There is not
another girl in the world I think of or care for
as you.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

MOTTIiiWOODE AM) CO., NKW-fciTREET tiQUAHE
LUXUON

LIFE AND WORKS OF CHARLOTTE Bronze

(CURRER BELL), and her sisters

EMILY and AlSnSTE Bronze

(ELLIS AND ACTON BELL).
In Seen Volumes, large crown 8vo. handsomely bound in cloth, price caper volume.

The descriptions in 'Jane Eyre' and the other fictions by Charlotte Bronte and her
Sisters being mostly of actual places, the Publishers considered that Views are the most
suitable Illustrations for the novels. They are indebted for a clue to the real names of
the most interesting scenes to a friend of the Bronte family, who enabled the artist, Mr.
G. M. Imperii, to identify the places described. He made faithful sketches of them on
the spot, and drew them on wood. It is hoped that these views will add fresh interest to
the reading of the stories.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
VILLETTE. By Charlotte Fronts. With Five Illustrations.
THE PROFESSOR, and POEMS. By Charlotte Bronte. With Poems by her

Sisters and Father. With Five Illustrations.
WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. And AGNES GREY. By Anno

Bronte. With a Preface and Biographical Notice of both Authors by Charlotte

Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
THE TENANT OF WILD FELL HALL. Bv Anne Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze. By ]airs. Gaskell. With Seven Illustrations**
The volumes are also to be had infcp. svo. limp cloth, price ■2s. 6d. each.

UNIFORM EDITION OF

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES.

In Seven Volumes, each containing Four Illustrations.

Price 3J. 6d. each, bound in cloth; or in Sets of Seven Volumes, handsomely bound
in half-morocco, price £-2. los.

CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES:
Vol. I. WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.
Vol, II. NORTH AND SOUTH.
Vol. III. SYLVIA'S LOVERS.
Vol. IV. CRANFORD.
Company Manners— The Well of Pen-morphia— The Heart of John Middleton— Traits
and Stories of the Huguenots— Six Weeks at Heppenheim— The Squire's Story—
Libbie Marsh's Three Eras— Curious if True— The Moorland Cottage— The Sexton's
Hero— Disappearances— Right at last— The Manchester Marriage— Lois the Witch— The
Crooked Branch.

Vol. V. MARY BARTON.
Cousin Phillips— My French Master— The Old Nurse's Story— Bess's Troubles at Home
Christmas Storms and Sunshine.

Vol. VI. RUTH.
The Grey Woman— Morton Hall— Mr. Harrison's Confessions— Hand and Heart.

Vol. VII. LIZZIE LEIGH.
A Dark Night's Work— Round the Sofa— My Lady Ludlow— An Accursed Race— The
Doom of the Griffiths— Half a Lifetime Ago— The Poor Clare— The Half Brothers.
*»* The Volumes are also to be had infcp. %vo. limp cloth, price-zs. 6d. each.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO 15 Waterloo Place.

Each Work complete in One Volume, price Six Shillings.

THE GIANT'S ROBE. By F. Anstey, Author of

Vice Versa ' &c. Crown Svo. 6s.

OLD KENSINGTON. By Miss Thackeray. Crown
8vo. 6s.

THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo, 6s.

FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG

PRINCE. By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

TO ESTHER, and other Sketches. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6^-.

BLUE BEARD'S KEYS, and other Stories.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH; TWO HOURS;

FROM AN ISLAND. By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

TOILERS AND SPINSTERS, and other Essays.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MISS ANGEL; FULHAM LAWN. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.

MISS WILLIAMSON'S Divinations. By

Miss Thackeray. Crown Svo. 6s.
Blandly REEFS. By Lady Varney, Author of

Stone Edge ' &c. Crown Svo. 6^.

Lattice LISLE. By Lady Varney. With 3 Illustrations.
Crown Svo. 6^.

Lon(l(in : SMITH, ELDER, ik CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

V\

\lr

lit

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



B238co

v.3

VOL. III.

A Story OP Cross Clements

BY THE

AUTHOR OF 'MEHALAH' 'JOHN HERRING' &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

LONDON

SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved]

CONTEXTS

THE THIRD V I. M E.

A STORY OF CROSS CURRENTS.

CHAPTEE XL.

CHEEK SENIOR.

Charles Cheek was on his way to town next
clay in an express second-class smoking carriage
of the Great Western Railway. He
would have gone first, but his funds would not
allow the extravagance. At the Kingsbrido'e
Eoad Station the door of the carriage was
opened, and an elderly gentleman dashed in,
drawing after him his portmanteau, then signalling
through the window, when the train
was in motion, that he had forgotten his bundle
of rugs and umbrella on the platform. A
porter picked them up, ran after the train, and
thrust them through the window, knocking the

VOL. III. B

cigar out of Charles Cheek's mouth and inflicting
a dent on his hat.

Very sorry, upon my word said the owner
of the articles. 'When travelling one is liable
to lose one's goods.'

Seeing that you have but your head, portmanteau,
and bundle of rags, the exertion of
recollecting them cannot be excessive.*

'I never travel if I can help it,' said the
other. 'I had just time to throw a shilling to
the porter, but as I was agitated I don't know
where it went and whether he saw it. Perhaps
it fell under the rails and is flattened. When
I am hot and flurried my sight fails me and
my hand shakes. It does not matter. I will
give the man another shilling on my return.
Lord bless me! I have got into a smoking
carriage. Never mind, I do smoke — for once
in my life I am lucky. May this be an omen
that my journey will be prosperous ! Sometimes
I have got into a first class when I had
a second class ticket, and then had to pay the
difference. Sometimes I have tumbled into a
third class when I had paid fare by second,
but the company never refunded. Why, bless
my heart ! Surely I know your face ; you are
the image of your sainted mother, and have

the Worthivale look about your eves and
mouth — more than has my cross boy Beavis.
Surely I am speaking to Mr. Charles Cheek ? '

That is my name, sir, and have I the
honour '

Of meeting a relative. Your mother was
my first cousin. I hear you have been at Plymouth.
It is really too bad that you have
never been near us. Only a pleasant cruise to
Kingsbb ridge from Plymouth.'

c You have not invited me, sir. Are you
Mr. Worthivale ? '

The same. Steward to his Grace the Duke
of Kingsbridge. We have a nice little place,
Court Royal Lodge, and would have been
proud to see you in it. I did not invite you ?
Bless my soul ! how careless of me ! I have
intended to do so, and tied knots in my pocket-handkerchief
several times to remind me to
write ; but when I came to find the knot I
always recollected some omissions in my duty
to his Grace, and thought the knot was tied in
reference to that. You must excuse my neglect.
I am so overwhelmed with business that I have
no time to think of private affairs. You maybe
sure that you would always be welcome at
the Lodge.'

B 2

I dare say you have much to occupy you
now,' said Charles Cheek. ' There is much
talk in Plymouth about the break-up in the
Duke's affairs. I hear they are in a very ugly
mess.'

'Mess?' exclaimed Mr. Worthivale bridling;
'mess is not a word that is seemly in
such connection. A duke's affairs may become
embroiled, an earl's involved, an ordinary squire's
may fall into confusion, but only a tradesman's
can get into a mess. There has been agricultural
depression felt in the Midlands, and in the
east of England, where much corn is grown,
and some of the great landowners have had to
retrench, and the smaller have been reduced
to difficulties ; but here it not so. A duke is
something very different from a country
squire.'

Not a trace of a blush appeared on the
steward's face as he told this lie. He was a
man of scrupulous integrity, but to save the
honour of the house he served he was ready to
say anything — who can tell? — even do anything.
Mr. Worthivale, who told this falsehood,
was actually on his way to town to seethe
father of Charles Cheek, the wealthy tradesman,
and to try to inveigle him into lending

money to relieve the distress of the family.
He had written to Criutee, as agent for Mr.
Emmanuel, requesting him to call at his house
on a certain day. He had written to the other
mortgagees, w T ho were anxious and troublesome,
to pacify them with words, if possible.
And the words he had used to them were not
strictly true. He was not satisfied that Emmanuel,
and Emmanuel alone, would be satisfied
with only promises. He had tortured his
brains for many nights with schemes for raising
money without a sale of property. All at
once a brilliant idea flashed into his mind. He
recollected Mr. Cheek, of the monokeratic
system, who had married his pretty and sweet
cousin, a Worthivale. He had not met Cheek
since the funeral of Mrs. Cheek, but he knew
about him and his son from the correspondence
of relatives. He had not taken a liking to Mr.
Cheek, who was a man of modern ideas, without
patience with Conservatives and Churchmen,
and held advanced ideas about the land
laws and the extension of the franchise, and cried
out for Disestablishment, and the abolition
of the House of Lords. Mr. Worthivale had
heard also of young Charles, a careless, extravagant
dog, who gave his father much trouble.

Mr. Cheek had wished his son to enter the
business, and had forced him, when he left
school, to occupy a stool in the office, but
Charles in an hour threw the accounts into
such confusion, that it took his father days to
unravel them ; and although he was tried in
various departments of the establishment, he
proved such a failure in all, that his father was
fain to let him go his own way. Charles had
desired to enter the arm', but Mr. Cheek would
not hear of this, and battled against his son's
inclination till the young man was past the age
at which he could obtain a commission. Then
only did he admit to himself that he had made
a mistake. In the army Charles would have
had a profession and something to occupy him,
and he seemed fit for no other profession, and
to care for no other occupation. The father
proposed that he should read for the Bar, but
the disinclination of Charles for legal studies
soon manifested itself. For medicine he was
too thoughtless, and Mr. Cheek was forced tolet
him live as an idler. The father had been
so accustomed to work, and to associate work
with the first duty of man, even though that
work was to throw dust in the eyes of the
public, that it was with the utmost reluctance

that he consented to find Charles an
income of four hundred a year, and to let him
live as he liked, associating with officers, losing
money to them, entertaining them, and being
laughed at by them behind his back. Charles
had got into trouble several times, and his
father had paid his debts, each time with angry
reproaches and threats of disinheritance.

Worthivale had heard that the elder Cheek
had amassed a large fortune, which his son's
extravagance might impair but could not exhaust.
He had taken it into his head that
nothing would be easier for him than to persuade
old Mr. Cheek to lend the necessary
thousands for the saving of the Duke. This
was the new web of fancy spun by his hopes,
attached to no probabilities, floating in his brain
like the gossamer of autumn ; and in this vain
hope he was on his way to town.

I am going to drop in on your father,'
said Mr. Worthivale. 4 1 cannot think of going
to town without looking him up. It is many
years since we met, and when we get old we
cling to old acquaintances. Are you going
directly home? If so, tell him I shall turnup:



\ Oh no ! I shall put up at an hotel. I am

not so keen after the shelter of the paternal
wing.'

I rather want to see your father this
evening. I have so much business to occupy
my clay that I can ill spare other time. Am I
likely to find him at home of an evening ? '

Sure to catch him. He never goes to the
theatre or concerts. You could not wring five
words out of him during business hours. I
shall not drop in on him tomorrow till after
the Monokeros has drawn in his horn.'

4 If that be so,' said the steward, ' I will
take a cab after I have had my dinner and goto
him. It is as well that we should not be
there together ; he and I will like to have a
chat over old times — times before you were
born.'

Accordingly, on reaching town, Mr. Worth i-
vale drove to his inn, ordered a simple dinner,
and when he had done, took a hansom to his
destination.

Mr. Cheek had just dined, and w T as lingering
over his glass of wine when the steward
was announced. He told the servant to show
Mr. Worthivale in to him in the dining-room.
This was a large apartment with a red flock
paper on the walls, and a Turkey carpet on the

floor. The furniture was of heavy mahogany,
polished, his chairs covered with red leather.
The window curtains were of red rep. Against
the walls hung some lame engravings — Landseer's
dog looking out of a kennel, the Newfoundland
lying on a quay, 8 Bolton Abbey in
the Olden Time ' — pictures every one has seen
and knows as he knows the airs of ' Trovatore '
and the taste of peppermint.

Over the fireplace was a looking-glass ; on
the table were oranges, almonds, raisins, and
mixed biscuits. Everything; was in the room
that was to be expected ; nothing there that
was unexpected. Tottenham Court Eoad had
furnished it. A man's room reflects his mind.
Everything there was solid, sound, and commonplace.


Mr. Worthivale had no time to look round
him. He ran forward and effusively shook
hands with Mr. Cheek, who rose ceremoniously,
and received his greeting without great cordiality,
but with civility.

Take a chair, Worthivale ; glad to see you.
Have port or sherry? If you prefer claret I
will have some decanted. Don't drink it myself.
Take an orange or — raisins. I will ring
and have some more almonds brought in. I

have eaten most. Take some biscuits ; you
will find a ratafia here and there under the
others. I have eaten those on the top. I hope
you are well. I have not *been you for twelve
years and a half.'

So much as that ? You do not say so ! '

You have not visited me since my wife's
death.'

1 I may retort on you. I live in the country,
You Londoners need a holiday. Why have
you not fled the fogs and smoke, and come tome
for sea air and the landscape of South
Devon ? '

4 1 never take a holiday. Can't afford it.
Work always goes on, and always needs my
presence. \Yhen the Londoners leave town,
the country folk come up, and purchase for the
ensuing year.'

Mr. Cheek was a heavily built man, with a
long head and face, the latter flat, with a nose
sticking; out of it, much as the Peak of Teneriffe
pokes out of the sea — led up to by no subsidiary
elevations, abrupt, an afterthought. His
eyebrows were black, but his hair was grey,
and disposed to retreat from the temples,
which were highly polished. He wore a grey
thick Xewg-ate collar, a black frock coat, black

trousers, black waistcoat relieved by a heavy
gold chain, a good deal of white shirt front,
turned-down collars, necessitated by the Newgate
fringe, and a black tie. He always smelt
of black dye, for his cloth clothes were always
new and glossy and increased. He had a trick
of stretching his arms with a jerk forward at
intervals, exposing much cuff, acquired from
wearing new coats that were not easy under
the arm. His eyes were dark and penetrating,
his lips firm. From his nostrils two very dark
creases descended to the corners of his mouth,
like gashes in which lay black blood. The old
man seemed very lonely in his dining-room,
without a companion with whoni to exchange
ideas, and only a choice between almonds and
raisins, ratafias and macaroons, but he did not
seem to feel it ; as he ate and drank he schemed
fresh plans for making money, and that was
his delight. A companion would have discussed
less profitable and interesting topics.

AVorthivale spent an hour with old Cheek,
telling him about himself, his position at Court
Royal, the splendour of the Kingsbridge family,
the virtues of the Duke, and Lord Eonald and
the Marquess, and the unapproachable charms
of Lady Grace.

The steward went on to talk about the
estates, the prospect of making a second Torquay
out of Bigbury Bay, of the chance of converting
the creek of Kino-sbrido-e into an harbour,
of the building stone on the estates, of the shale
from which petroleum might be extracted, of
the slate quarries that only needed opening
out and connecting with the sea by a line to
supply and roof in the whole south coast of
England .

Mr. Cheek had listened with indifference to
the enumeration of the merits of the members
of the noble House, but when the steward
touched on speculative ventures his interest
was excited. He ate all the almonds off the
raisin dish as fast as he could chew them, and
then rang to have the dish replenished.

Mr. Worthivale hinted that his Grace was
in need of temporary accommodation, owing to
the extravagance of his ancestors and the calling
up of some of the mortgages, and he suggested
that a better and safer investment for
floating capital could not be found.

Mr. Cheek listened with close attention, but
said nothing. Such investments apparently
possessed no attraction for him. The steward,
with all his eloquence, had made no way.

Nevertheless, Worthivale did not abandon
hope. The wealthy tradesman had not disputed
the feasibility of his schemes, had not
said, in so many words, that he would have
nothing to do with the mortgages.

Then the conversation drifted to young
Charles. Mr. Worthivale said that he had
come to town with him.

1 I know what he wants — money,' said the
father, with imperturbable countenance. ' Never
made a penny himself.'

8 1 am afraid he gives you a good deal of
trouble,' said the steward.

Fine fellow,' answered old Cheek. ' Good
looks. Ready address. A figure. No Devonshire
twang. Can't get the E's and the U's
right myself. Never shall. Grass is long grass
with me, never cropped grass.'

Charles is a very pleasant-looking fellow,'
said Mr. Worthivale, ' the image of his clear
mother.'

Mentally, morally, physically,' acquiesced
the trader ; ' can't expect every man to take to
business.'

No,' said Mr. Worthivale ; ' it is born in
some, not in others, like an ear for music, a
taste for sport, and a hand for carving a goose.'

Suppose so,' said Mr. Cheek.

It takes two generations to make a gentleman,'
reasoned Mr. Worthivale, ' and even then
there always remains lurking in the system a
je-ne-sais-quoi.''

A what ? ' exclaimed Mr. Cheek, looking
frightened. ' Is it in the skin ? '

Only a French expression exclaimed the
steward.

Never understood other than one foreign
word, and that — monokeratie, for which I paid
five guineas,' said Mr. Cheek. ' I wanted a
suitable word. I went to an Oxford scholar, and
said, find me the word, and I'll find you a five-pound
note and live shillings. That's how I
came by it.'

Neither spoke. The steward was peeling
an orange. Presently Mr. Cheek began to
move uneasily in his chair, to swell and puff.
Then out came a confidence. ' Charles is a
trouble to me. I fill the barrel, and when I'm
gone he'll turn the tap and let it run. No
fortune can stand a running tap. I wish I
knew how to cure him. This consciousness
takes the taste out of my profits. It is like
eating bread from which the salt is omitted in
the making.'

Take my advice,' said Worthivale ; ' mix
him in good society. He hangs about a
garrison town for the sake of the officers, but
he never associates with the better class of
officers, only with those who like his dinners,
and bleed him at billiards. He never sees the
ladies, and it is ladies who humanise, civilise,
and refine.'

'Can't do it, I'm not in society myself.
Shop stands in the way.'

I wish I could persuade him to come to
Court Royal Lodge, and pay me a long visit.
I could introduce him to people of the first
quality, and show him something better than
gambling officers and fast ladies. You will
never do anything with him, Cheek, till you
have put him in a situation where his better
qualities may be drawn out, and he may learn
to blush at his weaknesses.'

If he were up here in town,' said the
father, scratching his nose meditatively with a
stalk of raisins, ' it might be done — by paying.
Some quality people do come to my shop.
They don't put on their best bonnets and come
in their own carriages when they do, but I
know 'em. A long bill might be forgiven some
lady of rank and fashion if she would invite

Charles to dinner or a dance — such things are
done — just to give him the chance of putting
his foot into high society. If he were once in,
Charlie could maintain himself there. Society
would want him when it had seen him. I
wouldn't mind paying, but it can't be done.
Charlie cares only for officers, and is either at
Portsmouth or Plymouth, fooled by them out
of his — my money.'

Send him to me.'

'I don't suppose he would care for the
country. Nothing to be done there.'

1 He can see the magnificent grounds. He
can boat. He can shoot.'

Grounds anywhere. Mount Edgcumbe
open to public on Wednesdays. Boating to be
had at Plymouth. This is not the time of year
for shooting.'

True. Let him come to me in the shooting
season.'

Many months to that. Meantime he may
have gone to the bad.'

I invited him to-day to visit me, and he
did not decline.'

Too much of a gent for that,' said the
father. ' Mischief is he can't say Nay. He
will promise you a call, and never go. I know

him. He promises reform every time he comes
for money, but never reforms.'

6 He is entangled in a social stratum — a sort
of Bohemianism, that will not allow him to
reform. Get him out of that, and he will be
another man. My Beavis never gives me an
hour's concern, because he associates with the
family at Court Royal. The Marquess loves
him as a brother. Beavis would do your boy
an infinity of good. Beavis is a fine, strong-willed,
honourable fellow, with a tender heart
and a true conscience.'

'Charlie, also, is a fine fellow,' said old
Cheek, who could not endure to have another
young man contrasted favourably with his own
son. ' The mischief is, I was too busy all my
days, and could not see enough of him. Only
wants his chance now.'

Well,' said Worthivale, standing up, ' I
must be off now. Good-bye, Cheek. It is a
real pleasure to me to meet you again.'

Dine with me the clay after tomorrow.
Seven punctually.'

I shall be delighted.'

He left the old man sitting looking before
him at the dish of biscuits from which he had exterminated
the ratafias. Every now and then he

vol. in. c

turned over the biscuits with bis finger, but his
mind was not on the ratafias. He shook his
long head at intervals, and said, ' If that were
to happen — if Charlie were to be so weak as
that — and he can't say No — least of all to a
woman — he would be done for irretrievably.'

CHAPTEE XL!

AN ENTANGLEMENT.

When Charles Cheek came next evening to see
his father, he found the old man in a condition
of excitement such as made his heart sink, and
despair of extracting money from him. He
came at his father's dinner time, knowing the
impossibility of getting a conversation with him
during business hours.

Are you unwell, father ? ' he asked, when
he observed the perturbed condition of the old
man.

Unwell ? Cause to be soc

What is the matter with you ? '

Matter ? Everything.'

6 Any annoyance lately ? '

Annoyance ? Ugh ! '

What was it that troubled the old man?
During dinner he would hardly speak. His
pasty face exuded a gloss. He growled and

c 2

cast furtive glances at his son, which Charles
caught, and was unable to interpret.

'Was Mr. Worthivale here yesterday.

governor ?

Worthivale ? Yes. Has a son, never
gave him an hour's uneasiness. Came crowing
and flapping here because lie has a good son.'

Do you mean, father, that — that '

« That— that ! Yes. Ugh ! '

It was impossible to extract anything from
the old man during the meal. Charles put on
a gay manner, and talked of the weather, of
politics, of the regiments ordered abroad, of the
depression, of the gossip of society, the improvements
effected in torpedoes, Devonshire
cream, the Prince of Wales, uttering, Nihilism,
Eobert Browning, anything, everything that
came into his head, but without provoking his
father to take part in the conversation.

As soon, however, as the dessert was on the
table — the same dessert as the day before — the
father drew the dish of raisins and almonds over
to himself, waved the servants to withdraw, and
burst forth with, 'So — so — clapping the cross
on top of St. Paul's ! brought your folly to a
climax at last. Ugh ! '

4 What have I done ? ' asked Charles, as his

spirit quaked at his father's anger, and his consciousness
of having deserved it. ; I know I
am not as clever as you are, governor, but —
you have put matters more forcibly than
pleasantly.'

What have you done ? Look at this !
Ugh ! '

The old man flung a note across the table
at him, then made a grab at the almonds, filled
his hand, and began to eat them ravenously.

Charles took a letter out of the envelope,
unfolded it leisurely, and proceeded to read.
He expected to find that his tailor or wine
merchant had appealed to his father for payment
of a long-standing account. What he
saw made the colour rush to his face, and turn
him scarlet to the roots of his hair. He glanced
up, and saw that his father had riveted his
dark piercing eyes on him, whilst he ate
savagely almond after almond. The letter was
as follows : '

Honoured and monokeratic Sir, — I take
my pen in hand, hoping that this finds you as
it leaves me. Sir, I feel that I can have no
peace of mind till I make you acquainted with
our engagement, that is, the engagement of me

and Charlie, and ask your blessing on our
approaching union. When Charlie told me he
wished I was his wife, you might have knocked
me down with a feather, I was that taken
aback. I could do no other than give consent,
seeing lie had behaved so handsome to me, in
giving me a necklace of pearls and a beautiful
rose-coloured silk gown (which, I am grieved
to say, through no fault of mine, has since been
injured by Ems water). Charlie and I have
been cabinet together, holding hands as
agreed and acknowledged lovers, and we only
await your blessing, honoured and monokeratic
sir, to become the happiest of couples. Charlie
has gone up to town to break the news to you,
and to solicit your approval. He will tell you
of our long attachment, and assure you of my
best intentions to love and honour you as a
daughter, the which (in prospective) I beg to
subscribe myself, Joaxxa Eosevere.

O/o Mr. Lazarus,
1 The Gold

Barbican.

The Golden Balls,

'Pes. — I will send you our united cabinet
as soon as the proof comes, which I trust will
be tomorrow.'

Charles Cheek's first sensation was amazement
; then he felt disposed to laugh. The
letter was so droll, so impertinent, and so inferior
in style to what he expected from Joe.
But all inclination to laugh was taken from him
by his father's countenance. The old man was
simmering with anger and apprehension.

6 Thought so ! ' burst forth Mr. Cheek, ashe
stretched his arms so suddenly and violently
as to knock over one of the wine-glasses. ' I
always feared it would come to this. I hoped
against hope. I did trust you would be preserved
by Providence from plunging into such
an abyss of imbecility:

6 My clear father, you take this too seriously.'


6 Take it too seriously ! ' echoed the old
man. ' What is more serious than marriage? '

But, my dear governor ! '

'Don't governor me. I'm your father, I
presume, though God forgive me for begetting
such an ass.'

The young man was hurt and incensed.
His father loved him, but he was rough with
him, and had no self-restraint when angered.
He spoke coarsely, brutally, all the coarse and
brutal things that came off his heart, which is

never done by those who have been put through
the mill of culture.

How much the old man loved him, how
proud he was of him in spite of his weakness,
in spite of the disappointment his pride had
encountered, this Charles did not know. Mr.
Cheek made no show of affection ; or he
showed it by licking his cub with a very rough
tongue, so rough as to flay him.

Well ! ' shouted the old man, ' well ! '

8 The letter is preposterous,' said Charlie
sulkily.

Preposterous ! What I find preposterous
is not the letter, but the conduct that provoked
the letter.'

It is not true — it is a hoax,' said the young
man.

8 Not true ! ' repeated the old man. He
had eaten all the almonds ; now he took a
bunch of raisins, put it in his mouth, and
passionately tore off the fruit with one nip of
his teeth, and put the spray on his plate.
When he had gulped down the raisins he said,
Not true ! oh no. Cap imbecility with falsehood.
Now deny everything. I thought I
had a son who was a fool ; don't convince me
that he is a liar and a coward as well.'

The young man stood up. He turned pale.
You are my father,' he said, ' and have some
privilege of language ; but this exceeds what I
will endure. I had rather break stones on the
road than submit to such insults.'

1 Rejoice to see you break stones — do any
useful work. At present breaking your father's
heart.'

The old man's voice shook.

Charles was moved. ' My dear father,' lie
said, ' let me explain.'

1 Explain ! What can you explain ? '

The letter is not serious

4 Heads deuced like a serious letter.' Mr.
Cheek had no sense of humour. What touched
his son as comical in the epistle, appeared to
him sober earnestness. ' Answer me a few
plain questions, Charles ; set my mind at restor
confirm my worst anticipations. Give me
the letter.'

The old tradesman took the note and
spread it before him, then deliberately put
on his spectacles and read the letter over to
himself, marking the points with his silver
dessert knife.

Who is Joanna Eosevere ? '

'She is a girl I got to know something

about : a nice enough sort of girl, with plenty
of brains '

6 That will do. I asked who was Joanna
Severe. You say a girl. Enough. Now I
know she is not a widow. I want none of your
lover's raptures."

I am not aware that there were any
raptures.'

That will do. I require answers short and
to the point. Now, further, is it true that you
gave her a pearl necklace and a rose-coloured
silk dress ? '

6 Yes, I did ; the pearls were Eoman, and
the dress '

That will do. You gave this girl a necklace
of Eoman pearls and a rose-coloured silk
gown. Did you further have yourself photographed
— I beg pardon, cabinet — hand-in-hand
with her ? '

Yes, father. The fact is that — that '

Then the recollection of the snail and the bet
rushed on his mind ; he blushed and did not
finish his sentence.

Very well — or rather, very ill. You were
photographed — to be exact, cabinet with the
girl, hand-in-hand : I presume I take her right,
she don't swear you were closeted with her.'

Well, I was taken with her. I
thought '

6 Never mind what you thought. I want
facts, not fancies. Hand-in-hand, cabinet size.
I want to know further, did you, as she says,
tell her you wished her to be your wife ? '

It came about like this. The other evening
when I was there '

I am not asking the time of day, nor
the circumstances. I only ask, is this a
fact?'

I did say that I wished it were possible forme
to make her Mrs* Charles Cheek, or words
to that effect. I don't recollect the exact
expression.'

Very well. You asked her to be Mrs.
Charles Cheek, but the exact words in which
you couched your proposal you do not recollect.'


c It was not a proposal.'

Not a proposal ! ' repeated the father.
1 Then what am I to conclude from the present
of the necklace of Eoman pearls, and the rose-coloured
silk dress, and the cabinet-sized photograph
of yourselves clasping each other's hands ?
Will you illumine my mind, and tell me, do
young gentlemen and young women get carted,

and closeted, and cabinet., hand-in-hand
unless engaged ? '

There is no engagement,' protested Charles,
bewildered and angry.

No engagement ! You dare to say that !
Don't repeat it, as you desire to retain a particle
of my regard. I ask, further, what is this
Joanna ? I know she is a girl. In what
capacity is she at the Golden Balls, with Mr.
Lazarus, whom I happen to know ? '

She is maid of all work to the old Jew
pawnbroker,' answered the young man, driven
to desperation, and regardless what he admitted.


c Maid of all work to a Jew pawnbroker,'
repeated his father. ' I ask besides, whence
comes she ? Is she a Jewess ? '

'No, she is not.'

Whence comes she ? '

Picked out of the mud, and pawned for
ten shillings,' exclaimed Charles Cheek in a
paroxysm of exasperation.

Picked out of the mud ! ' What mud ? '

4 The mud of Sutton Pool.'

Pawned for ten shillings ! By whom ? '

By her mother.'

c And this is the creature you are going to

take to you as wife ! ' exclaimed the old man,
with repressed anger, his face livid and syrupy
with emotion. ' With a creature such as this
you will squander my hard-earned wealth ! '

I tell you father, it is a hoax.'

Don't tell me that.' Mr. Cheek brought
his great fist down on the table with a crash
that made the decanters leap and the glasses
spin. ' Now, sir, do you mean to marry her ?
If you do, I cast you off utterly and forever.'


No, I don't want to do that. I tell you
the letter is a hoax. Head it — you can see by
the style that it is.'

c I have read it. I can see as well as you.
I am not to be hoodwinked, and to be told
that red is green, and the moon is cheese, and
believe it. I have listened patiently to your
explanation. You have so compromised yourself
with this girl, on your own admission, that
if you fail, you render yourself actionable for
breach of promise.'

There was no promise,' persisted the
young man.

6 Is a jury likely to believe that, when they
have heard of the pearls and the rose silk,
and seen the billing and cooing doves in the

cabinet? I tell you they will assess the
damages at a thousand pounds.'

6 There was no agreement. It is a mistake.
I can't think what Joanna was at writing such
a letter.'

'Do you want to marry her?' asked his
father.

No, of course not. I never did. I only
said something about making her Mrs. Charles
Cheek in joke.'

'The joke is likely to be expensive pleasantry.
But it was no joke. You neither of
you regarded it as a joke, or you would not
have been photographed together. Now you
come tome to get you out of this predicament.
I won't have the scandal of a case of breach of
promise in the papers. It might affect my
business. We must come to an accommodation.
How old is the girl ? '

Seventeen or eighteen.'

Has she relations to advise her ? '

Not one.'

'There is, however, that fox, Lazarus.'

She will never consult him.'

What will she take to let you off? I daresay
that if I go down with a hundred pounds in
my pocket, and offer it her with one hand, and

a written renunciation of you in the other,
before she has had time to consider and ask
advice, she will sign and set you free.' He
looked questioningly at his son.

A change came over Charles's face. A
light had sprung up before him. He leaned
back in his chair, and burst into a fit of
laughter.

'It is no laughing matter,' said the elder
Cheek grimly. ' This may cost us a thousand.
Juries estimate damages by the income of the
father-in-law. Deuced lucky you will be if I
can clear you for a hundred ! You know the
girl : will she take a hundred ? '

'I am sure she will. Give me the money,
and let me go down to Plymouth and settle it
with her.'

No,' answered the father, ' you are too
weak. The job must be done by me at once.
Let me see — tomorrow : impossible, engaged.
Must make arrangements. Day after, yes ; and,
Charles, you go to Mr. Worthivale at Kings-bridge
for a month, or better, six weeks, to be
out of the way. He comes here to dinner
tomorrow, when I will settle with him.
Go.'

When Charles Cheek got into the street he

exploded into laughter. ' The little rogue ! ' he
exclaimed. 6 Whoever would have thought it ?
The hundred pounds she promised she gets out
of my father. She has cost me a bad quarter
of an hour, though.'

CHAPTEE XLII.

Nibbling.

Next evening, punctually at seven, Mr. Worth-vale
arrived. To honour his presence, two
additional dishes were added to the dessert —
one of dried figs, the other of preserved ginger.
Also a bottle of claret was decanted. Mr.
Cheek had not settled down into his usual
composure ; his excitement made him more
talkative than usual, and induced him to fill
out his sentences, and not present them in a
somewhat less truncated shape. His talkativeness,
however, did not manifest itself until after
the servants had withdrawn. Then his reserve
gave way. He pulled an envelope out of his
pocket and threw it to his guest.

'Look at that, Worthivale ! Got it this
morning. Charles has made a fool of himself.
Got entangled with a wench dredged from the
social depths. Engaged ! Cost something to

VOL. III. d

set him free. However 'she rattled his pocket
' I'm not like one of your dukes ; I've money
in my own pocket when there's need. I haven't
to go cap in hand to others.'

The steward winced. Then he said, studying
the photograph, ' I am sure I know that face.
It is familiar to me. Where can I have seen
it?'

1 Of course. That is Charlie.'

'Yes; but the other— the girl? She— it
must be, yet I can hardly believe it — it must be
our servant, Joanna ! '

Joanna is her name.'

The maid left us under somewhat unsatisfactory
circumstances — altogether puzzling.'

That I can well believe.'

She had been before with a Mrs. Delany.'

4 She is now with a Jew pawnbroker, as
maid of all work

'This must be broken off,' said Mr. Worth-vale.
'I never quite made out the why and
wherefore of her leaving my house. She ran
away.'

I am going to buy her off,' answered Mr.
Cheek ; ' but what comfort is that to me, when
my boy may be committing a similar folly
again tomorrow ? '

mr. Worthivale was still considering the
photograph.

Her face is striking,' he said, c and she has
eyes that sparkle ; they are perfectly effervescing
with intelligence. Beavis took against her ; he
suspected her from the outset, but I cannot say
why. This is a very odd story. Your son's
acquaintance with her must be short. She left
us at Christmas. She was clever, but unable
to read and write.'

4 She wrote me a letter. I have it in my
pocket— here it is. Almost ashamed, however,
to let you see it.'

Mr. Worthivale looked at the letter. 'I
know about the pink silk dress,' he said. ' She
had it when she came to us. It was spoiled, as
she describes in this letter, by some mineral
water getting spilled over it. The Roman
pearls also — yes. She sent them to Lady Grace
Eveleigh after her disappearance. Lucy told
me of it. They came with a letter, but I
supposed she had got some one to write it for
her. The girl is not lost to good ; she showed
great respect and attachment to her ladyship.
Perhaps this letter was written for her ; and
yet ' — he mused — ' yet there were some odd

D 2

circumstances about her departure which made
Beavis think her ignorance simulated.'

8 Did she steal anything from your house ? '

8 No, I cannot say we missed money or plate ;
in fact, nothing. No, I cannot charge her
with that.'

8 Sorry for that,' said old Cheek. 8 It would
have made my course easier. Police case then.'

8 Your son must in no case marry such a
person,' said the steward gravely. 'It would bean
ugly scandal.'

He shall not. I buy her off. Allow the
boy to visit you for a month or so till this affair
is blown over.'

8 Certainly. I will bring him into good
society. The company of Beavis will be profitable.
I may find means of introducing him to
the Marquess and Lord Ronald. There are
nice people in our neighbourhood. There are
the Sheepwashes — some fine girls, much admired,
and of good family. Who can tell?
Charles may form an attachment for one of
them, and so get his foot into society. They
have not much of their own except blood, and
that is just what you require.'

8 Nothing would please me better.'

Yes, we must get Charles into good
society, and then he will lose the taste for low
associations.'

The boy has his points,' said Mr. Cheek.
Can't help loving him. Admire his gentlemanly
ways. Got them from his mother. Your
family have always been gentlefolks.'

Yes ; we were squires once, in Cornwall,
but lost our property in the usual way, and went
down into business.'

Then Mr. Worthivale turned the conversation
to the Kingsbridge estates, and the advantages
of lending money on them. He admitted
that the Duke was in want of a few thousands,
but then the investment was so secure. Turkish
Government, Egyptian Khedive, Argentine Republics
borrowed and could not pay. They
were broken reeds, but an English duke was a
pillar of strength. It would not be a bad
excuse for introducing Charles to the family, if
his father was inclined to accommodate it. At
this bold proposition Mr. Cheek grew stiff, congealed,
and frowned. The steward went on,-
now he had begun, unabashed, to show the
great securities the Duke could offer, the advantages
from a pecuniary point of view that
would accrue to Mr. Cheek by thus investing his

money. Mr. Cheek listened, and said nothing in
reply one way or the other.

There are a couple of mortgages that have
been notified which must be met, amounting to
about fifty thousand,' he said. ' If you would
take these over, it would be a convenience to
the family, you would have a safe investment,
and you would have conferred on them an obligation
which they would not forget.'

Fifty thousand ! ' said Mr. Cheek. ' I have
more than that to dispose of, thank goodness ;
the Monokeratic Principle continues to bring ina
good profit annually, and I must invest what I
make somewhere and somehow.'

Really,' said the steward, ' a hundred
thousand would not come amiss.'

Ah ! ' exclaimed Cheek senior, ' go on,
hundred and fifty — two hundred — two hundred
and fifty '

You do not hear me out. A couple of
mortgages must be transferred or paid off. The
Duke has not the ready money, and he would
therefore wish the transfer. The one is on the
manor of Kingsbridge, the other on the Court
Royal estate. Why, the house itself cost
seventy thousand — there is absolutely no
risk.'

If I were to take these over, it would be
merely because I do not see my way at present
to a better investment. When I do see one I
shall call them up. I don't care for your four
and half and four and three-quarters. If I
were to take these mortgages, your people
would be put in the same box in a few years'
time when I wanted to release my capital.'

4 Oh, in two or three years that can be done
without difficulty. The Duke only requires
accommodation for the moment.'

Whence will the money come ? '

Don't trouble your head about that.
Money can always be found with such estates.
Why, they bring in forty thousand per annum.'


Land can always be sold,' said Cheek. ' If
the money be not forthcoming when I want it,
I will sell them up, or they must drop a farm
or two into the market.'

I'll tell you what, Cheek. If it ever comes
to that, try and secure Bigbury. That is the
site for a second Torquay, climate warm as
Penzance, and not as rainy ; looks south,
scenery lovely, Plymouth accessible. He who
has capital, and likes to spend it there, can
realise in no time an enormous fortune. Come,

what do you say to my proposal ? You have a
friend at court in me, who knows all the advantages.'


Mr. Cheek rubbed his nose with his fork,
wherewith he had been eating preserved ginger,
and left a trickle of juice upon it.

I should like to see the place he said
cautiously.

4 Come down, then.'

Suddenly Cheek jerked forward his arms,
and said, ' 1 will.'

'And as I return tomorrow, I can take
Charles with me, and get him settled in. I
expect to see the agent for the mortgagee on
the twenty-third at my place. Suppose you are
there to meet him. Then nothing is more easy
than a transfer.'

4 I go down to plymouth tomorrow to settle
this unpleasant matter of the girl. We can travel
together.'

Then return by way of Kingsbridge.'

Cannot. Must be in town by night
express, but by Wednesday I'll be with
you.'

Mr. Worthivale was delighted ; the fish was
nibbling and nigh hooked.

Neither spoke for some minutes, as each was

engaged with his own thoughts and with
drinking port.

Presently Mr. Cheek said, as he dipped his
napkin in his finger-glass and wiped the syrup
off his nose, ' I wish you would tell me what
was suspicious about that girl who has entangled
Charles. If she has done anything to make
her afraid of being found out, I might give hera
scare, and bring her to an humble frame of
mind. A knowledge of particulars will help me.'

The steward then related the circumstances.

'Beavis caught her making an analysis of
the accounts ! ' exclaimed Mr. Cheek. ' Why.
the thing is improbable on the face of it.
What could such a girl want with it ? '

8 Nothing that I can see. I said so to
Beavis, but Beavis was very positive. She had
the books out, she must have searched my
pockets to get the key, and she had her head
resting on the extracts she had taken. When
Beavis roused her, she knocked over the lamp,
and slipped her notebook away in the dark.'

Did Beavis question her ? '

'No; she bolted.'

'Bolted at once ? '

Yes ; she did not wait to be questioned.'

And she went '

We did not trace her. We had 110 idea
whither she had betaken herself.'

Now you know. She is with a Jew.
Probably went straight to him. I know the
man. He is a money-lender as well as a pawnbroker.
There was a time when he helped me.
Charles has been in his clutches before now.
A dangerous man, worth more than you would
fancy. Has he any interest in the affairs of
the Duke?'

None whatever.'

6 Who are the holders of the mortgages ?
Have you their names ? Are any Jews among
them?'

Yes, several.'

Bad,' said Cheek. ' The Jews play into
each other's hands, hook on to each other like
the links of a fetter.'

You do not mean to connect the act of
the girl with the mortgagees ? '

I should not be surprised. I find no
other explanation. Beavis thinks so, probably.
She came to you pretending inability to read
and write ? '

'Yes.'

The girl is no ordinary girl,' said Mr.
Cheek uneasily. 'I doubt if she will let off

Charles as cheap as a hundred pounds. I
must inquire into this matter. Must see
Lazarus. Haven't seen or smelt him for years.'

I don't see what Lazarus has to do with
the matter. The girl came to me from Mrs.
Delany. I suppose that after leaving me, and
having no character, she was forced to take what
situation she could.'

6 Charles can tell us. I hear his voice in
the hall. He must have known her before she
went to you, if she had the silk dress and
beads in your house. — Charles,' he said as his
son entered, ' catechising continued.'

The young man had recovered his buoyancy.


8 By all means, father, but not in public'

'Want to know whether that person you
were talking of with me yesterday has been
long in present situation.'

All her life,' answered Charles promptly.
4 That is, since she was twelve years old.'

'Was she ever in service with a Mrs.
Delanv ? '

6 Wife of Colonel Delany,' explained Mr.
Worthivale.

Not to my knowledge ; certainly not recently.'


Where was she before Christmas ? ' asked
the steward.

That I cannot say. Possibly then she may
have been at the Colonel's, but I do not
know.'

6 Where was she before that ? ' asked his
father.

On November the fifth she was at the
Barbican, where she had been since childhood.
She was away till Christinass, and then returned,
and has been there ever since.'

Cheek looked at Worthivale and shook his
head.

4 Sent,' he said.

CHAPTER XLIII.

SHARES ? '

Time was money to Mr. Cheek. He did not
allow the grass to grow under his feet. Consequently,
on reaching Plymouth he went at
once to the Golden Balls. Mr. Cheek was a
clear as well as a hard-headed man ; he was a
rapid thinker, and prompt in forming and acting
on his decisions. He was one of those conquering
men who conquer because dominated
by self-assurance. He was headstrong and
intolerant, because he was incapable of seeing
from any other standpoint than his own, and of
allowing that any other view was admissible.
These are the heroes who have the world
at their feet. What he willed he had always
been able to carry out, because he cared for
no one who opposed him. The public was the
ass on which he had ridden ever since he began
business. He knew perfectly its moods and

maladies. He was indifferent to its wants,
save so far as they affected him and helped in
his business. Humbug was with him a form
of advertisement — a means to an end. He was
not himself a humbug, he was even brutally
straightforward, but the public demanded cant
of the man who posed before them as a politician,
a preacher, or a trader, and Mr. Cheek
donned it. In his domestic relations lie was
truthful, honest, and direct ; in his relations
with the public he was perfectly unscrupulous.
He had a code of ethics for dealings within his
home circle, but that home circle was limited
now, it was contained within his waistband ; he
had none at all for dealings outside. He was
a hard man. but he had a tender point — love
for and pride in his son, a love that met with
little response because ill-expressed, and a pride
that met with rude shocks. He was an ambitious
man. For long his ambition had been to make
money. Xow he was ambitious to make
Charles a gentleman. But he did not know
how to set about it. He had sent him, as a boy,
to private schools, and, despising the classics,
had refused to put him at an university. From
dread of losing him from under his eye, he had
opposed his going into the army ; now he was

conscious that he had made a mistake, but too
proud to admit it. He was angry with society
for not taking up Charles into it. Why should
it not ? Every day he heard of society let ting-down
its net and drawing it up into its heaven,
like the sheet of St. Peter's vision, full of all
sorts of strange beasts. Why was not Charles
accepted? If society would not take up
Charles, society must be cut down to his
level.

He entered the shop of the Golden Balls
with firm tread, and with his usual brusque
and determined manner. Joanna was there.
Towards dusk more business was done than at
other times of the day. One gas jet was flaring
near her head, accentuating her features. Mr.
Cheek did not care in the least whether she
was good-looking or the reverse. He looked
at her no more than to satisfy himself that this
was the same girl who had been photographed
with his son.

1 Your name is Joanna Eosevere,' he said.

Joanna stood up at once, and turned the
gas so as to throw the light full on his face, and
off her own.

6 And you,' she said quietly — ' you are Mr.
Cheek of the Monokeratic Principle.'

'I received a letter from you on the 12th
instant.'

Which I posted on the 11th instant.'

You have not a leg to stand on.' said Mr.
Cheek roughly. ' My son is a fool, but not
such a fool as to propose to make you his wife.
He swears he never asked you.'

She made no reply, but stood opposite him
with her hands on the counter, her face in
shadow, studying him.

Now look here,' he said further : ' in an
amicable way I don't mind squaring off. If you
choose to fight, I'm your man, with thousands
at my disposal, and quite prepared to chuck
away thousands in law. What do you say ? '

'Nothing.'

4 Perhaps you suppose that law in England
is made for the purpose of redressing wrongs.
No such thing. Law is made for the maintenance
of lawyers. Justice is sold in England,
and he with the longest purse wins ; he can
appeal from court to court, and ruin his adversary.
You have nothing. What lawyer will
look at you? Now — are you disposed for a
compromise ? '

4 1 will take a hundred pounds.'

1 A hundred cocoa-nuts ! ' scoffed Mr. Cheek.

1 Say five-and-twenty, and I will listen to
you.'

'I have named the sum,' answered Joanna,
and reseated herself, took up her sewing, and
proceeded with it as if nothing had interrupted
her. Mr. Cheek watched her thread a needle.
Her hand did not shake.

6 You will get nothing if you refuse my
offer.'

She made no answer, but continued stitching.


Charles is ashamed of himself already for
having even spoken to you. What are you ?
A gutter girl ? '

Lower than that, sir,' exclaimed Joanna,
without raising her head. ' The gutters empty
into Sutton Pool, and I came out of the blackest
mud in the bottom of the Pool.'

Charles has not a penny of his own.'

6 He has less than a penny, sir. He is in
debt.'

1 Will you give him up ? '

6 You know my terms.'

He stood watching her, puzzled at and
admiring her self-possession.

1 Very well,' he said, thrusting a hundred-vol.

III. E

pound note across the counter with one hand,
and a paper with the other.

Sign this, and you shall have the money.'

She stood up, dipped the desk pen in ink,
and appended her signature to the renunciation
of her claims. Then she reseated herself,
having taken the bank note with an involuntary
sigh, folded it, and put it in her bosom.

So — you, who could not read nor write at
Mr. Worthivale's, can read what is penned here,
and sign your name to it in a bold hand — the
same hand that wrote to me on the 11th
instant.'

Joanna looked up at him in surprise.

I know all about it. Mr. Worthivale is
a sort of relation, and has told me. What took
you to him with forged testimonials, eh ? Both
you and the lady who gave the character have
become actionable. Aware of that, eh ? '

Joanna made no reply.

What took you there ? '

I was sent,' she answered.

1 1 said so — sent by Lazarus.'

She did not answer.

4 Why did you examine the books and
make extracts from them? Was that what
Lazarus sent you there for, eh ? '

She remained silent.

Never mind. Always make a cat squeak
by pinching its tail. Make you speak. Where
is Lazarus ? '

4 He is not at home, sir. He will be here
directly. Take a chair.'

Mr. Cheek did so. Just then, in came a
woman with a Britannia metal teapot, milk jug,
and sugar bowl, which she wanted to dispose of.

Mr. Cheek listened to the disputation over
its value, to the remorseless way in which
Joanna pointed out its defects, the way in
which she flouted the poor woman when she
named a reasonable sum as that which she
demanded for them, the battle fought over a
few pence when the shillings were settled, and
the ignominious rout of the seller. As he
listened Mr. Cheek's interest was quickened.
He looked more attentively at the girl, and
observed her keen face and brilliant eyes.
She is no fool,' he said to himself. ' I wish I
had her in my shop. She'd be worth pounds
to me.'

Then in came Lazarus. Mr. Cheek gave
him a nod. The Jew recognised him, uttered
a crow of admiration, and rushed at him with
both hands extended. Mr. Cheek at once put

E 2

t/BRARY

his hands under his coat-tails, and repelled
Lazarus with a look.

4 A word with you,' said he, ' in your den.'

Lazarus bowed and pointed the way.
Cheek knew the passage and the room well
enough, though many years had passed since
he had seen them.

4 Take a sedan, sir,' begged the Jew, bowing
at every comma. ' You will find it easy,
cuts off the draughts on all sides, sir. I will
sit on my bed, my dear Mr. Cheek. Lord I
what pleasure to see an old customer again ! I
hear affairs are flourishing with you, Mr. Cheek.
I hear golden tidings of you, sir; and to think
I had a hand in the making of you ! Well,
humble instruments, sir ! very humble.'

8 A hand in the undoing of my son, if in
the making of me,' said Mr. Cheek grimly.
4 Which latter proposition I dispute.'

4 No sudden embarrassment ? Want a helping
hand over a stile ? ' inquired Lazarus
fawningly.

4 No such luck for you ? ' answered Mr.
Cheek.

4 Then how may I meet your wishes ? '
4 1 am about,' said Mr. Cheek pompously,
4 to make lame investments in mortgages on

the property of a great duke in these parts,
his Grace of Kingsbridge. I understand that
he is in immediate need of a considerable sum ;
and as I have my tens and hundreds of thousands
at command, I am inclined to lend him
what he wants on the security of some of his
estates. Now ' — suddenly — ' what have you todo
with the Duke's affairs? You sent that
clever girl outside to Court Royal to pry into
and find out how the Duke's books stood.
What is your stake ? '

Lazarus was so startled that he could not
speak. He sat with open mouth and eyes,
staring at his visitor.

Know all about it,' said Mr. Cheek coolly.
4 Steward is my relation. He and your girl
out there have told me all but one thing.
What is your interest in the Kingsbridge estates?'


Lazarus pulled out his handkerchief and
wiped his face.

You — you are going to lend money to the
Duke ! ' he exclaimed. 'I did not suppose you
such a gull. Do you know that his land is
mortgaged to its full value in times like these ?
It is a bad business. Do not soil your fingers
with it.'

6 Can take care of myself. Want no advice
said Mr. Cheek unmoved.

You are bewildered and fooled by aristocratical
hocus-pocus. I've seen the sort of
thing done on a platform with a few passes,
and a man loses his power of will. He does
everything the electro-biologist orders. The
Duke has made his passes over you — be on
your guard. The case is hopeless.'

What have you to do with the matter ? '

I — I ? Oh yes ! I have lent money. I

have taken up a mortgage or two. I've burnt

my fingers. Perhaps you would like to see

what the burdens on the estate are. You shall

see.'

He w r went to his closet and extracted a

memorandum-book, and offered it to his visitor.

Is this what was extracted by your girl ? '
asked Cheek.

Lazarus winced.

I see your name nowhere here,' said the
great trader.

No — no — but I am there. What do you
think of that ? Is it ugly or is it beautiful ? '

Very ugly indeed, for the Duke. Nevertheless,
I don't see any great risk. I shall take
over the two mortgages that have been called in

Others are going to follow,' said the Jew.
I have been to several of the mortgagees, who
are my friends, belong to my race, and they
are all stirring. Have you seen fowlers out
wild-duck shooting when the winds drive the
birds near shore ? The men make a ring of
boats and row inwards, driving the ducks and
geese together till they start to fly, and then —
bang ! bang ! bang ! from all sides, and down
they fall in hundreds. We'll bring down our
ducal ducks. Will you join in the sport ? '

Lazarus looked hard at his visitor, and
Cheek measured him with his eyes.

8 You are not moving out of love for the
Duke ? y said the Jew derisively ; ' not out of
desire to uphold so grand a pillar of the Constitution
? '

The Duke and the ducal family are
nothing to me. I want their land.'

Their land and residence ; Court Royal,
with its park.'

Lazarus laughed maliciously.

Cheek looked hard at him. ' And you —
you would do the same ? '

Of course. I want their land. I want to
smoke them out, smoke 'em out like foxes.'

Lion this,' said Cheek, ' smoked by fox.

Joking apart, what is your game ? You want
the land. You have an eye on Bigbury Bay,
to make of that a second Torquay. You want
to work the slate quarries and the petroleum
shale. Bah ! you have not the capital.'

c Look here,' said Lazarus ; ' let us go shares.
Your kinsman Worthivale has been deluding
you with assurances of solvency. The family
never can pay its debts. I will foreclose on
Court Royal. Do not help them against me.
Others will follow. They are ail ready. It is
like an avalanche ; pop ! and it shoots down
and buries all below. You lie by and buy the
land as we or the Duke sell. Pick it up bit by
bit.'

1 I shall go to Kingsbridge, and see the
place.'

Go, by all means. Then you will be a
judge if fortunes are to be made there. Bigbury
Bay — that a second Torquay ! You must find
the site first, and the shelter. Why, the fishermen
stand on the cliffs, and angle off them into
deep water. Will you dig out a city in the
rocks, like Petra ? Slate at Kingsbridge ! We
have slate more accessible to Plymouth than
that. Oil shale ! — it has been tried. Plenty of
shale, but no oil. Or do you want to oust the

great family, and settle into its nest ? Lend
them money, and you will be done. The
Marquess will marry an heiress, and wash his
debts away. You will get your money back,
but you won't get into Court Royal.'

You are eager to keep me off,' said Mr.
Cheek. c What is your stake ? '

c Fifty thousand, mine. I lead the way ; I
am Mr. Emmanuel, with my thumb on Court
Royal and Kingsbridge. Others are coming on,
till the family is crushed.'

Fifty thousand ! '

Yes. Do not let us fight. Let us share
the spoil together.'

Mr. Cheek made no reply. He was considering.

«

fc You are going to Kingsbridge, eh ? ' said
Lazarus. ' Be on your guard against the great
people there. They do not regard you as belonging
to the same order of creatures as themselves.
They hold themselves a long way ahead
of the like of us.'

1 The like of us ! ' repeated Mr. Cheek indignantly.
' Don't class yourself with me.'

They make use of us, squeeze us as lemons,
and throw the rind away. If they think they
will get money or information out of you they

will be gracious enough. Your cousin Worthily
will give them a hint to use you well.
They will dazzle you with their magnificence,
condescend to you most graciously, stupefy
your mind with admiration of their polish and
amiability and urbanity, then, when they have
made what they wanted out of you, they will
slam the door in your face and pass you unnoticed
in the street. Be on your guard. I
have forewarned you. If you want them to
remain amiable and gracious, you must have
their thumbs in a vice.'

CHAPTEE XLIV.

A STARTLING PROPOSAL.

The serenity of security was gone from
Court Royal. Though all went on there unaltered
to the eye of the casual visitor, a change
had passed over the house, like the touch of
the first October frost on the park trees. And
as the trees show their sensibility of coming
winter in various tints, the maple turning crimson
and the beech gold, the oak russet and the
sycamore brown, so did the threat of impending
ruin affect the various members of the
household variously. Hitherto the house of
Kingsbridge had been regarded as unbreakable
as the Bank of England, as unassailable as the
British Constitution . Now the faith had received
a shock so rude that it could never
recover its child-like simplicity. The windows
of heaven were open, the fountains of the great
(Deep were broken up, and in the deluge what

would survive? The ark had sprung a leak,
and all the household were aware of it and
restless. On every face a shadow had fallen.
The members of the family talked each other
into momentary encouragement, and then
parted to fall back into despondency. The
Duke was the least affected. After he had
recovered the agitation into which he had been
thrown by the paragraph in the Society paper,
he put the whole matter from him. He had
known all his life that the estates were encumbered,
he had known also all his life that this
had not precluded him from spending money.
Hitherto, when he needed it, money had been
raised, it could be raised again. There was
always water in the well. The pump worked
badly. The fault lay in Worthivale ; he was
old, and creaky, and clumsy.

Lord Eonald, on the other hand, worried
himself with schemes for raising money. He
came into his nephew's room every day with a
new suggestion as impracticable as the last, and
when Saltcombe threw cold water over it he
visited the Archdeacon, in hopes of gaining
encouragement from him. At table, before
company and the servants, the General was
cheerful, told his old stories, abused the new

army regulations, wondered what the service
was coming to, when the first necessity for advancement
was to gain the favour of the newspaper
reporters. He was less sanguine in his
views than heretofore, that was the only evidence
he gave in public that his mind was
troubled.

Lord Edward remained at Court Royal, in
spite of peremptory recalls from Lady Elizabeth,
who insisted on his return to Sleepy Hollow,
where cracks had appeared in the walls, and
water was percolating through the roof, and the
lamb-like curate was beginning to kick like a
calf. Lord Edward saw that a crisis had arrived
in the fate of the family, and he saw that his
duty — the paramount duty — called him to remain
at Court Royal. Where duties clashed
the superior must be obeyed, and his duty to the
family stood above all others.

The Marquess was altered since his return
from Plymouth. The alteration was not in
appearance only, it was also in manner. He
had been hitherto agreeable in society, he was
now silent. Nothing roused him out of his
depression. Before he had been apathetic, now
he was dispirited. He accepted the impending
ruin as inevitable, and made no efforts to arrest it.

Beavis noticed the change and regretted it.
The change was not for the better, but for the
worse.

Only Lady Grace remained herself — cheerful,
loving, trustful. She devoted herself more
than ever to her brother, and, without appearing
to observe his melancholy, combated it withall
the weapons of her woman's wit. She
forced him out of himself ; she called her uncles
and Lucy to her aid. Only when she was alone
did the tears come into her eyes, and her
brightness fade. Her brother was now her
first concern, though she did not understand
the occasion of his mood. She attributed it to
despair of saving the family, consequent on the
failure of his engagement to Dulcina Eigsby.
Although she thought chiefly of him, she did
not think exclusively of him. She did not
even know the main cause of trouble. She
had resolved that some of the property must
be sold, and that the establishment must be reduced.
She dared to broach the subject to
her father, in hopes of persuading him to realise
the gravity of the occasion, but he refused to
listen to her. ' My dear Grace,' he said, ' talk of
what you understand. If you want any more
gardenias — and the new sorts are very fine — ■

order them. Tell Messrs. Vetch to send you a
Lapageria alba ; we have only the rose in the
greenhouse. But, ray dear, not another word
about matters concerning which you know
nothing.'

Somehow — it is impossible to say how —
the knowledge that the existing order was
menaced had reached the servants' hall, and
the greatest consternation prevailed. Mr. Bromfield
and Mrs. Probus, the senior footmen, the
coachman, and the lady's-maid of Lady Grace
put their heads together, and concluded that the
true remedy lay in a reduction of the establishment.
Lord Eonald must go. Lord Edward
must not be there so much, and he must not
bring that ' dreadful Lady Elizabeth, as is so
mean, and pokes her nose into everything.'

Far be it from me to suggest,' said Mr.
Blomfield, 'that Lady Grace is not heartily
welcome to all we have, and to the best of
everything ; still, her ladyship can't be kept on
nothing. She really ought to be married and
go. The Marquess is different. We must put
up with him ; he is the heir, and will be Took
some day.'

But if you send away Lady Grace, I must
go too,' argued the lady's-maid.

1 Under those circumstances,' said the butler,
we will make an effort, and keep her.'

Upstairs, at the same time, Lady Grace was
with Lucy going over the list of servants.

Dear Lucy, it is very painful. I can't bear
to send one away, they are all so nice, and
good, and obliging. It is not that I care for
myself, but that I fear they will never get
another place where they will all be so happy
and comfortable together.'

Owing to the tension of spirits at the Court,
Beavis and Charles Cheek were there a great
deal, Charles had been introduced as the
cousin of Beavis and Lucy, and as his manners
were gentlemanly, and his conversation pleasant,
and his spirits unflagging, he was a welcome
guest. Neither he nor Mr. Worthivale
had thought it necessary to mention his relations
to the monokeratic system, of which
possibly the ducal family had never heard.
Even if they had, Charles would have been
received with perfect readiness as the kinsman
of Lucy and her father. Lady Grace herself
urged Beavis to bring his cousin whenever he
could, to cheer the Marquess, and draw the
minds of her uncles from the absorbing care.

Charles Cheek was very amusing ; he was

full of good stories, and had the tact to be
agreeable without forcing himself into prominence.
Indeed, he appeared at his best in this
society. He knew what good manners were,
and no one who saw him suspected the effort
it was to him to maintain himself at ease among
them. He was like a tight-rope dancer, who
seems to be composed and assured on his cord
aloft, but who knows himself to be safest and
happiest when he is on the solid ground.

He showed sufficient deference to the rank
and age of his Grace, and the General and the
Archdeacon, to conciliate their favour. With
the Marquess he was freer, though always
respectful, and Lord Saltcombe said once or
twice to Beavis that he liked his cousin, and
hoped to see a good deal of him. He invited
him to come in the shooting season, and placed
his horses at his disposal for hunting. He was
asked to take frequent strolls with Lady Grace,
and Lucy and the Marquess, when Lord Salt-combe
naturally fell to Lucy, and Charles to be
companion to Lady Grace. These walks were
delightful to Lucy, as her sparkling eyes and
glowing cheeks testified. Lady Grace enjoyed
them, for Charles was always amusing, sometimes
interesting. He was a man with a good

VOL. III. F

deal of shrewd observation of men and manners,
which he used to good effect in conversation.
Lady Grace had a sweet voice, thoroughly
schooled, and as Charles sang well, with a
mellow tenor, and knew his notes fairly, they
practised duets together, partly to please themselves,
chiefly to give pleasure to the Duke.

The young man was sensible of the charms
of Lady Grace ; he had never before been in
the society of a perfect English lady, and a
perfect English lady is the noblest and most
admirable of the products of centuries of refinement.
The culture of the English lady is
a culture of the entire woman, mind and soul,
as well as of body, perfect refinement and exquisite
delicacy in manner, in movement, in
intonation, in thought, and in expression. No
man can escape the attraction of such a woman ;
it seizes him, it raises him, it humbles him. It
raises him by inspiring him with the desire to
be worthy to associate with such nobility ; it
humbles him by making him conscious of his
own shortcomings.

Charles Cheek had been so little in the
society of ladies of any sort, and was so
ignorant of the ladies of the best English
society, that this association with Lady Grace

exercised over him quite irresistible fascination.
He was uneasy when a day passed without his
seeing her, and when out of her presence the
recollection of her words, and the pleasant way
in which she spoke them, formed his great
delight. It can hardly be said that he loved
her, it was certain that he worshipped her.

Grace dear,' said Lucy one day to her
friend, 'take care what you are about.'

1 What do you mean, Lucy ? '

8 You are throwing your imperceptible
threads round that simple young man, and
binding him in bonds he will be powerless to
drive away.'

8 What young man ? '

My cousin Charles.'

Nonsense, Lucy ! ' said Lady Grace, colouring
slightly and looking vexed.

6 You cannot help yourself. You bewitch
every one, down to old Jonathan the gardener,
and Tom the stable boy. You cannot help
it. You have thrown your glamour over my
cousin. I can see it. When he leaves this place
he will feel like the Swiss exiled from the Alpine
air and roses to be pastry cook in Amsterdam.
You remember that queer girl we had at the
Lodge, and who ran away. You did the same

F 2

with her, and she sent you a necklace in token
of undying devotion. Now you are playing
tricks with Charles. Take care that you do not
encourage him to do something equally absurd.
As for my father and Beavis, you know very well
they would let themselves be cut to pieces in your
service.'

On the twenty-second of the month, Mr.
Cheek senior arrived, and was invited to dine at
the Court, along with his son and the Worth
The old trader was highly gratified. He
was struck with the grand staircase, the well-lighted
magnificent rooms, rich with gilding,
pictures, and silk curtains, with the livery
servants, and the general ease and luxury. He
was courteously received, somewhat ceremoniously,
and he had a few words with the Duke,
who made himself agreeable, as he could when
he chose, by touching on a subject likely to
delight the old man.

What a very nice fellow your son is, Mr.
Cheek ! He has enlivened our rather dull society
of late. I do not know what we should have
done without him. Beavis is our usual piece de
resistance, but Beavis has been out of sorts lately.
We feel under a debt to you for having spared
him so loner.'

Mr. Cheek held up his head. ' Your Grace is
too complimentary.'

6 Not at all. I always speak my mind.'

The General came up. 'I am glad to make
your acquaintance, sir,' said Lord Eonald ;
6 though I owe you a grudge, and I do not know
that I shall ever be Christian enough to forgive
you. Your boy ought to have been in the
army.'

6 My fault, my lord. Bitterly regret it now —
when too late. A mistake.'

It was a mistake. He is a daring fellow.
He was hunting the other day, and took the
hedges splendidly. No end of pluck in him.
Sad pity he is not in the army.'

The delighted father watched his son all the
evening. He did not talk much himself, and
Lord Edward and the General found him difficult
to get on with. The reason was that his attention
was taken up in contemplating his son with
admiration and wonder. He could not have
been more astonished had he assisted at a
miracle. Charles was at ease in this society.
Charles could talk, and make the great people
listen to him. After dinner Charles played and
sang a solo, talked to Lucy Worthivale, and sent
her into a fit of laughter, stood in the window

in familiar discussion with the Marquess, then
went to the Duke, conversed with him, then at
his request sang a duet with Lady Grace. After
that Charles was on an ottoman with the lady,
talking to her in an animated way, expressing
himself with his hands like a Frenchman, whilst
her colour came and she smiled. She coloured
because she remembered the words of Lucy.

Mr. Cheek was struck with her ; her delicate
beauty and purity impressed him. He
was not afraid of her, but he had not the
courage to get up from his place and walk
across the room to speak to her. Presently she
came over to him, and talked, and the old man
felt as though a light shone round him, and a
sense of reverence and holy love came upon
him. He did not remember afterwards what
she said, or what he answered, but thought that
he had been in a dream. Afterwards, when she
was at the piano again, he watched her, and
shook his head, and smiled. Then he looked
at Charles turning the pages of her music for
her, and he said to himself, ' Charles is a
genius ! It is not in me. The Duke and that
old soldier chap didn't pile it on too much. He
is all they said, and more. Worthivale was right.
This is the element in which he must swim.'

Mr. Cheek and the steward walked home
together, Charles and Beavis went on before.

6 Are they not charming people ? Is not
the house quite perfect ? ' asked Mr. Worthily.


This the style of daily life ? ' asked Mr.
Cheek.

Always the same — of course.'

And the income, the debts, the mortgages,
the outs always the same ? ' said Mr. Cheek.
'Nothing for it but a smash-up. Seen the
accounts. Balance bad. I — even I — with
the Monokeros on my back, couldn't afford
it. 5

6 You have never seen this sort of life before,'
said the steward reproachfully, ■ and so — it
rather surprises you. Splendid, is it not ? and
so homely and genial too.'

Won't go on,' said the man of business.
1 Can't do it on the balance. Col-lapse.'

I hope not — I trust not.'

8 1 can help them. I can save them.'

I knew it, I was sure of it,' exclaimed the
delighted steward.

1 1 see they like Charlie, and Charlie likes
to be on this shelf. I don't. I ain't suited toit.
Set me on end on the floor. Don't roll

me up and chuck me aloft on a top shelf.
Charlie can take that place, and he shall. I like
to see him there.'

6 He conducts himself very well, but what
has he to do with the present emergency ? '

Everything. Charlie shall make Lady
Grace his missus. Then he'll belong to the
aristocracy, whatever I may be.'

What ! ' Mr. Worthivale sprang back,
and his hat fell off.

Charlie shall make his proposals to Lady
Grace, and I'll find two hundred thousand
pounds to clear off such of the mortgages as
are now troublesome. The Monokeros is still
alive, and bringing in money for Charlie and
his deary. If this ain't a handsome offer show
me one that is. If you don't like my shop, goto
another.'

Are you mad ? You must be mad ! ' exclaimed
the steward, too amazed to be indignant.
Your son and she ! What are you thinking
of?'

What am I thinking of? Mutual accommodation.
As you said to me, I want blood
and they want money. Is it a deal ? '

Mr. Worthivale stared at his guest, and remained
rooted to the spot.

1 Madman ! ' lie gasped. ' Is nothing sacred
with you ? '

As you like,' said the trader indifferently.
Take my offer or reject it. I can do without
better than you

6 Not a word of this raving nonsense to a
soul,' said Mr. Worthivale, grasping his arm.
Lord ! I wouldn't have anyone hear of this
for all I am worth.'

As you like,' said Mr. Cheek, putting his
hands in his pockets. ' Those are my terms.'

CHAPTEE XLV.

RETRIBUTION .

Next morning Mr. Cheek was silent at breakfast.
Charles was not in his usual lively mood.
His father had told him in his room, the night
before, of his plan, on their return from the
Court. He had told him also that Mr. Worth i-
vale had refused to entertain it. Charles was
startled and gratified at the prospect ; startled,
because he had not dared to wish it, startled
also, because he was not sure that he did wish
it ; gratified, because he saw open to him the
means of taking a place in society that had
been hitherto inaccessible. He was silent
because, thoughtless though he was, the conjuncture
of affairs was one that forced him to
think.

Worthivale was nervous and agitated at
breakfast. Drops stood on his brow, and he
was unable to pour out the coffee, his hand

shook so, and he was forced to pass over the
duty to Beavis. Something had occurred, more
than the proposal of old Cheek, to unnerve him.

After breakfast Mr. Cheek drew the steward
aside. 4 Well, now,' he said, 4 with morning
come cool counsels. Shall we deal? '

4 How can you speak in such terms ? ' asked
the steward. 8 Do you not perceive that it is
impossible for the daughter of such an illustrious
house to accept Stuff! as well

propose an alliance between an eagle and a
crocodile ! Preposterous ! simply preposterous ! '

Mr. Cheek stretched his arms, then drew
his finger over his lips. ' There is nothing
preposterous in it,' he said. 4 Worse matches
have been made. One likes apples, t'other
likes onions. To my mind, I am the more
respectable party of the two. I have lifted
myself out of nothing, by my industry, into
affluence. They have degraded themselves, by
wastefulness, out of wealth into bankruptcy.'

4 Will you not help the family, without conditions
? '

4 Do you take me for a fool ? What are
they to me ? '

4 Surely — surely, to obtain their esteem, to
deserve the regard of the Duke, the respect

of Lord Edward and Lord Eonald, the gratitude
of the Marquess — that is something.'

Not worth a farthing to me,' answered
Mr. Cheek roughly. ' Put it up to auction ;
who will bid ? '

'Besides, you would not be giving your
money, only investing it most safely.'

I have made my proposals,' said the elder
Cheek. ' To them I stick as cobbler's wax.'

8 1 cannot listen to you ! ' exclaimed the
steward. ' You might as well sue for the moon.'
He paced the room, swinging his arms ; he was
hot with indignation.

'I do not want the moon. I want that
young woman ' — Worthivale shivered — 8 for my
son. She'll make a tidy daughter-in-law. As
for those old codgers ' — Worthivale's blood
curdled (their lordships — codgers !) — c they are
like turkey-cocks in a barn-yard, ruffling
feathers and gobbling at the little fowl. She's
other. Wouldn't give herself high and mighty
airs.'

For Heaven's sake ! ' cried the steward,
putting his hands to his ears, ' have done, or I
will leave the room.'

4 Needn't go,' said Mr. Cheek. 'I'm off,
next coach. Time valuable. Can't afford to

waste it like a parcel of gorgeous good-for
oughts.'

c Going ! ' exclaimed the steward aghast,
and standing still. ' You are not going to-day.
To-day is the twenty-third : I invited you to be
here when we meet Crudge, the solicitor for Mr.
Emmanuel.'

Can't waste my time. Sheer waste. Made
my proposal — refused. Enough ; I go.'

6 But the investment is so good.'

6 Know of a score better.'

But — but you led me to expect '

'Nothing. Never committed myself. Too
old a bird for that. Said I would come and
look about me. Have done so, taken stock,
and made a bid.'

Which I refuse.'

It has not been submitted to the proper
parties.'

If by proper parties you mean the Duke
and Lady Grace, I absolutely refuse to mention
it to them. They — I mean the Duke —-would
kick me out of the house. She — Lady Grace
— I would not dare to look her in the face
again.'

As you like,' said Mr. Cheek, washing his
hands in the air. ' Don't take amiss. When

dry will brush off. I leave by next coach.
One thing, however, I do ask. Allow Charles
to remain. Don't want him to be back in
Plymouth yet. Understand ? '

Let him stay here, by all means.'

'Eight. Hope 3 T you'll enjoy yourself with
the mortgagees. Cheerful company. Pleasant
ways, eh ? If in distress, and you change your
mind, wire. Let the young female give her
word of honour that she will take my Charlie,
and I am ready with my two hundred thousand.
She's not one to go from her word. Xow —
portmanteau.'

Was there ever such a fool — such a confounded
fool ! ' cried Mr. Worthivale, when
Cheek had left the room, as he ran about,
holding his head. ' That I should have lived
to hear him talk ! '

Half an hour later, the great Cheek of the
Monokeros was gone, and the hope that had
hung on him had fallen and lay broken with
many another shattered hope.

'Well ! ' said the General, entering the diningroom
about the hour when the meeting was to
take place, ' what says your kinsman to the
mortgages ? Will he take them ? '

He is a fool, an abject, drivelling fool ! '

answered the steward. Lord Eonald sighed.
He had buoyed himself on the expectation
which Worthivale had confided to him, that
relief was certain from this quarter.

That is not the worst,' said Worthivale, ina
low tone, and he trembled and became white
and moist.

What now ? '

'By this post,' gasped the steward, 'the —
the Insurance Company have given notice '

My God ! not the Loddiswell mortgage for
four hundred thousand ? '

Worthivale put his hand to Ins mouth to
cover a groan.

Then they heard a carriage drive up to the
garden gate, followed by a ring at the bell. A
moment after, the maid announced, ' Mr. Grudge,
solicitor,' and the lawyer entered, followed by
Lazarus, dressed respectably.

Good afternoon, my lord. Good afternoon,
Mr. Worthivale,' said Crudge, with freshness
and confidence. ' Allow me to introduce Mr.
Emmanuel.' He presented Lazarus ; the General
bowed stiffly, Worthivale shook hands. They
seated themselves, Lazarus with his back to
the light, in the window, behind Mr. Crudge.
Presently the Marquess arrived, with Lord

Edward. They bowed to Crudge and Lazarus,
and took chairs by the fire, offered them by the
steward. With them entered Beavis.

Conversation began on the weather. Crudge
talked of the crops — as is correct, to those
living in the country — and on land. Lazarus
said nothing. So passed ten minutes.

Let us proceed to business,' said the solicited,
looking at his watch. c By the way, I bear
a note for you, sir, from Messrs. Levi and
Moses, who hold the seventeen thousand pound
mortgage on Alvington ; and also the second,
on the same estate, for twenty thousand. I
am instructed to act for them. Both must be
met in three months from date.'

A silence ensued, broken only by a little,
quickly-subdued chuckle in the window.

Then Beavis opened proceedings, by stating
that the sudden calling up of mortgages at a
time when rents had had to be reduced twenty
to twenty-five per cent, all round, and when
some rents were in arrear for two and three
years, at a time, moreover, when land was at
an unprecedentedly low value, was very inconvenient
to the Duke, and that he desired the
mortgagees to reconsider their demand, and
allow time for the recovery of the farmers,

when, ill the event of his not being able to
transfer the mortgages, or himself find the
amount, land would have to be sold.

The solicitor replied that he was acting
both for Mr. Emmanuel and for Messrs. Levi
and Moses, and he could say that his clients were
not disposed to be harsh, bnt to accord every
reasonable indulgence. They, however, did
not participate in the sanguine view entertained
by his Grace. They believed that rents would
fall still lower, that the golden day of British
agriculture was set, and the whole industry
menaced with extinction. Holding this, they
were anxious with promptitude to release their
money, that they might invest it elsewhere.

4 But, if you proceed to extremities, you will
be selling land when it hardly reaches twenty-five
years' purchase.'

Better that than sell when it will not fetch
twenty years' purchase. I have heard of desirable
properties in North Devon in the market
and not a bid made for them at fifteen.'

But this is in South Devon.'

Mr. Crudge shrugged his shoulders.

8 What, then, do you propose, or demand ? '
asked the General.

We are ready to meet your convenience as

VOL. III. g

far as possible. I am instructed to yield so far
as this — half the total at the expiration of three
months from date of notice, the rest in two
equal portions, at intervals of three months.'

Again a sound like a chuckle from the
window. The Marquess looked sharply round,
but Lazarus, who sat there, was quiet, his face
in shadow and illegible.

Small charities ! ' said the General. ' Better
the sword Misericorde, which ends the torture
with a thrust.'

Silence ensued. Lord Edward and the
General looked down ; the eyes of the Marquess
were on the fire.

Lazarus watched them eagerly with malicious
delight.

'You will go no further?' asked Mi
AYorthivale.

This is the limit imposed on me by my
clients. You will understand, I am but the
intermediary; I am obliged to act as directed.'

Worthivale bowed.

Ten minutes of painful silence ensued.

I see no necessity for prolonging the
meeting,' said the Marquess rising.

4 None at all, as far as I am concerned,'
answered the solicitor.

Sorry the matter should be ventilated
with such freedom in the papers. There was
something about it a little while ago, and now
the Society papers are still more explicit. There
is no mistaking the allusions. If worth while,
prosecutions might be begun. Hah ! ' said
Crudge, ' I have them in my pocket. Keally,
these periodicals are offensive and insulting.'

The colour rushed into the General's face.
Lord Edward turned pale, and held the jamb
of the chimney-piece to prevent him from falling
; a mist formed before his eyes. Lord
Saltcombe compressed his lips and clenched his
hands. As Crudge offered him the papers with
coarse civility, he brushed them aside.

You want me no further ? ' he said to Mr.
Worthivale.

4 Xo, my lord, there is nothing to be
done.'

1 Very well ; I will consult my uncles at
home. I wish you all a good afternoon.'

A very pleasant afternoon to you, my
lord,' said Lazarus, also rising, and bowing
deeply.

Lord Saltcombe slightly bent his head, and
left the room.

Almost immediately after, Lazarus followed;

Grudge was detained but a few minutes.
When he also was gone, Lord Eonald looked at
his brother.

Hopelessly ruined — that is the plain English,'
he said.

And satyrs dance and scoff over our
grave,' said Lord Edward, pointing to the
papers.

The Marquess was walking slowly through
the park to Court Royal, when he heard rapid
steps behind him. He did not turn to see who
followed ; then he heard a voice.

1 Heigh ! Lord Saltcombe ! Most noble
Marquess, a word with you.'

He arrested his walk, and waited patiently
till lie was caught up, but without turning his
head.

A moment after he saw at his side the man
Emmanuel, whom he had scarce noticed at the
meeting. The man was panting. He had run
to catch him up. Lord Saltcombe waited till
he had gained breath to speak. He did not
know Lazarus. If he had seen him in past
years, it had been but briefly and rarely, and
he did not recall his features ; besides, Lazarus
was ordered and altered since then.

You do not know me, most noble sir ? '

said the Jew, in a tone between deference and
defiance.

Lord Saltcombe contented himself with a
slight shake of the head.

I suppose not. Oh, no ! of course not !
You do not know who Emmanuel is, who
holds his grip on your heart ? No, I suppose
not ! '

Lord Saltcombe became impatient ; he
turned to continue his walk, without speaking.

Do you know who holds two of your
mortgages, and who has worked and stirred up
the other mortgagees against you ? Who has
your own — your own bills in his hands ? '

Lazarus walked beside the Marquess, peering
into his face with an expression full of
vindictiveness. Lord Saltcombe looked in front
of him ; he made no reply, but the veins in his
temples swelled and darkened.

You do not know, I presume, that I, I
hold you all in my power — that you are at my
mercy ? Do you know who I am ? ' asked
Lazarus starting forward and standing in his
way.

1 1 know that you are an obstruction, and
unless you move yourself at once I shall lay
my stick across you.'

6 Oh, my Lord Cock-of-thc-walk ! ' exclaimed
the Jew. ' What airs we give ourselves ! '

Lord Saltcombe's eyes lightened. He raised
his walking-stick, and would have brought it
down on Lazarus lead not the Jew hastily
added : ' I am Emmanuel Lazarus, of the
Barbican, Plymouth ! '

Then the stick fell from Lord Saltcombe's
hand. He stood still, and looked keenly at the
man before him. The pawnbroker had stopped ;
his attitude was cringing as he shrank from the
menaced blow. His eyes glittered with hate.

Lord Saltcombe drew down his hat and
folded his arms. ' Well,' he said in a low tone,
say what you will, I cannot touch you.'

Ah ! ' exclaimed Lazarus, ' you may well
stand still and look down when you encounter
me — me, the man whose home you broke up,
whose honour you stained, whose happiness
you blighted. What was I ? Only a Jew
usurer. What were you? A great noble.
Now I am in the ascendant, and you grovel.
Now it is my turn to cast you down, and put
my foot on your proud neck. I will hold you
there, writhe as you may to be free. It was I
who spoiled your fine matrimonial schemes
with the coffee-planter's daughter. It was I

who warned off old Cheek from coming to
your assistance. It was I who put your affairs
into the Society papers, and made you the talk
of the town. It was I who stirred up the
other mortgagees to foreclose. I have waited
long till I could find a way to hurt you. Did
I say just now you were at my mercy ? It
was a wrong word. I have no mercy in my
heart for such as you, only retribution.'

Then Lord Saltcombe looked him full in
the face. He was deadly pale, but he did not
move a muscle, nor did his lips quiver. He
spoke with perfect calmness, the calmness of
perfect self-control.

6 Mr. Lazarus,' he said, ' I would have
sought you out years ago, had I thought tin-interview
would lead to good. But though I
did not seek you, I have always desired to
meet you, that I might express to you my
sorrow, my deepest sorrow, for the wrong I did
you. Perhaps it was weakness and want of
resolution which hindered my going; direct to
you. Providence has now brought us face to
face, and I hasten to express my contrition.
You can say to me nothing that I have not-said,
and said daily, almost hourly, to myself
You speak of retribution. She — she ' his

voice vibrated for a moment. ' She has been
overtaken by the hand of God, and has suffered
where she sinned. I do not hope, I do not
wish to escape the chastisement of Heaven.
Why should I go free, when she has endured
the penalty ? If it has pleased the Almighty
to touch me in the place where most sensitive,
in my pride and love for my family — His will
be done. My only regret is that I must draw
down with me other, and those very dear
heads.' He was silent for a moment, with his
eyes on the ground. For a moment he needed
silence, to recover that command over himself
which he felt was slipping from him. Lazarus
said nothing. His face was perplexed with
contending emotions — hate, surprise, disappointment.


Mr. Lazarus, take up that stick. It is a
sword-cane. I pierced your heart once with
the deadliest of thrusts. I will stand here, or
anywhere you like, and give you full and free
leave to run me through the heart with that
needle blade. No one will suspect you. No
one will suppose but that I fell by my own
hand, unable to endure the humiliation of witnessing
the ruin of my house.'

The Jew stooped, picked up the sword-cane,

and drew the weapon. It was fine, keen,
and sharply pointed. He looked furtively at
Lord Saltcombe, who unfolded his arms, and
stood before hin motionless, beside a tree.

The Jew's fingers tingled as he held the
sword. He turned it, and it flickered in the
evening light. In the button-hole by the heart
of the Marquess was a red rose. The Jew's
blood bounded at the thought that with a thrust
he could bring forth something redder there
than that rose. But he re-sheathed the blade
and shook his head.

4 That,' said he, ' would be insufficient. It
would be too quickly over. Take back your
sword-cane. I have not done with you yet.'

You have refused me a favour, for
which I would have thanked you,' said the
Marquess coldly.

Because I knew it would be a favour, ;
answered Lazarus venomously, ' therefore I
refused it.'

CHAPTER XLVI.

E TEXEBRIS LUX.

In the evening the General came into Lord
Saltcombe's room. The old man was looking

haggard. His grey moustache was not smooth,
as usual, but looked like ragged lichen. The
spring and strength seemed taken out of him.
Lord Saltcombe was pacing the room with arms
folded. Lord Ronald put his hand through
his nephew's arm and paced the floor with him,
without speaking. After several minutes' silence,
the General said, ' Your Uncle Edward leaves
tomorrow. It is of no use his remaining.
Even he can do nothing now. If it had been
possible, he would have managed it. We have
been deceiving ourselves. Disenchantment has
come. Herbert, we have been a happy and an
united family. We will stand to our arms, and
go down in the old ship together, as men.
The Duke must know all, and resolve to sell

the greater part of the estates. Court Royal
itself, if need be.'

Yes,' answered the Marquess, ' I have
foreseen this. As you had hopes, I did not
press my view. Now you have come round to
my opinion q. Loddiswell and Alvington must
go. Fowelscombe also. Probably Court Royal.
We shall never now be able to maintain the
place. Better crawl into a smaller house and
there die.'

Perhaps Court Royal might be kept during
the Duke's life'.

6 No,' answered Lord Saltcombe. ' Let us
see the worst over. If we live on here we shall
be always tempted to keep up the old state.'

But remember what Worthivale has said
about the Bigbury property. It is worth comparatively
little now, but if a company were
formed, and a town begun there, it might rival
Torquay, and be a golden-egg-laying goose to us,
and then the family would flourish again.'

8 There is no time for forming a company
and building a town. If this had been tried
three or four years ago we might have been
saved ; but now it is over. If a fortune is to
be found there, it will not be by us.'

4 You are right,' sighed the General.

6 Beavis,' said the Marquess, ' calculated on
saving a portion of our lands. Let us keep
Bigbury — it is possible that some day it may
render," as the French say ; but more than
half our property must go.'

And dear old Court Koyal,' said the
General, with a quivering voice.

Yes, Court Royal must go, or it will drain
away what remains in the vain attempt to live
up to it. If we do not, what wretchedness to
be among abandoned conservatories, neglected
grounds, ruinous outhouses, empty stables ! '

Poor Grace ! ' sighed Lord Eonald.

Grace has more courage than you, uncle,
soldier though you are. Grace will leave her
flowers without a sigh, and the pretty rooms
that have been her nest without a tear. You
will see nothing but smiles on her face, and
hear only words of cheer from her lips.'

Yes — I suppose so,' said Lord Eonald.
And yet — she will feel the loss more than any
of us.'

She will have Lucy.'

1 Of course, Lucy will never leave her, good,
faithful girl.'

4 Uncle Eonald, you may as well know
everything. My notes of hand have all been

called up. You know how extravagant I was
some years ago, when in the army. Well, the
sum, compared with the mortgages, is nothing,
but for all that, in our present distress, whence
is the money to come ? '

Pitiful powers,' cried the General, ' troubles
are raining on us as fire and brimstone out of
heaven, and what have we done to deserve it ? '
He stood still, put his hand to his forehead, and
thrust his fingers through his white hair. t My
head spins. I cannot think.'

'The first thing to be done,' said Lord
Saltcombe, ' is for us to collect our plate and
finest pictures, and send them to Christie's, and
have them sold.'

The General withdrew his hand from his
face, and stood staring blankly at his nephew.
Then two clear drops ran down his furrowed
cheeks. He hastily took out his handkerchief
and blew his nose, to disguise what he was
ashamed to have seen.

6 Yes, uncle — this must be.'

The Duke will never consent.'

Then it must be done without his consent.'

Herbert! not possible.'

The Marquess said no more ; he caught his
uncle by the arm, and made him continue with

him the mechanical walk. He did it to enable
the old man to overcome or disguise his
emotion.

I never was sanguine,' said Lord Saltcombe.
I have felt that a storm was gathering over
our heads, and that no conductors would divert
the flashes into innocuous channels. You and
the Archdeacon were more hopeful, so was
Worthivale, who, of all others, had best reason
to know how matters stood. But when Beavis
spoke out so plainly, and Uncle Edward and
you refused to accept his opinion, then I knew
that the end was near at hand. For myself,
I care nothing. Life has little of interest, and
is void of ambitions for me. But if it were
possible to do anything to soften the blow to
Grace and my father, I would do it. There is,
however, nothing — only the sad duty of preparing
them for the worst, and that I take upon
myself. With Grace it will be easy. With
the Duke hard, and I may have to call on you
to assist me. The mortgagees have a power of
sale, and they will exercise it. What will remain
to us out of the wreck, I suppose not even
Beavis can tell.'

Late in the evening, Worthivale arrived.
He was in such a condition of confused misery,

that he could not collect his thoughts sufficiently
to advise what should be done. He
produced his books, but in his bewildered state
of mind could make nothing out of them.

The disgrace ! ' moaned the General. ' The
humiliation to our proud name.'

6 You are a soldier,' said Lord Saltcombe.

6 There are some things past the endurance
even of a soldier,' answered Lord Eonald.

'Where is the Archdeacon?' asked the
steward. 4 His opinion would be invaluable
now.'

6 He has gone to bed,' answered the General.
1 He is not feeling well. He is much dispirited
by the events of to-day. To-morrow he must
return to Sleepy Hollow.'

Then the steward and Lord Eonald began
to spin cobwebs — cobwebs that needed but the
breath of common sense to blow them away.

Lord Norwich was the brother of the late
Duchess. He was getting old and infirm, and
he had not been down to visit the Duke lately
in Devon. Lord Eonald thought of him. He
was wealthy. Why should not he come to the
rescue ? The Marquess and Grace were his
sister's children. Lord Saltcombe reminded
them that his son, the Hon. Norfolk Broad, was

not likely to consent; he had spent a great
deal on the turf, and would probably run
through the property when his father died.

Then Worthivale suggested the taking in
hand of the oil-shale works. Oil had not been
extracted from them before in sufficient quantities
to be remunerative, because the wrong
sort of crushers had been employed. The
Marquess replied that if the crushers squeezed
out gold, then it would be worth while getting
them, not otherwise.

Perhaps the Archdeacon will think of something
; he is an eminently practical man,' said
the General. ' I dare say he has gone to bed
early to consider the matter between the sheets,
and he will be ripe with a proposal tomorrow.'

Thus sat the three the greater part of the
night ; the Marquess was the only one who
kept his head clear. At three o'clock the
steward and Lord Eonald left, and then he flung
himself on the sofa, and fell asleep.

That same evening Lady Grace had been in
conference with Lucy in her own bedroom, as
she prepared to go to rest. She was in a pretty
blue dressing-gown, her hair falling about her
shoulders loosely. The lady's maid had been
dismissed, and Lucy and she were alone together.

Tell me truly, Lucy. The meeting has led
to no good results ? '

No, dear. I hear that half the amount of
two of the mortgages must be paid forthwith,
and the rest in two instalments within a twelvemonth.
But that is not all. Two more
mortgages held by Jews are called in, and

so Worst of all is the terrible one on

Loddiswell.'

And the money is nowhere forthcoming ? '

Lucy shook her head.

Then what will be done ? '

c A great deal of the property will be sold.'

And Court Royal — must that go ? '

Beavis thinks so. Land sells very badly
now.'

I shall not have to part with you, Lucy ? '

Xo ' — and Lucy nestled into her friend's
side — ' never, never. Oh, my darling ! '

For myself I do not care. If I cannot
have my greenhouses and gardens, no one can
deprive me of the green lanes and flowery
coombs. I can be happy anywhere with you
and papa, and Uncle Eonald and my brother.
But I do not know how the others will bear it.
Dear papa — I fear it will kill him. Uncle
Eonald and Saltcombe are looking miserable

VOL. III. h

Did you observe Uncle Edward last night ? I
never saw his face so drawn and colourless.
He was very bent and feeble. I asked him
what ailed him. He smiled sadly and said,
Only a general break-up." He takes this to
heart, and he is not a strong man like the
General. I suppose the dreadful truth must
be told papa shortly. I must manage to be
present so as to soothe him. He will be fearfully
excited. If I can but hold his hands I may be
of some good in keeping him cool. What is
to be done about Mrs. Probus ? Hear, good
creature, she is bound up with us and cannot
live away from us ; and I do not think papa
would be happy if he thought she were not in
the house ; she understands his little fancies.
Then old Mr. Rowley, the coachman, with his
red face. Oh, Lucy ! he has been so comfortable
here with us, just driving papa out every
afternoon. What will become of him ? He is
too aged to take another situation, and I hear
that gentlemen are putting down their carriages
everywhere. Then there is Mr. Macao, the
head-gardener. He has been so civil. I have
been afraid of him sometimes. I feared he
would scold when I swept the houses of flowers.
But he only smiled, though the loss of the

cherished blossoms went to his heart, I know.
And Jonathan — he has always shown himself so
eager to oblige. Lucy ! what trouble he took
over that clockwork for my Alpine garden, and
in piling it up he crushed one of his fingers
and lost the nail. And Jane, my maid ! I give
her so much trouble ; I am untidy with my
things. There, there — I must cry — but it is
not for myself; it is only because we shall
have to part with all these nice, kind servants,
and because papa will be miserable anywhere
else, and Uncle Eonald without plenty of room
for his lathe, and Saltcombe without his yacht,
and his fishing and shooting. He cares for
nothing else, and these will be taken from him.
He will have Beavis.'

Beavis, you may be sure, will cling to him
to the last.'

Yes,' said Lady Grace, as she patted her
friend's hand, which she held between her own,
and looked thoughtfully before her, ' and your
father will always be with mine ! Oh, what a
blessing it is to have dear, faithful friends. Let
everything else go. These precious, golden
hearts are above all that the world can give.'
After a silence she said reverently, ' And they
are God's gift, to comfort us.' Both were

affected, and said nothing for several minutes,
but Lucy stooped and kissed Lady Grace's
hand.

4 Lucy,' said the latter after awhile, ' I
thought you told me that Mr. Cheek was going
to help us.'

We thought lie would, but when it came
to the point he drew back, and made ridiculous
conditions.'

Surely he had all but promised, had he
not?'

I cannot say that. My dear father was
very sanguine when he returned from town,
lie told us that he had managed everything
beautifully, and that we had no more occasion
for anxiety, as our relative, who was a millionaire,
would come to the rescue. Dear papa's
ducks are all swans, and he is hopeful on the
smallest grounds. When Mr. Cheek came
here, he did not even go over the estates, he
simply came and went again. He did not even
attend the meeting.'

But you say he made some sort of offer.'

Lucy coloured.

I ought not to have said that. Papa
mentioned it to me as a secret. He had not
told Beavis, as it would have made Beavis

furious — and he might not have been civil to
Charles any more.'

1 Of course if you are bound not to tell, I
will not press you. Otherwise, I would be glad
to know the conditions.'

They were too outrageous to be mentioned,'
said Lucy, partly laughing, partly crying. ' It
makes me very angry, and yet disposed to laugh,
whenever they recur to me.'

You very angry ! you, Lucy ! that would
be a new experience to me to see my little
friend in a passion ; and Beavis furious — who
looks so gentle and collected.'

Enough to make us. If you heard, you
would be angry also.'

6 Tell me, and prove me.'

8 1 am ashamed. Promise me not to say a
word to Lord Saltcombe, or Lord Eonald, or
the Duke — not to anyone.'

6 No — I will not repeat what you tell me.'

Then you shall hear. That stupid old
man, Mr. Cheek, saw how agreeable his son
made himself at dinner, and being a blunder-head,
he supposed that there was more in his
attentions to you than ordinary civility. Well !
the dull fellow went home, and told papa he
would give two hundred thousand towards

clearing the mortgages the clay he heard that
Charles was accepted by you. Did you ever
dream of such audacity? My father had to
exercise great self-restraint to keep from knocking
the man clown. Some minds are not
properly balanced.'

The blood rushed through Lady Grace's
veins, crimsoning her pure face and neck and
bosom. Next moment she was as white as a
snowdrop.

4 1 must not keep you up any later, Lucy,'
she said. ' It is time for both of us to go to
bed.'

Lucy looked at her friend with surprise. Not
an allusion to what had been said passed her
lips. Lucy noticed her paleness, and misinterpreted
it. ' I have offended you, by telling
you of this piece of vulgar presumption. Let
the remembrance of it die. I am sorry that
I allowed myself to blab the impertinent
secret.'

Net at all,' answered Lady Grace. ' I
thank you for telling me. Kiss me, and go to
bed. I want to be alone.'

Next morning early, Lady Grace entered
her brother's room. He was still asleep on
the sofa. The shutters were shut, and the

curtains drawn. The servants had looked in,
but had not liked to disturb him.

His sister partially opened one of the
shutters, so that a ray of light entered. Then
she drew a chair beside the sofa, and sat down
by her brother's head.

Presently he woke. Her gentle, pitiful,
loving eyes, resting on his worn face, had disturbed
him. He looked round and sat up.

4 Grace ! ' he said, and brushed his hands
over his brow to collect his senses.

Yes, dear, I am here.'

I thought I was visited by an angel.'

She was in a light print morning gown,
her face was pale, and in the dimness of the
room might well have been thus mistaken.

Uncle Eonald, Worthivale, and I have
been keeping up quite a revel,' he said.

She looked round ; there were no glasses
on the table, but plenty of papers scribbled
over with calculations.

This looks sadly dissipated,' he said ; ' I
am sorry you see me and my room in such a
condition, Grace.'

Oh, Herbert ! do not think to deceive me.
I know well what it means. All hope gone.
Everything lost. Is it not so ? '

He did not answer.

Yes, brother, I know the worst, and I am
glad that I do. I have not slept at all. I was
sure you and the dear uncles were restless
through trouble. I have come to you thus early
to set your mind at ease. The house need not
be sold, the servants need not receive notice.
All is not lost. E generis lux.'

4 1 see no light.'

It is coming.'

Who will bring it ? '

4 1 dare say I shall.'

w You, dear sister ? ' said Lord Saltcombe
with a laugh. ' Do you remember the little
snipe that supposed it could stay up the heavens
with its feet, when the thunder rolled, and it
thought they were falling ? It said, " I, even I,
will uphold the skies." '

CHAPTER Xlvi

LEIGH.

The Archdeacon left without giving advice.
He had no advice that he could give. He
looked ill. When Micah had his idols stolen by
thievish men of Dan, he beat his breast, and
tore his beard, and cried, ' Ye have taken away
my gods which I made, and what have I
more ? ' The belief in his family stability had
been the deepest fibre in his soul, and now that
conviction was torn up, his mind was in
collapse. He had regarded himself as able to
assist in every emergency, if not with money,
yet with counsel, and now he found himself
powerless to avert the impending ruin either
with money or with counsel.

The General wrote letters all day, which he
tore up and re-wrote. He looked greyer and
older than before, and was silent at meals.
Lord Saltcombe placed no reliance on his

sister's promise of relief. Whence could it
come ? He knew of no quarter. She had
given him no reason for encouragement. He
attributed her hopes to a natural disposition to
look for the best. He deferred breaking the
news to the Duke, from his habitual procrastination
of putting off doing what was unpleasant.


Charles Cheek was still at the Lodge. He
could not disobey his father, who had insisted
on his remaining there, but he was getting
mortally weary of the life. Lady Grace
exercised over him the same spell, but the
country life, the want of daily variety, the lack
of genial companions of ins own age, made him
wish himself back in Plymouth. He had no
resources in himself, and a man without such
resources is only happy in a crowd.

Beavis, old boy,' he said one day, ' I shall
give a dinner at the " Duke's Head," and break
this frightful monotony. Young Sheepwash and
I play at billiards when we do not hunt, and
there are one or two other fellows at the club,
who are not bad, but stupefied by living out of
the world. I feel like a comet getting further
and further into outer space. This Kingsbridge
is one of life's backwaters where only sticks

assemble. I shall give a dinner. I'll ask the
Vicar's son. He is a good fellow enough. His
father wants him to go into the Church, because
the Duke can dispose of some livings, but he
wants to go on the stage, which is absurd ; he
has no looks and no memory. Can I invite
Saltcombe?'

c You can call him, but will he come ? I
think not ; he is much engaged over unpleasant
business, which has put him out of
tune.'

Out of tune ! I should think so ; there is no
tune in him at all.'

You must excuse him. He has heavy
anxieties.'

I know that — about money. That is no
excuse for moping. I am always in trouble
about money, but it never spoils my pitch.
Beavis ! you have not heard of my last
escapade, and how I got out of it. I lost a
hundred pounds on a snail to Captain Finch.
I hadn't a hundred pence in my pocket, and
he was under orders for India. A girl got me
out of my hobble. Little monkey ! It fills me
with laughter whenever I think of her. Beavis !
His Grace the Duke of Kingsbridge could not
do better than cross the palm of that little

witch with silver. She'll help him, if help be
possible.'

4 How did you — or she manage it ? '

She is a queer piece of goods, very
respectable. Not a word against her character.
I have had many a joke with her now and
then. Well! — will you believe me? — she
appealed to my father, and threatened breach
of promise.'

Had you given her occasion ? Did you like
her ? '

Like her ! Couldn't help liking her. Such
a rogue ! Enough to make one laugh all day.
You never knew where to have her. Well,
my father was in a tearing rage, and went
down to Plymouth to see her, and bought
her off with a hundred pounds.'

What has that to do with your debt? '

Everything. She enclosed the note by
next post, with my compliments to Captain
Finch, who was surprised and delighted to get
the money so expeditiously.'

She kept none of the money ? '

Not a farthing.'

Is she well off?'

Has not a sixpence.'

6 Why did she do this? '

8 To help me. Because I christened my snail
after her. I wish I could go to Plymouth, and
see her again to thank her. It seems shabby
not to do so, don't it ? '

8 Your father was quite right in insisting that
you should stay here.'

8 1 cannot stand it much longer, Beayis.
The country was not created for me. Glad I
wasn't born in prehistoric periods before towns
were. Your father is most kind and good to
receive me, and the people at the Court are
very hospitable, but I get tired of the same
faces, same scenes, same subjects of conversation,
day after day. I do not know how I should
live without the club and the billiard-table.'

You enjoy your walks with the ladies.'

I get a certain distance with Lady Grace,
but no further.'

8 Pray how much further do you want to
go ? Pretty well for you to be received into
such a house with courtesy.'

8 Oh, don't you know ? My father and I
have settled that she is to become Mrs. Charles
I mean, Lady Grace Cheek.'

4 What an. honour ! ' exclaimed Beavis sarcastically.
8 Pray are the Duke and the lady
informed of your intentions ? '

c No, I have not had sufficient encourage -
ment.'

1 Then let me advise you to refrain from communicating
the nattering proposal to either, till
you have received the requisite encouragement.'

Of course, of course,' said the unabashed
Charles. ' My governor is set on it. I should
like it well enough. When I am with her, I
am over head and ears ; when I am away,
I am not so sure that she will suit me.'

Have done ! ' exclaimed Beavis. ' This is
intolerable.'

Did you ever hear the story of the North
Country collier and his son, who were breeding
a doo for fighting ? The son went under the
table and barked, and the dog flew at him and
bit his nose, and held on as a stoat to a rabbit.
The lad screamed to his father to call off the
dog ; but the old fellow said, " Let him bite,
lad, let him bite, it'll be the making o' the pup."
I think my governor is urging me on in this
affair for the same reason. " It'll be the making
of the pup," he says.'

Beavis's face flushed. He turned his back
and walked away. Charles Cheek ran after
him. ' There, old fellow, don't take amiss what
I have said ; it is only a joke.'

Then joke on some other subject. Lady
Grace Eveleigh is sacred.'

8 By all means,' said young Cheek, ' we'll
change the topic. Are you going to the
Plymouth ban 5 ?'

JS T o, I think not.'

6 Nor Lord Saltcombe, nor her ladyship ? '

6 They never attend.'

'Well!— I am off to the Court. We
have planned a walk to-day to Leigh Priory,
which they say is pretty ; and we shall pick
primroses and wood anemones on the way.
Will you come P '

1 No, I have business.'

Then there will be only three of us

tricolor. Lady Grace, Cousin Lucy, and
myself. Saltcombe has something to detain
him.'

Beavis nodded. He was ruffled by what
Charles had said, and the swell in his temper
would not allay itself at once. Charles
walked through the park and joined the
ladies.

Leigh is an old priory converted into a
farmhouse ; it is almost as left by the menes
when expelled three hundred years ago, with
scarce an alteration save the destruction of the

church. It stands in a wooded valley, with
rich green meadows occupying the bottom.
A sweet, sheltered nook, basking in the sun —
a place in which to dream life away.

The walk was pleasant, the air soft, the sun
bright, the buds of the honeysuckle had burst
into leaf, an occasional white butterfly sickened
in the way. The woods were speckled with
starry wind-flowers, and the hedges full of
yellow primroses. Here and there the blue
periwinkle was spread as a mat. It had escaped
originally from the priory garden, as had the
snowdrops, and had become wild, like the
virtues — simple virtues — of the old monks,
which lingered on in the congenial soil of the
simple rustic souls of that part of Devon.

I wonder whether there is truth in Sir
Henry Seaman's doctrine that Church property
carries w T with it a curse that consumes the lay
impropriators,' said Lady Grace, partly to Lucy,
partly to herself. ' Leigh has belonged to the
Eveleighs since the dissolution.'

No, Lady Grace,' answered Charles ; ' the
cause of decay is generally to be found nearer
at hand than in a theft of three centuries.'

6 Yes,' she answered, with a sad smile, ' no
doubt you are right. We throw back the blame

on our remote forefathers, that we may shut our
eyes to our own faults. We Eveleighs have
but our own improvidence to look to as the
cause of our fall. We have not taken warning
in time. We let occasion slip, till occasion
came no more.'

1 There is no immediate anxiety, I hope,'
said the young man.

Yes, before the year is out, our doom will
be sealed, our ruin published to the whole
world.'

Lucy looked at her friend with surprise.
Hitherto she had not spoken on this subject to
a stranger, and now she was courting conversation
thereon.

4 Let us hope for the best,' said Charles. %

1 It is of no avail hoping. We have cast
out the anchor, and there is no bottom in which
it will bite. A fig tree in our garden has been
failing for some years. Last autumn I pointed
it out to old Jonathan. "Please, my lady," he
said, " the fig is going home." This spring the
wood is dead, and Jonathan is stubbing up the
roots. " He's gone home, as I said," was his
remark. Well ! the old tree of Eveleigh is
also going home, and next year we shall be

vol. in. i

stubbed up out of Court Royal, and gone home
altogether. 1

Young Cheek did not relish a dismal subject.
He tried to brighten the conversation by changing
the topic.

4 Do you ever go to the Plymouth balls ?
They are select and good.'

4 1 have not been for some years. At one
time, but not since Saltcombe has not cared to
attend.'

4 Won't you come to the next, at Easter ? '

Lady Grace paused, looked down, and said,
4 If you wish it.'

Lucy started, glanced at her timidly, and
coloured. Even Charles was surprised. He
said quickly, 4 Wish it ! It will crown the ball
with perfection. Oh ! Lady Grace, how delightful
! Then Lucy also will come, and, no
doubt, Lord Saltcombe also. That will be
charming indeed ! How pleased the Plymouth
people will be ! '

Charles Cheek found a bank of blue borage
and pink crane's bill, and some golden celandine
the two former had lingered through the
mild winter, untouched by frost. He made two
little bouquets, and presented one to each of the
ladies. On their way home the conversation reverted

to the family troubles. Lucy was puzzled.
She did not say much ; she left the other
two to talk. Her mind was engaged wondering
at her friend's manner, which seemed
changed.

1 wish — oh ! how I wish,' said Lady Grace,
4 that there were some means by which our ruin
might be averted. I would do much — I would
do anything that lay in my own power — to
save my dear father the sorrow, and to give
my brother a chance of beginning life again,
crushed by the consciousness of the impending
Gotterdammerung. The knowledge of
what was coming has blighted his life, once so
bright with promise.'

Charles looked intently in her face.

Do you really mean this, Lady Grace ? '

6 What I say, I mean,' she answered, with a
slight tremor in her voice.

Lucy, frightened, looked at her, and saw
two fiery spots in her cheeks.

I have no pride. If it lay with me, I
would sacrifice myself, were my sacrifice worth
anything to anyone.'

Lady Grace ! '

No more was said. They were in the park.
They saw Lord Ronald walking towards them

r 2

without his hat, his hair raised by the

wind. He was looking excited.

• I want you. Grace. There is a telegram
from Edward. Xo. I do not mean that —

Edward. A telegram from
&] 3 . :: m B "1 ; come in. Salt-combe

and I must be off immediately. The
carriage is l icy without delay. We

must catch the 7-10 up train. That, however,
sticks at Exeter, and we shall have *
over an hour of pro s time on the platform.
It cannot be helped, though the Duke urges
our telegraphing for a special."

• AVI. a: is it? — Oh. un exclaimed Lady
Grace, with fluttering heart. ; tell me the worst

~ he — ?'

• No, not that anew Lord Ronald
hastily, but he turned his he A wiped
his s * whilst there is life there is hope. A

re. How severe, the telegram, that is.

Elizabeth, does not say. salt combe and I are

3 hurry to Sleepy Hollow. The

wording is short. Elizabeth might have been

fuller. We have not told the Duke all ; only

we are wanted, and that — that Edward is

unwell. That has made him uneasy. You

to him, and pacify him, and in an hour

or so show him the telegram. I am afraid,

Grace, that this is a serious case. Hew blows

do fall one after another ! and Edward the
man of the family on whom one leaned

Alv God ! if we lose him, what shall — what

shall we do ?

As Charles parted with them at the door,

Lady Agra ~ id to him, in a sad, plaintive voice,

I am sorry I cannot keep my promise. You
the reason. I cannot attend the halL'
That evening, in her room, Lucy said to
'Oh, Grace! what am I to understand?

You gave Air. Cheek such encouragement !

After that — he will be daring to ask for your

hand. 9

• It fa ; does I will give it him. 5

CHAPTEE Xlvii

THE FALL OF A PILLAR.

Lord Ronald and the Marquess reached Bridgewater
at midnight. There they engaged a fiy,
and drove across country to Sleepy Hollow.
The drive was long. There was no train so
late from ILighbridge to Glastonbury, consequently
they had no choice. When they drew
up at the rectory door the hour was early in
the morning, and the first streaks of dawn
appeared. A light was in an upper window.

Lady Elizabeth appeared. She had expected
them, and sat up ; she was calm and collected.
Lord Edward was no more. He had not
recovered from his stroke. The archdeaconry
of Wellington, a canonry in Glastonbury, and
the rectory of Sleepy Hollow were open for
eager applicants.

A bright fire was burning in the study, and
the table was laid near it. The cook was up,

and a smell of mutton chops pervaded the
house.

1 Will you have some hot wine and water,
or stout? 'asked Lady Elizabeth. 'Dear old
man. He seemed to know me. I held his
hand, and he pressed it when I spoke to him.
There is Worcester sauce, if you like it. He
seemed very unlike himself when he returned
from Court Royal. I am afraid he over-exerted
his brain. I know you all thought him very
clever. I always considered him very good.
There is cold rabbit pie, if you prefer it ; but I
have no doubt you are chilly, and would like
what is hot. At tills hour there is no choice
chops and mashed potatoes, or cold meat.
There was a worry, moreover, about repairs.
Nothing has been clone to the house for sometime
— in fact, we have not had the money to
execute necessary repairs. Now we shall have
a terrible bill for dilapidation. Edward got
a builder to go over the roof with him, because
the rain came in. I think he caught a chill,
and being below par he succumbed. He was
a very good man, and so dear to me ! ' Lady
Elizabeth began to cry. ' I know the chops
are tender,' she said, after having wiped her
eyes. ' One of our own sheep — we killed on

Monday. I do not know why it is that when
we buy mutton we give sentence to tcnpence-
halfpenny, and when we sell we get only sixpence.
We could not eat all the sheep ourselves,
so what we did not want was sold to
our workmen and parishioners. Edward let
them have it at sixpence. He was so kind — so
over-kind. He was easily imposed upon. He
did not sufficiently consider himself. ' Presently,
after another suffusion of tears, ' You must
eat. There is ground rice in a shape, and
strawberry jam. I know you are unhappy.
You loved Edward. So did I ; but we are
human, and must care for our bodies. Eat,
eat, Ronald. Finish that bottle ; you shall
have another uncorked in a minute. That
insufferable curate of ours has mounted the
blue ribbon. The last word I heard him
murmur was " Chabot ; " that means, " The
glory is departed. " I am alluding to Edward,
not the curate. I thought he wanted to leave
me a message. His lips moved, though his
eyes were closed, so I leaned over him and
said, " Yes, Edward, dear, what is it? " Then
lie sighed heavily, and pressed my hand, and
opened his eyes, and said, " Chabot ! " I
believe after that he had not a conscious

moment. Never mind, Eonald, the gravy has
not gone through.' This referred to a spill of
the juice from the chops on the tablecloth.
The General's hand had trembled as he helped
himself to the gravy. ' I think you had better
not see him to-night. He looks so sweet and
peaceful, as if he were twenty years younger.
Dear, dear fellow ! What shall I do without
him ? You had better lie down ; do go to
bed for a few hours. You shall not be disturbed
; you have had a long and harassing
journey, and you, Eonald, at your time of life,
cannot bear these strains like the young. Now,
of course, nothing can be clone. If he had
lived till your arrival it would have been
different. Your beds are aired, have no fear ;
and there are fires in your rooms.'

Lord Eonald and the Marquess remained
till after the funeral. The funeral was conducted
with some state ; Lord Edward was an
Archdeacon, Canon of the Cathedral of Glastonbury,
and last, but not least, son of a duke.
All the principal clergy and gentry of the
neighbourhood attended, and the parishioners
showed and wept, the women especially.
Would the next rector let them have his mutton
at sixpence ?

The Hon. Cadogan Square, brother of Lady
Elizabeth, was there. The Squares were a
legal family, the head of which had been
created a pe

When the Archdeacon's will was read, it
was found that he left all his personalty to his
wife, five hundred pounds to the Cathedral of
;>nbury, five hundred to the widows and
orphans of the diocese, four hundred to the
County Hospital, one hundred to the S.P.G.,
and one hundred to the CJC.S. All the r
his prop - to go to his niece Grace. But

when his affairs were looked into, i: was further
discovered that his real property had been got
rid of, sunk in the great Kino-bridge vortex in
loan upon loan. Further, it was discovered
dilapidation on the rectory, and the
chancel, and some cottages on the glebe, would
amount to a thousand pounds, which the
widow would be called upon by that horseleech
Queen Anne to pay.

It was further discovered that Lord Edward

- s anal hundred pounds in arrear to the

Glastonbury Bank. Also, that the butcher's

bill (mutton never below sentence) for the

free . months was unpaid, and amounted

to one hundred and forty pounds four shillings

and five pence three farthings. The grocer's

bill for the last two years had been a running
int. with running discharges of a few
pounds at random ; the wine merchant's had
not been attempted to be paid except by fresh
ordti-. Lord Ronald waa executor. I:

fifty pounds to prove a will which left
nothing to anybody but debts. The Madras
Railway bonds had been sole jk before

the death of the Arch :.d what had

the money nobody knew. No
money was : - the house, except thirteen

shillings and sixpence, the proceeds of the sale
of part of the sheep to parishioners, at sixpence
per pound.

Lord Eonald was obliged to write to the
Duke to entreat him to send him some money
to cover immediate expenses. This the Duke
was fortunately able to do out of the proc
of the Madras Railway bonds, which had gone
to him. and he had given the Archdeacon a
note of hand for the amount, which somehow
could not be found.

Most fortunately the club accounts, and the
church accounts, were in perfect order, as were
those of the diocesan sock which the

Archdeacon was treasurer. This waa only so

because these were managed by Lady Elizabeth,
who kept all the money received in green
baize bags, properly labelled, in a locked cupboard,
suspended to pegs, like Bluebeard's
wives. The curate, however, had not received
his salary for the last half-year. The servants
had all been paid recently. Lady Elizabeth
discharged their wages out of her private purse.
Unfortunately for the curate, she did not pay
his. As soon as he was able to get away, Lord
Eonald returned to Court Royal. He had
been very warmly attached to his brother
Edward, whom he had reverenced as a pillar of
orthodoxy — a pillar he was, like that of Pompey,
supporting Nothing — and an ultimate appeal in
all matters of difficulty relating to the farms.
Lord Eonald was a man with a very gentle,
tender heart, and Edward had been associated
with his happy boyish days. They had been
at school together ; they had been companions
in the holidays together. In after life, Eonald
had always made of his brother Edward his
closest friend and confidant and adviser. Consequently
the death of the Archdeacon shook
the old man profoundly. The troubles and
difficulties involved in his executorship bewildered
and depressed him.

The Duke was shocked to see how altered
he was when he returned to Court Royal. He
lost his memory now and then, and seemed
dazed, and had to hold his hand to his head to
recollect himself. His face was more lined, his
hair whiter, it looked thinner; he was less
carefully dressed, and his hands shook. His
back was bent, and his tread had lost its
firmness.

The Duke clasped his brother's hand. ' You
have felt the loss of Edward severely, Eonald.
So have I. Dear, good, loving soul, full of
honour and charity ! And what a brain ! clear,
sound, well balanced. He ought to have been
a bishop. Well ! the world of this nineteenth
century was not worthy of him. There is one
great and good man the less, the like of whom
will not be met with hereinafter

a pause he continued : ' I do not
know what we are coming to. The spirit of
the age has affected our excellent Worthivale.
He demurred to my putting all the servants in
mourning. He said the expense would be so
great, as all the men must have new black
liveries, and the women each a pair of black
gowns and a bonnet apiece. I overrode his
objections. I have no patience with this

peddling spirit of retrenchment, whether in the
affairs of the nation or of this house. It would
be a scandal not to go into mourning for Lord
Edward. The. expense is unavoidable. I
presume he has left a handsome sum behind
him. I think you told me in your letter that
he had left everything, except a few trifles in
charity, to Grace. As for Elizabeth, she is
provided for by her marriage settlement,'

I am afraid Grace's chance of getting anything
is very small,' said the General ; ' and we
shall be hard put to, to find money for the
charities. I don't quite know what is to be done
about the debts — is Elizabeth to pay them?
They are heavy. As for the charities, they
amount to sixteen hundred pounds, and this
we must find ; if we do not find it voluntarily,
the Dean and Chapter, and the officers of the
Widows and Orphans, and Propagation of
Heathens, and Church Missionary can force us.
It would be a scandal — — '

My dear Eonald, everything shall be paid
at once. I shall see Worthivale to-day.'

Let Saltcombe and me settle that,' said the
General. ' Do not concern yourself further in
this matter. I do not know whether Saltcombe
has spoken to you about the mortgages on

Court Royal and Kingsbridge. They have to
be met very speedily. Indeed, time is flying,
and the money must be raised. I have been
thinking — what do you say, Duke, to the sale
of Kingsbridge House ? It is of no manner of
use to you now ! '

Good Heavens ! ' The Duke rose in his
chair. ; Do I hear you aright ? The sale of
Kingsbridge House? Your wits are leaving
you, Eonald. How can we sell that? We
must have a town house. Why, Saltcombe will
be marrying — he may be Duke shortly, and
then he must spend the season in London.
No, not another word of that. The Duke
without a town residence ! like a foreign
yellow-backed book, published without a
cover ! '

6 We cannot make bricks without straw,'
murmured the General.

4 How, bricks without straw ? ' asked the
Duke testily.

4 We are in a condition in which we do not
know where to look for money, and yet we
have to pay Edward's bequests, some at least
of his debts, and the mortgages on the very
heart of the property.'

4 Worthivale will manage it.'

Wortliivale cannot work miracles. The
Alvington mortgages are also called in, and the
Loddiswell threatened

Send Saltcombe to me. We will arrange
for a fresh mortgage, or get these transferred.
They have been transferred already — at least
some of them.'

8 But more money must be found, and a
transfer is not easy in these unsettled times.
The property is burdened beyond what it can
bear in prosperous times.'

The Duke bit his lips and frowned. ' We
have managed very well hitherto, and we shall
manage in the future.'

6 We have managed in the way of the
ostrich — the family crest, and not an inappropriate
one — by putting our heads into a bush,
and thinking, because Ave see no danger, that
none menaces.'

'Really, HonaM, your anxiety as executor
to Edward's will has ruffled your temper.'

Not a bit. Something must be done, and
I do not know what to do, now Edward is gone.
I expected Saltcombe to have told you all — he
undertook to do so. As he has failed, I must.
Emmanuel's mortgages must be paid at once —
those of Moses and Levi within three months —

bills have been called in, which we must meet.
Here are our debts to Edward, which must be
cancelled within a twelvemonth, and the charitable
societies satisfied. It will never do for
them to say that the poor and the heathen have
been cheated of a few pounds by the noble
house of Kingsbridge. Then there is the
Loddiswell mortgage — and others that are sure
to come.'

4 These things right themselves,' said the
Duke. ' " Tout vient a celui qui sait attendre."
Let Saltcombe take those troubles off your
mind.'

Saltcombe is prepared to sell.'

6 To that I will never consent.'

1 If you will not sell voluntarily, the mortgagees
will sell from under your feet.'

Nonsense. Worthivale will satisfy them all
without their coming to extremities ; besides, if
it did come to that — well — rather be robbed
than voluntarily alienate the patrimony of our
ancestors.'

'Look here, Duke. Let us sell those
Eubens at Kino-bridge House. Some of them
are scarcely decent — fat nude females and
satyrs tumbling amid goats, and peaches, and
grapes, and cherubs, and red and blue drapery,

VOL. III. K

which is everywhere except where it ought to
be. One of them, you know, is covered with
a curtain. Of what good to us are these
pictures ? Let them be sold. They are worth
a great deal of money, and we should be
thankful to be rid of such voluptuous nightmares.
'

They were presented to the Field-marshal
by the grateful City of Antwerp. They are
heirlooms. They have a history. They have
been engraved. We cannot part with them.'

There is a quantity of old plate here — I
should say tons of it, which is never used.
Why should not that be sold? '

fc For the best possible reason, that each
piece has a history. Some were presented for
services rendered, others are works of high art,
some came to us through distinguished marriages.
No, the plate cannot be parted with.'

Then the books. There are perches of
volumes in the library no one ever looks
into, some, doubtless, valuable ; possibly some
unique. Let us have down a London bookseller
to value them, and if need be, purchase
them. Which of us cares for old books now ? '

They are all bound and impressed with
our arms on the covers, or have our bookcases

inside. I cannot endure the thought of them
finding their way into the libraries of common
Dicks and Harries. No — the books must not
be sold.'

6 There is the family jewelry. There are
magnificent sets of diamonds and other stones,
never worn. Let them be disposed of.'

'Not on any account. Saltcombe may
marry, and his wife will need our jewelry.
You would not have a Duchess of Kingsbridge
without her diamonds ? '

6 1 give it up,' said the General distractedly,
with his hand to his head.

4 My dear Eonald,' said the Duke, c if weare
to go down, which I will not for one moment
admit, let us sink like Rienzi and his sister in the
last scene of the opera, amid falling pillars of
Church and State, of the moral and social order.
I see on all sides threatening of the dissolution
of the bases of society. It may be that we, in
England, will go through throes like those of
the Revolution in France. It looks like it.
All that we honour and hold sacred is menaced.
There is no security anywhere. In the general
social upheaval and constitutional overthrow,
we may be crushed, but do not let us contribute
to our own fall.'

K 2

I want to avert it,' exclaimed the General.

fc Listen to me. I must trouble you not to
interrupt me. There is one thing of which, if
we be true to ourselves, we can never be
despoiled — our dignity. Let us maintain that.
Let us combat the powers of evil — I mean the
democracy '

4 But this is not a case of democracy at all,
but of debt,' interrupted the General.

You are again snapping the thread of my
argument,' said the Duke offended ; c and now
I don't know where I was, it has shrunk out of
reach like a ruptured tendon. Do not let us
cast away what is ours, as sops to Cerberus, to
facilitate an Aversion descent.'

4 What about the charitable bequests? The
honour of the family is at stake.'

Where the honour of the family is
menaced, it must be maintained at all cost.
L'honneur avant la vie." But I can see no
dignity in the lizard, which when pursued slips
joint after joint of his tail, and is content if he
lives, a maimed and despicable trunk.'

Lord Ronald was trifling with a bronze
lizard paper-weight on the table as the Duke
spoke, and his Grace's eyes were on it. ' There
is something to me unspeakably contemptible in

attempting to conciliate the masses by dropping
privilege after privilege, and selling estate after
estate to satisfy Jewish money-lenders — it is all
the same.' He paused, still looking at the
lizard. ' I do not see how it is possible that
Edward can have left so little. He had a good
income from several quarters, and Elizabeth
was not penniless.'

c He has left nothing but debts.'
c What sort of debts ? '
Butcher's bill, grocer, shoemaker, clerical
tailor, fruiterer — I cannot tell you all. There
is quite a commotion among the shopkeepers of
Glastonbury ; they think they will be done out
of their money.'

The Duke reddened. 'Done out of their
money ! Nonsense, Eonald ! With me to fall
back on ! Write to them at once. I make
myself solely responsible for all my brother's
debts. Every man shall be paid, and paid
promptly.'

Lord Eonald still stood playing with the
bronze lizard.

4 Well ! ' said the Duke, looking up, ' that
settles everything, I trust.'

But whence is the money to come ? '

1 My dear fellow, I cannot attend to such

trl£es- " - "- -" -

l;."f :Zf :; .: —
•A

stall be paid — the fraction

'Bmhow

fc Thar is not toot affair. Ir can be d
course. I pie ."-elf to pay.*

i. - . - • : . z; ■ - . i -

ward!' he moaned. walked away more

'Qolryonr. Doldnowc: out

of difficulties s One pillar

leu, and the whole building w

CHAPTER XLIX.
a>~ .ap?.:i r :•:■!.

A great change had come over Lazarus.
Whether it dated from the sprouting of the
moustache, or from the conference at Court
Koyal, and the final imposition of terms on the
great family, could not be determined by
I ^na with nicety. She thought that the
oar A. •> ■;.:: wAn A •:- n:v.s:.:A::e :.A A :-" A.
after the latter eve:: Lazarus was elate. Old
Cheek had retired without interference, and
now thai his heart was lifted up, he ws g m :
liberal than when he consented to an occasional
bloater. Indeed this liberal tendency had
r.velAd Aro Ar ;e prcr :A ins. Er AA r.::
m saddle of mutton with onion sauce,

nor from AA: ■:■:" veA wAn-::AAr. r:: :rim
sirloin of beef and Yorkshire pudding — only.:

r :rk he AA Aovrr. :\ LA :•. ::: A v.- ; 5 j::A:
rbrAo prelates.

Have pig's puddings if you like, Joanna.
Don't let my inclinations bar your way — yet,
perhaps, such is the delicacy of your feelings,
you don't like to eat and see me fast.' He
spoke thickly, making strange efforts with his
mouth to get out the words.

What is the matter with you, Mr. Lazarus ?
Your speech is queer, and your appearance

changed ' Joanna stopped short, and stared.

Lazarus opened his mouth. He had provided
himself with a double set of artificial teeth.

I thought I'd electrify you,' he said. ' Yes
I've had my jaw taken in hand by an artist
a dentist. Cost me a lot of money, Joanna,
the charge was outrageous — a fancy price as
for an object of vertu. But, so long as it pleases
you, I don't care.'

8 1 wish,' said Joanna, ' that you'd be more
particular about your hair, Mr. Lazarus. You
make your pillow as black as if you used your
head for a flue brush.'

Lazarus looked down.

You used to have grey hair.'

'Not grey,' said the Jew; 'just a speckle
here and there — like wood anemones in a
grove.'

But now your hair is glossy black. Don't

use your head again on the chimney. If you
object to a sweep I will use a holly bush.'

It is not that,' he said humbly.

'Then what is it? '

Dye,' he replied, with deepened colour —
a coppery blush. ' Dye that cost me five
shillings. I've gone through a course of Zylo-
balsam and Eau des Fees. There, Joanna,
if I blacken my pillowcase I am sorry. Henceforth
I'll tie a black silk handkerchief round
my head when I retire to bed.'

fc What was that concern I found on the
chair in your room this morning ? '

My stays,' whispered the Jew.

Stays ! ' echoed Joanna.

Call it corset,' said Lazarus. ' It sounds
more aristocratic. My figure wants it.'

4 What next? ' asked Joanna contemptuously.
Are you coming out in knickerbockers and a
Norfolk blouse ? '

I don't like irony,' said the Jew ; ' it hurts
my feelings, which are ticklish as the soles of
my feet, Joanna ! what say you to a picnic ?
A jaunt to Prince's Town, on the moors in this
brilliant spring weather, and a look at the
convicts — so as to combine moral edification
with pleasure ? '

I should like it.'

You shall have it. Express a wish, and I
fly to fulfil it. I have even forestalled your
wishes. I've invited the old lady from the
ham and sausage shop to join us as a sort of
chaperon, you understand.'

When is this to be ? '

On Sunday, when no business is doing. A
carriage and pair, in style. It will cost a lot,
too, but what of that, if it give Joanna pleasure,
and the mountain air bring roses to her cheeks,
and the sight of the prisoners inspire her heart
with virtue.'

Why have you invited Mrs. Thresher ? '

As a chaperon. But with a chuckle, ' if
it w r ould suit you better, Joanna, to come alone
with me, I'm — as I always am and must be —
agreeable. The weight will be less for the
horses. The ham and sausage woman weighs
ten stone before her dinner. Not that we shall
be changed less for going: without her — but we
shall have to feed her out of our pockets.
There is that to be considered. If I order a
dinner at six shillings, and there are only
ourselves to eat it, we shall consume three -
shillings' worth each, whereas if Mrs. Thresher
comes we shall be limited to two. That has to

be considered. However, it is for you to decide e.
I'll regulate my appetite by your decision.'

As Joanna said nothing, he added, ' There
is another point worth weighing. If the ham
and sausage lady comes, I must sit with my
back to the horses ; that makes me bilious, and
spoils my relish of the victuals. Where you
pay you expect to relish. It wouldn't be
etiquette to set a lady rewards to the horses,
would it P But no — I'll manage. We'll have
a waggonette ! '

1 There's one thing I should like above every
other,' said Joanna ; ; that is, to go to the ball.'

1 The ball ! But I can't be there.'

That will not affect my pleasure. You
have spoiled my fun more than once. I was to
have gone to a grand dance at Court Royal, but
could not, because of your affairs. Now the
spring ball is about to come off, and I should
dearly love to be there.'

Lazarus rubbed his head, and looked at the
palm of his hand, upon which the dye had
come off.

Joanna,' he said, ' you don't consider.
These balls are very select ; only ladies of the
county families, and the wives and daughters of
officers. No second-rate parties there '

4 I don't want to go to any second-rate affair.
The best, or none at all'

But I don't see my way to manage it.
You'd want a chaperon, and the old lady from
the ham and sausage shop is not quite, as the
French put it, cream of the cream.'

4 I remember that you once told Mr. Charles
Cheek that you could send me to any ball you
had a mind to, and no lady dare refuse you.'

4 I was romancing,' said the Jew : ' I'm by
nature an Oriental, and prone to soar into
poetry.'

6 1 will go,' said Joanna decisively.

6 1 can't find the way to do it,' answered
Lazarus.

4 Very well ; go to the moors with Mrs.
Thresher, eat your three-shillings worth. I will
remain behind.'

4 Oh, no, no, Joanna ! I've set my heart on
this excursion.'

And I have set mine on the ball.'

4 I'll see about it,' muttered the Jew.

4 I shall not give a thought to the moors.
You need have no dread of sitting with your
back to the horses. You can lounge in the back
seat with Mrs. Thresher.'

4 Joanna ! I would not go without you. My

body would be on Dartmoor, but my soul would
remain at the Barbican. If you could see inside
my heart,' he said in a pathetic tone, ' you'd
behold your own self curled up there — like a
maggot in a hazel-nut. But there, I'm launching
into poetry again.'

Joanna vouchsafed no remark. He sat and
watched her, but she showed no symptoms of
relenting.

'I'm not now what I once was,' he went on.
1 Then I had an object before me for which I
toiled and stinted. Now that object is attained,
and I need stint and toil no more. Hitherto
life has been to both of us a time of privation,
now it shall become a holiday. I will deny
you nothing on which your heart is set. I
have money in abundance, and as you have
helped me to make it, you must help me to
spend it. If you want rings, take them from
my drawer. Chains and bracelets are at your
disposal. Select what gowns you like, they are
all yours.'

Go to bed,' said Joanna ; 'the whisky has
got into your old head.'

After that she would not speak to him. He
made many attempts to draw her into conversation,
but all failed. When he was about to

retire to rest, he stood in the doorway, the
picture of distress, and sighed, and said in a
soft tone, ' Good-night, Joanna,'

She poked the kitchen fire savagely, and
said nothing.

Won't you say "good-night " to me who've
been so kind to you ? '

Still no answer.

I'll think about the ball, Joanna.'

Still obdurate.

« You — you shall go to the ball, Joanna.'

Good-night, Mr. Lazarus.'

The change in the Jew's manner caused the
girl uneasiness. She was shrewd enough to see
what it meant. He had fallen in love with her
after a peculiar fashion. For a long time he
had used her as a drudge, as a mere slave,
without compunction what he laid upon her and
how hard he treated her. By degrees he came
to realise the value of her services, and he
began to ask himself what would become of
him were they withdrawn. Where could he
find a substitute ? She had grown into his
ways, to understand his requirements, almost to
think his thoughts. She had been educated in
the business and comprehended it thoroughly
in all its parts and turns. Then, when he had

come to appreciate her worth to him, Charles
Cheek appeared on the stage, admiring her,
hanging about the house, and threatening, as
the Jew feared, to carry her off. Alarmed at
the prospect of losing her, his eyes opened to
the fact that she was grown to be a woman,
and a beautiful woman. He grew jealous of
the visits of young Cheek, and jealousy, bredin
self-interest, awoke a sort of monkey-love in
the old man. His wife was dead and he was
free.

Joanna did not, perhaps, read all that passed
in his mind, but she read enough to be uncomfortable
in his presence, and to repel his
advances with decision.

She used his infatuation as far as served
her purposes, but she kept him well at bay.
Several times when they were together, she
noticed that he was working himself up to a
declaration of his sentiments. The sure sign of
this was his helping himself repeatedly to the
spirit-bottle. When he did this the girl left the
kitchen, and did not return till his courage had
evaporated.

Formerly the Jew had drunk nothing but
water, only occasionally mixed with whisky.
Of late he had enlarged his doses, not of water,

but of whisky. He sometimes pressed her to
take hot spirits and water, to sip some from his
glass, on the pretext that she had taken a chill,
but she steadily, even rudely, refused.

Lazarus was disagreeable enough in his
earlier bearish mood, he was worse in his later
loving mood ; and, in spite of the increased
comfort in the house, Joanna would gladly have
returned to the former state of affairs, to be
freed from his ungainly and irksome liabilities.


Joanna was not happy. She had not seen
Charles Cheek for some time, nor heard more
of him than a report brought by Lazarus, that
he had been to his father and that the old man
had forbidden his return to Plymouth, the scene
of so many follies.

The day fixed for the excursion to Prince's
Town broke brilliantly.

Dartmoor is a high barren region, rising
from two to three thousand feet above the sea,
towering into granite peaks, broken by brawling
torrents. In the heart of this desolate region,
and in the most desolate portion, in a boggy
basin devoid of picturesqueness, stands the
convict prison of Prince's Town, above the line
where corn will ripen and deciduous trees will

grow ; often enveloped in vapour, exposed to
every raging blast from the ocean.

To pass from the warm, steamy atmosphere
of Plymouth to the cold and bracing air of
Prince's Town, is almost a leap from the hot
into the frozen zone. The drive was delightful.
Joanna and Mrs. Thresher sat facing the horses,
and the latter talked of the drop in the price of
pork and the quality of imported bacon, during
the greater part of the journey. The Jew occupied
the position that disagreed with him. Joanna
entreated him to change seats with her, but his
gallantry was proof against her solicitations.
He cast yellow, malevolent glances at Mrs.
Thresher, who made no such offer, which, had
it been made, he would have accepted. He
maintained his place, sitting sideways, and his
face became momentarily more sallow. He
wore a straw nautical hat, with a blue riband
about it with fluttering ends, and in golden
characters on the front, an anchor and the
name c Nautical.' His black vest w r as very
open, exhibiting a starched white front set
with coral studs, and a black tie a la Byron
slipped through a cornelian ring. Over his
waistcoat dangled a massive golden chain, and
his fingers were covered with rings.

VOL. III. L

As the unfortunate man became really unwell,
the ladies insisted on his mounting the
box. ' But then,' said he gallantly, ' I am turning
my back on the finest view,' and he bowed
to Joanna and raised his cap, exposing a very
discoloured lining.

Joanna enjoyed the drive, especially that
part of it when Lazarus was not opposite her,
getting yellow in face and grey in lip.

She did not talk to Mrs. Thresher ; she was
not interested in American bacon ; she was
engaged in looking about her, at the views, the
hedges, the rocks, the rushing stream that
danced and feathered over the granite boulders.
The hedges were starred with primroses. Here
and there they were white, and here and there
pink. The larks were singing and twinkling
high aloft, the busy rooks were cawing and
flashing in the sunlight, looking sometimes
white. From the beech-groves came the liquid
coo of the doves, and the gush of the throstle's
song, and the fluting of blackbirds. Nature
teemed with music, poetry, and the exuberance
of life. Only one thing lacked, thought the
girl, to make the day perfect : Charles Cheek
should have been there with his joyous humour
and lively prattle. At length Jdiey reached

Prince's Town, and ordered dinner at the inn.
Whilst the meal was in preparation, the holiday
makers wandered about the prison, and
watched the warders and the convicts.

4 This is very improving,' said Lazarus. ' It
screws up our morals, like the tuning of
fiddles. You see, Joanna, the miserable end
of men who allow themselves to be found out.'

After dinner, Joanna slipped away, to be
alone in the wilderness, and inhale with long
draughts the sparkling air that pours into
the lungs like atmospheric champagne. She
climbed a height, and ensconced herself among
the piles of granite, away from the cold wind,
in the glow of the glorious sun. To the south
lay Plymouth harbour and the glittering sea.
Old on fold of blue hill stretching away for
miles to the rugged peaks of the Cornish moors
lay to her right.

As she sat in her nook, believing herself
alone, she was disturbed by a head with a
sailor hat protruding itself from behind a rock.
In another moment, Lazarus was before her.
He threw himself in the short grass at her feet,
picked a rush, and nibbled at the end.

8 Joanna,' he said, ' why did you run away ?
Why did you leave me with old Thresher?

L 2

What do I care for old Thresher? I brought
Thresher to-day as gooseberry picker. In the
upper walks of life, to which, we are going
to belong, gooseberry pickers are the thing.
Young people must have them as incumbrances
when out junketing. I've left old Thresher
examining some pigs fed by the warders off
the scraps left by the convicts. Did you mark
how the old lady ate ? I did. It was a race
between us ; especially over the roly-poly pudding.
She didn't want to have the doughy end
without the jam, and I was determined she
should. A roly-poly has but two ends, not
three, so two must have ends, and only one can
enjoy the middle. I was resolved that you
should have the best part and that Thresher
and I should have the ends. I cared for your
interests above my own, you'll allow that,
Joanna. I took one end, and Thresher pulled
a mow when I gave her the other. Did you
see it ? But you had the middle, oozing outwith
whortleberry jam ; and that shows, if
demonstration were needed ' (he lowered his
voice), ' how I regard you. I wouldn't have
done that in the old days, would I ? '
1 No, sir ! '
1 And let me assure you of this, Joanna, the

round globe does not contain another woman
for whom I would do it now.' He took off his
hat, and exposed his forehead scored with a
black ring. ' I hope you see, Joanna, what
a change has taken place in my feelings
towards you. You may have noticed in me
the waking of tenderness of late. Ah,
Joanna ! do me a favour ! You saved my house
from fire, my property from burglars, my
throat from their murderous knife. Save now
my heart from despair. I offer you my hand ;
let us walk together down the flowery path of
life, with the roses blushing in our way and the
doves cooing over our heads, and with plenty
to eat and drink on the journey. Spend,
Joanna, what money you like, eat w T hat
dainties you desire, dress in what clothes you
fancy, and picnic when and where you will.
Oh, Joanna, " 0, that we two were maying,"
as the song goes, together through life without
a Thresher at our side as a sharer of our pudding
! Cease to consider me as your master,
and accept me as your husband.'

Then Joanna burst into a ringing laugh.

Too late, Mr. Lazarus, too late ! — not
permissible after twelve o'clock.'

4 What do you mean ? '

This is the first of April, and you are
trying to make of me an April fool.'

I am serious. I protest, most serious.'
'Then,' said she, 'it is yourself that you
have succeeded in converting into a most
egregious April fool.'

CHAPTEE L.

TO THE RESCUE.

Mr. Charles Cheek was supposed to know
nothing of the difficulties of the family, till
Lady Grace spoke to him so plainly on the
subject. He had, however, heard something
from the steward, whose mouth could not keep
silence, and his father had told him plainly
what he knew. From Mr. Worthivale he
heard of the fresh trouble caused by the death
of the Archdeacon. Nothing further had
passed between him and Lady Grace. She
was friendly, and he remained fascinated.
There it stopped.

Lord Saltcombe had at last been roused to
take a decided step. The General told him of
the Duke's objection to the sale of anything,
and of the necessity under which they lay of at
once finding money. The honour of the house
was at stake, and the Marquess visited his
father, and was closeted with him for an hour.

When he came out, he went at once to the
General.

4 The Duke will allow me to act independently
; but he desires to be spared particulars.
My hands are set free to raise money, but he
is not to be consulted how it is to be raised, nor
told how it was done when the money is raised.
As we want immediate cash, let us have the
plate and jewelry overhauled, and get rid of
what is not necessary. There is that confounded
set of diamonds I bought for Dulcina
Eigsby. They cost twelve hundred, and I
dare say will fetch two-thirds. As for the family
jewelry — I shall never marry, and so the race
will expire with me. No Duchess of Kings-bridge
will need them. My mother was the
last. I have the key to the safe where they
are kept.'

Let us begin at once, and pack what is not
in immediate requisition.'

Lord Saltcombe rang the bell for the butler,
and ordered the plate chests to be taken into
the state drawing-room, not now likely to be
used again ; also the cases brought there that
would be likely to serve for the packing of
valuables. Mr. Blomfield obeyed without a
muscle of his face working, and soon the grand

room was filled with boxes and piles of silver
plate, old salvers engraved with arms, supporters,
and coronet ; punch bowls, centre-pieces,
goblets, christening and caudle cups,
urns, kettles, tea and coffee pots, ewers, candelabra
— a mass of metal, much of beautiful
workmanship.

That,' said the General, ' is the great silver
salver presented to the Field-marshal by the
City of Ghent, of which he was in possession at
the time. He was not Duke then ; you seethe
fulsome inscription in Latin. This must be
melted up. It will never do to have it sold as
it is, to proclaim the straits to which the Eve-leers
have been reduced.'

o

The butler and the footman packed the plate
in the green cloth-lined cases. In former times
it had been transported with the Duke to town
and back to the country. Consequently the
proper conveniences for the reception and removal
were ready.

6 Is not this beautiful ? ' said the General,
pointing to a silver teapot on a hampstead of
exquisite workmanship. On one side were represented
Chinese picking tea leaves, on the
other Chinese ladies sipping the beverage made
from them. The groups were enclosed in the

most delicate shell and flower work. With it
went a cream and a milk jug, and a silver canister,
all of equal beauty of workmanship. ' This
set belonged to George the Second,' said the
General ; ' he gave it to the Duchess Latina on
her marriage.'

Here is my christening cup, out of which
I used to drink as a child, and there are the
marks of my teeth on it,' said Lord Saltcombe,
with forced gaiety.

This cream bowl ought to be valuable,
remarked Lord Eonald. ' I never saw anything
like the delicacy of the work, the festoons of
roses and jessamine, with butterflies perched on
them. Fortunately the arms are not on it. I
suspect it is unique

Tray after tray was filled with silver forks
and spoons, soup-ladles, great gravy spoons,
enough to furnish a Lord Mayor's banquet.

When all the silver was packed that had to be
sent away, and the rest, that was to be kept, was
laid on the floor, the porcelain was collected.

Fetch everything from my room, Eobert,'
said the Marquess ; then with a laugh, ' I have
been disenchanted with some of my prizes, and
doubt the value of the rest. I dare swear I

have been egregiously taken in. Anyhow,
there can be no questioning the value of
these Sevres vases presented by Charles X., and
there is abundance of precious Oriental china
all over the house.'

The room was now filled with splendid
bowls, great standing vases for pot-pourra, old
Dresden figures, Chelsea in abundance, majolica
dishes, Cape di Monte white groups, superb
specimens of Pelisse, services of Crown Derby,
Swansea, and Wedgwood, of the most choice
and exquisite descriptions. Chimney-piece,
plate chests, the floor, were encumbered with
them.

The Marquess himself went to the jewel
chest, and brought in as much as he could
carry. He laid on the table a tray of crimson
velvet on which sparkled a tiara, necklace,
stomacher, and earrings of diamonds.

My mother wore these at the coronation
of Her Majesty,' said Lord Saltcombe ; 'she
lost one of the diamonds out of the brooch, and
never wore the set again. The place of the
missing stone was never filled up ; perhaps that
was the first symptom of difficulty in finding
money.'

A beautiful chain of white pearls with pendants
of black pearls attracted his notice.

4 How well this would have become Grace,'
he said. Then he brought in more, a complete
parure of amethysts. Then rings — diamond,
topaz, amethyst and diamond, ruby. These
splendid ornaments seemed in the cold daylight
to have lost their sparkle, and to be sensible of
the general sorrow, decay, and humiliation.

4 The pictures must come down,' said Lord
Saltcombe. ' The Eubens at Kingsbridge House
can be disposed of to the National Gallery,
which is short of examples of that master.'

4 Will the nation care to spend thousands on
fleshy Dutchmen ? I doubt it.'

4 Some of the paintings in this room are
valuable,' said the Marquess. 4 Let us have
them down, and they can be measured for their
cases. That Murillo was bought by the first
Duke off the easel of the painter. These
Gerard Down are more interesting than beautiful.
There is an Adoration by Porous, with
Philip II. and Alva as two of the Wise Men.
Here is a Turner purchased by my father, un-described
by Mr. Buskin.'

4 The Reynolds' portraits — what of them ? '

4 We will not part with family pictures if

we can help it. Let them remain suspended.
There is a large Morland with its clump of
dark trees, and a pretty Gainsborough, a fine
example and worth a large sum. These must
certainly come down.'

Lord Saltcombe and the General were standing
in the middle of the room, which was strewn
with treasures. Most of the silver was packed,
only that left out which was reserved for use.
The china was about, some being packed in
hay ; the jewels in their trays were spread out
on the tables ; the pictures were unhung —
when — the door opened, and Lady Grace entered
with Mr. Charles Cheek and Lucy.

Lady Grace saw in a moment what was
being done, and coloured and stood still. Lucy
also understood the situation, and was seized
with a fit of trembling. The occasion of their
entry was this — Charles had said, in the course
of conversation, that he had never seen the staterooms,
whereupon Lady Grace, unaware of what
was taking place, had volunteered to show him
through them.

1 Packing for removal to town,' said the
General. ' Bather late in the season, but better
late than never.'

Charles Cheek was not deceived. He drew

back. He was moved. It was sad to see the
break-up of a noble family, to stand, so to
speak, beside its deathbed. He withdrew from
the room at once, and halted on the staircase
outside the door, and with agitation in his voice
and face and manner, he said, ' Lady Grace !
will you give me a right to fly to your assistance,
and prevent this humiliation ? '

Yes,' she answered with calmness, ' I will.'

That night Charles Cheek hastened to
town by express that reached Haddington at
4 A.M.

He was at his father's house before the old
man was up, and he awaited him in the .
Charles was in a condition of
feverish excitement, in spite of his cold night-journey.
A servant had taken him to a room
where he had washed and changed his clothes.

The old man came in, spruce as ever, in his
black cloth frock coat, a white shirt-front,
stretching his arms, and then rubbing his hands.

Governor ! ' exclaimed Charles, ' I have
been waiting to see you these two hours and a
half, burning with impatience. I have something
of importance to communicate.'

c Ugh ! Want money ? '

No — that is — not for myself.'

1 Ugly ! Still— want it.'

That is not my primary reason for coming
here.'

The old man puffed himself out and stood
by the fire, winking and rubbing his hands, and
glowering at his son.

I have just returned from Court Royal.
I have spoken to Lady Grace, and she has consented
'

The father shook his head doubtfully.

It is a fact, governor, I give you my word.
She gave me the promise in the presence of
Lucy Worthivale. Some time before she all
but promised, but yesterday she was explicit.'

The old man rubbed his hands vigorously,
thrust his arms forward, flashing his cuffs, then
hiding them again.

4 By Ginger ! ' he said, ' what a chap you
are! '

Do you mistrust me ? '

Mistrust ? No. I didn't think you equal
to it, though. You are a fine fellow, that you
are. The girl has sense. Ginger ! she'll make
a Lord Charlie of you.'

Hardly,' laughed Charles ; ' the wife does
not ennoble the husband.'

'Don't she? She should. We'll change

the law. Make it a political question. Don't
tell me she'll flatten down into Mrs. Charles
Cheek ! '

Not quite that. But never mind. We
have not got to that point. I want you, father,
to act promptly. I have come by night express,
and must return to-day.'

What do you mean to do ? '

You will remember what you undertook.
The family are in immediate want of money.
If you are satisfied with what I have done, give
me leave to stop the sale of their valuables.'

'What! got to that pass! A galloping
consumption. When I undertake a thing, I doit
; I'll take up the mortgages to the tune I
scored, but I won't tear them up till the marriage
is accomplished.'

Charles explained what the immediate need
was.

1 Very well,' said the old man ; ' give me a
bill of sale on the furniture and plate and pictures,
and 111 advance the money. I'm not
such a fool as to give without security.'

That was the utmost Charles could obtain
from his father.

There is no knowing,' said the old man.
The young woman may mean right enough,

but the aristocratical relations may interfere,
and blow themselves out with pride, and refuse
consent ; then — what about my money ? As
for the mortgages, I'll see to them at once.
Those of Emmanuel shall be taken up immediately,
and when the registers are signed,
I'll tear them to shreds. As for ready money,
I'll advance something on the stock-in-trade,
but only if I have a bill on them to enable me
to seize in default of fulfilment of conditions.'

Charles was obliged to be content with this.
He returned the same day to Kingsbridge.

1 You've had a long journey,' said Mr.
Worthivale. ' I was amazed when told you
had gone to town. Nothing the matter with
your father, I hope ? '

4 Nothing at all,' answered the young man.
Then, after looking inquiringly at the steward,
I say, do you recall a certain conversation you
had with my father ? '

Bless my soul ! he overflowed with conversation,
and every word was precious. To
what do you particularly allude ? '

Mr. Worthivale knew very w T ell what was
meant, but he was reluctant to have this topic
retouched. Lucy had told him nothing. With
VOL. III. M

his ideas, the suggestion of old Cheek had seemed
to him a sort of blasphemy.

Well,' said Charles Cheek, ' it has come
about after all. Lady Grace has passed her
word to me.'

Stuff and nonsense.'

It is a fact. I went up to town last night
to communicate it to my father. If you are in
immediate need of cash he will advance it on
the security of the contents of Court Royal and
Kino-sbrido-e House.'

Mr. Worthivale coloured.

Lady Grace ! Impossible.' The steward
was stupefied. ' Why, you are nothing, literally
nothing, one of the people; and your father is
in ' — with a shudder — ' trade ! '

4 1 assure you it is so. Ask Lucy. She was
present.'

You misunderstood her. It is impossible.
Sheer impossible. Your head has been turned.
I ought never to have introduced you.'

I repeat ; she has consented.'

But — the Duke — and the Marquess — and
Lord Eonald, what will they say ? '

c They have not been asked.'

1 You had better not ask them. As you

value your happiness and my regard — don't.
For Heaven's sake, don't.'

6 Mr. Worthivale, excuse me, but you seem
to think that the advantage is all on my side.
Yesterday Lord Saltcombe and Lord Eon aid
were packing the valuables to be sent to London
for sale. There is therefore desperate
immediate need of money. I come offering to
relieve them from their difficulties — at least
from those most urgent. The mortal-es to the
amount of two hundred thousand pounds will betaken
up by my father, and on our marriage
he will give them over. The pictures may be
rehimg, the plate unpacked, the jewels and
china replaced. I do not know what the sum
is in immediate requisition, but my father is
ready to advance it — so long as it is under ten
thousand — on receipt of the consent of the Duke
and the Marquess to the contents of these two
houses, of which you will furnish a list, being
the security for the sum.'

Not a word of this to them ! Lord Salt-combe
will never forgive me. My goodness !
What presumption there is in the rising generation
! To them nothing is sacred ! I suppose,
sir, you are a blazing Eadical ! '

u 2

6 1 have no political opinions, having nothing
to gain or lose.'

Leave this matter in my hands,' said the
steward. ' I will see the Duke. I will manage
about the bill. I must rush off now, and stop
the packing of the pictures and the carriage of
the plate. I was to have gone to town with all
the things, and done my best with them.'

Yon are welcome to arrange with the Duke
about the bill, but I cannot have you interfere
between me and Lady Grace.'

I — I ! I would not dream of mentioning
it. You have been deluded.'

By whom ? By Lady Grace ? '

Heaven forbid. She is incapable of falsehood.
By your own inordinate vanity, which
has deluded you into hearing things that were
never said and seeing things that were never
done. It is impossible. As soon make me
believe the common people here when they
tell me they have seen the sun dance on Easter
morning.'

Worthivale said no more. He was convinced
that the young man had dreamed. It
mattered little. The immediate advantage of
the dream was great. The precious collections
of Court Royal were saved for a time. Time

was what he wanted. In time the Marquess
would marry and shake old Cheek and all other
Old Men of the Mountain off his shoulders, who
weighed him down and plucked the golden fruit
and left him starving. In time Bigbury Bay
would become a rival to Torquay, and make the
Eveleighs as Torquay had made the Pales. Intime
the slate quarries would rout all other slates
out of the market. In time the shale would distil
petroleum. What mattered it, if for a while
the young man were left dancing in darkness
with bandaged eyes. He would some day see
his folly, and blush at his temerity.

Meantime — Providence was interfering for
the salvation of the Eveleiodis.

CHAPTEE LI.

THE FLYING FISH.

Joanna carried her point. She went to the
ball. She had set her heart upon it. No dissuasion
would turn her from her purpose, no
difficulty discourage her. Go she would, and
go she did.

The Easter ball was qualified by selectness.
If it was nothing else, it was select. On this it
prided itself. The most rigid censorship was
exercised over the admissions by the committee.
No one without blood, or — this was a concession
— money was allowed. The committee sat
at a table, and the names were passed from one
to another. It was like running the gauntlet.
Only those that came out unscathed between
the lines were allowed to appear. The nobility
and the county families patronised and attended
it. The Earl and Countess of Mount Batten,
Lord and Lady Laira, Sir John and Lady St.

Russell, patronised the ball, and gave it the
stamp of selectness. The generals and their
ladies, the admirals and their parties, all the
J.P.'s and the J.P. fowl attended, and added
their insistence to its selectness. The ball was
so select that it hedged itself round with the
most exclusive and arbitrary restrictions. It
drew a line here, and a line there. It put its
foot down at this point, and at that, for no
reason possible of explanation to anyone without
the bump of selection on his skull. The
ball was so select that no lady with the soil
of trade on her fingers could hold them out
for a ticket. It was so select that, of the
Church, only the wives and daughters of rectors
might enter ; the females whose orbit is ina
Peel district and revolve about vicars and
curates, were shut out. It was so select that
the family of the wine-merchant were as rigidly
excluded as the family of the pastry-cook who
united with the wine-merchant to furnish the
supper.

On the Cornish coast folk say, when the
wind wails at the windows, that the ghosts of
drowned sailors are without, flattening their
spiritual noses against the panes, dabbing their
dripping palms against the glass, weeping

because excluded in wind and rain from the
warmth and light within. Outside the great
assembly-room, the spirits of unnumbered
women wept and wrung their hands. The ball
was too select for them. Let them dance on
their own low levels, and not aspire to circle in
the system of the social planets.

This Easter ball was quite a different affair
from the October and the hunt balls, when the
room was occupied by cliques, and the cliques
danced together, ignoring the cliques below
them, and went to supper and ate in cliques,
and talked in cliques, and flirted in cliques, and
clacked in cliques. This ball was emphatically
a one clique ball.

Yet, into this most select of balls Joanna
thrust herself. This was how it was
done.

Mr. Lazarus had lent money to the Hon.
Mrs. Yellowleaf, and he sent her a note to say
that unless the loan were repaid by a certain
elate, he would County Court her.

Mrs. Yellowleaf came down to his private
office in great trepidation. She had not the
money ; she was in daily expectation of a remittance
from an aunt. She entreated Mr.
Lazarus to delay. Mr. Lazarus was inexorable.

He wanted his money. He had heavy bills to
meet by a certain day. Mrs. Yellowleaf had
promised repeatedly to repay the loan, and had
not done so. His patience was exhausted. He
was a poor man. he had put himself to great
inconvenience to find her the money ; if she
could not or would not pay, he must cast her
into court, and if that failed, he would put in
an execution. Mrs. Yellowleaf turned green at
the threat, and nearly fainted.

I cannot find the money,' she said — ' I
simply cannot. My husband, as you know, is
with the China squadron. My remittances have
not arrived. My aunt is very kind, but she is
out of humour with me just now, and I dare
not press for more.'

When he had reduced her to a condition
of abject despair, then only did he offer relief.
Relief could be bought — but on hard terms.
She must take under her protection to the
ball a young lady who particularly desired to
attend.

The Hon. Mrs. Yellowleaf was aghast. This
was a sheer impossibility. She could not, she
would not run such a risk. The tears came
into her eyes. She knew nothing of the c person,'
neither her name, nor character, nor antecedents.

The ball was most select. She might
get into serious social trouble by taking there
an individual unqualified to associate with good
society. There were so many denied admission
whose claims were urgent.

Very well,' said Lazarus rising. ' Then
prepare to see your name in the West of England
papers. You shall have your summons
tomorrow.'

Who is she ? ' asked Mrs. Yellowleaf, after
a pause for consideration.

Lazarus explained that she was a Miss Severe,
an heiress, an orphan, of irreproachable
character. ' No relations in Plymouth, none
that I know of in Devon or Cornwall.'

What is she like ? ' asked Mrs. Yellowleaf
doubtfully.

Like ! — there won't be one in the room
will surpass her in looks, I can assure you

6 She is not — not an Israelite ? ' She thought
Jewess ' might sound rude, so she said
Israelite.'

You need not fear. Not a bit. Cornish —
comes from the dark lot down the coast by
Veryan and Coran ; dark hair, dark eyes, olive
skin. She'll be the belle of the ball and the
richest girl there too.'

The Hon. Mrs. Yellowleaf drew a sigh of
relief.

Very well, Mr. Lazarus, if you will not
press for payment, I will take the young lady.
I trust she dresses well.'

6 Dress ! — she'll dress as well as the best, I
promise you.'

So it was settled. Mrs. Yellowleaf was
uneasy about her undertaking, but unable to
evade it.

On the evening of the ball Joanna was seen
into a cab by Mr. Lazarus. ' Ah, lack-a-day ! '
said he, as he shut the door on her, ' I can't go
with you, but it ain't possible. The sight of mein
the assembly-room would be too much for
the nerves of some folks there.'

The Hon. Mrs. Yellowleafs carriage led the
way, followed by Joanna's cab. The lady had
just seen her in the hall. She was sorry that
she had no place in her own carriage to oiler
Miss Eosevere, as her daughters and son went
with her ; if Miss Eosevere would follow in her
fly, she would await her in the entrance or
disrobing room.

Accordingly she saw Joanna when she put
off her cloak and shawl. She looked scrutinisingly
at her, and was struck by her beauty. She

turned sharply round, with motherly apprehension,
and caught an admiring expression in her
son's face. ' I wonder whether she be really an
heiress ! ' thought Mrs. Yellowleaf. ' Possibly
enough that, being a stranger, she may not have
known anyone to whom to apply.'

She thereupon softened towards the girl, and
spoke to her amiably. Joanna had much less
dialect than one of her status might be supposed
to be infected with, for she had not associated
with other girls at the Barbican. She had
grown up alone, talking only to Lazarus, who
had no provincial brogue. His English was
passable. Joanna's was also passable, though
not the language of perfect culture. Mrs. Yelp
knew, the moment she opened her
mouth, that she had not the bringing up of a
lady. A very few words sufficed. ' Ah ! ' she
thought, * some mining captain's daughter, who
made a fortune in tin, and left it to her. She
has money, but not breed. Still, she has money.
After all, nowadays, money is everything.' That
was to be her explanation, if asked about
Joanna. ' My dear, an acquaintance whom I
could not refuse asked me to be civil to the
young lady. People are very inconsiderate.
They ask you to carry parcels for them, and

stand chaperon to all sorts and conditions of
girls. It ought not to be done. As for this
Miss Severe, I know nothing about her, except
that elle est line bonne partie, worth, I am
told, but I do not know, three thousand a year.'
That is what she would say. What she thought
was, ' Three thousand will obscure bad intonation
and grammatical slips.'

As she went upstairs she wondered whether
it would be well to allow John-coolly, her
son, to take a fancy to the girl. ' Xot,' she
considered, ' till I know exactly her value. Her
father's will can be seen in the Probate Court
for a shilling.'

She touched one of her daughters. ' My
dear Lettuce,' she whispered, ' if Mr. Charles
Cheek should ask you to dance, be civil. It is
true that his antecedents leave much to be
desired, but he has, and will have, money.'

Mr. Cheek was there, much disappointed
at not being able to appear in company with
Lady Grace and the Marquess. Still, though
debarred their companionship, Charles was not
disposed to forego the gratification. He was becoming
very tired of the uniformity of life in the
country, and depressed by the cloud of troubles
which hung over Court Oval. At first he did

not observe Joanna. But on going up to speak
to the Hon. Mrs. Yellowleaf, and engage Miss
Lettuce for a dance, his eye met that of Joanna.
A look of incredulity, then of blank amazement,
then of amused delight, swept across his face.
6 Halloo ! ' — he checked himself when ' Joe ' was
on his lips, and substituted i Miss Eosevere.'

You know Miss Eosevere ? ' asked Mrs.
Yellowleaf in trepidation. She had noticed the
change of expression in his face.

Oh yes ! old acquaintances,' answered
Charles, with his eyes still on Joanna, full of
wonder and question.

c Where have you met ? ' asked Mrs. Yellow-leaf.


At — at — the Duke of Kingsbrido-e's — Court
Royal,' answered Charles, dashing at the first
name that occurred to him.

4 How is the Duke ? ' asked Joanna, with
composure. ' And dear old Lord Eonald ? So
grieved to see that the Archdeacon is dead.
The blow must have been severe to his Grace.
The brothers were so attached.'

Oh, well — that is, not very well. I am just
come from Court Royal.'

Indeed,' said Joanna. * And sweet Lady
Grace, and Lucy Worthivale ? '

c They are well,' answered Charles, puzzled
beyond description. How did the girl know
anything about the Eveleisjhs ?

You were not at the Christmas ball,' said
Joanna, c when the Eigsbys were staying at the
Court, and everyone supposed Dulcina would
become Marchioness. Yonder she is — with her
coffee coloured father. How tastelessly she
does dress ! I must go over and speak to her.
Come with me, Mr. Cheek.'

Joe ! ' he whispered, as he escorted her
across the room, ' of all wonders this is the most
wonderful ! '

6 Am I out of my element — the flying fish
among gulls ? '

'Not a bit.'

6 How do you do, Miss Eigsby ? ' said Joanna,
extending her hand. 'I am afraid you do not
recollect me ; but we met at Court Royal during
the winter.'

Dulcina looked at her uncertainly. She
could not remember the face ; but was that
wonderful? She had met so many strangers at
the Court. She was glad, however, to be recognised,
and to have someone to speak to, as
she knew few ladies in Plymouth.

The Hon. Mrs. Yellowleaf nudged her son.

John-coolly,' she said, ' you see the plain-faced,
gorgeously-dressed girl that Miss Severe
is speaking to. She is an undoubted
heiress Go and secure her hand for as many
dances as you can. Be very civil to her, and
bear in mind that you must either work or
marry money.'

Mother, I'd a thousand times rather dance
with that charming girl you brought here.'

Dance with both. Try to be struck with
both, and let them perceive it ; but be cautious
with the Eosevere. 77 me faut prendre des
renseigne merits .'

1 Who is that very striking young lady
yonder ? ' asked Mrs. Fothergill, wife of a
country squire.

That,' answered Mrs. Yellowleaf, ' is a
Cornish heiress. Between me, you, and the
post — money made in mines. However, the
Kingsbridge family have taken her up, and put
the cachet on her. Lady Grace Eveleigh and
the Marquess are unable to be here, owing to
the death of their uncle, the Archdeacon. As
they could not come with a party, I was asked
to bring Miss Eosevere. Very rich and handsome,
though somewhat wanting in polish.'

6 Joe,' said Charles Cheek, when no one

was by to hear, c this is roaring fun. You are
the most audacious little rogue I ever came
across. You thrust yourself in here — anywhere
that you have a mind. And then — you extort a
hundred pounds from my father ! Oh, Joe, I
have never thanked you for that, It was good
of you. But conceive how staggered I was
when my father ran up alongside without showing
signals, and poured a broadside into me
because I had got myself entangled with a little
pawn. Put me down for a score of dances, Joe.
I had rather dance with you than with any
other girl, and talk of something different from
the w r father and the primroses.'

But this might not be. Joanna had no lack
of partners. The rumour spread that she was
a Cornish heiress— taken up by the Kingsbridge
family. There was no question as to her beauty,
or to her ease of manner and movement. Ease
of manner was given by complete self-assurance.
Ease of movement by the fact that she had lived
all her life in slippers.

Cheek,' said an officer, ' surely that is the
girl I saw in the stage-box the night of that
frightful accident. You went up and talked to
her. We asked you then who she was.'

Yes, and I told you.'

VOL. III. N

6 You told us she was an heiress, and were
disinclined to introduce us. It is mean of a
man like you, with such prospects, to keep the
heiresses to yourself.'

c You are too dangerous a rival,' answered
Charles laughing. ' But it is not true ; I leave
the field clear about Miss Eigsby.'

6 What an uncommonly good-looking girl
that is,' said one mother, against the wall, to
another standard medlar. 'Not quite happy
about her extraction, I understand.'

Father odd in speech, I hear,' answered
the latter. ' But the Kingsbridge people have
taken her up on account of her money, and
there is a rumour of the Marquess of Saltcombe
becoming engaged to her, now he is off with
Miss Eigsby. They could not come because they
are in mourning, so they asked Mrs, Yellowleaf
to be responsible for her.'

Dear me ! I had no idea Mrs. Yellow-leaf
was intimate with the Eveleioiis. I hear
queer reports about the Kingsbridge family —
very shaky, I understand.'

Ah, bah ! Every planet has its occultations,
and comes out of the shadow as bright as before.
You never have known what it is to be in
financial eclipse, I suppose.'

Joanna was dancing with diaries Cheek.

4 You do not know how you are perplexing
the old ladies,' he said. ' As for the men, they
are infatuated. Take care, Joe, that you leave
no joint in your armour open for an arrow
to enter. Some of the markswomen will be
spanning their bows at you before the night
wears to day.'

What a pity you were not at the Christinass
ball at Court Royal,' said Joanna, without
noticing his warning. ' I mean, of course, the
first ball ; the second was only for the tenants
and servants. The room — the grand ball-room,
you know it — was superb with its painted groups
in panel, of the time of Louis XIV. It belonged
to the older house, and was incorporated in the
new mansion built by the late Duke. And the
crystal lustres twinkling with rainbow tinted
light ! And the drawing-room — do you know
the pictures there ? The Gainsborough, and the
Murillo ; the Sevres vases given by Charles X. ? '

Joe ! ' exclaimed Charles, ' you will drive
me mad. Are you a witch ? Have you the
gift of second sight ? How come you to know
anything about the rooms and people at Court
Royal?'

Never mind. I will not tell you.'

I am cross with you for one thing, Joe.
You might have been sure I would have been
here to-night, and it would have been graceful
to wear the Eoman pearls I gave you. They
were only Eoman pearls, true, but the chain
w T as pretty.'

I could not. I had given it away.'

4 Oh, Joe ! how could you do that ? '

1 I gave it to the best of women.'

6 Who can that be ? I know one whom I
think that.'

It is the same. She has it — Lady Grace
Eveleigh.'

Charles Cheek stood still in the midst of
the dance. ' You gave my necklace to her ! —
Impossible.'

Ask her next time you meet. She will
tell you it is true. Now tell me something.
How come you to know Court Royal? '

That is easily answered. Mr. Worthivale,
the steward, is my cousin. I have been staying
with him, in exile — because of you. My father
has sent me there into banishment.'

1 That is why I have not seen you in
Plymouth ? '

Yes — and — I will confide something more
to you that affects me greatly. You will hear

it talked about shortly. I am going to marry
Lady Grace Eveleigh.'

Joanna stood still, and stared at him. ' Impossible
! ' she said.

It is true — I assure you it is true.'
8 1 will dance no more,' said Joanna abruptly.
Take me to a chair.'

6 Eemember you owe me the next waltz.'
I will not dance with you again.'
She remained seated during several dances ;
the gentlemen came round her, entreating her
to honour them, but she refused all. She said
she was tired.

At first Joanna was occupied with her own
thoughts, and paid no attention to what passed
about her, but she presently woke to the sense
that she had seated herself in a wasp's nest.
The ladies around her were faded beauties or
mothers, and resented the arrival of a stranger
on their preserves who carried off the beaux
from themselves or from their daughters.

By slow degrees she was roused to give
attention to the conversation that went on
about her, and to become aware that words
were flying around barbed and poisoned.

Who is that child in pink yonder ? ' asked
a handsome lady on the verge of thirty, who

must at one time have been a queen of beauty.
Can you tell me, Mrs. Delany ? It is cruel to
send children who cannot be over seventeen,
and ought to be in bed and sleeping.'

The lady addressed sat on the other side of
Joanna. Joanna looked sharply round ; she
was curious to see Mrs. Delany, in whose service
she was supposed to have been so many
years. That lady shrugged her shoulders contemptuously,
and, returning Joanna's stare,
answered the faded beauty.

My dear, how can I tell ? The ball has
ceased to be select. What the committee can
be about is more than I can answer, admitting
persons of whom one knows nothing.'

Is that worse,' asked Joanna innocently,
6 than giving characters to servants you have
never seen ? There was much talk of a lady
having done this when I was at Court Royal.'

Mrs. Delany turned crimson, and sat back.

I have known quite nameless, unknown
persons give themselves out as friends of people
of rank,' said a lady on the other side of Mrs.
Delany, 'who turned out on inquiry to have
been governesses or companions in the family.'

I have heard,' said Joanna, ' of gentlemen
so absolutely nameless nothings that they have

had to borrow their wives' names and get
knighted in them.'

The lady put up her fan instantly.

4 What bad form it is, Lady Hawkins,' said
the ex-queen, ' in unmarried girls wearing-jewelry
! ' and her eyes rested on a necklet
round Joanna's throat.

I beg your pardon,' said Joanna. ' Is Mrs.
Gathercole addressing me? I ask because I
see you wearing a brooch I coveted the other
day, but I was too late — it was sold to Captain
Gathercole.'

She felt — she did not see — a shiver of
suppressed laughter about her. The fading
beauty turned deadly white, rose and left the
place.

What a pity it is,' said the lady who
took the vacated chair, addressing Mrs. Delany
across Joanna, 4 that the possession of money
should be deemed a sufficient qualification for
admission ! There are persons in this room
who have no other right to be here.'

But there are persons admitted who have
not even money qualifications,' said Joanna.
Persons glad to get a guinea from the Jews fora
gown of old gold and black lace.'

The lady sprang up as if she had been

stung, and Mrs. Delany burst out laughing ;
the old gold with black lace was well known.

As for Cornish mines in which some
people have their money,' remarked another,
who had not spoken before, ' I am well assured
that such property is as unsatisfactory as castles
in Spain.'

6 Or,' observed Joanna, speaking aloud but
addressing no one, 'or as husbands at sea,
always at sea, but never seen, like the Flying
Dutchman.'

In the midst of the silence that ensued,
Charles Cheek came up and offered her his arm.
She rose and took it. Her colour was heightened
and her eyes sparkled.

Good heavens, Joe ! What have you been
doing ? You have set all the women against
you ! '

The flying fish can snap as well as the
gulls,' she replied.

CHAPTER Il

ON THE PIER.

When Mrs. Yellowleaf was ready to leave, she
intimated her intention somewhat curtly to
Joanna. Charles Cheek at once flew to assist
her to her cab and muffle her in wraps. Mrs.
Yellowleaf's carriage was first packed and
driven off. Then Charles said, 'Are you by
yourself? That must not be. Allow me to
accompany you to the Barbican, and see you
safely home.' He waited for no reply, but
stepped into the carriage beside Joanna.

4 Oh, Joe ! ' he said, ' you have made mortal
enemies. Your woes have been passed round
the room, and those whom you stabbed will
never forgive you. How did you know anything
about Sir William Hawkins taking his
wife's name, and being knighted in it, because
he was — well, without a name of his own?
And that affair of Captain Gathercole and Miss

Fanshawe, and Mrs. Buncombe — whose husband
never turns up — and the rest ? '

I know everything about people in Plymouth
— it is part of the business.'

4 You will never, never be forgiven.'

1 1 am not likely to meet these people
again.'

Did you enjoy yourself? '

6 For a while — and then I did not care for
the ball any more.'

'Why not?'

She did not answer.

The cab was dismissed at the Barbican, and
Charles paid the driver.

Joe,' said he, ' come on to the pier, and let
us look at the water rippling in the moon. It
will be dawn directly.'

She hesitated a moment, and then said,
Very well ; I want to tell you something.'

He gave her his arm. 'You are not likely
to catch cold, I hope ? '

She shook her head.

The more I see of you,' said he, ' the more
I wonder at you. You are a person of infinite
resource. Joe ! tell me you are not cross with
me for what I confided to you.'

Not a bit,' she answered. ' I told you to

aim at position, and yon have followed my
advice.'

It was my father's doing.'

4 Do yon not love and admire her? Yon
must — yon must do that ! Why, I do ! I love
her still.'

6 Of course I admire Lady Grace. Never
can fail to do that. I love her also — well — in
about the same fashion as a Catholic loves and
adores the Virgin.'

4 Are yon satisfied with what yon have
done ? '

I will empty my whole heart before yon,'
he said. ' I know yon are capable of advising
me — of enconraoino- me.' He sighed. ' I
aren't say all I think ! '

She laughed. ' In the same breath hot and
cold. You will and you won't. You can and
you can't.'

s Do not sneer at me. I am in a difficulty.
I assure you I have been mortally weary of the
life at Court Royal Lodge. Old Worthivale,
the steward, is a sort of cousin of mine, and infinitely
tedious. Beavis, his son, is too occupied
with the family failure to give me much
of his company, and he has not that in him to
afford me entertainment. I have hunted twice

a week, but now the hunting is over. Five
days a week I am consumed with ennui. I goto
the club in Kingsbridge, and try to find
some fellows with whom to play billiards, but
sometimes no one is there : the day is fine, and
they want to boat ; or the day is wet, and they
want to read novels at home over the fire.
Then they all talk shop — local shop. They
seem to me like a cage of animals bred in confinement,
who can only think and feel interest
and talk of the world within the bars of their
cage. If I had not passed my word to my
father, I would have run long ago.'

Is there no attraction, then ? '

I allow there is Lady Grace. She is beautiful,
sweet as an angel. She is kind to me,
but never affectionate, and I cannot conceive
it possible that we shall ever stand nearer to
each other than we do at present. Of course
we can be married, but that will not fuse my
soul into hers and hers into mine, because we
have so little in common. We have different
specific gravities. When we are together, and
I see her gentle face and hear her soft tones I
am under a charm which holds me — at a distance.
The charm draws and repels at once.
Can you understand ? I feel that I love her,

but I feel also that she is unapproachable by
such as me. If we do get married, we shall belike
a two-volumed book, of which the volumes
belong to different editions, and are in different
type and of different sizes. We shall belong to
each other so far that we shall bear the same
label, but she will belong to an edition de luxe,
and I to the cheap and popular issue.'

Then why did you propose to Lady Grace ?
Was it merely to obtain position ? '

No, Joe. My father wished it, urged it,
badgered me into it. I liked her, I cannot do
other than like her. I pity the family. And
then — the Worth vales put me on my metal.'

How so ? '

6 They scouted the possibility of my winning
her. They seemed to regard me as the dirt of
the street aspiring to the sun.'

8 Do you think you will not be happy with
her ? '

I shall go to church with her and never
get out of it again. We shall carry the church
with its solemnity and oppressiveness and business
into our married life. Our tendencies are
diverse as those of a balloon and a diving-bell.
We shall have as little intellectual sympathy as
John Bright and a " Blackwood," which he was

cutting and trying to read. I belong too much
to Bohemia, with the city of Prague as my
Jerusalem.'

6 If that be so, you are in a false position,
and must leave it.'

I cannot,' answered Charles. ' I cannot
do so without cruelty. The family are in straits
for money. My father has undertaken to pay
off the most pressing mortgages and debts. If
the marriage does not come off they will be
utterly ruined. Do you know I stopped the
sale of their pictures, plate, and jewels? All
were being packed to send to London ; when I
got Lady Grace's promise, I galloped to town
on the back of an engine, and got my father
to advance the necessary money to stop the
sale.'

Does Lady Grace marry you to save her
family ? '

I do not know that she is aware of the
compact — but — I suppose she must,' he added
humbly. ' She never would take me for myself.
The brazen pot and the earthen pot are
going to float clown the stream together, and we
shall have to keep our distance for fear of jars.'

Joanna stood on the pier looking out at the
promontory of Mount Batten that seemed to

landlock the harbour. The moon was behind
the citadel, steeping the Barbican in night, but
the water beyond flashed like quicksilver. She
folded her arms under her wraps. Charles tried
to read her face, but there was no moonlight on
it, and the pier lantern was high above, casting
a shadow over her.

8 Well, Joe, what do you think ? '

Give me time to consider.'

I am in this position. If I marry her I
shall gain that which you have bidden me aim
for, and shall have pleased my father, and saved
a worthy family from utter destruction. On
the other hand, I shall have sacrificed my independence
and cut myself off from the rollicking
life that suits me. I shall live in a social
strait-waistcoat, and I hate restraint. If I do
not go through with the matter I shall make
the governor furious ; he will never forgive me,
and the Duke will go to pieces. Is it honourable
and fair for me to back out ? '

'No, Mr. Cheek, it is not. Go on,' said
Joanna, and sighed.

I thought you would say so,' observed
Charles, also with a sigh, 'but I hoped that your
advice would be contrary.'

Then neither spoke for some time. Faraway,

behind the hills to the east, the sky was
beginning to whiten, but the moon shone so
brightly that the tokens of coming clay were
hardly perceptible.

We are old friends, are we not ? ' said
Charles sadly.

< Yes — we have known each other since last
fifth of November.'

4 What a time it seems since then ! So much
has happened that it is an age to me.'

Also to me. To me it has been the change
from childhood to womanhood, from outward
hardship to inward suffering. It cannot be
other. Mr. Cheek, we must part. We shall
see each other no more.'

No more ! ' he echoed. ' Nonsense, I intend
to see a great deal of you when allowed to return
from exile.'

She shook her head. ' It cannot be.'

Why not ? The Golden Balls is here, and
the door open. If I choose to enter with a pair
of silver spoons, who is to thrust me out ? And
if there be no customers in the shop, I suppose
I may perch on the counter and enjoy a pleasant
chat?'

8 No,' she said, ' never again. You told me
yourself you were going into social stays. You

are changing your nationality, and about to
forget Bohemia.'

1 Not yet — no — no ! I will enjoy my freedom
for a while longer.'

There is a further reason why I cannot
allow it,' she said, and looked before her into
the dark water, and beyond it to the glittering
sheet of wavering silver. ' I am going to be
married.'

Married ! you — Joanna ! '

Both stood silent, so silent that nothing; was
audible but the lapping of the water on the
steps of the pier.

Joanna ! I will not believe it. To whom ? '

To Lazarus.'

Joanna ! ' There was mingled pain and
horror in his tone. She said nothing more, but
shivered, though wrapped up well in shawls.

6 Come hither,' said Charles almost roughly.
The first time I saw you, I took you to the
light to see your face ; and the face I then saw
has haunted me ever since. Come here, and
let me see your face again. I will see if thisbe
cursed earnest or cruel joke.' He drew her
within the radiance of the lamp, and turned the
head up. She offered no resistance, but looked
firmly at him.

vol. in. o

There was no mischief lurking in the dimples
at the corners of her mouth, no devilry in her
eyes. There were dark lines in her face, gloom
in her deep great irises, and set determination
in her mouth. She felt that the hand that raised
her chin to expose her face was trembling and
cold. She was glad when he withdrew it, and
her face relapsed into shadow. Perhaps she
could not have maintained composure much
longer under the scrutiny of his eyes.

I cannot help myself,' she said in a low
voice. * Judge for yourself if I can. Lazarus
has resolved that I shall be his wife. I suppose
he is afraid of losing me unless he ties me
fast. But what can I do? I have no home,
no father. I must wait here till my mother
returns. I am number 617. I have been 017 in
the shop for seven years. Everything else in
the shop has changed, but I have remained.
Old broods have "one, and new come in, and the

CO 7 '

same numbers have represented scores of new
objects; only 617 has not changed. Some of
the articles have been redeemed, but I have not.
Some have lapsed, and I am lapsing. Some
have been sold, and I am about to be sold. I
remain uncancelled in the books, 617, and nothing
can cancel me but the return of my mother

or the expiration of my time. Here I must
remain. I am not free. I dare not <?o. What
would my mother say were I to run away?
She would be ashamed of her child. What if
she were to return, and I were gone — should
we ever meet aofain ? Lazarus would never
tell her where I was if I had left him — even if
he knew, just out of spite to her and me. But
it is not that, not that,' she said sadly ; e I daresay
you can't understand me, but I feel it here.'
She touched her heart, ' It would not be right.
I cannot go. You have a Christian conscience
because you have been brought up as a Christian.
I have a pawnbroker conscience because I have
been brought up as a pawnbroker. There are
different denominations and different consciences
belonging to them. What is right to one is
wrong to another. All that I know of right
and wrong Lazarus has taught me, or it has
grown up unsown, like the grass and weeds in
my back' yard, that shoot between the stones.
It stands written in fire on my heart that I
cannot go without the duplicate, and that if
Lazarus chooses to make me his wife I cannot
help myself. If I go against that writing, all
light will go black before my eyes, and I shall
be blind.'

o 2

• Oh. Joe ! Joe ! it must not be ! ' Charles
spoke in pain.

• How can I escape : '

• The thought is too terrible ; that hateful,
loathsome Jew — and you — you ! " He caught
her arm. and drew it through his and paced the
pier. ' It maddens me ; I must work off* my
fever. You do not mean it. You say it out of
frolic to torture me. and when you have driven
me to desperation, you will burst forth into one
of your fresh laughs. Is it not so r '

• No, it is true.'

1 But you cannot like him.'

• I respect him as a master. I hate him asa
lover.'

• Joe. i: must not be. Bun away. Go into
service ; if you want money, I will give you all
I have ; sell the very clothes off my back to
support you. Trust me. try me : I will work
the flesh off my fingers to save you from so
hateful a fate. I am in earnest ; you will not
believe me. You have known me only as an
idler and a good-fortnight. I have had no
one to care for, nothing to work for. Promise

me, promise me you will no: ' His voice

gave way. He could not finish his sentence.

• My friend,' she said quietly, ' I cannot runaway.

I have told you so already. It would
be wrong according to my pawnbroker conscience.
I cannot receive your money, that
would be wrong according to my womanly
conscience. I cannot remain with Lazarus,
except as his wife, now that he has asked me to
be that. That also, according to my womanly
conscience, would be wrong. If he had not
asked me, I could have remained, and I would
have remained, as hitherto, working, starving,
bargaining, begging, lying for him. As that
cannot be, there remains a single door of escape.'

Then escape by it,' said Charles.

You wish it ? ' she asked quietly, looking
him full in the face.

Certainly, anything rather than But

what is it ? '

She shook her head and drew a long deep
sigh.

4 Let me go ! ' she said, for he was still
holding her wrist.

6 Xo, tell me.'

She suddenly extricated herself from his
grasp.

The white light was spreading in the eastern
sky, and the moon, struck with paralysis, failed
and became dim.

COURT ROYAL

Joe,' he said, and covered his eyes. < Now
only, when about to lose you, do I beo-in to
realise what you are to me.'

He looked up, looked around, she was
gone.

CHAPTER Lii

Another DISAPPOINTMENT.

Charles Cheek returned to Court Royal Lodge.
He had lost his brightness. He was troubled
about himself and about Joanna. He had become
engaged to Lady Grace without being really
in love with her. He liked a free and easy life,
and the formalities of Court Royal were intolerable
to him. He liked variety, and one day
at the Park was like another. He was naturally
of a joyous and careless spirit, and he was forced
by circumstances to think, and think seriously ;
hating responsibilities, he had entangled himself
in a net of them, and saw no way of escape out
of them.

The Duke said one day to his daughter, that
it was well to encourage the young man to beat
the Court, for he heard he was very well off,
and it was high time for Lucy to get married.

He is gentlemanly and agreeable. He

knows his place. We must not be selfish and
keep Lucy to ourselves.'

Lady Grace turned her face aside. It did
not occur to the Duke as possible that young
Cheek looked higher.

- Should this come about, as I hope it will
said the old man, ' it will be our duty and
pleasure to make a handsome provision for
Lucy. She has been devoted to 3*011 and to
our whole house. We must not deal shabbily
in the matter. I will speak to Worthivale
about it.'

8 For pity's sake, papa, not a word entreated
his daughter, laying her delicate hands on his
arm, whilst a little colour fluttered about her
face, like the flush of the cloud when touched
by the setting sun.

- As you will said the Duke ; ' I only suggested
it ; but in these delicate matters a
stranger's hand must not meddle.'

Lucy watched her friend closely. She knew
that Lady Grace had no dislike to Charles ; she
knew also that she did not love him. Lucy
was able to read her heart like an open letter
and she saw that Grace was sacrificing herself
solely for the sake of her father and brother.

Did she realise the greatness of the sacrifice?
Was the preservation of the estates worth it ?

Lucy was glad of an opportunity to be with
her brother one day to talk to him on the
subject.

Beavis was looking careworn and sad. He
knew that Lady Grace was engaged to Charles
Cheek. The money advanced on the security
of the furniture and plate had assured him of
that. He took Lucy's arm. They were walking
in the garden under a brick wall, against
which oranges and limes were trained. The
scent of orange flowers was on the air. During
a frost mats were placed over these trees, otherwise
they were exposed, and flowered and fruited
in the open air. Lucy plucked a twig of orange
blossom, and, holding it between her fingers
lightly, looked into the flower. ' Beavis,' she
said, ' I shall be picking these blossoms sometime
this year for the adornment of Grace. I
had as soon be putting them about her in her
coffin. You also would be happier that it
were so.'

She did not look at her brother.

Though they were comparatively seldom
together, she and her brother thought alike,

felt alike, loved alike, as twins, each with the
same disinterested and transparent love.

8 No, Lucy,' answered Beavis, ; it is well as
it is. The family must be saved, and no salvation
is possible without sacrifice. The sacrifice
the gods demand is always of the best and
purest. They refused that of Saltcombe ; it was
great, but not great enough. Iphigenia must
suffer that the wind may swell the slack sails
again.'

8 But the Duke will never consent.'

He must consent. He will do so under
protest to save the family ; that is always the
first consideration with him. He would cheerfully
sacrifice himself, if called to do so, in such
a cause.'

8 Would it not be best that the sacrifice should
be made by him — that the bulk of the property
should be sold rather than that dear Grace herself
should be forced into this most unsuitable
connection? '

8 I do not think she will be unhappy.
Charles is amiable ; he is not brilliant, and she
will lead him.'

8 1 am sure she does not love him.'

8 1 am not sure that he loves her. He is

struck with her, that is all. He cannot ask of
her what he does not give himself.'

I hope,' said Lucy warmly, ' with all my
heart I do hope that it will never come off.'

6 1 see no other means of escape open. It
must take place.'

Lucy was not happy. She took an opportunity
of speaking alone to Charles Cheek.

Mr. Cheek, you must excuse my temerity.
I have been brought up with Lady Grace from
childhood, and I care for her as my own soul.
I do, do hope you love her.'

1 Of course I do. But now ' said the young
man gravely, ' now that I have you all to myself,
Cousin Lucy, you must be candid with me.
I want particularly to know what are Lady
Grace's feelings towards me.'

She regards you very highly.'

4 If the property could be saved without the
incumbrance of Charles Cheek, I suppose she
would be well content ? '

c That is not a fair question to ask, and I will
not answer it.'

8 Cousin Lucy,' he said, e I am like Jacob at
the foot of the ladder whose top reaches into
heaven, and Lady Grace is an angel standing on

it, high, very high up. She beckons me to
ascend, and I want her to come down to me.
Till one yields there can be no rapprochement.
Which is it to be ? '

How can you ask ? For her to descend is
inconceivable. Yon must go up.'

He shook his head. £ I do not care for such
altitudes. The air is too thin, the light too
strong, and it is deadly cold. I like the warmth
of earth and its somewhat crass atmosphere.'

4 You would drag her down ! '

Am I sacrilegious ? I think her very perfect,
quite angelic, but insufficiently human.'

L What do you mean by human — that which
is gross ? Lady Grace can never become that.
Human she is in the best sense. She shows you
what human nature may become, not what it
usually is.'

6 Quite so — natura, about-to-become. I like
the present ; there is unrest in a future participle.
Cousin Lucy, to every substance, humanity
not excepted, there are three conditions
possible : the solid, the fluid, and the gaseous.
I am in the first, she is in the last. I am not
even, and have no desire to be, in the transition
stao-e. She must condense and descend, or
I must evaporate, and that I won't do.'

Go higher, always higher ! ' said Lucy
eagerly.

The desire to do so is not in me. It is a
strain to me to keep awing in this region of high
culture. I am like Icarus. My waxen pinions
are melting, and I shall go down suddenly. 5

Surely you do not object to culture ? ?

Not at all. I like culture as it affects
creature comforts. I would not go back a
hundred years and be bereft of my bath, my
daily paper, lucifer matches, and having my hair
brushed by machinery. Culture is excellent till
it meddles with the inner man. When it begins
to scrape, and reduce, and polish natural proclivities
and robust individuality, why then,
Lucy, I fancy it not.'

You would like a luxurious savagery ? '

No, not that. Outer culture will relax and
soften the inner brute. You begin by stifling
nature and then magnifying it magnificently.
Your highly crystallised culture resembles a
Rupert's drop. Do you know it ? It is a frozen
tear of glass, so hard that you cannot break it
with a hammer, and yet so fragile that it will
crumble into dust between your fingers if you
snip the hair-like end. Refine as you will, there
is always a vulnerable point in your civilisation,

and when that is touched the whole collapses.
I like your culture well enough : a little of it is
a wondrous thing ; a great deal is overpowering.
I have known a whole family suffocated by
the breaking of a jar of otto of roses. You are
passing human nature through retorts and sublimating
it to an essence. There will be a reaction.
The reaction is begun. It was the same
in old Borne. Their culture was carried to an
extremity, and the barbarian burst over it and
trampled it out. Now your high refinement of
mind and manner and spirit has reached its
limit, and the great mass of barbarous, vulgar
life beneath is lifting itself up, to smite you down
and destroy you.'

4 The northern barbarians came down on
Borne because the old Roman civilisation was
selfish. The northern races were full of heroic
virtues, self-restraint, submission to authority,
and religion. Are these qualities to be found
in the coming barbarians ? '

Oh dear, no,' said Charles. ' What we are
coming to is the revolt against these very virtues
which characterise your Christian aristocratic
culture. What is coming is the emancipation
of individualism, which has been distorted
and suppressed by self-restraint, submission, and

religion. You, brought up under the old system,
are parts of a whole, and think and act
and breathe and move as portions of the social
machine. You are bound with responsibilities,
hedged about with duties. You cannot do what
you like, you have to consider everyone else.
You have obligations to every child in the
school and sick woman on her bed. You have
to dress according to your station; attend
church to set an example. Where is the I
Myself in this ? A poor bound lion in a net.
The coming change is the bursting of the lion
out of the net, and the rending of every mesh
that entangled him ; it is the rebellion of the
individual against obligations of every sort,
social, moral, political, religious. Self will be
free and follow its own will wherever it leads —
free to enjoy every luxury that civilisation can
give, without scruple from within or check from
without.'

Lucy shuddered.

Charles laughed. ' This frightens you, and
well it may, brought up as you are in the old
world. I do not say that your old world is
wrong, or that the new world which is beginning
to live is right. They are counter principles.
I tell you what is coming ; I need no prophetic

instinct to see that. The individual for the first
time since the fall of old Some and heathenism
is asserting itself. Hitherto the body corporate
has been supreme.'

6 That will be a terrible time. I dare not
even think of it.'

4 Not as bad as you suppose. In mechanics,
when two forces meet, running in different
directions, they do not kill each other, but they
produce a resultant, that is, a force which goes
in quite a new direction. The old idea is not
exhausted, and when the new idea clashes
against it, neither is neutralised so as to cease
to be, both are modified and altered into a resultant
of some sort. What the resultant will
be when the counter forces in modern life meet,
I cannot conjecture, but we shall see a new
social departure in a direction of which we
know nothing.'

6 To return to Lady Grace.'

You are right : to return to her. You
see, I do not want to break away from the new
current, to plunge myself in the old, which is
passing away.'

What prospect of happiness is there to
either, with minds and principles so dissimilar,
so conflicting?'

6 That,' said lie, and sighed, ' that is what I
continually ask myself, and am as often frightened
at the answer.'

Oh, Cousin Charles ! do not risk the ruin
of her, of your life, by persevering.'

6 Eemember, Lucy, she encouraged me. She
made the advance, not I. I would not have
dared to speak unprovoked by her.'

1 Cousin Charles ! you must release her.'

What L— and ruin the family? '

Lucy put her hands over her eyes. ' I must
not interfere,' she said ; ' my thoughts were
only for her.'

This is how matters stand, Lucy,' said
Charles Cheek. ; I love and venerate Lady
Grace above every woman in the world, but
she is not the woman I desire as my wife. I
suppose I am deficient in ambition. It may be
that she would insist on a higher life, a life of
more restraint than that I now lead, and this I
do not choose to adopt. I belong to the new
era, and declare for liberty. I like comfort, I
like enjoyment, and I detest obligation. If I
marry Lady Grace I throw myself into moral,
social, and mental bondage. Xo doubt it would
do me good, make a high-principled, conscientious
English gentleman of me ; but I refuse
vol. in. r

the schooling, and the results are not to my
taste. Lucy! I will give her up. I will goto
my father and make the best terms I can for
the family. It is I who shrink from the engagement,
not she, and therefore we are bound
to make some compensation.'

Will you see her first ? '

No, I will write.'

Lucy drew a sigh of relief. 'I am sure
your decision is right,' she said, * cost what it
may to the family.'

CHAPTER LIV.

A NEW LEAF.

Charles Cheek went up to town next day,
reached Haddington at 6 p.m., and in twenty
minutes was at his father's house. We regret
the necessity, but it is unavoidable, for the
fourth time we must introduce the reader to the
elder Cheek at meals. In fact the man was invisible
at other times, except about the business
of the Monokeratic establishment. This time,
however, we see him not eating, but about to
eat.

Charles acted on the present occasion with
want of tact ; he began on the subject uppermost
in his mind before his father had eaten,
whilst he was hungry and cross. Charles had
not dined, but he was young and independent
of his meals, whereas an old man is not. Mr.
Cheek's business was one that occupied his mind
actively all day, and his nervous system became

p 2

irritable towards evening. Mr. Gladstone was
his ideal at 6 p.m., Sir Charles Dike at 6.15,
Chamberlain was hardly rancorous enough at
6.30, and Labourers was the man for him at
6.45. At rive minutes to seven he was furious
against the Constitution, the Church, the House
of Lords, his soap, hair-brushes, his cook, and
the Royal Family. The old man was in his
drawing-room, a room as tasteless as the diningroom.
It reeked of Tottenham Court Eoad.

It is all up,' said Charles.

What is up ? The glass or consols ? Be
'explicit.'

My engagement with Lady Grace Eve-leigh.'


Indeed — your engagement. Ugh ! Thought
they'd draw a score across that account. Who
did it?'

1 1 — I released her. They are not to blame.
I have written to say I will not hold her to
her word.'

c You have, you — you Colorado beetle ! '

Yes, I have. I could endure the bondage
no longer. I must have my clothes made for
my back, not my back shaped to my clothes.
I dare say the life of these aristocrats is very
fine, and their ideas superfine, but I like a

broad life and unchastened idea?. I have tried
how I could get on among them, and I am
tired of the experiment.'

'So that is settled?'

4 Yes, it is. The scheme was yours. T have
done my best to accommodate myself to it, but
it is impracticable.'

c Impracticable ! Do you know what you
have done ? You have danced about this young
woman long enough to fool me into believing
you were in earnest, and I have bought up
several of their mortgages, which I would not
have touched but for you.'

4 Deal generously with the family, father,'
said Charles. 4 It is not their fault that the
engagement is broken off. It is entirely my
own doing.'

4 That matters not,' said Mr. Cheek roughly.
1 1 don't care for them, but I do care for my
own money. I shall foreclose at once while the
depression lasts. When land is up again, sell.
That's business. I have a bill of sale on the
contents of their houses. I'll release that pretty
quick too.'

4 Dinner is on the table, sir,' said the servant,
entering.

4 But, my dear father, I entreat you to consider

that it is I who wrong them, and that some
reparation is cine to them for the disappointment,'

'Do yon hear?' roared the old man.
Dinner is on the table ! '

6 Yes, but stay a moment, I entreat you.'

< What— let the fish get cold ! Not for a
score of Kingsbridges. Dinner is on the table.
Go in ! '

During dinner the old man scarcely spoke.
He ate in a vindictive manner, as if he were
hurting his son's feelings by each bite, and knew
it, and delighted in doing it. When he cut the
mutton he cut as though lie were stabbing the
offender ; when he helped himself to gravy it
was as though spooning up his blood ; when
taking potatoes and rice he dabbed the spoon
into the vegetables as though stirring up and
torturing his Charles's brain. When he drank
he glowered over the rim of his glass at the
young man. But he said nothing till the dessert
was on the table and the servants withdrawn.

Then it was Charles who began.

6 Father, I have a proposal to make which
will surprise you. It is seriously made. I
want you to put me in the way of earning
my living.'

Mr. Cheek set clown a macaroon he was

eating, and which was bitten in half, and stared
at his son, then laughed insultingly.

• I am quite in earnest,' said the young man.
4 Give me an opportunity of working and earning
as much as will support me. I ask of you
nothing further. I desire henceforth to be beholden
to no one, not even to you. I wish to
be responsible for my actions to no one, to cutaway
the right of controlling and rebuking me
which you have exercised so freely and so offensively.
When I was living on an allowance
from you, you then had some right over me ;
when I live on my own earnings, you will have
none. I will allow none. When the money
was given to me, I did not know its value ;
when I earn it by hard work, I shall know
what it is worth. You have been rough of
tongue with me, and I have felt it, without
caring to amend my ways and deserve better ;
when I am free from it, I may find a motive
for reform.'

He spoke frankly; his pleasant handsome
face bore in it an expression new to it, a look
of dignity it had never worn before. His hair
was light, almost white in the gaslight, his eyes
were blue, and as he spoke moisture gathered
in them. His hand was on the table, playing

with a raisin stalk — a white hand, well formed,
that twitched and broke the stalk into many
pieces, showing his nervous emotion.

Mr. Cheek said nothing, but stared open-eyed
and open-mouthed.

You do not understand me,' continued
Charles, c I allow that I have been a sorry fool.
I am resolved to be so no longer. I should bea
fool if I continued my pretence to the hand
of Lady Grace, and mated out of my sort. I
had an ambition once to be a soldier, and that
you contradicted. Afterwards I had none.
You provided me with money, and I spent it.
I had no aim, no motive to do otherwise. You
urged me to this grand connection, and I went
along the path you pointed out, partly to please
you, partly because myself dazzled. But my
eyes have been opened in time. I see that it
is not a way I can walk on. I will choose another,
humbler ; I will work for my livelihood,
and then I can spend my life as my ambitions
spring up and direct.'

8 You are in earnest ? '

8 So much in earnest that I refuse the four
hundred pounds you have allowed me hitherto.'

Refuse the allowance ! '

'Yes. I will not touch what I have not

earned, and so deprive you of the right to rebuke
and outrage me.'

Outrage you ! ' echoed the father.

6 Yes, outrage me,' said the young man.
6 I have endured a great deal from you. I have
borne it because you are my father : but every
offensive word from you I have felt more keenly
than you have supposed possible. It has not
spurred me to do better, it has driven me todo
worse. .Now that is over. I will be my
own master henceforth, responsible to no man,
and enduring insult from none.'

Mr. Cheek was still too amazed to speak.
A dim consciousness that he had wronged his
son awoke in his mind, but his mind was too
coarse in texture to understand fully his fault.
He was a rough man, who when out of humour
used rough words. He meant them at the
time, but he did not mean them to inflict
mortal wounds. Education teaches man to
measure his words, and check them as they
pass from his heart over his tongue. Old
Cheek had never had the education which imposes
this self-restraint on speech. Charles had
inherited from his mother a more sensitive
nature than his father's ; from boyhood he had
been accustomed to hard words, and these had

alienated him from the old man, who loved him
whilst he abused him. Charles was naturally
weak, and his father's roughness had made him
weaker. The old man had mortified his self-respect,
till self-respect was almost dead within
him. Now, suddenly, it had sprung to life and
asserted itself.

Mr. Cheek stood up. He said nothing, and
left the room. Charles saw no more of him
that evening.

Next day at breakfast (the fifth meal at
which we have met him), he asked his son
whether he still meant what lie had said the
night before, and when Charles insisted that he
had spoken seriously, the father said, ' Charles,
I recognise something good in this. It gratifies
me. Begin to work for yourself. Learn the
value of every sixpence. I will put you with
Messrs. Newcomen and Bower, ship-agents in
Tapping. They will take you to oblige me.
I will see them and arrange about salary.'

I ask nothing better.'

And — accept from me fifty pounds to begin
life upon. You must live in lodgings.
But we see no more of each other till you have
grown into this new condition of life. If you
go into lodgings you must have some money.'

I accept it, father,' said Charles, c and,' he
added with faltering voice, ' pardon me if I
spoke too plain, and wounded you last night;

Wounded me ? Not a bit. Words break
no bones.'

CHAPTER LV.

IN Paix.

A month had passed. Charles had not been
seen by his father, who had fulfilled his undertaking,
and had placed him with shipping
agents, in a subordinate place. The old man
had arranged with Messrs. Newcomen and
Bowcher, who were ready to oblige him.
Charles was to have plenty of work, and was
to receive two pounds per week, of which, no
doubt — though he did not know it — his father
found a portion.

After the lapse of the month, Mr. Cheek,
senior, visited the agents and inquired into the
conduct of their new clerk. Messrs. Newcomen
and Bowcher were glad to testify that, as far
as they could judge, he was steady and attentive
to his work. He had been regular in his
attendance, careful, obliging, and reliable.

Then Mr. Cheek made an excursion to

Ebury Street, Publico, where his son lived ina
boarding-house, kept by a Miss Jones. He
chose a time for his visit when he knew his son
would be at the office. Ebury Street, Publico,
is a long way from Tapping, but Charles went
to and fro by steamer from Yauxhall Bridge,
and the air did him good.

Mr. Cheek found the dingy lodging-house
kept by Miss Jones ; he rang the bell, and
rapped sharply with the knocker, and the door
was opened by Miss Jones herself, a thin lady
with curls, a pasty face, and eyes so pale in
their colour that they must have been washed
and rewashed with soda till all the colour had
been washed out of them. Miss Jones was
full of amiability when Mr. Cheek introduced
himself, and hastened to assure him of the
respectability of her establishment, the high
social standing of her quests, and the comforts
they enjoyed. The house was admirably situated,
away from the fogs ; and the health of
the boarders was robust, as she could testify
by their appetites. They breakfasted together,
and she presided. She furnished them with
coffee and tea, whichever they preferred. Some
gentlemen were averse to tea in the morning,
and they drank coffee. Others liked to

change their drink week and week about.
Each had an egg and a rasher of bacon ; sometimes
she substituted bloater for rasher. There
was always a rack of toast on the table, as a
pleasant change to bread and butter. When
the gentlemen returned from their offices they
had tea, and in the evening supper off cold
meat, bread, and cheese, ' best American. I
had Dutch cheese for some time, but I find the
American is preferred by the gentlemen, so I
have that now.'

She went on to assure Mr. Cheek that her
lodgers were of the most select description.
For many years she had among them an old
Waterloo officer, but he was dead. The lady
lodging on the first floor ought, if everyone had
his rights, to be a baronet, but her aunt, from
whom she had great expectations, had left everything
to a female companion who had exercised
great influence over her at the last. It was a
pity, Miss Jones thought, that the lady had not
gone to law and upset the will, and recovered
the title and a real sealskin jacket which had
gone to the companion, worth forty pounds.
Another of her lodgers was a gentleman of some
literary fame, who at one time had earned five
pounds by writing verses for Christmas cards.

Miss Jones went on to say that she charged
for her lodgings a pound per week, exclusive of
ale and washing, inclusive of a dinner on Sundays
and Christinass Day.

Miss Jones did not provide the gentlemen
with toilette soap, for she found them more
fastidious in this particular than in their meat and
drink. One liked glycerine, another oatmeal,
and a third would use nothing but carbolic soap.

Mr. Cheek listened to Miss Jones without
interrupting her, looking the faded woman
through and through with his piercing eyes,
taking stock of her. He was probably satisfied
that, with a good deal of affectation, she was a
worthy woman at core, for he gave a grunt,
stood up, interrupted her flow of information,
and begged to be conducted upstairs to his
son's bedroom.

Quite Alpine, I have been told,' said Miss
Jones, as she conducted him to the very top of
the house. ' The air at this altitude is keen,
salubrious, and invigorating. The gentlemen
all like the top storey, where they can see over
the roofs. But, between ourselves, your son is
my favourite, and I have accommodated him
where he can have the finest view and the
purest air. Yonder, sir, you can catch Dutton's

Pottery Works ; the effect, with the morning
sun on them, is very fine.'

Mr. Cheek looked round the little bedroom.
It was in the roof, with a sloping ceiling.
There was a fireplace, but the grate had not
been used during Miss Jones's tenancy. The
walls were hung with the cheapest of papers in
two dingy colours. The furniture consisted of
one chair, a chest of drawers with the mahogany
veneering scaling away, a washhand-stand of
painted deal suffering from cutaneous disorder,
and a bed, above which hung a photograph ina
frame. Mr. Cheek knew the picture. A
duplicate had been sent to him some time ago.
Through the ring of the frame, with its head
drooping over the picture, hung a withered lily
of tli e valley.

Mr. Cheek came slowly downstairs holding
the banisters with one hand and rubbing his
nose with the other.

'Will this last?' he said to himself.
What can be the meaning of it all ? As for
his taking offence at any words I may have
said when annoyed, that's absurd — a mere
excuse. Words are wind, and wind blows
away.'

When he reached the parlour again, he said

to the landlady, ' Look here, ma'am. I don't
want yon to tell my boy that I have been here
to-day. Give him your best bedroom, not an
attic broom-and-pail cupboard. Turn out, if
need be, the old woman who missed a
baronetcy. I'll pay the difference. Give the
boarders kidneys for breakfast now and then,
and fowls for supper, or anything else they
fancy. Cost, ma'am, is no object to me. I can't
feed Charles differently from the rest, so they
must all be well-fed together. No more of
your American cheese ; Stilton and Cheshire,
and, if you will, Gorgonia. Xot a word
about me. Take all the credit to yourself.'

Charles was able to get away early on
WMtsun-eve. Monday would be a Bank holiday.
He had been hard worked, and worked
till late at night for some weeks, and Messrs.
Newcomen and Bowcher put up their shutters
on Friday night, and allowed their clerks holiday
from the Saturday to the Tuesday morning.
Charles took an early train on Saturday to
Plymouth, and arrived at the Barbican the
same afternoon. He went to the Golden Balls
immediately, without stopping to have anything
to eat. His heart was beating fast. His
step was light, his eyes full of glad expectation,

VOL. III. Q

and he held his head up proudly. He was
surprised to see that the house of Lazarus had
been repainted. The shop was open. A good
deal of business was done on a Saturday, double
on the eve of a Bank holiday. People would
pawn necessaries to obtain money for a day's
pleasure.

He looked in at the window, and saw Joanna
behind the counter talking to a woman who
was in the shop with some article she wished to
dispose of.

Charles waited till the woman came out,
then he caught the door before she closed it,
and stepped in.

Joanna, not hearing the door re-opened,
did not suppose anyone had entered. She did
not see him, as she was engaged examining the
article — a brooch, which she had taken.

Charles had a few moments in which to
observe her. She was well, even handsomely
dressed, but pale and worn. She put away the
brooch, and seated herself; then she leaned
her elbow on the counter, and put her hand to
her brow, and drew a deep sigh.

'Joe!'

She sprang to her feet, and stepped back.
He saw her turn deadly pale, and then lean

both her hands on the counter to steady herself,
as though afraid she would faint. She
recovered herself, however, quickly, but her
colour did not return as rapidly as her composure.


Mr. Charles ! You here ? '

6 Yes, dear Joe, I cannot help myself. I
could not do otherwise than come. I have not
had the chance before, and I have been hungering
for the sight of your face, and for a word
of encouragement from your lips. I came
straight away by the morning train, and have
just arrived. Why have you not answered my
letters ? '

4 1 sent you something.'

Yes, a lily of the valley, but not a word
accompanied it.'

6 1 sent you what I most valued, the first
flower from the root Lady Grace gave me. I
would not have parted with it to anyone else. I
would not have picked it for myself, but — you
have been kind to me, and — I thought I might
never more have the chance of giving you anything.'


c Why did you not send me a word ? '

Joanna made no answer. She looked down,
her pallor remained, and she, who was usually

q 2

so collected, stood trembling before him. She
tried to disguise her agitation by shuffling her
hands to and fro on the counter.

1 Oh, Joe ! you know that all is up between
me and Lady Grace. We did not suit each
other. We belonged to distinct worlds, she to
the world that is passing away, I to the world
that is coming on — though, I admit, but a poor
specimen of that. Xow that is all over, and I
am free. I am changed from what I was.
You knew me as an idler and a spendthrift,
without aim and without energy. Now I am a
clerk in a shipping office. I do not live on my
father's bounty. I have refused his allowance.
I live on what I earn. I work now for my
daily bread.'

She looked up and smiled, but there was
intense sadness in her face that showed through
her smile like a shower through a rainbow.

1 I get a hundred pounds a year, and I have
fifty pounds per annum of my own, left me by
my mother, independent of my father. May
I take a chair, Joe?'

She nodded, and pointed to one. He drew it
beside the counter, and seated himself ; but she
remained standing with her elbow on the desk,
and her hand over her eyes, shading her face.

I am lodging with an old lady in Ebury
Street,' he went on, * and pay her a pound a
week. I do not dine there, but at an eating-house,
and that costs me about nine shillings a
week, add a shilling for extras, and that comes
to twenty-six pounds in the year. I think I can
clothe myself on ten pounds, so that leaves just
sixty-six pounds clear. I am to have my salary
raised if I go on well. Now, Joe ! Take away
your hand, and let me see your face, let me
look into your ej T es. Will you give me the
hope that you will come and be mine, and let
us begin the world anew together ? I will — ■
I will work, and you shall never reproach me
with idleness again. If I have you, I shall be
happy ; I shall care for nothing else. I shall
do my work with a light heart, and sing over
it, knowing that I am going home to you.
You have done me a great deal of good already.
You will make me do a great deal more hereafter,
if you will consent to be with me always,
to encourage me.'

He put up his hand to draw aside her arm
from shading her face. Then he saw how great
was her agitation. She was shaking like an
aspen leaf, her nice ash white, her eyes dim.
She clasped her hands, and they quivered.

She unclosed them, and put one to her brow,
and put it clown again, then laid her hand on
her breast, and seemed to gasp for breath. She
could not speak.

Joe ! ' he said, ' why do you not answer
me ? It was for you that I refused my father's
help, that I might have the right to choose
whom I would, and I will have none but you.
You have had a wretched life here. I have leda
wasted life. You have taught me to break
away from my past, and I would release you,
in return, from yours. We shall begin the
world together on very little, but love lightens
every load and seasons every dish.'

Then she put both her hands outspread
before her, and touched his breast, as he
leaned forward, and thrust him away. Her
eyes were dark in their sockets, and gleamed.
I cannot — I cannot,' she said, quivering invoice,
eyes, and lips, and every muscle of her
body.

He looked at her in surprise. 'Why not,
Joe? You must, indeed. If you take from
me this hope, this ambition, I dare not say
what will become of me. It is only my love
for you which has lifted me to the threshold of
a better life ; now that you have led me to it,

will you thrust me back into the folly and
emptiness from which I have struggled up ? '

I cannot,' she said, slowly recovering herself.
' I signed you away for a hundred
pounds. That is why I never answered your

letters. That is why — now — now ' She

could not speak. Something rose in her throat
and choked her.

'Is that all?' exclaimed Charles. 'That
was a joke.'

'No,' she answered, 'it was no joke to me.
Your father was in earnest, so was I. And
now it is too late — now '

Then the door burst open, and Lazarus, ina
black frock coat, rushed out of the inner
part of the house.

What ! You here again ? You dare to
enter my premises. You scoundrel, you
waste ! Get out of my doors directly. Is it
not enough that your father has snatched
the Marquess from my grasp, but must you
come here to carry off my wife also ? '

Stand back,' said Charles, thrusting the
Jew away. 'I will not be touched by you.
Wife ! Joanna never shall be that if I can
prevent it.'

She is ! Tell him, Joanna. Let him hear

it from your own lips — make the news the
sweeter, perhaps.'

Charles stood looking from one to another,
petrified.

Mr. Charles,' said the girl without looking
at him, but with face averted, and playing a
tune with her fingers on the counter to conceal
her trembling, 4 1 told you it was to be so.
This morning we went together before the
registrar, and after sundown the cohen will be
here to marry us by Jewish rites.'

6 You coward ! you vile Jewish coward ! '
cried Charles, losing all control over himself,
and seizing Lazarus by the collar and shaking
him. ' You have taken a despicable advantage
over this poor girl, to make her life ten
thousand times more wretched than it was
before.'

As he shook the Jew his blood heated, then
boiled ; and, blind to what he was about, stung
by disappointed love, jealousy, disgust, flaring
into inconsiderate rage, he took up one of the
many sticks that were exposed in the shop for
sale, and, holding Lazarus by the collar, swung
him from side to side, beating him fast and
hard. Lazarus screamed for help. He was
not much hurt ; he writhed so that the blows

fell on his new black frock coat, but now
and then a cut caught him across the legs.
A woman — Mrs. Thresher — who had been in
the kitchen, hearing the shrieks, ran in, and
then rushed forth into the street crying
Murder ! '

Charles was excited to madness at the
tossing, and screaming, and dodging of the
Jew. at his want of success in hurting him.

His arm relaxed at length ; he was exhausted,
and he cast the wretched man away.

'There!' said he; 'remember Charles Cheek
in connection with your wedding-day.'

Next moment he was in the hands of the
police, summoned by Mrs. Thresher.

6 1 give him hi charge ! ' shouted the Jew.
i He has half-murdered me in my own house !
Take him off to the lock-up ! '

So it came about that Charles Cheek spent
his Whitsun holidays in confinement.

CHAPTER LVI.

PREPARATORY.

For some weeks Lazarus had been in a bad
temper, not at all in a lover's genial mood.
His mortgages had been taken up by Mr. Cheek
and his bills met; his power over the ducal
family was ended. Disappointed revenge and
frustrated ambition had combined to make him
irritable. He was now in possession of a very
large sum of money — of the whole of his
savings through many years of privation and
work, and he did not know what to do with it.
He did not, of course, keep the money in the
house ; it was lodged with his banker. The
question that recurred to him again and again
was, How should he invest it ? The ferment in
his mind was a relief to Joanna. It saved her
from annoyance. He almost forgot he was a
lover in his anxiety about his money.

When they sat together over the kitchen

fire, his talk was of the condition of the money-market,
on promising investments, on the rise
and fall of various stock which had attracted
his interest ; or he spoke fretfully of the
selfishness of Cheek senior in coming to the
assistance of the Kingsbridge family. At one
time Cheek was an idiot, throwing away his
money on coroneted fools ; at another he was
deep and selfish, robbing him, Lazarus, of the
fruits of his labours, just as they were ripe for
picking.

I know what he'll do,' grumbled Lazarus.
He'll puff Bigbury as he puffed his Monokeratic
system, run up a hotel, build a town and call it
Greenville. Then his son Charles will marry
well, become M.P., then Baronet, and so the
unicorn will poke its way into respectability.'

But though Lazarus was not an ardent
lover, he did not lose sight of the proposed
change in his relation to Joanna.

6 My dear,' he said, ' I've got a book of
etiquette written by a lady of rank among the
lots here, and I've read it. I learn from it
that in good society it is not thought the chic
for us to be married from the same house. So
I've spoken to Mrs. Thresher — a very motherly
body, though her line is ham and sausage — and

she will take you in ; she has a spare room on
the second floor, where you can reside till our
nuptials. I hope you will find nothing to
complain of in the marriage agreement which I
have instructed Grudge to draw up and bring
with him the day before our wedding. I have
made over everything to you, because I really
do not think I have a relative near enough forme
to know him. With us of the seed of
Israel, Joanna, maidens are always married on
a Wednesday, and widows on a Friday ; but,
as you are not one of us it really does not
matter what day is chosen, so I have fixed on
Whitsun-eve as suitable, then the honeymoon
can coincide with the Bank holiday, when
excursion trips are cheap. With us, the
marriage agreement is called the kynos, and is
made on a Sunday, but, as you don't belong to
the house of Israel, any day will do for that ;
and I've told Crudge to be here on the Friday.
Then, on the Sabbath we'll walk over together
to the registrar, as you're a Christian ; and after
sundown, when the Sabbath is over, and the
Sunday begins, a cohen will come from Bristol
and will marry us by religious ceremonial, as is
customary among us. What a fortunate thing
it is, Joanna, that I kept the howdah all these
years. At last it will come in serviceable ; for

in our marriage ceremony the bridegroom and
the bride stand under a canopy of silk or some
precious stuff, and the cohen blesses them, and
takes a ring from me and puts it on your
finger, whilst I say, " Verily thou art espoused
unto me, according to the rites of Moses and
Israel." After that a gobletful of red wine is
handed to the cohen, and he blesses it, just
puts his lips to it, and passes it to us. We
shall have to empty it between us, and then I
dash the goblet on the ground and break it, byway
of putting you in mind that you are but
brittle ware.' Lazarus shook his head. 'Ah,
Joanna ! what are ceremonies without a moral
meaning ? '

4 Is that all ? '

Yes, that is all. Now, although you must
sleep and have your meals at Mrs. Thresher's,
I don't see that you need neglect the shop. I
shall be very much engaged, as the three rooms
upstairs have to be cleared, and a new range
put in the kitchen. Talking of ranges,' said
Mr. Lazarus, rubbing his chin in his palm,
they are difficult things, what with their
dampers and traps. They are like organs, only
to be played upon by one w r ho understands the
stops. And where will you find a cook who
understands a range? When she wants to

bake she pulls out both the dampers, one of
which is designed to draw the fire away from
the oven to the boiler ; and when she wants to
boil, she pulls out both dampers, one of which
is designed to draw away the fire from the
boiler. And when she wants neither to bake
nor to boil, she pulls out both dampers, and
carries the fire up the chimney, which is just
the same as if an organist pulled out stop
diapason and hautboy when he wanted pianissimo
: and tremolo and dulciano when he
wanted forte ; and diapason, hautboy, tremolo,
and dulciano when he wanted nothing in
particular. Come here. Joanna.' He made
her follow into his sanctum. * We must have
a clearance here. It is a loss, but it cannot be
helped. Do you see all those shelves full of
chemist's drugs ? I took the lot once for a
bad debt, but I've never been able to sell them.
Ipecacuanha, cod-liver and castor oils, extract
of senna, mercurial ointment, tincture of taraxacum,
arnica, laudanum. There is enough thereto
dose the Barbican.'

4 "What, am I to throw them all away? '
• Yes, unless you can dispose of them
better. And you can sell the bottles."

I shall find a use for them," said Joanna.

CHAPTER LVII.

RELEASE.

6 Mr. Lazarus, 1 b Joanna.

Call me 1 el, or, for short, Em

Mr . Lazarus." sa i d Joanna , dire garden e
the interruption. ; you will not proceed against
Mr. Cheek.'

Why not r Show fine the reason. Didn't
he shake me. and slap me, and bang me, and
beat me with stick? Didn't he burst the
buttons off me. and nigh upon throttle me with
my cravat ? And didn't he tumble my teeth
out and break the laces of my stays r Am I
own under all these prove ::oas and
bear them like a lam': t

'It you to pass this ver. Y*>o not

appear against him.*

No, no, Joanna. Do not try this on too
soon. We are not i . and when we are.

you will have to learn that wedlock does not

make a missus of you over me. Mistress of the
house, of the pots, and pans, and the servant if
we have one — though I dare say we can
manage if Mrs. Thresher will come in charing
mistress over Mrs. Thresher if you like, but
not over me. Do you know that every day I
say the Berochos she shachrit, and bless Providence
that I am not born a Gentile, born
a slave, and born a woman. Among you
Christians the order of the domestic world is
inverted, and the woman dominates over man
and beast. It is not so with us. The Parties
have a very good custom. Every morning the
wife falls down before her husband's feet and
worships him. Even Ave Jews have not attained
to such a pitch of enlightenment as that. In
the Aisher-Yotsar every day we thank Providence
for having made openings in us, eyes
wherewith to see, ears wherewith to hear,
nostrils wherewith to smell, doors these for the
acquisition of information, and we pray that
they may ever be kept open ; and now, through
these same doors to-day imbibe the lesson that,
in this house, I remain master. In whatsoever
capacity you be, whether as maid-of- all work,
or as pawn, or as wife, I remain above you, as
the sun is above the earth. Your orbit is about
me, not mine round you.'

Preparations had been made in the house
for the change in the condition of the two
usual inmates. Three upper rooms had been
completely cleared of their contents, and they
had been adapted for habitation. That commanding
the street, immediately over the shop,
was to be the drawing-room, another was
furnished as the dining-room. In one way or
another Lazarus disposed of a great deal of
rubbish. He groaned over it, because he was
losing money. ' This sofa,' said he, ' must go
for twelve and three, and the cabinet for fifteen
and nine. If I bided my time I might dispose
of the sofa for two guineas, and the cabinet for
fifty shillings, but let this loss of three pound
four — say three guineas — be an evidence to my
Joanna of the love and self-sacrifice lodged in
this bosom. Love may well be described as a
devouring flame ; it consumes a lot of capital.'

The beds, the tables, chairs, wardrobes,
uniforms, crockery, were disposed of, and space
made for the painters and paperers to get to
work. The staircase was put to rights, the
floors repaid. ' Though why the floors should
be made pretty, when they will be covered
by carpets, is more than I can see.'

On Saturday morning the Jew and Joanna,

VOL. III. e

with Mrs. Thresher and her husband, appeared
before the registrar, the two latter as witnesses.

If I was to die intestate, and without a
family,' said Lazarus, ' half of all I'm possessed
of would go to the widow, and the other half
to the next of kin, and it would take something
to find a kinsman. But now I have made you
to take all, Joanna, by my marriage settlement,
which Grudge brought here yesterday for
signature. Which is another proof — if proof
were wanting — how fond I am of you.
Joanna, when I come to consider all I've done
for you, how I have lifted you out of the dirt,
so to speak, to make you my consort, and how
I have scattered the contents of the three
upper rooms, and how I have made liberal
provision for you should you survive me — I
say that, considering all this, I think there
should be no bounds to your gratitude and
devotion to me.'

The upper room, intended as dining-room,
was prepared for the occasion of the religious
ceremonial. In the middle hung a brass lamp
of seven nozzles, the Sabbatical lamp, with
seven wicks, which were all burning. The
howdah, raised on four poles, a richly decorated
canopy of red silk embroidered with gold

thread, rested against the wall ; on an ormolu
marble-topped side table stood a large crystal
goblet filled with purple wine. The day was
not quite set, but the blinds were drawn that
the inquisitive people of the marine store
opposite, who were well aware what was about
to take place, and whose windows commanded
the room, might be debarred participation in
the ceremony. Directly the sun set, and the
Sabbath was over, the Rabbi would arrive,
together with some Plymouth Jews and
Jewesses, invited to be present. For the
occasion, Mrs. Thresher presided in the
kitchen.

Lazarus was in high excitement. He had
eaten nothing all clay, as a Jew is required to
fast on his wedding day. He was restless.
He ran about the house to assure himself that
all was in readiness. As the Saturday before a
Bank holiday was one in which much business
was done, he had sent Joanna into the shop.
The opportunity of making something was not
to be neglected. It took him some time to put
himself to rights after the thrashing he had
received from Charles Cheek. His shirt and
his new cloth clothes, and his glossy dyed hair
were all ruffled, but his temper was more

k2

ruffled than they, less easily smoothed. It was
unreasonable of Joanna to ask him to forgive
Charles. Who is disposed to forgive injuries
on an empty stomach? Lazarus was heated,
fretted, fuming, his cunning eyes sparkling
with feverish light.

A small room on the ground floor had been
cleared for Joanna, as a place in which she
could sit instead of occupying the kitchen.
Hitherto it had been filled with goods. It was
rather bare of furniture, and was un carpeted,
but then, as Lazarus said, why launch out into
extravagance over a room no one would be
received into ?

The sun had set. Joanna was seated in
this room. The shutters had been put up in
the shop. There was twilight at this time of
the year, and the girl sat in the window looking
out into the street, in the twilight. The
guests were arriving ; the ladies in their
richest dresses — handsome young Jewesses with
splendid eyes, and elderly Jewesses gross and
coarse ; Jews in evening suits under their
overcoats, with white ties, and white kid
gloves, and waistcoats festooned with chains.
The cohen had come, and had been received
with respect.

Joanna would not appear till the last moment.
She heard the trampling of the feet in the
passage, Mrs. Thresher's voice as she divested
the ladies of their wraps. She heard the feet
go up the steep stairs, aud then the buzz of the
voices overhead.

Polly Thresher was there, the daughter of
the ham shop, a young lady who was barmaid
at an inn, but who had come for the occasion
to help. Polly was not an old bird, she fed on
chaff; she gave chaff also. She was thought to
be pretty, and assumed the airs of a beauty — a
forward, fast young lady, accustomed to the
society of the gentlemen who hang about a bar.
She and a young Jewess were to be Joanna's
bridesmaids, and lead her to the dining-room
and the howdah, when all were arrived and
ready for the performance of the ceremony.

Joanna sat by the window, looking wistfully
into the street, without looking at anything
in particular. She had her hands in her lap,
folded. A hard despairing expression was on
her face.

Miss Thresher put her head in. ' Oh my !
not got your veil on, miss ? The gents and
ladies is nigh all assembled, also the minister,
with a lonsf beard.'

Polly,' said Joanna, ' do me a favour.
Ask Mr. Lazarus to come down.'

The good-natured girl nodded, and ran upstairs.
A moment after the usurer entered the
room.

Heigh, Joanna,' he said ; ' looking beautiful
in that dress ; wanting in colour rather.
I wish I could persuade you to use a little rouge
de theatre. There is a make-up box in that
cupboard. One always reads of a " blushing
bride," and you look as though you had dusted
your face over with blanc de perle. Put on
diamonds. Don't shrink. The ladies upstairs
have piled on all the jewelry they could borrow,
and I don't want you to fall short. I've not
made as much show hitherto as others, but I've
more money than any man in the room upstairs.'

'Mr. Lazarus,' she said, 'I have sent for you
once more to entreat you not to appear against
Mr. Charles Cheek. He has just turned over a
new leaf, has left his father and entered an office
he is with shipping agents — and he lives on
what he earns. Let him go quietly back on
Monday. Do not stand in his way. I ask you
this as a personal favour. I have not asked
you many favours. This shall be my last.
Will you grant it me ? '

Xo, Joanna, most certainly not. It is of no
use your interceding with me for that scapegrace.
It is a principle with me that no one
shall touch me without suffering for it, and I
am sure you would not have me go against
principle.'

I implore you, let him go ! I will ask you
on my knees.'

6 Xo,' answered the Jew, ' I will not. Xot
now 5 and never.'

Then he left.

In five minutes we shall expect you,' he
said, in the door. ' Miss Phillips will comedown
for you.'

She remained seated. Her lips moved.
She plucked a little bunch of lily of the valley
from her bosom, looked at it, kissed it, and
replaced it. Then she folded her hands again,
and remained motionless.

People passed in the street. Boys romped,
women scolded. A. cart went by laden with
fish, then a wheelbarrow with whiting. Some
sailors, half tipsy, drifted past, singing, squabbling.
The lamplighter came to turn the gas
and ignite it. She watched him, bending
forward to observe how often he missed the tap.
She put her hand to her brow ; it was burning,

but her hands and feet were like ice. She was
in white silk, and beside her, over a chair, hung
a rich lace veil.

Seven years ago, on that very day, her
mother had brought her to the Golden Balls.
Every circumstance came back upon her memory
with vivid distinctness. Seven years of
slavery, leading now to what was worse a
hundred times.

c Fool that I was,' she muttered, ' to climb
out of the water. Better have choked in that
slime than have come to this. I have lived in
hope, and now hope is dead. My mother has
died, I know not when and I know not where,
and I was not by her to close her eyes and receive
her last kiss.'

Then she heard a tap at the door.

She stood up and threw the veil over her
head.

Are you ready?' asked Miss Polly Thresher
and Miss Phillips, standing in the doorway.
Everyone is ready, and expecting you.'

She turned once more with a face that
darkened as though a fold of the coming night
had dropped over it, towards the window,
irresolute, unwilling to go.

At that moment she heard a voice, and her

heart stood still. The voice was in the street
and the tones were familiar.

Here, lass ! Thon'lt find t' bairn right
enough.'

Joanna uttered a piercing cry, and dashed
through the door, driving the two girls standing
in it to right and left. In another moment she
was in the street, laughing, crying, clasping a
woman, whilst a burly skipper stood by, with
his hands in his pockets, and chuckled.

Mother ! mother ! ' she cried, ' I knew you
would come. I was sure you would not desert
me. Only just at the last my trust gave
way. Now all is well ! Oh, so well ! mother !
mother ! '

The woman she clung to was indeed the
same poor creature whom we saw in the first
chapter of the story throw herself and the child
into Sutton Pool.

She was thin, ordered, haggard, with grey
in her hair, and a wandering look in her eyes,
but the face was the same. Joanna knew her
instantly. Her heart leaped towards her with
a spasm of mingled joy and pain. The poor
woman seemed quite as poor as when she tried
to drown herself seven years before. She did
not seem to have gained much more courage to

battle with the hardships of life during these
years.

Joanna drew her into the house, thrust the
two young women impatiently, angrily, away,
brought her mother into her own room, and
then shut and locked and bolted the door
against intruders.

Hastily she placed her mother in the chair
she had recently occupied, and held her, looked
into her worn face, then covered it with kisses
and tears : clasped the hands, rough, soiled,
wrinkled, and bathed them with tears, and dried
them with her burning lips. Then she held the
hands to her beating heart as though their pressure
would lull its tumult.

Oh, mother ! my own, my own, my
dearest mother! '

She could say no more, only repeat these
words again and again, and intercept them with
fresh transports. Then she cast herself on her
knees and threw one arm about her mother's
waist and the other round her neck, and laid
her own hot cheek and burning head against the
bosom on which they had rested so often, and
where they had found comfort in olden times.

Oh, mother! my sweet mother!' she
repeated, and laughed, and wiped her tears away

against the poor woman's breast. ' Oh, my
mother ! my mother ! God be praised ! God
be praised ! ' — and that was the first time
Joanna had ever raised her heart to one above.
Her iov was so great that it gave her soul wings
for the moment, find carried her, unconsciously,
on high.

When she became a little calmer she
slightly relaxed her hold that she might look
at her mother's face attentively, by the light
of the street lamp.

6 Why, my child,' said the poor woman,
'what is this? Why are you dressed in this
fashion ? Are you going to be married ? '

At the same moment the girls outside
tapped loudly, and Polly Thresher called
through the door —

They be all waiting, and Mr. Lazarus has
sent down to know why you are not come up.
Please be quick, miss ! '

Mother ! ' exclaimed Joanna, ' help me.'

She threw off the veil, and tore off the
white silk dress and everything she had on
wherewith she had been adorned for the
marriage, and eagerly, with hasty fingers, put
on her old stuff dress, patched and darned, and
her house slippers.

I am coming.' she said triumphantly to
those without. ' Tell them I am ready.'

Then she threw open the door, ran into the
shop, took the ledger from the desk, and
catching her mother by the hand, drew her
with her up the stairs into the room, where a
gaily dressed and glittering party were assembled
— a room brilliantly lighted — and, drawing
her mother after her, pressed forward, and
threw the ledger on the table.

Lazarus ! ' she cried, with exultation in her
voice. ' My mother has come, and brought the
money and the duplicate. Score me out ! I
am no longer Six-hundred-and- seventeen. I
am free.'

CHAPTEE LVIII.

THE LAST OF THE EMS WATER.

Joanna was resolute. It was in vain that
those present represented to her that she had
been with Lazarus to the registrar's office, so
that in the eye of the law she was already
married. She refused peremptorily, absolutely,
to go through the religious ceremony. She
was triumphant, defiant. Her eyes were
sparkling, her cheeks kindled. No necessity
now for the make-up box and rouge de theatre.

I wouldn't be drowned, I said, this day
seven years, and I won't be wedded now,' she
said.

Everyone spoke at once. The cohen
addressed her seriously, Mrs. Thresher, who
came up, overwhelmed her with reproaches.
Lazarus stormed and screamed with rage, and
insisted on her obedience to his wishes. But
the time for submission was past. As long ashe

was her master she had served him, in cold
and hunger and rags. She had begged for
him, bargained for him, fought for him. She
had nursed him in sickness, she had guarded
his goods like a watch-dog. She never had
defrauded him of a penny. Now that she
was free she would not be his wife.

She paid no attention to those present ;
their voices sounded in her ears, but she did
not hear their words ; she saw the persons that
surrounded her as figures in a dream. One
face alone was distinct before her — her mother's,
one voice alone entered her ears and reached
her brain — her mother's. Her soul was like
a long-closed room, into which no light lias
entered ; suddenly the shutters are thrown
back, and the window flung open, and the
whole chamber is full of summer sweetness
and sunny splendour. Her step was elastic,
flame leaped through her pulses and flashed in
her eyes. She had recovered her mother, the
only person in the world to whom she belonged,
who belonged to her, the mother on whose lap
she had laid, in whose arms she had been
rocked, against whose heart she had cried herself
to sleep, the mother who was the truest,
most unchangeable of friends, the best of

refuges in sorrow, the surest of counsellors — she
had everything now — everything of which she
had been deprived for seven years.

Heedless of every circumstance, deaf to
every argument, blind to every advantage, she
drew her mother away. She wanted to be
alone with her again, to hear her story and to
tell her own, to sweep her away again in the
flood of her overflowing love. She held her
hand so fast that not for a moment could the
poor woman disengage herself. Mrs. Eosevere
w T as bewildered. She understood nothing: of
what went on about her, the lighted room,
with the gentlemen in evening dresses, the
ladies glittering with jewelry, the crimson
canopy, the seven-flamed lamp, her daughter's
strange demeanour. She was a timid woman
with a mazed mind at the best of times ; and
this sudden episode completely distracted her.

Joanna brought her mother back into the
room below, and fastened the door, but
Lazarus had followed and was kicking and
hammering at it with his fists, and swearing that
he would have her out. He would not be
insulted thus before all his guests.

Joanna remained quietly in her chair, clinging
to her mother. There was disturbance

outside. Voices speaking in the passage to
Lazarus, he answering in shrill tones, in accents
of passion ; the trampling of feet and the
slamming of the house-door, and after awhile,
stillness. The guests had withdrawn to laugh
with each other outside the house, on their
way home ; Polly was with her mother in the
kitchen, uttering exclamations of amazement
and disgust.

When all was quiet, and the fear of being
disturbed had passed away, then Joanna said,
And now, my darling mother, tell me all that
you have done and gone through during these
seven years — and tell me why you did not
come to release me earlier.'

Then the poor faded woman narrated a
long story of troubles, beginning with her sickness
on board Mr. Hull's boat, and how she
had been taken to a hospital, and got better,
and been discharged, and had gone into service
and earned some money, which had been dissipated
by a return of sickness. A story of
recurrent toil and disappointment, of saving and
scattering, of hope and despair. Joanna sat by
her, holding her hands and pressing them, and
when she heard how her mother had toiled she
kissed her hands, and when she heard how she

had been sick she flung her arms about her
and swayed her, and sobbed and fondled her.
Mrs. Eosevere went on to tell how that at last
she had been able to gather together a little
money, and how she had gone to Goole and
had waited there, taking odd jobs of work,
till she could find a boat which was going with
coals to Plymouth, for she could not afford
the railway journey ; and how at last she
had found Mr. Hull loading to go there — and
how now, at length, she was back in Plymouth.
The story took a long time in telling, for the
poor woman was a rambling talker, who lost
her thread and went on without it, and then
picked it up at the wrong place and generally
entangled it. But Joanna was not critical ;
she made out all she wanted to know, that
the mothers heart had yearned through seven
years for the child, as the child's heart had
.yearned seven years for the mother.

A rough tap at the door, and Mrs.
Thresher's voice.

Joanna went to the door and unlocked.

4 We can't remain here all night, you know,'

said the old woman roughly, even rudely.

We've got our own duties to fulfil — and a

mussy it is some folks are found in the world

VOL. III. s

who do their duties. Polly lias to go back to the
Coach and Horses," and I've got my swearing
old Eadical husband to attend to. So we are off.'

Very well,' said Joanna, ' you can go.'

And I hope somebody will be ashamed of
herself, and of giving people a lot o' trouble for
nothing, and of her ingratitude to the best of

masters, and ' Joanna slammed the door

in her face. This did not interrupt or put a stop
to Mrs. Thresher's grumbling. She grumbled
as she got into her bonnet, grumbled herself
out of the house, and grumbled all the way
along the Barbican to her own home, where her
grumbling was drowned by the louder, more
boisterous political grumbling of Mr. Thresher.

Joanna sat stroking her mother's hair till
Mrs. Thresher was out of the house, and then
she began to tell her mother her own story.

She told the story with perfect frankness.
She hid nothing from her. She told her about
Charles Cheek, and the necklace, and the pink
silk dress ; she told her about Court Royal, and
described to her Lady Grace ; she told her of
how she had been caught, and was obliged to
run away ; she told her of the subscription ball,
and then she told her how Charles had been
there that day, had beaten Lazarus, and was

no w in the lock-up till Lazarus should appear
against him. She told her mother also how that
she had been about to be married to Lazarus,
when, in the nick of time, she — her dear
mother — had arrived to release her. Then she
was silent for a few moments, holding her
mother's hand between both of hers, and hers
twitched with nervousness. ' Mother,' she said,
then hesitated ; 4 mother — hush ; does no one
hear?' She listened. The house was still.
She did not hear the tread of Lazarus upstairs.
Nevertheless she was not satisfied ; she went to
the door, opened it, looked along the passage,
then returned, took her mother's hand again
between her own, and said, ' Mother — I had
made up my mind. I never could, I never
would, be his. I would not have lived.'
4 What do you mean, dear ? '
I should have destroyed myself.'
Oh, Joanna ! Joanna ! ' The poor woman
shrank back.

Mother, when you were in your deepest
despair, and you saw no light before you, you
threw yourself into the water. I was driven
to the last point of endurance. I could not, I
would not, endure to be his wife. It would
Jaave destroyed all my self-respect. I thoughts

2

how I could escape, and I saw no other way
but this.'

The woman shuddered. ' I did wrong, my
child, very wrong ; the Lord forgive me, a
poor sinner. I was as one mad at the time.'

I was not mad,' said Joanna, ' but in my
soberest sense. I would never, never be his — ■
I would die first ; that was the only way of
escape that I could think of. Mr. Lazarus is
not a bad man altogether, and I have a kind
of regard for him ; he has his good points ; but
I cannot, and I will not endure him as a
husband. Can you understand me, mother?
A horror and loathing came on me — and, just
as you came by, I was looking out of the
window to say good-bye to the daylight which
I thought I should never see again.'

8 It was very, very wrong,' whispered the
mother.

I can't see that. I have two consciences,
one pawnbroker, the other womanly. The
first had no opinion about it, the other was very
positive it was what I ought to do.'

But how — oh, Joanna ! ' The poor woman
shuddered.

1 had my plans. Lazarus had told me to
clear away a number of bottles of drugs and

chemicals from his room. Among them was a
stoppered phial of laudanum, and Charles had
told me about that. It gives no pain when
taken, but sends you to sleep, and you sleep
peacefully away into the endless sleep.'

The mother, shivering and white, held
Joanna away from her.

What else could I do ? Whither could I
go? I had no one to whom I belonged and
with whom I could find a home. I could not
remain in this house with him any more as his
servant after he had wanted to make me his
wife, and his wife I would not be.'

Her mother was trembling as with cold —
as she trembled on that same day seven years
before when she stood in the same house,
though not in the same room, and when she
was drenched with sea-water,

You may say — There was Mr. Charles
Cheek. But, mother, his visit came too late.
I had been already to the register office with
Mr. Lazarus. It is true he had written to me
two or three times, to tell me what he was
about, but he had not said a word in those
letters about wanting me to be his wife. And,
even if he had, I must have refused him,
because I gave him up to his father for a

hundred pounds. Now, mother, would it have
been honourable in me to take that money,
and afterwards go from my agreement to which
I had signed my name? No, I could not,
much as I like Charles — and I do, I do like
him. I could take him as little as I could
Mr. Lazarus. I have a conscience. I have
two — they may be queer to the fancy of some
folk, but they are plain and outspoken to me,
and what they say, that I do, and no haggling
and bargaining and beating down with them.

<D CD O

So you see, mother, there was no help for it.
I thought, when I made my plan, that if I took
all the laudanum myself, master would find it
out and fetch a doctor, and they would bring
me round, so I was resolved to give him some
of the laudanum also, enough to '

Oh, Joanna ! ' in a tone of agony and
horror ; 'not to kill him also ? '

No, mother, I had no thought of that.
That would be murder, and no provocation
would bring me to that. No. I thought if he
should swallow enough to make him confused,
and unable to understand what had taken me,
that he would be as one drunk, and sleep, and
wake when I was past recovery.'

Mrs. Eosevere wrung her hands, uttered a

faint cry, and slipped out of the chair upon her
knees, and, pressing her hands to her bosom,
said, 4 My God ! my God ! I thank Thee that
Thou didst bring me here in time to save the
soul of my poor child.'

Joanna waited till her mother had recovered
herself somewhat before she proceeded with her
narrative. She drew her back upon the seat,
and took her hand again between her own.
Her face was earnest and pale now ; it had lost
its light and colour.

4 Mother, the Jews have a ceremony at
their w T eddmo's of filling; a large "lass with red
wine, and the bridegroom sips this, then passes
it to the bride, who also sips it. Then he
finishes it, and when it is empty he dashes it to
fragments on the ground. I had to prepare
everything upstairs, and I poured the laudanum
into the goblet, and mixed it well with the
wine. Then I purposed, when it came to me
to sip, to take a long deep draught, leaving
only just enough for Lazarus to suit my purpose.
None would suspect what I had done. I
would go away to my little attic-room and lock
the door, and lay me down on the bed and
never wake again, and that would have been
the end of my story, mother, had not you

arrived at the proper moment, and for a second
time given me life.'

Joanna,' said Mrs. Eosevere, ' this is very
terrible, and I cannot bear to think of it. God
forgive me that I ever showed you a way out
of misery. The Lord interfered then to save
me from myself ; and the Lord has interfered
now to save yon. Now, Joanna, to my
thinking, there is no time to be lost, we must
go upstairs at once and throw away the poison.
It must not be left exposed another minute.'

Yes, mother,' said the girl, ' you are right.
It is the last duty I have to do in this house,
and it shall be done forthwith. After that we
will go out and leave it, never to set foot over
its threshold again.'

They ascended the stairs together. The
door was shut. Joanna knocked. She received
no answer.

Perhaps Mr. Lazarus has gone out,'
whispered her mother. 'If so, we must not
leave the house till his return.'

Joanna opened the door into the newly-furnished
dining-room. The apartment would
have been dark but for the nicker of the seven-wicked
Sabbatical lamp. Lazarus, governed
always by the idea of economy, had extinguished

the candles. The lamp-wicks burned badly,
and the light was lurid.

Joanna and her mother stood in the doorway
looking round. All at once the woman
littered a piercing cry, and staggered back.
Joanna at the same moment started forward.

On the floor, under the red silk gold-embroidered
canopy, lay Lazarus, as one dead,
holding the empty goblet in his hand.

The girl raised him on her knee, tore off
his cravat, and lifted his head on her bosom.
He was breathing heavily. Mrs. Eosevere
dashed water in his face.

He must be made to stand,' said the
woman. ' He must be kept on his feet, walking
all night. He must be forced to keep awake.'

c Oh, mother, he has been fasting since
yesterday at sunset, and he has taken this on
an empty stomach. Hold him, mother, hold
him whilst I rim. I know what to give him.
That was not sold — that will save him — the rest
of the Ems water.'

CHAPTER LIX.

WITHOUT A WATCH-DOG.

Mrs. Severe and her daughter had an
anxious night with Lazarus. They were afraid
to send for a doctor, lest he should discover
what had been done. They walked the Jew
about, and forced him to drink Ems water, and
did not venture to leave him till morning,
when they put him to bed in his old room downstairs.


He was obliged to remain in bed next day,
and Joanna and her mother attended him.
He was surly, and snarled at them. He could
not forgive Joanna. He received her attentions
with resentment. He was ignorant of the
cause of his illness. He supposed that he had
had a fit.

As he got better he occupied himself in bed
whittling a stick. On Monday, after he had
eaten a chop and drunk a bowl of soup made
for him by Joanna, and brought him by Mrs.

Eosevere, he suddenly leaped out of bed armed
with his stick, and chased the woman from his
room, then rushed after her into the kitchen,
where he fell upon Joanna, full of malice and
fury, swore and cursed and threatened, and
struck her over the head with the stick. ' Get
out of this place. Never show your face in it
again, you ungrateful minx. Eating me out of
house and home. Oh, yes ! Chops and soup !
You can't stint yourselves when I am ill and
unable to look after you.' Then he drove
them out of his house.

As soon as they were gone he bolted and
barred the door. He had refused to allow
Joanna to take anything away which the girl
might claim as her own. She had pleaded for
nothing but the pot of lily of the valley, and
that he refused.

When Lazarus had thrust Joanna forth, he
returned to his room to dress. He trembled
with anger, anger that had been simmering in
his mind since Sunday morning, but which he
had kept in control till he was strong enough
to give it vent.

1 1 am well rid of her,' he said, laying aside
his stick. 'Blighted be the day that I took
her in. This is the gratitude I receive for

having nurtured her in my bosom, a viper that
turns and stings me. What is the world
coming to ? Where is morality left ? Here is
this girl that I have cared for, and instructed,
and fed, and given my society to, turns my
head, puts me to frightful expense, makes me
sell oti" a lot of capital furniture at half its value,
and involves me in bills to tradesmen for
painting and papering, and carpentering and
plumbing, turns the whole house upside down,
and in the end — flouts me in the face of my
own people, makes me ridiculous. Well said
the Rabbi Nathan that Mahoah was a fool,
because it is written in the Book of Judges,
He followed his wife." For whoever runs
after a woman takes leave of his senses.'

Lazarus wandered about his house looking
at the changes that had been made in it, and
groaning. The bills of the tradesmen had not
come in. He would have to pay them. He
climbed the stairs to Joanna's attic room, and
found a malicious pleasure in flinging her pots
of flowers out of the window on the stones
of the quay or into the water, hoping that she
might be near to see and bewail the destruction
of her cherished possessions. He found the
photograph of herself and Charles Cheek. He
had not seen it before.

That's the way my money went ! Oh, if I
could but find a case on which to prosecute
her ! ' He tore the picture to pieces and flung
it into the street.

There was nothing else in the room that
Joanna could have called her own, on which he
might vent his spite. He crept downstairs
again. His legs were not firm under him, the
laudanum or the Ems water had weakened
him, and they shook.

I'll have Mrs. Thresher to look in on me
every day, I will. She is a sensible woman,
and took Joanna's conduct to heart. I'll get
her to let Polly come and mind the shop.
She's a sharp girl, and if I promise to deal
handsomely by her, perhaps she'll give up
the bar and take to the counter. I'll let
that scorpion know that I can do without
her.'

He wondered at himself, as he stood in the
carpeted and furnished rooms, for having been
induced to change his old mode of life. His
object for many years had been to revenge
himself on the Marquess. For that he had
stinted himself ; and when his opportunity was
taken from him he had been unsettled, without
an object for which to work and deny himself.
Man must have some aim ; when one is taken

from him lie finds another. When revenge
was disappointed, love occupied the field. He
had begun to dream of a happy life, such as he
had dreamed of when he married his first wife.
He had been disappointed in his first dream,
now the second was dispelled.

• I'll send for Grudge tomorrow,' he said.
1 Til see if I can't have that confounded settlement
altered. What a fool I was to have any
at all, but I was infatuated. I thought, after
all the marks of tenderness I showered on the
girl, she must love me. What wicked ingratitude
after all I have done ! Her keep must
have cost five-and-twenty pounds per annum,
and she has been with me seven years, that is
a hundred-ands seventy-five pounds — then her
clothing. Why! I've spent on the minx two
hundred pounds at the lowest computation —
and now to desert me ! What I have wasted
on her would have brought me in ten pound
per annum at five per cent.'

He fussed about his shop, now closed. He
routed in the drawers, he poked about in the
kitchen, in the vain hope of discovering that he
had been robbed of something by Joanna, so
- to be able to take out a summons against
her. He could not find that anything was

gone. Darkness closed in. The wind piped
and sobbed under the doors and in at the key-holes,
and the rain drizzled against the windowpanes.


Ah ! ' said Lazarus shuddering, • a south-wind
blowing up Channel, charged with
moisture. Twenty-four hours of rain. I hope
Joanna and her mother are out in it, without
shelter for their heads to-night." He listened
to the drip from the window-ledges, and the
pour down the fall pipe. ' They were wet
when first they came into this house, may they
be as wet and shivery now they leave it ! '

He groped for sticks to light his fire. He
was unsuccessful. The art of making a fire is
not in man. it is instinctive in woman. He
either lays it or lights it wrong. Lai
found out that he had to deal with a most
intractable art. The sticks were too thick, or
the paper too profuse, or the coals sluggish in
kindling. A whole newspaper went in a flare
without lighting the wood, and when the wood
was kindled with the application of a candle, it
refused to communicate its fire to the coals.

So he sat in the cold and dark, growling
and miserable. Then he heard a scratching
noise about him, like the uncurling of crumpled

paper. He struck a match, relit the candle
which had been extinguished whilst applied to
the sticks in the grate, and saw that the floor
was alive with blackberries, which fled in all
directions when the match flared.

He left the candle lighted on the table, and
relapsed into his chair, and into brooding over
his wrongs.

He was dissatisfied with the prospect before
him. He would never be able to replace
Joanna. Mrs. Thresher was a voracious eater,
and would expect her meals at his house. He
would have to keep Polly as well, and he was
doubtful whether Polly would settle into the
business after the more lively experiences of
the bar. He reasoned with himself that life with
Joanna would have been a daily struggle. Set a
beggar on horseback and he will ride to the
devil ; give a savage clothes, and a wardrobe
will not suffice him. Translated from the
kitchen to the parlour, from being in subjection
to sharing the rule, she would have
indulged in extravagance, have loved idleness,
neglected business for pleasure. Then he
thought of Charles Cheek ; and he asked
whether Joanna was not really fond of him.
How she had interceded for him ! His

picture, taken hand-ins hand with her, he
had discovered in her bedroom. If he had
Joanna as his wife, might he not expect a similar
experience to that he had undergone with
Rachel?

Then he felt again the sting; of the blows
Charles had dealt him, the shaking, the humiliation
before the eyes of Joanna, and his blood
rushed to his face. Charles had been in confinement
since Saturday afternoon. On Monday,
being a Bank holiday, no magistrate was sitting.
Tuesday, at eleven, he would go and take out a
proper summons against him. The police were
not likely to act heartily in the matter. They
knew Charles Cheek, and had received many a
tip from him.

How bad the candle burned ! What was
that ? He had lighted a wax candle from upstairs
instead of a kitchen dip. That came of having
strangers in the house ! Mrs. Thresher could
use nothing but the best for the kitchen. A
curl of wax was formed at the side of the
candle, folding over and over like a winding
sheet. No wonder the candle burnt badly, a
thief was in it. Lazarus snuffed the wick with
his fingers, and snuffed out the light.

At once, from all sides, came the rustling of
vol. in. T

the blackberries emerging from their holes and
spreading over the floor. Lazarus fancied they
were about his chair, scrambling up his legs. He
stood up, shook himself, relit the candle, and ran
about, stamping on the retreating insects.

How lonely he felt in the house ! How
still it was, like a house that was dead ! A
chill sense of solitude crept over him. What if
he had another fit in the night. What if he
woke up, feeling ill, wanting brandy, or to be
bled, and no one was in the house to come to
his help ; and he was senseless or weak in the
morning, unable to open the door when Mrs.
Thresher came ? But — would Mrs. Thresher
come ? Perhaps she did not know that he had
driven away Joanna and her mother. Lazarus
was alarmed. He went to the house door, and
unchained and unlocked it, opened, and stood
in the doorway, looking out into the doleful
night. The rain came down like a fine spray
between him and the lamp. The illuminated
windows of the houses were surrounded by fog
bows and magnified to stars of the first magnitude.
Those persons who went by were buried
under umbrellas. A rill ran in the gutter, spinning
cabbage leaves, stray fish heads on its surface.
He would get very wet if he went along

the Barbican quay to the ham and sausage
shop. Besides, he was ashamed to appear there
and confess that he was afraid to spend the
night alone in the house. Mrs. Thresher knew
nothing of his fit. That insulting old Radical,
Mr. Thresher, would twit him with the events
of Saturday evening.

As he stood in the door, doubtful what to do,
something rubbed against his shin and stole
past him. He looked down, but could make
nothing out in the dark. He re-shut and re-barred
the door, and went back to the kitchen.

I will try again to light a fire,' he said ;
then I shan't feel so miserable and solitary.
It is all Joanna's doing.'

He re-laid the fire, and poured some paraffin
over the coals. He was successful this
time. The flames ascended to the sticks, the
sticks crackled, and then with a leap the fire
was on the top, the mineral oil was ablaze, and
the coals emitted puffs of flame, and began to
glow.

Lazarus was so occupied with the fire that
he did not observe the presence of a black cat,
watching him out of its green eyes, seated on the
table. Only when the Jew got up from his knees
and took the kettle to fill it did he notice the

T 2

creature. He stood still, staring at it in surprise,
holding the kettle in one hand. Lazarus had a
great dislike to cats. As he looked at the cat
the cat looked at him. In the dark the narrow
slits of iris had expanded. The eyes shone like
moonstones in the candlelight.

Get out,' said Lazarus ; ' I don't want cats
here.' The monition was unheeded.

Do you hear what I say ? Get out with
you.'

The cat rose and stretched itself, driving its
claws into the deal of the table top, and then
reseated itself.

Is that done to insult me ? ' asked Lazarus.
What have you come here for ? Do you think
to hunt mice among my valuable china, and to
kitten and rear a family among costly garments ?
Wait a bit, Fowler ! I'll make you yowl ! '

He took his light, and went into the shop to
get a whip.

He laid hold of the stick that Charles had
employed on his own back, and brought it with
him into the kitchen. When he returned the
cat was gone.

- Where the devil is the creature ? ' asked
Lazarus, looking about him, and switching about
with the stick.

He laid the stick on the table, and reseated
himself in his chair. But he could now think
of nothing but the cat. What had become of
the beast ? Was it in the larder, getting at the
bread and the butter, or the milk, or the mutton
chops ? He listened, but heard no sound save
the drip of the water. Was it in the shop?
Or had it got into his own little room, and was
prowling among some Capo di Monte, Dresden ,
and Chelsea figures he had there? He took up
the stick again. It was weighted with lead in
the handle. If he had the chance he would
bring that end down on the head of the cat and
kill it. He held the candle in one hand and
the stick in the other. He thrust the stick into
every corner of the kitchen without dislodging
his visitor. He peered into the coal closet, he
searched the back kitchen, he examined the
larder ; the cat was nowhere to be found.
Then he went down the passage to the shop.
It was hopeless to expect to discover the cat
there if it had chosen to conceal itself among
the sundry objects piled and scattered through
it. He held his breath and listened. Was that
the cat purring ? On tiptoe he crept near to
the place whence the noise came. It was in the
window. He craned his ear, then thrust forward

the candle, and had it nearly blown out. A
pane had been starred by a stone some time
ago. and he had mended it with strips of
adhesive paper from a sheet of postage stamps.
One strip was loose, and the driving draught
fluttered it and made a sound like the purring
of a cat. Then the Jew left the shop and
I si ned the door behind him, and explored his
little sanctum. That door had been left ajar,
and it was quite possible that the cat had
entered. He sought it in every corner, under
the presses, under the bed, behind the sedans.
He could see nothing of it. He listened ; he
could not hear it. Yet the cat must be in the
house somewhere, and when he was quiet, and
fallen asleep, he would be startled by the gleam
of the moo: . and a crash; the cat had

upset and broken some valuable porcelain. He
shut his bedroom door ; he shut the pa-door,
and was again in the kitchen, and thereon
the table in the same place as before,
though it had remained there undisturbed, was
the black cat, watching him out of its lambent

I II have a watch-dog. If I have to pay
fifteen shillings for one I will have one, if only
to keep cats aw

Lazarus was sly. He put the stick bebiud
his back, and turned it in his band so as to hold
the slight end. Then he came towards the :
step by step ; he would not rouse the suspicions
of the creature. He put the candle on the floor.

Pretty ! pretty ! ' said the Jew in a caressing
tone. • Will I hurt my beauty r Oh no !
it is not in the heart of old Lazarus to d
harm. Do you want milk r There is some in
the jug in the larder. What do you sav to a
herring's head r There are some in the sink.
May I chuck you under the chin: May I
scratch Your back, you beauty : '

But the creature did not suffer him to
approach without rising, setting up its back, and
charging its tail and hair with electricity so that
they bristled like the hair-s of a hue brush.
The expression of its eyes was threatening. It
half opened its mouth and si. the long

white teeth that armed the gums. Lazarus was
afraid the cat would leap at his face, and he put
up his arm to protect his eyes, thought be
of his attempt, and backed, still watching the
cat. into the outer kitchen.

• The black imp ! ' he ' I must

make a way for it to escape.' Then he unbolted
the back door into the yard, and left it ajar.

Having done this lie returned to the kitchen.
The cat was no longer on the table, no longer
visible. Whither it had gone he could not
guess. He was afraid to search, lest it should
leap out upon him with extended claws, and
flaming eyes, and keen teeth to fasten in his
flesh.

1 I'll have a watch-doe. I must — I will. If
it cost me thirty shillings I'll have one tomorrow.
As long as Joanna was here none was needed.
This is another expense she is putting me to.
Oh, I wish the cat would find her, and fly in
her face and tear her wicked eyes out.'

He fetched a bottle of brandy from the
cupboard, took the kettle from the fire, and
mixed himself a strong glass. Then he drew
his chair close to the stove and drank his brandy-and-water,
listening for the cat, and cursing it,
and then Joanna, and thinking he heard a step,
and found it was the girl, with a cat's face, and
flaming eyes, and a chain of Woman pearls
dangling round the neck, and then — somehow
the pink silk dress flickered before him, but
the brush of the cat hung below it and swept
the floor ; and then the howdah upstairs began
to dance by itself, and the Sabbatical lamp to
swing as a flaming pendulum, all its seven its

alight as he watched it, and wondered whether
it would swing so high as to unhook itself from
the ceiling and come down with a crash and go
out. He poured out more brandy, but was
dozing and waking intermittently, and forgot
to add the water, and the loaded stick was on
the table trying to lift itself on its ferule and
dance, but the head was heavy, and at each
effort down it came again with a bang.

So he slept, with feverish dreams, sitting in
hid chair, waiting for the cat to go out at the
back door, when he would lock it and retire to
his bed, and then for a while forgetting why
he sat up. The coals crackled and grew cold.
The candle burnt down to the socket and dissolved
all the wax, and the flame turned blue
and danced over the molten wax.

Then — all at once Lazarus sprang up with
a cry, and caught at the stick. Before him
stood two figures. He cotdd see their faces
indistinctly by the flicker of the expiring candle
one a coarse face marked with scars, and a
heavy lower jaw. He felt the stick wrenched
from his trembling hand, and after that he saw
and felt no more.

On the following morning there was a stir
at the Barbican. During the night the Golden

Balls had been entered, robbed, and Lazarus
had been found lying dead in his kitchen with
his skull broken. A loaded stick lay at his
side. On the table, purring and complacent,
beside an empty candlestick, sat an powerless
black cat.

CHAPTER LX.

TWO PICTURES.

Every window of Court Royal is lighted up,
and the terrace is hung with coloured lamps.
Carriage after carriage drives up and deposits
members of every knowable family for many
miles round Kingsbridge, for the Cheek-perseveres
are settled in, and are giving their
first soiree of dancing and music.

The footmen in scarlet and buff are in the
hall and on the grand staircase — scarlet and
bmTare the Cheek-severe livery, because no
more showy livery could be thought of. That
of the Eveleighs was only buff and scarlet. The
house had gone through a reformation under
the hands of an art adviser and Oxford Street
furniture dealers. ITueh of the old decoration
was preserved but renovated ; most of the good
Chippendale furniture, and Florentine inlaid
cabinets, and Sevres and Dresden china, and the

pictures of Morland, and Gainsborough, and
Gerard Dow were still there. But everything
was freshened up, the gilding regilt and
burnished, the colours brightened, the polished
wood re-polished. The curtains, the coverings,
were all of silk or satin, and were new.

The state drawing-room was lighted by
electric burners, the chandeliers had been
banished from the ball-room. The old motto
of the Eveleighs, ' Quod antiquated et senescit
prope interim est,' was everywhere effaced
and supplanted by ' Nil prasstat buceae,' which
may be interpreted ' Nothing like Cheek.' In
the dining-room over the chimney-piece, the
ducal arms had made way for the cognizance
of the Cheeks, an unicorn, beneath which was
inscribed ' Plenty of Pushed' as well as ' Nil
prsestat buccal,' for the old scroll of the legend
had been utilised, and two mottoes were needed
to fill the scroll from which the lengthy inscription
had been erased. Besides, as the family
name was double, and the arms were double,
why not duplicate the motto ?

Some time has elapsed since the event described
in the last chapter, and in that time great
changes have taken place. The affairs of the
Duke reached a climax ; Court Royal was lost,

and passed to Cheek of the Monokeratic system.
But the Monokeros was too pushing and prosperous
a beast to be resigned, and the old man
remained at the head of the establishment in
town, gathering in money as fast as lie could
with both hands.

The old man's objections to his son's
marriage with Joanna gave way when he found
she was entitled to the whole of the Jew's
fortune, amounting to seventy thousand pounds.
8 A clever girl — a girl of the period,' he said ;
knows how to work her way to the fore. Shew
T ould have been invaluable to me in my shop.'

Never had the state rooms of Court Royal
looked so brilliant and beautiful as this night.
Charles Cheek stood in the drawing-room receiving
his guests. But we beg his pardon, he is
no longer Mr. C. Cheek, but Mr. Cheek-severe
he has assumed his wife's name in addition
to his own. Every now and then Charles
looked round in expectation and uneasiness for
Joanna, who was not present. Prepossessing
and • handsome, with his fair hair, light
moustache, and pleasant blue eyes, he had a
cheerful greeting for everyone, l But where is
Joanna ? ' he thought. The guests looked round
also, and wandered through the rooms in quest

of their hostess. ' How very odd ! Why is
not Mrs. Cheek-severe here to receive us ? '

Presently, when all had arrived, a couple
of scarlet and buff footmen threw open a door
to an inner room and boudoir, and in loud
voices announced

Mrs. Cheek-severe ! ! ! '

Whereupon Joanna appeared, charmingly
dressed in the richest pearl silk, and wearing
abundance of diamonds, holding a bouquet of
hothouse flowers in each hand; she sailed,
smilingly) looking very lovely, down the room,
bowing to the right and to the left, giving a
hand to none — how could she, holding flowers
in each hand ?

My dear Joe ! ' said Charles to her after
everyone was gone, ' how could you behave as
you did ? It was rude — it was grossly impertinent,
and Ave are such new comers.'

My dear Charlie,' answered Joanna, with
perfect self-satisfaction, ' I know what I am
about. Lady Grace could not have done it,
and would not ; she could afford to be condescending
and sweet ; her position was unassailable.
On the other hand, we are nobodies,
who have risen to the surface through trade.
We cannot afford to be gracious, or folks will

say we are pleading to be received into society.
We must be insolent, and take our place by
storm.'

On the road from Teignmouth to Danish,
a little out of the town, stand two houses in
their grounds. The road is somewhat steep,
ascending through red banks of sandstone.
Presently a little garden door is reached, where
there is a fork in the road, and over the wall of
red stone can be seen a luxurious growth of
arbutus, guelder rose, and acacia, and above
the flowering bushes the brown thatch of a
cottage, with bedroom windows peeping out
through the thatch. By standing on tiptoe one
can even look into the garden and see that the
cottage has a veranda covered with creeping
roses, and that French windows open into this
veranda.

A little way higher up the hill is a more
pretentious house in what may be called the
Italian villa style ; but the house is more thana
villa, it is almost a mansion. The grounds
are fairly extensive, the pines are luxuriant and
of choice kinds. The insignia is grown thereto
a stately tree. There are glass conservatories.
At the door stands a footman in buff
and scarlet. The windows are of plate glass.

Presently an old gentleman, with hair
white as snow, and an almost transparent, wax-like
complexion, is wheeled into the garden ina
chair, attended by an old bent man, leaning
on a stick, and a lady, gentle and smiling.

We recognise our old friends, the Duke of
Kingsbridge, Lord Ronald, and Lady Grace.
Shortly after the Marquess comes forth, and the
party descend the hill.

As they pass the little green door of the
cottage, which sits, as it were, at the feet of the
other, it is opened, and from it issue Mr.
Worthivale and his daughter Lucy.

The united party proceeds to the walk
along the sea-wall, extending for a mile above
the sands at low water and the sea when the
tide is full. There they will be joined after a
while by Beavis, who is in a solicitor's office in
the town, and likely eventually to be taken
into partnership.

Not all the estates of the Duke have been
sold. Court Royal — dear Court Royal — is lost
for ever. The manor of Kingsbridge is gone.
Alvington, Loddiswell, Charlton, are all gone,
but Fowelscombe remains — ruinous, indeed,
but not lost — and Bigbury.

You may depend upon it,' says Mr.
Worthivale, ' all we want is time. Penzance is

used up. Torquay is done for. The aspect of
Langton is against it. The time must come
when Bigbury Bay will form a crescent of
glittering white houses, tier on tier — when the
express from town will fly past Torquay, leap
the Dart on a tubular bridge at Dartmouth,
and rush past Kingsbridge to find a terminus at
Bigbury, the climatic resort of the future.
Then, your Grace '

1 My dear Worthivale, I shall not live to
see the first stone of the new town laid, nor the
first sod of the new line turned.'

6 But, your Grace, what a comfort to think
of the future, the efflorescence of this splendid
house ! I, also, may not see it, but I live in
faith. Your grandchildren '

1 Dear Worthivale,' said the Marquess, ; I
am sorry to dash your dream, but I shall never
marry.'

1 Nor I,' said Lady Grace, in a low tone.

4 So the race will die with us. Quod
antiquated et senescit — prope interim est.'

THE End.

Spottiswoode <fc Co. Printers, New-street Square, London.

VOL. III. U

OF

POPULAR WORKS

Handsomely bound in cloth gilt, each volume containing
Four Illustrations. Crown Svo. $r. 6d.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington.

By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE.

By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering.

By Anthony Trollope.

TRANSFORMATION : a Romance.

By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

ROMANTIC TALES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman.'

DOMESTIC STORIES.

the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman''

NO NAME.

By Wilkie Collins.

ARMADALE.

By Wilkie Collins.

AFTER DARK.

By Wilkie Collins.

MAUD TALBOT.

By Holme Lee.

THE MOORS AND THE FENS.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

carta.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

FOR PERCIVAL.

By Margaret Veley.

NO NEW THING.

By W. E. Norris.

LOVE THE DEBT.

By Basil.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Vanity Fair.
The Magazine Reader will find no better investment for his sixpence.
Pall Mall Gazette.

PRICE SIXPENCE MO NTH L Y.

ILLUSTRATED.

THE NEW SERIES OF THE

Cornwall MAGAZINE.

Edited by JAMES Pain.

Each Number contains, in addition to instalments of
Serial Stories by Popular Authors,

SHORT STORIES AND ARTICLES,

B"5T Tie BEST WRITERS.

Among the Artists whose Illustrations have appeared in the New Series of

THE Cornwall MAGAZINE

ARE

G. DU Married, WM. SMALL, W. RALSTON, H. Furnish,
E. J. WHEELER, R. C. WOODVILLE, J. P. ATKINSON,

A. C. Corolla, A. T. Ewes, G. G. KILBURNE,
WM. H. Covered, ROBERT BARNES, R. CALDECOTT,
M. FITZGERALD, WALTER S. STACEY. &c

Volumes I. to V. of the New Series (July 1883 to December 1885),
Price 4 y. ta each, bound in cloth,

PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED,

ARE KEPT IN STOCK, AND FORM

VERY HANDSOME VOLUMES

FOR

PRESENTATION OR LIBRARY PURPOSES.

# * Cases for binding the Volumes may be had, price One Shilling each.
London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.
