P^m/coMquicKs

■^

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,.

188. STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE Railway BOOKSTALLS.

NOVELS Case ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED rf?OM Subscribers IN SETS ONLY.

TERMS.

FOR Subscribe OBTAINING THUR Books FROM A Counter BOOOTAU.—
^ « MonUjfc ISMmtlML

F r volume at a time £0 12 o 1 i o

re ian Otu yolumi art itt avaOmHe/tr thu butt »/Sultcrt/ti*n.)

F Gloves „ o i-^ 6 1 11 8

■( than Tna y^lunut a . : o, Suiserifum,)

F r\ Volumes ,. . 8 a

Fcr rOui^, ,, t B i 10

Fcr SIX 1 15 8 8

For TWELVE ,. 8 6 5

-^^

OF Thou

N I V tRSlTY

or ILLINOIS

8^3
B238c

sen

f /

J

3(r^

i^

iA

-fv-^ ' /

PENNYCOMEOUICKS

Jl Hover

BY

S. EARING GOULD

AUTHOR OF
>!FHALAH,' 'COURT ROYAL,' 'jOHS HERRING," ' THE GA\TF.ROCK-> ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. L

LONDON
SPENCER Blackett cS: HALLAM

Milton HOUSE, 35. ST. BRIDE STREET, Legate CIRCUS, E,C.



[A// rights r^senfii'l

V.I

\

CONTENTS OF VOL. I

X

Jg CHAPTER PAGE

I. SHAKING THE TREE - - . . i

^ II. SALOME 17

to '

CW III. A TRUST - - - - - - 34

t}{ IV. ON THE TOWPATH - - - "51

V. RIPE AND DROPPED - - - - 70

^, VI. A COTTAGE PIANO - - - - 81

., VII. TAKING POSSESSION - - - - 98

J VIII. IN ONE COMPARTMENT - - - - Io

IX. ARRIVAL - - - - - - 130

-V X. WITH A LOAF AND A CANDLE - - - 147

^ XI. EXPECTATION - - - - - 162

XII. SURPRISES - - - - - 181

XIII. WHAT NEXT? - . : - - 196

XIV. ADMINISTRATION - - - - 2l6
XV. THE WOMAN WITH A PIPE - - - 232

XVI. Who'' What ? - 248

^^



CHAPTER I.

SHx\KING THE TREE.

There is an aboriginal race in Borneo, of which it is
said that they dispose of their aged parents and relatives
in an interesting, novel, and altogether aboriginal
fashion.

They courteously, but withal peremptorily, require
them periodically to climb trees, and when they are
well up and grappling the branches, they shake the
trees. If the venerable representatives of the earlier
generation hold on, they are pronounced to be still
green ; but if they drop, they are adjudged ripe, are
fallen upon and eaten, the palms of the hands and the
soles of the feet being reserved as the prerogative of
the heir-at-law, as the richest morsels.

VOL. I. I

We do nothing of this sort in Christendom, least of
all in civilized England. God, we thank Thee that
we are not as other men are, even as these Orleans,
for the conversion of whom we put prayer up at the
family altar, that is, the breakfast-table, or offer our
mite — a veritable mite, a microscopic fraction of our
income. We look in England on our aged relatives
with reverence, not with greed, and if we butter them,
it is not because we desire to eat them, but because
they are susceptible to butter. We never calculate
the number of pounds they weigh, we never look
hungrily at their palms, and never put the ladder
against the tree, and with hat off and professions of
respect and endearment invite them to climb. The
Esquimaux act very differently from the Borneans ;
they take their ancient relations, and put them out of
their huts in the cold, and leave them to freeze or
starve. What a stride humanity has made with us !
We deal with our poor, meagre relatives in this way ?
We ! — as little do we turn them out in the cold as we
do fall upon and eat up our plump ones, like the
Borneans.

'One of the pleasures of having a rout, is the

pleasure of having it over,' said Tom Hood, in his
poem of Miss Killmansegg and her Golden Leg, and
he said truly — most truly, when that rout was one of
obligation or of interest, or of obligation and interest
combined, when it was not a spontaneous burst of
hospitality, but a laboured affair, and like a laboured
literary effort — heavy.

Mrs. Sidebottom, or as she was pleased to accentuate
her name, Siddy-bot-TOME, sat before the fire
with her silk evening skirt turned up over her knees
to prevent it from becoming scorched, and with her
neat little feet on the fender.

What tricks we do play with our names to deliver
them from the suspicion of vulgarity. How we
double the capital F's, and convert the is into y's, so
that common little Finches can strut as Finches and
insignificant Smiths can add a cubit to their stature
as Smythe ! How for distinction we canonize our
final syllables, and convert Surgeons into St. John's,
and Lodgers into St. Ledgers ; and elevate Mangy
into Mont Joye, and Gallicize our Mullen into Mol-haynes,
take the blackness out of Death by spelling it
Dc'Ath and even turn a Devil into De Ville !

The candles had been blown out on the chimney-piece,
in the sconces on the walls, and on the piano.
A savour of extinguished candles pervaded the
room.

Mrs. Siddy-bot-TOME — her name is given as pronounced
once again, that it may stamp itself on the
memory of the reader — Mrs. Siddy-bot-TOME (the
third time is final) — sat by the fire with puckered
lips and brows. She was thinking. She was a lady
of fifty, well — very well — preserved, without a gray
hair or a wrinkle, with fair skin and light eyes, and
hair the colour of hemp. Her eyelashes were lighter
still, so light as to be almost white — the white not in
fashion at the time, but about to come into fashion, of
a creamy tinge.

She was not a clever woman by any means, not a
woman of broad sympathies, but a woman who generally
had her own way through the force and energy
of her character, and as that force was always directed
in one direction, and her energy always exerted for
one purpose, she accomplished more than did many
far cleverer women. She rarely failed to can her
point, whatever that point was.

Whatever that point was, it was invariably one that
revolved about herself, as the moon about the earth in
the universe, as Papageno about Papagena, in the
Magic Flute,' and as the cork attached to the cat's
tail in the nursery.

If Mrs. Sidebottom had been a really clever woman,
she would have concealed her ends and aims, as those
who are smuggling lace or silk, coil them about them,
and hide them in their umbrellas, under their cloaks,
and in their bosoms. But she lacked this cleverness,
or failed to admit that selfish aims were contraband.
We are all selfish, from the smallest herb, that strives
to outrun and smother those herbs that grow about
it ; through the robin Pecks, that snaps the worm
from its sister Flaps ; and the dog that holds the
manger against the ox ; to ourselves, the crown of
creation and the climax of self-seeking, but we do not
show it. The snail has telescopic eyes, wherewith to
peer for something he may appropriate to himself ;
but the snail, when he thinks himself observed, withdraws
his horns and conceals them behind a dimple.

Mrs. Sidebottom was either too eager or too careless,
or — for charity loveth all things — too sincere, to

disguise her horns. She thrust them this way, that
way ; they went up to take bird's-eye views ; they
dived beneath, to survey matters subterranean ; they
went round corners, described corkscrews, to observe
things from every conceivable aspect. They were thrust
down throats and into pockets, and, though small,
were of thousandfold magnifying power, like those
of a fly, and, like those of a prophet, saw into futurity,
and, like those of the historian, explored the past.

In a lounging chair, also near the fire, but not
monopolizing the middle like his mother, sat Captain
Pennycomequick, the son of Mrs. Sidebottom. He
wore a smoking jacket, braided with red or brown ;
and was engaged languidly on a cigarette-case, looking
for a suitable cigarette.

Mrs. Sidebottom's maiden name had been ,
and as she despised her married name,
even when accentuated past recognition, she had
persuaded her son to exchange his designation, by
royal licence, to Pennycomequick.

But euphony was not the sole or principal motive
in Mrs. Sidebottom that induced her to move her son
to make this alteration. She was the daughter of a

manufacturer, now some time deceased, in the large
Yorkshire village or small town of Mergatroyd in the
West Riding, by his second wife. Her half-brother by
the first wife now owned the mill, was the head and
prop of the family, and was esteemed to be rich.

She was moderately well provided for. She had a
sort of lien on the factory, and the late Mr. Side-bottom,
solicitor, had left something. But what is
four hundred per annum to a woman with a son
in the army dependent on her, and with a soul too
big for her purse, with large requirements, an ambition
that could only be satisfied on a thousand a year.
Would any stomach be content on half-rations that
had capacity for whole ones ? On the fringe of the
Arctic circle a song is sung that * Iceland is the fairest
land that ever the sun beheld,' but it is only sung by
those who have never been elsewhere. Now, Mrs.
Sidebottom had seen much more luxuriant and
snugger conditions of existence than that which can
be maintained on four hundred a year. For instance,
her friend, Mrs. Tomkins, having six hundred, was
able to keep a little carriage ; and Miss Jones, on a
thousand, had a footman and a butler. Consequently

Mrs. Sidebottom was by no means inclined to
acquiesce in a boreal and glacial existence of four
hundred, and say that it was the best of states that
ever the sun beheld.

Mrs. Sidebottom's half-brother, Jeremiah ,
was unmarried and aged fifty-five. She
knew his age to a day, naturally, being his sister, and
she sent him congratulations on his recurrent birthdays
— every birthday brought her nearer to his accumulations.
She knew his temperament, naturally,
being his sister, and could reckon his chances of life
as accurately as the clerk in an Assurance Office.
To impress the fact of her relationship on Jeremiah,
to obtain, if possible, some influence over him, at all
events to hedge out others from exercising power
over his mind, Mrs. Sidebottom had lately migrated
to Mergatroyd, and had brought her son with her.
She was the rather moved to do this, as her whole
brother, Nicholas Pennycomequick, had just died.
There had been no love lost between Jeremiah and
Nicholas, and now that Nicholas was no 'snore, it was
possible that his son Philip might be received into
favour, and acquire gradually such influence over his

uncle as to prejudice him against herself and her son.
To prevent this — prevent in both its actual and
its original significations — Mrs. Sidebottom had
pulled up her tentpegs, and had encamped at
Mergatroyd.

The captain wore crimson-silk stockings and glazed
pumps. He had neat little feet, like his mother.
When he had lighted a cigarette, he blew a whiff of
smoke, then held up one of his feet and contemplated
it.

My dear Lambert,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, * I wish
you could slip those red stockings of yours into your
uncle's beetle-crushers.'

They would be too roomy for me,' said the
captain.

Not at all, Lamb. Your feet would expand to fill
his shoes argued his mother.

'My feet are pinched enough now — certainly,'
sighed Lambert Pennycomequick.

This dinner will not have cost us nothing,' mused
Mrs. Sidebottom, looking dreamily into the coals.
The champagne was six-and-six a bottle, and three
bottles were drunk,' she also heaved a sigh.

'Almost a pound. Surely, gooseberry would have
done.'

No, Lamb ! it would not. It never does to be
stingy in such matters. Though how we are to pay

for it all ' Mrs. Sidebottom left the sentence as

unsettled as the bill for the champagne was likely to
remain.

I don't see why you should not tell Uncle Jeremiah
how crippled we are.'

• Never,' said his mother decisively. ' Man's heart
as naturally closes against impecunious relatives as
does a tulip against rain. When you are bathing,
Lamb, you never voluntarily swim within reach of an
octopus. If you see one coming, with its eyes fixed
on you, and its feelers extended, you strike out for
dear life. It is so in the great sea of life, which is full
of these many-armed hungry creatures. The waters
are alive with them, great as a needy relation, and
small as a begging letter. It is insufficient to know
how to swim ; one must know also how to kick out and
keep away from octopuses. No, Jeremiah must not
suppose that we want anything of him.'

It seems to me, mother said Lambert, ' that you

might just as well tell him we are in difficulties and
need his assistance. I am sure he sees it; he was
very cold and reserved to-night.'

Not on any account. You are quite mistaken ; he
has not a suspicion. Let me see, the waiters were
half a guinea each, and the pheasants seven shillings
a pair. We could not have sixpenny grapes — it
would never have done.'

1 hate reckoning on dead men's shoes,' said Lambert.
' It is mean. Besides, Uncle Jeremiah may
outlive us both.'

No, Lamb, he cannot. Consider his age ; he is
fifty five.'

And you, mother, are fifty, only five years' difference.'


Mrs. Sidebottom did not wince.
You do not consider that his has been a sedentary
life, which is very prejudicial to health. Besides, he
has rushes of blood to the head. You saw how he
became red as a Tritoma when you made that ill-judged
remark about Salome. Apoplexy is in the
family. Our father died of it.'

Well, I hate counting the years a fellow has to
live. We must all hop some day.'

I trust he enjoyed himself,' said Mrs. Sidebottom.
He took one of the anges-d-cJieval. Did he touch
the ices ?'

I think not

I am sorry — I mean, I am thankful, they are bad
for apoplectic persons, Lamb. He pays income-tax
on twelve hundred.'

He does not live at the rate of five hundred.'

Not at the rate of three.'

Perhaps eventually he may leave the mill to
Philip, and the savings to me. I won't think of it, as
it may all turn out different ; but that would be best
for me.'

Not best, Lamb. Both the savings and the mill
should be yours.'

What should I do with the mill } You would not
have me turn manufacturer V

No ; but you could sell the business.'

This is like selling the lion's skin before the
lion is killed,' said the captain with a little impatience.


After a pause, during which Mrs. Sidebottom
watched a manufactory and a bank and much treasure

in the red-hot coals crumble down in the gradual dissolution
to ashes, she said :

Lamb, you have no occasion to be uneasy about
your cousin Philip.'

I am not. I have not given him a thought'
'Jeremiah can never .forgive Nicholas for withdrawing
his money from the business at a critical moment,
and almost bringing about a catastrophe. When
Nicholas did that I was as angry, and used as strong
remonstrance as Jeremiah, but all in vain. Nicholas,
when he took an idea into his head, would not be
diverted from carrying it out, however absurd it was.
I did not suppose that Nicholas would be such a fool
as he proved, and lose his money. He got into the
hands of a plausible scoundrel.'

Schofield ?'

'Yes; that was his name, Schofield, who turned his
head, and walked off with pretty nearly every penny.
But he might have ruined himself, and I would not
have grumbled. What alarmed and angered me was
that he jeopardized my fortune as well as that of Jeremiah.
A man has a right to ruin himself if he likes,
but not to risk the fortunes of others.'

The captain felt that he was not called upon to
speak.

It is as well that we are come here,' pursued Mrs.
Sidebottom. ' Though we were comfortable at York,
we could not have lived longer there at our rate, and
here we can economize. The society here is not
worth cultivation ; it is all commercial, frightfully
commercial. You can see it in the shape of their
shoulders and in the cut of their coats. As for the
women But there, I won't be unkind.'

Uncle Jeremiah winced at my joke about
Salome.'

Salome !' repeated his mother, and her mouth fell
at the corners. ' Salome !' She fidgeted in her chair,
I had not calculated on her when I came here.
Really, I don't know what to do about her. You
should not have made that joke. It was putting
ideas into your uncle's head. It made the blood rush
to his face, and that showed you had touched him.
That girl is a nuisance. I wish she were married or
shot. She may yet draw a stroke across our reckoning.'


Mrs. Sidebottom lapsed into thought, thought that

gave her no pleasure. After a pause of some minutes,
Captain Lambert said :

By the way, mother, what table-cloth did you
have on to-day ? I noticed Uncle Jeremiah looking
at it inquisitively.*

Naturally he would look at it, and that critically,
as he is a linen manufacturer, and weaves fine
damasks. I hate shop.'

But — what table-cloth was it ?'

The best, of course. One figured with oak-leaves
and acorns, and in the middle a wreath, just like
those thrown over one's head by urchins for a tip, on
the Drachenfels.'

'Are you sure, mother?'

I gave it out this morning.'

Would you mind looking at it ? I do not think
the table has been cleared yet. When I saw Uncle
Jeremiah was professionally interested in it, I looked
also, but saw no acorns or oak-leaves

Of course there were oak-leaves and acorns ; it
was our best.'

'Then I must be blind.'
'Fiddlestick!' said Mrs. Sidebottom.

However, she stood up and went into the diningroom.


A moment later the captain heard an exclamation.
Then his mother left the dining-room, and he heard
her ascend the stairs. Shortly after she descended,
and re-entered the room with a face the colour of a
table-cloth, or, to be more exact, of the same tone asher
eyelashes.

Well,' said the Captain languidly, ' have the oak-leaves
and acorns disappeared in the wash ?'

Oh, Lamb ! what is to be done ? Jeremiah will
never forgive us. He will feel this acutely — as an
insult. That owl — that owl of a maid has ruined our
prospects.'

What has she done .?'

'And not one of the waiters, though paid half a
guinea each, observed it.'

What was done ?'

She put a sheet on the table, and made up your
bed with the oak-leaves and acorns !'

Calomel

LAY in bed this morning, musing on the feelings of
those aged Borneans as they approached ripeness, and
noticed the eyes of the rising generation fixed on them
with expectancy, saw their red tongues flicker out of
their mouths and stealthily lick their lips. I lay in
bed considering whether my time had come to crawl
up the tree, whether, perhaps, I was already hanging
to one of the branches, and felt the agitation of the
trunk. But the thought was uncomfortable, and I
turned back to the Borneans who live very remote
from us, and I considered how sensitive they must
have become in old age to every glance of eye, and
word let slip, and gesture of impatience observable in
the rising generation. I mused over the little artifices
that would be adopted by them to disguise the approach
of ripeness; how, when extending their shaking
VOL. L 2

hands over the fire, they would endeavour to control
the muscles and disguise their tremble ; how they
would give to them an unreal appearance of nervous
grip ; how they would talk loud and deep out of their
quavering pipe; and how they would fill in the creases
in their brows and cheeks with tallow, and dance at
every festival with an affectation of suppleness long
lost. And I considered further how that all these
little artifices would be seen through and jeered at,
and how they never for one minute would postpone
the fatal day when the tree would be indicated, and
the command given to ascend.

Then next, having felt my ribs and counted them,
and my thews and found them shrunk and with no
flesh on them, I thought of the Esquimaux, and the
way in which their elders were put out of doors and
exposed to die of cold ; and after I had left my bed,
at breakfast, throughout the day, I remained mighty
touchy and keenly observant, and alarmed at every
slight, and fault of deference, and disregard of habitual
consideration, thinking it might be a premonition that
I was being considered fit to be turned out into the
cold.

Among barbarians it is customary to surfeit a
victim destined to become a sacrifice. It almost
seemed as if the birthday-banquet given to Uncle
Jeremiah by his half-sister had been given with this
intent. Mythologists tell us that Pluto, the god of
the nether world, and Plutus, the god of wealth, were
identical divinities, variously designated according to
the aspect in which viewed, whether from that of the
victims offered to the god, or from that of the immolate.
The god of Death to one was the god of
Fortune to another.

Uncle Jeremiah Pennycomequick was not indeed
shaken by his half-sister and nephew whilst clinching
to the Tree of Life, but was apprised by them as to
his ripeness, and to his calibre, and was not unaware
that such was the case. Indeed, as already intimated,
Mrs. Sidebottom was as incapable of concealing
her motives as is Mephistopheles of concealing his
hoof. She flattered herself that it was not so, and
yet she wore her purposes, her ambitions, in her
face.

As Jeremiah walked homewards it was with much
the same consciousness that must weigh on the spirits

of a bullock that has been felt and measured by a
butcher.

He opened his door with a latch-key, and entered
his little parlour. A light was burning there, and he
saw Salome seated on a stool by the fire, engaged in
needle-work. The circle of light cast from above was
about her, irradiating her red-gold hair. She turned
and looked up at Jeremiah with a smile, and showed
the cheek that had been nearest the fire glowing like
a carnation.

What — not in bed ?' exclaimed the old man, half
reproachfully, and yet with a tone of pleasure in his
voice.

No, uncle ; I thought you might possibly want
something before retiring. Besides, you had not said
Good-night to me, and I couldn't sleep without that'

I want nothing, child.'

Shall I fold up my work and go V

No — no,' he replied hesitatingly, and stood looking
at the fire, then at his chair, and then, with doubt
and almost fear, at her. * Salome, I should like a
little talk with you. I am out of sorts, out of spirits.
The Sidebottoms always irritate me. Velvet is soft,

but the touch chills my blood. I want to have my
nerves composed before I can sleep, and the hour is
not late — not really late. I came away from the
Sidebottoms as soon as I could do so with decency.
Of course, it was very kind of my sister to give this

dinner in my honour, on my birthday, but ' He

did not finish the sentence.

The girl took his hand and pressed him to sit down
in his chair. He complied without resistance, but
drew away his hand from her with a gesture of uneasiness,
a shrinking that somewhat surprised her.

When in his seat, he sat looking at her, with his
elbows resting on the arms of his chair, and his palms
folded before his breast like the hands of a monumental
effigy. Salome had resumed her place and
work. As he did not speak, she presently glanced up
at him and smiled with her slight sweet smile, that
was not the motion of the lips, but the dimpling of
the pure cheek. He did not return her smile ; his
eyes, though on her, did not see her and notice the
inquiry in her countenance.

Jeremiah was aged that day fifty-five, or, as Mrs.
Sidebottom put it for her greater comfort, in his fifty-sixth

year. The dinner party at his half-sister's had
been given entirely in his honour. His health had
been drunk, and many good wishes for long years
had been expressed with apparent heartiness ; but
what had been done to gratify him had been overdone
in some particulars, and underdone in others — overdone
in profession, underdone in sincerity ; and he
returned home dissatisfied and depressed.

When the peacock unfurls his fan, he does not persistently
face you ; if he did so, words would fail to
express your admiration, but the bird twirls about on
his feet, and foolishly exposes the ribbing of his
plumage, so as to provoke contemptuous laughter.
It is the same with selfish and with vain persons.
They make a prodigious effort to impose, and then,
still ruffling with expanded glories, they revolve on
their pivots, and in complete unconsciousness exhibit
the ignoble rear of sordid artifice, and falsity, and
mean pretence.

Joseph Cusworth had been at first clerk and then
traveller for the house of Pcnnycomequick, a trustworthy,
intelligent and energetic man. Twcnt)'-t\vo
years ago, after the factory had fallen under the sole

management of Jeremiah, through the advanced age
of his father and his half-brother's disinclination for
business, master and man had quarrelled. Jeremiah
had been suspicious and irascible in those days, and
he had misinterpreted the freedom of action pursued
by Cusvvorth as allowed him by old Pennycomequick,
and dismissed him. Cusworth went to Lancashire,
where he speedily found employ, and married. After
a (gw years and much vexation through the incompetence
or unreliability of agents, Jeremiah had
swallowed his pride and invited Cusworth to return
into his employ, holding out to him the prospect of
admission into partnership after a twelvemonth.
Cusworth had, accordingly, returned to Mergatroyd
and brought with him his wife and twin daughters.
The reconciliation was complete. Cusworth proved
to be the same upright, reliable man as of old, and
with enlarged experience. His accession speedily
made itself felt. He was one of those men who
attract friends everywhere, whom everyone insensibly
feels can be trusted.

The deed of partnership was drawn up and engrossed,
and only lacked signature, when, in going

through the mill with Jeremiah, Cusworth was caught
by the lappet of his coat in the machinery, drawn in,
under the eye of his superior, and so frightfully
mangled that he never recovered consciousness, and
expired a few hours after.

From that time, Mrs. Cusworth, with the children,
was taken into the manufacturer's house, where she
acted as his housekeeper. There the little girls grew
up, and made their way into the affections of the
solitary man who encouraged them to call him uncle,
though there was absolutely no relationship subsisting
between them.

Jeremiah had never been married ; he had never
been within thought of such an event. No woman
had ever made the smallest impression on his heart.
He lived for his business, which engrossed all his
thoughts ; as for his affections, they would have
stagnated but for the presence of the children in the
house, the interest they aroused, the amusement they
caused, the solicitude they occasioned, and for the
thousand little fibres their innocent hands threw about
his heart, till they had caught and held it in a web of
their artless weaving. He had lost his mother when

he was born, his father married again soon after, and
his life at home with his stepmother had not been
congenial. He was kept away from home at school,
and then put into business at a distance, and his
relations with his half-sister and half-brother had
never been cordial. They had been pampered and
he neglected. When, finally, he came home to assist
his father, his half-sister was married, and his brother,
who had taken a distaste for business, was away.

One day of his life had passed much like another ;
he had become devoted to his work, which he pursued
mechanically, conscientiously, but at the same time
purposelessly, for he had no one whom he loved or
even cared for to whom his fortune might go and for
whom, therefore, it would be a pleasure to accumulate.
And as for himself, he was without ambition.


When daily he returned from the mill after the
admission of the Cusworth family under his roof, the
prattle and laughter of the children had refreshed him;
their tender, winning ways had overmastered him and
softened his hitherto callous heart. It was to him as
if the sun had suddenly broken through the clouds that

had overarched and chilled and obscured his life, and
was warming, glorifying, and vivifying his latter
days.

Time passed, and the little girls grew up into young
women. They were much alike in face and in colour
of hair and eyes and complexion ; but there the likeness
stopped. In character they were not twins.
Their names were Salome and Janet. Janet was
married. A year ago, when she was barely nineteen,
the son of a manufacturer at Elboeuf, in Normandy,
had seen, loved, and made her his own.

This young man, Albert Victor Baynes, had been
born and bred in France, but his father had been a
manufacturer in Yorkshire, till driven to distraction
by strikes at times when he had taken heavy contracts,
he, like a score of others similarly situated, had
migrated with his-plant and business to Normandy,
and opened in a foreign land a spring of wealth that
copiously irrigated a wide area, and which greed and
folly had banished from its proper home. About
Rouen, Elboeuf, and Lovers are bristling factory
chimneys and busy manufactures, carried thither by
Yorkshire capitalists and employers, and where they

initiated, the French have followed, and have drained
away our English trade.

Young Baynes had come to Yorkshire and to 
to visit relatives, and he had at once lost his
heart to Janet Cusworth. As he was the only son of
a man in good business, and as * Uncle ' Jeremiah was
prepared to act liberally towards the daughter of
Joseph Cusworth, no difficulties arose to cross the
course of love and delay union. It was said that
Jeremiah Pennycomequick could hardly have behaved
more liberally had Janet been his daughter. But
another reason urged him to generosity beside his
regard for the girl. This was gratitude to Albert
Victor Baynes for choosing Janet instead of his special
favourite, Salome, who had chiefly wound herself about
his heart. Janet was a lively, frolicsome little creature,
whom it was a relaxation to watch, and whose tricks
provoked laughter ; but Salome was that one of the
twins who had depth of character, and who, as the
millfolk declared, had inherited all her father's trustworthiness,
thoughtfulness, and that magnetism which
attracts love.

Salome continued her needlework silently, with the

firelight flickering over her fair face and rich hair.
Her complexion was very delicate, and perhaps the
principal charm of her face consisted in the transparency
not of the skin only, but of the entire face,
that showed every change of thought and feeling by
a corresponding dance of blood and shift of colour in
it — and not colour only, for as a mirror takes the
lightest breath and becomes clouded by it, so was it
with her countenance ; bright with an inner light, the
slightest breath of trouble, discouragement, alarm,
brought a cloud over it, dimming its usual brilliancy.

Yours is a very tell-tale face," her sister had often
said to her. ' Without your opening your eyes I can
read all that passes in your mind.'

At the time that young Baynes had stayed at ,
Jeremiah had been uneasy. The young man
hovered round the sisters and spoke to one as much
as to the other, and divided his attentions equally
between them. The sisters so closely resembled each
other in features complexion and hair, as well as in
height and frame, that only such as knew them could
distinguish the one from the other, and the distinction
consisted rather in expression than in aught else.

How anyone could mistake the one for the other was
a marvel to Jeremiah, who was never in doubt. But
the resemblance was so close that Albert Victor
Baynes hung for some time in uncertainty as to which
he should take, and was only decided by the inner
qualities of Janet, whose vivacity and sparkle best
suited the taste of a man whose ideas of woman
showed they had been formed in France.

Whilst Baynes was in uncertainty, or in apparent
uncertainty, Jeremiah suffered. He loved both the
girls, but he loved Salome infinitely better than her
sister ; it would be to him a wrench to part with
brilliant Janet, but nothing like the wrench that would
ensue were he required to separate from Salome.

Those who from childhood have been surrounded
by an atmosphere of love, who have come to regard
it as their natural element, such have no conception
of the force with which love boils up in an old heart
that has been long arid and affection's. In the
limestone Western Hills there are cheerless valleys,
tracts of moor and mountain without a rift, dead and
waterless, yet deep beneath, in secret channels, streams
are flowing, and mighty vaults form subterranean

reservoirs, by all who pass over the surface unsuspected.
But suddenly from a cliff-side pours the long-hidden
water, not a spring, a rivulet, but a full-grown
river ready to turn millwheels and carry boats. So is
it with certain human natures that have been long
passionless, without the token of soft affections : the
all-conquering stream of love breaks from their hearts
in mighty volume and unexpectedly.

There had been nothing of self-analysis in Jeremiah.
The children had sprung up under his care, and year
by year had seen them acquire an inch or a fraction of
an inch in height, their beauty develop, their intelligences
expand ; imperceptibly they had stolen from
infancy into childhood, and from childhood in like
manner had crept unobserved into maidenhood, and
then flowered into full and perfect beauty ; and each
stage of growth had carried them a stage further into
Jeremiah affections, and had cast another and a
stronger tie about his heart. He had loved them as
children, and he loved them as beautiful and intelligent
girls, as belonging to his house, as essential to his
happiness, as the living elements that made up to him
the idea of home. The only sorrow he had — if that

could be called a sorrow which was no more than a
regret — was that they were not his own true nieces, or,
better still, his children. When Janet was taken and
Salome left, he was thankful, and he put away from
him for the time the fear that Salome would also take
wing and leave him in the same manner as Janet had
gone. How could he endure recurrence to the old
gloom, and relapse into purposeless gathering of
money? How could he endure life deprived of both
Janet and Salome ? How can a man who has seen
the sun endure blindness ? Or a man whose ears
have drunk in music bear deafness ? Deafness and
blindness of heart would be his portion in that part of
life when most he needed ear and eye — deafness and
blindness after having come to understand the melody
of a happy home, and see the beauty of a child-encircled
hearth.

What must be the distress of him who has had a
well-furnished house to have an execution put in, and
everything sold away from before his eyes, nothing
left him but the bed on which to lie and gnash his
teeth ? How bald, how cold, how hateful the dismantled
home will seem without the thousand comforts

and beautifying objects to which his eyes have
been accustomed ! The children as they grew up had
furnished Jeremiah's house with pleasant fancies, had
hung the walls with bright remembrances, and filled
every corner with tender associations. The floor was
strewn with their primrose homage. The thought
that as he had lost Janet, so must he some day lose
Salome, rose up continually before Jeremiah, and
sickened him with fear. He tried to steel himself in
expectation of it. It was in the nature of things that
young girls should marry. It was inevitable that a
closer and stronger tie should be formed, and then
that cord of reverential gratitude which now attached
Salome to him would dwindle imperceptibly, yet
surely, to a thread, and from a thread to a filament.
In proportion as from the new bond other ties arose,
so would that attaching her to him become attenuated
till it became formal only.

A great pain arose in Jeremiah's heart.

And now, this evening, he looked at the girl engaged
on her needlework, and observation returned into his
eyes. Now he began that work of self-analysis, with
her before him, that he had never thought of engaging

in before, never dreamed would be requisite for him
to engage in.

As he looked steadily at Salome, his closed palms
trembled and he separated them, put one to his lips,
for they were trembling also, and then to his brow,
which was wet.

Salome's soft brown eyes were lifted from her work,
and rested steadily on him.

Dear uncle she said. * My dear — dear, uncle !
You are unwell.'

She drew her stool close to him, and threw her
arms about him, to draw his quivering face towards
her own that she might kiss it. But he started up
with a groan, backed from her arms, and paced the
room in agitation. He dare not receive her embrace.
He dare not meet her eyes. He had read his own
heart for the first time, helped thereto by a casual
joke from Captain Lambert Pennycomequick at table
that evening.

VOL. I.

A TRUST.

During dinner that evening the conversation had
turned on modern music. Yorkshire folk are, with
rare exceptions, musical, and those who are not
musical are expected, at all events, to be able to take
their part in a conversation about music. Someone
had spoken about old English ballads, whereupon
Captain Lambert had said, as an aside to his uncle:

No one can doubt what is your favourite song.'

There you have the advantage of me,' said Jeremiah
simply.

" Sally in our Alley " — but I must say you take slow
time in getting to the last verse.'

Then he hummed the words :

And when my seven long years are out,
Oh, then I'll marry Sally !
And then how happily we'll live,
But not in our Alley.'

Then it was that the blood had rushed into the
manufacturer's temples, a rush of blood occasioned
partly by anger at being made the subject of a joke,
and partly by the suggestion which startled him.

Never before that moment had the thought occurred
to him that it was possible for him to bind Salome to
him by the closest and surest of ties. No, never before
had he imagined that this was possible.

How one word starts a train of ideas I As a spark
falling on thatch may cause a conflagration, so may a
word carelessly dropped set blood on fire and drive a
man to madness. That little remark had produced in
Jeremiah an effect greater than Lambert could have
calculated, and his mother went very near the truth
when she rebuked him for saying what he had. From
thenceforth Jeremiah could no longer look at Salome
in the old light ; she was no more a child to him, and
he no more an old man beyond the reach of that
flame that sweeps round the world and scorches all
men. In Wagner's great opera of the ' Valkyrie,'
Brunnhild is represented asleep, encircled by a ring
of fire, and Sigurd, who tries to reach her, can only
do so by passing through the flame, and to render it

3—^

innocuous he sings the wondrous fire-spell song, and
the flame leaps and declines, and finally goes out
to the cadences of the spell. But Jeremiah now
found himself caught in the Waberlolic that enraged
Salome, knowing no incantation by which to abate
its ardour ; whilst she sat unconscious of the peril
to which she subjected others, of the magic that
surrounded and streamed forth from her, guileless
of the pain which she occasioned him whom she
beckoned to her. Jeremiah was caught by the flame,
it curled round him, and he writhed in its embrace.
He was an old, at all events an elderly, man, his age
five and fifty, and Salome was but twenty. He had
passed the grand climacteric when she was born. Could
he, dare he, love her, except with the simple love of a
parent for a child ? But could he love her thus any
longer now that his eyes were opened, and he had
discovered the condition of his own heart .'' When
Adam had tasted of the Tree of Knowledge his childlike
simplicity was gone, and he made himself coverings
to hide himself from himself and from others.
So now, this man in the decline of life had tasted also
and at once was filled with shame at himself, and he

sought out evasion of the truth,, a disguise for his
feelings, lest Salome should suspect what was passing
within him.

Salome, my child,' he said, ' those Sidebottoms vex
me beyond endurance. What do you think ! They
served up a really sumptuous dinner on a table covered
with a sheet'

A sheet — from a bed !'

A sheet, not a tablecloth. It was characteristic'

Has that upset you r

No — not that. But, Salome, I have been considering
how it would be, were this factory, after I am no
more, to fall into such hands as those of the ninny
captain.'

'There is Mr. Philip,' said the girl.

'Philip !' the manufacturer paused. 'Philip —

I hardly consider him as one of the family. His father
behaved outrageously.'

But for all that he is your nephew.'

'Of course he is, by name and blood, but— I do not
like him.'

You do not know him, uncle.'

That is true ; but '

But he is your nearest relative.'

]mr. Pennycomequick was silent. He returned to
his chair and reseated himself ; not now leaning back,
with his arms folded on his breast, but bent forward,
with his elbows on his knees and his head in his
hands.

He looked into the fire. After full five minutes'
silence he said, in a tone of self-justification :

I can never forgive my half-brother Nicholas.'

Yet he is dead,' said the girl.

There was no accent of reproach in her voice ;
nevertheless Jeremiah took her words as conveying a
reproach.

I do not mean he said apologetically, * that I
allowed him to die unforgiven, but that his conduct
was inexcusable. I have pardoned the man, but I
cannot forgive his act.'

Philip, however,' said Salome, ' is the son of the
man, and not of his mistake.'

Jeremiah was touched, and winced ; but he would
not show it.

My brother Nicholas acted in such a manner as to
produce an estrangement that has, and will have,

lastingly influenced our relations. Philip I saw at his
father's funeral, which I attended — which,' he repeated
the sentence, ' which I attended.'

The girl said no more. She knew that Jeremiah
was not a man to brook interference, and she was
well aware that this was a matter in which she had
no right to interfere. But he was not satisfied with
so slight a word of self-justification ; he returned to
the topic, with his face turned from her, looking into
the fire.

It was thoughtless ; it was wicked. The mill was
left between us, burdened with a certain charge for
my half-sister ; and Nicholas never took the smallest
interest in the business. I did the work ; he drew
his share. He got into the hands of a swindling
speculator, who fired his imagination with a scheme
for converting the Desert of Sahara into a vast inland
sea, the company to have the monopoly of the trade
round its shores. My brother's head was turned, and
he insisted on withdrawing his share from the mill.
He would sell his share — draw all his money out of

the concern, and pitch it wherever Schofield 1

mean wherever it was most likely to be engulfed and

yield no return. I remonstrated. I pointed out to
my brother the folly of the scheme, the danger tome.
I had no wish to have some man, of whom I
knew nothing, thrust into partnership with me. I
must buy my brother out myself. I did this at a
moment when money was dear, and also at a time
when it was necessary to provide the mill with new
machinery, or be left in the lurch in the manufacture
of figured damasks. I had to borrow the money.
Slackness set in, and — God knows ! — I was as nearly
brought to bankruptcy as a man can be without
actually stopping. Your father came to my aid. But
I had several years of terrible struggle, during which
bitter resentment against my brother Nicholas grew
in my heart. We never met again. We no longer
corresponded. As for his son, I knew nothing of him.
I had seen him as a boy. I did not see him again till
he was a man, at his father's grave. If Nicholas had
considered my prejudices, as I suppose he would call
them, he would not have put Philip in a solicitor's
office, knowing, as he must have known, my mistrust of
lawyers. I will not say that I would not have given
him a place with me, had Nicholas asked for it ; but

he was either too proud to stoop to request a favour
of me, or his old prejudice against trade survived his
ruin.'

Philip may be good and sensible, and a nephew to
be proud of. How can you tell, uncle, that he is not,
when you do not know him ?'

He has chosen his profession now. He is a lawyer,
and so his line of life leads away from mine.'

Then ensued silence, broken at length by Salome.

Uncle,' she said, ' I have had a letter from dear
Janet, and what do you think ? She is coming to
England, and most likely to us. She does not say
when ; but those dreadful Prussians are making their
way to Rouen, in spite of the wonderful stand made
by General Faidherbe and the heroic conduct of his
troops. Janet says that she wonders how any soldiers
can stand against an army commanded by a man-devil,
for that is what the Prussian general is named.
She says that Albert Victor has felt it his duty to
volunteer to fight for the country of his nativity and
adoption, so dear Janet is alone, and Albert has
advised her to take refuge in England till the tyranny
be over. But Janet says she is in hourly expectation

that the Prussians will be out-manoeuvred, surrounded,
and cut to pieces, and, much as she hates the enemies,
her chief anxiety is that the French may not forget
to act with humanity in the moment of victory. She
says that the affair at Amiens was quite misrepresented
by the English papers, that Faidherbe obtained
a splendid victory, and only retired in pursuance of a
masterly plan he had conceived of drawing the
Prussians on, so as to envelop them and crush them
at one blow. Moreover, Janet says that this blow is
expected to fall at any moment, and to show how
thorough a partisan she is — even to me she has begun
to spell her name in the French way, Jeannette.'

Janet likely to come to us !' exclaimed Jeremiah.

Only in the event, which she says is more than
problematical, of the enemy occupying Rouen. She
tells me that the spirit of the French is superb. The
way in which every man has flown to arms at the call
of his country is unparalleled. She says that the
Emperor was the cause of the disasters that have
occurred hitherto, but that France has found a man
of almost superhuman genius, called Gambetta, who
is already causing consternation amongst the Prussians.

She says that she has seen it stated in the
most trustworthy Paris papers that in Germany
mothers still their children with the threat that if they
cry, they will invoke Gambetta.'

Janet will certainly be here shortly,' said Jeremiah.
' The war can only go one way'

I shall be delighted to see my darling sister, and
yet sorry for the occasion of her visit. She tells me
that the factories are all stopped. The hands are now
engaged in the defence of their country. Oh, uncle !
what would happen to Janet if anything befell Albert
Victor ? Do you think he was right to leave his wife
and take up arms as a franc-tireur ? He is not really a
Frenchman, though born at Elboeuf.'

To her surprise, Salome saw that her old friend was
not attending to what she was saying. He was not
thinking of her sister any more. He was thinking
about her. When she asked what would happen to
Janet were her husband to be carried off, the question
forced itself upon his thought. What would become
of Salome were he to fall sick, and be unable to
defend himself against his half-sister. He was perfectly
conscious of Mrs. Sidebottom's object in coming to

Mergatroyd, and he was quite sure that in the event
of paralysis, or any grievous sickness taking him, his
half-sister would invade his house and assume authority
therein. He saw that this would happen inevitably ;
and he was not at all certain how she would behave
to Salome. Mrs. Cusworth was a feeble woman,
unable to dispute the ground with one so pertinacious,
and armed with so good a right, as Mrs. Sidebottom.
What friends had Salome ? She had none but himself.
Her sister's house was about to be entered by
the enemy, her sister to be a refugee in England.
The factories at Elbceuf were stopped ; it was uncertain
how the war, when it rolled away, would leave
the manufacturers, whether trade that had been stopped
on the Seine would return thither. What if the
Baynes family failed ?

Would it not be advisable to secure to Salome a
home and position by making her his wife ? Tien,
whatever happened to him, she would be safe, in an
impregnable situation.

Salome !'

Yes, uncle.'

She looked up anxiously. She had not let him see

that she was aware that he was in trouble of mind,
and yet she knew it, though she did not guess its
character. Hers was one of those sympathetic natures
that feels a disturbance of equilibrium, as the needle
in a magnetometer vibrates and reels when to the
gross human eye there is naught to occasion it. She
had watched Jeremiah's face whilst she spoke to him
of her sister, and was surprised and pained to notice
how little Janet's calamities and anxieties affected
him.

What was the matter with him ? What were the
thoughts that preoccupied his mind ? Not a shadow
of a suspicion of their real nature entered her innocent
soul.

Dear uncle she said, when she had waited for a
remark, after he had called her attention, and had
waited in vain, ' what is it ?'

Nothing.'

He had recoiled in time. On the very verge of
speaking he had arrested himself

Uncle,' she said, ' I am sure you are not well, either
in body or in mind.'

He stood up, went out of the room, without a word.

Salome looked after him in surprise and alarm.
Was he going off his head ? She heard him ascend
the stairs to his study, and he returned from it almost
immediately. He re-entered the room with a long
blue sealed envelope in his hand.

Look at this, my child, and pay great attention
to me. An unaccountable depression is weighing
on me — no, not altogether unaccountable, for I can
trace it back to the society in which I have been. It
has left me with a mistrust of the honesty and
sincerity of everyone in the world, of everyone, that
is, but you ; you ' — he touched her copper-gold head
lightly with a shaking hand — 'you I cannot mistrust;
you — it would kill me to mistrust. I hold to life, to
my respect for humanity, through you as a golden
chain. Salome, I have a great trust to confide to you,
and I do it because I know no one else in whom I
can place reliance. This is my will, and I desire you
to take charge of it. I commit it to your custody.
Put it where it may be safe, and where you may know
where to lay hand on it when it shall be wanted.'

But, uncle, why not leave it with your lawyer.'

I have no lawyer,' he answered sharply. ' I have

never gone to law, and thrown good money after bad.
You know my dislike for lawyers. I wrote my will
with my own hand after your sister married, and I
flatter myself that no wit of man or rascality of
lawyers can pervert it. I can set down in plain English
what my intentions are as to the disposal of my
property, so that anyone can understand my purpose,
and no one can upset its disposition.'

But, uncle — why should I have it who am so
careless ?'

You are not careless. I trust you. I have perfect
confidence that what is committed to you you will
keep, whether the will concerns you or not. I wish
you to have it, and you will obey my wishes.'

He put the paper into her reluctant hands, and
waited for her to say something. Her cheeks were
flushed with mingled concern for him and fear for herself.
Such a valuable deed she thought ought to
have been kept in his strong iron safe, and not confided
to her trembling hands.

He put his hand on her shoulder.

Thank you, Salome,' he said. 'You have relieved
my mind of a great anxiety.'

And now, uncle, you will go to bed ?'

He stood, with his hand still on her shoulder,
hesitatingly. ' I don't know ; I am not sleepy.' He
thought further. 'Yes, I will go. Good-night, my
child.'

Then he left the room, ascended the stairs, passed
through his study into his bedchamber beyond, where
he turned down the clothes, and threw off his dress
coat and waistcoat, and then cast himself on the bed.

His brain was in a whirl. He could not retire to
rest in that condition of excitement. He would toss
on his bed, which would be one of nettles to him. He
left it, stood up, drew on a knitted cardigan jersey,
and then put his arms through his great-coat.

About a quarter of an hour after he had mounted
to his room he descended the stairs again, and then
he encountered Salome once more, leaving the little
parlour with the envelope that contained his will in
her hand.

What ! You not gone to bed, Salome ?'

No, uncle, I have been dreaming over the fire.
But, surely, you are not going out r

Yes, I am. There has been such a downpour of

rain all day that I have not taken my customary
constitutional. I cannot sleep. The night is fine,
and I shall go for a stroll on the canal bank.'

But, uncle, it is past twelve o'clock.'

High time for you to be in bed. For me, it is
another matter. My brain is on fire ; I must take a
composing draught of fresh night air.'

But, uncle '

Do not remain up longer. I have acted inconsiderately
in keeping you from your bed so long. Goto
sleep speedily, and do not trouble yourself about
me. I have my latch-key, and will let myself in. The
gas shall remain turned down in the hall. 1 am
always upset unless I have a walk during the day, and
the sheets of rain that poured down have kept me a
prisoner. I shall not be out for long. I will cool my
head and circulate my blood, under the starry sky.'

But you will find the roads sloppy, after the
rain.'

The towpath will be dry. I am going there, by
the canal. Good-night.'

She held up her innocent, sweet face for the kiss he
had neglected to give her a quarter of an hour ago,
VOL. I. 4

when he left the room. He half stooped, then turned
away without kissing her.

Good-night, dear Salome. Mind the will. It is a
trust.'

Then he went out.

ON THE TOWPATH.

There are points, occasions on life's journey, when
our guides fail us, and these points and occasions are
neither few nor far between. The signpost that
might instruct us are either illegible or have not been
set up. The forming of a determination is of vital
importance, but the material on which to form a determination
is withdrawn from us, as the straw was taken
from the Israelites when they were ordered to make
bricks.

We buy a map and start on our journey, and come
to branch-roads which are not set down. The map is
antiquated, and no longer serviceable.

We buy a legal compendium which is to obviate
having recourse to lawyers, and when we encounter a
difficulty, turn to it for enlightenment, and find that
precisely this question is passed over.

4—2

U. OF ILL U3.

We purchase a manual of domestic medicine to cutoff
the necessity of calling in a doctor at every hitch,
and when a hitch occurs we discover that precisely
this one is unnoted in our book.

We are provided with moral vade-nicainis which are
to serve us in all contingencies, but are arrested at
every hundred paces by some knot which the instructions
in our vade-means do not assist us in untying.

Jeremiah now found himself in a predicament from
which he did not know how to escape, at a fork in life's
road, and he was unable to form a judgment whether
to turn to the left hand or to the right.

By his own generosity he had rendered his position
discouraging. He had behaved to Janet with so great
liberality when she married, as to produce a deep and
general impression that Salome would be treated with
at least equal liberality in the event of her marriage.
An admirer might hesitate to offer for a portionless
girl, however charming in feature and perfect in mind,
not because necessarily mercenary in his ideas, but
because he would know that as single life is impossible
without means of supporting it, so double life,
containing in itself the promise of development into

a number of supplemental lives, is proportionately
impossible.

Jeremiah, might, accordingly, with almost certainty,
reckon on being left to a solitary and barren decline
of life, after he had come late to appreciate the warmth
and amenities of domestic association — after he had
enjoyed them a sufficient number of years to esteem
them indispensable.

He recalled the dead and meagre existence he had
led before he received the little girls and their mother
into his house, and he sickened at the prospect of
recurring to it. He could not disguise from himself
that if he lost Salome, everything that gave zest and
interest to life would be taken away from him. He
would be forced to revert to the hard uniformity of his
previous existence ; but that thought was repugnant
to him. Most men look back on their childhood or to
college days as a period of exuberant vitality and unspoiled
delight. To but few is it not given to begin
their Book of Genesis with Paradise, flowing with
sparkling rivers whose beds are gold, rich with flowers,
redolent with odours. Sooner or later all are cast out
through the gates, and there is no return — only a

reminiscence. To some more than to others the smell
of the flowers clings through life. The youth and
early manhood of Jeremiah had been joyless, spent
among briars and thorns, and only late had he found
the gates of Eden, and the cherub with a smile had
withdrawn his sword, and allowed him a look in.
What would be the end of life to him if Salome were
taken away ? As his health and powers of resistance
failed, his house would be invaded by the Sidebottoms,
perhaps also by the unknown Philip, and they would
wrangle over his savings, and hold him a prisoner
within his own walls. But — dare he suggest to Salome
that she should be his wife ? He did not shut his eyes
to their disparity in age, to the fact that her regard for
him was of a totally different texture from such as a
man exacts of a wife. Would it be possible to change
filial into marital love ? Was it not as preposterous
of him to expect it as was the infatuation of the
alchemist to transmute one metal into another ?

Then, again, would not his proposal shake, if it did
not shatter, her respect, forfeit that precious love she
now tendered him with both hands without stint }
By asking for what she could not give, would he not

lose that which he had ah-lady, Hke the dog that
dropped the meat snapping at a shadow, and so leave
him in utter destitution ? The harbour of the thought
of a change of relations had affected the quality of his
intercourse with her, had clouded its serenity, disturbed
its simplicity. It had prevented him from
meeting her frank eye, from receiving her embrace,
admitting the touch of her lips. He shrank from her
innocent endearments as though he had no right to
receive them, tendered in one coinage and received in
another value. Were he to communicate to her the
thought that fermented within him, would not the
yeasty microbe alter her and change her sweet affection
for him into something that might be repugnance
?

He drew a laboured breath.

I am in a sore strait,' he groaned ; ' I know not
what to do. Would to heaven that my course were
determined for me.'

He had reached the towpath beside the canal.

Good-night, sir.'

He was startled. The night watch had met him,
the man employed to walk around and through the

factories at all hours of the night, on the look-out
against fire, on guard against burglars.

Good-night, sir. Just been on the bank to look at
the river. Very full, and swelling instead of going
down. Lot of rain fallen of late. Cold for the goldfish
yonder.'

Good-night,' answered the manufacturer ; ' I also
want to see the river. There is more rain yonder.'

He pointed to the western sky.

The river is rising rapidly,' said the man ; * but
there's no harm can take Pennyquick's — ligstoo high.'
Jeremiah's factory went by his surname, but contracted
by the people through the omission of a
syllable.

Then the man passed on his way, rattling his keys.
The gold-fish ! What did he mean }

Outside the wall of Mr. Pennycomequick's factory
was a pool, into which the waste steam and boiling
water from the engine discharged, and this pool was
always hot. It swarmed with gold-fish. At sometime
or other, no one knew when, or by whom, a few,
perhaps only a pair, had been thrown in, and now the
little patch of water was thronged with fish. They

throve, they multiplied therein. The mill girls cast
crumbs to them from their breakfasts and dinners, and
were allowed to net some occasionally for their private
keeping in glass globes, but not to make of them an
article of traffic. There was not a cottage in Penny-quick's
Fold that had not such a vessel in the window.
Jeremiah saw that the overflow from the river had
reached this little pool and converted it into a lake,
chilling the steamy waters at the same time. 
town or village stood on the slope of the hill
that formed the northern boundary of Held-dale.
The Keld rose in that range of limestone mountains
that divides Lancashire from Yorkshire, and runs from
Derbyshire to the Scottish border. After a tortuous
course between high and broken hills, folding in on
each other like the teeth of a rat-trap, leaving in
places scarce room in the bottom for road, rail, and
canal to run side by side, it burst forth into a broad
basin, banked on north and south by low hills of
yellow sandstone, overlying coal. Some way down
this shallow trough, on the northern flank, built about
the hill-slope, and grouped about a church with an
Italian spire perched on pillars, stood Mergatroyd.

There the valley spread to the width of a mile, and
formed a great bed of gravelly deposit of unreckoned
depth. A couple of spade-grafts below the surface,
water was reached ; yet on this gravel stood most of
the factories and their tall chimneys. The nature of
the soil forbade sinking for foundations. Accordingly
these were laid on the surface, the walls, and even the
chimneys, being reared on slabs of sandstone laid on
the ground. It might seem incredible that such fragile
stone-slates should support such superincumbent
masses; nevertheless it was so. The pressure, however,
did not always fall on gravel equally compact ;
this resulted in subsidence. Few walls had not
cracked at some time, most were banded with iron,
and not a chimney stood exactly perpendicular.

The canal and the river ran side by side, with a
towpath along the former ; but the high-road had
deserted the valley and ran on the top of the hill.
Neither canal nor river were of crystalline purity, or
of ordinary cleanness ; for into them the mills and
dye-works discharged their odorous and discoloured
refuse water, dense with oil and pigment, with impurities
of every description and degree of nastiness.

Fish had long ago deserted these waters, and if an
occasional eel was caught it was incredible, so strongly
did it taste of oil and dye.

The Yorkshire towns and rivers have their special
bouquet,' which does not receive favourable appreciation
by a stranger ; it is not a fluctuating savour like
that pervading the neighbourhood of Crosse and
Blackwell's, in Oxford Street, which is at one time
redolent of raspberries and another pungent with
mixed pickles ; summer and winter, spring and fall
alike, the same dyes, the same oil, and the same horrible
detergents are employed, and constitute a permanent,
all-pervading effluvium, that clings to the
garment, the hair, the breath of the inhabitants, as the
savour of petroleum belongs to Baku, and the spice of
orange flowers and roses is appropriate to the Riviera.

Far away in the north-west, above the boundary
hill, the sky throbbed with light, from the iron furnaces
seven miles distant, where the coal and iron were
dug out of the same beds, and the one served to fuse
the other, as in the human breast various qualities are
found which tend to temper, purify and turn to service
the one the other. The flames that leaped up from

the furnaces as thirsty rolling tongues were not
visible from the Held-dale bottom under Mergatroyd,
but the reflection was spread over a wide tract of
cloud, and shone with rhythmic flash, as an auroral
display. High up the river, at right angles to the
axis of the valley, stood a huge, gaunt, five-storied mill
for cloth and serge, commonly known as ' Mitchell's.'
Every window in Mitchell's mill was alight this night,
for it was running incessantly. Trade in cloth and
serge was brisk on account of the Franco-German
War. What is one man's loss is another man's gain ?
The rattle of guns in France produced the rattle of
the looms in Yorkshire; and every bullet put through
a Frenchman's or a German's uniform put a sovereign
into the pocket of a cloth-weaver in England. Such
is the law of equilibrium in Nature.

Business was brisk among the cloth-workers, but
slack among the linen-weavers ; the dead on the
battle-field were not buried in winding-sheets, least of
all in figured damasks.

An unusual downpour of rain had taken place,
lasting continuously forty - eight hours. The very
windows of heaven seemed to have been opened ; at

sunset the sky had partially cleared, but there were
still lumbering masses of cloud drifting over the face
of heaven, as icebergs detached from the mighty wall
of black vapour that still remained in the west, built
up half-way to the zenith over the great dorsal range,
a range that arrested the exhalations from the Atlantic
and condensed them into a thousand streams that
leaped in ' fosses,' and wriggled and dived among the
hills, and cleft themselves roads, to the east or to the
west, to reach the sea.

To-night the Keld was very full, so swollen as to
have overflowed, or rather to have dived under the
embankments, and to ooze up through the soil in all
directions in countless irrepressible springs, transforming
the paddocks into ponds, and the fields into
lagoons.

The towpath was the only walk that was not a
mass of mud or a sop of water. It ran well above the
level of the fields, and the rain that had fallen on it
had drained — or, as the local expression had it, 'sped'
away.

Along this towpath Jeremiah walked with his
hands behind his back, brooding over his difficulties,

seeking a solution that escaped him. If he remained
silent, he must be content in a year or two to surrender
Salome to another. If he spoke, he might lose her
immediately and completely ; for were she to refuse
him she must at once withdraw from under his roof
and remain estranged from him permanently.

But — what if she were to accept him ? He who
was nearly thrice her age ? And what if, in the event
of her accepting him, her heart were to wake up and
love another? Had he any right to subject her to
such a risk, to impose on her such a trial ? Would
there not be a sacrifice of his own self-respect were he
to offer himself to her ? Would the love he would
demand of her, given hesitatingly, as a duty, forced
and uncertain, make up to him for the frank, ready,
spontaneous gush of love which surrounded him at
present ?

I am in a strait,' said Jeremiah Pennycomequick,
again. ' Would to Heaven that the decision were
taken out of my hands, and determined for me.'

He had reached the locks. They were fast shut,
and the man in charge was away, in his cottage across
the field ; there was no light shining from the window.

He was asleep. No barges passed up and down at
night. His duties ended with the daylight. The field
he would have to cross next morning to the lock was
now submerged. Mr. Pennycomequick halted at the
locks, and stood looking down into the lower level,
listening to the rush of the water that was allowed to
flow through the hatch. He could just see, below in
the black gulf, a phosphorescent, or apparently phosphorescent,
halo ; it was the foam caused by the fall
of the water-jet, reflecting the starlight overhead.

As Jeremiah thus stood, irresolute, looking at the
lambent dance of the foam, a phenomenon occurred
which roused his attention and woke his surprise.

The water in the canal, usually glassy and waveless,
suddenly rose, as the bosom rises at a long inhalation,
and rolled like a tidal wave over the top of the gates,
and fell into the gulf below with a startling crash, as
though what had fallen were lead, not water.

What was the cause of this ? Jeremiah had heard
that on the occasion of an earthquake such a wave
was formed in the sea, and rushed up the shore, without
premonition.

But he had felt no shock, and — really — a petty

canal could hardly be supposed to act in such events
like the ocean.

Jeremiah turned to retrace his steps along the path ;
and he had not gone far before he saw something else
that equally surprised him.

In the valley, about two miles above, was, as already
said, Mitchell's Mill, lying athwart it, like a huge
stranded Noah's Ark. It had five stories, and in each
story were twenty windows on the long sides; that
made just one hundred windows towards the east,
towards Jeremiah ; one hundred yellow points of
light, against the sombre background of cloud that
enveloped the west.

The night was not absolutely dark ; there was some
light in the sky above the clouds from stars, and a
crescent moon, which latter was hidden, but it was
not sufficient to have revealed Mitchell's without the
illumination from within. Here and there a silvery
vaporous light fell through the interstices of the
clouds, sufficient to give perspective to the night
scene, insufficient to disclose anything. Now Mitchell's
was distinguishable as five superimposed rows of
twenty stars of equal size and lustre.

All at once, suddenly as if a black curtain had
fallen over the scene, all these stars were eclipsed —
not one by one, not in rows, by turns, but altogether,
instantaneously and completely, snuffed out at one
snip, and with the extinction Mitchell's fell back into
the common obscurity, and was no more seen than if
it had been blotted out of existence.

Stopped !' exclaimed Mr. Pennycomequick involuntarily.
' That is queer. I thought they were
at full-pressure, running night and day.'

What followed increased his perplexity.

He heard the steam whistle of Mitchell shrill forth
in palpitating, piercing call, not briefly, as if to give
notice that work was over, not peremptorily, as signalling
for a new batch of hands to replace such as were
released ; not insistingly, as calling out of sleep, but
with a prolonged and growing intensity, with full force
of steam, rising in volumes to the highest pitch, as
though Mitchell's great bulk were uttering a shriek of
infinite panic and acute pain.

And then, from the hillside, where stood another
mill, called Appleton's, howled a ' syren ' — another
contrivance invented by a perverse ingenuity to create

VOL. I. 5

the greatest possible noise of the worst possible
quality.

Surely there must be a fire,' said Jeremiah ; 'only
bless me ! I see no flames anywhere.'

Then he heard a tramp, the tramp of a galloping
horse, on the towpath, and he stood aside so as not
to be ridden over. A parting in the clouds let down
a soft gray light that made the surfaces of water into
sheets of steel, and converted the canal into a polished
silver skewer. Along, down the towpath, came the
horse. Jeremiah could just distinguish a black travelling
spot. He waited, and presently saw that a man
was riding and controlling the horse, and this man
drew rein somewhat as he saw Jeremiah, and hallooed,
' Get back ! get back ! Holroyd reservoir has
burst.'

Then along the towpath he continued at accelerated
speed, and disappeared in the darkness in the direction
of the locks.

The alarm bell on the roof of * Pennyquick's ' began
to jangle. The news had reached the night-watch,
and he was rousing the operatives who lived in the
mill-fold. Then the 'buzzed' of the yarn-spinning

factory brayed, and the shoddy mill uttered a husky
hoot. Lights started up, and voices were audible,
shouting, crying.

What was to be done ?

Jeremiah Pennycomequick considered for a moment.
He knew what the bursting of the reservoir implied.
He knew that he had not time to retrace the path he
had taken to its junction with the road. He was at
that point where the valley expanded to its fullest
width, and where the greatest space intervened between
him and the hillside. Here the level fields
were all under water, and before he could cross them,
wading, maybe to his knee, the descending wave
would be upon him. He looked towards the locks-man's
cottage ; that offered no security, even if he
could reach it in time, for it lay low and would be
immediately submerged. He turned, and ran down
the path towards the locks, and as he ran he heard
behind him — not the roar, for roar there was none,
but the rumble of the descending flood, like the
rumble and mutter of that vast crowd that swept
along the road from Paris to Versailles on the memorable
fifth of October. Then a wet blast sprang up

5—2

suddenly and rushed down the valley, swaying the
trees, and so chill that when it touched Jeremiah ashe
ran, it seemed to penetrate to his bones and curdle
his blood. It was a blast that travelled with the
advancing volume of water, a little forestalling it, as
the lightning forestalls the thunder.

Mr. Pennycomequick saw before him the shelter-hut
of the locksman on the embankment, a shelter-hut
that had been erected as a protection against rain
and wind and frost. It was of brick, and the only
chance of escape that offered lay in a scramble to the
roof.

How mysterious is it with our wishes and our
prayers ! We labour for many a year with taut
nerve, and ambition keenly, unswervingly set on some
object. We hope for it, we entreat for it, and it is as
though the heavens were brass, and our prayers could
not pierce them, or as if it were indifferent to our
desires ; it is as though a perverse fate smote all our
efforts with paralysis, and took pleasure in thwarting
every wish, and frustrating every attempt to obtain
what we long for. At another time, hardly knowing
what we say, not calculating how what we ask may be

accomplished, not lifting a little finger to advance its
fulfilment, we form a wish, vague and inarticulate, and
instantly, completely, in the way least expected, and
with a fulness hardly desired, the prayer is answered,
the wish is accomplished.

Would to Heaven,' Jeremiah Pennycomequick had
said twice that night on the towpath, hardly meaning
what he said, saying it because he was in perplexity,
not because he desired extraneous help out of it ;
Would to Heaven,' he had said, * that my course were
determined for me !' and at once, that same night,
within an hour, Heaven had responded to the call.

RIPE AND DROPPED.

Mrs. Sidebottom slept soundly, only troubled by
the mistake about the tablecloth. The captain slept
soundly, troubled by nothing at all. The scream of
steam-whistle, the bray of buzzed and bawl of syren,
the jangle of alarm bells, and the hum of voices outside
their windows, did not rouse them. They had
become accustomed to these discordant noises which
startled the ears every morning early, to rouse the
mill-hands and call them from their beds. Moreover,
the whistles and burners and syrens were not in the
town, but were below in the valley, at some distance,
and distance modified some of the dissonance.

It is true that Mrs. Sidebottom dreamed, and to
dream is not to enjoy perfect rest. She dreamt that
her brother Jeremiah was examining the tablecloth,

and that she was dribbling water over the sheet out
of a marrow-spoon, in patterns, to give it an appearance
of being figured with acorns and oak-leaves.
And she found in her dreams that Jeremiah was hard
to persuade that what he had before him was a figured
damask tablecloth and not a sheet And she thought
how she assured her brother on her word that what
he saw was a watered table-cover, and mightily pleased
she was with herself at her ingenuity in equivocation.


But towards morning the house was roused by
violent ringing at the front-door bell, and by calls
under the windows, and gravel thrown at the panes.
The watchman had come, at Salome's desire, to
inquire if by chance Mr. Pennycomequick was there.
He had gone out, after his return home, and had not
returned or been seen. Fears were entertained that
he might have been swept away in the flood.

Flood ! what flood ?' asked Mrs. Sidebottom.

The valley is full of water. Holroyd reservoir be
busted.'

'And — Mr. Pennycomequick has not been seen .'*'

No, ma'am. Miss Cusworth thought there might

be a chance he had come back here and was staying
talking.'

He has not been here since he dined with us

He said he was born' to take a stroll on t' tow-path.
I see'd him there. If he's not got off it afore
the flood came down he's lost.'

Lost ! Fiddlestick ! I mean — bless my soul.'
Mrs. Sidebottom's heart stood still for a moment.
What ! Jeremiah ripe, and dropped from the tree
already. Jeremiah gone down the river with the
anges-cheval inside him that he had enjoyed so
recently.

She ran upstairs and hammered at her son's door.
His window looked out on the valley, not into the
street, and he had not been roused at the same time
as his mother. As she ran, the thought came to her
uncalled, like temptations, ' I needn't have had
champagne at six-and-six. It does not matter after
all that the sheet and the tablecloth changed places.
I might just as well have had cheap grapes.'

Lamb !' she called through the door, ' Lamb ! Do
get up. Your uncle is drowned. Slip into your
garments. He has been swept away by the flood.

Don't stay to shave, you shaved before dinner ; and
your prayers can wait. Do come as quickly as possible.
Not a minute is to be lost.'

She opened his door, and saw her son with a disordered
head and sleepy eyes, stretching himself.
He had tumbled out of his bed and into his dressing-gown.
There was gas in the room, turned down to a
pea when not required for light ; and this the captain,
when roused, had turned up again.

Oh, Lamb! Do bestir yourself! Do you hear
that your uncle is dead, and that he has been carried
away by a flood? It is most advisable that we should
be in his house before the Cusworths or the servants
have made away with anything. These are the critical
moments, when things disappear and cannot be traced
afterwards. No one but the Cusworths know what
he had, there may be plate and jewellery that belonged
to his mother. I cannot tell. We do not know what
money there is in the house, and what securities he
has in his strong box. My dear Lamb ! Yes, brush
your hair, and don't look stupid. You may lose a
great deal by lack of promptitude. Of course we
must be in charge. The Cusworths have no locus

standi. I shall dismiss them at the earliest convenience.
Good gracious me, what things you men
are ! If you go to bed you get frouzy and rumpled
in a way women never do. I have noticed, in crossing
the Channel, how a man who gets sea-sick breaks
up altogether and becomes disreputable ; whereas a
woman may have been ten times as ill, yet when she
steps ashore she is decent and presentable. I can
wait for you no longer. I shall go on by myself
When you are ready, follow.'

Mrs. Sidebottom ran back to her room, and was
equipped to start in an incredibly short time. When
she again came forth she looked into her son's room
once more, and said, ' I do hope and trust, Lamb that
your uncle took his keys with him. It would be too
frightful to suppose that he had left them behind, and
that these Cusworths should have had the house to
themselves and the keys all this while.'

Mrs. Sidebottom hastened to the residence of her
half-brother, which stood on the slope of the hill a
few minutes' walk from the factory. There was now
sufficient light for her to see that the whole basin of
the Keld was occupied by water, that not the fields

only, but the mill-yards as well were inundated. The
entire population of Mergatroyd was awake and afoot,
and giving tongue like a pack of beagles. The street
or road leading down the hill into the valley was
crowded with people, some hurrying down to the
water, others ascending, laden with goods from the
houses that had been invaded by water. The cottagers
in the bottom had escaped, or were being rescued.
What had become of the workers in Mitchell's no one
knew, and fears were entertained for them. The mill
itself stood above the water, but if the hands engaged
in it had attempted to leave it, they must have been
overtaken and carried away by the flood. Fortunately
the majority of the mills were nearer the hillsides
than Mitchell's, so that escape from them was comparatively
easy. The rush of the torrent had been
along the course of the river and canal, and though
the water surged against the wall that enclosed the
mill-folds, and even entered the walls and swamped
the basements of the houses therein, it was with
reduced force.

Mrs. Sidebottom gave little attention to the scenes
of havoc, to the distress and alarm that prevailed.

Her one dread was lest she should reach her brother's
house too late to prevent its pillage.

When she arrived there she found that Salome was
not in, that Mrs. Cusworth, a feeble and sickly woman,
was frightened and incapacitated from doing anything,
and that the servants were out in the streets.

What made my brother go out ?' asked Mrs. Side-bottom
; * why was he not in bed like a Christian ?'

He had been sitting up, talking with Salome,'
answered the widow, ' and as he had taken no exercise
for two days, and did not feel sleepy, he said he would
take a short walk.'

What keys has he left, and where are they ? I do
not mean the key of the groceries, or of the cellar,
but of his papers and cash-box.'

Mrs. Cusworth did not know. She had nothing todo
with these keys ; she supposed that Mr. 
carried them about with him.

Probably,' said Mrs. Sidebottom ; ' but gentlemen
when going out to dinner sometimes forget to take
the keys out of their pockets and put them in those
of the dress suit. I had a husband. He did it, and
many a lecture J have given him for his want of

prudence. Do you know where his everyday clothes
are ? I suppose he went abroad in his dress-coat and
small. I had better have a look and make sure.'

Mrs. Cusworth thought, in reply, that probably the
clothes would be found in Mr. Pennycomequick's bedroom.


there is a light in it, I suppose,' said his half-sister.
* By-the-way, who had charge of the plate ?'

I have answered the widow.

You have, then, the key of the plate-chest V

There is no plate-chest. There is a cupboard.'

Iron-plated ?'

Oh no ; there is no silver, or very little — only
some teaspoons, all the rest is electro. But do you
think, Mrs. Sidebottom, that dear Mr. Pennycome-
quick is — is lost V The widow's eyes filled and she
began to cry.

Lost ! oh, of course.'

But we cannot tell, we do not know, but he may
have taken refuge somewhere.'

Fiddlestick — I mean, hardly likely. He was on
the towpath,''and there is no place of refuge he could
reach from that

Really dead ! really dead !^ The poor widow
broke down.

Dead, of course, he is dead, with all this water.
Bless me ! You would not call in the ocean to drown
him. I have known a case of a man in the prime of
life who was smothered in six inches.'

Yes, but he may have left the towpath in time,
and then, instead of returning home, have gone about
helping the poor creatures who have been washed out
of their houses, and some of them have not had time
to get into their clothes. It would be like his kind
heart to remain out all night rendering every assistance
in his power.'

These is something in that,' said Mrs. Sidebottom,
and her face became slightly longer. ' He has not
been found.'

No, not yet.'

Mrs. Sidebottom mused.

I don't see,' she said, ' how he can have got away
if he went on the towpath. I have heard he was
seen going on to it. The towpath is precisely where
the greatest danger lay. It is exactly there that the
current of the descending flood would reach what

you would call its maximum of velocity. Is not
Salome come in yet ? Why is she out ? What is she
doing ?'

Then in came her son, in trim order ; neither the
danger in which his uncle might be, nor his prospect
of inheriting that uncle's fortune, could induce Lambert
to appear partially dressed. His mother drew
him aside into the dining-room.

Lambert,' she said, ' there is no plate. I am not
sorry for it, for if Jeremiah had laid out money
in buying silver, he would have gone in for King's
pattern, or Thread and Shell — which are both odious,
vulgar and ostentatious, only seen on the tables of
the nouvcaiix riches'

Is my uncle not returned ?'

No, Lamb ! and, there is a good soul, run down
the road, bestir yourself, and ascertain whether the
towpath, to which your uncle Jeremiah said he was
going, is really submerged, and to what depth, and
ascertain also at what rate the current runs, and
whether it is likely to subside. Mrs. Cusworth thinks
it not impossible that your uncle may be helping the
wretches who are getting out of their bedroom

windows, or arc perched on the roofs of their houses.
Oh, Lamb ! if your uncle were to turn up after the
agony of mind he has occasioned me, I could hardly
bear it ; I would go into hysterics. My dear Lamb !
do keep that old woman talking whilst I run upstairs
to Jeremiah's dressing-room. I must get at his everyday
small, and see if he has left his keys in the
pocket ; men do such inconsiderate things. I must
do this as a precaution, you understand, lest the keys
should fall into improper hands, into the hands of
designing and unscrupulous persons, who have no
claim on my brother whatever, and no right to expect
more than a book or a teacup as a remembrancer.
Lamb ! it looks suspicious that Salome should keep
out of the way now. Goodness gracious ! what if she
has been beforehand with me, and is out concealing
the spoils ! Go, Lamb, make inquiries after your
uncle, and keep an eye open for Salome. The girl is
deep. I will go and search the pockets of your
uncle's panama, pepper and salt ; I know them. We
must not put or allow temptations to lie in the way
of the unconscientious.'

A COTTAGE PIANO.

Mr. Pennycomequick had but just reached the hut
of the keeper of the locks when he saw a great wave
rushing down on him. It extended across the valley
from bank to bank, it ovcrswept the raised sides of
canal and river, and confounded both together, and,
as if impelled by the antagonism of modern socialism
against every demarcation of property, caused the
hedges of the several fields and bounding walls to
disappear, engulfed or overthrown.

The hut was but seven feet high on one side and
six on the other, and was small — a square brick
structure with a door on one side and a wooden
bench on that toward the locks. Unfortunately the
hut had been run up on such economical principles
that the bricks were set on their narrow sides, instead
of being superimposed on their broad sides, and thus

VOL. I. 6

made a wall of but two and a half inches thick, ill-calculated
to resist the impetus of a flood of water,
but serviceable enough for the purpose for which
designed — a shelter against weather. It was roofed
with sandstone slate at a slight incline. Fortunately
the door looked to the east, so that the current did
not enter and exert its accumulated strength against
the walls to drive them outwards. The door had
been so placed because the west wind was that which
brought most rain on its wings.

Jeremiah put a foot on the bench, and with an
alacrity to which he had long been a stranger, heaved
himself upon the roof of the shelter, not before the
water had smitten it and swirled about the base and
foamed over his feet. Had he not clung to the roof,
he would have been swept away. To the west the
darkness remained piled up, dense and undiluted, as
though the clouds there contained in them another
forty-eight hours of rain. A very Pelion piled on
Ossa seemed to occupy the horizon, but above this the
vault became gradually clearer, and the crescent moon
poured down more abundant light, though that was
not in itself considerable.

By this light Jeremiah could see how widespread
the inundation was, how it now filled the trough of
the Keld, just as it must have filled it in the remote
prehistoric age, when the western hills were sealed in
ice, and sent their frosty waters burdened with icebergs
down the valleys they had scooped out, andover
rocks which they furrowed in their passage.

Jeremiah looked at the lock-keeper's cottage, not
any longer as a possible place of refuge, but out of
compassion for the unfortunate man who was in it.
Not a sound issued thence ; not a light gave token
that he had been roused in time to effect his escape,
if only to the roof Probably, almost certainly, he and
his wife were floating as corpses in their little room
on the ground floor.

Away on the ridge to the north, yellow lights were
twinkling, and thence came sounds of life. The
steam calls had ceased to shrill ; they had done their
work. No one slept in Mergatroyd — no one in all
the towns, villages, and hamlets down the valley of
the Keld — any more that night, save those who,
smothered by the water, slept to wake no more.

Hard by the lock, growing out of the embankment,

6—2

Stood a Lombardy poplar. The sudden blast of
wind accompanying the water had twisted and
snapped it, but had not wholly severed the top from
the stump. It clung to this, attached by ligaments
of bark and fibres of wood. The stream caught at
the broken tree-top that trailed on the causeway,
shook it impatiently, dragged it along with it, ripped
more of the nerves that fastened it, and seemed
intent on carrying it wholly away.

Notwithstanding his danger and extreme discomfort,
with his boots full of water, Jeremiah was unable
to withdraw his eyes for long from the broken tree,
the top of which whipped the base of his place of
refuge ; for he calculated whether, in the event of the
water undermining the hut, he could reach the stump
along the precarious bridge of the broken top.

But other objects presented themselves, gliding
past, to distract his mind from the tree. By the wan
and straggling light he saw that various articles of an
uncertain nature were being whirled past ; and the
very uncertainty as to what they were gave scope to
the imagination to invest them with horror.

For awhile the water roared over the sluice, but at

last the immense force exerted on the valves tore
them apart, wrenched one from its hinges, threw it
down, and the torrent rolled triumphantly over it ; it
did not carry the door off, which held still to its lower
hinge, at least for a time, though it twisted the iron
in its socket of stone.

The water was racing along, now noiselessly, but
with remorseless determination, throwing sticks, straw,
and then a drowned pig at the obstructive hut. Atone
moment a boat shot past. If it had but touched
the hut, Jeremiah would have thrown himself into it,
and trusted that it would be stranded in shallow
water. He knew how insecure was the building that
sustained him. There was no one in the boat. It
had been moored originally by a rope, which was
snapped, and trailed behind it.

The moon flared out on the water, that looked like
undulating mercury, and showed a dimple on its
surface above the hut ; a dimple formed by the water
that was parted by the obstruction ; and about this
eddy sticks and strands were revolving. Then there
approached a cradle in which whimpered a babe. On
the cradle stood a cat that had taken refuge therefrom

the water, when it found no other spot dry
for its feet. And now the cradle swung from side to
side, and as it tilted, the cat leaped to the upraised
side, mee-awing pitifully, and then, as the strange
boat lurched before a wave on the other side, the cat
skipped back again to where it was before, with tail
erect and plaintive cry, but, by its instinctive shifting,
preserving the balance of the little craft. The cradle
was drawn down between the walls where the sluice
had been, and whether it passed in safety beyond,
Jeremiah could not see.

Now his attention was arrested by a huge black
object sailing down stream, reeling and spinning as it
advanced. What was it .'* A house lifted bodily and
carried along ? Jeremiah watched its approach with
uneasiness ; if it struck his brick hut it would probably
demolish it. As it neared, however, he was
relieved to discover that it was a patrick ; and on it,
skipping from side to side, much as the cat had skipped
on the cradle, he observed a fluttering white figure.

Now he saw that a chance offered better than that
of remaining on the fragile hut. The bricks would
give way, but the patrick must float. If he could

possibly swing himself on to the hay, he would be in
comparative safety, for it is of the nature of strong
currents to disembarrass themselves of the cumbrous
articles wherewith they have burdened themselves
and throw them away along their margins, strewing
with them the fields they have temporarily overflowed.
It was, however, difficult in the uncertain light to
judge distances, and calculate the speed at which the
floating island came on, and the rick struck the hut
before Jeremiah was prepared to leap. He, however,
caught at the hay, and tried to scramble into the rick
that overtopped him, when he was thrown down,
struck by the white figure that leaped ofl" the hay and
tumbled on the roof, over him. In another instant,
before Jeremiah could recover his feet, the rick had
made a revolution and was dancing down the stream,
leaving a smell of hay in his nose, and the late tenant
of the stack sprawling at his side.

'You fool !' exclaimed Mr. Pennycomequick
angrily, ' what have you come here for ?'

'I could hold on no longer. I was giddy. I
thought there was safety here.'

Less chance here than on the rick you have

deserted. You have spoiled your own chance of life
and mine.'

I'm starved wi' card,' moaned the half-naked man,
I left my bed and got through t'door as water
came wiping in, and I scrambled up on to trick. I
never thovvt trick would ha' floated away.'

*Here, then,' said Jeremiah, removing his greatcoat,
but with a bad grace, * take this.'

That's better,' said the man, without a word of
thanks, as he slipped into the warm overcoat. ' Eh !
now,' said he, ' if severe nobbut for the way trick
spun about, I could na' ha' stuck there. I wouldn't
ha' gone out o' life, spinning like a skoprill ' (teetotum),
' not on no account ; I'd a-gone staggering
into t'other world, and ha' been took for a drunkard,
and I'm a teetotaler, have been these fifteen years.
Fifteen years sin' I took pledge, and never bust out
but once.'

You have water enough to satisfy you now,' said
Jeremiah grimly.

Nostra want to army ?' asked the man. * Becos if
so, I'm the man for thee, Peter — one, three, twenty,
what costa say to that, eh ?'

Jeremiah was in no mood to argue, nor was the time
or place suitable ; but not so thought this fanatic, to
whom every time and place was appropriate for a dispute
about alcohol.

'I wonder whether the water is falling,' said the
manufacturer, drawing himself away from his companion
and looking over the edge into the current.
He saw apples, hundreds of apples swimming past ; a
long wavering line of them coming down the stream,
like migrating ants, or a Rechabite procession, turning
over, bobbing, but all in sequence one behind the
other. By daylight they would have resembled a
chain of red and yellow beads, but now they showed
as jet grains on silver. They had come, no doubt,
from a farmer's store or out of a huckster's cart.

Jeremiah leaned over the eave of the hut to test the
distance of the water ; then caught an apple and threw
it on the roof, whence it rolled over and rejoined the
procession on the further side.

'Tis a pity now,* muttered the man in nightshirt
and topcoat, "tis a pity about my bullock, I were
own to sullen a Friday

Suddenly Jeremiah recoiled from his place, for,

dancing on the water was a human body, a woman,
doubtless, for there was a kerchief about the head, and
in the arms a child, also dead. The woman's eyes
were open, and the moon glinted in the whites. They
seemed to be looking and winking at Jeremiah.
Then a murky wave washed over the face, like a hand
passed over it, but it did not close the eyes, which
again glimmered forth. Then, up rose the corpse,
lifted by the water, but seeming to struggle to gain its
feet. It was caught in that swirl, that dimple Jeremiah
had noticed on the face of the flood above his
place of refuge.

How cruel the current was ! Not content with
drowning human beings, it romped with them after
the life was choked out of them, it played with them
ghastly pranks. The undercurrent sucked the body
back, and then rah it against the bricks, using it as a
battering-ram. Then it caught the head of the poplar
and whipped the corpse with it, as though whipping
it on to its work which it was reluctant to perform.
The manufacturer had gone out that night with his
umbrella, and had carried it with him to the roof of
the hut. Now with the crook he sought to disengage

the dead woman and thrust her away from the wall
into the main current ; he could not endure to seethe
body impelled headlong against the bricks.

'What art a' doing?' asked the man, also looking
over. Then, after a moment he uttered a cry, drew
back, clasped his hands, then looked again, and again
exclaimed : ' Sho's my own lass, and sho's a hugging
my bairn 1'

What do you mean ?'

It's my wife, eh ! 'tis a pity.'

Mr. Pennycomequick succeeded in disengaging the
corpse and thrusting it into the stream ; it was caught
and whirled past. The man looked after it, and
moaned.

It all comes o' them fomentations,' he said.

Shod bad pains about her somewhere or other, and
owt Nan sed shod rub in a pennyworth o' whisky. I
was again it, I was again it — my mind misgave me, and
now sho's taken and I'm left, 'cos I had nowt to do
wi' it.'

You may as well prepare to die,' said Jeremiah,

whisky or no whisky. This hut will not stand much
longer.'

«

I shan't mind so bad if I'd sold my bullock,'

t,^roancd the man. ' I had an offer, but, like a fool, I
didn't close. Now I'm born' to lose everything. 'Tis
vexing.'

Just then a heavy object was driven against the
wall, and shook the hut to its foundations, shook it so
that one of the stone slates was dislodged and fell into
the water. Jeremiah leaned over the eaves and looked
again. He could make out that some piece of furniture,
what he could not distinguish, was thrust against
the wall of the hut. He saw two legs of turned
mahogany, with brass castors at the ends that glistened
in the moonlight. They were about four feet
and a half apart, and supported what might be a
table or secretaire. The rushing water drove these
legs against the wall, and the castors ran and felt
about the bricks as groping for a weak joint where
they might knock a hole through. Then, all at once,
the legs drew or fell back, and as they did so the
upper portion of the piece of furniture opened and
disclosed white and black teeth, in fact, revealed a
keyboard. This was but for a moment, then the instrument
was heaved up by a wave, the lid closed over

the keys, and the two brass-armed legs were again
impelled against the fragile wall.

It is hardly to be wondered at that the ancients
attributed living souls to streams and torrents, or
peopled their waves with mischievous nixes, for they
act at times in a manner that seems fraught with intelligence.
It was so now. Here was this hut, an
obstruction to the flood, feeble in itself, yet capable
of resisting its first impetus, and likely to defy it altogether.
The water alone could not dissolve it, so it
had called other means and engines of destruction to
its aid. At first, in a careless, thoughtless fashion, it
had thrown a dead pig against it, then the corpse of a
woman weighted with her dead babe ; and now,
having cast these away as unprofitable tools, it
brought up, at great labour — a cottage piano. A
piano is perhaps the heaviest and most cumbrous
piece of furniture that the flood could have selected,
and, on the whole, the best adapted to serve its purpose,
as the deceased pig was the least. What force
it must have exerted to bring up this instrument,
what judgment it must have employed in choosing
it ! And what malignity there was in the flood in its

persistent efforts to break down the frail substructure
on which stood the two men ! The iron framework
of the instrument in the wooden back was underwater,
the base with the pedals rested against the
foot of the hut. The water driving at the piano thus
lodged, partially heaved it, as though a shoulder had
been submitted to the back of the instrument, and
thus the feet were driven with sharp, impatient strokes
against the bricks. Moreover, every time that the
piano fell back, the lid over the keys also fell back,
and the white line of keys laughed out in the moonlight.
But whenever the wave heaved up the piano,
then the lid fell over them. It was horrible to watch
the piano labouring as a willing slave to batter down
the wall, as it did so opening and shutting its mouth,
as though alternately gasping for breath and then
returning to its task with grim resolution.

The moon was now disentangled from cloud ; it
shone with sharp brilliancy out of a wide tract of
cold gray sky, and the light was reflected by the
teeth of the keyboard every time they were disclosed.
Hark ! The clock of Mergatroyd church struck three.
The dawn would not break for two or three hours.

I say, art a minister ?' suddenly asked the man
in a nightshirt and great-coat.

No ; I am not,' answered the manufacturer impatiently.
* Never mind what I am. Help me to get
rid of this confounded cottage-piano.'

There, there !^ exclaimed the man ; ' now thought
swearing when thou ought to be praying. Why costa
wear a white tie and black class if thou ba'nt a
minister ? Thou might as weel wear a blue ribbon
and be a drunkard.'

Mr. Pennycomequick did not answer the fellow.
The man was crouched in squatting posture on the
roof, holding up one foot after another from the cold
slates that numbed them. His nightshirt hung as a
white fringe below his great-coat. To the eye of an
entomologist, he might have been taken for a gigantic
specimen of the Camberwell Beauty.

If thou'd 'a been a minister, I'd 'a sed nowt. As
thought not, I know by thy white necktie thou must 'a.
been awt to a dancing or a dining soiree. And it were
all along of them soirees that the first Flood came.
We knows it fra' Scripture', t'folkes were eaten' and
drinking'. If they'd been drinking' water, it hed never

'a come. What was t'Flood sent for but to wash out
alcohol ? and it's same naavv.'

Mr. Pennycomequick paid no heed to the man ; he
was anxiously watching the effect produced by the
feet of the piano on the walls.

It was o' cause o' these things the world was
destroyed in the time o' Noah, all but eight persons
as wore the blue ribbon.'

Again the forelegs of the piano crashed against the
bricks, and now dislodged them, so that the water
tore through the opening made.

There's Scripture' for it,' pursued the fellow. ' Oh,
I'm right ! but my toes are mortal could. Don't we
read that Noah and his family was saved by water ?
Peter, one, two, three, twenty — answer me that.
That's a poser for thee — saved because they was
teetotalers.'

At that moment part of the wall gave way, and
some of the roof fell in.

Our only chance is to reach the poplar-stump,
said Jeremiah. ' Come along with me.'

Nay, not I,' answered the man. ' The ships o'
Tarshish was saved because Jonah was cast overboard.

Go, then, and I'll stay here and be safe. I'll no be
any mair i' t' same box wi' an alcohol-drinker.'

He drew up his feet under him, and put his fingers
into his mouth to warm them.

Mr. Pennycomequick did not delay to use persuasion.
If the man was fool enough to stay, he must
stay. He slipped off the top of the hut, and planted
one foot on the piano, then the other ; his only chance
was to reach the broken poplar, scramble up it, and
lodge in its branches till morning. To do this he
must reach it by the broken top that at present was
caught between the legs of the piano, so that the
water brushed up over the twigs. Jeremiah sprang
among the boughs, and tried to scramble along it.
Probably his additional weight was all that was
required to snap the remaining fibres that held the
portions together, for hardly was Mr. Pennycome-
quick on it than the strands yielded, and down past
the crumbling hut rushed the tree-top, laden with its
living burden, entangled, laced about with the whip-like
branches, and as he passed he saw the frail structure
dissolve like a lump of sugar in boiling water
and disappear.

VOL. I. 7

TAKING POSSESSION.

The valley of the Keld for many miles above and
below Mergatroyd presented a piteous spectacle when
day dawned. The water had abated, but was not
drained away. The fields were still submerged.
Factories stood as stranded hulls amidst shallow
lagoons, and were inaccessible, their fires extinguished,
their mechanism arrested, their stores spoiled. The
houses in the ' folds ' were deserted, or were being
cleared of their inhabitants * From the windows of
some of these houses men and women were leaning
and shouting for help. They had been caught by the

For the enlightenment of the uninitiated it will be as well to
describe a fold. About some mills are yards, and the enclosing
walls of these yards form the backs of cottages facing inwards
on the mill, which are occupied by operatives working in the
factory.

water, which invaded the lower story, locally called
the * ha'ase/ when asleep in the bedrooms overhead,
and now, hungry and cold and imprisoned, they
clamoured for release. Boats were scarce. Such as
had been possessed by manufacturers and others had
been kept by the river, and these had been broken
from their moorings and carried away. Rafts were
extemporized out of doors and planks; and as the
water was shallow and still in the folds, they served
better than keels. One old woman had got into a
peggy ' tub and launched herself in it, to get stranded
in the midst of a wide expanse of water, and from her
vessel she screamed to be helped, and dared not
venture to move lest she should upset her tub and be
shot out.

Not many lives, apparently, had been lost in the
parish of Mergatroyd. Mr. Pennycomequick was
missing, and the man at the locks with his wife had
not been seen, and their cottage was still inaccessible.
But great mischief had been wrought by the water.
Not only had the stores in the mills been damaged,
and the machinery injured by water and grit getting
into it, and boilers exploded by the shock, but also

7—2

because the swirl of the torrent had disturbed the
subsoil of gravel and undermined the walls. Fissures
formed with explosions like the report of guns ; one
chimney that had leaned before was now so inclined
and overbalanced that its fall was inevitable, and was
hourly expected.

All the gas jets fed from the main that descended
into the valley were extinguished, and it was apparent
that the rush of water had ploughed up the ground to
the depths of the main, and had ruptured it. Walls
that had run across the direction of the stream had
been thrown over ; the communication between the
two sides of the valley was interrupted. It was uncertain
whether the bridge was still in existence. The
railway had been overflowed, and the traffic stopped.
The canal banks and locks had suffered so severely
that it would be useless for the barges for many months.

Tidings arrived during the day from the upper
portion of the valley, and it appeared that the destruction
of life and property had been greatest where the
wave burst out from between the confining hills, before
it had space in which to spread, and in spreading to
distribute its force. Heartrending accounts came in,

some true, some exaggerated, some false, but all
believed.

That night of terror and ruin did not see the
roll of death made up. Such catastrophes have far-reaching
effects. The wet, the exposure, the shock,
were sure to produce after-sickness and succeeding
mortality.

With ready hospitality, the parsonage, the inns, the
houses of the well-to-do, were thrown open to receive
those temporarily homeless, and food, warmth and
clothing were forced upon them. But such as were
received felt that they could not protract their stay
and burden unduly their hosts, and insisted on returning
prematurely to their sodden houses, there to
contract rheumatic fevers and inflammations.

Twenty years ago, the author of this story wrote an
account of such a disaster in a novel, the first on which
he essayed his pen. Time has rolled away, and like
the flood, has buried much ; and amongst the things
it has swept off and sunk in oblivion is that book.
Probably not a dozen copies of it exist. He may now
be permitted to repeat what was there written, when
the impression produced by the cataclysm was fresh

and vivid ; and let not the rare possessor of the lost
novel charge him with plagiarism if he repeats something
of his former description.

Near the spot where the Keld left the hills had
stood a public-house called the Horse and Jockey.
The full violence of the descending wave fell on it
and effaced it utterly. The innkeeper's body was
never found ; the child's cradle, with the child in it,
had gone down the stream, kept from overbalancing
by the kitchen cat, and so escaped destruction. The
beer casks floated ashore some miles down, were never
claimed, and were tapped and drunk dry by some
roughs. The sign of Horse and Jockey came to land
twenty miles away, unhurt ; it was the most worthless
article the house had possessed. About a mile and a
half above Mergatroyd was a row of new cottages,
lately erected on money borrowed from a building
society. They were of staring red brick, with sandstone
heads to doors and windows ; the flood carried
away three out of the four.

In the first lived a respectable wool-picker with wife
and children, all Wesleyans. He and his wife and
child were swept from life in a moment, and supplied

the preacher at their chapel with a topic for his next
Sunday's discourse.

In the second Heed a widow, who sold 'spice,' that
is to say, sweets, together with sundry articles in the
grocery line ; a mighty woman, rotund and red, with
a laugh and a joke for everyone ; a useful woman to
mothers in their troubles, and to children with the
toothache, whooping cough, and other maladies.
Black bottle and peppermint drops, Mother Bunch's
syrup, soothing powders, porous plasters, embrocations,
and heal-alls various, and of various degrees of
mischievousness, were her specifics, and when the
doses were nasty her lemon-drops and sugar-candy
were freely given to cleanse the mouth of the taste of
medicine. Now, she was gone down the river, her
lollipops dissolved, her medicines dispersed. Away
she had gone, floundering and spluttering, till her
lungs were filled with the fluid she involuntarily imbibed,
and then she sank and was caught among
some sunken tree-snags, and her body was afterwards
recovered from among them.

In the third cottage resided a musical shoemaker, a
man with one love, and that the love of his bass viol.

A wiry, solemn man, greatly in request at all concerts,
able to conduct a band, or take almost any instrument
himself, but loving best — a viol.

Now, he was gone, and grit had been washed into
the sacred case of the cherished instrument, ruined
along with its master.

In the last cottage of the row lived a drunken, 
fellow, who did odd jobs of work ; a fellow
who had driven his own wife with her bairns from the
house, and lived with another woman, as intemperate
as himself, and with a mouth as foul as his own. This
house and those within were spared.

Well, now,' said an elder to the preacher, after the
sermon at Providence Chapel next Sunday, ' ah, did
think thou wert born' to justify the ways o' Providence.'


So I would if I could,' answered the preacher,
but they brain justifiable.'

Where the folds and fields were not too deep in
water, lads waded, collecting various articles that had
drifted no one knew whence. Some oranges lodged
in a corner were greedily secured and sucked. One
man ran about displaying a laced lady's boot at the

end of a walking-stick, which boot had been carried
into his kitchen, and was useless unless he could discover
the fellow. There was much merriment in
spite of disaster. Yorkshire folk must laugh whatever
happens, and jokes were bandied to and fro
between those who rowed and waded and those who
were prisoners in their upper chambers.

The pariahs of society were alive to their opportunities,
and were descending the stream, claiming
everything of value that was found as being their
own lost property. In many cases their claims were
allowed ; in others the finder of some article, rather
than surrender it to a man whom he suspected, would
cast it back into the water and bid him go further to
recover it.

A higher type of pariah started subscriptions for
the sufferers, and took many a toll on the sums accumulated
for the purpose of relieving the distress.

What had become of Mr. Pennycomequick ? That
was the question in every mouth in Mergatroyd.
Salome knew that he had left the house just after
midnight to take a walk by the canal, and the watchman
had seen him a little later on the towpath.

Since then he had not been seen at all. It was probable
that, hearing the alarm signals, he might have
taken refuge somewhere ; but where ? That depended
on where he was when the alarm was given. If he
had ascended the canal he might have made his way
into Mitchell's mill ; that was a hope soon dispelled,
for news came that he had not been seen there. If
he had descended the canal it was inconceivable that
he could have escaped, as there was no place of refuge
to which he could have flown.

Mrs. Sidebottom had not a shadow of doubt that
Jeremiah was dead. Not dead ! Fiddlestick ! Of
course he was dead. She acted on this conviction.
She moved into her half-brother's house. It would
not do, she argued, to leave it unprotected to be
pillaged by those Cusworths. A death demoralized
a house. It was like the fall of a general, all order,
respect for property, sense of duty, ceased. Lambert
should remain at home, where he had his comforts,
his own room, and his clothes. There was no necessity
for his moving.

Besides,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, * I could never
trust a man, especially with women. Talk of menas

lords of creation ! Why, they are wheedled and
humbugged by women with the greatest facility. If
Lambert were here, the Cusworths, the maids, would
sack the house under his nose, and he perceive nothing.
I know how it was when I was newly married. Then,
if anything went wrong among my domestics I sent
Sidebottom down the kitchen-stairs to them. He
returned crestfallen and penitent, convinced that he
had wrongfully accused them, and that he was himself,
in some obscure manner, to blame.'

Mrs. Sidebottom gave orders that her brother's
room should be made ready for her.

Uncle Jeremiah's room, mother !' exclaimed Lambert,
in astonishment.

Of course,' answered she. ' I am not going to
leave that un watched ; why, that is the focus and
centre of everything. What do I care if they steal
the sugar, and pull some of the French plums out of
the bag in the store-closet .'* I must sit at nfy post,
keep my hand on the strong box and the bureau.'

But suppose Uncle Jeremiah were to return .'''

He won't return. He cannot. He is drowned.'

But the body has not been recovered.'

Nor will it be ; it has been washed down into the
ocean.'

Rather you than I sleep in his room said Lambert.
After a sight hesitation Mrs. Sidebottom said, in a

low, confiding tone, * I have found his keys. He left
them in his dress-coat pocket. Now you see the
necessity there is for me to be on the spot. I must
have a search for the will.' Then she drew a long
breath, and said, ' Now, Lamb, there is some chance
of my heart's desire being accomplished. You will
be able to drop one of your «'s.'

Drop what, mother ?'

Drop one of the ;/'s in the spelling of your name.
I have never liked the double n in Pennycomequick.
It will seem more distinguished to spell the name
with one 7i.'

The captain yawned and walked to the door.

That is all one to me. I don't suppose that one ;/
will bring me more money than two. By the way,
have you written to Philip ?'

Philip !' echoed Mrs. Sidebottom. * Of course not.
This is no concern of his. If he grumbles, we can
say that we hoped against hope, and did not like to

summon him till we were sure poor Jeremiah was no
more. No, Lamb, we do not want Philip here, and
if he comes he will find nothing to his advantage.
Jeremiah very properly would not forgive his father,
and he set us all an example, for in this nineteenth
century we are all too disposed to leniency. I shall
certainly not write to Philip.'

I beg your pardon said Salome, who at this
juncture appeared at the door. ' Were you mentioning
Mr. Philip Pennycomequick .?'

Yes, I was,' answered Mrs. Sidebottom shortly.
Salome stood in the doorway, pale, with dark

hollows about her eyes, and looking worn and
harassed. She had been up and about all the night
and following day.

Were you speaking about sending for Mr. Philip
Pennycomequick .''' she asked.

We were mentioning him ; hardly yet considering
about sending for him,' said Mrs. Sidebottom.

Because,' said Salome, ' I have telegraphed for
him. I thought he ought to be here.'

IN ONE COMPARTMENT.

In a second-class carriage on the Midland line sat a
gentleman and a lady opposite each other. He was
a tall man, and was dressed in a dark suit with a
black tie. His face had that set controlled look
which denotes self-restraint and reserve. The lips
were thin and closed, and the cast of the features was
stern. The eyes, large and hazel, were the only
apparently expressive features he possessed. There
is nothing that so radically distinguishes those who
belong to the upper and cultured classes from such as
move in the lower walks of life as this restraint of the
facial muscles. It is not the roughness of the hand
that marks off the manual worker from the man who
walks in the primrose path of ease, but the cast of
face, and that is due in the latter to the constant

inexorable enforcement of self-control. In the complexity
of social life it is not tolerable that the face
should be the index of the mind. Social intercourse
demands disguise, forbids frankness, which it resents
as brusquerie, and the child from infancy is taught to
acquire a mastery over expression. As the delicate
hand-artificer has to obtain complete control over
every nerve of his hand, so as to make no slurs or
shakes, so also has the man admitted into the social
guild to hold every muscle of his face in rigid discipline.
This is specially the case with the priest and the
lawyer and the doctor. Conceive what a hitch would
ensue in conversation should the lady of the house
allow a visitor to discern in the countenance that she
was unwelcome, or for a man of taste to allow his
contempt to transpire when shown by an amateur his
artistic failures, or for the host to wince when an
incautious guest has exposed the family skeleton !
It is said that the late Lady Beaconsfield endured her
finger to be jammed in the carriage-door without
wince or cry, and continued listening or pretending
to listen to her husband's conversation whilst driving
to the House. All members of the cultured classes

are similarly trained to smile and not change colour,
to listen, perhaps to sing, when pinched and crushed
and trodden on and in torture. Would a priest be
endured in his parish if he did not receive every insult
with a smile, or a barrister gain his cause if he suffered
his face to proclaim his disbelief in its justice, or a
doctor keep his patients if his countenance revealed
what he thought of their complaints ?

If we turn over the Holbein collection of portraits
of the Court of Henry VHI. we see among princes
and nobles the same faces that we 6nd now in farmhouses
and factories. The Wars of the Roses had
dissolved all restraints, and men of the first Tudor
reigns were the undisciplined children of an age of
domestic anarchy But it was otherwise later. The
portraits of Van Deck and Lely show us gentlemen
and ladies of perfect dignity and self-restraint.

What is also remarkable is that each age in the
past seems to have had its typal cast of countenance
and form of expression. The cavaliers of Charles I.
have their special characteristics that distinguish them
as much from the courtiers of Elizabeth as from those
of Charles H. With Queen Anne another phase of

portraiture set in, because the faces were different,
and again in the Hanoverian period how unlike were
the gentlemen of the Regency from those of the first
Georges ! Difference in dress does not explain this
difference of face. The men and women in each
epoch had their distinct mode of thought, fashion in
morals and manners, and the face accommodated
itself to these.

And at the present day that which cleaves class
from class is the mode of thought in each, the rule o(
association that governs intercourse in their several
planes ; and these affect the character of face in each,
so that the classes are distinguished by their countenances
as they were by ages in the past.

When collier Jack calls barges Jim a blackguard,
Jim replies with a curse on the collier's eyes, which
he damns to perdition. But if collier Jack says the
same thing to gentleman Percy, the latter raises his
hat, bows, and passes on.

Educations complete, does not merely sharpen the
intellect and refine the manners, but it gives such a
complete polish that affronts do not dint or adhere ;
they glide off instead, leaving no perceptible trace of

VOL. I. 8

impact. To the outward appearance, Christianity and
culture produce an identical result, but only in outward
appearance, for the former teaches the control of the
emotions, whereas the latter merely forbids their
expression.

The face of the gentleman who sat opposite this
lady in the carriage was an intelligent, even clever
face, but was somewhat hard. He looked at his companion
once when he entered the carriage, hesitating
whether to enter, and then glanced round to see
whether there was another passenger in the compartment
before he took a seat. There was at the time
an elderly gentleman in the carriage, and this decided
him to set his valise and rugs on the seat, and finally
to take his place in the corner. If he had not seen
that elderly man, with the repugnance single gentlemen
so generally entertain against being shut in with
a lady unattended, especially if young and pretty, he
would have gone elsewhere. Where the carcase is
there will the vultures gather. That is inevitable ;
but no sane dromedary will voluntarily cast himself
into a cage with vultures.

The old gentleman left after a couple of stages, and

then, for the rest of the journey, these two were
enclosed together. As the man left, Philip looked out
after him, with intent to descend, remove his baggage,
and enter the next compartment, before or behind ;
but saw that one was full of sailor boys romping, and
the other with a family that numbered among it a
wailing baby. He therefore drew back, with discontent
at heart, and all his quills ready to bristle at
the smallest attempt of the lady to draw him into
conversation.

The train was hardly in movement before that
attempt was made.

You are quite welcome to use my forwarder,' she
said.

'Thank you, my feet are not cold,' was the ungracious
reply.

I have had it changed twice since I left town,' she
pursued, ' so that it is quite hot. The porters have
been remarkably civil, and the guard looks in occasionally
to see that I am comfortable.'

In expectation of a tip thought the gentleman,
but he said nothing.

The French arc believed to be the politest people

in the world,' continued the lady, not yet discouraged,
but I must say that the English railway porter is far
in advance of the French one. On a foreign line you
are treated as a vagabond, on the English as a
guest.'

Still he said nothing. The lady cast an almost
appealing glance at him. She had travelled a long
way for a great many hours, and was weary of her
own company. She longed for a little conversation.

I cannot read in the train,' she said plaintively,
it makes me giddy, and — I started yesterday from
home.'

In-deed,' said he in dislocated syllables. He quite
understood that a hint had been conveyed to him, but
he was an armadillo against hints.

The pretty young lady had not opened the conversation,
if that can be called conversation which is onesided,
without having observed the young man's face,
and satisfied herself that there was no more impropriety
in her talking to one of so staid an air than if
he had been a clergyman.

What a bear this man is !' she thought.

He on his side said to himself, ' A forward missis !

I wish I were in a smoking-carriage, though I detest
the smell of tobacco.'

Pretty — uncommonly pretty the little lady was, with
perfectly made clothes. The fit of the gown and the
style of theTbonnet proclaimed French make. She
had lovely golden-red hair, large brown eyes, and a
face of transparent clearness, with two somewhat
hectic fire-spots in her cheeks. Her charming little
mouth was now quivering with pitiful vexation.

A quarter of an hour elapsed without another word
being spoken, and the gentleman was satisfied that
his companion had accepted the rebuff he had
administered, when she broke forth again with a
remark.

Oh, sir ! excuse my seeming rudeness, but — you
have been reading the newspaper, and I am on pins
and needles to hear the news from France. It is true
that I have just crossed the Channel from that dear
and suffering — but heroic country ; I am, however,
very ignorant of the news. Unfortunately our journals
are not implicitly to be relied on. The French are
such a patriotic people that they cannot bring themselves
to write and print a word that tells of humiliation

and loss to their country. It is very natural,
very noble — but inconvenient. That superb Faits
— I do trust he has succeeded in crushing the
enemy.'

He has been utterly routed.'

Oh dear ! Oh dear !' the little lady was plunged
into real distress. 'This news was kept from me.
That was why I was hurried away. I wanted to
bring my nieces with me, the Demoiselles Abate,
but they clung to their mother and would not leave
her. It was magnificent.' Then, after a sigh, * Now,
surely England will intervene.'

The gentleman shook his head.

It is cruel. Surely one sister should fly to the
assistance of the other.'

The English nation is sister to the German.'

Oh, how can you say so ? William the Conqueror
came from France.'

From Normandy, which was not at the time and
for long after considered a part of France.'

Then the gentleman, feeling he had been inveigled
into saying more than he intended, looked out of the
window.

Presently he heard a sob. The girl was crying.
He took no notice of her trouble. He had made up
his mind that she was a coquette, and he was steeled
against her various tricks to attract attention and
enlist sympathy. He would neither smile when she
laughed, nor drop his mouth when she wept. His lips
closed somewhat tighter, and his brows contracted
slightly. He had noticed throughout the journey the
petty attempts made by this girl to draw notice to herself
— the shifting of her shawls, the opening and shutting
of her valise, the plaintive sighs, the tapping of
the impatient feet on the forwarder. Though he had
studiously kept his eyes turned from her, nothing she
had done had escaped him, and all went to confirm
the prejudice with which he was inclined to regard her
from the moment of his entering the carriage. He
rose from his place and moved to the further end of
the compartment.

I beg your pardon,' said the young lady, ' I trust
I have not disturbed you. You must excuse me, I
am unhappy.'

• Quite so, and I would not for the world trespass
on your grief.'

I have a husband fighting under the Tricolour,
and I am very anxious about him.'

The gentleman made a slight acknowledgment with
his head, which said unmistakably that he invited no
further confidences.

This she accepted, and turned her face to look out
of the opposite window.

At that moment the brake was put on, and sent a
thrill through the carriage. Presently the train
stopped. The face of the guard appeared at the
window, and the little lady at once lowered the
glass.

How are you getting on, miss ?'

Very well, I thank you ; but you must not call me
miss ; I am a married woman. I have left my husband
in France fighting like a lion, and I am sent away
because the Prussians are robbing and burning and
murdering wherever they go. I know a lady near
Nugent from whose chateau they carried off an ormulu
clock.' How unnecessary it was for her to enter into
these details to the guard, thought the gentleman.
He could not understand how a poor little heart full
of trouble would long to pour itself out ; how that

certain natures can no more exist without sympathy
than can plants without water.

Don't you think, guard, that the English Government
ought to interfere ?'

Well, ma'am, that depends on how it would affect
traffic — on the Midland. Where are you going to, if
I may ask .'''

Mergatroyd.'

There has been a flood, and the embankment of
the railway has been washed away. For a day there
has not been any passing over the lines, and now weare
ordered to go along uncommon leisurely.'

But oh ! guard, there is, I trust, no danger.'

No, ma'am, none in the least ; I'll take care that
you come by no hurt. The worst that can happen is
that we shall be delayed, and perhaps not be able to
proceed the whole way in the same train. But rely
on me, ma'am, I'll see to you.'

Oh, guard, would you — would you mind ? I have
here a little bottle of nice Saint Julien, and I have not
been able to touch it myself. Would you mind taking
it ? Also, here — here, under the bottle.'

She slipped some money into his hand.

The guard's red face beamed brabant benignant.
He slipped the money into his waistcoat pocket, the
bottle he stowed away elsewhere ; then thrusting his
head inside he said confidentially, ' Never fear. I'll
make it all right for you, ma'am.'

When the lady, who was none other than Janet, the
twin sister of Salome, mentioned Mergatroyd as her
destination, the eyebrows of her fellow-passenger were
slightly lifted. He was looking out of the opposite
window to that at which she conversed with the guard.
Now he knew that he would not be rid of his companion
for the rest of the journey, for he also was on
his way to Mergatroyd. There was but a single
subject of comfort to him, that the distance to Merges
was no longer great, and the time taken over it,
in spite of the hint of the guard, which he discounted,
could not be great either.

The short November day had closed in ; and the
remainder of the journey would be taken in the dark.
The lamps had not yet been lighted in the carriage. To
the west he could see through the window the brown
light of the set day, the last rays of a wintry sun
arrested by factory smoke. The gentleman was uneasy.

If the dromedary will not voluntarily enter the cage
of the vulture, he will not remain in it in darkness
with her without tremors.

When do you think, sir, that I shall reach Merges
?' asked the young lady.

That is a question impossible for me to answers
replied the gentleman ; 'as you heard from your friend '
he emphasized this word and threw sarcasm into his
expression — ' the guard, there are conditions, about
which I know nothing, which will interfere with the
punctuality of the train.'

Then he fumbled in his pocket, drew forth an orange-coloured
envelope, from this took a scrap of pink paper,
and by the expiring evening light read the telegraphic
message in large pencil-marks.

Your uncle lost. Come at once. Salome.'

Salome ! — who was Salome ?

He replaced the paper in the envelope, which was
addressed Philip Pennycomequick, care of Messrs.
Pinch and Squeeze, Solicitors, Nottingham.

The message was a brief one — too brief to be intelligible.


Lost — how was Mr. Jeremiah Pennycomequick lost?

When the train drew up at a small station, the
young man returned to the down side, by the lady, let
down the glass and called the guard.

Here ! what did you say about the flood ? I have
seen it mentioned in the paper, but I did not understand
that it had been at Mergatroyd.'

It has been in the Keld Valley.'

And Mergatroyd is in that valley ?'

Where else would you have it, sir ?'

But — according to my paper the great damage was
done at Holme Bridge.'

Well, so it was ; and Holme Bridge is above .'


Philip Pennycomequick drew up the glass again.
Now he understood. He had never been to Merges
in his life, and knew nothing about its situation.
He had skimmed the account of the flood in his
paper, but had given most of his attention to the narrative
of the war in France. It had not occurred to
him to connect the * loss ' of his uncle with the inundation.
He had supposed the word * loss ' was an euphemism
for 'going off his head.' Elderly gentlemen do
not get lost in England, least of all in one of its most

densely populated districts, as if they were in the backwoods
or prairies of America.

But who sent him the telegram ? He had no
relative of the name of Salome. His aunt, Mrs. Side-bottom,
who was now resident, as he knew, at Merges
was named Louisa, and she was the person
who, he supposed, would have wired to him if anything
serious had occurred requiring his presence.

His companion was going to Mergatroyd, and probably
knew people there. If he asked her whether
she was aware of a person of the peculiar Christian
name of Salome at that place, it was possible she
might inform him. But he was too reserved and
proud to ask. He would not afford this flighty piece
of goods an excuse for opening conversation with him.
In half an hour he would be at his destination, and
would then have his perplexity cleared.

The train proceeded leisurely. Philip's feet were
now very cold, and he would have been grateful for
the warmer, but could not now ask for permission to
use what he had formerly rejected.

As the train proceeded the engine whistled.

There were men working on the line ; at intervals

coal fires were blazing and smoking in braziers. The
train further slackened speed. Philip Pennycomequick
could see that there was much water covering the
country. The train had now entered the Valley of
the Keld, and was ascending it.

What a nuisance it would be were he stopped and
obliged to tarry for some hours till the road was repaired,
tarry in cold and darkness, without a lamp in
his carriage, caged in with that pretty, coquettish,
dangerous minx, and with no third party present to
serve as his protector.

The train came to a standstill. The young lady was
uneasy. She lowered the glass and leaned out ; and
looked along the line at the flaming fires, the half-illumined
navvies, the steam trailing away and mingling
with the smoke, the fog that gathered over the inundated
fields. A raw wind blew in at the open
window.

Then up came the guard, sharply turned the handle
and threw open the door. ' Everyone get out. The
train can go no further.'

All the passengers were obliged to descend, dragging
with them their rugs and bags, their cloaks, umbrellas,

novels, buns and oranges — all the piles of impedimenta
with which travellers encumber themselves on a
journey, trusting to the prompt assistance of mercenary
porters.

But on this night, away from any station, there
were no porters. The descent from the carriage was
difficult and dangerous. It was like clambering down
a ladder of which some of the rungs were broken. It
was rendered doubly difficult by the darkness in which
it had to be effected, and the difficulty was quadrupled
by the passengers having to scramble down burdened
with their effects. It was not accordingly performed
in silence, but with screams from women who lost
their footing, and curses and abuses launched against
the Midland from the men.

Mr. Philip was obliged by common humanity to
assist the young lady out of the carriage, and to collect
and help to carry her manifold goods ; for the civil
guard was too deeply engaged to attend to her. He
had received his fee, and was, therefore, naturally
lavishing his attention on others, in an expectant
mood.

Mr. Philip Pennycomequick somewhat ungraciously

advised the companion forced on his protection to
follow him. He engaged to see her across the
dangerous piece of road and return for those of her
wraps and parcels which he and she were together
unable to transport to the train awaiting them beyond
the faulty portion of the line.

The walk was most uncomfortable. It was properly
not a walk but a continuous stumble. To step in the
dark from sleeper to sleeper was not easy, and the
flicker of the coal fires dazzled and confused rather
than assisted the sight. The wind, moreover, carried
the dense smoke in volumes across the line, suddenly
enveloping and half stifling, but wholly blinding for
the moment, the unhappy, bewildered floundered who
passed through it. In front glared the two red lights
of an engine that waited with carriages to receive the
dislodged passengers.

You must take my arm,' said Mr. Philip to his
companion. ' This is really dreadful. One old lady
has, I believe, dislocated her ankle. I hope she will
make a claim on the company.'

Oh, dear ! And Salome ! — what will she
say?'

•Salome?'

Yes — my sister, my twin-sister.'

When Philip Pennycomequick did finally reach his
destination, it was with a mind that prejudged Salome,
and was prejudiced against her.

VOL. I.

ARRIVAL.

What — no cabs ? No cabs V asked Philip ,
on reaching the Mergatroyd Station.

What a place this must be to call itself a town and
have no convenience for those who arrive at it, to
transport them to their destinations. Can one hire a
wheelbarrow ?' Philip was, as may be seen, testy.
The train had not deposited him at the station till
past seven, instead of four-eighteen, when due. He
had been thrown into involuntary association with a
young lady, whom he had set down to belong to
a category of females that are to be kept at a distance
that is, those who, as he contemptuously described
them, run after a hearth-brush because it wears
whiskers. He misjudged Janet Baynes, as men of a
suspicious temper are liable to misjudge simple and

frank natures. There are men who, the more forward
a woman is, so much the more do they recoil into
their shells, to glower out of them at those who
approach them, like a mastiff from its kennel, with a
growl and a display of teeth.

Who this woman was with whom he had been
thrown, Philip only knew from what she had told
him and the guard. He was aware that she was the
sister of his correspondent Salome, but he was
ignorant as before who Salome was, less only the fact
that she must be young, because the twin-sister of his
fellow-passenger. If like her — and twins are usually
alike — she must be pretty, and as mental characteristics
follow the features, like her coquettish, and
ready to make love — as Philip put it — to the hearth-brush
because of its whiskers.

At the station he had reckoned on finding a cab
and driving to his destination, whilst his companion
went off in another. But to his vexation he found
that there were no cabs. He must engage a porter
to carry his traps on a truck. He resolved to go first
of all to his uncle's house and inquire whether he was
lost in the flood and if he had been heard of since the

9—2

telegram was despatched. Then he would put up for
the night at the inn, and his future movements would
be regulated by the information he received.

By the way said he to the porter, * I suppose you
have a decent hotel in the place, though it is deficient
in cabs.'

There are three inns,' answered the man, ' but all
full as an excursion train on Good Friday. The poor
folks that ha' been turned o't hanse by t' water ha'
been ta'en into 'em. Where art 'a going, sir ?'

To the house of Mr. Pennycomequick,' answered
Philip.

Right you are,' said the porter, * Mrs. Baynes is
also born' to t'same, and I can take whole bag-tricks
on one barrow.'

Philip turned to Janet Baynes with an impatient
gesture, which with all his self-control he was unable
to repress, and said :

'You are going to Mr. Pennycomequick's, I understand,
madam.'

There was no avoiding it. The tiresome association
could not be dissolved at once, it threatened to
continue.

Yes answered Janet, ' I spent all my life there
till I married, and my mother and sister are there
now.'

Not relations of Mr. Pennycomequick ?'

Oh dear no. He has been like a father to us,
because our own father was killed by an accident in
his service. That was a long time ago, I cannot
remember the circumstance. Ever since then we
have lived in the house. We always call Mr. 
our uncle, but he is no real relative.'

Philip strode forward, ahead of the porter ; from
the station the road ascended at a steep gradient, and
the man came on slowly with the united luggage.
Janet quickened her pace, and came up beside Philip.

It was like being beset by a fly in summer.

Are you going to Mr. Pennycomequick's ?' asked
Janet, panting. She was a little out of breath with
walking to keep up with her companion.

Yes.'

I am not strong. My breath goes if I hurry,
especially in going up-hill.'

Then, madam, let me entreat you to spare your
lungs and relax your pace.'

But then — we shall be separated, and we are going
to the same house. Would you mind going just a
wee bit slower ?'

Philip complied without a word.

He questioned for a moment whether he should
inform his fellow-passenger of the news that the
uncle was lost. But he reflected that he knew nothing
for certain. The message he had received could
hardly have been couched in vaguer terms. It was
quite possible that his explanation of it was false ; it
was also not at all improbable that the alarm given
was premature. If Salome were like the young
scatter-brain walking at his side, she would be
precisely the person to cry * Wolf !' at the first alarm.
He might have inquired of the porter whether Mr.
Pennycomequick had met with an accident, or whether
anything had occurred at his house ; but he preferred
to wait, partly because he was too proud to inquire of
a porter, and partly because he was given no opportunity
to questioning him out of hearing of his companion.


Are you going to stay at uncle's ?' asked Janet.
I really am unable to answer that question.'

But, as you have heard, all the inns are full. Have
you any friends in Mergatroyd?'

Relations — not friends.'

What a delightful thing it must be to have plenty
of relations ! Salome and I have none. We were
quite alone in the world, except for mother. Now I
have, of course, all my husband's kindred, but Salome
has no one.'

There was no shaking this girl off. She stuck to
him as a burr. In all probability he would be housed
at his uncle's that night, and so he would be brought
into further contact with this person. She herself
was eminently distasteful to him — but a sister unmarried
! — Philip resolved to redouble his testy
manner towards her. He would return to Nottingham
on the morrow, unless absolutely compelled by
circumstances to remain.

There was — there always had been — a vein of
suspicion, breeding reserve of manner, in the 
family. It was found chiefly in the menin
the women, that is, in Mrs. Sidebottom, it
took a different form. As forces are co-related,
so are tempers. It chilled their manner, it made

them inapt to form friendships, and uncongenial in
society.

Uncle Jeremiah had it, and that strongly. Towards
his own kin he had never relaxed. The conduct
of neither sister nor brother had been such as to inspire
confidence. To the last he was hard, icy and suspicious
towards them. But the warm breath of the
little children had melted the frost in his domestic
relations, and their conspicuous guilelessness had disarmed
his suspicions. To them he had been a very
different man to what he had appeared to others.
Philip's father had behaved foolishly, withdrawn his
money from the firm, and in a fit of credulity had
allowed himself to be swindled out of it by a smooth-tongued
impostor, Schofield. That loss had reduced
him to poverty, and had soured him. Thenceforth,
the Pennycomequick characteristics which had been
in abeyance in Nicholas ripened rapidly. Philip had
learned from his father to regard the bulk of mankind
as in league against the few, as characterized by self-seeking,
and as unreliable in all that affected their
own interests. Philip was aged thirty-four, but looked
older than his years. The experiences he had passed

through had prematurely fixed the direction of his
tendencies, and had warped his views of life. In
photography, impressions made on the sensitive plate
rapidly fade unless dipped in a solution which gives
them permanency. So is it with the incidents of life ;
pictures are formed in our brains and pass unnoticed,
unregistered, till something occurs to fix them. The
great misfortune which had befallen his father had
acted as such a bath to Philip's mind, leaving on it
the indelible impression of universal rascality. He
could remember the comfort in which his childhood
had been passed, and the grinding penury afterwards.
Obliged to work for his livelihood, he had chosen the
law, a profession ill calculated to counteract the
tendency in him, inherent, and already declared, to
regard all men as knaves or fools.

Nicholas's last years had been spent in useless
repining over his loss, in grumbling at his brother
and sister for not coming to his aid, and in hatred of
the man who had ruined him.

He had been too proud to appeal to his half-brother,
and was angry with Jeremiah for not coming forward
unsolicited to relieve him. Had he gone to his

brother, even written to him to express regret for his
injudicious conduct, it is probable, nay, certain, that
Jeremiah would have forgiven him ; but the false
pride of Nicholas prevented him taking this step, and
Jeremiah would not move to his assistance without it.

Thus a mutual misunderstanding kept the half-brothers
apart, and embittered their minds against
each other.

Mrs. Sidebottom had been of as little help to her
brother as had Jeremiah. Mr. Sidebottom had, indeed,
taken Philip into his office as a clerk, but no Side-bottom
contributions came to relieve the necessities
of Nicholas. His sister was profuse in regrets and
apologies for not doing anything for him, always
weighting these apologies with a lecture on his wrongdoing
in withdrawing his money from the firm ; but
she gave him nothing save empty words. Nicholas
entertained but little love for his sister ; and Philip
grew up with small respect for his aunt.

By the time that Philip had reached the 
door he was in as unamiable a temper ashe
had ever been during the thirty-four years of his
life. He was damp, hungry, cold. He more than

half believed that he had been brought to jMergatroyd
on a fool's errand ; he did not know where he was to
sleep that night, and what he would get to eat. The
inns, as he had heard, were full ; no more trains would
leave the station that night, owing to the condition of
the line ; there was not a cab in Mergatroyd, so that
he could escape front the place only on foot, and that
without his baggage.

Moreover, he was in doubt with what face he could
appear before his uncle, were Jeremiah at home. His
uncle, whom he had only once seen, and that at his
father's funeral, had on that occasion shown him not
the smallest inclination to make his acquaintance.
Would it not appear as if, on the first rumour or suspicion
of disaster, he had rushed to the spot without
decorum, to seize on his uncle's estate and with no
better excuse than a vague telegram received from an
irresponsible girl.

Here is the door,' said the porter. Janet ran up
the steps with alacrity and knocked.

Mr. Pennycomequick's house was formal as himself,
of red brick without ornament ; half-way up the hill,
with its back to the road, and without even that

mellow charm which old red brick assumes in the
country, for this was red begrimed with soot, on which
not a lichen or patch of moss would grow. The ugly
back was towards the street ; the uglier face looked
into a garden that ran down the slope to the valley
bottom. There were two square-headed windows on
one side of the door, two similar windows on the other
side, over each an exactly similar window, and over
the door one with a round head that doubtless lighted
the staircase. Above these was another story similar,
but the windows less tall. Who does not know this
kind of house? They are scattered in hundreds of
thousands over the face of England, and who, with a
grain of taste, would not a thousand times rather
snuggle into a thatched cottage, with windows broad
and low, winking out from under the brown eaves ?
Not if one lived to the age of the Wandering Jew
could one become attached to one of these gaunt,
formal, dingy mansions. The door was opened in
answer to the bell and knocker, and Philip, after
paying the railway porter, requested him to wait five
minutes till he ascertained whether he was to spend
the night there or go in quest of a bed.

Then he entered the gas-lighted hall, to see his
travelling comrade locked in the arms of her sister, a
young girl of the same age and height and general
appearance, with the same red-gold hair, and the same
clear complexion, who was flushed with excitement at
meeting Janet.

A pretty sight it was — those lovely twins clinging
to each other in an ecstasy of delight, laughing, kissing,
fondling each other, with the tears of exuberant
pleasure streaming over their cheeks.

But Philip remained unmoved or contemptuous.
He saw his Aunt Louisa and Captain Lambert on the
stairs.

I know well what this bit of pantomime means,'
thought Philip. ' The girls are showing off before two
young men.'

What ! Philip here !' exclaimed Mrs. Sidebottom,
who hastened down the stairs to greet her nephew.
Oh, Philip ! how good of you to come ! I made sure
you would the moment you heard the news, and yet
I was not sure but that you would shrink from it — as
you were on such bad terms with your uncle. I am
so glad you have arrived to assist us with your

professional advice. This is a sad, a very sad
case.'

Mr. Philip Pennycomequick !' exclaimed Salome
disengaging herself from her sister's embrace and
standing before the young man. She lifted her great
searching eyes to his face and studied it, then dropped
them, ashamed at her audacity, and perhaps a little
disappointed at what she had seen ; for the moment
he came towards her he assumed his most uncompromising
expression.

I beg your pardon,' said he stiffly. ' Whom have
I the honour '

I am Salome Cusworth, who telegraphed to you.'

He bowed haughtily. ' I am glad.'

Then Salome, abashed, caught her sister's hand, and
said to Mrs. Sidebottom : ' Oh, please, let me take
Janet away first — she knows nothing, and you must
allow me to break the terrible news to her myself,'

She drew her sister aside, with her arm round her
waist, into a room on the ground-floor, where she
could tell her privately the great sorrow that had
fallen on them.

Philip looked inquiringly after them, and when the

door had closed, said to his aunt : * Who are they ?
What are they ?'

You may well ask,' said Mrs. Sidebottom. ' They
are the petted and spoiled daughters of your uncle's
housekeeper. He has brought them up beyond their
station, and now they will be unfit to do anything
when turned adrift.'

But,' said Philip, ' one is married.'

Oh yes, of course. She has caught her man. I
know nothing of her husband, or how he was tackled.
I dare say, however, he is respectable, but only a
manufacturer.'

'And the unmarried sister is Salome.'

Yes, an officious pert piece of goods.'

Like her sister.'

Now,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, * what are you going
to do } In this house you cannot well be accommodated.
There are rooms — but everyone's head is
turned, servants and all. No toast sent up at breakfast.
Your best way will be to gc to Lambert's
quarters in my house. Here you would be amidst a
party of tedious women '

I want to be as far as possible from those young

ladies,' said Philip. * One has been in the train with
me for many hours, and has worried me beyond
endurance.'

'Certainly. Go with Lambert. In my house you
will be in Liberty Hall, where you can smoke '

I never smoke.'

And drink whisky and water.'

I take nothing at night.'

And talk over social scandals.'

In which I have not the smallest interest.'

Well, well, we dine in a quarter of an hour here.

You will stay. No dressing, quite en famille. Fried

soles, a joint and cutlets ct la tomato.^

Thank you. I accept ; for the inns, I learn, are
quite full. I will give orders to the porter to take my
traps over to your house, and then, perhaps, you will
give me ten minutes to tell me what has happened
to my uncle, for I am still in the dark respecting
him.'

So are we all,' said Lambert.

From the room into which Salome had drawn her
sister, and which was the sitting-room of their invalided
mother, could be heard the sobbing of Janet

and the broken accents of the old lady and Salome.
There were tears in all their voices.

Then there flashed through the mind of Philip
Pennycomequick the thought that, here without in the
hall, were the sister and two nephews of the lost man,
who had been as yet scarcely alluded to by them, but
he had been told about what there was for dinner ;
whereas, divided from them by a door were three
persons unconnected with Uncle Jeremiah, who were
moved by his death or disappearance as by that of a
dear connection.

Philip, however, said nothing. He turned to the
front door to speak to the porter, when a violent ring
at the bell called his attention to another man who
stood on the steps.

Beg pardon,' said this man, ' where is Miss
Salome ?'

I will call her,' said Philip. ' Who shall I say
wants to speak to her ?'

The night-watchman, Fanshawe.'

Oh, Mr. Fanshawe !' exclaimed Mrs. Sidebottom,
running through the hall to him, * has he been found ?'

No such luck,' was the answer.

VOL. I. 10

Philip tapped at the door through which the girls
had retreated, and Salome opened it. Her eyes were
glittering with tears, and her cheeks were moist.

There is a fellow called Fanshawe wants a word
with you,' said Philip.

The girl advanced through the hall to the door.

'Oh, miss!' said the night-watchman, 'some o' us
chaps aren't content to let matters stand as they be.
For sewer t'owd gentleman be somewhere, and we're
born' to mak' another search. We thowt tha'd like to
know.'

But — where ?'

I't canal.'

How?— By night ?'

For sewer. Wi' a loaf o' cake and a can't.'

WITH A LOAF AND A CANDLE.

With a loaf and a candle !

We live in the oldest world, where men labour todo
the simplest things in the most roundabout way,
and to put whatever they come in contact with to
purposes other than those intended. We have seen
champagne bottles used as candlesticks, and a bonnet
given to a cat to kitten in, and a preacher haranguing
in a theatre, and a pugilist occupying a pulpit, women
dressing and cutting their hair like men, and men
affecting girlish ways ; members of Parliament exhibiting
themselves as blackguards, and leaders of the
people leading them to political suicide, as Jack the
Giant-killer made Giant Gruff-me-gruff rip himself
open. Those who have feet to walk on, affect standing
on their heads, and those who have heads to
reason with, think with their stomachs.

10 — 2

With a loaf and a candle !

Astronomers tell us that there are as many suns
visible in the firmament as there are human beings in
Great Britain — about thirty millions, and that each of
these suns is presumably the centre of a system of
worlds like our own, and perhaps peopled by beings
of like calibre to ourselves. Let us say that each sun
is given ten planets, that makes three hundred millions
of worlds, having in them the same proportion of
thoughtless, unreasoning beings as in this globe with
which we are familiar. Who would have supposed that
there was such a diffusion of silliness, wrongheaded-ness,
and blunder brains diffused through space.

With a loaf and a candle !

It is the fashion to believe in evolution, to hold that
mankind is developed through a long progression from
something as inarticulate as frog spawn. And we
believe it, because we see so much of this inchoate,
inorganic spawn still taking the place of brain in the
heads of humanity.

Men have grown and become vertebrate and have
branched into members, but the spawn still lingers as
it was in the cells of the skull.

With a loaf and a candle !

Full a score of in-the-main not unintelligent men
were about to search for the body of their master with
a loaf of cake and a candle.* How a loaf and a candle
should conduce towards the finding the object they
sought, it is not easy to see. What there was in the
nature of the loaf or candle to make each appropriate
to the purpose, not one of these in-the-main not unintelligent
men asked.

The upper reach of the canal had drained itself
away, but at the locks the rush of water had furrowed
the bed, pent in as it had been between the walls,
and had left deep pools. Below the locks the face of
the land was flat, the fall slight, and there the canal
was brimming, and much of the water that had overflowed
still lay about in the fields. This portion of
the Keld basin went by the name of the Fleet, which
indicated a time, perhaps not remote, when it had
been a waste of ooze and water channels, sometimes
overflowed and sometimes dry.

The whole of the drained canal bed had been

In Yorkshire, cake is white bread : bread is oatcake —
Haver-bread.

searched between the lock and the bridge that carried
the road across the river and canal, a distance of
three-quarters of a mile, but without success. The
men who intended prosecuting the search in their
own fashion were clustered below the shattered locks.
But the gathering did not consist of men only. With
them were some mill-girls from a factory on the slope
that had not stopped, not having been affected by
the flood. They wore scarlet or pink kerchiefs over
their heads, pinned under the chin, and plain white
pinafores to protect their dresses at their work from
the oil, a custom as picturesque and becoming as convenient.
These girls were there, because it was an
unsuitable place for them — no other season will suffice
to explain their presence. But women, water and
wind, will penetrate everywhere.

Mrs. Sidebottom and Salome were also on the canal
bank. They had no faith in the experiment about to
be tried, but each for different reasons thought it expedient
to be present. Salome would not be away,
so intense was her anxiety about the fate of Uncle
Jeremiah, and Mrs. Sidebottom would be there so as
not to seem indifferent. Janet, tired from her long

journey, and not strong, did not come out ; she remained
with her mother. Philip and Lambert 
were there as a duty ; a disagreeable and
onerous duty the captain considered it, because it
spoiled his dinner.

A loaf and a candle !

A good round loaf of baker's bread had a hole
scooped out of it, and into this hole a tallow candle
was thrust. The candle was lighted and sent adrift
on the water of the canal.

The night was dark, the moon did not rise for
another hour or more. All the mills in the valley
were dark. Not only had they been brought to a
standstill by the flood, but the main of the gas was
broken. This was the cause of the eclipse likewise
of the lamps on the road. The water had left the
cottage of the lock-keeper, and the bodies of the deadman
and his wife had been found and laid on the
sodden bed. A yellow glimmer shone out of the
window, for a candle burnt there, and a fire had been
kindled. An old woman, a relation, driven from her
home by the water, was sitting there, trying to coax
a fire to keep in, in the wet and rusty grate, and

supplying herself with gin to keep out the chill from
her bones.

The town on the hill flank twinkled with lights, and
just beyond the ridge pulsated the auroral flicker from
the distant foundries. The lamps on the railway
shone green and red. Some of those engaged in the
search bore lanterns.

The cluster on the embankment with the moving
lights, the occasional flash over a red kerchief or a
white pinafore and the reflections in the water, united
to form a striking picture.

Si' there,' said one man, 't'leet' (light) 'be heading'
again t' stream.'

There's no stream flowing,' said another.

There owt ta be, and there is for sewer. T'can'l
be gan'in up t' course.'

Because t' wind be blowing frae t' east.'

It was true ; the loaf of bread which had been placed
in the water, instead of taking a seaward direction
with the natural fall of the current, was swimming
slowly but perceptibly upwards. The yellow flame of
the candle was turned towards the locks, showing in
which direction the wind set, and explaining naturally

the phenomenon. The current was so slight that the
wind acting on the loaf had power to overcome it.

Sho's travelling' upwards,' said the first speaker.
Sho's born to seek him ait.'

Into the canal suddenly fell a mass of undermined
bank, making a splash and sending the floating light,
gyrating and dancing as the wavelets formed. One of
the mill-girls, going too near the edge, had trodden on
the loosened soil, and nearly fell in herself, provoking
a laugh and a reprimand.

Mind what tha'rt about, lass,' shouted one of the
men.

• If tha falls in I'm none bound to hug thee ait.'

I can crawl ait wi'out thy hugging, Bill,* answered
the girl promptly.

Eh !' said another, ' Effie, for sewer thought not
dawn to be drowned.'

Some byplay went on, a half romp, in the rear,
between a young woolcomber and a girl reeler.

Na then,' shouted the night-watch, * we're none
come ait for lakes ' (games), ' and if you're ganging
to remain you must be quiet'

The incongruity of their behaviour with the gravity

of the occasion struck the young people, and they
desisted.

What had become of the refuge hut ?

Curiously enough, till this moment no one had
noticed its disappearance, perhaps because of the
completeness with which it had been effaced. No
sooner had the stream penetrated to its interior than
it had collapsed, and every brick and slate and rafter
had been swept away from the platform it had
occupied.

The policeman had joined the party, carrying a
bull's-eye lantern.

One of the men had provided grappling-irons,
always kept near the bridge, because accidents
were not uncommon in the canal and the river ;
drunken men fell in, children in play got pushed
over, girls in paroxysms of despair threw themselves
in.

The loaf with the light had now got above the spot
where the bank had fallen in, and the ripple aided
the wind in carrying it within the locks.

Sho's got an idee !"

Cheer ? I't crust or i't crumb ?'

Sho's making' rest ahead for t' deepest hoyle (hole)
in all t' canal.'

It was so, the loaf had entered within the walls.

Every now and then, on a ripple, the bread leaped
and the flame wavered as a banner. The draught
snuffed the glowing wick, and carried some of the
red sparks away and extinguished them in the blackwater.


The searchers now congregated on the paved platform,
and looked timorously yet inquisitively into the
gulf where lay the pool dark as ink. The candle-flame
faintly irradiated the enclosing walls, and
painted a streak of fire on the surface of the water.

When thus enclosed, the movements of the loaf
were such as to give colour to the superstition, for it
careered in circles, then struck across the canal, went
back as if disappointed in its quest, ran up the course,
and then turned and went down the enclosed space,
and finally came forth from between the walls. There
it halted a moment, and danced and careened over,
and righted itself again, as relaxing from its search,
and tossing the flame in a defiant manner, as if it was
disgusted with its work and resolved no longer to

prosecute the inquiry. But a minute later it came
apparently to a better mind, the flame became steadier,
it recommenced its gyrations, described a loop, and
suddenly became stationary at a spot a little short of
half way across the canal.

The strange conduct of the loaf was in reality caused
by the currents and revolutions of the water, but as
these were unperceived by those who looked on, they
became impressed with the conviction that the loaf
was really animated by a mysterious occult power
that impelled it to fulfil the task allotted to it.

All now stood hushed for full five minutes, almost
breathless, none stirring, every eye directed to the
light, to see whether it would remain where it was, or
recommence its wanderings.

Then the night-watch exclaimed :

The moon !'

All turned to the east, and saw the orb rise red
above a wooded hill. The darkness was at once
sensibly relieved.

Naw then !' shouted Bill ; * in wit irons, just at
place wheel t' can't stands.'

The grapple were cast in, and caught immediately

in some object near the surface. The men drew at
the ropes, and the waters gurgled and were disturbed
about the loaf, producing a broad commotion. The
loaf leaped, turned over, and the light was extinguished.
It had accomplished its task.

Whatever can't be ?' asked one of the men. * Sho
might be a coil (coal) barge sunk i' t' canal. Sho's
sae heavy.'

Stay,' said the night-watch. ' T' water for sewer
ain't deep here, nobbut up to t' armpits. Whatever it
be, 'tis this at ha' caught and held t' cake. Ah fancy
t' top o' t' concern is just below t' surface. If some
o' you chaps help, I'll get in, and together we'll hug
it out.'

Two or three volunteered, and after much wading
and splashing a cumbrous article was heaved out of
the water, but not by three or four men, for several
more, taunted by the mill-lasses, went in to the assistance
of the first volunteers.

'Why,' rose in general exclamation, 'sho's a
pi-cano 1'

This discovery provoked a laugh, in which all
shared.

How ever could a piano ha' got there ?' was
asked.

That beats a',' shouted another, ' that t' loaf and
canal shut tell where a piano lay grounded.'

T' instrument 'ud serve to produce a necessary
accompaniment to some o' thy songs, Joe

The moon had risen by this time sufficiently to
transform the whole sheet of water into one of light.

The bell of Mergatroyd Church-tower began to toll
for evensong. Suddenly the laughter, the jokes, the
exclamations of wonder died away — for something
was seen that had risen from the depths, disturbed by
the commotion of the water and mud when the piano
was extracted. And see! the loaf with its extinguished
candle was swimming towards the object. It
reached it ; it capered about it ; it ran round it ; and
then attached itself to it.

What was it ?'

The glassy, silvery surface of the water was broken
by it in several places.

Then there rushed by along the line a train, with
the engine shrieking and shrieking continuously to
give warning to workers on the embankment that it

was coming. And that shriek so wrought on the
nerves of some of the girls present that they screamed
also in sudden terror, for, though no one answered the
question what that blot on the canal surface was,
everyone knew.

All stood motionless again, and waiting till the
scream of the train was lost, and then, in silence, two
men waded into the water, reached the object, drew
it after them to the bank, and with the assistance of
others raised it and laid it on the towpath.

Then the group drew towards it, after a momentary
hesitation and recoil, and the policeman passed the
ray of his bull's-eye lantern up and down it.

The question could no longer be asked, ' What was
it?'

It must now be put, ' Who is it ?'

Yes — who? For the body just recovered was
defaced almost past recognition.

Whoever he may be,' said the policeman, ' we
must find out by his cloak, for his face and head be
that mashed and mutilated — 'tis a picture'. For certain
the piano must ha' fallen on him, that is, on his head,
and left not a feature to recognise.'

'And the clothing is queer,' observed the night-watch.


It was so. The body recovered was partially
• naked, with bare legs and feet, and wore nothing
more than a nightshirt and a great-coat.

Stand back,' ordered the policeman. ' Let Miss
Cusworth come forrard.'

And he stooped and spread his hankerchief over
the face. There was no need for her to see that.

Salome stepped forward. She was shuddering, but
spoke with composure, and not till she had thoroughly
studied the corpse at her feet.

This cannot be Mr. Pennycomequick,' she said ;
she was dressed in a black suit. He had been out to
dinner.'

I beg your pardon,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, who had
pushed forward ; ' he was not dressed. I went into
the bedroom as soon as I knew he was lost, and found
that his dress-clothes were there and the bed disturbed


The policeman, kneeling, examined the pockets.
From that in the breast of the overcoat he drew forth
a card-case, and held it close to the lantern.

Salome said immediately :

That is Mr. Pennycomequick's card-case.'

And his cards are in it,' added the policeman.

Salome looked again attentively at the body.

That is Mr. Pennycomequick's overcoat. I know
it — but that cannot be Mr. Pennycomequick wearing
it'

Then, overcome with the horror of the scene,
Salome shrank back.

The policeman had now extracted a letter from the
pocket ; the address was blotted, but after a little
examination could be made out, ' J. Pennycomequick,
Esq., manufacturer, Mergatroyd.'

It is strange that he should be without his boots
said the policeman.

Not at all said Mrs. Sidebottom. 'Anyone but a
fool, as soon as he is in the water, kicks them off, as
they fill and drag him down. I can swear to the
identity — that is my brother. Remove the body to
the house.'

VOL. I. II

EXPECTATION.

As Philip Pennycomequick came next day to the
house of mourning — mourning, because three dressmakers
were engaged in making it — he saw that all
the blinds were down. In the hall he met Salome,
who was there, evidently awaiting him. She looked
ill and anxious, and her eyes were bright with a
feverish lustre. She had not slept for two nights.

The extraordinary delicacy of her complexion gave
her a look as of the finest porcelain, a transparency
through which her doubting, disturbed and eager
spirit was visible. Her pallor contrasted startlingly
at this time with the gorgeous tone of her luxuriant
hair. Her eyes were large, the irises distended as
though touched with belladonna, and Philip felt his
mistrust fall away from off him, as in some fairy tale

the armour of a knight loosens itself, drops, and
leaves him unharnessed before an enchantress. But
the enchantment which dissolved his panoply of suspicion
was an innocent one, it was the manifestation
of real suffering. He could see that the girl was
rendered almost ill by the mental distress caused by
the loss of her friend and guardian. That she had
loved him, and loved him with an innocent, unselfish
affection, seemed to him undoubted.

I beg your pardon for waylaying you, Mr. ,'
she said, in a timid voice; one white hand
lifted, with an uncertain shake in it, touching her lips.
But I very much desire to have a word with you in
private before you go upstairs to Mrs. Sidebottom.'

I'm at your service.'

She led the way into the breakfast-room, recently
cleared of the meal. She went to the window, and
stood between the glass and the curtain, with her left
hand entangled among the cords of the Venetian
blind. In her nervousness it was necessary for her to
take hold of something. Her delicate fingers ran up
the green strings and played with them, as though they
were the strings of a harp on which she was practising,

II — 2

and, strangely enough, Philip felt within him every
touch ; when she twanged a cord, some fibre in him
quivered responsive, and was only lulled when she
clasped the string and stopped its vibration.

A faint tinge rose in her white face to the cheekbones
and temples, touching them with more than
colour, an apparent inner light, like the Alpine glow
after sundown on the white head of the Jungfrau. As
she spoke she did not look at Philip, but with eyes
modestly lowered on the ground, or out of the window
looking sideways down the street.

What I wished to say to you, Mr. Pennycomequick,
will soon be said. I shall not detain you long. I am
sorry to differ from Mrs. Sidebottom, but I cannot
share her conviction that the body found last night
is that of your uncle.'

You do not dispute that he is dead ?'

No,' she sighed ; ' I think there can be no question
about that.'

Or that he was last seen on the canal bank at
no great distance from where the discovery was
made ?'

No,' she said, and her fingers unconsciously played

on the blind cords the time of the melody in Chopin's
Marche Funera.'

Why do you say no ?'

Mr. Pennycomequick was full dressed when he
went out — that is to say, he had on his great-coat and
his boots and — in fact it was not possible that he could
be discovered in the condition in which the body
recovered from the canal was found.'

It is, of course, difficult to account for it, but not
impossible. My aunt declares that she went up to the
bedroom of my uncle the same night, found the bed
disturbed, and the dress clothes, or some of them, on
the chair. She concludes that he pulled on his overcoat
and went out half-dressed, that he got caught by
the water somewhere in some place of temporary
refuge, and saw that his only chance of escape was to
strip and swim. That he drew on his great coat
again as a protection against the cold, till the proper
moment came for him to make the plunge — but she
concludes that he never did start to swim, either his
courage failed him, or the flood rose too rapidly and
carried him away before he had removed the overcoat.
This may be an over-ingenious explanation,

nevertheless it is an explanation that accounts for
all;

Not for all — the body is not that of Mr. .'
Salome spoke decidedly, and as she
spoke her hand gapped the strings hard.

Philip stood by the table, resting his hand on it.
The morning light fell strong on her face, and illumined
her auburn hair. Philip took occasion to examine
her countenance more closely than had been possible
before. She was like her sister in build, in feature
and in tone of colour, indeed strikingly like her, butin
that only — certainly, Philip thought, in that only.

All at once she looked up and met Philip's eyes.

No — a thousand times no,' she said. ' That is
not uncle. He was brought here because Mrs. Side-bottom
desired it, and is convinced of the identity.
No objection that I can raise disturbs her. I thought
that possibly, last night, I might have judged on insufficient
evidence, and so I went this morning into
the room to look at the corpse. Mrs. Sidebottom had
sent last night for women who attended to it, and it
was laid out in the spare room.' She began to tremble
now as she spoke, and her fingers played a rapid

movement on the blind cords. ' I had made up my
mind to look at him, and I did.'

She paused, to recover the control that was fast
deserting her, as the delicate crow of colour in her
face had now left it. ' It is not my uncle. I looked
at his hands. The head is — is not to be seen, nothing
is distinguishable there — but the hands are not those
of Mr. Pennycomequick.'

In what does the difference consist ?'

I cannot describe it. I knew his hands well. He
often let me take them in mine when I sat on the
stool at his feet by the fire, and I have kissed them.'
The clear tears rose in her eyes and rolled down her
cheeks. ' I am quite sure — if those had been his
dear hands that I saw on the bed this morning, I
would have kissed them again, but I could not.' She
shook her head, and shook away the drops from her
cheeks. * No — I could not.'

Miss Cusworth,' said Philip, * you are perhaps
unaware of the great alteration that is produced by
immersion for many hours.'

'They are not his hands. That is not uncle.'

She was so conspicuously sincere, so sincerely distressed,

that Philip relaxed his cold manner towards
her, and said in a gentle tone :

Did my uncle wear a ring? There was none on
the hands of the man found yesterday.'

No ; he wore no ring.'

With what did he seal his letters ?'

Oh ! he had a brass seal with his initials on it,
with a handle, that was in his pen-tray. He used to
joke about it, and say he was a J. P. without the
Queen's commission.'

For my own part,' said Philip, * I am beyond
forming an opinion, as I have seen my uncle but once
since I was a boy, and then under circumstances precluding
exact observation.'

Salome said nothing to this, but heaved a long
breath. Presently Philip said :

Your mother — has she been taken upstairs ^

Oh no !' exclaimed Salome, excited as by a fresh
terror. ' You do not know my mother. She has
heart complaint, and we have to be most careful not
unduly to excite and alarm her. She has suffered
much on account of what has taken place ; and the
shock of seeing ' She shivered. * It cannot be.'

And your sister ?'

She turned faint when brought to the door, and
I could not persuade her to enter. She has been
much tried by the German invasion of France, and
her hurried journey.'

Is there anything further you have to say ?'

No; Mrs. Sidebottom is wrong, that is all'

Philip withdrew.

The girl had gained in his estimation. There was
strength in her such as lacked in her sister. She
must have had courage and determination to go by
herself into the room where lay the mutilated corpse,
and she had formed her own opinion, independently,
and held to it with a firmness there was no breaking
down.

Philip ascended the stairs thoughtfully. It had
seemed to him at the time that his aunt had rushed
at identification with undue precipitation ; still, she
was the sister of Uncle Jeremiah, and therefore better
capable than anyone else. Now he was himself
uncertain.

When he entered the study where Mrs. Sidebottom
was, she saluted him with :

Well, so you have had your interview with Salome.
She has been hanging about the hall all the morning
for the purpose of catching you.'

Philip made no reply. Her light tone jarred on
his feelings, coming as he did from the presence of a
girl full of sadness.

Has she gained you over to her side ?'

Upon my word, I do not know what to think.'

Fiddlestick !' said Mrs. Sidebottom ; ' she has
made eyes at you. Girls with good eyes know
how to use them ; they are better advocates than
their tongues.'

'The difficulty to identification seems to me insuperable.'


Pshaw ! I have no doubt at all. He had been
to bed ; he went out without his coat and waistcoat.
He was last seen on the canal bank, not so very far
from the place where the corpse was found. The
body is discovered wearing the great-coat. I have
told you how I explain that. I suppose Salome has
made a point to you that the nightshirt was not that of
Uncle Jeremiah } Her mother looked after his linen.'

No ; she said nothing of that.'

But I identify the shirt

You, aunt ?'

Yes ; it is one I gave him.'

You — gave him ? An extraordinary present.'

Not at all. I was his sister ; and I know that an
old bachelor's wardrobe would be in a sad state of
neglect. I intended to replenish him with linen altogether.'


Philip was greatly surprised. He looked fixedly
at his aunt, to make out whether she were speaking
seriously. She dashed off, however, at once on
another topic.

That girl,' she said, * naturally resisted the conclusions
at which I have arrived.'

Why naturally V

Oh, you greenhorn ! Because if it be established
that Jeremiah is dead, out goes the whole Cusworth
brood. They have lived here and preyed on him so
long that they cannot endure the notion of having to
leave, and will fight tooth and nail against the establishment
of his decease.'

Not at all. You misjudge them. They allow that
he is dead, but disbelieve in the identity of the corpse

found with my uncle who is lost, which is another
matter.'

Out they shall go,' said Mrs. Sidebottom.

It is painful for them to leave a house where they
have been happy, and in which the young ladies have
grown up from childhood.'

Other people have to undergo painful experiences,'
said his aunt ; and again, ' Out they go.'

Not at once.'

As soon as the funeral is over.'

But why act with such precipitation ?'

Because I cannot endure them. Do you remember
the story of the Republican judge, when a
gentleman contended before him for his paternal
acres against a sans-clotted who had appropriated
them } " These acres," said the plaintiff, " have
belonged to my family for four hundred years'
"High time," said the judge, "that they should be
transferred to others ;" and he gave sentence for the
defendant. These Cusworths have been in possession
quite long enough. High time that they should
budge, and make room for me.'

But you must consider the feelings of the old

lady. You have no excuse for acting peremptorily.'


I shall inquire what wage she has received, pay
her a month, and send her off. That is to say,' added
Mrs. Sidebottom on further consideration, ' I will pay
her as soon as I have got some of Jeremiah's money
out of the bank.'

And that cannot be touched till his will has been
proved.'

There is no will,*

How do you know that ?'

I have searched every drawer, closet, and chest. I
have looked everywhere. There is no will.'

It will be at the lawyers.'

Jeremiah never had a lawyer. That was one of
his fads.'

Then at the bank.'

I wrote to the bank the moment I heard of his
death. I have received an answer. There is no will
at the bank

There is time enough to discuss this later.'
No, there is not,' said Mrs. Sidebottom peremptorily.
' The factory must not be allowed to come to

a stand, and the business to drift away. You have no
claim.'

'That remains to be seen. If there be no will, I
shall have a claim, and a pretty substantial one.'

Your father withdrew his share from the concern.
I did not. I have my interest in the business, and
will see that it be kept up. Where is Lamb .?'

The captain will be here directly. Hush ! I hear
him in the hall.'

In another minute, Lambert Pennycomequick
entered the room, very fresh, well dressed, and
pleasant.

Lamb !' exclaimed his mother, ' there is no will.'

'Then, I suppose,' said the captain, ' we shall have
to take out an administration. I don't understand
these things myself, but Cousin Philip is here on the
spot to manage for us.'

'If there be no will,' explained Philip, 'you, Aunt
Louisa, as sole surviving sister of Uncle Jeremiah,
will have to act. You will have to take oath that he
is dead, and that he died intestate. Then you will
be granted administration as next of kin. If I had
any doubt about his death, I would enter a caveat

and prevent the grant ; and then the death would
have to be proved in solemn form in court. But I
have no doubt that my uncle is dead, though I may
think it an open matter whether the body in the
other room be his.'

And, if I am granted administration as nearest of
kin, all the property comes to me T said Mrs. Side-bottom.


Not so — most certainly.'

Why not ? I am nearest. I alone have a stake
in the mill. Yours was withdrawn long ago. I am
his sister, you only a half-nephew.'

For all that, you do not take everything. I have
my share.'

Well, if it must be, we will divide into three. I
take a third in addition to what I have by my marriage
settlement ; Lamb has a third, and you the
remainder.'

Wrong again, aunt. Lambert is out of the running.
The estate will be divided between you and
me in equal portions.'

This is monstrous. My Lambert is a nephew
every whit as much as you.'

'Yes, but you intervene. Such is the law.'
Mrs. Sidebottom was silent for a moment. Then
she said irritably : * I wish now, heartily, that there
had been a will. 1 know what Jeremiah's intentions
were, and I would grieve to my heart's core to have
them disregarded. In conscience, I could not act
differently from his wishes. If he omitted to make a
will, it was because he knew nothing of law, and
supposed that everything would devolve to me, his
sister. Philip, knowing the rectitude of your principles,
I am sure you will decline to touch a penny of your
uncle's inheritance. You know very well that he
never forgave your father, and that he always regarded
his leaving the business as an acquittal of all
further obligations towards him.'

I must put you out of doubt at once,' said Philip.
I shall most certainly take my share.'

I do not believe that my brother died without a
will. I never will believe it. It will turn up somehow.
These old fogies have their odd ways. Perhaps
it is at the mill in his office desk. What a world of
contrarieties we do live in ! Those persons to whom
we pin our faith as men of principle are just those

who fail us. However, to turn to another matter. I
presume that I am in authority here. You have no
caveat to offer against that V
None at all.'

Then out go the Cusworths, and at once.'
'Not at once. That is indecent. If you will have
it so, after the funeral give them notice. You must
act with humanity.'

The girl is insolent. She has the temerity to dispute
my assertion that the dead man is Jeremiah.'

'She is justified in forming her own opinion and
expressing it'

Of course, you take her part. She has been ogling
you with good effect. Lamb, will you go down and
call her up 1 I must have a word with her at once,
and ascertain the amount of wages her mother has
received, and how much is due.'

Remember,' said Philip, ' that Mrs. Baynes has
come here from Normandy, and that Mrs. Cusworth
is ill, and that houses are scarce at present in .'


• Then let them go elsewhere. To Jericho, for all I
care.'

VOL. I. 12

Philip was very angry. He was offended at his
aunt's insinuations about himself, and indignant at
her want of feeling towards those who had been
companions and friends to his uncle.

Lambert had left the room as desired.

Aunt Louisa,' said Philip, ' I insist upon your
acting with courtesy and consideration towards the
Cusworths. I do not mean to threaten you ; but I
shall not tolerate conduct that appears to me as
ill-judged as unjust. As you said yourself, we must
remember and act upon the wishes of the deceased ;
and it would be contrary to them that the old lady
and her daughters should be treated with disrespect
and unkindness.'

You leave me to deal with them,' said Mrs. Side-bottom,
somewhat cowed by his manner.

You know my opinion. You will find it not to
your advantage to disregard it,' said Philip haughtily.

Mrs. Sidebottom shuffled her feet, and arranged her
skirts, frowned, and examined her pocket-handkerchief,
where she discovered an iron-mould.

Then Lambert reappeared with Salome, and as
they entered the door, Philip turned towards it and

took up his position near the girl, facing his aunt, as
if to protect Salome from insolence and injustice.
Mrs. Sidebottom understood the signification of the
movement, bit her lips, and said with constraint,
looking on the ground : * May I ask you, Miss
Cusworth, to favour us by taking a chair ? There is
no occasion for you to stand in my presence. I have
taken the liberty to send for you, because my poor
dear brother is dead, and as no reasonable doubt
remains in any unprejudiced mind that his body has
been found *

Salome's lips closed. She looked at Philip, but
said nothing. She had made her protest. One on
this occasion would be superfluous.

We desire in every way to act according to the
wishes of my darling brother, whom it has pleased a
beneficent Providence ' — she wiped her eyes — ' to remove
from this vale of tears. As his sister, knowing
his inmost thoughts, the disposition of his most
sacred wishes, his only confidant in the close o^ life, I
may say I know what his intentions were as well as
if he had left a will.'

There is a will,' said Salome quietly.

12 — 2

< A will !— Where ?'

In my workbox.'

A silence ensued. Mrs. Sidebottom looked very
blank.

On the very night he died he gave it me to
keep, and I put it away in my workbox, as I had
nothing else that locked up. My workbox is in my
room upstairs. Shall I fetch the will ?'

No said Philip, ' let it stay where it is till after
the funeral.'

SURPRISES.

When the funeral was over, and the family of 
was assembled in the house of the
deceased, or assumed to be deceased, manufacturer,
Mrs. Sidebottom sent her compliments to Salome,
with a request that she would favour her with an
interview in the dining-room.

Mrs. Sidebottom was dressed in fresh black satin
and crape that became her well, as her hair and face
were fair. Of this she was aware, and she took the
opportunity of surveying herself in every mirror that
she passed. Really in her mourning she looked
young again. The black seemed to produce on her
much the same effect as the photographer's stipple,
wherewith he effaces the wrinkles of the negative. It
was as though the life of Pennycomequick were a
capital of which, when Jeremiah lost hold, his heirs

had taken possession. Not Mrs. Sidebottom only,
but also her son seemed to have come in for a bequest
of vitality. The captain looked brighter, less languid
than he had for long.

Philip's suspicious nature had been displeased by
the statement of Salome that the will was in her
possession. It appeared to him strange that the old
man should have entrusted so important a document
to the care of a girl of nineteen or twenty. It roused
in his mind that mistrust which had been laid. He
asked whether the fact of this consignment did not
show that the Cusworth family were deeply interested
in the will ; whether this taking possession of it were
not the conclusion of a conspiracy to get the old man
to make a testament altogether in their favour.

He did not, on this occasion, move to meet Salome
when she entered the room, but took his position
apart, with arms folded, and face imperturbable, and
set hard, as if a frost had congealed it.

Philip was not by any means unconcerned as to
the disposition of his uncle's property. He would
have been raised above the passions and ambitions of
human nature had he been unconcerned, for the

disposition was likely to affect materially his whole
after-life.

Philip was now aged thirty-four years, and was
only a solicitor's clerk. The utmost he could expect,
without a windfall, would be when well advanced in
years to be taken into the firm of Pinch and Squeeze
for his mastery of the details of the business. He
would be incapable of purchasing a partnership, as he
was wholly without capital. What means his father
had possessed had been thrown away, and therewith
his prospects.

Philip's only chance of recovering his proper
position was through a bequest from the uncle whose
will was about to be read.

If Jeremiah had died intestate, he would have come
in for a share of the business, and for a good lump
sum of money for it is quite certain that his uncle
had saved money. He might then have either
purchased a partnership in a good legal house, or
carried on the factory, remaining at Mergatroyd.

It was true that he knew nothing of the technique
of linen weaving, but his training had taught him
business habits, and he was confident that in a short

time he would be able to master the ramifications of
the business. There is a tool sold by ironmongers
that contains in the handle, saw, file, gimlet, turn-screw,
chisel, bradawl, and punch. The nozzle of the
handle is provided with a grip that holds or discharges
such of the tools as are required or done with. Thus
the instrument can be converted at pleasure into
whatever is desired.

A business education makes a man into such a
convertible tool, ready, as required, to be saw, file,
turn screw, or punch. Philip was conscious of his
mental flexibility, and confident that if he resolved to
make a new departure, he could fit himself to it.
The knowledge that he had been without means had
not soured him as it had his father, but had hardened
him. His profession had conduced, as this profession
does in many cases, to foster in him a strong and
touchy sense of rectitude. Brought into contact with
mankind in its ignoble aspects, seeing its sordidness,
selfishness, laxity of principle where self-interest is
concerned, he had framed for himself a rigorous code
of honour, from which nothing would make him
swerve by a hair's-breadth.

In the past he had made no calculation on receiving
anything from his uncle, but now that the possibility
of his getting something was presented to him,
he could not contemplate the decisive moment with
equanimity. The tiger that has tasted human blood,
ever after disdains the food that previously satisfied
its maw ; and the young lady who has been through
a London season, or only ventured into a first ball,
will not afterwards return to the sobriety and monotony
of country life. If Philip had been left to plod
on at Nottingham without expectations, he would
have accommodated himself to his situation with dull
resignation ; but now that a prospect of independence
had been dangled before his eyes, he could not return
to his old career without intensified distaste.

Yet he was far from forming great hopes. He
knew that Jeremiah had been a vindictive old man,
never forgiving his brother a mistake which had cost
that brother more suffering than it had Jeremiah. It
was more probable that the old manufacturer would
leave everything to his sister and her son, with whom
he had always maintained unbroken connection, than
that he should favour him. Whether Jeremiah liked

and trusted his sister and her son, and to what extent
he liked and trusted them, Philip had not the means
of judging, that alone could be revealed by the will.

U he should be disappointed, his disappointment
would be more grievous to bear than he cared to
acknowledge to himself. He was, indeed, angry wi'ih
himself for feeling any flutter of hope. If he should
be disappointed, he would return to Nottingham, to
his former routine of life, and spend the rest of it ina
subordinate position, destitute of that brightness
and ease for which a man of education craves as an
atmosphere in which his soul can breathe and expand.
He did not desire ease because indolent, but to
obtain scope for his faculties t6 develop in other
directions than those to which they were professionally
turned ; and to polish the other facets of the inner
self than those exposed to the daily grindstone. He
would like to buy books, to take a holiday on the
Continent, to purchase small artistic treasures, to be
able to rise out of the contracted circle of petty
clerk-life, with all its small prejudices and narrow
interests.

For fifteen years he had lived this life that was uncongenial,

and unless his uncle's money gave him wings
to rise out of it, he must remain in this Stymphalian
bog. Consequently it was with a beating heart, and
with inward fluctuations of hope and fear, that he
awaited the decision ; but none of this unrest could
be seen in his face, that did not bear in it a sign of
expectation.

As Salome entered, Mrs. Sidebottom waved to her
to take a seat. The girl, however, with a slight
acknowledgment, stepped up to Philip, and extending
to him the will, said : ' It was given to me to keep
safely, should anything occur. I cannot even now
resign it absolutely, as Mr. Pennycomequick told me
that I was to keep it and prove it.'

'You prove it!' exclaimed Philip, glancing at her
suspiciously.

• You 1' cried Mrs. Sidebottom. ' Fiddlestick !
That is to say, impossible.'

You must remain in the room, Miss Cusworth,'
said Philip, ' whilst the will is read, after which we
will remit it to your charge.'

I object to such as are not of the family being
present,' said Mrs. Sidebottom.

Your objection must be put aside,' answered Philip.
As Miss Cusworth has been entrusted with the
document, and required to prove it, she must remain.'

Mrs. Sidebottom tossed her head.

Philip drew his penknife from his pocket, opened
it, and leisurely cut through the top of the envelope,
extracted the document, and unfolded it. He glanced
at the heading, and then, with lawyer-like instinct, at
the end, then, with a sharp look of surprise at Salome,
who waited with lowered eyes, he said : ' This is
worthless. The signature has been torn away.'

Torn away 1' echoed Mrs. Sidebottom.

Salome looked up in astonishment.

This is a cancelled will,' said Philip. ' It is of no
more value than waste paper. When do you say
my uncle entrusted it to you ?'

Shortly before he left the house on the night
that he disappeared. I am quite sure he thought it was
of importance, from his manner towards me in commending
it. He said it was a trust, an important
trust.'

Then,' said Philip, * there is some mystery behind
unsolved.'

'Read it,' urged Mrs. Sidebottom ; 'and see if
that will clear it up.'

I will read it, certainly,' said Philip ; ' but it is a
document entirely devoid of legal force.'

Philip began to run his eye over it before reading
aloud.

Well, upon my word,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, ' you
are inclined to keep us on tenterhooks. The will, if
not valid, is still interesting, no doubt.'

This,' said Philip, in a tone that had harshness in
it, ' this is a most extraordinary document. It is in
the first place clearly made up from some of those
formulas which are found in popular handbooks ; for
aught I know picked out of " Inquire Within for
Everything," or the " Family Save-all." The last
portion is also clearly taken from no formula at all,
but is the expression of my uncle's peculiar idiosyncrasies.'


Well, read it, and pass your comments on it later,'
said Mrs. Sidebottom, shifting her position in her
seat and rearranging her skirts.

Before reading, Philip cast a searching glance at
Salome. He now seated himself at the table, and
proceeded to read :

I, Jeremiah Pennycomequick, of Mergatroyd, in
the County of York, and the West Riding of said
county, manufacturer, being in sound health and in
full possession of my faculties, do give, bequeath, and
devise all the real and personal estate of which I shall
be possessed or entitled at the time of my decease,
together with my factory, my house with garden, which
are all leasehold for twenty-one years, together withall
the appurtenances thereof, unto Salome Cusworth,
my adopted daughter, absolutely ; chargeable, however,
with such sum annually to be paid out of the
profits,/?'^ j^ata, to my half-sister, Louisa Sidebottom,
as was agreed by her marriage settlement. And I
further direct and bequeath to my nephew, Lambert
Sidebottom, and to my nephew, Philip Pennycome-
quick, to each severally an annuity of one hundred
pounds, to be paid to the said Lambert Sidebottom
and the said Philip Pennycomequick during their
respective lives, in half-quarterly payments. And I
hereby request my executor to invest a sufficient sum
in the purchase of such annuities out of the moneys
arising from my personal estate. And I further
appoint the aforesaid Salome Cusworth, my adopted

daughter, sole executrix of my will, and revoke all
former wills by me at any time heretofore made.

And whereas I have been during the whole course
of my lifetime an enemy to lawsuits, and what little
I leave I desire may not be squandered away on the
gentlemen of the long robe, for whom all the veneration
I have is at a distance, and wishing that there
was more justice and less law in the world, I devise
that should any legatee trouble my executor by going
to law, by commencing any suit of law, in any tribunal
whatsoever, the said person be deprived of the benefit
of the legacy hereby bequeathed'*

Philip paused, then added: 'The will is dated about
a twelvemonth ago, and is witnessed by Marianne
Cusworth, widow, of Mergatroyd, and John Dale,
surgeon, of Bridlington.' The silence that had been
maintained during the reading continued unbroken
for a couple of minutes after it was concluded.

The first to break it was the captain, who said : ' A
bad job for me. I lose my hundred a year, and am
left as before, dependent on my mother's apron-string.'

The conclusion of this will is taken verbatim from one
made by a member of the author's family, and proved in the
Prerogative Court of Canterbury (Bedford, f. 167).

Philip looked at Salome ; she saw by the contraction
of the irises of his eyes that there was aversion
in his heart.

miss Cusworth,' he said in metallic tones, 'there
is but one explanation of this extraordinary matter ;
this explanation that presents itself to my mind is
not to your credit. Shall I say what I think, or shall
I forbear?'

Tell me what your opinion is,' she said quietly.
This will was drawn up, clearly without advice
and by his own hand, by my uncle, Mr. Jeremiah
Pennycomequick. What can have induced him to
make such an unjust disposition of his property in
your favour you can best tell.'

I cannot tell It is unjust. I am glad that the
will is worthless.'

Sour grapes,' muttered Mrs. Sidebottom to her
son.

That undue influence was exercised, I make no
doubt. Had this will been perfect, with signature
complete, Mrs. Sidebottom, who risks nothing by the
outrageous proviso in the second part, would have
contested it ; this I doubt no more than I doubt that

pressure was brought to bear on an old, and perhaps
feeble nan, to make this will.'

Salome's blood flamed up to the roots of her hair.

After this will had been made and duly attested,
my uncle on thinking the matter over calmly, considered
the injustice he had done, and cancelled his
signature. He had changed his mind. You, I presume,
still exercised pressure on him, and to relieve himself
of this, he gave the will into your custody ; it was a
deception probably justifiable under the circumstances.
He unquestionably intended to make another will with
quite different provisions, but was prevented by death
from executing his intentions.'

You think,' exclaimed Salome, her bosom heaving
and her colour changing rapidly — 'you think I could
behave so unworthily.'

I can find no other solution.'

She was cut, wounded to her heart's core.

You say that the will was given you to keep.
For what reason ^ Because it interested you extraordinarily
.'*'

Yes,' said Salome, * so Mr. Pennycomequick said
when he gave it me.'

VOL. I. 13

But why did he think it necessary to give it you
when he knew it was invalid ? He must have done it
to quiet your importunities. I can see no other
reason.'

You wrong me said the girl, with pain and
dignity. ' I am sure that he did not know it was
worthless when he handed it to me. His manner
was so serious.'

You do not suppose it was tampered with after it
came into your possession ?'

Oh no, certainly not. It was locked up in my
workbox under the tray where are my cottons and
needles.'

Mrs. Sidebottom watched their faces and followed
the dialogue with almost breathless attention. Now
she smiled sarcastically.

It is disappointing,' she said, * after the toils have
been laid to lose the game.'

Salome again crimsoned.

You think that I used my position in this house,
took advantage of my nearness to Mr. Pennycome-
quick, to induce him to commit an injustice ?'

Philip bowed stiffly.

You charge me with the grossest breach of honour,
with wicked ingratitude to the man who has been tome
as a father ?'

We do not accuse you personally,' said Lambert,
who thought that, as he would have expressed it, his
cousin and mother were ' down on the girl too hard,'
but we think it awfully queer that uncle should have
made such a will. Your mother, for instance '

My mother is as incapable of such meanness as
myself,' said Salome. ' To such as can think of me so
basely, no justification I could make would be of any
avail. With your leave '

She bowed, and now white as ivory, with spots of
fire in her temples, she swept out of the room.

13 — 2

WHAT NEXT?

What was to be done ?

Mrs. Sidebottom was the first to see what was to be
done.

I shall take out an administration at once,' she
said.

Philip said nothing. Oi course she must do what
she said. She was the proper person to take out an
administration as nearest of kin. " But he was not
thinking of her and of what she proposed to do. He
was standing still with the will in his hand. Salome
had not reclaimed it, as it was worthless. He proceeded
to fold it and replace it in the cover. Philip
was not easy in his mind. He had spoken in a rude
manner to the girl, throwing a gross charge against
her, and had grievously hurt her.

Was the charge just? Was it possible to explain
the peculiar circumstances in any other way than that
which had occurred to him?

Suddenly looking up at Mrs. Sidebottom, and then
at the captain, he looked down again, and this time
with great attention at the envelope.

'The envelope has been tampered with,' he said.

*In what way?' asked Mrs. Sidebottom.

It has been opened by means of a heated penknife.
Here are the marks of the smoke that have been
rubbed off the blade upon the paper ; and here are
cuts made by the knife in the paper. The envelope,
after having been sealed, was opened carefully, even
cunningly.'

Why carefully or cunningly I cannot tell, but of
course opened it has been,' said Mrs. Sidebottom.
Vou do not suppose Jeremiah could destroy his
signature without opening the envelope?'

Certainly not. But I should not have supposed
he would take pains to do it in such a manner. He
had plenty of long envelopes at hand. Then, again, to
refasten it a different sealing-wax was employed to
what had been used before, a slight difference in tint

of scarlet, and one impression of the stamp can be
traced over the other, the earlier not being wholly
obliterated. Excuse me one moment, Aunt Louisa, I
should like to have a look at my uncle's study.'

Philip — the room is in disorder !' said Mrs. Side-bottom,
starting to her feet and flushing, ' I cannot,
really ; upon my word, I will not permit '

But he had left the room before she could prevent
him. She moved to follow him, but reconsidered herself
and turned back.

Fiddlestick !' she said angrily ; ' nothing but
fiddlestick.'

• I am the sufferer,' grumbled Lambert ; ' I shall be
left in the cold. You and Philip take everything.'

'What I have serves to make you comfortable,'
retorted the mother.

That may be answered Lambert, ' but it is one
thing to have money of one's own, and another thing
to have to come to one's mammy for every penny, and
to find that the mammy rarely has any pennies in her
purse.'

Hitherto I have been pinched in circumstances.
It will be different now, Lamb, you will see.' After a

pause, she added, ' Unless that meddlesome, vexatious
prig, Philip, prove an obstruction.

Presently Philip returned.

It is as I thought,' said he. * The sealing-wax
employed the second time is that now in the pen-tray
on my uncle's desk ; not only so, but his knife is there
also, bearing on it the traces of exposure to fire. It
was probably thrust into the flame of the gas to heat
it so as to enable it to dissolve the wax off the seal.'

No doubt about it,' said Mrs. Sidebottom ; ' and
this proves that Jeremiah cancelled his will shortly
before his death. I should not be surprised if he did
it the same night that he died, immediately before
giving it to Salome.'

The case is a most extraordinary one,' said Philip.

Not at all ; it is clear as day.'

Philip did not care to debate the matter with his
aunt, so he left the room, and taking his hat, entered
the garden.

The garden, as already said, descended from the
house to the valley. It consisted of two slopes,
divided by a wall ; the upper slope ended in a terrace-walk,
with the coping of the wall serving as a parapet

to it. Access to the lower garden was obtained by a
flight of steps at each end. The upper of che two
divisions was devoted to flowers, the lower to vegetables,
and fruit-trees were trained against the wall
that buttressed up the terrace.

Philip paced the upper terrace for several minutes,
and was unable to come to a decision ; he could not
see that the matter was as simple as his aunt pretended.
For, as he argued, why should his uncle have
taken pains to preserve the original envelope when
there was no apparent necessity for so doing. If anyone
else had opened the envelope, then he could
understand the care taken to preserve it with its
superscription, ' The Last Will and Testament of
Jeremiah Pennycomequick,' and to conceal the fact
that it had been adroitly unclosed.

But who would have been likely to commit such an
act } Certainly not Salome, in whose keeping, under
lock and key, the will had been. It was hardly
possible that it had been tampered with since it was
given to her. Was it possible that it had been cancelled
before, unknown to Jeremiah ?

Philip saw that he had not the data, or had not data

sufficient, on which to come to a decision. He must
have another interview with Salome. He therefore
returned to the house, and meeting a servant in the
hall, asked her to request Miss Cusworth to speak with
him a few minutes in the garden.

Without delay Salome came. She had not put on
a bonnet, but had thrown a gray shawl over her head,
and pinned it under her chin like a mill-girl. Some
of her burnished hair, like autumn oak-leaves flaming
in the evening sun, shone out from under the shawl,
and the gray wool contrasted pleasantly with the
delicately beautiful complexion, now no longer white,
but with flying tinges of colour in it, like a sunset skin
which are drifts of vapour, high aloft, undefined,
yet sensitive to the rays of the declining orb. She
was deeply wounded, and the changes in her colour
followed the fluctuations of resentment, humiliation,
anger and pain in her heart.

She had been crying — Philip saw that — for though
she had wiped her eyes, the tears were still near the
surface, and with difficulty restrained from overflowing.


Miss Cusworth,' said Philip, with stiffness, but an

attempt at graciousness, * I regret that I addressed
yoa a few moments ago without that charity which I
was bound to entertain. I was surprised, indignant,
and rushed to a conclusion which may prove to have
been formed too precipitately. I shall be greatly —
very greatly obliged, if you will accept my apology,
and allow me to ask you a series of questions on the
subject of the will, to enable me to form a matured
opinion as to the manner in which it was cancelled,
and by whom it was done ; two points that appear tome
at this moment by no means as clear as they did
a quarter of an hour ago, because a close examination
of the envelope has shown me that it was opened
recently, and in a manner that seems to me suspicious

I well answer any questions you put — as far as it is
in my ability to answer them.'

And — we shall be more at our ease, more in
private, if we take the lower walk at the foot of the
wall,' said Philip, ' as from the windows everyone can
see us here and comment on our interview. May I
ask you to do me the further favour of walking with
me below the steps ?'

Certainly,' answered Salome, and began to descend.

Philip would have been devoid of the elementary
faculties by which beauty is perceived and admired, if
he had not been struck at this time by the young and
graceful figure that preceded him, and by the perfect
sweetness of the innocent, sad face that turned at the
bottom and looked back at him. She did not reproach
him with her eyes, and yet, when he caught them, his
own eyes fell, and he became uncomfortable and conscious
of having wronged her. She puzzled him.
Was she tricky, double, self-seeking ? or was she what
she looked — sincere and straightforward ?

A consciousness stole over Philip that had he lived
in the same house with her for sixteen or seventeen
years, as had Uncle Jeremiah, and had come to make
his will, then without her uttering a word of persuasion,
he would be leaving her everything he had —
just as Jeremiah had at one time done ; only he would
never have worded his will in such a clumsy, absurd,
and unusual fashion. As soon as he reached the foot
of the steps, he took his place at her side. Here was
a broad walk parallel to that above, facing the sun,
sheltered, with the trained trees against the wall on
one side, and a box-edging on the other, with, in

summer, a border of herbaceous flowers fringing the
beds of cabbage, onions, brussels sprouts, and carrots.
I am at your service,' said Salome.

Then I will begin my catechism at once,' said
Philip. ' Please to give me an exact account of what
passed in your last interview with Mr. Pennycome-
quick.'

Do you mean actually the last — as he went out
for his walk by the canal, or when he gave me the
will to keep ?'

I mean the latter.'

He had been out to dinner. I sat up awaiting
him, thinking he might want something before he
went to bed. It was most unusual for him to accept
invitations to dine out. When he came back *

He had been dining with Mrs. Sidebottom, I
think ?'

Yes ; when he came back it was early — that is to
say, earlier than I expected. But he was out of
spirits, and told me he left as soon as he could get
away for that reason.'

Had anything occurred to disturb him ?'

Not that I know. But he certainly was in a

more desponding mood than I had seen him in at
any time previously.'

Did he give any reason for it ?'

Salome hesitated.

What reason did he give for his depressed
spirits }'

He did not exactly give a reason for it, but he
was a little mistrustful — perhaps of the world in
general'

And of anyone in particular?'

Salome coloured ; her hand caught her shawl
below her chin and worked nervously at it.

I had rather you did not force me to answer that
question,' she said timidly.

Very well,' said Philip, ' only let me observe that
this is not answering me with the fulness that was
promised.'

I think he was unjust — and I had rather that
little ebullition of injustice was forgotten.'

Go on,' said Philip. * Did he give you the will,
then ? — and was it in anyway in connection with the
mistrust he expressed ?'

I cannot say that. He started up, said he would

confide to me a most solemn trust, that concerned me

nearly, and went out of the room '

Whither did he go ?'

To the study, I fancy ; and in a moment returned
'

Excuse me. In a moment?'

Yes, almost directly, returned with the paper.'
It was in the envelope ?'

*0h yes, just as I gave it you.'

'You do not think he would have had time to
open the envelope, tear off his signature, and reseal
the cover before coming back to the room where you
were ?'

Oh no ! He went upstairs and came down again
immediately.'

Now tell me. Are you quite sure that he believed
the will was intact when he gave it you ?'
I am sure of it from his manner.'
And where did he keep it before he gave it you V
I do not know.'

Had you any previous knowledge of the will and
its contents ?'

None whatever. I have not even heard my mother

speak of it ; and she must have known, because she
witnessed it. But T am sure also she had no idea as
to its contents, or she would have joined with me in
entreating him not to make such an unjust disposition
of his property. I am glad the will is worthless,
because I never could have felt that I had a right to
receive all uncle — I mean Mr. Pennycomequick — left
me in that will. I should have felt that I was robbing
the relations, and I would have refused to benefit by
the will.'

Who is the John Dale who signed as witness along
with your mother .?'

Mr. Dale ! Oh, he was a dear friend of Mr, .
He always spent his Christmas here, and
uncle went at Whitsuntide to spend a few days with
him at Bridlington. Mr. Dale is trustee to Janet.
We both like him.'

Salome spoke so openly, so quietly, and with such
self-possession, that again his suspicions began to
yield to the charm of her honesty, as they had before.

One matter further,' said Philip. ' After Mr. 
had given you the will, you locked it up in
I remember you said — a workbox.'

Yes, in my workbox.'

And the workbox— was that put away anywhere ?'

Oh no. I use it every day.'

'Then — the same box is unlocked very often ?'

Yes.'

And left unlocked ?'

Salome hesitated a moment, then said : * Yes— but
it is in my room. No one would meddle with my
things — no one has any interest in my little odds and
ends. Besides, no one would be so mean.' Then
after a pause, ' Mr. Pennyconiequick, you charged me
with a piece of baseness which ' — she shook her head
impatiently, as if to shake off the imputation — ' which
it is a stain on me to think of as possible. I could
not — I would die rather than do what is mean.
Mean !' She turned her face suddenly round on
him ; it was flushed, and the eyes sparkled. ' No,
Mr. Pennycomequick, I could be wicked, but not
mean — no, not that on any account, under whatever
provocation — no, not mean 1'

I beg your pardon. Miss Cusworth, most sincerely.
I committed myself to a rash charge, which I withdraw.'


She paid no attention to his apology, but went on :
No, I would not have taken advantage of the will
had it been in form and right ; for that would have
been mean. Dear Mr. Pennycomequick I loved and
love still from the depths of my heart ; but he had his
faults, and one was that he was not forgiving to his
own relations — to you. And he thought harshly of
his sister, Mrs. Sidebottom, and despised Captain
Pennycomequick. I had no claim on him at all, and
if he saw that he had done wrong, and had himself
cancelled the will, no one would rejoice more than
myself; for it would show me that he had returned to
a more kindly view of you all.'

But how do you account for the signature being
torn off?'

I have not thought much about it since. I thought
only of the hurt you had done me.'

Is it possible that he can have changed his mind-invalidated
his will, and then forgotten that he had
done so ? No, that is impossible. The act was too
recent,' Philip argued aloud.

I would not have had people think ill of dear old
uncle said Salome, pursuing her own train of thought,

VOL. I. 14

little concerned how the will was invalidated, concerned
only with her solicitude for the memory of the
deceased. ' He had been unspeakably kind to my
mother and my sister and me. Everyone would talk,
all would say he had been unjust, supposing that will
had stood. Over his grave — that was not he who
was buried to-day — his grave, wherever it may be,
heart-burnings would have arisen, and reproachful
words would have been cast at his memory. He
wrote that will in some queer mood when he was not
quite himself. He never, I must say it, quite valued
Mrs. Sidebottom as a sister, and he was ill-pleased
when she left York and settled at Mergatroyd. The
captain, he thought, had not much brains and was
imprudent about money. You he did not know, and
he had a mistaken prejudice against lawyers. But
there — how the will was made of no effect ; whether
by himself or — or how, matters little ; the deed is
done, and no one can ever say that he wronged his
own flesh and blood.'

She had spoken quickly, eagerly, without pause,
and with a heightened colour.

A sudden idea came into Philip's mind with a flash.

You — Miss Cusworth ! For the sake of his memory
did you meddle with the will ?'

This was a repetition of the charge. First, he
charged her with coarse self-seeking, now with blind
self-effacement.

I — I — oh ! Mr. Pennycomequick, of course not.
It was a trust. I could not touch it, even to save his
dear name from reproach.'

Miss Cusworth/ said Philip, ' have you any objection
to my seeing your mother V

Not in the least. Only remember she is frail.
She suffers from her heart.*

Will you take me to her at once }'

Certainly. Follow me.'

She led Philip up the steps, through the upper
garden ; Philip's eyes, which had watched her descend
the steps with admiration, saw her mount them with
even greater. She conducted him to the room occupied
oy her mother as a parlour.

The old lady was in black, and was dusting. That
was her daily occupation. She travelled about the
house with a duster in her pocket, and when the
duster became dirty she took her pocket-handkerchief

14—2

and dusted with that ; and it was also black. She
had been an energetic woman in her youth, and now
that she suffered from her heart, was impatient at not
being allowed to do as much as she had been wont.
She had made an excellent housekeeper to Mr. .
When he was short of domestics she
turned her hand to anything — cooked, did housework,
needlework — would have cleaned the knives and boots
if the boy had failed. The deficiency in servants was
not an extraordinary event. In a manufacturing district
few girls care to enter domestic service and submit
to its restraints, when they can earn their livelihood
at the mills, and have the evenings to themselves in
which to meet their friends. When Mr. Pennycome-
quick's establishment was complete, she spent her
day in making up for the deficiencies of the domestics
putting straight what they had crooked, cleaning
out corners they had neglected, brushing down cobwebs
they had overlooked, detecting breakages they
had made, and repairing rents they had effected in
household linen. She was not a good-looking woman,
but the likeness of the two girls to her was traceable ;
moreover, she must have had at one time auburn hair,

for though her hair was much darker now, it had in it
glints of red copper. Her heart-complaint had given
to her face a waxy, even greenish tint, and her lips
were leaden.

On being introduced to her, Philip felt somewhat
ashamed of not having made her acquaintance before,
because he had allowed himself to be influenced by
Mrs. Sidebottom's prejudice. His aunt had treated
the widow with studied indifference, and when
noticing her, behaved towards her with superciliousness.
Mrs. Cusworth had accordingly kept very much
to herself in the rooms allotted to her use.

Janet was fired with indignation at the discourtesy
shown to her mother ; she wished to defy Mrs. Side-bottom,
but her mother bade her remember that now
this lady was in authority and that she and her
daughters remained in the house upon sufferance
only.

Philip bowed on entering, and apologized somewhat
lamely for not having made the lady's acquaintance
earlier, and then, turning, saw Salome glide out of
the room with her arm in that of her sister. The girl
rightly understood that Philip desired to speak with

Mrs. Cusworth alone. He proceeded at once to cross-question
her on the subject of the will.

You must excuse me,' he said, ' but I am forced to
make inquiries. I presume you have been told that
a very advantageous will, made in favour of your
daughter, has been found, cancelled, and no subsequently
drawn will has been discovered. Mr. 
gave this valueless one to Miss Cusworth
to keep, and I cannot doubt he did so believing he
entrusted her with one that was valid. Now, either
he took this one by mistake for a subsequent will
which has disappeared, or the will has been — no, I
will not commit myself to the statement of the alternative.
Be so good as to tell me what you recollect
about the signing of the will ?'

It was done just after Janet's wedding.'

Were you aware of the contents ?'

Certainly not. Mr. Pennycomequick sent for me
to his study, where he was with Dr. Dale. He merely
asked me to witness his signature to his will ; but he
entered into no particulars.'

You had no reason to believe he intended to constitute
Miss Cusworth his heiress?'

Not the least. I supposed he would leave her
something as he had dealt so liberally by my other
daughter at her marriage ; I neither wished for nor
expected more ; certainly for nothing which might
cause annoyance to the family.'

He never alluded to his intention ?'

Never. He was a reserved man.'

And you have no reason to suppose he made
another will subsequent to that .^'

I know nothing. I was not called in to witness
another.'

Thank you,' said Philip, rising. ' The mystery is
to me as dark now as before, only ' — and this he said
to himself — ' the one explanation I gave at first is, I
am now convinced, certainly the wrong one.*

ADMINISTRATION.

Philip Penxycomequick returned to the garden.
He was still greatly perplexed, but a new and disquieting
suspicion had invaded his mind. He was
now completely satisfied that no undue influence had
been used to force the old man to mike his extraordinary'
wilL He was also tolerably certain that he
handed it to Salome in good faith, believing it to be
untouched. The will had been tampered with, either
just before or after his death. It was hardly possible
that this could have been done before, when preserved,
as he little doubted, in the iron chest in which Jeremiah
kept aU his deeds and papers of value. It was more
probable that the mutilation had been effected afterwards,
when carelessly kept in Salome's workbox,
which probably had a lock easily fitted with a key

and which was sometimes incautiously left unlocked
when Salome was not in her room.

But who would be likely to do such an act, commit
a felony ? He dared not accuse his aunt ; even in
thought, such an accusation was too terrible. He
had no confidence in her rectitude. His mistrust of
her truthfulness had been deepened by her audacious
assertion that Jeremiah had worn a nightshirt she had
given him, a statement which he was convinced was
untrue, and one made by her to get over the difficulty
about the linen of the drowned man differing from
that known to have belonged to her brother.

He could not disguise from himself that, on the
supposition that Mrs. Sidebottom had mutilated the
will, all the difficulty in explaining the mystery disappeared.
She had heard from Salome where the
ill was — in her desk and in her roooL It was to
Mrs. Sidebottom's interest to know its contents, and
to invalidate it when she did know them. But Philip,
though he held his aunt in low esteem, could hardly
think she could be guilty of such wickedness But
how else explain the difficulty. Then, again, supposing
he reached moral conviction that she had

tampered with the document, what course could he
pursue? He had absolutely no evidence to justify a
public accusation, and without very strong and conclusive
evidence he could not make such a charge — a
charge of felony against his own aunt.

When he considered the grounds on which his
suspicion rested, he found how slight they were. The
facts were that Mrs. Sidebottom knew where the will
was, that she was in the house, and had opportunities
of obtaining access to the will, and that it was to her
interest to destroy its force. He had no reason to
think his aunt morally capable of such a crime. His
belief in her veracity was shaken, but it is a long
way between telling a lie and committing a crime
such as that he was half-inclined to attribute to
her.

With his mind still unsatisfied he went to the study,
where he knew he would find her. Captain Lambert
had gone out. The captain had borne the restraint
imposed on him by the death of his uncle with impatience.
He had been prevented from playing his
usual game of billiards. He had yawned in the
morning and stood at the window with his hands in

his pockets, then had shifted his position to the fire,
and stood before that with his hands behind him, and
found neither position to his taste. In the afternoon
he had lounged between the two houses, and had
sauntered in the garden, and grumbled and yawned
continually. In the evening, when alone after dinner,
in his frogged smoking-jacket and slippers, lounging
in an arm-chair, he read a little, and when Philip
was there, talked with him. But nothing satisfied
him ; the Field he found ' awfully dull !' his cousin
awfully prosy !' and he pronounced as his criticism
of every novel he dipped into that it was ' awful
trash !'

Philip and Lambert had no interests in common,
because Lambert had no interests at all. Philip was
reserved, Lambert open, with the difference that exists
between a purse and a glove. Philip had much in him
which was not for all the world, Lambert had nothing
in him whatever.

Lambert was easy-going, selfish and good-natured
in what did not touch his own comfort and ease. He
had little conversation, and what he had was uninteresting.
We come across people continually who

have to be dredged that anything may be got out of
them, and when dredged, yield nothing to compensate
the labour of dredging. In some rivers it is worth
while to try the depths with rakes and grapples, or
even by diving, for on examination they yield gold-dust,
diamonds and pearls. But out of others nothing
is extracted save pots, weeds, the waste matter and
sewage of civilization. When Lambert was dredged
he gave up worthless stuff, scraps of stale news, old
jokes worn to pieces, venerable conundrums that had
lost their point, and familiar anecdotes retailed without
salt. Undressed, he yielded nothing, except among
those of his own mental calibre, and with them he
talked about people he had met, houses at which he
had visited, wines that he had drunk, game that he
had shot, the relationships of his acquaintance, about
jolly fellows, nice girls, good cigars, and scrumptious
dinners. He was a harmless, lazy man who would
not wilfully do what was wrong, and would never
exert himself to do what was right.

There are tens of thousands of these negative beings
about, male and female, useful in their way, as nitrogen
is of use in the atmosphere, void of quality itself, but

diluting the active oxygen ; as certain ingredients are
serviceable as fluxes to valuable metals, but have no
other known use in creation.

Lambert's mother had energy for both, and managed
for herself anil for him. He was well content that it
should be so, it saved him trouble. He left her to
decide everything for him, as he left his clothes to be
brushed and folded and put away by the servant.
And as he was a man without a pursuit, he voted
everything he had to do a bore, and was voted by
everyone who knew him the worst of bores.

Well, Philip,' said Mrs. Sidebottom cheerily as her
nephew entered ; she was engaged in looking through
a list of designs for mourning dresses. ' Well, Philip,
I am knocked to pieces with the strain, and am glad
all is over. I hope you have had a satisfactory interview
with that girl, brought her to a humble frame of
mind, and induced her to confess that she and her
mother concocted that abominable will }'

On the contrary,' answered Philip gravely, * I am
satisfied from what she and Mrs. Cusworth have told
me that they had nothing to do with it. Not only was
no undue pressure brought to bear on my uncle, but

they were completely ignorant of the contents of his
testament.'

Fiddle-faddle,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, ' I don't give
them credit for being such fools. They had Jeremiah
in their hands for many years. He made that will in
their favour, at their suggestion ; only when I came
here did his conscience speak out, and then he
cancelled it. The case is as plain as a pikestaff.'

You wrong her — her mother,' said Philip with
some heat.

You — yourself,' retorted Mrs. Sidebottom, ' accused
her of having employed unfair means to procure the
will. I am only repeating what you said.'

'I did so. I was hasty. I now regard both Mrs.
and Miss Cusworth as incapable of such conduct'

Why ! — what a weather-cock you are ! You men
are easily talked round by women. A cow has horns,
a horse has hoofs, and a dog teeth, for self-protection ;
but a woman has only her tongue, which she can use
skilfully — far more skilfully than the brutes use their
weapons. Why, Philip, there are insects that accommodate
themselves in colour and appearance to the
ground they are on, or the tree or leaf they are

destroying, so as to escape detection ; and you would
have this precious Salome less clever than an insect ?
She has assumed the colour necessary for imposing on
your eyes.'

Philip winced. He had changed his mind twice with
respect to Salome, and both times in consequence of
an interview with her.

I have a proposal to make,' he said ; ' but before
making it, I must lay the case before you plainly.'

I desire nothing better, but I wish Lamb were here
also.'

I wish first to discuss it with you alone, after that
we can take Lambert into conference.'

I am all attention.'

In the first place, I take it that my uncle made the
will without having been subject to any direct pressure.
Indirect there was, but that was also unconscious.
The children had grown up in his house, he had
become warmly attached to them, and when one was
married, he provided for her.'

Most unbecomingly and unnecessarily.'

He did as he thought fit. The money was his own
his savings ; and he had a perfect right to dispose!

of it as he considered proper. In full possession of
his faculties, more than a twelvemonth ago, he made
a marriage settlement of a large sum on one of the
young ladies, and then, as she was provided for, he
made his will, providing for the sister. Miss Salome
had been as a daughter to him, he loved her not less
than he did ]\Iiss Janet, and certainly had no intention
that she should be left destitute when he was removed.'

I grant you all that,' said Mrs. Sidebottom. ' He
might have left her an annuity of fifty or a hundred
pounds. That would have sufficed. But why leave
her everything ? But there — what is the good of discussing
a document which is of no legal force ?'

Allow me to proceed. Whether he acted rightly
or wrongly is a question 1 will not enter into. What
he did was what he had proposed in his heart tc- do, to
provide for Miss Salome, and to leave to Lambert and
me only small annuities. He did not bequeath the
factory to Lambert, whom he very well knew was not
calculated to manage a business, and he did not leave
it to me, because he knew nothing about my capabilities
and character. I think it is by no means improbable
that there is something: else behind. Miss

Cusworth may be engaged to a suitable person, whom
Uncle Jeremiah approved as one Hkely to carry on the
business and not throw it away. I conceive that the
will may have been prompted quite as much by concern
for an old-established and respected business as by
regard for the young girl. He may have calculated on
the marriage, but not have cared to allude to it at an
early stage of the engagement. This is merely a
conjecture of mine, and I have no knowledge of anything
to substantiate it. You must take it for what
it is worth.'

Oh, that is likely enough ; but as the will is cancelled,
why harp upon it ?'

Such I imagine was the mind of my uncle when he
framed that will. In two words, he desired that the
firm should be carried on, and that his adopted
daughter should be provided for.'

I allow all that'

Now the will has been invalidated in a mysterious
manner by the signature being torn away. By whom
that was done is not known to us, but I do not allow
it is at all conclusive that Uncle Jeremiah did it
himself.'

VOL. I. 15

Of course he did it. He did it because I was in
Mergatroyd, and he had come to value me. Besides,
Lambert had changed his name ; he had ceased to bea
Sidebottom, and had become a Pennycomequick.
Indeed, he said as much to me. He was mightily
pleased at the change. It was a compliment he took
to heart.'

Philip frowned. His aunt had recollections of
things said and done that came in very conveniently
to support her theories.

My impression is,' said Philip, 'that the will was
not torn by my uncle, but by someone else.'

'And pray,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, tossing her head
and moving uneasily in her seat,' do you suspect anyone?'


I accuse no one,' he said drily ; ' I have no right
without evidence to do so.'

Good gracious me !' laughed Mrs. Sidebottom.
What an imagination you are endowed with, Philip !
First it leads you to scheme out the whole story of the
concoction and destruction of the will, and this you
pour out on Salome Cusworth ; then you withdraw
the charge, and you conceive a probable engagement

between this young minx and an Admirable Crichton,
who is to manage the mill and carry on the business ;
and now you have an idea of some outrageous fraud
having been committed. Save us from such vagaries
of the fancy !'

As it was my uncle's intention that Miss Cusworth
should be left comfortably off, and as — by whatever
means his will has been mutilated — she is now left
wholly unprovided for, which is most certainly against
his wish, I propose to you that we, who become the
heirs, should do something to assure to Miss Cusworth
a provision at least equal in amount to that made for
her sister.'

I — I do not understand.'

What I say is plain enough. We who share the
property of my uncle must deduct from our shares in
equal proportions such sum as will, when invested,
bring in for the sole benefit of Bliss Cusworth the
modest sum of a hundred and fifty pounds per annum.'

'A hundred and fifty fiddlestick!' said Mrs. Side-bottom.
* I'll be hanged before I agree to that !'

To what extent, then, do you propose to meet my
suggestion ?'

15—2

Not at all. I will not consent to give her a
farthing !'

You decline to carry out the wishes of your
brother ?'

I dispute that they were his wishes — at one time
maybe, before I arrived at Mergatroyd. After that
he changed his mind altogether, and in evidence — he
cancelled his will.'

I am by no means prepared to allow that that was
his doing.'

A hundred and fifty pounds ! Why, at four percent,
that would be nearly four thousand pounds. I
would rather throw my money into the sea, or give it
to a hospital.'

I repeat, it was the purpose of the testator to
provide for Miss Cusworth. He had not altered his
purpose on the night that he died, for he handed her
the will to keep in such a manner '

According to her own account,' interjected Mrs.
Sidebottom.

As showed that he believed the will was untouched.
Either before that, or after — I cannot say when or by
whom — the act had been committed which destroyed

the value of the will. But Uncle Jeremiah to the last
intended that the young lady should be provided for.'

I will consent to nothing.'

Very well,' said Philip, 'as you cannot agree to my
proposal, no other course is left me than to enter a
caveat against your taking out an administration

What good will that do V

It will do no good to anyone — to you least of all ;
I shall state my grounds before the Court — that I
believe the will of my uncle, which I shall present, has
been fraudulently dealt with by some person or
persons unknown, and I shall endeavour to get it recognised,
although it lacks his signatures

What !' exclaimed Mrs. Sidebottom, turning all
colours of mottled soap. ' Throw away your chance
of getting half!'

'Yes — because I will not be unjust.'

Mrs. Sidebottom was silent. She was considering.
Her fidgets showed that she was alarmed.

You will be able to effect nothing,' she said. ' The
Court would say that Jeremiah acted improperly when
he left his property away from his family, and that he
did right in cancelling the will.'

'Anyhow, I shall contest the grant of letters of
administration.'

What a chivalrous knight that girl has found in
you !' sneered Mrs. Sidebottom. ' You had better
throw yourself at her feet altogether.'

Philip made no answer.

Mrs. Sidebottom fished up an antimacassar that
had been on the back of her chair but had fallen from
it, and had been worked into a rope by her movements
in the chair. She pulled it out from under her, and
threw it on the floor.

I detest these things,' she said. ' They are shoppy
and vulgar. Only third-rate people, such as Cuss
would hang them about on sofas and armchairs.'


Philip remained unmoved. He knew she was
taking about antimacassars merely to gain time.

Presently he said, * I await your answer.'

Mrs. Sidebottom looked furtively at him. She was
irritated at his composure.

'Very well — as you like,' she said, with a toss of
her head ; * but I did not expect this inhuman and
unreasonable conduct in you, Philip.'

I take you at your word. That is settled between
us. Now let us turn to another consideration. The
mill must not be stopped, the business must be carried
on. I do not suppose that Lambert cares to enter
into commercial life.'

Certainly not.'

'Or that you particularly relish life in Mergatroyd.'

I hate the place.'

I am quite willing to undertake the management
of the factory, at first provisionally, till some arrangement
has been come to between us. As soon as the
administration is granted, we shall consider the division
of the estate, and deduct equally from our several
shares that portion which we have resolved to offer to
Miss Cusworth.'

As you please,* said Mrs. Sidebottom sulkily'.
But you treat me abominably. However — now, I
suppose, unopposed by you — I can ask for right to
administer?'

Yes — on the conditions to which you have agreed.'
'Wait — this house is mine, I suppose. Then I

will clear it of those who are odious to me.'
She started from her seat and left the room.

THE w:i,L=^

of

Tie tac 1IISK& £ urfinnge: 'Iotst ^Sk jtici ^dg^ utters:
"ie gr?^j7ff fill! iniffif: a <n?^!:Tr?rr y-Krrrrprr ^rrr nrrrv"- -b ctt?**^

cones ^SsS Off lR*?J*s5!t 5i?SlT. tiff gr nnilaB

-1- "aDoyci:

f 1 •■• - - - « tl . . . , .;h. HH ■

be gaHiiiitcl QBL He wiwlii.iB wp

and wondered how long it would be before his eyes
stiffened and he saw the things of creation no longer,
lie could distinguish the shadows in the moon and
make out the darkened portion of the disc. How
cold and cheerless it must be yonder ! A life of
numbness and lack of volition and impulse must bethe
lot of the Selenites ! Fear of death, anxiety for
himself, had disappeared ; only a sort of curiosity
remained in his brain to know whether the condition
of life in the moon was more miserable in its chill and
helplessness than his present state of drifting in the
cold water.

Then he turned his head to take a last look at
Mergatroyd. The lights were twinkling there. He
could distinguish those of his own house on the hill-slope.
He would never again set foot within its doors,
enjoy the comfort of his fireside ; never see Salome
again. And then in that odd, incongruous manner in
which droll thoughts rise up in the mind at the most
inappropriate moments, it occurred to him that there
was to be anchovy-toast for breakfast. He had been
asked by Mrs. Cusworth if he liked it, and she had
promised it him. And as he drifted, immersed in the

deadening cold brown water, at the thought the
taste of anchovy came into his mouth.

The valley of the Keld contracted — a spur of hill
ran forward from the ridge on which Alergatroyd was
built, and forced the river and canal to describe a
semi-circular bend. The line, however, had bored
itself a way through the hill, and came out beyond, ina
park, among stately but blackened elms. The spur
contracted the volume of the flood, which therefore
became deeper and more rapid.

With his numbed hands Mr. Pcnnycomcquick unloosed
his white neckcloth, and with it bound his arm
to a branch of the poplar, tying the knot with one
hand and his teeth, whilst the water ran through his
mouth over his tongue, and washed away from it the
smack of anchovy that fancy had conjured to it.

Then he resigned himself to his lot. A dull sense
of being in the power of an inexorable fate came over
him, the eagerness for life had faded away, and was
succeeded by indifference as to what befel him, this
to make way, as the cold and misery intensified, for
impatience that all might be over speedily. He still
looked up at the moon, but no longer cared what the

life of the Selenites was like, it was their concern, not
his. The thought of anchovy toast no longer had
power to bring its flavour to his tongue. Then the
moon passed behind a drift of vapour that obscured
but did not extinguish it, and Jeremiah, half-unconsciously
with his stiffening lips, found himself murmuring
the words of Milton which he had learned at
school, and had not repeated since :

The wandering moon
Riding near her highest noon,
Like one that hath been led astray
Through the heav'ns wide pathless way,
And oft, as if her head she bow'd,
Stooping through a fleecy cloud.'

And so murmuring again, and more brokenly, at last
fell into complete unconsciousness.

The critic who generally hits on those particulars
in a story which are facts, to declare them to be impossibilities,
and those characters to be unnatural,
which are transcripts from nature, is certain to attack
the author for making a man who trembles on the
confines of death think of anchovy toast and quote
II Penseroso ;' to which criticism we answer that he
has had no experience such as that described, or he

would know that what has been described above is in
accordance with nature.

For how long Mr. Pennycomequick was unconscious
he never knew, and no one, of course, was able to
inform him. When he returned to himself, he found
that he was lying in a contracted and queer bed, in
the side of a chamber equally contracted and queer,
tenanted, as far as he could make out, only by a contracted
and queer human being, whose sex was not to
be determined at first glance. If Mr. Pennycome-
quick had recovered his sense of smell at the same
time that he recovered his other senses, he would have
supposed that during the period of unconsciousness
he had been steeped in creosote, for the atmosphere
about him was charged with the odour of tar.

He was, in fact, on board a coal-barge, in the little
low cabin, and in the little low berth that occupied
almost an entire side of the cabin. This cabin was
but five feet high ; it was lighted by the hatchway,
through which the steps descended into it. At the
extremity, opposite the hatch, was an iron stove, the
pipe from which poked through the deck above. At
this stove was done all the cooking ever done in this

establishment, and all the washing supposed to be
necessary in it, as a concession to public prejudice.
On the side opposite Mr. Pcnnycomequick's berth
was another, on which were heaped gowns, coats,
wading-boots, a frying-pan, a bird-cage, a broken jug,
Tom Treddlchoyle's ' Bairnsley- Folks' Almanac,' and
a Bible. When that berth was tenanted by a human
inmate, then the gowns, coats, boots, frying-pan, birdcage,
broken beer-jug, almanac and Bible were transferred
to the floor.

Near the stove, peeling potatoes, and as she peeled
them chucking the peelings on to the berth, with its
accumulation of gowns, coats, frying-pan and other
articles, was a woman wearing a man's black felt
wide-awake, a man's coat, and smoking a mahogany-coloured
pipe.

Her face was so brown, rugged, and masculine, that
it was only possible to determine her sex when she
stood up. Then she revealed petticoats, short, and
fastened together between the calves, so as to convert
them into something like Turkish trousers. Beneath
them protruded feet as big as those of a man, encased
in stout boots.

Bless me !' exclaimed Mr. Pennycomequick.
Where am I ?'

Then the woman half rose. She could not stand
upright in the cabin, she was so tall ; and she came
over to the berth in stooping posture.

Eh, lad, tha'rt wick ! Lost a' want to know wheel
tha' art ? \\ hy, for sure, tha'rt i't Conquering Queen
as carries coils t' Goose.'

How came I here ?'

'Ah reckon ah hug-get (drew) thee ait o't water
mysen. Ah saw thee floating' by on tha' rig (back)
tailed like i' an owt tree. Sea (so) I had thee ait i'
a jiffy. If ah hed'dnt, tha'd been dead long agone.
Hev naw a sup o' tea, and we'll talk after.'

Mr. Pennycomequick tried to move — to raise 
he was stiff in all his joints, and unable to
stir more than his head.

Well naw !' exclaimed the woman, ' tha'rt wor nor
I thowt. Ah be main sorry for thee. Ah'll bring t'
peggy-tub, and turned upside dean, and sot me a top,
tell do as weel as owt Ah can talk ta thee a bit — I
durant mind. But I'm glad tha'rt better, lad. Come
na,' if tha want ha' no tea, mebbe that'll tak a sup o'
tar-water.'

By degrees Mr. Pennycomequick got to understand
how he had been rescued, and where he was.

The flood had caught the Conquering Queen coal
barge some way below Mergatroyd, where the land
was flat, and where accordingly the water had spread
and its violence was expended. It had snapped the
cable that fastened the boat, and she had been carried
on down the canal. She had not been lifted and
stranded beyond the banks, but had gone along with
the current in the proper course. The Conquering
Queen was the property of Ann Dewis, who inhabited
and managed her, along with a boy, a gawky lad of
fifteen, all legs and arms, which became entangled
among ropes and chains, and stumbled over lumps of
coal and mooring posts, who never descended the
ladder without slipping and falling to the bottom ina
heap ; and whose face and body, if not perpetually
begrimed with coal dust, would have shown blue with
bruises.

Ann Dewis had given up her berth to the man she
had drawn out of the water, and slept on the floor
beside the clothing, bird-cage, cooking utensils, and
literature sacred and profane.

Sure certain,' said Mrs. Dewis, ' trull be a longtime
wal (until) thanet better ; and curiae it es, but all
wor professed i' Tom Treddlehoyle i' les predictions
for 1870. Jest yo listen till this. November: Ah
look for jenny flakes been' brat low, throw abaft t'
middle ta fend a' t'munth ; hanover, these a good
prospect a' ther' soon lookin' up aegean, if it is at
they're laid flat a' ther' back. Tees fortunate these
floods dont come offence (often) or we'd a' be ruined.
Look here, lad, ah'l clap t' pot o't'stove an' mak thee
poultices for thy joints.'

Six weeks were passed by Mr. Jeremiah 
in the cabin of the Coiiqiiering Queen, in
great pain, sometimes in delirium, for he was attacked
with rheumatic fever. Throughout his illness he was
attended indefatigably by Ann Dewis. She called in
no doctor, she procured no medicine. The sole
remedy she knew and favoured, and which she exhibited
against all diseases, was tar-water, a remedy
easily made on board the barge, of material always at
hand.

Ann Dewis was reduced to temporary inactivity by
the destruction wrought by the flood. The canal

VOL. I. 16

was closed for repairs, and the repairs were likely to
consume many months. Accordingly she could no
longer ply between the coalpits and the wharf on the
Humber. This enforced inactivity enabled her to
devote her undivided attention to her patient. She
had no house of her own — not an acre ; no, not a foot
of garden ground of her own in any of the various
forms of ownership — freehold, copyhold or leasehold.
She had no other home than her barge. She paid no
taxes — no rates ; the only charges that fell on her
were the dues levied at the locks. And ' Darn it !'
said Ann ; ' that flood will ha' sent up the dues like
scalding' water sends up t'momenter.'

She belonged to no parish, came into no census,
was attached to no denomination, and was identifiable
as a Yorkshire woman of the West Riding only by
her brogue. When the fever quitted Jeremiah ,
it left him weak as a child. He lay
in the berth powerless to rise, and long after his mind
had cleared his joints were swollen and painful. He
foresaw that many weeks, perhaps months, must
elapse before he regained his former strength.

She did her best to amuse her patient as well as to

cure him. She read to him the richest jokes out of
Tom Treddlehoyle,' and puzzled him with questions
from the same, compounded as conundrums. But what
interested him chiefly was her account of herself.

She had been married, but that was nowt buta
scratch, she said. ^ Ounce I thowt for certain sure
ah'd lev to give up to be Dewis, and stick to the
Schofield.'

Schofield !' said Mr. Pennycomequick, and passed
his hand over his brow. His memory was somewhat
affected. The name was familiar to him, but he did
not recollect when he had heard it.

Eh, lad, it wor a thing of no constans. Ah'll tell
thee t' tale.' For the benefit of south country readers
we will to some extent modify the broad West Riding
brogue.

It was na' lang that Earle and I were acquainted
'

Earle ?'

Eh, every man has two names, as he has two legs,
and two arms, and two eyes and ears. He was called
Earle Schofield for certain ; and he used to come and
visit me in t' Conquering Queen. My mother was

16 — 2

dead, and had left me a tidy bit o' brass, for shoo was
a saving woman, an' shoo had been capon, boatswain,
steward, and all to t' Conquering Queen ever sin' father
died. All t' brass he and she had addled (earned)
was kip in — but there I wi'nt tell thee, not that I
mistrust thee, but we're all frail creature, and terribly
tempted. So there, lad, this here pipe belonged to
Earle. He wor a bit o^ a gentleman, he wor. He'd
never been in a coil barge trading up an' down canal.
We'd a famous scheme twixt us. He was to set up
a coil store an' a hostis by t'vvarf at Hull, an' he sed
that he knew o' a chap as 'ud sell osgood-will and all
his custom for a hundred pounds. And Earle — he
wor an uncommon clever hand at accounts, he figured
it a' up on a slate, and he showed me how great 'ud
be our profits. And he told me that it wor the coil
marchants as got a' profits out o' t'sale o' coils, and
I got nobbut their crumbs, as I may say. And he
showed me how if he sold and I carried coils we'd be
rich in no time, and after we'd got married then I
towed him where I kep' brass. I didn't tell him
before — believe me. We were sitting on this deck,
d rowed up by beside o' wharf at Hull, as he showed

a' that, and as I towed him where I had my brass.
Then he took tripe he vvor smoking out o' his mouth
and put it into mine, and sed I wor to kip it fleet
wall he came back, he'd go an' deposit a hundred
pound, he sed, for t'good-will, and secure the hostis at
ounce. And I let him take all my brass, for certain
I thow't as we'd been married for three weeks all war
right, and what was mine was his. He took brass,
and he went ashore, and t'last words he sed to me
wor, " Ann, keep tripe fleet wall I return.' I waited,
but from that day I've never clapt eyes on him.'

And your money ?'

Nor on that other.'

What a great rascal he must have been !'

Nay, I won't say that. We're a' sinful creature,
and our temptations is terrible. Wot became o' him
I canna say, but for sure martin he'd a mind to return
to me, or he'd not ha towed me keep tripe fleet.
Wha can tell, he may ha' got a drop o' liquor on
shore, and ha' been robbed, and then ashamed to
come back and tell me ; or he may ha' found t'chap
none .so ready to sell t'good-will — and so ha' gone
about looking for summit else and not found it — or

lie may ha' been took by them rampagin' an' roaring'
lions, as seek whom they can lock up — the service.
Nay ! I'll not condemn him, and allow that he wor a
rascal, for what ses Tom Treddlehoyle :

'this world, we all naw, hez its ups and its deans.
An' shorter, wi'r time keeps winding',
An' day after day we are crost i' wir way,
Then speak of a man as yo find him." '

But I think you found him serve you badly
enough,' said Mr. Pennycomequick, from his berth,
to walk off with your savings and leave you with
nothing,'

Nay, not exactly,* answered Anne. * There worthies
pipe for wun, he left ; and,' after a pause, ' there
wer Joseph. Bairn came verra comforting' when I
wer i' a tew about losing ma' brass. Besides, t' lad, Joe,
ha' been ov use to me as much as I paid a lad afore
seven shilling a week, and he lev a' been t'same
to me for six years. If tha comes ta reckon at fifty-two
weeks i't year, that's eighteen pound ten per
annum ; and for six year that mounts up to nigh
on a hundred and ten pound, which is a scouring off
of t^ account.'

And that is his pipe you are smoking ?'
Sees, for satan. I sed I'd keeper fleet, and if he
comes back at t' end o' seven more year, I'll say,
There, Earle, is tripe burning, and as foret account,
Joe lev a' scored it off, interest and principal.'

WHO? WHAT ?

It is hateful — hateful as poison — the packing, the
turning out of drawers, and then the tilting of the
drawers to get out the dust and grit and flue that has
accumulated in the corners ; the arranging of correspondence,
the discrimination between valuables and
things that may become valuable, and things that are
not, but were valuable ; the throwing away of rubbish,
the consideration as to what things are to be disposed
of, and if disposed of, how to be disposed of, and to
whom, and all the business and care and misery of
change of quarters.

And yet, how out of thorns spring roses, and out of
troubles virtues come into bloom ! Never, probably,
in our whole career did charity, the bond of all
virtues, so luxuriate, throw out such all-embracing

tendrils, emit such fragrance, ripen into such fruit, as
on the occasion of change of quarters. Old boots,
slightly damaged bonnets, heavy battered pieces of
furniture, for which a dealer would not give sixpence ;
articles that would fetch nothing in a sale, antiquated
school-books, magazines five years old, novels that
have lost their backs, games, deficient in one or two
pieces, odd gloves, iron bedsteads minus their brass
knobs, and that have to be tied together with wire ;
cracked dishes, snipped tumblers, saucepans corroded
with rust — with what lavish and lordly magnificence
we distribute them to all who will accept such
alms.

And then — what a lesson does change of quarters
teach us, to discriminate between the worthless and
the valuable ; and with equanimity to endure separation
from things which have become interesting to us,
but which we cannot remove. When the author was
a boy, his life was spent in travelling on the Continent
; in rambles from the Pyrenees to the plains of
Hungary, from the Mediterranean to the Baltic, and
wherever he went, he made collections of objects of
curiosity, crystals, petrifaction, dried flowers, butterflies,

mediaeval armour, books. Before quitting any
place of sojourn for a winter, or halt for a night, his
father explored every pocket and crevice of the carriage,
and turned out the treasures there secreted, on
which his son's heart were set and his pocket-money
had been expended.

Nothing escaped his eye, nothing melted his heart.
The author came to a place bringing nothing with
him, and left it, carrying nothing with him away', all
he acquired he was forced to leave. It was an excellent
discipline for life, and yet hardly attained ; even
to this day he finds that he clings to trifles.

How many times since boyhood has he had to shift
quarters? and each time he has experienced a struggle,
and has had to surrender some things on which his
heart was fixed, but from which it was, perhaps, well
to be free. He recalls how one winter at Bayonne,
he collected every match and spill-end that had been
used for lighting cigars and candles till he had accumulated
a trunk full. When, in spring, the move
came, his father peremptorily refused to despatch this
trunk-load of scorched paper scraps hy grande or petite
Vitesse to Vienna, and they were consigned to the

flames. When he was in Yorkshire, he had collected
some prehistoric querns, stone hand-mills. When he
contracted with a furniture-mover to translate his
goods to the south of England, the man struck at the
mill-stones, they were not in his bond. The author
had to resign them ; but his heart aches for those
stones to this day.

When a family has inhabited a house for nigh on
twenty years, it is incredible what accumulations have
gathered round them, how every corner, cupboard,
closet, drawers, the cellar, the attic are stuffed with
articles of various utility and importance, or let us
rather say of different degrees of inutility and worthlessness
; none of which, however, can be spared without
a pang, for to every one of them a recollection
clings.

The Cusworths had been, not indeed twenty years,
but approaching that time, in the house of Mr. .
Every room, the garden, the attic, were
crowded with reminiscences, mostly pleasant ; to the
ordinary eye a thin veil of soot took the brilliance and
sharpness off all things in this smoke-laden part of
England, but to the girls, Salome and Janet, everything

was overlaid with the gold dust of childish
memories. Mrs. Cusvvorth had come to regard the
house as a quiet home in which she might spend her
declining days, without a care for the future of her
children, for Janet was provided for, and Salome
would not be forgotten. But now, with the loss
of Mr. Pennycomequick, the prop had fallen on
which the future was reared ; and suddenly she
found herself in bad health, obliged to think about
her prospects, and leave the house in quest of another
home.

Mrs. Sidebottom, with the eagerness with which
some women fly to do a spiteful thing, had taken
advantage of her position to give the widow notice to
remove.

The Cusworths had received notice to move within
a fortnight, and it was not easy for them to find
quarters into which to go. Salome had sought lodgings
in Mergatroyd, but in vain. There none were
vacant, and she had been obliged to engage temporarily
a part of a house in the nearest manufacturing
town, a house that was called Redstone, but which
was popularly known only as Blackmore. It was a

low house, surrounded by tall factories that crushed
it into a well between them, into which no sun could
penetrate, but which received all day and night showers
of condensed soot. She counted herself fortunate in
having secured this, and she had already given orders
for the removal to it of some of the packing-cases
filled with their goods.

The time had been one of strain to Salome, already
distressed by the loss of her best friend, and the subsequent
doubt about the identity of the corpse recovered.
Mrs. Sidebottom had gone out of her way
to make her feel uncomfortable, had said ill-natured
things, had slighted her mother, and irritated Janet
to the verge of an outbreak. She had been obliged
to exercise great self-control, to disregard the sneers
of Mrs. Sidebottom, to screen her mother and hold
her sister in check. She had been painfully affected,
moreover, by the mistrust Philip had shown, and
though he had apologized for what he had said, the
wound dealt to her self-respect was unhealed. She
felt this blow the more because she had unconsciously
reposed confidence in Philip ; not that he had given
her reason for reliance on him, but that she had felt

the need for someone to whom to look, now that Mr.
Jeremiah Pennycomequick was removed, and she had
trusted that he would be honourable and considerate
in his conduct, as behoved a Pennycomequick.

To add to her difficulties, her mother had suddenly
and unaccountably had a relapse, was seriously
shaken, and in no condition to be moved. Unaccountably,
for the attack had not come on when it
might have been expected — on hearing the news of
the death of the old manufacturer. She had borne up
marvellously under this trial ; the bringing the corpse
to the house and the funeral had not materially affected
her. She had spoken of the necessity she was under
of leaving the house with sorrow, indeed, but not
agitation ; she had taken some interest in the assortment
and packing of the family goods ; and then, in
the midst of the preparations to depart, had been
taken alarmingly ill.

When the funeral was over, Mrs. Sidebottom had
returned to her own house. All necessity for her remaining
in that of her deceased half-brother was gone.
Nevertheless, she was in and out of the house several
times during the day.

One evening she had left after nine, having dined
there with her nephew, who had moved into his uncle's
apartments, and had enjoyed some of her brother's
best wine.

At half-past nine the front-door was locked and
chained, and the gaslight in the hall turned down, but
n(jt extinguished. Old Mr. Pennycomequick had kept
early hours, and the servants observed the same routine
of meals and work that had been instituted in his time,
as they had received no orders to the contrary. Now
that Philip had taken possession of his uncle's apartments
on the first-floor, and went to the mill at the
same hours, and took his meals at the same hours, the
house seemed to have relapsed into its old ways, out
of which it had been bustled by the advent of ]airs.
Sidebottom.

Mr. Pennycomequick's apartments consisted of a
study, with a bedroom opening out of it. The front
of the house on the same floor was taken up with a
drawing-room, rarely occupied. A third door on the
same landing admitted into the spare bedroom, in
which the corpse of the drowned man had laid till the
burial.

On the ground-floor were two rooms, corresponding
to those occupied by Mr. Pennycomequick, and these
had been given up to Mrs. Cusworth, one — the outer
served as sitting-room. The dining-room and a
breakfast-room — the latter under the spare bedchamber
— completed the arrangement on the ground-floor.
Formerly Mrs. Cusworth and her daughters
had slept on the story above the drawing-room and
Mr. Pennycomequick's suite, and Salome's apartment
were there still ; but of late, owing to her mother's
infirmity, her bed had been transferred to the inner
room, which had been transformed from the housekeeper's
office to a sleeping-apartment for the old
lady, to whom it was injurious to ascend many steps ;
and as it was not advisable that Mrs. Cusworth should
be alone at night, Salome had slept in the room with
her. Since the arrival of Janet, however, she had
returned to her apartment upstairs, as the old lady
had expressed a wish to have her married daughter
with her.

My dears she had said, ' it is not much more that
I can expect to see of Janet. She will have to return
to her husband before long, and I am not likely to live

to have the pleasure of many of her visits ; so, if you
do not mind, Salome, I should wish her to sleep in
my room whilst she is here, that I may have hi r by
me as much as I may.'

Salome had accordingly returned to her chamber
upstairs. She was glad that at this time her sister
was there to relieve her of attendance on her mother,
whilst she went in search of lodgings and was engaged
in packing.

I am expecting a summons to return to l^lboiuf
every day,' said Janet, 'directly I get the news of the
route of the Prussians. Providence never intended
that barbarism should prevail over culture ; and the
French have such accomplished manners, and such
perfect taste — \vh\', the German ladies I have seen
have no idea how to dress.*

V'ou forget, Janet,' said the sister, 'that the barbarians
did, of old, overwhelm Roman civilization.'

Oh yes ; but only that they might assimilate the
culture, and become civilized themselves. If the
result of this v» retched war were that German ladies
learned how to put on their clothes tastefully, I could
almost forgive Sedan and .Mes.'

VOL. I. 17

Salome had as little knowledge of the arrangement
arrived at between Mrs. Sidebottom and Philip as has
the reader, and for the same reason. It had not been
divulged She, of course, could ask no questions. The
reader does, but he must wait He shall be told presently.
Suffice it for him to know that Mrs. Side-bottom
had, unopposed, sworn to her brother's death,
without will, and had taken out letters of administration.


Philip did not have his meals with the Cusworth
party ; they were sere-ed to him apart

On this evening, after the house was locked up,
and the servants had retired to bed, Salome was in
her own room ; she had been engaged there for some
hours, examining and sorting the house-bills, and
destroying such as were not required to be preserved.
When this was done, she began to pack her
little library in a deal case, first wrapping each volume
carefully in newspaper. As she did this she came
on a garden manual that Mr. Pennycomequick had
given her on her birthday when fifteen. The sight
of this book suddenly reminded her of a score of
hyacinth-bulbs she had put in a dark closet under

the stairs, in which to form shoots before these were
put in their glasses. The book had advised this as a
corrective to the development of leaf at the expense
of flower. In this cupboard, which Janet and she as
children had named the Pummy closet — a name that
had adhered to it ever since — she kept as well sunday
garden requisites

Fearful lest she should forget the bulbs if she postponed
their removal to another time, and accustomed,
on principle, to do at once whatever occurred to her
mind as a thing that had to be done, she gently
opened her door and lightly descended the staircase.

The steps were carpeted, so that her foot was
noiseless. She had no need of a candle, for the gas,
though reduced, still burnt in the hall.

She reached the bottom quickly; she was unwilling
to disturb and alarm her mother, and so trod noiselessly
through the hall to the closet door, beneath the
steps. Her garden-gloves, some tools in a little box
that had been given her by Janet, and the bulbs were
there, the latter, in a row, showing stout homs^ She
gathered these bulbs into a chip-basket, and took the
rest of her possessions in the other hand. Thus ::



cumbered, she closed the Pummy closet door with her
foot, put down the basket, turned the key, took up
the basket and stepped out into the hall with the
intention of reascending the stairs as noiselessly as
she had come down.

But before she had reached the foot and had turned
the balustrade, she was startled to sec a figure on the
first landing. At first shock she thought it was Mr.
Jeremiah Pennycomequick dressed to go out, as she
had seen him on the night that he disappeared. If
the hour was not now midnight, it was near it.

Salome could not see whence the figure had come,
whether from Philip's room or from the spare bedroom.
Only from the drawing-room he could not
have issued, as that door was in view, and was shut.

Who was it ?

The figure descended slowly, and with inaudible
tread. The light from the gas was sufficient to show
that the figure was that of a man, but not to let her
see his face.

With a sickening feeling at the heart, and a chill
that ran through every artery and frosted her blood,
and deprived her both of motion and the will to

move, she stood looking at the apparition that glided
down the staircase, leisurely, noiselessly. She recognised
the great-coat and hat — they were those of Mr.
Pennycomequick. The great coat was that in which
the corpse had been discovered invested.

Who was this coming — coming probably from the
room recently tenanted by that strange, awful, deadman
}

That was the first thought of horror that shot
through her brain, followed by another still more
horrible, ' What is it ?'

For a while Salome was bereft of power of speech
and motion. There was a sensation in her brain as
though a handle were being turned that had attached
to it every nerve in her bod)-, and that they were
being spun off her and on to a reel, like silk from a
cocoon. Her hands contracted on what she held ;
she could not have let them fall had she willed to
relax her grasp. They stiffened as do the hands of
a corpse. She could not cry out, her tongue was
paralyzed. She could not stir a step forward or
backward ; all control over her knees was gone from
her.

When the figure had nearly reached the bottom of
the stairs, it stopped and turned its head towards her,
and looked at her.

The light of the lowered gas-jet was on her and off
the face of the apparition ; all she saw was black
shadow, as all she had seen of the face of the corpse
on the bed had been — a black handkerchief cast over
it. But she distinguished the hair, somewhat long
behind the ears, and frowzy whiskers about the jaws.
That was all she could make out in that moment of
acute, agonizing horror. The figure stood looking at
her, and she heard the clock in the hall, tick, tick,
tick, tick, and then begin the premonitory growl that
preceded striking. The figure moved down the final
steps, and stole in the same stealthy, noiseless manner
to the garden door, and disappeared through it.

The look of the back, the set of the well-known
overcoat, the way in which the hat was worn, all
recalled to her the dear, lost friend, and yet she knew
it could not be he. He would never have inspired
her with shuddering dread. He would not have
passed her without a word.

In another moment the spell of rigidity was taken

off her. The blood rushed tingling through every
vein, her hands, her feet, recovered activity, her heart
bounded and shook off its fear, and her mind recovered
its proper energy.

She ran after the apparition, and found that the
garden door was actually open. Instantly, without
further consideration, she shut and locked it, and
then flew upstairs and knocked vehemently, loudly,
at Philip Pennycomequick's door.

He opened it, and was surprised to see Salome on
the landing, breathless.

Is your mother worse?' he asked, for he saw that
she was shaking and white.

Oh, Mr. Pennycomequick, do tell me. Have you
had a man here with you ?'

I do not understand.'

'I have seen someone descend the stairs. If he
did not come from your study, he issued from that

room in which — in which ' She shuddered. * I

mean from the spare bedroom.'

No one has been with me.'

]eut he came down the staircase, slowly and silently,
like a shadow, and passed me.'

I have seen and heard no one.'

And yet, there has been someone in the house.'
PhiHp thought, and then said : * Miss Cusvvorth,

your nerves have been over wrought You have been
imposed on by your imagination.'

But — the garden door. I found it open. I have
just locked it. The figure went out through it.'

Did you distinguish who it was?'

'No, he came from the best bedroom, wearing dear
uncle's — I mean Mr. Pennycomequick^s overcoat and
hat.'

Philip again mused.

All my poor uncle's clothing,' he said, after a
moment of thought, * all that remained, the overcoat
included, I ordered yesterday to be laid out in the
spare chamber. I told your mother to dispose of
them as she thought proper. 1 made no doubt that
she knew of poor persons to whom they would be
serviceable.'

'But no pL>or person would come at this time of
night, and slip out stealthily at the garden door, which
ought to be locked at half-past nine.'

Let us go into the spare room and reassure ourselves

said Philip. ' You will find the overcoat
there, and then, perhaps, you will come to the same
conclusion that I have, that \'ou have been over-worried
and over-wrought, and that fancy has conjured
up the ghost.'

lie went back into his room for a candle, and
Salome, standing alone, with beating heart, on the
landing, asked herself whether she had been deluded
b)' her imagination.

Philip) returned with the candle. He smiled and
said : ' 1 remember particularly that great-coat. It
was laid on the bed, and the hat b}' it. I went into
the room this evening, about half-past eight, and both
were there then.' He had his hand on the door.
You are not afraid to come in with me?'

Salome shook her head. She had begun to hope
that she had been a prey to fancy

opened the door, went in, and held the light
over his head. Time great coat and the hat — were

gone !

LND OF V(;L.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, Guilford.

P-erg/coMquicKs^

186; STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.

NOVELS ARC ISSUED to AND RECEIVED PROM Subscribers IN SETS ONLY.

., TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS 0BT/H1<IM THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

- ^-«JL^I>'on*^ It Month*.

For ONE Volume at a time ^^''.V^XO 12 1 1

(NtvtU in mart iJutH One Velum* art not mvailmtU/*r this <imss »/ Suited if tUn.)

Jt or TWO Volumes r „ . 1? 6 1 11 6

(tt'tytU if mart tMmn T>m0 l(0lum*M mrt net avmiimtU/trJkitcUt* ^ ^mkaeriftt«n.)

For Three Volumes „ 1 8 S a

For FOUR „ 1 8 8 10

For Sis 1 15 8 3

For TWELVliJ ,, 8 5 6

PENNYCOMEQUICKS

^ ^ovcl

BY

S. BARING GOULD

AUTHOR OF
MEHALAH,' ' COURT ROYAL,' ' JOHN HERRING,' ' THE GAVEROCKS,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

LONDON
SPENCER BLACKETT & HALLAM

iMILTON HOUSE, 35, ST. BRIDE STREET, Lydgate CIRCUS, Eg.



[A// rights reserved

x;- 1.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II,

CHAI'TEK l-AGB

XVII. Misfortunes NEVER Come SINGLY - - I

XVIII. JOHN DALE - - - - - l6

XIX. BACKING OUT - - - - - 33

XX. A FACE IN THE DARK - - - - 46

XXI. HYACINTH BULBS - - - - 61

XXII. YES OR NO ? - - - - - 'jZ

XXIII. EARLE SCHOtTELD - - - 94

XXIV. A RECOGNITION • - - - - 112
XXV. WITHOUT BELLS - - - - " Iso

XXVI. HYMEN - - - - - - 147

XXVII. AN ALARM - - - - - 1 58

XXVIII. THE SPARE ROOM - - - - 167

XXIX. RECOGNITION - - - - - 1 86

XXX. EXEUNT - - - - - - 197

XXXI. ESTRANGEMENT - - - - - 212

XXXII. THE FLIGHT OF EROS - - - . 229

XXXIII. EXILE 246

CHAPTER XVII.

MISFORTUNES NEVER COME SINGLY.

Next morning Salome was agreeably surprised to
find her mother better, brighter, and without the
expression of mingled alarm and pain that her face
had worn for the last two days. She refrained from
telling her about the mysterious nocturnal visitor,
because it was her invariable practice to spare the old
lady everything that might cause her anxiety and
provoke a relapse. It could do no good to unnecessarily
alarm her, and Salome knew how to refrain
from speaking unnecessarily.

Before paying her mother her morning visit, Salome
made an attempt to get at the bottom of the matter
that puzzled her and rendered her uneasy. It was

VOL. II. i8

the duty of the housemaid to lock the doors at night.
Salome sent for her, and inquired about that which
gave admission to the garden. The girl protested
that she had fastened up as usual, and had not
neglected any one of the doors.

Notwithstanding this assurance, Salome remained
unshaken in her conviction that the open doorway
was due to the neglect of the servant. She knew
that in the class of domestics, truth is esteemed too
precious to be wasted by telling it, and that the
asseveration of a maid charged with misdemeanour is
to be read like morning dreams. She did not pursue
the matter with the young woman, so as not to involve
her in fresh falsehoods ; she, herself, remained of the
same opinion.

On her way across the hall to her mother's room,
Salome noticed that the garden-door was not only
locked, but that the key had been withdrawn from it.
This Philip had done last night, and he had not
replaced it. It now occurred to her that she had
omitted taking a step which might, and probably
would, have led to the detection of the trespasser.
The door led into the garden, but egress from the

garden could only be had through the door in the
wall of the lower or vegetable garden, rarely used,
generally locked, through which manure was brought,
and the man occasionally employed in the garden
passed when there employed. As this gate would
certainly be locked, the man who had gone out of
the house into the garden could only have escaped
thence with difficulty. If he had been at once pursued,
he might have been captured before he could scale
the wall. This had not occurred to her or to Philip
at the time.

Salome, my dear said Mrs. Cusworth, after her
daughter had kissed her and congratulated her on her
improvement, ' I am thankful to say that I am better.
A load that has troubled and oppressed me for some
days has been lifted off my heart. ^

I am glad, mamma,' said the girl, ' that at last you
are reconciled to the change. It was inevitable. I
dare say you will feel better when we are settled at
Redstone.'

My dear,' answered Mrs. Cusworth, ' I must
abandon the idea of going there.'

Where .? To Redstone ?'

18—2

Yes. The house is beyond my means. I cannot
possibly afford it.'

But — mamma.' Salome was startled. ' I have
already secured the lodgings.'

Only for a quarter, and it would be better to
sacrifice a quarter's rent than turn out again in three
months. I could not endure the shift again, so
quickly following this dreadful change.'

But — mamma !' Salome was greatly taken aback.
This is springing a surprise on me. We have no
other house into which we can go.'

'A cottage, quite a cottage, such as the artisans
occupy, must content us. We shall have to cut our
coat according to our cloth.'

Mamma ! You allowed me to engage Redstone.'

I did not then know how we were circumstanced.
To make both ends meet we shall have to pinch.'

But why pinch ? You told me before that we had
enough on which to live quietly but comfortably.'

I was mistaken. I have had a great and unexpected
loss.'

Loss, mania ! What loss .'''

I mean — well,' the old lady stammered, ' I mean a

sore disappointment. I am not so well off as I had
supposed. I had miscalculated my resources.'

Have you only just discovered what your means
really are ?'

You must not excite her,' said Janet reproachfully.
I do not wish to do so,' explained Salome. ' But

I am so surprised, so puzzled — and this is such an
upset of our plans at the last moment, after I had
engaged the lodgings — I do not know what to think
about it.' She paused, considered, and said with a
flush in her face : ' Mamma, you surely had not
reckoned on poor uncle's will ?'

Mrs. Cusworth hesitated, then said : * Of course, it
is a severe blow to me that no provision had been
made for you and me. We might fairly have
reckoned on receiving something after what was done
for Janet, and you were his favourite.'

Oh, mamma, you did not count on this ?'
Remember that you are left absolutely destitute.
What little I have saved will hardly support us both.
Janet can do nothing for us just now.'

Because of the Prussians,' said Mrs. Baynes.
Wait a bit ; as soon as we have swept them from the

face of fair France, I shall make you both come to meat
Elbceuf.'

Mamma said Salome, ' I am still puzzled. You
knew very well that uncle's will was worthless when
you let me make arrangements for Redstone, and
now that I have settled everything you knock over
my plans. If you had told me '

I could not tell you. I did not know,' said the
widow. ' That is to say, I had mis reckoned my
means.'

Then there is no help for it. I must try to get
out of the agreement for Redstone, if I can. I am
afraid the agent will not let me off. We shall have to
pay double rent, and there is little chance of underletting
Redstone at this time of the year.'

Better pay double than have to make a double
removal ; it will be less expense in the end.'

Perhaps so,' answered Salome ; then she left her
mother's room that she might go upstairs and think
over this extraordinary change of plans. She was
painfully aware that she had been treated without due
consideration, subjected unnecessarily to much trouble
and annoyance.

In the hall she saw Mr. Philip Pennycomequick.
He beckoned to her to follow him to the garden-door,
and she obeyed. He unlocked the door.

I took away the key last night,' he said, ' and now
you see my reason.'

He pointed to the turf.

A slight fall of snow, that comminuted snow that is
like meal, had taken place at sundown, and it had
covered the earth with a fine film of white, fine as
dust. No further fall had taken place during the night.

A track of human feet was impressed on the white
surface from the door to the steps that gave access to
the vegetable garden.

Without exchanging a word, both followed the
track, walking wide of it, one on each side. A footprint
marked each step, and the track led, less
distinctly, down the lower garden to the door in the
wall at the bottom, through which it doubtless passed,
as there were no signs of a scramble. The door was
locked.

Have you the key V asked Philip.

I have not. There is one on Mr. Pennycome-
quick's bunch, and my mother has a second.'

It matters not said Philip. ' Outside is a path
along which the mill people have gone this morning
to their work, and have trampled out all the traces of
our mysterious visitor. The prints are those of unshod
feet. The shape of the impression tells me that'

They returned to the house.

'This unpleasant incident convinces me of one
thing,' said Philip. ' It will not do for me to live in
this place alone. I can explain this mysterious affair
in one or other way. Either one of the servants
having a brother, cousin, or lover, whom she wished
to favour with the pick of my uncle's clothes, that she
knew were laid out for distribution, allowed him to
come and choose for himself '

Or else '

Or else the gardener left the little door in the wall
ajar. Some passing tramp, seeing it open, ventured
in, and finding nothing worth taking in the garden,
pursued his explorations to the house, where he was
fortunate enough to find another door open, through
which he effected his entrance and helped himself to
what he first laid hands on. He would have taken
more had he not been disturbed by you.'

He was not disturbed by me.'

He may have seen you pass down the stairs, and
so have taken the alarm and decamped. My second
explanation is the least probable, for it demands a
double simultaneous neglect of fastening doors by
two independent persons, the housemaid and the
gardener.'

'The gardener has not been working for some
weeks.'

'Then how this has occurred concerns me less than
the prevention of a recurrence said Philip. ' I must
have a responsible person in the house. May I see
your mother ?'

As he asked, he entered the hall, and Janet at the
same moment came out of her mother's sitting-room
with a beaming face. She slightly bowed to Philip;
and said eagerly to her sister, ' Salome, the postman
is coming down the road. I am sure he brings me
good news. I am going to the door to meet him.'

Salome admitted Philip into the sitting-room. She
would have withdrawn, but he requested her to stay.

'What I have to say to Mrs. Cusworth,' he said
shortly, ' concerns you as well as your mother.'

He took a chair at the widow's request, and then,
in his matter-of-fact business fashion, plunged at once
into the subject of his visit.

I dare say that you have wondered, madam, that
neither Mrs. Sidebottom nor I have made any call on
you lately with a proposal. The fact is that only
yesterday did my aunt and I arrive at a definite and
permanent settlement. You are aware that she has
acted as administratrix of my uncle's property. We
have, after some difference, come to an arrangement,
and by that arrangement I take the factory under my
management — that, however, is not a matter of interest
to you. What does concern you is the agreement we
have struck about the house, which is become practically
mine. I shall live in it henceforth and conduct
the business so successfully carried on by my uncle,
and I hope and trust without allowing it to decline.
You are well aware that Mrs. Sidebottom gave you
formal notice to quit ; this was a formality, because at
the time nothing was settled relative to the firm and
the house. Please not to consider for a moment that
there was a slight intended. As far as I am concerned,
nothing could have been more foreign to my wishes.

Do not allow that notice to affect your arrangements.'


We accepted the notice, and have made our plans
to leave said Salome quietly.

In the first uncertainty as to what would be done,*
said Philip, ' Mrs. Sidebottom came to you, Mrs. Bosworth,
and I fear spoke with haste and impetuosity.
She was excited, and at the time in a state of irritation
with me, who had withstood her wishes. Since then
an arrangement has been concluded between us which
leaves me the house. This house henceforth belongs
to me, and not to my aunt, who ceases to have
authority within its walls. I am going to live here.
But, madam, as you may well believe, I am incapable
of managing domestic affairs. I have been unused to
have such duties devolve on me. I shall be engaged
in mastering new responsibilities which will occupy
my whole attention, and it is imperative that I should
be spared the distraction of housekeeping. The event
of last night — the appearance of a man invading this
house '

Mrs. Cusworth turned deadly pale, and a look of
fear came into her eves. Salome hastily turned to

Philip, and her appealing glance told him he must not
touch on a subject that would alarm and agitate her
mother.

I mean said Philip hastily, ' that a man, inexperienced
like myself, entering a large house in which
there are domestics, of whose freaks and vagaries he
knows nothing, and desires to know less, is like a
colonist in Papua, of the natives of which nothing
certain has been revealed. They may be cannibals ;
they may, on the other hand, be inoffensive. Of landladies
in lodging-houses I have had a long and bitter
experience. I have run the gamut of them, from the
reduced gentlewoman to the wife of an artisan, and I
believe it is one of those professions which, like vivisection,
dries up the springs of moral worth. It will
be essential to my happiness, I may say to my success
in the business, to have a responsible person to manage
the house for me. You, madam, will relieve me from
grave embarrassments if you will consent to remain
here on the same terms as heretofore. It will indeed
be conferring on me a lasting favour, which I know 1
am not justified in asking.'

It is very good of you to suggest this,' began the
widow.

On the contrary,' interrupted Philip, * it is selfish
of me to propose it — to wish to retain you in a place
where you must be surrounded by sorrowful reminiscences,
and tie you to work when you ought to be free
from every care.'

I thank you,' said Mrs. Cusworth. ' It so happens
that I am distressed by pecuniary losses, and I am
therefore glad to accept your offer

I am sorry, madam, that you have met with losses.
But I do not wish to force you to accept obligations
for which you do not feel yourself equal without understanding
exactly how matters stand. Mrs. Sidebottom
and I have consulted together about the probable
wishes of my deceased uncle, and we unite in thinking
that he never intended to leave Miss Cusworth unprovided
for. The will he had drawn out perhaps erred
on the side of excessive liberality to her and disregard
of the claims of his own relations. That was cancelled
how, we cannot say. Suffice it to say, it was cancelled,
but without cancelling the obligation to do
something for Miss Cusworth. We are quite sure
that Mr. Pennycomequick intended to provide for her,
and Mrs. Sidebottom and I agree in proposing for her

acceptance such a sum as was invested by my late
uncle for the benefit of Mrs. Baynes on her marriage
a twelve month ago.'

He was the lawyer — formal, cold, stiff — as he spoke,
measuring his sentences and weighing his words.
Even when he endeavoured to be courteous, as when
inviting the widow to stay on in his house, he spoke
without ease of manner, graciousness, and softness of
tone.

Of course,' said Mrs. Cusworth, ' it has been a
great disappointment to us that we received nothing
from Mr. Pennycomequick '

'Mother!' interrupted Salome, quivering, flushing
to the roots of her hair, then turning white. Mrs.
Cusworth was one of those ordinary women who
think it becomes them not to receive a favour as a
favour, but as a due. Salome at once felt the grace
and kindness of the arrangement proposed for her
advantage by Philip, and had little hesitation in
attributing it to him, and freeing Mrs. Sidebottom
from the initiative, at least, in it. But her mother
supposed it due to her dignity to receive it as a concession
to a legitimate claim.

Salome did not look in Philip's face. Afraid that
her mother might say something further that was
unsuited to the situation, she interposed :

Mr. Pennycomequick,' she said, in a low, gentle
voice, 'you said just now that you had no claim on
our services. You have created such a claim. Your
proposal is so generous, so kindly intentioned, and sofar
transcending what we had any right to ask or to
expect, that you lay us under an obligation which it
will be a pleasure for us to discharge. My dear
mother is not herself able to do much with her hands,
but she is like a general in a battlefield — on a commanding
eminence she issues her directions, and I am
her orderly who fly about carrying her commands
We accept with gratitude and pleasure your offer to
continue in this house, at least for a while. For that
other offer that concerns me alone, will you allow me
time to consider it ?'

At that moment, before Philip could reply, the door
was burst open, and Janet rushed in, with a face of
despair, holding an open letter before her.

Mamma ! Oh, mamma ! The Prussians have
killed him. Albert — has been shot !'

JOHN DALE.

In the cabin of the Conquering Queen, Mr. 
had much time for thought before he was
sufficiently recovered to leave his berth. He fell to
wondering what Salome and her mother, Mrs. Side-bottom
and his nephew, had thought of his disappearance.


Can you get me a back newspaper, or some account
of the flood V he asked of Ann Dewis. ' I am
interested to hear what happened, and whether I am
among those accounted to have fallen victims.'

After several trials, Mrs. Dewis procured what was
required in pamphlet form — a reprint from one of the
West Riding papers of its narrative of the inundation,
of the appearance of the country after it had subsided,
from its special correspondent, and full lists of the lost

and drowned. Mr. Pennycomequick read this account
by the light that descended from the hatchway ; read
about the havoc effected in Held-dale, the walls thrown
down, the cottages inundated, the roads and the embankments
torn up, and then among the names of
those lost he read his own, with the surprising information
that the body had been recovered, and though
frightfully mutilated, had been identified.

This was news indeed. That he was esteemed dead
did not surprise Mr. Pennycomequick when he learned
how long he had been ill, but that some other body
should have been mistaken for his was indeed inexplicable.


By this time,' said he to himself, ' Salome will have
proved my will and Louisa will have exhausted her
vituperation of my memory.'

It took him two days to digest what he had learned.
As he recovered, his mind recurred to those thoughts
which had engaged him on the night of the flood, ashe
walked on the towpath by the canal.

If he were to return to Mergatroyd when supposed
to be dead, he was confident that Salome and her
mother would receive him with unfeigned delight, and
VOL. II. 19

without reluctance surrender to him what they had
received through his bequest. But he was by no
means sure of himself, that in the joy of his return
he would be able to control his feelings so as not to
show to Salome vv^hat their real nature was.

He recalled his prayer to Heaven, that he might
have the way pointed out to him which he should go,
and startlingly, in a manner unexpected, in a direction
not anticipated, the hand of Providence had flashed
out of the sky and had pointed out his course. It had
snapped his tie to Mergatroyd — at all events temporarily
; had separated him from Salome, and set him
where he had leisure and isolation in which to
determine his conduct. Jeremiah was a man of
religious mind, and this consideration profoundly
affected him. He had been carried from his home, and
his name blotted out of the book of the living.

What would be the probable consequences were he
to return to Mergatroyd as soon as he was recovered ?
The very desire he felt to be back, to see Salome again,
was so strong within him that it constituted evidence
to his mind that if he were at home, in the exuberant
joy of meeting her again he would let drop those

words which his judgment told him ought not to bespoken.
Other thoughts besides these exercised his
mind.

He turned to the past, to his dead brother Nicholas,
and his conscience reproached him for having maintained
the feud so persistently and so remorselessly.
Nicholas had suffered for what he had done, and by
suffering had expiated his fault. He, Jeremiah, had,
moreover, visited on the guiltless son the resentment
he bore to the father. He endeavoured to pacify his
conscience by the reflection that he had made a provision
for Philip in his will ; but this reflection did not
satisfy him. Philip was the representative of the
family, and Jeremiah had no right to exclude him from
the firm without a trial of his worth.

Then he turned to another train of ideas connected
with his present condition.

Was his health likely to be sufficiently restored to
enable him to resume the old routine of work ? Would
a resumption of his duties conduce to the re-edification
of his health ? Would it not retard, if not prevent,
complete recovery ? Would it not be a better course for
him to shake himself free from every care — keep his

19 — 2

mind disengaged from business till his impaired constitution
had been given time to recover? He knew
that rheumatic fever often seriously affected the heart,
and he asked himself whether he dare return to the
conflict of feeling, the inner struggle, sure to attend a
recurrence to the same condition as before. Would
it not be the wisest course for him to go abroad for a
twelvemonth or more, to some place where his mind
might recover its balance, his health be re-established
and he might acquire that perfect mastery over his
feelings which he had desired, but which he had
lost.

What did he care about the fortune he had amassed
by no means a large one, but respectable ? He was
a man of simple habits and of no ambition. He was
interested in his business, proud of the good name the
firm had ever borne. He would be sorry to think
that Pennycomequick should cease to be known in
Yorkshire as the title of an old-established reliable
business associated with figured linen damasks. But
was his presence in the factory essential to its continuance
?

He looked at Ann Dewis squatted by the fire

smoking. For seventeen years she had kept Earle
Schofield's pipe going, which he had put into her
mouth, and she had been faithful to a simple request.
He had put his mill into Salome's hands, and had
said, ' Keep it going.' Was she less likely to fulfil his
wish than had been Ann Dewis to the desire of Earle
Schofield ?

He was not concerned as to his means of subsistence
should he determine to remain as one dead. He had
an old friend, one John Dale, at Bridlington, the only
man to whom he was not reserved and suspicious —
the only man of whom he took counsel when in doubt
and difficulty.

John Dale had a robust common-sense, and to him
Jeremiah resolved to apply. When John Dale first
went to Bridlington he had been lent a considerable
sum of money by his friend, which had not been repaid,
but which, now that Dale had established a good
practice as a surgeon, he was ready and willing to
repay. John Dale had been constituted trustee on
the occasion of Janet's marriage. He had paid visits
to Mergatroyd, and Jeremiah had visited Bridlington ;
but as both were busy men, such visits had been short

and few. Though, however, they saw little of each
other, their mutual friendship remained unimpaired.

As soon as Mr. Pennycomequick was sufficiently
recovered to leave the barge, he provided himself with
a suit of clothes at a slop-shop, and settled into an inn
in the town of Hull, whence he wrote to Dale to come
to him. He had his purse in his pocket when he was
carried away from Mergatroyd, and the purse contained
a few sovereigns, sufficient to satisfy his immediate
necessities.

'Pon my word, never was so astonished in my life !'
shouted John Dale, as he burst into the room occupied
by his friend, then stood back, looked at him from head
to toot, and roared.

Mr. Pennycomequick was strangely altered. He had
been accustomed to shave his face, with the exception
of a pair of cutlets that reached no lower than the lobe
of his ears. Now his face was frouzy with hair : lips,
jaws, cheeks, chin, throat, were overgrown, and the hair
had got beyond the primary stage of stumbled. He
had been wont to attire himself in black or Oxford
mixture of a dark hue, to wear a suit of formal cut,
and chiefly to affect a double-breasted frock coat that

gave a specially substantial mercantile look to the man.
The suit in which he was now invested was snuff-coloured
and cut away in stable fashion.

Upon my word, this is a regeneration ! Dead as a
manufacturer, alive as a man on the turf. Is the moral
transformation as radical ? What is the meaning of
this ^ I saw your death in the papers. I wrote to
Salome about it, a letter of condolence, and had her
reply. How came you to life again, you impostor, and
in this guise ?'

The doctor — he was really a surgeon — but everyone
called him Dr. Dale, was a stout, florid man, with his
hair cut short as that of a Frenchman, like the furon
the back of a mole. He was fresh, boisterous in
manner when out of the sick-room, but when engaged
on a patient, laid aside his roughness and noise. His
cheeriness, his refusal to take a gloomy view of a case,
made him popular, and perhaps went some way towards
encouraging nature to make an effort to throw off
disease.

Jeremiah told him the story of his escape.
And now,' said Dale, * I suppose you are going
back. By Jove, I should like to see the faces when

you reappear in the family circle thus dressed and
behaved.'

Before I consider about going back, I want you to
overhaul me,' said Jeremiah, ' and please to tell me
plainly what you find. I'm not a woman to be
frightened at bad news.'

At once, old man. Off with those togs,' shouted
the surgeon.

When the medical examination was over, Dale told
Mr. Pennycomequick that his heart was weak, but that
there was no organic derangement. He must be
careful of himself for some time to come. He must
avoid climbing hills, ascending many stairs.

'As, for instance, the several flights of my factory.'
Yes — you must content yourself with the office.'

I might as well give up at once the entire management
if I may not go to the several departments and
see what is going on there.'

You must economize the pulsations of your heart
for awhile. You will find yourself breathless at every
ascent. Your heart is at fault, not your lungs. The
machine is weak, and you must not make an engine of
one-horse power undertake work that requires one of

five. If you could manage to knock off work altogether
'

For how long ?'

That depends. You are not a boy with superabundant
vitality and any amount of recuperative
power. After the age of fifty we have to husband our
strength ; we get well slowly, not with a leap. A child
is down to-day and up tomorrow. An old man who
is down to-day is up perhaps that day month. The
thing of all others for you would be to go abroad fora
bit, to — let us say, the South of France or Sicily,
or better still, Cairo, lead a do/cc far niente life,
forget worries, neglect duties, disregard responsibilities,
and let Nature unassisted be your doctor and
nurse.'

Now look here, Dale,' said Mr. Pennycomequick,
your advice jumps with my own opinion. I have
been considering whilst convalescent what was the good
of my drudging on at Mergatroyd. I have made a
fortune — a moderate one, but one that contents me —
and have no need to toil through the last years of life,
to fag out the final straws of existence.'

Fag out !' exclaimed Dale, ' you dog, you — why,

you have gone into the Caldron of Pelias, and have
come forth rejuvenated.'

If I remember the story aright,' retorted Jeremiah,
'Pelias never came out of the caldron. I am
like Pelias in this, that I have gone into the waters of
Lethe.'

Now, Jeremiah, old boy,' said the surgeon, ' let thisbe
a settled thing, you husband your strength for a
twelvemonth at least, and you will then be vigorous
as ever. If you insist on going into harness at once,
in two years I shall be attending your funeral.'

Very well,' said Jeremiah, ' if things are in order
at Mergatroyd, I will go, but I cannot allow the business
to fall into confusion. To tell you the truth, I
have reasons which make me wish not to go back there
till I am quite restored, but I should like to know what
is going on there.'

That I can perhaps tell you. I have had a letter
from Salome. Do you know, my friend, when I have
been away from Bridlington, on a holiday, I have been
on thorns, thinking that everything must be going out
of gear on account of my absence, that my locum
te7ieiis has let patients slip and mismanaged difficult

cases ; yet when I have returned I have found that I
was not missed — all has gone on swimmingly without
me. You will find that it has been the same at
Mergatroyd.'

But what says Salome ?'

In the first place that cricket, Janet, is back. She
was sent home lest an Uhlan should fall in love with
her or she fall in love with an Uhlan, and now her
husband is dead. Like a fool he served as a volunteer,
uncalled for, as he was an Englishman.'

'Albert Baynes dead! Then you will have some
work on your hands as trustee.'

so I shall. Now about your affairs. It seems
that the will you drew up against my advice, without
taking legal opinion, was so much waste-paper ;
Salome says merely that it proved invalid, so Mrs.
Sidebottom had to take out letters of administration,
and divide your property between her and your
nephew Philip.'

What ! — Salome get nothing ! I shall go back at
once and send those two vultures to the right about.'

Have patience ; they came out better than you
might have expected. It has been arranged that

Philip shall live in your house and undertake the
management of the factory, and he has asked Mrs.
Cusworth to remain on in the old place in the same
position as she occupied before.'

I am glad they have had the grace not to turn her
out

That is not all. As it was clearly your wish that
Salome should be liberally provided for, your sister
and nephew have agreed to fund for her the same
amount that was invested for her sister Janet. Now
I do not know what your will was, but it seems to me
that nothing could have been better, even if you had
the disposing of it. Your natural heirs get their
rights, and your pet Salome is honourably and even
handsomely treated by them.'

Jeremiah said nothing ; his chin fell on his breast.
He had not thought that Mrs. Sidebottom would doa
generous thing. Of Philip he knew nothing ; but
what he had just heard predisposed him in his
favour.

'Now take my advice, Jeremiah,' continued Dr.
Dale. ' Let Philip go on where he is. He has thrown
up his place in a solicitor's office at Nottingham, and,

as Salome writes, is devoting himself energetically to
the work of the mill, and learning all the ramifications
of the business. You wanted someone to relieve you,
and you have the man— the right man, already in the
place.'

He may get everything wrong.'

I do not believe it. You have an aversion to
lawyers, but let me tell you that a lawyer's office is
an excellent school ; there men learn to know human
nature, how to deal with men, and get business habits.
The fellow must have a good heart, or he would not
have come to an arrangement with his aunt to part
with a large sum of money for Salome. Besides,
Salome is no fool, and she writes of him in high
praise for his diligence, his regular habits, and his
kindness and consideration for her mother.'

John Dale paused for Jeremiah to say something ;
but his friend remained silent, with his head down,
thinking.

If you go back,' said the doctor, *you will throw
everything wrong. You will worry yourself and will
take the spirit out of Philip. Trust him. He is on
his mettle. If he makes a blunder, that is natural,

and he will suffer for it ; but he will commit none
that is fatal ; he is too shrewd for that'

Dale,' said Mr. Pennycomequick, * if I make up
my mind not to return to Mergatroyd, I make up my
mind at the same time to leave those there in ignorance
that I am still alive.'

'As you like. It would not be amiss. Then Philip
would work with better energy. If things go wrong
I can always drop you a line and recall you, and you
can appear as Deus ex machine, and set all to rights.
I have often thought that half the aggravation of
leaving this world must be the seeing things going to
sixes and sevens without being able to right them, a
business we have got together being scattered, a reputation
we have built up being pulled down ; to have
to see things going contrary to our intentions, and be
unable to put out a finger to mend them ; to hear
ourselves criticised, and ill-natured, and false stories
told of us, and be incapable of saying a word in our
own defence. I will tell you a story. At one time
when I went to dinner-parties I was the first to go.
But on one occasion I stayed, and Mr. and Mrs. Smith
left before me. No sooner were their backs turned

than the company fell to criticising the Smiths, their
pretensions, the airs they gave themselves, till the
Browne departed, whereupon the conversation became
scandalous about the Browne : then the Jones family
departed. Thereupon I learned that the Joneses were
living beyond their means, and were on the verge of
bankruptcy. So on till the last was gone. After
that I have never been the first to leave ; I try to be
last, so as to leave only my host and hostess behind
to discuss and blacken me. Now, Jeremiah, you have
gone out quickly and unexpectedly, and if you could
steal back to Mergatroyd unperceived, then you will
find that the maxim Dc mortuus nil nisi bomun is not
being observed. You are fortunate ; you can return
at will and correct false estimates. That is not given
save to the exceptionally privileged.'

You will go to Mergatroyd for me,' said Mr.
Pennycomequick, ' and see with your own eyes how
things are T

Certainly I will. Do you know, old fellow,* said
Dale, with a twinkle in his eye, ' I have sometimes
feared for you, feared lest you should make a ghastly
fool of yourself, and make that dear little piece of

goods, Salome, your wife. It would not do, old boy ;
if you had done it I would have ceased to respect
you ; you would have lost the regard and provoked
the ridicule of everyone in Mergatroyd. Old boy, it
would never have done.'

'No,' said Mr. Pennycomequick, 'it would never
have done ; you are right, it would never have done.'

It would have been a cruelty to her,' pursued
Dale, * for Nature never designed Winter to mate with
Spring, to bring a frost on all the sweet blossoms of
youth, and in checking the rising sap, perhaps to kill
the plant'

No,' said Jeremiah, ' it would never have done.'

BACKING OUT.

'You will dine with us to-night, Philip,' said Mrs.
Sidebottom. ' Now that we have settled our business,
it will be quite fascinating to have a bright and cheerful
evening together. We will take the crape off our
heads and hearts. Lamb shall sing us some of his
comic songs, and I will play you any music you like
on the piano. You shall listen, and the viotif of our
entertainment shall be " Begone, dull care." I wish
there were anyone inevitable in this place, but there is
not, and, moreover, though I do not care for the
opinion of these barbarians, it is too soon after the
funeral to have a dinner-party ; we must mind the
proprieties wherever we are.'

Mrs. Sidebottom was in good spirits. She had
managed for herself well. The estate of Mr. Penny-vol.

II. 20

come quick had been divided between herself and
PhiHp, but as the business was already charged with
her jointure, he deducted this from the total before
dividing. She still retained her hold on the factory,
remained as a sleeping partner in the firm, though, as
Philip found to his cost before long, she was a sleeping
partner given to walking in her sleep. Philip was
to be the active member of the firm. It was by no
means her wish that the mill should be sold and the
business pass away, because it was prosperous. If it
had fallen into Lambert's hands it would have been
different, for she knew well that her son would have
been incompetent to conduct it. She was cheerful
now that all was concluded, perfectly satisfied with
herself, for the terms she had made with her nephew
did not err on the side of generosity.

'And now,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, 'I really do
intend to get Lamb to insert a hyphen in his name,
and spell the final syllable with a capital Q. I have
ascertained from a really learned man that our name
is most respectful; and, like all good names, is territorial.
It is of ancient British origin, and means the
Wick or settlement as the head of a Combe, that is a

valley. When you know this you feel that it has an
aristocratic flavour, and that is older than trade. I
think that when written Penycombe-Quick it will have
an air, Philip, an air of such exalted respectability as
will entitle us to look on those who were entered on
the Roll of Battle abbey as parvenus. I intend to
have Lamb's cards printed thus. I like the American
way of combining the paternal name with that acquired
at marriage. If I call myself Mrs. Penycombe-Quick-
Sidebottom I flatter myself I shall carry weight.'

There is a characteristic of some persons, not so rare
as might be supposed, but subdued in England as a
token of ill-breeding, yet one which among foreigners,
judging from our experience, is not forbidden by the
social code. This characteristic is the sudden transformation
of manner and behaviour at the touch of
money. We meet with and enjoy ready hospitality,
suavity of manner, that lasts till some difference arises
about a coin, when all at once the graces we admired
give place to roughness, a coarseness and greed quite
out of proportion to the amount under dispute. In
England we may feel aggrieved, but we strive to
conceal our chagrin ; not so the foreigner, who

20 — 2

will fall into a paroxysm of fury over a sou or a
kreutzer.

Mrs. Sidebottom was a lady of this calibre. Chatty,
cordial with those who did not cross her, she was
transformed, when her interests were touched, into a
woman pugnacious, unscrupulous and greedy. A
phenomenon observed in certain religious revivals is the
impatience of wearing clothes that takes those seized
by spiritual frenzy. In the ecstasy of devotion or
hysteria, they tear off their garments and scatter them
on the ground. So, when Mrs. Sidebottom was
possessed by the spirit of greed, she lost control over
herself, she flung aside ordinary courtesy, divested
herself of every shred of politeness, stripped off every
affectation of disinterestedness, and showed herself in
bald, unblushing rapacity. In dealing with Philip
about the inheritance of Jeremiah, her masterful
pursuit of her own advantage, her overbearing
manner, her persistency, had gained for her notable
advantages. She had used the privileges of her age,
relationship, sex, to get the better of her nephew, and
only when her ends were gained did she smilingly,
without an apology, resume those trappings of

culture and good breeding which she had flung
aside.

Now that all was settled, as she supposed, she was
again the woman of the world, and the agreeable,
social companion.

'Yes, aunt,' said Philip, * I am glad we have come
to a settlement. If it be not all that I could have
desired, it at all events leaves me vastly better off than
I was before the death of my uncle. With the help of
Providence, and a good heart, I trust that the respectable
old house of Pennycomequick will maintain its
character and thrive continuously.'

You like trade,' said his aunt. ' Lambert never
could have accustomed himself to it. By the way,
there will be no necessity for you to change the spelling
of your name.'

I have not an intention to do so.'

Right. Of course it is as well to keep on the name
of the firm unaltered. - With us, moving in a higher
and better sphere, it is other.'

There is one matter, aunt, that has not yet been
definitely arranged, and that is the last about which I
nee(J trouble you.'

What matter ? I thought all was done.*

'That relative to Miss Cusworth.'

What about Miss Cusworth ?'

You surely have not forgotten our compact

Compact ? Compact ?'

The agreement we came to that she was to receive
acknowledgment from us.'

'Acknowledgment ! Fiddlestick !'

I am sorry to have to refresh your memory,' said
Philip harshly, ' but you may perhaps recall, now that
I speak of it, that I threatened to enter a caveat against
your taking out powers of administration, unless you
agreed to my proposition that the young lady should
be given the same sum as was invested for her sister,
which was the least that Uncle Jeremiah intended todo
for her.'

Now — what nonsense, Philip ! I never heard such
stuff. I refused to Hasten to your proposal. I distinctly
recall my words, and I can swear to them. I told you
emphatically that nothing in the world would induce
me to consent.'

The threat I used did, however, dispose you to alter
your note and yield.'

My dear Philip,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, assuming
an air of solemnity, 'I have taken out administrative
authority and have administered, or am in the process
of administering.'

Exactly. You have acted, but you were only
enabled to act because I held back from barring your
way. You know that very well, aunt, and you know
on what terms I withdrew my opposition. You
accepted my terms, and I look to you to fulfil your
part of the compact'

I do not find it in the bond,' said Mrs. Sidebottom.
I can quote Shakespeare. Come, Phil, I thought we
had done with wrangling over sordid mammon. Let
us enjoy ourselves. I did not ask you to stay for
dinner that we might renew our disputes. The
tomahawk is buried and the calumet drawn
forth.'

It was a bond, not, indeed, drawn up in writing,
between us, because I relied on your honour.'

My dear Phil, I gave no definite promise, but I had
to swear before the man at the Probate Court that I
would administer faithfully and justly according to
law, and the law was plain. Not a word in it about

Cusworths. I am in conscience bound to stand by my
oath. I cannot forswear myself. If there is one
thing in the world I pride myself on, it is my strict
conscientiousness,'

'The cow that lows loudest yields least milk,'
muttered Philip. He was greatly incensed. ' Aunt,'
he said angrily, ' this is a quibble unworthy of you.
A perfectly clear understanding was come to between
us, by the terms of which you were to go halves with
me in raising four or five thousand pounds to fund,
or otherwise dispose of for the benefit of Miss Bosworth.'


Four or five thousand fiddlestick !'

If I had opposed you said Philip grimly, ' some
awkward questions might have been asked relative to
the cancelled will.'

What questions ?' asked Mrs. Sidebottom, looking
him straight in the face with defiance.

As to how that will came to have the signature
torn off.'

They were perfectly welcome to ask that question,
but I defy you to find anyone who could answer it.'

She was right, and Philip knew it. Whatever his

suspicions might be, he was without a grain of evidence
to substantiate an accusation against anyone. Moreover,
much as he mistrusted his aunt, he could not
bring himself to believe her capable of committing so
daring and wicked an act.

I wish that the old witch-drowning days were back
said Mrs. Sidebottom. ' It is clear to me that Salome
has been exercising her fascinations upon you. Oh,
that she could be pitched into a pool — that one of
scalding water, swarming with gold-fish, would suit
admirably, because of the colour of her hair. Then
sink or swim would be all one — sink for innocence,
swim for guilt — clear of her anyway.'

Do you seriously mean to evade the arrangement
come to between us ?' asked Philip. He would not
be drawn from his point to side issues.

I never went into it.'

I beg your pardon, you did agree to what I proposed.'


Upon compulsion. No, were I at the strappado,
or all the racks in the world, I would not yield on
compulsion. There you have Shakspeare again,
Phil. I wonder whether you can tell me from what

play I quote. If you were a man of letters, you
would cap my quotations.'

'There can be no question as to what were the
intentions of Uncle Jeremiah.'

Ah, there I agree with you. Having made a preposterous
will, he tore it up, to show that he did not
intend to constitute Salome his heiress.'

What was Philip to say ? How bring his aunt to
her terms of agreement ? He remained silent, with
closed lips and contracted brows.

Now, look here, Philip,' said Mrs. Sidebottom
good-humouredly, ' I have ordered shoulder of mutton
and onion sauce : also quenilles of macaroni and
forced-meat, and marmalade pudding. Come and
discuss these good things with us, instead of mauling
these dry bones of business.'

I have already spoken to Mrs. and Miss Cusworth.
Relying on your word, I told them what we purposed
doing for them.'

Then you made a mistake, and must eat your
words. What a pity it is, Philip, that we are continually
floundering into errors of judgment, or acts
that our common-sense reproves, so that we come out

scratched and full of thorns ! You will be wiser in
the future. Never make promises — that is, in money-matters.
If you persist in paying the hussy the four
or five thousand pounds, I have no objection to the
sum coming out of your own pocket. Excuse me, I
must laugh, to think how you, a lawyer, have allowed
yourself to be bitten.'

I do not see how I am to pay the sum you mention
without jeopardizing the business. I must have
money in hand wherewith to carry it on. If you
draw back '

There is no if in the case. I do draw back. Dome
the justice to admit that I never rushed into it.
You did, dazzled by the girl's eyes, drawn by her hair.'

Philip rose.

What — are you going, Phil ? Lamb will be here
directly. He is at the White Hart, I believe, playing
billiards. It is disgusting that he can find no
proper gentlemen to play with, and no good players
either. Come, sit down again. You are going to
dine with us. Some of your uncles old port and
Amontillado sherry. It must be drunk— we shall
hardly move it to York.'

I cannot dine with you now.'

Why not ?'

Under the circumstances I cannot.' he said coldly.
'I trusted to your honour — I trusted to you as a
lady, and,' he raised his head, ' as a Pennycome-
quick '

How spelled .''' asked Mrs. Sidebottom laughingly.


I cannot sit down with you now, with my respect
and confidence shaken. I trust that you have spoken
in jest, and that tomorrow you will tell me so ; but I
am not fond of jokes — such jokes as these leave a
scar. I could not accept my share of Uncle Jeremiah's
property without making recognition of the
claims of the Cusvvorth family. The father died in
my uncle's service ; the mother and daughters have
devoted themselves to making uncle's life easy — and
now to be cast out ! If you hold back, and refuse to
pay your share of two thousand pounds, I must pay
the entire amount ; and if the business suffers, well, it
suffers. The responsibility will be yours, and the
loss yours also, in part'

Nonsense, Phil ; you will not run any risk.'

If you had taken your part, and I mine, we could
have borne the loss easily ; but if I have the whole
thrown on me, the consequences may be serious.
Ready money is as necessary as steam to make the
mill run.'

I don't believe — I cannot believe — that you, a man
of reason — you, a man with legal training — can act
such a quixotism part ?' exclaimed Mrs. Sidebottom,
becoming for the moment alarmed. Then she calmed
down again. ' I see through you, Philip,' she said.
Having failed to persuade me, you seek to terrify
me. It will not do. I do not believe so badly of
humanity as to think that you will act so wickedly.
Come, think no more of this. I hope you like sirloin
?'

I refuse to sit down with you,' said Philip angrily.

Then go 1' exclaimed his aunt, with an explosion
of spleen. ' Go as an impracticable lout to your
housekeeper's room, to sup on a bowl of gruel and
cottage-pie !'

A FACE IN THE DARK.

Mrs. Sidebottom was not at ease in her mind after
the suggestion thrown out by Philip that the business
might suffer if so much capital were suddenly withdrawn
from it. She recalled how it had been when
her brother Nicholas had insisted on taking out of it
his share — how angry Jeremiah had been; how, for
awhile, the stability of the firm had been shaken, and
how crippled it had been for some years. She remembered
how that her share of the profits had been
reduced, and she had no desire to meet with a
recurrence of this shrinkage. When Nicholas made
that great call on the resources of the firm, there was
Jeremiah in the office, thoroughly experienced, and
he was able, through his ability and knowledge, to
pull through ; but it was another matter now with
Philip, a raw hand, in authority.

Therij again, Mrs. Sidebottom knew her brother
Jeremiah had contemplated a large outlay in new and
improved machinery. To keep up with the times,
abreast with other competitors, it was necessary that
this costly alteration should be made. But could it
be done if four or five thousand pounds were sacrificed
to a caprice ?

Philip is such a fool !' she muttered. ' He inherits
some of his father's obstinacy, as well as his carelessness
about money. Nicholas no sooner got money in
his hands than he played ducks and drakes with it ;
and Philip is bent on doing the same. Four thousand
pounds to that minx, Salome ! There goes the
church bell. When will Lamb be in?'

Mrs. Sidebottom lit a bedroom candle, and went
upstairs to dress for dinner. Whilst ascending, she
was immersed in thought, and suddenly an idea
occurred to her which made her quicken her steps.
Instead of dressing for dinner, she put on her bonnet.
The church bell had diverted her thoughts into a nev
channel. When dressed to go out, she rang for the
parlour maid. ' Susan,' she said, ' I had forgotten.
This is a holy day. I believe, I am morally certain,

it is a saint's day, and appointed by the Church to
make us holy. We must deny ourselves. So put off
dinner half an hour. I am going to church — to set an
example.'

Mrs. Sidebottom was not an assiduous church-goer.
She attended on Sundays to do the civil to the
parson, but was rarely or never seen within the sacred
walls on week days. Consequently her announcement
to Susan, that she was about to assist at divine
worship that evening, and that dinner was to be
postponed accordingly, surprised the domestic and
surprised and angered the cook, who did not object
to punctuality in herself, but resented it in her
master and mistress.

If Salome is not at church,' said Mrs. Sidebottom
to herself, * I shall be taken with faintness ; fan myself
with my pocket-handkerchief, to let the congregation
see I am poorly, and will come away at the Ni^nc
Dimittis!

But Mrs. Sidebottom tarried in church through the
Nunc Dimittis, professed her adhesion to the Creed,
and declared her transgressions. As she listened to
the lessons, her mind reverted to the quenilles. ' They

J

will be done to chips !' she sighed, and then forgetting
herself, intoned, 'A — men.' At the prayers she
thought of the shoulder of mutton, and in the hymn
hovered in soul over the marmalade-pudding. Probably,
if the hearts of other worshippers that evening
had been revealed, they would not have been discovered
more wrapped in devotion than that of Mrs.
Sidebottom. In the life of St. Modena, Abbess of
Stoke-on-Trent, we read that this holy woman had
the faculty of seeing the prayers of her nuns dancing
like midges under the choir roof; they could not
pierce the vault, being deficient in the boring organ,
which is true devotion. It is perhaps fortunate we
have not the same gift. On that evening a row of
tittering girls sought to attract the attention and
engross the admiration of the choristers. Five young
ladies, hating each other as rivals, sought by their
attendance to catch the curate, who was unmarried.
Old Banks was there because he hoped to sell two
bags of potatoes to the parson. Mary Saunders was
there, because some unpleasant stories had circulated
concerning her character, and she hoped to smother
them by appearing at church on week days. Mr.
VOL. II. 21

Gruff was there, to find fault with the parson's conduct '
of die service, and Mrs. Tomkins attended to see who
were present

When the service was concluded, Mrs. Sideb-Dttom
came out of church beside Salome, who had been
seated in front of her. She at once addressed
her.

My dear Miss Cusworth, how soothing it is to have
week-dsy prayer. I have had so much of the world
force i :r. nr.e of late, that I felt I must for the good of
rr^y syi\ fly to the sanctuary.'

Z:.t:t is al-says service on Thursday evening

My goodness! — is this not a saint's day? I
thought it was, and I have been so devout, too. You
don't mean to tell me there is no special call for
it ? — and these saints — the' are perfectly fascinating
creatures.'

Mrs. Sidebottom could talk what she called ' goody '
when there was need for it ; she generally talked it
when chance led her into a poor man's cottage. As
children are given lollipops by their elders, so the
poor, she thought, must be given * goody talk* by
their superiors. She put on her various suits of talk

as occasion offered. She had her scandal suit and
her pious suit, and her domestic worry' suit and her
political suit — just like those picture-books children
have, whose one face does for any number of transformation
garments, and the same head figures now
as a bronze, then as Nell Gw>*nne, as a Quakeress, or
as a tight-rope dancer.

The author at one time knew a bedridden man who
had two suits of con sensation — the one profane, abusive,
brutal, the other pious, sanctified, and seasoned with
salt Ween his cottage-door was open, the passer
heard some such exclamations as these as he approached,

addressed to the wife : ' Now then, you

toad I* Then a reference to her eyes best left un-quoted.
' If I could only get at you, I'd skin you!*
Then a change, ' Fetch me my Bible ; O my soul, be
joyful, raise the sacred anthem I Bah I I thought
twas the parson's step, and he'd give me a shilling !
Now then, you galloping kangaroo !* This, of
course, was an extreme case, and Mrs. Sidebottom
was far too well-bred to go to extremities.

I was so glad you came in when you did,* said
Mrs. Sidebottom. I was really feeling somewhat

U- OF ILL UB.

faint, I feared I would have been forced to leave at
the Nunc Dimittis, and I was just fanning myself
with my handkerchief, on which was a drop of eau de
Cologne, when you came in, and a whiff of cool air
from the door revived me, so I was able to remain. I
am so thankful ! The hymn afforded me such elevating
thoughts ! I felt as if I had wings of angels, which
I could spread, and upward fly T

I was late — I could not get away earlier.'
And I am grateful to be able to walk back with
you. You will allow me to take your arm. I am still
shaken with my temporary faintness. I have, I fear,
been overdone. I have had so much to try me of late.
But when the bell rang, I was drawn towards the
sacred building. Upon my word, I thought it was a
saint's day, and it was a duty as well as a pleasure to
be there. I am so glad I went ; and now I am able
to walk back with you, and after public worship —
though the congregation was rather thin — the mind is
turned to devotion, and the thoughts are framed, are,
in fact, just what they ought to be, you know. I have
wanted for some time to speak to you, and tell you
how grieved I was that I was forced to give your

mother notice to leave. I had no thought of being
inconsiderate and unkind

I am aware of that answered Salome quietly.
Mr. Philip Pennycomequick has already told mamma
that the notice was a mere formality. The explanation
was a relief to us, as mamma was somewhat hurt.
She had tried to do her best for dear Mr. Pennycome-
quicker

'You will have to induce her to forgive me. What
is religion for, and churches built, and organs, and hot-water
apparatus, and all that sort of thing, but to
cultivate in us the forgiving spirit. I am, myself, the
most placable person in the world, and after singing
such a hymn as that in which I have just joined, I
could forgive Susan if she dropped the silver spoons
on the floor and tinted them.'

No one would have been more astonished than
Mrs. Sidebottom if told that she was artificial, that
she affected interests, sympathies, to which she was
strange. At the time that she talked she felt what
she said, but the feeling followed the expression, did
not originate it.

My dear Miss Cusworth,' she went on, ' 1 am not

one to bear a grudge. I never could. When my
poor Sidebottom was alive, if there had been any unpleasantness
between us during the day — and all
married people have their tiffs — when you are married
you will have tiffs. As I was saying, if there had
been any unpleasantness between us, I have shaken
him at night to wake him up, that he might receive
my pardon for an incivility said or done.'

We had made our preparations to leave Merges
said Salome, ' but my mother has been ill
again, and my poor sister has heard of the death
of her husband, who fell in a skirmish with the
Germans. So when Mr. Philip Pennycomequick
was so kind as to ask my mother to remain on in
the house, in the same capacity as heretofore, we were
too thankful '

What ! You stay ?'

Yes, my mother is not in a condition to move just
now, and my sister is broken down with grief. But,
of course, this is only a temporary arrangement'

Mrs. Sidebottom said nothing for a moment. Presently,
however, she observed : ' No doubt this is best,
and I am very, very pleased to hear it. Philip did

not mention it — I mean Mr. Pennycomequick. I
must not any longer call him Philip, as he is now
head of the family, unless the captain be regarded
also as a head, then the family will be like the
Austrian eagle — one body with two heads. But, my
dear Miss Cusworth, tell me, did Mr. Pennycomequick
say some foolish nonsense about three or four thousand
pounds ?'

He mentioned something of the sort to mamma.'
It is all fiddlestick,' said Mrs. Sidebottom confidentially.
' He is the most inconsiderate and generous
fellow in the world. His father was so before him.
But it won't do. The mill will suffer, the business
fall to the ground; we shall all go into the bankruptcy
I respect the memory of my darling brother
too highly to wish that the firm he managed should
collapse like a house of cards. Philip is generous and
all that sort of thing, and he will try to press money
on you. You must not consent to receive it, for two
reasons — first, because it would smash the whole concern,
and next, because people would talk in a wa)'
}-ou would not like about you. Do you understand — '
you could not receive a large allowance from a young

unmarried man. However,' continued Mrs. Side-bottom,
*do not suppose I wish you to waive all
expectations of getting anything. I ask you only to
trust me. Lean on me and wait; I have your interests
at heart as much as my own. I dare say you have
heard my brother say he would be driven to adopt
improved machinery i*'

Yes, I heard him say that.'

'Very well. My nephew, Philip, must reconstruct
the mechanism of the factory at the cost of several
thousands. Now, my dear brother did not leave
enough money to be used both on this and on satisfying
your just claims. If you will wait, say till your
marriage — then you may be sure I and my son and
nephew will strain every nerve to make you comfortable.'


Mrs. Sidebottom,' said Salome calmly, 'you are
very kind. When Mr. Philip Pennycomequick made
the request to my mother that she should stay in the
house, she consented, but only temporarily, till he is
settled, and has had time to look about him for someone
vvho will be a more active housekeeper than my
mother can be ; and at the same time it will be a

convenience to us, giving us breathing-time in which
to recover from the shock of Mr. Albert Baynes'
death, and consider in what manner my sister Janet's
future will be tied up with our own. As for that
other very generous offer — wc had no time to give ita
thought, as it came to us simultaneously with the
crushing news from France.' Salome halted. ' You
have passed your door, Mrs. Sidebottom.'

Bless me ! So I have — I was so interested in what
you were saying, and so charmed with your noble
sentiments. Can I persuade you to enter and dine
with us — only shoulder of mutton, quenilles, and
marmalade pudding.'

Salome declined : she must return immediately to
her mother.

Why !' exclaimed Mrs. Sidebottom, * bless my soul,
here is my nephew come to meet us — I cannot, however,
take the compliment as paid to me, for we have
parted in dudgeon

Philip had left his aunt's house in boiling indignation.
She had led him into a trap, from which escape
was difficult. He felt himself in honour bound by the
proposal he had made to Miss Cusworth ; he could

not withdraw from it, and yet at that time to have
to find the entire sum mentioned would severely
embarrass him. He could not tell Salome that he
had been precipitate in making the offer, and crave
her indulgence to allow him to put off the fulfilment
to a convenient season. The only way out of the
difficulty that commended itself to him was to offer
Salome an annual sum, charged on the profit of the
mill, till such time as it suited her to withdraw her
four thousand pounds and invest it elsewhere ; in a
word, to take her into partnership.

Having come to this decision, he resolved on preparing
it for her acceptance at once, and he descended
to the rooms occupied by the Cusworths, there to
learn that she had gone to church. He at once took
his hat and walked to meet her.

He was ill-pleased to see her returning with his
aunt hanging on her arm ; he mistrusted this exhibition
of sudden affection in Mrs. Sidebottom for one
whom he knew she disliked.

You see, Philip,' said his aunt, ' I thought it was a
saint's day, and the saints want encouragement ; so
I went to the parish church. I put dinner off — now

can I induce you and Miss Cusworth to come in and
pick a little meat with me ? — not bones, Philip, these
we have pulled already together. I was taken with
a little faintness in church, and Miss Cusworth has
kindly lent me support on my way home.'

The little group stood near the doorstep to the
house occupied by Mrs. Sidebottom. A gaslight was
at the edge of the footway, a few paces lower down
the road. Mrs. Sidebottom disengaged her hand from
the arm of Salome — then the girl started, shrank back,
and uttered an exclamation of terror.

'What is the matter?' asked Mrs. Sidebottom.

I have seen it again,' said the girl, in a low tone.

Seen what ?' asked the lady.

Never mind what,' interrupted Philip, divining
immediately from Salome's alarm and agitation what
she meant. ' We must not keep my aunt waiting in
the street. The ground is damp and the wind cold.
Good-night, Aunt Louisa. I will escort Miss Cusworth
home.'

When Philip was alone with Salome, he said :
What was it ? — what did you see ?'

I saw that same man, standing by the lamp-post,

looking at us. He wore elis hat and overcoat. Again
I was unable to see any face, because the strong light
fell from above, and it was in shadow. You had your
back to the lamp, and the figure was in your rear.
When you turned — it was gone.'

HYACINTH BULBS.

The figure seen in the dark had diverted Philip from
his purpose of speaking to Salome about money. He
was not particularly eager to make his proposal,
because that proposition had in it a smack of evasion
of an offer already made ; as though he had speedily
repented of the liberality of the first In this there
was some moral cowardice, such as is found in all but
blunt natures, and induces them to catch at excuses
for deferring an unpleasant duty. There exists a wide
gulf between two sorts of persons — the one shrinks
and shivers at the obligations to say or do anything
that may pain another ; the other rushes at the chance
with avidity, like a hornet impatient to sting. On
this occasion Philip had a real excuse for postponing
what he had come out to say, for Salome was not in a

frame of mind to attend to it ; she was alarmed and
bewildered by this second encounter with a man
whose face she had not seen, and who was so mysterious
in his proceedings.

Accordingly Philip went to bed that night without
having discharged the unpleasant task, and with the
burden still weighing on him.

Next day, when he returned from the factory, in
ascending the stairs he met Salome descending with
her hands full of hyacinth glasses, purple, yellow and
green, and a pair tucked under her arms.

She smiled recognition, and the faintest tinge of
colour mounted to her face. Her foot halted, held
suspended for a moment on the step, and Philip flattered
himself that she desired to speak to him, yet
lacked the courage to address him.

Accordingly he spoke first, volunteering his assistance.


Oh, thank you,' she replied, ' I am merely taking
the glasses and bulbs to the Pummy cupboard again.'

Thank you in English is the equivalent for s'zV vous
plait and not of nierci^ he said, * so I shall carry some
of the glasses. But — what is the Pummy cupboard i*^

You do not know the names of the nooks and
corners of your own house,' said Salome, laughing.
My sister and I gave foolish names to different rooms
and closets when we were children, and they have
retained them, or we have not altered them. I had
put the bulbs in a closet under the staircase till we
thought of changing quarters, and then I removed
them so as to pack them. It was whilst I was thus
engaged that I saw that strange, inexplicable figure
for the first time. Now that I know we are to remain
here, I have put them in glasses to taste water, and
am replacing them in the dark, in the cupboard.'

Have you many ?'

A couple of dozen named bulbs, all good.'

I will help you to carry down the glasses and roots.
Where are they ?'

In the drawing-room. We kept the glasses there
all summer in the chiffonnier.'

I hope you will be able to spare me one or two for
my study.'

Oi course you shall have a supply in your window.
They were procured partly for Mr. Pennycomequick
and partly for my mother.'

You say " of course "; but I do not see the force of
the words. Remember I have had a lodging-house
experience ; my sense of the fitness of things is framed
on that model, and my landlady never said " of course "
to anything I suggested which would give me pleasure,
but cost her some trouble. I am like Caspar Hauser,
of whom you may have heard ; he was brought up ina
solitary dark cell, and denied everything, except
bare necessaries ; when he escaped and came among
men, he had no notion how to behave, and was lost in
amazement to find they were not all gaolers. I had
on my chimney-piece two horrible sprigs of artificial
flowers, originally from a bride cake, that from length
of existence and accumulation of soot were become so
odious that at last I burnt them. The landlady made
me pay for them as though they were choice orchids.'

You must not make me laugh,' said Salome, 'or I
shall drop the glasses from under my arms.'

Then let me take them,' said Philip promptly' ;
you have two in your hands, that suffices. I tire you
with my reminiscences of lodging-house life ?'

'Not at all — they divert me.'

It is the only subject on which my conversation

flows. I do not know why it is that when I speak on
politics I have a difficulty in expressing my ideas, but
when I come on landlady-dom, the words boil out of
my heart, like the water from a newly-tapped artesian
well. I have a great mind to tell you my Scarborough
experiences.'
*Do so.'

Once when I was out of sorts I went to the seacoast
for a change — but I am detaining you.'

Well, I will put down the glasses and bulbs
in the Pummy cupboard and return to hear your
story.'

Instead of going downstairs with Salome, Philip,
though he had relieved her of two glasses, went with
them to the drawing-room, whence she had taken
them — which was in no way assisting her. Moreover,
when he was there, he put down the glasses on the
table and began examining the names of the bulbs —
double pink blush, single china blue, the queen of the
yellows, and so on. He had offered to help Salome,
but he was doing nothing of the kind ; he waited till
she had filled the glasses with water, planted a couple
of bulbs in them, and consigned them to the depths of
VOL. II. 22

the cupboard. When she returned to the parlour, he
was still examining the names of the tubers.

Now,' said he, * I will tell you about my landlady
at Scarborough.' He made no attempt to carry down
glasses, he detained the girl from prosecuting her
work. ' I was at Scarborough for a week, and when I
left my lodgings the landlady charged me thirty
shillings for a toilet set, because there was a crack in
the soap-dish. I had not injured it. I pointed out
the fact that the crack was gray with age, that the
discolouration betokened antiquity ; but she was inaccessible
to reason, impossible to convince. The injury
done to the soap-dish spoiled the whole set, she said,
and I must pay for an entire set. I might have contested
the point at law ; but it was hardly worth my
while, so I agreed to pay the thirty shillings, only I
stipulated that I should carry off the fractured soap-dish
with me. Then she resisted ; the soap-dish, she
argued, could be of no use to me. I must leave it,
and at last, when I persisted in my resolve, she let me
off with a couple of shillings.'

But why ?'

Because the cracked soap-dish was to her a source

of revenue. Every lodger for years had been bled on
account of that crack to the tune of thirty shillings,
and that cracked soap-dish was worth many pounds
per annum to that wretched woman Then, with a
sudden tightening of the muscles at the corners of his
mouth, he added, ' I know their tricks and their ways !
I have been brought up among landladies, as Romulus
was nursed by a wolf, and Jupiter was reared among
goats.'

I suppose there are good lodging-house keepers as
well as bad ones,' said Salome, laughing.

Charity loveth all things,' answered Philip grimly,
but I never came across one. Just as colliers acquire
a peculiar stoop and walk, and horse-dealers a special
twist in conscience, and sailors a peculiar waddle,
engendered by their professions, so does lodging-house
keeping produce a warp and crick and callousness
in women with which they were not born. You
do not know what it is, you cannot know what it is, to
be brought up and to form one's opinions among
landladies. It forces one to sec the world, to contemplate
life through their medium as through lenses that
break and distort all rays. Do you recall what the

King of Israel said when the King of Syria sent to
him Naaman to be healed of his leprosy ?'

Yes,' answered Salome, * " See how he seeketh a
quarrel against me." '

Exactly. And those who live in furnished lodgings
are kept continually in the King of Israel's frame of
mind. Whatever the landlady does, whatever she
leaves undone, when she rolls her eyes round the
room, when she sweeps with them the carpet, one is
always saying to one's self, see how this woman
seeketh a quarrel against me. Landladies are the
cantharides of our nineteenth century civilization, the
great source of blister and irritation. Even a man of
means, who has not to count his shillings, must feel
his wretchedness in lodgings ; but consider the apprehensions,
the unrest that must possess a man, pinched
in his circumstances who lives among landladies. Her
eye,' continued Philip, who had warmed to his subject,
is ever searching for spots on the carpet, fraying of
sofa edges, tears in the curtains, scratches in the
mahogany, chips in the marble mantelpiece. I think
it was among Quarts' emblems that I saw a picture
of man's career among traps and snares on every side.

In lodgings every article of furniture is a gin ready to
snap on you if you use it.'

Then Philip took up two hyacinth glasses, one
yellow, the other blue, but put down that which was
blue, and took up another that was yellow, not for
aesthetic predilection, but to prolong the time. It
was a real relief to him to unburden his memory of
its gall, to go through his recollections, like a Jew on
the Paschal preparation, searching for and casting out
every scrap of sour leaven.

I dare say you are wondering, Miss Cusworth,' he
said, 'to what this preamble on landladies is leading.'


Salome looked amused and puzzled ; so perhaps is
the reader.

Philip had been, as he said, for so many years in
furnished lodgings, and had for so many years had
before his eyes nothing but a prospect of spending all
his days in them, and of expiring in the arms of
lodging-house keepers, that he had come to loathe
the life. Now that his financial position was altered,
and before him opened a career unhampered and
insured by pecuniary difficulties, a desire woke up

in him to enjoy a more cheerful, social life than that
of his experience. Now the difference between the
days in his uncle's house at Mergatroyd and those he
had spent in lodgings at Nottingham did not differ
radically. It was true that he no longer had the
tongue of a landlady hanging over his head like the
sword of Damocles, but his day was no brighter, quite
as colourless.

He was beneath the same roof with an old lady
who belonged, as his suspicious eye told him, to the
same clay as that out of which the landlady is
modelled, only circumstances had not developed in her
the pugnacity and acridity of the class. In herself, she
was an uninteresting person, whom only the love and
respect of her daughters could invest with any favour.
But those daughters were both charming. His prejudice
against Salome was gone completely, that
against Janet almost gone. As his suspicions of
Salome left, his dislike of Janet faded simultaneously.
He had conceived a mistrust of Salome because he
had conceived an aversion against Janet ; now that
he began to like Salome, this liking influenced his
regard for the sister.

The society of his aunt was no gain to Philip. He
disapproved of her lack of principle and disliked her
selfishness. The tone of her mind and talk were
repugnant to him, and Lambert and he would never
become friends, because the cement of common
interests was lacking.

Philip discovered himself not infrequently during
the day looking at the office clock, and wishing that
worktime were over ; not that he wearied of his work,
but that he was impatient to be home and have a
chance of a word with Salome. When he returned
from the factory, if he did not meet her in the hall,
or on the stairs, or see her in the garden, he was
disappointed. It was remarkable how many wants
he discovered that necessitated a descent to Mrs.
Cusworth's apartments, and how, when he entered and
found that one of the daughters was present, his visit
was prolonged, and the conversation was not confined
to his immediate necessity. If on his entering, the
tea-table was covered, he was easily persuaded to
remain for a cup. His reserve, his coldness, did not
wholly desert him, except when he was alone with
Salome, when her freshness and frankness exercised

on him a relaxing fascination ; all his restraint fell
away at once, and he became natural, talkative, and
cheerful.

The fact of the matter is,' said Philip, ' I have
been lifting the veil to you that covers furnished
lodging-house life, and exposing my wretchedness to
enlist your sympathy because I am about to ask a
considerable favour.'

I am sure we need no persuasion to do what we
can for you.'

It is this. If your mother would not object, I
should like to have my meals with you all, just as my
uncle was wont. Having everything served in my
room recalls my past with too great intensity. I have
heard of a prisoner who had spent many years in the
Bastille, that in after-life, when free, he could not
endure to hear the clink of fire irons. It recalled to
him his chains. If there be things at which my soul
revolts it is steak, chops, cutlets.'

Oh ! it would indeed be a pleasure to us~such a
pleasure !' and Salome's face told Philip that what
she spoke she felt ; the colour deepened in her cheeks,
and the dimples formed at the corners of her mouth.

'And now,' she said, still with the smile on her face,
playing about her lips ; ' and now, Mr. ,
you will not be angry if I ask you a
favour.'

I angry !'

Must I enlist your sympathy first of all, and
inveigle you into promising before you know what the
request is I am about to make ? I might tell you
that a young girl like me has a little absurd pride in
her, and that it is generous of a man to respect it, let
it stand, and not knock it over.'

'What is the favour? I am too cautious — have
been too long in a lawyer's office to undertake anything
the particulars and nature of which I do not
know.'

*It is this, Mr. Pennycomequick. I want you not
to say another word about your kind and liberal offer
to me. I will not accept it, not on any account,
because I have no right to it. So that is granted.'

Miss Cusworth, I will not hear of this.' Philip's
face darkened, though not a muscle moved. ' Why
do you ask this of me ? What is the meaning of
your refusal ?'

I will not take that to which I have no right,' she
replied firmly.

'You have a right,' answered Philip, somewhat
sharply. ' You know as well as I do that my uncle
intended to provide for you, at least as he did for
Mrs. Baynes. It was not his wish that you should be
left without proper provision.'

I know nothing of the sort. What he put into my
hands was merely an evidence that he had at one
time purposed to do an unfair thing, and that he
repented of it in time.'

Miss Cusworth, that cancelled will still remains tome
a mystery, and I do not see how I shall ever come
to an understanding of how it was that the signature
was gone. From your account my uncle '

^ Never mind going over that question again. As
you say, an understanding of the mystery will never
be reached. Allow it to remain unattempted. I am
content.'

But, Miss Cusworth, we do not offer you a handsome,
but a moderate provision.'

'You cannot force me to take what I refuse to
receive. Who was that king to whom molten gold

was offered ? He shut his teeth against the draught.
So do I. I clench mine and you cannot force them
open.'

What is the meaning of this ? Why do you
refuse to have my uncle's wishes carried out ? You
put us in an invidious position.'

Salome had shut her mouth. She shook her head.
The pretty dimples were in her cheeks. Her colour
had deepened.

Someone has been talking to you,' said Philip. ' I
know there has. Who was it ?'

Salome again shook her head, with a provoking
smile tapping and dimpling her face ; but seeing
that Philip was seriously annoyed, it faded, and she
broke silence.

'There is a real favour you can do us, Mr. ,
if you will.'

What is that?' asked Philip. His ease and cheerfulness
were gone. He was angry, for he was convinced
that Mrs. Sidebottom had said something
to the girl which had induced her to refuse the
offer.

It is this-mamma had all her money matters

managed for her by dear Mr. Pennycomequick. She
did not consult us about them, and we knew and
know nothing about her property. I do not know
how much she has, and in what investment it is. She
did not, I believe, understand much about these affairs
herself, she trusted all to the management of Mr.
Pennycomequick. He was so clever, so kind, and he
did everything for her without giving her trouble.
But now that he is gone, I fancy she is worried and
bewildered about these things. She does not understand
them, and she has been fretting recently because
she supposes that she has encountered a great loss.
But that is impossible. She has touched nothing
since Mr. Pennycomequick died, and what he had
invested for her must certainly have been invested
securely. It is not conceivable that she has lost since
his death. I have been puzzling my head about the
matter, and I suspect that some of her vouchers have
got among Mr. Pennycomequick's papers, and she
fancies they are lost to her. It is of course possible
as he kept the management of her little moneys, that
some of her securities may have been taken with his.
If you would kindly look into this matter for her,

I am sure she will be thankful, and so — without saying
— will I. If you can disabuse her mind of the
idea that she has met with heavy losses, you will
relieve her of a great, haunting trouble.'

I will do this cheerfully. But this does not affect
the obligation '

My teeth are set again. But — see ! you offered to
carry down my glasses, and you have not done so.
You have, moreover, hindered me in my work.'

The house-door bell was rung.

My aunt,' muttered Philip. ' I know the touch of
her hand on knocker or bell-pull. I am beginning to
entertain towards her some of the feelings I had
towards my landladies in the old unregenerate lodging-house
days. Confound her ! Why should she come
now ?'

YES OR NO ?

Philip was right. He had recognised the ring of
Mrs. Sidebottom. As soon as the door was opened
her voice was audible, and PhiHp used a strong expression,
which only wanted raising another stage to
convert it into an oath.

Salome caught up a couple of hyacinth glasses and
resumed her interrupted occupation ; and Philip went
to the window to remove a spring-nail that incommoded
him. There are certain voices which, when
coming unexpectedly on the ear, make the conscience
feel guilty, though it may be free from fault. Such
was that of Mrs. Sidebottom. If Philip had been
studying his Bible instead of talking to Salome, when
he heard her, he would have felt as though he had
been caught reading an improper French novel ; and

if Salome had been engaged in making preserves in
the kitchen, she would have been conscious of inner
horror and remorse as though she had been concocting
poison. The reason of this is that those who hear
the voice know that the owner of the voice is certain,
whatever they do, to believe them to be guilty of
some impropriety; and they are frightened, not at
v\hat they have done, but at what they may be
supposed to have done.

I suppose that Mr. Pennycomequick is in his room,'
said Mrs. Sidebottom, passing on, to the servant who
had admitted her. ' It is not his time to be at the
office.'

She ascended the stairs to the study door, and in
so doing passed Salome, who bowed, and was not
sorry to be unable to respond to the proffered hand,
having both of her own engaged, carrying glasses.

Philip heard his aunt enter the study, after a premonitory
rap, and remained where he was, hoping
that as she did not find him in his room she would
conclude he was out, and retire. But Mrs. Side-bottom
was not a person to be evaded thus ; and
after having looked round the room and called'at his

bedroom door, she came out on the landing and
entered the drawing-room, when she discovered him,
penknife in hand, removing his spring-nail.

Oh !' she said, with an eye on the bulbs and flower-glasses.
* Adam and Eve in Paradise.'

To whom entered the mischief-maker,' said Philip,
promptly turning upon her.

Not complimentary, Philip.'

You brought it on yourself

'It takes two to pick a quarrel,' said Mrs. Sidon
'and I am in the most amiable mood to-day.
By the way, you might have inquired about my health
this morning, for you knew I was not well yesterday.
As you had not the grace to do so, I have come to
announce to you that I am better.'

I did not suppose that you had been seriously ill'

Not seriously ill, but indisposed. I nearly fainted
in church last night, as 1 told you ; but you were otherwise
occupied than in listening to me. Now, I want
to know, Philip, what was that rigmarole about something
or someone seen in the dark?'

There was no rigmarole, as you call it.'

Oh ! do not pick faults in my language. You

know what I mean. What was the excuse made b>'

Miss Cusworth for taking your arm ?'
Miss Cusworth did not take my arm.'
Because you had not the wit to offer it ; and yet

the hint given was broad enough.'

I am busy,' said PhiHp, in a tone of exasperation.
His aunt's manner angered him, so that he could not
speak or act with courtesy towards her.

Oh yes. Busy planting forget-me-not and love
in a mist. Come, do not be cross. What was the
meaning of that exclamation ? I want to know, for I
also saw someone standing by the lamp-post, looking
on.'

I will tell you, and then, perhaps, you will be
satisfied, Aunt Louisa. And when satisfied, I trust
you will no longer detain me from my business.'

Then Philip shortly and plainly narrated to his aunt
what had happened. He did so because he thought
it possible, just possible, that she might be able to
explain the apparition.

She was surprised and disconcerted by what she
heard, but not for long.

'Who has the garden key?' she inquired.

VOL. II-^3

My uncle had one on his bunch.'

And that bunch is in your possession ?'

'Yes, and has not been out of it. It is locked up

in my bureau.'

Very well, then, the fellow did not get in by that

means. Had anyone else a key ?'
Yes, Mrs. Cusworth.'

And is there a third ?'
No ; that is all.'

Where was Mrs. Cusworth's key on the night in
question ?'

I did not inquire. It was unnecessary.'
Not at all unnecessary. If the man did not obtain
access by your key, he did that of by the housekeeper.'


This is preposterous,' said Philip irritably. ' You
have made no allowance for another contingency —
that the door may have been left unlocked and ajar
by the gardener, when last at work.'

That will not do. The gardener has not been
about the place for a fortnight or three weeks. You
say that the servants may have allowed a friend to take
the pick of Jeremiah's clothes. That explains nothing:

for it does not account for the garden door being unlocked,
though it might for the house door being left
open. Why should not the Cusworths have needy
relatives and hangers-on as well as the servant girls ?
Needy relatives smelling of beer, with patched smallclothes
and pimply faces, who fly about with the bats,
and to whom the cast-off clothing, the good hat and
warm overcoat, would be a boon. Who are these
Cusworths? Whence have they come? Out of as
great an uncertain)' as this mysterious figure. They
are creations out of nothing, like the universe, but not,
like it, to be pronounced very good. Now, Philip, is
not my solution of the riddle the only logical one?'

This is enough on the subject,' said Philip, especially
chafed because his aunt's explanation really
was the simplest, and \'et was one which he was unwilling
to allow. 'You charge high-minded, honourable
people with '

I charge them with doing no harm,' interrupted
Mrs. Sidebottom. ' The clothes were laid out to be
distributed to the needy ; and Mrs. Cusworth was
given the disposal of them. If she chose to favour a
relative, who is to blame her? Not I. She would

probably not care to have the sort of relative who
would touch his cap for Jeremiah's old suits, come
openly to the door in the blaze of day, and before the
eyes of the giggling maids. No doubt she said to the
mounting relative, " Come in the dark ; help yourself
to new plumage, but do not discredit us by proclaiming
kinship." '

Philip was too angry to answer his aunt. To change
the subject he said, ' Miss Cusworth has refused to
receive anything from us. That some influence has
been brought to bear on her to induce this, I have no
doubt, and I have as little doubt as to whose influence
was exerted.' He looked fixedly at his aunt.
' I am glad she has had the grace to do so,' answered
Mrs. Sidebottom cheerily. ' No, Philip, you need not
drive your eyes into me, as if they were bradawls. I
can quite understand that she has told you all, and
laid the blame on me. I do not deny my part in the
transaction. I arn not ashamed of it ; on the contrary,
I glory in it. You were on the threshold of a
great folly, that jeopardized the firm of Pennycome-
quick, and my allowance out of it as well. I have
stepped in to stop you. I had my own interests to

look after. I have saved you four thousand pounds,
which you could not afford to lose. Am not I an
aunt whose favour is worth cultivating ; an aunt who
deserves to be treated with elementary politeness ?'

Then Philip's anger boiled up.

We see everything through opposite ends of the
telescope. What is infinitely small to me and faraway,
is to you present and immense ; and what tome
is close at hand and overwhelming, is quite beyond
your horizon. To my view of things we are committing
a moral wrong v/hen technically right. How
that will was cancelled, and by whom, will probably
never be known ; but nothing in the world will persuade
me that Uncle Jeremiah swung from one extremity
of liberality to Miss Cusworth, coupled with
injustice to us, to the other extreme of generosity tous
and absolute neglect of her. Such a thing could
not be. He would turn in his grave if he thought
that she, an innocent, defenceless girl, was to be left
in this heartless, criminal manner, without a penny
in the world, contrary to his wishes.'

Why did he not make another will, if he wished it
so much i*'

Upon my word said Philip angrily, ' I would give
up my share readily to have Uncle Jeremiah back,
and know the rights of the matter of the will.' He
stood looking at his aunt with eyes that were full of
anger, and the arteries in his temples dark and
swollen. * I shall take care,' he said, 'that she is not
defrauded of what is her due.'

Then he left the room, and slung the door after him
with violence, and certainly with discourtesy. Never
before had he lost his self-control as he had lost it in
Mrs. Sidebottom's presence on this occasion, but before
he had reached the foot of the staircase he had
recovered his cold and formal manner.

As he saw Salome come from the cupboard where
she was arranging the hyacinths, he bade her in an
imperious manner attend him into the breakfast-room,
and she obeyed readily, supposing he had some
domestic order to give.

Shut the door, please,' he said. The anger raised
by Mrs. Sidebottom affected his address and behaviour
to Salome. A sea that has been lashed
into fury beats indiscriminately against every object,
rock or sand-bank. He stationed himself with his

back to the window, and signed to the girl to face
him.

Miss Cusworth,' he said, putting his hands behind
him, as though he were standing before the hearth and
not at a window, ' my aunt has imposed on your
ignorance, has taken a wicked advantage of your
generosity, in persuading you to decline the offer that
was made you.'

I decline it from personal motives, uninfluenced by
her.'

Do you mean to tell me she has not been meddling
in the matter ? I know better.'

1 do not deny that she spoke to me yesterday, but
her words did not prompt, they only served to confirm
the resolution already arrived at.'

But I will not allow you to refuse. You shall have
the money.'

I never withdraw a word once given,' said Salome,
with equal decision.

Then you shall take a share in the mill — be a
partner.'

I cannot,' she said hastily, with a rush of colour.
Indeed this is impossible.'

'Why so?'

It cannot be. I will not go back from my word.'

I have my conscience, that speaks imperiously,'
said Philip. ' I cannot, I will not be driven by your
obstinacy to act dishonourably, unjustly.'

Salome said nothing. She was startled by his
vehemence, by his roughness of manner, so unlike
what she had experienced from him.

Very well,' said he hurriedly. ' You shall take
me, and with me my share of the mill, and so satisfy
every scruple. That, I trust, will content you as it
does me.'

The girl was frightened, and looked up suddenly to
see if he meant what he said. His back was toward
the window. Had he occupied a reverse position she
would have seen that his eyes were not kindled with
the glow of love, that he spoke in anger, and to satisfy
his conscience, not because he had made up his mind
that she, Salome, was the only woman that could make
him happy.

The Rabbis say that the first man was made male-female,
and was parted asunder, and that the perfect
man is only to be found in the union of the two severed

halves. So each half wanders about the world
seeking its mate, and gets attached to wrong halves,
and this is the occasion of much misery ; only where
the right organic sections coalesce is there perfect
harmony.

It did not seem as if Philip and Salome were the
two halves gravitating towards each other, for the
attraction was small, and the thrust together came
from without — was due, in fact, to the uninviting hand
of Mrs. Sidebottom.

Come,' said he, ' I wait for an answer. I see no
other way of getting out of our difficulties. What I
now propose will assure to you and your mother a right
in this house, and Mrs. Sidebottom will be able to obtain
admission only by your permission. Do you see ? I
cannot, without a moral wound and breakdown of my
self-respect, accept a share of the mill without indemnifying
you, according to what I believe to have been
the intentions of my uncle. You refuse to take anything
to which you have not a right. Accept me, and
you have all that has fallen to me.'

Certainly Philip's proposal was not made in a tender
manner. He probably perceived that it was unusual

and inappropriate, for he added in a quieter tone,
Rely on it, that I will do my utmost to make you
happy ; and I believe firmly that with you at my side
my happiness will be complete. I am a strictly conscientious
man, and I will conscientiously give you all
the love, respect, and forbearance that a wife has a
right to demand.'

You must give me time to consider,' said Salome
timidly.

Not ten minutes,' answered Philip hastily. ' I
want an answer at once. That woman upstairs — I
mean my aunt — I — I particularly wish to knock her
down with the news that she is checkmated.'

Again Salome looked up at him, trying to form her
decision by his face, by the expression of his eyes, but
she could not see whether real love streamed out of
them such as certainly did not find utterance by the
tongue.

Her heart was beating fast. Did she love him ? She
liked him. She looked up to him. Some of the old
regard which had been lavished on the uncle devolved
on Philip with the inheritance, as his by right, as the
representative of the house. Salome had been accustomed

all her life to have recourse to old Mr. 
in all doubt, in every trouble to look to
him as a guide, to lean on him as a stay, to fly to him
as a protector. And now that she was friendless she
felt the need of someone, strong, trustworthy and
kind, to whom she could have recourse as she had of
old to Mr. Pennycomequick. Mrs. Sidebottom had
been hostile, but Philip had been friendly. Salome
recognised in him a scrupulously upright mind, and
with a girlish ignorance of realities, invested him with
a halo of goodness and heroism, which were not his
due. There was in him considerable self-reliance ; he
was not a vain, a conceited man ; but he was a man
who knew his own mind and resolutely held to his
opinion — that Salome saw, or believed she saw ; and
female weakness is always inclined to be attracted by
strength.

Moreover, her sister Janet had been strong in expressing
her disapproval of Philip, her dislike of his
formal ways, his wooden manner, his want of that ease
and polish which she had come in France to exact of
every man as essential. Salome had combated the
ridicule, the detraction, with which her sister spoke of

Philip, and had become his champion in her little
family circle.

I think — I really think,* said Salome, ' that you
must give me time to consider what you have said
She moved to leave the room.

No,' answered he, * you shall not go. I must have
my answer in a Yes or a No, at once. Come, give me
your hand.'

She hesitated. It was a little wanting in consideration
for her, thus to press for an immediate answer. He
had promised to show her the forbearance due to a wife,
he was hardly showing her that due to a girl at the
most critical moment of her life. She stood steeped in
thought, and alternate flushes of colour and pauses of
pallor showed the changes of feeling in her heart.

Philip so far respected her hesitation that he kept
silence, but he was not inclined to suffer the hesitation
to continue long.

Love, Philip had never felt, nor had Salome ; but
Philip was conscious of pleasure in the society of the
girl, of feeling an interest in her such as he entertained
for no one else. He respected and admired her. He
was aware that she exerted over him a softening,

humanizing influence, such as was exercised over him
by no one else.

Presently, doubtfully, as if she were putting forth
her fingers to touch what might scorch her, Salome
extended her right hand.

Is that yes ?' he asked.

Yes;

And,' said he, ' I have your assurance that you
never go back from your word. Now,' there recurred
to his mind at that moment his aunt's sneer about his
lack of wit in not offering Salome his arm ; ' and now,'
he said, ' let us go together and tell my aunt that you
take all my share, along with me. Let me offer you —
my arm*

EARLE SCHOFIELD.

Philip Pennycomequick entered the hall, with
Salome on his arm, but she instantly disengaged her
hand as she saw Mrs. Sidebottom, and was conscious
that there was something grotesque in her appearance
hooked on to Philip.

As to Philip, he had been so long exposed to the
petrifying drip of legal routine, unrelieved by any
softening influences, that he was rapidly approaching
fossilization.

A bird's wing, a harebell, left to the counteracted
effect of silex in suspense, in time becomes stone, and
the drudgery of office and the sordid experience of
lodging-house life had encrusted Philip, and stiffened
him in mind and manner. He had the feelings of a
gentleman, but none of that ease which springs out of

social intercourse ; because he had been excluded from
intercourse with those of his class, men and women,
through the pecuniary straits in which his father had
been for many years.

When, therefore, Philip proposed to Salome, he knew
no better than to offer her his arm, as if to conduct
lier to dinner, or convey her through a growth from
the opera.

If he had been told that it was proper for him to
kiss his betrothed, he would have looked in the glass
and called for shaving-water, to make sure that his
chin and lip were smooth before delivering the salute
etiquette exacted.

The silicious drip had, as already said, encrusted
Philip, but he had not been sufficiently long exposed
to it to have his heart petrified.

Many clerks in offices keep fresh and green in spite
of the formality of business, because they have in their
homes everything necessary for counteracting the
hardening influence, or they associate with each other
and run out in mild Bohemianism.

Philip's father had existed, not lived, in lodgings.
changing them periodically, as he quarrelled with his

landlady, or the landlady quarrelled with him. Mr.
Nicholas Pennycomequick had been a grumbler,
cynical, finding fault with everything and every
person with which and with whom he came in contact,
as is the manner of those who have failed in
life. Such men invariably regard the world of men as
in league to insult and annoy them; it never occurs to
them to seek the cause of their failure in themselves.

Philip had met with no love, none of the emollient
elements which constitute home. He belonged, or
thought he belonged, socially and intellectually, to a
class superior to that from which his fellow-clerks
were drawn. The reverses from which his father had
suffered had made Philip proud, and had restrained
him from association with the other young men.
Thrown on himself, he had become self-contained,
rigid in his views, his manners, and stiff in his movements.
When he offered his arm to Salome, she did
not like to appear ungracious and decline it. She
touched it lightly, and readily withdrew her hand, as
she encountered the eye of Mrs. Sidebottom.

Oh !' said that lady, ' I was only premature, Philip,
in saying that your arm was taken last night.*

Only premature,' replied Philip ; ' I have persuaded
Miss Cusworth out of that opinion which you forced
on her when you took her arm.'

She is, perhaps, easily persuaded,' said Mrs. Side-bottom,
with a toss of her head.

I have induced her to agree to enter into partnership.'


How ? I do not understand. Is the firm to be in
future Pennycomequick and Co. — the Co. to stand for
Cusworth ?'
You ask how,' said Philip. ' I reply, as my wife.'
He allowed his aunt a minute to digest the information,
and then added :

I am unable to ask you to stay longer at present,
as I must inform Mrs. Cusworth of the engagement.'

Let me tender my congratulations,' said Mrs.
Sidebottom ; ' and let me recommend a new lock
on the garden-door, lest And Co. should bring in
through it a train of rapacious out-at-elbow relatives,
who would hardly be satisfied with a great-coat and
a hat'

Philip was too incensed to answer. He allowed his
aunt to open the front-door unassisted.

VOL. II. 24

When she was gone, he said to Salome :

I am not in a humour to see your mother now.
Besides, it is advisable, for her sake, that the news
should be told her through you. I am so angry with
that insolent — I mean with Mrs. Sidebottom, that I
might frighten your mother. I will come later.'

He left Salome and mounted to his study, where
he paced up and down, endeavouring to recover his
composure, doubly shaken by his precipitation in
offering marriage without premeditation, and by
his aunt's sneer. He had been surprised into
taking the most important step in life, without
having given a thought to it before. He was astonished
at himself, that he, schooled as he had
been, should have acted without consideration on an
impulse. He had been carried away, not by the
passion of love, but of anger.

In the story of the Frog Prince, the faithful Echard
fastened three iron bands round his heart to prevent it
from bursting with sorrow when his master was transformed
into a loathsome frog. When, however, the
Prince recovered his human form, then the three iron
bands snapped in succession. One hoop after another

of hard constraint had been welded about the heart of
Phih'p, and now, in a sudden explosion of wrath, all
had given way like tow.

When Philip was alone, and had cooled, he became
fully aware of the gravity of his act ; and, as a natural
result, a reaction set in.

He knew little of Salome, nothing of her parentage ;
and though he laid no store on pedigree, he was keenly
aware that a union with one who had, or might have,
objectionable and impecunious relatives, as difficult to
drive away as horseflies, might subject him to much
annoyance.

In a manufacturing district, little is thought of a
man's ancestors so long as he is himself respectable
and his pockets are full. Those who begin life as
mill hands often end it as misleads, and the richest
men are sometimes the poorest in social qualifications.


Mrs. Sidebottom, with feminine shrewdness and
malice, had touched Philip where she knew he would
feel the touch and would wince. She had put her
finger at once on the weak point of the situation he
was creating for himself.

24 — 2

Philip was vexed at his own weakness ; as vexed
as he was surprised. He could not charge Salome
with having laid a trap for him, nevertheless he felt
as if he had fallen into one. He had sufficient consciousness
of the course he had taken to be aware
that Mrs. Sidebottom had given the impetus which
had shot him, unprepared, into an engagement. He
certainly liked Salome. There was not a girl he
knew whom he esteemed more highly. He respected
her for her moral worth, and admired her for her
beauty. She was not endowed with wealth by
fortune, and yet, if she came to him she would not
come poor, for she was jointured with the four thousand
pounds which he had undertaken to set apart
for her.

That he could be happy with Salome he did not
question ; but he was not partial to her mother, whom
he regarded, not as a vulgar, but as an ordinary
woman. She had not the refinement of Salome, nor
the vivacity of Janet. How two such charming girls
should have been turned out from such a mould as
Mrs. Cusworth was a marvel to Philip ; but then it is
precisely the same enigma that all charming girls present

to young men who look at them, and then at their
mothers, and cannot believe that these girls will intime
be even as their mothers. The glow-worm is surrounded
by a moony halo till mated, and then appears
but an ordinary grub, and the birds assume rainbow
tints whilst thinking of nesting, and then hop about
as dowdy, draggle-feathered fowls.

It was true that Philip had requested Mrs. Cusworth
to remain in his house before he proposed to her
daughter ; it was true also that he had asked to be
received at her table before he thought of an alliance
; but it was one thing to have this old creature
as a housekeeper, and another thing to be saddled
with her as mother-in-law. Moreover, ft was by no
means certain but that Mrs. Cusworth might develop
new and unpleasant peculiarities of manner or temper,
as mother-in-law, which would be held in control so
long as she was housekeeper, just as change of climate
or situation brings out humours and rashes which
were latent in the blood, and unsuspected. Some
asthmatic people breathe freely on gravel, but are
wheezy on clay; and certain livers become torpid
below a hundred feet from the sea-level, and are

active above that line. So sirs. Cusworth might
prove amiable and commonplace in a situation of
subordination, but would manifest self - assertion
and cock-a-boo{>edness when lifted into a sphere of
xaAonty.

According to me classic fable, Epithets — that is,
AfterdKN^it — filled the world with discomfort and
unrest ; whereas Prometheus — that is, Forethought —
spied muYersal Lessing on mankind.

For once, Philip had not invoked Prometheus, and
DOW, in revenge, Epithets opened his box and sent
forti a thousand disquieting considerations. But it
is always so — ^wli^her we act with forethought or
witlioiiL ^Mmedieas is never napping. He is sure
to open his box when an act is beyond recalL

In old English brief, the fairies that met men and
w€» tfaeir lowe were one-faced beings, convex as seen
from the profit, concave when viewed from the rear.
It is so with every bies^ng ardently desired, every
object of ambition. We are drawn towards it, testify
to its solidity ; and only when we have turned
land it do we perceive its vanity. No man has ever
taken a decided step without a look back and a bitter

laugh. \\'here he saw perfection he sees defect, everything
on which he had reckoned is reversed to his
eyes.

In Philip Pennycomequick's case there had been
no ardent looking forward, no idealization of Salome,
no painting of the prospect with fancy's brush ; nevertheless,
now when he had committed himself, and
fixed his fate, he stood breathless, aghast, fearful
vh^t next might be re-.e?/.ei to his started eyes.
H. :3-st life had been : : :: charm to him, it had
inspired him with disgust ; but the ignorance in which
s as to what the future had in store, filled him
with vague apprehension.

He was alarmed at his own weakness. He could
no longer trust himself; his faith in his own prudence
was shaken. It is said that the stoutest hearts fail in
an earthquake, for then all confidence in stability
goes ; but there is something more demoralizing than
the stagger of the earth under our feet, and that is
the reel and quake of our own self-confidence. Alien
we lose trust in ourselves, our faith in the future is
lost

There are moments in the might when the consequences

of our acts appear to us as nightmares,
oppressing and terrifying us. A missionary put a
signifying-glass into the hand of a Brahmin, and
bade him look through it at a drop of water. When
the Hindu saw under his eye a crystal world full of
monsters, he put the glass aside, and perished of thirst
rather than swallow another animated drop of fluid.
Fancy acts to us like that inconsiderate missionary,
shows us the future, and shows it to us peopled with
horrors, and the result is sometimes the paralysis of
effort, the extinction of ambition. There are moments
in the day, as in the night, when we look through the
lens into the future, and see forms that smite us with
numbness. Such a moment was that Philip underwent
in his own room. He saw Mrs. Cusworth
develop into a prodigious nuisance ; needy kinsfolk
of his wife swimming as sponges in the crystal element
of the future, with infinite capacity for suction ; Janet's
coquetry break through her widow's weeds. He saw
more than that. He had entered on a new career,
taken the management of a thriving business, to
which he had passed through no apprenticeship, and
which, therefore, with the best intentions, he might

mismanage and bring to failure. What if he should
have a family, and ruin come upon him then ?

Philip wiped his brow, on which some cold moisture
had formed in drops. Was he weak ? What man is
not weak when he is about to venture on an untried
path, and knows not whither it may lead ? Only
such as have no sense of the burden of responsibilities
are free from moments of depression and alarm such
as came on Philip now.

It is not the sense of weakness and dread of the
future stealing over the heart that makes a man weak ;
it is the yielding to it, and, because of the possible
consequences, abandoning initiative.

With Philip the dread passed quickly. He had
youth, and youth is hopeful ; and he had a vast
recuperative force of self-confidence, which speedily
rallied after the blow dealt his assurance. When he
had recovered his balance of mind and composure of
manner, he descended the stairs to call on Mrs. Bosworth.


He found Janet in the room with her. Salome had
retired to her own chamber, to solitude, of which she
felt the need.

Philip spoke cheerfully to the old lady, and accepted
Janet's sallies with good humour.

You will promise to be kind to Calomel said Mrs.
Cusworth. ' Indeed she deserves kindness ; she is so
good a child.'

Of that have no doubt'
And you will really love her ?'
I ought to be a hearty lover,' said Philip, with a
slight smile, ' for I am a hearty hater, and proverbially
the one qualifies for the other. Love and hatred are
the two poles of the magnet ; a weakly energized
needle that hardly repels at one end, will not vigorously
attract at the other.'

But surely you hate no one !'

'Do I not? I have been driven to the verge of it
to-day, by my aunt; but I pardon her because of the
consequences that sprang out of her behaviour. She
exasperated me to such a degree that I found courage
to speak, and but for the stimulus applied to me,
might have failed to make a bid for what I have now
secured.'

I am sorry to think that you hate anyone,' said
the old lady. 'We cannot command our likes and

dislikes, but we can hold hatred in check, which is an
unchristian sentiment.'

Then in hatred I am a heathen. I shall become
a good Christian in time under Salome's tuition. I
shall place myself unreservedly at her feet as a catechumen.'


Sometimes,' said Janet, laughing, ' love turns to
hate, and hate to love. A bishop's crosier is something
like your magnetic needle. At one end is a
pastoral crook, and at the other a spike, and in a
careless hand the crook that should reclaim the
errant lamb may be turned, and the spike transfix
it'

I can no more conceive of love for Salome altering
its quality than I can imagine my detestation — no, I
will call it hate, for a certain person becoming converted
to love.'

But whom do you hate — not your aunt ?'

No ; the man who ruined my father, made his life
a burden to him, turned his heart to wormwood, lost
him his brother's love, and his sister's regard — though
that latter was no great loss — deprived him of his
social position, threw him out of the element in which

alone he could breathe, and bade fair to mar my life
also.'

I never heard of your troubles,' said sirs. Bosworth
; ' Mr. Pennycomequick did not speak to us of
your father. He was very reserved about family
matters.'

He never forgave my father so long as the breath
was in him. That was like a Pennycomequick. Weare
slow in forming attachments or dislikes, but when
formed we do not alter. And I — I shall never forgive
the man who spoiled my father's career, and well-nigh
spoiled mine

Who was that, and how did he manage it ?' asked
Janet.

How did he manage it ? Why, he first induced
my father to draw his money out of this business,
and then swindled him out of it — out of almost every
pound he had. By his rascality he reduced my poor
father from being a man comfortably off to one in
straitened circumstances ; he deprived him of a home,
drove him — can you conceive of a worse fate ? — to
live and die in furnished lodgings.'

Mrs. Cusworth did not speak. She was a little



.me. He had c

I see,' continued Philip, * that I have alarmed you
by the strength of my feelings. If you had endured
what my father and I have endured, knowing that it
was attributable to one man, then, also, you would bea
heathen in your feelings towards him and all belonging
to him.'

The old lady and her daughter no longer exchanged
glances; they looked on the ground.

However,' said Philip, in a lighter tone, and the
shadow left his face, 'it is an innocuous feeling. I
know nothing more of the man since he robbed my
father. I do not know where he is, whether he be
still alive. He is probably dead. I have heard no
tidings of him since a rumour reached us that he had
gone to America, where, if he has died, I have sufficient
Christianity in me to be able to say, " Peace to
his ashes !" '

He looked at Mrs. Cusworth. The old woman was
strangely agitated, her face of the deadly hue that
flesh assumes when the blood has retreated to the
heart.

Janet was confused and uneasy — but that was
explicable. Her mother's condition accounted for it.

Mr. John Dale !' The maid opened the door and
introduced the doctor from Bridlington.

'Mr. Dale!' Janet and her mother started up and
drew a long breath, as though relieved by his appearance
from a situation embarrassing and painful.

Oh, Mr. Dale ! how glad, how heartily glad we are
to see you l'

Then turning, first to Philip and next to the surgeon,
Janet said, with a smile : * Now I must introduce you
my guardian and my brother-in-law prospective.'

A RECOGNITION.

Jeremiah Pennycomequick remained quietly at
his friend's house at Bridlington for some weeks.

As so much time has slipped away since your dis-appearances
said John Dale, ' it does not much matter
whether a little more be sent tobogganing after it. I
can't go to Mergatroyd very well just now ; I am busy,
and have a delicate case on my hands that I will not
entrust to others. If you can and will wait my convenience,
I promise you I will go. If not — go yourself.
But, upon my word, I should dearly like to beat
Mergatroyd to witness your resurrection.'

Jeremiah waited. He had been weakened by his
illness, and had become alarmed about himself He
shrank from exertion, from strong emotion, fearing for
his heart. In an amusing story by a Swiss novelist, a

man believes that he has a fungus growing on his
heart, and he comes to live for this fungus, to eat only
such things as he is convinced will disagree with the
fungus, to engage in athletic sports, with the hope of
shaking off the fungus, to give up reading the newspapers,
because he ceases to take interest in politics,
being engrossed in his fungus, and finally to discover
that he has been subjected to a delusion, the fungus
existing solely in his imagination.

Mr. Pennycomequick had become alarmed about
his heart ; he put his finger periodically to his pulse
to ascertain its regularity, imagined himself subject
to spasms, to feel stabs ; he suspected numbness,
examined his lips and eyelids at the glass to discover
whether he were more or less bloodless than the day
before, and shunned emotion as dangerous to a heart
whose action was abnormal. The rest from business
the relief from responsibility, were good for him. The
even life at his friend's house suited him. But he did
not rapidly gain strength.

He walked on the downs when the weather permitted,
not too fast lest he should unduly distress his
heart, nor too slowly lest he should catch cold. He

VOL. II. 25

was dieted by his doctor, and ate docilely what was
meted to him ; if he could have had his sleep and
wakefulness measured as well, he would have been
content, but sleep would not come when called,
banished by thoughts of the past, and questions concerning
the future.

John Dale was a pleasant man to be with ; fond of
a good story, and able to tell one ; fond of a good
dinner, and — being a bachelor — able to keep a cook
who could furnish one ; fond of good wine, and with a
cellar stocked with it. He was happy to have his old
comrade with him ; and Jeremiah enjoyed being the
guest of John Dale, enjoyed discussing old acquaintances,
reviewing old scenes, refreshing ancient jokes.

Thus time passed, and passed pleasantly, though
not altogether satisfactorily to Jeremiah, who was
impatient at being unwell, and uneasy about his
heart.

At length John Dale fulfilled his undertaking; he
went to Mergatroyd to see how matters progressed
there. He arrived, as has already been stated, at a
moment when his appearance afforded relief to the
widow. He talked with Janet, and with Salome ; but

he had not many hours at his disposal, and his interviews
with the Cusworths were necessarily brief. He
was obliged to consult with Janet about her affairs,
and that occupied most of his time. From Salome he
learned nothing concerning the will more than what
he had already heard. She told him no particulars ;
and, indeed, considered it unnecessary to discuss it, asher
engagement to Philip altered her prospects.

'But, bless me, this must have been a case of love
at first sight !' said Mr. Dale. ' Why, Salome, you did
not know him till the other day !'

No ; I had not seen him till after the death of my
dear uncle, but I, somehow, often thought of and a
little fretted about him. I was troubled that dear
uncle had not made friends with his brother, and that
he kept his nephew at arm's length. I pitied Mr.
Philip before I knew him. I could not hear that he
had done anything to deserve this neglect ; and what
little was told me about the cause of difference between
uncle and his brother did not make me think that the
estrangement ought to last and be extended to the
next generation. In my stupid way I sometimes tried
to bring uncle to another mind, and to think more

25 — 2

kindly of them. I was so grieved to think that Mr.
Philip should grow up in ignorance of the nobility and
worth of his uncle's character. Do you know — Mr.
Dale — one reason why I am glad that I am going to
marry Philip is that I may have a real right to call
Mr. Pennycomequick my uncle ? Hitherto I called
him so to himself, and mamma, and one or two others,
but I knew that he was no relation.'

How about the identification of Mr. Jeremiah's
body .'*' asked the surgeon.

With that I had nothing to do. I was not calledon
to give my opinion. Mrs. Sidebottom swore to it.
The body wore the stout that I know belonged to
Mr. Pennycomequick, but that was all. How he
came by it I cannot explain. Mrs. Sidebottom was
so convinced that her view was correct that she had
an explanation to give why the corpse wore hardly
any other clothes. I did not believe when it was
found, and I do not believe now, that the body was
that of uncle.'

But you do not doubt that Mr. Pennycomequick is
dead .?'

Oh no! of course not. If he had been alive he

would have returned to us. There was nothing to
hinder him from doing so.'

Nothing of which you are aware.'

John Dale heard a favourable account of Philip
from everyone to whom he spoke, except Janet, who
did not appreciate his good qualities, and was keenly
alive to his defects. He could not inquire at the
factory, but he was a shrewd man, and he picked up
opinions from the station-master, from some with
whom he walked up the hill, from a Mergatroyd
tradesman who travelled with him in the same .
All were decidedly in Philip's favour.
The popular voice was appreciative. He was regarded
as a man of business habits and integrity of character.

John Dale returned to Bridlington.

News for you, old boy !' shouted he, as he entered
his house, and then looked steadily at Jeremiah to see
how he would receive the news he brought. ' What do
you think ? Wonders will never cease. Salome *

Well, what about Salome .?'

Jeremiah's mouth quivered. John Dale smiled.
Young people naturally gravitate towards each other.
There is only one commandment given to men that

receives general and cheerful acceptance, save from a
few perverse creatures such as you and me — and that
commandment is to be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth. Salome is engaged to be married.'

Jeremiah face became like chalk. He put his
hand over his eyes, then hastily withdrew it. Dale
saw his emotion, and went on talking so as to cover
it and give him time to master it. ' I have read somewhere,
that in mediaeval times in the German cities
the marriageable young men were summoned before
the Burgomaster on New Year's Day, and ordered to
get married before Easter on pain of expulsion from
the city. Bachelorhood was regarded as unpatriotic
if not criminal. It is a pity this law was not in force
here a few years ago — and that you and I were not
policed into matrimony. Now it is too late ; both of
us have acquired bachelor habits, and it would be
cruelty to force us into a condition which we have
eschewed, and for which we have ceased to be fitted.'

Whom is she going to marry ?' asked Jeremiah,
controlling his emotions by an effort.

No other than your nephew Philip. I will tell you
what I know.'

Then John Dale gave his friend a succinct account
of what he had heard. He told him what he had
learned of Philip.

Do you grudge her to your nephew?' asked Dale.

I do not know Philip,' answered Jeremiah curtly.

I heard nothing but golden opinions of him said
Dale. ' The only person to qualify these was that
puss, Janet, and she of course thinks no one good
enough for her dear sister Salome.'

Jeremiah's heart swelled. How easy it would befor
him to spoil all the schemes that had been hatched
since his disappearance. Philip was reckoning on
becoming a well-to-do manufacturer; on founding a
household ; was looking forward to a blissful domestic
life enriched with the love of Salome. Jeremiah had
but to show himself; and all these plans would disappear
as the desert mirage ; Philip would have to
return to his lawyer's clerkship and abandon every
prospect of domestic happiness and commercial
success.

One thing more,' said Dale, ' I do not quite like
the looks of my little pet, Janet. Her troubles have
worn her more than I suspected Besides she never

had the robustness of her sister. It is hard that wits
and constitution should go to one of the twins, and
leave the other scantily provided with both.'

Jeremiah said no more. He was looking gloomily
before him into vacancy. John Dale declared he
must visit his patients, and left his friend.

Jeremiah continued for some minutes in a brown
study ; and then he, also, rose, put on his overcoat
and muffled, and went forth to the cliffs, to muse on
what he had heard, and to decide his future course.

The tidings of Salome's engagement were hard to
bear. He thought he had taught himself to think of
her no longer in the light of a possible wife. His
good sense had convinced him that it would be
unwise for him to think of marriage with her ; it told
him also that he was as yet too infirm of purpose to
trust himself in her presence.

Could he now return ? If he did, in what capacity j*
as the maker or marre of Philip's fortunes ? If he
took him into partnership, so as to enable him to
marry, could he — Jeremiah — endure the daily spectacle
of his nephew's happiness ? — endure to witness the
transfer to another of that love and devotion which

had been given to him ? And if he banished Philip,
what would be the effect on Salome ? Would she not
resent his return, and regret that he had not died in the
flood ? If he were to allow those in Mergatroyd to know
that he was alive it would be almost the same thing
as returning into their midst, as it would disconcert
their arrangements effectually. The wisest course for
himself, and the kindest to them, would be for him to
depart from England for a twelvemonth or more,
without giving token that he still existed, and then
on his return he would be able to form an unprejudiced
opinion of his nephew, and act accordingly.
If he found him what, according to Dcde's account,
he promised to become — a practical, hardworking,
honourable manager — he would leave the conduct of
the business in his hands, only reclaiming that share
which had been grasped by Mrs. Sidebottom, which,

moreover, he would feel a perhaps malicious

pleasure in taking from her.

He seated himself on one of the benches placed at
intervals on the down for the convenience of visitors,
and looked out to sea. The sun shone, and the day,
for a winter's day, was warm. Very little air stirred,

and Jeremiah thought that to rest himself on the
bench could do him no harm, so long as he did not
remain there till he felt chilled.

As he sat on the bench, immersed in his troubled
thoughts, a gentleman came up, bowed, and took a
place at his side.

Beautiful weather ! beautiful weather !' said the
stranger, 'and such weather, I am glad to say, is
general at Bridlington. Of the three hundred and
sixty-five days in the year the average of days on
which the sun shines is two hundred and seventy-three
decimal four. When we get an interruption of
what we regard as bad weather, oh ! what murmurers,
sad murmurers we are against a beneficent Providence.
The so-called bad weather dissipates the insalubrious
gases and brings in a fresh supply of invigorating
ozone, life-sustaining oxygen, and the other force-stimulating
elements — elements.'

Jeremiah nodded. He was not well pleased to be
drawn into conversation at this moment, when occupied
with his own thoughts.

" La santa avant tout," say the French,' continued
the gentleman, 'with that terseness which characterizes

the Gallic tongue — the tongue, sir.' When he repeated
a word he ruffled and swelled and turned
himself about like a pluming turkey, and as though
believing that he had said a good thing. ' 1 agree
with them ; I would subordinate every consideration
to health, every consideration, sir, except religion,
which towers, sir, steeples and weather-cocks high
above every other mundane con — sid — er — action.' Ashe
pronounced each syllable apart, as though each
was a pearl he dropped from his lips, he turned
himself about, scattering his precious particles, till he
faced Jeremiah. ' You, yourself, sir, I perceive, are
in search of that inestimable prize, health — Hygiene,
I mean.'

Mr. Pennycomequick was startled at this random
shot, and looked more closely at his interlocutor. He
saw a man of about his own height, with long hair,
whiskers that were elaborately curled, and perhaps
darkened with antimony ; a handsome man, but with
a mottled face and a nose inclined to redness. There
was a something — Jeremiah could not tell what, it
was in his face — that made him suspect he had seen
the man before ; or, if he had not seen him before.

had seen someone like him. He looked again at his
face, not steadily, lest he should seem discourteous,
but hastily, and withal searchingly. No, he had not
seen him previously, and yet there was certainly
something in his face that was familiar.

'You are not, I presume, aware,' continued the
gentleman, ' that there is a very remarkable and
unique feature of this bay which points it out specially
as the sanatorium of the future. The iodine in the
seaweed here — the iodine, sir — reaches a percentage
unattained elsewhere. It has been analysed, and,
whereas along the seaside resorts on the English
Channel it is two decimal four to five decimal one of
potassa, there is a steady accession of iodine in the
seaweed, as you mount the east coast — the ease coast,
sir — till it reaches its maximum at the spot where we
now are ; where the proportions are almost reversed,
the iodine standing at five, or, to be exact, four
decimal eight, and the potassa at three decimal two.
This is a very interesting fact, sir, and as important as
it is interesting — as it is in-ter-est-ing.'

The gentleman worked his elbows, as though uncomfortable
in his overcoat, that did not fit him.

The iodine is suspended in the atmosphere, as
also is the ozone ; but it is concentrated in the algae.
Conceive of the advantage to humanity, and contemplate
the beneficence of Providence, not only ingathering
into one focus the distributed iodine of the
universe, but also in discovering this fact to me, and
enabling me and a few others to whom I confide the
secret, to realize out of the iodine, I will not say
a competence, but a colossal fortune.'

'And pray,' said Jeremiah, with a tone of sarcasm
in his voice, ' what is the good of iodine when you
have it ?'

What is the good — the good of iodine ?'

The gentleman turned round solidly and looked at
Mr. Pennycomequick from head to foot. ' Do you
mean to tell me, sir, that you do not know for what
purpose an all-wise Providence has put iodine in the
world } Why, it is one of the most potent, I may say
it is the on/)/ agent for the reduction of muscular,
vascular, osseous, abnormal secretions.' From the
way in which he employed such words as vascular,
osseous, abnormal, and secretions, it was apparent that
they gave the speaker thorough enjoyment to use

them. * For any and every form of disorder of the
cartilaginous system it is sovereign — sovereign.'

For the heart also ?' asked Jeremiah, becoming
interested in iodine.

For all cardiac affections — supreme. It is known
as yet to very few — only to such as know it through
me — that Bridlington is a spot so abounding in iodine,
so marked out by nature as a resort for all those who
suffer from glandular affections, stiff joints, rickets,
cardinal infirmities — and, according to a system I am
about to make public — tubercular phthisis.'

He turned himself about and shook his mouth, as
shaking comfits out of a bag, * tu-ber-cular phthi-sis !'

After a pause, in which he smiled, well pleased
with himself, he said, * Perhaps you will condescend
to take my card, and if I can induce you to take a
share in lodinopolis '

lodinopolis ?'

The great sanatorium of the future. A company
is being formed to buy up land, to erect ranges of
beautiful marine villas, to rear palatial hotels. There
is a low church here already and if we can persuade
his grace the Archbishop to help us to a high church

also, the place will be ready, the nest prepared for the

birds. Then we propose to give a bonus to every

physician who recommends a patient to Bridlington,

for the first three or four years, till the tide of fashion

has set in so strong that we can dispense with bonuses,

the patients themselves insisting on being sent here.

What said Ledru Rolling ? " I am the leader of the

people, therefore I must follow them." ' He handed

his card to Mr. Pennycomequick, who looked at it

and saw :

Mr. Beaple Yeo,

Financier.'

Every now and then there came in the stranger's
voice an intonation that seemed familiar to Jeremiah ;
in itself nothing decided, but sufficient, like a scent,
to recall something, yet not pronounced enough to
enable him to determine what it was in the past that
was recalled. Again Jeremiah looked at the gentleman,
and his attention was all at once directed to his
great-coat.

How odd — how strange !' he muttered.

What, sir ? what is strange ?' asked the gentleman.
' That such a splendid opportunity of making

a fortune should lie at our feet — lie literally at our
feet, without figure of speech — for there it is, in the
seaweed, here it is, in the air we inhale, now humming

in the grass of the down ? Perhaps you may like '

he fumbled in his great-coat pocket.

Excuse me,' said Jeremiah, ' that overcoat bears

the most extraordinary resemblance to ' but he

checked himself

Made by my tailor in New Bond Street,' said Mr.
Yeo. ' Here, sir, is the prospectus. This is a speculation
on which not only large capitalists may embark,
but also the widow can contribute her mite, and reap
as they have sown, the capitalist receiving in proportion
as the widow — as the widow. I myself, guarantee
eighteen and a half per cent That I guarantee on
my personal security — but I reckon that the return
will be at the rate of twenty-four decimal three — the
decimal is important, because the calculation has been
strict.'

Mr. Pennycomequick ran his eye over the list of
managers.

You will see,' said Mr. Yeo, ' that our chairman is
the Earl of Schofield. His lordship has taken up a

hundred and twenty shares of ;^io each — the first call
is for five shillings per share.'

Earl Schofield !' murmured Mr. Pennycomequick.
Earl Schofield ! Earl Schofield ! I do not know
much of the peerage — not in my line — but the name
is familiar to me. Earl Schofield ! — Excuse me, but
there was a great scoundrel '

Hah !' interrupted Mr. Yeo, and waved his cane,
there is my secretary signalling to me from away
yonder on the dunes. Excuse me — I must go to
him.'

He rose and walked hastily away.

How very odd !' said Jeremiah. ' I could swear he
was in my great-coat.' He watched the man as he
strode away. * And that hat ! — surely I know that
also.'

VOL. II. 26

WITHOUT BELLS.

ViRGlLIUS, Bishop of Salzburg in the eighth century,
condemned the erroneous doctrine held by some that
we have antipodes. It was, no doubt, true that men in
the Middle Ages had not their antipodes, but it is
certainly otherwise now. Where our fathers' heads
were, there now are our feet. Everything is the reverse
in this generation of what it was in the last. Medicine
condemns those things which medicine did enjoin, and
enjoins those things which were forbidden. What our
parents revered that we turn into burlesque, and what
they cast aside as worthless that we collect and treasure.
Maxims that moulded the conduct in the last generation
are trampled underfoot in this, and principles thought
immutable are broken by the succeeding age, as royal
.seals are broken on the death of the sovereign. If

we were bred up b\- our fathers in high Toryism,
when of age we turn a somersault and pose as Social
Democrats ; if we learned the Gospel at our mother's
knee we profess Buddhism with the sprouting of our
whiskers. The social and moral barriers set up by our
fathers we throw down, and just as pigs when driven
in one direction turn their snouts the other way, so do
we — so do our children ; which is an evidence in favour
of Darwinianism, showing that the porcine character
still inheres.

It was regarded of old as a canon by romance
writers, that the final chapter of the last volume, be it
the seventh as in the days of Richardson, or the third
as in these of Muche and Smith, should end with the
marriage of the hero and heroine. A cruel and wayward
Fate held the couple apart through the entire
story but they came together in the end. And there
was a reason for this. Marriage is the climax of the
romance of life. It concludes one epoch and opens
another, and that which it opens is prosaic. It was
concluded, and concluded with some show of reason
that a romance should deal with the romantic period
of life and finish when that reaches its apogee.

26 — 2

The Parliament of Love at Toulouse in the twelfth
century laid down that love and marriage were mutually
exclusive terms ; that romance died to the sound of
wedding-bells, or at longest lingered to the expiration
of the honeymoon. This law has governed novelists
ever since. The ingenuity of the author has consisted
in devising impediments to the union of the lovers, and
in knocking them out of their way as the story neared
its conclusion.

But in this revolutionary age we have discarded the
rule ; and carried away by the innovating stream the
author of this tale has ventured to displace the marriage.
Had he been completely lost to reverence for
the ancient canons, in his desire to be original, he
would have opened his novel with a wedding procession,
strutting to the carriages over strewn flowers,
holding bouquets, with the pealing of wedding-bells,
whilst the bridegroom's man circulates, tipping the
parson, the curate, the pewopener, the sexton, the
clerk, the bell ringers, and all the other sharks that
congregate about a bridegroom, as the fish congregate
about a ship on board of which is a corpse. But, as
the author is still held in check by old rule, or prejudice,

and yet yields somewhat to the modern spirit of
relaxation, he compromises between the extremes,
and introduces the marriage in the middle of his tale.

In a novel, a marriage is always built up of much
romantic and picturesque and floral adjunct. It is
supposed necessarily to involve choral hymns, white
favours, bridal veils, orange blossoms, tears in the
bride, flaming cheeks in the bridegroom, speeches at
the breakfast, an old slipper, and a shower of rice.
Without these condiments a wedding is a very insipid
dish.

But here we are forced to innovate.

The marriage of Philip Pennycomequick and Salome
C us worth was hurried on ; there was no necessity for
delay, and it was performed in a manner so prosaic as
to void it of every feature of romance and refinement.

In the parish church there was morning prayer
every day at nine, and this service Salome frequently
attended.

On one morning — as it happened, a gray one, with
a spitting sky — Philip also attended matins, from ' the
wicked man ' to the final ' Amen.' When, however,
the service was concluded — a service attended by five

Sisters of Mercy and three devout ladies — the vicar,
instead of leaving the desk, coughed, blew his nose,
and glowered down the church.

Then the clerk began to fumble among some books,
the five Sisters of Mercy perked up, the devout ladies
who had moved from their seats towards the church
door were seized with a suspicion that something
unusual was about to take place, and hastily returned
to their places. The Sisters of Mercy had with them
one penitent, whom with sugar-plums they were
alluring into the paths of virtue. It at once occurred
to these religious women that to witness a wedding
would have an elevating, healthy effect on their penitent,
and they resolved to stay — for her sake, for her
sake only ; they, for their parts, being raised above
all mundane interests. Also, the servants of the
vicarage, which adjoined the churchyard, by some
means got wind of what was about to occur, and slipped
ulsters over their light cotton gowns, and tucked their
caps under pork-pie hats, and tumbled into church
breathing heavily.

Then Philip, trying to look as if nothing was about
to happen, came out of his pew, and in doing so

stumbled over a hassock, knocked down his umbrella
which leaned against the pew, and sent some hymns
and church services about the floor. Then he walked
up the church, and was joined by Salome and her sister
and mother. No psalm was sung, no ' voice breathed
o'er Eden,' but the Sisters of Mercy intoned the
responses with vociferous ardour, and the penitent took
the liveliest interest in the ceremonial, expressing her
interest in giggles and suppressed ' Oh my's !'

Finally, after ' amazement,' the parson, clerk, bride
and bridegroom, and witnesses adjourned to the vestry,
where the vicar made his customary joke about the
lady signing her surname for the last time.

The bell ringers knew nothing about the wedding,
and having been forewarned were not present to ring
a peal. No carriage with white favours to horses and
driver was at the door of the church — no cab was kept
at Mergatroyd — no rice was thrown, no slipper cast.

The little party walked quietly and unobserved
back to their house under umbrellas, and on reaching
home partook of a breakfast that consisted of fried
fish, bacon, eggs, toast, butter, and home-made marmalade.
No guests were present, no speeches were

made, no healths drunk. There was to be no wedding
tour. Philip could not leave the mill, and the honeymoon
must be passed in the smoky atmosphere of
Mergatroyd, and without the intermission of the daily
routine of work.

As Philip walked home with Salome under the same
umbrella, from the points of which the discoloured
water dropped, he said in a low tone to her, ' I have,
as you desired, offered your mother to manage her
affairs for her. She has accepted my offer, and I
have looked through her accounts. She has very
little money.'

I do not suppose she can have much ; my poor
father died before he was in a position to save any
considerable sum.'

She has about five hundred pounds in Indian railway
bonds, and a couple of hundred in a South
American loan, and some three hundred in home railways
— about fifteen to sixteen hundred pounds in all
that is to say, she had this a little while ago.'

And has it still, no doubt.'

No ; you yourself told me she had met with
losses.*

She informed me that she had, but I cannot understand
how this can have been. I doubt entirely that
she met with losses.'

But she allowed me to see her book, and she has
sold out some stock — in fact, between two and three
hundred pounds' worth. She did that almost immediately
after my uncle's death.'

But she has the money realized, I suppose.'

Not at all. It is gone.'

Gone r

She cannot and will not account for it to me,
except by the vague explanation that she had a sudden
and unexpected call upon her which she was forced to
meet.'

But — she said nothing about this to me. It is
very odd.'

It is, as you say, odd. It is, of course, possible
that Janet may have had something to do with it, but
I cannot say ; your mother will not enlighten me.'

I cannot understand this,' said Salome musingly.

I regret my offer,' said Philip. ' I would not have
made it if I had not thought I should be met with
candour, and given the information I desired

When Mrs. Sidebottom heard that the marriage
had actually taken place, then her moral sense reared
like a cob unaccustomed to the curb.

It is a scandal 1' she exclaimed, ' and so shortly
after my sweet brother's death. A bagman's daughter,
too!'

Uncle Jeremiah died in November,' said the captain.


Well, and this is March. To marry a bagman's
daughter in March ! It is a scandal, an outrage on
the family

My uncle would have had no objections, I suppose.
Philip is as good as Mr. Baynes.'

As good ! How you talk, Lamb ! as if all the
brains in your skull had gone to water. Philip is a
Pennycomequick, and Baynes is — of course, a Baynes.'

What of that ?'

Mr. Baynes was a manufacturer.'

So is Philip.'

Well, yes ; for his sins. But then he is allied tous
who have dropped an ;/, and capitalized a Q, and
adopted and inserted a hyphen. Mr. Baynes was not
in the faintest degree related to us. Philip has behaved

with gross indecency. A bagman's daughter within
five months of his uncle's death ! Monstrous. If she
had been his social equal we could have waived the
month — but, a bagman's daughter ! I feel as if allied
to blackberries.'

Her father was about to be taken into partnership
when he died,' argued the captain.

If he had been a partner, that would have been
another matter, and I should not have been so pained
and mortified ; but he was not, and a man takes his
position by the place he occupied when he died, not
by that which he might have occupied had he lived.
Why, if Sidebottom had lived and been elected
Mayor of Nottingham in the year of the Prince's
visit he might have been knighted, but that does not
make me Lady Sidebottom.'

You call him a bagman,' said Captain Lambert.
• But I should say he was a commercial traveller.'

And how does that mend matters ? Do seven
syllables make a difference ? A dress-improver is no
other than a bustle, and an influenza than a cold in
the head.'

'All I know is,' said the captain, ' that his daughters

are deuced pretty girls, and as good a pair of ladies as
ycu will meet anywhere. IVe known some of your
grand ladies say awfully stupid things, and I can't
imagine Janet doing that; and some do rather mean
things, and Salome could not by any chance do what
was unkind cr ungenerous. I've a deuce of a mind
to propose to Janet, as I have been chiselled out of
my one hundred nd fifty.'

Chiselled out !'

'Yes, out of my annuity. If the will had been valid
I should have had that of my own ; but now I have
nothing, and am forced to go to you for every penny
to buy tobacco. It is disgusting. I'll marry Janet.
I am glad she is a widow and available. She has a
hundred and fifty per annum of her own, and is certainly
left something handsome by Baynes.'

'Fiddlestick!' exclaimed Mrs. Sidebottom.

I will, indeed, unless I am more liberally treated.
I hate to be dependent on you for everything. I wish
I had served a caveat against your getting administration
of the property, and don't something to get the
old will put to rights.'

Mrs. Sidebottom turned green with anger and alarm.

I will go to Philip's wedding breakfast, or dinner, or
dance, or whatever he is going to have, and snatch a
kiss from little Janet, pull her behind the window-curtains
and propose for her hundred and fifty, I
will

Lambert's mother was very angry, but she said no
more. She knew the character of her son ; he would
not bestir himself to do what he threatened. His
bark was worse than his bite. He fumed and then
turned cold.

But Philip gave no entertainment on his wedding-day,
invited no one to his house; consequently Lambert
had not the opportunity he desired for pulling
Janet behind the window-curtains, snatching a kiss
and proposing for her hundred and fifty pounds.

I shall refuse to know them,' said Mrs. Side-bottom.


And return to York ?' asked her son.

I can't leave at once,' answered his mother. ' I
have the house on my hands. Besides, I must have
an eye on the factory. Lamb, if you had any spirit
in you, you would learn book-keeping, so as to be
able to control the accounts. I do not trust Philip ;

how can I, when he marries a bagman's daughter ?
It is a proof of deficiency in common sense, and a
lack of sense of rectitude. Who was Salome's mother ?
We do not know her maiden name. These sort of
people are like diatoms that fill the air, and no one
can tell whence they came and what they are. They
are everywhere about us and all equally insignificant.'

Mrs. Sidebottom had but the ears of her son into
which to pour her discontent, for she had no acquaintances
in Mergatroyd.

On coming there she had been met by the manufacturers'
wives in a cordial spirit. Her brother was
highly respected, and they hastened to call on her
and express their readiness to do her any kindness
she might need as a stranger in the town. She would
have been received into the society there — a genial
one — had she been inclined. But she was supercilious.
She allowed the ladies of Mergatroyd to understand
that she belonged to another and a higher order of
beings, and that the days in which the gods and
goddesses came down from Olympus to hold converse
with men were over.

The consequence was that she was left to herself

and now she grumbled at the duchess of a place which
was only dull to her, because of her own want of tact.
No more kindly, friendly people are to be found in
England than the north country manufacturers ; but
the qualities of frankness, directness, which are conspicuous
in them, were precisely those qualities which
Mrs. Sidebottom was incapable of appreciating, were
qualities which to her mind savoured of barbarism.

And yet Mrs. Sidebottom belonged, neither by
birth nor by marriage nor by acceptance, to a superior
class. She was the daughter of a manufacturer, and
the widow of a small country attorney. As the paralytic
in the sheep-market waited for an angel to put
him into the pool, so did Mrs. Sidebottom spend her
time and exhaust her powers in vain endeavours to
get dipped in the cleansing basin of county society,
in which she might be purged of the taint of trade.
And, like the paralytic of the story, she had to wait,
and was disappointed annually, and had the mortification
of seeing some neighbour or acquaintance step
past her and enter the desired circle, whilst she was .
making ready and beating about for an introducer.

She attended concerts, public balls, went to missionary

meetings ; she joined working parties for
charitable objects, took stalls at bazaars, hoping by
these means to get within the vortex of the fashionable
world and be drawn in, but was always disappointed.
Round every eddy may be seen sticks
and straws that spin on their own axes ; they make
dashes inwards, and are repelled, never succeeding in
being caught by the coil of the whirlpool. So was
she ever hovering on the outskirts of the aristocratic
ring, ever aiming to pierce it, and always missing her
object.

A poem by Kenrick, written at the coronation of
George III., represents that celebrated beauty and
toast, the Countess of Coventry, recently deceased,
applying to Pluto for permission to return to earth
and mingle in the entertainments of the Coronation.
Pluto gives his consent ; she may go — but as a ghost
remain unseen.

Then says the Countess :

A fig for fine sights, if unseen one's fine face.
What signifies seeing, if one's self is not seen ?'

So Mrs. Sidebottom found that it was very little
pleasure to her to hover about genteel society, and

see into it, without herself being seen in it. Her
descent to Mergatroyd was in part due to a rebuff
lie had met with at York, quite as much as to her
desire to conciliate her half-brother. She trusted
that when she returned to York she would be so
much richer than before that this would afford her
the requisite momentum which might impel her within
the magic circle, within which, when once rotating,
she would be safe, confident of being able to maintain
her place.

My dear Lamb,' said she, ' I may inform you, in
the strictest confidence, that I see my way to becoming
wealthy, really wealthy. There is a speculation on
foot, of which I have received information through
my York agent, to buy up land and build a great
health resort near Bridlington, to be called lodinopolis
or Neville, the name is not quite fixed. No one is
to know anything about it but the few who take preference
shares. I am most anxious to realize some of
the securities that came to me through my darling
brother's death, so as to invest. The manager is
called Beaple Yeo.'

Never heard of him.'

VOL. II. 27

sand the chairman is the Earl of Schofield. Mr

Beaple Yeo and the Earl together guarantee seventeen
per cents-think of that, Lamb! on their own
guarantee-an Earl, too-and the funds are only
three or three and a half!'

HYMEN.

A TWELVEMONTH slipped away, easily, happily ; to
none more so than to Philip Pennycomequick.

To the Fates, how strange must seem the readiness
with which women plunge into matrimony, and the
shyness with which some men look at it ! for matrimony
is emphatically an institution designed for the
comfort of man irrespective of the interests of the
woman. The married man ceases to have care about
his meals, they come to him ; he gives no thought to
his servants, they arc managed for him ; he is not
troubled about his clothing, it now hangs together,
whereas formerly it fell to pieces.

When the married man prepares to shave, the soap-dish
is full, his tidy is clean, his razors in order ; the
bachelor finds all in confusion. Before marriage, he

27 — 2

who had a cook was served with India-rubber ; after
it, he gets his meat succulent and well cooked. Before
marriage, the linen went to the wash, and only half
returned, silk handkerchiefs returned as cotton, stockings
came odd, jerseys in holes, sheets in rags, and
shirt-fronts enamelled with iron-mould ; after marriage,
everything returns in good condition and in proper
number.

But to the woman, matrimony is by no means a
relief from cares. On the contrary, the woman passes
through the ring into an arena of battle. We are
told by anthropologists that in the primitive condition
of society a subdivision of tasks took place ;
one set of men undertook to till the earth and
manage the domestic animals, whilst another girded
on their arms and defended the infant community.
These latter, for their services, were fed by the tillers,
housed, and clothed with food they had not grown,
houses they had not builded, clothing they had not
woven. The same subdivision of labour continues
still in the family, where the man is the tiller and
toiler, and the woman is the military element. She
marches round the confines of his house, fights daily

battles with those foes of domestic felicity — the
servants. When they oversleep themselves, she
routs them out of their beds ; when they neglect
the dusting, she flies in pursuit to bring them to their
duties ; when they are impudent, she drives them out
of the house.

With what unflagging zeal does she maintain her
daily conflicts ! How she countermines, discovers ambushes,
circumvent, throws open the gates, and charges
the foe !

Now consider what was the life of the girl before
she married. She had no worries, no warfare; she
was petted, admired ; she enjoyed herself, indulged
her caprices unrestrained, gave way to her humours
unrebuked. Her bonnets, her dresses were given
to her, she had no care what she might eats anymore
than the lilies of the field, only, unlike them,
devoting herself to the thoughts of her clothing, for
which, however, she had not to pay. Unmarried
girls were anciently termed spinsters, and are so
derisively still in the banns, for they formerly spun
the linen for their future homes ; now they toil not,
neither do they spin.

Then comes marriage, and all is changed. They
enter into a world of discords and disagreements.
They have to grow long nails and to sharpen their
teeth ; they have to haggle with shopkeepers, fight
their servants ; whereas the husbands, those sluggard
kings of creation, smack their lips over their dinners,
and lounge in their easy-chairs, and talk politics with
their friends, and smile, and smile, unconscious of the
struggles and passions that rage downstairs.

The eyes that in the girl, looked at the beauties of
creation, in the married woman search out delinquencies
in their domestics, and defects in the household
furniture. The eyes that looked for violets now
peer for cobwebs ; that lingered lovingly on the sunset
glow, now examine the coal-bill ; and the car that
listed to the song of Philomel, is now on the alert fora
male voice in the kitchen. The nose that of old inhaled
the perfume of the rose, now pokes into pots
and pans in quest of dripping.

From what has been said above, the reader may
conclude that the position of the wife, though a belligerent
one, is at all events regal. She is queen of
the house, and if she has trouble with her servants, it

is as a sovereign who has to resist revolutionary movements
among her subjects.

No more mistaken idea can well be entertained. As
the Pope writes himself, ' Servant of the servants of
Heaven,' so does the lady of the house subscribe herself
servant of the servants of the establishment. If
she searches into their shortcomings, remonstrates,
and resents them, it is as the subject criticising, murmuring
at, and revolting personally against the tyranny
of her oppressors. So far from being the head of the
house, she is the door-mat, trampled on, kicked, set at
nought, obliged to swallow all the dirt that is brought
into the house.

Marriage had produced a change in Philip. It had
made him less stony, angular, formal. Matrimony
often has a remarkable effect on those who enter into
it, reducing their peculiarities, softening their harshness,
and accentuating those points of similarity
which are to be found in the two brought into
close association, so that in course of time a singular
resemblance in character and features is observable
in married folk. In an old couple there is to be
seen occasionally a likeness as that of brother and

sister. This is caused by their being exposed to the
same caresses and the same strokes of fortune ; they
are weathered by the same breezes, moistened by the
same rains. In addition to the exterior forces moulding
a couple, comes the reciprocal action of the inner
powers — their passions, prejudices — so that they
recoil on each other. They come to think alike,
to feel alike, as well as to look alike. The man
unconsciously loses some of his ruggedness, and the
woman acquires some of his breadth and strength.
They become in some measure reflectors to each other,
the light one catches is cast on and brightens the
other, and they mirror whatever passes along the face
of the other.

The subtle, mysterious modelling process had begun
on Philip, although but recently married. Janet was
no longer in the house ; she had returned to France,
and as her constitution was delicate had followed
advice, and gone to the South for the winter.

Mrs. Sidebottom and the captain had shaken off
the dust from their feet against Mergatroyd, and had
returned to their favourite city, York, where they resumed
the interrupted gyrations about the whirlpool

of fashionable life, and Mrs. Sidebottom made her
usual rushes, still ineffectual, at its centre.

Consequently, Philip was left to the undisturbed
influence of Salome, and this influence affected him
more than he was conscious of, and would have allowed
was possible. He was very happy, but he was not
the man to confess it, least of all to his wife. As a
Canadian Indian deems it derogatory to his dignity
to express surprise at any wonder of civilization shown
him, so did Philip consider that it comported with his
dignity to accept all the comforts, the ease, the love
that surrounded him as though familiar with them
from the beginning. Englishmen who have been exposed
to tropic suns in Africa, have their faces
shrivelled and lined. When they returned to England,
in the soft, humid atmosphere the flesh expands, and
drinks in moisture at every pore. The lines fade out,
and the flesh becomes plump. So did the sweet,
soothing influence of Salome, equable as it was gentle,
fill, relax, refresh the spirit of Philip, and restore to
him some of the lost buoyancy of youth. Salome
was admirably calculated to render him happy, and
Philip was not aware of the rare good fortune which

had given him a wife who had the self-restraint to
keep her crosses to herself. That is not the way withall
wives. Many a wife makes a beast of burden of
her husband, lading him with crosses, heaping on his
shoulders not only her own, great or small, but also
all those of her relatives, friends and acquaintances.
Such a wife cracks a whip behind her good man ;
drives him through the town, stopping at every house
and calling, ' Any old crosses ! Old crosses ! Old
crosses ! Chuck them on ; his back is broad to bear
them !' precisely as the scavenger goes through the
streets with his cart and burdens it with the refuse of
every house. ^lany a wife takes a pride in thus
breaking the back, and galling the sides, and knocking
together the knees of her husband with the
crosses she piles on his shoulders.

As we walk through the wilderness of life, burrs
adhere to the coat of Darby and to the skirts of Joan.
Why should not each carry his or her own burrs, if
they refuse to be picked off and thrown away ? Why
should Joan collect all hers and poke them down the
neck of Darby, and expect him to work them down
his back from the nape to the heel ? Little thought

had Philip how, unperceived and by stealth, Salome
sought the burrs that adhered to him, removed them
and thrust them into her own bosom, bearing them
there with a smiling face, and leaving him unconscious
that he had been delivered from any, and that
they were fretting her.

We men are sadly regardless of the thousand little
acts of forethought that lighten and ease our course.
We give no thanks, we are not even aware of what
has been done for us. Nevertheless, our wives do not
go unrewarded, though unthanked, for what they have
done or borne ; their gentle attentions have served to
give us a polish and a beauty we had not before we
came into their tender hands.

A bright face met Philip when he returned from
the factory every day. If Salome saw that he was
downcast, she exerted herself to cheer him ; if that he
was cheerful, she was careful not to discourage him.
Always neat in person, fresh in face, and pleasant in
humour, keeping out of Philip's way whatever might
annoy him, she made him as happy as he could
well be.

Perfectly happy Philip could not be, because unable

to shake off the sense of insecurity that attended
his change of fortune. Constitutionally suspicious,
habituated to the shade, he was dazzled and frightened
when exposed to the light. The access of good luck
had been too sudden and too great, for him to trust
its permanency. The fish that has its jaws transfixed
with broken hooks mistrusts the worm that floats down
the stream unattached to a line. The expectation of
disappointment had been bred in him by painful and
repeated experience, and had engendered a sullen predetermination
to mistrust Good Fortune. He regarded
her as a treacherous goddess, and when she
smiled, he was sure that she meditated a stab with a
hidden dagger.

Such as are born in the lap of fortune, from which
they have never been given a fall, or where they have
never been dosed with quassia through a drenching
spoon, such persons look on life with equanimity.
Nothing would surprise them more than a reverse.
But with the step-sons of fortune, the Cinderella in
the great household of humanity, who have encountered
heart-break after heart-break, it is otherwise. When
Fortune comes their way offering gifts, they mistrust

them as the gifts of the Dana. It is with them as
with him who is haunted. He knows that the spectre
lurks at hand, and when he is about to close his eyes,
will start up and scare him ; when he is merry will
rise above the table and echo his laugh with a jeer.
So do those who have been unlucky fear ever lest
misfortune should spring on them from some unforeseen
quarter, at some unprepared moment.

The dread lest there should be a revulsion in his
affairs never wholly left Philip, and took the edge off
his happiness. He had found little difficulty in acquiring
the requisite understanding of the business,
and obtaining a firm hold over the conduct of the
factory. There was no prospect of decline in the
trade. Since the conclusion of the European war, it
had become brisk. Peace had created a demand for
figured damasks. He had no reason to dread a
cessation of orders, a slackness in the trade.

AN ALARM.

Within a twelvemonth of his marriage Philip had
been given one of the purest and best of the joys that
spring out of matrimony— a child, a boy called after
his own name, Philip ; and the father loved his firstborn,
was proud of him, and was fearful lest the child
should be snatched from him. As Polycrates was
rendered uneasy because he was so powerful, rich,
and happy, and cast his most costly jewel into the
sea as a gift to the Fates, so was Philip inwardly
disturbed with a suspicion that the gloomy, envious
Fates which had harassed him so long were now only
playing with him, and would exact of hint some
hostage. What would satisfy them ? His commercial
prosperity ? — his child ? — his health ? In vain did
Polycrates seek to propitiate the Fates by casting

from him his most precious ring. The ring was
returned to him in the belly of a fish, and kingdom
and life were exacted of him.

I never did understand what became of part of
your mother's little property,' said Philip one evening
when alone with Salome ; ' and I think it odd that
your mother should be reserved about it to me.'

Oh, Philip ! It does not matter. After all, it is
only two hundred and fifty pounds, and the loss is
mamma's, not yours.'

It does matter, Salome. Two hundred and fifty
pounds cannot have made themselves wings and
flown away without leaving their address. Bo Peep's
sheep left their tails behind them. This money ought
to be accounted for. One thing I do know — the
name of the person to whom it passed.'

Who was that ?'

One Beaple Yeo. Have you any knowledge of
the man ? Who is he ? What had your mother todo
with him }'

I never heard his name before.'

The money was drawn and paid to Beaple Indirectly
after the death of Uncle Jeremiah. I made

inquiries at the bank, and ascertained this. Who
Beaple Yeo is your mother will not say, nor why she
paid this large sum of money to him. I would not
complain of this reticence unless she had called me into
examine her affairs.'

• Xo. Philip, it was I who asked you to be so kind
as to do for her the same as Uncle Jeremiah.*

She is perfectly welcome to do what she likes with
her money ; but if she complains of a loss, and then
seeks an investigation into her loss, and all the time
throws impediments in the way of inquiry — I say
that her conduct is not right It is like a client
calling in a solicitor and then refusing to state his
case.'

I was to blame,' said Salome meekly. ' Mamma
has her little store — the savings she has put by — and
a small sum left by my father, and I ought not to
have interfered. She did not ask me to do so. and
it was meddlesome of me to intervene unsolicited ;
but I did so with the best intentions. She had told
me that she suffered from a loss which crippled her,
and I assumed that her money matters had become
confused, because no longer supervised. I ought

to have asked her permission before speaking to
you.'

When I made the offer, she might have refused.
I would not have been offended WTiat I do object
to is the blowing of hot and cold with one breath.*

I dare say she thought it very kind of you to
propose to take the management ; and there may
have been a misunderstanding. She wished you to
manage for the future and not inquire into the
past.'

Then she should have said so. She complained of
a loss, and became reticent and evasive when pressed
as to the particulars of this alleged loss.'

I think the matter may be dropped,' said Salome.
*By all means — only, understand — I am dissatisfied.'


Hush I* exclaimed Salome. * I hear baby crowing.'
Then she rose to leave the room.

Now look here,' said Philip, ' would it be fair to
the doctor whom you call in about baby to withhold
from him the particulars of the ailments you expect
him to cure.'

Never mind that now,' said Salome, and she kissed
VOL. II. 28

her husband to silence him. ' Baby is awake and is
crying for me.'

This brief conversation will serve to let the reader
see an unlovable feature in Philip^s character. He
possessed a peculiarity not common in men, that of
harbouring a grievance and recurring to it. Men
usually dismiss a matter that has annoyed them, and
are unwilling to revert to it. It is otherwise with
women, due to the sedentary life they lead at their
needlework. Whilst their fingers are engaged with
thread or knitting-pins, their minds turn over andover
again little vexations, and roll them like snowballs
into great grievances. Probably the solitary
life Philip had led had tended to develop the same
feminine faculty of harbouring and enlarging his
grievances.

The front-door bell tingled. Salome did not leave
the room to go after baby till she heard who had
come. The door was thrown open upon them, and
Mrs. Sidebottom burst in.

This good lady had thought proper to swallow her
indignation at the marriage of Philip, because it was
against her interest to be on bad terms with her

nephew; and after the first ebullition of bad temper
she changed her behaviour towards Philip and Salome,
and became gracious. They accepted her overtures
with civility but without cordiality, and a decent
appearance of friendship was maintained. She pressed
Salome to visit her at York, with full knowledge that
the invitation would be declined. Occasionally she
came from York to see how the mill was working and
what business was being transacted.

As she burst in on Philip and his wife, both noticed
that she was greatly disturbed ; her usual assurance
was gone. She was distressed and downcast. Almost
without a word of recognition cast to Salome, she
pushed past her at the door, entered the room, ran to
her nephew and exclaimed, ' Oh, Philip ! You alone
can help me. Have you heard ? You do not know
what has happened ? I am sure you do not, or you
would have come to York to my rescue.'

*What is the matter ? Take a chair, Aunt Louisa.'

What is the matter ! Oh, my dear ! I cannot sit,

I am in such a nervous condition. It is positively

awful. And poor Lamb a director. I am afraid it

will damage his prospects.'

28—2

But what has happened ?'

Oh — everything. Nothing so awful since the Fire
of London and the Earthquake of Lisbon. And
Smithies recommended it'

What — Smithies, whom you sent here to investigate
the books ?' asked Philip dryly.

Oh, my dear ! It is always best to do business ina
business way. Of course, I don't distrust you, but
I am sure it gratifies you that I should send my
agent to run through the books.'

*Well, and what has your agent, Smithies, done
now V

Oh, Smithies has done nothing himself. Smithies
is as much concerned as myself. But he is to blame
for advising me to sell my bonds in Indian railways
and put the money into iodine or decimals, or something
of that sort, and persuading Lamb to become a
director of the company

What company V

Oh ! don't you know ? The lodinopolis Limited
Liability Company. It promised to be a most successful
speculation. It had an earl at the head. The
company proposed to open quarries for stone, others

for lime, erect houses, hotels, and churches, high and
low, make a great harbour, and Beaple Yeo '

'Who?'

Beaple Yeo, the chief promoter and secretary, and
treasurer p^o tern. The speculation was certain to
bring in twenty-five per cent., and he gave his personal
security for seventeen.'

And have you much capital in this concern ?'

Well — yes. The decimals grow thicker on this
part of the coast than anywhere else in the world, and
the decimals have an extraordinary healing effect in
disease. They are cast up on the shore, and exhale a
peculiar odour which is very stimulating. I have
smelt the decimals myself — no, what am I saying, it
is iodine, not decimals, but on my soul, I don't know
exactly what the decimals are, but this I can tell you,
they have run away with some good money of mine.'

I do not understand yet.'

How dense you are, Philip ! For the sake of the
iodine, we were going to build a city at or near
Bridlington, to which all the sick people in Europe
who could afford it, would troop. There was a
crescent to be called after Lamb.'

Well, has the land been bought on which to build
and open the quarries ?'

No ; that is the misfortune. Mr. Yeo has been
unable to induce the landowners to sell, and so he has
absconded with the money subscribed.'

And is there no property on which to fall back ?'

Not an acre. What is to be done ?'

Philip smiled. Now he understood what Mrs. Bosworth
had done with her two hundred and fifty pounds.
She also had been induced to invest in iodine or
decimals.

What is to be done ?' repeated Philip. ' Bear your
loss.'

THE SPARE ROOM.

Philip insisted on Mrs. Sidebottom seating herself,
and giving him as connected and plain an account of
the loss she had met with, as it was in her power to
give. But to give a connected and plain account of
anything affecting the interests deeply is not more
easy for some persons than it is for a tipsy man to
walk straight. They gesticulate in their narration,
lurch and turn about in a whimsical manner. But
Philip had been in a solicitor's office, and knew how
to deal with narrators of their troubles. Whenever
Mrs. Sidebottom swayed from the direct path, he
pulled her back into it ; when she attempted to turn
round, or retrace her steps, he took her by the
shoulders — metaphorically, of course — and set her
face in the direction he intended her to go. Mr.

Smithies was a man in whom Mrs. Sidebottom professed
confidence, and whom she employed professionally
to watch and worry her nephew ; to examine the
accounts of the business, so as to ensure her getting
from it her share to the last farthing.

Introduced by Mr. Smithies, Mr. Beaple Yeo had
found access to her house, and had gained her ear.
He was a plausible man, with that self-confidence
which imposes, and with whiskers elaborately rolled
themselves tokens and guarantees of respectability.
He pretended to be highly connected, and to have
intimate relations with the nobility. When he propounded
his scheme, and showed how money was to
be made, when, moreover, he assured her that by
taking part in the speculations of lodinopolis she
would be associated with the best of the aristocracy,
then she entered eagerly, voraciously, into the scheme.
She not only took up as many shares as she was
able, but also insisted on the captain becoming a
director.

I have,' Mr. Beaple Yeo had told her, ' a score of
special correspondents retained, ready, when I give
the signal, to write up lodinopolis in all the leading

papers in town and throughout the north of England.
I have arranged for illustrations in the pictorial
periodicals, and for highly-coloured and artistic representations
to be hung in the railway waiting-rooms.
Success must crown our undertaking.'

When Philip heard the whole story, he was surprised
that so promising a swindle should have collapsed
so suddenly. He expressed this opinion to
his aunt.

Well,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, ' you see the
managers could get hold of no land. If they could
have done that, everything would have gone well.
They intended to build a great harbour, and import
their own timber, to open their own quarries for
building-stone, and burn their own lime, and have
their own tile-yards, so that they would have cut off
all the profits of timber-merchants, quarry-owners,
lime-burners, tile-makers, and gathered them into the
pocket of the company.'

'And they have secured no land ?*

'Not an acre. Mr. Beaple Yeo did his best, but
when he found he could get no land, then he ran
away with the money that had been paid up for shares.'

And what steps have been taken to arrest him ?
I don't know. I have left that with Smithies.'
'And how many persons have been defrauded?'
I don't know. Perhaps Smithies does.'
'This is what I will do for you,' said Philip.
'Your loss is a serious one, and no time must be
let slip without an attempt to stop the rascal with his
loot. I will go at once to York, see Smithies, who,
I suspect, has had his finger in the pie, and taken
some of the plums to himself, and then on to Arlington
and see what can be done there. The police
must be put on the alert'

In the meanwhile, if you and Salome have no
objection, I will remain here,' said Mrs. Sidebottom.
I am terribly cut up, am rendered ill. My heart, you
know, is subject to palpitations. When you return, I
shall see you directly, and learn the result'

Very well,' said Philip, ' stay here. The spare
room is vacant, and at your service.'

Then he went off, packed his portmanteau, and left
the house. He was vexed with his aunt for her folly,
but he could not deny her his assistance.

Mrs. Sidebottom shook her head when her nephew

mentioned the spare bedroom, but said nothing about
it till he had left the house. Then she expressed her
views to Salome.

No, thank you,' she said ; * no, indeed — indeed not.
I could not be induced to sleep in that chamber. No;
not a hot bottle and a fire combined could drive the
chill out of it. Remember what associations I have
connected with it. It was in that apartment that
poor Jeremiah was laid after he had been recovered
from the bottom of the canal. I could not sleep
there. I could not sleep there, no, not if it were to
insure me the recovery of all I have sunk on lodino-
polis and its decimals. I am a woman of finely-strung
nature, with a perhaps perfervid imagination. Get
me ready Philip's old room ; I was in that once
before, and it is very cosy — inside the study. No one
occupies it now ?'

No ; no one.'

*I shall be comfortable there. But— as for that

other bed — remembering what I do ' she

shivered.

Salome admitted that her objection was justifiable,
if not reasonable, and cave orders that the room

should be prepared according to the wishes of Mrs.
Sidebottom.

A preciously dull time I shall have here,' said this
lady, when alone in the room. ' I know no one in
Mergatroyd, and I shall find no entertainment in the
society of that old faded doll, Mrs. Cusworth, or in
that of Salome, who, naturally, is Wrapped up in her
baby, and capable of talking of nothing else. I wonder
whether there are any novels in the house ?'

She went in search of Salome, and asked for some
light reading.

Oh, we have heaps of novels,' answered Salome.
Janet has left them ; she was always a novel-reader.
I will bring you a basketful. But what do you say
to a stroll ? I must go out for an hour ; the doctor
has insisted on my taking a constitutional every day.'

No, thank you,' said Mrs. Sidebottom. ' The wind
is blowing, and your roads are stoned with glass
clinkers ground into a horrible dust of glass needles
that stab the eyes. I remember it. Besides, I am
tired with my journey from York. I will sit in the
arm-chair and read a novel, and perhaps doze.'

A fire was burning in the bedroom, another in the

study. The former did not burn freely at first ; puffs
of wind occasionally sent whiffs of smoke out of the
grate into the study. Mrs. Sidcbottom moved from
one room to the other, grumbling. One room was
cold and the other smoky. Finally she elected to sit
in the study. By opening the door on to the landing
slightly, a draught was established which prevented
the smoke from entering the room.

She threw herself into a rocking-chair, such as is
found in every Yorkshire house, from that of the
manufacturer to that of the mechanic.

Bah !' groaned Mrs. Sidebottom, ' most of these
books are about people that cannot interest me ; low-class
creatures such as one encounters daily in the
street, and stands aside from. I don't want them in
the boudoir. Oh ! here is one to my taste — a military
novel, by a lady, about officers, parades, and accoutrements.'


So she read languidly, shut her eyes, woke, read a
little more, and shut her eyes again.

I hear the front-door bell,' she said. ' No one to
see me, so I need not say, " Not at home." '

Presently she heard voices in the room beneath her

the room given up to Mrs. Cusworth — one voice,
distinctly that of a man.

The circumstance did not interest her, and she read
on. She began to take some pleasure in the story.
She had come on an account of a mess, and the colonel,
some captains and lieutenants were introduced. The
mushroom conversation was given in full, according to
what a woman novelist supposes it to be. Infinitely
comical to the male reader are such revelations. The
female novelist has a system on which she constructs
her dialogue. She takes the talk of young girls in
their coteries, and proceeds to transpose their thin,
insipid twaddle into what she believes to be virile,
pungent English, which is much like attempting to
convert milk and water into rum punch. To effect
this, to the stock are added a few oaths, a pinch of
profanity, a spice of indecency, and then woman is
grated over the whole, till it smacks of nothing
else.

Out of kindness to fair authoresses, we will give
them the staple topics that in real life go to make up
after-dinner talk, whether in the mushroom, or at the
bencher's table, or round the squire's mahogany. And

they shall be given in the order in which they stand
in the male mind :

1. Horses.

2. Dogs.

3. Game.

4. Guns.

5. Cricket.

6. Politics.

7. 'Shop.'

Where in all this is Woman ? Echo answers
Where ? Conceivably, when every other topic fails,
she may be introduced, just in the same way as when
all game is done, even rabbits, a trap and clay pigeons
are brought out to be knocked over; so, possibly, a
fine girl may be introduced into the conversation,
sprung out of a trap — but only as a last resource, as a
clay pigeon.

The house-door opened once more, this time without
the bell being sounded — opened by a latch-key —
and immediately Mrs. Sidebottom heard Salome's
step in the hall. Salome did not go directly upstairs
to remove her bonnet and kiss baby, but entered her
mother's room.

Thereat a silence fell on the voices below — a silence
that lasted a full minute, and then was broken by the
plaintive pipe of the widow lady. She must have a
long story to tell, thought Mrs. Sidebottom, who now
put down her book, because she had arrived at three
pages of description of a bungalow on the spurs of the
Himalayas. Then she heard a cry from below, a cry
as of pain or terror; and again the male voice was
audible, mingled with that of the widow, raised as in
expostulation, protest, or entreaty. At times the voices
were loud, and then suddenly drowned.

Mrs. Sidebottom laid the book open on the table,
turned down to keep her place.

The doctor, I suppose,' she thought ; * and he has
pronounced unfavourably of baby. Can't they accept
his verdict and let him go ? They cannot do good by
talk. I never saw anything so disagreeable as mothers,
except grandmothers. What a fuss they are making
below about that baby!'

Presently she took up the book again and tried to
read, but found herself listening to the voices below,
and only rarely could she catch the tones of Salome.
All the talking was done by her mother and the man
the doctor.

Then Mrs. Sidebottom heard the door of the widow's
apartment open, and immediately after a tread on the
stairs. Salome was no doubt ascending to the nursery,
but not hurriedly— indeed, the tread was unlike that
of Salome. Mrs. Sidebottom put the novel down
once more at the description of a serpent-charmer,
and went outside her door, moved by inquisitiveness.

Is that the doctor below V she asked, as she saw-that
Salome was mounting the stairs. ' What opinion
does he give of little Phil ?'

Then she noticed that a great change had come
over her hostess. Salome was ascending painfully,
with a hand on the banisters, drawing one foot up
after the other as though she were suffering from
partial paralysis. Her face was white as chalk, and
her eyes dazed as those of a dreamer suddenly roused
from sleep.

What is it ?' asked Mrs. Sidebottom again. * Is
baby worse ?'

Salome turned her face to her, but did not answer.
All life seemed to have fled from her, and she did not
apparently hear the questions put to her. But she
halted on the landing, her hand still on the banisters

VOL. II. 29

that rattled under the pressure, showing how she was
trembling.

You positively must tell me,' said Mrs. Sidebcttom.
What has the doctor said V

But Salome, gathering up her energy, made a rush
past her, ran up two or three steps, then relaxed her
pace, and continued to mount, ascending the last
portion of the stair as one climbing the final stretch
of an Alpine peak, fagged, faint, doubtful whether his
strength will hold out till he reach the apex.

Mrs. Sidebottom was offended.

This is rude,' she muttered. ' But what is to be
expected of a bagman's daughter?' She tossed her
head and retreated to the study.

Reseating herself, she resumed her novel, but found
no further interest in it.

'Why,' she exclaimed suddenly, 'the doctor has
not been upstairs ; he has not seen baby. This is
quaint.'

Mrs. Cusworth did not appear at dinner. Salome
told Mrs. Sidebottom that her mother was very, very
ill, and prayed that she might be excused.

Oh !* said Mrs. Sidebottom, ' I suppose the doctor

called to see your mother, and not the baby. You are
not chiefly anxious about the latter ?'

Baby is unwell, but mamma is seriously ill,'
answered Salome, looking down at her plate.

Her illness does not seem to have affected her
conversational powers,' said Mrs. Sidebottom. ' I
heard her talking a great deal to the doctor ; but
perhaps that is one of the signs of fever — is she
delirious?'

Salome made no reply. She maintained her place
at table, deadly pale ; and though, during dinner, she
endeavoured to talk, it was clear that her mind was
otherwise engaged.

Mrs. Sidebottom was thankful when dinner was
over. 'Mrs. Philip will never make a hostess,' she
said to herself. ' She is heavy and dull. You can't
make lace out of stocking yarn.'

When Salome rose, Mrs. Sidebottom said, ' Do not
let me detain you from your mother ; and, by the
way, I don't know if you have family prayers. I
like them ; they are good for the servants, and area
token of respectability — but you will excuse me
if I do not attend. I am awfully interested in

29 — 2

my novel, and tired after my journey — I shall goto
bed.'

Mrs. Sidebottom did not, however, go to bed ; she
remained by the fire in the study, trying to read, and
speculating on Philip's chances of recovering part if
not all of her lost money — chances which she admitted
to herself were remote.

'There,* said she, 'the servants and the whole
household are retreating to their roosts. They keep
early hours here. I suppose Salome sleeps below
with her mother. Goodness preserve me from anything
happening to either the old woman or the baby
whilst I am in the house. These sort of things upset
the servants, and they send up at breakfast the eggs
harboured, the toast burnt, and the tea made with
water that has not been on the boil.'

Mrs. Sidebottom heaved a sigh.

This is a stupid book after all,' she said, and laid
down the novel. ' I shall go to bed. Bother Mr.
Beaple Yeo.'

Beaple Yco stood between Mrs. Sidebottom just
now and every enjoyment. As she read her book
Beaple Yeo forced himself into the story. At meals

he spoiled the flavour of her food with iodine, and
she knew but too surely that he would strew her bed
with decimals and banish sleep.

Mrs. Sidebottom drew up the blind of her bedroom
window and looked forth on the garden and the vale
of the Kcld, bathed in moonlight, a scene of peace
and beauty. Mrs. Sidebottom was not a woman susceptible
to the charms of nature. She was one of
those persons to whom nothing is of interest, nothing
has charm, virtue, or value, unless it affects themselves
beneficially. She had not formulated to herself such
a view of the universe, but practically it was this —
the sun rises and sets for Mrs. Sidebottom ; the moon
pursues her silver path about Mrs. Sidebottom ; for
her all things were made, and all such things as do
nut revolve about, enrich, enliven, adorn, and nourish
Mrs. Sidebottom are of no account whatever.

Now, as Mrs. Sidebottom looked forth she saw a
dark figure in the garden ; saw it ascend the steps
from the lower garden, cross the lawn, and disappear
as it passed in the direction of the house out of the
range of her vision. The figure was that of a man ina
hat and stout, carrying a walking-stick.

Well, now,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, * this is comical.
That man must have obtained admission through the
locked garden door, like that other mysterious visitant,
and he is coming here after everyone is gone to bed.
Of course he will enter by the glass door. I suppose
he is the doctor, and they let him come this way to
visit the venerable fossil without disturbing the maids.
I do hope nothing will happen to her. I should not,
of course, wear mourning for her, but for baby I
should have to make some acknowledgment, I suppose.
Bother it.'

Mrs. Sidebottom went to bed. But, as Beaple Yeo
had disturbed her day, so did he spoil her night.
She slept indifferently. Beaple Yeo came to her in
her dreams, and rubbed her with decimals, and woke
her. But other considerations came along with Beaple
Yeo to fret and rouse her. Mrs. Sidebottom was a
woman of easy conscience. That which was good for
herself was, therefore, right. But there are moments
when the most obtuse and obfuscated consciences
stretch themselves and open their eyes. And now,
as she lay awake in the night, she thought of her
brother Jeremiah, of the readiness with which she

had identified his body, on the slenderest evidence.
She night have made a mistake. Then, at once, the
thought followed the course of all her ideas, and
gravitated to herself. If she had made a mistake,
and it should come out that she had made a wrong
identification — would it hurt her ?

On this followed another thought, also disquieting.
How came Jeremiah's will to be without its signature ^
Should it ever transpire that this signature had been
surreptitiously torn away, what would be the consequences
to herself?

As she tossed on her bed, and was tormented, now
by Bcaple Yeo with his speculation, then by Jeremiah
asking about his will, she thought that she heard
snoring.

Did the sound issue from the room downstairs,
tenanted by Mrs. Cusworth, or from the spare
chamber ?

Mrs. Sidebottom attempted to feel unconcern, but
found that impossible. The snoring disturbed her,
and it disturbed her the more because she could not
satisfy herself whence the sound came.

• Perhaps it is the cook,' she said. ' She may be

occupying the room overhead, and cooks are given to
stertorous breathing. Standing over the stoves predisposes
them to it.'

Finally, irritated, resolved to ascertain whence the
sound proceeded, Mrs. Sidebottom left her bed. Her
fire was burning. She did not light a candle. She
drew on a dressing-gown, and stole into the study,
and thence through the door (which, on account of
the smoke, had been left ajar) upon the landing-place.


There she halted and listened.

The gaslight in the hall below was left burning but
lowered all night, and the moon shone in through a
window.

I do believe the sound proceeds from the spare
room,' she said, and softly she stole to the door and
turned the handle.

• There can be no one there,' she thought, ' because
I was offered the room, and yet the snoring certainly
seems to proceed from it. No one can be there — this
must be an acoustic delusion.'

Noiselessly, timidly, she half opened the door. The
hinges did not creak. She looked in inquisitively.

The blind was drawn down, but the moon, shining
through it, filled the room with suffused light.

Mrs. Sidebottom's eyes sought the bed. On it,
where had lain the body found in the canal, and
much in the same position as that had been placed
there, lay the figure of a man, black against the white
coverlet, in a great-coat. The face was not visible —
the curtain interposed and concealed it.

Mrs. Sidebottom's heart stood still. A sense of
sickness and faintness stole over her. She dared not
take a step further to obtain a glimpse of the face,
and she feared to see it.

With trembling hand she closed the door, and
stood on the landing with beating heart, recovering
herself ' What a fool I am to be frightened !' she
said, after a minute, and with a sigh of relief. 'Of
course — the doctor.

RECOGNITION.

In one of his essays, Goldsmith relates the anecdote
of a painter who set up a picture in the market-place,
with a pot of black paint and a brush beside it, and
the inscription, ' Please indicate faults.'

When in the evening he revisited his picture, he
found it smudged out eventually, as everyone had discovered
and marked out a blemish. Next day he setup
a replica of the picture, with paint and brush as
before, and the inscription, ' Please indicate beauties.'

By evening, the entire canvas was covered with
black. Everyone had found a beauty, where previously
everyone had detected a fault.

The modern novelist sends his work into the great
forum, and without inviting, expects criticism. The
printer's ink is always available wherewith to draw

attention to his defects. In Goldsmith's apologue
the critics found beauties, in the present they see only
blemishes, which they dab at venomously, and the
sorrowful author sits at evening over his despised and
bespattered production, bewildered, and ashamed to
find that his earnest work, that has called out his
most generous feelings, over which he has fagged and
worn himself, is a mass of blunders a tissue of faults.
Now, one of the salient defects in the work of the
author of this story, according to his reviewers, is that
he makes his personages talk more smartly than they
would naturally. But, he asks, would it be tolerable
to the reader, would it be just to the printer — to force
upon them the literal transcript of the ordinary conversation
that passes between people every day .'*
When we were schoolboys we had a pudding served
to us on Wednesdays which we call milestone pudding,
not because it was hard, but because it was a
plum-pudding with a mile between the plums. Is
there not a good mile between our dont mots f Is it
legitimate art, is it kind, to make the reader pursue a
conversation through several pages of talk void of
thought, stuffed with matter of everyday interest ? Is

it not more artistic, and more humane, to steam the
whole down to an essence, and then — well, add a
grain of salt and a pinch of spice ?

The reader shall be the judge. We will take the
morning dialogue between Mrs. Sidebottom and
Salome at breakfast.

'Good-morning, Mrs. Sidebottom.'

I wish you good-morning, Salome.'

Author : Cannot that be taken for granted ? May it
not be struck out with advantage ?

I hope you slept well,' said Salome.

Only so so. How is your poor mother?'
Not much better, thank you.'
And darling baby .-''

About the same. We have, indeed, a sick house.
Tea or coffee, please ?'

Tea, please.'

Sugar r

Sugar, please.'

How many lumps .?'
Two will suffice.'

I think you will find some grilled rabbit. Would
you prefer buttered Egg ?'

Thank you, rabbit,' said Mrs. Sidebottom. ' I will
help myself.'

I hope your room was comfortable. You must
excuse us, we are all much upset in the house, servants
as well as the rest. We have had a good deal to
upset us of late, and when we are upset it upsets the
servants too.'

Author : Now, there ! Because we have dared to
copy down, word for word, what was said at breakfast,
our heroine has revealed herself as tautological. There
were positively four upsets in that one little sentence.
And we are convinced that if the reader had to express
the same sentiment he or she would not be nice as to
the literary form in which the sentence was couched,
would not cast it thus — ' VVe have been much upset ;
we have had much of late to disturb our equilibrium,
and when we are thrown out of our balance then the
servants as well are affected.' That would be better,
no doubt, but the reader would not speak thus, and
Salome did not.

The author must be allowed to exercise his judgment
and give only as much of the conversation as is
necessary, and not be obliged to record the grammatical

slips, the clumsy constructions, the tedious repetitions
that disfigure our ordinary conversation.

The English language is so simple in structure that
it invites a profligate usage of it ; it allows us to
pour forth a flood of words without having first
thought out what we intended to say. The sentences
tumble higgledy-piggledy from our lips like children
from an untidy nursery — some unclothed, one short
of a shoe, and another over-hatted. Do we get the
Parliamentary debates as they were conducted ? Where
are the 'hems' and 'haws,' the 'I means' and 'you
knows '? What has become in print of the vain repetitions
and the unfinished sentences ? Is not all
that put into order by the judicious reporter ? In like
manner the novelist is armed with the reporter's
powers, and exercising the same discretion passes the
words of his creations through the same mill. Using,
therefore, the privilege of a reporter, we will once
more enter the gallery and take down the conversation
that ensued at the breakfast-table between Mrs.
Sidebottom and Salome.

'My dear Mrs. P.,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, * I hope that
you were not obliged to call up the doctor in the night.'

No,' answered Salome, raising her eyebrows.
But what is the matter with your mother ?'

She has long suffered from heart complaint, and
recently she has had much to trouble her. She has
had a great shock and is really very unwell, and so is
dear baby also ; and between both and — and — other
matters, I hardly know what I am about.'

So I perceive,* said Mrs. Sidebottom ; ' you have
upset the cream.'

Salome had a worn and scared look. Her face had
lost every particle of colour the day before. It remained
as pale now. She looked as if she had not
slept. Her eyes were sunken and red.

'My dear,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, 'never give in.
If I had given in to all the trials that have beset me
I should have been worn to fiddle-strings. My first
real trial was the lost of Sidebottom, and the serious
reduction of my income in consequence ; for though
he called a house an 'ouse, yet he was in good practice.
There is a silver lining to every cloud. I don't suppose
I could have got into good society so long as Side-bottom
lived, with his dissipated habits about his /?'s.
His aspirate stood during our married life as a wall

between us, like that — like that which separated
Pyramus from Thisbe.'
Salome made no answer.

You can have no idea,' continued Mrs. Sidebottom,
how startled I was in the night by the snoring of the
doctor.'

The doctor ?' Salome looked up surprised.

Yes — he slept, you know, in the spare room.'
A rush of crimson mounted to Salome's cheeks,
and then faded from them, leaving them such an ashy
gray as succeeds the Alpengluth on the snow peaks at
sundown.

Do you know } — well, really, I must confess my
weakness — I was made quite nervous by the snoring.
I was so anxious, naturally so anxious for your poor
dear mother, and I thought the sounds might proceed
from her, and if so I trembled lest they portended
apoplexy. Then again, I could not make out whence
the snoring proceeded. So, being of an inquiring
mind — my dear, if we had not inquiring minds we
should not have made Polar expeditions, and discovered
the electric telegraph, and measured the
distances of the planets — T was resolved to satisfy

myself as to those sounds, and I stole out of my room
and listened on the landing; and when I was satisfied
that the snoring issued from the spare apartment,
which I had supposed to be empty, I had the boldness
to open the door and peep in.'

At what o'clock ?' asked Salome faintly.

Oh ! gracious goodness, I cannot tell. Somewhere
in the small hours. You must know that as I looked
out of my window before going to bed I saw the doctor
coming through the garden. The moon was shining,
and I adore the moon, so I stood at my window in
quite a poetic frame. I suppose you told him to
come through the garden so as not to disturb the
household.'

Salome hesitated. She was trying to pour out a
second cup of tea for Mrs. Sidebottom, but her hand
shook, and she was obliged to set down the pot. She
breathed painfully, and looked at Mrs. Sidebottom
with a daze of terror in her eyes.

Thank you,' said the lady, ' I said 1 would have
a little more tea. Bless me ! How your feelings have
overcome you. Family affection is charming, idyllic,
but — don't spill the tea as you did the cream.'

VOL. II. 30

'Would you kindly pour out for yourself?' asked
Salome. ' It is true that my hand shakes. I am not
very well this morning.'

Delighted. As I was saying,' pursued Mrs. Side-bottom,
drawing the teapot, sugar-basin, and cream-jug
to herself — 'as I was saying, in the small hours
of the night I was aroused by the snoring and could
not sleep. So I rose, and opened the spare room
door and looked in.'

Salome's frightened eyes were riveted on her.

I looked in, and saw a man lying on the bed. I
could not see his face. The curtain was in the way,
and there was no light save that of the moon. At
first I was frightened, and inclined to cry out for salvolatile,
I was so faint. But after a moment or two I
recovered myself. This man had on more clothing
than — that other one. He wore boots and so on.
After the first spasm of dismay I recovered myself,
for I said, " It is the doctor sleeping in the house
because Mrs. Cusworth is ill." It was the doctor, was
it not ?'

Salome's scared face, her strange manner, now for
the first time inspired Mrs. Sidebottom with the suspicion

that she had not hit on the true solution of the
mystery.

But, goodness gracious mc !' she exclaimed, * if it
was not the doctor, who could it be ? And in the
house at night — as on that former occasion — and when
Philip is absent, too !'

Salome started from her seat.

Excuse mc,' she said hastily, ' I am — I am
unwell.'

She tottered to the door.

Mrs. Sidebottom, with kindled suspicion, rose also,
and deserted an unfinished eg and some buttered
toast to go after her. Salome had opened the door
and passed through. Before she could close it behind
her, Mrs. Sidebottom had grasped it and was at her
heels, asking if she really were ill, and if she needed
help.

At the same moment that both entered the hall, they
saw a man descending the stairs, a man in hat and
great-coat, with a leather bag in one hand and a cane
in the other. Me wore his hair long, and had dark
whiskers, curled, but not in the freshest of curls. His
nose was red, and his face mottled.

30—2

Mr. Beaple Yeo !' shrieked Mrs. Sidebottom. ' My
money ! I want — I will have my money !*

The man stood for a moment irresolute on the
stairs.

Then a key was turned in the front-door lock, and
Philip appeared from the street — returned by an early
train.

Oh, Philip !' screamed Mrs. Sidebottom. ' Here is
the man — Beaple Yeo himself! Has been hiding in
the spare bedroom all night. He has my money.'

In an instant, the man darted into Mrs. Cusworth's
room, and locked the door behind him.

EXEUNT.

The man descending the stairs had hesitated, and his
hesitation had lost him. Had he made a dash at Mrs.
Sidebottom and Salome, swept them aside and gone
down the passage to the garden door, he would have
escaped before Philip entered. But the sight of Mrs.
Sidebottom, her vehement demand for her money,
made him turn from her and fly into Mrs. Cusworth's
room. Thence he, no doubt, thought to escape to the
garden, through the window.

For some moments, after Philip appeared and Mrs.
Sidebottom had told him that the swindler was in his
house, all three — he, Salome, and Mrs. Sidebottom,
stood in the hall, silent.

Then a servant, alarmed by the cry, appeared from
the kitchen, and Philip at once bade her hasten after
a policeman.

Salome laid her hand on his arm and said supplicatingly,
' No, Philip ; no, please !'

But he disregarded her intervention, and renewed
the command to the servant, who at once disappeared
to obey it.

Then he strode towards the door leading to Mrs.
Cusworth's apartments, but Salome, quick as thought,
threw herself in his way, and stood against the door,
with outstretched arms.

No, Philip ; not — not, if you love me.'

Why not ?* — spoken sternly.

Because ' She faltered, her face bowed on

her bosom ; then she recovered herself, looked him
entreatingly in the eyes, and said, ' I will tell you
afterwards — in private. I cannot now. Oh, Philip —
I beseech you !'

Salome,' said her husband very gravely, ' that man
is in there,'

I know, I know he is,' she answered timorously.

Oh, Philip, don't mind her. He will get away, and
he has my money !' entreated Mrs. Sidebottom on
her part.

Why do you seek to shelter him .?' asked Philip of
his wife, ignoring the words of his aunt.

I cannot tell you now. Will you not trust me ?
Do allow him to escape.'

'Salome!' exclaimed Philip, in such a tone as made
her shiver, it expressed so much indignation.

She could say no more in urgence of what she had
asked, but looked at him steadily with her great
imploring eyes.

Mrs. Sidebottom was not silent ; she poured in a
discharge of canister, and was cut short by Philip, who,
turning sternly to her, said :

I request your silence. The scoundrel cannot
escape. The windows of both rooms are barred,
because on the ground floor. He cannot break forth.
I have him as in a trap. It is merely a question with
me — which my wife must help me to decide — whether
to burst open the door now, or wait till the arrival of
the constable.'

Then Salome slowly, with heaving breast, and without
taking her eyes off her husband's face, let fall her
arms and stood back. But even then, as he put his
foot against the door, she thrust forth her hand against
Mrs. Sidebottom, and said : ' Not she ! No, Philip, as
you honour me ' If you love me — not she !'

Then he turned and said to Mrs. Sidebottom : ' Aunt,
I must ask you to remain in the hall. When the maid
rings the front door bell, open and let her and the constable
in, and bring them at once into Mrs. Cusworth's
apartments. Do not enter before.'

He did not burst open the door till he had knocked
thrice, and his knock had remained unnoticed. Then,
with foot and shoulder against it, he drove it in, and
the lock torn off fell on the floor. Instantly, Salome
entered after him and shut the door behind her, and
stood against it.

The old suspicion, sullenness, and doggedness which
Philip had nurtured in him through long years of discouragement
and distress, evil tempers that had been
laid to sleep for a twelvemonth, rose full of energy to
life again. He was angered at the thought that the
wretch whom he was pursuing should have taken refuge
under his own roof, and worst of all, that his own wife
should spread out her arms to protect him.

The hero of a story should be without such blemishes
that take from him all lustre and rob him of sympathy.
But the reader must consider these evil passions in
him as bred of his early experience. They grew

necessarily in him, because the seed was sown in him
when his heart was receptive, and rich to receive
whatever crop was sown there. And again, we may-ask
: Is the reader free from evil tempers, constitutional
or acquired ? The history of life is the
history of man mastering or being mastered by these ;
and such is the history of Philip.

In the sitting-room stood a scared group, looking atone
another. Mrs. Cusworth by the fireplace, pale as
chalk, hardly able to stand, unable to utter a word of
explanation or protect, and Beaple Yeo, with his hat
on, wearing a great-coat that Philip knew at once —
that of his deceased uncle, holding a leather bag in his
hand, to which a strap was attached that he was
endeavouring to sling over his shoulder, but was
incommoded by his cane, of which he did not let go.
His face was mottled and his nose very purple — but he
had not, like Mrs. Cusworth, lost his presence of mind.

Philip looked hard at him, then his face became hard
as marble, and he said, ' So — we meet — Schofield.'

The man had forgotten to remove his hat when attempting
to put the strap over his head, and so failed ;
he at once hastily passed the cane into the hand that

held the bag, and said with an air of forced joviality, ashe
extended his right palm, ' How dey' do my boy ?
glad to see you.'

Put down that bag ordered Philip, ignoring the
offered hand. ' Or, here, give it me.'

No, thank y', my son ; got my night togs in there
comb and brush and whisker-curlers.'

Schofield,' said Philip grimly, ' I have sent for the
constable. He will be here in two or three minutes.
Give me up that bag. I shall have you arrested in
this room.'

No, you won't, my dear boy,' answered the fellow.
But, by jove, it isn't kindly — not kindly — hardly
what we look for in our children. But, Lord bless
you I bless you, the world is becoming frightfully
neglectful of the commandment with promise — with
promise, my son.'

The impudence of the man, his audacity, and his
manner, worked Philip into anger ; not the cold bitter
anger that had risen before, but hot and flaming.

Come, no nonsense. Give me that bag now, or I'll
take it from you. There is a warrant out for your
arrest as Beaple Yeo.' He put his hand forward to

snatch the bag from the fellow, but Beaple Yeo — or
Schofield quickly brought his stick round.

My pippin !' said he, ' take care ; I have a needle
in this, that will run you through if you touch me —
though you are my son.'

Philip closed with him, wrenched the stick from
him and placed it behind him. But Beaple would not
be deprived of his weapon without an effort to recover
it, and he made a rush at Philip to beat him aside, ashe
drew back, which would have led to a fresh test of
strength, had not Salome thrown herself between
them, and clinging to her husband said, ' Oh, Philip !
Philip ! He is my father !

Philip stood back, and he and Schofield faced each
other in silence, the latter with his eye on Philip to
note how he received the news, Philip grew grayer
in tint, and every line in his face deepened ; his eyes
became more like Cairngorm stones than ever — cold,
hard, almost inanimate.

It is true,' said Schofield ; ' my chuck has told you
the fact — the very fact. Why should it have been
kept from you so long ? — so long ? The Schofields
arc a family as good as the Pennycomcquicks, and

the name is not so much of a mouthfiller, which, at
least, is a consolation — a consolation. Now, perhaps,
son-in-law, you will allow me to step by ? No ?
Upon my word there would be something un-Christian
something to shock the moral sense even of an old
Roman — a classic Roman — for a son-in-law to suffer
his father to be arrested beneath his own roof. Besides,
dear fellow, there are other considerations. You
would hardly wish to have Pennycomequick's firm
mixed up with Beaple Yeo, Esquire. It might, you
know — you know — injure, compromise, and all that
sort of thing — you understand '

Philip turned to Mrs. Cusworth and asked her, ' Is
it true, or — a lie ?'

But the old lady was in no condition to answer.
She opened her mouth and shut it, like a gasping fish,
but no sound issued from her lips.

Then Salome recovered her composure and said,
Philip ! It is indeed true. He is my father. I am
not, nor is Janet, her daughter. We are the twin
children of her sister, who was married to — and then
who was deserted by — this — this man Schofield. She
took us, she and her dear good husband, and cared

for us as their own — we did not know that we were
not her children — that we were her nieces — we were
not told.'

Is this really true ?' asked Philip, again looking at
Mrs. Cusworth, and his face clouded with the blood
that suffused it, but so far beneath the skin that it did
not colour, it only darkened it. ' Is this true — or is ita
lie told to persuade me to let this scoundrel escape ?
Either way it will lose its effect. I am just. I will
give him over to suffer the consequences of his
acts.'

Again Mrs. Cusworth tried to speak, but could not.
She grasped at the mantelshelf; she could hardly
stay herself from falling.

'Very well,' said Philip, looking fixedly at Schofield.
Let us suppose that it is true ; that I have been
trifled with, deceived, dishonoured. Very well. We
will suppose it is so. Then let it come out. I will be
no party to lying, dissimulation, to the screening of
swindlers and scoundrels of any sort. My house is
not a receiving house for stolen goods. I will return
to the robbed that of which they have been despoiled.
Hand me the bag.'

He spoke with a hard, metallic voice ; scarce a
trace of feeling was in it, save of the grate of
animosity ; his strong eye had no yielding in it, no
light, only a sort of phosphorescent glimmer passing
over it. He stooped, picked up the cane, and held it
in his right hand, like a quarter-staff, and in his firm,
knotted fist, cane though it was, it had the appearance
of being a weapon capable of being used with deadly
emphasis.

Now, then,' said Philip, ' put down that bag ;
there, on the chair near me. Instantly.'

Schofield looked into his face and did not venture
to disobey. The iron resolution, the forceful, earnest,
the remorseless determination there were not to be
trifled with. Schofield put down the bag as desired.

^ The key.'

Sulkily, the fellow drew it from his trousers-pocket
and flung it on the ground.

'Pick it up.'

Schofield hesitated. He would not stoop. He
dreaded a blow on the head ; on the back of the
head, which would fell him if he stooped, such a blow
as he would himself deal the man before him if he

had a stick in his hand, and could induce him to bend
at his feet.

As he hesitated, and a spark appeared in the eye
of Phih'p, Salome stooped, rose, and handed the 
her husband.

He did not thank her. He did not look at her.
He kept his eye steadily on Schofield — scarcely
glancing at the bag as he opened it, and then only
rapidly and cursorily at its contents — never for more
than a second allowing it to be off his opponent,
never allowing him to move a muscle unobserved,
never to frame a thought unread. But, for all the
speed with which he glanced at the contents of the
bag, he saw that it contained a great deal of money.
It was stuffed with bank-notes, and the figures on
these notes were high. Philip leisurely closed and
locked the bag, put the key in his pocket and
passed the strap over his own head.

Then only did a slight, almost cruel smile, stir the
corners of his lips as he saw the blankness of Schofield
and the break-up of his assurance.

Now, I suppose, I may go ?' said the rogue.

No,' answered Philip, ' I do nothing by half. I

have my old scores against Schofield as well as the
new scores — which are not my own — against Beaple
Yeo.'

But,' said the man, in a shaking voice, ' it will be
so terribly bad for you to have the concern here mixed
up with me — and you should consider that — the
Bridlington scheme was a famous one, and was honest
as the daylight. It must have rendered twenty-five
per cent.— twenty-five as I am an honest man — and I
should have become a millionaire. Then wouldn't
you have been proud of me, eh ? — it was a good
scheme and must have answered, only who was to
dream that no land could be bought ?'

He eyed Philip craftily, then looked at the door,
then again at Philip — as soon expect to find yielding
in him as to see honey distil out of flint. So he
turned to Salome. ' Speak a word for your father,
child 1' he said in a low tone.

Salome shrank from him and turned to Philip, who
put out his steady hand and thrust her back, not
roughly but firmly, towards Schofield.

Then in a sudden frenzy of fear and anger the
fellow screamed, ' Will you let me pass }'

'The constable will be here directly, and then I
will ; not till then,' said Philip.

Bah ! the constable !' scoffed Schofield. ' You
have sent to have a constable summoned. But where
is he ? Looking for a policeman is like searching fora
text. You know he's somewhere, but can't for the
life of you put your thumb on him. Look here,
Philip,' he lowered his voice to a sort of whine, ' Tm
awfully penitent for what I have done. Cut to the
heart, gnawing of conscience, and all that sort of
thing. It is a case of the prodigal father returning to
the discreet and righteous son, and instead of running
to meet me and help me, and giving me a good
dinner — a good dinner, you know, and all that sort o{
thing, you threaten me with constables and conviction.
I couldn't do it myself. 'Pon my word I
couldn't. I suppose it is in us. I'm too much of a
Christian — a true Christian, not a mere professor.
I'm ashamed of you, Philip ; I'm sorry for you. I
sincerely am. I'm terribly afraid for you that you
are the Pharisee, despising me the humble, penitent
Publican.' The follow was such a rascal that he could
adapt himself to any complexion of man with whom

VOL. II. ;i

he was, and he tried on this miserable cant with
Philip in the hope that it would succeed. But as he
watched his face, and saw no sign of alteration of
purpose in it, he changed his tone, and said sullenly,
with a savagery in the sullenness : ' Come, let me go ;
if I am brought to trial, I can tell you there will be
pretty things come out, which neither you nor your
wife will like to hear, and which will not suffer her to
hold up her head very stiffly — eh ?'

He saw that he had made Philip wince.

At that moment the house door-bell rang, and he
heard that the police constable had arrived.

He turned, went to the fireplace, grasped the poker,
and swinging it above his head rushed upon Philip.
Salome uttered a cry. Mrs. Cusworth's hand let go
its grasp of the chimney-piece and she fell.

All happened in a moment — a blow of the poker on
Philip s arm — and Schofield was through the door and
down the passage to the garden.

*' Run after him, policeman, run !' screamed Mrs.
Sidebottom, as she admitted the constable.

But Schofield had gained the start, and when the
policeman reached the door in the wall of the lower

garden he found it locked, and had to retrace his
steps to the house. Time had been gained. No
sooner was Schofield outside the garden than he
relaxed his steps, and sauntered easily along the path
till he reached the canal. He follow-ed that till he
arrived at a barge laden with coal, over the side of
which leaned a woman, with a brown face, smoking a
pipe.

My lass !' said Schofield,* I've summit to tell thee
in private;' and he jumped on board and went
down the ladder into the little cabin.

The woman, Ann Dewis, slowly drew her pipe out
of her mouth and went after him to the hatch, looked
in, and said, * What be 't, lad ? Eh, Earle ! Tha'rt
come. Tak' t^ pip e, I've kept it fleet a' these years.
Ah sed ah would, and ah've done it.'



ESTRANGEMENT.

One ! Two ! Three !

Hark ! on the church bell : then, again —

One ! Two ! Three !

It is a woman or a little girl,' said those listening.

Then again —

One ! Two ! Three !

A woman. Who can she be ? Who is ill ? But
how old i*' Then again, the bell —

One ! Two ! Three ! up to forty-six.

Aged forty-six ! Who can it be ?'

Many faces appeared at the windows and doors of
the street at Mergatroyd, and when the sexton
emerged from the belfry, he was saluted with inquiries
of, ' Who is dead ? Forty-six years old — who can
she be ?'

Mrs. Cusworth, Dropped dead with heart complaint'


Now, in Yorkshire, when a man dies, then the bell
tolls, Four, four, four ; when a boy, then Four, four,
two ; when a woman dies, then as above, Thrice three ;
and when a girl, Three, three, two; after which, in
each case, the age is tolled.

Fiddlestick ! — you may say what you will, it is
fiddlestick,' said Mrs. Sidebottom impatiently. She
was in the study with Philip. * I never heard of anything
so monstrous, so inhuman. I could not have
believed it of you. And yet — after what I have seen,
I can believe anything of you.'

Philip was unmoved. ' The plunder of that wretched
fellow,' he said unconcernedly, ' shall be placed in
proper hands. How much there is I cannot now say,
and I do not know how many persons he has defrauded,
and to what an extent. Whether all will get back
everything is not certain ; probably they will receive
a part, perhaps a large part, but not all.'

It is preposterous !' burst in Mrs. Sidebottom, ' I
have been the means of catching him. No one would
have had a farthing back but for my promptitude, my

energy, and my cleverness. Did not I track him here,
and act as his gaoler, and drive him into a corner
whilst you secured the money ? And you say that I
am to share losses equally with the rest ! No such a
thing. I shall have my money back in full ; and the
rest may make the best of what remains, and thank
me for getting them that. As for what you say, Philip,
I don't care who hears me, I say it is fiddlestick — it
is fiddlestick-ends.'

I should have supposed, Aunt Louisa, that by this
time you would have known that when I say a thing I
mean it, and if I mean a thing I intend to carry it out
unaltered.' Then after a pause: 'And now I am
sorry to seem inhospitable, but under the painful
circumstances — with death again in this house, and
with my child ill, I am obliged to recommend you to
return at once to, York, and when there, not again to
consult Mr. Smithies It is more than probable that
this reliable man of business of yours, whom you set
to watch me, has sold you to that rascal Beaple Yeo
or whatever his name be.'

Oh, gracious goodness !' exclaimed Mrs. Side-bottom.
* To be sure I will return to York. I

wouldn't for the world incommode you in a house of
mourning. I know what it is ; the servants off such
heads as they have, which are heads of hair and
nothing else, and everything in confusion, and only
tongues going. I wouldn't stay with you at this most
trying time, Philip), not for worlds. I shall be off by
the next train.'

Philip was left to himself.

His wife was either upstairs with the baby, or was
below with the corpse of one whom she had looked upto
and loved as a mother. Surely it was his place to
go to her, draw her into the room where they could be
by themselves, put his arm about her, and let her rest
her head on his breast and weep, to the relief of
her burdened heart.

But Philip made no movement to go to his wife.

She was alone, without a friend in the house. Her
sister was away, her baby was ill. A death entails
many things that have to be considered, arranged, and
provided. Philip knew this. He sent word to the
registrar of the death ; he did nothing more to assist
Salome. He rang the bell, and when after a longtime
a servant replied to the summons, he gave orders

that clean sheets should be put on the bed lately
occupied by Mrs. Sidebottom. He would, he said for
awhile, sleep there.

Did it occur to Philip that there was cruelty in
leaving his young wife alone at night, with a sick baby,
and with the body of the woman, who had been to her
as a mother, King waiting for burial downstairs ? Did
it occur to him that she might feel infinite desolation
at night, if he were away from her ? He thought only
of himself, of the wrong done to him.

She married me, and never told me who she was.
She married me, lying under a false name.'

Salome had not realized, indeed, had not perceived,
how deep and fatal a rift had been cloven in her relations
with Philip. The fall of her mother, the efforts
to restore life, the arrival of the doctor, the conviction
struggled against but finally submitted to that life
was extinct, had concentrated and engrossed all her
faculties. Then, when she knew that death was again
in the house, there sprang out of that knowledge
many imperious duties that exacted of Salome full
attention and much thought. Mrs. Sidebottom had
volunteered no help. Upon Salome everything

depended. She had not the time to consider how
Phih'p would take the startling revelation made to
him. Salome was not one to give up herself to
emotion. She braced herself to the discharge of
the duties that devolved on her. Quiet, very pale,
and hollow-eyed, she went about the house. From
the nursery she found that the nurse had escaped,
deserting the baby, that she might talk over the
events that had occurred in the kitchen. The cook,
Salome found, had made the pastry with washing
instead of baking powder, and the housemaid had
found too much to talk about to make the beds by
four o'clock in the afternoon.

Only, when everything in the house had been seen
to, a woman provided to attend to the dead, and all
the trains off their lines set on them again, only then
could Salome sit down and write to her sister of their
common loss.

After this was done she wrote a few notes to friends,
and then, lacking stamps, came with the packet to
Philip's door.

He was seated at his secretaire writing, or pretending
to write, with his brows bent, when he heard her

distinct and gentle tap at the door. He knew her
tap, it was like that of no one else, and he called to
her to enter.

My dear,' she said, ' I have not been able to come
to you before. I have had so much to do ; and —
dear, I have wanted to speak to you ; but, as you
know, in such a case as this, personal wants must beset
aside. Have you any stamps ? I require a
foreign one.'

He hardly looked up from the desk, but signed
with the quill that she should shut the door. He was
always somewhat imperious in his manner.

She shut the door, and came over to him, and laid
the letters on his desk.

You will stamp them for me, dear ?' she said, and
rested her hand lightly on his shoulder.

Then she saw how stern and set his face was, and
a great terror came over her.

Oh, Philip !' she said ; and then, ' I know what
you are taking to heart, but there is no changing the
past, Philip.'

Sometimes we have seen the reflection of the sun
in rippled waters out of doors sent within on the

ceiling. How it dances ; is here and there ; now
extinct, then once more it flashes out in full brilliancy.
So was it with the colour in Salome's face ;
it started to one cheek, burnt there a moment, then
went to the temples, then died away' wholly, and in
another moment was full in her face, the next to
leave it ashy pale. Her voice also quivered along
with the colour in her face, in rhythmic accord. Philip
withdrew his shoulder from the pressure of her hand,
and slowly stood up.

I shall be obliged if you will take a chair,' said he
formally, * as I desire an interview, but will undertake
to curtail it as much as possible, as likely to be painful
to both.'

She allowed her hand to fall back, and then drew
away a step. She vvould not take a clan*, as he had
risen from his.

Philip,' she said, ' I am ready to hear all you have
to say.'

She spoke with her usual self-possession. She
knew that they must have an explanation about
what had come out. There was always something
in her voice that pleased ; it was clear and s )ft, and

the words were spoken with distinctness. In nothing,
neither in dress, in movement, nor in speech, was
there any slovenliness in Salome. There was some
perceptible yet indefinable quality in her voice which
at once reached the heart.

Philip felt this, but put the feeling from him, as he
had her hand.

Salome,' said he, not looking at her, except momentarily,
' a cruel trick has been played on me.'

Philip,' said she quietly but pleadingly, ' that man,
as I told you, is my father, but I did not know it till
yesterday. I had no idea but that I was the daughter
of those who had brought me here, and who gave
themselves out to be my parents. I will tell you what
I know, but that is not much. He — I mean that man
had married my mother, who was the sister of her
who is below, dead. He got into trouble somehow ;
I do not know what kind of trouble it was, but it was,
I suppose, a disgraceful one, for he had to leave the
country, and it was thought he would not venture back
to England. My real mother, grieved at the shame,
died and left us to her sister, who with her husband,
Mr. Cusworth, cheerfully undertook the care of us,

adopted us as their own, and when they came here
shortly after, gave out that we were their children,
partly to save us the pain of knowing that our father

had been a well, what he was, partly also to screen

us from his pursuit should he return, and also, no
doubt, the more to attach us to themselves. As you
know, shortly before Mr. Cusworth, our reputed father,
was to be taken into partnership, a terrible accident
happened and he was killed. Janet and I do not
remember him. Since then mamma — I mean my
aunt — and we children lived in this house with dear,
kind, Uncle Jeremiah. Whether he knew the truth
about us I have not been told. We never had any
doubt that she whom we loved and respected as a
mother was our real mother. Then, on the occasion
of the terrible flood and the death of Uncle Jeremiah*
or just after, he — I mean our father — reappeared
suddenly, and without having let mamma know that
he was yet alive. He came here in great destitution,
wanted money, and even clothing. Mamma — you
know whom I mean, really aunt — she was in great
straits what to do. She did not venture openly to
allow him to appear, and she suffered him to visit her

secretly through the lower garden-door, and to come
to her sitting-room ; she gave him money and he went
away. That was how her two hundred and fifty
pounds went, about which you asked so many questions,
and which she was afraid of your inquiring too
much about. My father had then assumed the name
of Beaple Yeo. She also allowed him to take uncle's
great-coat and hat, which were laid out in the spare
room for distribution. You told her to dispose of
them as she saw fit'

Philip hastily raised his hand.

Mrs. Sidebottom had hit the right nail on the head
in her explanation of that mysterious visit to his house
and then he had scouted her explanation. He
lowered his hand again, and Salome, who had supposed
that he desired to speak, and had stopped,
resumed what she. was relating. 'Mamma heard
nothing more of him after that till yesterday, when
he reappeared. He was, he said, again in trouble,
which meant, this time, that he must leave the country
to avoid imprisonment. But he was not in a hurry to
leave too hastily ; he would wait till the vigilance of
the police was relaxed, nor would he go in the direction

they expected him to take. He had come, he
said, to ascertain Janet's address. He intended, he
said, to go to her. My mother refused to give it. I
trust she remained firm in her refusal, but of that I
am not sure. He said that if I had not been married
he would have carried me off with him ; it would not
be so dull for him if he had a daughter as a companion.
Janet knew about him and her relationship
to him. I did not. When he came here first of all,
Janet was in my mother's room, and the matter could
not be concealed from her.'

Do you mean seriously to tell me that till yesterday
you were ignorant of all this?'

Yes.'

Ignorant when you married me that your name
was Schofield, and not Cusworth ?'

Of course, Philip ; of course.' She spoke with a
leap of surprise in her tone and in her eyes. It was a
surprise to her that he should for a moment suppose
it possible that she was capable of deceiving him, that
he could think her other than truthful.

Then at that first visit you were told nothing ; only
Janet was let into the secret ?'

Yes, dear Philip.'

What ! the giddy, light-hearted Janet was made a
confidante in a matter of such importance, and you the
clear of intellect, prompt in action, close of counsel,
were left in the dark ? It is incredible.'

But it is true, Philip.'

Thereupon ensued silence.

She looked steadily at him with her frank eyes.

Surely, Philip, you do not doubt my word >
Mamma only told Janet because the secret could not
be kept from her. At that time my sister slept in
mamma's room, and spent the greater part of the day
with her, so that it was not possible to keep from her
the sudden arrival of — of him.' She shuddered at the
thought of the man who was her father. She put her
hands over her face that burnt with an instantaneous
blaze, but withdrew them again directly, to say
vehemently, 'But, Philip, surely it cannot be. You
do not doubt me ?' She looked searchingly at him.

He made no reply. His face was set. Not a
muscle moved in it.

Philip !' she said, with a catch of pain — a sudden

Spasm in her heart and throat. ' Philip, the sense of
degradation that has come on me since I have known
the truth has been almost more than I could bear
Not because of myself What God sends me, that 1
shall find the strength to bear. I am nobody, and if
I find that I am the child of someone worse than
nobody — I must endure it. What crushes me is the
sense of the shame I have brought on you, Philip, and
the sorrow that a touch of dishonour should come to
you through me. But I cannot help it. There is noway
out of it. It has come on us without fault of
ours, and we must bear it — bear it together. I ' — she
spread out her hands — ' I would lay down my lite to
save you from anything that might hurt you, that
might grieve your proud and honourable spirit. But,
Philip, I can do nothing. I cannot unmake the fact
that I am his daughter and your wife.'

I shall never, never forgive that the truth was kept
from me. The marriage was a fraud practised on me.'

My dear mother — you know whom I mean — acted
with the kindest intentions, but I cannot excuse her
for not speaking.'

'Janet knew, as you tell me, and she said nothing.'

VOL. II. 32

'Mamma urged her to remain silent'

I was sacrificed said Philip bitterly. ' Upon my
word, this is a family that transmits from one generation
to another the fine art of hoaxing the unsuspicious.'


'Philip!' A rush of indignant blood mantled her
face, and then left it again. She heaved a sigh, and
said, 'If I had known before I married you whose
daughter I was I would on no account have taken
you. I would have taken no honest man for his own
sake, no other for my own.'

You know what Schofield was to me — to me above
every man. I can recall when I told you and Janet
and your mother how he had embittered my life, how
he had ruined my father — and you all kept silence.'

Philip, you are mistaken ; I never heard that.'

At all events your mother and Janet heard me —
heard me when they knew I was engaged to you, and
they told me nothing. It was infamous, unpardonable.
They knew how I hated that man before I was
married. They knew that I would rather have become
allied to a Hottentot than to such an one as he. They
let me marry you in ignorance — it was a fraud ; and

how, I ask' — he raised his voice in boiling anger —
how can I trust 7^^ when you profess your ignorance?'
He sprang to his feet and walked across the room. ' I
don't believe in your innocence. It was a base, a vile
plot hatched between you all, Schofield and the rest
of you. Here am I — just set on my feet and pushing
my way in an honest business, and find myself bound
by an indissoluble bond to the daughter of the biggest
scoundrel on the face of the globe.'

Salome did not speak. To speak would be in vain.

He was furious ; he had lost his trust in her.

She began to tremble, as she had trembled when
Mrs. Sidebottom had seen her on the stairs — a convulsive
shivering extending from the shuddering heart
outwards to the extremities, so that every hair on her
head quivered, every fold in her gown.

'And now,' pursued Philip, * the taint is transmitted
to my child. It might have been endurable
had I stood alone. It is intolerable now. These
things run in the blood like maladies.'

She was nigh on fainting ; she lifted one hand
slightly in protest ; but he was too angry to attend to
any protest.

32—2

Can I doubt it ? The clever swindler defrauded
my father, and the clever daughter uses the inherited
arts and swindles the son. How do I know but that
the same falsehood, low, cunning, and base propensities
may not lurk inherent in my child, to break out
in time and make me curse the day that I gave to the
world another edition of Beaple Yeo, alias Schofield,
bearing my hitherto untarnished name ?'

Then she turned and walked to the door, with her
hands extended as one blind, stepping slowly, stiffly,
as if fearful of stumbling over some unseen obstacle.
She went out, and he, looking sullenly after her, saw
of her only the white fingers holding the door, and
drawing it ajar, and trying vainly to shut it, pinching
them in so doing, showing how dazed she was — instinctively
trying to shut the door, and too lost to
what she was about to see how to do it.

THE FLIGHT OF EROS.

The funeral of Mrs. Cusworth was over.

The blinds were drawn up at last.

When the service at the grave was concluded,
Philip and Salome returned to their home, if that maybe
called home from which the elements that go to
make up home — trust, sympathy, pity, forgiveness —
have fled.

The sun streamed in at the windows, broke in with
a rude impatience, as the blinds mounted, and revelled
on the floors again, and reflected itself in glass and
gilding and china, brought out into bloom again the
faded flowers on the carpets, and insisted on the
bunches of roses and jessamine and nondescript on
the wall-papers putting on their colours and pretence
of beauty.

But there was no sunshine streaming into the
shadowed hearts of Philip and Salome, because over
both the hand of Philip held down the blinds.

Philip, always cold, uncommunicative, allowing no
one to lay finger on his pulse, resenting the slightest
allusion to his life apart from business — Philip had
made no friend in Mergatroyd, only acquaintances —
drew closer about him the folds of reserve.

At one time much fuss was made about the spleen,
but we have come now to disregard it, to hold it as
something not to be reckoned with ; and Philip regarded
the heart as we do our spleens.

Philip was respected, but was not popular with his
own class, and was respected, but not popular, among
the operatives of his mill. Some men, however self-contained,
are self-revealing in their efforts after concealment.
So was it with Philip.

Shrewd public opinion in Mergatroyd had gauged
and weighed him before he supposed that it was concerned
about him. It pronounced him proud and
honest, and capable, through integrity of purpose, of
doing a cruel, even a mean, thing. He had been
brought up apart from those modifying forces which

affect, or ought to affect, the conduct governed by principle.
Principle is a good thing as a direction of the
course of conduct, but principle must swerve occasionally
to save it from becoming a destructive force.
In the solar system every planet has its orbit, but
every orbit has its deflections caused by the presence
of fellow planets. Philip as a child had never lain
with his head on a gentle bosom, from which, as from
a battery, love had streamed, enveloping him, vivifying,
warming the seeds of good in him. He reckoned with
his fellow-men as with pieces of mechanism, to be
used or thrown aside, as they served or failed. He
had been treated in that way himself, and he had come
to regard such a cold, systematic, material manner of
dealing with his brother men as the law of social life.
That must have been a strange experience — the
coming to life of the marble statue created by
Pygmalion. How long did it take the veins in the
alabaster to liquefy ? How long before the stony
breast heaved and pulsation came into the rigid
heart ? How long before light kindled in the blank
eye, and how long before in that eye stood the
testimony to perfect liquefaction, a tear ?

There must have been in Galatea from the outset
great deficiency in emotion, inflexibility of mind,
absence of impulse ; a stony way of thinking of others,
speaking of others, dealing with others ; an ever-present
supposition that everyone else is, has been,
or ought to be — stone.

Philip had only recently begun to mollify under the
influence of Salome. But the change had not been
radical. The softening had not extended far below the
surface, had not reached the hard nerves of principle.

In the society of his wife, Philip had shown himself
in a light in which no one else saw him. As the sun
makes certain flowers expand, and these flowers close
the instant the sun is withdrawn, so was it with him.
He was cheerful, easy, natural with her, talked and
laughed and showed her attentions ; but when he
came forth into the outer world again he exhibited no
signs of having unfurled.

Now that his confidence in his wife was shaken,
Philip was close, undemonstrative, in her presence as
in that of his fellows. He was not the man to make
allowances, to weigh degrees of fault. Allowances
had not been made for his shortcomings in his past

life, and why should he deal with Salome as he had
not been dealt by ? Fault is fault, whether in the
grain or in the ounce.

When Philip said the prayer of prayers at family
devotions, and came to the petition, ' Forgive us our
trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass against
us,' he had no qualms of conscience, not a suspicion
that his conduct was ungenerous.

He forgave Salome — most certainly he forgave her.
He bore no malice against her for having deceived
him. He was ready to make her an allowance of
forty pounds per annum for her clothing, and thirty
pounds for pocket or pin money'. Should she fall ill,
he would call in a specialist regardless of expense ; if
she wanted to refurnish the drawing-room he would
not grudge the cost. Would a man be ready to do
all this unless he forgave a trespass against him ? He
could not take her head, and lay it on his shoulder,
and stroke the golden hair, and kiss the tears from
her eyes — but then he did not ask of Heaven to pet
and mollycoddle him, only to forgive him, and he did
forgive Salome.

He saw that his wife's heart ached for her mother ;

that she felt keenly the loss of her who had been to
her the representative of all maternal tenderness and
consideration. That was natural and inevitable. But
everyone has to undergo some such partings ; it is the
lot of humanity, and Salome must accommodate herself
to her bereavement. He saw that she was without
an intimate friend in the place, to whom she could
pour out her heart, and of whom take counsel ; but
then, he also had been friendless, till he came not to
require a friend and to value human sympathy. What
he did not appreciate, she must learn to do without.

He saw that she was distressed and in agony of mind
because he was offended with her ; but this afforded
him no regret. She had sinned against him and must
accept the consequences. It was a law of nature that
sin should meet with punishment, and the sinner must
accept his chastisement as his due. What were the
consequences in comparison with the weight of her
transgression ?

Procrustes had a bed on which he tied travellers,
and if their length exceeded that of the bed he cutoff
their extremities ; but if they were shorter, he had
them stretched to equal it. Philip had his iron bed

of principle, on which he extended himself, and to this
he would fit his poor, tender, suffering wife.

As he and Salome returned together from the
funeral they hardly spoke to each other on the way.
Her hand was on his arm, trembling with grief and
mute, disregarded appeal. He knew that she . was
crying, because she continually put her kerchief to
her eyes. Tears are a matter of course at funerals, as
orange-blossoms are a concomitant of weddings.
Mrs. Cusworth, though not Salome's mother, had
stood to her for eighteen years in the relation of one ;
tears, therefore, thought Philip, were proper on this
occasion — every proper.

He did not blame her for crying — God forbid !

For his own part, Philip had regarded Mrs. Bosworth
with dislike; he had seen how commonplace,
unintellectual a woman she was ; but it was of course
right, quite right and proper, that Salome should seethe
good side of the deceased.

Philip wore his stereotyped business face at the
funeral, the face he wore when going through his
accounts, hearing a sermon, reprimanding a clerk,
paying his rates. He was somewhat paler than usual.

but the most attentive observer could not say that this
was caused by feeling and was not the effect of contrast
to his new suit of glossy black mourning. Not
once did he draw the little hand on his arm close to
his side and press it. He let it rest there with as
much indifference as if it were his paletot.

On reaching the house, he opened the door with his
latchkey, and stood aside to allow Salome to enter.
Then he followed, hung his hat on the stand, and blew
his nose. He had avoided blowing his nose at the
grave or in the street, lest it should give occasion to
his being supposed to affect a grief he did not feel ;
and Philip was too honest to pretend what was unreal,
and afraid to be thought to pretend.

He followed Salome upstairs.

On reaching the landing where was his study door,
Salome turned to look at him before ascending
further. Her face was white, her eyes red with weeping.
Wondrously beautiful in colour and reflected
light was her ruddy gold hair bursting out from under
the crape bonnet above her pallid face.

She said nothing, but waited expectantly, with her
brown eyes on his face. He received the look with

imperturbable self-restraint, opened his door, and without
a word went into his study.

Salome's bosom heaved, a great sob broke from it ;
and then she hastily continued her ascent. She had
made her final appeal, and it had been rejected.

Mrs. Cusworth had died worth an inconsiderable
sum, and that she had left to Janet, as more likely to
need it than Salome.

And now that the last rites had been paid to the
kindhearted, if stupid and illiterate old woman, who
had loved Salome as her own child, Salome turned to
her baby to pour forth upon it, undivided, the rich
torrent of her love, gushing tinged with blood from a
wounded heart.

There exists a sympathetic tie in nature and inhuman
relations of which Philip had never thought —
that between the mother and the babe. And now the
wrong done to the mother reacted, revenged itself on
her child. The little one had been ailing for awhile,
now it became seriously ill. The strain to which
Salome had been put made itself felt in the weak
frame of the infant that clung to her breast. Salome
would allow no one to nurse her darling: but herself

whilst its precious life was in danger, and the child
would, on its part, allow no one else to touch it. It
sobbed and cried and demanded of its mother infinite
patience and pity, unwearied rocking in her arms and
hugging to her heart, a thousand kisses, and many-tears,
words of infinite love and soothing addressed toit,
soft sighs breathed over it from an utterly weary
bosom, and earnest prayers, voiceless often, but ever
ascending, as the steam of the earth to heaven.

For awhile, care for the babe excluded all other
thoughts, devoured all other cares. Through the long
still night Salome was by her child ; she did not go to
bed, she sat in the room by its crib, sometimes taking
it on her lap, in her arms, then, when it was composed
to sleep, laying it again in its cradle. She heard every
stroke of the clock at every hour. She could not
sleep, she could but watch and pray.

Every hour or two Philip came to inquire after his
child. He stood by the cradle when it was sleeping
there, stooped and looked at the flushed face and the
little clenched hands ; but when it was on Salome's
lap or in her arms he did not come so near, he stood
apart, and instead of examining the child himself,

asked about it. Salome controlled herself from
giving way to feeling ; her composure, the confidence
with which she acted, impressed Philip with the idea
that she had got over all other troubles except that
caused by the child's illness ; and were this to pass
that she would be herself again.

But, through all her thought for the child ran the
burning, torturing recollection of what Philip had
said concerning it. She was not sure that he desired
that it should live — live to grow up a Beaple Yeo — a
Schofield. The house was perfectly still. All the
servants were asleep. Only Salome was awake upstairs,
when at four o'clock in the morning, as the day
was beginning to break raw and gray in the east, and
to look wanly in through the blind into the sick room
Philip entered.

Salome was kneeling by the crib — a swing crib of
wood on two pillars. She knelt by it, she had been
rocking, rocking, rocking, till she could no more stir
an arm. Aching in all her joints, with her pulses
hammering in her weary brain, she had laid both
hands on the crib side, and her brow against it also.
Was she asleep, or was she only fagged out and had

slidden into momentary unconsciousness through
exhaustion of power ? Her beautiful copper hair,
burnished in every hair, reflected the light of the
lamp on the dressing-table. On one delicate white
finger was the golden hoop. She did not hear Philip
as he entered. Hitherto, whenever he had come
through the door, she had looked up at him wistfully.
Now only she did nor, she remained by the crib,
holding to it, leaning her brow on it, and tilting it
somewhat on one side.

He stood by her, and looked down on her, and for
awhile a softness came over his heart, a stirring in its
dead chambers as of returning life. He saw how
worn out she was. He saw that she who had been so
heart', so strong, in a few days had become thin and
frail in appearance, that the fresh colour had gone
from her cheek, the brightness from her eye, that the
sweet dimple had left her mouth. He saw her love
and self-devotion for her child, the completeness with
which her soul was bound up in it. And he saw how
lonely she now was without her mother to talk to
about the maladies, the acquirements, and the beauty
of her darling.

She did not glance up at that moment, or she
would have seen tokens of melting in his cold
eye.

He remained standing by her and he looked at the
child now sleeping quietly. It was better, he trusted.
It could hardly be so still unless it was better.

Then, all at once. Salome recovered consciousness,
saw him, and said, * Oh, Philip, you do not want him
to die ?'

Philip drew himself up.

You have the crib too much tilted,' he said. He
put his hands to it to counterbalance her weight, but
she raised her head from the side and the crib righted
itself. He still kept his hand where he had placed it,
without any reason for so doing.

Philip,* she said again, with passionate entreaty in
her voice, * you do not wish my darling to die ?'

How can you ask such a foolish question I' he
answered. ' I am afraid the long night-watching has
been too much for you.'

Oh, Philip — you do love him? You do love him

although there is something of me in him. But *

she said hastily, 'he is mostly yours. He is like you,

VOL. II. 33

lie has dark hair and eyes, and his name is PhiHp, and
of course he is, he is a Pennycomequick ! Oh, Philip !
You love him dearly ?'

Of course I love him ; he is my child. Why do
you doubt ?'

Because,' she said, ' I — I am his mother. But
that is all — I am only a sort of superior nurse. He is
a Pennycomequick through and through, and there is
no — no— nothing of what you dread in him.'

Yes, he is a Pennycomequick.'

He can, he will be no other than a good and
noble man. He can, he will be that, if God spares
him.'

So I trust.'

Oh, Philip — he is better, so much better. I am
sure there is a turn. I thank God — indeed, indeed I
do. Look at his dear little face ; it is cool again.'

He had his hand on the side of the crib, and he
stooped to look at the sleeping babe. And, as he
was so doing, Salome, who still knelt, put her lips
timidly to his hand and kissed it — kissed it as it
rested on the side of her babe's crib.

Then he withdrew his hand. He took his kerchief

out of his pocket, wiped it, said coldly, ' Yes, the child
is better,' and left the room.

Philip went to bed. He had not asked Salome if
she were going to rest, he had not called up the
nurse to relieve her, though he saw and admitted that
she was worn out. He had withdrawn his hand from
her lips not with intention to hurt her, but to show
her that he was opposed to sentimentality, and not
inclined to be cajoled into a renewal of confidence by
such arts. That which angered and embittered him
chiefly was the fact that he was tied to a woman of
such disreputable parentage. Then, in the next
place, he could not forgive the fraud practised on him
in making him marry her in ignorance of her real
origin. He did not investigate the question whether
Salome were privy to it. He thought that it was
hardly possible she could have been kept in complete
ignorance of the truth. It was known to her sister.
Some suspicion of it at least must have been entertained
by her. A fraud, a scandalous one, had been
perpetrated — on her own showing by her sister and
reputed mother — and even supposing she were not
guilty of taking share in it, she must reap the cones



quinces of the acts of her nearest relatives. Mrs.
Cusworth and Mrs. Baynes were beyond the reach of
his anger, therefore it must fall on the one accessible.

Salome had acquired by marriage with him a good
position and a comfortable home, and it was conceivable
that for the sake of these prospective advantages
she would have acquiesced, if not actually concurring,
in the wretched mean plot which had led to his
connection with her — the daughter of the most
despicable of men, and his own personal enemy.

Philip went to bed and fell asleep, satisfied with
himself that he had acted aright, and that suffering
was necessary to Salome to make her feel the baseness
of her conduct.

Salome finding that the child fretted, took it out of
the cot, drew it to her bosom, and seated herself by
the window. She had raised the blind and looked
out at the silvery morning light breaking in the east,
and the pale east was not more wan than her own
face. When Psyche let fall the drop of burning wax
on the shoulder of Cupid, the god of Love leaped up,
spread his wings and fled. Psyche stood at the
window watching his receding form, not knowing

whither he went, but knowing that he went from her
without prospect of return. So now did Salome look
from the window gazing forth into the cold sky,
looking after lost love — gone— gone, apparently, past
recall.

EXILE.

Days passed, and the house had settled into formal
ways. The meals were at the usual hours, to the
minute. Philip went to the office at the usual time,
and at the usual time returned from it ; everything
had again entered into its routine as before. But the
relations between husband and wife were not improved.
They met at meals, rarely else. At table a
conventional conversation was maintained. Philip
occupied his bachelor apartments, and expressed no
intention of leaving them. Beyond the formal inquiries
after Salome's health in the morning, he took
no interest in her condition of mind and body. He
did not perceive that she still suffered, was becoming
thin, pale, and worn. He could not have invented a
more cruel torture than this daily life of chill intercourse

between them, and Salome felt that it was
becoming insupportable. She attended to the household
duties. She looked after his comforts, saw that
his room was properly dusted, that his papers, his
books were always in the same place, that his clothing
was in order, that strict punctuality was observed
in all that concerned him — he accepted this as of
course, and was unaware that every element that
conduced to his well-being was not present naturally.
He did not know that his wife entered his room when
he was away and rectified the little neglects and
transpositions of the housemaid ; he did not know
how much time, and how many tears were given to
his shirts and his socks and collars. He was unaware
of the patient consideration devoted to the
dinner, to ensure that he should have an appetizing
meal after his work in the office during the day. He
did not entertain the suspicion that the regularity of
the house was only effected by constant urgency and
supervision.

That there was a change in the relations of Philip
and his wife did not strike the outer world, which had
not been invited by him previously to' consider the

nature and closeness of those relations. In the presence
of others Philip was courteous and formal towards
his wife now, but he had been courteous and formal
towards her in public before. He had not called upon
the neighbours and acquaintances to rejoice with him
because he had found domestic happiness ; he did not
invite them now to lament with him because he had
discovered it to be chimerical.

He refused to Salome none of those attentions which
are required by common politeness ; what she missed
were those which spring out of real affection. His
behaviour to her in public was unchanged, and he
carried this manner into his private interviews with
her. Such interviews were now brief and businesslike.
He no longer spoke to her about what was
past, he never referred to her father. He never
allowed her to entertain the smallest hope that his
behaviour would change.

Philip rarely spoke to a servant, never except on
business; and he was surprised one day when the nurse
ventured to intrude on his privacy and ask leave to
say something to him.

Philip gave the required permission ungraciously.

Then the woman said :

Please, sir, the missus be that inconsiderate about
lessen that she'd never think o' telling nobody about
nowt that was wrong with her. And so, I dare say,
you don't know, sir, that it is not all well wi' her.
Shoo has sudden fainting's, and they come on o'er
often. Shoo makes light o't, but don't better of it.
I sed to her, shoo ought to tell you, but shoo wouldn't.
And, please sir, shoo's a good missus, and too precious
to be let slip through the fingers for not looking after
what's amiss i' time. So — sir — I've made would to
say a word about it.'

Philip was surprised, even shocked.

I will see to it,' he said ; and then, ' That will
do.'

He took occasion to speak with Salome about her
health, and now his eyes were opened to see how delicate
she had become. She admitted her fainting-fits,
but made light of them.

I have been overtaxed, that is all, Philip. I shall
soon be quite myself again.'

You have had a good deal of anxiety, no doubt,
and that may account for it. Still — it would bea

satisfaction to have an opinion. Do you care for
Mr. Knight .?'

Oh no, Philip — he is very clever, but too young.
I should not like to have Mr. Knight here about me.
But I assure you, it is nothing ! — I mean there is
nothing really the matter with me. It used to be
said that I had all the physique of us two sisters, and
Janet all the verve!

I wish you to have proper advice. You understand.
I wish it.'

Then, Philip, I will let anyone you like come and
see me, or I will go to anyone you recommend.'

I have no knowledge of doctors,' he said almost
contemptuously.

If I might have a choice ' she hesitated.

Of course you may — in reason.'

There is Mr. John Dale ; he was dear Uncle
Jeremiah's best friend, and he is Janet's guardian. I
always liked him, and he knows about us sisters.
Besides, I do want to see him and ask him what
he thinks about Janet ; but he is a long way off,
he is at Bridlington. If you think it would be extravagant
sending so far, I would go myself gladly

and see him. Indeed, I dare say the journey would
do me good.'

'Very well,' said Philip, 'I'll telegraph for Mr.
Dale.'

And then,' added Salome, * if you do not object, he
can overhaul baby and see that the darling is sound
as a bell. But — there is no need at all to telegraph.
I know quite well what is the matter with me. It is
nothing that any doctor can cure.'

'What, is it?'

I have had a good deal to worry me, to make me
unhappy. I cannot sleep, I am always thinking. I
can see no way out of the trouble. If there were the
tiniest thread to which I could lay hold, then I should
soon be well — but there is none. It reminds me of
what I have read about the belief the North American
Indians have concerning their origin. They were,
they say, once in a vast black abyss in the centre
of the earth, and there were tiny fibres hanging from
the roof, and some of them laid hold of these fibres,
and crawled up them, and following them came to the
surface of earth and saw the sun, but others never
touched a depending thread, and they wander on in

timeless darkness, without a prospect, and without
cognizance of life.'

Well '

And I am like these, only with this pang, that I
have been in the light. No — there is no fibre hanging
down for me.'

She spoke timidly, and in a tone of half inquiry.

He did not answer.

Philip, you must believe my word when I say that
I never knew till the night before you heard it, that I
was not what it had been given out I was.'

We will not debate that matter again,' said Philip
sharply. ' It can lead to nothing.'

There is, then, no fibre,' she said sadly, and withdrew.


John Dale arrived, bluff, good-natured, boisterous.

Hallo ! what is the matter with you ?' was his
first salutation ; and when he had heard what her
ailments of body were — she made light of them to
him — he shook his head and said bluntly, ' That's not
all — it is mental. Now, then, what is it all about?'

Mamma was taken suddenly ill and died ; it was a
dreadful shock to me. Then baby was unwell, and I

had to watch him night and day ; he would let no
one else be with him.'

But the expression of your face is changed, and
neither your mother nor baby has done that. You
are in some trouble. A doctor is a confessor. Come,
what is up .'*'

Then she told him — not all, but a good deal. She
told him who she was, and how she had discovered her
origin — that her father was the man who had started
the swindle about lodinopolis, but that Beaple Yeo
was not his real name ; he had assumed that in place
of his true name, Schofield.

What — the scoundrel who did for Nicholas 
?*

Salome bowed her head.

I see it all said Dale. ' I never met that fellow
Schofield, but I knew Nicholas Pennycomequick, and
I know how he was ruined. I had no idea that the
fellow Yeo, whom I met at Bridlington, was the same.
Now, my dear child, I understand more than you have
told me. I shall not give you any medicine, but order
you away from Mergatroyd.'

I cannot — I cannot leave baby.'

Then take baby with you.'

Salome shook her head.

She also saw that nothing would do her good save
an escape from the crushing daily oppression of
Philip's coldness and stiff courtesy.

A day or two later she received a letter with a
foreign postmark, and she tore it open eagerly, for
she recognised her sister's handwriting.

The letter was short. Janet complained of not
getting any better ; her strength was deserting her.
And she added : ' Oh, Salome, come to me, come tome
if you can, and at once. He is here.'

There was no explanation as to who was implied,
but Salome understood. Her sister was ill, weak,
and was pestered by the presence of that man— that
horrible man who was their father.

She went to Philip's door and tapped. She was at
once admitted.

Philip,' she said, ' I refused to take Mr. Dale's
advice on Tuesday, I will take it now if you will
allow me. I have heard from Janet. She is ill.'
The tears came into her eyes. ' She is very ill, and
entreats me to fly to her without delay.'

'I

She said nothing to him of who she had heard was
with her sister.

I am quite willing that you should go,' he said.
The words were hard. The lack of feeling in them

touched her to the quick.

Very well, Philip,' she said ; ' with your consent I
wall go. Baby must do without me for awhile, unless,'
she brightened, ' unless you will allow me to
take baby and nurse with me.'

No,' answered Philip, ' on no account. Go yourself,
but I cannot entertain that other proposal'
She sighed.
Where is Janet V he asked.

At Andermatt — on the St. Gothard. The air is
bracing there.'

Very well. You will want money. You shall
have it.'

And how long may I stay V

That entirely remains with yourself. As far as I
am concerned, I am indifferent.'

So Salome was to go. She was now filled with a
feverish impatience to be off — not that she cared for
herself, that the change might do her good — but

because the leaving home would be to her agony, and
she was desirous to have the pang over.

She felt that she could not endure to live as she
had of late, under the same roof with her husband
and yet separated from him, loving him with her
faithful, sincere heart, and meeting with rebuff only ;
guiltless, yet regarded as guilty, her self-justification
disregarded, her word treated as unworthy of credence.
No — she could not endure the daily mortification, and
she knew that it would be well for her to leave ; but
for all that she knew that the leaving home would be
to her the acutest torture she could suffer. She must
leave her dear child, uncertain when she would see it
again. She did not hide from herself that if she left,,
she left not to return till some change had taken
place in Philip^s feelings towards her. She could not
return to undergo the same freezing process. But
she raised no hopes on what she knew of Philip's
character. As far as she was acquainted with it — it
was unbending. Salome had that simple faith which
leads one to take a step that seems plain, without too
close a questioning as to ultimate consequences. She
had been told by the doctor whom she trusted that

she must go away from Mergatroyd, and immediately
came the call of her sister. To her mind, this was a
divine indication as to the course she must take, and
she prepared accordingly to take it.

At the best of times it is not without misgiving and
heartache that we leave home, if only for a holiday,
and only for a few weeks ; we discover fresh beauties
in home, new attractions, things that require our
presence, and obstruct our departing steps. A certain
vague fear always rises up, lest we should never return,
at least, that when we return something should be
changed that we value, something going wrong that
we have left right, some one face be missing that we
hold to with infinite love. It is a qualm bred of the
knowledge of the uncertainty of all things in this
most shifting world, a qualm that always makes itself
felt on the eve of departure. With Salome this was
more than a qualm ; she was going, she knew not to
what ; she was going, she knew not for how long ;
and the future drew a gray impenetrable veil before
her eyes — she could not tell, should she return, to
what that return would be. She did not reckon about
her child. She could not, she would not be sepa-

VOL. II. 34

rated from it — but whether Philip would let the child
go to her, or insist on her return to the child, that
she did not ask. The future must decide. Whatever
she saw to be her duty, that she would do. That was
Salome's motive principle. She would do her duty
anywhere, at any sacrifice ; when she saw what her
dut\- was.

A cab was procured from the nearest town, four
miles distant, to take Salome to the station.

Oh the last clasp of her babe I The tearful eyes,
the quivering mouth, the beating heart, the inner

anguish ; and then as she ran downstairs, with

her veil drawn over her face, Philip encountered heron
the landing, and uttered her — not his cheek, not
his heart — but his arm to take her to the cab.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

p-ergfcoiEquicKs

PENNYCOMEQUICKS

^ iTODCl

BY

S. BARING GOULD

AUTHOR OF
MEHALAH,' ' COURT ROYAL,' ' JOHN HERRING.' ' THE GAVEROCKS,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

LONDON
SPENCER BLACKETT & Hallam

MILTON HOUSE, 35, ST. BRIDE STREET, Lydgate CIRCUS, E.C.


[Ail rights reserved

CHAPTER PAGE

XXXIV. A DESOLATE HOUSE - - - - I

XXXV. OFF • - - - - - 19

Xxxvi. DEPOSED - - - - - ."35

XXXVII. ON THE LAKE - - - --5°

XXXVIII. IN HOTEL IMPERIAL - - - - 69

XXXIX. TWO WOMEN - - - - - 86

XL. TWO MEN - - - - - lOI

XLI. ONE Pocket-handkerchief - - - 1 1?

XLII. THE GAUNTLET DANGLED - - " 132

XLIII. THE GAUNTLET CAST - - - - 1 42

XLIV. AND PICKED UP - - - - - 149

XLV. Over-ALP - - - - - - 1 64

Xlvi ARTEMISIA - - - " - 180

XLVII. EDELWEISS - - - - "197

Xlvii. TRAPPED - - - - - - dio

XLIX. TETE-astute - - - - - 228

L. IN THE HOSPICE - 244

LI. AGAIN HYMEN - - - - - 259

Il THE DEVIL'S KNELL - - - - 273

.3

THE PENNYCOMEQUICKS.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

A DESOLATE HOUSE.

Philip was restless all that day, after Salome had
departed. He had remained at home in the morning
to see her off, and he did not return to his work at
the factory till after lunch.

At the office, he found it impossible to fix his
thoughts on the books and letters before him. He
was not an imaginative man, but day-dreams forced
themselves before him now ; between his eyes and his
ledger he saw the pale, tearful face of Salome through
her veil. He found his thoughts travelling along the
line with her. He saw her in a corner of the railway
carriage, with her hands on her lap, looking out of
the window, not to see anything, but to hide her wet

VOL. in. 35

1' : : .t ;rr. £ - :; : : : : :' these things for Salome ?
J-l: : ; r i i : ! : ~ for herself was unlikely.

W~h r - r - r :zi:. I : : r Lt would she do ? Would
:lr ;:rer; zt £creative ? Would they tit h: :its
I'i :: r lis lt.z e ::-re her into a cab?

An .1 :'r.-: -; -i' : : :r~:uld he seek to
:Let ii L :i^T i j i^-; ritcially one who
ir i r.hs.ccv? Would not such an one
zt::~t i r-"-h "--'• - '^^^ t;-' £" be subject to

What i::: :f tL:ht: :u^i Sl':-^ hi r for crossing
the Chant? She v,s3 giirr ; h :ver and
Ostend, Bmssds and :' t ~ l- i h : "CDurg, to
Stiasbnrg: thence by 1:. ; :: h :tic; L.cd so on

H hi >r clcl^tl;:-: :cLcrt :f money?

Wc: :- : hir^t: She hi c never travelled

abroad before ; how would she contrive about her
luggage? What sort of French scholar was she?
Who would be her companions on the long r.i^h:
journey from Brussels to Strasbourg ? WTiat ii she
had to endure association with vulgar, insolent, objectionable
travelling comrades ?

Philip became hot, then cold.

I beg your pardon, sir,* said the clerk, coming to
his desk. • Are you aware that you have subscribed
that letter twice ever, Yours truly, P. Pennycome-
quick ?'

So I have ; I will write it again.'
Arc. sir— I beg pardon — you h?-.e i'.:^::zi this
letter to Messrs. Brook & Co., Cotton Spinners,
Andermatt Is that right ?'

'■ I have made a mistake. I vik vrriie the address
again.'

At dinner, that everir.^. Philip was alone. The
parlour-maid waited. Ska stood a little way off,
behind his chair, whilst he ate. He "as cctsci.^us
that she watched him at his sou:. :':\:.'. k.e as :: anting
how many spoonfuls went in:: kii ::::::. ti.at ke
was not unobserved when he added sait ana nec-er.

She was down on his plate Hke a vulture on a dead
camel, the moment he had taken his last spoonful.
Probably she was finding it as embarrassing standing
watching him eat as he found it eating with her
watching.

Mary,' said Philip, ' did Mrs. Pennycomequick
have any refreshments with her when she left — sandwiches
and sherry .'''

I beg your pardon, sir ; I don't know. I will go
and ask cook.'

She did know. Philip was sure she did, but made
this an excuse to get out of the dining-room and its
oppressive restraint to the free air of the kitchen.

Presently she returned.

'Well?' asked Philip.

Please, sir, no. Cook says .she tried to press them
on missis, but missis, sir, wouldn't have 'em. She
said she'd have no appetite.'

What is it ?' asked Philip, as a dish was offered.

Curried rabbit, sir.'

Curried rabbit ? No, thank you.'

Philip looked across the table, to the place hitherto
occupied by his wife. He had not been gracious, only

coldly civil to her of late, but then — now he would
have been glad to have had someone opposite him to
whom he could have been coldly civil ; someone to
whom he might have remarked that the weather had
been bad, that the barometer was rising, that the
political situation was so and so.

Bother that woman ! — he meant the parlour-maid.
Then aloud, ' What is it ? Oh, veal.' He would have
some veal. * Stuffing ?' Oh ! the stuffing formed
that brown wart at the side, did it .''

He tried to eat his veal, but felt that the eye of
Mary was on the back of his head, that she was looking
at the nape of his neck, and the hair there, and
the collar-button, and a little dust that lay on the
collar of his coat. Philip had a mole on the nape of
his neck, and he was convinced that this mole formed
an object of the liveliest interest to Mary. She was
watching the mole ; when he opened his jaw, the mole
took a header and went under his collar ; when he
shut his mouth it rose above the collar ; whilst he
was chewing, the mole danced on the horizon of his
collar, to Mary's infinite amusement.

Philip turned round. His imagination made him

fancy that Mary was tittering, overcome by the antics
played by his mole.

Philip took wine, and as he felt the glow of the
sherry pass down his throat, he wondered whether Mary
felt a glow of sympathy down her throat, occasioned
by seeing him drink the sherry.

Her presence was unbearable, and yet — if he dismissed
her — how was he to be served ?

Til ask someone to dine with me tomorrow night,'
he said to himself. Then he turned to Mary as she
removed his plate, and said, ' How is baby this afternoon
? Does he fret much at his mother's being
away .-''

I beg your pardon, sir ; I don't know. I'll run and
ask nurse.'

Of course she knew, but she made this an excuse
for getting out of the dining-room into the freer air of
the nursery.

Never, in all his life, had Philip found himself more
impatient of the silence imposed on him, more desirous
to hear his own voice. In his lodgings he had eaten his
meals alone — a chop and some potatoes — and he had
had a book or a paper at his side whilst eating ; the

landlady or the slavey had not stood in the room
watching him, observing the parting in his hair behind
his head, making fun of his mole, impatient to dust
his collar. In his lodgings he had drunk beer or
London cooper — now he drank claret, sherry, port ;
but he would have drunk even water, if he might have
been alone.

No, thank you ; no dessert !' He jumped up — he
was eager to leave the room.

Please, sir, any cheese ?'

No, thank you, no cheese.'

He ran away from his half-finished dinner to his
own study, where he could be alone, away from the
insufferable Mary, Then he rang the bell.

You may bring me up the claret and port here —
and the preserved ginger he ordered. Then thought
he had acted absurdly, and would have countermanded
the order had he not been ashamed to confess how unhinged
he was.

He sat in his own room, with his claret glass in his
hand, dreaming, looking into the fire.

Where was Salome now .-' Was she thinking of
home — of her baby — of — of — him .''

Then he wondered whether she were cold, and
hungry, and tired. She had not slept the previous
night. She had been busy packing, or going in and
out of baby's room, to kiss the little sleeping face, or
to pray by the crib, or let the dew of her tears fall
over it.

Philip stood up. He left his glass unfinished, and
went upstairs to the nursery. He found the door ajar,
and the room empty. The nurse had gone down for a
talk in the kitchen — no doubt about Master, and Mary
was telling her about his mole, and the spots of dust
on his collar.

He entered the nursery and stood by the crib, and
looked at the sleeping child.

Little Philip was now quite well again, and was very
sound asleep. He was undoubtedly a Pennycomequick.
He had dark hair, and long dark eyelashes. But
surely — surely there was some trace of his mother in
the tiny face. It could not be that he did not bear in
him something of her. Philip looked intently at the
child, and tried to find out in him some feature of his
wife.

There, on this side of the crib, had Salome's hands

rested that night when little Philip was ill. Philip,
the father, knew the exact spot where her hands had
rested, and where her forehead had leaned, with the
red-gold hair falling down over the side upon the
bedding. Where the white left hand had clutched,
with the gold ring sparkling on it, there now Philip
placed his hand, and there streamed up to him from
the crib of his child a magnetic influence that put him
£U rapport with his absent wife, brought to him a
soothing sense of oneness with her who was far away,
and filled his heart with regret and yearning.

The child began to cry.

Then Philip rang the bell, and when the nurse
arrived, red and blowing

How is it that you are not at your post ?' he
asked.

Please, sir, I only just ran down to warm up Dr.
Ridge's Food for the baby,' was the answer.

Philip descended to the study, and resumed his
claret glass. At the same time he began to consider
his own conduct towards Salome, and, now only, saw
that it did not bear the same complexion as he had
hitherto attributed to it. In vain did he call up before

his mind the dishonour of relationship with such a man
as Beaple Yeo, a rogue after whom the police had been
in quest more than once. In vain did he poke the fires
of his wrath at the trickery of his marriage, he could
not convince himself that Salome had been privy to it ;
and if not privy to it, what right had he to treat her
with the severity he had exercised ? But not even
then did it occur to him that the main element of his
wrath was supplied by his own wounded pride.

The discovery of her parentage must have been to
Salome a crushing humiliation. What justification
was there for his adding to her burden by his reproaches
and coldness ? She could not undo the past,
unmake her relationship. His anger, his resentment,
could not improve the situation, could not shake the
truth of the hateful fact that he was allied to so great
a scoundrel. Though she had been married under a
wrong name, that would not invalidate the marriage
even if he wished it — even if he wished it ! Did he
wish it .-*

He thought about Uncle Jeremiah's will, and how
that by it Salome had been left almost sole legatee ;
how that the mill and everything had been given to

her, and how that in a mysterious manner that will
had been cancelled. The old haunting suspicion that
his aunt had meddled with and defaced the will returned.
He thought of her behaviour when he allowed
her to see that he entertained a suspicion ; of her
evasion of her promise ; of her laxity of principle ;
and he could not shake off the thought that it was
quite possible that through her Salome had been defrauded
of her rights.

If so, had he any right to complain if he had been
deceived ? How did Mrs. Sidebottom show beside
Salome ? And he — he, Philip — had he shown in
generous colours either ?

It was said of that distinguished epicure the Marquis
de Cissy, ' L'estomac de M. n'a jamais bronche,'
and the same may be said of most consciences — but
not of all. As we have seen even Mrs. Sidebottom's
conscience once felt a twinge at the time when consciences
generally do feel twinges, when too late to
redress wrong actions. So now did Philip, as he sat
over the fire with his claret glass in his hand, become
aware that he had acted with undue severity, and he
spilt the claret on the floor.

Next day, Philip went to the old bedroom which he
and his wife had occupied till he changed his quarters.
He found the housemaid there, who seemed startled at
seeing him enter.

Please, sir, I'm drawing down the blinds, because
of the sun.'

I will trouble you to leave the blinds up,' said
Philip. ' I do not choose to have the house — the room
look as though someone in it were dead. Here —
by the way, my room downstairs will need a thorough
turn out. I will return to this room ; at all events fora
time.'

Very well, sir.'

She left the chamber. He stood in it and looked
about him. Salome had left everything tidy. Some
of her drawers were open, not many were locked.
Most of her little private treasures had been removed.

Where was the photograph on a stand of Uncle
Jeremiah? It had no doubt been taken away by her.
Where the three little owls sitting on a pen-wiper ?
It was gone — and the Christmas cards that had stood
on the chimney-piece, and the ugly glazed yellow
flower vase, given her, on her birthday, by the cook.

The clock on the chimney-piece was stopped.
Salome had wound that up regularly ; her hand was
no longer there, and it had been allowed to run down.
The room was dead without the tick of the clock.
Philip wound it up and set the pendulum swinging.
It ticked again, but in a formal, weary manner, unlike
the brisk and cheerful tick of old.

The room had a cold unfurnished look without
Salome's knickknacks — trifles in themselves, but
giving an air of refinement and cheeriness to the
apartment. He went over to the dressing - table.
No combs and brushes, no hairpins, bottles of hair oil
and wash there — simply a table with a looking-glass
on it. One little glass was there, but no flowers in it ;
and hitherto it had never failed to contain some —
even in winter. With what ingenuity had Salome
kept that little glass on the dressing-table bright — in
winter at times with holly only, or ivy leaves — or
moss and a scarlet Jew's ear !

It was the same downstairs. There the flowers were
ragged and faded in the vases. Salome was away,
who had rearranged them every second day.

The room smelt musty, and Philip threw up the

window. He stood at it, and looked out dreamily.
Where was Salome now ? Was she in Switzerland ?
Had she any heart to look at the mountains ? Would
the wonderful scenery be any joy to her — alone ?

I can never dine as I did yesterday,' said Philip.
I will ask Tomkins in.'

That day he did invite Tomkins, his head traveller.
But he was irritated with Tomkins and angry with
the maid, because Tomkins' seat had been put at the
end of the table, in Salome's place ; and Tomkins was
a different object for his eyes to rest on from Salome.
The dinner passed wearily. Philip was not, indeed,
concerned about the parlour-maid examining the mole
on his neck, but he had to make conversation for
Tomkins, and to listen to Tomkins' commercial room
tales, and to be civil to Tomkins.

After dinner Tomkins was in no hurry to go — he
enjoyed the Pennycomequick port, and on the port
grew confidential, and Philip became tired, every
minute more tired, of Tomkins, and was vexed with
himself for having asked Tomkins in, and vowed he
would dine by himself next evening. Then Tomkins,
finding it difficult to rouse Philip's interest and excite

a laugh, began to tell rather broad stories and was
undeterred by Philip's stony stare, till Philip suddenly
stood up, rang for coffee, and said it was time to
adjourn to another room, and so cut Tomkins
short.

But even after Tomkins had been got into the
drawing-room, and had been chilled there by its size
and coldness, and the inattention of his host, he
showed little inclination to depart, and threw out
hints that he could strum an accompaniment to
himself on the ' pi-any,' and sing a song, sentimental
or humorous, if Mr. Pennycomequick would like to
hear him. But Philip pleaded headache, and became
at length so freezing as to force Tomkins to take his
leave.

Philip did not feel it necessary to accompany his
head commercial into the hall ; but Mary was thereto
assist him into his great-coat, and find him his hat,
and give him a light for his cigar.

Well, Mary,' said Tomkins pleasantly. ' Thank
you, Mary ; to take a light from you warms the heart,
Mary. I'm as blind as a beetle in the dark, and 'pon
my word, dear, I don't know my right hand from my

left in the dark. You wouldn't object, would you —
there's a dear — just to set me on my way home, with
my nose in the right direction, and then my cigar-light
will carry me on ? Can't go wrong if I follow
that. But it is the first step, Mary — the first step is
the thing. Le premier paz, say the French.'

Then he hooked his arm into hers, and the demure
Mary had no objection to take just half a dozen steps
along the road with the affable Mr. Tomkins — who
was a widower — and to leave the hall door ajar as
she escorted him part of his way home.

Philip sat in the drawing-room in bad humour. It
was dull dining by himself: it was insufferable dining
with Tomkins. He could not invite brother manufacturers
to dine with him every evening. What
must he do .-* He would return to plain food and a
book at his solitary meal, and dismiss the critical
parlour-maid till he required his plate to be changed.

Philip rang the bell. The teacups were left on the
table. His bell remained unanswered. He rang
again. It was still unnoticed. Then he angrily went
down into the hall, and found the door ajar. He
called to the servants in the kitchen for Mary. The

housemaid appeared. ' Please, sir, she's gone out a
moment to post a letter.'

'What ! at this time of night ?'

It was most particular ; her mother be dreadful
purely,. sir, and Mary do take on about her orful !'

Go to bed — lock up,' ordered Philip ; and he stood
in the hall whilst the frightened domestics filed
past.

Then he turned down the gas and returned to the
drawing-room. He would hear Mary when she came
in by the hall door, and would at once give her her
dismissal.

He sat waiting. Here was fresh trouble come on
him through his wife's absence. He would have to
see that his servants were kept in proper order ; that
they kept proper hours.

He had hardly resumed his seat before he heard
steps in the hall, and then on the stairs. Certainly
not the tread of clary ; not light, and not stealthy,
but firm and ponderous.

What step could it be ? Tomkins returning to tell
one of his good stories, or to ask for soda-water .'' He
listened, and hesitated whether to rise or not. It

VOL. III. 36

must be the step of Tomkins ; no one else would
venture to come in at this time. The step was
arrested at the drawing-room door ; then Philip stood
up, and as he did so the door was thrown open, and
Uncle Jeremiah stood on the threshold, looking at
him. He knew the old man at once, though he was
changed, and his hair white.

Philip,' said Jeremiah, ' where is your wife ? Where
is Salome ?'

Philip was too much astonished to answer.

Then said Jeremiah sternly : ' Give an account of
thy stewardship, for thou mayest be no longer
steward.'

OFF.

When I was a boy I possessed a pet owl. It was a
source of amusement to me to feed that owl with
mice. When the trap had caught one of these night
disturbers, I took it to the solemn owl, who sat
blinking in the daylight, half awake and half asleep.
The owl at once gulped down the mouse, and then
went fast asleep with the mouse in her inside, but
with the end of the tail protruding from her beak.
About an hour later I wert to the owl, took hold of
the end of the mouse's tail and pulled it, whereupon
up the throat of the owl came the mouse, backwards
and the bird of wisdom was roused to wild wonder
and profound puzzlement to account for the sudden
disgorging of her meal. Mrs. Sidebottom had bolted
Uncle Jeremiah, and was doing her best to digest him

36—2

and his fortune, when, unexpectedly, her meal came
to life again, and she sat gulping, blinking, bemused
in her sitting-room, waiting for the return of Lambert
from the billiard-table, to communicate to him the
news that had reached her. Anyone who had seen
my owl would perceive at once that the case of Mrs.
Sidebottom was analogous.

The consternation could hardly have been greater
on Quill reappearing when a posse of wives was
sitting discussing him, esteemed dead ; and yet
Jeremiah was no Quill. But it is not Ouilps alone
who would produce dismay were they to return to
life. Imagine the emotions produced in a hospital
which has received a bequest of ten thousand pounds,
and has spent fifteen guineas on the portrait of the
benefactor, should the benefactor descend from the
frame, declare himself alive, and require the return of
his thousands. Think of the junior partner, who has
been waiting till a senior shuffled off his mortal coil to
make room for him ; how would he feel were the dead
to return to life ? Think of the curate waiting for the
living, the next presentation to which is for him,
should the old rector, after having laid himself down

in his grave, change his mind and get out and resume
his benefice for another fifteen years !

Mrs. Sidebottom had but just received news of the
reappearance of Uncle Jeremiah, and, like an energetic
woman, she wasted as little time as might be in exclamations
of dismay. She was not the woman to hover
in uncertainty, and ask advice how to get out of a
difficulty. Like one who has trodden in mire, she
pulled her foot out instantaneously to set it on dry
and firm ground.

I don't know how the law stands, and whether the
sentence of the Court of Probate can be reversed,' she
said ; ' but of one thing I am very sure — that he who
has can hold, and tire out those who try to open his
hands, if he has any wit.'

Then in came Lambert.

Oh, Lamb !' exclaimed his mother, ' here is a
pretty predicament we are in ! My brother Jeremiah
has come to life again !'

The captain burst out laughing.

This is no laughing matter,' said his mother testily.
How can you be such a hyaena ? Jeremiah has reappeared
at Mergatroyd, and there is — well, I can't

mince matters — the devil to pay. I presume he will
want to reclaim what we have distributed between us.
The mill, of course, with the business, he will take
back under his control, and cut off the supply thence.
That is a serious matter — and then there is the money
he left '

Which I suppose he will require you to return ?'

Which I can't and won't return. Bless me, Lamb,
what a state of things ! Our income reduced from
half the profits of the business to one-sixth, which he
cannot touch, as that comes to me under my marriage
settlement. We must leave England — we must leave
at once. I shall know nothing about Jeremiah's
return. I shall keep away till I see in what humour
he is, what he intends to do, and in what light he
regards me. There are trifles connected with the
administration I don't care to meet him about. As
for his savings, his securities, and so on, I will return
nothing ' — she stamped her foot — ' no, Lamb ; for, in
fact, I can't !'

How do you know that he is back, and that this is
not a false alarm ?'

Look here ' She tossed a letter to him. ' It

is laconic. He wrote it with a sneer — I know he did.
Jeremiah never liked me. He has disappeared, and
has come to life again, out of spite.'

Captain Pennycomequick — to be correct, 
— took the letter and read it with a
smile.

It was short.

'Dear Louisa,

'I am back, hearty again. I have been to
Algiers for my health. I had rheumatic fever, and
when I came round I found you had already pronounced
me dead, and had divided the spoils — concerning
which, a word later.

Your affectionate brother,

'Jeremiah P.'

Is it his handwriting }' asked Lambert.

Of course it is. Here is a pretty mess for me to
be in, I shall have everyone laughing at me, because
I swore that the man in the shirt and great-coat was
Jeremiah. "Concerning which — the spoils — a word
later." What does he mean by that, but that he proposes
calling me to account for every penny ? I will

not remain in England, I cannot. I will not receive
this letter.'

But you have received it.'

'I shall make my landlady return it, with a note to
say that she took the liberty to open it, so as to be
able to write to the sender, and say that I have gone
abroad for my health. Where shall I say I have
gone to .'' — To Algiers, whence Jeremiah has just
returned.'

You cannot do that.'

But I will. Self-preservation is the first law. As
for the money — I lost some by that Beaple Yeo ; not
much, but some. I was so prompt, and had such
presence of mind, that I caught the man and made
him refund before he had got rid of most of it. I
have money in securities — railway debentures and
foreign loans. I have all the papers by me — I trust
no one but myself, since my faith has been shaken by
Smithies. Lamb, we must be off directly. It would
be too much a shock to my nerves to see my brother
that was dead and is alive again. What are you
laughing at. Lamb ? You really are silly.'

There is some prospect now of my coming to that

hundred and fifty, I hope,' said the captain. ' Uncle
Perennial may now write another will.'

How selfish you are ! You think only of yourself,
not how I am afflicted. But, Lamb, I have had you
sponging on me all these years, and keeping me in an
exhausted financial condition that is intolerable

We shall revert to our former condition, I suppose,
now,' said Lambert unconcernedly.

'That is precisely what I cannot do. Return to
poverty and middle-class society, the very crown and
climax of which is a Lord and Lady Mayoress —
when we are on the eve of making the acquaintance
of county people ! What have you done for yourself.?
You have been too inert to seize the chances I have
put in your way. You must marry money. Jane
Mulberry was worth five hundred per annum, and you
let her slip through your fingers.'

She had a moustache.'

She had money. Five hundred pounds would gild
it. Then there was Miss Smithson.'

She was insipid.'

What of that ? The insipid women make the best
wives, they are so non-resistant. In marriage, men

should be teetotalers and take weak and washy-women.
They are far the best to get on with.'

Don't think I've much fancy for such,' said the
captain languidly.

I tremble to think said his mother angrily, ' what
the offspring of a weak woman and such an un-energetic
man would be !'

Then why recommend such a marriage .-''

Because we must consider ourselves, not the unborn
possibilities. However, to return to the subject
that now most occupies me. My condition is desperate.
You must marry. I can support you no longer.'

And so you deport me to Algiers ?'

My dear boy, we are not going to Algiers.'

Then where to ?'

To Andermatt.'

Andermatt ! — Where is that ?'

On the St. Gothard.'
- ' And pray why to Andermatt on the St. Gothard ?'

Because Mrs, Baynes is there.'

Oh, by all means.'

What makes you say " by all mean's " ?' asked his
mother sharply.

She's a jolly girl, good-looking, and no nonsense
about her.'

Do you think that I would take you to her if that
were all ? You know she is a widow. She has her
hundred and fifty from what was sunk by Jeremiah
when she married, but that is not all : she has been
left well provided for by her husband, Mr, Albert
Baynes. I know all about it. I got everything out
of Salome. I told her how anxious I was about her
sister, how pained I was concerning her bereavement,
and how I hoped that she was not left in bad circumstances.
Salome very openly told me that she was
very comfortably provided for, and no stipulation
made about marrying again. I know what Salome
meant when she let me draw that out of her — she
meant that you should know ; but I then had my eye
on Miss Smithson. However, now that we must go
abroad we may as well kill two birds with one stone.
Besides, as Jeremiah took such a lively interest in
Janet, he may be gratified at your marrying her, and
not press me with demands which I could not comply
with — which I will not, no, I will not comply wither

But she is in bad health.'

Oh, nothing but sentiment at her husband's death ;
besides, if she is delicate, all the better.'

I don't see that,' said the captain, feebly disgusted
at his mother's heartlessness.

'Fiddle-faddle,' said Mrs. Sidebottom ; 'it is all
part of the business — it goes with widows' caps.
When I lost Sidebottom I was worn to a shadow and
got a cough ; but I began to recover flesh when I
went into half mourning, and lost my cough with my
weeds. When you appear on the scene it will be
oliver oil to her.'

It will be very dull at this place you speak of.'

Of course it will be dull and hateful, but what will
you have ? I sacrifice myself for you. You must get
off my hands and shift for yourself ; I have had you
as a charge too long. 1 want to see you well provided
for, and as the Smithson and Jane Mulberry failed, you
must take the Baynes. I can't tell you exactly what
she is worth, but I will ascertain from Salome, who is
there, before you commit yourself Remember, Lamb,
we must go. I cannot stay here and face Jeremiah.'

Why not ? It would be the most honourable thing
to do, and might answer the best in the end.'

I cannot do it. Why — how would you feel — how
could you feel towards a person who had pronounced
you dead, and proceeded to administer ? Much as a
man might towards the surgeon who proceeded to
dissect him before he was dead. No, Lamb, I will
not remain. I can always write to Jeremiah, and
express my profound astonishment to hear of his
return, and assume an air of injury that I should have
been left in the dark so long. Indeed, I think that
will be the card to play — throw the blame on him,
and if the case comes into court, I can lay stress on
this. Wilfully he allowed me to remain in ignorance
of his existence. Something had to be done. The
factory would not go on of itself. The factory could
not be carried on without money. The business
would go to pieces unless energetically prosecuted.
Jeremiah may feel grateful, and ought to feel grateful
to me, that I acted with such readiness in the matter
and saved the firm of Pennycomequick from ruin. I
can bring in a heavy bill against him for my services.
However, I had rather do this from a distance, and by
letter. I will take the injured tone, and make him
dance to that tune.'

Mrs. Sidebottom was a woman of resource. She
never suffered herself to be discouraged by adversity ;
and adversity now faced her wearing the mask of her
brother returned to life. She had much energy of
character and fertility of invention, which, if she had
been a woman of principle, instead of unscrupulous
self-seeking, might have made her a valuable person
in society. She was at present frightened — she had
invested some of the money she had drawn to herself
from Jeremiah's savings in a manner that promised
well ; some she had lost. She neither desired to be
called to account for what she had squandered, nor to
be forced to reimburse those happy speculations which
were likely to place her in easy circumstances. Until
she had had good professional advice, and until she
knew what her brother intended, she considered that
safety lay in absence.

She went about in York, leaving her card ; and
when she saw a friend, she told her that she was off to
the Continent for a bit of a change. She had not
been very well, and the doctors had insisted on
variation of scene and air, and she felt herself that
life was too short to spend it in one place. The

world was large and must be seen, and those dear
snowy mountains — they possessed for her a fascination
she had struggled against, but had been unable
further to resist.

My dear Mrs. Jacques, you know what anxiety
and care I had last year about my poor brother's
affairs — winding up, you know. I held up through it
all, animated by a sense of duty, but it told on me in
the end, and now I am going to relax. I shall spend
the summer in the Alps, and unless I am much better
I shall go to Algiers for the winter. Have you any
friends who will be there next Christmas ? Oh, my
dear ! to think of Christmas in Algiers ; a hot sun
and no plum-pudding !'

Mrs. Sidebottom had not the faintest desire to
spend a winter in Algiers ; she thought Mentone, or
Florence, or Pau would suit her better, according to
where she could get into the best society, and she
resolved to leave the determination to the future ; if
she found during the summer people whom it was
worth her while hanging on to, and who were wintering
anywhere abroad, she would attach herself to
them. But with that curious crookedness which

prevails in some natures, she went about asking
questions about hotels and pensions at Algiers, keeping
her ears open at the same time to hear of persons
of position who were likely to winter elsewhere. It
was possible that, if she made it well known that she
would winter in Algiers, acquaintances would tell her
of friends of theirs who were wintering elsewhere.
Nor was she wrong.

Oh, I am so sorry you are not going to Mentone ;
Sir William Pickering is going there because of the
health of dear Lady Pickering. Such charming people
you would have liked to know them — but as you
are going to Algiers, of course I cannot get you
acquainted with each other.' Mrs. Sidebottom knew
well enough that if she had said she was going to
Mentone this piece of information would not have
been vouchsafed her. ' Oh ! Mrs. Sidebottom — you
are visiting Algiers. There is a nice young lady, a
niece, going there. She is in a decline. I shall be
eternally obliged to you if you would show her
kindness ; she is badly off, and it would be goodness
itself if 5'ou would just look in now and then and
ascertain that she is comfortable and not imposed on.'

My dear Mrs. Thomson, you could not have asked
me to do anything that would have pleased me more
but unfortunately it is not certain I am going to
Algiers. If I make up my mind to go I will write to
you for the address of your niece, and you may rely
on me, I will do my utmost for her.' This was
accompanied by an internal mem. : Have nothing
further to do with Mrs. Thomson. I'm not going
abroad to be anybody's nurse. Heaven forbid !

Oh, Mrs. Sidebottom ! So you are off to Switzerland
and Algiers. Now there could be nothing more
opportune. We are going to have a bazaar to raise
money for the relief of the peasants in France, who
have suffered from the war. Would you mind sending
as your contribution a box of charming Swiss
carvings and delightful Algerian and Moorish pottery
the latter will sell rapidly and at high prices — you
are so good and charitable, I know you will.*

I will certainly do so. Rely on me. I intended
to have had a stall ; I will send two cases instead '—
with a mental mem. : Forget all about the bazaar till
it is over, and then write a proper apology.

Oh, Mrs. Sidebottom ! I've lost my maid again.

VOL. III. 27

As you are going to Switzerland, will you do me the
favour of looking out for a really serviceable girl — you
know my requirements — and arrange all about trains
and so on, so that she may reach me safely ? Perhaps
you would not mind advancing her journey-money,
and I will repay it — if she suits, of which I have no
doubt. I am determined to have no more English
servants.'

Mrs. Sidebottom found that her acquaintances were
eager to make use of her, but then she had sufficient
knowledge of the world to expect that.

Have you secured through tickets, Lamb ?'

Yes, mother.'

Then we are off tomorrow.'

DEPOSED.

Gone as a dream ! — that brief period of hope and
happiness and comfort. Philip had a disquieting
prospect opening before him, as disquieting as that
which drove Mrs. Sidebottom from England, but
different in kind. Philip was ready enough to
account for every penny, and return all the money
undiminished which had come to his share. What
troubled him was the fearful look-out of a return to
furnished lodgings. He saw himself about to be cast
forth from the elegancies, the conveniences of life, and
cast down to its vulgarities and discomforts. He saw
himself about to be transferred from the cushioned
carriage on the smooth road, to a buggy on a corduroy
way, all jolts and kicks and plunges and breakdowns.
He was about to descend from succulent joints and

37—2

savoury entremets to mutton-chops alternating into
beef-steaks, from claret to bitter beer, from a place of
authority to one of submission, from progress to
stagnation, from a house of his own over which to
range at pleasure to confinement within two rooms,
one opening out of the other. He must go back to
streaky forks, and spoons that at dinner recall the egg
of breakfast, to knives with adhesive handles and
tumblers frosted with finger-marks, to mirror frames
encased in fly-proof snipped green paper and beaded
flower-mats, a horsehair sofa, a cruet-stand with old
crusted mustard and venerable Worcester sauce in it,
to wax fruit under a glass shade, as covered with dust
as a Peruvian island with guano, to folding-doors into
the adjacent bedroom, and to curtains tied back with
discarded bonnet-ribbons. But it would have been
bad enough for Philip, now accustomed to better
things, to have had the prospect before him of
descending alone ; but he was no longer alone, he
had a wife, who, however, was absent, and about
whose return he was uncertain. And he had with
him the encumbrance of a baby ; and the encumbrance
of a baby drew with it a train of dissatisfied

and departing nurses, one after another, like the
procession of kings revealed to Macbeth in Hecate's
cave.

A babe in a lodging-house is as out of place as was
the ancestral Stanley found in an eagle's nest on the
top of a pine, of which the family crest preserves a
reminiscence.

Uncle Jeremiah was restored to strength, moral as
well as physical. He no longer thought of his heart,
he allowed it to manage its pulsations unconsidered.
He was heartily glad that he had been saved committing
an act of egregious folly, and he was prepared
now to meet Salome without a twinge. Commonsense
had resumed the place of upper hand; and the
temporary disturbance was over for ever. To every
man comes at some period after he has begun to
decline a great horror of old age, an agonizing clutch
at the pleasures and follies of youth, a time of intoxication
when he is not responsible for his acts, an intoxication
produced by fear lest life with its roses
should have passed and left only thorns behind and
decay. Men whose lives have been spent in business,
subjected to routine, who have not thought of love

and amusement, of laughter and idleness, are suddenly-roused
to find themselves old and standing out of the
rush of merriment and the sunshine of happiness.
Then they make a frantic effort to seize what hitherto
they have despised, to hug to their hearts what they
have formerly cast away. It is the St. Luke's summer,
a faint reflex of the departed glory and warmth, a last
smile before the arrival of the winter gales. No
moment in life is so fraught with danger as this — at
none is there more risk of shipwreck to reputation.

Now that Jeremiah had passed through this period,
he could survey its risks with a smile and a sense of
self-pity and a little self-contempt. He who had
always esteemed himself strong had discovered that
he could be weak, and, perhaps, this lesson had made
him more lenient with the infirmities of others.

He returned to his friend John Dale, looking older
by some years, but also more hale. He had touched
the earth but had risen from it stronger than when
he fell.

On reaching Bridlington, he learned from Dale the
state of matters at Mergatroyd. Whilst there, a
hasty note arrived for Mr. Dale from Salome to say

that she was leaving, with her husband's consent, to
be with her sister in Switzerland, and both thought
they could read between the lines that there had been
a fresh difference with Philip.

Thereupon Jeremiah went to Mergatroyd, and came
in unexpectedly and unannounced on Philip.

Jeremiah Pennycomequick had not decided what
course to pursue with regard to his sister and nephew.
He was conscious that he had played them a trick,
that he had put them to a test which he was not
justified in applying to them.

He was angry with both — with his half-sister for
the precipitation with which she had accepted and
certified his death, and with Philip for his treatment
of Salome. He did not disguise from himself that his
interference in such a delicate matter as a quarrel, oran
estrangement, between husband and wife, might
make the breach worse.

When he arrived at Mergatroyd, he had-not resolved
what course to take. He sat up half the night with
Philip.

You will find,' said the latter with some pride,
that I have maintained the business in a healthy

condition ; it is not in the condition it was during the
Continental war which affected linen as well as other
things, but that was of its nature ephemeral. It rests
on a sound basis. Go through the books and satisfy
yourself. My aunt there was a tone of bitterness
when he added this — ' my aunt watched the conduct
of the factory with a jealous eye, and did not trust
my accounts without a scrutiny. As for what was in
the bank, I can give an account of every penny, and
the securities, such as came to me, are untouched.'

I will look into these matters at my leisure,' said
Jeremiah, ' and if I find that matters are as you say, I
will let you down lightly ; only, I forewarn you, let
down you will be. And now a word about Salome.^

My wife,' said Philip shortly.

Your wife — exactly — but '

With regard to my wife, I brook no interference,'
said Philip haughtily. ' The mill is your affair, my
domestic relations are my own.'

You cry out before you are hurt,' retorted Jeremiah
; ' I am not about to interfere. I know that you
are greatly disconcerted at the discovery as to the
parentage of your wife.'

Philip held up his head stiffly and closed his lips
tightly. He said nothing.

I am not intermeddling,' continued Jeremiah, ' but
I wish you to understand this : that I have some
claim to speak a word for Salome, whom I have
always — that is to say — whom I have looked upon
with fatherly regard. The two little girls grew up in
my house, not a day passed but I saw them ; I rode
them as infants at my knee, I bought them toys.
They ran to meet me — cupboard love, of course —
when I came from the mill, because I had oranges or
sweet things in my pocket. I took pride in them as
they became blooming girls, I saw that they were
Mell taught. After dinner they soothed me with their
music, and when I was dull enlivened me with their
prattle. Have I, then, no right to speak a word for
one or the other .' I have been to them more than a
father. Their father deserted them as soon as they
were born, but I have nurtured and clothed them, and
seen to the development of their minds and the disciplining
of their characters. It is absurd of you to
deny me the right to speak. To interfere is not my
purpose.'

Very well, I will listen.'

'Then let me tell j^ou this — I know who their father
was. When Mrs. Cusworth came into this house she
very honestly told me the truth about them, and by
my advice she kept her counsel. It could do them
only harm — cloud their joys — to know that they had
a disreputable father. We knew nothing of the man's
subsequent history. He had disappeared, and might
be — as we hoped — dead. But, even if alive, we did
not suppose he would care to come in quest of his
twin daughters, and we trusted, should he do this,
that he would not find them. We hoped that he
might not conjecture that the children had been
adopted by their aunt, and that she had moved
into Yorkshire to Mergatroyd. Neither Salome
nor Janet knew who their father was, or rather
both supposed him to be that worthy man who
perished so lamentably in my service. By what
means he made the discovery and got on their
track I do not know, and I hardly care to know.
If I could take into my house the children of such
a man, it hardly becomes you '

Philip interrupted his uncle.

'That fellow Schofield never injured you as he did
my father. He not only ruined him, but he also was
the cause of his estrangement from you, or rather,
yours from him.'

Bear the man what grudge you will,' said Jeremiah
hastily, ' but do not visit his offences on the head of
his unoffending child.'

Philip stood up. He was angry, but not to be
moved from his stiffness of manner.

I think,' said he, ' you will be tired. I am, and
probably bed is the best place for both. As this
is now your house, and I am an intruder in it,
I must ask permission to occupy my room for tonight'


Jeremiah laughed. ' And you — a lawyer ! Why,
you are in legal possession, and till there is a reversal
of the sentence of the Probate Court, I have no more
rights than a ghost. No — I am your guest.'

Philip retired to his room. The words of Jeremiah,
charging him with visiting the offences of the father
on the unoffending child, were but the repetition of
his own self-reproach, but for that very reason less
endurable. It is the truth of a charge which gives it

its sting. A man will endure to say to himself what
he will not tolerate to be said to him by another.

He went to his room, but not to bed. He sat at
the window, where Salome had sat, in the same chair,
thinking with dark brow and set lips. In one thing,
his self-esteem was encouraged. His uncle would see
and be forced to acknowledge how thoroughly he had
mastered the technicalities of the business, and with
what order and prudence he had carried it on. He
need not shrink from the closest examination into his
conduct of the factory. Everything was in order, the
books well kept, several contracts in hand. His uncle
might dismiss him, but he could not say a word against
his integrity and business habits. He had taken to
himself nothing but what Mrs, Sidebottom, as administratrix,
had passed over to him. And as to his
uncle's disappearance, he had done nothing as to the
identification of the wrong body ; he had held himself
neutral, as incapable of forming an opinion from inadequate
acquaintance with his uncle. If blame was
to be cast, it must fall heavily on Mrs. Sidebottom,
but none would rest on him.

But — how about the future ? Philip now recalled

the discomfiture, the monotone, the irritations of
lodging-house life. Could he go back to that ? If
his uncle offered to retain him in his house, could he
consent ? His pride counselled him to go, his love of
comfort to remain.

Uncle Jeremiah had not invited him to remain, but
Philip thought it likely that he might. His pride was
galled in many ways. It would be most painful to
him to continue at the factory, in which he had been
a master, henceforth in a subordinate position. Should
he return to the solicitor's firm at Nottingham, in
which he had been before ? That his services there
were valued he was well aware, that his resignation
of a clerkship therein had caused annoyance he was
well aware ; he knew, however, that his place was
filled, and that if he returned to the office, he would
be obliged to take a lower desk. He might, and probably
would be, advanced, but that would require
patience, and he must wait till a vacancy occurred.
Besides, it would be a humiliation to have to solicit
readmission, after he had left the office on stilts, as
one who had come into a fortune.

Then — what was to be done about his wife ? He

could not maintain her and her child on a junior
clerk's wage. Moreover, he had sent her away when
he occupied a lofty moral platform, because connection
with her sullied the fair name of Pennycome-
quick, and might injure the firm ; and now that he no
longer belonged to the firm, but was a poor clerk of
no consequence in the world, was he to write to her a
letter of humble apology, and ask her to return and
share the beggary of a clerk's life in furnished lodgings
with him, to unite with him in the long doleful battle
against landladies ? He had little doubt that Uncle
Jeremiah would propose to make Salome an allowance,
and that on this allowance together with his
salary they might be able to rub along. But to
accept such relief from Uncle Jeremiah, granted
through his wife — his wife whom he had snubbed and
thrust away — was not pleasant to contemplate.

Whatever way Philip considered the meal set before
him, he saw only humble-pie, and humble-pie is the
least appetizing of dishes. Philip approached it as a
sulky child does a morsel which his nurse requires
him to eat, without consuming which he must expect
no pudding. He walked round it ; he looked at it

from near, then he drew back and considered it at
long range, then he touched it, then smelt it, then
turned his back on it, then — with a grumble — began
to pick a few crumbs off it and put them between his
lips.

He went to bed at last, unresolved, angry with
himself, angry with Salome, angry with his uncle,
and angry with the baby who was sobbing in the
nursery.

Philip's experiences had all been made in spiral
form ; they were ever turning about himself, and
though each revolution attained a higher level, it was
still made about the same centre. There is a family
likeness in minds as well as in noses and eyes and
hair ; and in this Philip resembled his aunt, but with
the difference that he was governed by a strong
sense of rectitude, and that nothing would induce
him to deviate from what he believed to be just,
whereas his aunt's principles were flexible, and
governed only by her own interests.

In these days in which we live, socialism is in the
air, that is to say, it is talked of and professed, but
whether by any is practised I am inclined to question.

For socialism I take to mean everyone for
everyone else, and no one for himself, and this is a
condition contrary to the nature of man, for men are
all more or less waterspouts, vortices, attracting to
themselves whatever comes within their reach, and to
be actuated by a centrifugal, not a centripetal force
is the negative of individuality.

We stalk our way over the ocean, drawing up
through our skirts every drop of water, every seaweed,
and crab and fish and mollusc that we can
touch, and whirl them round and round ourselves,
and only cast them away and distribute them to
others when they are of no more use to ourselves.

Every climatic zone through which Philip had
passed had served to feed and build up the column
of his self-esteem ; the rugged weather in furnished
lodgings, and the still seas into which he had entered
by his uncle's death, and by his marriage. Nothing
had broken it down, dissolved its continuity, dissipated
its force.

At sea, when a vessel encounters a waterspout, it
discharges ordnance, and the vibration of the atmosphere
caused by the explosion snaps the column and

it goes to pieces. But would the shock caused by
the return of Uncle Jeremiah, and the loss of position
and wealth that this entailed, suffice to break the
pillar of self-esteem that constituted Philip 
? Hardly ; for though touched in many
ways, he could hold up his head conscious of his
rectitude ; he had managed the mill admirably, kept
the accounts accurately, adapted himself to the new
requirements perfectly. He could, when called upon,
give up his place, but he would march forth with all
the honours of war.

VOL. III. 38

ON THE LAKE.

Mrs. Sidebottom had reached Lucerne very rumpled
and dirty and out of temper, having travelled all night
from Brussels, and having had to turn out and have
her boxes examined at Joinville and Basle. She had
scrambled through a wretched breakfast off cold coffee
and a roll at Strasbourg, at four o'clock in the morning,
and then had been condemned to crawl along by a
slow train from Strasbourg to Basle, and by another,
still slower, from Basle to Lucerne. A night in a
comfortable hotel had restored her wonderfully ; and
when she took her place under the awning in the lake
steamer, with a ticket in her glove for Fluelen, which
she insisted on calling Flew-ellen, she was in a contented
mood, and inclined to patronize the scenery.
The day was lovely, the water blue, Pilatus without

his cap, and the distant Oberland peaks seen above
the Brunig Pass were silver against a turquoise sky.

This said Mrs. Sidebottom, dipping into ' Murray's
Handbook' to ascertain what it was proper to say —
this is distinguished above every lake in Switzerland,
and perhaps in Europe, by the beauty and sublime
grandeur of its scenery.'

Then past her drifted a party of English tourists,
also with ' Murray ' in their hands and on their lips.
Oh, mamma !' exclaimed a young lady, ' this lake is
of very irregular shape, assuming near its west extremity
the form of a cross. Do you see .-* There is
one arm, we are approaching another, and there is the
leg.'

'My dear,' said her mother, 'don't say leg; it is
improper ; say stem.'

And, mamma, how true " Murray " is ! — is it not
wonderful ? He says that at this part the shores of
the lake are undulating hills clothed with verdure, and
dotted with houses and villas. He really must have
seen the place to describe it so accurately.'

Good gracious !' exclaimed Mrs. Sidebottom ; and
their, after a pause, ' Gracious goodness !'

38—2

U. OF ILL LIB.

Lambert Pennycomequick took no notice of his
mother's exclamations, till a third ' gracious goodness,'
escaping her like the discharge of a minute-gun at sea,
called his attention to her, and he asked, ' Well, what
is it ?' As he received no answer, he said, ' I don't
believe in that honey served up at breakfast. It is
not honey at all, but syrup in which stewed pears
have soaked.'

Upon my word !' gasped Mrs. Sidebottom.

'What is the matter, mothers Oh yes, lovely
scenery. By George, so it is. I believe it is all a hoax
about chamois. I have been told that they knock
goats on the head, and so the flesh is black, or rather
dark-coloured, and it is served as chamois, and charged
accordingly.'

This is extraordinary !' exclaimed Mrs. Side-bottom.


Yes — first rate,' said Lambert. ' Our Yorkshire
wolds don't quite come up to the Alps, do they ?'

But Mrs. Sidebottom was not lost in wonder at the
beauty of the landscape, she was watching intently a
gentleman in a light suit, of a military cast, wearing a
white hat and a puggaree, with moustache and carefully

curled whiskers, who was marching the deck
alongside of another gentleman, stout, ordinary-looking,
and comfortable in appearance, like a plump
bullfinch.

Look at my watch !' said the gentleman in the
light suit, and as there were vacant places beside Mrs.
Sidebottom, the two gentlemen left pacing the deck
and seated themselves on the bench near her.

'Look at my watch 'turned black, positively
black, as if I had kept it against a vulcanized india-rubber
stomach-belt. If you want evidence — there it
is. I haven't cleaned it. No, I keep it as a memorial
to me to be thankful to the beneficent Heaven which
carried me through — which carried me through.'

Mrs. Sidebottom saw a silver watch-case extended
to be exhibited, the dingy colour that silver acquires
when exposed to gas.

I wish, sir — I beg your pardon, my lord — you will
excuse me, but by accident — by the merest accident
I caught sight of your address and name on your
luggage — I wish, my lord, I were going with you to
Andermatt, and I would take you a promenade round
the backs of the hotels, and let you smell — smell, my

lord — as rich a bouquet of accumulated deleterious
odours as could be gathered into one — odours, my lord,
diphtheritic!, typhoidiacal. You see my face — I have
become mottled through blood-poisoning. I was
gangrened at Andermatt by the deadly vapours there,
I thank a merciful Heaven, with my strong constitution
and by the warning afforded by my watch, I
escaped death. I always carry about with me a silver
timepiece, not one of gold, for sanitary reasons — the
silver warns me of the presence in the atmosphere of
sulphuretted hydrogen — of sewage gas — it blackens,
as the arm of Lady Thingabob — I forget her name,
perhaps she was of your lordship's family — as the arm,
the wrist of her ladyship, was blackened by the grip
of a spectre. I see you are bound for the Hotel du
Grand Prince. I went there, and there I inhaled the
vapours of death, or rather of disease. I moved to
the Hotel Imperial, and was saved. There, and there
only, the drainage is after English models, and there,
and there only are you safe from the fumes of typhoid,
the seeds of typhus, the corpuscles of diphtheria,
and the — the — the what-dYe-call-ems of cholera.
You will excuse my speaking to you, perhaps,

forcing myself — unworthy — on your distinguished
self.'

Oh, certainly, certainly.'

But when I saw your name, my lord, and considered
what you are, and what the country would lose
were you to run the risk un forewarned, that I ran, I
ventured to thrust myself upon you.'

I am really most obliged to you.'

Well — who is it said " We are all one flesh, and so
feel sympathy one with another " ? Having suffered,
my lord, suffered so recently, and seeing you, my lord,
you, you — about — but there — not another word. Homo
sum, nil humani — but I forget the rest, it is long
since I was at school, and I have not kept up my
classics.'

I really am most indebted to you — and you think
that the Hotel Imperial '

I am sure of it. I had my blood tested, I had my
breath analyzed. There were diatoms in one, and
bacilli in the other, and — I am alive, alive to say it ;
thanks to the salubrious air and the careful nursing of
the Hotel Imperial.'

The nobleman looked nearly as mottled in countenance

as the other ; this was caused by the alarm produced
by the revelations of his interlocutor.

Don't you think,' he said, 'that I had better avoid
Andermatt ?'

On no account my lord. You are safe at the
Imperial. I cannot say that you will be safe elsewhere.
I have been to Berne to the University Professors
to have the atmosphere of the several hotels
analyzed for my own private satisfaction. It was
costly — but what of that ? — it satisfied me. These are
the results : Hotel du Cerf — three decimal two of
sulphuretted hydrogen, two decimal eight of malarious
matter, one, no decimal, of typhoid germ. Hotel de
la Couronne door — three decimal one of sulphuretted
hydrogen, five decimal three of compound fermenting
putrifio-bacteritic stuff. Hotel du Grand Prince —
eight decimal one of diphtheritic effluvium, occasional
traces of scarlet-fever germs, and a trace — a trace of
trichinus spiralis.'

Good heavens 1' — his lordship turned livid — ' allow
me, sir, to shake your hand ; you have conferred on
me a lasting favour. I shall not forget it. I was
bound for the Hotel du Grand Prince. What about
the Imperial ?'

Nothing — all salubrious, mountain air charged with
ozone, and not a particle of deleterious matter in it.'

I shall certainly' go there — most certainly. I had
telegraphed to the Grand Prince ; but, never mind, I
had rather pay a forfeit and put up at the Imperial.'

'Would you mind, my lord, giving my card to the
proprietor ? It will ensure you receiving every attention.
I was there when ill, and am pleased to recommend
the attentive manager. My name is Yeo —
Colonel Yeo — Colonel Beaple Yeo, East India Company
Service, late of the Bombay Heavy Dragoons.
Heavies we were called — Heavies, my lord"*

'Will you excuse me?' said the stout little nobleman
; ' I must run and speak to my lady. Ton my
word, this is most serious. I must tell her all you
have been so good as to communicate to me. What
were the statistics relative to the Grand Prince .'''

Eight decimal one — call it eight of diphtheritic
effluvium, traces of scarlet-fever germs, and of trichinus
spiralis. You know, my lord, how frightful, how
deadly, are the ravages of that pest'

Bless me !' exclaimed his lordship, ' these foreigners
really they should not attempt to draw English —

Englishmen and their families to their health resorts
without making proper provisions in a sanitary way.
Of course, for themselves, it doesn't matter ; they are
foreigners, and are impervious to these influences ; or,
if not, and carried off by them— well, they are
foreigners ! But to English — it is outrageous ! Til
talk to my lady

Lambert said Mrs. Sidebottom in a low tone to
her son, ' for goodness' sake don't forget ; we must
go to the Hotel Imperial.'

But low as she had spoken, her neighbour in the
light suit heard her, turned round and saw her. Not
the least abashed, he raised his hat, and with a flush
of pleasure exclaimed, ' Ah ! how do you do, my dear
madam — my dear, dear madam ? This is a treat — a
treat indeed ; the unexpected is always doubly
grateful.' He looked round to see that his lordship
was out of hearing, and then said in a lower tone,
You misconstrued me — you misinterpreted me. I
had guaranteed you fifteen per cent., and fifteen percent,
you should have had. If you have lost it, it is
through want of confidence in me — in me — in Colonel
Beaple Yeo, of the Bombay Heavies. Had you

trusted me — but ah ! let bygones be bygones. However,
an explanation is due. I writhe under the imputation
of not being above-board and straight —
straight as an arrow. But what can you do with a
man like Mr. Philip Pennycomequick ? The landowners
at Bridlington got wind of the plan. They
scented lodinopolis. Their greed was insatiable, they
demanded impossible prices. There was nothing for
it but for me to beat a retreat, make a strategic move
to the rear, feign to abandon the whole thing, throw
it up and turn my attention elsewhere. Then, when
they were in a state of panic, my design was to reappear
and buy the land on my own terms not anymore
on theirs. Why, my dear madam, I would have
saved the shareholders thousands on thousands of
pounds, and raised the interest from perhaps a modest
seven to twenty-five per cent., and a decimal or so
more. But I was not trusted, the money confined tome
was withdrawn, and others will make fortunes
instead of us. I schemed, others will carry out my
scheme. Sic vos non vobis mellificatis apes, and you
know the rest, aratus bowes, and so on.'

Then Beaple Yeo stood up and handed his card to

Mrs. Sidebottom, saying, 'You will at least do me this
favour ; give my card to the proprietor of the Hotel
Imperial, and he will care for you as for a princess of
the blood royal Then he stalked away.

Mrs. Sidebottom turned dejectedly to her son.
Lamb, I believe I was premature. After all, there
was management in that affair. Of course his was
the right way to bring those landowners to their knees.
Let us take a turn.'

Beaple Yeo had now attached himself to another
party of strangers — tourists, whose acquaintance he
had probably made at an hotel in Lucerne ; and he
walked the deck with them. When they were fore,
then Mrs. Sidebottom and her son were in the rear,
but when they turned on their heels, then she turned
also and walked aft, and heard their conversation
during that portion of the walk. The subject was St.
Bernard dogs, and apparently Beaple Yeo had some
scheme connected with them, which he was propounding.


My dear sirs — when the St. Gothard tunnel is complete
— answer me — what will become of the hospice .-*
To what use can it be put ? It will be sold for a song,

as not a traveller will cross the mountain when he can
pass under it. For a song — literally for a " song of
sixpence." Now, can you conceive of a place more
calculated by nature as a nursery of Mount St. Bernard
dogs — and the necessary buildings given away — given
for nothing, to save them from crumbling into ruin ?
There is a demand, a growing demand for Mount St.
Bernard dogs, that only wants a little coaxing to
become a perfect furore. We will send one as a present
to her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales. We
will get in France an idea that the St. Bernard dog is
a badge of the Republic, and that all true Republicans
are bound to have Mount St. Bernard dogs. We will
get some smart writers in America to dash off some
sparkling articles in the illustrated magazines, and the
demand becomes furious. Say the population of
France is thirty-seven millions ; actually it is more,
and of these, two thirds — say twenty-five millions —
are Republicans, and of these, one half are in a
position to buy Mount St. Bernard dogs, and we fan
the partisan fever to a height, by means of the press,
which is easily done by dropping a i&v^ pounds into
the hands of writers and proprietors. Say that one-third

only of those in a position to buy the dogs,
actually ask for them — that makes five millions of
Mount St. Bernard dogs to be supplied to France
alone. Then consider England, if it becomes the
fashion there, and it will become the fashion, if the
Princess of Wales accepts a dog from us, and walks
about with one. Every lady of distinction and then,
in the next year, every servant-girl, will want a St.
Bernard dog. And further — I have calculated that
we can feed a dog at less than three farthings a day ;
say the total cost is a guinea. I have made inquiries
and I find I shall be able to buy up the broken meat
at a very low figure from the great hotels of Switzerland
during the season. This will be conveyed to the
hospice and there frozen. So it will keep and be
doled out to the dogs daily, as required, Let us say
that the interest on the outlay in purchasing the
hospice and in maintaining the staff of dog-keepers
be one guinea per dog ; that makes the total outlay
two guineas on each pup, and a pup a year old we
shall not sell under ten pounds. Now calculate the
profit for yourself — eight pounds a dog, and four
millions supplied to France alone to enthusiasts for

the republic and quite two millions to England to those
who imitate her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales,
and seven millions to the United States for Americans
who copy French or English fashions, and you have a
total of thirteen millions of dogs at eight pounds each,
a clear profit of one hundred and twenty-five millions.
If we put the matter in decimals '

The party turned and were before Mrs. Sidebottom.
She could not hear what followed.

'My dear Lamb,' whispered she, 'did you hear
that ? What a chance ! What a head the colonel
has!'

At the next revolution Mrs. Sidebottom heard something
more about the dog scheme.

You see, gentlemen, the splendid thing is that the
dogs suffer from pulmonary complaints when in the
plains, and will not breed away from the eternal snows
two great advantages to us. Shares — preference
shares at ten pounds — are to be subscribed in full,
others as called in at intervals of six months. I myself
guarantee fifteen per cent., but as you see for
yourselves, gentlemen, the scheme cannot fail to
succeed and the profits will be overwhelming.'

'Are you going on to Andermatt ?' asked one of
the gentlemen walking with Beaple Yeo.

No, sir, I have had a bad attack ; you can see the
traces in my face. I will also show you my watch,
how it was blackened. I have been ordered by my
medical advisers to cruise up and down the lake of the
Five Cantons, and inhale the air off the water till J
am thoroughly restored. By the way, if you are going
to the Hotel Imperial at Andermatt would you take
my card to the proprietor? He is interested about
the dogs.'

Beaple Yeo now crossed the deck to a party that
was clustered together at the bulwarks with an opera
glass that was passed from hand to hand. It consisted
of a tall man with a broad-brimmed hat, bushy
black whiskers, a white tie and clerical coat, his wife,
his sister, and five daughters. A comfortable religiously
surrounded the group as a halo.

Beaple Yeo raised his hat. ' Beg pardon, sir, a
clergyman ?'

Yes, I am.'

And a dean, doubtless. You will excuse my interrupting
you, but I have ventured here thinking you

might like to know about a very remarkable movement
after the Truth in Italian the heart and centre
of ignorance and superstition. Count Caprili is the
leading spirit. It is no use, sir, as no doubt you are
aware pulling at the leaves and nipping the extremities
of the Upas, you must strike at the root,
and that is what my dear friend Count Caprili is
doing. He is quite an evangelist, inspired with the
utmost enthusiasm. I have here a letter from him
descriptive of the progress the Truth is making in
Rome — in Rome itself It is in Italian ; do you
read Italian, sir ?'

N — no, but, mother, can you ?' to his wife.

No, but Ninny has learned it ' — of a daughter, who
reddened to the roots of her fair hair and allowed that
if it were in print she might make it out.

Never mind,' said Beaple Yeo, or Colonel Yeo ashe
now called himself, ' I can give you the contents ina
few words. A year ago his little congregation numbered
twenty, it now counts one hundred and eighty-five,
and at times even a couple of decimals more.
At this rate he reckons that the whole of the Eternal
City will have embraced the Truth in twenty-five

VOL. III. 39

years and two months, unless the eagerness to embrace
it grows in geometrical instead of arithmetical progression.
In Florence and Turin the increase is even
more rapid. Indeed, it may fairly be said that Superstition
is undermined, and that the whole fabric will
collapse. Between ourselves I know as a fact that the
Pope when he heard of the success of Count Caprili
attempted to commit suicide, and has to be watched
day and night, he is such a prey to despair. You
have perhaps seen my letters to the Archbishop of
Canterbury on the subject ; they appeared in some of
the papers. Only one thing is needed to crown the
whole movement with success, and that is money.
The Count has urged me to act as his intermediary —
secretary and treasurer — as regards England and
America, and I shall be most happy to forward to him
any contributions I may receive.'

Dear me,' said the dean, ' this is most interesting.
Have any of our bishops taken up the matter ?'

In letters that I have they express the deepest
interest in it.'

1 shall be most happy to subscribe a sovereign,'
said the dean, fumbling in his purse.

'And I also said his wife.

'And I as well,' put in his sister.

I will note all in my book of contributions,' said
Yeo, receiving the money, and finding to his disgust
that he had been given twenty-franc, instead of twenty-shilling
pieces. ' Would you mind, sir, if you go to —
as I take it for granted you will — if you go to the
Hotel Imperial '

Ah ! we were going to the Cerf.'

That is a very third-rate inn hardly suitable for a
dignitary of the Church. But if you will take my
card, Beaple Yeo, of the Bombay Heavies, to the
proprietor of the Hotel Imperial, he will treat you
well, and be reasonable in his charges. He is most
interested in the movement of Signor Caprili,
and is a convert, but secretly ; ask him about the
movement, and he will open to you ; show him
my card, and he will confide his religious views
to you.'

I am most obliged. We will certainly go to the
Imperial. Ah, mamma ! here we are at the landing-place.'


As Mrs. Sidebottom left the boat at the station

39—2

which she called Flue-ellen, she held out her hand to
Colonel Yeo.

I hope bygones will be bygones,' she said. ' I
Avill take some shares in the St. Bernard dogs — preference
shares, please.'

IN HOTEL IMPERIAL.

Salome had found her sister at the Imperial Hotel
at Andermatt. Janet was one of those persons whose
bodily condition varies with their spirits. When depressed,
she looked and indeed felt ill ; when happy,
she looked and felt as if nothing were the matter with
her. Janet had been greatly tried by the double
shocks of her husband's death and the discovery of
her parentage. She had been taken into the secret
because it could not be kept from her, when the man
Schofield, alias Beaple Yeo, suddenly arrived at ,
just after the flood and the disappearance of
Jeremiah Pennycomequick, at the time when she was
sharing her mother's room instead of Salome.

Mrs. Cusworth at that time was in great distress of
mind at the loss of her master and friend ; and when

her brother-in-law, the father of the two girls whom
she had brought up as her own, unexpectedly appeared
and asked for money and clothing, she confided her
difficulty to Janet, and between them they managed
to bribe him to depart and leave them in peace. Mrs.
Cusworth had sacrificed a large slice out of her savings
to secure his departure, and trusted thereby to get
rid of him for ever.

When Janet returned to France, she found everything
in confusion ; the factory at Elboeuf was stopped, the
men who had been employed in it had assumed arms
against the Germans, and were either shot, taken
captive, or dispersed. Her sister-in-law was almost off
her head with excitement and alarm for her children,
three girls just out of school. Prussian officers had
been quartered in her house, and had carried off some
of her valuables, and ransacked the cellar for the best
wines.

Janet had caught cold that night in the train when
it was delayed by the flood, on the way to Merges
and it had settled on her chest, and left a
cough that she could not shake off. Anxiety and
worry had told on her joyous disposition, and deprived

it of its elasticity. She gave way to discouragement.
Her husband's affairs were unsettled, and could not
be put to rights till the war and the results of the war
were over, and the current of ordinary business commenced
its sober, even flow.

She had been ordered to Mentone for the winter,
and then to spend the summer high up in the Alps,
where the air was pure and bracing. She had come,
accordingly, to Andermatt, and her sister-in-law had
sent her three school-girl daughters to be with her; to
look after her, Madame Labarte had said ; to be looked
after by her, Janet found was expected. They were
nice enough girls, with simple minds, but it was a
responsibility imposed on Janet at a time when she
required complete relaxation from care.

At Andermatt the fresh air was rapidly restoring
Janet to her normal condition of cheerfulness, and was
giving her back the health she lacked, when her father
arrived, impecunious, of course, and let her understand
that he had come there to be supported by her, and to
get out of her what he could. It would have been
bad enough to have this dreadful man there posing asher
father had she been alone. It was far worse with

the three girls, her nieces, under her charge, and in her
dismay she had a relapse, and wrote off to Salome an
agonizing entreaty to come to her aid.

Janet had been left comfortably off, but till her
husband's affairs were settled it was not possible for
her to tell what her income would really amount to.
The factory was again working, a competent overlooker
had been found, and a suitable working partner taken
into the firm to carry it on. In all probability Madame
Haynes would be very well off, but at present she had
not much ready money at her disposal.

Mr. Schofield, or Colonel Yeo, as he pleased to call
himself now, was a different-looking man at this time
to the wretched object who had presented himself at
Mergatroyd, asking for clothing and cash, rather more
than a year ago — indeed, eighteen months ago. He
was well dressed trim, held himself erect, and assumed
a military air and some pomposity, as though
the world were going well with him. He had carried
away a little, but only a very little, of the plunder
from Bridlington, and he knew very well that what
he had would not last him long. It was satisfactory
to have a well-to-do daughter to fall back on, whose

purse he could dip his fingers into when they itched.
But Beaple Yeo could not be idle. He had an active
mind and a ready invention, and he began operations
on his own account, partly as tout on the lake
steamers for the Hotel Imperial at Andermatt, receiving
a fee for every tourist he sent to it, and partly
by his speculations in dogs and missionaries, Janet
would have run away from Andermatt, but for the
three encumbrances, whom it would not have been
easy to move to a secret and precipitate flight without
explanations to them or their mother — explanations
which would have been awkward ; moreover,
she feared that it would be unavailing, as her father
could easily discover the way she had gone and follow
her. There were only three passes in addition to the
road up from Amsteg by which she could leave, and
it would not be possible for her to depart by any of
these routes unknown to Colonel Yeo. Her first
alarm and uneasiness abated when he took himself
off to tout on the lake ; and she resolved on remaining
where she was till Salome came and gave her advice
what course to pursue.

Salome decided that it was the best policy to

remain where they were, and not attempt flight.
She saw that her sister was suffering, and she determined
to remain with her, to protect and comfort her,
and await what the future had in store for herself.
She naturally felt a great longing to be at home with
her baby, but at the same time she recognised that
the situation at home was not tolerable, that some
change must take place before she could return to
Mergatroyd.

One day. Colonel Yeo was in the salle-manger at
the Hotel Imperial preparing for table d'hote, when a
lady entered, well dressed, dark haired, with fine eyes,
and swept up the room towards an alcove where were
small tables, at which either a party sat that desired
to be alone, or tourists not intending to dine at table
d'hote but a la carte. She walked slowly, with a
certain dignity, and attracted all eyes. Every head
was turned to observe her, and her eyes, in return,
passed over as mustering and apprising those who
occupied their seats at the table. She accepted the
homage of interest she excited, as though it were her
own.

What was her age ? She had arrived at that

period of life at which for some time a woman stands
still — she was no girl, and no one could say that she
was passee.

Waiter !' called Colonel Yeo.
'Yes, sir — in a minute, sir.'

Who is that lady in the gray dress with red trimmings
?'

Gray dress, sir ? The stout lady with the little
husband ?'

Nonsense, that distinguished lady — young — thereat
the table in the alcove.'

Yes, sir — don't know, sir. Will inquire.'
Off skipped the waiter to carry round the soup, and
forgot to inquire.

Waiter !' called Colonel Yeo to another, the head
barton. 'Who is that prepossessing young lady,
yonder ?'

Lady, sir ? Don't know her name — I have seen
her often everywhere, at Homburg, Baden-baden,
Milan.'

What is she .'"'

Do you mean of what nation, sir ? — I believe
American. Said to be very rich — worth millions.'

'Worth millions!' echoed Colonel Yeo, 'Can I
change my seat and get near her ?'

During dinner Colonel Yeo could not keep his eyes
off her.

Worth millions, and so good-looking !' Which
would interest her most — his dogs or his missionaries ?
or could she be interested in himself?

He called for champagne. He put one arm over
the back of his chair, held his champagne-glass in the
other hand, and half turned, looked hard at the lady.
She observed his notice of her, and their eyes met.
Her eyes said as distinctly as eyes can speak, ' Look
at me as much as you will, I expect to be admired, I
do not object to be admired, I freely afford to all who
take pleasure in beautiful objects the gratification of
contemplating me. But who are you ?'

Waiter,' said Beaple Yeo, calling the head garcon,
if — by chance that lady wants to know who I am —
just say that I am Colonel Yeo, of the Bengal Heavies
a claimant for the Earldom of Schofield.'

At a table near that occupied by the lady sat
Salome, Janet, and the three young girls Labarte.
An arrangement had been come to with Yeo that

he was not to associate with them, to hold aloof, and
to receive money for doing this. He had got what
he could, or could for the time being, out of his
daughter Janet, and was therefore inclined to devote
his energies to new arrivals.

Carton,' called the lady in gray and red.

De suite, moselle!

Who is that gentleman yonder, drinking champagne
?'

Moselle, the colonel ! c'est un milord'

English .?'

But certainly.'

Rich ?'

Rich ! the colonel ! rich ! Mou Diei ! C'est un
milord Anglais P

Is he staying here long .'*'

Ah, moselle ! Where else could he stay } All the
season.'

What is his title V

Mon Dieu! I can't say — Scoville? Scoville? But
yes, an earl — Comte de Scoville, I believe, moselle.'

Waiter — should he or anyone else inquire who I am,
say an American — a millionaire, as I told you before.'

He has already asked,' said the waiter, with a
knowing look.

In the alcove where the lady sat at a table by herself
was also a larger table, as already said, occupied
by Janet and her party, and the lady in gray and red
attracted the attention of the girls. These three girls
were much alike ; they ranged in age from sixteen to
nineteen, had dark eyes and fresh cheeks, looked a
mixture of English and French blood, and though
they spoke English with their aunt and Salome, they
spoke it with a foreign accent, and when they talked
to each other naturally fell into French.

They were not beautiful, were undeveloped girls
without much character apparently. The strange
lady evidently exercised their minds, and they looked
a good deal at her, and passed low remarks to each
other concerning her. Their curiosity was roused,
and when she was not at her place they searched the
visitors' book for her name, and for some information
about her.

Ma tante pleaded the eldest, ' which do you
think she is of all these on this page V

'Mais, Claudine, how can I tell V

Oh ! Ma tante, do ask the waiter.'

'But why, Claudine? She does not interest me.'

Oh, we are so puzzled about her ; she looks so
aristocratic and dresses so well, and has so many-changes.
She must employ a Parisian milliner. Oh,
we do wish we knew where she got that charming
walking-dress of gray and gold.'

Garçon !' Janet Baynes called a waiter. ' Who is
the lady who sits at this little table here V

Madame — a rich American, a millionaire, of New
York.'

A millionaire !'

The heads of the young ladies went together, and
as the lady entered all their eyes watched her with
eagerness — so beautiful, so distinguished-looking, so
wealthy.

What is her name, waiter i*'
Mademoiselle Du Shame.'
A French name ?'

Ah, madame, it stands there in the visitor's book,'
and he pointed to Artemisia Durham, Chicago, U.S.A.

It was not possible for the American lady to fail to
observe the interest she excited in the young girls.

She saw their heads go together, then fly apart when
she appeared ; at table she caught their dark eyes
watching her, and when they saw that they were
noticed, away flew their eyes like scared birds. Miss
Durham condescended to look at the girls with a half
smile ; she did not object to their admiration, and
she did not court it.

What was more remarkable than the interest
awakened in those children was that which she certainly
aroused in Salome. There was a something, a
mystery, a fascination in the woman that held Salome
and drew her towards the stranger. She felt that this
woman was her reverse in every particular, a woman
with experience and knowledge of the world, with a
power of making herself agreeable when she chose,
and to whomsoever she chose. Salome had spent her
life in a very narrow sphere, had made few acquaintances,
had not had wide interests, and though she
was well educated, had no extended range of ideas.
Her position had ever been uncertain ; she had been
neither a member of the lower artisan class, nor
accepted as an equal by those belonging to the upper
class — that is, the employing class in Mergatroyd.

Her mother had been housekeeper to Mr. ,
and consequently she had not been received
as a lady by such as regarded themselves as
the ladies of Mergatroyd — the manufacturers' wives
and daughters, and those of the doctor, and the
solicitor, and the parson. This ambiguity of position
had in one manner made her strong and independent
in character, but in another, timid and reserved.
Where she knew she had duties to perform, there she
acted without hesitation ; but in social matters, in
everything connected with life in the cultured world,
with its fashions and etiquettes, she was doubtful
and uncomfortable. She was now in the presence of
a woman who moved with self-consciousness and
assurance in that very sphere in which Salome was
bewildered; consequently she watched Miss Durham
with wonder, interest, and a desire to know her, and
wrest her secret from her. That she was a good
woman and worth knowing, deserving of confidence
and regard, Salome never doubted. Guileless herself,
she believed everyone else to be without guile.

When Janet Baynes thought that the girls had
been too forward, almost discourteous in staring at

VOL. III. 40

the stranger, she looked apologetically at Miss
Durham, who met the look with a smile that said,
plainly as words, 'Allow them to stare at me — it
amuses them and does not hurt me — they may profit
by a study of me. Queens of beauty, of fashion, or
of wealth expect to be looked at.' Then Mrs. Baynes
smiled in reply, and her smile said, ' Indeed, I cannot
wonder at these girls admiring you, for you are
deserving of admiration.'

Whether this conversation of glances would have
gone any further may be doubted, had it not been
that the French-speaking waiter who had attended
on the ladies, disappeared. Whether he was taken
ill, or whether, caught doing wrong, he had been dismissed,
or whether he had been enticed elsewhere by
a higher wage, nobody knew and nobody cared to
ask. Waiters are no more thought about by guests
than are the mules and horses employed on expeditions.
He was succeeded by a German, or German-swiss
who could not speak French, and only an
unintelligible English ; and the demoiselles Labarte
md Madame Baynes on principle would not have
asked for a bit of bread in German had they known

how to do so. Salome knew little or no German,
and the ladies were in difficulties. Claudine was out
of sorts — somewhat feverish, but nothing serious —
and her aunt advised that she should drink orgeat
instead of wine. The waiter was puzzled. ' Each !
eine DreJiorgel. FreilicJi, freilicJi, bastille gleich,' and
he rushed off to find an organ-grinder with a
marmot.

Then Miss Durham good-naturedly interfered,
allayed the wrath of the ladies at the inherent Teutonic
stupidity which never can do right, and ordered
what was really required.

The orgeat broke the ice, conversation began, and
next day the American lady was seated at the same
table as the Labartes, with Salome and Janet. It
would be impossible for the latter to get on with the
stupid, stubborn German waiter, unassisted by someone
who was able to speak and understand the
language of barbarians. At first there was but the
exchange of ordinary courtesies, but now that the
three girls were able to speak to the stranger, they
hardly contained their attentions within ordinary
bounds ; they rivalled each other who should gain

40 — 2

pre-eminent favour with the lady who wore such
charming toilettes.

The girls were triumphant ; they had formed the
acquaintance ; that was the one advantage that grew
out of a German waiter. Salome was pleased she could
now learn of this brilliant accomplished woman ; and
Janet was satisfied because she was feeling dull herself,
and wanted a lively companion to relieve the tedium.

Miss Durham had plenty to say for herself. She
was clever, amusing, interesting. She had seen much
of the world — knew most watering-places, baths, and
health-resorts in Europe. The meals, which had
passed somewhat heavily before, now became gatherings
full of liveliness. Janet risked up, felt better
in health and looked quite well, proposed excursions
and schemed picnics. The whole party now found so
much to talk about that they were reluctant to leave
the table. Suddenly a pallor and tremor came over
Mrs. Baynes. She looked up. Beaple Yeo was
standing, white hat in hand, with the puggaree trailing
on the floor, near the table.

I take the liberty,' he said ; ' introduce me.'

Janet looked at Salome, and Salome at Janet.

I see,' said Yeo ; ' my relatives are in doubt how
to introduce me whilst my claim is being presented
in the Upper House. Call me Colonel Yeo, of the
Bengal Heavy Dragoons. Hang my title ! I shall
find the coronet heavy enough when it is fitted to my
brow ; the eight pearls — eight pearls ; and as many
strawberry - leaves — strawberry-leaves. I will not
assume my title till it is adjudged to me by the
House of Lords. You know your history of England.
The attainder was for rebellion, and I now
reassert my claim to the Earldom of Schofield.'

'And I,' said the American lady, 'am Artemisia
Durham, of Chicago.'

TWO WOMEN.

'You will excuse me, I know you will said Overlooking
from one to another, but especially at the
American, 'but I have just been informed that there
are chamois visible on a mountain shoulder, high,
high, high up — and as there is an excellent telescope
a telescope — outside, I thought I would make so
bold as to interrupt an animated conversation to bring
to your notice this interesting fact'

Thank you — I do not wish to see chamois said
Salome slowly and coldly.

Nor I — I do not care to expose myself to the sun,'
said Janet.

Oh, aunt ! oh, aunt ! But they are so shy, so
rare !' from the three Labarte girls.

Really, for my part,' said Miss Durham, ' I am

curious to see them. Though I have been before in
the Alps I have never had the good fortune '

Then allow me to conduct you !' exclaimed Colonel
Yeo gallantly.

Thank you, sir, I can find the telescope myself
answered the American lady. Then, to her companions
: ' You will excuse my running off. I really
am desirous of seeing chamois.'

She sailed through the salle-manger, with Beaple
Yeo prancing after her, hat in hand, and puggaree
waving. The Labartes looked at their aunt pleadingly.


Very well, girls ; if you wish, go after Miss
Durham ;' and away scampered the three.

'Oh, Salome!' sighed Janet, 'I cannot bear him!
He promised not to interfere with us.'

Salome sighed also. ' We must bear with him a
little longer. He will find this place dull and take
himself off'

But, Salome, what does he mean about being Earl
of Schofield ? About the pearls and strawberry-leaves
?'

Money — of course — always money.'

I wish I had not let the girls go after him — to the
telescope.'

'It is a pity — but Miss Durham is there.'

'Yes, and with her they are safe. You like her ?'

I admire her. I think I like her. If I were a man
I should fall madly in love with her, but '

But what, Salome ?'

My dear, I don't know.'

In the meantime Beaple Yeo was adjusting the
telescope, peering through it, and pressing on Miss
Durham to look just at one point. ' Ah ! quick —
before they move.' Then asking if the sight were
right, peering again, wiping the lens with his silk
handkerchief, and finally when either the chamois
had disappeared, or the focus could not be got right,
abandoning the telescope altogether to the three
girls.

One, two, three churches here,' said Mr. Yeo.
'And one a pilgrimage chapel. You have perhaps
seen some friars in snuff-coloured habits prowling
about. Shocking, is it not ? Signor Caprili — you
have heard of the extraordinary efforts he is making
to spread the Truth, the naked Truth — I mean, I beg

pardon, the unvarnished Truth. Are you interested
in missionary enterprise?'

'Not in the least. Superstition is charmingly
picturesque. How gracefully those towers and spires
stand out against the mountains ! And that chapel
perched on a rock. I would not have it abolished for
the world. We have not such things in America — we
come to the Old World to see them.'

Then, perhaps dogs,' said Yeo. 'You are interested
in Mount St. Bernard dogs, and would, no doubt, like
to introduce one across the ocean to your fellow-countrywomen.
Magnificent creatures, and so noble
in character ! How their heroism, their self-sacrifice,
their generosity, stand out in contrast with our petty
human vices ! Verily I think we might with advantage
study the dog. I do not mind confiding to you,
madam, that a colossal scheme is on foot for the
establishment of an emporium of these noble creatures,
and that money only is needed to float it.'

I assure you,^ said Miss Durham, ' I am not in the
least interested in dogs.'

Not as a speculation ?'

Not even as a speculation.

Beaple Yeo was silenced.

Excuse me,' said Miss Durham, ' you were saying
something about strawberry-leaves — the wild Alpine
strawberry is delicious.'

Oh ! you misunderstand me,' said Yeo, elevating
himself to his full height, removing his hat, shaking
the puggaree, and putting on his hat again ; ' I was
alluding to the coronet of an earl to which I lay
claim.'

Then you are not an earl yet ?'

I am not one, and yet I am one. The earldom of
Schofield was attainder — attainder at the Jacobite
rebellion. My great-grandfather took the wrong side
and suffered accordingly — suffered ac — cor — ding — ly.
The attainder was but for a while. Preston Pans was
1745 ; Culloden, 1746, April the sixteenth, and my
great-grandfather's attainder next year, attainder for
one hundred and twenty-five years — which lapses this
year, one eight seven two. The earldom is secure — I
have but to take it up — to take it up ; in other words
resume it, and Beaple Yeo is Earl Schofield.'

Salome and Janet appeared to call the three girls
to them, and were a little surprised to find the colonel

and the American young lady already on intimate
terms. They were seated on a bench, side by side,
and Colonel Yeo was gesticulating with his hand, and
whisking his puggaree in explanation of the Schofield
peerage claim ; was following the genealogical tree on
the palm of one hand with the finger of the other ; was
waving away objections with his hat, and clenching
arguments by clapping both hands on his knees. He
was a man so richly endowed by nature with imagination
that he could not speak the truth. There are
such men and women in the world — to whom romance
and rhodomontade is a necessity, even when no object
is to be gained by saying what is not true. Some
people embroider on a substratum of fact, but Beaple
Yeo^ and others of the like kidney, spin the threads
and then weave their own canvas out of their own
fancies, and finally embroider thereon as imagination
prompts.

Darkness set in, that night as on every other, and
most of the tourists had retired to bed, wearied with
their walks and climbs, and those tarrying at Andes
had also gone into the uncomfortable Swiss-german
beds, tired with having nothing to do. Only

two were awake, in separate wings of the hotel. One
was Salome, the other the American stranger.

Salome had two candles lighted on the table, and
had been writing to Philip. She sat now, looking
through the open window at the starry sky, with pen
in hand, uncertain how to continue her letter. She
wrote to her husband every few days, and expected
from him, what she received without fail, letters informing
her of the health and progress of the baby.
His letters were formal and brief. When about to
write he visited the nursery, inquired whether there
were particulars to be sent to Mrs. Pennycomequick,
and wrote verbatim the report of the nurse. Salome
had, indeed, only received two letters, and the last had
surprised and overwhelmed her. It contained news of
the reappearance of ]mr. Jeremiah. Her delight had
been exceeding ; its excess was now passed, and she
sat wondering what would be the result of this return
on the fortunes of Philip, and on their relations to
each other. Philip's letter had been silent on both
these points. He merely stated that his uncle had
returned, was in robust health, and added a brief
account of the circumstances of his escape and recovery.

Not a word in his letter about his desire to
see her again, not a hint that he was ready to forgive
the wrong unintentionally done him. Both letters
were stiff and colourless as if they had been business
epistles, and many tears had they called from Salome's
eyes.

Very different were her letters to him. Without
giving utterance to her love, every line showed that
her heart yearned for her husband, her baby, and for
home. She wrote long letters, hoping to interest him
in what she and her sister were about ; she described
the scenery, the novel sights, the flowers — she even
enclosed two forget-me-nots with a wish that he would
lay one on her baby's lips. She made no allusion to
the past, and she did not tell him of her present
trouble with Beaple Yeo, her father. She shrank
from informing him that the man he hated was at
Andermatt, the terror and distress of her sister and
herself She had written a letter to Uncle Jeremiah,
to enclose in that to her husband, and in that was not
an expression which could lead him to imagine that
her husband was estranged from her. She left this
note open, that Philip might look at it if he pleased,

before delivering it. She had broken off in the midst
of her letter to Philip to write this, and now she
resumed the writing to her husband. She was describing
the hotel guests, and had come to an account
of the Chicago heiress. She had written about her
beauty, her eyes, her carriage, her reputed wealth,
only her dresses she did not describe, she knew they
would not interest a man. Then she proceeded to
give some account of her qualities of mind and heart,
and thereat her pen was stayed. She knew nothing
of either. She had imagined a good deal — but positively
had no acquaintance with the lady on which to
form an opinion.

What was there in the lady that so fascinated her ?
She was attracted to her, she felt the profoundest
admiration for her — and yet she was unable to explain
the reason of the attraction. It was the consciousness
that in this stranger were faculties, experiences,
knowledge she had not — it was an admiration bred
of wonder. She had no ambition to be like her, and
she was not envious of her — but she almost worshipped
her, because she was strong in everything that she,
Salome, was weak. That she was, or might be weak

in everything wherein Salome was strong never
occurred to her humble mind. Then, still holding
her pen, and still looking dreamily into the night sky,
Salome passed in thought to her own situation,
rendered doubly difficult by her father having attached
himself to her sister. She could not desert
Janet under the circumstances. She must be at her
side to protect her from his rapacity and insolence.
And yet she yearned with all the hunger of a mother's
heart for her baby, that she might clasp it to her and
cover its innocent face and hands and feet with kisses.

And Philip . She loved him also, with the calm

unimpassioned love that springs out of duty. She
had liked him since first she saw him, and the liking
had developed into love — a quiet, homely love, without
hot fire in it, and yet a true, steady, honest love.
She could not believe that her husband mistrusted
her assurance that she had not knowingly deceived
him. She did not know which was the most potent
force acting on his mind — hatred of the man who washer
father and anger at being unwittingly brought
into relationship with him, or dread of the scandal
that might come of the knowledge of the relationship.

She had no confidence that her father would not
become again involved in some disgraceful fraud
which would bring his name before the public ; and
this dread, of course, must weigh on Philip as well.
Beaple Yeo had already attempted to express money
out of her. She was the wife of a rich Yorkshire
manufacturer, and Janet was the widow of a rich
Normandy manufacturer. He looked upon both as
squeezable persons, only at first his efforts to squeeze
had been directed upon Janet, who had not a husband
to oppose him. Salome, however, saw that he would
not be at rest till he had extorted money from Philip
through her, and the dread of this kept her in constant
unrest. How — she now asked herself, or the
stars at which she was looking — how would the
return of Jeremiah affect Philip's position and relieve
her of this fear? If Jeremiah resumed the factory,
then Philip would be no longer wealthy, and a prey
for her father to fall upon.

As she sat thus, thinking and looking at the stars,
so in the furthest wing of the same house was
Artemisia Durham, also thinking and looking at the
stars. She had extinguished her lights, and stood at

the window. She was partly undressed, her dark hair
flowed about her shoulders, and her arms were bare.
She had her elbow resting on the window-sill, and her
chin was nestled into her palm, her fingers clenched
on her lips. Her brows were contracted into a scowl.
The face was no longer set, haughty in its beauty,
and yet with a condescending smile ; it was now even
haggard, and over it contending emotions played in
the starlight, altering its expression, unresisted, undisguised.


She thought of the admiration she had excited in
the schoolgirls, and in their elders, the two ladies in
deep mourning. A flicker of contempt passed over
her countenance.

What was the admiration of three half-grown girls
to her? Salome had attracted her notice more than
Janet. She had observed Salome, whilst unseen by
her, and thought she had made out her character —
ordinary, duty-loving, conscientious, narrow, A
character of all others most distasteful to Artemisia.
She put her hands to her brow and pressed them about
it. ' So, so,' she muttered. ' To have always an iron
crown screwed tight round the brain. Insufferable !'

VOL. III. 41

Then she shivered. The night air was cold in the
Alps at that elevation. She fetched a light shawl oi
Barge wool and wrapped it round her, over her bare
arms, and leaned both elbows of the folded arms on
the window. Her thoughts again recurred to Salome,
and she tried to scheme out the sort of life that would
commend itself to such as she — a snug English home,
with a few quiet, respectable servants, and a quiet,
respectable gardener ; a respectable and quiet husband,
and a pony-trap, in the shafts of which trotted a
quiet and respectable cob ; improving magazines and
sober books read in the house ; occasional dull parties
given, at which the clergy would predominate, and
sing feeble songs and talk about their parishes ; and
then one or two quiet, respectable children would
arrive who would learn their lessons exactly, and
strum on the piano at their scales. Artemisia's lips
curled with disgust.

Her hands clenched under the shawl, and she
uttered an exclamation of anger and loathing.

And what, she considered, had she herself to look
to ? She gazed dreamily at the stars, and tears rose
in her eyes and trickled down her cheeks. Then,

ashamed of her weakness, she left the window and
paced her room — up and down, up and down — and it
was as though through the open window, out of the
night, streamed in dark forms, ugly recollections,
uncomfortable thoughts, that crowded the room, filled
every corner, occupied every nook — came in thicker,
and darker, and more horrible, and she went to the
window with a gasp of fear and shut out the night
wind and the gleam of the stars, hoping at the same
time to stop the entry of those haunting memories
and hideous shapes.

The street window would not shut them out ; the
room was full of them, and their presence oppressed
her. She could endure them no more. She struck a
light and kindled the candles in the room.

What was that on her dressing-table ? Only a
little glass full of wild strawberry-leaves and fruit one
of the admiring Labarte girls had picked and given
to her and insisted on her taking to her room.

Artemisia laughed. She took the strawberries out
of the water. She unclasped a necklet that was about
her throat on which were Roman pearls. She put it
around her head, and thrust the strawberry-leaves in

between the pearls, then looked at herself in the glass
and laughed, and as she laughed all the shadow-figures
and ghostly recollections went tumbling one
over the other out of the room by the keyhole, leaving
her alone laughing, part ironically, part triumphantly,
before the glass, looking at herself in her
extemporized coronet.

TWO MEN.

If Jeremiah Pennycomequick supposed that he could
slip back into the old routine of work without attracting
much attention, and without impediment, he was
quickly undeceived. His reappearance in Mergatroyd
created a profound sensation. Everyone wanted to
see him, and everyone had a hearty word of welcome.
He was surprised at the amount of feeling that was
manifested. He had lived to himself, seen little
society, nevertheless he suddenly discovered that he
had been popular. Everyone with whom he had been
connected in however small a way respected him, and
showed real pleasure at his return. The men at the
mill — factory hands — would shake hands again and
yet again, their honest and somewhat dirty faces
shining with good will ; the factory girls came about

him with dancing eyes and ' Eh ! but ahem rest fain to
see thee back again !' The little tradespeople in
Mergatroyd — the chemist, the baker, the grocer, ran
cut of their shops when he passed, to give a word of
congratulation. The brother manufacturers— those
who had been rivals even — called to see him and
express their pleasure. The wives also dropped in —
they could not await the chance of seeing him, they
must come to his house and both see the man returned
from the dead, and learn from his own lips why he
had made them all believe he had perished. To all
he gave the same account — he had been ill, and when
he recovered found that he was already adjudged
dead, and he resolved not to undeceive his relatives
till he had seen how his nephew ' framed ' — that is the
word he used — an expressive Yorkshire word that
means the fitting and shaping of a man for a place
new to him.

Near Mergatroyd was a spring of water called
California.' It had its origin thus. The owner of a
field fancied there was coal beneath the surface, and
he hired borers who perforated the several strata that
underlay his turf till they were stopped by the uprush

of water, that played like a fountain for many months
and remained as a permanent spring. The owner
had made great boast of the fortune he was going to
make out of his coal mine, and when he came on
nothing but water the people nick-named this spring
California. But it was no ordinary spring; the water
was so charged with gas that when a little match was
held to it, flames flashed, and flickered about it. The
water was so soft as to be in great request for tea-making.
' Eh,' said an old woman, ' California water
be seal (so) good, tha wants nowt but an owt kettle
and water to mak' th' best o' tea.'

It seemed to Jeremiah as if he had tapped a California,
a fountain of sweet, flashing, abounding affection.
He was moved, flattered by it, and greatly
surprised, for it was wholly unanticipated. He was
ignorant what he had done to occasion it.

But, indeed, a great deal of genuine regard and
attachment grows imperceptibly about a man who has
lived for a long time in a place without making any
demands on his neighbours ; has been just, reliable,
and blameless in life. All this latent regard now
manifested itself.

Philip was still in the house of his uncle a week
after the reappearance of the latter. Jeremiah had
not been able to go through the accounts and examine
the condition of the business as thoroughly as he had
intended. He had been distracted by visitors, and his
mind unsettled by absence and by astonishment and
gratification at the manifestation of good-will provoked
by his return. He had said nothing more to Philip
about leaving ; Philip, however, had been in the little
town inquiring for lodgings, but could find nothing
that would suit. In that small place it was not usual
for furnished lodgings to be let. There was indeed a
set of rooms over the baker's, but they were overrun
by cockroaches ; at the chemist's were two vacant
rooms, but no accommodation for the nurse and baby.
Then he had to face another difficulty : the nurse was
young and good-looking, and there was no saying
what scandal might be aroused by his migrating to
lodgings with this nurse, if his wife did not return to
him. At the draper's there were rooms, but they had
a north aspect, and looked cold and damp. There
was a cottage, unfurnished, he might take, but that
adjoined a shoddy mill, and the atmosphere was

clouded with * devil's dust,' injurious to the lungs.
Moreover, how could he purchase furniture when he
had no money ? His condition was uncertain, his
prospects undefined, and he shrank from speaking to
his uncle about them till Jeremiah had made his
thorough investigation of the state of the business and
had matured his opinion on Philip's management of
it. Perhaps, also, Jeremiah had not as yet decided on
what was to be done with regard to his nephew, and
it would be injudicious to press him to a decision. In
the meantime the uncertainty was distressing to
Philip.

He read his wife's letters with mingled feelings. He
could decide nothing with respect to her till his own
future was made clear to him. He still harboured his
resentment against the imposition, and, though he
now no longer thought that Salome had been privy toit,
he could not surmount the repugnance evoked by
the fact of being related to that unprincipled rogue,
Schofield. He was alive to the danger of such an
alliance. Schofield was not the man to neglect the
advantages to be gained by having a son-in-law — a
man of character, position and substance. If Philip

sank to being a mere clerk the fellow would be an
annoyance no more, but as he prospered, and in
proportion as he made his way, gained the respect of
his fellow-men, and enlarged his means, so would his
difficulties with Schofield increase. The fellow would
be a nuisance to him continually. If Schofield made
himself amenable to the law, then his own connection
with the daughter of a man in prison or a convict,
would be a reproach and a scandal. If the scoundrel
were at large, he would be an annoyance from which
he never could hope to shake himself free.

The letters from his wife did not please him.
Clearly Janet was not so ill as had been represented
to him ; not so ill as to require her sister there,
especially as she had three nieces with her. He was
uncomfortable without his wife — he was uncomfortable
because his future was vague, and he associated
the annoyance this caused him with her absence, and
put it, unconsciously, to her account. He did not
consider what his own conduct had been, and how he
had almost driven her from the house and from her
child, and he found fault with her for deserting him
and the babe so readily on a frivolous excuse.

No doubt Salome was enjoying herself ; she was so
full of admiration over the scenery, the flowers, so
struck with the variety of life she met with. What
did she think of his situation without certain prospects
? A nice party they formed at Andermatt —
the five ladies — and Janet was well enough to enjoy
excursions. The efforts Salome made to interest
him annoyed him. He did not want to be interested
; he resented her taking interest in what she
saw.

And then, what about this stranger, this American
lady, travelling by herself, with her pretty becoming
dresses, who had attached herself to the party ? Who
was she .'' What were her belongings ? What her
character ? Salome had no right to form a friendship,
hardly an acquaintance, without first consulting
him. It was very doubtful whether a lady, young
and beautiful, who travelled alone, was a desirable
person to know ; it was by no means unlikely that
Salome would find out, when too late, that she had
associated herself, and drawn the three Labarte girls
into acquaintanceship with a woman who ought to be
kept at a distance. Ladies travelling alone should

invariably be regarded with suspicion. Ladies never
ought to be alone — unmarried ones, he added hastily,
remembering that he had allowed his own wife to
make the journey to Andermatt unprotected. Unmarried
ladies belong to families, and travel with
their mothers or aunts, or some female relation ; if
quite young they go about in flocks with their governess.
Single ladies ! He shook his head. Salome
really was inconsiderate. She acted on impulse,
without thought. If she had been forced into conversation
with this person she should have maintained
her distance, and next day have contented herself
with a bow, and the day after have been short-sighted,
and not observed her at all. That was how he had
behaved towards male acquaintances whom he did
not think worth cultivating as friends. Acquaintances
can always be dropped. The hand can be rigid when
grasped for a shake, or can be twisting an umbrella,
or be behind the back, or in a pocket.

Salome should have considered in making friends
that there were others to be thought of besides
herself, and that he radically disapproved of association
with persons unattached.

In the last of the three letters he had received from
his wife a whole side had been taken up with description
of the single lady ; it was obvious that this
person, whoever she was, had set herself to gain
influence over Salome, whilst Salome, inexperienced,
was unable to resist, and the purpose of the stranger
she did not divine. He became. irritated at the expressions
used by his wife concerning this fascinating
stranger. He entertained a growing aversion for her.
He was quite sure that she was not a proper person
for Salome to associate with.

He took up the letter, and putting his hands
behind his back, paced the room. He was thoroughly
out of humour with himself and with his wife, and
as it never occurred to him that he should vent
his dissatisfaction on himself, he poured it out on
Salome.

A tap at the door, and following the tap in came
Jeremiah.

Look here !' exclaimed the old man as he entered,
Here is a pretty kettle of fish. When is Salome returning
?'

I do not know,' answered Philip stiffly.

Have you heard from her ?'

I have.'

And she says nothing about returning ?'

Not a word. She seems to be enjoying the Alpine
air and scenery — and making friends,' There was a
tone of bitterness in these last words.

But — she must return,' said Jeremiah. ' There is
an upset of the whole bag of tricks. What do you
suppose has happened }'

I have not the least idea.'

The cook had fits yesterday ; that was why the
dinner was spoiled. She has fits again to-day, and
there will be no dinner at all. She has turned the
servants out of the kitchen ; they are sitting on the
kitchen stairs, and she is storming within — and — I am
convinced that the fits are occasioned by brandy. I
sent her some yesterday when I was told she was in
convulsions, and that was adding fuel to fire. It is a
case of Dat., I fear. There is a black cat in the
kitchens she thinks so, and is hunting it, throwing
kettles and pots and pans at it — has smashed the
windows, and most of the crockery. The maids are
frightened. I have sent for the police; come with

me. We must break open the kitchen door, and
seize and bind the mad creature.'

It will put us in a somewhat ridiculous position
said Philip. ' Had we not better wait till the constable
arrives, and hand her over formally to him ?'

And in the meantime allow her to smash everything
the kitchen contains. Come on.'

The old man led the way, and Philip, first plucking
at his shirt-collars to make sure they were right,
followed. They found, as Jeremiah had said, the
servants on the steps that descended to the kitchen.
The nurse was also there.

How came you here ?' asked Philip — ' and baby,
too ! — is this a place for him ? Go back to the
nursery.'

There was indeed an uproar in the kitchen. The
cook was as one mad, howling, cursing, dashing about
and destroying everything she could lay hand on —
like the German Polter-geist.

Jeremiah burst the door open, and the two men
entered.

Fortunately for Philip^s dignity, the constable
arrived at the same time, and the crazy woman was

without difficulty and disarrangement of Philip^s
collars, controlled and conveyed to her bedroom.

As the party of men with their retraced captive
ascended the steps from the kitchen, Philip caught
sight of the nurse and baby again. The former had
disobeyed his orders; it was perhaps too much to
expect of her to retire beyond sight of the drama
enacted in the kitchen. Philip gave her notice to
leave.

This would never have happened had Salome been
here,' said Jeremiah. ' And this is not all ; that
woman has found means of getting to my cellar, and
she has drunk herself into this condition on my best
whisky and brandy. I have only just discovered the
ravages she has made.'

I gave you the cellar key.'

Yes ; but she had another that fitted the lock. I
have had Mrs. Haigh here ; she has opened my eyes
to a thing or two. Are you aware that the parlour-maid
and my traveller Tomkins have been carrying
on pretty fast ? She asked leave to go to a funeral on
Sunday, and went instead with Tomkins to Holdings
Lake. They were seen there together in a boat'

There is something wrong,' said Philip, ' something
I do not understand, about the washing. I do
not know whether any account is kept of what goes
to the wash, but I am quite sure that the wash consumes
as much as it restores. I am reduced this
week to one pocket-handkerchief. I cannot understand
it. If I had had an influenza cold during the
last fortnight I could see some reason for my being
short this week, but conceive the awkwardness of
having only one. And then my socks. They come
back full of holes. I used not to wear them into
great chasms — at least not since I have been here ;
now they return as of old when I was in furnished
lodgings — only fit to be employed as floor-cloths,'

I'll tell you what, Philip. Salome must return.
I have been told by Mrs. Haigh that she saw your
nursemaid take the baby only yesterday to Browne's
Buildings, and there is scarlet-fever in several of the
cottages there.'

I have dismissed her.'

Who ? Salome ?'

No, the nurse.'

But the mischief is done. She was there yester-vol.

III. 42

day. 1 do not know how many days it takes for
scarlet-fever to inculcate, but that the child will have
it I have very little doubt. Why, she went into
Rhode's cottage where they have had five down with it,
and two of them died. The rest are just in that condition
of healing when infection is most to be feared.
I heard this from Mrs. Haigh.'

Good heavens !' Philip was frightened.

'Then,' continued Jeremiah, 'I do not suppose you
are aware that Esse, the nursemaid, has been wearing
your wife's jewellery. She had the audacity to appear
in church on Sunday with a pretty Florentine mosaic
brooch that I gave Salome many years ago. Mrs.
Haigh saw it and recognised it.'

Philip fidgeted in his chair. ' I see,' said he, ' I

was wrong in not speaking or coughing the other

w
night, or I might have sneezed, but I lacked the

moral courage. I felt unwell and had a sick headache,
and without saying anything to anyone I went
to bed immediately after dinner. I may have been
in bed half an hour and had dozed off when I was
roused by seeing a light. I opened my eyes and
observed Esse at the dressing-table. She had come

into the room, not dreaming I was there, and she was
trying on Salome's bonnets, I suppose the best, putting
her head on this side, then on that, and studying the
effect at the glass. I did not cough or sneeze, as I
ought. I allowed her to leave the room in ignorance
that she had been seen. I cannot remember now
whether she went off with the bonnet on her head,
or whether she replaced it. I did not announce my
presence, because I was in bed, and I thought that
my situation was even less dignified than hers. But
I see, now, I ought to have coughed or sneezed.'

Philip, we shall get into an awful muddle unless
Salome returns.'

Philip said nothing.

Now look here,' continued Jeremiah. ' I have
heard that you have been looking out for lodgings.
If you are going to live by yourself, that is tolerable ;
but if you choose to have )our wife with you, you can
live here and manage the factory and the house forme.
I am tired of the drudgery of business, and I
cannot, and will not, be worried to death by servants.
I must have someone who will look after the factory
for me, and someone who will attend to the house.'

42 — 2

It would be best for Salome to return, but I am
not sure that she is willing. She seems to be enjoying
herself vastly.'

Go after her ; surprise her. Take the baby.
Spend a month there and then return. Bring Janet
back as well, if she cares to come.'

'Perhaps that will be best,' mused Philip. 'Things
have become very uncomfortable without her — only
one pocket-handkerchief, and my socks only get to
be taken as floor-cloths.'

Of course it is best. As soon as possible go, and
don't return without her.'

ONE Pocket-handkerchief.

Philip Pennycomequick was on his way to Andes
He had come to an understanding with Uncle
Jeremiah. His comfort, his well-being for the future
depended on Salome. The old man had taken a fancy
to spend his winters abroad, and he had no wish to
remain tied to his business in smoky IMergatroyd. He
was quite ready to make it over to Philip, but then
Philip must first be reconciled to his wife, and bring
her home to hold rule over the house. A Swiss
nurse had been found ready to take the child and
accompany Philip to Andermatt.

Philip did not travel in the same carriage as the
nurse and child, but he saw to their lacking nothing.
He occupied a compartment of a first-class carriage by
himself, and thought a good deal about himself and

his wife. And — first — it was particularly annoying to
have only one pocket-handkerchief. The strictest inquiries
had been made, but not more than the one in
use could be discovered. The washerwoman insisted
that she had received none, and the housemaid protested
that she had given a dozen. Between the two
they had disappeared, and Philip was obliged to purchase
a half-dozen fresh silk ones ; he would not buy
more because he was resolved to get, with his wife's
aid, at the bottom of the mystery, and recover the lost
pocket-handkerchiefs, wherever they were. Unfortunately
he was not aware how many he had had
originally ; but Salome knew — she had taken count of
all his clothing, knew the number of his socks and
also of his pocket-handkerchiefs. There was some
excuse for the havoc wrought among the former, for
the friction of boot heels and soles does destroy the
texture of worsted socks, but no rubbing of noses
injures the grain of silk pocket-handkerchiefs.

I know,' said Philip, as the train drew up at
Joinville, ' I know that when one has a cold, the
secretion is acrid, but it is not sulphuric acid to burn
holes in pocket-handkerchiefs. What ? Turn out

here, and have one's boxes examined ? I will come
to the bottom of that disappearance of pocket-handkerchiefs,
I am put to intolerable discomfort. I hate
wiping my nose with silk till it has been washed three
or four times and become flexible, and has lost its
harshness — it irritates the mucous membrane. I am
going through, votes mon billet! What nonsense
examining one's baggage here! Salome will know
how many handkerchiefs T had. I am glad I am
going to Andermatt ; it will set my mind at rest, and
I can have these hateful new handkerchiefs washed
there.'

But other matters occupied Philip's mind. He had
his wife's letters — the last two — in his pocket, and he
re-read them ; the jolting of the train, the flicker of the
light in the lamp overhead, made the reading difficult,
and predisposed him to take umbrage at her expressions.
What especially annoyed him was her praise
of her new friend, the American lady, and it gave him
satisfaction to conjure up before his imagination the
scene of introduction of himself to her, and to picture
himself, with frigid courtesy looking at her, raising his
hat, stiffly bowing, and with cold words giving her to

understand that her friendship with his wife was
against his wishes, and must be discontinued. The
places at faMe d'/iSte, he supposed, were arranged according
to priority. He would inform the waiter that
as he came last, all his belongings, his wife, his sister-in-law,
and her nieces must relinquish their seats and
come down to the end of the table by him — that
would separate his party from the ambiguous stranger.
If, after dinner, she came to speak to his wife, he would
offer Salome his arm and ask her to come a stroll alone
with him.

There were many ways in which this person might
be given to understand that she was no longer desired
as an associate. A feeble sense of pity for her in her
confusion at being shaken off stirred in his heart, and
then died away.

He had not written to announce his intention of
coming with the baby to Andermatt. He intended to
surprise Salome. There would be something flattering
to himself in the change of colour, the delight that
would spring up in her eyes, the cry of recognition —
then the humble hesitation, awaiting his permission to
spring into his arms.

Throughout the journey Philip maintained his connection
with the baby, though keeping it at a distance,
as the sun holds the earth and swings it round it, but
never allows the earth to approach it too closely. And
as the moon revolves about the earth, so did the Swiss
nurse dance attendance on Philip the Little, rotating
also, of course, about Philip the Great.

On board the steamer, on the lake, Philip saw a
gentleman in light suit, with helmet cap, surrounded
by a puggaree, who attached himself to several groups
of tourists, and showed them his blackened watch, or
discoursed on the great evangelist of Italy, Signor
Count Caprili ; or on his scheme for rearing Mount St.
Bernard dogs. He at once recognised the man, and
he caught the fellow's eye on him ; but Beaple Yeoman
no attempt to renew acquaintance till Philip was
in a carriage to make the ascent from Amsteg by the
Devils Bridge to Andermatt, when he jumped into
the same vehicle, and held out his hand with a
boisterous jollity.

How d'ye do — do, Pennycomequick ? Delighted to
see you. Will find my daughter right and flourishing
at the Hotel Imperial. Of course, you go there. I

was nearly killed at all of the others. Look at my
silver watch-case — turned black with sulphuretted
hydrogen. But, of course, you go where Sal is. Good
girl ! excellent girl ! You made a first-rate choice
when you took her, and you have my blessing.
Mercy on me, that is my grandchild, I presume. To
think of it — I a grandfather ! If you will do me a
favour, my boy, you will say nothing about our
relationship. I don't want to be looked upon as a
grandpa. Bless me! at my time of life a grandpa!
I'll share the carriage with you — pay a third — no a
quarter, as you are three, self, nurse, and baby.'

Philip became stiff and cold. He would not take
the hand offered him, nor say a word to the man
who had so unceremoniously entered his carriage.
Beaple Yeo, alias Schofield, was by no means disconcerted.


'You will take my card,' he said. Then, when he
saw that Philip would not do so : ' But no, I will introduce
you myself, dear son-in-law, to the proprietor.
Now do look at this zig-zag road. I remember seeing
a maronite theatre when I was a child, and this
scene was represented. A number of little carriages

came running down the zig-zag one after another —
and here it is — the same exactly. It is worth your
looking. One, two, three — upon my word there are
five carriages ; and see how the horses tear along and
swing round the corners. It is worth looking at.'

There are certain insects which, when handled,
become rigid and take all the appearance of sticks. It
was the same with Philip ; the presence, the address
of this odious man reduced or transmuted him into a
bit of stick. He sat motionless with his umbrella between
his knees, his hands resting on the handle, his
neck stiff, and his eyes staring at a couple of buttons
of unequal nature at the back of the driver's jacket.
He did not look at Beaple Yeo, nor at the zig-zags, nor
at the descending train of five carriages, nor at the
wondrous scenery. He was greatly incensed. It was
intolerable that he should meet this man again, and
that he should be near, if not with Salome. But this
was one of the annoyances he must look on as inevitable,
one that would continually recur. Really it was
too bad of Salome not to have mentioned in one of
her letters that her father was at Andermatt. If she
had done that not ' all the king's horses, nor all the

king's men,' would have got Philip to make that expedition
to Andermatt. Finding that his son-in-law was
indisposed to converse, the cheerful and loquacious
colonel addressed the baby, screwed up his mouth,
made noises, offered his eyeglass to the infant, but
withdrew it when the child attempted to suck it.
From the baby, Yeo glided into remarks addressed to
the nurse, asked her how long she had been on the
road, whether she was French or Swiss, what was the
name of her home, how she liked England, etc., regardless
of the frowns of Philip, who at length, to draw
off his father-in-law from this unsuitable conversation,
said sternly :

Pray how long have you been at Andermatt ?'
Oh ! several weeks. I was there before my Sal
arrived. I have no doubt Janet wrote and told her I
was there, and filial duty — filial duty — one of the most
beautiful and blessed of the qualities locked in the
human breast — in the human breast — drew her to
Andermatt to make a fuller, freer acquaintance with
the author of her being than was possible in England
in England.'

When the carriage had passed the Devil's Bridge

m

and the little chapel at the mouth of the ravine, where
the broad basin of fertile pasture opens out, in which
stands the village of Andermatt, a party of ladies and
one gentleman was visible on the road, two in deep
mourning, two in colours, and three girls in half-mourning.


Ha !' exclaimed the colonel, ' my family.'
Philip looked intently at the party. He at once
recognised Salome, and was satisfied that the other in
black was Janet. To his great surprise he saw Mrs.
Sidebottom and the captain. Who that slender lady
was in a light dress he could only conjecture. If he
had not been in the carriage with Beaple Yeo^ he
would have told the driver to stop, and allow him to
descend and greet his wife ; but the presence at his side
of that man determined him to postpone the meeting.
He did not wish Salome to see him riding beside her
father, as though he had made up his quarrel with him.
He drew back in his place, and looked another way
whilst driving past, and Salome, who had caught sight
of the well-known waving puggaree, lowered her eyes.
Beaple Yeo had his hat off, and was wafting a salutation
to the American lady.

Then, when passed, he turned to Philip and said,
You will do me the favour, I know, not to announce
your relationship ; 'pon my word, I don't want to be
looked upon as a grandfather, because I don't feel it.
Young blood tingles in my veins.'

The strange lady had stepped aside for the carriage
to pass, upon the bank near that side on which Philip
sat, and he looked at her as he drove by, looked at
her with a feeling of aversion. It was too annoying of
Salome to walk out with this questionable individual
and meet him as he arrived, thrusting her almost into
his face.

On reaching the Hotel Imperial he had to undergo
the annoyance of being taken in hand, patronized and
presented by Beaple Yeo. Philip was a bad French
scholar, spoke no German, and the English of the
proprietor was not understandable till one got used
to it.

Philip asked for his room, and said to himself,
There will be time for me to wash my hands and
change my shirt ; the collars are limp — not enough
stiffening put in them, they will not stand up. Id /
voyez F to the maid. 'Is there a boulanger — no, I

mean a blanchisseiise in this place ? Wait till my
portmanteau is open. I want to have five pocket-handkerchiefs
sent at once to the wash. Ici ! voyez I
soft water, et point de soda et washing-powder.'

When he had delivered over the pocket-handkerchiefs
and had assumed a clean shirt, and brushed his
hair, and washed his face and hands, he descended to
the salle and asked if the ladies had returned from
their walk.

Note yet, sire,' answered the porter.

How long before they do come back ?'

I sure I can note tell. Bote too supper sure.'

Very well,' said Philip, ' go and send for the nurse
and the child. They must be ready. It will be,' said
he to himself, ' a pleasure to me after the first rapture
is over, to show Salome that I have brought her the
child.'

When the nurse came in Philip ordered her to sit
with the baby in the veranda before the hotel ; the
air was fresh, but dry and delicious, and the child could
take no harm. Then he ordered for himself some
claret and iced soda-water.

It was inconsiderate of Salome keeping him waiting.

He was anxious to see her, notwithstanding the
provocation given him. Why should she not have
been there instead of going out for a walk ? No doubt
she and her party had strolled to the Devil's Bridge.

Waiter,' called Philip. ' Which is the table at
which the ladies sit ?'

When told, he said, ' I suppose there are seven
covers .'*'

Eight, sire ; de American teddy sits dere.'

Eight ; very well, waiter. I sit with them in future,
and the American lady goes to another table. Do
you understand .'' There is no place for her at the
table where I sit.'

Presently Philip heard the clear, pleasant voices of
the girls and the ladies outside, and their feet on the
gravel. He started up and hastened down the hall ;
but before he could reach the door he heard Salome's
voice, partly raised in cry as of pain, partly in extremity
of joy.

'It is ! It is ! It can be no other ! It is my
baby !'

How did she know it ? To the male eye there is
scarcely any distinction between babies ; as one lamb

is like another lamb, and one buttercup like another
buttercup, so are all babies alike. Some have dark
hair, others are blondes ; but so among lambs. And
there are varieties of species in buttercups ; in the
Alpine pastures some are silver. Unwarned, unprepared,
Salome knew her baby ; knew it at once, with
a leap of her heart and a rush of blood that roared in
her ears and for a moment dazzled her eyes. She
asked no questions how it came there, she entertained
no doubt whether it was her own, her very own — in a
moment she had the little creature in her arms, laughing,
crying, covering its face and hands with kisses ;
and the child also knew its mother, had no wonder
how she came to be there no doubt whether it were
really she ; it thrust forth its little pats, and held
Salome by the copper-gold hair, and put its rosy
mouth to her cheek.

'Salome!' exclaimed Janet, 'how can you be so
ridiculous ^ This must be some other child ; who
could have brought yours here ?'

Then Philip appeared in the doorway — but Salome's
eyes were blind with tears of joy, and she did not see
him ; she could see nothing but her child. He spoke

VOL. III. 43

she did not hear him ; she could hear nothing but
the cooing of her babe.

Philip stood beside her and touched her on the
shoulder.

Do you not know me ?' he asked. ' Are you not
glad to see me ?'

Salome stood still and released her child. She was
confused ; she hardly knew whether she were awake orin
the most beautiful, blissful of dreams.

Well — this is hardly the — the — Salome. Do you
not know me ?'

Oh, PhiHp !' she gasped, ' is it really you ? And
you have brought me my baby ! Oh ! how good, how
kind !' and she fell to kissing and hugging her baby
again.

Then Philip, finding himself put completely in the
background, condemned to a subsidiary part to that
played by Philip the Little, was offended, and said
with a slight tone of acerbity : ' My dear Salome, be
decorous. Give up Phil now to the nurse, a Swiss
young person, and come, take my arm.'

Philip,' said Salome, ' Oh, Philip, how good ! how
very dear of you !'

He felt her heart beating wildly against his arm, as
she clung to him, at his side. Then she began to
sob. ' It is too great happiness. My darling ! My
darling pet ! and looking so well too.'

You mean the baby .-"

Yes, of course, Philip.'

She put her hand in her pocket, drew out her
'kerchief and wiped her eyes.

By the way,' said Philip, ' how many had I ?'

How many what, Philip ? Only this one, darling.'
I mean pocket-handkerchiefs. All, all have disappeared,
and I have been condemned to one. I
have come here to Andermatt expressly to know what
my stock consisted of Conceive, only one pocket-handkerchief
left !'

43—2

THE GAUNTLET DANGLED.

Philip had to shake hands with Janet, with his aunt,
with the three Labartes, to whom he was introduced,
and with a Httle heartiness to clasp the hand of the
captain. He was introduced, moreover, to the American
lady, and was thus given the well-considered
opportunity of saluting her with calculated indifference.
He somewhat exaggerated the cordiality of his greeting
of the Labarte girls so as to emphasize the chilliness
of his behaviour towards the young lady from
Chicago.

When the first excitement of meeting was past,
Philip was overwhelmed with questions. ' How was
dear Uncle Jeremiah? — was he much altered V ' What
was going to be done about the mill ?' and ' What a
puzzle it would be about the administration ?' ' Could

he re-establish himself legally as alive after he had
been decreed dead ?' ' What had happened at Merges
besides the return of Uncle Jeremiah ?' ' How
had the people received him ?' ' Had they erected a
triumphal arch ?' ' Did he write beforehand to say he
was coming ?' ' What sort of weather had they had
in England ?' ' What kind of crossing had Philip ?'
Had baby suffered at all from the sea ?' ' What did
he think of the railway ?'

There was no end to the questions asked, which
Philip answered as well as he could. And as he received
and replied to the questions he kept his eye on
the strange lady, and considered how she must feel —
shut out from all the interests which engrossed those
connected with him ; and how much in the way she
ought to regard herself

This she did observe, and drew aside, out of hearing,
and as Beaple Yeo came forward, fell into
conversation with him. His presence had an immediate
numbing effect on Philip and Salome
and Janet. They withdrew to another end of the
salon.

Philip had used his opportunity to observe the

strange lady, and he admitted to himself that she was
good-looking.

Of course there are differences in types of beauty,
and she was not of the type that commended itself to
Philip — so he thought. She had dark hair and a
transparent olive complexion. Possibly a touch of
dark blood in her, mused Philip, and he said to himself:


I will take the first opportunity to look at her
nails.'

Her features were finely modelled, with a firmness
of cutting that showed she was no longer in her teens,
undeveloped. The flexible transparent nostrils, the
slightly-curled curves of the lips, the wavy hair over
the brow — whether natural, the result of a trace of
black blood, or artificially produced — the splendid dark
eyes that looked at Philip, looked down into him and
flashed through his whole being like a lamp shining
into a cellar — the delicate ears, the beautiful neck,
not too long, set on well-formed shoulders — all were
observed by Philip.

Yes,' said Philip, ' she is handsome, but she
belongs to that period of life which may be twenty-four

or thirty-four. She has got out of thirteen-hood,
that is clear.'

He looked at Salome. If Salome was his ideal,
nothing could be more different than her type from
the type of Miss Durham. There was a childlike simplicity
in Salome, an ignorance of the world which
would make of her a child to gray hairs ; and this
strange lady had clearly none of this simplicity and
ignorance ; she knew a great deal about the ways and
varieties of life. One like Miss Durham would never
go into gushing ecstasy over a baby, and forget that
the first homage was due to her husband.

It afforded emphatic pleasure to Philip to be able to
demonstrate before this single lady, with such a circle
of relatives about him — six ladies and one gentleman
we are eight and you are one. It was Joseph's
sheaf with all the sheaves bowing down before it ; it
was like a man with a pedigree describing the family
tree to a self-made man. It was like a hen with a
brood of chickens clucking and strutting before a fowl
that has never reared a solitary chick, hardly laid an
Ggg ; it was like a millionaire showing his pictures,
his plate, his equipages, his yacht, to an acquaintance
who had two hundred a year.

It has just been stated that the American girl's
eyes had flashed down into Philip's, and irradiated his
interior as a lantern does a cellar — a wine-cellar, of
course — and the light revealed magnificent cobwebs,
thick dust, and some spiders. There was, unquestionably,
in Philip much rare good wine, excellent qualities
of heart and soul, but they were none of them on tap,
all were bottled, and all overlaid with whitewash, and
dust, and matted with the fibres and folds of prejudice.
These masses of cobweb, these layers of dust, these fat
spiders were objects of pride to Philip. Every year
the cobwebs gathered density, and the dust accumulated,
and the spiders became more gross, hideous, and
venomous ; the wine remained corked, it was merely
an excuse for the cultivation of cobwebs and spiders.
We are all eager to show our friends through these
rich wine-vaults of our hearts. We light candles and
conduct them down with infinite pride, and what we
expose is only our curtains of prejudice of ancient
standing and long formation, our meanness, and our
spites. If we offer them to taste of our best wine, it
is but through straws.

On the other hand, there was Colonel Yeo, a walking

Bodega of generous sentiment, with every rich
passion and ripe opinion always on tap — ask what
you would, and you had a tumblerful. But we libel
Bodega, the gush with which he regaled his acquaintance
was not true vintage ; it was squeezed raisins
and logwood, gooseberry and elder — no cobwebs of
prejudice there, not a trace even of a scruple, not a
token of maturity.

Supper was hurried on, because Philip was hungry,
half an hour before the usual time at which the
little party sat down to their special table in the
alcove.

Oh !' said Salome, ' there is a cover short. Waiter,
we shall be nine to-night and in future, not eight.
My husband is here.'

Pardon,' answered the waiter, ' monsieur expressly
said eight.'

Oh, he forgot. He did not understand. We are
now nine.'

Then Philip interfered.

I said eight, but if you particularly desire Miss
Durham's society, I can sit at the long table with the
common guests.'

Oh, Philip ! surely, surely not !' exclaimed Salome.
It will hurt her feelings.'

She will understand that we are a family party,
and that from such a party strangers are best excluded.'


Salome heaved a sigh. She could not endure the
thought of giving pain to anyone.

Wko is she ?' asked Philip.

She is a lady, and very agreeable. Indeed, a
most superior person. You will be certain to like
her, when you come to know her. Oh, Philip !
she knows a thousand things about which I am
ignorant

I have no doubt about that,' answered Philip ironically
; ' and things I would be sorry you should know
about. I make no question she has seen the shady
side of life.'

But she is tremendously rich.'

Who says so ?'

The waiter — of course, he knows. And Colonel
Yeo pays her great attention accordingly. Oh, Philip!
I wish so much you would extend your protection to
her against him. He may draw her into one of his

schemes for the advancement of missionaries or the
propagation of dogs — and get a lot of money out of
her. Do — do, Phih'p, protect her against him. I — I —
I don't like to speak about him. You can understand
that, Philip.'

Very well,' said he ; ' I will do what I can.' He
was flattered at the idea of acting as protector to this
young American lady. ' But I put down my foot and
say she is not to sit at our table.'

The party gathered in the alcove, and fortunately
Miss Durham was the last to arrive, so there was no
difficulty about requesting her to take a place elsewhere.
When she entered the salle-a-nianger at the
usual hour, every seat was occupied at the table to
which for some little while she had been admitted.
She saw at a glance that her place was taken, and
she went without demur, or a look of disappointment,
to the long table. She had sufficient tact to perceive
that Philip disliked her, and she had no intention of
pressing her society on those who did not desire it.
So far from seeming vexed, a slight contemptuous
smile, like the flicker of summer lightning, played
about her lips. She caught Salome's eye, full of

appeal and apology, and returned it with a good-natured
nod. ' A trifle such as this,' said the nod,
will not give me offence,'

Mrs. Sidebottom sat beside Philip, and plied him
with questions relative to the intentions of Uncle
Jeremiah — questions which he was unable to answer ;
but she attributed his evasive replies to unwillingness
to speak, and pressed him the more urgently. The
captain was attentive to Janet, who had recovered
her spirits, laughed and twinkled, and without intentionally
coquetting, did coquet with him. Janet
became dull in female society, but that of men acted
as a tonic upon her ; it was like Parrish's Chemical
Food to a bloodless girl ; it risked her up, gave
colour to her cheek, and set her tongue wagging.
The captain was good-natured, and he threw a word
or two to the Labarte girls, but devoted his chief
attention to Janet.

Salome was left to herself, Mrs. Sidebottom engrossed
her nephew, whether he would or not, and when
he said something to Salome, he was interrupted by
Mrs. Sidebottom, who exclaimed :

Now, fiddle-de-dee, you will have plenty of time to

talk in private to your wife, whereas I shall see you
only occasionally, and I am particularly interested in
all you can tell me of Jeremiah. Give me your candid
opinion; what will he do? Is he angry with me?'

I can give no opinion without grounds on which
to base it, and Uncle Jeremiah has not taken me into
his confidence.'

I see you have the reserve of a lawyer. I had
enough of that when Sidebottom was alive. I hate
reserve. Give me frankness. Now — if you will not
tell me what you know of my brother's intentions
'

I know nothing, and can therefore divulge nothings

You won't tell, that is the truth. Don't tell me
you have been a fortnight and more under the same
roof with him and have not found out his intentions !
Well — to change the subject — what do you think of
the scheme for buying up the hospice on the St.
Gothard and turning it into an establishment for
Mount St Bernard dogs i"

THE GAUNTLET CAST.

When supper was ended, the whole party adjourned
to the promenade outside the hotel, where a fountain
plashed in a basin, and in an aviary on a perch stood
a scowling, draggled eagle, and beside the aviary were
cages with marmots, smelling abominably, and fettered
on a patch of grass was a miserable chamois that
seemed to have the mange.

It was delightful to walk in the crisp pure air of
evening without cap or bonnet, and watch the evening
glow on the snow-fields, and listen to the tinkle of the
bells as the cows were driven home from the Alpine
pastures and diverged to their several stables from
the main street. Beaple Yeo came out after the party
of Philip's table, not hatless, and his puggaree in the
dusk fluttered like a gigantic white moth. The chaplain

for the summer from England was also walking
in the grounds with his newly-married wife : a feeble
youth with a high-pitched voice and a cackling laugh,
who had cultivated a military moustache, to point out
his imbecility, as the ass in the fable assumed a lion's
skin, but was revealed as an ass on opening his mouth.
A party of Germans was feeding and talking vociferously.
A couple of Alpine Clubmen in knickerbockers,
carrying their alpenstocks proudly, trudged
in with a guide, the latter laden with their knapsacks.


Salome had been walking, nestled against Philip's
side, not saying much, but feeling happy, when her
attention was attracted by the wailing of a babe from
one of the hotel windows.

Philip, dear !' she said, ' there is my pet, my darling
crying. I must tear myself away from you and go to
him. I know he wants me. He is so clever. He is
quite aware that I am here, and resents being rocked
to sleep by the Swiss nurse ; he is protesting that
nothing will make him close his peepers but mamma's
voice, and a kiss. And — oh. dear, dear Philip ! I
don't like to think it possible you can be unkind to

anyone — there is Misa Durham behind us, all by herself;
do — do say a word to her and be civil. It was
rather — well, not quite rude, but strange of us paying
no attention to her at supper, and turning her out of
her place. Philip, I could not eat my supper, I was
so uncomfortable. I would not hurt anyone's feelings
willingly, and I am sure Miss Durham has not been
treated with consideration ; would you — because I ask
you — for my sake, speak to her when I am gone to
baby .'''

She looked up entreatingly in his eyes, loosed her
hand from his arm, and was gone.

Philip slackened his pace, then halted, to allow the
American lady to catch him up. He would speak to
her, and give her to understand, of course politely,
that intimacy with his wife must cease. When she
came level with him he raised his hat, and said, 'A
beautiful evening ; a charming evening.'

So I have already perceived, Mr. Pennycome-
quick.'

'What a surprise this green basin of valley is to
one emerging from the ravine of the Reuss !' said
Philip.

'Yes,' with indifference; then, with animation,
By the way, you were in the carriage with Colonel
Yeo.'
I beg pardon, he was in the carriage with me
I suppose you are old friends ?' said the lady.
Philip stiffened his back. ' Miss Durham, we belong
to distinct classes of society. With his I have nothing
in common.'

But you knew each other?'
I knew of him. I cannot say I knew him.'
Have you no ambition to rise to his social
grade?'

'To — rise— to — his — social grade !' It took Philip
some time to digest this question. He replied ironically,
' None in the least, I do assure you. I am thankful
to say I belong to that middle class which works
for its living honourably diligently, and finds its
pleasure and its pride in industry
And Colonel Yeo?'

Oh ! I assure you he does not soil his fingers with
honest trade or business.'

You do not want to know him .-"

I have not the smallest ambition.'

VOL. III. 44

After a pause, during which neither spoke, Philip
resumed. ' There are subjects that are distasteful tome
; this is one.'

I see said Miss Durham, ' you are a Radicals

We will let the subject drop,' said Philip. ' This
air is delightful to me after the smoke of a Yorkshire
manufacturing district.'

It is really surprising how fresh, notwithstanding,
your wife is,' answered the Chicago lady.

Philip turned sharply round and looked at her.
Fresh !' he repeated. He did not understand what
her meaning was — fresh in complexion, or that her
character was green and raw.

Her freshness is quite delightful added the lady.

Then Philip's anger broke loose. He was offended
at any remark being made on Salome by a person of
whom he knew nothing.

Indeed — perhaps so. And it is precisely this
freshness, this generosity of mind, this ignorance of
the world, which leads her to extend the hand of
fellowship to — to anyone — to those who may not
be as fresh as herself — who may be quite the reverse.'


Miss Durham stood still, her face gleamed with
anger.

I know, sir, very well what you mean. You know
that I am alone, without a man — a father, brother or
husband by to protect me from insult, and you take
this advantage to address me thus.'

She revolved on her heel and walked hastily back
to the hotel, Philip stood rooted to the spot.

What had he done ? What shadow of a right had
he to address an inoffensive girl with such impertinence
? A girl who had done him no harm, and of
whom he knew nothing, and who, for aught he knew
to the contrary, might be as respectable, high-minded,
and well-connected as the best lady in America. She
had been alone in this foreign corner, shut out from
social intercourse with her fellow-countrymen, and
she had formed an acquaintance with his wife, his
wife's sister, and the Labarte girls. What right had
he to step in and thrust her out of association with
them ?

He had done what he determined, but done it in so
clumsy a manner as to put himself in the wrong, make
himself who stood on punctilio appear an unlicked

44—2

bear. He had behaved to an unprotected, young, and
beautiful girl in a manner that would have disgraced
the rudest artisan, in a manner that he knew not one
of his honest Yorkshire workmen in his factory would
have dared to behave.

AND PICKED UP.

Matters that look serious at night shrink to trifling
significance in the morning. Philip rose refreshed by-sleep,
with a buoyancy of heart he had not experienced
for many months, and a resolution to enjoy his holiday
now that he was taking one. How often had he
longed for the chance of making an excursion on the
Continent, of seeing the snowy ranges of the Alps and
studying fresh aspects of human life ! Now the opportunity
had come, and he must make the most of it.
His prospects at home were not such as to discourage
him ; he was no longer the ruling manager of the
Pennycomequick firm, but he was not going to be
kicked out of the concern as he had at first feared.
Uncle Jeremiah purposed to take him into partnership,
make him working partner, and in all probability

he would be better off than with Mrs. Sidebottom,
consuming more than half the profits and contributing
nothing.

He had been tired with his journey yesterday,
irritated at finding Beaple Yeo in his proximity, and
he had given way to his irritation and spoken un-courteously
to an American lady. What of that ?
Who was she to take offence at what he said ? If she
were angered she must swallow her wrath. She had
vexed him by pushing herself into the acquaintance of
his wife. If people will climb over hedges they must
expect scratches. If requisite he could apologize, and
the thing was over. Miss Durham had made a remark
which he considered a slight passed on his wife, and
he was right to resent it. If she had made a thrust
with an unguarded foil, it was not likely that he would
retaliate with the end of his, blunted by a button.

He came downstairs, feeling cheerful and on the
best of terms with the world. He would go for a walk
that day with Salome — to the Over-Alp, and pick
gentians and Allen-rose ; and in preparation for the
walk, he went to the collection of carved work, photographs,
and Alpine paraphernalia exhibited in the

salle-manger by the head waiter for sale, and bought
himself a stout walking-stick with an artificial chamois-horn
as handle. Then he strolled out into the village-street,
and looked in at the shop-windows. There
was only one shop that interested him ; it contained
crystals smoked and clear, and specimens of the rocks
on the St. Gothard Pass, collections of dried flowers
and photographs.

When he returned to the inn he found that his
party was in the salle awaiting him. The usual
massive white coffee-cups, heap of rolls, all crust outside
and bubbles within, wafers of butter, and artificial
honey were on table.

A German lady was prowling about the room with
her head so tumbled that it was hard to believe she
had dressed her hair since leaving her bed, and the
curate was there also, ambling round his bride and
squeaking forth entreaties that she would allow him
to order her eggs for breakfast. Philip was heartily
glad that he sat along with his party at one table, in
the alcove. Miss Durham was not there.

On inquiry Salome learned that she had ordered
breakfast to be taken to her room.

So much the better,' said Philip.

My dear, surely you made friends yesterday evening
after I left you.'

Come — to table,' said Philip ; and then — ' on the
contrary, I don't know quite how it came about, but
something I said gave her umbrage, and she flew
away in a rage. I suppose I offended her. It does
not matter. Pass me the butter.'

It does not matter ! Oh, Philip !'

Given Miss Durham offence !' exclaimed Mrs. Side-bottom.
' But — she is worth thousands. How could
you be so indiscreet .'"

She is so charming,' said Janet.

So amiable murmured Claudine Labarte.

^ Mat's, quelle gaucherie F whispered the penultimate
Labarte to the youngest sister.

Then ensued a silence. Philip looked from one to
another. Already a cloud had come into his clear
sky.

Philip said sternly, ' Pass me the butter.'

Those who seemed least concerned were the
captain and Janet, who sat together and were engrossed
in little jokes that passed between them,

and were not heard or regarded by the rest of the
company.

'This is very unfortunate,' said Mrs. Sidebottom,
for we had made a plan to go to the hospice
together, and she would have paid her share of the
carriage.'

Salome looked into her plate ; her colour came and
went. She slid her hand into that of her husband,
and whispered, ' I did not mean to reproach you. I
am sure you were right'

I was right,' answered Philip ; ' something she said
appeared to me a reflection on you and I fired up. I
am your husband, and am bound to do so.'

I am quite sure, then, you misunderstood her,'
said Salome; 'dear Miss Durham could not — no, I
do not mean that — would not say a word against me.
Of course I know I have plenty of faults, and she
cannot have failed to observe them ; but she would
not dream of alluding to them, least of all to you.'

That is possible,' answered Philip. ' And I will
say or do something to pass it off. But, I hope you
see that I did the correct thing in taking your part,
even if no slight was intended

Of course, Philip.'

Then Salome stood up and said, ' I will go to her.
I will tell her there was a misunderstanding. It will
come best from me, as I was the occasion.'

Philip nodded. It was certainly best that Salome
should do this, and save him the annoyance and —
well, yes, the humiliation of an apology.

When Salome was gone, Philip spoke to the eldest
Labarte girl, but found her uninteresting ; and the
younger sisters looked at him with ill-concealed dissatisfaction.
He had come to Andermatt and spoiled
their party. They had been cheerful and united
before. Miss Durham had been infinitely amusing,
and now Philip had introduced discord, was wooden
and weariful. They wished he had remained at home
in smoky, foggy England ; if he came — he should
have left the fog and chill behind him, instead of
diffusing it over a contented and merry party. Mrs.
Sidebottom had left the table to haggle with the
head waiter over a paper-cutter with a chamois leg ass
handle, that she wanted to buy and send as a present
to Jeremiah, but was indisposed to pay for it the
price asked by the waiter.

But, madam,' said the waiter, ' if you do not take
him at de price, Mademoiselle Durham will ; she have
admired and wanted to buy him, and she goes away
to-day.'

Miss Durham going !' exclaimed Mrs. Sidebottom,
and rushed back to the table to announce the news.
'Why — who will go halves with us in vehicles! This
is your doing, Philip. You have offended her, and
are driving her away.'

The announcement produced silence ; and all eyes
were turned on Philip, those of the Labarte girls with
undisguised indignation. Even the captain and Janet
ceased their conversation. An angel may have passed
through the room, but he must have been a crippled
one, so long did he take in traversing it ; nor can he
have been a good one, so little light and cheerfulness
did he diffuse.

'Well!' said Philip, 'what if she be going? That
is no concern of ours.'

Then he stood up and left the room. He was in
an unamiable mood. This party did not show him
the consideration that was due to him ; and found
fault with him about trifles. He left the hotel, and

wandered to the aviary, where he remained contemplating
the showing eagle. The bird perhaps recognised
a similarity of mood in his visitor, for he turned
his head, ruffled his feathers, and looked at Philip.

Well,' said Philip, ' that is the king of the birds,
is it ? To my mind a bumptious, ill-conditioned,
dissatisfied, and uninteresting fowl.'

Then he moved in front of the marmot cage.
And these are marmots, that spend more than half
their life in sleep. Very like Lambert Sidebottom or
Pennycomequick, as he is pleased to call himself
now.'

He looked at the eagle again. ' Pshaw ! Pluck
him of his self-consciousness as Aquila — and what is
he ? What is he ?'

Then he wandered away among the flower-beds
and bushes of syringa without a purpose, grumbling
to himself at the manners of those Labartes, and the
figures that Lambert and Janet made, laughing over
inane jokes, and regretting that he had allowed
Salome to go in search of the Chicago lady.

Salome in the meantime had hastened to her
friend's room, the number of which she knew, and

found her packing her portmanteau and dress-boxes.
The room was strewn with dresses.

But,' exclaimed Salome on entering, ' what is the
meaning of this .'* Miss Durham ! You are surely
not going to leave ?'

Certainly I am,' answered the American lady. ' I
have been insulted here and shall leave the place for
one where there are better manners.'

'Oh, don't go. My husband did not mean to offend
you. I do not know what he said, but I am quite
sure he would do nothing ungentlemanly, unkind.
He has had a long journey, and this and other
matters had just put him in a condition of nervous
excitement. If you wish it he will explain, but
surely you will take my word that no impertinence
was intended.'

Miss Durham looked at Salome steadily.

The word has been said.'

But,' pleaded Salome, ' my husband will unsay it.
I entreat you forget and forgive.'

I cannot. It is not in my nature.'

Not forgive ? Oh, Miss Durham, half the sweetness
and happiness of life is made up of forgiveness.'

Tastes differ,' said the American, and stooped to
her work again.

Salome went to her and arrested her hands. '' I
will not, I cannot allow you to go. I should ever
feel an ache in my heart to think that you had gone
away without reconciliation.' Half laughing half
crying, she added : ' I thought that if it could possibly
be that you and my husband should meet, you
would become close friends — but I never supposed he
would come out here to me — I mean I did not think
he could leave his business. And now that he is
here, instead of making friends with you, a quarrel is
picked and you are almost enemies.'

Quite,' said Miss Durham coolly.

Not so with him. If he knew how to obtain your
forgiveness he would do that thing. Is there no way
in which you can be satisfied ?'

Oh yes, by obtaining satisfaction.'

Salome looked at her. The handsome face was
much altered, there was a bitterness and scorn in it
she had never seen before. The dark eyebrows were
drawn together, forming a sombre, threatening bar
across her face above her splendid eyes.

When a man has offended another, he that is
injured calls out the offender and there is an exchange
of pistol-shots. Had I here anyone who
belonged to me, anyone to stand by me and defend
my character, I would send him with a challenge to
your husband, and they would fight the matter out
on the green sward by the chapel, or better,' she
laughed, ' on the Devil's Bridge. But as I have
neither father, nor brother, nor husband, I must fight
for m}^ own honour, or '

Or what. Miss Durham ?'

Or run away.'

Both were silent ; presently Salome laughed a little
nervously and said :

But you never fight ? no woman fights.'

Does she not ?'

Not with pistols.'

Perhaps not.'

Nor with swords.'

'Oh no.'

Then — with what r

With her proper weapons.'

You may be quite sure my husband would throw
down his arms and yield at discretion.'

I have little doubt.'

Salome closed the box on which Miss Durham had
been engaged, and seated herself upon it. Then she
looked up with childlike entreaty into her friend's
face, and said :

I will not allow you to go. We had schemed to
have such pleasant excursions together. We have
been so happy since we have known each other, and

1 have not yet had the delight of showing you

my baby— my best treasure.'

You will not let me run away ?'

No, no ! You will forget this little affair ; it was
nothing. Come and be with us again. My husband
is a great reader, and knows a great deal about things
of which I am ignorant, and you have travelled and
.seen so much that your society will interest him
immensely. Oh, do stay, do not go away.'

The American girl went to the window, leaned
both her arms folded on it, and looked out. She
could see into the garden, and she observed Philip
there, standing before the eagle's cage. He had a
little twig in his hand, and he was thrusting it between
the bars at the bird. She turned and said to Salome:

No — I will go. There are several reasons which
urge me to go. The insult which I received from
your husband for one — and already he had allowed
me to see that he disliked and despised me '

No, indeed,' interrupted Salome. ' I had written
to him in all my letters about you, and — perhaps he
was a little jealous of you.'

Jealous of me T

It is a fancy of mine.'

Salome lowered her eyes.

Oh, you fresh, you green dear !' laughed Miss
Durham. ' Do you know what jealousy is ?'

By experience .'* No.'

Come,' said the American girl, seating herself
beside her on the same box, still with folded arms,
resting now on her lap. ' Come ! Supposing that I,
instead of being hated and despised by your husband,
were admired and loved by him. Would you not be
madly jealous then ?'

Salome looked round at her without flinching.

Admire you he might, but love you '

More than he loved j/^«.'

He could not do it'

VOL. III. 45

The girl burst into a mocking laugh.

What, you also hold me cheap, think there is
nothing in me beside you — beside you — to love ?'

On the contrary,' answered Salome, crimsoning to
the roots of her hair, ' I am nothing, nothing at all ;
ignorant, foolish, fresh, and green, as you say — and
you are so beautiful, so clever, so experienced. I am
nothing whatever in comparison with you, but then
Philip, I mean my husband, you know could not love
you more than me, because I am his wife.'

'Oh!' There was a depth of mockery in the
tone.

Then up stood Miss Durham again, and as Salome
also rose, the stranger seized her by the shoulders, and
held her at arm's length from her, and said :

Shall I go, or shall I stay ? Shall I run away,
or '

You shall not run away. I will clasp you in my
arms and stay you,' exclaimed Salome, and suited the
action to the word.

Miss Durham loosed herself from her almost
roughly.

It were better for both that I should go.'

Again she went to the window to gasp for air. She
saw Philip still before the eagle's cage — straight, stiff,
and every inch a mercantile man. Her lip curled.

I will go,' she said. Then she saw Beaple Yeo
stalk across the terrace. ' No ' — she corrected herself
hastily — ' I will stay.'

45—2

Over-ALP.

After Philip had looked sufficiently long at the
caged eagle, he went in search of the captain, and
found him smoking in the veranda of the hotel.

Lambert,' said he, ' there's a deal of fuss being
made about this American lady, but who is she ?'

Comes from Chicago,' answered the captain.

I know that, but I want to know something more
concerning her.'

The captain shrugged his shoulders. ' She's good-looking,
deucedly so.'

That, also, I can see for myself. Have you made
no inquiries about hers'

I .-* why should I ?'

Philip called the head waiter to him.

Here. Who is this American lady .''

Oh, from Chicago.'

Exactly ; the visitors-book says as much. I don't
see how she can be rich ; she has no lady's-maid.'

Oh, sire ! De American eddies aire ver' independent.'


There was nothing to be learnt from anyone about
Miss Durham. He applied to the squeaky-voiced
chaplain with the military moustache.

She may belong to the Episcopal Church of
America,' said the chaplain ; ' but I don't know,'

Some of the waiters had seen her elsewhere, at
other summer resorts, always well dressed. Philip,
after he had spent half an hour in inquiries, discovered
that no one knew more about her than himself He
had heard nothing to her disadvantage, but also
nothing to her advantage. He might just as well
have spared himself the trouble of asking.

At table d'hote, Miss Durham sat at the long table.
Salome was disappointed. She thought that she had
succeeded in completely patching up the difference.
Philip was indifferent. Just as well that she should
be elsewhere. She was an occasion of dissension, a
comet that threw all the planetary world in his system

out of their perihelion. He made no bones about
saying as much. Salome looked sadly at him, when
Colonel Yeo took his seat beside Miss Durham, and
entered into ready converse with her. She could not
take her attention off her friend ; she was uneasy for
her, afraid what advantage the crafty colonel might
take of her inexperience. But it was not long before
Philip heartily wished that Miss Durham had been in
her place in their circle, for conversation flagged
without her, or ceased to be general and disintegrated
into whisperings between the girls Labarte, and confidences
between Janet and Lambert. Salome was
silent, and Mrs. Sidebottom engrossed in what she
was eating. Philip spoke about politics, and found
no listeners ; he asked about the excursions to be
made from Andermatt, and was referred to the guide-book
; he tried a joke, but it fell dead. Finally he
became silent as his wife and aunt, with a glum
expression on his inflexible face, and found himself,
as well as Salome, looking down the long table at
Miss Durham. The young lady was evidently enjoying
an animated and entertaining conversation with
Colonel Yeo, whose face became blotched as he went

into fits of laughter. She was telling some droll
anecdote, making some satirical remark. Philip
caught the eye of Yeo turned on him, and then the
colonel put his napkin to his mouth and exploded.
Philip's back became stiff. It offended him to the
marrow of his spine, through every articulation of
that spinal column, to suppose himself a topic for
jest, a butt of satire. He reddened to his temples,
and finding that he had seated himself on the skirts
of his coat, stood up, divided them, and sat down
again, pulled up his collars, and asked how many
more courses they were required to eat.

Oh ! we have come to the chicken and salad, and
that is always the last,' said Salome.

I am glad to hear it. I never less enjoyed a meal

before — not even ' He remembered the dinner

alone at Mergatroyd, with the parlour maid behind
his back observing his mole. He did not finish his
sentence ; he did not consider it judicious to let his
wife know how much he had missed her.

It was not pleasant to be at enmity with a person
who by gibe and joke could make him seem ridiculous,
even in such eyes as those of Beaple Yeo. It would

be advisable to come to an agreement, a truce, if nota
permanent peace, with this woman.

Presently Philip rose and walked down the sa//e.
Several of those who had dined were gone, some
remained shelling almonds, picking out the least
uninteresting of the sugar-topped biscuits and make-believe
macaroons, that constituted dessert. He
stepped up to Miss Durham, and said, with an effort
to be amiable and courteous : ' We are meditating a
ramble this afternoon, Miss Durham, to some lake
not very distant ; and I am exponent of the unanimous
sentiment of our table, when I say that the
excursion will lose its main charm unless you will
afford us the pleasure of your society.'

He had been followed by the Labarte girls, and
they now put in their voices, and then Mrs. Side-bottom
joined ; she came to back up the request. It
was not possible for the American girl to refuse. The
captain and Janet had not united in the request, but
they had attention for none but each other, and
Salome had not risen and united in the fugue, for a
reason unaccountable to herself — a sudden doubt
whether she had acted wisely in pressing the lady

to stay after she had resolved to go ; and yet — she
could give to herself no grounds for this doubt.

A couple of hours later the party left the hotel.
It was thought advisable that Janet should be taken
to the summit of the pass in a small low carriage ;
she could walk home easily, down-hill. Into the
carriage was harnessed an unroofed chestnut cob,
that had a white or straw-coloured tail, and like
coloured patches of hair about the hocks. It had
the general appearance of having been frost-bitten in
early youth, or fed on stimulants which had interfered
with its growth, and deprived it of all after-energy.
The creature crawled up the long zigzag
that leads from Andermatt to the Over-Alp, and the
driver walked by its head, ill-disposed to encourage it
to exertion. The captain paced by the side of the
carriage, equally desirous that the step should be
quickened, for he had no wish to overheat himself —
time was made for man, not man for time — and he
had an agreeable companion with whom he conversed.

Mrs. Sidebottom engaged the Labarte girls, who —
inconsiderate creatures — wanted to walk beside their
aunt Janet, and take part in the conversation with the

captain. Mrs. Sidebottom particularly wished that
her son should be left undisturbed. As an Oriental
potentate is attended by a slave waving a fan of
feathers to drive away from his august presence the
tormenting flies, so did the mother act on this occasion
for her son — she fanned away the obtrusive Labarte
girls. When she found that they were within earshot
of the carriage, ' Now,' said she, ' I am sure this is a
short cut across the sward. You are young, and I am
no longer quite a girl. Let us see whether you, by
taking the steep cross-cut, or I, by walking at a good
pace along the road, will reach that crucifix first.'
By this ruse she got the three girls well ahead of the
conveyance ; but Claudine found a patch of blue
gentianella, and wanted to dig the bunch up. ' No,
no,' advised Mrs. Sidebottom, ' not in going out — on
your return homewards ; then you will not have the
roots to carry so far, and the flowers will be less
faded.' There was reason in this advice, and Claudine
followed it.

Presently Amelie, the second, exclaimed, ' But weare
just in advance of Aunt Janet. Let us stay for
her.' t

Yes, we will,' agreed Felicity, the third ; ' Claudine
can go on with madame.'

We will all stay,' said Mrs. Sidebottom. ' Now
Amelie, I have seen your sketches, and you have your
book with you. Is not that a superb view up the
gorge, to the right ? I do not know the name of the
mountain at the head. What a picture it would
make ! And finished off with the spirit you throw
into a drawing ! See, there is a c/id/et, and some
goats for foreground !'

C'est vrai ! I will draw if* So Amelie sat on a
rock, and got out her materials ; and the sisters sat
by her, talking and advising what was to be left in
and what left out of the sketch. Meanwhile the
conveyance containing Janet crawled by. The picture
was still incomplete, and the little party was thrown
a long way in the rear by this detention.

To anyone observing the zigzag road up the Ober-
Alp Pass from a distance, the party would not have
been supposed to possess homogeneity. At starting
it was led by three — Philip, Salome, and the American
lady ; but after the first stage of the ascent Salome
fell back, then, little by little, the other two quickened

their pace till they had completely distanced the rest.
At a lower stage of the inclined road, ascending at an
even pace, was Salome, alone. At about an equal
distance below, on another stage of the zigzag, was
the carriage with Janet and the captain, and the
driver, of whom no account was taken ; and sometimes
ahead of the carriage, sometimes behind,
making rushes, then halts, like a covey of doves
followed by a hawk, was the little cluster of girls with
Mrs. Sidebottom. From a distance at one moment
the three girls seemed to be flying before the elder
lady armed with a parasol, which she swung about
her head, then they seemed to cower on the ground
into the herbage as birds beneath a swooping
falcon.

The reason why Salome was alone must be given.
Before starting on the excursion, Philip said to his
wife, ' Let me have a minute alone with that person.
I'll make some sort of apology, and set all to rights.'

Accordingly Salome had dropped back where the
road made its first twist. But this does not explain
why she remained alone for more than the minute.
That this may be understood, it will be necessary to

follow the conversation that passed between Philip
and ' that person.'

My wife has found a pink,' said Philip ; ' she is
fond of flowers.' Then, as Miss Durham said
nothing, he added, ' I afforded you some amusement
at dinner.'

Amusement ?'

Apparently. It is not pleasant to be an object of
criticism. If you desired to punish me for my indiscretion,
you must be satisfied. You made me very
uncomfortable.'

Amusement ! Oh ! do you mean when Colonel
Yeo laughed and look at you ? I saw you turn red.'

Enough to make a man turn red, when aimed at
by the bow and arrow of female lips and tongue.'

You are quite mistaken,' said Miss Durham, laughing.
* I was not shooting any poisoned arrow. Do
you desire to know what I said ?'

'Interest me it must, as I was the object of the
arrow, even if tipped with honey.'

Very well, you shall know. I had seen you looking
at the eagle in his cage. And I said to Colonel
Yeo that the eagle reminded me of you.'

Philip winced. He remembered his own estimate
of that wretched bird.

And pray,' said he, ' why am I like the eagle ?'

Because both are in situations for which neither
was designed by nature. Do you suppose the eagle
looks the draggled, disconsolate bird he does now,
when on wing soaring over the glaciers ? Were his
wings made that they might droop and drop their
crushed feathers? That stern eye, that it should
stare at iron bars, at inquisitive faces peering between
them ? Now, come, be open ; make me your confessor.
Have you never had yearnings for something
nobler, freer, than to be behind the bars of a ,
and condemned to the perpetual routine of
business, like the mill of a squirrel's cage ?'

Philip considered. Yes, he had wished for a less
monotonous life. He had often desired to be able to
hunt and shoot, and move in cultivated society, tour
in Europe, and have leisure to extend his thoughts to
other matters than the details of a lawyer's office, ora
manufacturer's set of books.

Your time is all barred,' continued Miss Durham,
and the music of your life must be in common time.

No elasticity, no initiative, all is barred and measured.
Tell me something about yourself.'

I !' This was a daring question to address to one
so reserved as Philip. ' I have had nothing occur in
my life that could interest you.'

Because it has been spent in a cage. I know it
has. I can see the gaol-look in your face, in your
back, in the way you wear your hair, in your coat, in
your every action, and look, and tone of voice.'

This is not complimentary.'

It is true. But you were not made to be a gaolbird.
No one is ; only some get caught early and
are put behind bars, and see the world, and know it,
only through bars ; the wind blows in on them only
between bars, and the sun is cut and chopped up to
them by bars and cross-bars, and all they know of the
herbs and flowers are the scraps of chickweed and
plantain, drooping and dying, that are suspended to
their cage bars for them to peck at. I know exactly
what they come to look like who have been encaged
all their lives ; they get bald on the poll and stiff in
their movements, and set in their back, and dull of
eye, and narrow of mind.'

'- You — have you not been a cage-bird ?' asked
Philip with some animation.

Oh no, not I. I have kept outside the bars. I
have been too fond of my liberty to venture behind
them.'

What do you mean by bars ?' asked Philip, with
some gravity in his tone.

Bars .'' There are bars of all sorts — social, religious,
conventional — but there ! I shock you ; you have
lived so long behind them, that you think the bars
form the circumference of the world, and that existence
is impossible, or improper outside of them.'

Beyond some none are at liberty to step. They
are essential.'

I am not talking of the natural, but of the artificial
restraints which cramp life. Have you any Bohemian
blood in you i*'

Bohemian !'

Wild blood. I have. I confess it. A drop, a
little drop, of fiery African blood. You in England
have your class distinctions, but they are nothing
beside our American separations between white and
black. With you a blot on the escutcheon by a

mesalliance is nothing ; with us it is ineradicable.
There is a bar sinister cast over my shield and shutting
me out from the esteem of and association with those
whose blood is pure. Pure ! It may be muddied
with the mixture of villainous blood enough — of
swindlers and renegades from justice, but that counts
nothing. One little drop, an eighth part of a drop,
damns me. I do not care. I thank that spot of
taint. It has liberated me from conventional bonds,
and I can live as I like, and see the sun eye to eye
without intervening bars.'

Philip had winced when she spoke about the coexistence
of pure blood with that of swindlers and
renegades. He stopped and looked back.

They had been walking fast, though up-hill. When
talkers are excited and interested in what they say
they naturally quicken their pace. They had far
outstripped Salome ; as Philip looked back he could
not see her, for the ground fell away steeply and
concealed the several folds of the road,

'What?' asked Miss Durham mockingly, 'looking
for one of your bars }'

Philip turned and walked on with her. They had

VOL. III. 46

reached the summit, and the ground before them was
level. On this track of level mossy moor lay the lake
of deep crystal water, in which floated masses of
snow or ice, that had slidden from the mountain on
the opposite side. Hardly a tree grew here, on this
neck, exposed to furious currents of wind.

'May I take your arm?' asked Miss Durham. 'I
am heated and tired with this long climb

Philip offered her the support she demanded.

I suppose,' she said, ' that you have not associated
much with any but those who are cage-birds ?'

He shook his head and coloured slightly.

Do you know what I am .'" she asked abruptly,
and turned and looked at him, loosing her hand from
his arm.

I have heard that you are a lady with a large
independent fortune.'

It is not true. I earn my living. I am a singer.'

She saw the surprise in his face, which he struggled
to conceal.

It is so ; and I am here in this clear air that my
voice may regain its tone. I sing — on the stage.'

She put her hand through his arm again.

'Yes, chained, imprisoned eagle, I am a free .
What do you say to that ?'

What could he say ? He was astonished, excited,
bewildered. He felt the intoxication which falls on
an evangelical preacher when he mounts the platform
to preach in a music-hall. He was frightened and
pleased ; his decorum shaken to its foundation, and
cracking on all sides.

What do you say to that ?' she asked, and looked
full in his eyes, and her splendid orbs shot light and
fire into his heart and sent the flames leaping through
his veins. He heaved a long breath.

Yes,' she said, ' you suffocate behind bars,'

Then she burst into a merry peal of laughter, and
Philip involuntarily laughed also, but not heartily.

46 — 2

ARTEMISIA.

'There is the restaurant,' said Miss Durham, 'and
being painted within and without, impossible for us to
enter. What say you to walking on to the head of
the lake .' I want to look over the col, and see the
mountains of the Rhine valley above Dissents.'

Philip hesitated, and again looked back.

*I see,' said Miss Durham; 'you are afraid of
stepping out of your cage.'

Not at all,' answered Philip, flushing. ' I am prepared
to go to the end of this trough in the mountains
with you, but I greatly doubt seeing much from the
further end.'

Well — if we see nothing, we can talk. Have
you looked about you much since we began the
ascent .'''

The time has flown,' said Philip, looking at his
watch. ' It seems to me but a few minutes since.'

The long dreary valley or basin in which lay the
lake was apparently closed at the end by a hill surmounted
by a cross or flagstaff. The road ran along
the north side of the lake, without a tree to shade it.
The party behind, when they came to the restaurant,
could not fail to see them if they continued along the
road, and might follow, or await them there.

Philip walked on, but no longer gave Artemisia
Durham his arm. He saw far away in the rear Mrs.
Sidebottom signalling with her parasol ; but whether
to him, or to the Labarte girls who were dispersed in
the morass at the end of the lake, picking butterwort,
soldanella, and primula, he could not tell.

His eyes were on the ground. He was thinking of
his companion, what a strange life hers must be, incomprehensible
to him. He felt how, if he were
thrown into it, he would not know how to strike out
and hold his chin above water. At the same time his
heart beat fast with a wild vain desire for a freer life
than that of commerce.

The restraints to which he had been subjected had

compressed and shaped him, as the Chinese lady's
shoe compresses and shapes her foot — but the pressure
had been painful ; it had marked him, but the marks
were ever sensitive. The ancient robe of the Carmelite
fathers was of white wool barred with black,
and they pretended that they derived this habit from
the mantle of Elijah, which he had dropped as he
was being carried up to heaven, and the mantle had
touched as it fell the spokes of the chariot of fire in
which he ascended, and was scorched in stripes.
Philip, and many another successful man of business
who has been exalted to a position of comfort and
warmth, has the inner garment of his soul scarred by
the wheels of the chariot in which he has mounted.
Philip felt his own awkwardness, his want of ease in
other society than that narrow circle in which he had
turned, his inability to move with that freedom and
confidence which characterizes those born and reared
in generous society. Even with this girl — this Bohemian
— he was as one walking and talking with
chains to his feet and a gag to his tongue. She was
right ; he was born to be at ease everywhere, to be
able everywhere to walk upright, and to look around

him ; he had been put in a cramping position, tied
hand and foot, and his head set in such a vice as photographers
employ to give what they consider support
and steadiness, and he was distorted, stiffened, contracted.
Had his life been happy? He had never
accounted it so— it had been formal at the solicitor's
desk, and it was formal in the factory. Was man
made and launched into life to be a piece of clockwork
? He had thought, acted, lived an automaton
life, and taken his pleasure in measuring glasses, never
in full and free draughts.

Have you had a happy existence ?' he asked
thoughtfully.'

Oh yes, the birds are happy ; all nature is happy
so long as it is free. It is in the cage that the bird
mopes, and in the pot that the plant sickens.'

Had Philip looked in her face he would have seen a
strange expression of triumph pass over it. She had
carried her first point and gained his interest.

Here,' she said, ' is a large rock above the water ;
let us sit on it, and I will tell you about myself. You
had no confidence in me, and would not give me your
story. I will return good for evil, and show you my

past. I agree with you, there will be no view of the
mountains above Dissents from the col. It is not
worth our while going on. Besides, I am tired.'

She took a seat on a broad boulder that had fallen
from the mountains, and hung fast, wedged on one
side, disengaged on the other, over the crystal water
that, stirred by the light wind, lapped its supports.
Looking into the clear flood beneath, they could seethe
char darting about, enjoying the sun that penetrated
the water and made it to them an element of
diffused light.

Artemisia pointed to them, and said :

Who would not rather be one of these than a goldfish
in a glass bottle ?'

Philip at once recalled the pond at Mergatroyd,
with the hot water spurted into it from the engine, in
which the goldfish teemed, and the globes in every
cottage-window supplied with the unfortunate captives
from this pond, swimming round and round all day,
all night, every year, seeing nothing novel, without an
interest, a zest in life. Such had his career been ; he,
a fish — not a gold one, nor even a silver one till
recently, but quite a common brown fish — in a

common glass receiver full of stale water, renewed
periodically, but always flat.

He looked at the darting char with interest.

We are in the land of freedom,' said Miss
Durham. 'Then don't stand on the rock like a
semaphore. Sit down beside me, and let your feet
dangle over the water. Oh! as Polixenes says, "to
be boy eternal !" '

'" With such a day tomorrow as to-day," ' added
Philip, completing the quotation, as he seated himself
on the rock.

How wonderfully brilliant the sun was at that
height ! So utterly unlike the rusty ball that gave
light at Mergatroyd, and there gave it charily. How
intense the blue of the sky ! — dark as the deep-belled
gentian, not the washed-out cobalt of an English
heaven. And the air was fresh ; it made the heart
dance, and the pulses throb faster, with a trip and a
fandango such as the blood never attains in our gray
and sober land.

At a few hundred yards' distance was a road-mender
leisurely performing his task, repairing a track made by
a stone that had leaped from the cliffs above, torn up

the road, and then plunged into the lake. Far behind
could be seen Mrs. Sidebottom flourishing her parasol
and gathering the rest of the disconnected party together
before the restaurant.

It was clear that she^had decided they were not to
go further, but to rest at one of the tables in the open
air beside the lake, till it pleased the two of the advanced
party to return.

Had they been seen ? Philip asked himself. Where
he and Artemisia now sat, they were screened from
observation from the tavern, though not from the
road-mender, who was ahead on the way.

I am not quite sure,' said Philip, and he fidgeted
with his fingers as he said it, ' I think I ought to be
going back to the party — to my aunt.'

To your wife, you mean. Why not say so .'' No ;
you shall not go. There are plenty with her, five in
all, and I — I have only you.'

A flutter and then a scalding rush of blood through
Philip's veins.

This is the land of freedom,' said Artemisia ; ' as
you came over the Lake of Lucerne you saw Ruth,
the sacred spot where the three confederates swore to

shake off the chains that bound them and to be free,
and its freedom is the glory of Switzerland now.
Let this be Ruth. Break those conventional bonds
that have tied you, and as a pledge remain seated
and listen to me. Remember what I have told you
I want to give you a peep into my past life, and
have your advice.'

Philip made no more objection, but he plucked
little scraps of sedum that grew on the stone and
threw them into the water. Presently fish came to
snap at them, and turned away in disgust, leaving
them, when they saw they were not flies nor worms.

My mother,' said Miss Durham, ' was a German —
that is how I can speak the language with as much
ease as English. She was married to my father
shortly after her arrival in America, and she never
acquired the English tongue perfectly ; she always
spoke it with an accent and intonation that was
foreign. But, though she did not acquire perfectly
the language of the country of her adoption, she
assimilated its prejudices pretty easily, and held
them with that intensity which characterizes, in my
experience, acquired prejudices, especially when unreasonable.

My father had in him a couple of drops
of dark blood, and although my mother thought
nothing of that when she took him, she speedily
came to regard it as an indelible stain. She threw
it in his teeth, she fretted over it, and when I was
born did not regard me with the love a child has a
right to exact from its mother. The continual
quarrels and growing antipathy between my parents
led at length to their separation. My father left, and
I believe is dead ; I never saw him after they parted.
He may have married again. I do not know ; but I
believe he is dead. He made no inquiries after me
and my mother, to whom I was a burden and a
reproach ; she looked about for, and secured another,
a more suitable partner, a German, working in a
factory. They had children, fair-haired, moon-faced,
thick-set — and I was alone amidst them, the drudge
or enemy of all. I had a good voice, and I was made
nurse to the youngest children, and to still them I
was accustomed to sing to them. The eldest boy
had a clear good voice also, and him I liked best of
all my half-brothers and sisters. It was a great
amusement to us to follow brass bands, or Italians

with organs and monkeys ; and when we saw how
that these obtained money, my brother Thomas and
I agreed together that we would try our luck. One
day — it was the day of the Declaration of Independence,
when everyone was out and all enjoying themselves
— Tom and I went into the most-frequented
avenue of our town, and began to sing. Carriages
with ladies and gentlemen passed, and troops of
people in their best clothes, all in good humour,
and all seeking amusement. We began to sing
Ici weiss night was soil es bedeuten," Tom
taking a second. Some Germans at once gathered
about us, and threw coppers into Tomes cap. Presently
a man came up with a red beard and a violin.
He stood for a long time listening, and then instead
of giving us money he asked where we lived, and what
our parents were. I told him, and next day he came
to see my mother. He was a musician, and he offered
to buy me of her, that he might teach me to sing and
accompany him.'

Philip's face grew gray, and the lines in it became
more marked. He no longer threw bits of sedum at
the fish. He clutched the rock with both hands.

And — what did your mother say?' he asked,

She sold me — for seventy-five dollars.'

Philip shuddered. He turned and looked in Artemisia's
face — to see, perhaps, if her story had left its
traces there.

She wanted a hundred dollars, he offered fifty.
They came to terms for seventy-five.'

Philip said nothing. He looked down into the
bottle-green depths of the lake, and for some moments
Artemisia was silent also.

Presently — with a strange, forced voice — Philip
asked :

How old were you when this transaction took
place ?'

Still a child. I travelled about with the red-bearded
man, and he taught me to sing, trained me
well, and at concerts made me sing, and I got great
applause. I liked that. I was happier with him than
at my mother's ; I had no babies to carry about, and
to hush ; none of the house drudging to do. Besides,
he was kind, and he was an honourable man after his
fashion. He treated me as if I were his daughter,
and took immense pains to form me to be a public

singer. But always the burden of his song was, " See
what you cost me, what trouble you give me ! Afterwards,
when you are a finished artist, you must be
engaged to me for a set of years and repay me for
my pains." I had not a word against that. I was
quite aware that I was indebted to him, and I intended
to show my gratitude by doing as he required.
So I grew up, going about with him, and he never
allowed me to be treated with impertinence by any
man ; he always protected me, though not always in
the most heroic manner. Once, in California, we were
performing, he with his fiddle and I singing, at a
liquor-bar, when a half tipsy gold-digger became
offensively attentive to me. My master made me
leave the place with him, and he ran away with me
to San Francisco. I asked him why ? He said that
he must do that, or shoot or be shot by that fellow,
and he had no wish for either. I remember sulking ;
I would have liked to see them fight about me.'
How long did you remain with this man ?'
Till I was eighteen, and then, just as I was fit for
something better, and to earn more money, my master
spoiled his own game.'

How so ?'

He wanted to marry me. I reckon he thought he
could secure me best that way. If he had not asked
me, and himself pestered me about this, I would have
stayed with him and let him have a share — a lion's
share, of my earnings ; but he would not leave me in
peace — he spoiled his own game by that, and set me
free. I left him.'

And then ?'

Oh ! I have been independent since then. I have
sung in America, but I have met with most success in
Germany, I go about where I will. I have no
master.' I earn enough to enable me out of the opera
season to go to the mountains or the seaside. This is
a dull spot, and I would not have made so long a stay
in it had it not been that I was ordered to the elevated
air here, because I had suffered from a relaxed or
overstrained organ. Now you know my story. W4iat
do you think of it V

Philip was watching her face, and feeling as if he
received a shot in his heart every time she turned her
splendid full eyes on him, and his hands trembled as
they held the stone. ' Ever since I left my red-bearded

master I have been alone — alone in the world ; I have
had no one to whom to cling, no mind to which to go
for advice in times of doubt and distress. Alone — do
you know what it is to be alone ?'

Yes,' said Philip ; he let sink his head on his breast,
and looked down into the water. He also had spent
a lonely youth, but in what opposite circumstances!

'You can have no idea she continued, 'how I have
longed, with agony of heart, for someone — someone
whose judgment I could trust, whose mind was
superior, whose experience had been made in just
those departments of life to which I am strange. I
have longed for such an one, whom I could regard as a
very dear friend, and to whom I could go in trouble
and perplexity. But I have no one ! For all these
years I have been as much alone as the man in the
moon.'

Philip put his hand to his collar. He tried to
straighten the points which had become limp — his
hand shook so that he could do nothing with them ;
he was being burnt up, consumed, by her eyes which
were on him as she spoke of her desire to find a
friend.

VOL. III. 47

Is it not strange,' she said, ' that I who have been
preaching freedom should feel the need of a bar — not
of many, but just one to hold by. Do you know what
it is to stand at the verge of a precipice ? To stand
on a spire top where there is sheer abyss on every side?
Can you imagine the giddiness, the despair that comes
over one ? My place is one surrounded by precipices,
dangers, everywhere ; I see hands thrust out to give
me the push to send me over, but not one — no, not
one — to hold me.'

You have mine,' said Philip, and laid his on her
wrist. She took his hand and pressed it thankfully.


Now,' she continued, ' you can understand what it
must be to one on a dizzy peak, or apex of a building,
if there be a something — a bar even, to which to hold.
Then the abysses below can be gazed into with impunity.
Holding to that support, the dangers are no
longer dreadful, there is no more fear of falling out of
sheer desperation.'

She let go Philip's hand, and stood up.

It is time to return to our party. Oh, what a
relief it has been to me to pour out my heart to

you ! And now, in return, tell me about Colonel
Yeo.'

The sound of that name at once brought Philip to
his senses. He rose to his feet and stepped into the
road.

I am sorry to be unable to tell you about him,
because 1 know little about him. As I said before,
we belong to different spheres.'

They walked back together, talking of the weather
and the mountains and flowers, and found the rest at
a table. The restaurant was under repair, and no
refreshments could be obtained there.

Well ?' said Mrs. Sidebottom, ' you have kept us
waiting a long time.'

We have been waiting for you,' said Miss Durham.
We thought you would come on to the head of the
pass,'

Philip caught Salome's eye and avoided it. She
looked wistfully, wonderingly at him. What did he
mean by at one minute treating the American lady
with coldness and rudeness, and then reversing his
behaviour towards her absolutely and at once ?

She took her husband's arm as they walked back

47—2

to Andermatt. Philip was silent. He thought about
the story he had heard, of the loneliness of the poor
girl who had confided her history to him.

What a long way this is, dear !' said Philip. ' It
seems an age since we began the descent.'

EDELWEISS.
Philip could not sleep during the night that followed
the expedition to the Over-Alp. His mind was occupied
with what he had heard. He thought of the
poor girl, sold by her mother; of her rude apprenticeship,
of the risks she had undergone ; beautiful, young,
attractive. He tossed in his bed. What would
become of her ? Could she stand exposed to the
dangers that beset her and not, as she half-threatened,
throw herself over ? What could be done for her ?

She had spoken of the freedom of her life as giving
zest to existence, but too great freedom may pall ; it
had palled on the girl, and she had put up her hands,
pleading to be fitted with light but strong manacles.
What a contrast was to be found between his life and
hers ! He had been cramped and hedged about with

restrictions : she had enjoyed an excess of liberty.
Virtue, says Aristotle, is to be found in a happy
medium, and not virtue only, but the plenitude and
manifoldness of life can only unfurl itself in a happy
medium between excess of freedom and oppressive
restriction. Philip was and ever had been conscious
that his abilities had not been allowed due expansion
in the career into which he had been squeezed ; and
this American girl, with doubtless splendid capabilities
of mind and heart, had allowed them to run riot and
dissipate their fragrance in untutored independence.
When she fixed her great dark eyes on him, what a
thrill passed through him ! and when she took his
hand, fire ran up his veins, and broke into a blaze in
his heart.

What could he do for her } How was it possible
for him to assist her ? to be to her the wise friend she
desired .^ If he had made her acquaintance two years
ago it would have been another matter, he would have
thrown himself at her feet — metaphorically, of course
and asked her to take him as her guide, protector,
and friend, to tie up her future with his, and so each
would have contributed something to the other to

make up what each lacked. Then what a different
sort of Hfe his would have been ! His present mode
of existence was similar, only better in quality, to that
he had led before ; one had been a sordid drudgery,
the present was a gilded drudgery. The difference
was in the adjective that qualified, not in the substance
of which the stuff of his life was made up. He
had now to devote the same attention to figures and
technicalities and details as before. The figures,
technicalities, details, were formerly relative to conveyancing,
they now concerned linen manufacture.
Such acquaintances as he had formed at Nottingham
had not been interested in much beyond their business,
and the acquaintances he had formed at 
had their interests concentrated on their
business. Art, literature, science, had been to those
he knew at Nottingham, and were to those he knew at
Mergatroyd, names, not ideas. Was life worth living
in such surroundings, tied to such a routine .-' It is said
that man as he gets older fossilizes, the currents of
his blood choke the arteries, veins, vessels of heart
and brain, till like furred waterside and crusted
boilers they can no longer act. But was not the life

to which he was condemned, with its monotony, its
constraint, its isolation from the current of intellectual
life — a mechanizing of man ? Philip knew that he
was losing, had lost, much of his individuality, almost
all the spontaneity that had been lodged in him by
the Creator, and was growing more and more into a
machine, like his spinning-jennies and steam looms.
He thought of Salome. Had she many ideas outside
the round of ordinary life ? Was she not an ennobled,
sweeter lodging-house keeper ? She had been well
educated, but her mind did not naturally soar into the
ideal world. It went up, spasmodically, like the
grasshoppers, a little way, and was down on its feet
again directly. She was interested in her baby,
anxious to have her house neat, the cobwebs all
away, the linen in perfect order, all the towels marked
and numbered, the servants in thorough activity, the
quotients for the cake and pudding measured in
scales, not guessed. She was devoted to her flowers
also — he recollected the hyacinths, and certainly they
had filled his room with fragrance and anticipations
of spring. But he had sent her to sleep by reading
aloud Addison's ' Spectator,' and when he tried

Shakespeare he found that she had no insight into
the characters, and accepted the beauties rather than
seized on them.

What, Philip asked with a tremor — what if he had
never met Salome, and had met Artemisia ? Then
indeed he would have been transported on strong
wings out of the world of common-place, and the
sound of common talk, and the murky atmosphere of
vulgar interests, into a region where he would have
shaken off his half-acquired habits of formality, his
shyness, his cumbrousness and angularity, and become
light-hearted, easy, and independent.

In dreams we sometimes imagine ourselves to be
flying ; we rise from the ground and labour indefatigably
with our arms as wings ; and Philip was
now dreaming, though not asleep, fancying that he
could part with some of his gravity and by an effort
maintain himself in another sphere. He had missed
his way in life ; he was never designed to become a
piece of clockwork, but to enjoy life, seize it with
both hands, and hold it fast, and drink the mingled
cup to the dregs, crowned with roses. Hitherto
he had not suspected that the blood in his arteries

was an effervescing wine ; he had supposed it very
still.

What was to be done for Artemisia ? It would be
inhuman, not to be reconciled with conscience, to turn
away, to cast her off, when she entreated him to be
her friend and help her with counsel. But how could
he assist her ? A drowning, despairing girl cried out
for help. Could he suffer her to sink ? Had he not
promised her his assistance ?

I am positively determined,' said Mrs. Sidebottom,
next day, ' that we shall go tomorrow to the hospice.
I want to see it, and the dogs, and the scenery. So I
have ordered carriages ; and what is more, we will stay
there a day or two ; then, such as like, can descend
the Val Tremola, and such as like can climb the Pizzo
Centrale.'

I have no objection,' answered Salome. 'We must
not leave Andermatt until we have been over the pass
and seen the beauties or terrors of the further side.
What do you say, Philip ?'

'I shall be glad.'

He stood up from table.

Where are you going, Philip ?'

'To Miss Durham, to invite her to join us.'

Of course,' said Mrs. Sidebottom. ' Let me see,
we are eight. Oh ! it won't matter, one of the girls
can sit outside. The drivers always walk going uphill,
so that there will be five in one carriage, and five
in the other. And Miss Durham will pay her share.
Besides, if there is any climbing and excursions to
be done, she will pay half of a guide.'

But — strange caprice in Salome, she put her hand
on Philip's arm, and said, in a low tone :

'No! Philip; no !^

Philip looked at her with surprise. Why should
she not wish the American lady to join the party ?
She was her friend. She had been so desirous that
he and Miss Durham should conclude peace, and now
that peace was agreed upon, Salome said, ' No ! Philip ;
no !' when he proposed to invite the Chicago girl to
join them. How capricious ! How unreasonable
Salome was ! She forms a wish, he hastens to accord
it, and lo ! she hangs back and is dissatisfied.

His aunt's favourite expression, ' Fiddlestick-ends !'
rose to his lips. He was not the man to be turned
about by the wayward, unreasoned fancies of his wife.

Why not ?' he asked.

But Salome gave him no answer. She had formed
no motive in her heart for asking him not to invite
Miss Durham ; she had not considered a reason. She
reddened to the roots of her hair, but neither gave a
reason nor repeated her request.

There hungered all that day a little something, a dissonance
of mood between Philip and Salome ; neither
could account for it, and neither attempted to account
for it. He was silent ; he wandered about the hotel
and the grounds with a hope to light on Miss Durham
He did not go into the salle or on the terrace, into the
reading-room, or about the garden searching for her.
He did not ask the waiters where she was, but he
looked about wherever he went, expecting to see her,
and when he found her not in the reading-room or
sale, on the terrace or in the garden, he felt that the
place was uninteresting, and he must perforce go
elsewhere.

Salome was gentle as usual, spending much time
with her baby, showing it to those guests who were so
gracious as to notice it, and smiling with pleasure
when it was admired ; but she was not herself, not as

happy as she had been. Hitherto the only jar to her
content was her husband's prejudice against Artemisia
; now the jar arose — she did not explain to
herself how it arose, but she wished that Philip had
not gone so far in his change of sentiment. Yet with
her natural modesty and shrinking from casting blame,
she reproached herself for grudging to her friend that
friendship which she had herself invited Philip to
bestow.

The next day was lovely, with a cloudless sky, and
the carriages departed. Some grumbling ensued and
had to be resisted, on the part of the drivers, because
five persons were crammed into one carriage. Mrs.
Sidebottom pointed out that the driver would walk.
That was true, was the reply, but not till Hospital
was reached ; moreover the horses could not draw
more than four up the St. Gothard road to the hospice.
There was still snow over a considerable tract ;
however, at length the difference was overcome bathe
promise of a small extra payment — two and a half
francs extra — which threw such energy into the horses,
and so increased their power of traction, that thej-
consented for that price to draw five instead of four

persons up the ascent from Hospenthal to the hospice.
In one carriage, that in front, sat Mrs. Sidebottom,
Janet and the captain, and one of the girls, the
youngest. In the other carriage were Salome and
Miss Durham, Philip, and the two other Labarte
girls.

But Philip did not remain long in it ; at the steep
ascent above the little picturesque cluster of houses,
church, and castle that constitute Hospenthal, he got
out and walked. The banks vv^ere overgrown with the
Alpine rhododendron, as flames bursting out of the
low olive-green bushes, and Philip hastened to pick
bunches for the ladies. By a singular chance the best
flowers and those best arranged went to Miss
Durham.

'Severe?' said the driver, taking off his hat. ' Wot
wish dat ? Dat is edelweiss. You shee ?'

He held his dirty brown cap to Philip and showed
him a tuft of white flowers as though made out of wool.
Philip had never seen the like before.

Are these found here, in these mountains ?'

'Jawohl! round here. Up high! Shee!' The
man pointed with his whip to the rocky heights.

She grow up very high, dat lower you give to your
loaf!'

Loaf?'

'Jawohl!' The man winked, put his hand to his
heart. ' To your loaf — shatz ! You understand.'

Philip flushed dark. He was hot with walking.

Let me have some of that flower. You shall have
it back. No, thank you, not your hat.'

The man pulled the blossoms out from the dirty
ribbon that retained them. ' Dey is dry. But you
should shee when dey fresh.'

Philip took the little flowers to the side of the
carriage.

Look at these,' he said. ' The man calls them —
no, I cannot say the name.'

Edelweiss,' said Salome ; ' I have seen it dried in
the shop windows. It is rare.'

Edelweiss means the noble white flower,' said
Miss Durham. ' It grows far from human habitation,
and is much sought after. I have never found it
myself and never had any fresh picked given to me.'

Would you like some V asked Philip.

Very much indeed,' answered Artemisia.

If it be possible to get any, you shall have it,' he
said. Then he walked on.

The fore carriage was stopped, and Mrs. Sidebottoni
was descending with Claudine Labarte, whom she had
persuaded to get out with her and pick flowers, thus
leaving the captain and Janet by themselves,

Before long,' said Mrs. Sidebottom, ' we shall be
beyond the line where flowers grow, so we must make
the best of our opportunity now. Miss Labarte.'

Then Mrs. Sidebottom fell back to where Philip was
and took his arm, and pressed it, looked up at him
humorously and said, ' I have a bit of news to tell you.
He is going to propose. That is why I have got
P^elicite out of the carriage.'

Who ? Lambert .?'

Lambert, of course. Not the driver. And to
Janet, Have you not seen it coming?'

But perhaps she will not have him.'

Fiddlestick-ends ! Of course she will. Don't you
sec that she likes him, and has been drawing him on ?
Besides, I have sounded her. The only difficulty is
about Salome.'

How can she be a difficulty i"'

Oh, she may think it too soon for them to get
married when Mrs. Cusworth died so recently.'

Then they can postpone the marriage.'

Fiddle-faddle ! Of course not. Always strike
whilst the iron is hot. That is edelweiss in your hand,
is it ? Oh, could you manage to find or get a man to
find some quite fresh, for Lambert to present to Janet.
It is the correct thing in the Alps. The graceful
accompaniment 6f a declaration.'

I will try to get some,' said Philip.

Lambert, you see, will be too much engaged with
Janet to go far himself; besides, he is not able to take
great exertion. Climbing has a deteriorating effect on
the trouser-knees, it makes them baggy. You will get
him some .'''

I will go searching for edelweiss when we reach
the hospice,' said Philip. To himself he muttered,
But not for Lambert and Janet.'

VOL. III. 48

TRAPPED.

For the last hour of the ascent the carriages passed
through snow, not continuous, but between walls cut
in the avalanches and drifts that had formed in the
basins. The air was cold. The ground was so wet
through melted snow that Philip and Mrs. Sidebottom
and Mille. Labarte were obliged to ride. The wails
of snow had fallen in here and there, so that the
horses were obliged to flounder through. The scenery
was bleak and wintry. The ladies shivered. At
length the lake was reached in which the Reuss has
its source, and a little beyond it the roofs of the hospice
and the inn were visible. In ten minutes the
shivering party was assembled in the salle-d-vianger,
which was heated, and was ordering dinner.

The monks had been banished for many years, and

the hospice let by the Canton of Tessin to an innkeeper
of Airolo, who with his worthy wife and family
have been in no way inferior in hospitality, in care for
the poor travellers, and in providing for the comforts
of the rich than were the brothers of old.

Signora Lombard!, stout, hale, and smiling, was in
the hospice, exerting all her energies to get food
ready for the large party that had come in. Wines —
the best of North Italy, were to be had, and veal in
various forms — but always veal, call it what you will.

Oh ! my goodness, gracious me !' cried Mrs. Side-bottom,
' there is a dog — a Mount St. Bernard dog !
Oh ! the size ! the beauty ! It must become the rage.
Why — I have heard of more than two hundred pounds
being given for a tulip, and what would not be given
for such a dog as this — and with pulmonary complaint
too, that develops on the plains

You do not mean to say, aunt, that you are going
to invest in shares in the Beaple Yeo dog-breeding
establishment ?' said Philip satirically.

Colonel Yeo are you speaking about }' interrupted
Miss Durham eagerly. ' Do tell me — do you think he
will establish his claims to the title of Schofield ?'

4S-2

He can establish his title to that name whenever
he pleases,' said Philip, ' and — once more, if you have
any regard for our feelings, you will not mention that
person again in our hearing. Oh ! here — in this
glass on the table — are some draggled specimens of
the white fluffy flower you call edelweiss. Perhaps
our landlady, Signora Lombardi, will tell us if it grew
near this inn.'

Oh, signor,' answered the stout woman, ' it is to
be found by the searchers, but I have never discovered
it. I am too fat to climb, and, besides, my day for
edelweiss is over.' She laughed and shook her sides
as though she had made a good joke. ' I leave the
edelweiss to the young people.' Her eye rested with
a sly twinkle, first on the captain and Janet, about
whom there could be no doubt, and then on Philip
and — her eye hesitated a moment between Salome
and Artemisia, and then rested on the latter. Philip
looked uneasily out of the little window at the bleak
outer world.

When dinner was finished the afternoon was advanced.
Philip went out in front of the inn, on the
platform of rock upon which it is built. Some of the

ladies talked of taking a stroll to the head of the Val
Tremola, but determined not to go far, they would
reserve their strength for the ensuing day. He did
not volunteer to accompany them. He had another
scheme in his head. Outside the inn was a guide
lounging about, smoking and calling to such as passed
in the road.

Philip signed to him that he desired to speak to
him, and the man came to him with alacrity, but shook
his head, and pointed to one of the snow peaks. He
could speak only Italian, and Philip only English.
They were obliged to converse in dumb show. Philip
showed him the flower of edelweiss he had brought
from the glass on the table inside. The man nodded
his head. Philip raised his eyebrows in note of query
and pointed to the rocks around.

Si ! si !' answered the man, shaking his head like a
poised China mandarin.

All about there ? anywhere ?' asked Philip, speaking
very loud, as though by loudness he could make
the man comprehend.

Oh ! if it is anywhere I can find it easily.'

The man shook his head and again pointed to a

snow-peak over which a film of cloud was forming,
then being blown away, then forming again.

'Do you mean that it is not out there?' asked
Philip. ' I knew that as well as you. There are
only ice and snow yonder. Bless my soul, what
idiots these men are !'

Then he went back into the inn to equip himself
with gaiters and strong boots and to fetch his stick,
with a chamois horn for a handle, that he had bought.
Whilst he was engaged fastening his leggings, he
heard the voices of the young ladies outside the
house. They were starting for a walk. Presently he
descended from his room and studied the map of the
district, suspended in the sa//e, till he thought he had
it well impressed on his brain, after which he sallied
forth. The guide was no longer outside. The afternoon
was verging to a close, and no one would be
likely to' require his services, he supposed ; consequently
[he had retired to the lower room of the
hospice on a level with the road, where the drivers
and carriers, the guides and peasants were regaled
with sour wine.

Philip was relieved to see that the fellow was no

longer there. He might have wanted to come with
him and show him the way, and it would have been
irksome to trudge beside a man with whom it was
not possible to converse ; besides, edelweiss was to
be found everywhere, Madame Lombardi had said,
if looked for on the rocks. Those guides made difficulties
about finding it, so as to induce the uninitiated
and easily persuaded to engage them to direct them
to spots where it grew. Philip resolved to go by
himself. He would not go far ; he could not lose his
way ; there were no yawning chasms down which he
might tumble that he could see, and avalanches, he
was told, fell in the early spring. He must do some
climbing, of course, because the tourists would have
picked all the edelweiss within reach on both sides
of the road, and he must scramble to places they had
not ransacked, but he would not go into any danger ;
he would keep his eye on the hospice, or at least, the
road. Along the road he trudged in his heavy boots
till he came to a great weather-beaten crucifix, that
marked the beginning of the descent on the Italian
side. The cross was painted dull red, but the paint
had peeled away in patches, blistered by frost or sun.

Philip looked up wonderingly at it. How out of
place it seemed there, in that wilderness of bare rock
and pure snow ! He seemed to be in the midst of a
primeval world, which had not yet begun to produce
green trees and herbs, the fowl and living beasts — all
around was utter silence, the world around was lifeless.
The sun was behind the great wall of snowy
glacier mountains, and the vapour that was collected
like smoke on its head, so that the prospect seemed
to be that of a world such as existed when there was
light but the sun was uncreated. And, in the centre
of this inchoate, uncivilized world, stood the crucifix.
The mountains looked down on it, the glaciers frowned
on it, as a thing of to-day, as though they said, ' We
were before ever you were dreamed of, and we shall
be long after mankind has ceased to believe in self-devotion,
and has come to laugh at every creed save
the idolatry of self.'

Then Philip diverged from the road, and began to
climb. There was a valley opening here from the
highest peaks, down which a little rill fell ; and on
the flank of the mountain which faced the south there
was comparatively little snow, and Philip saw tracts

of moss and herbage. That would be the garden of
the edelweiss ; there he must search, and he would
find the desired flower without serious trouble.

He was surprised to find the distances greater than
they appeared. In that highly-rarefied and clear air
things far off appeared close, and dimensions as well
as distances were deceptive. He found green carpets
of dwarf campion, studded with pink flower, dense as
moss ; and in the bogs soldanella shaking their
delicately fringed purple bells — but no edelweiss.
Disappointed in his search on the slope which had
promised, he crossed the brook and crept along the
flank of the opposite mountain ; he would turn its
shoulder and get to the side well exposed to the sun ;
that which he had just explored was, he now perceived,
shut off from all but vertical rays by the
mountain-ridge south of it. He groped and scrambled,
turned back, went higher, had long lost sight of the
hospice, had not, indeed, remembered to look for it,
when suddenly he was enveloped in dense white fog.
He could, however, see the sun through it like a
copper ball, but only for a minute, and then it sank
behind a ridge, at least so he supposed, for it was

extinguished gradually. He must now retrace his
steps. He dare not advance; he thought he could
find his way back. He remembered several landmarks
— a rock, on the top of which was some dwarf
shrub, like a wig worn by an old fellow he knew at
Nottingham, and a furrow which, if he followed it,
must lead him to the brook. But he soon found that
he had lost all sense of direction ; the disappearance
of the sun had taken from him the only clue as to
the points of the compass.

He was hot. He sat down for a moment and wiped
his face ; the water was streaming off it. He was
not as yet alarmed, only vexed — vexed especially at
his having made this expedition in vain. He would
have to return without the edelweiss.

'That is old Jarvis's head with the wig thrust
back !' he said, as a nodule of rolled rock appeared
through the mist. But when he took a second look
at it he doubted.

I wish I had brought a whisky-flask with me,' he
muttered ; ' I am beginning to feel an ache in my
muscles.'

He stumbled on, and now, to his alarm, saw that

the darkness was closing in rapidly. He had not
considered, when he started, that in the South of
Europe there is no twilight, and that night comes
after day without hours of grace.

Now it flashed upon him that what the guide had
meant when indicating the mountain-top wreathed in
vapour was — not that edelweiss grew there, but that
the weather was going to change, or the fog to descend.
He hurried on, but did not know in which direction
he was going. He was on a steep slope of snow that
stretched before him apparently interminably, lost
itself in vapour and curled over and enveloped him
as in an apple-pie bed, a cold sheet of white below,
before, above, behind. And, at that moment, he saw
on the rock above him, almost within reach, the
white, starry, nodding head of an edelweiss ; the
woolly flower was burdened with the moisture that
had condensed on it from the fog, and was hanging
over the stone to shake itself free.

With an exclamation of satisfaction Philip sprang
up the slope, caught the rock with the hook of his
stick, and tore the edelweiss away.

Had the crook of his stick been what it professed

to be — a chamois' horn, he would have been safe, it
would have sustained his weight ; but as it was only
bone, and the curve came across the grain, it snapped,
and Philip shot down the snowy declivity. He still
grasped the tuft of edelweiss ; he thrust his stick
into the snow to arrest his descent ; he tore up the
snow, twisted the stick in his hand, and shot further
down — shot instantaneously out of the fog into dusk,
in which everything was distinct, and below he saw a
great sweep of snow like a sheet. He looked into it
as Sancho Panza into that in which he was being
tossed. He drove his heels into the snow, his elbows,
his stick, to retard his descent, and suddenly dropped.
Then found himself on rubble, still sliding, and brought
up with a jerk by a rock. For a few minutes Philip
was unconscious. He was aware of a shock, a slide,
darkness and noise, that was all. But — where was
he ? He had vanished from the face of the earth,
gone through the surface of snow into a depth
beneath. A field of snow had filled the bottom of a
valley, and the river ran beneath in a ravine. Nothing
could be seen of the cleft, nothing of the river, the
smooth sheet of snow hid both ; but the force of

Philip's descent had broken through that portion of
the covering where it was thinnest, near the rock and
rubble; he had gone through, and was buried alive.
Beneath him, about him, was darkness — pitch darkness
; only above could he see the hole through
which he had fallen, looking like a silver-gray disc.
The air about him was filled with thunder, the
pulsating thunder such as he had heard at the fall of
the Reuss at the Devil's Bridge, such as he had heard
that very day where the river plunged over a wall of
rock in the gorge above Hospenthal. The air moreover
was as full of water here beneath as it had been
above in the fog, but the particles here were much
larger. This was the spray cast up by the raging,
leaping, headlong water in the abyss.

How far down was it to that torrent ? Eye could
not penetrate, ear could not tell. The vault of snow-overhead
reverberated with the boom of the water,
and cast it back into the gulf as it cast back the up-thrown
spray. He could see no water, he could see
nothing save the gap overhead.

What was he to do ? His arms were heavy and
numbed with cold. He cautiously lifted one and

found that the snow had been driven, even rammed,
hard up the sleeve by his descent. He was safe
where he lodged, on rock, and he shook out the snow
from one sleeve and then the other. In doing this he
found the bunch of edelweiss. He did not see it ;
he felt it up his sleeve ; it had been carried there by
the snow. He did not throw it away ; he left it
where it was. What was he to do ? His situation
was precarious. He might turn giddy and fall over.
That terrible fascination there is in an abyss might
lay hold of him and draw him down. Artemisia had
spoken of that fascination, the fascination of despair.
Now he felt it.

He tried to scramble up, but the shale slipped away
beneath his feet, and he was fain, in an agony of
terror, to recover his former place on firm rock. It
was not practicable to ascend. He leaned back
against the stones, that dripped and ran with water,
the melting of the snow overhead, the condensation
of the foam from the river beneath. The
water condensed also on his forehead and ran off
his brows — water cold as ice. Where his fingers
worked hollows in the loose soil, the water settled,

and soaked his fingers and turned them dead with
cold.

Was it that there was rhythm in the fall of the
water, or was it that his pulses beat in his ear and
gave rhythm to the continuous thunder ? He could
not tell. He heard the throb of sound, or it seemed
to him to be the rattle of the machinery of his mill at
Mergatroyd multiplied to infinity.

His feet had glowed with the exercise, but now
they began gradually to lose heat, and turn stone-cold.
In time, they would cease to have feeling in
them, then in numbness and weariness his knees
would buckle under him, and he would shoot headlong,
like a diver into the black void. How far down
was it to the water — to death — he wondered. Would
he feel — be conscious of the shock over the edge
before he went into the water, or crash with his head
against a rock .-• He had heard a fellow clerk say
that as he was drowning the whole of his past life
rushed before his eyes and spread itself out as a
panorama, a succession of scenes, in a moment of
time, twenty years unfolded leisurely in one second,
displaying every incident, not crowded but in sequence.

and all articulate. Would it be so as he went over
the edge, in the span of time between the rocks on
which he stood and the clash and extinction below?
His heart grew faint ; and he felt in him the qualm
that a bad sailor knows as the vessel plunges into a
deep sea trough.

But — surely he would be sought by the people at
the inn. Certainly he would be sought, but in what
direction would they look for him .'' How trace him
in the mist ^ How suppose he was below the surface
of the smooth quilt of snow in the Val Tremola, sunk
out of sight, hanging over a boiling torrent .-* And
now down past Philip ran a thread of silver ; it
startled him, and he looked up the line to see a
glimpse of the moon appear above the hole through
which he had fallen. The fog must have cleared
away, or be clinging partially to certain mountain-tops.
If the moon were clear, then the search for
him could be prosecuted with some chance of success.
But Philip was not over-confident. His powers of
endurance were ebbing. He raised his feet and
stamped on the rock ; he could feel the shock in his
joints, but not in his feet — they were dead. His hands

were stiff. He put his fingers into his mouth, but this
only momentarily restored vitality. After the feeling
had gone the muscular power would become paralyzed.
He was not hungry, but squeamish. He looked again
at the moon, and continued watching it eagerly ; it
slid forward and shone full through the window of his
dungeon. The light fell on rocky point and rill of
leaping water, but could not illumine the abyss below,
out of which rose the voices and thundering — the
voices of death, the thundering preceding judgment.

And now the white ray of the moon smote down
into the gulf below his feet and disclosed a shoot of
the purest, most sparkling silver, the leaping torrent
as it danced over a ledge into utter darkness, into
which no moon-ray could dive.

Suddenly from above a mass of snow detached
itself and fell past him, a mass so big that had it
smitten him it would have carried him down with it.

The side of the hole in the snow-dome grazed the
moon and ate more and still more out of it. Philip
looked with fear — he felt that when the whole of the
moon had passed beyond that opening, and not
another ray fell into it, when again the darkness of

VOL. III. 49

that vault would become utter, hope would die away
from his heart, and he must fall.

But as he stood looking up, watching the slipping
away of the moon, he saw sharp cut against it a black
something, and heard, above the roar of the water, the
discordant sounds of a bark. He was found — found
by one of the hospice dogs.

The first giddiness of renewed hope almost overcame
him. He trembled as in a fit, and his knees
bent so that only by a supreme effort of the will could
he brace them again. He believed he heard shouts,
but was uncertain.

What followed remained ever after confused in his
memory. He heard some Italian words in his ear,
saw or felt someone by him, was grasped, a rope
fastened round him, he heard himself encouraged to
make an effort, tried to scramble, helped by the rope,
broke through the snow, was in the upper world
again, was surrounded, had brandy poured down his
throat.

Then he was seized by the hand and shaken.

Old fellow ! Phil ! Ton my word, you have given
us a turn. We have been hunting you everywhere.'

Lambert !'

Yes, Phil, and who'd have thought to find you
trapped under the snow?'

The men of the party urged immediate movement
to restore circulation. Philip's hand, when dropped
by Lambert, was seized again and held tightly, but he
had lost feeling in it. Nor could he see clearly ; he
was dazzled by the light — the brilliance of the moon
and the glare of the snow — after the darkness below.

Who is that laughing .''' he asked suddenly.

'Oh — Miss Durham,' answered Lambert.

'And — who is that crying?'

A whisper in his ear — ' It is I — Salome.'

49—2

TeTE-A-TeTE.

Philip passed a night of pain and fever. He was
bruised and shaken. His hands had been scarified
in the slide down the rubble, and when circulation
returned in them they bled. The exposure to cold
had affected him, and he ached in every joint ; his
skin was as though red-hot plates had been passed
over it. He could not sleep, for if he dropped out of
consciousness it was into mental fear that he was
falling down a precipice into the vortex of an unseen
torrent, and he woke with a start that sent a thrill of
torture through his strained nerves. He could not
get the roar of the water out of his ears ; he had
carried it away with him in his head. Salome, at his
request, to dispel it played the jingling piano in the
salle underneath his room, but that was powerless to

dissipate it. Then he sent his request to Miss
Durham to sing. Perhaps her splendid voice might
drive away the delusion. Her answer was that she
had no voice. No voice ! He knew that she had ;
she had boasted to him of it. He sent another
message. Then came back the reply that she could
not, and would not, sing to such a detestable little
instrument as that in the sa//e.

Next day Philip was obliged to keep his bed. He
was in discomfort and pain, and not the best of
tempers.

Salome,' said he, when his wife came to him with
her fresh bright face full of sympathy and cheering
thank you for going on playing on the piano yesterday
evening. Whilst you played I could forget the
roar, but it returned directly that, your fingers left the
keys. I take it most unkind of Miss Durham that
she would not sing.'

■ Oh, Philip ! don't you know that she has come to
the high mountains to husband her voice, and it is
possible that to sing at this great altitude — we are
nearly seven thousand feet above the sea — might doit
serious injury.'

Why did she laugh when I was drawn out of the
chasm ?'

Philip, dear, I cannot tell ; but neither she nor I
had any idea of the danger you had been in. The
ravine was completely blocked up and sheeted over
with snow, and we did not know anything of the
horrible chasm down which the river plunged and
through which it struggled. We only knew that you
had gone through a crust of snow, and that you had
to be drawn out'

But did you not hear the thunder of the torrent ?'

We did not particularly notice it — the roof of snow
muffled it. You who were beneath heard it, but we —
we may have heard something, but had no more idea
of what there was beneath than you can have had
when you slipped through.'

It was very unfeeling of her to laugh.'

Look here, Philip,' said Salome. ' In turning the
sleeves of your coat inside out I have found these
flowers — edelweiss, and fresh.'

Yes, I found them.'

He considered for a moment, and then said : 'They
are for you. Wear them, and let our party know that

I did not encounter the risks I passed through without
bringing back with me a prize.'

Thank you, dear Philip ;' she stooped over him
and kissed his lips. ' Dear, dear Philip, I shall never
part with them. It was most kind of you, and brave,
too, to go in search of them for me.'

Salome,' said he, ' don't let Lambert, and above
all Mrs. Sidebottom, come and worry me to-day. I
am in horrible pain, I cannot move, and I cannot
bear to be bothered. You go doivn and take a little
stroll ; do not mind about me. I will try to doze. I
had no sleep last night. I am turning all the colours
of the rainbow, I was so bruised. I shall be right ina
day or two. No bones are broken, but I cannot
stir, and cannot endure to be worried ; let me be
quiet and a good deal to myself.' I will sleep when I
can.'

May I sit by you a little ?' she asked timidly. ' I
will not speak — only hold your hand.'

She took his silence for consent. And he found
comfort in her presence ; a soothing feeling crept up
his arm from her hands that clasped his, and spread
over his heart.

He was somewhat ashamed of himself. He had
not made his expedition among the rocks, and met
with his fall in searching for edelweiss for her, but
for Artemisia. Salome had accepted the flower, and
cherished it as if he had sought it for her, and he
allowed her to remain in this delusion. Was this
honourable ? Was it in accordance with that strict
rectitude on which he plumed himself.? Yet he could
not tell her the truth ; it would wound her too deeply,
and — humble himself too considerably.

Two days ago Artemisia Durham had taken his
hand on the Over-Alp, beside the lake, when he extended
it to her in pledge that he would do great
things for her ; and now, in redemption of his pledge,
he had tried to get her a bit of edelweiss, and had
tumbled through the snow in his efforts. And what
could he do for her? She had not asked for legal
advice or for figured table-linen, the two things he
could furnish her with without offence. It was as
well that his hand was hurt — it served him right ; he
had no right to offer what he was unable to perform.
How differently he had felt as Artemisia held his
hand ! Then an intoxicating current had set boiling-through

his veins, turning his head, maddening him.
Now the cool hand of Salome conveyed balm to his
aching joints, and what was a better medicine, though
a bitter one, self-reproach to his conscience.

Now, also, for the first time since his walk with Miss
Durham, some of his old suspicion oozed up through
the joints of his thoughts. What was the reason of
her laughter } Thrice it had occurred ; first she had
said something laughingly about him to Beaple Yeo
at table, and provoked that odious creature to an
explosion of laughter. Then, on the Over-Alp Pass
she had laughed for no particular reason that Philip
could see, and had made Philip laugh with her.
And, lastly, she had laughed mockingly, alone, when
he was rescued from the very verge of a dreadful
death.

He shut his eyes and lay still. Salome sat hy him
for an hour, and then, thinking he was asleep, released
his hand, kissed him quietly, and stole from the room.
Mrs. Sidebottom wanted to take a short walk ; it was
tedious in the inn, with only a few old and odd volumes
of Tauchnitz novels about ; and cold or inactivity
was rendering the Labarte girls torpid, and they were

clinging about Aunt Janet, or dropping upon her, at
embarrassing times. Mrs. Sidebottom did not feel
equal to managing all three unaided, and as Miss
Durham declined to accompany her, she insisted on
Salome lending her aid. Salome consented. Her
husband had wished that she should go out, and he
was asleep and could be left without anxiety. The
girls had been shown at Andermatt beads and seals
made of a sparkling stone, which was said to be
found on the St. Gothard road, half-way down the
Val Tremola, and when Mrs. Sidebottom proposed a
walk they entreated to be allowed to search for this
precious stone, of which they resolved to compose
necklaces for themselves, or at least bracelets. It
would create quite a sensation at Elboeuf ; not one of
the girls there had seen this beautiful stone — not one
probably had heard the name of Trembling, by which
it was called.

There was another reason why Mrs. Sidebottom,
on this occasion, particularly desired the companionship
of Salome. She was commissioned to break to
her the news that Janet and Lambert were engaged,
and to use her endeavours to overcome any prejudice

Salome might entertain against the marriage being
solemnized shortly, at Berne, at the Embassy. And
Mrs. Sidebottoni was about to attack her on this
point by representing that she, Salome, was not the
person to make objections when she herself had
married Philip within a very short time of the supposed
death of Uncle Jeremiah, who, though he was
not her father, had stood to her much in the light of
a parent.

Salome had observed that Janet and the captain
took much delight in each others society, but she
had not given their association a serious thought ;
she knew that her sister liked lively society, and
the captain had exhibited, whilst at Andermatt, an
amount of vivacity and humour which she had not
given him the credit of possessing. They were both
interested in things of which she knew nothing, and
naturally, therefore, sought each other's society. They
were also connections in a roundabout fashion.
Through Philip, Lambert became her cousin, and as
Janet was her sister, he must be some sort of cousin
to Janet. Quite near enough relation to remove
archness of intercourse, and place them on easy

terms of cousinly association, that excused a good
deal which would be inadmissible were they unrelated.


Philip heard the voices of the party outside the
house, the crisp laughter of the girls, and the sawing
tones of Mrs. Sidebottom, and then the sounds became
distant, and ceased. His meditations were interrupted
about a quarter of an hour later by three raps against
the wall by his head. The several rooms in the inn
were small, and divided from each other and from the
passage by wood — not very thick deal boarding,
papered over, but which in places had warped and
split the paper. Signora Lombardi, every spring, with
a pot of paste and some strips of paper, went about
the rooms pasting over the rifts, disguising them, and
preventing the partitions from being as diaphanous as
they were diaphanous. German, Swiss and Italian
beds are wooden boxes, narrow and short ; and in
such a bed against such a wall lay Philip, unable to
move without torture.

Again three loud raps.

Who is that .-'' he called.

You are awake, Mr. Pennycomequick ?' asked the

voice of Miss Durham, almost in his ear, ' We are in
adjoining stalls. I want a word with you, because I
leave this insufferable place tomorrow, I can endure
the cold and tedium no longer ; and before you return
to the nether world, I may be away unless you
descend in a glissade, and shoot through the roof of
the Hotel Imperial upon us into the midst of the
table at dinner.'

Philip felt the partition between them shake. She
was laughing. She had her chair against it, and
leaned against it — to speak to him and to laugh at
him.

I must ask your pardon,' she said presently with a
twitter in her tones from suppressed merriment ; ' I
did not realize your danger, or rather the danger you
had escaped, when pulled out of the snow. But my
laughter was excusable ; you can have no conception
how infinitely comic an object you presented ; and the
whole affair was so ridiculous. You — going aloft
after edelweiss without the smallest acquaintance
with its habitat, and with no experience to teach
you how to keep your footing in Alpine altitudes,
and shooting down, pop ! through a hole into the

nether world. And then — to see the men about
the hole extracting you — it was like Esquimaux
fishing.'

Philip was not only vastly offended, but he was
also greatly shocked, at the conduct of the young
Chicago lady, holding a conversation with him through
the wall when he was in bed. To show his sense of
the indelicacy of her course, he said nothing in
return.

She tapped again.

Well, Mr. Pennycomequick ! have I scandalized
you ? We are in the land of freedom ; and I am a
daughter of the Stars and Stripes, and we American
girls are not so particular about trifles as are your
English misses. Are you very much bruised and
crumpled .■"

Very,' groaned Philip.

Do you good ; take some of the starch out of you.
You had the temerity to browbeat and insult me,
when first you came to Andermatt. Now I have
served you out, and I may tell you this to your consolation,
that it is a lucky thing for you that you had
your fall and contusions. But for that I would have

turned you inside out, and twisted your silly head off
your shoulders. I intended to do it, for no man
offends me and escapes stings, I am content to leave
you as you are, black and blue, and disjointed, like a
wretch on the rack.'

She was stretching his mind on the rack and disjointing
that as well, sitting, leaning against the wall,
and working the mechanism.

Mr. Pennycomequick, I heard about you from
your wife before you arrived ; how different you
proved to the idea I had formed, you have too much
conceit to imagine. I found a wooden man, with his
limbs affixed to his trunk by pegs, with a wooden
face, wooden ideas, wooden manners — and when this
wooden figure-head had the audacity to insult
me '

Philip exclaimed, ' What I said was true. You
yourself admitted its truth, when you told me your
story.'

'My dear dolt!' said Miss Durham, 'I admit it.
But who likes to have the truth skewered on a
bayonet, and rammed down his throat? And now —
what I say would splutter about like Japanese fireworks

and do no one any harm, were it not that it is
true, true in every word, and this it is that turns each
word into duck-shot, with which I pepper you —
through the wall.'

It was a wonder that next day Signora Lombardi
did not find the sheets of No. i8 singed, so hot did
Philip become between them with offended modesty,
with anger, anguish, and shame.

The game is up, so I do not mind showing you my
hand,' cried Artemisia. She had folded her arms
over her breast, and leaned back, with her head
against the wall, and talked hastily, passionately.
'That little wife of yours, who is a thousand times
too good for you, and whom I pity, yoked to such a
fellow as yourself, she told me that it was not possible
for you to come to love me, because she was your wife.
Not, she hastened to explain, that she esteemed herself
irresistible, and very superior, but because she had
such a towering opinion of your rectitude, equal to
your own of yourself. That was as much as daring
me to attempt the conquest ; and your own absurd
self-esteem was another provocation. When you
threw down the glove I accepted the challenge, and

you know how in an hour or two I had spun you
round like a teetotum.'

She stayed talking to laugh. As she laughed
she shook the wall, and the wall rattled Philip's
bed, and the rattling bed rattled his aching joints ;
but he felt these pains no more in the intensity of
the agony of shame that he endured in his racked
mind.

You were quite fetching !' she continued. ' When
you held out your hand and offered to be my stay, I
was obliged to jump up. With all my powers of self-control
I could hardly keep from boxing your ears
and sending you into the lake for your impudence.
However, I had no wish that the transformation
scene should come off too soon. I intended to lead
you on through other follies till I had ruined your
reputation and your self-respect. But the fates have
been against me ; I cannot wait longer here. I
abandon you to yourself and to your good little wife.
I cannot waste time over you. I have other matters
to attend to ; better game to pursue than such a
wooden leaping frog as you.' She stood up from her
chair, and went to the window ; it commanded a

VOL. III. 50

bleak prospect. She could not see the returning
party on it. The girls Labarte had perhaps found
the desired minerals and would not desist from collecting
till they had each enough to form a price of
Trembling.

Artemisia returned to her seat against the wall, and
said, ' As for that romance I told you about myself,
believe of it as much or as little as you please.
When you tell your own story, with your autobiography,
the little episode of Artemisia Durham will
not be found in it. We only remember and write of
ourselves as we would like others to know us, not as
we are. Is it not so .-''

Then suddenly she broke into a song, a popular
Viennese opera air, which she had turned into rough
English verse to enable her to sing it at concerts elsewhere
than in Germany. She had a beautiful, a
naturally flexible voice, and every note was like an
articulate crystal drop.

'A little grain of falsehood
Is found in all that's said,
It penetrates as leaven
Whatever's uttered.

No man is what he seemeth,

No woman what appears.
There's falsehood oft in laughter,
And falsehood e'en in tears.
Both fact and fib together go
In everything we say or do.
To a peck of truth— a pinch of lie,
As the spice in the pudding, to qualify.'

50 — 2

IN THE HOSPICE.

There is a toy, the delight of children, that consists
in a manikin with his legs curled under him, weighted
with lead in his globular nether parts. This manikin,
however, persistently held down, or violently knocked
over, always rights himself.

And there are human beings similarly constituted.
With them self-conceit supplies the place of lead.
There is no disturbing their equilibrium for more thana
moment. Lay their heads in the dust, and the
instant the finger that depressed them is removed, up
go the heads again, nose in air. Strike them with
horsewhip or poker, and they shiver in mute anger,
unconscious of humiliation, and they are steady again,
nose in air. Bore holes in them, and you cannot let
out their ponderosity and disturb their equilibrium ;

set them on the fire, and you cannot melt the self-conceit
out of them. It oozes out of their pores, it
distils from their finger-tips, it streams out of their
eyes, it pours from their lips, and yet never exhausts
itself, any more than the oil in the cruse of the widow
of Septa. Kick them, and they travel upright, nose
in air, along the carpet ; pitch them out of the window,
and they go down head uppermost ; sink them in the
deepest well, and they sit, slowly disintegrating at the
bottom, head up.

Philip was not one of these. It was true that in
him was a large amount of self-esteem — or what
religious people would call self-righteousness, but it
was not an organic inbred quality ; it had been
developed by his education, by the circumstances of
his early life, and could therefore be expelled from his
.system by sharp medicine. By one of those exquisitely
pitiful provisions of Nature, which compensates
to the nightingale for his plainness by giving him a
tuneful voice, and to the peacock for his harsh notes
by surrounding him with a glory of gold and green,
men of little acquirements, little minds, little presence,
are furnished with the blessed gift of bumptiousness,

which makes them unconscious of their insignificance,
which induces those who can by no probability be
heroes to others to be heroes to themselves. Just as
the most ignorant men are the most positive, so are
the most empty men the most self-contained. They
can blow themselves out with the breath of their own
nostrils.

Success in life is not necessary to make a man conceited,
nor beauty to superinduce vanity in a woman.
The extravagances of conceit are found in those men
who have made a botch of life, and of vanity in those
women who have least personal charms. Every disappointment,
every rebuff, throws them in on themselves,
and they seek in themselves that approval and
appreciation which is denied them without. Like
Narcissus, but lacking his excuse, they fall in love
with themselves, because no one else will love them.
Is it not possible that appreciation may be an element
as necessary to the psychical as oxygen is necessary to
the physical life, that when it is not freely given or
wrested from the world without, we may set to work
to engender it for ourselves within, just as in Jules
Verne's romance those who voyaged ten thousand

leagues under the sea, being out of the element that
naturally fed the lungs, manufactured it for themselves
under water ?

Had Philip been constitutionally conceited, had
bumptiousness been congenital, like scrofula in the
blood, or tubercle in the brain, the overthrow he had
met with at the hands of Miss Durham would not
have seriously affected him, would have had no
educative effect on him. He would have sighed and
resigned himself to the conviction that Miss Durham
was to be pitied, not he, because an inscrutable Providence,
which denies to some eyes the faculty of seeing
colour, and to some ears the power to distinguish and
enjoy melodies, and to some noses the capacity to
delight in odours, had denied to Miss Durham the
ability to admire and adore him.

In the classic tale, Achilles was plunged by his
mother Thetis in the waters of Styx, which made
him invulnerable, save in the heel by which she held
him. So our good mother. Nature, takes some of her
children, not the robust of brain and the Achilles in
vigour and beauty, and renders them callous, so that
they can pass through life unhurt by shaft of ridicule,

scourge of rebuke, and flout of fortune. Every arrow
glances off their skin, every blade used on them has
its edge turned, every cudgel breaks without bruising.
What happiness is theirs ! They are whole and unhurt,
whereas their richer endowed brothers are
hacked, and pierced, and heart-broken.

The author had once to do with a worthy, pious
man, put in a situation under him, who was triple-canopied
in the hide of self-esteem. As is usual with
such persons, he was not much short of a fool, and did
very foolish, inconsiderate things. When called to
task for some egregious act, he bore the reprimand
with meekness, then retired to his closet, where he
prayed for him who had rebuked him, as for a persecutor.
Never for one particle of a moment did it
occur to him that he himself deserved blame. And
the author knows full well that the callous-skinned
who read these pages will feel no cut from his words,
but draw up their heels under them, out of the way of
his scythe.

It has been proved by experiment that the tortoise
can live though deprived of its brains, but the tortoise
is the animal with the hardest epidermis known.

Perhaps the converse may be true, that those animals
with the largest proportion of brain may have the
most sensitive skins.

Now Philip was no fool. He had plenty of sound
sense, but his moral faculties had been warped by the
circumstances of his early career, and he had grownup
with great suspicion of others, but sure confidence
in himself. Now, suddenly, his eyes had been opened
by a rude shock ; his moral nature had been subjected
to ^glissade and a jolt almost as severe as that which
his body had undergone, and as he was not tough and
horny-hided in mind, he felt the results as acutely.
If he ached with bruises and sprains in flesh and
sinew, so did he ache with bruise and sprain in all the
tissues and fibres of his inner spiritual self.

When Salome returned to Philip's room she found
him disinclined to talk ; he was still twitching and
quivering from the lashes he had received, conscious
only of his present pain, covered with humiliation.
He had not been given time to think of his future
conduct, even to consider the retrospect ; the present
torture occupied and made to tingle every nerve of
his soul.

With the innate tact which Salome possessed, she
saw at once that he did not wish to be disturbed ;
though she could not divine that he had other cause
for suffering than his fall, or that other injuries had
been done him than those which made his body black
and blue. She knew that he was in pain, and that he
sought to disguise the fact from her, and though full
of solicitude for him, she did not harass him with
attentions.

She drew a little stool beside his bed, and seated
herself on it, with needlework for the baby, and did
not look at him.

He lay on his back, but turned his head, and saw
her beautiful auburn hair, with the evening sun tinging
it with orange fire. For some time he looked at it
without thought of her, only of himself, his shame,
his jarred self-respect. That jest of Artemisia about
the Esquimaux watching about a hole in the ice, to
pull out of it a fish, was present to him ; he saw the
fish come up flapping its tail and tossing to escape
the barb ; and then thought of himself being hauled
out of the hole in the snow through which he had
plunged. Then he considered how that she — this

malicious woman — had held him with a hook in his
jaws and had played with him, and then how he had
been suddenly plunged out of a world of light and
smoothness into an abyss where all was darkness and
horror. Where was he ? Into what had he fallen ?
Had he not almost shot over the precipice, and gone
down into the uttermost depths of degradation ? What
if this accident had not befallen him ? What if that
woman had gone on playing with him, and had lured
him further, as in the folk-tales the nixies of the waterfalls
lure shepherds to throw themselves over, with
the vain belief that by so doing they will fall into the
arms and be received into the realm of the water
sprites ?

His ideas became confused. At one moment he
was a fish caught by a barb, then he was clinging to a
rock, withdrawing from the enticements of a siren.
The sun had set, or no longer crowned Salome with
hire, she continued her needlework till dusk closed in
rapidly and prevented her seeing her stitches. But
she sat on. upon her little stool, resting her cheek
against the bedclothes. Philip, half dreaming, had
caught a lock of her hair and twisted it round his

finger, and held it as if it were something that was
so firm, so sure that if he clung to it, if he would
retain it about his finger as a golden hoop, he could
not continue his slide and fall, and so thinking, or
fancying, in a confused condition of mind, bred of, or
fostered by pain and shame, he had fallen asleep.
Salome sat on, did not venture to move her head lest
she should disturb his sleep by withdrawing her hair
from his fingers.

Next morning Mrs. Sidebottom, Miss Durham, Mrs.
Baynes, and the Labarte girls, together with the
captain, departed for Andermatt, leaving Salome with
her husband in the hospice. They did not leave
without an altercation and a controversy between
Mrs. Sidebottom and the hostess relative to the bill,
in which both engaged with unmatched weapons, as
Mrs. Sidebottom could speak no Italian, and Signora
Lombard! no English. The former could not be
brought to admit that the hostess was justified in
charging somewhat higher for provisions, six thousand
eight hundred feet above the sea, than in the valleys
where wine is produced and calves are reared. Mrs.
Sidebottom effected no greater reduction than a franc

and a half, which she insisted on having expunged,
as a charge for a meal she protested she had not eaten.
She then attempted to shift a couple of bottles of
sparkling Asti from her account to that of Miss
Durham, and to transfer sundry eggs for breakfast to
the bill of Mrs. Baynes, who she was sure had ordered
them, though she admitted having eaten them on the
urgency of Janet. Eggs six thousand eight hundred
feet above the sea are — well, eggs. Fowls at that
elevation are sluggish layers, and eggs if brought up
from the vaDeys run risks of being broken on the road.
Mrs. Sidebottom, who resisted paying a penny a-piece
for them when charged to her, saw that there was
reason for setting that value on them when they were
in Mrs. Baynes's account. She fought desperately
over the fish. There were lakes hard-by the hospice
doors, and fish in lakes, easily procurable, therefore
it was unreasonable that they should be charged
fancy prices.

Mrs. Sidebottom achieved a great success in negotiating
a bargain with a driver from Andermatt,
whereby she and the captain were taken back by a
returned carriage that had discharged its load at the

hospice ; she succeeded in securing the conveyance
for half the ordinary price. Though she engaged the
carriage for herself and her son, the captain did not
return in it, but the three demoiselles Labarte. Janet
and the captain, who had become inseparable, and who
reacted on each other, he reviving her health, and she
evoking life and wit out of his torpid nature, returned
in a smaller trap behind the carriage of Mrs. Side-bottom.
Miss Durham had made her own arrangements,
and went off in a cabriolet by herself. She
took an almost affectionate farewell cf Salome, whom
she really liked, though she despised her. Miss Durham
was sure she had done Salome a good turn in
the way in which she had brought Philip to his senses,
and she accordingly patronized and petted his simple
wife. She was pleased with herself for having
contributed to the happiness of the young wife by
making a fool of her husband, and then telling him
what a fool he had been made.

Salome in her guilelessness reproached herself for
having for a little while felt a suspicion of her husband
and her friend, for having given way to a feeling of
jealousy, for having been unhappy because Philip was

so good and obliging as to make an effort to do what
she had herself urged him to — make friends with the
lonely American girl.

And Philip ? In him self-reproach grew. It could
grow now, for the soil was ready for it. Hitherto it
vas choked with the roots of pride and self-esteem.
These had been torn up, and he was able now to appreciate
himself justly and realize the preciousness of
Salome.

Formerly he had looked upon himself as having
done a grand and gracious act in taking her to him.
An injustice had been committed — how he did not
know — in some mysterious way, and he had stooped
in the integrity of his soul to take up Salome, make
her his wife, so as to indemnify her for her loss.

The suspicion he had entertained against his aunt
relative to the will before the return of his uncle had
been deepened since he had talked the matter over
with Jeremiah. He had now very little doubt that
Mrs. Sidebottom had succeeded in getting at the
document unguardedly kept by Salome, and tearing
away the signature. But though he was tolerably
convinced that this fraudulent act had been committed

by her, he had not till now considered that by
this act his family was dishonoured, as was hers by
the existence of Schofield, In what were the 
so much more virtuous than the Scho-
fields? Earle Schofield, her father, was a swindler,
and Louisa Sidebottom had committed an act that
was felony.

And v/hat was he, himself? He had wounded,
driven from him with reproach and harshness the
most innocent, single-hearted of women, who was
faithful to him and to her duties in every fibre of
mind, and body, and soul ; whereas he, in a few hours,
subjected to a slight temptation, had swerved from
the path of right, had yielded to the fascination of
the temptress, which he had not the moral strength to
resist, and had been carried by her almost to the
verge of committing a serious wrong.

The unworthiness of Schofield could be cancelled
by the unworthiness of Mrs. Sidebottom. There was.
not much choice between them. But what was
there to set in the account to balance his deviation
in heart from his duty to Salome, the injustice and
cruelty with which he had treated her at Mergatroyd ?

Philip saw all this now clearly, and felt keen mortification
and repentance. Salome was constantly with
him ; and he now, from his bed, and when he rose
and walked leaning on her, had his eyes opened to
see her many merits, to love the perfect purity and
integrity of her soul. She was a child in heart, with
the mind of a woman. She was not very clever, but
she had common-sense. She was well but not highly
educated, she had seen very little of the world, and
this had necessarily given a narrow sweep to her
powers ; but her faculties were good, and with a
widened range, her mind would rise to take an interest
in all that was presented to her view. Hitherto
he had liked Salome, appreciated her chiefly because
she was a comfort to himself; now he loved her for
her own sake.

Moreover, that little flare-up of jealousy in Salome's
heart, a flare-up for which she accused herself before
God on her knees — had transformed her regard for
Philip into real love. The calm, lukewarm affection,
sprung out of a sense of duty, had been changed by
this spasm into ardent, passionate love.

That was a cold and colourless world — aloft on the

VOL. III. 51

summit of the St. Gothard Pass, and yet there the
beautiful flowers of mutual love and trust between
husband and wife came into blossom.

Philip,' exclaimed Salome, coming into his room
with a letter in her hand, ' is it not kind of dear Janet?
Here is another sweet note from her, telling me how
darling baby is.'

My dear, I know what a trial it is to you to be
parted from him.'

Oh, Philip — I am with you.' Then opening the
letter and showing it him, ' Only fancy ! — my father
and Miss Durham have left the Imperial.'

What— left Andermatt ?'

Yes.'

Together .'''

I do not know ; Janet does not say. And, Philip,
she says you are to mind and get quickly well, for
positively next week she and Lambert are to be married
at the Embassy at Berne.'

AGAIN HYMEN.

Is there in all Europe a more delightful old-world
town than Berne ? There are grander minsters, there
are more princely mansions, but there is no lovelier
situation than that occupied by the dear old city
perched on a rock round which the green Ar forms
a loop. May the great cancer of modern Berne that
lies in the west never creep over and destroy the
beauty of the ancient town, as the same horrible
fungus growth is disfiguring and killing the charm
out of nearly every ancient city on the Continent.
Even our common red-brick houses are better than
the vulgar ash-gray, Jerusalem-artichoke coloured
edifices, all staringly alike, and equally uninteresting,
that are growing up in long line and regular
square in imperial Aix, in patrician Nuremberg, in

51—2

episcopal Spires, everywhere treading on and trampling
out beauty. In a hundred years, probably, all
the great towns of the Middle Ages will have been
transmuted from gold to lead, and be utterly unattractive.
When we see a ruin of a church, an abbey,
a castle, an old manor-house, even of a straw-thatched
cottage, we are sad, for we think what they were,
beautiful in their several ways, and all having lost
much by becoming ruins. But of these modern
edifices everything we can say is that we live in
hope that they may become ruins, for then only
can they conceivably touch the picturesque. In
England, our builders have grasped the truth that
there is beauty in a broken skyline, and in alternation
of light and shadow in a frontage ; but on the Continent,
in France, Italy, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland,
no architect has risen above the idea of drawing
parallel lines, and of making of every street an
elementary study in perspective.

On a brilliant summer day, when the sun was
streaming down out of a perfectly-blue sky into
the long main street of Berne, alive with markets,
three cabs drew up at the entrance to the Hotel of

the Wild Man, near the Clock-tower, and from them
stepped, in the first place, a young man in light-gray
trousers and lavender gloves, and then a young and
pretty lady wearing a bridal veil, a wedding-dress of
silver gray. From the second carriage descended
three bridesmaids — no other than the Labarte girls
and from the third cab Mrs. Sidebottom and Philip
and Salome.

Captain Pennycomequick had been married at the
Embassy to Janet Baynes, and if the day's weather
gave a true presage of the new life entered on, that of
the captain and his bride was likely to be a happy
one. But there were surer grounds on which to base
a forecast of their hymeneal condition than the state
of the weather. The captain was an amiable man,
whom nothing would rouse to opposition, and Janet,
as he and his mother had ascertained, was very comfortably
off. She had or would have about five
hundred a year, and five hundred per annum in
France, where they intended to live, would allow of
their enjoying themselves as much as if they had
double that sum in England, not necessarily because
things were cheaper in France, but because popular

opinion allowed retrenchment in a thousand of those
trifles which in England are the great outlets that let
money leak away.

There was to be no wedding-tour ; not because
Janet did not desire to escape with the captain from
the rest of the party, but because the Labarte girls
absolutely refused to be parted with. They had suddenly
woke to the discovery that Mrs. Sidebottom
had hoodwinked them, had carried them away out of
sight and hearing whilst love-making was in progressa
veil had been torn from before their eyes, and they
saw through all her dodges and subterfuges, and were
in combined mutiny and angry protest. Henceforth
nothing would sever them from their aunt, A great
opportunity had been lost through the craft of that
designing old woman, a passion on a grand scale had
raged, so to speak, under their noses, and they had not
sniffed it. Their attention had been drawn away, and
they had been unable to make those interesting and
instructive studies in the process of love-making to its
grand climax in proposal, which might have been theirs
and been to them of incalculable interest and advantage,
but for that dreadful Sidebottom. Thus — if they

could no longer take observations in the conduct of
lovers, they could examine, and store up their observations
on the conduct of newly-married people in the
honeymoon. They clung to their aunt, with their
arms about her neck, they lavished expressions of
tenderness, they protested that they could not and
would not be separated from her ; and Janet foresaw
that a wedding-tour encumbered with the Labarte
girls would be worse than none at all, or one with the
Labarte girls plus Mrs. Sidebottom, and Salome and
Philip to draw them off from her occasionally. As
the party drove from the Embassy, Mrs. Sidebottom
said to Philip :

By the way, what do you think ? Wonders will
never cease. Did you see the entries in the marriage
register previous to those made by Lamb and Janet ?'

I did not look.*

/ did ; and whilst you were arranging about fees I
made inquiries. There was a marriage at the Embassy
this morning, before our affair. An unheard-of thing
in Berne to have two English weddings the same day,
so the chaplain said.'

I dare say.'

And cress who they were who entered the holy
bonds.'

I real' cannot, I know none Hkely.'

But you do know, and are quite able to guess.'

I have not the energy then.'

Why, Colonel Yeo, that is to sa}\ Earl Schofield
and our friend at Andermatt, Miss Durham.'

Nonsense 1' Philip was startled.

It is a fact. I suppose he really is an earl, for he
was entered in the register as Earl Schofield, and not
as Colonel Beaple Yeo."

'But,' Philip stammered, 'it is not possible; he
cannot'

He has. I saw the entries. They were married
half an hour before we arrived.'

I will inquire about it,' said Philip, ' as soon as
ever the carriage stops. I will go back to the
Embassy. Something must be done. He had no right
to marry.'

Why not ?'

Philip did not answer. He was excited and uneasy.

You cannot go till after the breakfast,' said Mrs.
Sidebottom, ' and I suppose it is too late to forbid the

banns. I presume he is really an earl. He says that
the attainder is up. He truly is a distinguished-mannered
man, and I like him. He looks a nobleman.'


In the evening the entire party visited the Schanzli,
a garden or restaurant on a commanding hill above
Berne, once occupied by a fort from which it takes its
name. From the terrace is seen the range of the
Oberland mountains, and, in the middle distance below,
is the town viewed in its full length with towers and
spires, and gabled roofs of chocolate-brown tile.
Visitors are attended on by waitresses in the pretty
costume of the canton.

The evening was lovely, a meet conclusion to so
bright a day. The setting sun illumined the distant
snows of the giants of the Oberland, and quivered in
the windows of the city below. There are epoch-making
scenes in life, scenes to which the memory
recurs with unalloyed pleasure, scenes which have been
revelations of beauty or majesty to the soul, and such
a scene is that from the Schanzli to the visitor who is
there for the first time. It is a double revelation to
him — the splendour of the glacier mountain world, and

simultaneously with it a realization of the beauty, the
charm of that old world of the Middle Ages which is
being remorselessly and surely effaced, and on which
in another century the men of that generation will be
unable to look, or will know of it only a few scattered
monuments, set in wastes of hideousness, and judge of
it only as one might judge of the ocean by contemplating
a few shells dug out of a chalk bed.

The party of Pennycomequick-Sidebottom-Labarte
had settled itself to a marble-topped, or, to be
more exact, imitation marble-topped table, and had
ordered the waitress to bring the carse of wines and
meats, when Claudine Labarte nudged her aunt, and
whispered :

See ! see I There they are, M. le Comte de Scho-
ville and our dear Artemis. Shall we go to them ?'
On no account,' said Mrs. Penycombe-Quick, that
is to say Janet, hastily. ' Besides,' she looked in the
same direction, ' they do not seem to desire our interference.'


All looked at the little table, not far distant, where
sat Beaple Yeo, alias Schofield, and his bride. The
same day that had smiled on Lambert and Janet had

laughed over them, but without sure augury of calm
weather apparently ; for already a post-nuptial storm
had broken loose. Beaple Yeo was leaning back in
his green-painted iron chair, very red and blotched in
face, and opposite him was Artemisia whom he had
just made his wife, flushed and talking rapidly.

It was clear that they were in angry altercation —
about what could not be learned — for their voices
were drowned by the music from the little theatre in
the grounds, in which the overture to Boildieu's 'Jean
de Paris ' was being performed.

Beaple Yeo curled his whisker round his forefinger,
and said something in reply to a discharge of angry
words from Artemisia ; whatever it was that he said,
it so stung her that, losing all self-control, she sprang
to her feet, leaned across the table, and struck him on
the cheek. Beaple lost his equilibrium, and went
over with his chair on the gravel of the terrace, to
the great amusement of the Swiss waitress, and of
the scattered visitors at the tables, who had noticed
the altercation. Artemisia was startled at her own
violence, and ashamed ; she looked round, and caught
sight of the friends she had made at Andermatt.

Her colour was so heightened with passion that it
could not become deeper with shame. Instead of
resuming her seat, without regarding the humiliated
man who was picking himself up from the ground,
she came directly to the table where the party of
Pennycomequick-Sidebottom was seated, and with
heaving bosom and flashing eye, she stood before
Philip, and said in a tone broken with excitement :
'You have helped to deceive me. It was mean — it
was cruel ! You insulted me first of all, and then
you conspired with this — this man to play me a base
trick. It was unworthy of a gentleman, of an Englishman.'


I beg your pardon,' said Philip ; ' I do not understand
of what you are speaking. I am quite unaware
that I ever deceived you.'

'You told me he was a nobleman — an earl — and he
is nothing of the kind.'

I never said he was.'

I asked you, and you answered me that he was an
earl.

I did no such thing. You misunderstood me. You
asked me whether he had ans' right to the title of Earl

of Schofield, and I answered — I recall exactly my
words — that he was perfectly justified in calling himself
Earle Schofield. That is his name. Whether he
has any right to call himself Beaple Yeo, and to claim
to be a colonel, is another matter on which I entertain
grave doubts ; but I have none whatever that his
surname is Schofield, and that his Christian name is
Earle.'

Artemisia did not speak for a minute, she was very
angry and ashamed. When she had in some measure
recovered her self-possession, she said bitterly : ' You
might have been more explicit.'

I refused to say much about the man. I had my
reasons. Moreover, I had no idea that the matter
was one of importance to you."

I have sold myself to him. I have married him
this day, and only now have discovered that I have
been basely imposed upon.'

It is I — I who have been taken in shouted Becoming
forward, pushing to the table, regardless of
the shrinking fear that appeared in the faces of
Salome and Janet. ' It is I,' he "repeated, ' I that
have been deceived. I was led to believe you were a

wealthy American, worth hundreds of thousands of
dollars — and — and I want to know where is the
money ? You are an adventuress.'

And you are an adventurer,' laughed Artemisia.
Perhaps we have taken each other in, and we are
both fools to have been so easily deceived. Who told
you I was a rich American heiress ?'

The waiter at the Imperial.'

And he told me you were a rich milord.'

I want to know what you really are,' said Yeo,
who was also very angry — angry and disappointed.
I have a right to know who or what manner of
person I have married

And I,' said Artemisia, ' I also want to know who
and what manner of person I have married.'

That, perhaps, I can tell you,' said Philip gravely.
But not in the presence of these ladies. Mr. Schofield,
or whatever you call yourself, I will trouble you
to return to your table, or reseat yourself where you
were. I see the waitress is in alarm lest she should lose
payment for what you ordered and have consumed.'

Beaple Yeo sulkily went back to his place. Philip
with a sign, showed Artemisia that he desired her to

follow. She obeyed. When they were beyond earshot
of Mrs. Sidebottom, Salome, and the rest, Philip
said, standing by the little table, ' Mr. Schofield, I also
wish to ask of you a question.'

I am ready, my dear boy, to be put through my
catechism,' answered Yeo, with recovered assurance.
If you want the pedigree of Schofield, I have it at
my fingers' ends.'

It is not the pedigree so much as the alliances of
Earle Schofield that interest me,' said Philip.

Oh, the Schofields have been allied with the best
blood in the land, better than your twopenny-halfpenny
manufacturers.'

I must ask you to tell me whether, before you
married Miss Durham at the Embassy to-day, you
had ascertained that an alliance — not a very high
one — was at an end.'

What do you mean .'" asked Yeo, with his face
slightly changing colour.

You may happen to remember Ann Dewis, the
coal-barge woman, whom you married at Hull some
sixteen years ago?'

Beaple uttered a low oath.

I have reason to know,' continued Philip, ' that
she is alive — and you know that she is so, as well as I
do. Miss Durham, this fellow had no right to marry
you. His legitimate wife is still alive ; no countess,
but a vulgar old woman who owns and works a coal-barge
on the Held-dale Canal. He has a son by her.
One good turn deserves another, and as you did me a
real kindness at the hospice I repay it by freeing you
from a degrading union just contracted with this
wretched man, who is a mere adventurer and swindler.
And now, one word with you, Schofield. The evidence
of your bigamy is at hand. Take care that
you never show your face at Mergatroyd to annoy me
or my wife, or that you trouble Janet — if you do I
shall have you immediately arrested on a charge of
felony, for what you have done to-day.'

THE devil's knell.

In Carisbrooke Castle is a deep well, three hundred
feet in depth, and, in order to draw the water, there is
contrived a great wooden drum or wheel, which, when
turned, draws up the bucket. Within the wheel
stands a donkey, and it turns it by stepping on as if
walking, although, in fact, the animal never advances
an inch, for, as it moves, the wheel revolves under its
feet. One ass was known to perform this task for
fifty years, and another for forty years. There is,
unless we guard against it, a tendency in ourselves to
fall into the same routine — tramping, tramping on,
over the same ground, in the same unambitious
manner, neither advancing in our course, nor varying
our horizon.

The acquaintance with Miss Durham had wrought
VOL. in. 52

much good in Salome as well as in Philip. She had
opened his eyes to see his ignorance of himself, and
hers to her ignorance of the world. Salome's previous
existence had been within a narrow sphere. Shut off
by peculiar circumstances from forming many acquaintances
and having many friends, with her horizon
contracted almost within the walls of the dingy and
ugly red-brick house occupied by the Pennycome-
quick, uncle and nephew, there can be no doubt but
that she would in time have settled into a condition
little superior to that of the Carisbrooke ass. Her
mind would have trotted round and round in the
same drum, and have accommodated itself without a
murmur or a thought of resistance to it. In the
course of years she would have become almost as
ordinary, as petty-minded as the deceased Mrs. Bosworth.
But contact with Miss Durham had startled
her out of this intellectual donkeydom. She saw in
the American girl a vivacity of interest, a breadth of
view, a sparkle of intelligence, a receptivity for novel
ideas, and a knowledge of the world and of the things
in the world — the currents that circulated in it, the
forces that propelled its waves and directed its tides,

to which she had been completely strange. And this
stimulated in her the desire to know. An American
gentleman once said to the writer, ' We have no prejudices,
therefore we are always learning.' That is
the secret of American success in every branch of
activity. Self-conceit breeds pig-headdress, which
raises mountains of prejudice in our way, preventing
us from seeing, as the Germans have it, that there are
men beyond these mountains. Salome had noticed
that Miss Durham was able at once, and without
effort, to arrest the interest and enchain the attention
of Philip, and this she attributed to the possession of
qualities in the Chicago girl which were dormant, if
not non-existent, in herself. She had the shrewdness
to perceive, and the good sense to acknowledge, her
own ignorance and inability to take part in conversation
when it turned on politics, natural history, on
music, art, or social questions of the day. She could
talk about recipes for tapioca and semolina puddings,
what proportion of water should be put with milk fora
baby, the delinquencies of servants, the sermons she
heard, the hymns she sang in church, the cutting-out
and style of a dress, but not on much beyond. Being

52—2

humble-minded, she was ready to take to heart what
she recognised, and she studied Miss Durham with
attention, to ascertain the points in which she was
accomplished above her own acquirements.

When ale in bottle turns flat, housewives put in a
raisin, and this at once restores the effervescence. A
prudent spouse should have a reserve of raisins ever
by her to pop into her husband's spirits whenever they
are down. Some wives, however, act on the reverse
principle, and perforate the corks, or knock off the
necks of all the sparkling liquors in the cellars of their
husbands' hearts. They cannot endure to see their
good men cheery, sanguine, interested, hopeful ; they
reduce them all to the state of lymph and insipidity.
Such wives when they find their husbands strung to
concert pitch play the domestic accompaniment a
semitone lower, so that the daily music of the household
is a discord. They take the edge off their
husband's wit with a sneer, overshadow his spirits
when they sparkle, lash him to anger when he is
pleased, and goad and spur him to madness when
they find him jaded and desirous of repose. By a
native perversity they seek to be always at cross purposes

with their husbands, and then grumble because
their victims do not smile and sing on the bed of
nettles they have strewn for them.

But Salome was not one who could degenerate into
such a mar-peace as this. In her lowly mind she
acknowledged her deficiencies, and as she was endowed
with energy and with excellent abilities, she determined
to remedy these shortcomings in herself, and
had the capacity to accomplish what she resolved.

The forethought of Jeremiah Pennycomequick came
to her aid opportunely. He also, by his holiday of
two years, had been thrown out of his drum, and had
found that there was another and a brighter world
than that of the tread-mill. He had discovered, late
in life, that all work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy, and not a dull boy only, but a cantankerous one.

Man is a lantern, and the vivid intellect within is
the light ; by nature he is a lantern with many sides,
through all of which the interior light streams, irradiating
and bringing into prominence a thousand surrounding
objects. But the pressure of modern life
forces him to blacken over one after another of these
sides, and to line each with a reflector, so as to focus

the light, and cast it through a single lens. The stress
of competition, the strain of the social struggle, combine
to make of each man a bull's-eye lantern. It is
true that the light so concentrated illumines such
objects as fall within the radius of the beam with
superior brilliancy, but it leaves everything else in
more profound darkness. What is gained in intensity
is lost in the periphery. Jeremiah had discovered
this, and more than this. He had learned by his own
weakness to take a more kindly interest in others, to
be pitiful towards their infirmities, patient with their
mistakes and even follies.

Having himself tottered irresolute on the edge of
the commission of an extreme act of folly, from which
he had been rescued solely by a providential intervention,
he was able to make allowances for lack of
judgment or weakness of resolve in others.

Jeremiah saw that Philip had quarrelled with
Salome, and, without inquiring into the occasion, he
understood sufficient of their several characters to see
that the best possible means he could adopt for reconciling
the difference was to give them a holiday
together abroad — to let them travel on the Continent

for some time, and mutually learn much of which
both were ignorant. He accordingly wrote to Philip
not to return to Mergatroyd till Christmas. He
wished, so he said, himself to spend some months at
the mill in recovering the threads of the business
which had fallen from his fingers, and to settle
thoroughly down again into the old groove of life.

This enabled Philip, who was liberally supplied with
money, to visit Paris, Rome, Milan, Venice, and return
to England by the Rhine. He and Salome made
travelling acquaintances, some agreeable, all instructive
; they saw France staggering after its humiliation,
and Germany ruffling in its pride of victory ; they
shared small adventures, and equally small jokes such
as spring up on all travel, and are as poor to preserve
as the. flowers gathered. They saw together picture-galleries,
heard together operas, and together acquired
a fund of experience of life in many aspects unattainable
at Mergatroyd. The tour was, as Jeremiah
designed, educative to both, and it broadened and
deepened their mutual sympathies. It did more : it
bound them together as chums in the same school,
where both read out of the same books and summed

on the same slate, and wrote out the same moral
sentences in their copybooks. As they learned together,
they assisted each other ; what escaped the
eye of one was perceived by the other, and each took
delight in drawing the attention of the other to what
he or she observed.

They laid up together a fund of pleasant recollections
to which to revert when holiday was over and
work began ; a shifting diorama of scenes and incidents
and personages that would transform and
beautify the interior of the drum when they were
recalled to the obligation of treading it.

But not so only. When they returned to work, it
would be to hope and scheme for such another excursion
together in the future, though perhaps they could
hardly look for another of the same duration. The
retrospect would enrich, and the prospect stimulate,
and banish tedium and the sense of drudgery from
their life and work at smoky Mergatroyd.

What veins of interest had, moreover, been opened
to both — flowers, scenery, pictures, music, antiquities,
social customs, political institutions, European history
past and that making under their eyes, such were no

longer dead words but living interests, germs of
thought, studies to be pursued at home in the intervals
of work, in relaxations from task, by the aid of
books and papers, and in common.

As mention has been made of the saying of an
American, the writer ventures to quote another — the
remark made to him by a Belgian. ' 1 perceive that
when a Flemish shopkeeper has realized a little
money over the necessities of life, he says to himself,
Now I will buy a picture !" The German under the
same circumstances says, " Now my son shall learn
another language '." The American says, " Now I
will see the world !" The Englishman says, " Now I
will have salmon, though it is four shillings a pound."
They fill their minds — your man his stomach.'

There have been found toads embedded in stone,
which are supposed to have occupied the same situation
for even six thousand years. For six thousand
years their minds have never travelled beyond the
cavity in which, enveloped in obscurity, they have
squatted ; and men will allow themselves to settle
down into holes exactly fitting them, in which they
will sit out the span of their allotted days in self-complacency,

without an idea beyond it, an ambition
outside it.

Indeed, we live upon a Goodwin Sand, that is ready
to engulf us, to suck us down and ebbed us in its
heart, unless we bestir ourselves and resist the downward
suction.

Let the reader look around him and see how many
of those he knows are embedded in their holes as
toads, able only to talk about their holes, to be
touched by nothing which does not affect their holes,
are unconcerned about everything save the texture of
the stone that encloses them, and the slime that
drapes the walls of their hole.

We do not say that the only means of escape from
such bondage and mental stultification is Continental
travel ; there are a hundred ways of escape from
petrifaction, if only we will use them, and use them persistently.
In the case under consideration it happened
to be the way, and the most effective way, in which
both Philip and Salome escaped from the holes into
which they were about to sink and become sealed up.

But there is one way in which the overplus of
money will never help to deliver us from petrifaction.

and that is, by putting it into our stomachs in the
shape of salmon at four shillings a pound.

We remember the case of a very short-sighted man,
who had been short-sighted from infancy. He never
wore glasses till he was aged about five-and-twenty,
and then suddenly found himself launched into a new
world, and able to see and take a lively interest in
things which had been hidden from him hitherto.
We are all, through life, if we do not voluntarily
become like the toad-hole dwellers, being introduced
into new worlds, whether by the acquisition of a
picture like the Fleming, or by learning a new language,
like the German, or by travel, as the Yankee.
Philip and Salome had put on their glasses simultaneously,
and it quickened their affection for each
other to be engaged on the same effort, and to be
together in the acquisition of wisdom and knowledge
and experience. Besides this intellectual and moral
bond they had another — certainly at the time not
very intellectual, but a very fast and dear one — the
little Philip, who travelled with them wherever they
went, and who wound himself about both their hearts,
and in doing so blended both in one. It was early in

life for the child to begin his travels, but travelling
did not hurt him. He throve on it. Before he said
Pa,' or ' Ma,' he articulated the syllable ' Go.' As
Philip the Greater said, an augury of the young man's
future, as one of action.

At length Philip and Salome were home ; and once
again Salome flew to the arms of the dear white-haired
old man, whose face had lost all its hardness
and had acquired a new expression of sweetness.
And Jeremiah was able to receive her loving embrace,
and to hold her to his breast without shrinking, without
a tremor. The storm had passed and the St.
Luke's summer had set in on his end of life, to be
cheered not only by the presence of Salome, but also
by that of Philip the Little, who, it was clear, would
become the pet and idol of old Jeremiah,even more than
he was the pet and idol of his father and mother.

Late at night, in the nursery, at the nursery window
on Christmas Eve, when Philip the Great, and Philip
the Little, and Salome were returned to Mergatroyd,
husband and wife stood, looking out into the star-besprent
wintry sky. Salome had her arms round
Philip's waist and he had his thrown over her shoulder.

drawing her to his side, and she rested her golden
head on his breast. The only light in the room came
from the fire ; the only sound for some time was the
breathing of the child in its cradle.

Both were happy, and occupied with their own
thoughts.

At length Philip broke the silence, and said :

It is very, very good of Uncle Jeremiah ; he has
taken me into full partnership, and what is more, he
proposes that he should winter abroad and return in
spring to allow of our then taking a holiday together.'

'And what is he going to do about Mrs. Side-bottom
?'

I cannot say. He is himself undecided. He says
that as he laid the trap into which she fell, he must
not be too hard with her. He will see her himself.
He goes after the new year to France when he will
visit her and make some arrangement. He says, but
hardly can mean what he says, that it is a law of
nature that persons pinched in circumstances and
pressed for money lose their scruples, as crabs cast
their claws, and lizards drop their tails when nipped or
pursued. It is a law of nature and must be allowed for.'

Philip felt a shudder of protest against his side, but
Salome said nothing.

All at once she started. * Oh, Philip ! What is
that ?'

A sound issued from the cradle. She ran to it,
stooped and looked at her baby. The flashes of the
firelight were reflected from the ceiling on the little
face.

Hark ! oh, hark, Philip ! Baby is laughing-laughing
aloud in his sleep. He has never done that
before. It is from very joy at being home — at his
own dear home again.'

What, Salome ? — after Paris and Rome, the Alps,
and the Rhine, poor old dirty, dingy Mergatroyd is
dear ?'

To be sure it is, Philip — how can it be otherwise ?
And oh, Philip, how kind the people are ! How
pleased the' all seem to see us back again. I thought
I really thought they would have shaken my hand
off, and that old Fanshawe, the night-watch, would
have kissed me, Philip. There may be more lighthearted,
more picturesque, more romantic people in
other lands, but there can be nowhere, not throughout

the world, more true, warm-hearted, sterling folk, than
our dear Yorkshire people. Do you not love them,
Philip ?'

I have given Yorkshire the best proof of my
attachment in taking to me a wife from thence.'

Oh, Philip !'

Salome nestled to his side again by the window,
and with him again looked forth silently into the
night sky.

After a long pause Philip said, ' Hark !'

Through the still night air could be heard the
church bell.

Three.

Three,

Three.

Some man is dead,' said Philip. ' How strange ' —
at midnight.'

Then he counted the strokes that denote the age.
He counted to one hundred.

One hundred !' exclaimed Philip. * How extraordinary!
How can that be .^'

Philip,' said Salome, laughing, ' do you not know ?
It is the Devil's Knell.'

The Devil's Knell ?'

Yes, at midnight on Christmas Eve, the sexton
here and in other Yorkshire towns tolls the knell.
The Devil is dead. Christ is born.'

After a moment's thought Philip said gravely,
Yes — the Devil is dead, that is to say, the old evil
principle in me — my former self-assurance, pride and
mistrust — it is dead. But, Salome, I ought to tell you
that there was a time, and not so long ago when I '

She put her hand over his mouth.

The Devil is dead,' she said ; ' I want to hear
nothing of his last sickness. But, Philip, you ought
to know that I was — at Andermatt — very foolish,
very seal '

He stopped her with a kiss.

Salome, you were never foolish : you were always
an angel.'

Well,' she said, 'we will not talk of the past : we
will set our faces to the future. The Devil is dead.'

END OF VOL. III.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS. GUILDFORD.

SPENCER BLACKETT & HALLAM'S
CATALOGUE OF BOOKS.

LIBRARY EDITIONS

OK

STANDARD AND POPULAR WORKS

BY THE BEST AUTHORS.

H. RIDER HAGGARD'S NOVELS.

THE NEW VOLUME.
Crown 8vo, cloth elegant. Price 6j'. Illustrated. Postage, $d.

ALLAN'S WIFE

BY H. RIDER HAGGARD,

Author of "King Solomon's Mines," "She," "Dawn,' etc

With lliirty-four Illustrations by Maurice Grieffenhagen and Charles
Kerr.

LIBRARY ^TAYIO^^— continued.

Demy %vo, cloth elegant, with sixteen full-page Engravings. Price 6s.
Postage, 6d.

Mr. Meeson's Will. By H. Rider Haggard.

"'Mr. Meeson's \Yiir as a story' is excellent. It is told with a
vigour which carries one straight through it." — Athenaeum.

Crown svo, cloth extra, bevelled hoards, ivith Frontispiece. Price ds.
Postage, ^d.

Dawn. By H. Rider Haggard.

"dawn' is a novel of merit far above the average. From the
first page the story arrests the mind and arouses the expectations.
. . . This is, we repeat, a striking and original novel,
breathing an elevated tone throughout." — Times.

Crown 8z'0, cloth extra, bevelled boards, with Frontispiece. Price 6s.
Postage, ^d.

The Witch's Head. By H. Rider Haggard.

"That Mr. Rider Haggard has very' considerable powers as a
novelist was evident from his book, ' Dawn,' but is still more
evident from 'The Witch's Head.' . It is far above the
average. " — Academy,

Second Edition, Crown %vo, cloth extra. Price 6s. Postage, ^d.

A Babe in Bohemia. By Frank Darby,

Author of " Dr. Phillips : A Maid Vale Idyll."

Clever and well worth reading. The Salvation Army scenes are
excellent. " — Truth.

It is impossible to refrain from congratulating Frank Darby upon
the life-like sketches he has produced. A book like this should
be read by all : there are fragments in it of which Zola and
Daudet would not be ashamed." — Piccadilly.

.Should be read by all sorts and conditions of men"— Pump Court.

LIBRARY EDITIONS-^^/2//>«/^^.

Large C7-own 8vo, cloth elegant. Price "js. 6d. Illustrated. Postage, 6ti.

A Sage of Sixteen. By L. B. Walford,

Author of " The Baby's Grandmother," " Mr. Smith," etc.
With numerous Illustrations by J. E. Goodwill.

Larrre crown 8vo, cloth elegant. Price "js. 6d. Illustrated. Postage, 6d.

Royal "Winchester: Wanderings in and
about the Ancient Capital of England. By Rev. A. G.
L'EsTRANGE, Mea., Author of "The Village of Palaces,"
The Friendships of M. R. Milford," etc. With numerous
text and full-page Illustrations, drawn on the spot, by
C. G. Harper.

Imperial i6wo, cloth, full gilt side. Price ys.6d. Illustrated. Postage, 6d,

An Indian Olio. By Lieut-general E. F.
Burton, of the Madras Staff Corps, Author of
"Reminiscences of Sport in India," etc. With full-page
Illustrations from Original Drawings made by the Author
and Miss C. G. Burton,

imperial imo, cloth extra. Price "js. 6d. Illustrated.

Newton Dogvane : A Story of English
Country Life. By Francis Francis, Author of "Sporting
Sketches with Pen and Pencil," " By Lake and River,"
etc., etc. With Illustrations on Steel by John Leech,
coloured by hand.

When it is said that it is written by the late Mr. Francis Francis,
and illustrated by John Leech, assurance has been given of a
handsome and entertaining book. " — Baiiys Magazine.

CHEAPER EDITION. Crown Svo, cloth extra. Price y. 6d.

B 2

LIBRARY EDITIONS-r^////«?/^^.

Crorvn 8vo, cloth extra, bevelled boards. Price los. (id. Postage, 6d.

One of the Royal Celts. By The Dau

Wynne.

Crorvn 8vo, cloth extra. Price 35. 6</. Postage, ind.

Hard Held. A Sporting Novel. Being a
Sequel to "Curb and Snaffle." By Sir Sandal H.
Roberts, Bart.

Cap. Svo, cloth extra. Price tes. Postage, 3^.

Idylls of the Home. By Harry Douglas.

"A finely conceived and indeed delightful poem of the domestic
affections. " — Graphic.

Crown Svo, cloth extra. Price 35. dd. Postage, ^d.

The Premier and the Painter : A Fantastic

Romance of Our Time. Second Edition, with Preface.
By John Freeman Bell.

An undeniably clever book. Mr. Bell is often puzzling, not
seldom provoking, but rarely dull." — World.

It is the sort of book the description of which as 'very clever' is
at once inevitable and inadequate. The theme is politics and
politicians, and the treatment for the most part satirical. The
streak of humorous cynicism which shows through the several
episodes of the story is both curious and pleasing. In some
respects the author's method is not unlike Lord Beaconsfield's.'
Athenaeum.

L. B. WALFORD'S NOVELS.

New Uniform Edition.

"Mrs. Walford's work is always well done. She has a great power
of giving distinctness and variety to her characters. " — Athencnim.

Croton Zzo, doth extra. Price is. dd. each. With Engraved Frontispiece.

Mr. Smith : A Part of his Life.

"A work of quite extraordinary talent, which will at once win for
its author a high place among contemporary novelists." — Echo.

The Baby's Grandmother.

'The Baby's Grandmother' is, in its way, a work of genius. . . .
It is long since we have read so bright and so brilliant a novel."
Spectator.

Cousins. lln October.

' Cousins ' is a charming story. It is long since we have read a
book which we can so cordially recommend to our readers." —
Vanity Fair.
"Is characterised by great skill and greater delicacy." — Times.

Troublesome Daughters. vin December.

Is delightful ; it sparkles with gaiety ; it is'very original and very
natural." — Athenaeum.

Pauline. [/« February, 1890.

Dealing with the passions of men and women, and not with

the sentimentality of the schoolroom or the artificial intriguing

of ' society,' it preserves a purity of tone and a dignity of method

not too often found in the novels of the day." — Examiner.

Dick Nether. [/« Apr, 1890.

One of the best studies of humble Scottish life that has appeared
for many years." — Academy.

The History of a Week. iinjuw, 1S90.

*^* To be followed by other Works by the same Author.

NEW TWO AND THREE VOLUME
NOVELS.

The Pennycomequicks. By S. Baring-gould.

3 vols.
Jezebel's Friends. By Dora Russell. 3 vols.

[/« October.

The Curse of Game's Hold. By G. A.

Henry. 2 vols. [/« November.

Tumbledown Farm. By Alan Muir. 2 vols.

The Fire Trumpet. By Bertram Milford.
3 vols.

The New Eve. By Mr. Randolph. 2 vols.
A Bird of Paradise. By C. T. C. James.

3 vols.

Among Aliens. By F. E. Trollope, 2 vols.

[Shortly;

THE STANDARD LIBRARY.

Crown Zvo. Cloth extra, with Artistic Frontispiece. Price 3^. dd. each.
Postage, ^d.

Lazarus in London. By F. W. Robinson,

Author of " Grandmother's Money," etc.
The story is written in a forcible style, and the murder upon
which the plot depends is not only contrived with skill, but
treated in a manner which is strikingly original." — Athenaeum.

Little Kate Kirby. By F. W. Robinson.

'Little Kate Kirby' is a splendid story, in which the reader's
sympathies are enlisted for two sisters strikingly different, but
equally interesting, who are afflicted with a singularly worthless
father. ' ' — Spectra tor.

The Courting of Mary Smith. By F. W.

Robinson.

' The Courting of ;diary Smith' is a capital book." — Academy.

Harry Joscelyn. By Mrs. Oliphant.

"This book is very clever and entertaining, the characters are
good, and every page abounds in those touches of true and
subtle observation in which Mrs. Oliphant excels." — Pall Mall
Gazette.

F. W. ROBINSON'S PRISON SERIES.

Croivn ^z'O, cloth extra. Price y. <bd. each. With Frontispiece.

1. The Memoirs of Jane Cameron,

Female Convict.

2. Prison Characters.

3. Female Life in Prison.

"These volumes are of general interest. Every variety of type
of the female prisoner is described, and every event of prison
life is detailed in these pages. The narratives are extraordinary
and interesting, and many are very touching. " —
Morning? Post.

Crown 2>vo, doth extra. Price 2s. 6d. Postage, 4</.

Derelict : A Tale of Moving Accidents by Flood
and Field. By Claud Harding, Ren., Author of " Old
Shipmates," " Ferndyke," etc., etc.

"This ' tale of moving accidents by flood and field ' is from first to
last unusually interesting. None of Captain Marryat's classical
sea stories contain more exciting experiences. " — Morning Post.

Picture cover, 2s.; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Postage, ^d.

Under Fourteen Flags. Being the Life and

Adventures of Brigadier-general Macer, a Soldier of
Fortune. By Captain W. D. Estrange.

"We should recommend every one who has exhausted Mayne Reid
and other favourite writers to procure ' Under Fourteen Flags
and can promise that whoever does so in search of amusement
and excitement will not have spent his money in vain." —
Pictorial World.

Cro'un 2,vo, cloth extra. Price 2s, 6d. Postage, 4</.

Old Shipmates. By Claud Harding, Ren.

"Few better novels have made their appearance lately. The
author writes vigorously and well." — Scotsman,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 6d. Postage, 4d.

Duke's Wanton. By J. R. Henslowe,

Author of " White and Red," " Dorothy Compton," etc.

A fair sample of historical romance." — Times.
*^* This work has been selected and approved by the London School
Board as a school-prize.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Price 2s. 6d. Postage, /\d.

The Romance of a Mummy. By Theophilus

Gautier. Translated by M. Young.

M. Gautier has succeeded in vivifying ancient Egyptian life and
scenes ; relieving the sombreness of tragic events with the
brightness of a bewitching love episode."

NEW TWO SHILLING NOVELS

BY

POPULAR AUTHORS.

Crown Svo, Price, picture boards, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Postage, 4^.

BY HENRY CRESSWELL,

Author of " A Modern Greek Heroine," " Incognita," etc.

A Wily Widow.

*■' The author pleases from the outset ; his brighter pages are almost
as captivating as the painful interest of his more tragic ones, and
altogether the story is readable and i^nWing."— Telegraph.

BY VERE CLAVERING,

Author of " Geraldine," etc.

A Modern Delilah.

"This novel deserves praise for its naturalness and ease of style,
and for the simple force with which its main characters are
presented. " — Scotsman.

BY WILLIAM Stall,

Author of " Harry Lohengrin," " Red Lymington," etc.

A Fair Crusader.

The interest does not halt for a moment ia these pages full of
incident and adventure, related, if not quite in the author's best
manner, with the brightness and ease which never forsake
him." — Morning Post.

Crown 8vo, Price, picture boards, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Postage, ind,

BY JAMES MURPHY,

Author of " The House on the Hath," " Convict No. 25," etc.

The Haunted Church.

"The reader is carried on from start to finish with developments
that never flag in the interest they excite, and that, when fully
unfolded, reveal a plot skilfully conceived and well worked
out." — FreeniatCs Journal.

BY JOSEPH HATTON,

Author of "John Needham's Double," "The Abbey Murder,"etc.

The Gay World.

To those who have not yet made acquaintance with ' The Gay
"World, ' all that can be said is that the sooner they do so the
better. In these latter days of sensational fiction a story of
such enthralling interest is not often to be met with." —
Pictorial World.

BY GERTRUDE Force,

Author of " In the Old Palazzo," "A Lady's Tour in Corsica."

Driven before the Storm.

A powerful novel. The story has a strong and interesting plot,
and will probably be widely read in its new and cheaper form."

BY MUIRHEAD ROBERTSON.

A Lombard Street Mystery.

The favourable opinion formed of this startling tale on its first
appearance is confirmed by a second reading— a fact which in
itself suffices to prove the superiority of the story to the ordinary
run of sensational fiction'* — Morning Post.

BY PAUL Bourges.

Andre Corners. Translated by Mrs. Castel

Holy,
The story is alive to the last, and much sincere, vigorous writing
accumulates interest and expectation to the end." — Piccadilly.

NEW TWO SHILLING YkO^^l.^-continued.

Crown %vo. Price, picture boards, 2s. ; cloth gill, zs. 6d. Postage, 4^.

BY L. B. WALFORD.

Nan: and other Stories.

' They show the ease and grace of the author's style, and have that
pre-eminent quality of pleasantness that comes of cleverness
which is never obtrusive, and art which has become second
nature. " — Atheiuaim,

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.

All or Nothing.

Mrs. Castel Hoey is one of the few lady novelists of the day who
write far too little, but who, when they do write, write as if they
respected themselves and their public equally. It is, in all
points, one of Mrs. Hoey's best books." — Academy.

BY THE HON. LEWIS WINGFIELD.

Gehenna ; or, Havens of Unrest.

Abounding, from beginning to end, in touches of nature and lifelike
descriptions ; and the story carries us on, without a semblance
of slowness, through striking scenes until we close the
volume in something not unlike wonderment at the art and
genius of the man who wrote it," — Whitehall Review.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "ST. Slave's."

The Blue Ribbon.

"The reader will be both pleased and interested in this story. It
abounds in picturesque sketches of incident and character, clever
dialogue, and touches of pathos and quiet good sense, which will
surely make it popular." — Athcmztim.

Little Miss Primrose.

Those who like the lighter class of fiction will find this novel to
their taste, and it will well serve to while away an hour or so of
a railway journey." — Court Circular.

Annette, shortly.

•'The descriptions are as pretty as a painting and as tender as a
poem." — Literary World.

NEW TWO Shilling VOLUMES— .wtiiiwaa/.

Comm Ssw. Price, fktmn imrds^ zs. : cMk gift, as. 6£ Aafler, 4d.

Records of a Stormy Life. By :Mrs.

Stormy Waters. By Robert Buchanan.
Jacobins Wife. By Azzlixe Sergeant.
The Sen of his Father. By Airs. Oliphant.

Mignon. By Mrs, FcRRZSTER.

A Princess of Dukedom. By Charles?.
Cradled in a Storm. By Theodore A.
Jack Urquhart's Daughter. By Miss

Thro Love and War. By Vic let Face.

Two Tallies. By Jull\ Kav-\xach.

Queen Mab. By Jvlr\ Kav.^xagh.
Forestalled By M. EETHAv-EEvrART's. :s?^trr.

Rite's"' NOVELS.

3. Vienne.

4. Like Deans Kiss.

■•A y.t-.-.-j-;:7 \J:. ;: i: - =■ and

5. Countess Daphne.

6. Fragoletta.

7, A Sinless Secret.

Rite's " NOYELS—confimicd.

Crrdun Svo. Price, picture boards, 2s. ; cloth gilt, zs, 6d. ; half mo^-occo^
3^. dd. each. Postage, ^d.

8. Fasting.

A sensational novel of a refined order that must hold theattentioi
of the reader. Ic is ver}'well written, and has all the element:
of popularity." — Life.

9. After Long Grief and Pain.

The moral of the story is sound, the dialogue is smart and lively
the style clear and vigorous throughout." — Daily Telegraph.

10. Two Bad Blue Eyes.

As a literary exponent of the emotions of the lovers of our day
Rita is by no means below the average of her literary neighbours
In the present volume she has depicted a female St. Anthony
exposed to long and terrible temptations, yet arriving scathed
at the goal of virtuous marriage with the man of her choice"—
Athenaeum.

11. Darby and Joan.

"The real attraction of the book lies in Rita's especial gift — thi
delineations of the thoughts and feelings of youth." — Morning
Post.

12. My Lord Conceit.

Rita's books are so well known now that it does not need a critic
to tell the public that her style is good, and the story she tell
an interesting one. Her present story has these good points
and the merit besides of refinement in a great degree"—
Whitehall Review'.

13, Corunna.

•''Corinna' is a work of more than average merit. The plot i
neither deep nor intricate, but is both attractive and entertaining,
and the language is undeniably graceful, and at time
poetic. " — Cohort Joia-nal .

DORA RUSSELL'S NOVELS.

A Cheap Uniform Edition.
Crown 8vo. Price, picture boards, 2s.; cloth gilt, zs. 6d. Postage, oM-miss

Russell writes easily and well, and she has the gift of making
her characters describe themselves by their dialogue, which is bright and
natural. " — Athenians.

1. Footprints in the Snow.

There are here all the elements of tragedy. Miss Russell's scenes
are of a dramatic kind." — Daily News.

2. The Vicar's Governess.

Undoubtedly a clever and well written story. A book which
contains a good deal that is interesting, and indicates a reserve
of something still better." — Times.

3. Beneath the Wave.

Certain to become popular. The story is cleverly told. There is
a strong sensational interest in each chapter"— Z/c^'^j Weekly

News.

4. Annabel's RivaL

"Some of the characters, especially that of the clever, worldly
schoolmistress, are very cleverly drawn. " — Standard.

5. Lady Seton's Pride.

"We recommend ' Lady Seton's Pride ' to anyone who has the
toothache, and, unable to cure it, wishes to forget it. The tale
is especially calculated to take the reader's attention away from
himself." — Literary IVorld.

6. Quite True.

Possesses that one merit in a novel without which all others are
apt to be of little avail— it is exceedingly interesting." — Graphic.

\

Crown 8vo. Price, picture boards, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Postage, ^d.

7. The Broken Seal.

The mystery is maintained with a skill which would not disgrace
that master of this form of craft — Mr. Wilkie Collins." — Daitj^
News.

8. Croesus's Widow.

Miss Russell has a very good story to tell, and very well she tells
it"— Life.

9. Hidden in My Heart.

The plot is well constructed. It is an absorbing tale which has
the wherewithal to become popular." — Morning Post.

*»* The Authors other Works will follow i>i due succession.

W. STEPHEN HAYWARD'S NOVELS.

Crown 8vo. Price, picture boards, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Postage, 6,d.

4. Ethel Grey.

5. Caroline.

6. Maude Luton.

7. The Three Red Men.

8. John Hazel's Vengeance.

11. The Woman in Red.

12. The Stolen Will.

13. The Black Flag.

14. Diana's Defender.

15. Colonel's Daughter.

MARY CECIL HAY'S NOVELS.

Price, picture boards, 2s.; cloth gilt, 2s, 6d.; half-morocco, y. 6d. each.
Postage, \d.

Hidden Perils.

Bid Me Discourse.

Victor and Vanquished.
Lester's Secret.

A Wicked Girl one Shilling).

F. E. M. Motley's NOVELS.

Crozvn 8vo. Price, picture boards, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.; half morocco,
35, (id. each. Postage, ind.

1. Red Riding Hood.

*' We feel in reading this pure story that a mind speaks to our
mind ; that it is not a mere voice telling an idle tale to be
forgotten in an hour." — Sunday Times.

2. Beneath the Wheels.

"It may be affirmed that a larger accumulation of mysteries has
seldom or never been heaped into one novel before, while the
author may be complimented on having provided a satisfactory
key for every one of them." — Athenc€iim.

3. Love's Crosses.

"The author has written a fervent love story, abounding with
passages of great warmth, and including a most sensational
homicide. " — Athenaeum.

PERCY B. ST. JOHN'S NOVELS.

Crown ?svo. P?-ice, picture boards, 2s.

1. Sailor Crusoe. 4. My Beautiful Daughter.

2. Snow Ship. 5. The Daughter of the

3. Young Buccaneer. Sea.

E. S. Dreary's NOVELS.

Cf-own Zvo. Price, picture boards , 2s.; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.; half morocco, "^s. 6d.

1 Only an Actress. I 3. Baptised with a Curse.

2. On Dangerous Ground. I 4. A Death-Ring.

MRS. JOHN KENT SPENDER'S NOVELS.

Crown %vo. Price, picture boards, 2s.; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.; half morocco, 31. 6d.

1. Mr. Nobody.

2. Parted Lives.

3. Both in the Wrong.

4. Recollections of a
Country Doctor.

MISS E. SPENDER'S NOVELS.

Crown Svo. Price, picture boards, 2s.; cloth gilt, 2s. 6c/.; half morocco, 3^. 6d,

1. Restored,

2. A True Marriage.

3. Son and Heir.

4. Kingsford.

5. Until the Day Breaks.

MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON'S NOVELS.

Crown 8vo, Price, picture hoards, 2s.; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.; half morocco, y. dd.

1. Vera Neville. | 2. Pure Gold. | 3. Worth Winning.
MRS. POWER O'DONOGHUE's NOVELS.

Crown %vo. Price, picture boards, 2s. ; cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. ; half morocco, y. dd.

1. Unfairly Won. A Beggar on Horseback.

VARIOUS AUTHORS' WORKS.

Crown ^~Jo. Price, picture boards, 2s.: cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Postage, ^d.

Won by a Neck. A Sporting Novel.

Scullion. By P. A. Egan.

The Nick of Time. By W. T. Hickman.

Expiation. By E. P. Oppenheim.

The Morals of Mayfair. By Mrs. Edwards.

Britain's Slaves. By George Challis.

Love's Strategy. By Adolphus Silberstein.

The Tichborne Trial. The Summing up of

the Lord Chief Justice.

Misses and Matrimony. By Lieut-colonel

Knolls.

The Black Band ; or, Mysteries of Midnight.
Illustrated by Gustave Dore.

BY

POPULAR AUTHORS.

Crown svo, paper cover, is.; cloth, \s. 6d. each. Postage, 2d.

The Pretty Sister of Jose. By Mrs.

Hodgson Burnett.
Roland Oliver. By Justin McCarthy, M.P.
Mated from the Morgue. By John A.

Sheathe

Baffled Conspirators. By W. E.

NORRIS. Shortly.

Forging the Fetters. By Mrs. Alexander.

shortly.

The Queen's Scarf By D. Christie Murray.

shortly

The Haunted Fountain. By Catherine

MaCQUOID. shortly.

Favour and Fortune. By the Author of

Jack Urquhart's Daughter."

99, Dark Street. By F. W. Robinson.
A Wicked Girl. By Mary Cecil Hay.

Crown Zi'o, paper cover, is.j cloth, \s. 6d. each. Postage, zd.

Gabriel Allen, M.P. By G. A. Henry.
The Argonauts of North Liberty. By

Bred Harte.

The Abbey Murder. By Joseph Hatton,

A Mere Child. By L. B. Walford.

Love Until Death. By R. Whelan Boyle,

The Queen's Token. By Mrs. Castel Hoey.

A Rainy June. By Ouida.

Don Gesualdo. By Ouida.

John Needham's Double. By Joseph

Hatton.
James Danton's Fate. By Dora Russell,
Betty's Visions. By Rhoda Boughton.

Topside and Survey. By Percy Fitzgerald.


Beforehand. By L. T. Meade.

*»* This Series will be exclusively reserved to the works of well-known
Authors. Other volumes are in course of preparation, and will
be published at short intervals.

ONE SHILLING '^O'Sf^l^^-continued.

Price, paper cover, \s. : cloth, \s. 6d. Postage, zd.

A Fatal Affinity. By Stuart Cumberland.

The ' weird story ' is related in thrilling style, and has in it the
elements of popularity among lovers of sensational literature."
Literary World,

Price, paper cover, \s. Postage, 2d

Only a Woman's Life. By One who Saved

It (M. C. Houston).
It has more than common interest, and should be widely read."
Scotsman.

Price, paper cover, \s. Illustrated. Postage, 2d.

Doubt. Second Edition. By James S. Little.

"Mr. Little may be heartily congratulated on his artistic and
powerful story." — Public: Opinion.

Price, paper cover, is. Postage, 2d.

The Crime of the Golden Gully. By

Gilbert Rock.

"Faithfully represents the lawlessness at the gold-diggings when
the first rush began." — Cohort Circular.

Price, paper cover, is. Postage, 2d.

Against the Grain. By C. T. C. James.

The reader will thoroughly enjoy the story." — Academy.
Price, paper cover, \s. Postage, 2d.

In the Shadow of Death. By Sir Gilbert
Campbell, Bart.

Price, paper cover, \s. Postage, 2d.

Mad Love; or, An Artist's Dream. Translated
from the Russian of Vsevolod Garshin.

shortly.

ONE SHILLING ^OYWL^- continued.

Croton ?svo, paper cover, is. Postage, 2d.

Galloping Days at the Deanery. By

Charles James.

"A hearty laugh may be got out of 'Galloping Days.' There is
real comedy in this sketch." — Academy.

New Edition. Price, paper cover, \s. ; cloth, \s. 6d. Postage, id.

At What Cost. By Hugh Conway, Author
of " Called Back," etc.

Twenty-fifth Thousand. Price, paper cover, \s. ; cloth, \s. 6d. Postage, 2d,

Sappho : a Romance of Art and Love. By

Alphonse Daudet.

No man or woman of sense can say that it is anything but a good
book, and a book to read." — Court and Society Review.

With full-page Illustrations . Price, paper cover, is. Postage, 2d.

The Wife's Sacrifice (Martyre !) By Adolph

Deanery. Translated by H. Sutherland Edwards.

"The story is a very exciting one, full of strong situations and startling
incidents, so that the reader is carried along breathless. " —
People.

Price, paper cover, is. Postage, 2d.

The Divorced Princess (Divorce). By

Ren de Pont-Jest.

A better shillings worth to while away the tedium of a railway
journey could scarcely be wished for." — Liverpool Courier.

ONE SHILLING l^OYFl^S— continued.

Price, paper cover, is. ; cloth, \s. 6d. Postage, 2d.

Memoirs of Cora Pearl. Written by Herself.

Uniform with "Memoirs of Cora Pearl." Price, is. Postage, zd.

Memoirs of Rose Pompon. Written by

Herself.

Price, paper cover, is. Postage, 2d.

Baffled. By Shirley B. Jevons.

"A really clever, realistic story, full of strong character-drawing
and exciting incident, and, as a whole, excellent change for a
shilling. " — Society.

Price, paper cover, is.; cloth, is. 6d. Postage, 2d.

Scarborough ; or, Rural Felicity. By Frank
E. Emsox, Author of " Our Town."

Price, paper cover, is.; cloth, is. 6/. Postage, 2d.

Innocent or Guilty? By Marion Greenish.

Price, paper cover, is. ; cloth, is. 6d. Postage, 2d.

The Silent Shore. By John Bloundelle-

BURTON.

It is really admirably written, and from first to last it has strong
dramatic interest. It may fairly take its place among the best
stories of the kind." — Scotsman.

Price, paper cover, is. Postage, 2d.

Three Lucky Shots. By Oscar Park.

It is an extremely good story of the sensational type. The incidents
are natural, the plot is pieced together in a workman-like
manner, and the book is altogether very pleasant reading." —
Whitehall Review.

Price, paper cover, \s. Postage, 2d.

Musical Snares. By Annabel Gray.

A smart expose, in sectional form, of the wiles of musical agents,
told in a bright and telling fashion." — Society.

Price, paper cover, \s. ; cloth, \s. 6d. Postage, 2d,

The Cabman's Daughter.

"A simple and unpretentious tale of London life. Humour is not
wanting, and the love-making will please by its naive prettiness."
Lloyd's.

Price, paper cover, is.; cloth, is. 6d. Postage, 2d.

The Cither: Poems for Recitation. By Mrs,
Aylmer Gowing, Author of "Ballads and Poems," etc.

Mrs. Gowing's verse is easy and flowing, and her poetry heart-stirring
and vigorous. There is nothing in this little volume
that is not deserving of praise." — Tablet.

Crown 8vo, paper cover, price \s.

The Great Landlords of London. With

Map of the Estates. By Frank Cranfield, Mea.

I recommend this book to all who wish to understand the working
of the great landlord system in the metropolis." — Truth.

"We commend the study of this book to every tenant interested in
the power wielded by the ground landlord." — Daily Chronicle,

Price, paper cover, \s. Postage, 2d.

Imprisoned in the House of Detention

for Libel. By John Dawson.

"This is a well written and readable account of the experience of 3
well-known journalist and dramatic critic, written during a
period of temporary obscurity within the walls of Her Majesty's
prison at Clerkenwell." — Lady's Pictorial.

spencer Blackett & Hallain^s Publications

SI Penny NOVE LS.

GUSTAVE AIMARD's INDIAN TALES.

Author's Copyright Cheap Edition.
Crown &V0. Price, paper cover, 6d. ; cloth limp, is. Postage, 2d.

First Series.

Trappers of Arkansas.
Border Rifles.
Freebooters.
White Scamper.

Second Series.

Guide of the Desert.
Insurgent Chief

7. Flying Horseman.

8. Last of the Lucas.

Third Series.

9. Missouri Outlaws.

10. Prairie Flower.

11. Indian Scout.

12. Stronghold.

Fourth Series.

13. The Bee Hunters.

14. Stonehenge.

15. Queen of the Savannah.

16.
17.
18.

Fifth Series.

Buccaneer Chief
Smuggler Hero.
Rebel Chief

Sixth Series.

19. The Adventurers.

20. Pearl of the Andes.

21. Trail Hunter.

Seventh Series.

22. Pirates of the Prairies.

23. Trapper's Daughter.

24. Tiger Slayer.

Eighth Series.

25. Gold Seekers.

26. Indian Chief

27. Red Track.

Ninth Series.

28. The Treasure of Pearls.

29. Red River Half Breed.

Each Series also published in volume form, price, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.
The whole carefully revised and edited by Percy B. St. John.

Price, paper covers, 6d.; cloth limp, \s. Postage, 2d.

How to Live on a Shilling a Week. By

One who has Tried It.

The author shows how it can be done. As exhibiting possibilities
the suggestions are interesting." — News of the World.

Cheaper Edition, price, paper cover, 6d. Postage, 2d.

The Cither : Poems for Recitation. By Mrs.
Aylmer Gowing, Author of " Ballads and Poems," etc.
"A most charming little volume, containing many pieces that are
suitable for recitation, and are by this time widely known and
appreciated. " — Lady's Pictorial.

ATTRACTIVE PICTURES AND STORIES
FOR YOUNG CHILDREN.

BEAUTIFULLY COLOURED TOY BOOKS.

With Stories Written by Miss F. M. GALLAHER.
Carefully printed on superfine paper in large clear type.

Eleven Coloured Plates. Price, picture boards, \s. 6d. Postage, 3a'.

Children's Chums. Stories by Miss F. M.

Gallaher.

Contains bright and pleasing pictures of children and their pets, and
simple stories in large type.

Six Coloured Plates. Price, stir picture wrapper, 6d. Postage, id.

A Night at the Circus. Stories by Miss

F. M. Gallaher.

Contains attractive coloured illustrations, and simple reading inlarge
type.

Six Coloured Plates. Price, stiff" picture wrapper, 6d. Postage, id.

Baby's Book. Stories by Miss F. M,
Gallaher.

Contains brightly coloured pictures and reading suited to very
young minds.

"Jessie Raine," in Truth, says : "I have only time to mention
three children's picture books, ' A Night at the Circus,'
Baby's Book,' both fairly good, and ' Children's Chums,' very
good indeed."

Delightful books for the small children in the nursery. The type
is large and easy to read by those who have gained that accomplishment,
and the stories are not beyond the comprehension
of very little ones." — Court Circular.

spencer Blackett & Hallam Publications

BRITISH STANDARD HANDBOOKS.

Price, picture covers. Illustrated, 2d. each. Postage, ^^d.

A NEW SERIES OF ILLUSTRATED PRACTICAL HANDBOOKS

SPORTS AND PASTIMES.

Each book is complete in itself. These Handbooks are perfect encyclopaedia
of information upon their respective topics. They readily
commend themselves as marvels of cheapness.

FIRST SERIES.

1. Rowing and Sculling.

2. Cricket.

3. Bicycling and trickling.



4. Fishing.

5. Swimming.

6. Athletic Exercises for

Health and Strength.

7. Field Sports.

8. Fowls.

9. Pigeons.

10. Rabbits.

11. Card Games.

12. Chess.

13. Football.

21. Boxing, Wrestling, and

Fencing, or the Art
of Self-defence.

22. Chemical Wonders for

Home Exhibition.

23. Gymnastic Exercises.

24. The Magic Lantern.

25. The Student Collector.

26. Dogs : How to Keep

and Train them.

THIRD SERIES.

27. Lawn Tennis.

28. Puzzles and Riddles.

29. Riding and Driving.

30. Hand and Finger
Tricks.

31. Archery.

32. Vocal and Optical
Deceptions.

33. Toy Boats and Sailing
Craft.

34. Fencing.

35. Burlesque Giants and
Dwarfs.

36. Thought Reader.

37. Billiards : Ball and
Cue Games.

38. Punch and Puppets.

39. Young Play Actor.

First, second, and third Series, each
containing thirteen books, price, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges,
5^. 6d. each.

SECOND SERIES.

14. Athletic Games of

Skill.

15. Skating and Games

on the Ice.

16. Draughts and Backgammon.



17. Song Birds.

18. Fireworks.

19. Parlour Conjurer.

20. Book of Pets.

Also published in 3 volumes

ILLUSTRATED GIFT BOOKS.

Handsome, Useful, and Well Bound.

GIFT BOOKS AT TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE EACH.

Illustrated-with Hundreds of Comic Cuts. Price, cloth gilt. Illustrated, 2s. 6d.
Postage, ind.

Merry and Wise : a Book for all Seasons.
By Bred Harte, Mark Twain, Max Adeler,
Danbury Newsmen, etc.

With Coloured Plates. Crown Svo. Price, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d.
Postage, 4d.

Tulliver's Travels in Lilliput, Brobdingnag,

and Houyhnhnmland, with an account of the Yahoos.
By Lemuel Tulliver, Mariner.

Crozun 2>vo. Price, cloth, bevelled boards, gilt edges, Illustrated, 2s. 6d.
Postage, ^d.

The Pierced Heart: a Romance. By Captain
Mayne Reid. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown %vo. Price, cloth, bevelled boards, gilt edges. Illustrated, 2s. 6d.
Postage, 4d.

The Star of Empire : a Tale. By Captain

Mayne Reid. With numerous Illustrations.

AN ILLUSTRATED GIFT BOOK FOR CHILDREN.

Croton 8vo. Price, cloth, gilt edges, 2s. 6d, Postage, ^d.

Stories Grandma Told. By Mary D.

Brine. With numerous fine Engravings on Wood.

Cro'i'H ?svo. Price, cloth, elegant, gilt edges, Illustrated, 2s, 6d. Postage, a^d.

Frank Weathered. By W. C. Metcalf.
A Story of Adventures in the Merchant Navy. With
Illustrations on toned paper.

ILLUSTRATED GIFT-QOOiK^-continued.

Crown %vo. Price, cloth, bevelled boards, gilt edges. Illustrated, 2s, 6d.
Postage, 4^.

The Golden Rangers. By Gabriel Ferry.
An exciting Tale of Treasure-seeking among the Indians.
Illustrated by Gustave Dor.

Crown 8vo. Price, cloth gilt. Illustrated, 2s. bd. each. Postage, ^d.

The British Standard Illustrated

Practical Handbook of Sports and Pastimes. Vols. I., II.,
and III. With Diagrams, Plans, and every design possible
for all Games, Sports, and Pastimes, forming a complete
Encyclopaedia on the various topics.

Price, picture paper boards. Illustrated, 2s. 6d. Postage, ^d.

Twice Round the Clock. By George

Augustus Sala. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. Copyright Edition. Price, picture cover. Illustrated, zs. 6d.

Traits and Stories of the Irish Peasantry.

By William Carleton (Ireland's Greatest Novelist).
With the whole of the Plates by D. Machine, R.A. Containing
several Traits and Stories never before published.

GIFT BOOKS AT THREE SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.

Crown Svo. Price, handsomely bottnd, cloth gilt. Illustrated, y. 6d.
Postage, ^d.

The Boy's Birthday Book. By Mrs. S. C.

Hall, William Hewitt, Augustus Mathew, Thomas
Miller, and G. A. Sala. Illustrated with hundreds of
Engravings by Eminent Artists.

Crown Svo. Price, ornamental cloth, gilt edges, bevelled boards. Illustrated,
3J. dd. each. Postage, ^d.

The British Standard Illustrated

Practical Handbook of Sports and Pastimes. Vols. I., II.,
and III. With Diagrams, Plans, and every design possible
for all Games, Sports, and Pastimes, Illustrated
with nearly one hundred original Engravings.

ILLUSTRATED GIFT 'QOO'K^— continued.

Demy Zvo. Price, cloth gilt. Illustrated, y. 6d. Postage, ^d.

Twice Round the Clock. By George

Augustus Sala. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo. Copyright Edition. Price, cloth, gilt top, bevelled boards.
Illustrated, y. 6d. Postage, 6d.

Traits and Stories of the Irish Peasantry.

By William Carleton (Ireland's Greatest Novelist).
With the whole of the Plates by D. Machine, R. A. Containing
several Traits and Stories never before published.

THE BEST GIFT BOOK FOR BOYS.

Crown 8vo. Price, handsomely bound, cloth, gilt edges. Illustrated, tes.
Postage, 6d.

The Boy's Own Treasury. Contains Amusements
of all kinds — indoor and outdoor.

Illustrated with 500 descriptive and original Engravings, comprising
Science, Drawing, Painting, Constructive Wonders, Rural Affairs, Wild
and Domesticated Animals, Outdoor Sports and Indoor Pastimes, Repertory
of Home Amusements and Healthful Recreations.

THE BEST GIFT BOOK FOR GIRLS.

Crown 2>vo. Price, ornamental cloth, gilt edges, sides, and back, bevelled
boards. Illustrated, 6s, Postage, 6d,

The Girl's Own Book. A complete Repository
of Amusements, Studies, and Employments. Illustrated
with upwards of 250 original Engravings.

Imperial Svo. Price, cloth gilt, profusely illustrated with whole page
Engravings, "js. 6d., reduced to 3^. 6d. Postage, 6d.

George Cauldfleld's Journey. By Miss

Brandon. And other Stories. Profusely illustrated by
eminent Artists specially engaged for this purpose.

Crown Svo, doth ekgafii. Price 6s. Illustrated. Postage, 5^

ALLAN'S WIFE

By the Author of " Dawn," "The Witch's Head," "She," etc

WITH Thirty-FOUR ILLUSTRATIONS

By MAURICE GRIEFFENHAGEN and CHARLES KEPT
Printed in a superior manner on good paper, aid tastefully bound.

Spencer BLACKETT and Hallam]

35, ST, BRIDE STREET, LONDON, Eg.
